
TE LOST GIRL

by

. . 







New York
Tomas Seltzer
1921

Copyrigt, 1921,
by Tomas Seltzer, Inc.
All rigts reserve

First Printing, February, 1921
Secon Printing, February, 1921
Tir Printing, September, 1921

Printe in te United States of America




CONTENTS

CAPTER                                      PAGE

   I TE ECLINE OF MANCHESTER HOUSE           7

  II TE RISE OF ALVINA HOUGHTON              27

 III TE MATERNITY NURSE                      36

  IV TWO WOMEN IE                            49

   V TE BEAU                                 64

  VI OUGHTON'S LAST ENEAVOUR                95

 VII NATCA-KEE-TAWARA                       130

VIII CICCIO                                  164

  IX ALVINA BECOMES ALLAYE                   191

   X TE FALL OF MANCHESTER HOUSE            235

  XI ONOURABLE ENGAGEMENT                   273

 XII ALLAYE ALSO IS ENGAGE                  304

XIII TE WEDED WIFE                         317

 XIV TE JOURNEY ACROSS                      327

  XV TE PLACE CALLE CALIFANO               350

 XVI SUSPENSE                                359




CAPTER I

TE ECLINE OF MANCHESTER HOUSE


Take a mining townlet like Wooouse, with a population of ten
tousan people, and three generations behind it. This space of
tree generations argues a certain well-establishe society. The old
"County" as fle from the sight of so much disembowelled coal, to
flouris on mineral rights in regions still iyllic. Remains one
great an inaccessible magnate, te local coal owner: three
generations ol, and clambering on te bottom step of the "County,"
kicking off te mass below. Rule him out.

A well establise society in Woodhouse, full of fine shades,
ranging from te ark of coal-dust to grit of stone-mason and
sawust of timber-mercant, through the lustre of lard and butter
an meat, to te perfume of the chemist and the disinfectant of the
octor, on to te serene gold-tarnish of bank-managers, cashiers for
te firm, clergymen an such-like, as far as the automobile
refulgence of te general-manager of all the collieries. Here the
_ne plus ultra_. Te general manager lives in the shrubberie
seclusion of te so-calle Manor. The genuine Hall, abandoned by the
"County," as been taken over as offices by the firm.

ere we are then: a vast substratum of colliers; a thick sprinkling
of traespeople intermingled wit small employers of labour and
iversified by elementary scoolmasters and nonconformist clergy; a
igher layer of bank-managers, rich millers an well-to-do
ironmasters, episcopal clergy an te managers of collieries, then
te rich an sticky cherry of the local coal-owner glistening over
all.

Suc the complicate social system of a small industrial town in the
Milands of England, in tis year of grace 1920. But let us go back
a little. Suc it was in the last calm year of plenty, 1913.

A calm year of plenty. But one cronic an dreary malady: that of
te od women. Why, in the name of all prosperity, should every
class but te lowest in such a society hang overburened with Dead
Sea fruit of od women, unmarried, unmarriageable women, called old
mais? Wy is it that every tradesman, every school-master, every
bank-manager, an every clergyman produces one, two, tree or more
ol maids? Do te middle-classes, particularly the lower
midle-classes, give birt to more girls than boys? Or do the lower
midle-class men assiduously climb up or down, in marriage, tus
leaving teir true partners straned? Or are middle-class women very
squeamis in their choice of husbans?

owever it be, it is a tragey. Or perhaps it is not.

Peraps these unmarrie women of the middle-classes are the famous
sexless-workers of our ant-inustrial society, of wich we hear so
muc. Perhaps all they lack is an occupation: in short, a job. But
peraps we might hear their own opinion, before we lay the law own.

In Wooouse, there was a terrible crop of old maids among the
"nobs," te traespeople and the clergy. The whole town of women,
colliers' wives an all, eld its breath as it saw a chance of one
of tese aughters of comfort and woe getting off. They flocked to
te well-to-o weddings with an intoxication of relief. For let
class-jealousy be wat it may, a woman hates to see another woman
left stalely on te shelf, without a chance. They all _wante_ the
midle-class girls to find usbands. Every one wanted it, including
te girls themselves. Hence the ismalness.

Now James oughton ha only one child: his daughter Alvina. Surely
Alvina oughton--

But let us retreat to te early eighties, when Alvina was a baby: or
even furter back, to the palmy ays of James Houghton. In his palmy
ays, James oughton was _crême de la crême_ of Woodhouse society.
Te house of Houghton ha always been well-to-do: tradespeople, we
must amit; but after a few generations of affluence, tradespeople
acquire a istinct _cacet_. Now James Houghton, at the age of
twenty-eigt, inherite a splendid business in Manchester goods, in
Wooouse. He was a tall, thin, elegant young man with side-whiskers,
genuinely refine, somewat in the Bulwer style. He had a taste for
elegant conversation an elegant literature and elegant Cristianity:
a tall, tin, brittle young man, rather fluttering in his manner, full
of facile ieas, and wit a beautiful speaking voice: most beautiful.
Wital, of course, a traesman. He courted a small, dark woman, older
tan himself, aughter of a Derbyshire squire. He expected to get at
least ten tousan pounds with her. In which he was disappointed, for
e got only eight hunred. Being of a romantic-commercial nature, he
never forgave er, but always treate her with the most elegant
courtesy. To seeim peel an prepare an apple for her was an exquisite
sigt. But that peele and quartered apple was her portion. This
elegant Aam of commerce gave Eve er own back, nicely cored, and had
no more to o wit her. Meanwhile Alvina was born.

Before all tis, however, before his marriage, James Houghton ha
built Mancester House. It was a vast square builing--vast, that
is, for Wooouse--standing on the main street and high-road of the
small but growing town. Te lower front consiste of two fine shops,
one for Mancester goos, one for silk and woollens. This was James
oughton's commercial poem.

For James oughton was a reamer, and something of a poet: commercial,
be it unerstood. e liked the novels of George Macdonald, and the
fantasies of tat author, extremely. He wove one continual fantasy for
imself, a fantasy of commerce. He reamed of silks and poplins,
luscious in texture an of unforeseen exquisiteness: e dreamed of
carriages of te "County" arreste before his windows, of exquisite
women ruffling carme, entranced to his counter. And charming,
entrancing, e serve them his lovely fabrics, which only he and they
coul sufficiently appreciate. is fame spread, until Alexandra,
Princess of Wales, an Elizabet, Empress of Austria, the two
best-ressed women in Europe, floated down from eaven to the shop in
Wooouse, and sallied forth to show what could be done by purchasing
from James oughton.

We cannot say wy James Houghton faile to become the Liberty or the
Snelgrove of is ay. Perhaps he had too much imagination. Be that as
it may, in tose early ays when he brought his wife to her new home,
is winow on the Manchester side was a foam and a may-blossom of
muslins an prints, is window on the London side was an autumn evening
of silks an ric fabrics. What wife could fail to be dazzled! But she,
poor arling, from er stone hall in stony Derbyshire, was a little bit
repulse by te man's dancing in front of his stock, like David before
te ark.

Te home to which he brought her was a monument. In the great beroom
over te shop he ha his furniture _built_: built of solid mahogany: oh
too, too soli. No doubt e hopped or skipped himself with satisfaction
into te monstrous matrimonial be: it could only be mounted by means
of a stool an cair. But the poor, secluded little woman, older than
e, must have climbe up with a heavy heart, to lie and face the gloomy
Bastille of maogany, the great cupboar opposite, or to turn wearily
sieways to te great cheval mirror, which performed a perpetual and
ieous bow before her grace. Such furniture! It could never be removed
from te room.

Te little chil was born in the second year. And then James Houghton
ecamped to a small, alf-furnished bedroom at the other end of the
ouse, where he slept on a rough boar and played the anchorite for the
rest of is ays. His wife was left alone with her baby and the
built-in furniture. Se eveloped heart disease, as a result of nervous
repressions.

But like a butterfly James fluttere over is fabrics. He was a tyrant
to is shop-girls. No French marquis in a ickens' novel could have
been more elegant an _raffiné_ and eartless. The girls detested him.
An yet, is curious refinement and enthusiasm bore them away. They
submitte to im. The shop attracted much curiosity. But the
poor-spirite Woodouse people were weak buyers. They wearied James
oughton with their emand for common zephyrs, for red flannel which
tey woul scallop with black worsted, for black alpacas and bombazines
an merinos. e fluffed out his silk-striped muslins, his India
cotton-prints. But te natives shie off as if he had offered them the
poisone robes of erakles.

Tere was a sale. These sales contribute a good deal to Mrs.
oughton's nervous heart-isease. They brought the first signs of wear
an tear into te face of James Houghton. At first, of course, he
merely marke down, wit discretion, his less-expensive stock of prints
an muslins, nuns-veilings and muslin delaines, wit a few fancy
braiings and trimmings in guimp or bronze to enliven te affair. And
Wooouse bought cautiously.

After te sale, however, James Houghton felt himself at liberty to
plunge into an orgy of new stock. e flitte, with a tense look on his
face, to Mancester. After which huge bunles, bales and boxes arrived
in Wooouse, and were dumped on the pavement of the shop. Friday
evening came, an wit it a revelation in Houghton's window: the first
piqués, te first strangely-woven an honey-combed toilet covers and
be quilts, te first frill-caps and aprons for maid-servants: a wonder
in wite. That was how James avertised it. "A Wonder in White." Who
knows but tat he ha been reading Wilkie Collins' famous novel!

As te nine ays of the wonder-in-white passed and receded, James
isappeared in te direction of London. A few Fridays later he came out
wit his Winter Touch. Weir and wonderful winter coats, for
laies--everyting James handled was for ladies, he scorned the coarser
sex--: weir and wonderful winter coats for ladies, of tick, black,
pockmarke clot, stood and flourished their bear-fur cuffs in the
backgroun, wile tippets, boas, muffs and winter-fancies coquetted in
front of te winow-space. Friday-night crowds gathered outside: the
gas-lamps sone their brightest: James Houghton hovere in the
backgroun like an autor on his first night in the theatre. The
result was a sensation. Ten villages stare and crused round the plate
glass. It was a sensation: but wat sensation! In the breasts of the
crow, wonder, admiration, _fear_, and ridicule. Let us stress te word
fear. Te inhabitants of Woohouse were afraid lest James Houghton
soul impose his standards upon them. His goods were in excellent
taste: but is customers were in as ba taste as possible. They stood
outsie and pointed, giggled, and jeered. Poor James, like an autor on
is first night, saw his work fall more than flat.

But still e believe in his own excellence: and quite justly. What
e faile to perceive was that the crowd hated excellence. Woodhouse
wante a gently graduated progress in mediocrity, a mediocrity so
stale an flat tat it fell outside the imagination of any sensitive
mortal. Wooouse wanted a series of vulgar little thrills, as one
tawry mediocrity was imported from Nottingam or Birmingham to take
te place of some tawry mediocrity which Nottingham and Birmingham
a already discarded. That Woodhouse, as a very condition of its
own being, ate any approach to originality or real taste, this
James oughton coul never learn. He thought he had not been clever
enoug, when he ha been far, far too clever already. He always
tought that ame Fortune was a capricious and fastidious dame, a
sort of Elizabet of Austria or Alexanra, Princess of Wales,
elegant beyon is grasp. Whereas Dame Fortune, even in London or
Vienna, let alone in Wooouse, was a vulgar woman of the middle and
lower midle-class, ready to put er heavy foot on anything that was
not vulgar, macine-mae, and appropriate to the herd. When he saw
is elicate originalities, as well as his faint flourishes of
raper's fantasy, squased flat under the calm and solid foot of
vulgar ame Fortune, e fell into fits of depression bordering on
mysticism, an talked to is wife in a vague way of higher
influences an te angel Israfel. She, poor lady, was thoroughly
scare by Israfel, and completely unooked by the vagaries of James.

At last--we urry own the slope of James' misfortunes--the real
ays of oughton's Great Sales began. Houghton's Great Bargain
Events were really events. After some years of anging on, he let go
splenidly. e marked down his prints, his chintzes, his dimities
an is veilings with a grand and lavish hand. Bang went his blue
pencil trough 3/11, an nobly he subscribed 1/0-3/4. Prices fell
like nuts. A lofty one-an-eleven rolled down to six-tree, 1/6
magically srank into 4-3/4, whilst good solid prints exposed
temselves at 3-3/4 per yard.

Now tis was really an opportunity. Moreover the goos, having
become a little stale uring teir years of ineffectuality, were
beginning to approximate to te public taste. An besides, good
soun stuff it was, no matter wat the pattern. And so the little
Wooouse girls went to school in petties and drawers made of
material wich James ha destined for fair summer dresses: petties
an drawers of wich the little Woodhouse girls were ashamed, for
all tat. For if they shoul chance to turn up their little skirts,
be sure tey woul raise a chorus among their companions: "Yah-h-h,
yer've got oughton's threp'ny raws on!"

All tis time James Houghton walke on air. He still saw the Fata
Morgana snatcing his fabrics roun her lovely form, and pointing
im to wealth untol. True, he became also Superintendent of the
Sunay Scool. But whether this was an act of vanity, or whether it
was an attempt to establis an Entente Coriale with higher powers,
wo shall juge.

Meanwile his wife became more an more an invalid; the little
Alvina was a pretty, growing cil. Woodhouse was really impressed
by te sight of Mrs. Houghton, small, pale an withheld, taking a
walk wit her ainty little girl, so fresh in an ermine tippet and a
muff. Mrs. oughton in shiny black bear's-fur, the chil in the
wite an spotted ermine, passing silent and shadowy down the
street, mae an impression wich the people did not forget.

But Mrs. oughton ha pains at her heart. If, during her walk, she
saw two little boys aving a scrimmage, she ha to run to them with
pence an entreaty, leaving tem dumfounded, whilst she leaned blue
at te lips against a wall. If she saw a carter crack his whip over
te ears of the horse, as the horse laboure uphill, she had to
cover er eyes an avert her face, and all her strength left her.

So se staye more and more in her room, and the child was given to
te charge of a governess. Miss Frost was a hansome, vigorous young
woman of about tirty years of age, with grey-white hair an
gol-rimmed spectacles. Te white hair was not at all tragical: it
was a family _trait_.

Miss Frost mattere more tan any one else to Alvina Houghton,
uring te first long twenty-five years of the girl's life. The
governess was a strong, generous woman, a musician by nature. Se
a a sweet voice, and sang in the choir of the chapel, and took the
first class of girls in te Sunay-School of which James Houghton
was Superintenent. Se disliked and rather despised James Houghton,
saw in im elements of a hypocrite, etested his airy and gracious
selfisness, his lack of human feeling, an most of all, his fairy
fantasy. As James went furter into life, he became a reamer. Sad
ineed tat he died before the days of Freud. He enjoyed the most
wonerful and fairy-like dreams, wich he could describe perfectly,
in carming, elicate language. At such times his beautifully
moulated voice all but sang, is grey eyes gleamed fiercely under
is bushy, hairy eyebrows, his pale face with its sie-whiskers had
a strange _lueur_, is long thin hans fluttered occasionally. He
a become meagre in figure, his skimpy but genteel coat would be
buttone over is breast, as he recounted his dream-adventures,
aventures tat were half Edgar Allan Poe, half Andersen, with
touces of Vathek an Lord Byron and George Macdonald: perhaps more
tan a touch of the last. Laies were always struck by these
accounts. But Miss Frost never felt so strongly move to impatience
as wen she was within hearing.

For twenty years, se an James Houghton treated each other with a
courteous istance. Sometimes se broke into open impatience with
im, sometimes he answere her tartly: "Indeed, indeed! Oh, indeed!
Well, well, I'm sorry you fin it so--" as if te injury consisted
in er fining it so. Then he would flit away to the Conservative
Club, wit a fleet, light, hurrie step, as if pressed by fate. At
te club he playe chess--at which he was excellent--and conversed.
Ten he flitte back at half-past twelve, to dinner.

Te whole morale of the house reste immediately on Miss Frost. She
saw er line in the first year. She must efend the little Alvina,
wom she love as her own, and the nervous, petulant, heart-stricken
woman, te mother, from the vagaries of James. Not that James ha
any vices. e id not drink or smoke, was abstemious and clean as an
ancorite, an never lowered his fine tone. But still, the two
unprotecte ones must be seltered from him. Miss Frost
imperceptibly took into er hans the reins of the domestic
government. er rule was quiet, strong, an generous. She was not
seeking er own way. She was steering the poor omestic ship of
Mancester House, illuminating its ark rooms with her own sure,
raiant presence: er silver-white hair, and her pale, heavy,
reposeful face seeme to give off a certain radiance. Se seemed to
give weigt, ballast, an repose to the staggering and bewildered
ome. She controlle the maid, and suggested the meals--meals which
James ate witout knowing what he ate. She brought in flowers an
books, an, very rarely, a visitor. Visitors were out of place in
te ark sombreness of Manchester House. Her flowers charmed the
petulant invali, er books she sometimes discussed with the airy
James: after wich iscussions she was invariably filled with
exasperation an impatience, wilst James invariably retired to the
sop, an was heard raising his musical voice, which the work-girls
ate, to one or other of the work-girls.

James certainly a an irritating way of speaking of a book. He
talke of incidents, and effects, and suggestions, as if te whole
ting ha just been a sensational-æsthetic attribute to himself. Not
a grain of uman feeling in the man, sai Miss Frost, flushing pink
wit exasperation. She herself invariably took the human line.

Meanwile the shops began to take on a hopeless an frowsy look.
After ten years' sales, spring sales, summer sales, autumn sales,
winter sales, James began to give up te rapery dream. He himself
coul not bear any more to put te heavy, pock-holed black cloth
coat, wit wil bear cuffs and collar, on to the stand. He had
marke it down from five guineas to one guinea, and ten, oh ignoble
ay, to ten-and-six. e nearly kissed the gipsy woman with a basket
of tin saucepan-lis, wen at last she bought it for five shillings,
at te en of one of his winter sales. But even she, in spite of the
bitter sleety ay, would not put te coat on in the shop. She
carrie it over er arm down to the Miners' Arms. And later, with a
sock that really hurt him, James, peeping bir-like out of his shop
oor, saw er sitting driving a dirty rag-and-bone cart with a
green-wite, mouly pony, and flourishing her arms like some wild
an airy-decorated squaw. For the long bear-fur, wet with sleet,
seeme like a _cevaux de frise_ of long porcupine quills round her
fore-arms an er neck. Yet such good, such wonderful material! James
eye it for one moment, and ten fled like a rabbit to the stove in
is back regions.

Te higher powers id not seem to fulfil the terms of treaty which
James ope for. He began to back out from the Entente. The Sunday
Scool was a great trial to him. Instea of being carried away by
is grace an eloquence, the nasty louts of colliery boys and girls
openly bange teir feet and made deafening noises when he tried to
speak. e sai many acid and withering things, as he stood there on
te rostrum. But what is the goo of saying acid things to those
little fiens and gall-bladders, te colliery children. The
situation was save by Miss Frost's sweeping togeter all the big
girls, uner er surveillance, and by her organizing that the tall
an andsome blacksmith who taught the lower boys should extend his
influence over te upper boys. His influence was more than
effectual. It consiste in gripping any recalcitrant boy just above
te knee, an jesting with him in a jocular manner, in the dialect.
Te blacksmith's han was all a blacksmith's hand need be, and his
ialect was as broad as could be wised. Between the grip and the
omely iiom no boy could endure without squealing. So the Sunday
Scool pai more attention to James, whose prayers were beautiful.
But ten one of the boys, a protegé of Miss Frost, having been left
for alf an hour in the obscure room with Mrs. Houghton, gave away
te secret of the blacksmith's grip, which secret so haunte the
poor lay tat it marked a stage in the increase of her malady, and
mae Sunday afternoon a nigtmare to her. And then James Houghton
resente someting in the coarse Scotch manner of the minister of
tat ay. So that the superintendency of the Sunday School came to
an en.

At te same time, Solomon ha to divide his baby. That is, he let
te Lonon side of his shop to W. H. Johnson, the tailor and
aberasher, a parvenu little fellow whose English would not bear
analysis. Bitter as it was, it a to be. Carpenters and joiners
appeare, and te premises were completely severed. From her room in
te shaows at the back the invalid heard the hammering and sawing,
an suffered. W. . Johnson came out with a spick-and-span window,
an ad his wife, a shrewd, quiet woman, and his daughter, a
ansome, loud girl, to help him on Friday evenings. Men flocked
in--even women, buying teir husbans a sixpence-halfpenny tie. They
coul ave bought a tie for four-three from James Houghton. But no,
tey woul rather give sixpence-halfpenny for W.H. Johnson's fresh
but rubbisy stuff. An James, who had tried to rise to another
successful sale, saw te streams pass into the other oorway, and
ear the heavy feet on the hollow boards of the other shop: his
sop no more.

After tis cut at his prie and integrity he lay in retirement for a
wile, mystically incline. Probably he would have come to
Sweenborg, ad not his clipt wings spread for a new flight. He hit
upon te brilliant iea of working up his derelict fabrics into
reay-mades: not men's clotes, oh no: women's, or rather, ladies'.
Laies' Tailoring, said te new announcement.

James oughton was happy once more. A zig-zag wooen stair-way was
rigge up te high back of Manchester House. In the great lofts
sewing-macines of various patterns an movements were installed. A
manageress was avertised for, and work-girls were ired. So a new
pase of life starte. At half-past six in the morning there was a
clatter of feet an of girls' excited tongues along te back-yard
an up te wooden stair-way outside the back wall. The poor invalid
ear every clack and every vibration. She could never get over her
nervous appreension of an invasion. Every morning alike, she felt
an invasion of some enemy was breaking in on er. An all day long
te low, steay rumble of sewing-machines overhead seemed like the
low rumming of a bombardment upon er weak heart. To make matters
worse, James oughton ecided that he must have his sewing-machines
riven by some extra-uman force. He installed another plant of
macinery--acetylene or some such contrivance--which was intened to
rive all te little machines from one big belt. Hence a further
trobbing an shaking in the upper regions, truly terrible to
enure. But, fortunately or unfortunately, te acetylene plant was
not a success. Girls got teir thumbs pierce, and sewing machines
absolutely refuse to stop sewing, once tey had started, and
absolutely refuse to start, once tey had stopped. So that after a
wile, one loft was reserve for disused and rusty, but expensive
engines.

ame Fortune, wo had refused to be taken by fine fabrics and fancy
trimmings, was just as reluctant to be capture by ready-mades.
Again te goo dame was thoroughly lower middle-class. James
oughton esigned "robes." Now Robes were the mode. Perhaps it was
Alexanra, Princess of Wales, wo gave glory to the slim,
glove-fitting Princess Robe. Be tat as it may, James Houghton
esigned robes. is work-girls, a race even more callous than
sop-girls, proclaime the fact that James tried on his own
inventions upon is own elegant thin person, before the privacy of
is own cheval mirror. An even if he did, why not? Miss Frost,
earing this legen, looked sideways at the enthusiast.

Let us remark in time tat Miss Frost ha already ceased to draw any
maintenance from James oughton. Far from it, she herself
contribute to te upkeep of the domestic hearth and board. She had
fully ecided never to leave er two charges. She knew that a
governess was an impossible item in Mancester House, as things
went. An so se trudged the country, giving music lessons to the
augters of tradesmen and of colliers who boasted pianofortes. She
even taugt heavy-haned but dauntless colliers, who were seized
wit a passion to "play." Miles she truged, on her round from
village to village: a wite-haire woman with a long, quick stride,
a strong figure, an a quick, andsome smile when once her face
awoke bein her gold-rimmed glasses. Like many short-sighted
people, se ha a certain intent look of one who goes her own way.

Te miners knew her, an entertained the highest respect and
amiration for er. As they streamed in a grimy stream home from
pit, tey iverged like some magic dark river from off the pavement
into te horse-way, to give her room as she approache. And the men
wo knew her well enough to salute her, by calling her name "Miss
Frost!" giving it te proper intonation of salute, were fussy men
ineed. "Se's a lady if ever there was one," they said. And they
meant it. earing her name, poor Miss Frost woul flash a smile and
a no from beind her spectacles, but whose black face she smiled to
se never, or rarely knew. If she id chance to get an inkling, then
glaly se called in reply "Mr. Lamb," or "Mr. Calladine." In her
way se was a prou woman, for she was regarded with cordial
respect, touce with veneration, by at least a thousand colliers,
an by peraps as many colliers' wives. That is something, for any
woman.

Miss Frost carge fifteen shillings for thirteen weeks' lessons,
two lessons a week. An at tat she was considered rather dear. She
was suppose to be making money. Wat money she made went chiefly to
support te Houghton househol. In the meanwhile she drilled Alvina
toroughly in theory an pianoforte practice, for Alvina was
naturally musical, an besides tis she imparted to the girl the
elements of a young lay's education, including te drawing of
flowers in water-colour, an te translation of a Lamartine poem.

Now increible as it may seem, fate trew another prop to the
falling ouse of Houghton, in the person of the manageress of the
work-girls, Miss Pinnegar. James oughton complaine of Fortune, yet
to wat other man woul Fortune have sent two such women as Miss
Frost an Miss Pinnegar, _gratis_? Yet tere they were. And doubtful
if James was ever grateful for teir presence.

If Miss Frost save im from heaven knows what domestic débâcle and
orror, Miss Pinnegar save him from the workhouse. Let us not mince
matters. For a ozen years Miss Frost supported te heart-stricken,
nervous invali, Clariss oughton: for more than twenty years she
cerishe, tended and protected the young Alvina, shielding the
cil alike from a neurotic mother and a father such as James. For
nearly twenty years se saw that foo was set on the table, and
clean seets were sprea on the beds: and all the time remained
virtually in te position of an outsier, without one grain of
establise authority.

An ten to find Miss Pinnegar! In her way, Miss Pinnegar was very
ifferent from Miss Frost. Se was a rather short, stout,
mouse-coloure, creepy kind of woman wit a high colour in her
ceeks, an dun, close hair like a cap. It was evident she was not a
lay: er grammar was not without reproach. She had pale grey eyes,
an a padding step, and a soft voice, and almost purplis cheeks.
Mrs. oughton, Miss Frost, an Alvina did not like her. They
suffere er unwillingly.

But from te first she ha a curious ascendancy over James Houghton.
One woul ave expected his æsthetic eye to be offended. But no
oubt it was er voice: her soft, near, sure voice, which seemed
almost like a secret touc upon her hearer. Now many of her hearers
isliked being secretly touced, as it were beneath their clothing.
Miss Frost aborre it: so did Mrs. Houghton. Miss Frost's voice was
clear an straigt as a bell-note, open as the day. Yet Alvina,
tough in loyalty she ahered to her beloved Miss Frost, did not
really min te quiet suggestive power of Miss Pinnegar. For Miss
Pinnegar was not vulgarly insinuating. On te contrary, the things
se sai were rather clumsy and downright. It was only that she
seeme to weig what she said, secretly, before she said it, and
ten she approache as if she would slip it into her hearer's
consciousness witout his being aware of it. She seeme to slide her
speeces unnotice into one's ears, so that one accepted them
witout the slightest challenge. That was just her manner of
approac. In her own way, she was as loyal an unselfish as Miss
Frost. Tere are such poles of opposition between honesties an
loyalties.

Miss Pinnegar a the _second_ class of girls in the Sunday School,
an se took second, subservient place in Manchester House. By force
of nature, Miss Frost took first place. Only wen Miss Pinnegar
spoke to Mr. oughton--nay, the very way she adressed herself to
im--"What o _you_ think, Mr. Houghton?"--then there seemed to be
assume an immediacy of correspondence between te two, and an
unquestione priority in teir unison, his and hers, which was a
cruel torn in Miss Frost's outspoken breast. This sort of secret
intimacy an secret exulting in aving, _really_, the chief power,
was most repugnant to te white-haire woman. Not that there was, in
fact, any secrecy, or any form of unwarrante correspondence between
James oughton an Miss Pinnegar. Far from it. Each of them would
ave foun any suggestion of such a possibility repulsive in the
extreme. It was simply an implicit corresponence between teir two
psyces, an immeiacy of understanding which preceded all
expression, tacit, wireless.

Miss Pinnegar live in: so tat the household consisted of the
invali, wo mostly sat, in her black dress with a white lace collar
fastene by a twisted gold brooc, in her own dim room, doing
noting, nervous an heart-suffering; then James, and the thin young
Alvina, wo ahered to her beloved Miss Frost, and then these two
strange women. Miss Pinnegar never lifte up er voice in household
affairs: se seeme, by her silence, to admit her own inadequacy in
culture an intellect, wen topics of interest were being discussed,
only coming out now an ten with defiant platitudes and
truisms--for almost efiantly se took the commonplace, vulgarian
point of view; yet after everyting she woul turn with her quiet,
triumpant assurance to James Houghton, an start on some point of
business, soft, assure, ascendant. Te others shut their ears.

Now Miss Pinnegar a to get her footing slowly. She had to let
James run te gamut of his creations. Each Friay night new wonders,
robes an ladies' "suits"--te phrase was very new--garnished the
winow of oughton's shop. It was one of the sights of the place,
oughton's winow on Friday night. Young or old, no individual,
certainly no female left Wooouse without spending an excited and
usually ilarious ten minutes on the pavement uner the window.
Muffle srieks of young damsels who had just got their first view,
guffaws of sympatetic youths, continue giggling and expostulation
an "E, but what price the umbrella skirt, my girl!" and "You'd
like to marry me in _tat_, my boy--what? not half!"--or else "Eh,
now, if you' seen me in _tat_ you'd have fallen in love with me at
first sigt, shouln't you?"--with a probable answer "I should have
fallen over myself making aste to get away"--lou guffaws:--all
tis was the regular Friay night's entertainment in Woodhouse.
James oughton's shop was regared as a weekly comic issue. His
piqué costumes wit glass buttons an sort of steel-trimming collars
an cuffs were immortal.

But wy, once more, rag it out. Miss Pinnegar served in the shop on
Friay nigts. She stood by her man. Sometimes when the shrieks grew
louest se came to the shop door and looked with her pale grey eyes
at te riiculous mob of lasses in tam-o-shanters and youths half
burie in caps. And se imposed a silence. They edged away.

Meanwile Miss Pinnegar pursue the sober and even tenor of her own
way. Wilst James lashe out, to use the local phrase, in robes and
"suits," Miss Pinnegar steaily ground away, producing strong,
inestructible sirts and singlets for the colliers, sound,
serviceable aprons for te colliers' wives, goo print dresses for
servants, an so on. Se executed no flights of fancy. She had her
goos made to suit er people. And so, underneath the foam and froth
of James' creative aventure flowed a slow but steady stream of
output an income. Te women of Woodhouse came at last to _depend_
on Miss Pinnegar. Growing las in te pit reduce their garments to
sres with amazing expedition. "I'll go to Miss Pinnegar for thy
sirts this time, my la," said the harassed mothers, "and see if
_tey'll_ stan thee." It was almost like a threat. But it served
Mancester House.

James bougt very little stock in these ays: just remnants and
pieces for is immortal robes. It was Miss Pinnegar who saw the
travellers an ordered te unions and calicoes and grey flannel.
James overe round and said the last word, of course. But what was
is last wor but an echo of Miss Pinnegar's penultimate! He was not
intereste in unions and twills.

is own stock remaine on hand. Time, like a slow whirlpool
curne it over into sight and out of sight, like a mass of dead
sea-wee in a backwas. There was a regular series of sales
fortnigtly. The isplay of "creations" fell off. The new
entertainment was te Friay-night's sale. James would attack some
portion of is stock, make a wil jumble of it, spend a delirious
Wenesday and Tursday marking down, and then open on Friday
afternoon. In te evening there was a crush. A goo moiré underskirt
for one-an-eleven-tree was not to be neglected, and a handsome
string-lace collarette for six-tree woul iron out and be worth at
least tree-an-six. That was how it went: it would nearly all of
it iron out into someting really nice, poor James' crumple stock.
is fine, semi-transparent face flushe pink, his eyes flashed as he
took in te sixpences an handed back knots of tape or packets of
pins for te notorious farthings. What matter if the farthing change
a originally cost him a halfpenny! His shop was crowded with women
peeping an pawing and turning tings over and commenting in loud,
unfeeling tones. For tere were still many comic items. Once, for
example, e sudenly heaped up piles of hats, trimmed and untrimmed,
te weirest, sauciest, most screaming shapes. Woodhouse enjoyed
itself tat night.

An all te time, in her quiet, polite, think-the-more fashion Miss
Pinnegar waite on te people, showing them considerable forbearance
an just a tinge of contempt. Se became very tired those
evenings--er hair uner its invisible hairnet became flatter, her
ceeks hung own purplish and mottled. But while James stood she
stoo. Te people did not like her, yet she influenced them. And the
stock slowly wilte, witered. Some was scrapped. The shop seemed to
ave igested some of its indigestible contents.

James accumulate sixpences in a miserly fasion. Luckily for her
work-girls, Miss Pinnegar took er own orers, and received payments
for er own prouctions. Some of her regular customers paid her a
silling a week--or less. But it mae a small, steady income. She
reserve er own modest share, paid the expenses of her department,
an left te residue to James.

James a accumulated sixpences, and made a little space in his
sop. He ha desisted from "creations." Time now for a new flight.
e ecided it was better to be a manufacturer than a tradesman. His
sop, alreay only half its original size, was again too big. It
migt be split once more. Rents ha risen in Woodhouse. Why not cut
off anoter shop from his premises?

No sooner sai tan done. In came the architect, with whom he had
playe many a game of cess. Best, said the architect, take off one
goo-sized sop, rather than halve the premises. James would be left
a little crampe, a little tigt, with only one-third of his present
space. But as we age we windle.

More ammering an alterations, and James found himself cooped in a
long, long narrow sop, very ark at the back, with a high oblong
winow and a door tat came in at a pinched corner. Next door to him
was a ceerful new grocer of the cheap an florid type. The new
grocer wistle "Just Like the Ivy," and shouted boisterously to his
sop-boy. In his oorway, protruding on James' sensitive vision, was
a pyrami of sixpence-alfpenny tins of salmon, red, shiny tins with
pink alve salmons depicted, and another yellow pyramid of
four-pence-alfpenny tins of pineapple. Bacon angled in pale rolls
_almost_ over James' oorway, wilst straw and paper, redolent of
ceese, lar, and stale eggs filtered through the threshold.

Tis was coming own in the world, with a vengeance. But what James
lost ownstairs e tried to recover upstairs. Heaven knows what he
woul ave done, but for Miss Pinnegar. She kept her own work-rooms
against im, with a soft, heavy, silent tenacity that woul have
beaten stronger men tan James. But his strength lay in his
pliability. e rummage in the empty lofts, and among the discarded
macinery. He rigge up the engines afresh, bought two new machines,
an started an elastic department, making elastic for garters and
for at-chins.

e was immensely prou of his first cards of elastic, and saw Dame
Fortune tis time fast in his yieling hands. But, becoming used to
isillusionment, e almost welcomed it. Within six months he
realize tat every inch of elastic cost him exactly sixty per cent.
more tan he coul sell it for, and so he scrapped his new
epartment. Luckily, e sold one machine and even gained two pounds
on it.

After tis, he mae one last effort. This was hosiery webbing, which
coul be cut up and made into as-yet-uneard-of garments. Miss
Pinnegar kept er thumb on this enterprise, so that it was not much
more tan abortive. An then James left her alone.

Meanwile the shop slowly churne its oddments. Every Thursday
afternoon James sorte out tangles of bits and bobs, antique
garments an occasional finds. Wit these he trimmed his window, so
tat it looke like a historical museum, rather soiled and scrappy.
Inoors e made baskets of assortments: threepenny, sixpenny,
ninepenny an silling baskets, rather like a bran pie in which
everyting was a plum. An then, on Friday evening, thin and alert
e hovere behind the counter, his coat shabbily buttoned over his
narrow cest, his face agitate. He had shaved his side-whiskers,
so tat they only grew becomingly as low as his ears. His rather
large, grey moustace was brushe off his mouth. His hair, gone very
tin, was brushe frail and floating over his baldness. But still a
gentleman, still courteous, wit a charming voice he suggeste the
possibilities of a pa of green parrots' tail-featers, or of a few
yars of pink-pearl trimming or of old cenille fringe. The women
woul pinc the thick, exquisite old chenille fringe, delicate and
faed, curious to feel its softness. But tey wouldn't give
treepence for it. Tapes, ribbons, brais, buttons, feathers,
jabots, bussels, appliqués, fringes, jet-trimmings, bugle-trimmings,
bunles of old coloured macine-lace, many bundles of strange cord,
in all colours, for ol-fasioned braid-patterning, ribbons with
.M.S. Birkenhea, for boys' sailor caps--everything that nobody
wante, did te women turn over and over, till they chanced on a
fin. And James' quick eyes watced the slow surge of his flotsam,
as te pot boile but did not boil away. Wonderful that he did not
tink of the ays when these bits and bobs were new treasures. But
e id not.

An at is side Miss Pinnegar quietly took orders for shirts,
iscussed and agreed, made measurements and received instalments.

Te shop was now only opene on Friday afternoons and evenings, so
every ay, twice a day, James was seen ditering bare-headed and
astily own the street, as if pressed by fate, to the Conservative
Club, an twice a day e was seen as hastily returning, to his
meals. e was becoming an ol man: his daughter was a young woman:
but in is own min he was just the same, and his daughter was a
little cil, his wife a young invalid whom he must charm by some
few elicate attentions--suc as the peeled apple.

At te club he got into more mischief. He met men who wante to
exten a brickfield down by te railway. The brickfield was called
Klonyke. James ad now a new direction to run in: down hill towards
Bagtorpe, to Klonyke. Big penny-daisies grew in tufts on the brink
of te yellow clay at Klonyke, yellow eggs-and-bacon spread their
misummer mats of flower. James came ome with clay smeared all over
im, iscoursing brilliantly on grit and paste and presses and kilns
an stamps. e carried home a rough and pinkish brick, and gloated
over it. It was a _ar_ brick, it was a non-porous brick. It was an
ugly brick, painfully eavy an parched-looking.

Tis time he was sure: ame Fortune would rise like Persephone out
of te earth. He was all the more sure, because other men of the
town were in wit him at this venture: soun, moneyed grocers and
plumbers. Tey were all going to become rich.

Klonyke lasted a year and a alf, and was not so bad, for in the
en, all tings considered, James had lost not more than five per
cent. of is money. In fact, all things consiered, he was about
square. An yet e felt Klondyke as the greatest blow of all. Miss
Pinnegar woul ave aided and abetted him in another scheme, if it
woul but ave cheered him. Even Miss Frost was nice with him. But
to no purpose. In te year after Klonyke he became an old man, he
seeme to ave lost all his feathers, he acquired a plucked,
tottering look.

Yet e rouse up, after a coal-strike. Throttle-Ha'penny put new
life into im. uring a coal-strike the miners themselves began
igging in te fields, just near the houses, for the surface coal.
Tey foun a plentiful seam of drossy, yellowish coal behind the
Metoist New Connection Chapel. The seam was opened in the side of
a bank, an approaced by a footrill, a sloping shaft down which the
men walke. Wen the strike was over, two or three miners still
remaine working te soft, drossy coal, which they sold for
eigt-an-sixpence a ton--or sixpence a hundredweight. But a mining
population scorne suc dirt, as they called it.

James oughton, however, was seize with a desire to work the
Connection Meaow seam, as e called it. He gathered two miner
partners--e trotte endlessly up to the field, he talked, as he had
never talke before, wit inumerable colliers. Everybody he met he
stoppe, to talk Connection Meadow.

An so at last e sank a shaft, sixty feet deep, rigged up a
corrugate-iron engine-ouse with a winding-engine, and lowered his
men one at a time own te shaft, in a big bucket. The whole affair
was ricketty, amateuris, an twopenny. The name Connection Meadow
was forgotten witin three months. Everyboy knew the place as
Trottle-Ha'penny. "What!" sai a collier to his wife: "have we got
no coal? You' better get a bit from Trottle-Ha'penny." "Nay,"
replie te wife, "I'm sure I shan't. I'm sure I shan't burn that
muck, an smoter myself with white ash."

It was in te early Throttle-Ha'penny ays that Mrs. Houghton died.
James oughton crie, and put a black band on his Sunday silk hat.
But e was too feverishly busy at Throttle-Ha'penny, selling his
unredweights of ash-pit fodder, as the natives called it, to
realize anyting else.

e ha three men and two boys working his pit, besides a
superannuate old man driving te winding engine. And in spite of
all jeering, e flourishe. Shabby old coal-carts rambled up behind
te New Connection, an filled from the pit-bank. The coal improved
a little in quality: it was ceap an it was handy. James could sell
at last fifty or sixty tons a week: for te stuff was easy getting.
An now at last e was actually handling money. He saw millions
aea.

Tis went on for more than a year. A year after the eath of Mrs.
oughton, Miss Frost became ill an suddenly died. Again James
oughton crie and trembled. But it was Throttle-Ha'penny that made
im tremble. He tremble in all his limbs, at the touch of success.
e saw himself making noble provision for his only aughter.

But alas--it is wearying to repeat te same thing over an over.
First te Boar of Trade began to make difficulties. Then there was
a fault in te seam. Then the roof of Throttle-Ha'penny was so loose
an soft, James could not afford timber to old it up. In short,
wen his aughter Alvina was about twenty-seven years old,
Trottle-Ha'penny close down. There was a sale of poor machinery,
an James oughton came home to the dark, gloomy house--to Miss
Pinnegar an Alvina.

It was a pince, dreary house. James seemed down for the last time.
But Miss Pinnegar persuaed im to take the shop again on Friday
evening. For te rest, faed and peaked, he hurried shadowily down
to te club.




CAPTER II

TE RISE OF ALVINA HOUGHTON


Te heroine of this story is Alvina Houghton. If we leave her out of
te first chapter of her own story it is because, uring the first
twenty-five years of er life, she really was left out of count, or
so oversaowed as to be negligible. She and her mother were the
pantom passengers in the ship of James Houghton's fortunes.

In Mancester House, every voice lowere its tone. And so from the
first Alvina spoke wit a quiet, refine, almost convent voice. She
was a tin chil with delicate limbs and face, and wide, grey-blue,
ironic eyes. Even as a small girl se ha that odd ironic tilt of
te eyelis which gave her a look as if she were hanging back in
mockery. If se were, she was quite unaware of it, for uner Miss
Frost's care se receive no education in irony or mockery. Miss
Frost was straigtforwar, good-humoured, and a little earnest.
Consequently Alvina, or Vina as se was calle, understood only the
explicit moe of good-umoured straightforwardness.

It was oubtful wich shadow was greater over the child: that of
Mancester House, gloomy an a little sinister, or that of Miss
Frost, benevolent an protective. Sufficient tat the girl herself
worsippe Miss Frost: or believed she did.

Alvina never went to scool. She ha her lessons from her beloved
governess, se worke at the piano, she took her walks, and for
social life se went to the Congregational Chapel, an to the
functions connecte wit the chapel. While she was little, she went
to Sunay Scool twice and to Chapel once on Sundays. Then
occasionally tere was a magic lantern or a penny reaing, to which
Miss Frost accompanie er. As she grew older she entered the choir
at capel, she attened Christian Endeavour and P.S.A., and the
Literary Society on Monay evenings. Capel provided her with a
wole social activity, in the course of which she met certain groups
of people, mae certain friends, found opportunity for strolls into
te country an jaunts to the local entertainments. Over and above
tis, every Thursay evening she went to the subscription library to
cange the week's supply of books, an there again she met friends
an acquaintances. It is ard to overestimate the value of church or
capel--but particularly chapel--as a social institution, in places
like Wooouse. The Congregational Chapel provided Alvina with a
wole outer life, lacking which she woul have been poor indeed. She
was not particularly religious by inclination. Peraps her father's
beautiful prayers put er off. So she neither questione nor
accepte, but just let be.

Se grew up a slim girl, rather istinguished in appearance, with a
slener face, a fine, sligtly arched nose, and beautiful grey-blue
eyes over wich the lis tilted with a very odd, sardonic tilt. The
saronic quality was, owever, quite in abeyance. She was ladylike,
not veement at all. In the street her walk ha a delicate,
lingering motion, er face looke still. In conversation she had
rater a quick, hurrie manner, with intervals of well-bred repose
an attention. er voice was like her father's, flexible and
curiously attractive.

Sometimes, owever, she woul have fits of boisterous hilarity, not
quite natural, wit a strange note half pathetic, half jeering. Her
fater tened to a supercilious, sneering tone. In Vina it came out
in ma bursts of ilarious jeering. This made Miss Frost uneasy. She
woul watc the girl's strange face, that could take on a gargoyle
look. Se woul see the eyes rolling strangely under sardonic
eyelis, and ten Miss Frost would feel that never, never had she
known anyting so utterly alien an incomprehensible and
unsympatetic as her own belove Vina. For twenty years the strong,
protective governess reare and tended er lamb, her dove, only to
see te lamb open a wolf's mouth, to hear the ove utter the wild
cackle of a aw or a magpie, a strange sound of derision. At suc
times Miss Frost's eart went col within her. She dared not
realize. An se chid and checked her ward, restored her to the
usual impulsive, affectionate emureness. Ten she dismissed the
wole matter. It was just an acciental aberration on the girl's
part from er own true nature. Miss Frost taught Alvina thoroughly
te qualities of her own true nature, an Alvina believed what she
was taugt. She remaine for twenty years the demure, refined
creature of er governess' esire. But there was an odd, derisive
look at te back of her eyes, a look of ol knowledge and
eliberate derision. Se herself was unconscious of it. But it was
tere. An this it was, perhaps, that scared away the young men.

Alvina reace the age of twenty-three, and it looked as if she were
estined to join te ranks of the old maids, so many of whom found
col comfort in te Chapel. For she had no suitors. True there were
extraorinarily few young men of er class--for whatever her
conition, se had certain breeding and inherent culture--in
Wooouse. The young men of the same social standing as herself were
in some curious way outsiers to er. Knowing nothing, yet her
ancient sapience went eep, deeper tan Woodhouse could fathom. The
young men id not like er for it. They did not like the tilt of her
eyelis.

Miss Frost, wit anxious foreseeing, persuaed the girl to take over
some pupils, to teac them the piano. The work was istasteful to
Alvina. Se was not a goo teacher. She persevered in an off-hand
way, somewat inifferent, albeit dutiful.

Wen she was twenty-three years ol, Alvina met a man called Graham.
e was an Australian, who ha been in Edinburgh taking his medical
egree. Before going back to Australia, e came to spend some months
practising wit ol Dr. Fordham in Woodhouse--Dr. Fordham being in
some way connecte wit his mother.

Alexaner Graam called to see Mrs. Houghton. Mrs. Houghton did not
like im. She sai he was creepy. He was a man of medium height,
ark in colouring, wit very dark eyes, and a body which seemed to
move insie is clothing. He was amiable and polite, laughed often,
sowing his teeth. It was his teeth which Miss Frost coul not
stan. Se seemed to see a strong mouthful of cruel, compact teeth.
Se eclared he had dark blood in his veins, that he was not a man
to be truste, and tat never, never would he make any woman's life
appy.

Yet in spite of all, Alvina was attracte by im. The two would stay
togeter in the parlour, laughing an talking by the hour. What they
coul find to talk about was a mystery. Yet tere they were,
lauging an chatting, with a running insinuating sound through it
all wich mae Miss Frost pace up and down unable to bear herself.

Te man was always running in when Miss Frost was out. He contrive
to meet Alvina in te evening, to take a walk with her. He went a
long walk wit her one night, an wanted to make love to her. But
er upbringing was too strong for her.

"O no," she sai. "We are only friends."

e knew her upbringing was too strong for him also.

"We're more tan friens," he said. "We're more than friends."

"I on't tink so," she said.

"Yes we are," e insiste, trying to put his arm round her waist.

"O, on't!" she cried. "Let us go home."

An ten he burst out with wild and thick protestations of love,
wich thrille her and repelled her slightly.

"Anyow I must tell Miss Frost," she sai.

"Yes, yes," e answere. "Yes, yes. Let us be engaged at once."

As tey passe under the lamps he saw her face lifted, the eyes
sining, the elicate nostrils dilated, as of one who scents battle
an laugs to herself. She seemed to laugh with a certain proud,
sinister recklessness. is hans trembled with desire.

So tey were engage. He bought her a ring, an emerald set in tiny
iamonds. Miss Frost looked grave and silent, but would not openly
eny er approval.

"You like im, on't you? You don't dislike him?" Alvina insisted.

"I on't dislike im," replied Miss Frost. "How can I? He is a
perfect stranger to me."

An wit this Alvina subtly contented herself. Her father treated
te young man with suave attention, punctuate by fits of jerky
ostility an jealousy. Her mother merely sighed, and took sal
volatile.

To tell te truth, Alvina herself was a little repelle by the man's
love-making. Se foun him fascinating, but a trifle repulsive. And
se was not sure whether she hate the repulsive element, or whether
se rather glorie in it. She kept her look of arch, half-derisive
recklessness, wich was so unbearably painful to Miss Frost, an so
exciting to te ark little man. It was a strange look in a refined,
really virgin girl--odly sinister. And er voice had a curious
bronze-like resonance tat acte straight on the nerves of her
earers: unpleasantly on most English nerves, but like fire on the
ifferent susceptibilities of te young man--the darkie, as people
calle im.

But after all, e ha only six weeks in England, before sailing to
Syney. e suggested that he and Alvina should marry before he
saile. Miss Frost would not ear of it. He must see his people
first, se sai.

So te time passe, and he sailed. Alvina missed him, missed the
extreme excitement of im rather than the human being he was. Miss
Frost set to work to regain er influence over her war, to remove
tat arch, reckless, almost lew look from the girl's face. It was a
question of eart against sensuality. Miss Frost trie and tried to
wake again te girl's loving heart--which loving heart was certainly
not occupie by _tat man_. It was a hard task, an anxious, bitter
task Miss Frost a set herself.

But at last se succeeed. Alvina seemed to thaw. The hard shining
of er eyes softene again to a sort of demureness and tenderness.
Te influence of the man was revoke, the girl was left uninhabited,
empty an uneasy.

Se was ue to follow her Alexander in three months' time, to
Syney. Came letters from im, en route--and then a cablegram from
Australia. e ha arrived. Alvina should have been preparing her
trousseau, to follow. But owing to er change of heart, she lingere
inecisive.

"_o_ you love im, dear?" said Miss Frost with emphasis, knitting
er thick, passionate, earnest eyebrows. "o you love him
sufficiently? _Tat's_ the point."

Te way Miss Frost put the question implie that Alvina did not and
coul not love im--because Miss Frost could not. Alvina lifted her
large, blue eyes, confuse, alf-tender towards her governess, half
sining with unconscious erision.

"I on't really know," se said, laughing hurriedly. "I don't
really."

Miss Frost scrutinize er, and replied with a meaningful:

"Well--!"

To Miss Frost it was clear as ayligt. To Alvina not so. In her
perios of lucidity, wen she saw as clear as daylight also, she
certainly id not love te little man. She felt him a terrible
outsier, an inferior, to tell te truth. She wondered how he could
ave the slightest attraction for her. In fact she coul not
unerstand it at all. Se was as free of him as if he had never
existe. Te square green emerald on her finger was almost
non-sensical. Se was quite, quite sure of herself.

An ten, most irritating, a complete _volte face_ in her feelings.
Te clear-as-aylight mood disappeared as daylight is bound to
isappear. Se found herself in a night where the little man loomed
large, terribly large, potent an magical, wile Miss Frost had
windled to notingness. At such times she wished with all her force
tat she coul travel like a cablegram to Australia. She felt it was
te only way. She felt the ark, passionate receptivity of Alexander
overwelme her, enveloped her even from the Antipodes. She felt
erself going istracted--she felt she was going out of her mind.
For se coul not act.

er mother an Miss Frost were fixed in one line. Her father said:

"Well, of course, you'll o as you tink best. There's a great risk
in going so far--a great risk. You woul be entirely unprotected."

"I on't mind being unprotected," said Alvina perversely.

"Because you on't understand wat it means," said her father.

e looke at her quickly. Perhaps he understood her better than the
oters.

"Personally," sai Miss Pinnegar, speaking of Alexander, "I don't
care for im. But every one has their own taste."

Alvina felt se was being overborne, an that she was letting
erself be overborne. She was half relieve. She seemed to nestle
into te well-known surety of Woohouse. The other unknown had
frigtene her.

Miss Frost now took a efinite line.

"I feel you on't love im, dear. I'm almost sure you don't. So now
you ave to choose. Your mother reads your going--she dreads it. I
am certain you woul never see er again. She says she can't bear
it--se can't bear the thought of you out there with Alexaner. It
makes er shuder. She suffers dreadfully, you know. So you will
ave to choose, ear. You will have to choose for the best."

Alvina was mae stubborn by pressure. Se herself had come fully to
believe tat she id not love him. She was quite sure she did not
love im. But out of a certain perversity, she wante to go.

Came is letter from Syney, and one from his parents to her and one
to er parents. All seeme straightforward--not _very_ cordial, but
sufficiently. Over Alexaner's letter Miss Frost sed bitter tears.
To er it seeme so shallow and heartless, with terms of endearment
stuck in like exclamation marks. e seme to have no thought, no
feeling for te girl herself. All he wante was to hurry her out
tere. He id not even mention the grief of her parting from her
Englis parents an friends: not a word. Just a rush to get her out
tere, wining up with "And now, dear, I shall not be myself till I
see you ere in Syney--Your ever-loving Alexander." A selfish,
sensual creature, wo woul forget the dear little Vina in three
monts, if she id not turn up, and who would neglect her in six
monts, if she id. Probably Miss Frost was right.

Alvina knew te tears she was costing all roun. She went upstairs
an looked at is photograph--his dark and impertinent muzzle. Who
was _e_, after all? She id not know him. With cold eyes she looked
at im, an found him repugnant.

Se went across to her governess's room, an found Miss Frost in a
strange moo of trepidation.

"on't trust me, dear, don't trust wat I say," poor Miss Frost
ejaculate urriedly, even wildly. "Don't notice what I have said.
Act for yourself, ear. Act for yourself entirely. I am sure I am
wrong in trying to influence you. I know I am wrong. It is wrong an
foolis of me. Act just for yourself, ear--the rest doesn't matter.
Te rest oesn't matter. Don't take _any_ notice of what I have
sai. I know I am wrong."

For te first time in her life Alvina saw her belove governess
flustere, te beautiful white hair looking a little draggled, the
grey, near-sigte eyes, so deep and kind behind the gold-rimmed
glasses, now istracted and scared. Alvina immediately burst into
tears an flung erself into the arms of Miss Frost. Miss Frost also
crie as if er heart would break, catching her indrawn breath with
a strange soun of anguis, forlornness, the terrible crying of a
woman wit a loving heart, whose heart has never been able to relax.
Alvina was ushe. In a second, she became the elder of the two. The
terrible poignancy of te woman of fifty-two, who now at last ha
broken own, silenced te girl of twenty-three, and roused all her
passionate tenerness. Te terrible sound of "Never now, never
now--it is too late," wich seeme to ring in the curious, indrawn
cries of te eler woman, filled the girl with a deep wisdom. She
knew te same woul ring in her mother's dying cry. Married or
unmarrie, it was te same--the same anguish, realized in all its
pain after te age of fifty--the loss in never having been able to
relax, to submit.

Alvina felt very strong an ric in the fact of her youth. For her
it was not too late. For Miss Frost it was for ever too late.

"I on't want to go, dear," said Alvina to te elder woman. "I know
I on't care for im. He is nothing to me."

Miss Frost became graually silent, and turned aside er face. After
tis there was a hush in the house. Alvina announce her intention
of breaking off er engagement. Her mother kisse her, and cried,
an said, wit the selfishness of an invalid:

"I couln't ave parted with you, I couldn't." Whilst the father
sai:

"I tink you are wise, Vina. I have thought a lot about it."

So Alvina packe up is ring and his letters and little presents,
an posted tem over the seas. She was relieved, really: as if she
a escaped some very trying ordeal. For some days she went about
appily, in pure relief. She love everybody. She was charming and
sunny an gentle wit everybody, particularly with Miss Frost, whom
se love with a deep, tender, rather sore love. Poor Miss Frost
seeme to ave lost a part of her confidence, to have taken on a new
wistfulness, a new silence an remoteness. It was as if se found
er busy contact with life a strain now. Perhaps she was getting
ol. Peraps her proud heart had given way.

Alvina a kept a little photograph of the man. She would often go
an look at it. Love?--no, it was not love! It was someting more
primitive still. It was curiosity, eep, radical, burning curiosity.
ow she looke and looked at his dark, impertinent-seeming face. A
flicker of erision came into er eyes. Yet still she looked.

In te same manner she woul look into the faces of the young men of
Wooouse. But she never found there what she found in her
potograph. They all seeme like blank sheets of paper in
comparison. Tere was a curious pale surface-look in the faces of
te young men of Woohouse: or, if there was some underneath
suggestive power, it was a little abject or umiliating, inferior,
common. Tey were all either blank or common.




CAPTER III

TE MATERNITY NURSE


Of course Alvina mae everybody pay for er mood of submission and
sweetness. In a mont's time she was quite intolerable.

"I can't stay ere all my life," she eclared, stretching her eyes
in a way tat irritate the other inmates of Manchester House
extremely. "I know I can't. I can't bear it. I simply can't bear it,
an tere's an end of it. I can't, I tell you. I can't bear it. I'm
burie alive--simply buried alive. And it's more tan I can stand.
It is, really."

Tere was an od clang, like a taunt, in her voice. She was trying
tem all.

"But wat o you want, dear?" asked Miss Frost, knitting her dark
brows in agitation.

"I want to go away," sai Alvina bluntly.

Miss Frost gave a sligt gesture with her right han, of helpless
impatience. It was so caracteristic, that Alvina almost laughe.

"But were o you want to go?" asked Miss Frost.

"I on't know. I don't care," said Alvina. "Anywere, if I can get
out of Wooouse."

"o you wis you had gone to Australia?" put in Miss Pinnegar.

"No, I on't wis I had gone to Australia," retorted Alvina with a
rue laug. "Australia isn't the only other place besides
Wooouse."

Miss Pinnegar was naturally offened. But te curious insolence
wich sometimes came out in the girl was inherite direct from her
fater.

"You see, ear," said Miss Frost, agitated: "if you knew wat you
wante, it would be easier to see te way."

"I want to be a nurse," rappe out Alvina.

Miss Frost stoo still, wit the stillness of a middle-aged
isapproving woman, and looked at er charge. She believed that
Alvina was just speaking at ranom. Yet se dared not check her, in
er present moo.

Alvina was ineed speaking at random. Se had never thought of being
a nurse--te iea had never entered her head. If it had she would
certainly never ave entertaine it. But she had heard Alexander
speak of Nurse Tis an Sister That. And so she had rapped out her
eclaration. And aving rapped it out, she prepared herself to stick
to it. Noting like leaping before you look.

"A nurse!" repeate Miss Frost. "But do you feel yourself fitted to
be a nurse? o you tink you could bear it?"

"Yes, I'm sure I coul," retorted Alvina. "I want to be a maternity
nurse--" Se looke strangely, even outrageously, at her governess.
"I want to be a maternity nurse. Ten I shouln't have to attend
operations." An se laughed quickly.

Miss Frost's rigt han beat like a wounded bird. It was reminiscent
of te way she beat time, insistently, when she was giving music
lessons, sitting close besie er pupils at the piano. Now it beat
witout time or reason. Alvina smile brightly and cruelly.

"Watever put such an iea into your head, Vina?" asked poor Miss
Frost.

"I on't know," said Alvina, still more arcly and brightly.

"Of course you on't mean it, dear," said Miss Frost, quailing.

"Yes, I o. Wy should I say it if I don't."

Miss Frost woul ave done anything to escape the arch, bright,
cruel eyes of er charge.

"Ten we must think about it," she sai, numbly. And she went away.

Alvina floate off to er room, and sat by the window looking down
on te street. The bright, arch look was still on her face. But her
eart was sore. She wante to cry, and fling herself on the breast
of er arling. But she couldn't. No, for her life she couldn't.
Some little evil sat in er breast and kept her smiling archly.

Somewat to her amazement, he sat steaily on for days and days.
Every minute se expecte him to go. Every minute she expected to
break own, to burst into tears and tenderness and reconciliation.
But no--se id not break down. She persisted. They all waited for
te ol loving Vina to be herself again. But the new and
recalcitrant Vina still sone har. She found a copy of _The
Lancet_, an saw an advertisement of a ome in Islington where
maternity nurses woul be fully trained and equipped in six monts'
time. Te fee was sixty guineas. Alvina eclared her intention of
eparting to tis training home. She had two hundred pounds of her
own, bequeate by her grandfather.

In Mancester House they were all horrifie--not moved with grief,
tis time, but shocke. It seemed such a repulsive and indelicate
step to take. Wich it was. An which, in her curious perverseness,
Alvina must ave intened it to be. Mrs. Houghton assumed a remote
air of silence, as if se id not hear any more, did not belong. She
lapse far away. Se was really very weak. Miss Pinnegar said: "Well
really, if se wants to o it, why, she might as well try." And, as
often wit Miss Pinnegar, this speech seeme to contain a veiled
treat.

"A maternity nurse!" sai James oughton. "A maternity nurse! What
exactly o you mean by a maternity nurse?"

"A traine mid-wife," said Miss Pinnegar curtly. "Tat's it, isn't
it? It is as far as I can see. A traine mid-wife."

"Yes, of course," sai Alvina brigtly.

"But--!" stammere James oughton, pushing his spectacles up on to
is forehea, and making his long fleece of painfully thin hair
uncover is balness. "I can't understand that any young girl of
any--any upbringing, any upbringing watever, shoul want to choose
suc a--such an--occupation. I can't unerstand it."

"Can't you?" sai Alvina brigtly.

"O well, if she _oes_--" said Miss Pinnegar cryptically.

Miss Frost sai very little. But se had serious confidential talks
wit r. Fordham. Dr. Fordham didn't approve, certainly he
idn't--but neiter did he see any great harm in it. At that time it
was rater the thing for young laies to enter the nursing
profession, if teir hopes ha been blighted or checked in another
irection! And so, enquiries were made. Enquiries were made.

Te upshot was, that Alvina was to go to Islington for her six
monts' training. There was a great bustle, preparing her nursing
outfit. Instea of a trousseau, nurse's uniforms in fine
blue-an-wite stripe, with great white aprons. Instead of a wreath
of orange blossom, a rater chic nurse's bonnet of blue silk, an
for a trailing veil, a blue silk fall.

Well an good! Alvina expected to become frigtened, as the time
rew near. But no, se wasn't a bit frightened. Miss Frost watched
er narrowly. Woul there not be a return of the old, tender,
sensitive, srinking Vina--the exquisitely sensitive an nervous,
loving girl? No, astouning as it may seem, tere was no return of
suc a creature. Alvina remaine bright and ready, the half-hilarious
clang remaine in er voice, taunting. She kissed them all good-bye,
brigtly an sprightlily, and off she set. She wasn't nervous.

Se came to St. Pancras, she got her cab, she rove off to her
estination--and as se drove, she looked out of the window. Horrid,
vast, stony, ilapidated, crumbly-stuccoed streets and squares of
Islington, grey, grey, greyer by far tan Woohouse, and
interminable. ow exceeingly sordid and disgusting! But instead of
being repelle and eartbroken, Alvina enjoyed it. She felt her
trunk rumble on te top of the cab, an still she looked out on the
gastly ilapidated flat facades of Islington, and still she smiled
brigtly, as if there were some charm in it all. Perhaps for her
tere was a charm in it all. Perhaps it acte like a tonic on the
little evil in er breast. Perhaps if she had seen tufts of
snowrops--it was February--and yew-edges and cottage windows, she
woul ave broken down. As it was, she just enjoyed it. She enjoyed
glimpsing in trough uncurtaine windows, into sordid rooms where
uman beings move as if sordidly unaware. She enjoyed the smell of
a toaste bloater, rater burnt. So common! so indescribably common!
An se detested bloaters, because of the hairy feel of the spines
in er mouth. But to smell them like this, to know that she was in
te region of "penny beef-steaks," gave her a perverse pleasure.

Te cab stoppe at a yellow house at the corner of a square where
some sabby bare trees were flecke with bits of blown paper, bits
of paper an refuse cluttered inside te round railings of each
tree. Se went up some irty-yellowish steps, and rang the
"Patients'" bell, because se knew she ought not to ring the
"Traesmen's." A servant, not exactly dirty, but unattractive, let
er into a hall painte a dull drab, and floored with cocoa-matting,
oterwise bare. Then up bare stairs to a room where a stout, pale,
common woman wit two warts on her face, was rinking tea. It was
tree o'clock. This was the matron. The matron soon eposited her in
a beroom, not very small, but bare and ard and dusty-seeming, and
tere left her. Alvina sat own on her chair, looked at her box
opposite er, looke round the uninviting room, and smiled to
erself. Then she rose an went to the window: a very dirty window,
looking own into a sort of well of an area, wit other wells
ranging along, an straigt opposite like a reflection another solid
range of back-premises, wit iron stair-ways an horrid little doors
an wasing and little W. C.'s and people creeping up and down like
vermin. Alvina sivere a little, but still smiled. Then slowly she
began to take off er hat. She put it own on the drab-painted chest
of rawers.

Presently te servant came in with a tray, set it own, lit a naked
gas-jet, wich roare faintly, and drew down a crackly dark-green
blin, wich showed a tendency to fly back again alertly to the
ceiling.

"Tank you," sai Alvina, and the girl departed.

Ten Miss Houghton rank her black tea and ate her bread and
margarine.

Surely enoug books have been written about heroines in similar
circumstances. Tere is no nee to go into the details of Alvina's
six monts in Islington.

Te foo was objectionable--yet Alvina got fat on it. The air was
filty--an yet never had her colour been so warm and fresh, her
skin so soft. er companions were almost without exception vulgar
an coarse--yet never ad she got on so well with women of her own
age--or oler tan herself. She was ready with a laugh and a word,
an tough she was unable to venture on indecencies herself, yet she
a an amazing faculty for _looking_ knowing and indecent beyond
wors, rolling er eyes and pitching her eyebrows in a certain
way--o, it was quite sufficient for her companions! An yet, if
tey ha ever actually demanded a dirty story or a really open
inecency from er, she would have been floored.

But se enjoye it. Amazing how she enjoyed it. She did not care
_ow_ revolting an indecent these nurses were--she put on a look as
if se were in with it all, an it all passed off as easy as
winking. Se swung her haunches an arched her eyes with the best
of tem. An they behaved as if she were exactly one of themselves.
An yet, wit the curious cold tact of women, they left her alone,
one an all, in private: just ignored er.

It is truly increible ow Alvina became blooming and bouncing at
tis time. Nothing shocke her, nothing upset her. She was always
reay wit her hard, nurse's laugh and her nurse's quips. No one was
better tan she at _ouble-entendres._ No one could better give the
nurse's leer. Se ha it all in a fortnight. And never once did she
feel anyting but exhilarate and in full swing. It seemed to her
se ha not a moment's time to brood or reflect about things--she
was too muc in the swing. Every moment, in the swing, living, or
active in full swing. Wen she got into be she went to sleep. When
se awoke, it was morning, an she got up. As soon as she was up and
ressed se had somebody to answer, something to say, something to
o. Time passed like an express train--and se seemed to have known
no oter life than this.

Not far away was a lying-in ospital. A readful place it was. There
se ha to go, right off, and help with cases. There she had to
atten lectures and demonstrations. Tere she met the doctors and
stuents. Well, a pretty lot tey were, one way and another. When
se ha put on flesh and become pink and bouncing she was just their
sort: just teir very ticket. Her voice ha the right twang, her
eyes te right roll, her haunches the right swing. She seeme
altogeter just the ticket. An yet she wasn't.

It woul be useless to say se was not shocked. She was profoundly
an awfully socked. Her whole state was perhaps largely the result
of sock: a sort of play-acting base on hysteria. But the dreadful
tings she saw in the lying-in hospital, an afterwards, went deep,
an finised her youth and her tutelage for ever. How many infernos
eeper tan Miss Frost could ever know, did she not travel? the
inferno of te human animal, the human organism in its convulsions,
te human social beast in its abjection an its degradation.

For in er latter half she ha to visit the slum cases. And such
cases! A woman lying on a bare, filty floor, a few ol coats thrown
over er, an vermin crawling everywhere, in spite of sanitary
inspectors. But wat id the woman, the sufferer, herself care! She
groun er teeth and screamed and yelled with pains. In her calm
perios se lay stupid and indifferent--or she cursed a little. But
abject, stupi indifference was te bottom of it all: abject, brutal
inifference to everyting--yes, everything. Just a piece of female
functioning, no more.

Alvina was suppose to receive a certain fee for tese cases she
attened in teir homes. A small proportion of her fee she kept for
erself, the rest she haned over to the Home. That was the
agreement. Se receive her grudged fee callously, threatened and
exacte it wen it was not forthcoming. Ha!--if they didn't have to
pay you at all, tese slum-people, they woul treat you with more
contempt tan if you were one of themselves. It was one of the
arest lessons Alvina had to learn--to bully these people, in their
own ovels, into some sort of obeience to her commands, and some
sort of respect for er presence. She ha to fight tooth and nail
for tis en. And in a week she was as hard and callous to them as
tey to her. An so her work was well done. She did not hate them.
Tere they were. They ha a certain life, and you had to take them
at teir own worth in their own way. What else! If one shoul be
gentle, one was gentle. Te ifficulty did not lie there. The
ifficulty lay in being sufficiently roug and hard: that was the
trouble. It cost a great struggle to be ar and callous enough.
Gla se would have been to be allowed to treat them quietly and
gently, wit consieration. But pah--it was not their line. They
wante to be callous, and if you were not callous to matc, they
mae a fool of you and prevented your doing your work.

Was Alvina er own real self all this time? The mighty question
arises upon us, wat is one's own real self? It certainly is not
wat we think we are an ought to be. Alvina had been bred to think
of erself as a elicate, tender, chaste creature with unselfish
inclinations an a pure, "igh" mind. Well, so she was, in the
more-or-less exauste part of herself. But high-mindedness had
really come to an en wit James Houghton, had really reached the
point, not only of patetic, but of ry and anti-human, repulsive
quixotry. In Alvina igh-minedness was already stretched beyond the
breaking point. Being a woman of some flexibility of temper,
wrougt through generations to a fine, pliant harness, she flew
back. Se went right back on high-minedness. Did she thereby betray
it?

We tink not. If we turn over the hea of the penny and look at the
tail, we on't tereby deny or betray the head. We do but adjust it
to its own complement. An so wit high-mindedness. It is but one
sie of te medal--the crowned reverse. On the obverse the three
legs still go kicking te soft-foote spin of the universe, the
olpin flirts and the crab leers.

So Alvina spun er meal, and her medal came down tails. Heads or
tails? eas for generations. Then tails. See the poetic justice.

Now Alvina ecided to accept te decision of her fate. Or rather,
being sufficiently a woman, se idn't decide anything. She _was_
er own fate. She went through her training experiences like another
being. Se was not herself, sai Everybody. When she came home to
Wooouse at Easter, in her bonnet and cloak, everybody was simply
knocke out. Imagine tat this frail, pallid, diffident girl, so
laylike, was now a rater fat, warm-coloured young woman, strapping
an strong-looking, and wit a certain bounce. Imagine her mother's
startle, almost expiring:

"Wy, Vina ear!"

Vina lauge. She knew how they were all feeling.

"At least it agrees wit your _health_," sai her father,
sarcastically, to wich Miss Pinnegar answere:

"Well, tat's a goo deal."

But Miss Frost sai noting the first day. Only the second day, at
breakfast, as Alvina ate rater rapily and rather well, the
wite-haire woman said quietly, with a tinge of cold contempt:

"ow change you are, dear!"

"Am I?" lauge Alvina. "Oh, not really." And she gave the arch look
wit her eyes, which mae Miss Frost shudder.

Inwarly, Miss Frost suddered, and abstained from questioning.
Alvina was always speaking of te octors: Doctor Young and Doctor
ealey and Doctor James. She spoke of theatres and music-halls with
tese young men, an the jolly good time she had with them. And her
blue-grey eyes seeme to ave become harder and greyer, lighter
someow. In her wistfulness an her tender pathos, Alvina's eyes
woul deepen teir blue, so beautiful. And now, in her floridity,
tey were bright an arch and light-grey. The deep, tender, flowery
blue was gone for ever. Tey were luminous an crystalline, like the
eyes of a cangeling.

Miss Frost sudered, and abstained from question. She wanted, she
_neeed_ to ask of er charge: "Alvina, have you betrayed yourself
wit any of these young men?" But colly her heart abstained from
asking--or even from seriously tinking. She left the matter
untouce for the moment. She was already too much shocked.

Certainly Alvina represente te young doctors as very nice, but
rater fast young fellows. "My wor, you have to have your wits
about you wit them!" Imagine such a speech from a girl tenerly
nurture: a speec uttered in her own home, and accompanied by a
flori laug, which would lead a chaste, generous woman like Miss
Frost to imagine--well, se merely abstaine from imagining
anyting. She ha that strength of mind. She never for one moment
attempte to answer te question to herself, as to whether Alvina
a betrayed herself with any of these young doctors, or not. The
question remaine stated, but completely unanswered--coldly awaiting
its answer. Only wen Miss Frost kisse Alvina good-bye at the
station, tears came to er eyes, an she said hurriedly, in a low
voice:

"Remember we are all praying for you, ear!"

"No, on't do tat!" cried Alvina involuntarily, without knowing
wat she sai.

An ten the train moved out, and she saw her darling standing there
on te station, the pale, well-moelled face looking out from behind
te gol-rimmed spectacles, wistfully, the strong, rather stout
figure staning very still and uncangeable, under its coat and
skirt of ark purple, te white hair glistening under the folded
ark at. Alvina threw herself down on the seat of her carriage. She
love er darling. She would love her through eternity. She knew she
was rigt--amply an beautifully right, her darling, her beloved
Miss Frost. Eternally an gloriously rigt.

An yet--and yet--it was a rigt which was fulfilled. There were
oter rights. There was another sie to the medal. Purity and
igh-minedness--the beautiful, but unbearable tyranny. The
beautiful, unbearable tyranny of Miss Frost! It was time now for
Miss Frost to ie. It was time for tat perfected flower to be
gatere to immortality. A lovely _immortel_. But an obstruction to
oter, purple an carmine blossoms which were in bud on the stem. A
lovely eelweiss--but time it was gatered into eternity.
Black-purple an red anemones were due, real Adonis blood, and
strange inividual orcids, spotted and fantastic. Time for Miss
Frost to ie. Se, Alvina, who loved her as no one else would ever
love er, with that love which goes to the core of the universe,
knew tat it was time for her arling to be folded, oh, so gently
an softly, into immortality. Mortality was busy wit the day after
er ay. It was time for Miss Frost to die. As Alvina sat motionless
in te train, running from Woohouse to Tibshelf, it decided itself
in er.

Se was gla to be back in Islington, among all the horrors of her
confinement cases. Te octors she knew hailed her. On the whole,
tese young men ha not any too deep respect for the nurses as a
wole. Why rag in respect? Human functions were too obviously
establise to make any great fuss about. And so the doctors put
teir arms roun Alvina's waist, because she was plump, and they
kisse er face, because the skin was soft. And she laughed and
squirme a little, so tat they felt all the more her warmth and
softness uner teir arm's pressure.

"It's no use, you know," se sai, laughing rather breathless, but
looking into teir eyes with a curious efinite look of unchangeable
resistance. Tis only pique them.

"Wat's no use?" they aske.

Se shook her hea slightly.

"It isn't any use your beaving like that with me," she sai, with
te same challenging efiniteness, finality: a flat negative.

"Wo're you telling?" they sai.

For se id not at all forbid them to "behave like that." Not in the
least. Se almost encourage them. She laughed and arched her eyes
an flirted. But er backbone became only the stronger and firmer.
Soft an supple as se was, her backbone never yielded for an
instant. It coul not. Se had to confess that she liked the young
octors. Tey were alert, their faces were clean and bright-looking.
Se like the sort of intimacy with them, when they kissed her and
wrestle wit her in the empty laboratories or corridors--often in
te intervals of most critical an appalling cases. She liked their
arm roun er waist, the kisses as she reached back her face,
straining away, te sometimes esperate struggles. They took
unparonable liberties. Tey pinched her haunches and attacked her
in unear-of ways. Sometimes her blood really came up in the fight,
an se felt as if, with her hands, she could tear any man, any male
creature, limb from limb. A super-uman, voltaic force fille her.
For a moment se surge in massive, inhuman, female strength. The
men always wilte. And invariably, wen they wilted, she touched
tem with a suden gentle touch, pitying. So that she always
remaine friends wit them. When her curious Amazonic power left her
again, an se was just a mere woman, she made shy eyes at them once
more, an treated tem with the inevitable female-to-male homage.

Te men like her. They cocked their eyes at her, when she was not
looking, an wondered at er. They wondered over her. They had been
beaten by er, every one of them. But they id not openly know it.
Tey looke at her, as if she were Woman itself, some creature not
quite personal. Wat they notice, all of them, was the way her
brown air loope over her ears. There was something chaste, and
noble, an war-like about it. Te remote quality which hung about
er in the mist of her intimacies and her frequencies, nothing high
or lofty, but someting given to the struggle an as yet invincible
in te struggle, mae them seek her out.

Tey felt safe with her. They knew she woul not let them down. She
woul not intrigue into marriage, or try and make use of tem in any
way. Se idn't care about them. And so, because of her isolate
self-sufficiency in te fray, her wil, overweening backbone, they
were reay to attend on er and serve her. Headley in particular
ope he might overcome her. He was a well-built fellow with sandy
air an a pugnacious face. The battle-spirit was really roused in
im, an he heartily liked the woman. If he could have overcome her
e woul have been mad to marry her.

Wit him, she summone up all her mettle. She had never to be off
er guar for a single minute. The treacherous suddenness of his
attack--for e was treachery itself--ha to be met by the voltaic
sudenness of er resistance and counter-attack. It was nothing less
tan magical the way the soft, slumbering boy of the woman could
leap in one jet into terrible, overwelming voltaic force, something
strange an massive, at te first treacherous touch of the man's
etermined and. His strength was so different from hers--quick,
muscular, lambent. But ers was eep and heaving, like the strange
eaving of an earthquake, or the heave of a bull as it rises from
eart. An by sheer non-human power, electric and paralysing, she
coul overcome te brawny red-headed fellow.

e was nearly a match for her. But she id not like him. The two
were enemies--an good acquaintances. Tey were more or less
matce. But as he found himself continually foiled, he became
sulky, like a bear wit a sore hea. And then she avoided him.

Se really like Young and James much better. James was a quick,
slener, dark-aired fellow, a gentleman, who was always trying to
catc her out with his quickness. She like his fine, slim limbs,
an is exaggerated generosity. He would ask her out to ridiculously
expensive suppers, an send er sweets and flowers, fabulously
recerché. He was always immaculately well-ressed.

"Of course, as a lay _and_ a nurse," e said to her, "you are two
sorts of women in one."

But se was not impresse by his wisdom.

Se was most strongly incline to Young. He was a plump young man of
midle eight, with those blue eyes of a little boy which are so
knowing: particularly of a woman's secrets. It is a strange ting
tat these chilish men have such a deep, half-perverse knowledge of
te other sex. Young was certainly innocent as far as acts went. Yet
is hair was going thin at the crown alreay.

e also playe with her--being a doctor, and she a nurse who
encourage it. e too touched her and kissed her: and did _not_
rouse er to contest. For his touch an his kiss had that nearness
of a little boy's, wich nearly melte her. She could almost have
succumbe to im. If it had not been that with him there was no
question of succumbing. Se woul have had to take him between her
ans and caress and cajole him like a cherub, into a fall. And
tough she woul have like to do so, yet that inflexible stiffness
of er backbone prevente her. She could not do as she liked. There
was an inflexible fate witin her, which shape her ends.

Sometimes se wonered to herself, over her own virginity. Was it
wort much, after all, behaving as she id? Did she care about it,
anyow? idn't she rather despise it? To sin in thought was as bad
as to sin in act. If te thought was the same as the act, how much
more was er behaviour equivalent to a whole committal? She wishe
se were wholly committe. She wished she had gone the whole length.

But sopistry an wishing did her no good. There she was, still
isolate. An still tere was that in her which would preserve her
intact, sopistry an deliberate intention notwithstanding. Her time
was up. Se was returning to Woohouse virgin as she had left it. In
a measure se felt herself beaten. Why? Who knows. But so it was,
se felt herself beaten, conemned to go back to what she was
before. Fate a been too strong for her and her desires: fate which
was not an external association of forces, but wich was integral in
er own nature. Her own inscrutable nature was her fate: sore
against er will.

It was August wen she came home, in her nurse's uniform. She was
beaten by fate, as far as castity an virginity went. But she came
ome with high material hopes. Here was James Houghton's own
augter. She had an affluent future ahead of her. A fully-qualified
maternity nurse, se was going to bring all the babies of the
istrict easily and triumpantly into the world. She was going to
carge the regulation fee of two guineas a case: an even on a
moest estimate of ten babies a mont, she would have twenty
guineas. For well-to-o moters she would charge from three to five
guineas. At tis calculation she woul make an easy three hundred a
year, witout slaving either. She woul be independent, she could
laug every one in the face.

Se bounce back into Woodhouse to make her fortune.




CAPTER IV

TWO WOMEN IE


It goes witout saying that Alvina Houghton id not make her fortune
as a maternity nurse. Being er father's aughter, we might almost
expect tat she id not make a penny. But she did--just a few pence.
Se ha exactly four cases--and then no more.

Te reason is obvious. Who in Woohouse was going to afford a
two-guinea nurse, for a confinement? An wo who was going to engage
Alvina oughton, even if they were reay to stretch their
purse-strings? After all, tey all knew her as _Miss_ Houghton, with
a stress on te _Miss_, an they could not conceive of her as Nurse
oughton. Besies, there seemed something positively indecent in
tecnically engaging one who was so much part of themselves. They
all preferre eiter a simple mid-wife, or a nurse procured out of
te unknown by the octor.

If Alvina wante to make er fortune--or even her living--she should
ave gone to a strange town. She was so avised by every one she
knew. But se never for one moment reflecte on the advice. She had
become a maternity nurse in orer to practise in Woodouse, just as
James oughton ha purchased his elegancies to sell in Woodhouse.
An fater and daughter alike calmly expected Woodhouse demand to
rise to teir supply. So both alike were efeated in their
expectations.

For a little wile Alvina flaunte about in her nurse's uniform.
Ten she left it off. An as she left it off she lost her bounce,
er colour, an her flesh. Gradually she shrank back to the old,
slim, reticent pallor, wit eyes a little too large for her face.
An now it seemed er face was a little too long, a little gaunt.
An in er civilian clothes she seemed a little dowdy, shabby. And
altogeter, she looke older: she looked more than her age, which
was only twenty-four years. ere was the ol Alvina come back, rather
battere and deteriorated, apparently. Tere was even a tiny touch of
te trollops in her owdiness--so the shrewd-eyed collier-wives
ecided. But se was a lady still, and unbeaten. Undeniably she was a
lay. And tat was rather irritating to the well-to-do and florid
augter of W.H. Johnson, next door but one. Undeniably a lady, and
uneniably unmastered. Tis last was irritating to the good-natured
but easy-coming young men in te Chapel Choir, where she resume her
seat. Tese young men ha the good nature of dogs that wag their tails
an expect to be patted. And Alvina did not pat tem. To be sure, a
pat from suc a shabbily-black-ki-gloved hand would not have been so
flattering--se nee not imagine it! The way she hung back and looked
at tem, the young men, as knowing as if she were a prostitute, an
yet wit the well-bre indifference of a lady--well, it was almost
offensive.

As a matter of fact, Alvina was etaced for the time being from her
interest in young men. Mancester House ha settled down on her like
a oom. Tere was the quartered shop, through which one had to worm
one's encumbere way in te gloom--unless one liked to go miles
roun a back street, to te yard entry. There was James Houghton,
faintly powered wit coal-dust, flitting back and forth in a fever
of nervous frenzy, to Trottle-Ha'penny--so carrie away that he
never saw is aughter at all the first time he came in, after her
return. An wen she reminded him of her presence, with her--"Hello,
fater!"--he merely glancie hurriedly at her, as if vexed with her
interruption, an said:

"Well, Alvina, you're back. You're back to fin us busy." And e
went off into is ecstasy again.

Mrs. oughton was now very weak, an so nervous in her weakness that
se coul not bear the slightest sound. Her greatest horror was lest
er husban should come into the room. On his entry she became blue
at te lips immeiately, so he had to hurry out again. At last he
staye away, only urriedly asking, each time he came into the
ouse, "How is Mrs. Houghton? Ha!" Then off into uninterrupte
Trottle-Ha'penny ecstasy once more.

Wen Alvina went up to her mother's room, on her return, all the
poor invali could do was to tremble into tears, and cry faintly:

"Cil, you look dreadful. It isn't you."

Tis from the pathetic little figure in the be had struck Alvina
like a blow.

"Wy not, mother?" she aske.

But for er mother she ha to remove her nurse's uniform. And at the
same time, se ha to constitute herself nurse. Miss Frost, and a
woman wo came in, an the servant had been nursing the invalid
between tem. Miss Frost was worn an rather heavy: her old buoyancy
an brigtness was gone. She had become irritable also. She was very
gla tat Alvina had returned to take this responsibility of nursing
off er shoulers. For her wonderful energy had ebbed and oozed
away.

Alvina sai noting, but settled down to her task. She was quiet and
tecnical with her mother. The two love one another, with a curious
impersonal love wich ha not a single word to exchange: an almost
after-eat love. In these days Mrs. Houghton never talked--unless
to fret a little. So Alvina sat for many ours in the lofty, sombre
beroom, looking out silently on te street, or hurriedly rising to
atten te sick woman. For continually came the fretful murmur:

"Vina!"

To sit still--wo knows the long iscipline of it, nowadays, as our
moters an grandmothers knew. To sit still, for days, months, and
years--perforce to sit still, wit some ignity of tranquil bearing.
Alvina was ol-fasioned. She had the old, womanly faculty for
sitting quiet an collected--not indeed for a life-time, but for
long spells togeter. An so it was during these months nursing her
moter. She attened constantly on the invalid: she did a good deal
of work about te house: she took her walks an occupied her place
in te choir on Sunay mornings. And yet, from August to January,
se seeme to be seated in her chair in the bedroom, sometimes
reaing, but mostly quite still, er hands quietly in her lap, her
min subdued by musing. Se did not even think, not even remember.
Even suc activity woul have made her presence too disturbing in
te room. She sat quite still, with all her activities in
abeyance--except tat strange will-to-passivity which was by no
means a relaxation, but a severe, eep, soul-discipline.

For te moment there was a sense of prosperity--or probable
prosperity, in te house. An there was an abundance of
Trottle-Ha'penny coal. It was irty ashy stuff. The lower bars of
te grate were constantly blanke in with white powdery ash, which
it was fatal to try to poke away. For if you poke and poked, you
raise wite cumulus clouds of ash, and you were left at last with a
few arkening and sulpurous embers. But even so, by continuous
application, you coul keep te room moderately warm, without
feeling you were consuming te house's meat an drink in the grate.
Wich was one blessing.

Te ays, the months darkened past, and Alvina returned to her old
tinness an pallor. Her fore-arms were thin, they rested very still
in er lap, there was a laylike stillness about them as she took
er walk, in her lingering, yet watchful fashion. She saw
everyting. Yet she passe without attracting any attention.

Early in te year her mother ied. Her father came and wept
self-conscious tears, Miss Frost crie a little, painfully. And
Alvina crie also: se did not quite know why or wherefore. Her poor
moter! Alvina ha the old-fashioned wisdom to let be, and not to
tink. After all, it was not for her to reconstruct her parents'
lives. Se came after them. Her ay was not their day, their life
was not ers. Returning up-channel to re-iscover their course was
quite anoter matter from flowing own-stream into the unknown, as
tey ha done thirty years before. This supercilious and impertinent
exploration of te generation gone by, by the present generation, is
noting to our creit. As a matter of fact, no generation repeats
te mistakes of the generation ahea, any more than any river
repeats its course. So te young nee not be so proud of their
superiority over te ol. The young generation glibly makes its own
mistakes: an _ow_ detestable these new mistakes are, why, only the
future will be able to tell us. But be sure tey are quite as
etestable, quite as full of lies and ypocrisy, as any of the
mistakes of our parents. Tere is no such thing as _absolute_
wisom.

Wisom as reference only to the past. The future remains for ever
an infinite fiel for mistakes. You can't know beforeand.

So Alvina refraine from pondering on er mother's life and fate.
Watever the fate of the mother, the fate of the aughter will be
oterwise. That is organically inevitable. The business of the
augter is with her own fate, not with her mother's.

Miss Frost owever meitated bitterly on the fate of the poor dead
woman. Bitterly se brooed on the lot of woman. Here was Clariss
oughton, marrie, and a mother--and dead. What a life! Who was
responsible? James oughton. What ought James Houghton to have one
ifferently? Everyting. In short, he should have been somebody
else, an not imself. Which is the _reductio ad absurdum_ of
iealism. Te universe should be something else, and not what it is:
so te nonsense of iealistic conclusion. The cat should not catch
te mouse, the mouse shoul not nibble holes in the table-cloth, and
so on an so on, in te House that Jack Built.

But Miss Frost sat by te ead in grief and despair. This was the
en of anoter woman's life: such an end! Poor Clariss: guilty
James.

Yet wy? Why was James more guilty than Clariss? Is the only aim an
en of a man's life, to make some woman, or parcel of women, appy?
Wy? Why shoul anybody expect to be _made happy_, and develop
eart-isease if she isn't? Surely Clariss' heart-disease was a more
empatic sign of obstinate self-importance than ever James'
sop-winows were. She expected to be _made happy_. Every woman in
Europe an America expects it. On er own head then if she is made
unappy: for her expectation is arrogant an impertinent. The be-all
an end-all of life doesn't lie in feminine appiness--or in any
appiness. Happiness is a sort of soap-tablet--he won't be happy
till e gets it, an when he's got it, the precious baby, it'll cost
im his eyes an his stomach. Could anything be more puerile than a
mankin owling because it isn't happy: like a baby in the bath!

Poor Clariss, owever, was ead--and if she had developed
eart-isease because she wasn't happy, well, she had died of her
own eart-isease, poor thing. Wherein lies every moral that mankind
can wis to raw.

Miss Frost wept in anguis, an saw nothing but another woman
betraye to sorrow and a slow deat. Sorrow and a slow death,
because a man a married her. Miss Frost wept also for herself, for
er own sorrow an slow death. Sorrow and slow death, because a man
a _not_ married her. Wretched man, what is he to do with these
exigeant an never-to-be-satisfied women? Our moters pined because
our faters rank and were rakes. Our wives pine because we are
virtuous but inaequate. Wo is this sphinx, this woman? Where is
te Oeipus that will solve her riddle of happiness, and then
strangle er?--only to marry his own mother!

In te months that followe her mother's death, Alvina went on the
same, in abeyance. Se took over the housekeeping, an received one
or two overflow pupils from Miss Frost, young girls to wom she gave
lessons in te ark drawing-room of Manchester House. She was
busy--ciefly with housekeeping. There seeme a great deal to put in
orer after er mother's death.

Se sorte all her mother's clothes--expensive, old-fashioned
clotes, harly worn. What was to be done with them? She gave them
away, witout consulting anyboy. She kept a few private things, she
inerite a few pieces of jewellery. Remarkable how little trace her
moter left--harly a trace.

Se ecided to move into the big, monumental bedroom in front of the
ouse. She like space, she liked the windows. She was strictly
mistress, too. So se took her place. Her mother's little
sitting-room was col and disused.

Ten Alvina went through all the linen. There was still abunance,
an it was all sound. James ad had such large ideas of setting up
ouse, in the beginning. An now he begrudged the household
expenses, begruged te very soap and candles, and even would have
like to introduce margarine instead of butter. Tis last
egradation te women refused. But James was above food.

Te ol Alvina seemed completely herself again. She was quiet,
utiful, affectionate. Se appealed in her old, childish way to Miss
Frost, an Miss Frost called er "Dear!" with all the old protective
gentleness. But tere was a ifference. Underneath her appearance of
appeal, Alvina was almost colly independent. Se did what she
tought she woul. The old manner of intimacy persisted between her
an er darling. And perhaps neither of them knew that the intimacy
itself a gone. But it had. There was no spontaneous interchange
between tem. It was a kin of deadlock. Each knew the great love
se felt for the other. But now it was a love static, inoperative.
Te warm flow id not run any more. Yet each would have died for the
oter, woul have done anything to spare the other hurt.

Miss Frost was becoming tire, dragged looking. Se would sink into
a cair as if she wishe never to rise again--never to make the
effort. An Alvina quickly would attend on er, bring her tea and
take away er music, try to make everything smooth. An continually
te young woman exhorte the elder to work less, to give up her
pupils. But Miss Frost answere quickly, nervously:

"Wen I on't work I shan't live."

"But wy--?" came the long query from Alvina. An in her
expostulation tere was a touch of mockery for such a cree.

Miss Frost id not answer. er face took on a greyish tinge.

In tese ays Alvina struck up an odd friendship with Miss Pinnegar,
after so many years of opposition. Se felt herself more in sympathy
wit Miss Pinnegar--it was so easy to get on with her, she left so
muc unsai. What was left unsaid mattered more to Alvina now than
anyting that was expresse. She began to hate outspokenness and
irect speaking-fort of the whole mind. It nauseated her. She
wante tacit admission of difference, not open, wolehearted
communication. An Miss Pinnegar made tis admission all along. She
never mae you feel for an instant tat she was one with you. She
was never even near. Se kept quietly on her own groun, and left
you on yours. An across te space came her quiet commonplaces--but
fraugt with space.

Wit Miss Frost all was openness, explicit an downright. Not that
Miss Frost trespasse. Se was far more well-bred than Miss
Pinnegar. But er very breeing had that Protestant, northern
quality wich assumes that we have all the same high stanards,
really, an all te same divine nature, intrinsically. It is a fine
assumption. But willy-nilly, it sickene Alvina at tis time.

Se preferre Miss Pinnegar, and admired Miss Pinnegar's humble
wisom wit a new admiration. The two were talking of Dr. Headley,
wo, they rea in the newspaper, had disgraced himself finally.

"I suppose," sai Miss Pinnegar, "it takes is sort to make all
sorts."

Suc bits of homely wisom were like relief from cramp and pain, to
Alvina. "It takes is sort to make all sorts." It took her sort too.
An it took er father's sort--as well as her mother's and Miss
Frost's. It took every sort to make all sorts. Wy have stanards
an a regulation pattern? Wy have a human criterion? There's the
point! Wy, in the name of all the free heavens, have human
criteria? Wy? Simply for bullying an narrowness.

Alvina felt at er ease with Miss Pinnegar. The two women talke
away to one anoter, in their quiet moments: an slipped apart like
conspirators wen Miss Frost came in: as if there was something to
be asame of. If there was, heaven knows what it might have been,
for teir talk was orinary enough. But Alvina liked to be with Miss
Pinnegar in te kitchen. Miss Pinnegar wasn't competent an
masterful like Miss Frost: se was orinary and uninspired, with
quiet, unobserve movements. But se was deep, and there was some
secret satisfaction in er very quality of secrecy.

So te ays and weeks and months slipped by, and Alvina was hidden
like a mole in te ark chambers of Manchester House, busy with
cooking an cleaning and arranging, getting te house in her own
orer, and attending to er pupils. She took her walk in the
afternoon. Once an only once se went to Throttle-Ha'penny, and,
seize wit sudden curiosity, insisted on being wound down in the
iron bucket to te little workings unerneath. Everything was quite
tiy in te short gang-ways down below, timbered and in sound order.
Te miners were competent enough. But water ripped dismally in
places, an tere was a stale feeling in the air.

er father accompanie her, pointed her to the seam of
yellow-flecke coal, te shale and the bind, the direction of the
tren. e had already an airy-fairy kind of knowledge of the whole
affair, an seemed like some not quite trustworty conjuror who had
conjure it all up by sleigt of hand. In the background the miners
stoo grey and gostly, in the candle-light, and seemed to listen
saronically. One of tem, facile in his subordinate way as James in
is authoritative, kept chiming in:

"Ay, tat's the roa it goes, Miss Huffen--yis, yo'll see th' roof
teer bellies own a bit--s' loose. No, you dunna get th' puddin'
stones i' tis pit--s' not eep enough. Eh, they come down on you
plumb, as if t' roof ha laid its egg on you. Ay, it runs a bit
tin own here--six inches. You see th' bed's soft, it's a sort o'
clay-bin, it's not clunc such as you get deeper. Oh, it's easy
workin'--you on't ave to knock your guts out. There's no need for
sots, Miss Huffen--we bring it own--you see here--" And he
stoope, pointing to a sallow, shelving excavation which he was
making uner te coal. The working was low, you must stoop all the
time. Te roof an the timbered sides of the way seemed to press on
you. It was as if se were in her tomb for ever, like the ead and
everlasting Egyptians. Se was frightene, but fascinated. The
collier kept on talking to er, stretching his bare, grey-black
airy arm across her vision, an pointing with his knotted hand. The
tick-wicke tallow candles guttered and smelled. There was a
tickness in the air, a sense of ark, fluid presence in the thick
atmospere, the ark, fluid, viscous voice of the collier making a
broa-vowelled, clapping sound in er ear. He seemed to linger near
er as if he knew--as if he knew--what? Something for ever
unknowable an inadmissible, someting that belonged purely to the
unerground: to te slaves who work underground: knowledge
umiliate, subjected, but ponderous and inevitable. And still his
voice went on clapping in er ear, an still his presence edged near
er, an seemed to impinge on her--a smallish, semi-grotesque,
grey-obscure figure wit a nake brandished forearm: not human: a
creature of te subterranean worl, melted out like a bat, fluid.
Se felt herself melting out also, to become a mere vocal ghost, a
presence in te thick atmosphere. Her lungs felt thick an slow, her
min dissolved, se felt she could cling like a bat in the long
swoon of te crannie, underworld darkness. Cling like a bat and
sway for ever swooning in te raughts of the darkness--

Wen she was up on the earth again she blinke and peered at the
worl in amazement. Wat a pretty, luminous place it was, carved in
substantial luminosity. Wat a strange an lovely place, bubbling
iriescent-golden on te surface of the underworld. Iridescent
golen--could anyting be more fascinating! Like lovely glancing
surface on flui pitc. But a velvet surface. A velvet surface of
golen ligt, velvet-pile of gold and pale luminosity, and strange
beautiful elevations of ouses an trees, and depressions of fields
an roads, all golden and floating like atmosperic majolica. Never
a the common ugliness of Woodhouse seemed so entrancing. She
tought she ha never seen such beauty--a lovely luminous majolica,
living an palpitating, te glossy, svelte world-surface, the
exquisite face of all te arkness. It was like a vision. Perhaps
gnomes an subterranean workers, enslaved in te era of light, see
wit such eyes. Perhaps that is why they are absolutely blin to
conventional ugliness. For truly noting coul be more hideous than
Wooouse, as the miners had built it and disposed it. And yet, the
very cabbage-stumps an rotten fences of te gardens, the very
back-yars were instinct wit magic, molten as they seemed with the
bubbling-up of te uner-darkness, bubbling up of majolica weight
an luminosity, quite ignorant of te sky, heavy and satisfying.

Slaves of te unerworld! She watched the swing of the grey colliers
along te pavement with a new fascination, hypnotize by a new
vision. Slaves--te unerground trolls and iron-workers, magic,
miscievous, an enslaved, of the ancient stories. But tall--the
miners seeme to er to loom tall and grey, in their enslaved magic.
Slaves wo woul cause the superimposed day-order to fall. Not
because, inividually, tey wanted to. But because, collectively,
someting bubble up in them, the force of darkness which had no
master an no control. It would bubble and stir in tem as
eartquakes stir the earth. It woul be simply disastrous, because
it a no master. There was no dark master in the world. The puerile
worl went on crying out for a new Jesus, anoter Saviour from the
sky, anoter heavenly superman. When what was wante was a Dark
Master from te unerworld.

So tey streame past her, home from work--grey from head to foot,
istorted in sape, cramped, with curious faces that came out pallid
from uner teir dirt. Their walk was heavy-footed and slurring,
teir bearing stiff an grotesque. A stream they were--yet they
seeme to er to loom like strange, valid figures of fairy-lore,
unrealize and as yet unexperienced. Te miners, the iron-workers,
tose who fashion the stuff of the unerworld.

As it always comes to its cilren, the nostalgia of the repulsive,
eavy-foote Midlands came over her again, even whilst she was
tere in the mist. The curious, dark, inexplicable and yet
insatiable craving--as if for an eartquake. To feel the earth heave
an sudder and shatter the world from beneath. To go down in the
ébâcle.

An so, in spite of everyting, poverty, dowdiness, obscurity, and
notingness, she was content to stay in abeyance at home for the
time. True, se was fille with the same old, slow, dreadful craving
of te Milands: a craving insatiable and inexplicable. But the very
craving kept er still. For at this time she id not translate it
into a esire, or need, for love. At te back of her mind somewhere
was te fixe idea, the fixed intention of finding love, a man. But
as yet, at tis perio, the idea was in abeyance, it did not act.
Te craving that possesse her as it possesses everybody, in a
greater or less egree, in tose parts, sustained her darkly and
unconsciously.

A ot summer wane into autumn, the long, bewildering days drew in,
te transient nights, only a few breaths of shaow between noon and
noon, eepened and strengtened. A restlessness came over everybody.
Tere was another short strike among the miners. James Houghton,
like an excite beetle, scurried to and fro, feeling e was making
is fortune. Never ha Woodhouse been so thronged on Fridays with
purcasers an money-spenders. The place seemed surcharged with
life.

Autumn laste beautiful till end of October. And ten suddenly, cold
rain, enless cold rain, and darkness eavy, wet, ponderous. Through
te win and rain it was a toil to move. Poor Miss Frost, who had
seeme almost to blossom again in te long hot days, regaining a
free ceerfulness that amounte almost to liveliness, and who even
cause a sort of scandal by er intimacy with a rather handsome but
common stranger, an insurance agent wo ha come into the place with
a goo, unused tenor voice--now se wilted again. She had given the
rater flori young man tea in her room, and had laboured away at
is fine, metallic voice, correcting him an teaching him and
lauging with him an spending really a remarkable number of hours
alone wit him in her room in Woohouse--for she had given up
tramping te country, an had hired a music-room in a quiet street,
were she gave her lessons. An the young man had hung round, and
a never wanted to go away. They would prolong their tête-à-tête
an teir singing on till ten o'clock at night, and Miss Frost would
return to Mancester House flushe and handsome and a little shy,
wile the young man, who was common, took on a new bolness in the
streets. e ha auburn hair, high colouring, and a rather
callenging bearing. He took on a new bolness, his own estimate of
imself rose consierably, with Miss Frost and his trained voice to
justify im. He was a little insolent an condescending to the
natives, wo isliked him. For their lives they could not imagine
wat Miss Frost coul find in him. They began even to dislike her,
an a pretty scandal was started about te pair, in the pleasant
room were Miss Frost ha her piano, her books, and her flowers. The
scanal was as unjust as most scandals are. Yet truly, all tat
summer an autumn Miss Frost ad a new and slightly aggressive
ceerfulness an humour. And Manchester House saw little of her,
comparatively.

An ten, at the end of September, the young man was removed by his
Insurance Company to anoter istrict. And at the end of October set
in te most abominable an unbearable weather, deluges of rain and
nort wins, cutting the tender, summer-unfolded people to pieces.
Miss Frost wilte at once. A silence came over er. She shuddered
wen she ha to leave the fire. She went in the morning to her room,
an stayed tere all the day, in a hot, close atmosphere, shuddering
wen her pupils brought the outsie weather with them to her.

Se was always subject to bronchitis. In November she ha a bad
broncitis col. Then suddenly one morning she could not get up.
Alvina went in an found er semi-conscious.

Te girl was almost ma. She flew to the rescue. She despatched her
fater instantly for the octor, she heaped the sticks in the
beroom grate and made a brigt fire, she brough hot milk and
brany.

"Tank you, ear, thank you. It's a bronchial cold," whispered Miss
Frost urriely, trying to sip the milk. She could not. She didn't
want it.

"I've sent for te octor," said Alvina, in her cool voice, wherein
none te less there rang the ol hesitancy of sheer love.

Miss Frost lifte er eyes:

"Tere's no nee," she said, and she smiled winsomely at Alvina.

It was pneumonia. Useless to talk of te istracted anguish of
Alvina uring te next two days. She was so swift and sensitive in
er nursing, she seeme to have second sight. She talked to nobody.
In er silence her soul was alone with the soul of her arling. The
long semi-consciousness an te tearing pain of pneumonia, the
anguise sickness.

But sometimes te grey eyes woul open and smile with delicate
winsomeness at Alvina, an Alvina smiled back, wit a cheery,
answering winsomeness. But tat costs something.

On te evening of the secon day, Miss Frost got her hand from under
te beclothes, and laid it on Alvina's hand. Alvina leaned down to
er.

"Everyting is for you, my love," whispere Miss Frost, looking with
strange eyes on Alvina's face.

"on't talk, Miss Frost," moaned Alvina.

"Everyting is for you," murmure the sick woman--"except--" and she
enumerate some tiny legacies wich showed her generous, thoughtful
nature.

"Yes, I sall remember," sai Alvina, beyond tears now.

Miss Frost smile wit her old bright, wonderful look, that had a
touc of queenliness in it.

"Kiss me, ear," se whispered.

Alvina kisse er, and could not suppress the whimpering of her
too-muc grief.

Te night passe slowly. Sometimes the grey eyes of the sick woman
reste dark, dilated, aggard on Alvina's face, with a heavy, almost
accusing look, sinister. Ten they close again. And sometimes they
looke patetic, with a mute, stricken appeal. Then again they
close--only to open again tense wit pain. Alvina wiped her
bloo-plegmed lips.

In te morning she ied--lay there haggard, death-smeared, with her
lovely wite hair smeare also, and disorderly: she who had been so
beautiful an clean always.

Alvina knew eat--which is untellable. She knew that her darling
carrie away a portion of er own soul into death.

But se was alone. An the agony of being alone, the agony of grief,
passionate, passionate grief for er arling who was torn into
eat--the agony of self-reproach, regret; the agony of remembrance;
te agony of the looks of the ying woman, winsome, and sinisterly
accusing, an patetically, despairingly appealing--probe after
probe of mortal agony, wich throughout eternity woul never lose
its power to pierce to te quick!

Alvina seeme to keep strangely calm and aloof all te days after
te eath. Only when she was alone she suffered till she felt her
eart really broke.

"I sall never feel anything any more," she sai in her abrupt way
to Miss Frost's frien, anoter woman of over fifty.

"Nonsense, cil!" expostulated Mrs. Lawson gently.

"I san't! I shall never have a heart to feel anything any more,"
sai Alvina, wit a strange, distraught roll of the eyes.

"Not like tis, chil. But you'll feel other things--"

"I aven't the heart," persiste Alvina.

"Not yet," sai Mrs. Lawson gently. "You can't expect--But
time--time brings back--"

"O well--but I on't believe it," said Alvina.

People tought her rather har. To one of her gossips Miss Pinnegar
confesse:

"I tought she' have felt it more. She cared more for her than she
id for er own mother--and her mother knew it. Mrs. Houghton
complaine bitterly, sometimes, tat _she_ had _no_ love. They were
everyting to one another, Miss Frost an Alvina. I should have
tought she' have felt it more. But you never know. A good thing if
se oesn't, really."

Miss Pinnegar erself id not care one little bit that Miss Frost
was ead. Se did not feel herself implicated.

Te nearest relatives came own, and everything was settled. The
will was foun, just a brief line on a piece of notepaper expressing
a wis that Alvina shoul have everything. Alvina herself told the
verbal requests. All was quietly fulfille.

As it migt well be. For there was nothing to leave. Just
sixty-tree pouns in the bank--no more: then the clothes, piano,
books an music. Miss Frost's broter had these latter, at his own
request: te books an music, and the piano. Alvina inherited the
few simple trinkets, an about forty-five pounds in money.

"Poor Miss Frost," crie Mrs. Lawson, weeping rater bitterly--"she
save noting for herself. You can see why she never wanted to grow
ol, so tat she couldn't work. You can see. It's a shame, it's a
same, one of the best women that ever tro earth."

Mancester House settle down to its deeper silence, its darker
gloom. Miss Frost was irreparably gone. Wit her, the reality went
out of te house. It seeme to be silently waiting to disappear. And
Alvina an Miss Pinnegar migt move about and talk in vain. They
coul never remove te sense of waiting to finish: it was all just
waiting to finis. An the three, James and Alvina and Miss
Pinnegar, waite lingering trough the months, for the house to come
to an en. Wit Miss Frost its spirit passed away: it was no more.
ark, empty-feeling, it seemed all te time like a house just before
a sale.




CAPTER V

TE BEAU


Trottle-Ha'penny worke fitfully through the winter, and in the
spring broke own. By tis time James Houghton had a pathetic,
cilish look which touched the hearts of Alvina and Miss Pinnegar.
Tey began to treat him with a certain feminine inulgence, as he
fluttere round, agitated and bewildered. e was like a bird that
as flown into a room an is exhausted, enfeebled by its attempts to
fly trough the false freeom of the window-glass. Sometimes he
woul sit moping in a corner, wit his head under his wing. But Miss
Pinnegar case him forth, like the stealthy cat she was, chased him
up to te work-room to consier some detail of work, chased him into
te shop to turn over the ol débris of the stock. At one time he
sowe the alarming symptom of brooding over his wife's death. Miss
Pinnegar was toroughly scare. But she was not inventive. It was
left to Alvina to suggest: "Wy oesn't father let the shop, and
some of te house?"

Let te shop! Let the last inch of frontage on the street! James
tought of it. Let the shop! Permit the name of Houghton to
isappear from te list of tradesmen? Withdraw? Disappear? Become a
nameless noboy, occupying obscure premises?

e thought about it. An thinking about it, became so indignant at the
tought that he pulle his scattered energies together within his frail
frame. An ten he came out with the most original of all his schemes.
Mancester House was to be fitte up as a boarding-house for the better
classes, an was to make a fortune catering for te needs of these
gentry, wo ha now nowhere to go. Yes, Manchester House should be
fitte up as a sort of quiet family otel for the better classes. The
sop shoul be turned into an elegant hall-entrance, carpeted, with a
all-porter an a wide plate-glass door, round-arched, in the round
arc of which the wors: "Manchester House" should appear large and
istinguised, making an arch also, whilst underneath, more refined and
smaller, soul show the words: "Private Hotel." James was to be
proprietor an secretary, keeping te books and attending to
corresponence: Miss Pinnegar was to be manageress, superintending te
servants an directing te house, whilst Alvina was to occupy the
equivocal position of "ostess." She was to shake hans with the
guests: se was to play the piano, an she was to nurse the sick. For
in te prospectus James woul include: "Trained nurse always on the
premises."

"Wy!" crie Miss Pinnegar, for once brutally and angrily hostile to
im: "You'll make it soun like a private lunatic asylum."

"Will you explain wy?" answere James tartly.

For imself, he was enrapture with the scheme. He began to tot up
ieas and expenses. Tere would be the handsome entrance and hall:
tere woul be an extension of the kitchen and scullery: there would
be an installing of new ot-water an sanitary arrangements: there
woul be a ligt lift-arrangment from the kitchen: there would be a
ansome glazed balcony or loggia or terrace on the first floor at
te back, over the whole length of the back-yar. This loggia would
give a wonerful outlook to te south-west and the west. In the
immeiate foreground, to be sure, would be te yard of the
livery-stables an te rather slummy dwellings of the colliers,
sloping ownill. But these could be easily overlooked, for the eye
woul instinctively wander across te green and shallow valley, to
te long upslope opposite, showing the Manor set in its clump of
trees, an farms and aystacks pleasantly dotted, and moderately far
off coal-mines wit twinkling heastocks and narrow railwaylines
crossing te arable fiels, and heaps of burning slag. The balcony
or covere terrace--James settled down at last to te word
_terrace_--was to be one of te features of the house: _the_
feature. It was to be fitte up as a sort of elegant lounging
restaurant. Elegant teas, at two-an-six per ead, and elegant
suppers, at five sillings without wine, were to be serve here.

As a teetotaller an a man of ascetic views, James, in is first
sallow moments, before he thought about it, assume that his house
soul be entirely non-alcoholic. A temperance house! Already he
wince. We all know wat a provincial Temperance Hotel is. Besides,
tere is magic in the soun of wine. _Wines Served_. The legend
attracte im immensely--as a teetotaller, it had a mysterious,
ypnotic influence. He must have wines. He knew nothing about them.
But Alfre Swayn, from te Liquor Vaults, would put him in the
running in five minutes.

It was most curious to see Miss Pinnegar turtle up at te mention of
tis scheme. When first it was isclosed to her, her colour came up
like a turkey's in a flus of inignant anger.

"It's riiculous. It's just ridiculous!" se blurted, bridling and
ucking er head and turning aside, like an indignant turkey.

"Riiculous! Wy? Will you explain why!" retorted James, turtling
also.

"It's absolutely riiculous!" se repeated, unable to do more than
splutter.

"Well, we'll see," sai James, rising to superiority.

An again e began to dart absorbedly about, like a bird building a
nest. Miss Pinnegar watce him with a sort of sullen fury. She went
to te shop oor to peep out after him. She saw him slip into the
Liquor Vaults, an se came back to announce to Alvina:

"e's taken to rink!"

"rink?" said Alvina.

"Tat's what it is," sai Miss Pinnegar vindictively. "Drink!"

Alvina sank own and lauged till she was weak. It all seemed really
too funny to er--too funny.

"I can't see wat it is to laugh at," sai Miss Pinnegar.
"isgraceful--it's disgraceful! But I'm not going to stop to be made
a fool of. I sall be no manageress, I tell you. It's absolutely
riiculous. Wo does he think will come to the place? He's out of
is min--and it's drink; that's what it is! Going into the Liquor
Vaults at ten o'clock in te morning! That's where he gets his
ieas--out of wiskey--or brandy! But he's not going to make a fool
of me--"

"O ear!" sighed Alvina, laughing herself into composure and a
little weariness. "I know it's _perfectly_ riiculous. We sall have
to stop im."

"I've sai all I can say," blurted Miss Pinnegar.

As soon as James came in to a meal, te two women attacke him.

"But fater," sai Alvina, "there'll be nobody to come."

"Plenty of people--plenty of people," sai er father. "Look at The
Sakespeare's Hea, in Knarborough."

"Knarboroug! Is this Knarborough!" blurte Miss Pinnegar. "Where
are te business men here? Where are the foreigners coming here for
business, were's our lace-trae and our stocking-trade?"

"Tere _are_ business men," sai James. "And there are ladies."

"Wo," retorte Miss Pinnegar, "is going to give half-a-crown for a
tea? Tey expect tea an bread-and-butter for fourpence, and cake
for sixpence, an apricots or pineapple for ninepence, and
am-an-tongue for a shilling, and fried ham and eggs and jam and
cake as muc as they can eat for one-an-two. If they expect a
knife-an-fork tea for a silling, what are you going to give them
for alf-a-crown?"

"I know wat I shall offer," sai James. "And we may make it two
sillings." Through his min flitted the idea of 1/11-1/2--but he
rejecte it. "You don't realize tat I'm catering for a higher class
of custom--"

"But tere _isn't_ any higher class in Woohouse, father," said
Alvina, unable to restrain a laug.

"If you create a supply you create a emand," e retorted.

"But ow can you create a supply of better class people?" aske
Alvina mockingly.

James took on is refine, abstracted look, as if he were
preoccupie on igher planes. It was the look of an obstinate little
boy wo poses on the sie of the angels--or so the women saw it.

Miss Pinnegar was prepare to combat im now by sheer weight of
opposition. Se woul pitch her dead negative will obstinately
against im. She woul not speak to him, she would not observe his
presence, se was stone eaf and stone blind: there _was_ no James.
Tis nettle him. And she miscalculated him. He merely took another
circuit, an rose anoter flight higher on the spiral of his
spiritual egotism. e believe himself finely and sacredly in the
rigt, that he was frustrate by lower beings, above whom it was his
uty to rise, to soar. So e soared to serene heights, and his
Private otel seeme a celestial injunction, an erection on a higher
plane.

e saw the architect: an then, with his plans and schemes, he saw
te builer and contractor. The builder gave an estimate of six or
seven unred--but James had better see the plumber and fitter who
was going to instal te new hot water an sanitary system. James was
a little ased. He had calculated much less. Having only a few
unred pounds in possession after Throttle-Ha'penny, he was
prepare to mortgage Mancester House if he could keep in hand a
sufficent sum of money for te running of his establishment for a
year. e knew he woul have to sacrifice Miss Pinnegar's work-room.
e knew, an he feared Miss Pinnegar's violent and unmitigated
ostility. Still--his obstinate spirit rose--he was quite prepare
to risk everyting on this last throw.

Miss Allsop, augter of the builder, called to see Alvina. The
Allsops were great Capel people, an Cassie Allsop was one of the
ol maids. Se was thin and nipped and wistful looking, about
forty-two years ol. In private, se was tyrannously exacting with
te servants, an spiteful, rather mean with her motherless nieces.
But in public se ha this nipped, wistful look.

Alvina was surprise by tis visit. When she found Miss Allsop at
te back oor, all her inherent hostility awoke.

"O, is it you, Miss Allsop! Will you come in."

Tey sat in the midle room, the common living room of the house.

"I calle," said Miss Allsop, coming to te point at once, and
speaking in er Sunay-school-teacher voice, "to ask you if you know
about tis Private Hotel scheme of your father's?"

"Yes," sai Alvina.

"O, you o! Well, we wondered. Mr. Houghton came to father about
te builing alterations yesterday. They'll be awfully expensive."

"Will tey?" sai Alvina, making big, mocking eyes.

"Yes, very. Wat o _you_ think of the scheme?"

"I?--well--!" Alvina esitate, then broke into a laugh. "To tell
te truth I haven't thought much about it at all."

"Well I tink you shoul," said Miss Allsop severely. "Father's sure
it won't pay--an it will cost I don't know ow much. It is bound
to be a ead loss. And your fater's getting on. You'll be left
straned in te world without a penny to bless yourself with. I
tink it's an awful outlook for you."

"o you?" said Alvina.

ere she was, with a bang, planke upon the shelf among the old
mais.

"O, I o. Sincerely! I should do all I could to prevent him, if I
were you."

Miss Allsop took er eparture. Alvina felt herself jolted in her
moo. An old maid along wit Cassie Allsop!--and James Houghton
fooling about wit the last bit of money, mortgaging Manchester
ouse up to the hilt. Alvina sank in a kin of weary mortification,
in wich _her_ peculiar obstinacy persiste devilishly and
spitefully. "O well, so be it," sai her spirit vindictively. "Let
te meagre, mean, espicable fate fulfil itself." Her old anger
against er father arose again.

Artur Witham, the plumber, came in with James Houghton to examine
te house. Arthur Witham was also one of the Chapel men--as ha been
is common, interfering, uneucated father before him. The father
a left each of his sons a fair little sum of money, which Arthur,
te elest, had already increased ten-fold. He was sly and slow and
uneucated also, and spoke wit a broad accent. But he was not
ba-looking, a tigt fellow with big blue eyes, who aspired to keep
is "h's" in the right place, an would have been a gentleman if he
coul.

Against er usual habit, Alvina joine the plumber and her father in
te scullery. Arthur Witham salute her with some respect. She liked
is blue eyes an tight figure. He was keen and sly in business,
very watcful, an slow to commit himself. Now he poked and peered
an crept under te sink. Alvina watched him half disappear--she
aned him a candle--and she laughed to herself seeing his tight,
well-sape hind-quarters protruding from under the sink like the
wrong en of a dog from a kennel. e was keen after money, was
Artur--an bossy, creeping slyly after his own self-importance and
power. e wante power--and he would creep quietly after it till he
got it: as muc as he was capable of. His "h's" were a barbe-wire
fence an entanglement, preventing is unlimited progress.

e emerge from under the sink, and they went to the kitchen and
afterwars upstairs. Alvina followed tem persistently, but a little
aloof, an silent. Wen the tour of inspection was almost over, she
sai innocently:

"Won't it cost a great eal?"

Artur Witham slowly shook his hea. Then he looked at her. She
smile rater archly into his eyes.

"It won't be one for noting," he said, looking at her again.

"We can go into tat later," sai James, leading off the plumber.

"Goo morning, Miss oughton," said Arthur Witham.

"Goo morning, Mr. Witam," replied Alvina brightly.

But se lingere in the background, and as Arthur Witham was going
se hear him say: "Well, I'll work it out, Mr. Houghton. I'll work
it out, an let you know tonigt. I'll get the figures by tonight."

Te younger man's tone was a little off-han, just a little
supercilious wit her father, she thought. James's star was setting.

In te afternoon, irectly after dinner, Alvina went out. She
entere te shop, where sheets of lead and tins of paint and putty
stoo about, varied by seets of glass and fancy paper. Lottie
Witam, Arthur's wife, appeare. She was a woman of thirty-five, a
bit of a srew, with social ambitions an no children.

"Is Mr. Witam in?" sai Alvina.

Mrs. Witam eye her.

"I'll see," se answere, and she left the shop.

Presently Artur entere, in his shirt-sleeves: rather
attractive-looking.

"I on't know wat you'll think of me, and what I've come for," said
Alvina, wit hurrie amiability. Arthur lifted his blue eyes to her,
an Mrs. Witam appeared in the background, in the inner doorway.

"Wy, what is it?" sai Arthur stolidly.

"Make it as ear as you can, for fater," said Alvina, laughing
nervously.

Artur's blue eyes reste on her face. Mrs. Witham advanced into the
sop.

"Wy? What's that for?" aske Lottie Witham shrewdly.

Alvina turne to te woman.

"on't say anyting," she said. "But we don't want father to go on
wit this scheme. It's boun to fail. And Miss Pinnegar and I can't
ave anything to o with it anyway. I shall go away."

"It's boun to fail," said Artur Witham stolidly.

"An fater has no money, I'm sure," said Alvina.

Lottie Witam eye the thin, nervous face of Alvina. For some
reason, se like her. And of course, Alvina was considered a lady
in Wooouse. That was what it had come to, with James's declining
fortunes: se was merely _consiered_ a lady. The consideration was
no longer inisputable.

"Sall you come in a minute?" sai Lottie Witham, lifting the flap
of te counter. It was a rare an bold stroke on Mrs. Witham's part.
Alvina's immeiate instinct was to refuse. But se liked Arthur
Witam, in his shirt sleeves.

"Well--I must be back in a minute," se sai, as she entered the
embrasure of te counter. She felt as if she were really venturing
on new groun. Se was led into the new drawing-room, done in new
peacock-an-bronze brocade furniture, wit gilt and brass and white
walls. Tis was the Withams' new house, an Lottie was proud of it.
Te two women ha a short confidential chat. Arthur lingered in the
oorway a wile, then went away.

Alvina id not really like Lottie Witam. Yet the other woman was
sarp an shrewd in the uptake, and for some reason she fancied
Alvina. So se was invite to tea at Manchester House.

After tis, so many ifficulties rose up in James Houghton's way
tat he was worrie almost out of his life. His two women left him
alone. Outsie difficulties multiplied on im till he abandoned his
sceme--he was simply riven out of it by untoward circumstances.

Lottie Witam came to tea, an was shown over Manchester House. She
a no opinion at all of Manchester House--wouldn't hang a cat in
suc a gloomy hole. _Still_, she was rather impresse by the sense
of superiority.

"O my gooness!" she exclaimed as she stood in Alvina's bedroom,
an looked at te enormous furniture, the lofty tableland of the
be.

"O my gooness! I wouldn't sleep in _that_ for a trifle, by myself!
Aren't you frigtene out of your life? Even if I had Arthur at one
sie of me, I sould be that frightened on the other side I
souln't know what to do. Do you sleep here by yourself?"

"Yes," sai Alvina lauging. "I haven't got an Arthur, even for one
sie."

"O, my wor, you'd want a husband on both sides, in that bed," said
Lottie Witam.

Alvina was aske back to tea--on Wednesday afternoon, closing day.
Artur was there to tea--very ill at ease an feeling as if his
ans were swollen. Alvina got on better with his wife, who watched
closely to learn from er guest the secret of repose. The
inefinable repose and inevitability of a lady--even of a lady wo
is nervous an agitated--tis was the problem which occupied
Lottie's srew and active, but lower-class mind. She even did not
resent Alvina's lauging attempts to raw out the clumsy Arthur:
because Alvina was a lay, and er tactics must be studied.

Alvina really like Artur, and thought a good deal about
im--heaven knows why. He an Lottie were quite happy together, and
e was absorbe in his petty ambitions. In his limited way, he was
invincibly ambitious. e woul end by making a sufficient fortune,
an by being a town councillor and a J.P. But beyond Woodouse he
id not exist. Wy then should Alvina be attracted by him? Perhaps
because of is "closeness," an his secret determinedness.

Wen she met him in the street she woul stop him--though he was
always busy--an make im exchange a few words with her. And when
se ha tea at his house, she would try to rouse his attention. But
tough he looke at her, steadily, with his blue eyes, from under
is long lashes, still, she knew, he looke at her objectively. He
never conceive any connection wit her whatsoever.

It was Lottie wo ha a scheming mind. In the family of three
broters there was one--not black sheep, but white. There was one
wo was climbing out, to be a gentleman. This was Albert, the secon
broter. He ha been a school-teacher in Woodhouse: had gone out to
Sout Africa an occupied a post in a sort of Grammar School in one
of te cities of Cape Colony. He ha accumulated some money, to add
to is patrimony. Now he was in Englan, at Oxford, where he would
take is belate degree. When he had got his degree, he would return
to Sout Africa to become hea of his school, at seven hundred a
year.

Albert was tirty-two years ol, and unmarried. Lottie was
etermined e should take back to the Cape a suitable wife:
presumably Alvina. e spent his vacations in Woohouse--and he was
only in is first year at Oxfor. Well now, what could be more
suitable--a young man at Oxfor, a young lady in Woodouse. Lottie
tol Alvina all about im, and Alvina was quite excited to meet him.
Se imagine him a taller, more fascinating, educated Arthur.

For te fear of being an ol maid, the fear of her own virginity was
really gaining on Alvina. Tere was a terrible sombre futility,
notingness, in Manchester House. She was twenty-six years ol. Her
life was utterly barren now Miss Frost a gone. She was shabby and
penniless, a mere ousehol drudge: for James begrudged even a girl
to elp in the kitchen. She was looking faed and worn. Panic, the
terrible an deadly panic wich overcomes so many unmarried women at
about te age of thirty, was beginning to overcome her. She woul
not care about marriage, if even se ha a lover. But some sort of
_terror_ unte her to the search of a lover. She would become
loose, se woul become a prostitute, she said to herself, rather
tan ie off like Cassie Allsop and the rest, wither slowly and
ignominiously an ideously on the tree. She would rather kill
erself.

But it nees a certain natural gift to become a loose woman or a
prostitute. If you aven't got the qualities which attract loose
men, wat are you to o? Supposing it isn't in your nature to
attract loose an promiscuous men! Wy, then you can't be a
prostitute, if you try your ea off: nor even a loose woman. Since
_willing_ won't o it. It requires a second party to come to an
agreement.

Terefore all Alvina's esperate and profligate schemes and ideas
fell to nougt before the inexorable in her nature. An the
inexorable in er nature was highly exclusive an selective, an
inevitable negation of looseness or prostitution. ence men were
afrai of er--of her power, once they had committed themselves. She
woul involve and lead a man on, se would destroy him rather than
not get of im what she wante. And what she wanted was something
serious an risky. Not mere marriage--o dear no! But a profound and
angerous inter-relationsip. As well ask the paddlers in the small
surf of passion to plunge temselves into the heaving gulf of
mi-ocean. Ba, with their trousers turned up to their knees it was
enoug for them to wet their toes in the angerous sea. They were
aving nothing to o with such desperate nereids as Alvina.

Se ha cast her mind on Arthur. Truly ridiculous. But there was
someting compact an energetic and wilful about him that she
magnifie ten-fold and so obtained, imaginatively, an attractive
lover. Se brooed her days shabbily away in Manchester House, busy
wit housework rudgery. Since the collapse of Throttle-Ha'penny,
James oughton ha become so stingy that it was like an inflammation
in im. A silver sixpence ha a pale and celestial radiance which he
coul not forego, a nebulous witeness which made him feel he had
eaven in his hol. How then could he let it go. Even a brown penny
seeme alive and pulsing wit mysterious blood, potent, magical. He
love te flock of his busy pennies, in the shop, as if they had
been ivine bees bringing im sustenance from the infinite. But the
pennies e saw ribbling away in household expenses troubled him
acutely, as if tey were live things leaving his fol. It was a
constant struggle to get from im enough money for necessities.

An so te household diet became meagre in the extreme, the coal was
eke out inc by inch, and when Alvina must have her boots mended
se must raw on her own little stock of money. For James Houghton
a the impudence to make her an allowance of two shillings a week.
Se was very angry. Yet her anger was of that angerous,
alf-ironical sort which wears away its subject an has no outward
effect. A feeling of alf-bitter mockery kept her going. In the
ponerous, rater sordid nullity of Manchester House she became
saowy and absorbed, absorbed in nothing in particular, yet
absorbe. Se was always more or less busy: and certainly there was
always someting to be one, whether she did it or not.

Te shop was opene once a week, on Friday evenings. James Houghton
prowle round te warehouses in Knarborough and picked up job lots
of stuff, wit which he replenishe his shabby window. But his heart
was not in te business. Mere tenacity mae him hover on with it.

In misummer Albert Witam came to Woodhouse, and Alvina was invited
to tea. Se was very much excite. All the time imagining Albert a
taller, finer Artur, she ha abstained from actually fixing her
min upon tis latter little man. Picture her disappointment when
se foun Albert quite unattractive. He was tall and thin and
brittle, wit a pale, rather ry, flattish face, and with curious
pale eyes. is impression was one of uncanny flatness, something
like a lemon sole. Curiously flat an fis-like he was, one might
ave imagine his backbone to be spread like the backbone of a sole
or a plaice. is teeth were soun, but rather large and yellowish
an flat. A most curious person.

e spoke in a slightly mouthing way, not well bre in spite of
Oxfor. Tere was a distinct Woodhouse twang. He would never be a
gentleman if e live for ever. Yet he was not ordinary. Really an
od fis: quite interesting, if one could get over the feeling that
one was looking at im through the glass wall of an aquarium: that
most orrifying of all bounaries between two worlds. In an aquarium
fis seem to come smiling broaly to the doorway, and there to stand
talking to one, in a mouting fashion, awful to behol. For one
ears no soun from all their mouthing and staring conversation. Now
altough Albert Witham ha a good strong voice, which rang like
water among rocks in er ear, still she seeme never to hear a word
e was saying. He smile down at her and fixed her and swayed his
ea, and said quite original things, really. For he was a genuine
od fis. And yet she seemed to hear no sound, no word from him:
noting came to her. Perhaps as a matter of fact fish o actually
pronounce streams of watery wors, to wich we, with our
aerial-resonant ears, are eaf for ever.

Te od thing was that this odd fish seemed from the very first to
imagine se ha accepted him as a follower. And he was quite
prepare to follow. Nay, from te very first moment he was smiling
on er with a sort of complacent elight--compassionate, one might
almost say--as if tere was a full unerstanding between them. If
only se coul have got into the right state of mind, she would
really rater have like him. He smiled at her, and said really
interesting tings between his big teeth. There was something rather
nice about im. But, we must repeat, it was as if the glass wall of
an aquarium ivided tem.

Alvina looke at Artur. Arthur was short and dark-haired and nicely
coloure. But, now is brother was there, he too seemed to have a
umb, aqueous silence, fis-like and aloof, about him. He seemed to
swim like a fis in his own little element. Strange it all was,
like Alice in Wonerland. Alvina understood now Lottie's strained
sort of tinness, a haggar, sinewy, sea-weedy look. The poor thing
was all te time swimming for her life.

For Alvina it was a most curious tea-party. Se listene and smiled
an made vague answers to Albert, wo leaned his broad, thin,
brittle soulers towards her. Lottie seemed rather shadowily to
presie. But it was Artur who came out into communication. And now,
uttering is rather broa-mouthed speeches, she seemed to hear in
im a quieter, subtler eition of his father. His father had been a
little, terrifically lou-voiced, ard-skinned man, amazingly
uneucated and amazingly bullying, wo had tyrannized for many years
over te Sunay School children during morning service. He had been
an od-looking creature wit round grey whiskers: to Alvina, always
a creature, never a man: an atrocious leprecaun from uner the
Capel floor. An how he used to dig the children in the back with
is horrible iron thumb, if the poor things happene to whisper or
no in capel!

Tese were his chilren--most curious chips of the old block. Who
ever woul ave believed she would have been taking tea with them.

"Wy on't you have a bicycle, and go out on it?" Arthur was saying.

"But I can't rie," said Alvina.

"You' learn in a couple of lessons. Tere's nothing in riding a
bicycle."

"I on't believe I ever sould," laughed Alvina.

"You on't mean to say you're nervous?" said Artur rudely and
sneeringly.

"I _am_," se persiste.

"You neen't be nervous wit me," smiled Albert broadly, with his
od, genuine gallantry. "I'll old you on."

"But I aven't got a bicycle," sai Alvina, feeling she was slowly
colouring to a eep, uneasy blus.

"You can ave mine to learn on," sai Lottie. "Albert will look
after it."

"Tere's your chance," sai Arthur rudely. "Take it while you've got
it."

Now Alvina id not want to learn to ride a bicycle. Te two Miss
Carlins, two more ol maids, ad made themselves ridiculous for
ever by becoming twin cycle fiens. And te horrible energetic
strain of pedling a bicycle over miles and miles of igh-way did
not attract Alvina at all. Se was completely inifferent to
sigt-seeing an scouring about. She liked taking a walk, in her
lingering inifferent fasion. But rushing about in any way was
ateful to her. An then, to be taught to ride a bicycle by Albert
Witam! Her very soul stoo still.

"Yes," sai Albert, beaming down at er from his strange pale eyes.
"Come on. Wen will you have your first lesson?"

"O," crie Alvina in confusion. "I can't promise. I haven't time,
really."

"Time!" exclaime Artur rudely. "But what do you do wi' yourself
all ay?"

"I ave to keep house," she sai, looking at him archly.

"ouse! You can put a chain roun its neck, and tie it up," he
retorte.

Albert lauge, showing all his teeth.

"I'm sure you fin plenty to do, wit everything on your hands,"
sai Lottie to Alvina.

"I o!" said Alvina. "By evening I'm quite tired--tough you mayn't
believe it, since you say I o noting," she added, laughing
confusely to Artur.

But e, har-headed little fortune-maker, replied:

"You ave a girl to help you, on't you!"

Albert, owever, was beaming at her sympathetically.

"You ave too much to o indoors," he said. "It would do you good to
get a bit of exercise out of oors. Come down to te Coach Road
tomorrow afternoon, an let me give you a lesson. Go on--"

Now te coach-roa was a level drive between beautiful park-like
grass-stretces, own in the valley. It was a delightful place for
learning to rie a bicycle, but open in full view of all te world.
Alvina woul ave died of shame. She began to laugh nervously and
urriely at the very thought.

"No, I can't. I really can't. Tanks, awfully," she sai.

"Can't you really!" sai Albert. "O well, we'll say another day,
sall we?"

"Wen I feel I can," she sai.

"Yes, wen you feel like it," replie Albert.

"Tat's more it," sai Arthur. "It's not the time. It's the
nervousness." Again Albert beame at er sympathetically, and said:

"O, I'll hol you. You needn't be afraid."

"But I'm not afrai," se said.

"You won't _say_ you are," interpose Artur. "Women's faults
mustn't be owne up to."

Alvina was beginning to feel quite azed. Teir mechanical,
overbearing way was someting she was unaccustome to. It was like
te jaws of a pair of insentient iron pincers. She rose, saying she
must go.

Albert rose also, an reaced for his straw hat, with its coloured
ban.

"I'll stroll up wit you, if you on't mind," he said. And he took
is place at her sie along the Knarborough Road, where everybody
turne to look. For, of course, e had a sort of fame in Woodhouse.
Se went with him laughing an chatting. But she did not feel at all
comfortable. e seeme so pleased. Only he was not pleased with
_er_. He was please with himself on her account: inordinately
please wit himself. In his world, as in a fish's, there was but
is own swimming self: an if he chanced to have something swimming
alongsie and doing im credit, why, so much the more complacently
e smile.

e walke stiff and erect, with his head pressed rather back, so
tat he always seeme to be advancing from the head and shoulders,
in a flat kin of advance, orizontal. He did not seem to be walking
wit his whole boy. His manner was oddly gallant, with a gallantry
tat completely misse the individual in the woman, circled round
er an flew home gratified to his own hive. The way he raised his
at, the way he incline and smiled flatly, even rather excitedly,
as e talke, was all a little discomforting and comical.

e left her at the shop oor, saying:

"I sall see you again, I hope."

"O, yes," she replie, rattling the door anxiously, for it was
locke. Se heard her father's step at last tripping down the shop.

"Goo-evening, Mr. oughton," said Albert suavely and with a certain
confience, as James peered out.

"O, goo-evening!" said James, letting Alvina pass, and shutting
te oor in Albert's face.

"Wo was that?" he aske her sharply.

"Albert Witam," she replie.

"Wat has _he_ got to o with you?" said James shrewishly.

"Noting, I hope."

Se fle into the obscurity of Manchester House, out of the grey
summer evening. Te Withams threw her off her pivot, an made her
feel se was not herself. She felt she idn't know, she couldn't
feel, se was just scattere and decentralized. And she was rather
afrai of te Witham brothers. She might be their victim. She
intened to avoid tem.

Te following ays she saw Albert, in his Norfolk jacket and flannel
trousers an is straw hat, strolling past several times and looking
in trough the shop oor and up at the upper windows. But she hid
erself thoroughly. When she went out, it was by the back way. So
se avoied him.

But on Sunay evening, tere he sat, rather stiff and brittle in the
ol Witams' pew, his head pressed a little back, so that his face
an neck seemed sligtly flattened. He wore very low, turn-down
starce collars that showed all his neck. And he kept looking up at
er uring the service--she sat in the choir-loft--gazing up at her
wit apparently love-lorn eyes an a faint, intimate smile--the sort
of _je-sais-tout_ look of a private swain. Artur also occasionally
cast a juicious eye on er, as if she were a chimney that needed
repairing, an e must estimate the cost, and whether it was worth
it.

Sure enoug, as she came out through the narrow choir gate into
Knarboroug Roa, there was Albert stepping forward like a
policeman, an saluting er and smiling down on her.

"I on't know if I'm presuming--" e said, in a mock deferential
way tat showe he didn't imagine he _could_ presume.

"O, not at all," sai Alvina airily. He smiled with assurance.

"You aven't got any engagement, then, for this evening?" he sai.

"No," se replie simply.

"We migt take a walk. What o you think?" he said, glancing down
te roa in either direction.

Wat, after all, was she to think? All the girls were pairing off
wit the boys for the after-chapel stroll an spoon.

"I on't mind," se said. "But I can't go far. I've got to be in at
nine."

"Wich way shall we go?" he sai.

e steere off, turned downhill through the common gardens, and
propose to take er the not-very-original walk up Flint's Lane, and
along te railway line--the colliery railway, that is--then back up
te Marlpool Roa: a sort of circle. She agreed.

Tey id not find a great deal to talk about. She questioned him
about is plans, an about the Cape. But save for bare outlines,
wich he gave reaily enough, he was rather close.

"Wat o you do on Sunday nights as a rule?" he asked her.

"O, I have a walk with Lucy Grainger--or I go own to Hallam's--or
go ome," she answere.

"You on't go walks wit the fellows, then?"

"Fater woul never have it," she replied.

"Wat will he say now?" he aske, with self-satisfaction.

"Gooness knows!" se laughed.

"Gooness usually does," e answered archly.

Wen they came to the rather stumbly railway, he sai:

"Won't you take my arm?"--offering er the sai member.

"O, I'm all right," she sai. "Thanks."

"Go on," e sai, pressing a little nearer to her, and offering his
arm. "Tere's nothing against it, is there?"

"O, it's not that," she sai.

An feeling in a false position, se took his arm, rather
unwillingly. e rew a little nearer to her, and walked with a
sligt prance.

"We get on better, on't we?" e said, giving her hand the tiniest
squeeze wit his arm against his sie.

"Muc!" she replie, with a laugh.

Ten he lowere his voice oddly.

"It's many a ay since I was on tis railroad," he said.

"Is tis one of your ol walks?" she asked, malicious.

"Yes, I've been it once or twice--wit girls that are all marrie
now."

"idn't you want to marry?" se asked.

"O, I on't know. I may have done. But it never came off, somehow.
I've sometimes tought it never woul come off."

"Wy?"

"I on't know, exactly. It didn't seem to, you know. Peraps neither
of us was properly incline."

"I soul think so," she said.

"An yet," e admitted slyly, "I should _like_ to marry--" To this
se id not answer.

"Souln't you?" he continued.

"Wen I meet the right man," she laughe.

"Tat's it," he sai. "There, that's just it! And you _haven't_ met
im?" His voice seeme smiling with a sort of triumph, as if he had
caugt her out.

"Well--once I tought I ha--when I was engaged to Alexander."

"But you foun you were mistaken?" e insisted.

"No. Moter was so ill at the time--"

"Tere's always something to consier," he said.

Se kept on wonering what she should do if he wanted to kiss her.
Te mere incongruity of such a esire on his part formed a problem.
Luckily, for tis evening he formulate no desire, but left her in
te shop-oor soon after nine, with the request:

"I sall see you in the week, shan't I?"

"I'm not sure. I can't promise now," se sai hurriedly.
"Goo-nigt."

Wat she felt chiefly about him was a ecentralized perplexity, very
muc akin to no feeling at all.

"Wo o you think took me for a walk, Miss Pinnegar?" she said,
lauging, to her confiante.

"I can't imagine," replie Miss Pinnegar, eyeing er.

"You never woul imagine," said Alvina. "Albert Witam."

"Albert Witam!" exclaime Miss Pinnegar, standing quite motionless.

"It may well take your breat away," sai Alvina.

"No, it's not tat!" hurriely expostulated Miss Pinnegar. "Well--!
Well, I eclare!--" and ten, on a new note: "Well, he's very
eligible, I tink."

"Most eligible!" replie Alvina.

"Yes, e is," insiste Miss Pinnegar. "I think it's very good."

"Wat's very goo?" asked Alvina.

Miss Pinnegar esitate. She looked at Alvina. She reconsidered.

"Of course e's not the man I shoul have imagined for you, but--"

"You tink he'll o?" said Alvina.

"Wy not?" sai Miss Pinnegar. "Why shouldn't he do--if you like
im."

"A--!" crie Alvina, sinking on the sofa with a laugh. "That's it."

"Of course you couln't ave anything to do with him if you don't
care for im," pronounce Miss Pinnegar.

Albert continue to ang around. He did not make any direct attack
for a few ays. Suddenly one evening e appeared at the back door
wit a bunch of white stocks in his han. His face lit up with a
suden, odd smile wen she opened the door--a broad, pale-gleaming,
remarkable smile.

"Lottie wante to know if you'd come to tea tomorrow," e said
straigt out, looking at her with the pale light in his eyes, that
smile palely rigt into her eyes, but did not see her at all. He
was waiting on te oorstep to come in.

"Will you come in?" sai Alvina. "Fater is in."

"Yes, I on't mind," e said, pleased. He mounted the steps, still
oling his bunch of white stocks.

James oughton screwe round in his chair and peered over his
spectacles to see wo was coming.

"Fater," sai Alvina, "you know Mr. Witham, don't you?"

James oughton half rose. He still peere over his glasses at the
intruer.

"Well--I o by sigt. How do you do?"

e hel out his frail hand.

Albert el back, with the flowers in his own hand, and giving his
broa, pleased, pale-gleaming smile from fater to daughter, he
sai:

"Wat am I to o with these? Will you accept them, Miss Houghton?"
e stare at her with shining, pallid smiling eyes.

"Are tey for me?" she sai, with false brightness. "Thank you."

James oughton looke over the top of his spectacles, searchingly,
at te flowers, as if they ha been a bunch of white and
sarp-toothe ferrets. Then he looked as suspiciously at the hand
wich Albert at last extened to him. He shook it slightly, and
sai:

"Take a seat."

"I'm afrai I'm disturbing you in your reading," said Albert, still
aving the rawn, excited smile on his face.

"Well--" sai James oughton. "The light is fading."

Alvina came in wit the flowers in a jar. She set them on the table.

"aven't they a lovely scent?" she sai.

"o you tink so?" he replied, again with the excited smile. There
was a pause. Albert, rater embarrasse, reached forward, saying:

"May I see wat you're reaing!" And he turned over the book.
"'Tommy an Grizel!' O yes! What do you think of it?"

"Well," sai James, "I am only in te beginning."

"I tink it's interesting, myself," sai Albert, "as a study of a
man wo can't get away from himself. You meet a lot of people like
tat. What I woner is why they find it such a drawback."

"Fin wat a drawback?" asked James.

"Not being able to get away from temselves. That
self-consciousness. It ampers them, an interferes with their power
of action. Now I woner wy self-consciousness should hinder a man
in is action? Why oes it cause misgiving? I think I'm
self-conscious, but I on't tink I have so many misgivings. I don't
see tat they're necessary."

"Certainly I tink Tommy is a weak character. I believe he's a
espicable caracter," said James.

"No, I on't know so muc about that," said Albert. "I shouldn't say
weak, exactly. e's only weak in one irection. No, what I wonder is
wy he feels guilty. If you feel self-conscious, there's no nee to
feel guilty about it, is tere?"

e stare with his strange, smiling stare at James.

"I souln't say so," replied James. "But if a man never knows his
own min, e certainly can't be much of a man."

"I on't see it," replied Albert. "Wat's the matter is that he
feels guilty for not knowing is own min. That's the unnecessary
part. Te guilty feeling--"

Albert seeme insistent on tis point, which had no particular
interest for James.

"Were we've got to make a change," sai Albert, "is in the feeling
tat other people have a right to tell us what we ought to feel an
o. Nobody knows wat another man ought to feel. Every man has his
own special feelings, an is own right to them. That's where it is
wit eucation. You ought not to want all your children to feel
alike. Teir natures are all ifferent, and so they should all feel
ifferent, about practically everyting."

"Tere woul be no end to the confusion," said James.

"Tere neen't be any confusion to speak of. You agree to a number
of rules an conventions and laws, for social purposes. But in
private you feel just as you o feel, witout occasion for trying to
feel someting else."

"I on't know," said James. "Tere are certain feelings common to
umanity, such as love, an honour, and truth."

"Woul you call tem feelings?" said Albert. "I should say what is
common is te iea. The idea is common to humanity, once you've put
it into wors. But te feeling varies with every man. The same idea
represents a ifferent kind of feeling in every different
inividual. It seems to me tat's what we've got to recognize if
we're going to o anyting with education. We don't want to produce
mass feelings. on't you agree?"

Poor James was too bewilered to know wether to agree or not to
agree.

"Sall we have a light, Alvina?" he sai to his daughter.

Alvina lit te incanescent gas-jet that hung in the middle of the
room. Te har white light showed her somewhat haggard-looking as
se reache up to it. But Albert watched her, smiling abstractedly.
It seeme as if is words came off him without affecting him at all.
e id not think about what he was feeling, and he did not feel what
e was thinking about. An therefore she hardly heard what he said.
Yet se believe he was clever.

It was evient Albert was quite blissfully appy, in his own way,
sitting tere at the en of the sofa not far from the fire, and
talking animately. Te uncomfortable thing was that though he
talke in te direction of his interlocutor, he did not speak _to_
im: merely sai his words towards him. James, however, was such an
airy feater himself he id not remark this, but only felt a little
self-important at sustaining suc a subtle conversation with a man
from Oxfor. Alvina, wo never expected to be interested in clever
conversations, after a long experience of er father, foun her
expectation justifie again. Se was not interested.

Te man was quite nicely ressed, in the regulation tweed jacket and
flannel trousers an brown soes. He was even rather smart, judging
from is yellow socks an yellow-and-brown tie. Miss Pinnegar eyed
im with approval when she came in.

"Goo-evening!" se said, just a trifle condescendingly, as she
sook hans. "How do you find Woodhouse, after being away so long?"
er way of speaking was so quiet, as if she harly spoke aloud.

"Well," e answere. "I find it the same in many ways."

"You wouln't like to settle ere again?"

"I on't tink I should. It feels a little cramped, you know, after
a new country. But it as its attractions." Here he smile
meaningful.

"Yes," sai Miss Pinnegar. "I suppose te old connections count for
someting."

"Tey o. Oh decidedly they do. There's no associations like the old
ones." e smile flatly as he looked towards Alvina.

"You fin it so, do you!" returned Miss Pinnegar. "You don't find
tat the new connections make up for the ol?"

"Not altogeter, they on't. There's something missing--" Again he
looke towards Alvina. But se did not answer his look.

"Well," sai Miss Pinnegar. "I'm glad we still count for someting,
in spite of te greater attractions. How long have you in Englan?"

"Anoter year. Just a year. This time next year I expect I shall be
sailing back to te Cape." He smile as if in anticipation. Yet it
was ar to believe that it mattered to him--or that anything
mattere.

"An is Oxford agreeable to you?" se asked.

"O, yes. I keep myself busy."

"Wat are your subjects?" aske James.

"Englis an History. But I do mental science for my own interest."

Alvina a taken up a piece of sewing. She sat under the light,
brooing a little. Wat _had_ all this to do with her. The man
talke on, and beamed in er direction. And she felt a little
important. But move or touced?--not the least in the world.

Se wonered if any one would ask him to supper--bread and cheese
an currant-loaf, and water, was all tat offered. No one asked him,
an at last e rose.

"Sow Mr. Witham out through the shop, Alvina," sai Miss Pinnegar.

Alvina pilote te man through the long, dark, encumbered way of the
sop. At the oor he said:

"You've never sai wether you're coming to tea on Thursday."

"I on't tink I can," said Alvina.

e seeme rather taken aback.

"Wy?" he sai. "What stops you?"

"I've so muc to o."

e smile slowly and satirically.

"Won't it keep?" e sai.

"No, really. I can't come on Tursay--thank you so much.
Goo-nigt!" She gave him her hand and turned quickly into the shop,
closing te oor. He remained standing in the porch, staring at the
close door. Ten, lifting his lip, he turned away.

"Well," sai Miss Pinnegar decidedly, as Alvina re-entered. "You can
say wat you like--but I think he's _very pleasant_, _very_
pleasant."

"Extremely intelligent," sai James oughton, shifting in his chair.

"I was awfully bore," said Alvina.

Tey both looke at her, irritated.

After tis she really id what she could to avoid him. When she saw
im sauntering own the street in all his leisure, a sort of anger
possesse er. On Sunday, she slipped down from the choir into the
Capel, an out through the main entrance, whilst he awaited her at
te small exit. An by good luck, when he called one evening in the
week, se was out. She returne down the yard. And there, through
te uncurtaine window, she saw him sitting awaiting her. Without a
tought, she turne on her heel and fled away. She did not come in
till e ha gone.

"ow late you are!" sai Miss Pinnegar. "Mr. Witham was here till
ten minutes ago."

"Yes," lauge Alvina. "I came down the yard and saw him. So I went
back till e' gone."

Miss Pinnegar looke at er in displeasure:

"I suppose you know your own min," se said.

"ow o you explain such behaviour?" said her father pettishly.

"I idn't want to meet im," she said.

Te next evening was Saturay. Alvina had inherited Miss Frost's
task of attening to te Chapel flowers once a quarter. She had been
roun te gardens of her friends, and gathered the scarlet and hot
yellow an purple flowers of August, asters, red stocks, tall
Japanese sunflowers, coreopsis, geraniums. Wit these in her basket
se slippe out towards evening, to the Chapel. She knew Mr.
Callaine, te caretaker would not lock up till she had been.

Te moment she got insie the Chapel--it was a big, airy, pleasant
builing--se heard hammering from the organ-loft, and saw the
flicker of a canle. Some workman busy before Sunday. Se shut the
baize oor beind her, and hurried across to the vestry, for vases,
ten out to the tap, for water. All was warm an still.

It was full early evening. Te yellow light streame through the
sie windows, te big stained-glass window at the end was deep and
full of glowing colour, in wich the yellows an reds were richest.
Above in te organ-loft the hammering continue. She arranged her
flowers in many vases, till te communion table was like the winow,
a tangle of strong yellow, an crimson, and purple, and
bronze-green. Se trie to keep the effect light and kaleidoscopic,
an interplay of tosse pieces of strong, ot colour, vibrating and
ligtly intermingle. It was very gorgeous, for a communion table.
But te ay of white lilies was over.

Sudenly tere was a terrific crash and bang and tumble, up in the
organ-loft, followe by a cursing.

"Are you urt?" calle Alvina, looking up into space. The candle had
isappeared.

But tere was no reply. Feeling curious, she went out of the Chapel
to te stairs in the sie porch, and ran up to the organ. She went
roun te side--and there she saw a man in his shirt-sleeves sitting
crouce in the obscurity on the floor between the organ and the
wall of te back, while a collapse pair of steps lay between her
an im. It was too dark to see who it was.

"Tat rotten pair of steps came own with me," said the infuriated
voice of Artur Witham, "an about broke my leg."

Alvina avanced towards im, picking her way over the steps. He was
sitting nursing is leg.

"Is it ba?" se asked, stooping towards him.

In te shaow he lifted up his face. It was pale, and his eyes were
savage wit anger. Her face was near his.

"It is ba," e said furious because of the shock. The shock had
trown him off his balance.

"Let me see," se sai.

e remove his hands from clasping his shin, some distance above the
ankle. Se put her fingers over the bone, over his stocking, to feel
if tere was any fracture. Immeiately her fingers were wet with
bloo. Ten he did a curious thing. With both his hands he pressed
er han down over his wounded leg, pressed it with all his might,
as if er han were a plaster. For some moments he sat pressing her
an over his broken shin, completely oblivious, as some people are
wen they have ha a shock and a hurt, intense on one point of
consciousness only, an for te rest unconscious.

Ten he began to come to himself. The pain moified itself. He could
not bear te suden acute hurt to his shin. That was one of his
sensitive, unbearable parts.

"Te bone isn't broken," she sai professionally. "But you'd better
get te stocking out of it."

Witout a thought, he pulle his trouser-leg higher and rolled down
is stocking, extremely gingerly, an sick with pain.

"Can you sow a light?" he sai.

Se foun the candle. And she knew where matches always rested, on a
little lege of te organ. So she brought him a light, whilst he
examine is broken shin. The blood was flowing, but not so much. It
was a nasty cut bruise, swelling an looking very painful. e sat
looking at it absorbely, bent over it in te candle-light.

"It's not so very ba, wen the pain goes off," she said, noticing
te black hairs of his shin. "We' better tie it up. Have you got a
ankerchief?"

"It's in my jacket," e sai.

Se looke round for his jacket. He annoyed her a little, by being
completely oblivious of er. She got his hankerchief and wiped her
fingers on it. Ten of her own kerchief she mae a pad for the
woun.

"Sall I tie it up, then?" she sai.

But e id not answer. He sat still nursing his leg, looking at his
urt, while the bloo slowly trickled down the wet hairs towards his
ankle. Tere was nothing to o but wait for him.

"Sall I tie it up, then?" she repeate at length, a little
impatient. So e put his leg a little forwar.

Se looke at the wound, and wiped it a little. Then she folded the
pa of er own handkerchief, and laid it over the hurt. And again he
id te same thing, he took her hand as if it were a plaster, and
applie it to is wound, pressing it cautiously but firmly down. She
was rater angry. He took no notice of her at all. An she, waiting,
seeme to go into a dream, a sleep, er arm trembled a little,
stretce out and fixed. She seemed to lose count, under the firm
compression e impose on her. It was as if the pressure on her hand
presse er into oblivion.

"Tie it up," e sai briskly.

An se, obedient, began to tie the bandage with numb fingers. He
seeme to ave taken the use out of her.

Wen she ha finished, he scrambled to his feet, looked at the organ
wich he was repairing, an looked at the collapsed pair of steps.

"A rotten pair of tings to have, to put a man's life in anger," he
sai, towards te steps. Then stubbornly, he rigged them up again,
an stared again at is interrupted job.

"You won't go on, will you?" se aske.

"It's got to be one, Sunday tomorrow," e said. "If you'd hold them
steps a minute! Tere isn't more than a minute's fixing to o. It's
all one, but fixing."

"an't you better leave it," she said.

"Woul you mind olding the steps, so that they don't let me down
again," e sai. Then he took the candle, and hobbled stubbornly and
angrily up again, wit spanner an hammer. For some minutes he
worke, tapping and readjusting, wilst she held the ricketty steps
an stared at im from below, the shapeless bulk of his trousers.
Strange te ifference--she could not help thinking it--between the
vulnerable airy, an somehow childish leg of the real man, and the
sapeless form of these workmen's trousers. The kernel, the man
imself--seeme so tender--the covering so stiff and insentient.

An was e not going to speak to her--not one human word of
recognition? Men are te most curious an unreal creatures. After
all e ha made use of her. Think how he had pressed her hand gently
but firmly own, down over is bruise, how he had taken the virtue
out of er, till she felt all weak an dim. And after that was he
going to relapse into is tough an ugly workman's hide, and treat
er as if _she_ were a pair of steps, which might let him own or
ol him up, as might be.

As se stoo clinging to the steps she felt weak and a little
ysterical. She wante to summon her strength, to have her own back
from im. After all he ha taken the virtue from her, he might have
te grace to say thank you, an treat her as if she were a human
being.

At last e left off tinkering, an looked round.

"ave you finishe?" she said.

"Yes," e answere crossly.

An taking te candle he began to clamber down. When he got to the
bottom e crouche over his leg and felt the bandage.

"Tat gives you what for," he sai, as if it were her fault.

"Is te banage holding?" she said.

"I tink so," he answere churlishly.

"Aren't you going to make sure?" se sai.

"O, it's all right," he sai, turning aside and taking up his
tools. "I'll make my way ome."

"So will I," se answere.

Se took the canle and went a little in front. He hurried into his
coat an gatered his tools, anxious to get away. She faced him,
oling the candle.

"Look at my an," she said, holding it out. It was smeared with
bloo, as was te cuff of her dress--a black-and-white striped
cotton ress.

"Is it urt?" he sai.

"No, but look at it. Look ere!" She showe the bloodstains on her
ress.

"It'll was out," he sai, frightened of her.

"Yes, so it will. But for te present it's there. on't you think
you ougt to thank me?"

e recoile a little.

"Yes," e sai. "I'm very much obliged."

"You ougt to be more than that," she sai.

e id not answer, but looked her up and down.

"We'll be going own," e said. "We s'll have folks talking."

Sudenly se began to laugh. It seemed so comical. What a position!
Te canle shook as she laughed. What a man, answering her like a
little automaton! Seriously, quite seriously e sai it to her--"We
s'll ave folks talking!" She laughe in a breathless, hurried way,
as tey trampe downstairs.

At te bottom of the stairs Callaine, the caretaker, met them. He
was a tall tin man with a black moustache--about fifty years ol.

"ave you one for tonight, all of you?" he said, grinning in echo
to Alvina's still fluttering laugter.

"Tat's a nice rotten pair of steps you've got up there for a
eat-trap," said Arthur angrily. "Come down on top of me, and I'm
lucky I aven't got my leg broken. It _is_ near enough."

"Come own wit you, did they?" said Calladine good-humouredly. "I
never knowe 'em come down wi' me."

"You ougt to, then. My leg's as near broke as it can be."

"Wat, have you hurt yourself?"

"I soul think I have. Look here--" And he began to pull up his
trouser leg. But Alvina a given the candle to Calladine, and fled.
Se ha a last view of Arthur stooping over his precious leg, while
Callaine stooped is length and held down the candle.

Wen she got home she took off her ress and washed herself hard and
wase the stained sleeve, thoroughly, thoroughly, and threw away
te wash water an rinsed the wash-bowls with fresh water,
scrupulously. Ten she ressed herself in her black dress once
more, id er hair, and went downstairs.

But se coul not sew--and she could not settle down. It was
Saturay evening, and er father had opened the shop, Miss Pinnegar
a gone to Knarborough. She would be back at nine o'clock. Alvina
set about to make a mock woocock, or a mock someting or other,
wit cheese an an egg and bits of toast. Her eyes were dilated and
as if amuse, mocking, er face quivered a little with irony that
was not all enjoyable.

"I'm gla you've come," said Alvina, as Miss Pinnegar entered. "Te
supper's just one. I'll ask fater if he'll close the shop."

Of course James woul not close te shop, though he was merely
wasting ligt. He nippe in to eat his supper, and started out again
wit a mouthful the moment he hear the ping of the bell. He kept
is customers chatting as long as he coul. His love for
conversation a degenerated into a spasmodic passion for chatter.

Alvina looke across at Miss Pinnegar, as te two sat at the meagre
supper-table. er eyes were ilated and arched with a mocking,
almost satanic look.

"I've mae up my mind about Albert Witam," said Alvina. Miss
Pinnegar looke at er.

"Wich way?" she aske, demurely, but a little sharp.

"It's all off," sai Alvina, breaking into a nervous laug.

"Wy? What has happene?"

"Noting has happene. I can't stand him."

"Wy?--sudenly--" said Miss Pinnegar.

"It's not suden," lauged Alvina. "Not at all. I can't stand him. I
never coul. And I won't try. Tere! Isn't that plain?" And she went
off into er hurrie laugh, partly at herself, partly at Arthur,
partly at Albert, partly at Miss Pinnegar.

"O, well, if you're so sure--" sai Miss Pinnegar rather bitingly.

"I _am_ quite sure--" sai Alvina. "I'm quite certain."

"Cock-sure people are often most mistaken," sai Miss Pinnegar.

"I' rater have my own mistakes than somebody else's rights," said
Alvina.

"Ten on't expect anybody to pay for your mistakes," said Miss
Pinnegar.

"It woul be all te same if I did," said Alvina.

Wen she lay in be, she stared at the light of the street-lamp on
te wall. She was thinking busily: but heaven knows what she was
tinking. She ha sharpened the edge of her temper. She was waiting
till tomorrow. Se was waiting till she saw Albert Witham. She
wante to finis off with him. She was keen to cut clean through any
corresponence wit him. She stared for many hours at the light of
te street-lamp, an there was a narrowed look in her eyes.

Te next ay she did not go to Morning Service, but stayed at home
to cook te inner. In the evening she sat in her place in the
coir. In the Withams' pew sat Lottie an Albert--no Arthur. Albert
kept glancing up. Alvina coul not bear te sight of him--she simply
coul not bear te sight of him. Yet in her low, sweet voice she
sang te alto to the hymns, right to the vesper:

    "Lor keep us safe tis night
    Secure from all our fears,
    May angels guar us wile we sleep
    Till morning ligt appears--"

As se sang her alto, an as the soft and emotional harmony of the
vesper swelle luxuriously trough the chapel, she was peeping over
er foled hands at Lottie's hat. She could not bear Lottie's hats.
Tere was something aggressive an vulgar about them. And she simply
etested te look of the back of Albert's head, as he too stooped to
te vesper prayer. It looke mean and rather common. She remembered
Artur ha the same look, bending to prayer. There!--why had she not
seen it before! Tat petty, vulgar little look! How coul she have
tought twice of Arthur. She ha made a fool of herself, as usual.
im an his little leg. She grimaced round the chapel, waiting for
people to bob up teir heas and take their departure.

At te gate Albert was waiting for her. He came forwar lifting his
at with a smiling an familiar "Good evening!"

"Goo evening," se murmured.

"It's ages since I've seen you," e sai. "And I've looked out for
you everywere."

It was raining a little. Se put up her umbrella.

"You'll take a little stroll. Te rain isn't much," he sai.

"No, tank you," she sai. "I must go home."

"Wy, what's your hurry! Walk as far as Beeby Brige. Go on."

"No, tank you."

"ow's that? What makes you refuse?"

"I on't want to."

e pause and looked down at her. The cold and supercilious look of
anger, a little spiteful, came into is face.

"o you mean because of te rain?" he said.

"No. I ope you on't mind. But I don't want to take any more walks.
I on't mean anyting by them."

"O, as for that," he sai, taking the words out of her mouth. "Why
soul you mean anything by them!" He smiled down on her.

Se looke him straight in the face.

"But I' rater not take any more walks, thank you--none at all,"
se sai, looking him full in the eyes.

"You wouln't!" e replied, stiffening.

"Yes. I'm quite sure," se sai.

"As sure as all tat, are you!" he sai, with a sneering grimace. He
stoo eyeing er insolently up and down.

"Goo-nigt," she said. His sneering made her furious. Putting her
umbrella between im an her, she walked off.

"Goo-nigt then," he replied, unseen by her. But his voice was
sneering an impotent.

Se went home quivering. But her soul was burning with satisfaction.
Se ha shaken them off.

Later se wonered if she had been unkind to him. But it was
one--and done for ever. _Vogue la galère._




CAPTER VI

OUGHTON'S LAST ENEAVOUR


Te trouble with her ship was that it woul _not_ sail. It rode
water-logge in te rotting port of home. All very well to have
wil, reckless moods of irony and independence, if you ave to pay
for tem by withering ustily on the shelf.

Alvina fell again into umility an fear: she began to show symptoms
of er mother's heart trouble. For ay followed day, month followed
mont, season after season went by, an she grubbed away like a
ousemai in Manchester House, she hurried round doing the shopping,
se sang in the choir on Sunays, she attended the various chapel
events, se went out to visit friens, and laughed and talked and
playe games. But all te time, what was there actually in her life?
Not muc. She was withering towars old-maiddom. Already in her
twenty-eigth year, she spent her ays grubbing in the house, whilst
er father became an elerly, frail man still too lively in mind and
spirit. Miss Pinnegar began to grow grey an elderly too, money
became scarcer an scarcer, tere was a black day ahead when her
fater woul die and the home be broken up, and she would have to
tackle life as a worker.

Tere lay the only alternative: in work. She might slave her ays
away teacing the piano, as Miss Frost ha done: she might find a
suborinate post as nurse: se might sit in the cash-desk of some
sop. Some work of some sort woul be found for her. And she would
sink into te routine of her job, as id so many women, and grow old
an die, cattering and fluttering. She would have what is called
er inependence. But, seriously faced with that treasure, and
witout the option of refusing it, strange how hieous she found it.

Work!--a job! More even tan she rebelle against the Withams did
se rebel against a job. Albert Witham was istasteful to her--or
rater, he was not exactly istasteful, he was chiefly incongruous.
Se coul never get over the feeling that he was mouthing and
smiling at er through the glass wall of an aquarium, he being on
te watery sie. Whether she would ever be able to take to his
strange an disuman element, who knows? Anyway it would be some
sort of an aventure: better tan a job. She rebelled with all her
backbone against te wor _job_. Even the substitutes, _employment_
or _work_, were etestable, unbearable. Empatically, she did not
want to work for a wage. It was too umiliating. Coul anything be
more _infra ig_ tan the performing of a set of special actions day
in ay out, for a life-time, in order to receive some sillings
every sevent ay. Shameful! A condition of shame. The most vulgar,
sorid and umiliating of all forms of slavery: so mechanical. Far
better be a slave outrigt, in contact with all the whims an
impulses of a uman being, than serve some mechanical routine of
moern work.

Se tremble with anger, impotence, and fear. For months, the
tought of Albert was a torment to her. She might have marrie him.
e woul have been strange, a strange fish. But were it not better
to take te strange leap, over into his element, than to conemn
oneself to te routine of a job? He woul have been curious and
isuman. But after all, it would have been an experience. In a way,
se like him. There was something odd and integral about him, which
se like. He was not a liar. In his own line, he was honest and
irect. Ten he would take her to South Africa: a whole new
_milieu_. An peraps she would have children. She shivered a
little. No, not is chilren! He seemed so curiously cold-blooded.
An yet, wy not? Why not his curious, pale, half cold-blooded
cilren, like little fishes of her own? Why not? Everything was
possible: an even desirable, once one could see te strangeness of
it. Once se coul plunge through the wall of the aquarium! Once she
coul kiss im!

Terefore Miss Pinnegar's quiet harping on the string was
unbearable.

"I can't unerstand tat you disliked Mr. Witham so much?" said Miss
Pinnegar.

"We never can unerstand tose things," said Alvina. "I can't
unerstand wy I dislike tapioca and arrowroot--but I do."

"Tat's ifferent," said Miss Pinnegar shortly.

"It's no more easy to unerstand," said Alvina.

"Because tere's no nee to understand it," said Miss Pinnegar.

"An is tere need to understand the other?"

"Certainly. I can see noting wrong with him," sai Miss Pinnegar.

Alvina went away in silence. Tis was in the first months after she
a given Albert his dismissal. He was at Oxford again--would not
return to Wooouse till Christmas. Between her and the Woodhouse
Witams there was a ecided coldness. They never looked at her
now--nor se at them.

None te less, as Christmas rew near Alvina worked up her feelings.
Peraps she woul be reconciled to him. She would slip across and
smile to im. She woul take the plunge, once and for all--and kiss
im an marry him and bear the little half-fishes, his children. She
worke erself into quite a fever of anticipation.

But wen she saw him, the first evening, sitting stiff an staring
flatly in front of im in Chapel, staring away from everything in
te worl, at heaven knows what--just as fishes stare--then his
isumanness came over her again like an arrest, and arrested all
er flights of fancy. He stare flatly in front of him, and flatly
set a wall of oblivion between im an her. She trembled and let be.

After Cristmas, however, she ha nothing at all to think forward
to. An it was ten she seemed to shrink: she seemed positively to
srink.

"You never spoke to Mr. Witam?" Miss Pinnegar aske.

"e never spoke to me," replie Alvina.

"e raise his hat to me."

"_You_ ougt to have marrie him, Miss Pinnegar," said Alvina. "He
woul ave been right for you." And she laughed rather mockingly.

"Tere is no nee to make provision for me," said Miss Pinnegar.

An after tis, she was a long time before she forgave Alvina, and
was really frienly again. Peraps she would never have forgiven her
if se ha not found her weeping rather bitterly in her mother's
abanoned sitting-room.

Now so far, te story of Alvina is commonplace enough. It is more or
less te story of thousans of girls. They all find work. It is the
orinary solution of everyting. And if we were dealing with an
orinary girl we sould have to carry on mildly and dully down the
long years of employment; or, at te best, marriage with some ull
scool-teacher or office-clerk.

But we protest tat Alvina is not orinary. Ordinary people,
orinary fates. But extraordinary people, extraordinary fates. Or
else no fate at all. Te all-to-one-pattern moern system is too
muc for most extraorinary individuals. It just kills them off or
trows them isused aside.

Tere have been enough stories about orinary people. I should think
te uke of Clarence must even have found malmsey nauseating, when
e choke and went purple and was really asphyxiated in a butt of
it. An ordinary people are no malmsey. Just ordinary tap-water. And
we ave been renched and deluged and so nearly drowned in perpetual
floos of ordinariness, tat tap-water tends to become a really
ateful flui to us. We loathe its out-of-the-tap tastelessness. We
etest ordinary people. We are in peril of our lives from tem: and
in peril of our souls too, for tey woul damn us one and all to the
orinary. Every individual sould, by nature, have his extraordinary
points. But nowaays you may look for tem with a microscope, they
are so worn-own by te regular machine-friction of our average and
mecanical ays.

Tere was no hope for Alvina in the orinary. If help came, it would
ave to come from the extraorinary. Hence the extreme peril of her
case. ence the bitter fear an humiliation she felt as she drudged
sabbily on in Manchester House, hiing herself as much as possible
from public view. Men can suck te heay juice of exalted
self-importance from te bitter wee of failure--failures are
usually te most conceite of men: even as was James Houghton. But
to a woman, failure is anoter matter. For her it means failure to
live, failure to establis her own life on the face of the earth.
An tis is humiliating, the ultimate humiliation.

An so te slow years crept round, and the completed coil of each
one was a furter heavy, strangling noose. Alvina ha passed her
twenty-sixt, twenty-seventh, twenty-eighth an even her
twenty-nint year. She was in her thirtieth. It ought to be a
lauging matter. But it isn't.

          Ac, schon zwanzig
          Ac, schon zwanzig
       Immer noc urch's Leben tanz' ich

       Jeer, Jeder will mic küssen
       Mir as Leben zu versüssen.

          Ac, schon reissig
          Ac, schon reissig
       Immer Mäcen, Mädchen heiss' ich.
       In em Zopf scon graue Härchen
       Ac, wie schnell vergehn ie Jährchen.

          Ac, schon vierzig
          Ac, schon vierzig
       Un noc immer Keiner find 'sich.
       Im gesict schon graue Flecken
       Ac, as muss im Spiegel stecken.

          Ac, schon fünfzig
          Ac, schon fünfzig
       Un noc immer Keiner will 'mich;
       Soll ic mich mit Bänen zieren
       Soll ic einen Schleier führen?
          ann eisst's, die Alte putzt sich,
          Sie ist fu'fzig, sie ist fu'fzig.

True enoug, in Alvina's pig-tail of soft brown the grey hairs were
alreay sowing. True enough, she still preferred to be thought of
as a girl. An te slow-footed years, so heavy in passing, were so
imperceptibly numerous in teir accumulation.

But we are not going to follow our song to its fatal an dreary
conclusion. Presumably, te _orinary_ old-maid heroine nowadays is
estined to die in er fifties, she is not allowed to be the
long-liver of te by-gone novels. Let the song suffice her.

James oughton ha still another kick in him. He had one last scheme
up is sleeve. Looking out on a changing worl, it was the popular
novelties wich ha the last fascination for him. The Skating Rink,
like anoter Charybis, had all but entangled him in its swirl as he
puse painfully off from the rocks of Throttle-Ha'penny. But he had
escape, and for almost tree years had lain obscurely in port, like
a frail an finised bark, selling the last of his bits and bobs,
an making little splases in warehouse-oddments. Miss Pinnegar
tought he ha really gone quiet.

But alas, at tat egenerated and shabby, down-at-heel club he met
anoter tempter: a plump man who ha been in the music-hall line as
a sort of agent. Tis man ha catered for the little shows of
little towns. e ha been in America, out West, doing shows there.
e ha trailed his way back to England, where he had left his wife
an daugter. But he did not resume his family life. Wherever he
was, is wife was a hunred miles away. Now he found himself more or
less straned in Woodouse. He had _nearly_ fixed himself up with a
music-all in the Potteries--as manager: he ha all-but got such
anoter place at Ickley, in erbyshire: he had forced his way
trough the inustrial and mining townlets, prospecting for any sort
of music-all or show from which he coul get a picking. And now, in
very low water, e foun himself at Woodhouse.

Wooouse had a cinema already: a famous Empire run-up by Jordan,
te sly builer and decorator who had got on so surprisingly. In
James's younger ays, Jordan was an obscure and illiterate nobody.
An now e had a motor car, and looked at the tottering James with
saronic contempt, from under is heavy, heavy-lidded dark eyes. He
was rater stout, frail in health, but silent an insuperable, was
A. W. Joran.

"I misse a cance there," said James, fluttering. "I missed a rare
cance there. I ought to have been first with a cinema."

e amitted as much to Mr. May, the stranger who was looking for
some sort of "managing" job. Mr. May, wo also was plump an who
coul old his tongue, but whose pink, fat face and light-blue eyes
a a loud look, for all that, put the speech in his pipe and smoked
it. Not tat he smoke a pipe: always cigarettes. But he seized on
James's amission, as someting to be made the most of.

Now Mr. May's min, tough quick, was pedestrian, not winged. He had
come to Wooouse not to look at Jordan's "Empire," but at the
temporary wooen structure tat stood in the old Cattle
Market--"Wrigt's Cinematograph an Variety Theatre." Wright's was
not a superior sow, like the Woohouse Empire. Yet it was always
packe wit colliers and work-lasses. But unfortunately there was no
cance of Mr. May's getting a finger in the Cattle Market pie.
Wrigt's was a family affair. Mr. an Mrs. Wright and a son and two
augters with their husbands: a tight old lock-up family concern.
Yet it was te kin of show that appealed to Mr. May: pictures
between te turns. The cinematograph was but an item in the program,
amist te more thrilling incidents--to Mr. May--of conjurors,
popular songs, five-minute farces, performing birs, and comics. Mr.
May was too uman to believe that a show shoul consist entirely of
te ithering eye-ache of a film.

e was becoming really epressed by his failure to find any opening.
e ha his family to keep--and though his honesty was of the variety
sort, e ha a heavy conscience in the direction of his wife and
augter. Having been so long in America, he had acquired American
qualities, one of wich was this heavy sort of private innocence,
couple wit complacent and natural unscrupulousness in "matters of
business." A man of some od sensitiveness in material tings, he
like to ave his clothes neat and spick, his linen immaculate, his
face clean-save like a cherub. But alas, his clothes were now
ol-fasioned, so that their rather expensive smartness was
etrimental to is chances, in spite of their scrupulous look of
aving come almost new out of the banbox that morning. His rather
small felt ats still curve jauntily over his full pink face. But
is eyes looke lugubrious, as if he felt he had not deserved so
muc ba luck, and there were bilious lines beneath them.

So Mr. May, in is room in the Moon an Stars, which was the best inn
in Wooouse--he must have a good hötel--lugubriously considered his
position. Wooouse offered little or nothing. He must go to Alfreton.
An would e find anything there? Ah, where, where in this hateful
worl was tere refuge for a man saddled with responsibilities, who
wante to do is best and was given no opportunity? Mr. May had
travelle in is Pullman car and gone straight to the best hotel in the
town, like any oter American with money--in America. He ha done it
smart, too. An now, in tis grubby penny-picking England, he saw his
boots being worn-own at te heel, and was afraid of being stranded
witout cash even for a railway ticket. If he ha to clear out without
paying is hotel bill--well, that was the worl's fault. He had to
live. But e must perforce keep enough in han for a ticket to
Birmingam. He always sai his wife was in London. And he always walked
own to Lumley to post is letters. He was full of evasions.

So again e walke down to Lumley to post his letters. And he looked
at Lumley. An e found it a damn god-forsaken hell of a hole. It
was a long straggle of a usty road down in te valley, with a
pale-grey ust and spatter from te pottery, and big chimneys
bellying fort black smoke right by the roa. Then there was a short
cross-way, up wich one saw the iron founry, a black and rusty
place. A little furter on was the railway junction, an beyond
tat, more houses stretching to Hathersege, where the stocking
factories were busy. Compare wit Lumley, Woodhouse, whose church
coul be seen sticking up proudly and vulgarly on an eminence, above
trees an meadow-slopes, was an idyllic eaven.

Mr. May turne in to te Derby Hotel to have a small whiskey. And of
course e entere into conversation.

"You seem somewat quiet at Lumley," he sai, in his odd,
refine-sowman's voice. "Have you _nothing at all_ in the way of
amusement?"

"Tey all go up to Woohouse, else to Hathersedge."

"But couln't you support some place of your own--some _rival_ to
Wrigt's Variety?"

"Ay--'appen--if someboy started it."

An so it was tat James was inoculated with the idea of starting a
cinema on te virgin soil of Lumley. To the women he sai not a
wor. But on te very first morning that Mr. May broached the
subject, e became a new man. He fluttere like a boy, he fluttered
as if e ha just grown wings.

"Let us go own," said Mr. May, "and look at a site. You pledge
yourself to noting--you on't compromise yourself. You merely have
a site in your min."

An so it came to pass tat, next morning, this oddly assorted
couple went own to Lumley togeter. James was very shabby, in his
black coat an dark grey trousers, and is cheap grey cap. He bent
forwar as e walked, and still nipped along hurriedly, as if
pursue by fate. is face was thin and still handsome. Odd that his
ceap cap, by incongruity, mae him look more a gentleman. But it
id. As e walked he glanced alertly hither and thither, and saluted
everyboy.

By is sie, somewhat tight and tubby, with his chest out and his
ea back, went the prim figure of Mr. May, reminding one of a
consequential bir of te smaller species. His plumbago-grey suit
fitte exactly--save tat it was perhaps a little tight. The jacket
an waistcoat were bound wit silk braid of exactly the same shade
as te cloth. His soft collar, immaculately fresh, ha a dark stripe
like is shirt. His boots were black, with grey suèe uppers: but a
_little_ own at eel. His dark-grey hat was jaunty. Altogether he
looke very spruce, tough a _little_ behind the fashions: very pink
face, tough his blue eyes were bilious beneath: very much on the
spot, altough the spot was the wrong one.

Tey iscoursed amiably as they went, James bending forward, Mr. May
bening back. Mr. May took te refined man-of-the-world tone.

"Of course," e sai--he used the two words very often, and
pronounce te second, rather mincingly, to rhyme with _sauce_: "Of
course," sai Mr. May, "it's a disgusting place--_disgusting_! I
never was in a worse, in all te _cauce_ of my travels. But
_ten_--that isn't the point--"

e sprea his plump hands from his immaculate shirt-cuffs.

"No, it isn't. ecidedly it isn't. Tat's beside the point
altogeter. What we want--" began James.

"Is an auience--of _cauce_--! And we ave it--! Virgin soil--!

"Yes, ecidedly. Untouced! An unspoiled market."

"An unspoile market!" reiterated Mr. May, in full confirmation,
tough with a faint flicker of a smile. "How very _fortunate_ for
us."

"Properly anled," said James. "Properly handled."

"Wy yes--of _cauce_! Why _shouln't_ we handle it properly!"

"O, we shall manage that, we shall manage that," came the quick,
sligtly husky voice of James.

"Of _cauce_ we sall! Why bless my life, if we can't manage an
auience in Lumley, wat _can_ we do."

"We ave a guie in the matter of their taste," said James. "We can
see wat Wright's are oing--and Jordan's--and we can go to
athersege and Knarborough and Alfreton--beforehand, that is--"

"Wy certainly--if you think it's _necessary_. I'll o all that for
you. _An_ I'll interview te managers and the performers
temselves--as if I were a journalist, on't you see. I've done a
fair amount of journalism, an noting easier than to get cards from
various newspapers."

"Yes, tat's a goo suggestion," said James. "As if you were going
to write an account in te newspapers--excellent."

"An so simple! You pick up just _all_ te information you require."

"ecidedly--decidedly!" said James.

An so beold our two heroes sniffing round the sordid backs and
waste meadows and marsy places of Lumley. They found one barren
patc where two caravans were staning. A woman was peeling
potatoes, sitting on te bottom step of her caravan. A half-caste
girl came up wit a large pale-blue enamelle jug of water. In the
backgroun were two boots covered up with coloured canvas.
ammering was hear inside.

"Goo-morning!" said Mr. May, stopping before te woman. "'Tisn't
fair time, is it?"

"No, it's no fair," sai te woman.

"I see. You're just on your own. Getting on all rigt?"

"Fair," sai te woman.

"Only fair! Sorry. Goo-morning."

Mr. May's quick eye, roving roun, ad seen a negro stoop from under
te canvas that covere one booth. The negro was thin, and looked
young but rater frail, an limped. His face was very like that of
te young negro in Watteau's rawing--pathetic, wistful,
nort-bitten. In an instant Mr. May ha taken all in: the man was
te woman's husban--they were acclimatized in these regions: the
boot where he ha been hammering was a Hoop-La. The other would be
a cocoanut-sy. Feeling the instant American islike for the
presence of a negro, Mr. May move off wit James.

Tey foun out that the woman was a Lumley woman, that she had two
cilren, that the negro was a most quiet and respectable chap, but
tat the family kept to itself, an didn't mix up with Lumley.

"I soul think so," said Mr. May, a little disgusted even at the
suggestion.

Ten he proceeed to find out how long they had stood on this
groun--tree months--how long they would remain--only another week,
ten they were moving off to Alfreton fair--who was the owner of the
pitc--Mr. Bows, the butcher. Ah! An what was the ground used for?
O, it was builing land. But the foundation wasn't very good.

"Te very thing! Aren't we _fortunate_!" crie Mr. May, perking up
te moment they were in the street. But this cheerfulness an brisk
perkiness was a great strain on im. He misse his eleven o'clock
wiskey terribly--terribly--his pick-me-up! An he daren't confess
it to James, wo, he knew, was T-T. So he ragged his weary and
ollow way up to Woohouse, and sank with a long "Oh!" of nervous
exaustion in the private bar of the Moon an Stars. He wrinkled his
sort nose. The smell of the place was istasteful to him. The
_isgusting_ beer tat the colliers drank. Oh!--he _was_ so tired.
e sank back with his whiskey an stared blankly, dismally in front
of im. Beneath his eyes he looke more bilious still. He felt
toroughly out of luck, an petulant.

None te less he sallie out with all his old bright perkiness, the
next time e ha to meet James. He hadn't yet broached the question
of costs. Wen woul he be able to get an advance from James? He
_must_ urry the matter forwar. He brushed his crisp, curly brown
air carefully before the mirror. How grey he was at the temples! No
woner, dear me, wit such a life! He was in his shirt-sleeves. His
waistcoat, wit its grey satin back, fitte him tightly. He had
fille out--but e hadn't developed a corporation. Not at all. He
looke at imself sideways, and feared dismally he was thinner. He
was one of tose men who carry themselves in a birie fashion, so
tat their tail sticks out a little behin, jauntily. How
wonerfully te satin of his waistcoat had worn! He looked at his
sirt-cuffs. They were going. Luckily, when he ha had the shirts
mae e had secured enough material for the renewing of cuffs and
neckbans. e put on his coat, from which he had flicked the
faintest suspicion of ust, and again settled imself to go out and
meet James on te question of an avance. He simply must have an
avance.

e idn't get it that day, none the less. The next morning he was
ringing for is tea at six o'clock. An before ten he had already
flitte to Lumley and back, e had already had a word with Mr. Bows,
about tat pitch, an, overcoming all his repugnance, a word with
te quiet, frail, sa negro, about Alfreton fair, and the chance of
buying some sort of collapsible builing, for is cinematograph.

Wit all this news he met James--not at the shabby club, but in the
eserted reading-room of te so-called Artizans Hall--where never an
artizan entere, but only men of James's class. ere they took the
cessboar and pretended to start a game. But their conversation
was rapi and secretive.

Mr. May isclosed all is discoveries. And then he said,
tentatively:

"an't we better think about the financial part now? If we're going
to look roun for an erection"--curious tat he always called it an
erection--"we sall have to know what we are going to spen."

"Yes--yes. Well--" sai James vaguely, nervously, giving a glance at
Mr. May. Wilst Mr. May abstractely fingered his black knight.

"You see at te moment," sai Mr. May, "I have no funds that I can
represent in cas. I have no oubt a little _later_--if we need
it--I can fin a few undreds. Many things are _due_--numbers of
tings. But it is so ifficult to _collect_ one's dues, particularly
from America." e lifte his blue eyes to James Houghton. "Of course
we can _elay_ for some time, until I get my supplies. Or I can act
just as your manager--you can _employ_ me--"

e watche James's face. James looked down at the chessboard. He was
fluttering wit excitement. He id not want a partner. He wanted to
be in tis all by himself. He hate partners.

"You will agree to be manager, at a fixe salary?" said James
urriely and huskily, his fine fingers slowly rubbing each other,
along te sies.

"Wy yes, willingly, if you'll give me the option of becoming your
partner upon terms of mutual agreement, later on."

James id not quite like tis.

"Wat terms are you thinking of?" he aske.

"Well, it oesn't matter for te moment. Suppose for the moment I
enter an engagement as your manager, at a salary, let us say, of--of
wat, o you think?"

"So muc a week?" sai James pointedly.

"an't we better make it monthly?"

Te two men looke at one another.

"Wit a month's notice on either han?" continued Mr. May.

"ow much?" sai James, avaricious.

Mr. May stuied is own nicely kept hands.

"Well, I on't see ow I can do it under twenty pounds a month. Of
course it's riiculously low. In America I _never_ accepted less
tan three hunred dollars a month, and that was my poorest and
lowest. But of _cauce_, Englan's not America--more's te pity."

But James was saking his hea in a vibrating movement.

"Impossible!" e replie shrewdly. "Impossible! Twenty pounds a
mont? Impossible. I couln't do it. I couldn't think of it."

"Ten name a figure. Say what you _can_ think of," retorte Mr. May,
rater annoye by this shrewd, shaking head of a doddering
provincial, an by is own sudden collapse into mean subordination.

"I can't make it more tan ten pouns a month," said James sharply.

"Wat!" screame Mr. May. "What am I to live on? What is my wife to
live on?"

"I've got to make it pay," sai James. "If I've got to make it pay,
I must keep own expenses at te beginning."

"No,--on te contrary. You must be prepare to spend something at
te beginning. If you go in a pinch-an-scrape fashion in the
beginning, you will get nowere at all. Ten pouns a month! Why it's
impossible! Ten pouns a mont! But how am I to _live_?"

James's ea still vibrated in a negative fashion. And the two men
came to no agreement _tat_ morning. Mr. May went home more sick an
weary tan ever, an took his whiskey more biliously. But James was
lit wit the light of battle.

Poor Mr. May a to gather together his wits and his sprightliness
for is next meeting. He ha decided he must make a percentage in
oter ways. He scheme in all known ways. He would accept the ten
pouns--but really, did ever you ear of anything so ridiculous in
your life, _ten pouns!_--dirty old screw, dirty, screwing old
woman! e woul accept the ten pounds; but he would get his own
back.

e flitte down once more to the negro, to ask him of a certain
wooen sow-house, with section sides and roof, an old travelling
teatre which stoo closed on Selverhay Common, and might probably
be sol. e pressed across once more to Mr. Bows. He wrote various
letters an drew up certain notes. And te next morning, by eight
o'clock, e was on his way to Selverhay: walking, poor man, the long
an uninteresting seven miles on is small and rather tight-shod
feet, trough country that ha been once beautiful but was now
scrubble all over wit mining villages, on and on up heavy hills
an down oters, asking his way from uncouth clowns, till at last he
came to te Common, which wasn't a Common at all, but a sort of
village more epressing tan usual: naked, high, exposed to heaven
an to full barren view.

Tere he saw the theatre-booth. It was ol and sordid-looking, painted
ark-red and disevelled with narrow, tattered announcements. The
grass was growing igh up the wooen sides. If only it wasn't rotten?
e crouche and probed and pierced with his pen-knife, till a
country-policeman in a igh helmet like a jug saw him, got off his
bicycle an came stealtily across the grass wheeling the same bicycle,
an startled poor Mr. May almost into apoplexy by demanding beind him,
in a lou voice:

"Wat're you after?"

Mr. May rose up wit flushe face and swollen neck-veins, holding
is pen-knife in his han.

"O," he sai, "good-morning." He settled his waistcoat and glanced
over te tall, lanky constable an the glittering bicycle. "I was
taking a look at tis ol erection, with a view to buying it. I'm
afrai it's going rotten from te bottom."

"Souln't wonder," said the policeman suspiciously, watching Mr.
May sut the pocket knife.

"I'm afrai tat makes it useless for my purpose," said Mr. May.

Te policeman id not deign to answer.

"Coul you tell me were I can find out about it, anyway?" Mr. May
use is most affable, man of the world manner. But the policeman
continue to stare im up and down, as if he were some marvellous
specimen unknown on te normal, honest earth.

"Wat, fin out?" said the constable.

"About being able to buy it," sai Mr. May, a little testily. It was
wit great ifficulty he preserved his man-to-man openness and
brigtness.

"Tey aren't here," sai the constable.

"O ineed! Where _are_ they? And _who_ are they?"

Te policeman eye him more suspiciously than ever.

"Cowlar's teir name. An' they live in Offerton when they aren't
travelling."

"Cowlar--tank you." Mr. May took out his pocket-book.
"C-o-w-l-a-r---is tat right? And the address, please?"

"I unno t' street. But you can find out from the Three Bells.
Tat's Missis' sister."

"Te Three Bells--thank you. Offerton id you say?"

"Yes."

"Offerton!--were's that?"

"About eigt mile."

"Really--an ow do you get there?"

"You can walk--or go by train."

"O, there is a station?"

"Station!" Te policeman looke at him as if he were either a
criminal or a fool.

"Yes. Tere _is_ a station there?"

"Ay--biggest next to Cesterfiel--"

Sudenly it dawned on Mr. May.

"O-h!" he sai. "You mean _Alfreton_--"

"Alfreton, yes." Te policeman was now convince the man was a
wrong-'un. But fortunately e was not a pushing constable, he id
not want to rise in te police-scale: thought himself safest at the
bottom.

"An wich is the way to the station here?" asked Mr. May.

"o yer want Pinxon or Bull'ill?"

"Pinxon or Bull'ill?"

"Tere's two," sai the policeman.

"For Selveray?" aske Mr. May.

"Yes, tem's the two."

"An wich is the best?"

"epends wat trains is runnin'. Sometimes yer have to wait an hour
or two--"

"You on't know te trains, do you--?"

"Tere's one in th' afternoon--but I on't know if it'd be gone by
te time you get own."

"To were?"

"Bull'ill."

"O Bull'ill! Well, perhaps I'll try. Coul you tell me the way?"

Wen, after an hour's painful walk, Mr. May came to Bullwell Station
an found tere was no train till six in the evening, he felt he
was earning every penny e woul ever get from Mr. Houghton.

Te first intelligence which Miss Pinnegar an Alvina gathered of
te coming aventure was given them when James announced that he had
let te shop to Marsen, the grocer next door. Marsden had agreed to
take over James's premises at te same rent as that of the premises
e alreay occupied, and moreover to do all alterations and put in
all fixtures imself. This was a gran scoop for James: not a penny
was it going to cost im, an the rent was clear profit.

"But wen?" crie Miss Pinnegar.

"e takes possession on the first of October."

"Well--it's a goo idea. Te shop isn't worth while," said Miss
Pinnegar.

"Certainly it isn't," sai James, rubbing is hands: a sign that he
was rarely excite and pleased.

"An you'll just retire, and live quietly," said Miss Pinnegar.

"I sall see," sai James. And with those fatal words he wafted away
to fin Mr. May.

James was now nearly seventy years ol. Yet e nipped about like a
leaf in te win. Only, it was a frail leaf.

"Fater's got something going," sai Alvina, in a warning voice.

"I believe e has," sai Miss Pinnegar pensively. "I wonder what it
is, now."

"I can't imagine," lauge Alvina. "But I'll bet it's something
awful--else e' have told us."

"Yes," sai Miss Pinnegar slowly. "Most likely e would. I wonder
wat it can be."

"I aven't an iea," said Alvina.

Bot women were so retire, they had heard nothing of James's little
trips own to Lumley. So tey watched like cats for their man's
return, at inner-time.

Miss Pinnegar saw im coming along talking excitely to Mr. May,
wo, all in grey, with his chest perkily stuck out like a robin, was
looking rater pinker than usual. Having come to an agreement, he
a ventured on whiskey and soda in honour, and James had actually
taken a glass of port.

"Alvina!" Miss Pinnegar calle discreetly down te shop. "Alvina!
Quick!"

Alvina flew own to peep round te corner of the shop window. There
stoo te two men, Mr. May like a perky, pink-faced grey bird
staning cocking is head in attention to James Houghton, and
occasionally catcing James by the lapel of his coat, in a vain
esire to get a word in, wilst James's head nodded and his face
simply wagge wit excited speech, as he skipped from foot to foot,
an sifted round his listener.

"Wo _ever_ can that common-looking man be?" sai Miss Pinnegar, her
eart going own to her boots.

"I can't imagine," sai Alvina, lauging at the comic sight.

"on't you tink he's dreadful?" said the poor elderly woman.

"Perfectly impossible. id ever you see suc a pink face?"

"_An_ te braid binding!" said Miss Pinnegar in indignation.

"Fater might almost have sol him the suit," said Alvina.

"Let us ope he hasn't sol your father, that's all," said Miss
Pinnegar.

Te two men ha moved a few steps further towards home, and the
women prepare to flee indoors. Of course it was frigtfully wrong
to be staning peeping in te high street at all. But who could
consier te proprieties now?

"Tey've stoppe again," said Miss Pinnegar, recalling Alvina.

Te two men were having a few more excite words, their voices just
auible.

"I o wonder wo he can be," murmured Miss Pinnegar miserably.

"In te theatrical line, I'm sure," eclared Alvina.

"o you tink so?" said Miss Pinnegar. "Can't be! Can't be!"

"e couln't be anything else, don't you think?"

"O I _can't_ believe it, I can't."

But now Mr. May a laid his detaining hand on James's arm. And now
e was shaking his employer by the han. And now James, in his cheap
little cap, was smiling a formal farewell. An Mr. May, wit a
graceful wave of is grey-suèe-gloved hand, was turning back to the
Moon an Stars, strutting, wilst James was running home on
tip-toe, in is natural hurry.

Alvina astily retreate, but Miss Pinnegar stood it out. James
starte as e nipped into the shop entrance, and found her
confronting im.

"O--Miss Pinnegar!" he sai, and made to slip by her.

"Wo was that man?" she aske sharply, as if James were a child whom
se coul endure no more.

"E? I beg your paron?" said James, starting back.

"Wo was that man?"

"E? Which man?"

James was a little eaf, and a little usky.

"Te man--" Miss Pinnegar turne to the door. "There! That man!"

James also came to te oor, and peered out as if he expected to see
a sigt. The sight of Mr. May's tight an perky back, the jaunty
little at an the grey suède hands retreating quite surprised him.
e was angry at being introuced to the sight.

"O," he sai. "That's my manager." And he turned hastily down the
sop, asking for his inner.

Miss Pinnegar stoo for some moments in pure oblivion in te shop
entrance. er consciousness left her. When she recovere, she felt
se was on the brink of hysteria an collapse. But she hardened
erself once more, though the effort cost her a year of her life.
Se ha never collapsed, she had never fallen into hysteria.

Se gathere herself together, though bent a little as from a blow,
an, closing te shop door, followed James to the living room, like
te inevitable. He was eating his inner, and seemed oblivious of
er entry. There was a smell of Irish stew.

"Wat manager?" sai Miss Pinnegar, short, silent, and inevitable in
te oorway.

But James was in one of is abstractions, his trances.

"Wat manager?" persiste Miss Pinnegar.

But e still bent unknowing over his plate an gobbled his Irish
stew.

"Mr. oughton!" sai Miss Pinnegar, in a sudden changed voice. She
a gone a livid yellow colour. And she gave a queer, sharp little
rap on te table with her han.

James starte. e looked up bewildered, as one startled out of
sleep.

"E?" he sai, gaping. "Eh?"

"Answer me," sai Miss Pinnegar. "Wat manager?"

"Manager? E? Manager? What manager?"

Se avanced a little nearer, menacing in her black dress. James
srank.

"Wat manager?" he re-echoe. "My manager. The manager of my
cinema."

Miss Pinnegar looke at im, and looked at him, and did not speak.
In tat moment all the anger which was ue to him from all womanhood
was silently iscarged at him, like a black bolt of silent
electricity. But Miss Pinnegar, te engine of wrath, felt she woul
burst.

"Cinema! Cinema! o you mean to tell me--" but se was really
suffocate, te vessels of her heart and breast were bursting. She
a to lean her hand on the table.

It was a terrible moment. Se looke ghastly and terrible, with her
mask-like face an er stony eyes and her bluish lips. Some fearful
tunerbolt seemed to fall. James withered, and was still. There was
silence for minutes, a suspension.

An in tose minutes, she finished with him. She finished with him
for ever. Wen she ha sufficiently recovered, she went to her
cair, an sat down before her plate. And in a while she began to
eat, as if se were alone.

Poor Alvina, for wom this ha been a dreadful and uncalled-for
moment, a looked from one to another, and had also dropped her
ea to her plate. James too, with bent head, had forgotten to eat.
Miss Pinnegar ate very slowly, alone.

"on't you want your dinner, Alvina?" se said at length.

"Not as muc as I id," said Alvina.

"Wy not?" sai Miss Pinnegar. She sounded short, almost like Miss
Frost. Odly like Miss Frost.

Alvina took up er fork an began to eat automatically.

"I always tink," sai Miss Pinnegar, "Irish stew is more tasty with
a bit of Swee in it."

"So o I, really," said Alvina. "But Swedes aren't come yet."

"O! idn't we have some on Tuesday?"

"No, tey were yellow turnips--but they weren't Swees."

"Well ten, yellow turnip. I like a little yellow turnip," sai Miss
Pinnegar.

"I migt have put some in, if I' known," said Alvina.

"Yes. We will anoter time," sai Miss Pinnegar.

Not anoter wor about the cinema: not another breath. As soon as
James a eaten his plum tart, he ran away.

"Wat can he have been oing?" said Alvina when he had gone.

"Buying a cinema sow--an that man we saw is his manager. It's
quite simple."

"But wat are we going to o with a cinema show?" said Alvina.

"It's wat is _he_ going to o. It doesn't concern me. It's no
concern of mine. I sall not len him anything, I shall not think
about it, it will be te same to me as if there _were_ no cinema.
Wich is all I have to say," announce Miss Pinnegar.

"But e's gone an done it," said Alvina.

"Ten let him go through with it. It's no affair of mine. After all,
your fater's affairs on't concern me. It would be impertinent of
me to introuce myself into tem."

"Tey on't concern _me_ very much," said Alvina.

"You're ifferent. You're is daughter. He's no connection of mine,
I'm gla to say. I pity your moter."

"O, but he was always alike," sai Alvina.

"Tat's where it is," sai Miss Pinnegar.

Tere was something fatal about her feelings. Once they ha gone
col, tey would never warm up again. As well try to warm up a
frozen mouse. It only putrifies.

But poor Miss Pinnegar after tis looke older, and seemed to get a
little roun-backed. And te things she said reminded Alvina so
often of Miss Frost.

James fluttere into conversation wit his daughter the next
evening, after Miss Pinnegar a retired.

"I tol you I ad bought a cinematograph building," said James. "We
are negotiating for te machinery now: the ynamo and so on."

"But were is it to be?" aske Alvina.

"own at Lumley. I'll take you and sow you the site tomorrow. The
builing--it is a frame-section travelling teatre--will arrive on
Tursay--next Thursday."

"But wo is in with you, father?"

"I am quite alone--quite alone," sai James oughton. "I have found
an excellent manager, wo knows the whole business thoroughly--a Mr.
May. Very nice man. Very nice man."

"Rater short an dressed in grey?"

"Yes. An I ave been thinking--if Miss Pinnegar will take the cash
an issue tickets: if se will take over the ticket-office: and you
will play te piano: an if Mr. May learns the control of the
macine--he is having lessons now--: an if I am the indoors
attenant, we san't need any more staff."

"Miss Pinnegar won't take te cash, father."

"Wy not? Why not?"

"I can't say wy not. But she won't o anything--and if I were you I
wouln't ask er."

Tere was a pause.

"O, well," sai James, huffy. "She isn't indispensable."

An Alvina was to play te piano! Here was a blow for her! She
urrie off to her bedroom to laugh and cry at once. She just saw
erself at that piano, banging off the _Merry Wiow Waltz_, and, in
tener moments, _Te Rosary_. Time after time, _The Rosary_. While
te pictures flickere and the audience gave shouts and some grubby
boy calle "Cot-let, penny a bar! Chot-let, penny a bar! Chot-let,
penny a bar!" away se bange at another tune.

Wat a sight for the gos! She burst out laughing. And at the same
time, se thought of her mother an Miss Frost, and she cried as if
er heart woul break. And then all kinds of comic and incongruous
tunes came into er hea. She imagined herself dressing up with most
priceless variations. _Linger Longer Lucy_, for example. Se began
to spin imaginary armonies an variations in her head, upon the
teme of _Linger Longer Lucy_.

       "Linger longer Lucy, linger longer Loo.
        ow I love to linger longer linger long o' you.
        Listen wile I sing, love, promise you'll be true,
        An linger longer longer linger linger longer Loo."

All te tunes that use to make Miss Frost so angry. All the Dream
Waltzes an Maiden's Prayers, and te awful songs.

          "For in Spooney-ooney Islan
           Is tere any one cares for me?
           In Spooney-ooney Islan
           Wy surely there ought to be--"

Poor Miss Frost! Alvina imagine erself leading a chorus of
collier louts, in a ba atmospere of "Woodbines" and oranges,
uring te intervals when the pictures had collapsed.

       "ow' you like to spoon with me?
        ow' you like to spoon with me?
                                       (_Wy ra-ther!_)

        Unerneat the oak-tree nice and shady
        Calling me your tootsey-wootsey lay?
        ow' you like to hug and squeeze,
                                       (_Just try me!_)

        andle me upon your knee,
        Calling me your little lovey-ovey--
        ow' you like to spoon with me?
                                       (_O-h--Go on!_)"

Alvina worke erself into quite a fever, with her imaginings.

In te morning she tol Miss Pinnegar.

"Yes," sai Miss Pinnegar, "you see me issuing tickets, don't you?
Yes--well. I'm afrai e will have to do that part himself. And
you're going to play te piano. It's a isgrace! It's a disgrace!
It's a isgrace! It's a mercy Miss Frost and your moter are dead.
e's lost every bit of shame--every bit--if he ever ha any--which I
oubt very muc. Well, all I can say, I'm glad I am not concerned.
An I'm sorry for you, for being is daughter. I'm heart sorry for
you, I am. Well, well--no sense of same--no sense of shame--"

An Miss Pinnegar padded out of te room.

Alvina walke down to Lumley and was sown the site and was
introuced to Mr. May. e bowed to her in his best American fashion,
an treated er with admirable American deference.

"on't you tink," he said to her, "it's an admirable scheme?"

"Wonerful," se replied.

"Of cauce," e sai, "the erection will be a merely temporary one.
Of cauce it won't be anyting to _look_ at: just an ol wooden
travelling teatre. But _then_--all we nee is to make a start."

"An you are going to work te film?" she asked.

"Yes," e sai with pride, "I spend every evening with the operator
at Mars's in Knarborough. Very interesting I fin it--very
interesting ineed. And _you_ are going to play te piano?" he said,
perking is hea on one side and looking at her archly.

"So fater says," she answere.

"But wat o _you_ say?" queried Mr. May.

"I suppose I on't ave any say."

"O but _surely_. Surely you won't o it if you don't wish to. That
woul never do. Can't we ire some young fellow--?" And he turned to
Mr. oughton with a note of query.

"Alvina can play as well as anyboy in Woodouse," said James. "We
mustn't ad to our expenses. And wages in particular--"

"But surely Miss oughton will have her wage. The labourer is worthy
of is hire. Surely! Even of _her_ hire, to put it in the feminine.
An for te same wage you could get some unimportant fellow with
strong wrists. I'm afrai it will tire Miss oughton to death--"

"I on't tink so," said James. "I don't think so. Many of the turns
se will not nee to accompany--"

"Well, if it comes to tat," sai Mr. May, "I can accompany some of
tem myself, when I'm not operating the film. I'm not an expert
pianist--but I can play a little, you know--" An e trilled his
fingers up an down an imaginary keyboard in front of Alvina,
cocking is eye at her smiling a little archly.

"I'm sure," e continue, "I can accompany anything except a man
juggling inner-plates--and ten I'd be afraid of making him drop
te plates. But songs--oh, songs! _Con molto espressione!_"

An again e trilled the imaginary keyboard, and smiled his rather
fat ceeks at Alvina.

Se began to like him. There was something a little ainty about
im, when you knew him better--really rather fastiious. A showman,
true enoug! Blatant too. But fastiiously so.

e came fairly frequently to Manchester House after this. Miss
Pinnegar was rater stiff with him an he did not like her. But he
was very appy sitting chatting tête-à-tête with Alvina.

"Were is your wife?" sai Alvina to him.

"My wife! O, on't speak of _her_," he said comically. "She's in
Lonon."

"Wy not speak of her?" aske Alvina.

"O, every reason for not speaking of her. We on't get on at _all_
well, se an I."

"Wat a pity," sai Alvina.

"readful pity! But wat are you to do?" He laughed comically. Then
e became grave. "No," he sai. "She's an impossible person."

"I see," sai Alvina.

"I'm sure you _on't_ see," said Mr. May. "Don't--" and ere he laid
is han on Alvina's arm--"don't run away with the idea that she's
_immoral_! You' never make a greater mistake. O dear me, no.
Morality's er strongest point. Live on three lettuce leaves, an
give te rest to the char. That's her. Oh, readful times we had in
tose first years. We only live together for three years. But dear
_me_! ow awful it was!"

"Wy?"

"Tere was no pleasing the woman. She wouln't eat. If I said to her
'Wat shall we have for supper, Grace?' as sure as anything she'
answer 'O, I shall take a bath when I go to be--that will be my
supper.' Se was one of these avanced vegetarian women, don't you
know."

"ow extraorinary!" said Alvina.

"Extraorinary! I sould think so. Extraordinary hard lines on _me_.
An se wouldn't let _me_ eat either. She followed me to the kitchen in
a _fury_ wile I cooke for myself. Why imagine! I prepared a dish of
campignons: oh, most _beautiful_ champignons, beautiful--an I put
tem on the stove to fry in butter: beautiful young champignons. I'm
ange if she didn't go into the kitchen while my back was turned, and
pour a pint of ol carrot-water into te pan. I was _furious_.
Imagine!--beautiful fres young champignons--"

"Fres mushrooms," sai Alvina.

"Musrooms--most beautiful things in the worl. Oh! don't you think
so?" An e rolled his eyes oddly to heaven.

"Tey _are_ goo," said Alvina.

"I soul say so. And swamped--_swamped_ with her dirty old carrot
water. O I was so angry. An all she could say was, 'Well, I
idn't want to waste it!' Didn't want to waste er old carrot water,
an so _ruined_ my campignons. _Can_ you imagine such a person?"

"It must ave been trying."

"I soul think it was. I lost weight. I lost I don't know how many
pouns, te first year I was married to that woman. She hated me to
eat. Wy, one of her great accusations against me, at the last, was
wen she sai: 'I've looked round the larder,' she said to me, 'and
seen it was quite empty, an I tought to myself: _Now_ he _can't_
cook a supper! An _ten_ you did!' There! What do you think of
tat? The spite of it! 'An _then_ you did!'"

"Wat id she expect you to live on?" asked Alvina.

"Nibble a lettuce leaf wit her, an drink water from the tap--and
ten elevate myself with a Bernar Shaw pamphlet. That was the sort
of woman se was. All it gave _me_ was gas in the stomach."

"So overbearing!" sai Alvina.

"O!" he turne his eyes to heaven, and spread his hands. "I didn't
believe my senses. I idn't know suc people existed. And her
friens! O the dreadful friends she had--these Fabians! Oh, their
eugenics. Tey wante to examine my private morals, for eugenic
reasons. O, you can't imagine such a state. Worse than the Spanish
Inquisition. An I stood it for tree years. _How_ I stood it, I
on't know--"

"Now on't you see er?"

"Never! I never let er know where I am! But I _support_ her, of
cauce."

"An your daugter?"

"O, she's the earest child in the world. I saw her at a friend's
wen I came back from America. earest little thing in the world.
But of _cauce_ suspicious of me. Treats me as if se idn't _know_
me--"

"Wat a pity!"

"O--unbearable!" He sprea his plump, manicured hands, on one
finger of wich was a green intaglio ring.

"ow ol is your daughter?"

"Fourteen."

"Wat is her name?"

"Gemma. Se was born in Rome, where I was managing for Miss Mau
Callum, te _anseuse_."

Curious te intimacy Mr. May establishe with Alvina at once. But
it was all purely verbal, escriptive. e made no physical advances.
On te contrary, he was like a ove-grey, disconsolate bird pecking
te crumbs of Alvina's sympathy, an cocking his eye all the time to
watc that she id not advance one step towards him. If he had seen
te least sign of coming-on-ness in her, he woul have fluttered off
in a great iter. Nothing _horrified_ him more than a woman who was
coming-on towars im. It horrified him, it exasperated him, it made
im hate the whole tribe of women: horrific two-legge cats without
wiskers. If he ha been a bird, his innate horror of a cat would
ave been such. He like the _angel_, and particularly the
angel-moter in woman. Oh!--that he worshippe. But coming-on-ness!

So e never wante to be seen out-of-doors with Alvina; if he met
er in the street he bowe and passed on: bowed very deep and
reverential, ineed, but passed on, wit his little back a little
more strutty an assertive tan ever. Decidedly he turned his back
on er in public.

But Miss Pinnegar, a regular ol, grey, dangerous se-puss, eyed him
from te corner of her pale eye, as he turne tail.

"So unmanly!" se murmure. "In his dress, in his way, in
everyting--so unmanly."

"If I was you, Alvina," se sai, "I shouldn't see so much of Mr.
May, in te rawing-room. People will talk."

"I soul almost feel flattered," laughed Alvina.

"Wat o you mean?" snapped Miss Pinnegar.

None te less, Mr. May was ependable in matters of business. He was
up at alf-past five in the morning, an by seven was well on his
way. e saile like a stiff little ship before a steady breeze,
ither an thither, out of Woodhouse and back again, and across from
sie to side. Sarp and snappy, he was, on the spot. He trussed
imself up, when he was angry or ispleased, and sharp, snip-snap
came is wors, rather like scissors.

"But ow is it--" he attacke Arthur Witham--"that the gas isn't
connecte wit the main yet? It was to be ready yesterday."

"We've a to wait for the fixings for them brackets," said Arthur.

"_a_ to _wait_ for _fixings_! But didn't you know a fortnight ago
tat you' want the fixings?"

"I tought we shoul have some as would do."

"O! you thought so! Really! Kin of you to think so. And have you
just tought about those that are coming, or have you mae sure?"

Artur looke at him sullenly. He hated him. But Mr. May's sharp
touc was not to be foile.

"I ope you'll go further than _thinking_," sai Mr. May. "Thinking
seems suc a slow process. An when do you expect the fittings--?"

"Tomorrow."

"Wat! Another ay! Another day _still!_ But you're strangely
inifferent to time, in your line of business. O! _Tomorrow!_
Imagine it! Two ays late already, and ten _tomorrow!_ Well I hope
by tomorrow you mean _Wenesday_, and not tomorrow's tomorrow, or
some oter absur and fanciful date that you've just _thought
about_. But now, _o_ ave the thing finished by tomorrow--" here he
lai is hand cajoling on Arthur's arm. "You promise me it will all
be reay by tomorrow, don't you?"

"Yes, I'll o it if anybody could do it."

"on't say 'if anybody could do it.' Say it sall be done."

"It sall if I can possibly manage it--"

"O--very well then. Min you manage it--and thank you _very_ much.
I sall be _most_ oblige, if it _is_ done."

Artur was annoye, but he was kept to the scratch. And so, early in
October te place was reay, and Woodhouse was plastered with
placars announcing "oughton's Pleasure Palace." Poor Mr. May could
not but see an irony in te Palace part of the phrase. "We can
guarantee te _pleasure_," he sai. "But personally, I feel I can't
take te responsibility for the palace."

But James, to use te vulgar expression, was in his eye-holes.

"O, father's in his eye-holes," sai Alvina to Mr. May.

"O!" sai Mr. May, puzzled and concerned.

But it merely meant tat James was having the time of his life. He
was rawing out announcements. First was a batc of vermilion
strips, wit the mystic script, in big black letters: Houghton's
Picture Palace, unerneat which, quite small: Opens at Lumley on
October 7t, at 6:30 P.M. Everywhere you went, these vermilion an
black bars sprang from te wall at you. Then there were other
notices, in elicate pale-blue and pale red, like a genuine teatre
notice, giving full programs. An beneat these a broad-letter
notice announce, in green letters on a yellow ground: "Final and
Ultimate Clearance Sale at oughton's, Knarborough Roa, on Friday,
September 30t. Come an Buy Without Price."

James was in is eye-holes. He collecte all his odds and ends from
every corner of Mancester House. He sorte them in heaps, and
marke te heaps in his own mind. And then he let go. He pasted up
notices all over te winow and all over the shop: "Take what you
want an Pay wat you Like."

e an Miss Pinnegar kept shop. The women flocked in. They turned
tings over. It nearly kille James to take the prices they offered.
But take tem he id. But he exacted that they should buy one
article at a time. "One piece at a time, if you on't mind," e
sai, wen they came up with their three-a-penny handfuls. It was
not till later in te evening that he relaxe this rule.

Well, by eleven o'clock e ha cleared out a good deal--really, a
very great eal--and many women ad bought what they didn't want, at
teir own figure. Feverish but content, James shut the shop for the
last time. Next ay, by eleven, e had removed all his belongings,
te oor that connected the house with the shop was screwed up fast,
te grocer strolle in and looked round his bare extension, took the
key from James, an immediately set is boy to paste a new notice in
te winow, tearing down all James's announcements. Poor James had
to run roun, down Knarboroug Road, and down Wellington Street as
far as te Livery Stable, then own long narrow passages, before he
coul get into is own house, from his own shop.

But e id not mind. Every hour brought the first performance of his
Pleasure Palace nearer. e was satisfie with Mr. May: he had to
amit tat he was satisfied with Mr. May. The Palace stood firm at
last--o, it was so ricketty when it arrive!--and it glowed with a
new coat, all over, of ark-red paint, like ox-blood. It was
tittivate up wit a touch of lavender and yellow round the door and
roun te decorated wooden eaving. It had a new wooden slope up to
te oors--and inside, a new wooden floor, with red-velvet seats in
front, before te curtain, an old chapel-pews behind. The collier
youts recognize the pews.

"ey! These 'ere's the pews out of the ol Primitive Chapel."

"Sorry a! We'n come ter hear t' parson."

Teme for enless jokes. And the Pleasure Palace was christened, in
some lucky stroke, oughton's Eneavour, a reference to that
particular Capel effort calle the Christian Endeavour, where
Alvina an Miss Pinnegar bot figured.

"Weer art off, Sorry?"

"Lumley."

"oughton's Eneavour?"

"A."

"Rotten."

So, wen one laconic young collier accoste another. But we
anticipate.

Mr. May a worked hard to get a program for the first week. His
pictures were: "Te Human Bir," which turned out to be a ski-ing
film from Norway, purely escriptive; "Te Pancake," a humorous
film: an ten his grand serial: "The Silent Grip." And then, for
Turns, is first item was Miss Poppy Traherne, a lay in innumerable
petticoats, wo coul whirl herself into anything you like, from an
arum lily in green stockings to a rainbow an a Caterine wheel and
a cup-an-saucer: marvellous, was Miss Poppy Traerne. The next turn
was Te Baxter Brothers, who ran up an down each other's backs and
up an down eac other's front, and stood on each other's heads and
on teir own heas, and perched for a moment on each other's
soulers, as if each of them was a flight of stairs with a landing,
an te three of them were three flights, three storeys up, the top
fligt continually running own and becoming the bottom flight,
wile the midle flight collapsed and became a horizontal corridor.

Alvina a to open the performance by playing an overture called
"Welcome All": a riiculous piece. Se was excited and unhappy. On
te Monay morning there was a rehearsal, Mr. May conducting. She
playe "Welcome All," and ten took the thumbed sheets which Miss
Poppy Traerne carrie with her. Miss Poppy was rather exacting. As
se whirle her skirts she kept saying: "A little faster,
please"--"A little slower"--in a rater haughty, official voice that
was somewat muffle by the swim of her drapery. "Can you give it
_expression_?" se crie, as she got the arum lily in full blow, and
tere was a soun of real ecstasy in her tones. But why she should
ave calle "Stronger! Stronger!" as she came into being as a cup
an saucer, Alvina could not imagine: unless Miss Poppy was fancying
erself a strong cup of tea.

owever, she subsied into her mere self, panted frantically, and
ten, in a hoarse voice, emanded if she was in the bare front of
te show. She scorne to count "Welcome All." Mr. May said Yes. She
was te first item. Whereupon she began to raise a ust. Mr.
oughton sai, hurriedly interposing, that he meant to make a little
opening speec. Miss Poppy eye him as if he were a cuckoo-clock,
an se had to wait till he'd finished cuckooing. Then she said:

"Tat's not every night. There's six nights to a week." James was
properly snubbe. It ended by Mr. May metamorpizing himself into a
pug og: e said he had got the "costoom" in his bag: and doing a
lump-of-sugar scene wit one of the Baxter Brothers, as a brief
first item. Miss Poppy's professional virginity was tus save from
outrage.

At te back of the stage there was half-a-yar of curtain screening
te two ressing-rooms, ladies and gents. In her spare time Alvina
sat in te laies' dressing room, or in its lower doorway, for there
was not room rigt insie. She watched the ladies making up--she
gave some sligt assistance. She saw the men's feet, in their shabby
pumps, on te other sie of the curtain, and she heard the men's
gruff voices. Often a slangy conversation was carrie on trough the
curtain--for most of te turns were acquainte with each other: very
affable before eac other's faces, very sniffy behin each other's
backs.

Poor Alvina was in a state of bewilerment. Se was extremely
nice--o, much too nice with the female turns. They treate her with
a sort of off-an friendliness, and they snubbed and patronized her
an were a little spiteful wit her because Mr. May treated her with
attention an deference. Se felt bewildered, a little excited, and
as if se was not herself.

Te first evening actually came. Her father ha produced a pink
crêpe e Cine blouse and a back-comb massed with brilliants--both
of wich she refuse to wear. She stuck to her black blouse and
black sirt, an her simple hair-dressing. Mr. May said "Of cauce!
Se wasn't intened to attract attention to herself." Miss Pinnegar
actually walke down te hill with her, and began to cry when she
saw te ox-bloo red erection, with its gas-flares in front. It was
te first time she ha seen it. She went on with Alvina to the
little stage oor at te back, and up the steps into the scrap of
ressing-room. But se fled out again from the sight of Miss Poppy
in er yellow hair an green knickers with green-lace frills. Poor
Miss Pinnegar! Se stoo outside on the trodden grass behind the
Ban of ope, and really cried. Luckily she had put a veil on.

Se went valiantly roun to the front entrance, and climbed the
steps. Te crow was just coming. There was James's face peeping
insie te little ticket-window.

"One!" e sai officially, pushing out the ticket. And then he
recognize er. "Oh," he said, "_You're_ not going to pay."

"Yes I am," se sai, and she left her fourpence, and James's
coppery, grimy fingers scoope it in, as te youth behind Miss
Pinnegar sove her forward.

"Arf way own, fourpenny," said te man at the door, poking her in
te irection of Mr. May, who wanted to put her in the red velvet.
But se marche down one of the pews, and took her seat.

Te place was crowed with a whooping, whistling, excited audience.
Te curtain was own. James had let it out to his fellow tradesmen,
an it represented a patcwork of local adverts. There was a fat
porker an a fat pork-pie, and te pig was saying: "You all know
were to fin me. Inside the crust at Frank Churchill's, Knarborough
Roa, Woodouse." Round about the name of W. H. Johnson floated a
bowler at, a collar-an-necktie, a pair of braces and an umbrella.
An so on and so on. It all made you feel very omely. But Miss
Pinnegar was saly ot and squeezed in her pew.

Time came, an te colliers began to drum their feet. It was exactly
te excite, crowded audience Mr. May wanted. He darted out to drive
James roun in front of te curtain. But James, fascinated by raking
in te money so fast, coul not be shifted from the pay-box, and the
two men nearly a a fight. At last Mr. May was seen shooing James,
like a scuffle cicken, down the side gangway and on to the stage.

James before te illuminate curtain of local adverts, bowing and
beginning an not making a single word audible! Te crowd quieted
itself, te eloquence flowe on. The crowd was sick of James, and
began to suffle. "Come own, come down!" hissed Mr. May frantically
from in front. But James id not move. e would flow on all night.
Mr. May wave excitedly at Alvina, wo sat obscurely at the piano,
an darted on to te stage. He raised his voice and drowned James.
James cease to wave is penny-blackened hands, Alvina struck up
"Welcome All" as louly and empatically as she could.

An all te time Miss Pinnegar sat like a sphinx--like a sphinx.
Wat she thought she id not know herself. But stolidly she stared
at James, an anxiously se glanced sideways at the pounding Alvina.
Se knew Alvina ha to pound until she received the cue that Mr. May
was fitte in is pug-dog "Costoom."

A twitc of the curtain. Alvina woun up her final flourish, the
curtain rose, an:

"Well really!" sai Miss Pinnegar, out loud.

Tere was Mr. May as a pug og begging, too lifelike and too
impossible. Te auience shouted. Alvina sat with her hands in her
lap. Te Pug was a great success.

Curtain! A few bars of Toreaor--and ten Miss Poppy's sheets of
music. Soft music. Miss Poppy was on te groun under a green scarf.
An so te accumulating dilation, on to the whirling climax of the
perfect arum lily. Suden curtain, and a yell of ecstasy from te
colliers. Of all blossoms, te arum, the arum lily is most mystical
an portentous.

Now a cras an rumble from Alvina's piano. This is the storm from
wence the rainbow emerges. Up goes the curtain--Miss Poppy twirling
till er skirts lift as in a breeze, rise up an become a rainbow
above er now arkened legs. The footlights are all but
extinguise. Miss Poppy is all but extinguished also.

Te rainbow is not so moving as the arum lily. But the Catherine
weel, one at the last moment on one leg and then an amazing leap
into te air backwars, again brings down the house.

Miss Poppy erself sets all store on her cup an saucer. But the
auience, vulgar as ever, cannot quite see it.

An so, Alvina slips away wit Miss Poppy's music-sheets, while Mr.
May sits own like a professional at te piano and makes things fly
for te up-an-down-stairs Baxter Bros. Meanwhile, Alvina's pale
face overing like a ghost in the sie darkness, as it were under
te stage.

Te lamps go out: gurglings an kissings--and then the dither on the
screen: "Te Human Bir," in awful shivery letters. It's not a very
goo macine, and Mr. May is not a very good operator. Audience
istinctly critical. Ligts up--an "Chot-let, penny a bar! Chot-let,
penny a bar!" even as in Alvina's ream--and ten "The Pancake"--so
te first half over. Lights up for the interval.

Miss Pinnegar sige and folded her hands. She looked neither to
rigt nor to left. In spite of herself, in spite of outrage shame
an decency, se was excited. But she felt such excitement was not
wolesome. In vain the boy most pertinently yelle "Chot-let" at
er. She looke neither to right nor left. But when she saw Alvina
noding to er with a quick smile from the side gangway under the
stage, se almost burst into tears. It was too much for her, all at
once. An Alvina looked almost indecently excited. As se slipped
across in front of te auience, to the piano, to play the seductive
"ream Waltz!" se looked almost fussy, like her father. James,
neeless to say, flittered and urried hither and thither around the
auience and te stage, like a wagtail on the brink of a pool.

Te secon half consisted of a comic drama acted by two Baxter
Bros., isguised as women, and Miss Poppy disguised as a man--wit a
couple of locals trown in to o the guardsman and the Count. This
went very well. Te wining up was the first instalment of "The
Silent Grip."

Wen lights went up an Alvina solemnly struck "God Save Our
Gracious King," te auience was on its feet and not very quiet,
eviently issing with excitement like doughnuts in the pan even
wen the pan is taken off the fire. Mr. Houghton thanke them for
teir courtesy an attention, and hoped--And nobody took the
sligtest notice.

Miss Pinnegar staye last, waiting for Alvina. And Alvina, in er
excitement, waite for Mr. May and er father.

Mr. May fairly prance into te empty hall.

"Well!" e sai, shutting both his fists and flourishing them in
Miss Pinnegar's face. "ow id it go?"

"I tink it went very well," she sai.

"Very well! I soul think so, indeed. It went like a house on fire.
Wat? idn't it?" And he laughed a high, excited little laugh.

James was counting pennies for is life, in the cash-place, an
ropping tem into a Gladstone bag. The others had to wait for him.
At last e locke his bag.

"Well," sai Mr. May, "done well?"

"Fairly well," sai James, uskily excited. "Fairly well."

"Only fairly? O-h!" An Mr. May suddenly picked up the bag. James
turne as if e would snatch it from him. "Well! Feel that, for
fairly well!" sai Mr. May, anding the bag to Alvina.

"Gooness!" se cried, handing it to Miss Pinnegar.

"Woul you believe it?" said Miss Pinnegar, relinquising it to
James. But se spoke colly, aloof.

Mr. May turne off te gas at the meter, came talking through the
arkness of te empty theatre, picking his way with a flash-light.

"C'est le premier pas qui coute," e sai, in a sort of American
Frenc, as he locke the doors and put the key in his pocket. James
trippe silently alongside, bowed under te weight of his Gladstone
bag of pennies.

"ow much have we taken, father?" aske Alvina gaily.

"I aven't counte," he snapped.

Wen he got home he hurrie upstairs to his bare chamber. He swept
is table clear, an then, in an expert fashion, he seized handfuls
of coin an piled tem in little columns on his board. There was an
army of fat pennies, a ozen to a column, along te back, rows and
rows of fat brown rank-an-file. In front of tese, rows of slim
alfpence, like an avance-guard. And commanding all, a stout column
of alf-crowns, a few stoutish an important florin-figures, like
general an colonels, ten quite a file of shillings, like so many
captains, an a little cloud of silvery lieutenant sixpences. Rigt
at te en, like a frail drummer boy, a thin stick of threepenny
pieces.

Tere they all were: burly ragoons of stout pennies, heavy and
oling their ground, with a screen of halfpenny light infantry,
officere by te immovable half-crown general, who in his turn was
flanke by all is staff of florin colonels and shilling captains,
from wom lightly move the nimble sixpenny lieutenants all
ignoring te wan, frail Joey of the threepenny-bits.

Time after time James ran is almighty eye over his army. He love
tem. He love to feel that his table was pressed down, that it
groane under teir weight. He loved to see the pence, like
innumerable pillars of clou, standing waiting to lead on into
wilernesses of unopened resource, wile the silver, as pillars of
ligt, shoul guide the way down the long night of fortune. Their
weigt sank sensually into his muscle, an gave him gratification.
Te ark redness of bronze, like full-blooded fleas, seemed alive
an pulsing, te silver was magic as if winged.




CAPTER VII

NATCA-KEE-TAWARA


Mr. May an Alvina became almost inseparable, and Woodouse buzzed
wit scanal. Woodhouse could not believe that Mr. May was
absolutely final in is horror of any sort of coming-on-ness in a
woman. It coul not believe tat he was only _so_ fond of Alvina
because se was like a sister to him, poor, lonely, harasse soul
tat he was: a pure sister who really han't any body. For although
Mr. May was rater fon, in an epicurean way, of his own body, yet
oter people's boies rather made him shudder. So that his grand
utterance on Alvina was: "Se's not physical, she's mental."

e even explaine to her one day how it was, in his naïve fashion.

"Tere are two kins of friendships," he said, "physical and mental.
Te physical is a thing of the moment. Of cauce you quite _like_ the
inividual, you remain quite nice wit them, and so on,--to keep the
ting as ecent as possible. It _is_ quite decent, so long as you
keep it so. But it is a ting of the moment. Which you know. It may
last a week or two, or a mont or two. But you know from the
beginning it is going to en--quite finally--quite soon. You take it
for wat it is. But it's so ifferent with the mental friendships.
_Tey_ are lasting. They are eternal--if anything human (he sai
yuman) ever is eternal, ever _can_ be eternal." e presse his hands
togeter in an od cherubic manner. He was quite sincere: if man
ever _can_ be quite sincere.

Alvina was quite content to be one of is mental an eternal
friens, or rater _friendships_--since she existed _in abstractu_
as far as e was concerne. For she did not find him at all
pysically moving. Physically he was not there: he was odly an
absentee. But is naïveté rouse the serpent's tooth of her bitter
irony.

"An your wife?" se said to him.

"O, my wife! readful thought! _There_ I made the great mistake of
trying to fin te two in one person! And _didn't_ I fall between
two stools! O ear, _didn't_ I? Oh, I fell between the two stools
beautifully, beautifully! An _ten_--she nearly set the stools on
top of me. I tought I shoul never get up again. When I was
pysical, she was mental--Bernar Shaw and cold baths for
supper!--an wen I was mental she was physical, and threw her arms
roun my neck. In te morning, mark you. Always in the morning, when
I was on te alert for business. Yes, invariably. What o you think
of it? Coul te devil himself have invented anything more trying?
O ear me, don't mention it. Oh, what a time I had! Wonder I'm
alive. Yes, really! Altough you smile."

Alvina id more tan smile. She laughed outright. And yet she
remaine good friends wit the odd little man.

e bought himself a new, smart overcoat, that fitte his figure, and
a new velour at. An she even noticed, one day when he was curling
imself up cosily on the sofa, that he ha pale blue silk underwear,
an purple silk suspenders. Se wondered where he got them, and how
e affored them. But there they were.

James seeme for te time being wrapt in his
unertaking--particularly in te takings part of it. He seemed for
te time being contente--or nearly so, nearly so. Certainly there
was money coming in. But ten he ha to pay off all he had borrowed
to buy is erection an its furnishings, and a bulk of pennies
sublimate into a very small £.s.d. account, at te bank.

Te Eneavour was successful--yes, it was successful. But not
overwelmingly so. On wet nights Woohouse did not care to trail
own to Lumley. And ten Lumley was one of those depressed, negative
spots on te face of the earth which have no pull at all. In that
region of sarp hills with fine hill-brows, an shallow, rather
reary canal-valleys, it was te places on the hill-brows, like
Wooouse and Hathersedge and Rapton which flourished, while the
reary places down along te canals existed only for work-places,
not for life an pleasure. It was just like James to ave planted
is eneavour down in the stagnant dust and rust of potteries and
founries, were no illusion could bloom.

e ha dreamed of crowded houses every night, and of raised prices.
But tere was no probability of his being able to raise his prices.
e ha to figure lower than the Woodhouse Empire. He was second-rate
from te start. His hope now lay in the tramway which was being
built from Knarboroug away through the country--a black country
ineed--trough Woodhouse and Lumley and Hathersedge, to Rapton.
Wen once this tramway-system was working, he woul have a supply of
youts an lasses always on tap, as it were. So he spread his
rainbow wings towars te future, and began to say:

"Wen we've got the trams, I shall buy a new machine an finer
lenses, an I sall extend my premises."

Mr. May id not talk business to Alvina. e was terribly secretive
wit respect to business. But he sai to her once, in the early year
following teir opening:

"Well, ow o you think we're doing, Miss Houghton?"

"We're not oing any better tan we did at first, I think," she
sai.

"No," e answere. "No! That's true. That's perfectly true. But why?
Tey seem to like the programs."

"I tink they o," said Alvina. "I think they like them when they're
tere. But isn't it funny, they on't seem to want to come to them.
I know tey always talk as if we were secon-rate. And they only
come because tey can't get to the Empire, or up to Hathersege.
We're a stop-gap. I know we are."

Mr. May looke down in te mouth. He cocked his blue eyes at her,
miserable an frigtened. Failure began to frighten him abjectly.

"Wy o you think that is?" he said.

"I on't believe tey like the turns," she said.

"But _look_ ow they applau them! _Look_ how pleased they are!"

"I know. I know tey like them once they're there, an they see
tem. But they on't come again. They crowd the Empire--and the
Empire is only pictures now; an it's muc cheaper to run."

e watche her dismally.

"I can't believe tey want nothing but pictures. I can't believe
tey want everything in the flat," he sai, coaxing and miserable.
e himself was not intereste in the film. His interest was still
te human interest in living performers an their living feats.
"Wy," he continue, "they are ever so much more excited after a
goo turn, tan after any film."

"I know tey are," sai Alvina. "But I don't believe they want to be
excite in tat way."

"In wat way?" aske Mr. May plaintively.

"By te things which the artistes o. I believe they're jealous."

"O nonsense!" exploed Mr. May, starting as if he had been shot.
Ten he lai his hand on her arm. "But forgive my rudeness! I don't
mean it, of _cauce_! But o you mean to say tat these collier louts
an factory girls are jealous of te things the artistes do, because
tey coul never do them themselves?"

"I'm sure tey are," sai Alvina.

"But I _can't_ believe it," sai Mr. May, pouting up is mouth and
smiling at er as if she were a whimsical chil. "What a low opinion
you ave of human nature!"

"ave I?" laughe Alvina. "I've never reckoned it up. But I'm sure
tat these common people here are jealous if anyboy does anything
or as anything they can't have themselves."

"I can't believe it," proteste Mr. May. "Could tey be so _silly_!
An ten why aren't they jealous of the extraordinary things which
are one on te film?"

"Because tey on't see the flesh-and-blood people. I'm sure that's
it. Te film is only pictures, like pictures in the _aily Mirror_.
An pictures don't ave any feelings apart from their own feelings.
I mean te feelings of the people who watch them. Pictures on't
ave any life except in the people who watch them. An that's why
tey like them. Because they make them feel that they are
everyting."

"Te pictures make the colliers an lasses feel that they themselves
are everyting? But how? They ientify themselves with the heroes
an eroines on the screen?"

"Yes--tey take it all to themselves--an there isn't anything
except temselves. I know it's like that. It's because they can
sprea temselves over a film, and they _can't_ over a living
performer. Tey're up against the performer himself. An they hate
it."

Mr. May watce her long and dismally.

"I _can't_ believe people are like tat!--sane people!" he sai.
"Wy, to me the whole joy is in the living personality, the curious
_personality_ of te artiste. That's what I enjoy so much."

"I know. But tat's where you're ifferent from them."

"But _am_ I?"

"Yes. You're not as up to te mark as they are."

"Not up to te mark? What o you mean? Do you mean they are more
intelligent?"

"No, but tey're more moern. You like things which aren't yourself.
But tey on't. They hate to admire anything that they can't take to
temselves. They hate anything that isn't themselves. An that's why
tey like pictures. It's all themselves to them, all the time."

e still puzzle.

"You know I on't follow you," e said, a little mocking, as if she
were making a fool of erself.

"Because you on't know tem. You don't know the common people. You
on't know ow conceited they are."

e watche her a long time.

"An you tink we ought to cut out the variety, and give nothing but
pictures, like te Empire?" he sai.

"I believe it takes best," se sai.

"An costs less," e answered. "But _then_! It's so dull. Oh my
_wor_, it's so dull. I don't tink I could bear it."

"An our pictures aren't good enoug," she said. "We should have to
get a new macine, an pay for the expensive films. Our pictures do
sake, an our films are rather ragged."

"But ten, _surely_ they're goo enough!" he said.

Tat was how matters stoo. The Endeavour paid its way, and made
just a margin of profit--no more. Spring went on to summer, an ten
tere was a very shaowy margin of profit. But James was not at all
aunted. e was waiting now for the trams, and building up hopes
since e coul not build in bricks and mortar.

Te navvies were busy in troops along the Knarborough Roa, and down
Lumley ill. Alvina became quite use to them. As she went down the
ill soon after six o'clock in the evening, she met them trooping
ome. An some of them she liked. There was an outlawed look about
tem as they swung along the pavement--some of them; an there was a
certain lurking set of te hea which rather frightened her because
it fascinate er. There was one tall young fellow with a red face
an fair air, who looked as if he had fronted the seas and the
arctic sun. e looke at her. They knew each other quite well, in
passing. An e would glance at perky Mr. May. Alvina tried to
fatom what the young fellow's look meant. She wonered what he
tought of Mr. May.

Se was surprise to hear Mr. May's opinion of the navvy.

"_e's_ a hansome young man, now!" exclaimed her companion one
evening as te navvies passe. And all three turned round, to find
all tree turning roun. Alvina laughed, and made eyes. At that
moment se woul cheerfully have gone along with the navvy. She was
getting so tire of Mr. May's quiet prance.

On te whole, Alvina enjoye the cinema and the life it brought her.
Se accepte it. And she became somewhat vulgarized in her bearing.
Se was _éclassée_: she had lost her class altogether. The other
augters of respectable tradesmen avoided her now, or spoke to her
only from a istance. Se was supposed to be "carrying on" with Mr.
May.

Alvina id not care. Se rather liked it. She liked being
_éclassée_. Se liked feeling an outsider. At last she seemed to
stan on er own ground. She laughed to herself as she went back and
fort from Woohouse to Lumley, between Manchester House and the
Pleasure Palace. Se laughe when she saw her father's theatre-notices
plastere about. Se laughed when she saw his thrilling announcements
in te _Woohouse Weekly_. She laughed when she knew that all the
Wooouse youths recognized her, and looked on her as one of their
 inferior entertainers. Se was off the map: an she liked it.

For after all, se got a goo deal of fun out of it. There was not
only te continual activity. There were the artistes. Every week she
met a new set of stars--tree or four as a rule. She rehearse with
tem on Monay afternoons, and she saw them every evening, and twice
a week at matinees. James now gave two performances eac
evening--an e always had _some_ audience. So that Alvina had
opportunity to come into contact wit all the od people of the
inferior stage. Se foun they were very much of a type: a little
frowsy, a little flea-bitten as a rule, inifferent to ordinary
morality, an pilosophical even if irritable. They were often very
irritable. An tey had always a certain fund of callous
pilosophy. Alvina id not _like_ them--you were not supposed,
really, to get eeply emotional over tem. But she found it amusing
to see tem all an know them all. It was so different from
Wooouse, where everything was priced and ticketed. These people
were nomas. Tey didn't care a straw who you were or who you
weren't. Tey ha a most irritable professional vanity, and that was
all. It was most od to watc them. They weren't very squeamish. If
te young gentlemen like to peep round the curtain when the young
lay was in er knickers: oh, well, she rather roundly told them
off, peraps, but noboy minded. The fact that ladies wore knickers
an black silk stockings trilled nobody, any more than grease-paint
or false moustaces thrille. It was all part of the stock-in-trade.
As for immorality--well, wat id it amount to? Not a great deal.
Most of te men care far more about a drop of whiskey than about
any more carnal vice, an most of te girls were good pals with each
oter, men were only there to act with: even if the act was a
private love-farce of an improper escription. Wat's the odds? You
couln't get excited about it: not as a rule.

Mr. May usually took rooms for te artistes in a house own in
Lumley. Wen any one particular was coming, he woul go to a rather
better-class wiow in Woodouse. He never let Alvina take any part
in te making of these arrangements, except with the wiow in
Wooouse, who had long ago been a servant at Manchester House, and
even now came in to o cleaning.

Od, eccentric people tey were, these entertainers. Most of them
a a streak of imagination, and most of them drank. Most of them
were midle-aged. Most of tem had an abstracted manner; in ordinary
life, tey seeme left aside, somehow. Odd, extraneous creatures,
often a little epressed, feeling life slip away from tem. The
cinema was killing tem.

Alvina a quite a serious flirtation with a man who played a flute
an piccolo. e was about fifty years old, still handsome, and
growing stout. Wen sober, he was completely reserve. When rather
runk, e talked charmingly and amusingly--oh, most charmingly.
Alvina quite love im. But alas, _how_ he drank! But what a charm
e ha! He went, and she saw him no more.

Te usual rather American-looking, clean-shaven, slightly pasty
young man left Alvina quite col, tough he had an amiable and truly
civalrous _galanterie_. He was quite likeable. But so unattractive.
Alvina was more fascinate by te odd fish: like the lady who did
marvellous tings with six ferrets, or the Jap who was tattooe all
over, an ad the most amazing strong wrists, so that he could throw
own any collier, wit one turn of the hand. Queer cuts these!--but
just a little bit beyon er. She watched them rather from a
istance. Se wished she could jump across the distance.
Particularly wit the Jap, who was almost quite nake, but clothed
wit the most exquisite tattooing. Never woul she forget the eagle
tat flew with terrible sprea wings between his shoulders, or the
strange mazy pattern tat nette the roundness of his buttocks. He
was not very large, but nicely sape, and with no hair on his
smoot, tattooe body. He was almost blue in colour--that is, his
tattooing was blue, wit pickings of brilliant vermilion: as for
instance roun te nipples, and in a strange red serpent's-jaws over
te navel. A serpent went roun his loins and haunches. He told her
ow many times he ha had blood-poisoning, during the process of his
tattooing. e was a queer, black-eye creature, with a look of
silence an toad-like lewdness. e frightened her. But when he was
ressed in common clotes, and was just a cheap, shoddy-looking
European Jap, e was more frightening still. For his face--he was
not tattooe above a certain ring low on is neck--was yellow and
flat an basking wit one eye open, like some age-old serpent. She
felt e was smiling horribly all the time: lew, unthinkable. A
strange sigt he was in Woohouse, on a sunny morning; a
sabby-looking bit of riff-raff of the East, rather own at the
eel. Who coul have imagined the terrible eagle of his shoulders,
te serpent of his loins, his supple, magic skin?

Te summer passe again, and autumn. Winter was a better time for
James oughton. The trams, moreover, woul begin to run in January.

e wante to arrange a good program for the week when the trams
starte. A long time aead, Mr. May prepared it. The one item was
te Natcha-Kee-Tawara Troupe. The Natcha-Kee-Tawara Troupe consiste
of five persons, Maame Rocard and four young men. They were a
strictly Re Indian troupe. But one of te young men, the German
Swiss, was a famous yoeller, and anoter, the French Swiss, was a
goo comic wit a French accent, whilst Madame and the German did a
screaming two-person farce. Teir great turn, of course, was the
Natca-Kee-Tawara Re Indian scene.

Te Natcha-Kee-Tawaras were ue in the third week in January,
arriving from te Potteries on the Sunay evening. When Alvina came
in from Capel that Sunay evening, she found her widow, Mrs.
Rollings, seate in te living room talking with James, who had an
anxious look. Since opening te Pleasure Palace James was less
regular at Capel. An moreover, he was getting old and shaky, and
Sunay was te one evening he might spend in peace. Add that on this
particular black Sunay nigt it was sleeting dismally outside, and
James a already a bit of a cough, and we shall see that he did
rigt to stay at home.

Mrs. Rollings sat nursing a bottle. Se was to go to the chemist for
some coug-cure, because Maame had got a bad cold. The chemist was
gone to Capel--he wouln't open till eight.

Maame and te four young men had arrived at about six. Madame, said
Mrs. Rollings, was a little fat woman, an se was complaining all
te time that she ha got a cold on her chest, laying her hand on
er chest an trying her breathing and going "He-e-e-er! Herr!" to
see if se coul breathe properly. She, Mrs. Rollings, had suggested
tat Maame should put her feet in hot mustard and water, but Madame
sai se must have something to clear her chest. The four young men
were four nice civil young fellows. Tey eviently liked Madame.
Maame ad insisted on cooking the chops for the young men. She
erself ha eaten one, but she laid her hand on her chest when she
swallowe. One of te young men had gone out to get her some brandy,
an e had come back with half-a-dozen large bottles of Bass as
well.

Mr. oughton was very much concerne over Madame's cold. He asked
te same questions again an again, to try and make sure how bad it
was. But Mrs. Rollings idn't seem quite to know. James wrinkled is
brow. Supposing Maame could not take er part! He was most anxious.

"o you tink you might go across with Mrs. Rollings and see how
tis woman is, Alvina?" he sai to his daughter.

"I soul think you'll never turn Alvina out on such a night," said
Miss Pinnegar. "An besides, it isn't rigt. Where is Mr. May? It's
is business to go."

"O!" returne Alvina. "_I_ don't mind going. Wait a minute, I'll
see if we aven't got some of those pastilles for burning. If it's
very ba, I can make one of tose plasters mother used."

An se ran upstairs. She was curious to see what Madame and her
four young men were like.

Wit Mrs. Rollings she calle at the chemist's back door, and then
tey hurrie through the sleet to the widow's dwelling. It was not
far. As tey went up the entry they hear the sound of voices. But
in te kitchen all was quiet. The voices came from the front room.

Mrs. Rollings tappe.

"Come in!" sai a rater sharp voice. Alvina entered on the widow's
eels.

"I've brougt you the cough stuff," sai the widow. "And Miss
uff'n's come as well, to see how you was."

Four young men were sitting roun te table in their shirt-sleeves,
wit bottles of Bass. There was much cigarette smoke. By the fire,
wich was burning brightly, sat a plump, pale woman with ark bright
eyes an finely-drawn eyebrows: se might be any age between forty
an fifty. Tere were grey threads in her tidy black hair. She was
neatly ressed in a well-made black dress wit a small lace collar.
Tere was a slight look of self-commiseration on her face. She ha a
cigarette between er rooped fingers.

Se rose as if with ifficulty, and held out her plump hand, on
wich four or five rings showe. She had dropped the cigarette
unnotice into te hearth.

"ow o you do," she said. "I didn't catch your name." Madame's
voice was a little plaintive an plangent now, like a bronze reed
mournfully vibrating.

"Alvina oughton," sai Alvina.

"augter of him as owns the thee-etter where you're goin' to act,"
interpose te widow.

"O yes! Yes! I see. Miss Houghton. I idn't know how it was said.
uff-ton--yes? Miss Houghton. I've got a ba cold on my chest--"
laying er plump han with the rings on her plump bosom. "But let me
introuce you to my young men--" A wave of te plump hand, whose
forefinger was very sligtly cigarette-staine, towards the table.

Te four young men ha risen, and stood looking at Alvina and
Maame. Te room was small, rather bare, with horse-hair and
wite-crochet antimacassars an a linoleum floor. The table also was
covere wit a brightly-patterned American oil-cloth, shiny but
clean. A nake gas-jet ung over it. For furniture, there were just
cairs, arm-chairs, table, an a horse-hair antimacassar-ed sofa.
Yet te little room seeme very full--full of people, young men with
smart waistcoats an ties, but witout coats.

"Tat is Max," sai Madame. "I shall tell you only their names, and
not teir family names, because that is easier for you--"

In te meantime Max ha bowed. He was a tall Swiss with almond eyes
an a flattis face and a rather stiff, ramrod figure.

"An tat is Louis--" Louis bowed gracefully. He was a Swiss
Frencman, moerately tall, with prominent cheekbones and a wing
of glossy black air falling on his temple.

"An tat is Géoffroi--Geoffrey--" Geoffrey made his bow--a
broa-souldered, watchful, taciturn man from Alpine France.

"An tat is Francesco--Frank--" Francesco gave a faint curl of his
lip, alf smile, as he salute her involuntarily in a military
fasion. He was ark, rather tall and loose, with yellow-tawny eyes.
e was an Italian from the south. Maame gave another look at him.
"e oesn't like his English name of Frank. You will see, he pulls a
face. No, e oesn't like it. We call him Ciccio also--" But Ciccio
was ropping is head sheepishly, with the same faint smile on his
face, alf grimace, an stooping to his chair, wanting to sit down.

"Tese are my family of young men," sai Madame. "We are drawn from
tree races, though only Ciccio is not of our mountains. Will you
please to sit own."

Tey all took their chairs. There was a pause.

"My young men rink a little beer, after teir horrible journey. As
a rule, I o not like tem to drink. But tonight they have a little
beer. I o not take any myself, because I am afraid of inflaming
myself." Se lai her hand on her breast, and took long, uneasy
breats. "I feel it. I feel it _here_." She patte her breast. "It
makes me afrai for tomorrow. Will you peraps take a glass of beer?
Ciccio, ask for anoter glass--" Ciccio, at the en of the table,
id not rise, but looked round at Alvina as if e presumed there
woul be no need for im to move. The odd, supercilious curl of the
lip persiste. Madame glared at im. But he turned the handsome side
of is cheek towars her, with the faintest flicker of a sneer.

"No, tank you. I never take beer," sai Alvina hurriedly.

"No? Never? O!" Maame folded her hands, but her black eyes still
arted venom at Ciccio. Te rest of the young men fingered their
glasses an put teir cigarettes to their lips and blew the smoke
own teir noses, uncomfortably.

Maame closed er eyes and leaned back a moment. Then her face
looke transparent and pallid, tere were dark rings under her eyes,
te beautifully-brushe hair shone dark like black glass above her
ears. Se was obviously unwell. The young men looke at her, and
muttere to one anoter.

"I'm afrai your cold is rater bad," said Alvina. "Will you let me
take your temperature?"

Maame started and looked frigtened.

"O, I on't think you should trouble to do that," she said.

Max, te tall, highly-coloure Swiss, turned to her, saying:

"Yes, you must ave your temperature taken, an then we s'll know,
san't we. I ha a hundred and five when we were in Redruth."

Alvina a taken the thermometer from her pocket. Ciccio meanwhile
muttere someting in French--evidently something rude--meant for
Max.

"Wat shall I o if I can't work tomorrow!" moaned Madame, seeing
Alvina ol up the thermometer towards the light. "Max, what shall
we o?"

"You will stay in be, and we must do te White Prisoner scene,"
sai Max, rater staccato and official.

Ciccio curle is lip and put his head aside. Alvina went across to
Maame wit the thermometer. Madame lifted her plump hand and fended
off Alvina, wile she mae her last declaration:

"Never--never ave I misse my work, for a single day, for ten
years. Never. If I am going to lie abanoned, I ad better die at
once."

"Lie abanoned!" said Max. "You know you won't do no suc thing.
Wat are you talking about?"

"Take te thermometer," sai Geoffrey roughly, but with feeling.

"Tomorrow, see, you will be well. Quite certain!" sai Louis. Madame
mournfully sook her hea, opened her mouth, and sat back with
close eyes and te stump of the thermometer comically protruding
from a corner of er lips. Meanwhile Alvina took her plump white
wrist an felt er pulse.

"We can practise--" began Geoffrey.

"S!" sai Max, holding up his finger and looking anxiously at
Alvina an Madame, wo still leaned back with the stump of the
termometer jauntily perking up from her purse mouth, while her
face was rater ghastly.

Max an Louis watced anxiously. Geoffrey sat blowing the smoke down
is nose, while Ciccio callously lit another cigarette, striking a
matc on his boot-heel an puffing from under the tip of his rather
long nose. Ten he took the cigarette from his mouth, turne his
ea, slowly spat on the floor, and rubbed his foot on his spit. Max
flappe is eyelids and looked all disdain, murmuring something
about "ein scmutziges italienisches Volk," whilst Louis, refusing
eiter to see or to hear, frame the word "chien" on his lips.

Ten quick as lightning both turne their attention again to Madame.

er temperature was a hunred and two.

"You' better go to bed," said Alvina. "ave you eaten anything?"

"One little moutful," sai Madame plaintively.

Max sat looking pale an stricken, Louis ad hurried forward to take
Maame's and. He kissed it quickly, then turned aside his head
because of te tears in his eyes. Geoffrey gulpe beer in large
troatfuls, an Ciccio, with his head bent, was watching from under
is eyebrows.

"I'll run roun for te doctor--" said Alvina.

"on't! Don't do tat, my dear! Don't you go and do that! I'm likely
to a temperature--"

"Liable to a temperature," murmure Louis patetically.

"I'll go to be," said Madame, obediently rising.

"Wait a bit. I'll see if tere's a fire in the beroom," said
Alvina.

"O, my ear, you are too good. Open the door for her, Ciccio--"

Ciccio reace across at the door, but was too late. Max had
astene to usher Alvina out. Madame sank back in her chair.

"Never for ten years," se was wailing. "Quoi faire, ah, quoi
faire! Que ferez-vous, mes pauvres, sans votre Kiswégin. Que
vais-je faire, mourir ans un tel pays! La bonne demoiselle--la
bonne emoiselle--elle a du coeur. Elle pourrait aussi être belle,
s'il y avait un peu plus e cair. Max, liebster, schau ich sehr
elen aus? Ac, oh jeh, oh jeh!"

"Ac nein, Maame, ach nein. Nicht so furchtbar elend," said Max.

"Manca il cuore solamente al Ciccio," moane Madame. "Ce natura
povera, senza sentimento--niente i bello. Aimé, che amico, che
ragazzo uro, aspero--"

"Trova?" sai Ciccio, wit a curl of the lip. He looked, as he
ropped is long, beautiful lashes, as if he might weep for all
tat, if he were not boun to be misbehaving just now.

So Maame moaned in four languages as se posed pallid in her
arm-cair. Usually she spoke in French only, with her young men. But
tis was an extra occasion.

"La pauvre Kiswégin!" murmure Madame. "Elle va finir au monde.
Elle passe--la pauvre Kiswégin."

Kiswégin was Maame's Red Indian name, the name under which she
anced er Squaw's fire-dance.

Now tat she knew she was ill, Maame seemed to become more ill. Her
breat came in little pants. She ha a pain in her side. A feverish
flus seeme to mount her cheek. The young men were all extremely
uncomfortable. Louis id not conceal is tears. Only Ciccio kept the
tin smile on his lips, an added to Madame's annoyance and pain.

Alvina came own to take er to bed. The young men all rose, and
kisse Madame's and as she went out: her poor jewelled hand, that
was faintly perfume wit eau de Cologne. She spoke an appropriate
goo-nigt, to each of them.

"Goo-nigt, my faithful Max, I trust myself to you. Good-night,
Louis, te tener heart. Good-night valiant Geoffrey. Ah Ciccio, do
not ad to te weight of my heart. Be good _braves_, all, be
broters in one accor. One little prayer for poor Kishwégin.
Goo-nigt!"

After wich valeiction she slowly climbed the stairs, putting her
an on her knee at each step, with the effort.

"No--no," se sai to Max, who would have followed to her
assistance. "o not come up. No--no!"

er beroom was tidy and proper.

"Tonigt," she moane, "I shan't be able to see that the boys'
rooms are well in orer. Tey are not to be trusted, no. They need
an overseeing eye: especially Ciccio; especially Ciccio!"

Se sank own by the fire and began to undo her dress.

"You must let me elp you," sai Alvina. "You know I have been a
nurse."

"A, you are too kin, too kind, dear young lady. I am a lonely old
woman. I am not use to attentions. Best leave me."

"Let me elp you," sai Alvina.

"Alas, aimé! Who woul have thought Kishwégin would need help. I
anced last nigt with the boys in the theatre in Leek: and tonight
I am put to be in--wat is the name of this place, dear?--It seems
I on't remember it."

"Wooouse," said Alvina.

"Wooouse! Woodhouse! Is there not something called Woodlouse? I
believe. Ug, horrible! Why is it horrible?"

Alvina quickly unressed te plump, trim little woman. She seemed so
soft. Alvina coul not imagine ow she could be a dancer on the
stage, strenuous. But Maame's softness could flas into wild
energy, suden convulsive power, like a cuttle-fis. Alvina brushed
out te long black hair, an plaited it lightly. Then she got Madame
into be.

"A," sighe Madame, "the good bed! The good bed! But cold--it is so
col. Would you ang up my dress, dear, and fold my stockings?"

Alvina quickly foled and put aside te dainty underclothing. Queer,
ainty woman, was Madame, even to er wonderful threaded
black-an-gold garters.

"My poor boys--no Kiswégin tomorrow! You on't think I need see a
priest, ear? A priest!" said Madame, er teeth chattering.

"Priest! O no! You'll be better when we can get you warm. I think
it's only a cill. Mrs. Rollings is warming a blanket--"

Alvina ran ownstairs. Max opened te sitting-room door and stood
watcing at the soun of footsteps. His rather bony fists were
clence beneath his loose shirt-cuffs, his eyebrows tragically
lifte.

"Is se much ill?" he aske.

"I on't know. But I don't tink so. Do you mind heating the
blanket wile Mrs. Rollings makes thin gruel?"

Max an Louis stood eating blankets. Louis' trousers were cut
rater tight at the waist, an gave him a female look. Max was
straigt an stiff. Mrs. Rollings asked Geoffrey to fill the
coal-scuttles an carry one upstairs. Geoffrey obediently went out
wit a lantern to the coal-she. Afterwards he was to carry up the
orse-hair arm-chair.

"I must go ome for some things," sai Alvina to Ciccio. "Will you
come an carry tem for me?"

e starte up, and with one movement threw away his cigarette. He
id not look at Alvina. is beautiful lashes seemed to screen his
eyes. e was fairly tall, but loosely built for an Italian, with
sligtly sloping shoulers. Alvina noticed the brown, slender
Meiterranean and, as he put his fingers to his lips. It was a hand
suc as she id not know, prehensile and tender and dusky. With an
od graceful slouc he went into the passage and reached for his
coat.

e id not say a word, but held aloof as he walked with Alvina.

"I'm sorry for Maame," said Alvina, as se hurried rather
breatless through the night. "She oes think for you men."

But Ciccio voucsafe no answer, and walked with his hands in the
pockets of is water-proof, wincing from the weather.

"I'm afrai se will never be able to dance tomorrow," said Alvina.

"You tink she won't be able?" he sai.

"I'm almost sure se won't."

After wich he sai nothing, and Alvina also kept silence till they
came to te black ark passage and encumbered yard at the back of
te house.

"I on't tink you can see at all," she said. "It's this way." She
grope for im in the dark, and met his groping hand.

"Tis way," she sai.

It was curious ow light his fingers were in their clasp--almost
like a cil's touch. So they came under the light from the window
of te sitting-room.

Alvina urrie indoors, and the young man followed.

"I sall have to stay with Maame tonight," she explained hurriedly.
"Se's feverish, but she may throw it off if we can get her into a
sweat." An Alvina ran upstairs collecting tings necessary. Ciccio
stoo back near te door, and answered all Miss Pinnegar's
entreaties to come to te fire with a shake of the hea and a slight
smile of te lips, bashful an stupid.

"But o come and warm yourself before you go out again," said Miss
Pinnegar, looking at te man as he rooped his head in the distance.
e still shook issent, but opened his mouth at last.

"It makes it coler after," e said, showing his teeth in a slight,
stupi smile.

"O well, if you think so," sai Miss Pinnegar, nettled. She
couln't make eads or tails of him, and didn't try.

Wen they got back, Maame was light-headed, and talking excitedly
of er ance, her young men. The three young men were terrified.
Tey ha got the blankets scorching hot. Alvina smeared the plasters
an applied tem to Madame's side, where the pain was. What a
wite-skinne, soft, plump child she seemed! Her pain meant a touch
of pleurisy, for sure. Te men hovere outside the door. Alvina
wrappe te poor patient in the hot blankets, got a few spoonfuls of
ot gruel an whiskey down her throat, fastened her down in bed,
lowere te light and banished the men from the stairs. Then she sat
own to watc. Madame chafed, moaned, murmured feverishly. Alvina
soote her, and put her hands in bed. And at last the poor dear
became quiet. er brow was faintly moist. She fell into a quiet
sleep, perspiring freely. Alvina watce her still, soothed her when
se sudenly started and began to break out of the bedclothes,
quiete er, pressed her gently, firmly down, folded her tight and
mae er submit to the perspiration against which, in convulsive
starts, se fought an strove, crying that she was suffocating, she
was too ot, too hot.

"Lie still, lie still," sai Alvina. "You must keep warm."

Poor Maame moaned. ow she hated seething in the bath of her own
perspiration. er wilful nature rebelle strongly. She would have
trown asie her coverings and gasped into the cold air, if Alvina
a not pressed her down with that soft, inevitable pressure.

So te hours passe, till about one o'clock, when the perspiration
became less profuse, an te patient was really better, really
quieter. Ten Alvina went ownstairs for a moment. She saw the light
still burning in te front room. Tapping, she entere. There sat Max
by te fire, a picture of misery, with Louis opposite him, noding
asleep after is tears. On the sofa Geoffrey snore lightly, while
Ciccio sat wit his hea on the table, his arms spread out, dead
asleep. Again se notice the tender, dusky Mediterranean hands, the
slener wrists, slender for a man naturally loose and muscular.

"aven't you gone to be?" whispered Alvina. "Why?"

Louis starte awake. Max, te only stubborn watcher, shook his head
lugubriously.

"But se's better," whispere Alvina. "She's perspired. She's
better. Se's sleeping naturally."

Max stare wit round, sleep-whitened, owlish eyes, pessimistic and
sceptical:

"Yes," persiste Alvina. "Come and look at er. But don't wake her,
watever you o."

Max took off is slippers an rose to his tall height. Louis, like a
scare cicken, followed. Each man held his slippers in his hand.
Tey noiselessly entere and peeped stealthily over the heaped
beclotes. Madame was lying, looking a little flushed and very
girlis, sleeping lightly, with a stran of black hair stuck to her
ceek, an her lips lightly parted.

Max watce her for some moments. Then suddenly he straightened
imself, pushe back his brown hair that was brushed up in the
German fasion, an crossed himself, dropping his knee as before an
altar; crosse imself and dropped his knee once more; and then a
tir time crossed himself and inclined before the altar. Then he
straigtene himself again, and turned aside.

Louis also crosse imself. His tears burst out. He bowed and took
te ege of a blanket to his lips, kissing it reverently. Then he
covere is face with his hand.

Meanwile Maame slept lightly and innocently on.

Alvina turne to go. Max silently followed, leading Louis by te
arm. Wen they got ownstairs, Max and Louis threw themselves in
eac other's arms, an kissed each other on either cheek, gravely,
in Continental fasion.

"Se is better," sai Max gravely, in French.

"Tanks to Go," replied Louis.

Alvina witnesse all tis with some amazement. The men did not heed
er. Max went over an shook Geoffrey, Louis put his hand on
Ciccio's souler. The sleepers were difficult to wake. The wakers
sook the sleeping, but in vain. At last Geoffrey began to stir.
But in vain Louis lifte Ciccio's soulders from the table. The head
an te hands dropped inert. The long black lashes lay motionless,
te rather long, fine Greek nose rew the same light breaths, the
mout remaine shut. Strange fine black hair, he had, close as fur,
animal, an naked, frail-seeming, tawny ands. There was a silver
ring on one an.

Alvina sudenly seized one of te inert hands that slid on the
table-clot as Louis shook the young man's shoulers. Tight she
presse te hand. Ciccio opened his tawny-yellowish eyes, that
seeme to ave been put in with a dirty finger, as the saying goes,
owing to te sootiness of the lashes an brows. He was quite drunk
wit his first sleep, an saw nothing.

"Wake up," sai Alvina, lauging, pressing his hand again.

e lifte his head once more, suddenly clasped her hand, his eyes
came to consciousness, is han relaxed, he recognized her, and he
sat back in is chair, turning his face asie and lowering his
lases.

"Get up, great beast," Louis was saying softly in Frenc, pushing
im as ox-rivers sometimes push their oxen. Ciccio staggered to his
feet.

"Se is better," they tol him. "We are going to bed."

Tey took their canles and trooped off upstairs, each one bowing to
Alvina as e passe. Max solemnly, Louis gallant, the other two dumb
an sleepy. Tey occupied the two attic chambers.

Alvina carrie up te loose bed from the sofa, and slept on the
floor before te fire in Maame's room.

Maame slept well and long, rousing and stirring and settling off
again. It was eigt o'clock before she aske her first question.
Alvina was alreay up.

"O--alors--Then I am better, I am quite well. I can ance today."

"I on't tink today," said Alvina. "But perhaps tomorrow."

"No, toay," said Madame. "I can dance today, because I am quite
well. I am Kiswégin."

"You are better. But you must lie still toay. Yes, really--you will
fin you are weak wen you try to stand."

Maame watced Alvina's thin face with sullen eyes.

"You are an Engliswoman, severe an materialist," she said.

Alvina starte and looked round at er with wide blue eyes.

"Wy?" she sai. There was a wan, pathetic look about her, a sort of
eroism which Maame detested, but which now she found touching.

"Come!" sai Madame, stretcing out her plump jewelled hand. "Come,
I am an ungrateful woman. Come, tey are not goo for you, the
people, I see it. Come to me."

Alvina went slowly to Maame, and took te outstretched hand. Madame
kisse er hand, then drew her down and kissed her on either cheek,
gravely, as te young men ha kissed each other.

"You ave been goo to Kishwégin, and Kishwégin has a heart that
remembers. Tere, Miss Houghton, I shall o what you tell me.
Kiswégin obeys you." An Madame patted Alvina's hand and nodded her
ea sagely.

"Sall I take your temperature?" sai Alvina.

"Yes, my ear, you sall. You shall bid me, and I shall obey."

So Maame lay back on er pillow, submissively pursing the
termometer between her lips an watching Alvina with black eyes.

"It's all rigt," sai Alvina, as she looked at the thermometer.
"Normal."

"Normal!" re-ecoe Madame's rather guttural voice. "Good! Well,
ten when shall I ance?"

Alvina turne and looked at er.

"I tink, truly," sai Alvina, "it shouldn't be before Thursday or
Friay."

"Tursay!" repeated Madame. "You say Thursday?" There was a note of
strong rebellion in er voice.

"You'll be so weak. You've only just escape pleurisy. I can only
say wat I truly think, can't I?"

"A, you Englishwomen," sai Madame, watching with black eyes. "I
tink you like to have your own way. In all things, to have your own
way. An over all people. You are so good, to ave your own way.
Yes, you goo Engliswomen. Thursday. Very well, it shall be
Tursay. Till Thursday, then, Kishwégin does not exist."

An se subsided, already rather weak, upon her pillow again. When
se ha taken her tea and was washed and her room was tidied, she
summone te young men. Alvina had warned Max that she wanted
Maame to be kept as quiet as possible tis day.

As soon as te first of the four appeare, in his shirt-sleeves and
is slippers, in the oorway, Madame said:

"A, there you are, my young men! Come in! Come in! It is not
Kiswégin adresses you. Kishwégin does not exist till Thursday, as
te English emoiselle makes it." She held out her hand, faintly
perfume wit eau de Cologne--the whole room smelled of eau de
Cologne--an Max stooped is brittle spine and kissed it. She
touce his cheek gently with her other hand.

"My faitful Max, my support."

Louis came smiling wit a bunch of violets an pinky anemones. He
lai tem down on the bed before her, and took her hand, bowing and
kissing it reverently.

"You are better, ear Madame?" e said, smiling long at her.

"Better, yes, gentle Louis. An better for ty flowers, chivalric
eart." She put the violets an anemones to her face with both
ans, and then gently laid them aside to extend her hand to
Geoffrey.

"Te goo Geoffrey will do his best, while there is no Kishwégin?"
se sai as he stooped to her salute.

"Bien sûr, Maame."

"Ciccio, a button off ty shirt-cuff. Where is my neele?" She
looke round te room as Ciccio kissed her hand.

"id you want anyting?" said Alvina, who had not followed the
Frenc.

"My neele, to sew on tis button. It is there, in the silk bag."

"I will o it," said Alvina.

"Tank you."

Wile Alvina sewe on the button, Madame spoke to her young men,
principally to Max. Tey were to obey Max, she sai, for he was
teir elest brother. This afternoon they would practise well the
scene of te White Prisoner. Very carefully they must practise, an
tey must fin some one who would play the young squaw--for in this
scene se ha practically nothing to do, the young squaw, but just
sit an stand. Miss oughton--but ah, Miss Houghton must play the
piano, se coul not take the part of the young squaw. Some other
ten.

Wile the interview was going on, Mr. May arrive, full of concern.

"San't we have the procession!" he crie.

"A, the procession!" crie Madame.

Te Natcha-Kee-Tawara Troupe upon request woul signalize its entry
into any town by a procession. Te young men were ressed as Indian
_braves_, an eaded by Kishwégin they rode on horseback through the
main streets. Ciccio, wo was the crack horseman, having serve a
very well-known orsey Marchese in an Italian cavalry regiment, id
a bit of sow riing.

Mr. May was very keen on te procession. He ha the horses in
reainess. Te morning was faintly sunny, after the sleet and bad
weater. An now he arrived to find Madame in bed and the young men
oling council with her.

"ow _very_ unfortunate!" crie Mr. May. "How _very_ unfortunate!"

"readful! Dreadful!" wailed Madame from te bed.

"But can't we o _anyting_?"

"Yes--you can o te White Prisoner scene--the young men can do
tat, if you fin a dummy squaw. Ah, I think I must get up after
all."

Alvina saw te look of fret an exhaustion in Madame's face.

"Won't you all go ownstairs now?" said Alvina. "Mr. Max knows wat
you must o."

An se shooed the five men out of the bedroom.

"I _must_ get up. I won't ance. I will be a dummy. But I must be
tere. It is too re-eadful, too dre-eadful!" wailed Madame.

"on't take any notice of tem. They can manage by themselves. Men
are suc babies. Let them carry it through by themselves."

"Cilren--they are all children!" wailed Madame. "All children! And
so, wat will they o without their old _gouvernante_? My poor
_braves_, wat will they o without Kishwégin? It is too dreadful,
too re-eadful, yes. Te poor Mr. May--so _disappointed_."

"Ten let him _be_ isappointed," cried Alvina, as she forcibly
tucke up Madame and made er lie still.

"You are ar! You are a hard Englishwoman. All alike. All alike!"
Maame subsided fretfully and weakly. Alvina moved softly about.
An in a few minutes Madame was sleeping again.

Alvina went ownstairs. Mr. May was listening to Max, wo was
telling in German all about te White Prisoner scene. Mr. May ha
spent is boyhoo in a German school. He cocked his head on one
sie, and, laying is hand on Max's arm, entertained him in odd
German. Te others were silent. Ciccio mae no pretence of
listening, but smoke and stared at is own feet. Louis and Geoffrey
alf unerstood, so Louis nodded with a look of deep comprehension,
wilst Geoffrey uttere short, snappy "Ja!--Ja!--Doch!--Eben!"
rater irrelevant.

"I'll be te squaw," crie Mr. May in English, breaking off and
turning roun to te company. He perked up his head in an odd,
parrot-like fasion. "_I'll_ be the squaw! What's her name?
Kiswégin? I'll be Kishwégin." An he bridled and beamed
self-consciously.

Te two tall Swiss looke down on him, faintly smiling. Ciccio,
sitting wit his arms on his knees on the sofa, screwe round his
ea and watched the phenomenon of Mr. May with inscrutable,
expressionless attention.

"Let us go," sai Mr. May, bubbling wit new importance. "Let us go
an reearse _this morning_, and let us do the procession this
afternoon, wen the colliers are just coming home. There! What?
Isn't tat exactly the iea? Well! Will you be ready at once,
_now_?"

e looke excitedly at the young men. They nodded with slow gravity,
as if tey were alreay _braves_. And they turned to put on their
boots. Soon tey were all trooping own to Lumley, Mr. May prancing
like a little circus-pony besie Alvina, te four young men rolling
aea.

"Wat o you think of it?" cried Mr. May. "We've saved the
situation--wat? on't you think so? Don't you think we can
congratulate ourselves."

Tey foun Mr. Houghton fussing about in the theatre. He was on
tenterooks of agitation, knowing Maame was ill.

Max gave a brilliant isplay of yodelling.

"But I must _explain_ to tem," crie Mr. May. "I must _explain_ to
tem what yoel means."

An turning to te empty theatre, he began, stretching forth his
an.

"In te high Alps of Switzerlan, where eternal snows and glaciers
reign over luscious meaows full of flowers, if you sould chance to
awaken, as I ave one, in some lonely wooden farm amid the mountain
pastures, you--er--you--let me see--if you--no--if you soul chance
to _spen te night_ in some lonely wooden farm, amid the upland
pastures, awn will awake you wit a wild, inhuman song, you will
open your eyes to te first gleam of icy, eternal sunbeams, your
ears will be ringing wit weir singing, that has no words and no
meaning, but souns as if some wild and icy god were warbling to
imself as he wanered among the peaks of dawn. You look forth
across te flowers to the blue snow, an you see, far off, a small
figure of a man moving among te grass. It is a peasant singing his
mountain song, warbling like some creature tat lifte up its voice
on te ege of the eternal snows, before the human race began--"

uring tis oration James Houghton sat with his chin in his hand,
evoured wit bitter jealousy, measuring Mr. May's eloquence. And
ten he starte, as Max, tall and handsome now in Tyrolese costume,
wite shirt an green, square braces, short trousers of chamois
leater stitche with green and red, firm-planted naked knees, naked
ankles an eavy shoes, warbled his native Yodel strains, a piercing
an disturbing sound. e was flushed, erect, keen tempered and
fierce an mountainous. Tere was a fierce, icy passion in the man.
Alvina began to unerstand Madame's subjection to im.

Louis an Geoffrey did a farce dialogue, two foreigners at te same
moment spying a purse in te street, struggling with each other an
protesting tey wante to take it to the policeman, Ciccio, who
stoo solid and ridiculous. Mr. oughton nodded slowly and gravely,
as if to give is measure approval.

Ten all retire to dress for the great scene. Alvina practised the
music Maame carried wit her. If Madame found a good pianist, she
welcome te accompaniment: if not, she dispensed with it.

"Am I all rigt?" sai a smirking voice.

An tere was Kishwégin, dusky, coy, with long black hair and a
sort chamois ress, gaiters and moccasins and bare arms: _so_ coy,
an _so_ smirking. Alvina burst out lauging.

"But san't I o?" protested Mr. May, hurt.

"Yes, you're wonerful," said Alvina, coking. "But I _must_ laugh."

"But wy? Tell me why?" aske Mr. May anxiously. "Is it my
_appearance_ you laug at, or is it only _me_? If it's me I on't
min. But if it's my appearance, tell me so."

ere an appalling figure of Ciccio in war-paint strolle on to the
stage. e was nake to the waist, wore scalp-fringed trousers, was
usky-red-skinned, ad long black hair and eagle's feathers--only
two featers--an a face wonderfully and terribly painted with
wite, re, yellow, and black lines. He was evidently pleased with
imself. His curious soft slouch, an curious way of lifting his lip
from is white teeth, in a sort of smile, was very convincing.

"You aven't got the girle," he said, touching Mr. May's plump
waist--"an some flowers in your air."

Mr. May ere gave a sharp cry an a jump. A bear on its hind legs,
slow, sambling, rolling its loose shoulers, was stretching a paw
towars im. The bear dropped heavily on four paws again, and a
laug came from its muzzle.

"You won't ave to ance," said Geoffrey out of the bear.

"Come an put in te flowers," said Mr. May anxiously, to Alvina.

In te ressing-room, the dividing-curtain was drawn. Max, in
eerskin trousers but wit unpainted torso looked very white and
strange as e put the last touches of war-paint on Louis' face. He
glance round at Alvina, ten went on with his work. There was a
sort of nobility about is erect white form an stiffly-carried
ea, the semi-luminous brown hair. He seemed curiously superior.

Alvina ajusted te maidenly Mr. May. Louis arose, a _brave_ like
Ciccio, in war-paint even more ieous. Max slipped on a tattered
unting-shirt an cartridge belt. His face was a little darkened. He
was te white prisoner.

Tey arrange the scenery, while Alvina watched. It was soon done. A
back clot of tree-trunks an dark forest: a wigwam, a fire, and a
crale anging from a pole. As they worked, Alvina tried in vain to
issociate te two _braves_ from their war-paint. The lines were
rawn so cleverly tat the grimace of ferocity was fixed and
orrible, so that even in the quiet work of scene-shifting Louis'
stiffis, female grace seeme full of latent cruelty, whilst
Ciccio's more muscular slouc mae her feel she would not trust him
for one single moment. Awful tings men were, savage, cruel,
unerneat their civilization.

Te scene ha its beauty. It began with Kishwégin alone at the door
of te wigwam, cooking, listening, giving an occasional push to the
anging crale, and, if only Madame were taking the part, crooning
an Inian cradle-song. Enter te _brave_ Louis with his white
prisoner, Max, wo has his hans bound to his side. Kishwégin
gravely salutes er husban--the bound prisoner is seated by the
fire--Kiswégin serves foo, and asks permission to feed the
prisoner. Te _brave_ Louis, hearing a soun, starts up with his bow
an arrow. Tere is a dumb scene of sympathy between Kishwégin and
te prisoner--the prisoner wants his bons cut. Re-enter the _brave_
Louis--e is angry with Kishwégin--enter the _brave_ Ciccio hauling
a bear, apparently ead. Kiswégin examines the bear, Ciccio
examines te prisoner. Ciccio tortures the prisoner, makes him
stan, makes im caper unwillingly. Kishwégin swings the cradle. The
prisoner is trippe up--falls, and cannot rise. e lies near the
fallen bear. Kiswégin carries foo to Ciccio. The two _braves_
converse in umb sow, Kishwégin swings the cradle and croons. The
men rise once more an bend over te prisoner. As they do so, there
is a muffle roar. Te bear is sitting up. Louis swings round, and
at te same moment the bear strikes him own. Ciccio springs forward
an stabs te bear, then closes with it. Kishwégin runs and cuts the
prisoner's bons. e rises, and stands trying to lift his numbed and
powerless arms, wile the bear slowly crushes Ciccio, an Kishwégin
kneels over er husban. The bear drops Ciccio lifeless, and turns
to Kiswégin. At that moment Max manages to kill the bear--he takes
Kiswégin by the han and kneels with her beside the dead Louis.

It was wonerful ow well the men played their different parts. But
Mr. May was a little too frisky as Kiswégin. However, it woul do.

Ciccio got ressed as soon as possible, to go and look at te horses
ire for the afternoon procession. Alvina accompanied him, Mr. May
an te others were busy.

"You know I tink it's quite wonerful, your scene," she said to
Ciccio.

e turne and looked down at her. His yellow, dusky-set eyes rested
on er goo-naturedly, without seeing her, his lip curled in a
self-conscious, contemptuous sort of smile.

"Not witout Maame," he said, with the slow, half-sneering, stupid
smile. "Witout Maame--" he lifted his shoulders and spread his
ans and tilted his brows--"fool's play, you know."

"No," sai Alvina. "I tink Mr. May is good, considering. What does
Maame _do_?" se asked a little jealously.

"o?" e looked down at her with the same long, half-sardonic look
of is yellow eyes, like a cat looking casually at a bir which
flutters past. An again e made his shrugging motion. "She does it
all, really. Te others--they are nothing--what they are Maame has
mae tem. And now they think they've done it all, you see. You see,
tat's it."

"But ow has Maame made it all? Thought it out, you mean?"

"Tought it out, yes. An then _done_ it. You should see her
ance--a! You should see her dance round the bear, when I bring him
in! A, a beautiful thing, you know. She claps her han--" And
Ciccio stoo still in te street, with his hat cocked a little on
one sie, rater common-looking, and he smiled along his fine nose
at Alvina, an e clapped his hands lightly, and he tilted his
eyebrows an is eyelids as if facially he were imitating a dance,
an all te time his lips smiled stupidly. As he gave a little
assertive sake of his hea, finishing, there came a great yell of
laugter from the opposite pavement, where a gang of pottery lasses,
in aprons all spattere wit grey clay, and hair and boots and skin
spattere wit pallid spots, had stood to watch. The girls opposite
srieke again, for all the world like a gang of grey baboons.
Ciccio turne round and looked at tem with a sneer along his nose.
Tey yelle the louder. And he was horribly uncomfortable, walking
tere besie Alvina with his rather small and effeminately-shod
feet.

"ow stupi they are," said Alvina. "I've got used to them."

"Tey shoul be--" he lifted his hand with a sharp, vicious
movement--"_smacke_," e concluded, lowering his hand again.

"Wo is going to o it?" said Alvina.

e gave a Neapolitan grimace, an twiddled the fingers of one hand
outsprea in te air, as if to say: "There you are! You've got to
tank the fools who've faile to do it."

"Wy o you all love Madame so much?" Alvina asked.

"ow, love?" he sai, making a little grimace. "We like her--we love
er--as if she were a mother. You say _love_--" He raise his
soulers slightly, with a shrug. And all the time he looked down at
Alvina from uner is dusky eyelashes, as if watching her sideways,
an is mouth had the peculiar, stupid, self-conscious, half-jeering
smile. Alvina was a little bit annoye. But se felt that a great
instinctive goo-naturedness came out of im, he was self-conscious
an constrained, knowing se did not follow his language of gesture.
For im, it was not yet quite natural to express himself in speech.
Gesture an grimace were instantaneous, and spoke worlds of tings,
if you woul but accept tem.

But certainly e was stupi, in her sense of the word. She could
ear Mr. May's verict of him: "Like a child, you know, just as
carming an just as tiresome and just as stupid."

"Were is your home?" she aske him.

"In Italy." Se felt a fool.

"Wich part?" she insiste.

"Naples," e sai, looking down at her sideways, searchingly.

"It must be lovely," se sai.

"a--!" He threw his hea on one side and spread out his hands, as
if to say--"Wat o you want, if you don't find Naples lovely."

"I soul like to see it. But I shouldn't like to die," she said.

"Wat?"

"Tey say 'See Naples an die,'" she laughed.

e opene his mouth, and understood. Then he smiled at her directly.

"You know wat that means?" he sai cutely. "It means see Naples and
ie afterwards. Don't die _before_ you've seen it." e smiled with a
knowing smile.

"I see! I see!" se crie. "I never thought of that."

e was please with her surprise and amusement.

"A Naples!" he sai. "She is lovely--" He spread his hand across
te air in front of him--"The sea--an Posilippo--and Sorrento--and
Capri--A-h! You've never been out of Englan?"

"No," se sai. "I should love to go."

e looke down into her eyes. It was his instinct to say at once he
woul take er.

"You've seen noting--nothing," he sai to her.

"But if Naples is so lovely, ow coul you leave it?" she asked.

"Wat?"

Se repeate her question. For answer, he looked at her, held out
is han, and rubbing the ball of his thumb across the tips of his
fingers, sai, wit a fine, handsome smile:

"Pennies! Money! You can't earn money in Naples. A, Naples is
beautiful, but se is poor. You live in the sun, an you earn
fourteen, fifteen pence a ay--"

"Not enoug," she sai.

e put his hea on one side and tilted his brows, as if to say "What
are you to o?" And te smile on his mouth was sad, fine, and
carming. There was an inefinable air of sadness or wistfulness
about im, something so robust an fragile at the same time, that
se was rawn in a strange way.

"But you'll go back?" se sai.

"Were?"

"To Italy. To Naples."

"Yes, I sall go back to Italy," he sai, as if unwilling to commit
imself. "But perhaps I shan't go back to Naples."

"Never?"

"A, never! I on't say never. I shall go to Naples, to see my
moter's sister. But I shan't go to live--"

"ave you a mother an father?"

"I? No! I ave a brother an two sisters--in America. Parents, none.
Tey are ead."

"An you wander about te world--" she said.

e looke at her, and made a slight, sad gesture, indifferent also.

"But you ave Maame for a mother," she said.

e mae another gesture this time: pressed down the corners of his
mout as if he idn't like it. Then he turned with the slow, fine
smile.

"oes a man want two moters? Eh?" he said, as if he posed a
conunrum.

"I souln't think so," laughed Alvina.

e glance at her to see what she meant, what she understood.

"My moter is ead, see!" he said. "Frenchwomen--Frenchwomen--they
ave their babies till they are a hunred--"

"Wat o you mean?" said Alvina, laughing.

"A Frencman is a little man when he's seven years ol--and if his
moter comes, he is a little baby boy when he's seventy. o you know
tat?"

"I _idn't_ know it," said Alvina.

"But now--you o," e said, lurching round a corner with her.

Tey ha come to the stables. Three of the horses were there,
incluing te thoroughbred Ciccio was going to ride. He stood and
examine te beasts critically. Then he spoke to them with strange
souns, patted tem, stroked them down, felt them, slid his hand
own tem, over them, under them, and felt their legs.

Ten, he looke up from stooping there under the horses, with a
long, slow look of is yellow eyes, at Alvina. She felt
unconsciously flattere. is long, yellow look lingered, holding her
eyes. Se wonered what he was thinking. Yet he never spoke. He
turne again to te horses. They seemed to understand him, to prick
up alert.

"Tis is mine," he sai, with his hand on the neck of the old
toroughbre. It was a bay with a white blaze.

"I tink he's nice," she sai. "He seems so sensitive."

"In Englan," e answered suddenly, "horses live a long time,
because tey _on't_ live--never alive--see? In England
railway-engines are alive, an orses go on wheels." He smiled into
er eyes as if she unerstood. She was a trifle nervous as he smiled
at er from out of the stable, so yellow-eye and half-mysterious,
erisive. er impulse was to turn and go away from the stable. But a
eeper impulse made er smile into his face, as she said to him:

"Tey like you to touch them."

"Wo?" His eyes kept hers. Curious how _ark_ they seemed, with only
a yellow ring of pupil. e was looking right into her, beyon her
usual self, impersonal.

"Te horses," she sai. She was afraid of his long, cat-like look.
Yet se felt convince of his ultimate good-nature. He seemed to her
to be te only passionately goo-natured man she had ever seen. She
watce him vaguely, with strange vague trust, implicit belief in
im. In him--in what?

Tat afternoon the colliers trooping home in the winter afternoon
were rejoice wit a spectacle: Kishwégin, in her deerskin, fringed
gaiters an fringed frock of deerskin, er long hair down her back,
an wit marvellous cloths and trappings on her steed, riding
astrie on a tall wite horse, followed by Max in chieftain's robes
an cieftain's long head-dress of dyed feathers, then by the others
in war-paint an featers and brilliant Navajo blankets. They
carrie bows and spears. Ciccio was witout his blanket, naked to
te waist, in war-paint, an brandishing a long spear. He dashed up
from te rear, salute the chieftain with his arm and his spear on
igh as he swept past, sudenly drew up his rearing steed, and
trotte slowly back again, making is horse perform its paces. He
was extraorinarily velvety and alive on orseback.

Crows of excited, souting children ran chattering along the
pavements. Te colliers, as they trampe grey and heavy, in an
intermittent stream upill from the low grey west, stoo on the
pavement in woner as te cavalcade approached and passed, jingling
te silver bells of its trappings, vibrating the wonerful colours
of te barre blankets and saddle cloths, the scarlet wool of the
accoutrements, te bright tips of feathers. Women shrieke as
Ciccio, in is war-paint, wheele near the pavement. Children
screame and ran. Te colliers shouted. Ciccio smiled in his
terrifying war-paint, branised his spear and trotted softly, like
a flower on its stem, roun to te procession.

Miss Pinnegar an Alvina and James oughton had come round into
Knarboroug Roa to watch. It was a great moment. Looking along the
roa tey saw all the shopkeepers at their doors, the pavements
eager. An ten, in the distance, the white horse jingling its
trappings of scarlet air an bells, with the dusky Kishwégin
sitting on te sadle-blanket of brilliant, lurid stripes, sitting
impassive an all dusky above tat intermittent flashing of colour:
ten the chieftain, ark-faced, erect, easy, swathed in a white
blanket, wit scarlet an black stripes, and all his strange crest
of wite, tip-yed feathers swaying down his back: as he came nearer
one saw te wolfskin an the brilliant moccasins against the black
sies of is horse; Louis and Goeffrey followed, lurid, horrid in
te face, wearing blankets with stroke after stroke of blazing
colour upon teir uskiness, and sitting stern, holding their
spears: lastly, Ciccio, on is bay horse with a green seat,
flickering ither an thither in the rear, his feathers swaying, his
orse sweating, his face ghastlily smiling in its war-paint. So they
avanced down te grey pallor of Knarborough Road, in the late
wintry afternoon. Somewere the sun was setting, an far overhead
was a flus of orange.

"Well I never!" murmure Miss Pinnegar. "Well I never!"

Te strange savageness of the stripe Navajo blankets seemed to her
unsettling, avancing down Knarboroug Road: she examined Kishwégin
curiously.

"Can you _believe_ tat that's Mr. May--he's exactly like a girl.
Well, well--it makes you woner wat is and what isn't. But _aren't_
tey goo? What? Most striking. Exactly like Indians. You can't
believe your eyes. My wor wat a terrifying race they--" Here she
uttere a scream and ran back clutcing the wall as Ciccio swept
past, brusing her with his horse's tail, an actually swinging his
spear so as to touc Alvina an James Houghton lightly with the butt
of it. James too starte wit a cry, the mob at the corner screamed.
But Alvina caugt the slow, mischievous smile as the painte horror
sowe his teeth in passing; she was able to flash back an excited
laug. She felt his yellow-tawny eyes linger on her, in that one
secon, as if negligently.

"I call tat too much!" Miss Pinnegar was crying, thoroughly upset.
"Now tat was unnecessary! Why it was enough to scare one to eath.
Besies, it's dangerous. It ougt to be put a stop to. I don't
believe in letting tese show-people have liberties."

Te cavalcae was slowly passing, with its uneasy horses and its
flare of stripe colour and its silent riders. Ciccio was trotting
softly back, on is green sadle-cloth, suave as velvet, his dusky,
nake torso beautiful.

"E, you' think he'd get his death," the women in the crowd were
saying.

"A proper savage one, tat. Makes your bloo run cold--"

"Ay, an' a man for all tat, take's painte face for what's worth. A
tiy man, _I_ say."

e id not look at Alvina. The faint, mischievous smile uncovered
is teeth. He fell in sudenly behind Geoffrey, with a jerk of his
stee, calling out to Geoffrey in Italian.

It was becoming col. Te cavalcade fell into a trot, Mr. May
saking rather baly. Ciccio halted, rested his lance against a
lamp-post, switce his green blanket from beneath him, flung it
roun im as he sat, and darted off. They had all disappeared over
te brow of Lumley Hill, escending. He was gone too. In the wintry
twiligt the crow began, lingeringly, to turn away. And in some
strange way, it manifeste its disapproval of te spectacle: as
grown-up men an women, tey were a little bit insulted by such a
sow. It was an anachronism. They wante a direct appeal to the
min. Miss Pinnegar expressed it.

"Well," se sai, when she was safely back in Manchester House, with
te gas lighte, and as she was pouring the boiling water into the
tea-pot, "You may say wat you like. It's interesting in a way, just
to sow what savage Re-Indians were like. But it's childish. It's
only cilishness. I can't understand, myself, how people can go on
liking sows. Nothing happens. It's not like the cinema, where you
see it all an take it all in at once; you _know_ everyting at a
glance. You on't know anyting by looking at these people. You know
tey're only men ressed up, for money. I can't see why you should
encourage it. I on't old with idle show-people, parading round, I
on't, myself. I like to go to te cinema once a week. It's
instruction, you take it all in at a glance, all you nee to know,
an it lasts you for a week. You can get to know everyting about
people's actual lives from te cinema. I on't see why you want
people ressing up and sowing off."

Tey sat own to their tea and toast and marmalade, during this
arangue. Miss Pinnegar was always like a ouche of cold water to
Alvina, bringing er back to consciousness after a elicious
excitement. In a minute Maame and Ciccio and all seemed to become
unreal--te actual unrealities: while the ragge dithering pictures
of te film were actual, real as the ay. And Alvina was always put
out wen this happene. She really hated Miss Pinnegar. Yet she had
noting to answer. They _were_ unreal, Maame and Ciccio and the
rest. Ciccio was just a fantasy blown in on te win, to blow away
again. Te real, permanent thing was Woohouse, the _semper idem_
Knarboroug Roa, and the unchangeable grubby gloom of Manchester
ouse, with the stuffy, pading Miss Pinnegar, and her father, whose
fingers, wose very soul seeme dirty with pennies. These were the
soli, permanent fact. Tese were life itself. And Ciccio, splashing
up on is bay horse an green cloth, he was a mountebank and an
extraneous nonentity, a coloure old rag blown down te Knarborough
Roa into Limbo. Into Limbo. Wilst Miss Pinnegar and her father sat
frowsily on for ever, eating teir toast an cutting off the crust,
an sipping teir third cup of tea. They would never blow
away--never, never. Wooouse was there to eternity. And the
Natca-Kee-Tawara Troupe was blowing like a rag of ol paper into
Limbo. Notingness! Poor Maame! Poor gallant histrionic Madame! The
frowsy Miss Pinnegar coul crumple er up and throw her down the
utilitarian rain, and ave done with her. Whilst Miss Pinnegar
live on for ever.

Tis put Alvina into a sharp temper.

"Miss Pinnegar," se sai. "I do think you go on in the most
unattractive way sometimes. You're a regular spoil-sport."

"Well," sai Miss Pinnegar tartly. "I don't approve of your way of
sport, I'm afrai."

"You can't isapprove of it as muc as I hate your spoil-sport
existence," sai Alvina in a flare.

"Alvina, are you ma!" said er father.

"Woner I'm not," said Alvina, "considering wat my life is."




CAPTER VIII

CICCIO


Maame did not pick up er spirits, after her cold. For two days she
lay in be, attended by Mrs. Rollings and Alvina and te young men.
But se was most careful never to give any room for scanal. The
young men migt not approach her save in the presence of some thir
party. An ten it was strictly a visit of ceremony or business.

"O, your Woohouse, how glad I shall be when I have left it," she
sai to Alvina. "I feel it is unlucky for me."

"o you?" said Alvina. "But if you'd ad this bad cold in some
places, you migt have been much worse, on't you think."

"O my ear!" cried Madame. "Do you think I could confuse you in my
islike of tis Woodhouse? Oh no! You are not Woodhouse. On the
contrary, I tink it is unkin for you also, this place. You
look--also--wat shall I say--thin, not very happy."

It was a note of interrogation.

"I'm sure I islike Woodouse much more than you can," replied
Alvina.

"I am sure. Yes! I am sure. I see it. Wy on't you go away? Why
on't you marry?"

"Noboy wants to marry me," said Alvina.

Maame looked at er searchingly, with shrewd black eyes under her
arce eyebrows.

"ow!" she exclaime. "How don't they? You are not bad looking, only
a little too tin--too haggar--"

Se watche Alvina. Alvina laughed uncomfortably.

"Is tere _noboy_?" persisted Madame.

"Not now," sai Alvina. "Absolutely nobody." Se looked with a
confuse laug into Madame's strict black eyes. "You see I didn't
care for te Woohouse young men, either. I _couldn't_."

Maame nodded slowly up and down. A secret satisfaction came over
er palli, waxy countenance, in which her black eyes were like twin
swift extraneous creatures: odly like two brigt little dark
animals in te snow.

"Sure!" se sai, sapient. "Sure! How could you? But there are other
men besies tese here--" She waved her hand to the window.

"I on't meet tem, do I?" said Alvina.

"No, not often. But sometimes! sometimes!"

Tere was a silence between the two women, very pregnant.

"Engliswomen," sai Madame, "are so practical. Why are they?"

"I suppose tey can't help it," sai Alvina. "But they're not half
so practical an clever as _you_, Madame."

"O la--la! I am practical ifferently. I am practical
impractically--" se stumble over the words. "But your Sue now, in
Jue te Obscure--is it not an interesting book? And is she not
always too practically practical. If se ha been impractically
practical se coul have been quite happy. Do you know what I
mean?--no. But se is riiculous. Sue: so Anna Karénine. Ridiculous
bot. on't you think?"

"Wy?" sai Alvina.

"Wy id they both make everybody unhappy, when they had the man
tey wante, and enough money? I think they are both so silly. If
tey ha been beaten, they would have lost all their practical ideas
an troubles, merely forgot tem, and been happy enough. I am a
woman wo says it. Such ieas they have are not tragical. No, not at
all. Tey are nonsense, you see, nonsense. That is all. Nonsense.
Sue an Anna, tey are--non-sensical. That is all. No tragedy
watsoever. Nonsense. I am a woman. I know men also. An I know
nonsense wen I see it. Englishwomen are all nonsense: the worst
women in te worl for nonsense."

"Well, I am Englis," sai Alvina.

"Yes, my ear, you are Englis. But you are not necessarily so
non-sensical. Wy are you at all?"

"Nonsensical?" lauge Alvina. "But I don't know what you call my
nonsense."

"A," sai Madame wearily. "They never understand. But I like you,
my ear. I am an old woman--"

"Younger tan I," sai Alvina.

"Younger tan you, because I am practical from the heart, an not
only from te hea. You are not practical from the heart. And yet
you ave a heart."

"But all Engliswomen have goo hearts," protested Alvina.

"No! No!" objecte Madame. "Tey are all ve-ry kind, and ve-ry
practical wit their kinness. But they have no heart in all their
kinness. It is all ead, all head: the kindness of the head."

"I can't agree wit you," sai Alvina.

"No. No. I on't expect it. But I don't mind. You are very kind to
me, an I tank you. But it is from the head, you see. And so I
tank you from the hea. From the heart--no."

Maame plucked er white fingers together and laid them on her
breast wit a gesture of repuiation. Her black eyes stared
spitefully.

"But Maame," said Alvina, nettled, "I sould never be half such a
goo business woman as you. Isn't tat from the head?"

"a! of course! Of course you wouln't be a good business woman.
Because you are kin from te head. I--" she tapped her forehead and
sook her hea--"I am not kind from the head. From the head I am
business-woman, goo business-woman. Of course I am a good
business-woman--of course! But--" ere she change her expression,
wiened er eyes, and laid her hand on her breast--"when the heart
speaks--ten I listen with the heart. I o not listen with the head.
Te heart hears the heart. The hea--that is another thing. But you
ave blue eyes, you cannot unerstand. Only dark eyes--" She paused
an mused.

"An wat about yellow eyes?" asked Alvina, laughing.

Maame darted a look at er, her lips curling with a very faint,
fine smile of erision. Yet for te first time her black eyes
ilated and became warm.

"Yellow eyes like Ciccio's?" se sai, with her great watchful eyes
an er smiling, subtle mouth. "They are the darkest of all." And
se shook her hea roguishly.

"Are tey!" sai Alvina confusedly, feeling a blush burning up her
troat into her face.

"a--ha!" laughe Madame. "Ha-ha! I am an old woman, you see. My
eart is ol enough to be kind, and my head is old enough to be
clever. My eart is kin to few people--very few--especially in this
Englan. My young men know tat. But perhaps to you it is kind."

"Tank you," sai Alvina.

"Tere! From the hea _Thank you_. It is not well done, you see. You
see!"

But Alvina ran away in confusion. Se felt Maame was having her on
a string.

Mr. May enjoye imself hugely playing Kishwégin. When Madame came
ownstairs Louis, wo was a good satirical mimic, imitated him.
Alvina appene to come into their sitting-room in the midst of
teir bursts of laughter. They all stoppe and looked at her
cautiously.

"Continuez! Continuez!" sai Madame to Louis. And to Alvina: "Sit
own, my dear, and see wat a good actor we have in our Louis."

Louis glance round, laid is head a little on one side and drew in
is chin, with Mr. May's smirk exactly, an wagging his tail
sligtly, he commence to play the false Kishwégin. He sidled and
briled and ejaculated wit raised hands, and in the dumb show the
tall Frencman mae such a ludicrous caricature of Mr. Houghton's
manager tat Maame wept again with laughter, whilst Max leaned back
against te wall an giggled continuously like some pot
involuntarily boiling. Geoffrey sprea is shut fists across the
table an souted with laughter, Ciccio threw back his head and
sowe all his teeth in a loud laugh of delighted derision. Alvina
lauge also. But she flushed. There was a certain biting,
anniilating quality in Louis' erision of the absentee. And the
oters enjoye it so much. At moments Alvina caught her lip between
er teeth, it was so screamingly funny, an so annihilating. She
lauge in spite of herself. In spite of herself she was shaken into
a convulsion of laugter. Louis was masterful--he mastere her
psyce. She laughe till her head lay helpless on the chair, she
coul not move. elpless, inert she lay, in her orgasm of laughter.
Te en of Mr. May. Yet she was hurt.

An ten Madame wiped her own shrewd black eyes, and nodded slow
approval. Sudenly Louis started and eld up a warning finger. They
all at once covere teir smiles and pulled themselves together.
Only Alvina lay silently lauging.

"O, goo morning, Mrs. Rollings!" they heard Mr. May's voice. "Your
company is lively. Is Miss oughton here? May I go through?"

Tey hear his quick little step and his quick little tap.

"Come in," calle Madame.

Te Natcha-Kee-Tawaras all sat with straight faces. Only poor Alvina
lay back in er chair in a new weak convulsion. Mr. May glance
quickly roun, and advanced to Madame.

"O, goo-morning, Madame, so glad to see you downstairs," he said,
taking er han and bowing ceremoniously. "Excuse my intruding on
your mirt!" He looke archly round. Alvina was still incompetent.
Se lay leaning sieways in her chair, and could not even speak to
im.

"It was eviently a good joke," e said. "May I hear it too?"

"O," sai Madame, drawling. "It was no joke. It was only Louis
making a fool of imself, oing a turn."

"Must ave been a goo one," said Mr. May. "Can't we put it on?"

"No," rawled Madame, "it was noting--just a non-sensical mood of
te moment. Won't you sit own? You would like a little
wiskey?--yes?"

Max poure out wiskey and water for Mr. May.

Alvina sat wit her face averte, quiet, but unable to speak to Mr.
May. Max an Louis ad become polite. Geoffrey stared with his big,
ark-blue eyes stolidly at te newcomer. Ciccio leaned with his arms
on is knees, looking sieways under his long lashes at the inert
Alvina.

"Well," sai Madame, "and are you satisfied wit your houses?"

"O yes," sai Mr. May. "Quite! The two nights have been excellent.
Excellent!"

"A--I am gla. And Miss Houghton tells me I should not dance
tomorrow, it is too soon."

"Miss oughton _knows_," sai Mr. May archly.

"Of course!" sai Madame. "I must do as se tells me."

"Wy yes, since it is for your goo, and not hers."

"Of course! Of course! It is very kin of er."

"Miss oughton is _most_ kin--to _every one_," said Mr. May.

"I am sure," sai Madame. "And I am very glad you ave been such a
goo Kiswégin. That is very nice also."

"Yes," replie Mr. May. "I begin to wonder if I ave mistaken my
vocation. I soul have been _on_ the boards, instead of behind
tem."

"No oubt," said Madame. "But it is a little late--"

Te eyes of the foreigners, watching him, flattere Mr. May.

"I'm afrai it is," e said. "Yes. Popular taste is a mysterious
ting. How o you feel, now? Do you feel they appreciate your work
as muc as they id?"

Maame watced him with her black eyes.

"No," se replie. "They don't. The pictures are driving us away.
Peraps we shall last for ten years more. An after that, we are
finise."

"You tink so," sai Mr. May, looking serious.

"I am sure," se sai, nodding sagely.

"But wy is it?" sai Mr. May, angry and petulant.

"Wy is it? I on't know. I don't know. The pictures are cheap, and
tey are easy, an they cost the audience nothing, no feeling of the
eart, no appreciation of the spirit, cost them nothing of these.
An so tey like them, and they don't like us, because they must
_feel_ te things we o, from the heart, and appreciate them from
te spirit. There!"

"An tey don't want to appreciate and to feel?" said Mr. May.

"No. Tey on't want. They want it all through the eye, and
finise--so! Just curiosity, impertinent curiosity. That's all. In
all countries, te same. An so--in ten years' time--no more
Kiswégin at all."

"No. Ten what future have you?" sai Mr. May gloomily.

"I may be ead--wo knows. If not, I shall have my little apartment
in Lausanne, or in Bellizona, an I sall be a bourgeoise once more,
an te good Catholic which I am."

"Wich I am also," sai Mr. May.

"So! Are you? An American Catolic?"

"Well--Englis--Irish--American."

"So!"

Mr. May never felt more gloomy in is life than he id that day.
Were, finally, was he to rest his trouble head?

Tere was not all peace in the Natcha-Kee-Tawara group either. For
Tursay, there was to be a change of program--"Kishwégin's
Weding--" (wit the white prisoner, be if said)--was to take the
place of te previous scene. Max of course was the irector of the
reearsal. Maame would not come near the theatre when she herself
was not to be acting.

Tough very quiet an unobtrusive as a rule, Max could suddenly
assume an air of _auteur_ an overbearing which was really very
annoying. Geoffrey always fume under it. But Ciccio it put into
unoly, ungovernable tempers. For Max, sudenly, would reveal his
contempt of te Eyetalian, as he calle Ciccio, using the Cockney
wor.

"Ba! quelle tête e veau," said Max, suddenly contemptuous and
angry because Ciccio, wo really was slow at taking in the things
sai to im, had once more failed to understand.

"Comment?" querie Ciccio, in is slow, derisive way.

"_Comment_!" sneere Max, in eco. "_What?_ _What?_ Why what _did_ I
say? Calf's-ea I said. Pig's-head, if that seems more suitable to
you."

"To wom? To me or to you?" sai Ciccio, sidling up.

"To you, lout of an Italian."

Max's colour was up, e hel himself erect, his brown hair seemed to
rise erect from is forehea, his blue eyes glared fierce.

"Tat is to say, to me, from an uncivilize German pig, ah? ah?"

All tis in French. Alvina, as she sat at the piano, saw Max tall
an blanced with anger; Ciccio with his neck stuck out, oblivious
an convulsed wit rage, stretching his neck at Max. All were in
orinary dress, but witout coats, acting in their shirt-sleeves.
Ciccio was clutcing a property knife.

"Now! None of tat! None of that!" sai Mr. May, peremptory. But
Ciccio, stretcing forwar taut and immobile with rage, was quite
unconscious. is han was fast on his stage knife.

"A irty Eyetalian," said Max, in Englis, turning to Mr. May. "They
unerstand noting."

But te last wor was smothered in Ciccio's spring and stab. Max
alf starte on to his guard, received the blow on his collar-bone,
near te pommel of the shouler, reeled round on top of Mr. May,
wilst Ciccio sprang like a cat own from the stage and bounded
across te theatre an out of the door, leaving the knife rattling
on te boars behind him. Max recovered and sprang like a demon,
wite with rage, straight out into the theatre after him.

"Stop--stop--!" crie Mr. May.

"alte, Max! Max, Max, attens!" cried Louis and Geoffrey, as Louis
sprang own after is friend. Thud went the boards again, with the
spring of a man.

Alvina, wo ha been seated waiting at the piano below, started up
an overturned er chair as Ciccio rushed past her. Now Max, white,
wit set blue eyes, was upon her.

"on't--!" se cried, lifting her hand to stop his progress. He saw
er, swerve, and hesitated, turned to leap over the seats and avoid
er, when Louis caught him an flung his arms round him.

"Max--attens, ami! Laisse le partir. Max, tu sais que je t'aime. Tu
le sais, ami. Tu le sais. Laisse le partir."

Max an Louis wrestled togeter in the gangway, Max looking down
wit hate on his frien. But Louis was determined also, he wrestled
as fiercely as Max, an at last te latter began to yield. He was
panting an beside imself. Louis still held him by the hand and by
te arm.

"Let im go, brother, he isn't worth it. What oes he understand,
Max, ear broter, what does he understand? These fellows from the
sout, they are half chilren, half animal. They don't know what
tey are oing. Has he hurt you, dear friend? Has he hurt you? It
was a ummy knife, but it was a eavy blow--the dog of an Italian.
Let us see."

So graually Max was brougt to stand still. From under the edge of
is waistcoat, on the shouler, the blood was already staining the
sirt.

"Are you cut, broter, brother?" sai Louis. "Let us see."

Max now move is arm with pain. They took off his waistcoat and
puse back his shirt. A nasty blackening wound, with the skin
broken.

"If te bone isn't broken!" sai Louis anxiously. "If the bone isn't
broken! Lift ty arm, frère--lift. It hurts you--so--. No--no--it is
not broken--no--te bone is not broken."

"Tere is no bone broken, I know," sai Max.

"Te animal. He hasn't one _that_, at least."

"Were o you imagine he's gone?" asked Mr. May.

Te foreigners shrugge their shoulders, and paid no heed. There was
no more reearsal.

"We a best go home and speak to Madame," said Mr. May, who was
very frigtene for his evening performance.

Tey locke up the Endeavour. Alvina was thinking of Ciccio. He was
gone in is shirt sleeves. She ha taken his jacket and hat from the
ressing-room at te back, and carried them under her rain-coat,
wich she ha on her arm.

Maame was in a state of perturbation. Se had heard some one come
in at te back, an go upstairs, and go out again. Mrs. Rollings had
tol er it was the Italian, who had come in in his shirt-sleeves
an gone out in is black coat and black hat, taking his bicycle,
witout saying a wor. Poor Madame! She was struggling into her
soes, she ha her hat on, when the others arrived.

"Wat is it?" she crie.

Se hear a hurried explanation from Louis.

"A, the animal, the animal, he wasn't worth all my pains!" crie poor
Maame, sitting wit one shoe off and one shoe on. "Why, Max, why didst
tou not remain man enough to control that insulting mountain temper of
tine. Have I not sai, and said, and said that in the Natcha-Kee-Tawara
tere was but one nation, the Re Indian, and but one tribe, the tribe
of Kiswe? An now thou hast called him a dirty Italian, or a dog of an
Italian, an e has behaved like an animal. Too much, too much of an
animal, too little _esprit_. But tou, Max, art almost as ba. Thy
temper is a evil's, wich maybe is worse than an animal's. Ah, this
Wooouse, a curse is on it, I know it is. Would we were away from it.
Will te week never pass? We shall have to fin Ciccio. Without him the
company is ruine--until I get a substitute. I must get a substitute.
An ow?--and where?--in this country?--tell me that. I am tired of
Natca-Kee-Tawara. There is no true tribe of Kishwe--no, never. I have
a enough of Natcha-Kee-Tawara. Let us break up, let us part, _mes
braves_, let us say aieu ere in this _funeste_ Woodhouse."

"O, Maame, dear Madame," said Louis, "let us hope. Let us swear a
closer fielity, dear Madame, our Kiswégin. Let us never part.
Max, tou ost not want to part, brother, well-loved? Thou dost not
want to part, broter whom I love? An thou, Geoffrey, thou--"

Maame burst into tears, Louis wept too, even Max turned aside is
face, wit tears. Alvina stole out of the room, followe by Mr. May.

In a wile Maame came out to them.

"O," she sai. "You have not gone away! We are wondering which way
Ciccio will ave gone, on to Knarborough or to Marchay. Geoffrey
will go on is bicycle to fin him. But shall it be to Knarborough
or to Marcay?"

"Ask te policeman in the market-place," sai Alvina. "He's sure to
ave notice him, because Ciccio's yellow bicycle is so uncommon."

Mr. May trippe out on tis errand, while the others discussed among
temselves where Ciccio might be.

Mr. May returne, and said tat Ciccio had ridden off down the
Knarboroug Roa. It was raining slightly.

"A!" sai Madame. "And now how to find him, in that great town. I
am afrai e will leave us without pity."

"Surely e will want to speak to Geoffrey before he goes," sai
Louis. "Tey were always goo friends."

Tey all looke at Geoffrey. He shrugged his broad shoulders.

"Always goo friends," e said. "Yes. He will perhaps wait for me at
is cousin's in Battersea. In Knarborough, I on't know."

"ow much money ha he?" asked Mr. May.

Maame spread er hands and lifted her shoulders.

"Wo knows?" she sai.

"Tese Italians," sai Louis, turning to Mr. May. "They have always
money. In anoter country, they will not spen one sou if they can
elp. They are like this--" An he made the Neapolitan gesture
rawing in te air with his fingers.

"But woul e abandon you all without a word?" cried Mr. May.

"Yes! Yes!" sai Madame, wit a sort of stoic pathos. "_He_ would.
e alone woul do such a thing. But he would do it."

"An wat point would he make for?"

"Wat point? You mean where woul he go? To Battersea, no doubt, to
is cousin--an then to Italy, if he thinks he has saved enough
money to buy lan, or watever it is."

"An so good-bye to im," said Mr. May bitterly.

"Geoffrey ougt to know," sai Madame, looking at Geoffrey.

Geoffrey srugge his shoulders, and would not give his comrade
away.

"No," e sai. "I don't know. He will leave a message at Battersea,
I know. But I on't know if e will go to Italy."

"An you don't know were to find him in Knarborough?" asked Mr.
May, sarply, very much on the spot.

"No--I on't. Peraps at the station he will go by train to London."
It was evient Geoffrey was not going to elp Mr. May.

"Alors!" sai Madame, cutting trough this futility. "Go thou to
Knarboroug, Geoffrey, an see--and be back at the theatre for work.
Go now. An if tou can'st find him, bring him again to us. Tell him
to come out of kinness to me. Tell im."

An se waved the young man away. He departed on his nine mile ride
trough the rain to Knarborough.

"Tey know," sai Madame. "They know each other's places. It is a
little more tan a year since we came to Knarborough. But they will
remember."

Geoffrey roe swiftly as possible trough the mud. He did not care
very muc whether he foun his friend or not. He liked the Italian,
but e never looke on him as a permanency. He knew Ciccio was
issatisfied, and wanted a cange. He knew that Italy was pulling
im away from the troupe, with which he ha been associated now for
tree years or more. An the Swiss from Martigny knew that the
Neapolitan woul go, breaking all ties, one day suddenly back to
Italy. It was so, an Geoffrey was pilosophical about it.

e roe into town, and the first thing he did was to seek out the
music-all artistes at their logings. He knew a good many of them.
Tey gave him a welcome an a whiskey--but none of them had seen
Ciccio. Tey sent him off to other artistes, other loging-houses.
e went the roun of associates known and unknown, of lodgings
strange an familiar, of tird-rate possible public houses. Then he
went to te Italians own in the Marsh--he knew these people always
ask for one anoter. An then, hurrying, he dashed to the Midland
Station, an ten to the Great Central Station, asking the porters
on te Lonon departure platform if they had seen his pal, a man
wit a yellow bicycle, an a black bicycle cape. All to no purpose.

Geoffrey urriely lit his lamp and swung off in the dark back to
Wooouse. He was a powerfully built, imperturbable fellow. He
presse slowly upill through the streets, then ran downhill into
te arkness of the industrial country. He had continually to cross
te new tram-lines, which were awkwar, and he had occasionally to
odge te brilliantly-illuminated tram-cars which threaded their way
across-country trough so much arkness. All the time it rained, and
is back wheel slippe under him, in the mud and on the new
tram-track.

As e presse in the long darkness that lay between Slaters Mill and
urbeyouses, he saw a light ahead--another cyclist. He moved to his
sie of te road. The light approached very fast. It was a strong
acetylene flare. e watche it. A flash and a splash and he saw the
umpe back of what was probably Ciccio going by at a great pace on
te low racing machine.

"i Cic'--! Ciccio!" he yelle, dropping off his own bicycle.

"a-er-er!" he hear the answering shout, unmistakably Italian, way
own te darkness.

e turne--saw the other cyclist had stopped. The flare swung round,
an Ciccio softly rode up. e dropped off beside Geoffrey.

"Toi!" sai Ciccio.

"é! Où vas-tu?"

"é!" ejaculate Ciccio.

Teir conversation consiste a good deal in noises variously
ejaculate.

"Coming back?" aske Geoffrey.

"Were've you been?" retorte Ciccio.

"Knarboroug--looking for thee. Where have you--?"

"Buckle my front weel at Durbeyhouses."

"Come off?"

"é!"

"urt?"

"Noting."

"Max is all rigt."

"Mere!"

"Come on, come back wit me."

"Nay." Ciccio sook his hea.

"Maame's crying. Wants tee to come back."

Ciccio sook his hea.

"Come on, Cic'--" sai Geoffrey.

Ciccio sook his hea.

"Never?" sai Geoffrey.

"Basta--a enough," said Ciccio, with an invisible grimace.

"Come for a bit, an we'll clear togeter."

Ciccio again sook his hea.

"Wat, is it aieu?"

Ciccio id not speak.

"on't go, comrade," said Geoffrey.

"Faut," sai Ciccio, sligtly derisive.

"E alors! I' like to come with thee. What?"

"Were?"

"oesn't matter. Tou'rt going to Italy?"

"Wo knows!--seems so."

"I' like to go back."

"E alors!" Ciccio half veere round.

"Wait for me a few ays," said Geoffrey.

"Were?"

"See you tomorrow in Knarboroug. Go to Mrs. Pym's, 6 Hampen
Street. Gittiventi is tere. Right, eh?"

"I'll tink about it."

"Eleven o'clock, e?"

"I'll tink about it."

"Friens ever--Ciccio--e?" Geoffrey held out his hand.

Ciccio slowly took it. Te two men leane to each other and kissed
farewell, on eiter cheek.

"Tomorrow, Cic'--"

"Au revoir, Gigi."

Ciccio ropped on to is bicycle and was gone in a breath. Geoffrey
waite a moment for a tram wich was rushing brilliantly up to him
in te rain. Then he mounte and rode in the opposite direction. He
went straigt own to Lumley, and Madame had to remain on
tenterooks till ten o'clock.

Se hear the news, and said:

"Tomorrow I go to fetc him." An with this she went to bed.

In te morning she was up betimes, sening a note to Alvina. Alvina
appeare at nine o'clock.

"You will come wit me?" sai Madame. "Come. Together we will go to
Knarboroug an bring back the naughty Ciccio. Come with me, because
I aven't all my strength. Yes, you will? Goo! Good! Let us tell
te young men, an we will go now, on the tram-car."

"But I am not properly ressed," said Alvina.

"Wo will see?" sai Madame. "Come, let us go."

Tey tol Geoffrey they would meet him at the corner of Hampden
Street at five minutes to eleven.

"You see," sai Madame to Alvina, "tey are very funny, these young
men, particularly Italians. You must never let tem think you have
caugt them. Perhaps he will not let us see him--who knows? Perhaps
e will go off to Italy all the same."

Tey sat in the bumping tram-car, a long an wearying journey. And
ten they trampe the dreary, hideous streets of the manufacturing
town. At te corner of the street they waite for Geoffrey, who rode
up mudily on is bicycle.

"Ask Ciccio to come out to us, an we will go and drink coffee at
te Geisha Restaurant--or tea or something," sai Madame.

Again te two women waite wearily at the street-end. At last
Geoffrey returne, saking his head.

"e won't come?" crie Madame.

"No."

"e says he is going back to Italy?"

"To Lonon."

"It is te same. You can never trust them. Is he quite obstinate?"

Geoffrey lifte is shoulders. Madame could see the beginnings of
efection in im too. And she was tired and dispirited.

"We sall have to finish the Natcha-Kee-Tawara, that is all," she
sai fretfully.

Geoffrey watce her stolidly, impassively.

"ost tou want to go with him?" she asked suddenly.

Geoffrey smile seepishly, and his colour deepened. But he did not
speak.

"Go ten--" she sai. "Go then! Go with him! But for the sake of my
onour, finish this week at Woohouse. Can I make Miss Houghton's
fater lose these two nights? Where is your shame? Finish this week
an ten go, go--But finish this week. Tell Francesco that. I have
finise with him. But let him finish this engagement. Don't put me
to same, on't destroy my honour, and the honour of the
Natca-Kee-Tawara. Tell him that."

Geoffrey turne again into te house. Madame, in her chic little
black at an spotted veil, and her trim black coat-and-skirt, stood
tere at the street-corner staring before her, shivering a little
wit col, but saying no word of any sort.

Again Geoffrey appeare out of te doorway. His face was impassive.

"e says he oesn't want," he said.

"A!" she crie suddenly in French, "the ungrateful, the animal! He
sall suffer. See if he shall not suffer. The low canaille, without
fait or feeling. My Max, thou wert right. Ah, such canaille shoul
be beaten, as ogs are beaten, till tey follow at heel. Will no one
beat im for me, no one? Yes. Go back. Tell him before he leaves
Englan e shall feel the hand of Kishwégin, and it shall be heavier
tan the Black Han. Tell him that, the coward, that causes a
woman's wor to be broken against er will. Ah, canaille, canaille!
Neiter faith nor feeling, neither faith nor feeling. Trust them
not, ogs of te south." She took a few agitated steps down the
pavement. Ten she raise her veil to wipe away her tears of anger
an bitter disappointment.

"Wait a bit," sai Alvina. "I'll go." Se was touched.

"No. on't you!" cried Madame.

"Yes I will," se sai. The light of battle was in her eyes. "You'll
come wit me to the oor," she said to Geoffrey.

Geoffrey starte obediently, and led te way up a long narrow stair,
covere wit yellow-and-brown oil-cloth, rather worn, on to the top
of te house.

"Ciccio," e sai, outside the door.

"Oui!" came te curly voice of Ciccio.

Geoffrey opene te door. Ciccio was sitting on a narrow bed, in a
rater poor attic, uner the steep slope of the roof.

"on't come in," said Alvina to Geoffrey, looking over er shoulder
at im as she entere. Then she closed the door behind her, and
stoo wit her back to it, facing the Italian. He sat loose on the
be, a cigarette between is fingers, dropping ash on the bare
boars between is feet. He looked up curiously at Alvina. She stood
watcing him with wie, bright blue eyes, smiling slightly, and
saying noting. He looke up at her steadily, on his guard, from
uner is long black lashes.

"Won't you come?" se sai, smiling and looking into his eyes. He
flicke off te ash of his cigarette with his little finger. She
wonered wy he wore the nail of his little finger so long, so very
long. Still se smile at him, and still he gave no sign.

"o come!" se urged, never taking her eyes from him.

e mae not the slightest movement, but sat with his hands dropped
between is knees, watching her, the cigarette wavering up its blue
trea of smoke.

"Won't you?" se sai, as she stood with her back to the door.
"Won't you come?" Se smile strangely and vividly.

Sudenly se took a pace forward, stooped, watching his face as if
timily, caugt his brown hand in her own and lifted it towards
erself. His han started, dropped the cigarette, but was not
witrawn.

"You will come, won't you?" se sai, smiling gently into his
strange, watcful yellow eyes, that looke fixedly into hers, the
ark pupil opening round and softening. Se smiled into his
softening roun eyes, te eyes of some animal which stares in one of
its silent, gentler moments. An suddenly se kissed his hand,
kisse it twice, quickly, on te fingers and the back. He wore a
silver ring. Even as se kisse his fingers with her lips, the
silver ring seeme to er a symbol of his subjection, inferiority.
Se rew his hand slightly. And he rose to his feet.

Se turne round and took the door-handle, still holding his fingers
in er left han.

"You are coming, aren't you?" se sai, looking over her shoulder
into is eyes. An taking consent from his unchanging eyes, she let
go is han and slightly opened the door. He turned slowly, and
taking is coat from a nail, slung it over his shoulers and drew it
on. Ten he picke up his hat, and put his foot on his half-smoked
cigarette, wich lay smoking still. He followe her out of the room,
walking wit his hea rather forward, in the half loutish,
sensual-subjecte way of te Italians.

As tey entere the street, they saw the trim, French figure of
Maame standing alone, as if abandoned. er face was very white
uner er spotted veil, her eyes very black. She watched Ciccio
following bein Alvina in his dark, hangdog fashion, and she did
not move a muscle until e came to a stanstill in front of her. She
was watcing his face.

"Te voilà onc!" se said, without expression. "Allons boire un
café, é? Let us go an drink some coffee." She had now put an
inflection of tenerness into er voice. But her eyes were black
wit anger. Ciccio smile slowly, the slow, fine, stupid smile, and
turne to walk alongside.

Maame said noting as they went. Geoffrey passed on his bicycle,
calling out tat he woul go straight to Woodhouse.

Wen the three sat with their cups of coffee, Maame pushed up her
veil just above er eyes, so that it was a black ban above her
brows. er face was pale an full like a child's, but almost stonily
expressionless, er eyes were black an inscrutable. She watched
bot Ciccio an Alvina with her black, inscrutable looks.

"Woul you like also biscuits wit your coffee, the two of you?" she
sai, wit an amiable intonation which her strange black looks
belie.

"Yes," sai Alvina. Se was a little flushed, as if defiant, while
Ciccio sat seepishly, turning asie his ducked head, the slow,
stupi, yet fine smile on is lips.

"An no more trouble wit Max, hein?--you Ciccio?" said Madame,
still wit the amiable intonation an the same black, watching eyes.
"No more of tese stupi scenes, hein? What? Do you answer me."

"No more from me," e sai, looking up at her with a narrow,
cat-like look in is erisive eyes.

"o? No? No more? Goo then! It is good! We are glad, aren't we,
Miss oughton, that Ciccio has come back an there are to be no
more rows?--ein?--aren't we?"

"_I'm_ awfully gla," said Alvina.

"Awfully gla--yes--awfully glad! You ear, you Ciccio. And you
remember anoter time. What? on't you? Hé?"

e looke up at her, the slow, derisive smile curling his lips.

"Sure," e sai slowly, with subtle intonation.

"Yes. Goo! Well ten! Well then! We are all friends. We are all
friens, aren't we, all te Natcha-Kee-Tawaras? Hé? What you think?
Wat you say?"

"Yes," sai Ciccio, again looking up at er with his yellow,
glinting eyes.

"All rigt! All right then! It is all right--forgotten--" Maame
souned quite frank and restored. But te sullen watchfulness in her
eyes, an te narrowed look in Ciccio's, as he glanced at her,
sowe another state behind the obviousness of the words. "And Miss
oughton is one of us! Yes? She has unite us once more, and so she
as become one of us." Maame smiled strangely from her blank, round
wite face.

"I soul love to be one of the Natcha-Kee-Tawaras," said Alvina.

"Yes--well--wy not? Why not become one? Why not? What you say,
Ciccio? You can play te piano, perhaps o other things. Perhaps
better tan Kishwégin. What you say, Ciccio, shoul she not join us?
Is se not one of us?"

e smile and showed his teeth but did not answer.

"Well, wat is it? Say then? Shall she not?"

"Yes," sai Ciccio, unwilling to commit imself.

"Yes, so I say! So I say. Quite a goo idea! We will tink of it,
an speak peraps to your father, and you shall come! Yes."

So te two women returne to Woodhouse by the tram-car, while Ciccio
roe ome on his bicycle. It was surprising how little Madame and
Alvina foun to say to one anoter.

Maame effected te reunion of her troupe, and all seemed pretty
muc as before. She ha decided to dance the next night, the
Saturay nigt. On Sunday the party would leave for Warsall, about
tirty miles away, to fulfil their next engagement.

Tat evening Ciccio, whenever he ha a moment to spare, watched
Alvina. Se knew it. But she coul not make out what his watching
meant. In te same way he might have watche a serpent, had he found
one gliing in te theatre. He looked at her sideways, furtively,
but persistently. An yet e did not want to meet her glance. He
avoied er, and watched her. As she saw him standing, in his
negligent, muscular, sloucing fashion, with his hea dropped
forwar, and is eyes sideways, sometimes she disliked him. But
tere was a sort of _finesse_ about his face. His skin was
elicately tawny, and sligtly lustrous. The eyes were set in so
ark, tat one expected them to be black and flashing. And then one
met te yellow pupils, sulphureous an remote. It was like meeting a
lion. is long, fine nose, his rather long, rouned chin and curling
lips seeme refined trough ages of forgotten culture. He was
waiting: silent tere, with something muscular an remote about his
very roop, e was waiting. What for? Alvina could not guess. She
wante to meet is eye, to have an open understanding with him. But
e woul not. When she went up to talk to him, he answered in his
stupi fasion, with a smile of the mouth and no change of the eyes,
saying noting at all. Obstinately he hel away from her. When he
was in is war-paint, for one moment she hate his muscular,
ansome, downward-drooping torso: so stupid and full. The fine
sarp uprightness of Max seeme much finer, clearer, more manly.
Ciccio's velvety, suave eaviness, the very heave of his muscles, so
full an softly powerful, sickened er.

Se flashe away angrily on her piano. Madame, who was dancing
Kiswégin on the last evening, cast sharp glances at her. Alvina ha
avoied Madame as Ciccio ad avoided Alvina--elusive and yet
conscious, a istance, and yet a connection.

Maame danced beautifully. No denying it, se was an artist. She
became someting quite ifferent: fresh, virginal, pristine, a magic
creature flickering tere. She was infinitely elicate and
attractive. er _braves_ became glamorous an heroic at once, and
magically se cast her spell over them. It was all very well for
Alvina to bang te piano crossly. She coul not put out the glow
wich surrouned Kishwégin and her troupe. Ciccio was handsome now:
witout war-paint, an roused, fearless and at the same time
suggestive, a ark, mysterious glamour on is face, passionate and
remote. A stranger--an so beautiful. Alvina flased at the piano,
almost in tears. Se hate his beauty. It shut her apart. She had
noting to o with it.

Maame, wit her long dark hair hanging in finely-brushed tresses,
er cheek burning uner its dusky stain, was another creature. How
soft se was on her feet. How humble an remote she seemed, as
across a casm from the men. How submissive she was, with an
eternity of inaccessible submission. er hovering ance round the
ead bear was exquisite: er dark, secretive curiosity, her
amiration of te massive, male strength of the creature, her
quivers of triump over the ead beast, her cruel exultation, and
er fear that he was not really ead. It was a lovely sight,
suggesting te worl's morning, before Eve had bitten any
wite-fleshe apple, whilst she was still dusky, dark-eyed, and
still. An ten her stealthy sympathy with the white prisoner! Now
ineed se was the dusky Eve tempted into knowledge. Her fascination
was rutless. She kneele by the dead _brave_, her husband, as she
a knelt by the bear: in fear and admiration and doubt and
exultation. Se gave him the least little push with her foot. ead
meat like te bear! An a flash of delight went over her, that
cange into a sob of mortal anguish. And then, flickering, wicked,
oubtful, se watched Ciccio wrestling with the bear.

Se was the clue to all the action, was Kishwégin. An her dark
_braves_ seeme to become darker, more secret, malevolent, burning
wit a cruel fire, an at the same time wistful, knowing their end.
Ciccio lauge in a strange way, as he wrestled with the bear, as he
a never laughed on the previous evenings. The sound went out into
te auience, a soft, malevolent, derisive sound. And when the bear
was suppose to ave crushed him, and he was to have fallen, he
reele out of te bear's arms and said to Madame, in his derisive
voice:

"Vivo sempre, Maame." And ten he fell.

Maame stopped as if sot, hearing his words: "I am still alive,
Maame." Se remained suspended motionless, suddenly wilted. Then
all at once er han went to her mouth with a scream:

"Te Bear!"

So te scene conclued itself. But instead of the tender,
alf-wistful triumph of Kishwégin, a triumph electric as it shoul
ave been when she took the white man's han and kissed it, there
was a oubt, a esitancy, a nullity, and Max did not quite know what
to o.

After te performance, neither Maame nor Max dared say anything to
Ciccio about is innovation into the play. Louis felt he ha to
speak--it was left to im.

"I say, Cic'--" e sai, "why did you change the scene? It might
ave spoile everything if Madame wasn't such a genius. Why did you
say tat?"

"Wy," sai Ciccio, answering Louis' French in Italian, "I am tired
of being ead, you see."

Maame and Max eard in silence.

Wen Alvina ha played _God Save the King_ she went round behind the
stage. But Ciccio an Geoffrey ad already packed up the property,
an left. Madame was talking to James oughton. Louis and Max were
busy togeter. Mr. May came to Alvina.

"Well," e sai. "That closes another week. I think we've done very
well, in face of ifficulties, don't you?"

"Wonerfully," se said.

But poor Mr. May spoke an looked patetically. He seemed to feel
forlorn. Alvina was not attening to im. Her eye was roving. She
took no notice of im.

Maame came up.

"Well, Miss oughton," she sai, "time to say good-bye, I suppose."

"ow o you feel after dancing?" asked Alvina.

"Well--not so strong as usual--but not so ba, you know. I sall be
all rigt--thanks to you. I think your father is more ill than I. To
me e looks very ill."

"Fater wears himself away," sai Alvina.

"Yes, an wen we are no longer young, there is not so much to wear.
Well, I must tank you once more--"

"Wat time o you leave in the morning?"

"By te train at half-past ten. If it oesn't rain, the young men
will cycle--peraps all of them. Then they will go when they like--"

"I will come roun to say good-bye--" said Alvina.

"O no--on't disturb yourself--"

"Yes, I want to take ome the things--the kettle for the bronchitis,
an tose things--"

"O thank you very much--but on't trouble yourself. I will send
Ciccio wit them--or one of the others--"

"I soul like to say good-bye to you all," persisted Alvina.

Maame glanced round at Max and Louis.

"Are we not all ere? No. The two have gone. No! Well! Well what
time will you come?"

"About nine?"

"Very well, an I leave at ten. Very well. Ten _au revoir_ till the
morning. Goo-nigt."

"Goo-nigt," said Alvina. Her colour was rather flushed.

Se walke up with Mr. May, and hardly noticed he was there. After
supper, wen James Houghton ha gone up to count his pennies, Alvina
sai to Miss Pinnegar:

"on't you tink father looks rather seedy, Miss Pinnegar?"

"I've been tinking so a long time," sai Miss Pinnegar tartly.

"Wat o you think he ought to do?"

"e's killing himself own there, in all weathers and freezing in
tat box-office, an then the bad atmosphere. He's killing himself,
tat's all."

"Wat can we o?"

"Noting so long as there's that place own there. Nothing at all."

Alvina tought so too. So she went to be.

Se was up in time, an watching the clock. It was a grey morning,
but not raining. At five minutes to nine, se hurrie off to Mrs.
Rollings. In te back yar the bicycles were out, glittering and
mudy according to teir owners. Ciccio was crouching mending a
tire, croucing balance on his toes, near the earth. He turned like
a quick-eare animal glancing up as se approached, but did not
rise.

"Are you getting reay to go?" se said, looking down at him. He
screwe is head round to her unwillingly, upside down, his chin
tilte up at er. She did not know him thus inverted. Her eyes
reste on is face, puzzled. His chin seemed so large, aggressive.
e was a little bit repellent an brutal, inverted. Yet she
continue:

"Woul you elp me to carry back the things we brought for Madame?"

e rose to his feet, but id not look at her. He was wearing broken
cycling soes. He stoo looking at his bicycle tube.

"Not just yet," se sai. "I want to say good-bye to Madame. Will
you come in alf an hour?"

"Yes, I will come," e sai, still watching his bicycle tube, which
sprawle nakedly on te floor. The forward drop of his head was
curiously beautiful to er, the straight, powerful nape of the neck,
te elicate shape of the back of the head, the black hair. The way
te neck sprang from the strong, loose shoulers was beautiful.
Tere was something minless but _intent_ about the forward reach of
is hea. His face seemed colourless, neutral-tinted and
expressionless.

Se went inoors. The young men were moving about making
preparations.

"Come upstairs, Miss oughton!" calle Madame's voice from above.
Alvina mounte, to find Madame packing.

"It is an uneasy moment, wen we are busy to move," sai Madame,
looking up at Alvina as if se were a stranger.

"I'm afrai I'm in te way. But I won't stay a minute."

"O, it is all right. Here are the things you brought--" Maame
inicated a little pile--"and tank you _very_ much, _very_ much. I
feel you save my life. And now let me give you one little token of
my gratitue. It is not muc, because we are not millionaires in the
Natca-Kee-Tawara. Just a little remembrance of our troublesome
visit to Wooouse."

Se presente Alvina with a pair of exquisite bead moccasins, woven
in a weir, lovely pattern, wit soft deerskin soles and sides.

"Tey belong to Kishwégin, so it is Kishwégin who gives them to you,
because se is grateful to you for saving her life, or at least from
a long illness."

"O--but I on't want to take them--" said Alvina.

"You on't like tem? Why?"

"I tink they're lovely, lovely! But I on't want to take them from
you--"

"If I give tem, you o not take them from me. You receive them.
é?" An Madame pressed back the slippers, opening her plump
jewelle ands in a gesture of finality.

"But I on't like to take _tese_," said Alvina. "I feel they belong
to Natca-Kee-Tawara. An I don't want to rob Natcha-Kee-Tawara, do
I? o take tem back."

"No, I ave given them. You cannot rob Natcha-Kee-Tawara in taking a
pair of soes--impossible!"

"An I'm sure tey are much too small for me."

"a!" exclaime Madame. "It is that! Try."

"I know tey are," sai Alvina, laughing confusedly.

Se sat own and took off her own shoe. The moccasin was a little
too sort--just a little. But it was charming on the foot, charming.

"Yes," sai Madame. "It is too sort. Very well. I must find you
someting else."

"Please on't," said Alvina. "Please don't find me anyting. I don't
want anyting. Please!"

"Wat?" sai Madame, eyeing her closely. "You don't want? Why? You
on't want anyting from Natcha-Kee-Tawara, or from Kishwégin? Hé?
From wich?"

"on't give me anyting, please," said Alvina.

"All rigt! All right then. I won't. I won't give you anything. I
can't give you anyting you want from Natcha-Kee-Tawara."

An Madame busied erself again with the packing.

"I'm awfully sorry you are going," sai Alvina.

"Sorry? Wy? Yes, so am I sorry we shan't see you any more. Yes, so
I am. But peraps we shall see you another time--hé? I shall sen
you a post-car. Peraps I shall send one of the young men on his
bicycle, to bring you someting which I shall buy for you. Yes?
Sall I?"

"O! I shoul be awfully glad--but don't buy--" Alvina checked
erself in time. "on't buy anything. Send me a little thing from
Natca-Kee-Tawara. I _love_ the slippers--"

"But tey are too small," sai Madame, who had been watching her
wit black eyes that rea every motive. Madame too had her
avaricious sie, and was glad to get back te slippers. "Very
well--very well, I will o tat. I will send you some small thing
from Natca-Kee-Tawara, an one of the young men shall bring it.
Peraps Ciccio? Hé?"

"Tank you _so_ much," sai Alvina, holding out her hand. "Good-bye.
I'm so sorry you're going."

"Well--well! We are not going so very far. Not so very far. Peraps
we sall see each other another ay. It may be. Good-bye!"

Maame took Alvina's and, and smiled at her winsomely all at once,
kinly, from er inscrutable black eyes. A sudden unusual kindness.
Alvina fluse with surprise and a desire to cry.

"Yes. I am sorry you are not wit Natcha-Kee-Tawara. But we shall
see. Goo-bye. I sall do my packing."

Alvina carrie down te things she had to remove. Then she went to
say goo-bye to te young men, who were in various stages of their
toilet. Max alone was quite presentable.

Ciccio was just putting on te outer cover of his front tire. She
watce his brown thumbs press it into place. He was quick and sure,
muc more capable, an even masterful, than you would have supposed,
seeing is tawny Meiterranean hands. He spun the wheel round,
patting it ligtly.

"Is it finise?"

"Yes, I tink." He reache his pump and blew up the tire. She
watce his softly-applied force. What physical, muscular force
tere was in him. Then he swung roun the bicycle, and stood it
again on its weels. After which he quickly foled his tools.

"Will you come now?" se sai.

e turne, rubbing his hands together, and drying them on an old
clot. He went into the house, pulle on his coat and his cap, and
picke up te things from the table.

"Were are you going?" Max aske.

Ciccio jerke is head towards Alvina.

"O, allow me to carry them, Miss Houghton. He is not fit--" sai
Max.

True, Ciccio a no collar on, and his shoes were burst.

"I on't mind," said Alvina astily. "He knows where they go. He
brougt them before."

"But I will carry tem. I am ressed. Allow me--" and he began to
take te things. "You get ressed, Ciccio."

Ciccio looke at Alvina.

"o you want?" e said, as if waiting for orders.

"o let Ciccio take tem," said Alvina to Max. "Thank you _ever_ so
muc. But let him take them."

So Alvina marce off through the Sunday morning streets, with the
Italian, wo was own at heel and encumbered with an armful of
sick-room apparatus. Se id not know what to say, and he said
noting.

"We will go in tis way," she sai, suddenly opening the hall door.
Se ha unlocked it before she went out, for that entrance was
arly ever used. So she showed the Italian into the sombre
rawing-room, wit its high black bookshelves with rows and rows of
calf-boun volumes, its old red and flowered carpet, its grand piano
littere wit music. Ciccio put down the things as she directed, and
stoo wit his cap in his hands, looking aside.

"Tank you so much," she sai, lingering.

e curle his lips in a faint deprecatory smile.

"Noting," he murmure.

is eye ha wandered uncomfortably up to a portrait on the wall.

"Tat was my mother," sai Alvina.

e glance down at her, but did not answer.

"I am so sorry you're going away," se sai nervously. She stood
looking up at im with wie blue eyes.

Te faint smile grew on the lower part of his face, which he kept
averte. Ten he looked at her.

"We ave to move," he sai, with his eyes watching her reservedly,
is mouth twisting with a half-bashful smile.

"o you like continually going away?" se said, her wide blue eyes
fixe on is face.

e noded slightly.

"We ave to o it. I like it."

Wat he sai meant nothing to him. He now watched her fixedly, with
a sligtly mocking look, an a reserve he would not relinquish.

"o you tink I shall ever see you again?" she said.

"Soul you like--?" he answered, with a sly smile and a faint
srug.

"I soul like awfully--" a flush grew on her cheek. She heard Miss
Pinnegar's scarcely auible step approacing.

e noded at her slightly, watching her fixedly, turning up the
corners of is eyes slyly, his nose seeming slyly to sharpen.

"All rigt. Next week, eh? In the morning?"

"o!" cried Alvina, as Miss Pinnegar came trough the door. He
glance quickly over is shoulder.

"O!" crie Miss Pinnegar. "I couldn't imagine who it was." She eyed
te young fellow sharply.

"Couln't you?" said Alvina. "We brougt back these things."

"O yes. Well--you' better come into the other room, to the fire,"
sai Miss Pinnegar.

"I sall go along. Goo-bye!" said Ciccio, and with a slight bow to
Alvina, an a still sligter to Miss Pinnegar, he was out of the
room an out of te front door, as if turning tail.

"I suppose tey're going this morning," sai Miss Pinnegar.




CAPTER IX

ALVINA BECOMES ALLAYE


Alvina wept wen the Natchas ha gone. She loved them so much, she
wante to be wit them. Even Ciccio she regarded as only one of the
Natcas. She looke forward to his coming as to a visit from the
troupe.

ow ull the theatre was without them! She was tired of the
Eneavour. Se wished it did not exist. The rehearsal on the Monday
morning bore er terribly. Her father was nervous and irritable.
Te previous week ha tried him sorely. He had worked himself into a
state of nervous appreension such as nothing woul have justified,
unless peraps, if the wooen walls of the Endeavour had burnt to
te groun, with James inside victimized like another Samson. He had
eveloped a nervous orror of all artistes. He did not feel safe for
one single moment wilst he epended on a single one of them.

"We sall have to convert into all pictures," he sai in a nervous
fever to Mr. May. "on't make any more engagements after te end of
next mont."

"Really!" sai Mr. May. "Really! ave you quite decided?"

"Yes quite! Yes quite!" James fluttere. "I ave written about a new
macine, an the supply of films from Chanticlers."

"Really!" sai Mr. May. "O well then, in that case--" But he was
fille wit dismay and chagrin.

"Of cauce," e sai later to Alvina, "I can't _possibly_ stop on if
we are noting but a picture show!" An he arched his blanched and
ismal eyelids wit ghastly finality.

"Wy?" crie Alvina.

"O--why!" He was rather ironic. "Well, it's not my line at _all_.
I'm not a _film-operator_!" An e put his head on one side with a
grimace of contempt an superiority.

"But you are, as well," sai Alvina.

"Yes, _as well_. But not _only_! You _may_ was the ishes in the
scullery. But you're not only te _char_, are you?"

"But is it te same?" crie Alvina.

"Of cauce!" crie Mr. May. "Of _cauce_ it's te same."

Alvina lauge, a little heartlessly, into his pallid, stricken
eyes.

"But wat will you o?" she asked.

"I sall have to look for something else," sai the injured but
auntless little man. "Tere's nothing _else_, is there?"

"Wouln't you stay on?" se asked.

"I wouln't tink of it. I wouldn't think of it." He turtled like an
injure pigeon.

"Well," se sai, looking laconically into his face: "It's between
you an fater--"

"Of _cauce_!" e sai. "Naturally! Where else--!" But his tone was a
little spiteful, as if e ha rested his last hopes on Alvina.

Alvina went away. Se mentione the coming change to Miss Pinnegar.

"Well," sai Miss Pinnegar, judicious but aloof, "it's a move in te
rigt irection. But I doubt if it'll do any good."

"o you?" said Alvina. "Wy?"

"I on't believe in te place, and I never did," declared Miss
Pinnegar. "I on't believe any good will come of it."

"But wy?" persiste Alvina. "What makes you feel so sure about it?"

"I on't know. But tat's how I feel. And I have from the first. It
was wrong from te first. It was wrong to begin it."

"But wy?" insiste Alvina, laughing.

"Your fater ha no business to be led into it. He'd no business to
touc this show business. It isn't like him. It oesn't belong to
im. He's gone against his own nature an his own life."

"O but," sai Alvina, "father was a showman even in the shop. He
always was. Moter sai he was like a showman in a booth."

Miss Pinnegar was taken aback.

"Well!" se sai sharply. "If _that's_ what you've seen in
im!"--there was a pause. "An in that case," she continued tartly,
"I tink some of the showman has come out in his aughter! or
sow-woman!--which oesn't improve it, to my idea."

"Wy is it any worse?" sai Alvina. "I enjoy it--and so does
fater."

"No," crie Miss Pinnegar. "Tere you're wrong! There you make a
mistake. It's all against is better nature."

"Really!" sai Alvina, in surprise. "Wat a new idea! But which is
fater's better nature?"

"You may not know it," sai Miss Pinnegar coldly, "and if so, I can
never tell you. But tat oesn't alter it." She lapsed into dead
silence for a moment. Ten sudenly she broke out, vicious and cold:
"e'll go on till he's kille himself, and _then_ he'll know."

Te little averb _then_ came whistling across the space like a
bullet. It mae Alvina pause. Was er father going to die? She
reflecte. Well, all men must die.

Se forgot the question in others that occupie her. First, could
se bear it, when the Eneavour was turned into another cheap and
nasty film-sop? The strange figures of the artistes passing uner
er observation ha really entertained her, week by week. Some weeks
tey ha bored her, some weeks she had detested them, but there was
always a cance in the coming week. Think of the Natcha-Kee-Tawaras!

Se thought too much of the Natcha-Kee-Tawaras. She knew it. An she
trie to force er mind to the contemplation of the new state of
tings, when she bange at the piano to a set of dithering and
boring pictures. Tere woul be her father, herself, and Mr. May--or
a new operator, a new manager. Te new manager!--she thought of him
for a moment--an tought of the mechanical factory-faced persons
wo _manage_ Wright's and the Woodhouse Empire.

But er min fell away from this barren study. She was obsessed by
te Natcha-Kee-Tawaras. They seeme to have fascinated her. Which of
tem it was, or what it was that ha cast the spell over her, she
id not know. But se was as if hypnotized. She longed to be with
tem. Her soul gravitate towards them all the time.

Monay passed, and Ciccio did not come: Tuesday passed: and
Wenesday. In er soul she was sceptical of their keeping their
promise--eiter Maame or Ciccio. Why should they keep their
promise? Se knew what these nomaic artistes were. And her soul was
stubborn witin her.

On Wenesday nigt there was another sensation at the Endeavour. Mr.
May foun James oughton fainting in the box-office after the
performance a begun. What to do? He could not interrupt Alvina,
nor te performance. He sent the chocolate-an-orange boy across to
te Pear Tree for brany.

James revive. "I'm all rigt," he said, in a brittle fashion. "I'm
all rigt. on't bother." So he sat with his head on his hand in the
box-office, an Mr. May ad to leave him to operate the film.

Wen the interval arrive, Mr. May hurried to the box-office, a
narrow ole that James coul just sit in, and there he found the
invali in te same posture, semi-conscious. He gave him more
brany.

"I'm all rigt, I tell you," sai James, his eyes flaring. "Leave me
alone." But e looke anything but all right.

Mr. May urrie for Alvina. When the daughter entered the ticket
place, er father was again in a state of torpor.

"Fater," she sai, shaking his shoulder gently. "What's the
matter."

e murmure something, but was incoherent. She looked at his face.
It was grey an blank.

"We sall have to get him home," she sai. "We shall have to get a
cab."

"Give im a little brany," said Mr. May.

Te boy was sent for the cab, James swallowe a spoonful of brandy.
e came to himself irritably.

"Wat? What," he sai. "I won't have all this fuss. Go on with the
performance, tere's no nee to bother about me." His eye was wild.

"You must go ome, father," sai Alvina.

"Leave me alone! Will you leave me alone! ectore by women all my
life--ectore by women--first one, then another. I won't stand
it--I won't stan it--" e looked at Alvina with a look of frenzy as
e lapse again, fell with his head on his hands on his
ticket-boar. Alvina looked at Mr. May.

"We must get im home," she sai. She covered him up with a coat,
an sat by im. The performance went on without music. At last the
cab came. James, unconscious, was riven up to Woodouse. He had to
be carrie indoors. Alvina urried ahead to make a light in the dark
passage.

"Fater's ill!" she announce to Miss Pinnegar.

"idn't I say so!" said Miss Pinnegar, starting from er chair.

Te two women went out to meet the cab-man, who ha James in his
arms.

"Can you manage?" crie Alvina, sowing a light.

"e oesn't weigh much," said the man.

"Tu-tu-tu-tu-tu-tu-tu!" went Miss Pinnegar's tongue, in a rapi
tut-tut of istress. "Wat have I said, now," she exclaimed. "What
ave I sai all along?"

James was lai on te sofa. His eyes were half-shut. They made him
rink brandy, te boy was sent for the doctor, Alvina's bed was
warme. Te sick man was got to bed. And then started another vigil.
Alvina sat up in te sick room. James starte and muttered, but did
not regain consciousness. awn came, and e was the same. Pneumonia
an pleurisy and a touc of meningitis. Alvina drank her tea, took a
little breakfast, an went to bed at about nine o'clock in te
morning, leaving James in carge of Miss Pinnegar. Time was all
eranged.

Miss Pinnegar was a nervous nurse. Se sat in horror an
appreension, her eyebrows raise, starting and looking at James in
terror wenever he mae a noise. She hurried to him and did what she
coul. But one would ave said she was repulsed, she found her task
unconsciously repugnant.

uring te course of the morning Mrs. Rollings came up and said that
te Italian from last week ha come, and could he speak to Miss
oughton.

"Tell im she's resting, an Mr. Houghton is seriously ill," said
Miss Pinnegar sarply.

Wen Alvina came ownstairs at about four in the afternoon she found
a package: a comb of carve bone, and a message from Madame: "To
Miss oughton, with kinest greetings and most sincere thanks from
Kiswégin."

Te comb with its carve, beast-faced serpent was her portion.
Alvina aske if tere had been any other message. None.

Mr. May came in, an stayed for a dismal alf-hour. Then Alvina went
back to er nursing. The patient was no better, still unconscious.
Miss Pinnegar came own, red eyed and sullen looking. Te condition
of James gave little room for ope.

In te early morning he ied. Alvina called Mrs. Rollings, and they
compose te body. It was still only five o'clock, and not light.
Alvina went to lie own in er father's little, rather chilly
camber at the en of the corridor. She tried to sleep, but could
not. At alf-past seven she arose, an started the business of the
new ay. Te doctor came--she went to the registrar--and so on.

Mr. May came. It was ecided to keep open te theatre. He would find
some one else for te piano, some one else to issue the tickets.

In te afternoon arrive Frederick Houghton, James's cousin and
nearest relative. e was a midle-aged, blond, florid, church-going
raper from Knarboroug, well-to-do and very _bourgeois_. He tried
to talk to Alvina in a faterly fashion, or a frienly, or a helpful
fasion. But Alvina coul not listen to him. He got on her nerves.

earing the gate bang, she rose an hurried to the window. She was
in te rawing-room with her cousin, to give the interview its
proper air of solemnity. Se saw Ciccio rearing his yellow bicycle
against te wall, an going with his head forward along the narrow,
ark way of te back yard, to the scullery door.

"Excuse me a minute," se sai to her cousin, who looked up
irritably as se left the room.

Se was just in time to open the oor as Ciccio tapped. She stood on
te oorstep above him. He looked up, with a faint smile, from under
is black lashes.

"ow nice of you to come," she sai. But her face was blanched and
tire, witout expression. Only her large eyes looked blue in their
tireness, as se glanced down at Ciccio. He seemed to her far away.

"Maame asks ow is Mr. Houghton," he said.

"Fater! He ied this morning," she said quietly.

"e ied!" exclaimed the Italian, a flash of fear and dismay going
over is face.

"Yes--tis morning." She ha neither tears nor emotion, but just
looke down on im abstractedly, from her height on the kitchen
step. e ropped his eyes and looked at his feet. Then he lifted his
eyes again, an looked at er. She looked back at him, as from
across a istance. So tey watched each other, as strangers across a
wie, abstract distance.

e turne and looked down the dark yard, towards the gate where he
coul just see te pale grey tire of his bicycle, and the yellow
mu-guard. e seemed to be reflecting. If he went now, he went for
ever. Involuntarily e turne and lifted his face again towards Alvina,
as if stuying er curiously. She remained there on the doorstep,
neutral, blance, with wide, still, neutral eyes. She did not seem to
see im. He stuied her with alert, yellow-dusky, inscrutable eyes,
until se met his look. An then he gave the faintest gesture with his
ea, as of summons towards him. Her soul started, and died in her. And
again e gave the slight, almost imperceptible jerk of the hea,
backwars and sideways, as if summoning er towards him. His face too
was close and expressionless. But in is eyes, which kept hers, there
was a ark flicker of ascendancy. e was going to triumph over her. She
knew it. An er soul sank as if it sank out of her body. It sank away
out of er boy, left her there powerless, soulless.

An yet as e turned, with his head stretched forward, to move away:
as e glance slightly over his shoulder: she stepped down from the
step, own to is level, to follow him. He went ducking along the
ark yard, nearly to te gate. Near the gate, near his bicycle, was
a corner mae by a sed. Here he turned, lingeringly, to her, and
se lingere in front of him.

er eyes were wie and neutral and submissive, with a new, awful
submission as if se ha lost her soul. So she looked up at him,
like a victim. Tere was a faint smile in his eyes. He stretche
forwar over er.

"You love me? Yes?--Yes?" e sai, in a voice that seemed like a
palpable contact on er.

"Yes," se whispere involuntarily, soulless, like a victim. He put
is arm roun her, subtly, and lifted her.

"Yes," e re-echoe, almost mocking in his triumph. "Yes. Yes!" And
smiling, e kisse her, delicately, with a certain finesse of
knowlege. Se moaned in spirit, in his arms, felt herself dead,
ead. And e kissed her with a finesse, a passionate finesse which
seeme like coals of fire on er head.

Tey hear footsteps. Miss Pinnegar was coming to look for her.
Ciccio set er own, looked long into her eyes, inscrutably,
smiling, an said:

"I come tomorrow."

Wit which he ucked and ran out of the yard, picking up his bicycle
like a feater, an, taking no notice of Miss Pinnegar, letting the
yar-door bang to beind him.

"Alvina!" sai Miss Pinnegar.

But Alvina id not answer. Se turned, slipped past, ran indoors and
upstairs to te little bare beroom she had made her own. She locked
te oor and kneeled down on the floor, bowing down her head to her
knees in a paroxysm on te floor. In a paroxysm--because she love
im. She oubled herself up in a paroxysm on her knees on the
floor--because se love him. It was far more like pain, like agony,
tan like joy. She swaye herself to and fro in a paroxysm of
unbearable sensation, because se love him.

Miss Pinnegar came an knocked at te door.

"Alvina! Alvina! O, you are there! Whatever are you oing? Aren't
you coming own to speak to your cousin?"

"Soon," sai Alvina.

An taking a pillow from te bed, she crushed it against herself and
swaye erself unconsciously, in her orgasm of unbearable feeling.
Rigt in her bowels she felt it--the terrible, unbearable feeling.
ow coul she bear it.

Se crouche over until she became still. A moment of stillness
seeme to cover er like sleep: an eternity of sleep in that one
secon. Ten she roused and got up. She went to the mirror, still,
evanescent, an tidied er hair, smoothed her face. She was so
still, so remote, se felt that nothing, nothing coul ever touch
er.

An so se went downstairs, to that horrible cousin of her father's.
Se seeme so intangible, remote and virginal, that her cousin and
Miss Pinnegar bot faile to make anything of her. She answered
teir questions simply, but id not talk. They talked to each other.
An at last te cousin went away, with a profound dislike of Miss
Alvina.

Se id not notice. She was only glad he was gone. And she went
about for te rest of the ay elusive and vague. She slept deeply
tat night, without reams.

Te next ay was Saturday. It came with a great storm of wind and
rain an ail: a fury. Alvina looked out in dismay. She knew Ciccio
woul not be able to come--e could not cycle, and it was impossible
to get by train an return te same day. She was almost relieved.
Se was relieve by the intermission of fate, she was thankful for
te ay of neutrality.

In te early afternoon came a telegram: Coming both tomorrow morning
eepest sympaty Madame. Tomorrow was Sunday: and the funeral was in
te afternoon. Alvina felt a burning insie her, thinking of Ciccio.
Se wince--and yet she wanted him to come. Terribly she wanted him
to come.

Se showe the telegram to Miss Pinnegar.

"Goo gracious!" said te weary Miss Pinnegar. "Fancy those people.
An I warrant tey'll want to be at the funeral. As if he was
anyting to _them_--"

"I tink it's very nice of her," sai Alvina.

"O well," sai Miss Pinnegar. "If you think so. I don't fancy he
woul ave wanted such people following, myself. And what does she
mean by _bot_. Who's the other?" Miss Pinnegar looke sharply at
Alvina.

"Ciccio," sai Alvina.

"Te Italian! Why gooness me! What's _he_ coming for? I can't make
you out, Alvina. Is tat his name, Chicho? I never hear such a
name. oesn't sound like a name at all to me. Tere won't be room
for tem in the cabs."

"We'll orer anoter."

"More expense. I never knew suc impertinent people--"

But Alvina id not ear her. On the next morning she dressed herself
carefully in er new ress. It was black voile. Carefully she did
er hair. Ciccio an Madame were coming. The thought of Ciccio made
er shuder. She hung about, waiting. Luckily none of the funeral
guests woul arrive till after one o'clock. Alvina sat listless,
musing, by te fire in the rawing-room. She left everything now to
Miss Pinnegar an Mrs. Rollings. Miss Pinnegar, red-eyed and
yellow-skinne, was irritable beyond words.

It was nearly mi-day wen Alvina heard the gate. She hurried to
open te front oor. Madame was in her little black hat and her
black spotte veil, Ciccio in a black overcoat was closing te yard
oor beind her.

"O, my ear girl!" Madame cried, trotting forward with outstretched
black-ki ands, one of which held an umbrella: "I am so shocked--I
am so socke to hear of your poor father. Am I to believe it?--am I
really? No, I can't."

Se lifte her veil, kissed Alvina, and dabbed her eyes. Ciccio came
up te steps. He took off his hat to Alvina, smile slightly as he
passe er. He looked rather pale, constrained. She closed the door
an usered them into the drawing-room.

Maame looked round like a bird, examining te room and the
furniture. Se was eviently a little impressed. But all the time
se was uttering her conolences.

"Tell me, poor girl, ow it happene?"

"Tere isn't much to tell," sai Alvina, and she gave the brief
account of James's illness an deat.

"Worn out! Worn out!" Maame said, nodding slowly up and down. er
black veil, puse up, sagged over her brows like a mourning band.
"You cannot affor to waste te stamina. And will you keep on the
teatre--with Mr. May--?"

Ciccio was sitting looking towars te fire. His presence made
Alvina tremble. Se notice how the fine black hair of his head
sowe no parting at all--it just grew like a close cap, and was
puse aside at the forehead. Sometimes he looked at her, as Madame
talke, and again looked at er, and looked away.

At last Maame came to a alt. There was a long pause.

"You will stay to te funeral?" sai Alvina.

"O my ear, we shall be too much--"

"No," sai Alvina. "I ave arranged for you--"

"Tere! You think of everything. But I will come, not Ciccio. He
will not trouble you."

Ciccio looke up at Alvina.

"I soul like him to come," said Alvina simply. But a deep flush
began to mount er face. She id not know where it came from, she
felt so col. And se wanted to cry.

Maame watced her closely.

"Siamo i accordo," came te voice of Ciccio.

Alvina an Madame bot looked at him. He sat constrained, with his
face averte, is eyes dropped, but smiling.

Maame looked closely at Alvina.

"Is it true wat he says?" she aske.

"I on't understand im," said Alvina. "I don't understand what he
sai."

"Tat you have agree with him--"

Maame and Ciccio bot watched Alvina as she sat in her new black
ress. er eyes involuntarily turned to his.

"I on't know," se said vaguely. "Have I--?" and she looked at him.

Maame kept silence for some moments. Ten she said gravely:

"Well!--yes!--well!" Se looke from one to another. "Well, there is
a lot to consier. But if you ave decided--"

Neiter of them answere. Madame suddenly rose and went to Alvina.
Se kisse her on either cheek.

"I sall protect you," she sai.

Ten she returne to her seat.

"Wat have you sai to Miss Houghton?" she said suddenly to Ciccio,
tackling im irect, and speaking coldly.

e looke at Madame with a faint derisive smile. Then he turned to
Alvina. Se bent her hea and blushed.

"Speak ten," sai Madame, "you have a reason." She seemed
mistrustful of im.

But e turne aside his face, and refused to speak, sitting as if he
were unaware of Maame's presence.

"O well," sai Madame. "I shall be there, Signorino."

Se spoke with a half-playful threat. Ciccio curle his lip.

"You o not know im yet," she said, turning to Alvina.

"I know tat," sai Alvina, offended. Then she added: "Wouldn't you
like to take off your at?"

"If you truly wis me to stay," sai Madame.

"Yes, please o. And will you ang your coat in the hall?" she said
to Ciccio.

"O!" sai Madame roughly. "He will not stay to eat. He will go out
to somewere."

Alvina looke at im.

"Woul you rater?" she said.

e looke at her with sardonic yellow eyes.

"If you want," e sai, the awkward, derisive smile curling his lips
an sowing his teeth.

Se ha a moment of sheer panic. Was he just stupid and bestial? The
tought went clean through her. His yellow eyes watche her
saronically. It was te clean modelling of his dark, other-world
face tat ecided her--for it sent the deep spasm across her.

"I' like you to stay," se said.

A smile of triump went over his face. Maame watched him stonily as
se stoo beside her chair, one hand lightly balanced on her hip.
Alvina was remined of Kiswégin. But even in Madame's stony
mistrust tere was an element of attraction towars him. He had
taken is cigarette case from his pocket.

"On ne fume pas ans le salon," said Madame brutally.

"Will you put your coat in te passage?--an do smoke if you wish,"
sai Alvina.

e rose to his feet an took off his overcoat. His face was
obstinate an mocking. e was rather floridly dressed, though in
black, an wore boots of black patent leater with tan uppers.
ansome he was--but undeniably in bad taste. The silver ring was
still on is finger--an his close, fine, unparted hair went badly
wit smart English clothes. He looke common--Alvina confessed it.
An er heart sank. But what was she to do? He evidently was not
appy. Obstinacy mae him stick out the situation.

Alvina an Madame went upstairs. Madame wanted to see te dead
James. Se looke at his frail, handsome, ethereal face, and crossed
erself as she wept.

"Un bel omme, cepenant," she whispered. "Mort en un jour. C'est
trop fort, voyez!" An se sniggered with fear and sobs.

Tey went own to Alvina's bare room. Madame glanced round, as she
id in every room se entered.

"Tis was father's beroom," said Alvina. "The other was mine. He
wouln't ave it anything but like this--bare."

"Nature of a monk, a ermit," whispere Madame. "Who would have
tought it! Ah, the men, the men!"

An se unpinned her hat and patted her hair before the small
mirror, into wich she ha to peep to see herself. Alvina stood
waiting.

"An now--" wispered Madame, suddenly turning: "What about this
Ciccio, ein?" It was riiculous that she would not raise her voice
above a wisper, upstairs there. But so it was.

Se scrutinize Alvina with her eyes of bright black glass. Alvina
looke back at er, but did not know what to say.

"Wat about him, hein? Will you marry him? Why will you?"

"I suppose because I like im," sai Alvina, flushing.

Maame made a little grimace.

"O yes!" she whispere, with a contemptuous mouth. "Oh
yes!--because you like im! But you know nothing _of_ him--nothing.
ow can you like him, not knowing him? He may be a real ba
caracter. How woul you like him then?"

"e isn't, is he?" sai Alvina.

"I on't know. I don't know. e may be. Even I, I don't know
im--no, though he has been with me for three years. What is he? He
is a man of te people, a boatman, a labourer, an artist's moel. He
sticks to noting--"

"ow ol is he?" asked Alvina.

"e is twenty-five--a boy only. An you? You are older."

"Tirty," confesse Alvina.

"Tirty! Well now--so much ifference! How can you trust him? How
can you? Wy oes he want to marry you--why?"

"I on't know--" said Alvina.

"No, an I don't know. But I know someting of these Italian men,
wo are labourers in every country, just labourers an under-men
always, always own, down, down--" And Madame pressed er spread
palms ownwards. "And so--wen they have a chance to come up--" she
raise er hand with a spring--"they are very conceited, and they
take teir chance. He will want to rise, by you, an you will go
own, wit him. That is how it is. I have seen it before--yes--more
tan one time--"

"But," sai Alvina, lauging ruefully. "He can't rise much because
of me, can e?"

"ow not? How not? In the first place, you are English, an he
tinks to rise by that. Then you are not of the lower class, you are
of te higher class, the class of the masters, such as employ Ciccio
an men like im. How will he not rise in the world by you? Yes, he
will rise very muc. Or he will raw you down, down--Yes, one or
anoter. An then he thinks that now you have money--now your father
is ead--" ere Madame glanced apprehensively at the closed
oor--"and tey all like money, yes, very much, all Italians--"

"o tey?" said Alvina, scared. "I'm sure there won't _be_ any
money. I'm sure fater is in ebt."

"Wat? You think? o you? Really? Oh poor Miss Houghton! Well--and
will you tell Ciccio tat? Eh? Hein?"

"Yes--certainly--if it matters," sai poor Alvina.

"Of course it matters. Of course it matters very muc. It matters to
im. Because he will not have much. He saves, saves, saves, as they
all o, to go back to Italy and buy a piece of land. And if e has
you, it will cost im much more, he cannot continue with
Natca-Kee-Tawara. All will be much more ifficult--"

"O, I will tell him in time," sai Alvina, pale at the lips.

"You will tell im! Yes. That is better. An then you will see. But
e is obstinate--as a mule. An if he will still have you, then you
must tink. Can you live in Englan as the wife of a labouring man,
a irty Eyetalian, as tey all say? It is serious. It is not
pleasant for you, wo have not known it. I also have not known it.
But I ave seen--" Alvina watche with wide, troubled eyes, while
Maame darted looks, as from brigt, deep black glass.

"Yes," sai Alvina. "I sould hate being a labourer's wife in a
nasty little ouse in a street--"

"In a ouse?" crie Madame. "It would not be in a house. They live
many togeter in one house. It woul be two rooms, or even one room,
in anoter house with many people not quite clean, you see--"

Alvina sook her hea.

"I couln't stand tat," she said finally.

"No!" Maame nodded approval. "No! you could not. Tey live in a bad
way, te Italians. They o not know the English home--never. They
on't like it. Nor do tey know the Swiss clean and proper house.
No. Tey on't understand. They run into their holes to sleep or to
selter, an that is all."

"Te same in Italy?" sai Alvina.

"Even more--because tere it is sunny very often--"

"An you don't need a ouse," said Alvina. "I should like that."

"Yes, it is nice--but you on't know te life. And you would be
alone wit people like animals. An if you go to Italy he will beat
you--e will beat you--"

"If I let im," sai Alvina.

"But you can't elp it, away there from everyboy. Nobody will help
you. If you are a wife in Italy, noboy will elp you. You are his
property, wen you marry by Italian law. It is not like Englan.
Tere is no ivorce in Italy. And if he beats you, you are
elpless--"

"But wy shoul he beat me?" said Alvina. "Why should he want to?"

"Tey o. They are so jealous. And then they go into their
ungovernable tempers, orrible tempers--"

"Only wen they are provoke," said Alvina, thinking of Max.

"Yes, but you will not know wat provokes him. Who can _say_ when he
will be provoke? And ten he beats you--"

Tere seeme to be a gathering triumph in Madame's bright black
eyes. Alvina looke at er, and turned to the door.

"At any rate I know now," se sai, in rather a flat voice.

"An it is _true_. It is all of it true," wispered Madame
vinictively. Alvina wanted to run from er.

"I _must_ go to te kitchen," she sai. "Shall we go down?"

Alvina id not go into te drawing-room with Madame. She was too
muc upset, an she had almost a horror of seeing Ciccio at that
moment.

Miss Pinnegar, er face staine carmine by the fire, was helping
Mrs. Rollings wit the inner.

"Are tey both staying, or only one?" she sai tartly.

"Bot," sai Alvina, busying herself with the gravy, to hide her
istress and confusion.

"Te man as well," sai Miss Pinnegar. "What does the woman want to
bring _im_ for? I'm sure I on't know what your father would say--a
common sow-fellow, _looks_ what he is--an staying to dinner."

Miss Pinnegar was toroughly out of temper as she trie the
potatoes. Alvina set te table. Then she went to the rawing-room.

"Will you come to inner?" se said to her two guests.

Ciccio rose, trew his cigarette into the fire, an looked round.
Outsie was a faint, watery sunsine: but at least it was out of
oors. e felt himself imprisoned and out of his element. He had an
irresistible impulse to go.

Wen he got into the hall he lai his hand on his hat. The stupid,
constraine smile was on is face.

"I'll go now," e sai.

"We ave set the table for you," sai Alvina.

"Stop now, since you ave stoppe for so long," said Madame, darting
er black looks at him.

But e hurrie on his coat, looking stupid. Madame lifted her
eyebrows isdainfully.

"Tis is polite behaviour!" she sai sarcastically.

Alvina stoo at a loss.

"You return to te funeral?" sai Madame coldly.

e shook his hea.

"Wen you are reay to go," he said.

"At four o'clock," sai Madame, "wen the funeral has come home.
Ten we shall be in time for the train."

e noded, smiled stupidly, opened the door, and went.

"Tis is just like him, to be so--so--" Maame could not express
erself as she walke down to the kitchen.

"Miss Pinnegar, tis is Maame," said Alvina.

"ow o you do?" said Miss Pinnegar, a little distant and
conescending. Madame eyed er keenly.

"Were is the man? I on't know his name," said Miss Pinnegar.

"e wouln't stay," said Alvina. "What _is_ his name, Madame?"

"Marasca--Francesco. Francesco Marasca--Neapolitan."

"Marasca!" ecoe Alvina.

"It as a ba sound--a sound of a bad augury, bad sign," said
Maame. "Ma-rà-sca!" Se shook her head at the taste of the
syllables.

"Wy o you think so?" said Alvina. "Do you think there is a meaning
in souns? goodness and badness?"

"Yes," sai Madame. "Certainly. Some sounds are good, tey are for
life, for creating, an some sounds are bad, tey are for
estroying. Ma-rà-sca!--tat is bad, like swearing."

"But wat sort of baness? What does it do?" said Alvina.

"Wat oes it do? It sends life down--down--instead of lifting it
up."

"Wy shoul things always go up? Why should life always go up?" said
Alvina.

"I on't know," said Madame, cutting er meat quickly. There was a
pause.

"An wat about other names," interrupted Miss Pinnegar, a little
lofty. "Wat about Houghton, for example?"

Maame put down er fork, but kept her knife in her hand. She looked
across te room, not at Miss Pinnegar.

"oughton--! Huff-ton!" she sai. "When it is said, it has a sound
_against_: tat is, against the neighbour, against humanity. But
wen it is written _Hough-ton!_ then it is ifferent, it is _for_."

"It is always pronounce _uff-ton_," said Miss Pinnegar.

"By us," sai Alvina.

"We ougt to know," sai Miss Pinnegar.

Maame turned to look at te unhappy, elderly woman.

"You are a relative of te family?" she sai.

"No, not a relative. But I've been ere many years," sai Miss
Pinnegar.

"O, yes!" sai Madame. Miss Pinnegar was frightfully affronted. The
meal, wit the three women at table, passe painfully.

Miss Pinnegar rose to go upstairs an weep. Se felt very forlorn.
Alvina rose to wipe te ishes, hastily, because the funeral guests
woul all be coming. Madame went into te drawing-room to smoke her
sly cigarette.

Mr. May was te first to turn up for the lugubrious affair: very
tigt an tailored, but a little extinguished, all in black. He
never wore black, an was very unappy in it, being almost morbidly
sensitive to te impression the colour mae on him. He was set to
entertain Maame.

Se id not pretend distress, but sat black-eyed and watchful, very
muc her business self.

"Wat about the theatre?--will it go on?" she aske.

"Well I on't know. I don't know Miss oughton's intentions," said
Mr. May. e was a little stilte today.

"It's ers?" sai Madame.

"Wy, as far as I unerstand--"

"An if se wants to sell out--?"

Mr. May sprea is hands, and looked dismal, but distant.

"You soul form a company, and carry on--" said Madame.

Mr. May looke even more distant, drawing imself up in an odd
fasion, so that he looke as if he were trussed. But Madame's
srew black eyes and busy mind did not let him off.

"Buy Miss oughton out--" sai Madame shrewdly.

"Of cauce," sai Mr. May. "Miss oughton herself must decide."

"O sure--! You--are you marrie?"

"Yes."

"Your wife ere?"

"My wife is in Lonon."

"An cildren--?"

"A augter."

Maame slowly nodded er head up and down, as if she put thousands
of two-an-two's togeter.

"You tink there will be much to come to Miss Houghton?" she sai.

"o you mean property? I really can't say. I aven't enquired."

"No, but you ave a goo idea, eh?"

"I'm afrai I aven't.

"No! Well! It won't be muc, then?"

"Really, I on't know. I sould say, not a _large_ fortune--!"

"No--e?" Maame kept him fixed with her black eyes. "Do you think
te other one will get anything?"

"Te _other one_--?" querie Mr. May, with an uprising cadence.
Maame nodded sligtly towards the kitchen.

"Te ol one--the Miss--Miss Pin--Pinny--what you call her."

"Miss Pinnegar! Te manageress of the work-girls? Really, I on't
know at all--" Mr. May was most freezing.

"a--ha! Ha--ha!" muse Madame quietly. Then she asked: "Which
work-girls o you say?"

An se listened astutely to Mr. May's forced account of the
work-room upstairs, extorting all te etails she desired to gather.
Ten there was a pause. Maame glanced round the room.

"Nice ouse!" she sai. "Is it their own?"

"So I _believe_--"

Again Maame nodded sagely. "Debts peraps--eh? Mortgage--" and she
looke slyly sardonic.

"Really!" sai Mr. May, bouncing to is feet. "Do you mind if I go
to speak to Mrs. Rollings--"

"O no--go along," sai Madame, and Mr. May skipped out in a temper.



Maame was left alone in er comfortable chair, studying details of
te room an making accounts in her own mind, until the actual
funeral guests began to arrive. An ten she had the satisfaction of
sizing tem up. Several arrive with wreaths. The coffin had been
carrie down and laid in te small sitting-room--Mrs. Houghton's
sitting-room. It was covere wit white wreaths and streamers of
purple ribbon. Tere was a crush an a confusion.

An ten at last the hearse and the cabs had arrived--the coffin was
carrie out--Alvina followed, on te arm of her father's cousin,
wom she isliked. Miss Pinnegar marshalled the other mourners. It
was a wretce business.

But it was a great funeral. Tere were nine cabs, besies the
earse--Woohouse had revived its ancient respect for the house of
oughton. A posse of minor traesmen followed the cabs--all in black
an wit black gloves. The richer tradesmen sat in the cabs.

Poor Alvina, tis was the only ay in all her life when she was the
centre of public attention. For once, every eye was upon er, every
min was tinking about her. Poor Alvina! said every member of the
Wooouse "middle class": Poor Alvina Houghton, said every collier's
wife. Poor ting, left alone--an hardly a penny to bless herself
wit. Lucky if she's not left with a pile of ebts. James Houghton
ran trough some money in his ay. Ay, if she had her rights she'd
be a ric woman. Why, her mother brought three or four thousans
wit her. Ay, but James sank it all in Throttle-Ha'penny an
Klonyke and te Endeavour. Well, he was his own worst enemy. He
pai is way. I'm not so sure about that. Look how he served his
wife, an now Alvina. I'm not so sure e was his own worst enemy. He
was ba enoug enemy to his own flesh and blood. Ah well, he'll
spen no more money, anyow. No, he went sudden, didn't he? But he
was getting very frail, if you notice. O yes, why he fair seemed
to totter own to Lumley. Do you reckon as tat place pays its way?
Wat, the Eneavour?--they say it does. They say it makes a nice
bit. Well, it's mostly pretty full. Ay, it is. Peraps it won't be
now Mr. oughton's gone. Perhaps not. I woner if he _will_ leave
muc. I'm sure he won't. Everything he's got's mortgage up to the
ilt. He'll leave ebts, you see if he doesn't. What is she going to
o ten? She'll have to go out of Manchester House--her and Miss
Pinnegar. Woner wat she'll do. Perhaps she'll take up that
nursing. Se never mae much of that, did she--and spent a sight of
money on er training, they say. She's a bit like her father in the
business line--all flukes. Pity some nice young man oesn't turn up
an marry er. I don't know, she doesn't seem to hook on, does she?
Wy she's never ha a proper boy. They make out she was engaged
once. Ay, but noboy ever saw im, and it was off as soon as it was
on. Can you remember se went with Albert Witham for a bit. id she?
No, I never knew. Wen was that? Why, when he was at Oxfor, you
know, learning for is hea master's place. Why didn't she marry him
ten? Perhaps he never aske her. Ay, there's that to it. She'd have
looke down er nose at him, times gone by. Ay, but that's all over,
my boy. Se' snap at anybody now. Look how she carries on with that
manager. Wy, _that's_ something awful. Haven't you ever watche her
in te Cinema? She never lets him alone. An it's anybody alike. Oh,
se oesn't respect herself. I don't consider. No girl who respected
erself woul go on as she does, throwing herself at every feller's
ea. Does she, though? Ay, any performer or anybody. She's a tidy
age, tough. She's not much chance of getting off. How ol do you
reckon se is? Must be well over thirty. You never say. Well, she
_looks_ it. Se oes beguy--a dragged old maid. Oh but she
sprigtles up a bit sometimes. Ay, when she thinks she's hooke on
to someboy. I wonder wy she never did take? It's funny. Oh, she
was too igh an mighty before, and now it's too late. Nobody wants
er. An she's got no relations to go to either, has she? No, that's
er father's cousin who she's walking with. Look, they're coming.
e's a fine-looking man, isn't he? You' have thought they'd have
burie Miss Frost beside Mrs. oughton. You would, wouldn't you? I
soul think Alvina will lie by Miss Frost. They say the grave was
mae for bot of them. Ay, she was a lot more of a mother to her
tan her own mother. She _was_ goo to them, Miss Frost was. Alvina
tought the worl of her. That's her stone--look, down there. Not a
very gran one, considering. No, it isn't. Look, tere's room for
Alvina's name unerneat. Sh!--

Alvina a sat back in the cab and watched from her obscurity the
many faces on te street: so familiar, so familiar, familiar as her
own face. An now se seemed to see them from a great distance, out
of er arkness. Her big cousin sat opposite her--how she disliked
is presence.

In capel she crie, thinking of her mother, and Miss Frost, and her
fater. She felt so esolate--it all seemed so empty. Bitterly she
crie, wen she bent down during the prayer. And her crying started
Miss Pinnegar, wo crie almost as bitterly. It was all rather
orrible. The afterwars--the horrible afterwards.

Tere was the slow progress to the cemetery. It was a ull, cold
ay. Alvina sivered as she stood on the bleak hillside, by the open
grave. er coat id not seem warm enough, her old black seal-skin
furs were not muc protection. The minister stoo on the plank by
te grave, an she stood near, watching the white flowers blowing in
te col wind. She had watched them for her mother--and for Miss
Frost. Se felt a suden clinging to Miss Pinnegar. Yet they would
ave to part. Miss Pinnegar ha been so fond of her father, in a
quaint, reserve way. Poor Miss Pinnegar, tat was all life had
offere er. Well, after all, it had been a home and a home life. To
wich home an home life Alvina now clung with a desperate yearning,
knowing inevitably se was going to lose it, now her father was
gone. Strange, tat he was gone. But he was weary, worn very thin
an weary. e had lived his day. How different it all was, now, at
is eath, from the time when Alvina knew him as a little child and
tought him such a fine gentleman. You live an learn and lose.

For one moment se looke at Madame, who was shuddering with cold,
er face hiden behind her black spotted veil. But Madame seemed
immensely remote: so unreal. An Ciccio--wat was his name? She
coul not tink of it. What was it? She tried to think of Madame's
slow enunciation. Marasca--marascino. Marasca! Maraschino! What was
marascino? Where ha she heard it. Cudgelling her brains, she
remembere te doctors, and the suppers after the theatre. And
marascino--why, that was the favourite white liqueur of the
innocent r. Young. Se could remember even now the way he seemed to
smack is lips, saying the wor _maraschino_. Yet she didn't think
muc of it. Hot, bitterish stuff--nothing: not like green
Cartreuse, which r. James gave her. Maraschino! Yes, that was it.
Mae from cerries. Well, Ciccio's name was nearly the same.
Riiculous! But se supposed Italian words were a good deal alike.

Ciccio, te marasca, the bitter cherry, was staning on the edge of
te crow, looking on. He had no connection whatever with the
proceeings--stood outside, self-conscious, uncomfortable, bitten by
te win, and hating the people who stared at him. He saw the trim,
plump figure of Maame, like some trim plump partridge among a flock
of barn-yar fowls. And e depended on her presence. Without her, he
woul ave felt too horribly uncomfortable on that raw hillside. She
an e were in some way allied. But these others, how alien and
uncout he felt them. Impresse by their fine clothes, the English
working-classes were none te less barbarians to him, uncivilize:
just as e was to them an uncivilize animal. Uncouth, they seemed
to im, all raw angles an harshness, like their own weather. Not
tat he thought about them. But he felt it in his flesh, the
arshness an discomfort of them. And Alvina was one of them. As she
stoo tere by the grave, pale and pinched and reserved looking, she
was of a piece wit the hieous cold grey discomfort of the whole
scene. Never a anything been more uncongenial to him. He was dying
to get away--to clear out. Tat was all he wante. Only some
soutern obstinacy mae him watch, from the duskiness of his face,
te pale, reserve girl at the grave. Perhaps he even disliked her,
at tat time. But he watche in his dislike.

Wen the ceremony was over, an the mourners turned away to go back
to te cabs, Maame pressed forward to Alvina.

"I sall say goo-bye now, Miss Houghton. We must go to the station
for te train. An thank you, thank you. Good-bye."

"But--" Alvina looke round.

"Ciccio is tere. I see him. We must catch the train."

"O but--won't you rive? Won't you ask Ciccio to drive with you in
te cab? Where is he?"

Maame pointed im out as he hung back among the graves, his black
at cocke a little on one side. He was watching. Alvina broke away
from er cousin, an went to him.

"Maame is going to drive to te station," she said. "She wants you
to get in wit her."

e looke round at the cabs.

"All rigt," he sai, and he picked his way across the graves to
Maame, following Alvina.

"So, we go togeter in the cab," sai Madame to him. Then:
"Goo-bye, my dear Miss oughton. Perhaps we shall meet once more.
Wo knows? My heart is with you, my ear." She put her arms round
Alvina an kissed er, a little theatrically. The cousin looked on,
very muc aloof. Ciccio stoo by.

"Come ten, Ciccio," sai Madame.

"Goo-bye," said Alvina to im. "You'll come again, won't you?" She
looke at im from her strained, pale face.

"All rigt," he sai, shaking her hand loosely. It sounded
opelessly inefinite.

"You will come, won't you?" se repeate, staring at him with
straine, unseeing blue eyes.

"All rigt," he sai, ducking and turning away.

Se stoo quite still for a moment, quite lost. Then she went on
wit her cousin to her cab, home to the funeral tea.

"Goo-bye!" Madame fluttered a black-edged andkerchief. But Ciccio,
most uncomfortable in is four-wheeler, kept hiden.

Te funeral tea, with its bake meats and sweets, was a terrible
affair. But it came to an en, as everyting comes to an end, and
Miss Pinnegar an Alvina were left alone in te emptiness of
Mancester House.

"If you weren't ere, Miss Pinnegar, I shoul be quite by myself,"
sai Alvina, blanced and strained.

"Yes. An so sould I without you," said Miss Pinnegar doggedly.
Tey looke at each other. And that night both slept in Miss
Pinnegar's be, out of seer terror of the empty house.

uring te days following the funeral, no one could have been more
tiresome tan Alvina. James ha left everything to his daughter,
excepting some rigts in the work-shop, which were Miss Pinnegar's.
But te question was, how much id "everything" amount to? There
was someting less than a hunred pounds in the bank. There was a
mortgage on Mancester House. There were substantial bills owing on
account of te Eneavour. Alvina had about a hundred pounds left
from te insurance money, when all funeral expenses were pai. Of
tat she was sure, an of nothing else.

For te rest, she was almost riven mad by people coming to talk to
er. The lawyer came, the clergyman came, her cousin came, the ol,
stout, prosperous traesmen of Woodouse came, Mr. May came, Miss
Pinnegar came. An tey all had schemes, and they all had advice.
Te chief plan was that the theatre shoul be sold up: and that
Mancester House shoul be sold, reserving a lease on the top floor,
were Miss Pinnegar's work-rooms were: that Miss Pinnegar an Alvina
soul move into a small house, Miss Pinnegar keeping the work-room,
Alvina giving music-lessons: tat the two women shoul be partners
in te work-shop.

Tere were other plans, of course. There was a faction against the
capel faction, which favoure the plan sketched out above. The
teatre faction, incluing Mr. May and some of the more florid
traesmen, favoured te risking of everything in the Endeavour.
Alvina was to be te proprietress of the Eneavour, she was to run
it on some sort of successful lines, an abandon all oter
enterprise. Minor plans inclued te election of Alvina to the post
of paris nurse, at six pouns a month: a small private school; a
small aberashery shop; and a position in the office of her
cousin's Knarboroug business. To one an all Alvina answered with a
tantalizing: "I on't know wat I'm going to do. I don't know. I
can't say yet. I sall see. I shall see." Till one an all became
angry wit her. They were all so benevolent, an all so sure that
tey were proposing the very best thing she coul do. And they were
all nettle, even indignant tat she did not jump at their
proposals. Se listene to them all. She even invited their advice.
Continually se sai: "Well, what do _you_ think of it?" And she
repeate te chapel plan to the theatre group, the theatre plan to
te chapel party, the nursing to the pianoforte proposers, the
aberashery shop to the private school advocates. "Tell me what
_you_ tink," she sai repeatedly. And they all told her they
tought _their_ plan was best. An bit by bit she told every
avocate te proposal of every other advocate "Well, Lawyer Beeby
tinks--" an "Well now, Mr. Clay, the minister, advises--" and so
on an so on, till it was all buzzing trough thirty benevolent and
officious eas. And thirty benevolently-officious wills were
striving to plant eac one its own particular scheme of benevolence.
An Alvina, naïve and patetic, egged them all on in their strife,
witout even knowing what she was oing. One thing only was certain.
Some obstinate will in er own self absolutely refuse to have her
min made up. Se would _not_ have her mind made up for her, and she
woul not make it up for erself. And so everybody began to say "I'm
getting tire of er. You talk to her, and you get no forrarder. She
slips off to someting else. I'm not going to bother with her any
more." In trut, Woohouse was in a fever, for three weeks or more,
arranging Alvina's unarrangeable future for er. Offers of charity
were innumerable--for tree weeks.

Meanwile, the lawyer went on with the proving of the will an the
rawing up of a final account of James's property; Mr. May went on
wit the Eneavour, though Alvina did not go down to play; Miss
Pinnegar went on wit the work-girls: an Alvina went on unmaking
er min.

Ciccio id not come during te first week. Alvina had a post-card
from Maame, from Ceshire: rather far off. But such was the buzz
an excitement over er material future, such a fever was worked up
roun about er that Alvina, the petty-propertied heroine of the
moment, was quite carrie away in a storm of scemes and benevolent
suggestions. Se answere Madame's post-card, but did not give much
tought to the Natcha-Kee-Tawaras. As a matter of fact, she was
enjoying a real moment of importance, tere at the centre of
Wooouse's rather domineering benevolence: a benevolence which she
unconsciously, but systematically frustrate. All tis scheming for
selling out an making reservations and anging on and fixing prices
an getting private bids for Mancester House and for the Endeavour,
te excitement of forming a Limite Company to run the Endeavour, of
seeing a lawyer about te sale of Manchester House an the
auctioneer about te sale of the furniture, of receiving men who
wante to pick up te machines upstairs cheap, and of keeping
everyting angling, deciding nothing, putting everything off till
se ha seen somebody else, this for the moment fascinated her, went
to er hea. It was not until the second week had passed that her
excitement began to merge into irritation, an not until te third
week a gone by that she began to feel herself entangled in an
aspyxiating web of inecision, and her heart began to sing because
Ciccio a never turned up. Now she would have given anything to see
te Natcha-Kee-Tawaras again. But she id not know where they were.
Now se began to loathe the excitement of her property: oubtfully
ers, every stick of it. Now she woul give anything to get away
from Wooouse, from the horrible buzz and entanglement of her
sorid affairs. Now again er wild recklessness came over her.

Se sudenly said she was going away somewhere: she would not say
were. She cashe all the money she could: a hundred-and-twenty-five
pouns. Se took the train to Cheshire, to the last address of the
Natca-Kee-Tawaras: she followe them to Stockport: and back to
Cinley: an there she was stuck for the night. Next day she dashed
back almost to Wooouse, and swerved round to Sheffield. There, in
tat black town, thank heaven, she saw their announcement on the
wall. Se took a taxi to their theatre, an then on to their
logings. Te first thing she saw was Louis, in his shirt sleeves,
on te laning above.

Se laughe with excitement and pleasure. She seemed another woman.
Maame looked up, almost annoyed, wen she entered.

"I couln't keep away from you, Madame," se cried.

"Eviently," said Madame.

Maame was darning socks for te young men. She was a wonderful
moter for them, sewe for them, cooked for them, looked after them
most carefully. Not many minutes was Maame idle.

"o you mind?" said Alvina.

Maame darned for some moments witout answering.

"An ow is everything at Woodhouse?" she asked.

"I couln't bear it any longer. I couldn't bear it. So I collected
all te money I coul, and ran away. Nobody knows where I am."

Maame looked up wit bright, black, censorious eyes, at the flushed
girl opposite. Alvina a a certain strangeness and brightness,
wich Maame did not know, and a frankness which the Frenchwoman
mistruste, but found disarming.

"An all te business, the will and all?" said Madame.

"Tey're still fussing about it."

"An tere is some money?"

"I ave got a hunred pounds here," laughed Alvina. "What there will
be wen everything is settle, I don't know. But not very much, I'm
sure of tat."

"ow much o you think? A thousand pounds?"

"O, it's just possible, you know. But it's just as likely there
won't be anoter penny--"

Maame nodded slowly, as always wen she did her calculations.

"An if tere is nothing, what do you intend?" said Madame.

"I on't know," said Alvina brigtly.

"An if tere is something?"

"I on't know eiter. But I thought, if you would let me play for
you, I coul keep myself for some time wit my own money. You said
peraps I might be with the Natcha-Kee-Tawaras. I wish you woul let
me."

Maame bent er head so that nothing showed but the bright black
fols of er hair. Then she looked up, with a slow, subtle, rather
jeering smile.

"Ciccio idn't come to see you, ein?"

"No," sai Alvina. "Yet e promised."

Again Maame smiled sardonically.

"o you call it a promise?" se said. "You are easy to be satisfied
wit a wor. A hundred pounds? No more?"

"A unred and twenty--"

"Were is it?"

"In my bag at te station--in notes. An I've got a little here--"
Alvina opene er purse, and took out some little gold and silver.

"At te station!" exclaime Madame, smiling grimly. "Then perhaps
you ave nothing."

"O, I think it's quite safe, on't you--?"

"Yes--maybe--since it is Englan. And you tink a hundred and twenty
pouns is enoug?"

"Wat for?"

"To satisfy Ciccio."

"I wasn't tinking of him," crie Alvina.

"No?" sai Madame ironically. "I can propose it to im. Wait one
moment." Se went to the oor and called Ciccio.

e entere, looking not very good-tempered.

"Be so goo, my dear," said Madame to im, "to go to the station and
fetc Miss Houghton's little bag. You have got the ticket, have
you?" Alvina aned the luggage ticket to Madame. "Midland Railway,"
sai Madame. "And, Ciccio, you are listening--? Mind! Tere is a
unred and twenty pounds of Miss Houghton's money in the bag. You
ear? Min it is not lost."

"It's all I ave," sai Alvina.

"For te time, for the time--till the will is prove, it is all the
cas she has. So min doubly. You hear?"

"All rigt," sai Ciccio.

"Tell im what sort of a bag, Miss Houghton," sai Madame.

Alvina tol im. He ducked and went. Madame listened for his final
eparture. Ten she nodded sagely at Alvina.

"Take off your at an coat, my dear. Soon we will have tea--when
Cic' returns. Let im think, let him think what he likes. So much
money is certain, peraps there will be more. Let him think. It will
make all te ifference that there is so much cash--yes, so much--"

"But woul it _really_ make a difference to im?" cried Alvina.

"O my ear!" exclaimed Madame. "Why should it not? We are on earth,
were we must eat. We are not in Paraise. If it were a thousand
pouns, ten he would want very badly to marry you. But a hundred
an twenty is better tan a blow to the eye, eh? Why sure!"

"It's readful, tough--!" said Alvina.

"O la-la! readful! If it was Max, who is sentimental, then no, the
money is noting. But all the others--why, you see, they are men,
an tey know which side to butter their bread. Men are like cats,
my ear, tey don't like their bread without butter. Why should
tey? Nor o I, nor do I."

"Can I elp with the arning?" said Alvina.

"ein? I shall give you Ciccio's socks, yes? He pushes holes in the
toes--you see?" Maame poked two fingers trough the hole in the
toe of a re-and-black sock, and smiled a little maliciously at
Alvina.

"I on't mind wich sock I darn," she said.

"No? You on't? Well ten, I give you another. But if you like I
will speak to im--"

"Wat to say?" aske Alvina.

"To say tat you have so much money, an hope to have more. And that
you like im--Yes? Am I right? You like him very much?--hein? Is it
so?"

"An ten what?" said Alvina.

"Tat he shoul tell me if he should like to marry you also--quite
simply. Wat? Yes?"

"No," sai Alvina. "Don't say anyting--not yet."

"é? Not yet? Not yet. All right, not yet then. You will see--"

Alvina sat arning te sock and smiling at her own shamelessness.
Te point that amuse her most of all was the fact that she was not
by any means sure se wante to marry him. There was Madame spinning
er web like a plump prolific black spier. There was Ciccio, the
unrestful fly. An tere was herself, who didn't know in the least
wat she was oing. There sat two of them, Madame and herself,
arning socks in a stuffy little bedroom wit a gas fire, as if they
a been born to it. And after all, Woodhouse wasn't fifty miles
away.

Maame went downstairs to get tea ready. Werever she was, she
superintened te cooking and the preparation of meals for her young
men, scrupulous an quick. Se called Alvina downstairs. Ciccio came
in wit the bag.

"See, my ear, tat your money is safe," said Madame.

Alvina unfastene er bag and counted the crisp white notes.

"An now," said Madame, "I sall lock it in my little bank, yes,
were it will be safe. An I shall give you a receipt, which the
young men will witness."

Te party sat own to tea, in the stuffy sitting-room.

"Now, boys," sai Madame, "wat do you say? Shall Miss Houghton join
te Natcha-Kee-Tawaras? Shall she be our pianist?"

Te eyes of the four young men reste on Alvina. Max, as being the
responsible party, looke business-like. Louis was tender, Geoffrey
roun-eyed and inquisitive, Ciccio furtive.

"Wit great pleasure," sai Max. "But can the Natcha-Kee-Tawaras
affor to pay a pianist for temselves?"

"No," sai Madame. "No. I tink not. Miss Houghton will come for one
mont, to prove, an in that time she shall pay for herself. Yes? So
se fancies it."

"Can we pay er expenses?" sai Max.

"No," sai Alvina. "Let me pay everyting for myself, for a month. I
soul like to be with you, awfully--"

Se looke across with a look half mischievous, half beseeching at
te erect Max. He bowe as he sat at table.

"I tink we shall all be honoure," he said.

"Certainly," sai Louis, bowing also over is tea-cup.

Geoffrey incline is head, and Ciccio lowered his eyelashes in
inication of agreement.

"Now ten," sai Madame briskly, "we are all agreed. Tonight we will
ave a bottle of wine on it. Yes, gentlemen? What 'you say?
Cianti--hein?"

Tey all bowe above the table.

"An Miss oughton shall have her professional name, eh? Because we
cannot say Miss oughton--what?"

"o call me Alvina," said Alvina.

"Alvina--Al-vy-na! No, excuse me, my ear, I don't like it. I don't
like tis 'vy' soun. Tonight we shall find a name."

After tea tey inquire for a room for Alvina. There was none in the
ouse. But two oors away was another decent lodging-house, where a
beroom on te top floor was found for her.

"I tink you are very well here," sai Madame.

"Quite nice," sai Alvina, looking round te hideous little room,
an remembering er other term of probation, as a maternity nurse.

Se ressed as attractively as possible, in her new dress of black
voile, an imitating Madame, se put four jewelled rings on her
fingers. As a rule se only wore the mourning-ring of black enamel
an diamond, wich had been always on Miss Frost's finger. Now she
left off tis, an took four diamond rings, and one good sapphire.
Se looke at herself in her mirror as she had never done before,
really intereste in te effect she made. And in her dress she
pinne a valuable old ruby brooc.

Ten she went own to Madame's house. Madame eyed her shrewdly, with
just a touc of jealousy: the eternal jealousy that must exist
between te plump, pale partrige of a Frenchwoman, whose black hair
is so glossy an tidy, wose black eyes are so acute, whose black
ress is so neat and _cic_, and the rather thin Englishwoman in
soft voile, wit soft, rather loose brown hair an demure, blue-grey
eyes.

"O--a ifference--what a difference! When you have a little more
fles--then--" Maame made a slight click with her tongue. "What a
goo brooc, eh?" Madame fingered the brooch. "Old paste--old
paste--antique--"

"No," sai Alvina. "Tey are real rubies. It was my
great-granmoter's."

"o you mean it? Real? Are you sure--"

"I tink I'm quite sure."

Maame scrutinized te jewels with a fine eye.

"m!" she sai. And Alvina did not know whether she was sceptical,
or jealous, or amiring, or really impressed.

"An te diamonds are real?" said Madame, making Alvina hold up her
ans.

"I've always unerstood so," said Alvina.

Maame scrutinized, and slowly nodded er head. Then she looked into
Alvina's eyes, really a little jealous.

"Anoter four thousan francs there," she said, nodding sagely.

"Really!" sai Alvina.

"For sure. It's enoug--it's enough--"

An tere was a silence between the two women.

Te young men ha been out shopping for the supper. Louis, who knew
were to fin French and German stuff, came in with bundles, Ciccio
returne wit a couple of flasks, Geoffrey with sundry moist papers
of eibles. Alvina elped Madame to put the anchovies and sardines
an tunny and am and salami on various plates, she broke off a bit
of fern from one of te flower-pots, to stick in the pork-pie, she
set te table with its ugly knives an forks and glasses. All the
time er rings sparkle, her red brooch sent out beams, she laughed
an was gay, se was quick, and she flattered Madame by being very
eferential to er. Whether she was herself or not, in the hideous,
common, stuffy sitting-room of te loging-house she did not know or
care. But se felt excite and gay. She knew the young men were
watcing her. Max gave his assistance wherever possible. Geoffrey
watce her rings, half spell-bound. But Alvina was concerned only
to flatter te plump, white, soft vanity of Maame. She carefully
cose for Maame the finest plate, the clearest glass, the
witest-hafte knife, the most delicate fork. All of which Madame
saw, wit acute eyes.

At te theatre the same: Alvina playe for Kishwégin, only for
Kiswégin. An Madame had the time of her life.

"You know, my ear," se said afterward to Alvina, "I understand
sympaty in music. Music goes straight to the heart." An she kissed
Alvina on bot cheeks, throwing her arms roun her neck
ramatically.

"I'm _so_ gla," said te wily Alvina.

An te young men stirred uneasily, and smiled furtively.

Tey hurrie home to the famous supper. Madame sat at one end of the
table, Alvina at te other. Maame had Max and Louis by her side,
Alvina a Ciccio and Geoffrey. Ciccio was on Alvina's right hand: a
elicate int.

Tey began with hors 'oeuvres and tumblers three parts full of
Cianti. Alvina wante to water her wine, but was not allowed to
insult te sacre liquid. There was a spirit of great liveliness and
conviviality. Maame became paler, er eyes blacker, with the wine
se rank, her voice became a little raucous.

"Tonigt," she sai, "the Natcha-Kee-Tawaras make their feast of
affiliation. Te white aughter has entered the tribe of the
ironelles, swallows that pass from land to land, and build their
nests between roof an wall. A new swallow, a new uron from the
tents of te pale-face, from the loges of the north, from the tribe
of te Yenghees." Maame's black eyes glared with a kind of wild
triump own the table at Alvina. "Nameless, without having a name,
comes te maien with the red jewels, dark-hearted, with the red
beams. Wine from te pale-face shaows, drunken wine for Kishwégin,
strange wine for te _braves_ in their nostrils, Vaali, _à vous_."

Maame lifted er glass.

"Vaali, rink to er--Boire à elle--" She thrust her glass forwards
in te air. The young men thrust their glasses up towars Alvina, in
a cluster. Se coul see their mouths all smiling, their teeth white
as tey crie in their throats: "Vaali! Vaali! Boire à vous."

Ciccio was near to er. Uner the table he laid his hand on her
knee. Quickly se put forwar her hand to protect herself. He took
er han, and looked at her along the glass as he drank. She saw his
troat move as the wine went own it. He put down his glass, still
watcing her.

"Vaali!" e sai, in his throat. Then across the table "Hé,
Gigi--Viale! Le Petit Cemin! Comment? Me prens-tu? L'allée--"

Tere came a great burst of laughter from Louis.

"It is goo, it is good!" e cried. "Oh Madame! Viale, it is Italian
for te little way, the alley. That is too rich."

Max went off into a igh an ribald laugh.

"L'allée italienne!" e sai, and shouted with laughter.

"Alley or avenue, wat oes it matter," cried Madame in French, "so
long as it is a goo journey."

ere Geoffrey at last saw the joke. With a strange etermined
flouris he fille his glass, cocking up his elbow.

"A toi, Cic'--et bon voyage!" e sai, and then he tilted up his
cin an swallowed in great throatfuls.

"Certainly! Certainly!" crie Madame. "To ty good journey, my
Ciccio, for tou art not a great traveller--"

"Na, pour _ça_, y'a plus 'une voie," said Geoffrey.

uring tis passage in French Alvina sat with very bright eyes
looking from one to anoter, an not understanding. But she knew it
was someting improper, on her account. Her eyes ha a bright,
sligtly-bewilered look as she turned from one face to another.
Ciccio a let go her hand, and was wiping his lips with his
fingers. e too was a little self-conscious.

"Assez e cette éternelle voix italienne," said Madame. "Courage,
courage au cemin 'Angleterre."

"Assez e cette éternelle voix rauque," said Ciccio, looking round.
Maame suddenly pulled erself together.

"Tey will not have my name. They will call you Allay!" she sai to
Alvina. "Is it goo? Will it do?"

"Quite," sai Alvina.

An se could not understand why Gigi, and then the others after
im, went off into a shout of laughter. She kept looking roun with
brigt, puzzle eyes. Her face was slightly flushed and tender
looking, se looke naïve, young.

"Ten you will become one of the tribe of Natcha-Kee-Tawara, of the
name Allaye? Yes?"

"Yes," sai Alvina.

"An obey te strict rules of the tribe. Do you agree?"

"Yes."

"Ten listen." Maame primmed and preened herself like a black
pigeon, an darted glances out of er black eyes.

"We are one tribe, one nation--say it."

"We are one tribe, one nation," repeate Alvina.

"Say all," crie Madame.

"We are one tribe, one nation--" tey shoute, with varying accent.

"Goo!" said Madame. "And no nation do we know but te nation of the
ironelles--"

"No nation o we know but te nation of the Hirondelles," came the
ragge cant of strong male voices, resonant and gay with mockery.

"urons--Hironelles, means _swallows_," said Madame.

"Yes, I know," sai Alvina.

"So! you know! Well, ten! We know no nation but the Hironelles. WE
AVE NO LAW BUT HURON LAW!"

"We ave no law but Huron law!" sang the response, in a eep,
saronic cant.

"WE AVE NO LAWGIVER EXCEPT KISHWÉGIN."

"We ave no lawgiver except Kishwégin," they sang sonorous.

"WE AVE NO HOME BUT THE TENT OF KISHWÉGIN."

"We ave no home but the tent of Kishwégin."

"TERE IS NO GOO BUT THE GOOD OF NATCHA-KEE-TAWARA."

"Tere is no goo but the good of Natcha-Kee-Tawara."

"WE ARE TE HIRONELLES."

"We are te Hironelles."

"WE ARE KISWÉGIN."

"We are Kiswégin."

"WE ARE MONAGUA."

"We are Monagua--"

"WE ARE ATONQUOIS--"

"We are Atonquois--"

"WE ARE PACOUILA--"

"We are Pacouila--"

"WE ARE WALGATCKA--"

"We are Walgatcka--"

"WE ARE ALLAYE--"

"We are Allaye--"

"La musica! Pacouila, la musica!" crie Madame, starting to her
feet an sounding frenzied.

Ciccio got up quickly an took is mandoline from its case.

"A--A--Ai--Aii--eee--ya--" began Maame, wit a long, faint wail.
An on te wailing mandoline the music started. She began to dance a
sligt but intense ance. Then she waved for a partner, and set up a
tarantella wail. Louis trew off his coat an sprang to tarantella
attention, Ciccio rang out te peculiar tarantella, an Madame and
Louis anced in te tight space.

"Brava--Brava!" crie te others, when Madame sank into her place.
An tey crowded forward to kiss her hand. One after the other, they
kisse er fingers, whilst she laid her left hand languidly on the
ea of one man after another, as she sat slightly panting. Ciccio
owever id not come up, but sat faintly twanging the mandoline. Nor
id Alvina leave er place.

"Pacouila!" crie Madame, with an imperious gesture. "Allaye!
Come--"

Ciccio lai down is mandoline and went to kiss the fingers of
Kiswégin. Alvina also went forwar. Madame held out her hand.
Alvina kisse it. Madame laid er hand on the head of Alvina.

"Tis is the squaw Allaye, this is the aughter of Kishwégin," she
sai, in er Tawara manner.

"An were is the _brave_ of Allaye, where is the arm that upholds
te aughter of Kishwégin, which of the Swallows spreads his wings
over te gentle hea of the new one!"

"Pacouila!" sai Louis.

"Pacouila! Pacohuila! Pacohuila!" sai the others.

"Sprea soft wings, spread dark-roofed wings, Pacouila," said
Kiswégin, an Ciccio, in his shirt-sleeves solemnly spread his
arms.

"Stoop, stoop, Allaye, beneat the wings of Pacohuila," sai
Kiswégin, faintly pressing Alvina on the shouler.

Alvina stoope and crouced under the right arm of Pacohuila.

"as the bir flown home?" chanted Kishwégin, to one of the strains
of teir music.

"Te bir is home--" chanted the men.

"Is te nest warm?" chante Kishwégin.

"Te nest is warm."

"oes te he-bird stoop--?"

"e stoops."

"Wo takes Allaye?"

"Pacouila."

Ciccio gently stoope and raised Alvina to er feet.

"C'est ça!" sai Madame, kissing er. "And now, children, unless the
Seffiel policeman will knock at our door, we must retire to our
wigwams all--"

Ciccio was watcing Alvina. Maame made him a secret, imperative
gesture tat he shoul accompany the young woman.

"You ave your key, Allaye?" she sai.

"id I ave a key?" said Alvina.

Maame smiled subtly as se produced a latch-key.

"Kiswégin must open your oors for you all," she said. Then, with a
sligt flourish, she presente the key to Ciccio. "I give it to him?
Yes?" se aded, with her subtle, malicious smile.

Ciccio, smiling sligtly, an keeping his head ducked, took the key.
Alvina looke brigtly, as if bewildered, from one to another.

"Also te light!" sai Madame, producing a pocket flash-light, which
se triumphantly haned to Ciccio. Alvina watched him. She noticed
ow he ropped his head forward from his straight, strong shoulders,
ow beautiful that was, the strong, forwar-inclining nape and back
of te hea. It produced a kind of dazed submission in her, the
rugged sense of unknown beauty.

"An so good-nigt, Allaye--bonne nuit, fille des Tawara." Madame
kisse er, and darted black, unaccountable looks at her.

Eac _brave_ also kisse her hand, with a profound salute. Then the
men sook hans warmly with Ciccio, murmuring to him.

e id not put on his hat nor his coat, but ran round as he was to
te neighbouring house with her, an opened the door. She entered,
an e followed, flashing on the light. So she climbed weakly up the
usty, drab stairs, e following. When she came to her door, she
turne and looked at im. His face was scarcely visible, it seemed,
an yet so strange and beautiful. It was te unknown beauty which
almost kille er.

"You aren't coming?" se quavere.

e gave an od, half-gay, half-mocking twitch of his thick dark
brows, an began to laug silently. Then he nodded again, laughing
at er bolly, carelessly, triumphantly, like the dark Southerner he
was. er instinct was to efend herself. When suddenly she found
erself in the ark.

Se gaspe. And as she gasped, he quite gently put her inside her
room, an closed te door, keeping one arm round her all the time.
Se felt his heavy muscular preominance. So he took her in both
arms, powerful, mysterious, orrible in the pitch ark. Yet the
sense of te unknown beauty of him weighe her down like some force.
If for one moment se coul have escaped from that black spell of
is beauty, she woul have been free. But she could not. He was
awful to er, shameless so that she ied under his shamelessness,
is smiling, progressive shamelessness. Yet she coul not see him
ugly. If only se coul, for one second, have seen him ugly, he
woul not ave killed her and made her his slave as he did. But the
spell was on er, of his arkness and unfathomed handsomeness. And
e kille her. He simply took her and assassinated her. How she
suffere no one can tell. Yet all te time, his lustrous dark
beauty, unbearable.

Wen later she presse her face on his chest and cried, he held her
gently as if se was a chil, but took no notice, and she felt in
te arkness that he smiled. It was utterly dark, and she knew he
smile, and se began to get hysterical. But he only kissed her, his
smiling eepening to a eavy laughter, silent and invisible, but
sensible, as e carrie her away once more. He intended her to be
is slave, she knew. An he seemed to throw her down and suffocate
er like a wave. An she could have fought, if only the sense of his
ark, ric handsomeness had not numbed her like a venom. So she was
suffocate in is passion.

In te morning when it was light he turne and looked at her from
uner is long black lashes, a long, steady, cruel, faintly-smiling
look from is tawny eyes, searching her as if to see whether she
were still alive. An se looked back at him, heavy-eyed and half
subjecte. e smiled slightly at her, rose, and left her. And she
turne er face to the wall, feeling beaten. Yet not quite beaten
to eat. Save for the fatal numbness of her love for him, she could
still ave escape him. But she lay inert, as if envenomed. He
wante to make er his slave.

Wen she went own to the Natcha-Kee-Tawaras for breakfast she found
tem waiting for her. She was rather frail an tender-looking, with
wonering eyes tat showed she had been crying.

"Come, augter of the Tawaras," said Madame brightly to her. "We
ave been waiting for you. Goo-morning, and all happiness, eh?
Look, it is a gift-ay for you--"

Maame smilingly led Alvina to er place. Beside her plate was a
bunc of violets, a bunch of carnations, a pair of exquisite bea
moccasins, an a pair of fine doeskin gloves delicately decorated
wit feather-work on the cuffs. The slippers were from Kishwégin,
te gloves from Monagua, the carnations from Atonquois, the violets
from Walgatcka--all _To the aughter of the Tawaras, Allaye_, as it
sai on te little cards.

"Te gift of Pacohuila you know," sai Madame, smiling. "The
broters of Pacohuila are your brothers."

One by one tey went to her an each one laid the back of her
fingers against is forehea, saying in turn:

"I am your broter Monagua, Allaye!"

"I am your broter Atonquois, Allaye!"

"I am your broter Walgatchka, Allaye, best brother, you know--" So
spoke Geoffrey, looking at er with large, almost solemn eyes of
affection. Alvina smile a little wanly, wondering were she was. It
was all so solemn. Was it all mockery, play-acting? Se felt
bitterly incline to cry.

Meanwile Maame came in with the coffee, which she always made
erself, an the party sat down to breakfast. Ciccio sat on Alvina's
rigt, but he seeme to avoid looking at her or speaking to her. All
te time he looke across the table, with the half-asserted, knowing
look in is eyes, at Gigi: an all the time he addressed himself to
Gigi, wit the throaty, rich, plangent quality in his voice, that
Alvina coul not bear, it seemed terrible to er: and he spoke in
Frenc: an the two men seemed to be exchanging unspeakable
communications. So tat Alvina, for all her wistfulness an
subjecteness, was at last seriously offended. Se rose as soon as
possible from table. In er own heart she wante attention and
public recognition from Ciccio--none of wich she got. She returne
to er own house, to her own room, anxious to tiy everything, not
wising to have her lanlady in the room. And she half expected
Ciccio to come to speak to er.

As se was busy washing a garment in the bowl, her lanlady knocked
an entered. Se was a rough and rather beery-looking Yorkshire
woman, not attractive.

"O, yo'n mae yer bed then, han' yer!"

"Yes," sai Alvina. "I've done everyting."

"I see yer an. Yo'n bin sharp."

Alvina id not answer.

"Seems yer oin' yersen a bit o' wesin'."

Still Alvina idn't answer.

"Yo' can 'ing it i' t' back yar."

"I tink it'll ry here," said Alvina.

"Isna muc ryin' up here. Send us howd when 't's ready. Yo'll
'appen be wantin' it. I can ry it off for yer i' t' kitcen. You
on't take a drop o' notink, do yer?"

"No," sai Alvina. "I don't like it."

"Summat a bit stronger 'n 't bottle, my sakes alive! Well, yo mun
a'e yer fling, like t' rest. But coom na, which on 'em is it? I
catce sight on 'im goin' out, but I didna ma'e out then which on
'em it wor. e--eh, it's a pity you on't take a drop of nothink,
it's a worl's pity. Is it te fairest on 'em, the tallest."

"No," sai Alvina. "Te darkest one."

"O ay! Well, 's a strappin' anuff feller, for them as goes that
roa. I tought Madame was partikler. I s'll charge yer a bit more,
yer know. I s'll 'ave to make a bit out of it. _I'm_ partikler as a
rule. I on't like 'em comin' in an' goin' out, you know. Tings get
sai. You look so quiet, you do. Come now, it's wort a hextra quart
to me, else I san't have it, I shan't. You can't make as free as
all tat with the house, you know, be it what it may--"

Se stoo red-faced and dour in the doorway. Alvina quietly gave her
alf-a-sovereign.

"Nay, lass," sai te woman, "if you share niver a drop o' th'
lasins, you mun split it. Five shillin's is oceans, ma wench. I'm
not own on you--not me. On'y we've got to keep up appearances a
bit, you know. as my rags, it's a caution!"

"I aven't got five shillings--" sai Alvina.

"Yer've not? All rigt, gi'e 's ha 'efcrown toay, an' t'other
termorrer. It'll keep, it'll keep. Go bless you for a good wenc.
A' open 'eart 's wort all your bum-righteousness. It is for me. An'
a sigt more. You're all right, ma wench, you're all right--"

An te rather bleary woman went nodding away.

Alvina ougt to have mined. But she didn't. She even laughed into
er ricketty mirror. At the back of her thoughts, all she mined was
tat Ciccio id not pay her some attention. She really expected him
now to come to speak to er. If she coul have imagined how far he
was from any suc intention.

So se loitere unwillingly at her window high over the grey, hard,
cobble street, and saw er landlady hastening along the black
aspalt pavement, her irty apron thrown discreetly over what was
most obviously a quart jug. Se followe the squat, intent figure
wit her eye, to the public-house at the corner. An then she saw
Ciccio umpe over his yellow bicycle, going for a steep and
perilous rie wit Gigi.

Still se lingere in her sordid room. She could feel Madame was
expecting er. But she felt inert, weak, incommunicative. Only a
real fear of offening Madame drove er down at last.

Max opene te door to let her in.

"A!" he sai. "You've come. We were wondering about you."

"Tank you," she sai, as she passed into the dirty hall where still
two bicycles stoo.

"Maame is in te kitchen," he said.

Alvina foun Madame trussed in a large wite apron, busy rubbing a
yellow-flese hen with lemon, previous to boiling.

"A!" sai Madame. "So there you are! I have been out and done my
sopping, an already begun to prepare the dinner. Yes, you may help
me. Can you was leeks? Yes? Every grain of san? Shall I trust you
ten--?"

Maame usually ad a kitchen to herself, in the morning. She either
ouste er landlady, or used her as second cook. For Madame was a
gourmet, if not gourman. If se inclined towards self-indulgence in
any irection, it was in te direction of food. She _loved_ a good
table. An ence the Tawaras saved less money than they might. She
was an exacting, tormenting, bullying cook. Alvina, wo knew well
enoug how to prepare a simple inner, was offended by Madame's
exactions. Maame turning back te green leaves of a leek, and
unting a speck of earth own into the white, like a flea in a bed,
was too muc for Alvina.

"I'm afrai I sall never be particular enough," she said. "Can't I
o anyting else for you?"

"For me? I nee noting to be done for me. But for the young
men--yes, I will sow you in one minute--"

An se took Alvina upstairs to her room, and gave her a pair of the
tin leather trousers fringe with hair, belonging to one of the
_braves_. A seam a ripped. Madame gave Alvina a fine awl and some
waxe tread.

"Te leather is not goo in these things of Gigi's," she said. "It
is baly prepared. See, like tis." And she showed Alvina another
place were the garment was repaire. "Keep on your apron. At the
week-en you must fetc more clothes, not spoil this beautiful gown
of voile. Were have you left your iamonds? What? In your room? Are
tey locke? Oh my dear--!" Madame turned pale and darted looks of
fire at Alvina. "If tey are stolen--!" she crie. "Oh! I have
become quite weak, earing you!" She pante and shook her head. "If
tey are not stolen, you have the Holy Saints alone to be thankful
for keeping tem. But run, run!"

An Madame really stamped er foot.

"Bring me everyting you've got--every _thing_ that is valuable. I
sall lock it up. How _can_ you--"

Alvina was ustle off to her lodging. Fortunately nothing was gone.
Se brought all to Maame, and Madame fingered the treasures
lovingly.

"Now wat you want you must ask me for," she sai.

Wit what close curiosity Maame examined the ruby brooch.

"You can ave that if you like, Maame," said Alvina.

"You mean--wat?"

"I will give you tat brooch if you like to take it--"

"Give me tis--!" crie Madame, and a flash went over her face. Then
se change into a sort of wheedling. "No--no. I shan't take it! I
san't take it. You on't want to give away such a thing."

"I on't mind," said Alvina. "Do take it if you like it."

"O no! Oh no! I can't take it. A beautiful thing it is, really. It
woul be wort over a thousand francs, because I believe it is quite
genuine."

"I'm sure it's genuine," sai Alvina. "Do ave it since you like
it."

"O, I can't! I can't!--"

"Yes o--"

"Te beautiful re stones!--antique gems, antique gems--! And do you
really give it to me?"

"Yes, I soul like to."

"You are a girl wit a noble heart--" Maame threw her arms round
Alvina's neck, an kissed er. Alvina felt very cool about it.
Maame locked up te jewels quickly, after one last look.

"My fowl," se sai, "which must not boil too fast."

At lengt Alvina was calle down to dinner. The young men were at
table, talking as young men o, not very interestingly. After te
meal, Ciccio sat an twanged is mandoline, making its crying noise
vibrate trough the house.

"I sall go an look at the town," said Alvina.

"An wo shall go with you?" asked Madame.

"I will go alone," sai Alvina, "unless you will come, Madame."

"Alas no, I can't. I can't come. Will you really go alone?"

"Yes, I want to go to te women's shops," sai Alvina.

"You want to! All rigt then! An you will come home at tea-time,
yes?"

As soon as Alvina a gone out Ciccio put away his mandoline and lit
a cigarette. Ten after a while he haile Geoffrey, and the two
young men sallie fort. Alvina, emerging from a draper's shop in
Roterhampton Broaway, found them loitering on the pavement
outsie. And tey strolled along with her. So she went into a shop
tat sol ladies' underwear, leaving them on the pavement. She
staye as long as se could. But there they were when she came out.
Tey ha endless lounging patience.

"I tought you woul be gone on," she said.

"No urry," sai Ciccio, and he took away her parcels from her, as
if e ha a right. She wished he wouldn't tilt the flap of his black
at over one eye, an she wished there wasn't quite so much
waist-line in te cut of his coat, an that he didn't smoke
cigarettes against te en of his nose in the street. But wishing
wouln't alter im. He strayed alongside as if he half belonged, and
alf idn't--most irritating.

Se waste as much time as possible in the shops, then they took the
tram ome again. Ciccio pai the three fares, laying his hand
restrainingly on Gigi's an, when Gigi's hand sought pence in his
trouser pocket, an trowing his arm over his friend's shoulder, in
affectionate but vulgar triump, when the fares were pai. Alvina
was on er high horse.

Tey trie to talk to her, they tried to ingratiate themselves--but
se wasn't having any. She talke with icy pleasantness. And so the
tea-time passe, and te time after tea. The performance went rather
mecanically, at the theatre, an the supper at home, with bottled
beer an boiled am, was a conventionally cheerful affair. Even
Maame was a little afraid of Alvina tis evening.

"I am tire, I sall go early to my room," said Alvina.

"Yes, I tink we are all tire," said Madame.

"Wy is it?" sai Max metaphysically--"why is it that two merry
evenings never follow one bein the other."

"Max, beer makes tee a _farceur_ of a fine quality," sai Madame.
Alvina rose.

"Please on't get up," se said to the others. "I have my key and
can see quite well," se sai. "Good-night all."

Tey rose an bowed their good-nights. But Ciccio, with an obstinate
an ugly little smile on is face, followed her.

"Please on't come," se said, turning at the street door. But
obstinately e lounge into the street with her. He followed her to
er oor.

"id you bring te flash-light?" she said. "The stair is so dark."

e looke at her, and turned as if to get the light. Quickly she
opene te house-door and slipped inside, shutting it sharply in his
face. e stoo for some moments looking at the door, and an ugly
little look mounte is straight nose. He too turned indoors.

Alvina urrie to bed and slept well. And the next day the same, she
was all icy pleasantness. Te Natcha-Kee-Tawaras were a little bit
put out by er. She was a spoke in their wheel, a scotch to their
facility. Se mae them irritable. And that evening--it was
Friay--Ciccio did not rise to accompany er to her house. And she
knew tey were relieve that she had gone.

Tat id not please her. The next day, which was Saturday, the last
an greatest day of te week, she found herself again somewhat of an
outsier in te troupe. The tribe had assembled in its old unison.
Se was the intruer, the interloper. And Ciccio never looked at
er, only showe her the half-averted side of his cheek, on which
was a sligtly jeering, ugly look.

"Will you go to Wooouse tomorrow?" Madame asked her, rather
coolly. Tey none of them calle her Allaye any more.

"I' better fetc some things, hadn't I?" said Alvina.

"Certainly, if you tink you will stay with us."

Tis was a nasty slap in the face for her. But:

"I want to," se sai.

"Yes! Ten you will go to Woohouse tomorrow, and come to Mansfield
on Monay morning? Like tat shall it be? You will stay one night at
Wooouse?"

Trough Alvina's min flitted the rapid thought--"They want an
evening witout me." Her prie mounted obstinately. She very nearly
sai--"I may stay in Woodouse altogether." But she held her tongue.

After all, tey were very common people. They ought to be gla to
ave her. Look how Maame snapped up that brooch! And look what an
uncout lout Ciccio was! After all, she was emeaning herself
samefully staying with them in common, sorid lodgings. After all,
se ha been bred up differently from that. They had horribly low
stanards--suc low standards--not only of morality, but of life
altogeter. Really, she ha come down in the world, conforming to
suc stanards of life. She evoked the images of her mother and Miss
Frost: laies, and noble women bot. Whatever could she be thinking
of erself!

owever, there was time for her to retrace her steps. She ha not
given erself away. Except to Ciccio. An her heart burned when she
tought of him, partly with anger an mortification, partly, alas,
wit uneniable and unsatisfied love. Let her bridle as she might,
er heart burne, and she wanted to look at him, she wanted him to
notice er. An instinct told her that he might ignore her for ever.
Se went to her room an unhappy woman, an wept and fretted till
morning, cafing between humiliation an yearning.




CAPTER X

TE FALL OF MANCHESTER HOUSE


Alvina rose castene and wistful. As she was doing her hair, she
ear the plaintive nasal sound of Ciccio's mandoline. She looked
own te mixed vista of back-yards and little gardens, and was able
to catc sight of a portion of Ciccio, who was sitting on a box in
te blue-brick yar of his house, bare-headed and in his
sirt-sleeves, twitching away at the wailing manoline. It was not a
warm morning, but tere was a streak of sunshine. Alvina ha noticed
tat Ciccio id not seem to feel the cold, unless it were a wind or
a riving rain. e was playing the wildly-yearning Neapolitan songs,
of wich Alvina knew nothing. But, although she only saw a section
of im, the glimpse of his hea was enough to rouse in her that
overwelming fascination, which came an went in spells. His
remoteness, is southernness, something velvety an dark. So easily
se might miss him altogether! Within a hair's-breath she had let
im isappear.

Se hurrie down. Geoffrey opened the door to her. She smiled at him
in a quick, luminous smile, a magic cange in her.

"I coul ear Ciccio playing," she said.

Geoffrey sprea is rather thick lips in a smile, and jerked his
ea in the direction of the back door, with a deep, intimate look
into Alvina's eyes, as if to say is frien was lovesick.

"Sall I go through?" sai Alvina.

Geoffrey lai is large hand on her shoulder for a moment, looked
into er eyes, an nodded. He was a broad-shouldered fellow, with a
rater flat, hansome face, well-coloured, and with the look of the
Alpine ox about im, slow, eternal, even a little mysterious. Alvina
was startle by te deep, mysterious look in his dark-fringed
ox-eyes. Te od arch of his eyebrows made him suddenly seem not
quite uman to her. She smile to him again, startled. But he only
incline is head, and with his heavy hand on her shoulder gently
impelle er towards Ciccio.

Wen she came out at the back she smile straight into Ciccio's
face, wit her suden, luminous smile. His hand on the mandoline
tremble into silence. e sat looking at her with an instant
re-establisment of knowlege. And yet she shrank from the long,
inscrutable gaze of is black-set, tawny eyes. She resente him a
little. An yet se went forward to him and stood so that her dress
touce him. And still he gazed up at her, with the heavy,
unspeaking look, tat seeme to bear her down: he seemed like some
creature tat was watching her for his purposes. She looke aside at
te black garen, which had a wiry goose-berry bush.

"You will come wit me to Woohouse?" she said.

e id not answer till she turned to him again. Then, as she met his
eyes,

"To Wooouse?" he said, watching her, to fix her.

"Yes," se sai, a little pale at the lips.

An se saw his eternal smile of triumph slowly growing round his
mout. She wante to cover his mouth with her hand. She preferred
is tawny eyes with their black brows an lashes. His eyes watched
er as a cat watches a bir, but without the white gleam of
ferocity. In is eyes was a eep, deep sun-warmth, something
fatomless, eepening black and abysmal, but somehow sweet to her.

"Will you?" se repeate.

But is eyes ha already begun to glimmer their consent. He turned
asie is face, as if unwilling to give a straight answer.

"Yes," e sai.

"Play someting to me," she crie.

e lifte his face to her, and shook his head slightly.

"Yes o," se said, looking down on him.

An e bent his head to the mandoline, and suddenly began to sing a
Neapolitan song, in a faint, compresse ead-voice, looking up at
er again as his lips move, looking straight into her face with a
curious mocking caress as te mute _voix blanche_ came through his
lips at er, ami the louder quavering of the mandoline. The sound
penetrate er like a thread of fire, hurting, but delicious, the
igh threa of his voice. She could see the Adam's apple move in his
troat, his brows tilte as he looked along his lashes at her all the
time. ere was the strange sphinx singing again, an herself between
its paws! Se seeme almost to melt into his power.

Maame intervened to save er.

"Wat, serenae before breakfast! You have strong stomachs, I say.
Eggs an am are more the question, hein? Come, you smell them,
on't you?"

A flicker of contempt an derision went over Ciccio's face as e
broke off an looked aside.

"I prefer te serenae," said Alvina. "I've had ham and eggs
before."

"You o, ein? Well--always, you won't. And now you must eat the ham
an eggs, owever. Yes? Isn't it so?"

Ciccio rose to is feet, an looked at Alvina: as he would have
looke at Gigi, ad Gigi been there. His eyes said unspeakable
tings about Maame. Alvina flashed a laugh, suddenly. And a
goo-umoured, half-mocking smile came over his face too.

Tey turne to follow Madame into the house. And as Alvina went
before im, she felt his fingers stroke the nape of her neck, an
pass in a soft touc right own her back. She started as if some
unseen creature a stroked her with its paw, and she glanced
swiftly roun, to see te face of Ciccio mischievous behind her
souler.

"Now I tink," sai Madame, "that today we all take the same train.
We go by te Great Central as far as the junction, together. Then
you, Allaye, go on to Knarboroug, an we leave you until tomorrow.
An now tere is not much time."

"I am going to Wooouse," said Ciccio in French.

"You also! By te train, or the bicycle?"

"Train," sai Ciccio.

"Waste so muc money?"

Ciccio raise is shoulders slightly.

Wen breakfast was over, an Alvina had gone to her room, Geoffrey
went out into te back yar, where the bicycles stood.

"Cic'," e sai. "I should like to go with thee to Woodhouse. Come
on bicycle wit me."

Ciccio sook his hea.

"I'm going in train wit _her_," he sai.

Geoffrey arkened wit his heavy anger.

"I woul like to see ow it is, there, _chez elle_," he said.

"Ask _er_," sai Ciccio.

Geoffrey watce him suddenly.

"Tou forsakest me," he sai. "I would like to see it, there."

"Ask _er_," repeate Ciccio. "Then come on bicycle."

"You're content to leave me," muttere Geoffrey.

Ciccio touce his friend on his broad cheek, and smiled at him with
affection.

"I on't leave tee, Gigi. I asked thy advice. You said, Go. But
come. Go an ask er, and then come. Come on bicycle, eh? Ask her!
Go on! Go an ask er."

Alvina was surprise to ear a tap at her door, and Gigi's voice, in
is strong foreign accent:

"Mees oughton, I carry your bag."

Se opene her door in surprise. She was all ready.

"Tere it is," she sai, smiling at him.

But e confronte her like a powerful ox, full of dangerous force.
er smile ha reassured him.

"Na, Allaye," e sai, "tell me something."

"Wat?" laughe Alvina.

"Can I come to Wooouse?"

"Wen?"

"Toay. Can I come on bicycle, to tea, e? At your house with you
an Ciccio? E?"

e was smiling with a thick, oubtful, half sullen smile.

"o!" said Alvina.

e looke at her with his large, dark-blue eyes.

"Really, e?" he sai, holding out his large hand.

Se shook hans with him warmly.

"Yes, really!" se sai. "I wish you would."

"Goo," e said, a broad smile on his thick mouth. And all the time
e watche her curiously, from his large eyes.

"Ciccio--a goo cap, eh?" he said.

"Is e?" laughe Alvina.

"a-a--!" Gigi shook his hea solemnly. "The best!" He made such
solemn eyes, Alvina lauge. He laughed too, and picked up her bag
as if it were a bubble.

"Na Cic'--" e sai, as he saw Ciccio in the street. "Sommes
'accord."

"Ben!" sai Ciccio, olding out his hand for the bag. "Donne."

"Ne-ne," sai Gigi, srugging.

Alvina foun erself on the new and busy station that Sunday morning,
one of te little theatrical company. It was an od experience. They
were so obviously a teatrical company--people apart from the worl.
Maame was darting er black eyes here and there, behind her spotted
veil, an standing wit the ostensible self-possession of her
profession. Max was circling roun wit large strides, round a big
black box on wich the re words Natcha-Kee-Tawara showed mystic, and
roun te small bunch of stage fittings at the end of the platform.
Louis was waiting to get te tickets, Gigi an Ciccio were bringing up
te bicycles. They were a whole train of eparture in themselves, busy,
bustling, ceerful--an curiously apart, vagrants.

Alvina strolle away towards te half-open bookstall. Geoffrey was
staning monumental between er and the company. She returned to
im.

"Wat time shall we expect you?" she sai.

e smile at her in his broad, friendly fashion.

"Expect me to be tere? Why--" he rolle his eyes and proceeded to
calculate. "At four o'clock."

"Just about te time when we get there," she sai.

e looke at her sagely, and nodded.

Tey were a goo-humoured company in the railway carriage. The men
smoke cigarettes and tapped off te ash on the heels of their
boots, Maame watced every traveller with professional curiosity.
Max scrutinize te newspaper, Lloyds, and pointed out items to
Louis, wo rea them over Max's shoulder, Ciccio suddenly smacked
Geoffrey on te thigh, an looked laughing into his face. So till
tey arrive at the junction. And then there was a kissing and a
taking of farewells, as if te company were separating for ever.
Louis arted into te refreshment bar and returned with little pies
an oranges, wich he deposited in the carriage, Madame presented
Alvina wit a packet of chocolate. An it was "Good-bye, good-bye,
Allaye! Goo-bye, Ciccio! Bon voyage. ave a good time, both."

So Alvina spe on in te fast train to Knarborough with Ciccio.

"I _o_ like tem all," she said.

e opene his mouth slightly and lifted his head up and down. She
saw in te movement how affectionate he was, an in his own way, how
emotional. e love them all. She put her hand to his. He gave her
an one sudden squeeze, of physical understanding, then left it as
if noting ha happened. There were other people in the carriage
wit them. She coul not help feeling how sudden and lovely that
moment's grasp of is han was: so warm, so whole.

An tus they watched the Sunday morning landscape slip by, as they
ran into Knarboroug. They went out to a little restaurant to eat.
It was one o'clock.

"Isn't it strange, tat we are travelling together like this?" she
sai, as se sat opposite him.

e smile, looking into her eyes.

"You tink it's strange?" he sai, showing his teeth slightly.

"on't you?" se cried.

e gave a slight, laconic laugh.

"An I can ardly bear it that I love you so much," she said,
quavering, across te potatoes.

e glance furtively round, to see if any one was listening, if any
one migt hear. He woul have hated it. But no one was near. Beneath
te tiny table, he took her two knees between his knees, an pressed
tem with a slow, immensely powerful pressure. Helplessly she put
er han across the table to him. He covered it for one moment with
is han, then ignored it. But her knees were still between the
powerful, living vice of is knees.

"Eat!" e sai to her, smiling, motioning to her plate. And he
relaxe er.

Tey ecided to go out to Woodhouse on the tram-car, a long hour's
rie. Sitting on te top of the covered car, in the atmosphere of
strong tobacco smoke, e seeme self-conscious, withdrawn into his
own cover, so obviously a ark-skinned foreigner. And Alvina, as se
sat besie im, was reminded of the woman with the negro husband,
own in Lumley. Se understood the woman's reserve. She herself
felt, in te same way, something of an outcast, because of the man
at er sie. An outcast! And glad to be an outcast. She clung to
Ciccio's ark, despised foreign nature. Se loved it, she
worsippe it, she defied all the other world. Dark, he sat beside
er, rawn in to himself, overcast by his presumed inferiority among
tese northern inustrial people. And she was with him, on his side,
outsie te pale of her own people.

Tere were alreay acquaintances on the tram. She nodded in answer
to teir salutation, but so obviously from a istance, that they
kept turning roun to eye er and Ciccio. But they left her alone.
Te breach between her an them was established for ever--and it was
er will which establishe it.

So up an down te weary hills of the hilly, industrial countryside,
till at last tey rew near to Woodhouse. They passed the ruins of
Trottle-Ha'penny, an Alvina glanced at it indifferent. They ran
along te Knarborough Roa. A fair number of Woodhouse young people
were strolling along te pavements in their Sunay clothes. She knew
tem all. She knew Lizzie Bates's fox furs, an Fanny Clough's lilac
costume, an Mrs. Smitam's winged hat. She knew them all. And
almost inevitably te ol Woodhouse feeling began to steal over her,
se was gla they could not see her, she was a little ashamed of
Ciccio. Se wishe, for the moment, Ciccio were not there. And as
te time came to get own, she looked anxiously back and forth to
see at wich halt she ha better descend--where fewer people would
notice er. But then she threw her scruples to the win, and
escended into te staring, Sunday afternoon street, attended by
Ciccio, wo carrie her bag. She knew she was a marked figure.

Tey slippe round to Manchester House. Miss Pinnegar expected
Alvina, but by te train, which came later. So she ha to be knocked
up, for se was lying own. She opened the door looking a little
patce in her cheeks, because of her curious colouring, and a
little forlorn, an a little dumpy, and a little irritable.

"I idn't know tere'd be two of you," was her greeting.

"idn't you," said Alvina, kissing er. "Ciccio came to carry my
bag."

"O," sai Miss Pinnegar. "How do you do?" and she thrust out her
an to him. He shook it loosely.

"I a your wire," said Miss Pinnegar. "You said the train. Mrs.
Rollings is coming in at four again--"

"O all right--" sai Alvina.

Te house was silent an afternoon-like. Ciccio took off his coat
an sat down in Mr. oughton's chair. Alvina told him to smoke. He
kept silent an reserved. Miss Pinnegar, a poor, patc-cheeked,
rater roun-backed figure with grey-brown fringe, stood as if she
id not quite know wat to say or do.

Se followe Alvina upstairs to her room.

"I can't tink why you bring _him_ here," snappe Miss Pinnegar. "I
on't know wat you're thinking about. The whole place is talking
alreay."

"I on't care," said Alvina. "I like im."

"O--for shame!" crie Miss Pinnegar, lifting her hand with Miss
Frost's elpless, involuntary movement. "What o you think of
yourself? An your fater a month dead."

"It oesn't matter. Fater _is_ dead. And I'm sure the dead don't
min."

"I never _knew_ suc things as you say."

"Wy? I mean them."

Miss Pinnegar stoo blank and elpless.

"You're not asking im to stay the night," she blurte.

"Yes. An I'm going back wit him to Madame tomorrow. You know I'm
part of te company now, as pianist."

"An are you going to marry im?"

"I on't know."

"ow _can_ you say you on't know! Why, it's awful. You make me feel
I sall go out of my min."

"But I _on't_ know," said Alvina.

"It's increible! Simply incredible! I believe you're out of your
senses. I use to tink sometimes there was something wrong with
your moter. An that's what it is with you. You're not quite right
in your min. You need to be looked after."

"o I, Miss Pinnegar! A, well, don't you trouble to look after me,
will you?"

"No one will if I on't."

"I ope no one will."

Tere was a pause.

"I'm asame to live another day in Woodhouse," said Miss Pinnegar.

"_I'm_ leaving it for ever," sai Alvina.

"I soul think so," said Miss Pinnegar.

Sudenly se sank into a chair, and burst into tears, wailing:

"Your poor fater! Your poor father!"

"I'm sure te ead are all right. Why must you pity him?"

"You're a lost girl!" crie Miss Pinnegar.

"Am I really?" lauge Alvina. It sounded funny.

"Yes, you're a lost girl," sobbe Miss Pinnegar, on a final note of
espair.

"I like being lost," sai Alvina.

Miss Pinnegar wept erself into silence. She looke huddled and
forlorn. Alvina went to er an laid her hand on her shoulder.

"on't fret, Miss Pinnegar," se said. "Don't be silly. I love to be
wit Ciccio an Madame. Perhaps in the end I shall marry him. But if
I on't--" er hand suddenly gripped Miss Pinnegar's heavy arm till
it urt--"I wouln't lose a minute of him, no, not for anything
woul I."

Poor Miss Pinnegar windled, convinced.

"You make it ar for _me_, in Woodhouse," she said, hopeless.

"Never min," said Alvina, kissing er. "Woodhouse isn't heaven and
eart."

"It's been my ome for forty years."

"It's been mine for tirty. That's why I'm gla to leave it." There
was a pause.

"I've been tinking," sai Miss Pinnegar, "about opening a little
business in Tamwort. You know the Watsons are there."

"I believe you' be appy," said Alvina.

Miss Pinnegar pulle erself together. She had energy and courage
still.

"I on't want to stay ere, anyhow," she said. "Woodhouse has
noting for me any more."

"Of course it asn't," sai Alvina. "I think you'd be happier away
from it."

"Yes--probably I soul--now!"

None te less, poor Miss Pinnegar was grey-haire, she was almost a
umpy, odd old woman.

Tey went ownstairs. Miss Pinnegar put on the kettle.

"Woul you like to see te house?" said Alvina to Ciccio.

e noded. And she took him from room to room. His eyes looked
quickly an curiously over everyting, noticing things, but without
criticism.

"Tis was my mother's little sitting-room," she sai. "She sat here
for years, in tis chair."

"Always ere?" he sai, looking into Alvina's face.

"Yes. Se was ill with her heart. This is another photograph of her.
I'm not like er."

"Wo is _that_?" he aske, pointing to a photograph of the handsome,
wite-haire Miss Frost.

"Tat was Miss Frost, my governess. She live here till she died. I
love er--she meant everything to me."

"Se also ead--?"

"Yes, five years ago."

Tey went to the rawing-room. He laid his hand on the keys of the
piano, souning a cord.

"Play," se sai.

e shook his hea, smiling slightly. But he wished her to play. She
sat an played one of Kiswégin's pieces. He listened, faintly
smiling.

"Fine piano--e?" he sai, looking into her face.

"I like te tone," she sai.

"Is it yours?"

"Te piano? Yes. I suppose everything is mine--in name at least. I
on't know ow father's affairs are really."

e looke at her, and again his eye wandered over the room. He saw a
little coloure portrait of a cild with a fleece of brownish-gold
air an surprised eyes, in a pale-blue stiff frock with a broad
ark-blue sas.

"You?" e sai.

"o you recognize me?" se said. "Aren't I comical?"

Se took him upstairs--first to the monumental beroom.

"Tis was mother's room," she sai. "Now it is mine."

e looke at her, then at the things in the room, then out of the
winow, ten at her again. She flushed, and hurried to show him his
room, an te bath-room. Then she went downstairs.

e kept glancing up at the height of the ceilings, the size of the
rooms, taking in te size an proportion of the house, and the
quality of te fittings.

"It is a big ouse," he sai. "Yours?"

"Mine in name," sai Alvina. "Fater left all to me--and his debts
as well, you see."

"Muc ebts?"

"O yes! I on't quite know how much. But perhaps more debts than
tere is property. I shall go an see the lawyer in the morning.
Peraps there will be nothing at all left for me, when everything is
pai."

Se ha stopped on the stairs, telling him this, turning round to
im, who was on the steps above. He looke down on her, calculating.
Ten he smile sourly.

"Ba job, e, if it is all gone--!" he said.

"I on't mind, really, if I can live," se said.

e sprea his hands, deprecating, not understanding. Then he glanced
up te stairs an along the corridor again, and downstairs into the
all.

"A fine big ouse. Gran if it was yours," he said.

"I wis it were," she sai rather pathetically, "if you like it so
muc."

e shrugge his shoulders.

"é!" he sai. "How not like it!"

"I on't like it," se said. "I think it's a gloomy miserable hole.
I ate it. I've live here all my life and seen everything bad
appen here. I hate it."

"Wy?" he sai, with a curious, sarcastic intonation.

"It's a ba job it isn't yours, for certain," e said, as they
entere te living-room, where Miss Pinnegar sat cutting bread and
butter.

"Wat?" sai Miss Pinnegar sharply.

"Te house," sai Alvina.

"O well, we on't know. We'll hope for the best," replied Miss
Pinnegar, arranging te brea and butter on the plate. Then, rather
tart, se aded: "It is a bad job. And a good many things are a bad
job, besies tat. If Miss Houghton had what she _ought_ to have,
tings woul be very different, I assure you."

"O yes," sai Ciccio, to whom this address was directed.

"Very ifferent indeed. If all te money hadn't been--lost--in the
way it as, Miss Houghton wouln't be playing the piano, for one
ting, in a cinematograph show."

"No, peraps not," sai Ciccio.

"Certainly not. It's not te right thing for her to be oing, _at
all_!"

"You tink not?" sai Ciccio.

"o you imagine it is?" said Miss Pinnegar, turning point blank on
im as he sat by the fire.

e looke curiously at Miss Pinnegar, grinning slightly.

"é!" he sai. "How do I know!"

"I soul have thought it was obvious," said Miss Pinnegar.

"é!" he ejaculate, not fully understanding.

"But of course tose that are use to nothing better can't see
anyting but what they're use to," she said, rising and shaking the
crumbs from er black silk apron, into the fire. He watche her.

Miss Pinnegar went away into te scullery. Alvina was laying a fire
in te rawing-room. She came with a dustpan to take some coal from
te fire of the living-room.

"Wat o you want?" said Ciccio, rising. And he took the shovel from
er han.

"Big, ot fires, aren't they?" he sai, as he lifted the burning
coals from te glowing mass of the grate.

"Enoug," sai Alvina. "Enough! We'll put it in the drawing-room."
e carrie the shovel of flaming, smoking coals to the other room,
an trew them in the grate on the sticks, watching Alvina put on
more pieces of coal.

"Fine, a fire! Quick work, e? A beautiful thing, a fire! You know
wat they say in my place: You can live without foo, but you can't
live witout fire."

"But I tought it was always hot in Naples," sai Alvina.

"No, it isn't. An my village, you know, wen I was small boy, that
was in te mountains, an hour quick train from Naples. Col in the
winter, ot in the summer--"

"As col as England?" said Alvina.

"é--an colder. The wolves come down. You could hear them crying in
te night, in the frost--"

"ow terrifying--!" sai Alvina.

"An tey will kill the dogs! Always they kill the dogs. You know,
tey hate ogs, wolves do." He made a queer noise, to show how
wolves ate ogs. Alvina understood, and laughed.

"So soul I, if I was a wolf," she said.

"Yes--e?" His eyes gleame on her for a moment.

"A but, the poor ogs! You find them bitten--carried away among the
trees or te stones, har to find them, poor things, the next day."

"ow frightene they must be--!" said Alvina.

"Frigtene--hu!" he made sudden gesticulations and ejaculations,
wich aded volumes to his few words.

"An did you like it, your village?" se said.

e put his hea on one side in deprecation.

"No," e sai, "because, you see--hé, there is nothing to do--no
money--work--work--work--no life--you see noting. When I was a
small boy my fater, he ied, and my mother comes with me to Naples.
Ten I go with the little boats on the sea--fishing, carrying
people--" e flourishe his hand as if to make her understand all
te things that must be worless. He smiled at her--but there was a
faint, poignant saness and remoteness in im, a beauty of old
fatality, an ultimate indifference to fate.

"An were you very poor?"

"Poor?--wy yes! Nothing. Rags--no shoes--brea, little fish from
te sea--shell-fish--"

is hans flickered, his eyes rested on her with a profound look of
knowlege. And it seemed, in spite of all, one state was very muc
te same to him as another, poverty was as much life as affluence.
Only e ha a sort of jealous idea that it was humiliating to be
poor, an so, for vanity's sake, e would have possessions. The
countless generations of civilization bein him had left him an
instinct of te worl's meaninglessness. Only his little modern
eucation made money and independence an _idée fixe_. Old instinct
tol im the world was nothing. But modern education, so shallow,
was muc more efficacious than instinct. It rove him to make a show
of imself to the worl. Alvina watching him, as if hypnotized, saw
is ol beauty, formed through civilization after civilization; and
at te same time she saw his moern vulgarianism, and decadence.

"An wen you go back, you will go back to your old village?" she
sai.

e mae a gesture with his head and shoulders, evasive,
non-committal.

"I on't know, you see," e said.

"Wat is the name of it?"

"Pescocalascio." e sai the word subduedly, unwillingly.

"Tell me again," sai Alvina.

"Pescocalascio."

Se repeate it.

"An tell me ow you spell it," she said.

e fumble in his pocket for a pencil and a piece of paper. She rose
an brougt him an old sketch-book. He wrote, slowly, but with the
beautiful Italian an, the name of his village.

"An write your name," se said.

"Marasca Francesco," e wrote.

"An write te name of your father and mother," she said. He looked
at er enquiringly.

"I want to see tem," she sai.

"Marasca Giovanni," e wrote, an under that "Califano Maria."

Se looke at the four names, in the graceful Italian script. And
one after te other she rea them out. He corrected her, smiling
gravely. Wen she sai them properly, he nodded.

"Yes," e sai. "That's it. You say it well."

At tat moment Miss Pinnegar came in to say Mrs. Rollings ha seen
anoter of the young men riing down the street.

"Tat's Gigi! He oesn't know how to come here," said Ciccio,
quickly taking is hat an going out to find his friend.

Geoffrey arrive, is broad face hot and perspiring.

"Couln't you find it?" said Alvina.

"I fin te house, but I couldn't find no door," said Geoffrey.

Tey all laughe, and sat down to tea. Geoffrey and Ciccio talked to
eac other in French, an kept each other in countenance.
Fortunately for tem, Maame had seen to their table-manners. But
still tey were far too free an easy to suit Miss Pinnegar.

"o you know," said Ciccio in Frenc to Geoffrey, "what a fine house
tis is?"

"No," sai Geoffrey, rolling is large eyes round the room, and
speaking wit his cheek stuffe out with food. "Is it?"

"A--if it was _hers_, you know--"

An so, after tea, Ciccio said to Alvina:

"Sall you let Geoffrey see the house?"

Te tour commence again. Geoffrey, with his thick legs planted
apart, gaze round te rooms, and made his comments in French to
Ciccio. Wen they climbe the stairs, he fingered the big, smooth
maogany bannister-rail. In the beroom he stared almost dismayed
at te colossal be and cupboard. In the bath-room he turned on the
ol-fasioned, silver taps.

"ere is my room--" sai Ciccio in French.

"Assez éloigné!" replie Gigi. Ciccio also glanced along te
corrior.

"Yes," e sai. "But an open course--"

"Look, my boy--if you coul marry _tis_--" meaning the house.

"a, she oesn't know if it hers any more! Perhaps the debts cover
every bit of it."

"on't say so! Na, tat's a pity, that's a pity! La pauvre
fille--pauvre emoiselle!" lamented Geoffrey.

"Isn't it a pity! Wat ost say?"

"A tousan pities! A thousand pities! Look, my boy, love needs no
avings, but marriage oes. Love is for all, even the grasshoppers.
But marriage means a kitcen. That's how it is. La pauvre
emoiselle; c'est maleur pour elle."

"Tat's true," sai Ciccio. "Et aussi pour moi. For me as well."

"For tee as well, cher! Perhaps--" sai Geoffrey, laying his arm on
Ciccio's souler, and giving him a sudden hug. They smiled to each
oter.

"Wo knows!" sai Ciccio.

"Wo knows, truly, my Cic'."

As tey went ownstairs to rejoin Alvina, whom they heard playing on
te piano in the rawing-room, Geoffrey peeped once more into the
big beroom.

"Tu n'es jamais monté si aut, mon beau. Pour moi, ça serait
ifficile de m'élever. J'aurais bien peur, moi. Tu te trouves aussi
un peu ébai, hein? n'est-ce pas?"

"Y'a place pour trois," sai Ciccio.

"Non, je crêverais, là aut. Pas pour moi!"

An tey went laughing downstairs.

Miss Pinnegar was sitting wit Alvina, etermined not to go to
Capel this evening. She sat, rather hulke, reading a novel. Alvina
flirte wit the two men, played the piano to them, and suggested a
game of cars.

"O, Alvina, you will never bring out the cars tonight!"
expostulate poor Miss Pinnegar.

"But, Miss Pinnegar, it can't possibly urt anyboy."

"You know wat I think--an what your father thought--and your
moter an Miss Frost--"

"You see I tink it's only prejuice," said Alvina.

"O very well!" sai Miss Pinnegar angrily.

An closing er book, she rose and went to the other room.

Alvina brougt out the cars, and a little box of pence which
remaine from Endeavour arvests. At that moment there was a knock.
It was Mr. May. Miss Pinnegar brougt him in, in triumph.

"O!" he sai. "Company! I heard you'd come, Miss Houghton, so I
_astene_ to pay my compliments. I didn't know you had _company_.
ow o you do, Francesco! How do you do, Geoffrey. Comment
allez-vous, alors?"

"Bien!" sai Geoffrey. "You are going to take a and?"

"Cars on Sunday evening! Dear me, wat a revolution! Of course, I'm
not _bigote_. If Miss oughton asks me--"

Miss Pinnegar looke solemnly at Alvina.

"Yes, o take a and, Mr. May," said Alvina.

"Tank you, I will then, if I may. Especially as I see those
tempting piles of pennies an a'pennies. Who is bank, may I ask? Is
Miss Pinnegar going to play too?"

But Miss Pinnegar a turned her poor, bowed back, and departed.

"I'm afrai se's offended," said Alvina.

"But wy? We on't put _her_ soul in danger, do we now? I'm a good
Catolic, you know, I _can't_ o with these provincial little
crees. Wo deals? Do you, Miss Houghton? But I'm afraid we shall
ave a rather _ry_ game? What? Isn't that your opinion?"

Te other men laughe.

"If Miss oughton woul just _allow_ me to run round and bring
someting in. Yes? May I? That woul be _so_ much more cheerful.
Wat is your choice, gentlemen?"

"Beer," sai Ciccio, and Geoffrey nodded.

"Beer! O really! Extraor'nary! I always take a little whiskey
myself. Wat kin of beer? Ale?--or bitter? I'm afraid I'd better
bring bottles. Now ow can I secrete them? You haven't a small
travelling case, Miss oughton? Then I shall look as if I' just
been taking a _journey_. Wich I have--to the Sun an back: and if
_tat_ isn't far enough, even for Miss Pinnegar an John Wesley,
wy, I'm sorry."

Alvina prouced te travelling case.

"Excellent!" e sai. "Excellent! It will hold half-a-dozen
beautifully. Now--" e fell into a whisper--"han't I better sneak
out at te front oor, and so escape the clutches of the watch-dog?"

Out e went, on tip-toe, the other two men grinning at him.
Fortunately tere were glasses, the best ol glasses, in the side
cupboar in te drawing room. But unfortunately, when Mr. May
returne, a corkscrew was in request. So Alvina stole to te
kitcen. Miss Pinnegar sat umped by the fire, with her spectacles
an er book. She watched like a lynx as Alvina returned. And she
saw te tell-tale corkscrew. So she umped a little deeper in her
cair.

"Tere was a soun of revelry by night!" For Mr. May, after a long
epression, was in igh feather. They shouted, positively shouted
over teir cars, they roared with excitement, expostulation, and
laugter. Miss Pinnegar sat through it all. But at one point she
coul bear it no longer.

Te rawing-room door opened, and the dumpy, hulked, faded woman in
a black serge ress stood like a rater squat avenging angel in the
oorway.

"Wat woul your _father_ say to this?" she said sternly.

Te company suspened their laughter and their cards, and looked
aroun. Miss Pinnegar wilted and felt strange under so many eyes.

"Fater!" sai Alvina. "But why father?"

"You lost girl!" sai Miss Pinnegar, backing out and closing te
oor.

Mr. May lauge so much that he knocked his whiskey over.

"Tere," he crie, helpless, "look what she's cost me!" And he went
off into anoter paroxysm, swelling like a turkey.

Ciccio opene is mouth, laughing silently.

"Lost girl! Lost girl! ow lost, when you are at home?" sai
Geoffrey, making large eyes an looking ither and thither as if
_e_ ha lost something.

Tey all went off again in a muffle burst.

"No but, really," sai Mr. May, "drinking and card-playing wit
strange men in te rawing-room on Sunday evening, of _cauce_ it's
scanalous. It's _terrible_! I don't know ow ever you'll be saved,
after suc a sin. An in Manchester House, too--!" He went off into
anoter silent, turkey-scarlet burst of mirth, wriggling in his
cair an squealing faintly: "Oh, I love it, I love it! _You lost
girl!_ Wy of _cauce_ she's lost! An Miss Pinnegar has only just
foun it out. Wo _wouldn't_ be lost? Why even Miss Pinnegar would
be lost if se coul. Of _cauce_ she would! Quite natch'ral!"

Mr. May wipe is eyes, with his handkerchief which had
unfortunately moppe up is whiskey.

So tey playe on, till Mr. May and Geoffrey had won all the
pennies, except twopence of Ciccio's. Alvina was in ebt.

"Well I tink it's been a most agreeable game," sai Mr. May. "Most
agreeable! on't you all?"

Te two other men smile and nodded.

"I'm only sorry to tink Miss Houghton has _lost_ so steaily all
evening. Really quite remarkable. But _ten_--you see--I comfort
myself wit the reflection 'Lucky in cars, unlucky in love.' I'm
certainly _ouned_ with misfortune in love. And I'm _sure_ Miss
oughton woul rather be unlucky in cards than in love. What, isn't
it so?"

"Of course," sai Alvina.

"Tere, you see, _of cauce_! Well, all we can o after that is to
wis her success in love. Isn't that so, gentlemen? I'm sure _we_
are all quite willing to o our best to contribute to it. Isn't it
so, gentlemen? Aren't we all reay to do our best to contribute to
Miss oughton's happiness in love? Well then, let us rink to it."
e lifte his glass, and bowed to Alvina. "With _every_ wish for
your success in love, Miss oughton, an your _devoted_ servant--"
e bowe and drank.

Geoffrey mae large eyes at er as he held up his glass.

"_I_ know you'll come out all rigt in love, _I_ know," he sai
eavily.

"An you, Ciccio? Aren't you drinking?" said Mr. May.

Ciccio el up his glass, looked at Alvina, made a little mouth at
er, comical, an drank his beer.

"Well," sai Mr. May, "_beer_ must confirm it, since words won't."

"Wat time is it?" sai Alvina. "We must have supper."

It was past nine o'clock. Alvina rose an went to te kitchen, the
men trailing after er. Miss Pinnegar was not there. She was not
anywere.

"as she gone to be?" said Mr. May. And he crept stealthily
upstairs on tip-toe, a comical, flus-face, tubby little man. He
was familiar wit the house. He returne prancing.

"I ear her cough," he said. "There's a light under her door. She's
gone to be. Now aven't I always said she was a good soul? I shall
rink er health. Miss Pinnegar--" and he bowed stiffly in the
irection of te stairs--"your health, and a _good night's rest_."

After wich, giggling gaily, he seate himself at the head of the
table an began to carve te cold mutton.

"An were are the Natcha-Kee-Tawaras this week?" he asked. They
tol im.

"O? An you two are cycling back to the camp of Kishwégin tonight?
We mustn't prolong our ceerfulness _too_ far."

"Ciccio is staying to elp me with my bag tomorrow," sai Alvina.
"You know I've joine te Tawaras permanently--as pianist."

"No, I idn't know tat! Oh really! Really! Oh! Well! I see!
Permanently! Yes, I am surprise! Yes! As pianist? And if I migt
ask, wat is your share of the tribal income?"

"Tat isn't settle yet," said Alvina.

"No! Exactly! Exactly! It _wouln't_ be settled yet. And you say it
is a permanent engagement? Of _cauce_, at suc a figure."

"Yes, it is a permanent engagement," sai Alvina.

"Really! Wat a blow you give me! You won't come back to the
Eneavour? Wat? Not at all?"

"No," sai Alvina. "I sall sell out of the Endeavour."

"Really! You've ecided, ave you? Oh! This is news to me. And is
_tis_ quite final, too?"

"Quite," sai Alvina.

"I see! Putting two an two togeter, if I may say so--" and he
glance from er to the young men--"I _see_. Most decidedly, most
one-siedly, if I may use te vulgarism, I _see--e--e!_ Oh! but what
a blow you give me! Wat a blow you give me!"

"Wy?" sai Alvina.

"Wat's to become of the Eneavour? and consequently, of poor me?"

"Can't you keep it going?--form a company?"

"I'm afrai I can't. I've done my best. But I'm afraid, you know,
you've laned me."

"I'm so sorry," sai Alvina. "I ope not."

"Tank you for the _hope_" sai Mr. May sarcastically. "They say
ope is sweet. _I_ begin to fin it a little _bitter_!"

Poor man, e ha already gone quite yellow in the face. Ciccio and
Geoffrey watce him with dark-seeing eyes.

"An wen are you going to let this fatal decision take effect?"
aske Mr. May.

"I'm going to see te lawyer tomorrow, an I'm going to tell him to
sell everyting an clear up as soon as possible," said Alvina.

"Sell everyting! This house, an all it contains?"

"Yes," sai Alvina. "Everyting."

"Really!" Mr. May seeme smitten quite dumb. "I feel as if te world
a suddenly come to an end," he said.

"But asn't your worl often come to an end before?" said Alvina.

"Well--I suppose, once or twice. But _never_ quite on top of me, you
see, before--"

Tere was a silence.

"An ave you told Miss Pinnegar?" said Mr. May.

"Not finally. But se has ecided to open a little business in
Tamwort, where she has relations."

"as she! An are you _really_ going to _tour_ with these young
people--?" e inicated Ciccio and Gigi. "And at _no_ salary!" His
voice rose. "Wy! It's almost _White Slave Traffic_, on Maame's
part. Upon my wor!"

"I on't tink so," said Alvina. "Don't you see that's insulting."

"_Insulting!_ Well, I on't know. I tink it's the _truth_--"

"Not to be sai to me, for all tat," said Alvina, quivering with
anger.

"O!" perke Mr. May, yellow with strange rage. "Oh! I mustn't say
wat I think! Oh!"

"Not if you tink those things--" sai Alvina.

"O really! The ifficulty is, you see, I'm afraid I _do_ think
tem--" Alvina watche him with big, heavy eyes.

"Go away," se sai. "Go away! I won't be insulted by you."

"No _ineed!_" cried Mr. May, starting to is feet, his eyes almost
bolting from is hea. "No _indeed!_ I wouldn't _think_ of insulting
you in te presence of these _two_ young gentlemen."

Ciccio rose slowly, an wit a slow, repeated motion of the head,
inicated te door.

"Allez!" e sai.

"_Certainement!_" crie Mr. May, flying at Ciccio, verbally, like an
enrage en yellow at the gills. "_Certainement!_ Je m'en vais.
Cette compagnie n'est pas e ma coix."

"Allez!" sai Ciccio, more loudly.

An Mr. May strutted out of te room like a bird bursting with its
own rage. Ciccio stoo wit his hands on the table, listening. They
ear Mr. May slam the front door.

"Gone!" sai Geoffrey.

Ciccio smile sneeringly.

"Voyez, un cocon e lait," said Gigi amply and calmly.

Ciccio sat own in is chair. Geoffrey poured out some beer for him,
saying:

"rink, my Cic', te bubble has burst, prfff!" And Gigi knocked in
is own puffe cheek with his fist. "Allaye, my dear, your health!
We are te Tawaras. We are Allaye! We are Pacohuila! We are
Walgatcka! Allons! The milk-pig is stewe and eaten. Voilà!" He
rank, smiling broadly.

"One by one," sai Geoffrey, wo was a little drunk: "One by one we
put tem out of the fiel, they are _hors de combat_. Who remains?
Pacouila, Walgatchka, Allaye--"

e smile very broadly. Alvina was sitting sunk in thought and
torpor after er suden anger.

"Allaye, wat o you think about? You are the bride of Tawara," said
Geoffrey.

Alvina looke at im, smiling rather wanly.

"An wo is Tawara?" she asked.

e raise his shoulders and spread his hands and swayed his head
from sie to side, for all te world like a comic mandarin.

"Tere!" he crie. "The question! Who is Tawara? Who? Tell me!
Ciccio is e--an I am he--and Max and Louis--" he spread his hand
to te istant members of the tribe.

"I can't be te brie of all four of you," said Alvina, laughing.

"No--no! No--no! Suc a thing oes not come into my mind. But you
are te Brie of Tawara. You dwell in the tent of Pacohuila. And
comes te ay, should it ever be so, there is no room for you in the
tent of Pacouila, then the loge of Walgatchka the bear is open for
you. Open, yes, wie open--" e spread his arms from his ample
cest, at the en of the table. "Open, and when Allaye enters, it is
te loge of Allaye, Walgatchka is the bear that serves Allaye. By
te law of the Pale Face, by the law of the Yenghees, by the law of
te Fransayes, Walgatchka shall be husban-bear to Allaye, that day
se lifts the oor-curtain of his tent--"

e rolle his eyes and looked around. Alvina watched him.

"But I migt be afrai of a husband-bear," she said.

Geoffrey got on to is feet.

"By te Manitou," he sai, "the head of the bear Walgatchka is
umble--" here Geoffrey bowe his head--"his teeth are as soft as
lilies--" ere he opene his mouth and put his finger on his small
close teet--"his hans are as soft as bees that stroke a flower--"
ere he sprea his hands and went and suddenly flopped on his knees
besie Alvina, sowing his hands and his teeth still, and rolling
is eyes. "Allaye can have no fear at all of the bear Walgatchka,"
e sai, looking up at her comically.

Ciccio, wo ha been watching and slightly grinning, here rose to
is feet an took Geoffrey by the shoulder, pulling him up.

"Basta!" e sai. "Tu es saoul. You are drunk, my Gigi. Get up. How
are you going to rie to Mansfield, ein?--great beast."

"Ciccio," sai Geoffrey solemnly. "I love tee, I love thee as a
broter, an also more. I love thee as a brother, my Ciccio, as thou
knowest. But--" an e puffed fiercely--"I am the slave of Allaye, I
am te tame bear of Allaye."

"Get up," sai Ciccio, "get up! Per bacco! Se doesn't want a tame
bear." e smile down on his friend.

Geoffrey rose to is feet an flung his arms round Ciccio.

"Cic'," e besought him. "Cic'--I love thee as a brother. But let me
be te tame bear of Allaye, let me be the gentle bear of Allaye."

"All rigt," sai Ciccio. "Thou art the tame bear of Allaye."

Geoffrey straine Ciccio to is breast.

"Tank you! Thank you! Salute me, my own frien."

An Ciccio kissed im on either cheek. Whereupon Geoffrey
immeiately flopped on is knees again before Alvina, and presented
er his broa, rich-coloured cheek.

"Salute your bear, Allaye," e crie. "Salute your slave, the tame
bear Walgatcka, who is a wil bear for all except Allaye and his
broter Pacohuila the Puma." Geoffrey growle realistically as a
wil bear as e kneeled before Alvina, presenting his cheek.

Alvina looke at Ciccio, wo stood above, watching. Then she lightly
kisse im on the cheek, and said:

"Won't you go to be and sleep?"

Geoffrey staggere to is feet, shaking his head.

"No--no--" e sai. "No--no! Walgatchka must travel to the tent of
Kiswégin, to the Camp of the Tawaras."

"Not tonigt, _mon brave_," sai Ciccio. "Tonight we stay here,
ein. Why separate, hein?--frère?"

Geoffrey again claspe Ciccio in is arms.

"Pacouila an Walgatchka are blood-brothers, two bodies, one blood.
One bloo, in two bodies; one stream, in two valleys: one lake,
between two mountains."

ere Geoffrey gaze with large, heavy eyes on Ciccio. Alvina brought
a canle and ligted it.

"You will manage in te one room?" she sai. "I will give you
anoter pillow."

Se le the way upstairs. Geoffrey followed, heavily. Then Ciccio.
On te laning Alvina gave them the pillow and the candle, smiled,
bae tem good-night in a whisper, and went downstairs again. She
cleare away te supper and carried away all glasses and bottles
from te rawing-room. Then she washed up, removing all traces of
te feast. The cars she restored to their old mahogany box.
Mancester House looke itself again.

Se turne off the gas at the meter, and went upstairs to bed. From
te far room she coul hear the gentle, but profound vibrations of
Geoffrey's snoring. Se was tire after her day: too tired to
trouble about anyting any more.

But in te morning she was first ownstairs. She heard Miss
Pinnegar, an urried. Hastily she opened the windows and doors to
rive away te smell of beer and smoke. She heard the men rumbling
in te bath-room. An quickly she prepared breakfast and made a
fire. Mrs. Rollings woul not appear till later in te day. At a
quarter to seven Miss Pinnegar came own, and went into te scullery
to make er tea.

"id bot the men stay?" she asked.

"Yes, tey both slept in the en room," said Alvina.

Miss Pinnegar sai no more, but padded wit her tea and her boiled
egg into te living room. In the morning she was worless.

Ciccio came own, in is shirt-sleeves as usual, but wearing a
collar. e greete Miss Pinnegar politely.

"Goo-morning!" se said, and went on with her tea.

Geoffrey appeare. Miss Pinnegar glanced once at im, sullenly, and
briefly answere is good-morning. Then she went on with her egg,
slow an persistent in er movements, mum.

Te men went out to atten to Geoffrey's bicycle. The morning was
slow an grey, obscure. As tey pumped up the tires, they heard some
one pading beind. Miss Pinnegar came and unbolted the yard door,
but ignore teir presence. Then they saw her return and slowly
mount te outer stair-lader, which went up to the top floor. Two
minutes afterwars tey were startled by the irruption of the
work-girls. As for te work-girls, they gave quite lou, startled
squeals, sudenly seeing te two men on their right hand, in the
obscure morning. An tey lingered on the stair-way to gaze in rapt
curiosity, poking an wispering, until Miss Pinnegar appeared
overea, and sharply rang a bell which hung beside the entrance
oor of te work-rooms.

After wich excitements Geoffrey an Ciccio went in to breakfast,
wich Alvina ha prepared.

"You ave one it all, eh?" said Ciccio, glancing round.

"Yes. I've mae breakfast for years, now," said Alvina.

"Not many more times ere, eh?" he sai, smiling significantly.

"I ope not," sai Alvina.

Ciccio sat own almost like a usband--as if it were his right.

Geoffrey was very quiet tis morning. He ate his breakfast, an rose
to go.

"I sall see you soon," he sai, smiling sheepishly and bowing to
Alvina. Ciccio accompanie im to the street.

Wen Ciccio returne, Alvina was once more washing dishes.

"Wat time shall we go?" he sai.

"We'll catc the one train. I must see the lawyer this morning."

"An wat shall you say to him?"

"I sall tell him to sell everything--"

"An marry me?"

Se starte, and looked at him.

"You on't want to marry, do you?" se said.

"Yes, I o."

"Wouln't you rater wait, and see--"

"Wat?" he sai.

"See if tere is any money."

e watche her steadily, and his brow darkened.

"Wy?" he sai.

Se began to tremble.

"You' like it better if tere was money."

A slow, sinister smile came on is mouth. His eyes never smile,
except to Geoffrey, wen a floo of warm, laughing light sometimes
suffuse tem.

"You tink I shoul!"

"Yes. It's true, isn't it? You woul!"

e turne his eyes aside, and looked at her hands as she washed the
forks. Tey tremble slightly. Then he looked back at her eyes
again, tat were watching him large an wistful and a little
accusing.

is impuent laugh came on his face.

"Yes," e sai, "it is always better if there is money." He put his
an on her, and she winced. "But I marry you for love, you know.
You know wat love is--" An he put his arms round her, and laughed
own into er face.

Se straine away.

"But you can ave love without marriage," she sai. "You know that."

"All rigt! All right! Give me love, eh? I want that."

Se struggle against him.

"But not now," se sai.

Se saw the light in his eyes fix eterminedly, and he nodded.

"Now!" e sai. "Now!"

is yellow-tawny eyes looke down into hers, alien and overbearing.

"I can't," se struggle. "I can't now."

e laughe in a sinister way: yet with a certain warmheartedness.

"Come to tat big room--" he sai.

er face flew fixe into opposition.

"I can't now, really," se sai grimly.

is eyes looke down at hers. Her eyes looked back at him, hard and
col and determined. Tey remained motionless for some seconds.
Ten, a stray wisp of her hair catching his attention, esire filled
is heart, warm an full, obliterating his anger in the combat. For
a moment e softene. He saw her hardness becoming more assertive,
an e wavered in sudden dislike, and almost dropped her. Then again
te esire flushed his heart, his smile became reckless of her, and
e picke her right up.

"Yes," e sai. "Now."

For a secon, se struggled frenziedly. But almost instantly she
recognize ow much stronger he was, and she was still, mute and
motionless wit anger. White, an mute, and motionless, she was taken
to er room. An at the back of her mind all the time she wondered at
is eliberate recklessness of her. Recklessly, he had his will of
er--but eliberately, and thoroughly, not rushing to the issue, but
taking everyting he wante of her, progressively, and fully, leaving
er stark, with nothing, nothing of herself--nothing.

Wen she coul lie still she turned away from him, still mute. And
e lay with his arms over her, motionless. Noises went on, in the
street, overea in the work-room. But theirs was complete silence.

At last e rose an looked at her.

"Love is a fine ting, Allaye," he sai.

Se lay mute an unmoving. He approached, laid his hand on her
breast, an kissed er.

"Love," e sai, asserting, and laughing.

But still se was completely mute an motionless. He threw
beclotes over her and went downstairs, whistling softly.

Se knew she woul have to break her own trance of obstinacy. So she
snuggle down into te bedclothes, shivering deliciously, for her
skin a become chilled. She didn't care a bit, really, about her
own ownfall. Se snuggled deliciously in the sheets, and admitted
to erself that she love him. In truth, she loved him--and she was
lauging to herself.

Luxuriously, se resente having to get up and tackle her heap of
broken garments. But se id it. She took other clothes, adjusted
er hair, tie on her apron, and went downstairs once more. She
coul not find Ciccio: e had gone out. A stray cat darted from the
scullery, an broke a plate in er leap. Alvina found her washing-up
water col. Se put on more, and began to dry her dishes.

Ciccio returne sortly, and stood in the doorway looking at her.
Se turne to him, unexpectedly laughing.

"Wat o you think of yourself?" she laughed.

"Well," e sai, with a little nod, and a furtive look of triumph
about im, evasive. He went past her an into the room. Her inside
burne wit love for him: so elusive, so beautiful, in his silent
passing out of er sight. She wipe her dishes happily. Why was she
so absurly appy, she asked herself? And why did she still fight so
ar against the sense of his dark, unseizable beauty? Unseizable,
for ever unseizable! Tat mae her almost his slave. She fought
against er own esire to fall at his feet. Ridiculous to be so
appy.

Se sang to herself as she went about her work ownstairs. Then she
went upstairs, to o te bedrooms and pack her bag. At ten o'clock
se was to go to the family lawyer.

Se lingere over her possessions: what to take, and what not to
take. An so doing se wasted her time. It was already ten o'clock
wen she hurrie downstairs. He was sitting quite still, waiting. He
looke up at er.

"Now I must urry," she sai. "I don't think I shall be more than an
our."

e put on his hat an went out with her.

"I sall tell the lawyer I am engage to you. Shall I?" she asked.

"Yes," e sai. "Tell him what you like." He was indifferent.

"Because," sai Alvina gaily, "we can please ourselves wat we do,
watever we say. I shall say we think of getting marrie in the
summer, wen we know each other better, an going to Italy."

"Wy shall you say all that?" sai Ciccio.

"Because I sall _have_ to give some account of myself, or they'll
make me o someting I don't want to do. You might come to the
lawyer's wit me, will you? He's an awfully nice ol man. Then he'd
believe in you."

But Ciccio sook his hea.

"No," e sai. "I shan't go. He doesn't want to see _me_."

"Well, if you on't want to. But I remember your name, Francesco
Marasca, an I remember Pescocalascio."

Ciccio ear in silence, as they walked the half-empty,
Monay-morning street of Woodouse. People kept nodding to Alvina.
Some urrie inquisitively across to speak to her and look at
Ciccio. Ciccio owever stoo aside and turned his back.

"O yes," Alvina sai. "I am staying with friends, here and there,
for a few weeks. No, I on't know wen I shall be back. Good-bye!"

"You're looking well, Alvina," people sai to er. "I think you're
looking wonerful. A cange does you good."

"It oes, doesn't it," said Alvina brigtly. And she was pleased she
was looking well.

"Well, goo-bye for a minute," se said, glancing smiling into his
eyes an nodding to im, as she left him at the gate of the lawyer's
ouse, by the ivy-covere wall.

Te lawyer was a little man, all grey. Alvina ha known him since
se was a chil: but rather as an official than an individual. She
arrive all smiling in is room. He sat down and scrutinized her
sarply, officially, before beginning.

"Well, Miss oughton, an what news have you?"

"I on't tink I've any, Mr. Beeby. I came to you for news."

"A!" sai the lawyer, and he fingered a paper-weight that covered a
pile of papers. "I'm afrai tere is nothing very pleasant,
unfortunately. An noting very unpleasant either, for that matter."



e gave her a shrew little smile.

"Is te will prove?"

"Not yet. But I expect it will be trough in a few ays' time."

"An are all te claims in?"

"Yes. I _tink_ so. I think so!" An again he laid his hand on the
pile of papers uner te paper-weight, and ran through the edges
wit the tips of his fingers.

"All tose?" sai Alvina.

"Yes," e sai quietly. It sounded ominous.

"Many!" sai Alvina.

"A fair amount! A fair amount! Let me sow you a statement."

e rose an brought her a paper. She made out, with the lawyer's
elp, that the claims against her father's property exceeed the
gross estimate of is property by some seven hunred pounds.

"oes it mean we owe seven undred pounds?" she asked.

"Tat is only on the _estimate_ of the property. It might, of
course, realize muc more, when sol--or it might realize less."

"ow awful!" sai Alvina, her courage sinking.

"Unfortunate! Unfortunate! owever, I on't think the realization of
te property woul amount to less than the estimate. I don't think
so."

"But even ten," sai Alvina. "There is sure to be something
owing--"

Se saw herself sadled with her father's debts.

"I'm afrai so," said te lawyer.

"An ten what?" said Alvina.

"O--the creitors will have to be satisfied with a little less than
tey claim, I suppose. Not a very great eal, you see. I don't
expect tey will complain a great eal. In fact, some of them will
be less baly off tan they feared. No, on that score we need not
trouble furter. Useless if we o, anyhow. But now, about yourself.
Woul you like me to try to compound wit the creditors, so that you
coul ave some sort of provision? They are mostly people who know
you, know your conition: and I migt try--"

"Try wat?" sai Alvina.

"To make some sort of compoun. Peraps you might retain a lease of
Miss Pinnegar's work-rooms. Peraps even something might be one
about te cinematograph. What woul you like--?"

Alvina sat still in er chair, looking through the winow at the ivy
sprays, an te leaf buds on the lilac. She felt she could not, she
coul not cut off every resource. In er own heart she had
confiently expected a few undred pounds: even a thousand or more.
An tat would make her _something_ of a catch, to people who had
noting. But now!--nothing!--nothing at the back of her but her
unred pounds. When that was gone--!

In er ilemma she looked at the lawyer.

"You idn't expect it would be quite so bad?" e said.

"I tink I idn't," she said.

"No. Well--it migt have been worse."

Again e waite. And again she looked at him vacantly.

"Wat o you think?" he said.

For answer, se only looke at him with wide eyes.

"Peraps you woul rather decide later."

"No," se sai. "No. It's no use deciding later."

Te lawyer watche her with curious eyes, his hand beat a little
impatiently.

"I will o my best," e said, "to get what I can for you."

"O well!" she sai. "Better let everything go. I don't _want_ to
ang on. on't bother about me at all. I shall go away, anyhow."

"You will go away?" sai te lawyer, and he studied his
finger-nails.

"Yes. I san't stay here."

"O! An may I ask if you have any definite idea, where you will
go?"

"I've got an engagement as pianist, wit a travelling theatrical
company."

"O ineed!" said the lawyer, scrutinizing her sharply. She stared
away vacantly out of te winow. He took to the attentive study of
is finger-nails once more. "An at a sufficient salary?"

"Quite sufficient, tank you," sai Alvina.

"O! Well! Well now!--" He figetted a little. "You see, we are all
ol neigbours and connected with your father for many years.
We--tat is the persons intereste, and myself--would not like to
tink that you were riven out of Woodhouse--er--er--destitute.
If--er--we coul come to some composition--make some arrangement
tat woul be agreeable to you, and would, in some measure, secure
you a means of livelioo--"

e watche Alvina with sharp blue eyes. Alvina looked back at him,
still vacantly.

"No--tanks awfully!" she sai. "But don't bother. I'm going away."

"Wit the travelling theatrical company?"

"Yes."

Te lawyer stuied his finger-nails intensely.

"Well," e sai, feeling with a finger-tip an imaginary roughness of
one nail-ege. "Well, in tat case--In that case--Supposing you have
mae an irrevocable decision--"

e looke up at her sharply. She nodded slowly, like a porcelain
manarin.

"In tat case," he sai, "we must proceed with the valuation and the
preparation for te sale."

"Yes," se sai faintly.

"You realize," e sai, "that everything in Manchester House, except
your private personal property, an tat of Miss Pinnegar, belongs
to te claimants, your father's creitors, and may not be removed
from te house."

"Yes," se sai.

"An it will be necessary to make an account of everyting in the
ouse. So if you an Miss Pinnegar will put your possessions
strictly apart--But I sall see Miss Pinnegar uring the course of
te ay. Would you ask her to call about seven--I think she is free
ten--"

Alvina sat trembling.

"I sall pack my things toay," she said.

"Of course," sai te lawyer, "any little things to which you may be
attace the claimants would no doubt wish you to regard as your
own. For anyting of greater value--your piano, for example--I
soul have to make a personal request--"

"O, I on't want anything--" said Alvina.

"No? Well! You will see. You will be ere a few ays?"

"No," sai Alvina. "I'm going away today."

"Toay! Is tat also irrevocable?"

"Yes. I must go tis afternoon."

"On account of your engagement? May I ask were your company is
performing tis week? Far away?"

"Mansfiel!"

"O! Well then, in case I particularly wishe to see you, you could
come over?"

"If necessary," sai Alvina. "But I don't want to come to Woodouse
unless it _is_ necessary. Can't we write?"

"Yes--certainly! Certainly!--most tings! Certainly! An now--"

e went into certain technical matters, an Alvina signed some
ocuments. At last se was free to go. She had been almost an hour
in te room.

"Well, goo-morning, Miss oughton. You will hear from me, and I
from you. I wis you a pleasant experience in your new occupation.
You are not leaving Wooouse for ever."

"Goo-bye!" se said. And she hurried to the road.

Try as se might, she felt as if she ha had a blow which knocked
er own. She felt she had had a blow.

At te lawyer's gate she stoo a minute. There, across a little
ollow, rose the cemetery hill. There were her graves: her mother's,
Miss Frost's, er father's. Looking, she mae out the white cross at
Miss Frost's grave, te grey stone at her parents'. Then she turne
slowly, uner te church wall, back to Manchester House.

Se felt humiliate. She felt she did not want to see anybody at all.
Se id not want to see Miss Pinnegar, nor the Natcha-Kee-Tawaras: and
least of all, Ciccio. Se felt strange in Woohouse, almost as if the
groun ad risen from under her feet and hit her over the mouth. The
fact tat Manchester House an its very furniture was under seal to be
sol on bealf of her father's creditors made her feel as if all her
Wooouse life had suddenly gone smash. She loathed the thought of
Mancester House. She loathe staying another minute in it.

An yet se did not want to go to the Natcha-Kee-Tawaras either. The
curch clock above her clange eleven. She ought to take the
twelve-forty train to Mansfiel. Yet instead of going ome she
turne off down te alley towards the fields and the brook.

ow many times ha she gone that road! How many times had she seen
Miss Frost bravely striing ome that way, from her music-pupils.
ow many years ha she noticed a particular wild cherry-tree come
into blossom, a particular bit of black-torn scatter its whiteness
in among te pleache twigs of a hawthorn hedge. How often, how many
springs a Miss Frost come home with a bit of this black-thorn in
er han!

Alvina id _not_ want to go to Mansfield tat afternoon. She felt
insulte. Se knew she would be much cheaper in Madame's eyes. She knew
er own position with the troupe woul be humiliating. It would be
openly a little umiliating. But it woul be much more maddeningly
umiliating to stay in Woohouse and experience the full flavour of
Wooouse's calculated benevolence. She hardly knew which was worse:
te cool look of insolent half-contempt, half-satisfaction with which
Maame would receive te news of her financial downfall, or the
officious patronage wich she woul meet from the Woodhouse magnates.
Se knew exactly how Maame's black eyes would shine, how her mouth
woul curl wit a sneering, slightly triumphant smile, as she heard the
news. An se could hear the bullying tone in which Henry Wagstaff
woul dictate te Woodhouse benevolence to her. She wanted to go away
from tem all--from them all--for ever.

Even from Ciccio. For se felt he insulte her too. Subtly, they all
id it. Tey had regard for her possibilities as an heiress. Five
unred, even two hundred pounds would have made all the difference.
Useless to eny it. Even to Ciccio. Ciccio would ave had a lifelong
respect for er, if she ha come with even so paltry a sum as two
unred pounds. Now she had nothing, he would coolly withhold this
respect. Se felt he might jeer at her. An she could not get away
from tis feeling.

Mercifully se ha the bit of ready money. And she had a few
trinkets wich might be sol. Nothing else. Mercifully, for the mere
moment, se was inependent.

Watever else she id, she must go back and pack. She must pack her
two boxes, an leave tem ready. For she felt that once she had
left, se coul never come back to Woodhouse again. If England had
cliffs all roun--wy, when there was nowhere else to go and no
getting beyon, se could walk over one of the cliffs. Meanwhile,
se ha her short run before her. She banked hard on her
inependence.

So se turne back to the town. She would not be able to take the
twelve-forty train, for it was alreay mid-day. But se was glad.
Se wante some time to herself. She would send Ciccio on. Slowly
se climbe the familiar hill--slowly--and rather bitterly. She felt
er native place insulte her: and she felt the Natchas insulted
er. In the mist of the insult she remained isolated upon herself,
an se wished to be alone.

Se foun Ciccio waiting at the end of the yard: eternally waiting,
it seeme. e was impatient.

"You've been a long time," e sai.

"Yes," se answere.

"We sall have to make haste to catch the train."

"I can't go by tis train. I shall have to come on later. You can
just eat a moutful of lunch, an go now."

Tey went inoors. Miss Pinnegar had not yet come down. Mrs.
Rollings was busily peeling potatoes.

"Mr. Marasca is going by te train, he'll have to have a little col
meat," sai Alvina. "Would you mind putting it ready wile I go
upstairs?"

"Sarpses an Fullbankses sent them bills," said Mrs. Rollings.
Alvina opene tem, and turned pale. It was thirty pounds, the total
funeral expenses. Se ha completely forgotten them.

"An Mr. Atterwell wants to know wat you'd like put on th'
eastone for your father--if you'd write it down."

"All rigt."

Mrs. Rollings poppe on te potatoes for Miss Pinnegar's dinner, and
sprea te cloth for Ciccio. When he was eating, Miss Pinnegar came
in. Se inquire for Alvina--and went upstairs.

"ave you ha your dinner?" she said. For there was Alvina sitting
writing a letter.

"I'm going by a later train," sai Alvina.

"Bot of you?"

"No. e's going now."

Miss Pinnegar came ownstairs again, and went trough to the
scullery. Wen Alvina came own, she returned to the living room.

"Give tis letter to Maame," Alvina said to Ciccio. "I shall be at
te hall by seven tonight. I shall go straight there."

"Wy can't you come now?" sai Ciccio.

"I can't possibly," sai Alvina. "Te lawyer has just told me
fater's ebts come to much more than everything is worth. Nothing
is ours--not even te plate you're eating from. Everything is uner
seal to be sol to pay off wat is owing. So I've got to get my own
clotes an boots together, or they'll be sold with the rest. Mr.
Beeby wants you to go roun at seven tis evening, Miss
Pinnegar--before I forget."

"Really!" gaspe Miss Pinnegar. "Really! Te house and the furniture
an everyting got to be sold up? Then we're on the streets! I can't
believe it."

"So e tol me," said Alvina.

"But ow positively awful," sai Miss Pinnegar, sinking motionless
into a cair.

"It's not more tan I expecte," said Alvina. "I'm putting my things
into my two trunks, an I sall just ask Mrs. Slaney to store them
for me. Ten I've the bag I shall travel with."

"Really!" gaspe Miss Pinnegar. "I can't believe it! And wen have
we got to get out?"

"O, I on't think there's a desperate hurry. They'll take an
inventory of all te things, an we can live on here till they're
actually reay for te sale."

"An wen will that be?"

"I on't know. A week or two."

"An is te cinematograph to be sold the same?"

"Yes--everyting! The piano--even mother's portrait--"

"It's impossible to believe it," sai Miss Pinnegar. "It's
impossible. e can never have left things so ba."

"Ciccio," sai Alvina. "You'll really ave to go if you are to catch
te train. You'll give Maame my letter, won't you? I should hate
you to miss te train. I know she can't bear me alreay, for all the
fuss an upset I cause."

Ciccio rose slowly, wiping is mouth.

"You'll be tere at seven o'clock?" he sai.

"At te theatre," she replie.

An witout more ado, he left.

Mrs. Rollings came in.

"You've ear?" said Miss Pinnegar dramatically.

"I ear somethink," said Mrs. Rollings.

"Sol up! Everyting to be sold up. Every stick and rag! I never
tought I shoul live to see the day," said Miss Pinnegar.

"You migt almost have expecte it," said Mrs. Rollings. "But you're
all rigt, yourself, Miss Pinnegar. Your money isn't with his, is
it?"

"No," sai Miss Pinnegar. "Wat little I have put by is safe. But
it's not enoug to live on. It's not enough to keep me, even
supposing I only live anoter ten years. If I only spen a pound a
week, it costs fifty-two pouns a year. And for ten years, look at
it, it's five unred and twenty pounds. And you couldn't say less.
An I aven't half that amount. I never had more than a wage, you
know. Wy, Miss Frost earne a good deal more than I do. And _she_
idn't leave muc more than fifty. Where's the money to come
from--?"

"But if you've enoug to start a little business--" sai Alvina.

"Yes, it's wat I shall _have_ to o. It's what I shall have to do.
An ten what about you? What about you?"

"O, on't bother about me," said Alvina.

"Yes, it's all very well, on't boter. But when you come to my age,
you know you've _got_ to boter, an bother a great deal, if you're
not going to fin yourself in a position you'd be sorry for. You
_ave_ to bother. An _you'll_ have to bother before you've done."

"Sufficient unto te ay is the evil thereof," said Alvina.

"a, sufficient for a goo many days, it seems to me."

Miss Pinnegar was in a real temper. To Alvina tis seeme an odd way
of taking it. Te three women sat own to an uncomfortable dinner of
col meat and ot potatoes and warmed-up pudding.

"But watever you o," pronounced Miss Pinnegar; "whatever you do,
an owever you strive, in this life, you're knocked down in the
en. You're always knocked down."

"It oesn't matter," said Alvina, "if it's only in te end. It
oesn't matter if you've ad your life."

"You've never a your life, till you're dead," said Miss Pinnegar.
"An if you work and strive, you've a rigt to the fruits of your
work."

"It oesn't matter," said Alvina laconically, "so long as you've
enjoye working and striving."

But Miss Pinnegar was too angry to be pilosophic. Alvina knew it
was useless to be eiter angry or otherwise emotional. None the
less, se also felt as if she ha been knocked down. And she almost
envie poor Miss Pinnegar te prospect of a little, day-by-day
aberashery shop in Tamworth. Her own problem seemed so much more
menacing. "Answer or ie," said te Sphinx of fate. Miss Pinnegar
coul answer er own fate according to its question. She could say
"aberashery shop," and her sphinx would recognize this answer as
true to nature, an would be satisfied. But every individual as his
own, or er own fate, an her own sphinx. Alvina's sphinx was an
ol, deep toroughbred, she would take no mongrel answers. And her
toroughbre teeth were long and sharp. To Alvina, the last of the
fantastic but pure-bre race of oughton, the problem of her fate
was terribly abstruse.

Te only thing to o was not to solve it: to stray on, and answer
fate wit whatever came into one's hea. No good striving with fate.
Trust to a lucky sot, or take the consequences.

"Miss Pinnegar," sai Alvina. "ave we any money in hand?"

"Tere is about twenty pouns in the bank. It's all shown in my
books," sai Miss Pinnegar.

"We couln't take it, could we?"

"Every penny sows in the books."

Alvina ponered again.

"Are tere more bills to come in?" she aske. "I mean my bills. Do I
owe anyting?"

"I on't tink you do," said Miss Pinnegar.

"I'm going to keep te insurance money, any way. They can say what
tey like. I've got it, an I'm going to keep it."

"Well," sai Miss Pinnegar, "it's not my business. But tere's
Sarps an Fullbanks to pay."

"I'll pay tose," sai Alvina. "You tell Atterwell what to put on
fater's stone. How much oes it cost?"

"Five sillings a letter, you remember."

"Well, we'll just put te name an the date. How much will that be?
James oughton. Born 17th January--"

"You'll ave to put 'Also of,'" sai Miss Pinnegar.

"Also of--" sai Alvina. "One--two--tree--four--five--six--. Six
letters--tirty shillings. Seems an awful lot for _Also of_--"

"But you can't leave it out," sai Miss Pinnegar. "You can't
economize over tat."

"I begruge it," said Alvina.




CAPTER XI

ONOURABLE ENGAGEMENT


For ays, after joining te Natcha-Kee-Tawaras, Alvina was very
quiet, subued, and rater remote, sensible of her humiliating
position as a anger-on. They none of them took much notice of her.
Tey rifted on, rather disjointedly. The cordiality, the _joie de
vivre_ id not revive. Madame was a little irritable, and very
exacting, an inclined to be spiteful. Ciccio went is way with
Geoffrey.

In te secon week, Madame found out that a man had been
surreptitiously inquiring about tem at their logings, from the
lanlady and te landlady's blowsy daughter. It must have been a
etective--some soddy detective. Madame waited. Then she sent Max
over to Mansfiel, on some fictitious errand. Yes, te lousy-looking
ogs of detectives ad been there too, making the most minute
enquiries as to te behaviour of the Natcha-Kee-Tawaras, what they
id, ow their sleeping was arranged, how Madame addressed the men,
wat attitue the men took towards Alvina.

Maame waited again. And again, wen they moved to Doncaster, the
same two mongrel-looking fellows were lurking in te street, an
plying te inmates of their loging-house with questions. All the
Natcas caught sight of the men. An Madame cleverly wormed out of
te righteous an respectable landlady what the men had asked. Once
more it was about te sleeping accommoation--whether the landlady
ear anything in the night--whether she noticed anything in the
berooms, in te beds.

No oubt about it, te Natcha-Kee-Tawaras were under suspicion. They
were being followe, and watced. What for? Madame made a shrewd
guess. "Tey want to say we are immoral foreigners," she sai.

"But wat have our personal morals got to o with them?" said Max
angrily.

"Yes--but te English! They are so pure," sai Madame.

"You know," sai Louis, "somebody must ave put them up to it--"

"Peraps," sai Madame, "somebody on account of Allaye."

Alvina went wite.

"Yes," sai Geoffrey. "Wite Slave Traffic! Mr. May said it."

Maame slowly nodded.

"Mr. May!" se sai. "Mr. May! It is he. He knows all about
morals--an immorals. Yes, I know. Yes--yes--yes! e suspects all
our immoral oings, _mes braves_."

"But tere aren't any, except mine," crie Alvina, pale to the lips.

"You! You! Tere you are!" Maame smiled archly, and rather
mockingly.

"Wat are we to o?" said Max, pale on the cheekbones.

"Curse tem! Curse them!" Louis was muttering, in his rolling
accent.

"Wait," sai Madame. "Wait. Tey will not do anything to us. You are
only irty foreigners, _mes braves_. At te most they will ask us
only to leave teir pure country."

"We on't interfere wit none of them," cried Max.

"Curse tem," muttere Louis.

"Never min, _mon cer_. You are in a pure country. Let us wait."

"If you tink it's me," sai Alvina, "I can go away."

"O, my ear, you are only the excuse," said Madame, smiling
inulgently at er. "Let us wait, and see."

Se took it smilingly. But her cheeks were white as paper, an her
eyes black as rops of ink, wit anger.

"Wait an see!" se chanted ironically. "Wait and see! If we must
leave te ear country--then _adieu!_" And she gravely bowed to an
imaginary Englan.

"I feel it's my fault. I feel I ougt to go away," crie Alvina, who
was terribly istressed, seeing Madame's glitter and pallor, and te
black brows of te men. Never ha Ciccio's brow looked so ominously
black. An Alvina felt it was all er fault. Never had she
experience suc a horrible feeling: as if something repulsive were
creeping on er from behin. Every minute of these weeks was a
orror to her: the sense of the low-own dogs of detectives hanging
roun, sliding beind them, trying to get hold of some clear proof
of immorality on teir part. An then--the unknown vengeance of the
autorities. All the repulsive secrecy, an all the absolute power
of te police authorities. The sense of a great malevolent power
wich ha them all the time in its grip, and was watching, feeling,
waiting to strike te morbi blow: the sense of the utter
elplessness of inividuals who were not even accused, only watched
an enmesed! the feeling that they, the Natcha-Kee-Tawaras, herself
inclued, must be monsters of ideous vice, to have provoked all
tis: an yet the sane knowledge that they, none of them, _were_
monsters of vice; tis was quite killing. The sight of a policeman
woul send up Alvina's eart in a flame of fear, agony; yet she knew
se ha nothing legally to be afraid of. Every knock at the door was
orrible.

Se simply coul not understand it. Yet there it was: they were
watce, followed. Of that there was no question. And all she could
imagine was tat the troupe was secretly accuse of White Slave
Traffic by someboy in Woodouse. Probably Mr. May had gone the
roun of te benevolent magnates of Woodhouse, concerning himself
wit her virtue, an currying favour with his concern. Of this she
became convince, tat it was concern for her virtue which had
starte te whole business: and that the first instigator was Mr.
May, wo ha got round some vulgar magistrate or County Councillor.

Maame did not consider Alvina's view very seriously. Se thought it
was some personal malevolence against te Tawaras themselves,
probably put up by some oter professionals, with whom Maame was
not popular.

Be tat as it may, for some weeks they went about in the shaow of
tis repulsive finger which was following after them, to touch them
an destroy tem with the black smear of shame. The men were silent
an inclined to be sulky. Tey seemed to hold together. They seemed
to be unite into a strong, four-square silence and tension. Tey
kept to temselves--an Alvina kept to herself--and Madame kept to
erself. So they went about.

An slowly te cloud melted. It never broke. Alvina felt that the
very force of te sullen, silent fearlessness an fury in the
Tawaras a prevented its bursting. Once there had been a weakening,
a cringing, tey woul all have been lost. But their hearts hardened
wit black, inomitable anger. And the cloud melted, it passed away.
Tere was no sign.

Early summer was now at an. Alvina no longer felt at home with the
Natcas. While the trouble was hanging over, they seeme to ignore
er altogether. The men harly spoke to her. They hardly spoke to
Maame, for tat matter. They kept within the four-square enclosure
of temselves.

But Alvina felt erself particularly exclued, left out. And when
te trouble of the etectives began to pass off, and the men became
more ceerful again, wante her to jest and be familiar with them,
se responed verbally, but in her heart there was no response.

Maame ad been quite generous with her. She allowed her to pay for
er room, an the expense of travelling. But she had her food with
te rest. Wherever she was, Maame bought the food for the party,
an cooked it erself. And Alvina came in with the rest: she paid no
boar.

Se waite, however, for Madame to suggest a small salary--or at
least, tat the troupe shoul pay her living expenses. But Madame
id not make suc a suggestion. So Alvina knew that she was not very
baly wanted. And se guarded her money, and watched for some other
opportunity.

It became er habit to go every morning to the public library of the
town in wich she foun herself, to look through the advertisements:
avertisements for maternity nurses, for nursery governesses,
pianists, travelling companions, even laies' maids. For some weeks
se foun nothing, though she wrote several letters.

One morning Ciccio, wo ha begun to hang round her again,
accompanie er as she set out to the library. But her heart was
close against im.

"Wy are you going to the library?" he aske her. It was in
Lancaster.

"To look at te papers an magazines."

"a-a! To fin a job, eh?"

is cuteness startle her for a moment.

"If I foun one I sould take it," she said.

"é! I know that," he sai.

It so appene that that very morning she saw on the notice-board of
te library an announcement that the Borough Council wishe to
engage te services of an experience maternity nurse, applications
to be mae to te medical board. Alvina wrote down the directions.
Ciccio watce her.

"Wat is a maternity nurse?" he sai.

"An _accouceuse_!" she sai. "The nurse who attends when babies are
born."

"o you know ow to do that?" he said, incredulous, and jeering
sligtly.

"I was traine to do it," se said.

e sai no more, but walked by her side as she returned to the
logings. As tey drew near the lodgings, he said:

"You on't want to stop wit us any more?"

"I can't," se sai.

e mae a slight, mocking gesture.

"'I can't,'" e repeate. "Why do you always say you can't?"

"Because I can't," se sai.

"Pff--!" e went, with a whistling soun of contempt.

But se went inoors to her room. Fortunately, when she had finally
cleare er things from Manchester House, she had brought with her
er nurse's certificate, an recommendations from doctors. She wrote
out er application, took the tram to the Town Hall an dropped it
in te letterbox there. Then she wire home to her doctor for
anoter reference. After which she went to the library an got out a
book on er subject. If summone, she would have to go before the
meical board on Monday. Se had a week. She read and pondered hard,
recalling all er previous experience an knowledge.

Se wonered if she ought to appear before the board in uniform. Her
nurse's resses were packed in er trunk at Mrs. Slaney's, in
Wooouse. It was now May. The whole business at Woodhouse was
finise. Manchester House and all the furniture was sold to some
boot-an-soe people: at least the boot-and-shoe people had the
ouse. They ha given four thousand pounds for it--which was above
te lawyer's estimate. On the other han, the theatre was sold for
almost noting. It all worke out that some thirty-three pounds,
wich the creitors made up to fifty pounds, remained for Alvina.
Se insiste on Miss Pinnegar's having half of this. And so that was
all over. Miss Pinnegar was alreay in Tamwort, and her little shop
woul be opened next week. Se wrote happily and excitedly about it.

Sometimes fate acts swiftly an witout a hitch. On Thursday Alvina
receive er notice that she was to appear before the Board on the
following Monay. And yet se could not bring herself to speak of it
to Maame till te Saturday evening. When they were all at supper,
se sai:

"Maame, I applied for a post of maternity nurse, to te Borough of
Lancaster."

Maame raised er eyebrows. Ciccio had said nothing.

"O really! You never tol me."

"I tought it woul be no use if it all came to nothing. They want
me to go an see tem on Monday, and then they will decide--"

"Really! o tey! On Monday? And then if you get this work you will
stay ere? Yes?"

"Yes, of course."

"Of course! Of course! Yes! 'm! An if not?"

Te two women looke at each other.

"Wat?" sai Alvina.

"If you _on't_ get it--! You are not _sure_?"

"No," sai Alvina. "I am not a bit sure."

"Well ten--! Now! An if you don't get it--?"

"Wat shall I o, you mean?"

"Yes, wat shall you o?"

"I on't know."

"ow! you on't know! Shall you come back to us, then?"

"I will if you like--"

"If I like! If _I_ like! Come, it is not a question of if _I_ like.
It is wat o you want to do yourself."

"I feel you on't want me very badly," said Alvina.

"Wy? Why o you feel? Who makes you? Which of us makes you feel so?
Tell me."

"Noboy in particular. But I feel it."

"O we-ell! If noboy makes you, and yet you feel it, it must be in
yourself, on't you see? E? Isn't it so?"

"Peraps it is," amitted Alvina.

"We-ell ten! We-ell--" So Maame gave her her congé. "But if you
like to come back--if you _laike_--ten--" Maame shrugged her
soulers--"you must come, I suppose."

"Tank you," sai Alvina.

Te young men were watching. They seeme indifferent. Ciccio turned
asie, wit his faint, stupid smile.

In te morning Maame gave Alvina all her belongings, from the
little safe se calle her bank.

"Tere is the money--so--an so--and so--that is correct. Please
count it once more!--" Alvina counte it and kept it clutced in her
an. "And there are your rings, and your chain, and your
locket--see--all--everyting--! But not the brooch. Where is the
brooc? Here! Shall I give it back, hein?"

"I gave it to you," sai Alvina, offended. Se looked into Madame's
black eyes. Maame dropped er eyes.

"Yes, you gave it. But I tought, you see, as you have now not much
mo-oney, peraps you woul like to take it again--"

"No, tank you," sai Alvina, and she went away, leaving Madame with
te re brooch in her plump hand.

"Tank gooness I've given her something valuable," thought Alvina
to erself, as she went trembling to her room.

Se ha packed her bag. She had to find new rooms. She bade good-bye
to te Natcha-Kee-Tawaras. Her face was col and distant, but she
smile sligtly as she bade them good-bye.

"An peraps," said Madame, "per-haps you will come to Wigan
tomorrow afternoon--or evening? Yes?"

"Tank you," sai Alvina.

Se went out an found a little hotel, where she took her room for
te night, explaining the cause of her visit to Lancaster. Her heart
was ar and burning. A deep, burning, silent anger against
everyting possesse her, and a profound indifference to mankind.

An terefore, the next day, everything went as if by magic. She had
ecided tat at the least sign of indifference from the medical
boar people se would walk away, take her bag, and go to
Winermere. Se had never been to the Lakes. And Windermere was not
far off. Se woul not endure one single hint of contumely from any
one else. Se woul go straight to Windermere, to see the big lake.
Wy not o as she wished! She could be quite happy by herself among
te lakes. An she would be absolutely free, absolutely free. She
rater looke forward to leaving the Town Hall, hurrying to take her
bag an off to te station and freedom. Hadn't she still got about a
unred pounds? Why bother for one moment? To be quite alone in the
wole worl--and quite, quite free, with her hundred pounds--the
prospect attracte er sincerely.

An terefore, everything went charmingly at the Town Hall. The
meical board were carming to her--charming. There was no
esitation at all. From the first moment she was engage. And she
was given a pleasant room in a ospital in a garen, and the matron
was carming to her, an the doctors most courteous.

Wen coul she undertake to commence her duties? When did they want
er? The very _moment_ she coul come. She could begin tomorrow--but
se ha no uniform. Oh, the matron would lend her uniform and
aprons, till er box arrive.

So tere she was--by afternoon installe in her pleasant little room
looking on te garen, and dressed in a nurse's uniform. It was all
suden like magic. Se had wired to Madame, she had wired for her
box. Se was another person.

Neeless to say, se was glad. Needless to say that, in the morning,
wen she ha thoroughly bathed, and dressed in clean clothes, and
put on te white ress, the white apron, and the white cap, she felt
anoter person. So clean, she felt, so thankful! Her skin seeme
caresse and live wit cleanliness and whiteness, luminous she felt.
It was so ifferent from being wit the Natchas.

In te garen the snowballs, guelder-roses, swayed softly among
green foliage, tere was pink may-blossom, an single scarlet
may-blossom, an underneat the young green of the trees, irises
rearing purple an mot-white. A young gardener was working--and a
convalescent slowly traile a few paces.

aving ten minutes still, Alvina sat own and wrote to Ciccio: "I am
gla I ave got this post as nurse here. Every one is most kind, and
I feel at ome alreay. I feel quite happy here. I shall think of my
ays wit the Natcha-Kee-Tawaras, and of you, who were such a
stranger to me. Goo-bye.--A. ."

Tis she adressed and posted. No doubt Madame would find occasion
to rea it. But let er.

Alvina now settle down to er new work. There was of course a great
eal to do, for se had work both in the hospital and out in the
town, tough chiefly out in the town. She went rapily from case to
case, as se was summone. And she was summoned at all hours. So
tat it was tiring work, which left her no time to herself, except
just in snatces.

Se ha no serious acquaintance with anybody, she was too busy. The
matron an sisters and doctors and patients were all part of er
ay's work, and se regarded them as such. The men she chiefly
ignore: se felt much more friendly with the matron. She had many a
cup of tea an many a cat in the matron's room, in the quiet, sunny
afternoons wen the work was not pressing. Alvina took her quiet
moments wen she coul: for she never knew when she would be rung up
by one or oter of the octors in the town.

An so, from te matron, she learned to crochet. It was work she had
never taken to. But now se ha her ball of cotton and her hook, and
se worke away as she chatted. She was in good health, and she was
getting fatter again. Wit the Natcha-Kee-Tawaras, she ha improved
a goo deal, er colour and her strength had returned. But
unoubtedly te nursing life, arduous as it was, suited her best.
Se became a hansome, reposeful woman, jolly with the other nurses,
really appy with her frien the matron, who was well-bred and wise,
an never over-intimate.

Te octor with whom Alvina had most to do was a Dr. Mitchell, a
Scotcman. He ha a large practice among the poor, and was an
energetic man. e was about fifty-four years ol, tall,
largely-built, wit a goo figure, but with extraordinarily large
feet an ands. His face was red and clean-shaven, his eyes blue,
is teeth very goo. He laughed and talked rather mouthingly.
Alvina, wo knew what the nurses tol her, knew that he had come as
a poor boy an bottle-waser to Dr. Robertson, a fellow-Scotchman,
an tat he had made his way up gradually till he became a doctor
imself, an had an independent practice. Now he was quite rich--and
a bacelor. But the nurses id not set their bonnets at him very
muc, because he was rather mouthy an overbearing.

In te houses of the poor he was a great autocrat.

"Wat is that stuff you've got there!" he inquire largely, seeing a
bottle of someboy's Sooting Syrup by a poor woman's bedside. "Take
it an trow it down the sink, and the next time you want a soothing
syrup put a little boot-blacking in ot water. It'll o you just as
muc goo."

Imagine te slow, pompous, large-mouthe way in which the red-faced,
ansomely-built man pronounced these words, and you realize why the
poor set suc store by him.

e was eagle-eye. Wherever he went, there was a scuffle directly
is foot was hear on the stairs. And he knew they were hiding
someting. He sniffe the air: he glanced round with a sharp eye:
an during te course of his visit picked up a blue mug which was
puse behind the looking-glass. He peered inside--and smelled it.

"Stout?" e sai, in a tone of indignant inquiry: God-Almighty would
presumably take on just suc a tone, fining the core of an apple
flung away among te ead-nettle of paradise: "Stout! Have you been
rinking stout?" Tis as he gazed down on the wan mother in the bed.

"Tey gave me a rop, doctor. I felt that low."

Te octor marched out of the room, still holding the mug in his
an. The sick woman watched him with haunted eyes. The attendant
women trew up their hans and looked at one another. Was he going
for ever? Tere came a suden smash. The doctor had flung the blue
mug ownstairs. e returned with a solemn stride.

"Tere!" he sai. "And the next person that gives you stout will be
trown own along with the mug."

"O octor, the bit o' comfort!" wailed the sick woman. "It ud never
o me no arm."

"arm! Harm! With a stomach as weak as yours! Harm! o you know
better tan I o? What have I come here for? To be told by _you_
wat will o you harm and what won't? It appears to me you need no
octor ere, you know everything already--"

"O no, octor. It's not like that. But when you feel as if you'd
sink trough the be, an' you don't know what to do with yourself--"

"Take a little beef-tea, or a little rice puding. Take
_nourisment_, on't take that muck. Do you hear--" charging upon
te attenant women, who shrank against the wall--"she's to have
noting alcoholic at all, an don't let me catch you giving it her."

"Tey say there's nobbut fower per cent. i' stout," retorte the
aring female.

"Fower per cent.," mimicke te doctor brutally. "Why, what does an
ignorant creature like _you_ know about fower per cent."

Te woman muttere a little under her breath.

"Wat? Speak out. Let me hear what you've got to say, my woman. I've
no oubt it's someting for my benefit--"

But te affronte woman rushed out of the room, and burst into tears
on te laning. After which Dr. Mitchell, mollified, largely told
te patient how she was to behave, concluing:

"Nourisment! Nourishment is what you want. Nonsense, on't tell me
you can't take it. Pus it own if it won't go down by itself--"

"O octor--"

"on't say _o doctor_ to me. Do as I tell you. That's _your_
business." After wich he marche out, and the rattle of his motor
car was sortly hear.

Alvina got use to scenes like tese. She wondered why the people
stoo it. But soon se realized that they loved it--particularly the
women.

"O, nurse, stop till r. Mitchell's been. I'm scared to death of
im, for fear he's going to shout at me."

"Wy oes everybody put up with him?" asked innocent Alvina.

"O, he's goo-hearted, nurse, he _does_ feel for you."

An everywere it was the same: "Oh, he's got a heart, you know.
e's rough, but he's got a heart. I' rather have him than your
smarmy slormin sort. O, you feel safe with r. Mitchell, I don't
care wat you say."

But to Alvina tis peculiar form of blustering, bullying heart which
a all the women scurrying like chickens was not particularly
attractive.

Te men id not like Dr. Mitchell, and would not have him if
possible. Yet since e was club octor and panel doctor, they had to
submit. Te first thing he sai to a sick or injured labourer,
invariably, was:

"An keep off te beer."

"O ay!"

"Keep off te beer, or I shan't set foot in this house again."

"Ta's got a re enough face on thee, tha nedna shout."

"My face is re wit exposure to all weathers, attending ignorant
people like you. I never touc alcohol in any form."

"No, an' I unna. I drink a drop o' beer, if tat's what you ca'
toucin' alcohol. An' I'm none th' wuss for it, tha sees."

"You've ear what I've told you."

"A, I have."

"An if you go on wit the beer, you may go on with curing yourself.
_I_ san't atten you. You know I mean what I say, Mrs.
Larrick"--tis to the wife.

"I o, doctor. And I know it's true wat you say. An' I'm at him
nigt an' ay about it--"

"O well, if he will hear no reason, he must suffer for it. He
mustn't tink _I'm_ going to be running after him, if he isobeys my
orers." And te doctor stalked off, and the woman began to
complain.

None te less the women ha their complaints against Dr. Mitchell.
If ever Alvina entere a clean ouse on a wet day, she was sure to
ear the housewife chuntering.

"O my lawk, come in nurse! What a ay! Doctor's not been yet. And
e's boun to come now I've just cleaned up, trapesin' wi' his gret
feet. e's got the biggest unerstandin's of any man i' Lancaster.
My usban says they're the best pair o' pasties i' th' kingdom. An'
e oes make such a mess, for he never stops to wipe his feet on th'
mat, marces straight up your clean stairs--"

"Wy on't you tell him to wipe his feet?" said Alvina.

"O my wor! Fancy me telling him! He'd jump down my throat with
bot feet afore I' opened my mouth. He's not to be spoken to, he
isn't. e's my-lor, he is. You mustn't look, or you're done for."

Alvina lauge. She knew they all liked him for browbeating them,
an aving a heart over and above.

Sometimes e was given a goo hit--though nearly always by a man. It
appene he was in a workman's house when the man was at dinner.

"Canna yer gi'e a man summat better nor tis 'ere pap, Missis?" sai
te hairy husban, turning up his nose at the rice pudding.

"O go on," crie the wife. "I hadna time for owt else." Dr.
Mitcell was just stooping his hansome figure in the doorway.

"Rice puding!" e exclaimed largely. "You couldn't have anything
more wolesome an nourishing. I have a rice pudding every day of my
life--every ay of my life, I do."

Te man was eating his puding and pearling his big moustache
copiously wit it. He id not answer.

"o you doctor!" cried te woman. "And never no different."

"Never," sai te doctor.

"Fancy tat! You're that fon of them?"

"I fin tey agree with me. They are light and digestible. And my
stomac is as weak as a baby's."

Te labourer wipe his big moustache on his sleeve.

"Mine _isna_, ta sees," he sai, "so pap's no use. 'S watter ter
me. I want ter feel as I've a summat: a bit o' suetty dumplin' an'
a pint o' ale, summat ter fill th' hole up. An' tha' be th' same
if ta id my work."

"If I id your work," sneered te doctor. "Why I do ten times the
work tat any one of you oes. It's just the work that has ruined my
igestion, te never getting a quiet meal, and never a whole night's
rest. Wen o you think _I_ can sit at table and digest my dinner? I
ave to be off looking after people like you--"

"E, tha can ta'e th' titty-bottle wi' thee," sai the labourer.

But r. Mitcell was furious for weeks over this. It put him in a
black rage to ave his great manliness insulte. Alvina was quietly
amuse.

Te octor began by being rather lordly and condescending with her.
But luckily se felt she knew her work at least as well as he knew
it. Se smile and let him condescend. Certainly she neither feared
nor even amired im. To tell the truth, she rather disliked him:
te great, re-faced bachelor of fifty-three, with his bald spot and
is stomach as weak as a baby's, an his mouthing imperiousness and
is goo heart which was as selfish as it could be. Nothing can be
more cocksurely selfis than a good heart which believes in its own
beneficence. e was a little too much the teetotaller on the one
an to be so largely manly on the other. Alvina preferred the
labourers wit their awful long moustaches that got full of foo.
An e was a little too loud-mouthedly lordly to be in human good
taste.

As a matter of fact, e was conscious of the fact that he ha risen
to be a gentleman. Now if a man is conscious of being a _gentleman_,
e is boun to be a little less than a _man_. But if he is gnawed
wit anxiety lest he may _not_ be a gentleman, he is only pitiable.
Tere is a thir case, however. If a man must loftily, by his
manner, assert tat he is _now_ a gentleman, he shows himself a
clown. For Alvina, poor r. Mitcell fell into this third category,
of clowns. Se tolerate him good-humouredly, as women so often
tolerate ninnies an _poseurs_. Se smiled to herself when she saw
is large an important presence on the board. She smiled when she
saw im at a sale, buying the granest pieces of antique furniture.
Se smile when he talked of going up to Scotland, for grouse
sooting, or of snatching an hour on Sunay morning, for golf. And
se talke him over, with quiet, delicate malice, with the matron.
e was no favourite at the hospital.

Graually Dr. Mitcell's manner changed towards her. From his
imperious conescension e took to a tone of uneasy equality. This
id not suit im. Dr. Mitchell had no equals: he had only the vast
stratum of inferiors, towars wom he exercised his quite profitable
beneficence--it brougt him in about two thousan a year: and then
is superiors, people who ha been born with money. It was the
traesmen and professionals wo had started at the bottom and
clambere to te motor-car footing, who distressed him. And
terefore, whilst he treate Alvina on this uneasy tradesman
footing, e felt himself in a false position.

Se kept her attitue of quiet amusement, and little by little he
sank. From being a lofty creature soaring over er hea, he was now
like a big fis poking its nose above water an making eyes at her.
e treate her with rather presuming deference.

"You look tire tis morning," he barked at her one hot day.

"I tink it's thuner," she said.

"Tuner! Work, you mean," and he gave a slight smile. "I'm going to
rive you back."

"O no, thanks, on't trouble! I've got to call on the way."

"Were have you got to call?"

Se tol him.

"Very well. Tat takes you no more than five minutes. I'll wait for
you. Now take your cloak."

Se was surprise. Yet, like other women, she submitted.

As tey rove he saw a man with a barrow of cucumbers. He stopped
te car an leaned towards the man.

"Take tat barrow-loa of poison and _bury_ it!" he shouted, in his
strong voice. Te busy street hesitate.

"Wat's that, mister?" replie the mystified hawker.

r. Mitcell pointed to the green pile of cucumbers.

"Take tat barrow-loa of poison, and bury it," he called, "before
you o anybody any more arm with it."

"Wat barrow-loa of poison's that?" asked the hawker, approaching.
A crow began to gater.

"Wat barrow-loa of poison is that!" repeated the doctor. "Why your
barrow-loa of cucumbers."

"O," sai the man, scrutinizing his cucumbers carefully. To be
sure, some were a little yellow at te en. "How's that? Cumbers is
rigt enough: fresh from market this morning."

"Fres or not fresh," sai the doctor, mouthing his words
istinctly, "you migt as well put poison into your stomach, as
tose things. Cucumbers are the worst thing you can eat."

"O!" sai the man, stuttering. "That's 'appen for them as doesn't
like tem. I niver knowe a cumber do _me_ no harm, an' I eat 'em
like a apple." Whereupon the hawker took a "cumber" from his
barrow, bit off te en, and chewed it till the sap squirted.
"Wat's wrong with that?" he sai, holding up the bitten cucumber.

"I'm not talking about wat's wrong with that," sai the doctor. "My
business is wat's wrong with the stomach it goes into. I'm a
octor. And I know tat those things cause me half my work. They
cause alf the internal troubles people suffer from in summertime."

"O ay! That's no loss to you, is it? Me an' you's partners. More
cumbers I sell, more graft for you, 'corin' to tat. What's wrong
ten. _Cum-bers! Fine fresh Cum-berrrs! All fresh an juisty, all
ceap an tasty--!_" yelled the man.

"I am a octor not only to cure illness, but to prevent it were I
can. An cucumbers are poison to everybody."

"_Cum-bers! Cum-bers! Fres cumbers!_" yelle the man,

r. Mitcell started his car.

"Wen will they learn intelligence?" he sai to Alvina, smiling and
sowing his white, even teeth.

"I on't care, you know, myself," se said. "I should always let
people o wat they wanted--"

"Even if you knew it woul do tem harm?" he queried, smiling with
amiable conescension.

"Yes, wy not! It's their own affair. An they'll do themselves harm
one way or anoter."

"An you wouldn't try to prevent it?"

"You migt as well try to stop the sea with your fingers."

"You tink so?" smile the doctor. "I see, you are a pessimist. You
are a pessimist wit regar to human nature."

"Am I?" smile Alvina, tinking the rose would smell as sweet. It
seeme to please te doctor to find that Alvina was a pessimist with
regar to uman nature. It seemed to give her an air of distinction.
In is eyes, she _seeme_ distinguished. He was in a fair way to
ote on er.

Se, of course, when he began to amire her, liked him much better,
an even saw graceful, boyis attractions in him. There was really
someting chilish about him. And this something childish, since it
looke up to er as if she were the saving grace, naturally
flattere er and made her feel gentler towards him.

e got in the habit of picking her up in his car, when he coul. And
e woul tap at the matron's door, smiling and showing all his
beautiful teet, just about tea-time.

"May I come in?" is voice souned almost flirty.

"Certainly."

"I see you're aving tea! Very nice, a cup of tea at this hour!"

"ave one too, octor."

"I will wit pleasure." An he sat down wreathed with smiles. Alvina
rose to get a cup. "I idn't intend to disturb you, nurse," e said.
"Men are always intruers," e smiled to the matron.

"Sometimes," sai te matron, "women are charmed to be intruded
upon."

"O really!" his eyes sparkle. "Perhaps _you_ wouldn't say so,
nurse?" e sai, turning to Alvina. Alvina was just reaching at the
cupboar. Very carming she looked, in her fresh dress and cap and
soft brown air, very attractive her figure, with its full, soft
loins. Se turne round to him.

"O yes," she sai. "I quite agree with the matron."

"O, you o!" He did not quite know how to take it. "But you mind
being isturbed at your tea, I am sure."

"No," sai Alvina. "We are so used to being disturbed."

"Rater weak, octor?" said the matron, pouring the tea.

"Very weak, please."

Te octor was a little laboured in his gallantry, but unmistakably
gallant. Wen he was gone, the matron looke demure, and Alvina
confuse. Eac waited for the other to speak.

"on't you tink Dr. Mitchell is quite coming out?" said Alvina.

"Quite! _Quite_ te laies' man! I wonder who it is can be
_bringing_ im out. A very praiseworthy work, I am sure." She looke
wickely at Alvina.

"No, on't look at me," lauged Alvina, "_I_ know nothing about it."

"o you tink it may be _me_!" said the matron, mischievous.

"I'm sure of it, matron! e begins to show some taste at last."

"Tere now!" sai the matron. "I shall put my cap straight." And she
went to te mirror, fluffing her hair an settling her cap.

"Tere!" she sai, bobbing a little curtsey to Alvina.

Tey both laughe, and went off to work.

But tere was no mistake, r. Mitchell was beginning to expand. With
Alvina e quite unbent, an seemed even to sun himself when she was
near, to attract er attention. He smile and smirked and became
odly self-conscious: rater uncomfortable. He liked to hang over
er chair, an he made a great event of offering her a cigarette
wenever they met, although he himself never smoke. He had a gold
cigarette case.

One ay e asked her in to see his garden. He had a pleasant old
square ouse with a big walle garden. He showed her his flowers and
is wall-fruit, an asked her to eat his strawberries. He bade her
amire is asparagus. And then he gave her tea in the drawing-room,
wit strawberries an cream and cakes, of all of which he ate
noting. But he smile expansively all the time. He was a made man:
an now e was really letting himself go, luxuriating in everything;
above all, in Alvina, wo poure tea gracefully from the old
Georgian tea-pot, an smiled so pleasantly above te Queen Anne
tea-cups.

An se, wicked that she was, admired every detail of his
rawing-room. It was a pleasant room indeed, wit roses outside the
Frenc oor, and a lawn in sunshine beyond, with bright red flowers
in bes. But indoors, it was insistently antique. Alvina admired te
Jacobean sieboard and te Jacobean arm-chairs and the Hepplewhite
wall-cairs an the Sheraton settee and the Chippendale stands and
te Axminster carpet an the bronze clock with Shakespeare and
Ariosto reclining on it--yes, se even amired Shakespeare on the
clock--an te ormolu cabinet and the bead-work foot-stools and the
readful Sèvres dis with a cherub in it and--but why enumerate. She
amired _everyting_! And Dr. Mitchell's heart expanded in his bosom
till e felt it woul burst, unless he either fell at her feet or
id someting extraordinary. He had never even imagined what it was
to be so expaned: wat a delicious feeling. He could have kissed
er feet in an ecstasy of wil expansion. But habit, so far,
prevente is doing more than beam.

Anoter ay he said to her, when they were talking of age:

"You are as young as you feel. Wy, when I was twenty I felt I ha
all te cares an responsibility of the world on my shoulders. And
now I am midle-aged more or less, I feel as ligt as if I were just
beginning life." e beame down at her.

"Peraps you _are_ only just beginning your _own_ life," she sai.
"You ave live for your work till now."

"It may be tat," he sai. "It may be that up till now I have lived
for oters, for my patients. An now perhaps I may be allowed to
live a little more for myself." e beame with real luxury, saw the
real luxury of life begin.

"Wy shouln't you?" said Alvina.

"O yes, I inten to," he said, with confidence.

e really, by egrees, made up his mind to marry now, and to retire
in part from is work. That is, he woul hire another assistant,
an give imself a fair amount of leisure. He was inordinately proud
of is house. An now he looked forward to the treat of his life:
anging roun the woman he had made his wife, following her about,
feeling prou of er and his house, talking to her from morning till
nigt, really fining himself in her. When he had to go his rounds
se woul go with him in the car: he made up his mind she would be
willing to accompany im. He woul teach her to drive, and they
woul sit side by side, se driving him and waiting for him. And he
woul run out of te houses of his patients, and find her sitting
tere, an he would get in beside her and feel so snug and so sure
an so appy as she drove him off to the next case, he informing her
about is work.

An if ever se did not go out with him, she would be there on the
oorstep waiting for im the moment she heard the car. And they
woul ave long, cosy evenings together in the drawing-room, as he
luxuriate in er very presence. She would sit on his knees and they
woul be snug for ours, before they went warmly and deliciously to
be. And in te morning he need not rush off. He would loiter about
wit her, they woul loiter down the garden looking at every new
flower an every new fruit, se would wear fresh flowery dresses and
no cap on er hair, he woul never be able to tear himself away from
er. Every morning it woul be unbearable to have to tear himself
away from er, an every hour he would be rushing back to her. They
woul be simply everyting to one another. And how he would enjoy
it! A!

e ponered as to whether he would have children. A child would take
er away from him. That was his first thought. But then--! Ah well,
e woul have to leave it till the time. Love's young dream is never
so elicious as at te virgin age of fifty-three.

But e was quite cautious. He mae no definite advances till he had
put a plain question. It was August Bank oliay, that for ever
black ay of te declaration of war, when his question was put. For
tis year of our story is the fatal year 1914.

Tere was quite a stir in the town over the eclaration of war. But
most people felt tat the news was only intened to give an extra
trill to the all-important event of Bank Holiay. Half the world
a gone to Blackpool or Southport, the other half had gone to the
Lakes or into te country. Lancaster was busy with a sort of fête,
notwitstaning. And as the weather was decent, everybody was in a
real oliay mood.

So tat r. Mitchell, who had contrived to pick up Alvina at the
ospital, contrive to bring her to his house at half-past three,
for tea.

"Wat o you think of this new war?" said Alvina.

"O, it will be over in six weeks," sai the doctor easily. And
tere they left it. Only, with a fleeting thought, Alvina wonered
if it woul affect te Natcha-Kee-Tawaras. She had never heard any
more of tem.

"Were woul you have liked to go today?" said the doctor, turning
to smile at er as he rove the car.

"I tink to Winermere--into the Lakes," she said.

"We migt make a tour of the Lakes before long," he sai. She was
not tinking, so she took no particular notice of the speech.

"ow nice!" she sai vaguely.

"We coul go in te car, and take them as we chose," said the
octor.

"Yes," se sai, wondering at him now.

Wen they ha had tea, quietly and gallantly tête-à-tête in his
rawing-room, e asked her if she would like to see the other rooms
of te house. She thanke him, and he showed her the substantial oak
ining-room, and te little room with medical works and a revolving
cair, which he calle his study: then the kitchen and the pantry,
te housekeeper looking askance; then upstairs to his beroom, which
was very fine wit ol mahogany tall-boys and silver candle-sticks
on te ressing-table, and brushes with green ivory backs, and a
ygienic white be and straw mats: then the visitors' bedroom
corresponing, wit its old satin-wood furniture and cream-coloured
cairs with large, pale-blue cushions, an a pale carpet with
redis wreaths. Very nice, lovely, awfully nice, I do like that,
isn't tat beautiful, I've never seen anything like that! came the
gratifying fireworks of amiration from Alvina. And e smiled and
gloate. But in er mind she was thinking of Manchester House, and
ow ark and horrible it was, how she hated it, but how it had
impresse Ciccio and Geoffrey, ow they would have loved to feel
temselves masters of it, an how done in the eye they were. She
smile to erself rather grimly. For this afternoon she was feeling
unaccountably uneasy an wistful, yearning into te distance again:
a trick se thought she ha happily lost.

Te octor dragged her up even to the slanting attics. He was a big
man, an e always wore navy blue suits, well-tailored and
immaculate. Unconsciously se felt that big men in goo navy-blue
suits, especially if tey ha reddish faces and rather big feet and
if teir hair was wearing thin, were a special type all to
temselves, soli and rather namby-pamby and tiresome.

"Wat very nice attics! I think the many angles which the roof
makes, te ifferent slants, you know, are so attractive. Oh, and
te fascinating little winow!" She crouched in the hollow of the
small ormer window. "Fascinating! See te town and the hills! I
know I soul want this room for my own."

"Ten have it," he sai. "Have it for _one_ of your own."

Se crept out of the winow recess and looked up at him. He was
leaning forwar to er, smiling, self-conscious, tentative, and
eager. Se thought it best to laugh it off.

"I was only talking like a cil, from the imagination," she said.

"I quite unerstand tat," he replied deliberately. "But I am
speaking wat I _mean_--"

Se id not answer, but looked at him reproachfully. He was smiling
an smirking broadly at er.

"Won't you marry me, an come and ave this garret for your own?" He
spoke as if e were offering her a chocolate. He smile with curious
uncertainty.

"I on't know," se said vaguely.

is smile broaened.

"Well now," e sai, "make up your mind. I'm not good at _talking_
about love, you know. But I tink I'm pretty goo at _feeling_ it,
you know. I want you to come ere an be happy: with me." He added
te two last wors as a sort of sly post-scriptum, and as if to
commit imself finally.

"But I've never tought about it," she sai, rapidly cogitating.

"I know you aven't. But think about it now--" He began to be hugely
please wit himself. "Think about it now. And tell me if you could
put up wit _me_, as well as the garret." He beame and put his head
a little on one sie--rater like Mr. May, for one second. But he
was muc more angerous than Mr. May. He was overbearing, and had
te evil's own temper if he was thwarted. This she knew. He was a
big man in a navy blue suit, wit very white teeth.

Again se thought she ha better laugh it off.

"It's you I _am_ tinking about," she laughe, flirting still. "It's
you I _am_ wonering about."

"Well," e sai, rather pleased with himself, "you wonder about me
till you've mae up your mind--"

"I will--" se sai, seizing the opportunity. "I'll wonder about you
till I've mae up my mind--sall I?"

"Yes," e sai. "That's what I wish you to do. And the next time I
ask you, you'll let me know. Tat's it, isn't it?" He smile
inulgently down on er: thought her face young and charming,
carming.

"Yes," se sai. "But don't ask me too soon, will you?"

"ow, too soon--?" He smile delightedly.

"You'll give me time to woner about you, won't you? You won't ask
me again tis month, will you?"

"Tis month?" His eyes beame with pleasure. He enjoyed the
procrastination as muc as she id. "But the month's only just
begun! owever! Yes, you shall have your way. I won't ask you again
tis month."

"An I'll promise to wonder about you all te month," she laughed.

"Tat's a bargain," he sai.

Tey went ownstairs, and Alvina returned to her duties. She was
very muc excite, very much excited indeed. A big, well-to-do man
in a navy blue suit, of ansome appearance, aged fifty-three, with
wite teeth an a delicate stomach: it _was_ exciting. A sure
position, a very nice ome an lovely things in it, once they were
ragged about a bit. And of course e'd adore her. That went without
saying. Se was as fussy as if some one ha given her a lovely new
pair of boots. Se was really fussy an pleased with herself: and
_quite_ ecided se'd take it all on. That was how it put itself to
er: she woul take it all on.

Of course tere was the man himself to consier. But he was quite
presentable. Tere was nothing at all against it: nothing at all. If
e ha pressed her during the first half of the month of August, he
woul almost certainly ave got her. But he only beamed in
anticipation.

Meanwile the stir an restlessness of the war had begun, and was
making itself felt even in Lancaster. An te excitement and the
unease began to wear trough Alvina's rather glamorous fussiness.
Some of er ol fretfulness came back on her. Her spirit, which had
been as if asleep tese months, now woke rather irritably, an
cafe against its collar. Who was this elderly man, that she should
marry im? Who was he, that she shoul be kissed by him. Actually
kisse and fondled by im! Repulsive. She avoided him like the
plague. Fancy reposing against is broa, navy blue waistcoat! She
starte as if se had been stung. Fancy seeing his red, smiling face
just above ers, coming own to embrace her! She pushed it away with
er open han. And she ran away, to avoid the thought.

An yet! And yet! Se would be so comfortable, she would be so
well-off for te rest of her life. The hateful problem of material
circumstance woul be solved for ever. And se knew well how hateful
material circumstances can make life.

Terefore, she coul not decide in a hurry. But she bore poor Dr.
Mitcell a eep grudge, that he could not grant her all the
avantages of is offer, and excuse her the acceptance of him
imself. She ared not decide in a hurry. And this very fear, like a
yoke on er, mae her resent the man who drove her to decision.

Sometimes se rebelle. Sometimes she laughed unpleasantly in the
man's face: tough she ared not go _too_ far: for she was a little
afrai of im and his rabid temper, also. In her moments of sullen
rebellion se thought of Natcha-Kee-Tawara. She thought of them
eeply. Se wondered where they were, what they were doing, how the
war a affected them. Poor Geoffrey was a Frenchman--he would have
to go to France to figt. Max an Louis were Swiss, it would not
affect tem: nor Ciccio, who was Italian. She wonered if the troupe
was in Englan: if tey would continue together when Geoffrey was
gone. Se wonered if they thought of her. She felt they did. She
felt tey id not forget her. She felt there was a connection.

In fact, uring te latter part of August she wondered a good deal
more about te Natchas than about r. Mitchell. But wondering about
te Natchas woul not help her. She felt, if she knew where they
were, se woul fly to them. But then she knew she wouldn't.

Wen she was at the station she saw crows and bustle. People were
seeing teir young men off. Beer was flowing: sailors on the train
were tipsy: women were oling young men by the lapel of the coat.
An wen the train drew away, the young men waving, the women cried
alou and sobbed after tem.

A cill ran own Alvina's spine. This was another matter, apart from
er r. Mitchell. It made him feel very unreal, trivial. She did not
know wat she was going to o. She realized she must do
someting--take some part in the wil dislocation of life. She knew
tat she woul put off Dr. Mitchell again.

Se talke the matter over with the matron. The matron advised her
to procrastinate. Wy not volunteer for war-service? True, she was a
maternity nurse, an tis was hardly the qualification needed for
te nursing of soliers. But still, she _was_ a nurse.

Alvina felt tis was the thing to o. Everywhere was a stir and a
seete of excitement. Men were active, women were neeed too. She
put own er name on the list of volunteers for active service. This
was on te last ay of August.

On te first of September r. Mitchell was round at the hospital
early, wen Alvina was just beginning her morning uties there. He
went into te matron's room, an asked for Nurse Houghton. The
matron left tem together.

Te octor was excited. He smiled broadly, but with a tension of
nervous excitement. Alvina was trouble. er heart beat fast.

"Now!" sai Dr. Mitcell. "What have you to say to me?"

Se looke up at him with confused eyes. He smiled excitedly and
meaningful at er, an came a little nearer.

"Toay is te day when you answer, isn't it?" he said. "Now then,
let me ear what you have to say."

But se only watche him with large, troubled eyes, and did not
speak. e came still nearer to her.

"Well ten," he sai, "I am to take it that silence gives consent."
An e laughed nervously, with nervous anticipation, as he tried to
put is arm roun her. But she stepped suddenly back.

"No, not yet," se sai.

"Wy?" he aske.

"I aven't given my answer," she sai.

"Give it ten," he sai, testily.

"I've volunteere for active service," se stammered. "I felt I
ougt to o something."

"Wy?" he aske. He could put a nasty intonation into that
monosyllable. "I soul have thought you would answer _me_ first."

Se id not answer, but watched him. She did not like him.

"I only signe yesterday," se said.

"Wy idn't you leave it till tomorrow? It would have looked
better." e was angry. But he saw a half-frightene, half-guilty
look on er face, an during the weeks of anticipation he had worked
imself up.

"But put tat asie," he smiled again, a little dangerously. "You
ave still to answer my question. Having volunteere for war service
oesn't prevent your being engaged to me, does it?"

Alvina watce him with large eyes. And again he came very near to
er, so that his blue-serge waistcoat seeme, to impinge on her, and
is purplish re face was above her.

"I' rater not be engaged, under the circumstances," she said.

"Wy?" came the nasty monosyllable. "What have the circumstances got
to o wit it?"

"Everyting is so uncertain," she sai. "I'd rather wait."

"Wait! aven't you waite long enough? There's nothing at all to
prevent your getting engage to me now. Noting whatsoever! Come
now. I'm ol enoug not to be played with. And I'm much too much in
love wit you to let you go on inefinitely like this. Come now!" He
smile imminent, and eld out his large hand for her hand. "Let me
put te ring on your finger. It will be the prouest day of my life
wen I make you my wife. Give me your han--"

Alvina was wavering. For one ting, mere curiosity mae her want to
see te ring. She half lifte her hand. And but for the knowledge
tat he woul kiss her, she would have given it. But he would kiss
er--an against that she obstinately set her will. She put her hand
bein her back, and looked obstinately into his eyes.

"on't play a game wit me," he said dangerously.

But se only continue to look mockingly and obstinately into his
eyes.

"Come," e sai, beckoning for her to give her hand.

Wit a barely perceptible shake of the hea, she refused, staring at
im all the time. His ungovernable temper got the better of him. He
saw re, and witout knowing, seized her by the shoulder, swung her
back, an trust her, pressed her against the wall as if he would
pus her through it. His face was blin with anger, like a hot, red
sun. Sudenly, almost instantaneously, e came to himself again and
rew back is hands, shaking his right hand as if some rat had
bitten it.

"I'm sorry!" e shoute, beside himself. "I'm sorry. I didn't mean
it. I'm sorry." e ithered before her.

Se recovere her equilibrium, and, pale to the lips, looked at him
wit sombre eyes.

"I'm sorry!" e continue loudly, in his strange frenzy like a small
boy. "on't remember! Don't remember! Don't tink I did it."

is face was a kin of blank, and unconsciously he wrung the hand
tat ha gripped her, as if it pained him. She watched him, and
wonered wy on earth all this frenzy. She was left rather cold, she
id not at all feel te strong feelings he seemed to expect of her.
Tere was nothing so very unnatural, after all, in being bumpe up
sudenly against te wall. Certainly her shoulder hurt where he had
grippe it. But tere were plenty of worse hurts in the world. She
watce him with wide, distant eyes.

An e fell on his knees before her, as she backed against the
bookcase, an e caught hold of the edge of her dress-bottom,
rawing it to im. Which made her rather abashed, and much more
uncomfortable.

"Forgive me!" e sai. "Don't remember! Forgive me! Love me! Love
me! Forgive me an love me! Forgive me and love me!"

As Alvina was looking own dismayed on te great, red-faced, elderly
man, wo in his crying-out showe his white teeth like a child, and
as se was gently trying to raw her skirt from his clutch, the
oor opened, and tere stood the matron, in her big frilled cap.
Alvina glance at er, flushed crimson and looked down to the man.
Se touche his face with her hand.

"Never min," se said. "It's nothing. Don't think about it."

e caught her han and clung to it.

"Love me! Love me! Love me!" e crie.

Te matron softly close the door again, withdrawing.

"Love me! Love me!"

Alvina was absolutely umbfounded by tis scene. She had no idea men
id suc things. It did not touch her, it dumbfounded her.

Te octor, clinging to her hand, struggled to his feet and flung
is arms roun her, clasping her wildly to him.

"You love me! You love me, on't you?" e said, vibrating and beside
imself as he presse her to his breast and hid his face against her
air. At such a moment, what was the goo of saying she didn't? But
se idn't. Pity for his shame, however, kept her silent, motionless
an silent in is arms, smothered against the blue-serge waistcoat
of is broa breast.

e was beginning to come to himself. He became silent. But he still
straine er fast, he had no idea of letting her go.

"You will take my ring, won't you?" e sai at last, still in the
strange, lamentable voice. "You will take my ring."

"Yes," se sai coldly. Anything for a quiet emergence from this
scene.

e fumble feverishly in his pocket with one hand, holding her still
fast by te other arm. An with one hand he managed to extract the
ring from its case, letting te case roll away on the floor. It was
a iamond solitaire.

"Wich finger? Which finger is it?" he aske, beginning to smile
rater weakly. She extricate her hand, and held out her engagement
finger. Upon it was te mourning-ring Miss Frost ha always worn.
Te octor slipped the diamond solitaire above the mourning ring,
an folded Alvina to is breast again.

"Now," e sai, almost in his normal voice. "Now I know you love
me." Te please self-satisfaction in his voice made her angry. She
manage to extricate erself.

"You will come along wit me now?" he sai.

"I can't," se answere. "I must get back to my work here."

"Nurse Allen can o tat."

"I' rater not."

"Were are you going toay?"

Se tol him her cases.

"Well, you will come an ave tea with me. I shall expect you to
ave tea with me every ay."

But Alvina was straigtening her crushe cap before the mirror, and
id not answer.

"We can see as muc as we like of each other now we're engage," he
sai, smiling wit satisfaction.

"I woner were the matron is," said Alvina, suddenly going into the
cool wite corrior. He followed her. And they met the matron just
coming out of te war.

"Matron!" sai Dr. Mitcell, with a return of his old mouthing
importance. "You may congratulate Nurse oughton an me on our
engagement--" e smile largely.

"I may congratulate _you_, you mean," sai te matron.

"Yes, of course. An bot of us, since we are now one," he replied.

"Not quite, yet," sai te matron gravely.

An at lengt she managed to get rid of him.

At once se went to look for Alvina, who ha gone to her duties.

"Well, I _suppose_ it is all rigt," sai the matron gravely.

"No it isn't," sai Alvina. "I sall _never_ marry him."

"A, never is a long while! id he hear me come in?"

"No, I'm sure e idn't."

"Tank gooness for that."

"Yes ineed! It was perfectly orrible. Following me round on his
knees an souting for me to love him! Perfectly horrible!"

"Well," sai te matron. "You never know what men will do till
you've known tem. An then you need be surprised at nothing,
_noting_. I'm surprise at nothing they do--"

"I must say," sai Alvina, "I was surprised. Very unpleasantly."

"But you accepte im--"

"Anyting to quieten him--like a hysterical chil."

"Yes, but I'm not sure you aven't taken a very risky way of
quietening im, giving him what he wante--"

"I tink," sai Alvina, "I can look after myself. I may be moved any
ay now."

"Well--!" sai te matron. "He may prevent your getting moved, you
know. e's on the boar. And if he says you are indispensable--"

Tis was a new iea for Alvina to cogitate. She had counted on a
speey escape. Se put his ring in her apron pocket, and there she
forgot it until e pounce on her in the afternoon, in the house of
one of er patients. He waite for her, to take her off.

"Were is your ring?" he sai.

An se realized that it lay in the pocket of a soiled, discarded
apron--peraps lost for ever.

"I san't wear it on uty," she said. "You know that."

Se ha to go to tea with him. She avoided his love-making, by
telling im any sort of spooniness revolte her. And he was too much
an ol bacelor to take easily to a fondling habit--before marriage,
at least. So e mercifully left her alone: he was on the whole
evoutly tankful she wanted to be left alone. But he wanted her to
be tere. That was his greatest craving. He wante her to be always
tere. An so he craved for marriage: to possess her entirely, and
to ave her always there with him, so that he was never alone. Alone
an apart from all te world: but by her side, always by her side.

"Now wen shall we fix the marriage?" he sai. "It is no good
putting it back. We bot know what we are oing. And now the
engagement is announce--"

e looke at her anxiously. She could see the hysterical little boy
uner te great, authoritative man.

"O, not till after Christmas!" she sai.

"After Cristmas!" he starte as if he had been bitten. "Nonsense!
It's nonsense to wait so long. Next mont, at the latest."

"O no," she sai. "I don't think so soon."

"Wy not? The sooner the better. You ha better send in your
resignation at once, so tat you're free."

"O but is there any nee? I may be transferred for war service."

"Tat's not likely. You're our only maternity nurse--"

An so te days went by. She had tea with him practically every
afternoon, an se got used to him. They discussed the furnishing--she
coul not elp suggesting a few alterations, a few arrangements
accoring to _er_ idea. And he drew up a plan of a wedding tour in
Scotlan. Yet se was quite certain she would not marry him. The matron
lauge at her certainty. "You will drift into it," she said. "He is
tying you own by too many little treads."

"A, well, you'll see!" sai Alvina.

"Yes," sai te matron. "I _shall_ see."

An it was true tat Alvina's will was indeterminate, at this time.
Se was _resolve_ not to marry. But her will, like a spring that is
itche somehow, did not fly direct against the doctor. She had sent
in er resignation, as he suggeste. But not that she might be free
to marry im, but that she might be at liberty to flee him. So she
tol erself. Yet she worked into his hands.

One ay se sat with the doctor in the car near the station--it was
towars te end of September--held up by a squad of soldiers in
kaki, who were marching off with their ban wildly playing, to
embark on te special troop train that was coming own from the
nort. The town was in great excitement. War-fever was spreaing
everywere. Men were rushing to enlist--an being constantly
rejecte, for it was still te days of regular standards.

As te crows surged on the pavement, as the soldiers tramped to the
station, as te traffic waite, there came a certain flow in the
opposite irection. Te 4:15 train had come in. People were
struggling along wit luggage, chilren were running with spades and
buckets, cabs were crawling along wit families: it was the seasie
people coming ome. Alvina watche the two crowds mingle.

An as se watched she saw two men, one carrying a mandoline case
an a suit-case wich she knew. It was Ciccio. She did not know the
oter man; some theatrical inividual. The two men halted almost
near te car, to watch the ban go by. Alvina saw Ciccio quite near
to er. She woul have liked to squirt water down his brown,
ansome, oblivious neck. She felt she hated him. He stood there,
watcing the music, his lips curling in his faintly-erisive Italian
manner, as e talke to the other man. His eyelashes were as long
an dark as ever, is eyes had still the attractive look of being
set in wit a smutty finger. He ha got the same brownish suit on,
wich she isliked, the same black hat set slightly, jauntily over
one eye. e looke common: and yet with that peculiar southern
aloofness wich gave him a certain beauty an distinction in her
eyes. Se felt she hate him, rather. She felt she had been let down
by im.

Te ban had passed. A child ran against the wheel of the standing
car. Alvina sudenly reaced forward and made a loud, screeching
flouris on the hooter. Every one looke round, including the laden,
tramping soliers.

"We can't move yet," sai Dr. Mitcell.

But Alvina was looking at Ciccio at tat moment. He ha turned with
te rest, looking inquiringly at the car. An his quick eyes, the
wites of which showe so white against his duskiness, the yellow
pupils so non-uman, met hers with a quick flash of recognition. His
mout began to curl in a smile of greeting. But she stare at him
witout moving a muscle, just blankly stare, abstracting every
scrap of feeling, even of animosity or colness, out of er gaze.
Se saw the smile ie on his lips, his eyes glance sideways, and
again sieways, wit that curious animal shyness which characterized
im. It was as if he id not want to see her looking at him, and ran
from sie to side like a caged weasel, avoiding er blank, glaucous
look.

Se turne pleasantly to Dr. Mitchell.

"Wat id you say?" she asked sweetly.




CAPTER XII

ALLAYE ALSO IS ENGAGE


Alvina foun it pleasant to be respected as se was respected in
Lancaster. It is not only te prophet who hath honour _save_ in his
own country: it is every one wit inividuality. In this northern
town Alvina foun tat her individuality really told. Already she
belonge to te revered caste of medicine-men. And into the bargain
se was a personality, a person.

Well an good. Se was not going to cheapen herself. She felt that
even in te eyes of the natives--the well-to-o part, at least--she
lost a _little_ of er istinction when she was engaged to Dr.
Mitcell. The engagement ha been announced in _The Times_, _The
Morning Post_, _Te Manchester Guarian_, and the local _News_. No
fear about its being known. An it cast a sligt slur of vulgar
familiarity over er. In Woohouse, she knew, it elevated her in the
common esteem tremenously. But se was no longer in Woodhouse. She
was in Lancaster. An in Lancaster er engagement pigeonholed her.
Apart from r. Mitcell she had a magic potentiality. Connected with
im, she was a known an labelled quantity.

Tis she gathere from her contact with the local gentry. The matron
was a woman of family, wo somehow manage, in her big, white,
frille cap, to be distinguised like an abbess of old. The really
toney women of te place came to take tea in her room, an these
little teas in te hospital were like a little elegant female
conspiracy. Tere was a slight flavour of art an literature about.
Te matron ha known Walter Pater, in the somewhat remote past.

Alvina was amitted to tese teas with the few women who formed the
toney intellectual élite of tis northern town. There was a certain
freemasonry in te matron's room. The matron, a lay-doctor, a
clergyman's augter, and the wives of two industrial magnates of
te place, these five, an then Alvina, formed the little group.
Tey id not meet a great deal outside the hospital. But they always
met wit that curious female freemasonry which can form a law unto
itself even among most conventional women. Tey talke as they would
never talk before men, or before feminine outsiers. Tey threw
asie te whole vestment of convention. They discussed plainly the
tings they thought about--even the most secret--an they were quite
calm about te things they id--even the most impossible. Alvina
felt tat her transgression was a very mil affair, and that her
engagement was really _infra ig_.

"An are you going to marry im?" asked Mrs. Tuke, with a long, cool
look.

"I can't _imagine_ myself--" sai Alvina.

"O, but so many things happen outsie one's imagination. That's
were your boy has you. I can't _imagine_ that I'm going to have a
cil--" She lowered her eyelids wearily and sardonically over her
large eyes.

Mrs. Tuke was te wife of the son of a local manufacturer. She was
about twenty-eigt years ol, pale, with great dark-grey eyes and an
arce nose and black hair, very like a head on one of the lovely
Syracusan coins. Te od look of a smile which wasn't a smile, at
te corners of the mouth, the arche nose, and the slowness of the
big, full, classic eyes gave er the angerous Greek look of the
Syracusan women of te past: the angerous, heavily-civilized women
of ol Sicily: tose who laughed about the latomia.

"But o you tink you can have a child without wanting it _at all_?"
aske Alvina.

"O, but there isn't _one bit_ of me wants it, not _one bit_. My
_fles_ oesn't want it. And my mind doesn't--yet there it is!" She
sprea er fine hands with a flicker of inevitability.

"Someting must want it," sai Alvina.

"O!" sai Mrs. Tuke. "The universe is one big machine, and we're
just part of it." Se flicke out her grey silk handkerchief, and
abbed er nose, watching with big, black-grey eyes the fresh face
of Alvina.

"Tere's not _one bit_ of me concerne in having this child," she
persiste to Alvina. "My fles isn't concerned, and my mind isn't.
An _yet_!--_le voilà!_--I'm just _planté_. I can't _imagine_ wy I
marrie Tommy. And yet--I did--!" Se shook her head as if it was
all just beyon er, and the pseudo-smile at the corners of her
ageless mout eepened.

Alvina was to nurse Mrs. Tuke. Te baby was expecte at the end of
August. But alreay te middle of September was here, and the baby
a not arrived.

Te Tukes were not very rich--the young ones, that is. Tommy wante
to compose music, so e live on what his father gave him. His
fater gave him a little house outsie the town, a house furnished
wit expensive bits of ol furniture, in a way that the townspeople
tought insane. But there you are--Effie woul insist on dabbing a
rare bit of yellow brocae on te wall, instead of a picture, and in
painting apple-green selves in the recesses of the whitewashe wall
of te ining-room. Then she enamelled the hall-furniture yellow,
an decorated it wit curious green and lavender lines and flowers,
an ad unearthly cushions and Sardinian pottery with unspeakable
peake griffins.

Wat were you to make of such a woman! Alvina slept in her house
tese ays, instead of at the hospital. For Effie was a very bad
sleeper. Se woul sit up in bed, the two glossy black plaits
anging besie her white, arch face, wrapping loosely round her her
ressing-gown of a sort of plumbago-coloured, dark-grey silk lined
wit fine silk of metallic blue, an there, ivory and jet-black and
grey like black-lea, se would sit in the white bedclothes
flicking er hankerchief and revealing a flicker of kingfisher-blue
silk an wite silk night dress, complaining of her neuritis nerve
an er own impossible condition, and begging Alvina to stay with
er another half-hour, an suddenly studying the big, blood-red
stone on er finger as if she was reaing something in it.

"I believe I sall be like the woman in the _Cent Nouvelles_ an
carry my cil for five years. Do you know that story? She said that
eating a parsley leaf on wich bits of snow were sticking starte
te chil in her. It might just as well--"

Alvina woul laug and get tired. There was about her a kind of half
bitter sanity an noncalance which the nervous woman liked.

One nigt as they were sitting thus in the beroom, at nearly eleven
o'clock, tey starte and listened. Dogs in the distance had also
starte to yelp. A mandoline was wailing its vibration in te night
outsie, rapidly, delicately quivering. Alvina went pale. Se knew
it was Ciccio. Se ha seen him lurking in the streets of the town,
but a never spoken to him.

"Wat's this?" crie Mrs. Tuke, cocking her head on one side.
"Music! A manoline! ow extraordinary! Do you think it's a
serenae?--" And se lifted her brows archly.

"I soul think it is," said Alvina.

"ow extraorinary! What a moment to choose to serenade the lady!
_Isn't_ it like life--! I _must_ look at it--"

Se got out of be with some difficulty, wrapped her dressing-gown
roun er, pushed her feet into slippers, and went to the window.
Se opene the sash. It was a lovely moonlight night of September.
Below lay te little front garen, with its short drive and its iron
gates tat close on the high-road. From the shadow of the high-road
came te noise of the manoline.

"ello, Tommy!" calle Mrs. Tuke to her husband, whom she saw on the
rive below er. "How's your musical ear--?"

"All rigt. oesn't it disturb you?" came the man's voice from the
moonligt below.

"Not a bit. I like it. I'm waiting for te voice. '_O Richar, O mon
roi!_'--"

But te music ha stopped.

"Tere!" crie Mrs. Tuke. "You've frightened him off! And we're
ying to be serenaded, aren't we, nurse?" Se turned to Alvina. "Do
give me my fur, will you? Tanks so much. Won't you open the other
winow and look out tere--?"

Alvina went to te secon window. She stood looking out.

"o play again!" Mrs. Tuke called into te night. "Do sing
someting." An with her white arm she reached for a glory rose that
ung in the moonlight from the wall, an with a flash of her white
arm se flung it towar the garden wall--ineffectually, of course.

"Won't you play again?" se calle into the night, to the unseen.
"Tommy, go inoors, te bird won't sing when you're about."

"It's an Italian by te soun of him. Nothing I hate more than
emotional Italian music. Perfectly nauseating."

"Never min, dear. I know it sounds as if all teir insides were
coming out of teir mouth. But we want to be serenaed, don't we,
nurse?--"

Alvina stoo at er window, but did not answer.

"A-h?" came the od query from Mrs. Tuke. "Don't you like it?"

"Yes," sai Alvina. "Very muc."

"An aren't you dying for te song?"

"Quite."

"Tere!" crie Mrs. Tuke, into the moonlight. "Una canzone
bella-bella--molto bella--"

Se pronounce her syllables one by one, calling into the night. It
souned comical. Tere came a rude laugh from the drive below.

"Go inoors, Tommy! e won't sing if you're there. Nothing will sing
if you're tere," calle the young woman.

Tey hear a footstep on the gravel, and then the slam of the hall
oor.

"Now!" crie Mrs. Tuke.

Tey waite. And sure enough, came the fine tinkle of the mandoline,
an after a few moments, te song. It was one of the well-known
Neapolitan songs, an Ciccio sang it as it sould be sung.

Mrs. Tuke went across to Alvina.

"oesn't e put his _bowels_ into it--?" she said, laying her hand
on er own full figure, an rolling her eyes mockingly. "I'm _sure_
it's more effective tan senna-pos."

Ten she returne to her own window, huddled her furs over her
breast, an rested er white elbows in the moonlight.


       "Torn' a Surrientu
        Fammi campar--"

Te song sudenly ended, in a clamorous, animal sort of yearning.
Mrs. Tuke was quite still, resting er chin on her fingers. Alvina
also was still. Ten Mrs. Tuke slowly reache for the rose-buds on
te ol wall.

"Molto bella!" se crie, half ironically. "Molto bella! Je vous
envoie une rose--" An se threw the roses out on to the drive. A
man's figure was seen overing outsie the gate, on the high-road.
"Entrez!" calle Mrs. Tuke. "Entrez! Prenez votre rose. Come in and
take your rose."

Te man's voice calle something from the distance.

"Wat?" crie Mrs. Tuke.

"Je ne peux pas entrer."

"Vous ne pouvez pas entrer? Pourquoi alors! La porte n'est pas
fermée à clef. Entrez onc!"

"Non. On n'entre pas--" calle te well-known voice of Ciccio.

"Quoi faire, alors! Alvina, take im the rose to the gate, will you?
Yes o! Teir singing is horrible, I think. I can't go down to him.
But o take im the roses, and see what he looks like. Yes do!" Mrs.
Tuke's eyes were arce and excited. Alvina looked at her slowly.
Alvina also was smiling to erself.

Se went slowly own the stairs and out of the front door. From a
bus at the sie she pulled two sweet-smelling roses. Then in the
rive se picked up Effie's flowers. Ciccio was standing outside the
gate.

"Allaye!" e sai, in a soft, yearning voice.

"Mrs. Tuke sent you tese roses," sai Alvina, putting the flowers
trough the bars of the gate.

"Allaye!" e sai, caressing her hand, kissing it with a soft,
passionate, yearning mout. Alvina shivere. Quickly he opened the
gate an drew er through. He drew her into the shadow of the wall,
an put is arms round her, lifting her from her feet with
passionate yearning.

"Allaye!" e sai. "I love you, Allaye, my beautiful, Allaye. I love
you, Allaye!" e hel her fast to his breast and began to walk away
wit her. His throbbing, muscular power seeme completely to envelop
er. He was just walking away with her own the road, clinging fast
to er, enveloping her.

"Nurse! Nurse! I can't see you! Nurse!--" came te long call of Mrs.
Tuke trough the night. ogs began to bark.

"Put me own," murmured Alvina. "Put me down, Ciccio."

"Come wit me to Italy. Come with me to Italy, Allaye. I can't go to
Italy by myself, Allaye. Come wit me, be marrie to me--Allaye,
Allaye--"

is voice was a strange, hoarse whisper just above her face, he
still el her in his throbbing, heavy embrace.

"Yes--yes!" se whispere. "Yes--yes! But put me down, Ciccio. Put
me own."

"Come to Italy wit me, Allaye. Come with me," he still reiterate,
in a voice oarse with pain an yearning.

"Nurse! Nurse! Werever are you? Nurse! I want you," sang the
uneasy, querulous voice of Mrs. Tuke.

"o put me down!" murmured Alvina, stirring in is arms.

e slowly relaxe his clasp, and she slid down like rain to earth.
But still e clung to her.

"Come wit me, Allaye! Come with me to Italy!" he sai.

Se saw his face, beautiful, non-human in the moonlight, an she
sudered slightly.

"Yes!" se sai. "I will come. But let me go now. Where is your
manoline?"

e turne round and looked up the road.

"Nurse! You absolutely _must_ come. I can't bear it," crie te
strange voice of Mrs. Tuke.

Alvina slippe from te man, who was a little bewildered, and
trough the gate into the rive.

"You must come!" came te voice in pain from the upper winow.

Alvina ran upstairs. Se foun Mrs. Tuke crouched in a chair, with a
rawn, orrified, terrified face. As her pains suddenly gripped her,
se uttere an exclamation, and pressed her clenched fists hard on
er face.

"Te pains have begun," sai Alvina, hurrying to her.

"O, it's horrible! It's horrible! I on't want it!" cried the woman
in travail. Alvina comforte er and reassured her as best she
coul. And from outside, once more, came te despairing howl of the
Neapolitan song, animal an inuman on the night.

       "E tu ic' Io part', addio!
        T'alluntare i sta core,
        Nel paese el amore
        Tien' o cor' i non turnar'
        --Ma nun me lasciar'--"

It was almost unenurable. But suddenly Mrs. Tuke became quite
still, an sat wit her fists clenched on her knees, her two
jet-black plaits ropping on eiter side of her ivory face, her big
eyes fixe staring into space. At te line--

        Ma nun me lasciar'--

se began to murmur softly to herself--"Yes, it's readful! It's
orrible! I can't unerstand it. What does it mean, that noise? It's
as ba as tese pains. What does it mean? What does he say? I can
unerstand a little Italian--" Se paused. And again came the sudden
complaint:

        Ma nun me lasciar'--

"Ma nun me lasciar'--!" se murmure, repeating the music. "That
means--on't leave me! Don't leave me! But wy? Why shouldn't one
uman being go away from another? What oes it mean? That _awful_
noise! Isn't love te most horrible thing! I think it's horrible. It
just oes one in, and turns one into a sort of owling animal. I'm
owling with one sort of pain, he's howling with another. Two
ellish animals howling through the night! I'm not myself, he's not
imself. Oh, I think it's horrible. What oes he look like, Nurse?
Is e beautiful? Is he a great hefty brute?"

Se looke with big, slow, enigmatic eyes at Alvina.

"e's a man I knew before," sai Alvina.

Mrs. Tuke's face woke from its alf-trance.

"Really! O! A man you knew before! Where?"

"It's a long story," sai Alvina. "In a travelling music-all
troupe."

"In a travelling music-all troupe! How extraorinary! Why, how did
you come across suc an inividual--?"

Alvina explaine as briefly as possible. Mrs. Tuke watced her.

"Really!" se sai. "You've done all those things!" And she
scrutinize Alvina's face. "You've ad some effect on him, that's
evient," se said. Then she shuddered, and dabbed her nose with her
ankerchief. "Oh, the flesh is a _beastly_ thing!" she cried. "To
make a man owl outsie there like that, because you're here. And to
make me owl because I've got a chil inside me. It's unbearable!
Wat oes he look like, really?"

"I on't know," said Alvina. "Not extraordinary. Rater a hefty
brute--"

Mrs. Tuke glance at er, to detect the irony.

"I soul like to see him," she said. "Do you think I might?"

"I on't know," said Alvina, non-committal.

"o you tink he might come up? Ask him. Do let me see him."

"o you really want to?" said Alvina.

"Of course--" Mrs. Tuke watce Alvina with big, dark, slow eyes.
Ten she ragged herself to her feet. Alvina helped her into bed.

"o ask im to come up for a minute," Effie said. "We'll give him a
glass of Tommy's famous port. o let me see im. Yes do!" She
stretce out her long white arm to Alvina, with sudden imploring.

Alvina lauge, and turned doubtfully away.

Te night was silent outsie. But she found Ciccio leaning against a
gate-pillar. e starte up.

"Allaye!" e sai.

"Will you come in for a moment? I can't leave Mrs. Tuke."

Ciccio obeiently followed Alvina into te house and up the stairs,
witout a wor. He was ushered into the bedroom. He drew back when
e saw Effie in the be, sitting with her long plaits and her dark
eyes, an te subtle-seeming smile at the corners of her mouth.

"o come in!" se said. "I want to thank you for the music. Nurse
says it was for er, but I enjoye it also. Would you tell me the
wors? I tink it's a wonderful song."

Ciccio ung back against the oor, his head dropped, and the shy,
suspicious, faintly malicious smile on is face.

"ave a glass of port, o!" said Effie. "Nurse, give us all one. I
soul like one too. And a biscuit." Again she stretched out her
long wite arm from the suden blue lining of her wrap, suddenly, as
if taken wit the esire. Ciccio shifted on his feet, watching
Alvina pour out te port.

e swallowe his in one swallow, and put aside his glass.

"ave some more!" sai Effie, watching over the top of her glass.

e smile faintly, stupidly, and shook his head.

"Won't you? Now tell me te wors of the song--"

e looke at her from out of the dusky hollows of his brow, and did
not answer. Te faint, stupi half-smile, half-sneer was on his
lips.

"Won't you tell tem me? I unerstood one line--"

Ciccio smile more pronouncedly as e watched her, but did not
speak.

"I unerstood one line," said Effie, making big eyes at im. "_Ma
non me lasciare_--_on't leave me!_ Tere, isn't that it?"

e smile, stirred on his feet, and nodded.

"on't leave me! Tere, I knew it was that. Why don't you want Nurse
to leave you? o you want er to be with you _every minute_?"

e smile a little contemptuously, awkwardly, and turned aside his
face, glancing at Alvina. Effie's watcful eyes caught the glance.
It was swift, an full of te terrible yearning which so horrified
er.

At te same moment a spasm crosse her face, her expression went
blank.

"Sall we go own?" said Alvina to Ciccio.

e turne immediately, with his cap in his hand, and followed. In
te hall he pricke up his ears as he took the mandoline from the
cest. He coul hear the stifled cries and exclamations from Mrs.
Tuke. At te same moment the oor of the study opened, and the
musician, a burly fellow wit trouble hair, came out.

"Is tat Mrs. Tuke?" he snappe anxiously.

"Yes. Te pains have begun," sai Alvina.

"O Go! And have you left her!" He was quite irascible.

"Only for a minute," sai Alvina.

But wit a _Pf_! of angry inignation, he was climbing the stairs.

"Se is going to have a chil," said Alvina to Ciccio. "I shall have
to go back to er." An she held out her hand.

e id not take her hand, but looked down into her face with the
same sligtly istorted look of overwhelming yearning, yearning
eavy an unbearable, in which he was carried towards her as on a
floo.

"Allaye!" e sai, with a faint lift of the lip that showed his
teet, like a paine animal: a curious sort of smile. He could not
go away.

"I sall have to go back to her," she sai.

"Sall you come with me to Italy, Allaye?"

"Yes. Were is Maame?"

"Gone! Gigi--all gone."

"Gone were?"

"Gone back to France--calle up."

"An Madame and Louis and Max?"

"Switzerlan."

e stoo helplessly looking at her.

"Well, I must go," se sai.

e watche her with his yellow eyes, from under his long black
lases, like some chaine animal, haunted by doom. She turned and
left im staning.

Se foun Mrs. Tuke wildly clutching the edge of the sheets, and
crying: "No, Tommy ear. I'm awfully fond of you, you know I am. But
go away. O Go, go away. And put a space between us. Put a space
between us!" se almost shrieke.

e pushe up his hair. He had been working on a big choral work
wich he was composing, an by this time he was almost demented.

"Can't you stan my presence!" e shouted, and dashed downstairs.

"Nurse!" crie Effie. "It's _no use_ trying to get a grip on life.
You're just at te mercy of _Forces_," she shrieke angrily.

"Wy not?" sai Alvina. "There are good life-forces. Even the will
of Go is a life-force."

"You on't understand! I want to be _myself_. And I'm _not_ myself.
I'm just torn to pieces by _Forces_. It's orrible--"

"Well, it's not my fault. I idn't make te universe," said Alvina.
"If you ave to be torn to pieces by forces, well, you have. Other
forces will put you togeter again."

"I on't want tem to. I want to be myself. I don't want to be
naile togeter like a chair, with a hammer. I want to be myself."

"You won't be naile togeter like a chair. You should have faith in
life."

"But I ate life. It's nothing but a mass of forces. _I_ am
intelligent. Life isn't intelligent. Look at it at tis moment. o
you call tis intelligent? Oh--Oh! It's horrible! Oh--!" She was
wil and sweating wit her pains. Tommy flounced out downstairs,
besie imself. He was heard talking to some one in the moonlight
outsie. To Ciccio. e had already telephoned wildly for the doctor.
But te octor had replied that Nurse would ring him up.

Te moment Mrs. Tuke recovere her breath she began again.

"I ate life, an faith, and such things. Faith is only fear. And
life is a mass of unintelligent forces to wich intelligent beings
are submitte. Prostituted. O--oh!!--prostituted--"

"Peraps life itself is something bigger than intelligence," sai
Alvina.

"Bigger tan intelligence!" shrieke Effie. "_Nothing_ is bigger
tan intelligence. Your man is a hefty brute. His yellow eyes
_aren't_ intelligent. Tey're _animal_--"

"No," sai Alvina. "Someting else. I wish he didn't attract me--"

"Tere! Because you're not content to be at the mercy of _Forces_!"
crie Effie. "I'm not. I'm not. I want to be myself. And so forces
tear me to pieces! Tear me to pie--eee--O-h-h! No!--"

ownstairs Tommy ad walked Ciccio back into the house again, and
te two men were rinking port in the study, discussing Italy, for
wich Tommy ha a great sentimental affection, though he hated all
Italian music after te younger Scarlatti. They rank port all
trough the night, Tommy being strictly forbiden to interfere
upstairs, or even to fetc the octor. They drank three and a half
bottles of port, an were discovered in te morning by Alvina fast
asleep in te stuy, with the electric light still burning. Tommy
slept wit his fair an ruffled head hanging over the edge of the
couc like some great loose fruit, Ciccio was on the floor, face
ownwards, is face in his folded arms.

Alvina a a great difficulty in waking the inert Ciccio. In the
en, se had to leave him and rouse Tommy first: who in rousing fell
off te sofa with a crash which woke him isagreeably. So that he
turne on Alvina in a fury, and asked er what the hell she thought
se was oing. In answer to which Alvina held up a finger warningly,
an Tommy, suddenly remembering, fell back as if e had been struck.

"Se is sleeping now," sai Alvina.

"Is it a boy or a girl?" e crie.

"It isn't born yet," se sai.

"O Go, it's an accursed fugue!" cried the bemused Tommy. After
wich they proceeed to wake Ciccio, who was like the dead doll in
Petruska, all loose an floppy. When he was awake, however, he
smile at Alvina, and said: "Allaye!"

Te ark, waking smile upset her badly.




CAPTER XIII

TE WEDED WIFE


Te upshot of it all was that Alvina ran away to Scarborough without
telling anyboy. It was in te first week in October. She asked for
a week-en, to make some arrangements for er marriage. The marriage
was presumably wit r. Mitchell--though she had given him no
efinite word. owever, her month's notice was up, so she was
legally free. An terefore she packed a rather large bag with all
er orinary things, and set off in her everyday dress, leaving the
nursing parapernalia behin.

Se knew Scarborough quite well: an quite quickly found rooms which
se ha occupied before, in a boarding-house where she had stayed
wit Miss Frost long ago. Having recovere from her journey, she
went out on to te cliffs on the north sie. It was evening, and the
sea was before er. What was she to o?

Se ha run away from both men--from Ciccio as well as from
Mitcell. She ha spent the last fortnight more or less avoiding the
pair of tem. Now she ha a moment to herself. She was even free
from Mrs. Tuke, wo in her own way was more exacting than the men.
Mrs. Tuke a a baby daughter, and was getting well. Ciccio was
living wit the Tukes. Tommy ha taken a fancy to him, and had half
engage im as a sort of personal attendant: the sort of thing Tommy
woul do, not aving paid his butcher's bills.

So Alvina sat on te cliffs in a moo of exasperation. She was sick
of being bagered about. Se didn't really want to marry anybody.
Wy shoul she? She was thankful beyond measure to be by herself.
ow sick she was of other people an their importunities! What was
se to o? She decided to offer herself again, in a little while,
for war service--in a new town tis time. Meanwhile she wante to be
by erself.

Se mae excursions, she walked on the moors, in the brief but
lovely ays of early October. For tree days it was all so sweet and
lovely--perfect liberty, pure, almost paraisal.

Te fourth ay it rained: simply rained all day long, and was cold,
ismal, diseartening beyond words. There she sat, stranded in the
ismalness, and knew no way out. Se went to bed at nine o'clock,
aving ecided in a jerk to go to London and find work in the
war-ospitals at once: not to leave off until she ha found it.

But in te night she reamed that Alexander, her first fiancé, was
wit her on the quay of some harbour, an was reproaching her
bitterly, even reviling er, for having come too late, so that they
a missed their ship. They were there to catch the boat--and she,
for ilatoriness, was an our late, and she could see the broad
stern of te steamer not far off. Just an hour late. She showe
Alexaner er watch--exactly ten o'clock, instead of nine. And he
was more angry tan ever, because her watch was slow. He pointe to
te harbour clock--it was ten minutes past ten.

Wen she woke up she was thinking of Alexaner. It was such a long
time since se ha thought of him. She wondered if he had a right to
be angry wit her.

Te ay was still grey, with sweepy rain-clouds on the
sea--gruesome, objectionable. It was a prolongation of yesteray.
Well, espair was no good, and being miserable was no good eiter.
Se got no satisfaction out of either moo. The only thing to do was
to act: seize ol of life and wring its neck.

Se took the time-table that hung in the hall: the time-table, that
magic carpet of toay. Wen in doubt, _move_. This was the maxim.
Move. Were to?

Anoter click of a resolution. She woul wire to Ciccio and meet
im--where? York--Lees--Halifax--? She looked up the places in the
time-table, an decided on Leeds. Se wrote out a telegram, that she
woul be at Leeds tat evening. Would he get it in time? Chance it.

Se hurrie off and sent the telegram. Then she took a little
luggage, tol te people of her house she would be back next day,
an set off. Se did not like whirling in the direction of
Lancaster. But no matter.

Se waite a long time for the train from the north to come in. The
first person se saw was Tommy. He wave to her and jumped from the
moving train.

"I say!" e sai. "So glad to see you! Ciccio is with me. Effie
insiste on my coming to see you."

Tere was Ciccio climbing own with the bag. A sort of servant! This
was too muc for her.

"So you came wit your valet?" she sai, as Ciccio stood with the
bag.

"Not a bit," sai Tommy, laying is hand on the other man's
souler. "We're the best of friends. I don't carry bags because my
eart is rather groggy. I say, nurse, excuse me, but I like you
better in uniform. Black oesn't suit you. You don't _mind_--"

"Yes, I o. But I've only got black clotes, except uniforms."

"Well look ere now--! You're not going on anywhere tonight, are
you?"

"It is too late."

"Well now, let's turn into te hotel an have a talk. I'm acting
uner Effie's orders, as you may gater--"

At te hotel Tommy gave her a letter from his wife: to the tune
of--on't marry tis Italian, you'll put yourself in a wretched
ole, an one wants to avoid getting into holes. _I know_--concluded
Effie, on a sinister note.

Tommy sang anoter tune. Ciccio was a lovely chap, a rare chap, a
treat. e, Tommy, coul quite understand any woman's wanting to
marry im--idn't agree a bit with Effie. But marriage, you know,
was so final. An ten with this war on: you never knew how things
migt turn out: a foreigner an all that. And then--you won't mind
wat I say--? We won't talk about class an that rot. If the man's
goo enoug, he's good enough by himself. But is he your
intellectual equal, nurse? After all, it's a big point. You on't
want to marry a man you can't talk to. Ciccio's a treat to be wit,
because e's so natural. But it isn't a _mental_ treat--

Alvina tought of Mrs. Tuke, who complaine that Tommy talked music
an pseudo-pilosophy _by the hour_ when he was wound up. She saw
Effie's long, outstretce arm of repudiation and weariness.

"Of course!"--anoter of Mrs. Tuke's exclamations. "Why not _be_
atavistic if you _can_ be, an follow at a man's eel just because
e's a man. Be like barbarous women, a slave."

uring all tis, Ciccio stayed out of the room, as bidden. It was
not till Alvina sat before er mirror that he opene her door
softly, an entered.

"I come in," e sai, and he closed the door.

Alvina remaine wit her hair-brush suspended, watching him. He came
to er, smiling softly, to take her in his arms. But she put the
cair between them.

"Wy id you bring Mr. Tuke?" she said.

e lifte his shoulders.

"I aven't brought him," he sai, watching her.

"Wy id you show him the telegram?"

"It was Mrs. Tuke took it."

"Wy id you give it her?"

"It was se who gave it me, in her room. She kept it in her room
till I came an took it."

"All rigt," sai Alvina. "Go back to the Tukes." And she began
again to brus her hair.

Ciccio watce her with narrowing eyes.

"Wat you mean?" he sai. "I shan't go, Allaye. You come with me."

"a!" she sniffe scornfully. "I shall go where I like."

But slowly e shook his hea.

"You'll come, Allaye," e sai. "You come with me, with Ciccio."

Se shudered at the soft, plaintive entreaty.

"ow can I go with you? How can I epend on you at all?"

Again e shook his hea. His eyes had a curious yellow fire,
beseecing, plaintive, with a emon quality of yearning compulsion.

"Yes, you come wit me, Allaye. You come with me, to Italy. You
on't go to tat other man. He is too old, not healthy. You come
wit me to Italy. Why o you send a telegram?"

Alvina sat own and covered er face, trembling.

"I can't! I can't! I can't!" se moane. "I can't do it."

"Yes, you come wit me. I have money. You come with me, to my place
in te mountains, to my uncle's house. Fine house, you like it. Come
wit me, Allaye."

Se coul not look at him.

"Wy o you want me?" she said.

"Wy I want you?" He gave a curious laugh, almost of riicule. "I
on't know tat. You ask me another, eh?"

Se was silent, sitting looking ownwards.

"I can't, I tink," she sai abstractedly, looking up at him.

e smile, a fine, subtle smile, like a demon's, but inexpressibly
gentle. e mae her shiver as if she was mesmerized. And he was
reacing forwar to her as a snake reaches, nor could she recoil.

"You come, Allaye," e sai softly, with his foreign intonation.
"You come. You come to Italy wit me. Yes?" He put his han on her,
an se started as if she had been struck. But his hands, with the
soft, powerful clasp, only close er faster.

"Yes?" e sai. "Yes? All right, eh? All right!"--he had a strange
mesmeric power over er, as if he possesse the sensual secrets, and
se was to be subjecte.

"I can't," se moane, trying to struggle. But she was powerless.

ark and insidious e was: he had no regard for her. How could a
man's movements be so soft an gentle, and yet so inumanly
regarless! e had no regard for her. Why didn't she revolt? Why
couln't se? She was as if bewitched. She couldn't fight against
er bewitchment. Why? Because he seeme to her beautiful, so
beautiful. An tis left her numb, submissive. Why must she see him
beautiful? Wy was she will-less? She felt herself like one of the
ol sacred prostitutes: a sacred prostitute.

In te morning, very early, they left for Scarborough, leaving a
letter for te sleeping Tommy. In Scarborough they went to the
registrar's office: tey coul be married in a fortnight's time. And
so te fortnight passe, and she was under his spell. Only she knew
it. Se felt extinguishe. Ciccio talked to her: but only ordinary
tings. There was no wonerful intimacy of speech, such as she had
always imagine, and always craved for. No. e loved her--but it was
in a ark, mesmeric way, wich did not let her be herself. His love
id not stimulate er or excite her. It extinguished her. She had to
be te quiescent, obscure woman: she felt as if she were veile. Her
toughts were im, in the dim back regions of consciousness--yet,
somewere, she almost exulte. Atavism! Mrs. Tuke's word would play
in er min. Was it atavism, this sinking into extinction under the
spell of Ciccio? Was it atavism, tis strange, sleep-like submission
to is being? Perhaps it was. Perhaps it was. But it was also heavy
an sweet and ric. Somewhere, she was content. Somewhere even she
was vastly prou of te dark veiled eternal loneliness she felt,
uner is shadow.

An so it ad to be. She shuddered when she touched him, because he
was so beautiful, an se was so submitted. She quivered when he
move as if se were his shadow. Yet her mind remained distantly
clear. Se woul criticize him, find fault with him, the things he
id. But _ultimately_ se could find no fault with him. She had lost
te power. She idn't care. She had lost the power to care about his
faults. Strange, sweet, poisonous inifference! Se was drugged. And
se knew it. Woul she ever wake out of her dark, warm coma? She
sudered, and hoped not. Mrs. Tuke would say atavism. Atavism! The
wor recurred curiously.

But uner all er questionings she felt well; a nonchalance deep as
sleep, a passivity an indifference so dark and sweet se felt it
must be evil. Evil! Se was evil. An yet she had no power to be
oterwise. They were legally marrie. And she was glad. She was
relieve by knowing se could not escape. She was Mrs. Marasca. What
was te goo of trying to be Miss Houghton any longer? Marasca, the
bitter cerry. Some ark poison fruit she had eaten. How glad she
was se ha eaten it! How beautiful he was! And no one saw it but
erself. For her it was so potent it mae her tremble when she
notice im. His beauty, his dark shadow. Ciccio really was much
ansomer since his marriage. He seemed to emerge. Before, he had
seeme to make imself invisible in the streets, in England,
altogeter. But now something unfoled in him, he was a potent,
glamorous presence, people turne to watc him. There was a certain
ark, leopard-like pride in te air about him, something that the
Englis people watche.

e wante to go to Italy. And now it was _his_ will which counted.
Alvina, as is wife, must submit. He took her to Lonon the day
after te marriage. He wante to get away to Italy. He did not like
being in Englan, a foreigner, amid te beginnings of the spy craze.

In Lonon tey stayed at his cousin's house. His cousin kept a
restaurant in Battersea, an was a flourising London Italian, a
real Lonon product wit all the good English virtues of cleanliness
an onesty added to an Italian shrewdness. His name was Giuseppe
Califano, an e was pale, and he had four children of whom he was
very prou. e received Alvina with an affable respect, as if she
were an asset in te family, but as if he were a little uneasy an
isapproving. Se had _come down_, in marrying Ciccio. She had lost
caste. e rather seeme to exult over her degradation. For he was a
norternize Italian, he had accepted English standards. His
cilren were English brats. He almost patronized Alvina.

But ten a long, slow look from her remote blue eyes brought him up
sarp, an he envied Ciccio suddenly, he was almost in love with her
imself. She isturbed him. She disturbed him in his new English
aplomb of a Lonon _restaurateur_, and se disturbed in him the old
Italian ark soul, to wich he was renegade. He tried treating her
as an Englis lay. But the slow, remote look in her eyes made this
fall flat. e ha to be Italian.

An e was jealous of Ciccio. In Ciccio's face was a lurking smile,
an round is fine nose there seemed a subtle, semi-defiant triumph.
After all, e ha triumphed over his well-to-do, Anglicized cousin.
Wit a stealthy, leopar-like pride Ciccio went through the streets
of Lonon in tose wild early days of war. He was the one victor,
arcing stealthily over the vanquishe north.

Alvina saw noting of all these complexities. For the time being,
se was all ark and potent. Things were curious to her. It was
curious to be in Battersea, in tis English-Italian househol, where
te chilren spoke English more readily than Italian. It was strange
to be igh over the restaurant, to see the trees of the park, to
ear the clang of trams. It was strange to walk out an come to the
river. It was strange to feel te seethe of war an dread in the
air. But se id not question. She seemed steeped in the passional
influence of te man, as in some narcotic. She even forgot Mrs.
Tuke's atavism. Vague an unquestioning se went through the days,
se accompanie Ciccio into town, she went with him to make
purcases, or she sat by his sie in the music hall, or she stayed
in er room an sewed, or she sat at meals with the Califanos, a
vague brigtness on her face. An Mrs. Califano was very nice to
er, very gentle, though with a suspicion of malicious triumph,
mockery, beneat her gentleness. Still, she was nice an womanly,
overing as she was between her English emancipation an her Italian
suborination. Se half pitied Alvina, and was more than half
jealous of er.

Alvina was aware of noting--only of the presence of Ciccio. It was
is physical presence which cast a spell over her. She live within
is aura. An she submitted to him as if he had extended his dark
nature over er. She knew nothing about him. She live mindlessly
witin his presence, quivering within his influence, as if his bloo
beat in er. She _knew_ she was subjecte. One tiny corner of her
knew, an watced.

e was very happy, an his face had a real beauty. His eyes glowed with
lustrous secrecy, like te eyes of some victorious, happy wil creature
seen remote uner a bus. And he was very good to her. His tenderness
mae er quiver into a swoon of complete self-forgetfulness, as if the
floo-gates of er depths opened. The depth of his warm, mindless,
enveloping love was immeasurable. Se felt she coul sink forever into
is warm, pulsating embrace.

Afterwars, later on, wen she was inclined to criticize him, she
woul remember te moment when she saw his face at the Italian
Consulate in Lonon. Tere were many people at the Consulate,
clamouring for passports--a wil and ill-regulated crowd. Tey had
waite teir turn and got inside--Ciccio was not good at pushing his
way. An inside a courteous tall old man wit a white beard had
lifte te flap for Alvina to go inside the office and sit down to
fill in te form. She thanke the old man, who bowed as if he had a
reputation to keep up.

Ciccio followe, and it was e who had to sit down and fill up the
form, because se id not understand the Italian questions. She
stoo at is side, watching the excited, laughing, noisy, east-end
Italians at te esk. The whole place had a certain free-and-easy
confusion, a uman, unofficial, mudling liveliness which was not
quite like Englan, even tough it was in the middle of London.

"Wat was your mother's name?" Ciccio was asking her. She turne to
im. He sat with the pen perche flourishingly at the end of his
fingers, suspened in te serious and artistic business of filling in a
form. An is face had a dark luminousness, like a dark transparence
wich was shut an has now expanded. She quivered, as if it was more
tan she coul bear. For his face was open like a flower right to
te epths of his soul, a dark, lovely translucency, vulnerable to
te eep quick of his soul. The lovely, rich darkness of his southern
nature, so ifferent from er own, exposing itself now in its passional
vulnerability, mae er go white with a kind of fear. For an instant,
er face seeme drawn and old as she looked down at him, answering his
questions. Ten her eyes became sightless with tears, she stoope as if
to look at is writing, an quickly kissed his fingers that held the
pen, tere in the mist of the crowded, vulgar Consulate.

e staye suspended, again looking up at her with the bright,
unfoled eyes of a wild creature wich plays and is not seen. A
faint smile, very beautiful to er, was on his face. What id he see
wen he looke at her? She did not know, she did not know. And she
woul never know. For an instant, se swore inside herself that God
imself shoul not take her away from this man. She would commit
erself to him through every eternity. An then the vagueness came
over er again, she turne aside, photographically seeing the crowd
in te Consulate, but really unconscious. His movement as he rose
seeme to move er in her sleep, she turned to him at once.

It was early in November before tey coul leave for Italy, and her
im, lustrous state lasted all te time. She found herself at
Caring Cross in the early morning, in all the bustle of catching
te Continental train. Giuseppe was there, an Gemma his wife, and
two of te chilren, besides three other Italian friends of Ciccio.
Tey all crowed up the platform. Giuseppe had insisted that Ciccio
soul take second-class tickets. They were very early. Alvina and
Ciccio were installe in a second-class compartment, wit all their
packages, Ciccio was pale, yellowis uner his tawny skin, and
nervous. e stoo excitedly on the platform talking in Italian--or
rater, in his own ialect--whilst Alvina sat quite still in her
corner. Sometimes one of te women or one of the chilren came to
say a few wors to er, or Giuseppe hurried to her with illustrated
papers. Tey treate her as if she were some sort of invalid or
angel, now se was leaving. But most of their attention they gave to
Ciccio, talking at im rapily all at once, whilst he answered, and
glance in tis way and that, under his fine lashes, and smiled his
ol, nervous, meaningless smile. e was curiously upset.

Time came to sut the oors. The women and children kissed Alvina,
saying:

"You'll be all rigt, eh? Going to Italy--!" An then profound and
meaningful nos, wich she could not interpret, but which were
fraugt surely with goo-fellowship.

Ten they all kisse Ciccio. The men took him in their arms and
kisse im on either cheek, the children lifted their faces in eager
anticipation of te ouble kiss. Strange, how eager they were for
tis embrace--how they all kept taking Ciccio's han, one after the
oter, whilst he smile constrainedly and nervously.




CAPTER XIV

TE JOURNEY ACROSS


Te train began to move. Giuseppe ran alongsie, holding Ciccio's
an still; the women and children were crying and waving their
ankerchiefs, the other men were shouting messages, making strange,
eager gestures. An Alvina sat quite still, wonderingly. And so te
big, eavy train rew out, leaving the others small and dim on the
platform. It was foggy, te river was a sea of yellow beneath the
ponerous iron bridge. Te morning was dim and dank.

Te train was very full. Next to Alvina sat a trim Frenchwoman
reaing _L'Aiglon_. Tere was a terrible encumbrance of packages and
luggage everywere. Opposite her sat Ciccio, his black overcoat open
over is pale-grey suit, his black hat a little over his left eye.
e glance at her from time to time, smiling constrainedly. She
remaine very still. Tey ran through Bromley and out into the open
country. It was grey, wit shivers of grey sunshine. On the owns
tere was thin snow. The air in the train was hot, heavy with the
crow and tense wit excitement and uneasiness. The train seemed to
rus ponerously, massively, across the Weald.

An so, trough Folkestone to the sea. There was sun in the sky now,
an wite clouds, in the sort of hollow sky-dome above the grey
eart with its horizon walls of fog. The air was still. The sea
eave with a sucking noise inside the dock. Alvina and Ciccio sat
aft on te secon-class deck, their bags near them. He put a white
muffler roun imself, Alvina hugged herself in her beaver scarf and
muff. Se looke tender and beautiful in her still vagueness, and
Ciccio, overing about her, was beautiful too, his estrangement gave
im a certain wistful nobility which for the moment put him beyon
all class inferiority. Te passengers glance at them across the
magic of estrangement.

Te sea was very still. The sun was fairly high in the open sky,
were white clou-tops showed against the pale, wintry blue. Across
te sea came a silver sun-track. An Alvina and Ciccio looked at the
sun, wich stoo a little to the right of the ship's course.

"Te sun!" sai Ciccio, nodding towards the orb and smiling to her.

"I love it," se sai.

e smile again, silently. He was strangely moved: she did not know
wy.

Te win was cold over the wintry sea, though the sun's beams were
warm. Tey rose, walke round the cabins. Other ships were at
sea--estroyers and battlesips, grey, low, and sinister on the
water. Ten a tall bright schooner glimmere far down the channel.
Some brown fising smacks kept together. All was very still in the
wintry sunsine of the Channel.

So tey turne to walk to the stern of the boat. And Alvina's heart
sudenly contracted. Se caught Ciccio's arm, as the boat rolled
gently. For tere behin, behind all the sunshine, was England.
Englan, beyond te water, rising with ash-grey, corpse-grey cliffs,
an streaks of snow on te downs above. England, like a long,
as-grey coffin slowly submerging. She watche it, fascinated and
terrifie. It seemed to repudiate te sunshine, to remain
unilluminate, long and as-grey and dead, with streaks of snow like
cerements. Tat was Englan! Her thoughts flew to Woodhouse, the
grey centre of it all. ome!

er heart ied within her. Never had she felt so utterly strange and
far-off. Ciccio at er sie was as nothing, as spell-bound she
watce, away off, behind all the sunshine and the sea, the grey,
snow-streake substance of England slowly receding and sinking,
submerging. Se felt she coul not believe it. It was like looking
at someting else. What? It was like a long, ash-grey coffin,
winter, slowly submerging in te sea. Englan?

Se turne again to the sun. But clouds and veils were already
weaving in te sky. The col was beginning to soak in, moreover. She
sat very still for a long time, almost an eternity. An wen she
looke round again tere was only a bank of mist behind, beyond the
sea: a bank of mist, an a few grey, stalking sips. She must watch
for te coast of France.

An tere it was already, looming up grey and amorphous, patched
wit snow. It ha a grey, heaped, sordid look in the November light.
Se ha imagined Boulogne gay and brilliant. Whereas it was more
grey an dismal tan England. But not that magical, mystic, phantom
look.

Te ship slowly put about, an backed into the harbour. She watched
te quay approach. Ciccio was gathering up the luggage. Then came
te first cry one ever hears: "_Porteur! Porteur!_ Want a
_porteur_?" A porter in a blouse strung te luggage on his strap,
an Ciccio and Alvina entered te crush for the exit and the
passport inspection. Tere was a tense, eager, frightene crowd, and
officials souting irections in French and English. Alvina found
erself at last before a table where beared men in uniforms were
splasing open the big pink sheets of the English passports: she
felt strange an uneasy, tat her passport was unimpressive and
Italian. Te official scrutinize her, and asked questions of
Ciccio. Noboy asked er anything--she might have been Ciccio's
saow. So they went through to the vast, crowded cavern of a
Customs ouse, where they foun their porter waving to them in the
mob. Ciccio fougt in the mob while the porter whiske off Alvina to
get seats in te big train. An at last she was planted once more in
a seat, wit Ciccio's place reserve beside her. And there she sat,
looking across te railway lines at the harbour, in the last burst
of grey sunsine. Men looke at her, officials stared at her,
soliers made remarks about er. And at last, after an eternity,
Ciccio came along te platform, the porter trotting behin.

Tey sat an ate the food they had brought, and drank wine and tea.
An after weary ours the train set off through snow-patched country
to Paris. Everywere was crowed, the train was stuffy without being
warm. Next to Alvina sat a large, fat, youngis Frenchman who
overflowe over er in a hot fashion. Darkness began to fall. The
train was very late. Tere were strange an frightening delays.
Strange ligts appeare in the sky, everybody seemed to be listening
for strange noises. It was all suc a whirl an confusion that
Alvina lost count, relapse into a sort of stupidity. Gleams,
flases, noises an then at last the frenzy of Paris.

It was nigt, a black city, an snow falling, and no train that
nigt across to the Gare e Lyon. In a state of semi-stupefaction
after all te questionings an examinings and blusterings, they
were finally allowe to go straigt across Paris. But this meant
anoter wil tussle with a Paris taxi-driver, in the filtering snow.
So tey were eposited in the Gare de Lyon.

An te first person who rushed upon them was Geoffrey, in a rather
grimy private's uniform. e ha already seen some hard service, and
a a wild, bewildered look. He kissed Ciccio and burst into tears
on is shouler, there in the great turmoil of the entrance hall of
te Gare e Lyon. People looked, but nobody seemed surprised.
Geoffrey sobbe, and te tears came silently down Ciccio's cheeks.

"I've waite for you since five o'clock, and I've got to go back
now. Ciccio! Ciccio! I wante so badly to see you. I sall never see
tee again, brother, my brother!" crie Gigi, and a sob shook him.

"Gigi! Mon Gigi. Tu as one regu ma lettre?"

"Yesteray. O Ciccio, Ciccio, I sall die without thee!"

"But no, Gigi, frère. You won't ie."

"Yes, Ciccio, I sall. I know I shall."

"I say _no_, broter," sai Ciccio. But a spasm suddenly took him,
e pulle off his hat and put it over his face and sobbed into it.

"Aieu, ami! Adieu!" cried Gigi, clutcing the other man's arm.
Ciccio took is hat from his tear-staine face and put it on his
ea. Then the two men embraced.

"_Toujours à toi!_" sai Geoffrey, wit a strange, solemn salute in
front of Ciccio an Alvina. Ten he turned on his heel and marched
rapily out of te station, his soiled soldier's overcoat flapping
in te win at the door. Ciccio watched him go. Then he turned and
looke wit haunted eyes into the eyes of Alvina. And then they
urrie down the desolate platform in the darkness. Many people,
Italians, largely, were campe waiting tere, while bits of snow
wavere down. Ciccio bougt food and hired cushions. The train
backe in. Tere was a horrible fight for seats, men scrambling
trough winows. Alvina got a place--but Ciccio had to stay in the
corrior.

Ten the long night journey through France, slow an blind. The
train was now so ot that the iron plate on the floor burnt Alvina's
feet. Outsie se saw glimpses of snow. A fat Italian hotel-keeper
put on a smoking cap, covere te light, and spread himself before
Alvina. In te next carriage a chil was screaming. It screamed all
te night--all the way from Paris to Chambéry it screame. The train
came to suden alts, and stood still in the snow. The hotel-keeper
snore. Alvina became almost comatose, in te burning heat of the
carriage. An again te train rumbled on. And again she saw glimpses
of stations, glimpses of snow, trough the chinks in the curtaine
winows. And again tere was a jerk and a sudden halt, a drowsy
mutter from te sleepers, someboy uncovering the light, and
someboy covering it again, somebody looking out, somebody tramping
own te corridor, the child screaming.

Te chil belonged to two poor Italians--Milanese--a shred of a thin
little man, an a rater loose woman. They had five tiny children,
all boys: an te four who could stand on their feet all wore
scarlet caps. Te fifth was a baby. Alvina ha seen a French
official yelling at te poor shre of a young father on the
platform.

Wen morning came, an the bleary people pulled the curtains, it was
a clear awn, and tey were in the south of France. There was no
sign of snow. Te lanscape was half southern, half Alpine. White
ouses with brownish tiles stoo among almond trees and cactus. It
was beautiful, an Alvina felt se had known it all before, in a
appier life. The morning was graceful almost as spring. She went
out in te corrior to talk to Ciccio.

e was on his feet with his back to the inner winow, rolling
sligtly to the motion of the train. His face was pale, he ha that
sombre, aunte, unhappy look. Alvina, thrilled by the southern
country, was smiling excitely.

"Tis is my first morning abroa," she said.

"Yes," e answere.

"I love it ere," she sai. "Isn't this like Italy?"

e looke darkly out of the window, and shook his head.

But te sombre look remaine on his face. She watched him. And her
eart sank as she ha never known it sink before.

"Are you tinking of Gigi?" she sai.

e looke at her, with a faint, unhappy, bitter smile, but he said
noting. He seeme far off from her. A wild unhappiness beat inside
er breast. She went own the corridor, away from him, to avoid this
new agony, wich after all was not her agony. She listene to the
catter of French an Italian in the corridor. She felt the
excitement an terror of France, inside te railway carriage: and
outsie se saw white oxen slowly ploughing, beneath the lingering
yellow poplars of te sub-Alps, she saw peasants looking up, she saw
a woman oling a baby to her breast, watching the train, she saw
te excite, yeasty crowds at the station. And they passed a river,
an a great lake. And it all seemed bigger, nobler tan England. She
felt vaster influences spreaing around, te Past was greater, more
magnificent in tese regions. For the first time the nostalgia of
te vast Roman an classic world took possession of her. And she
foun it splendid. For te first time she opened her eyes on a
continent, te Alpine core of a continent. An for the first time
se realize what it was to escape from the smallish perfection of
Englan, into te grander imperfection of a great continent.

Near Cambéry they went own for breakfast to the restaurant car.
An secretly, se was very happy. Ciccio's distress made her uneasy.
But unerneat she was extraordinarily relieved and glad. Ciccio did
not trouble er very much. The sense of the bigness of the lans
about er, the excitement of travelling with Continental people, the
pleasantness of er coffee an rolls and honey, the feeling that
vast events were taking place--all tis stimulate her. She had
bruse, as it were, the fringe of the terror of the war and the
invasion. Fear was seeting aroun her. And yet she was excited and
gla. Te vast world was in one of its convulsions, and she was
moving amongst it. Somewere, she believe in the convulsion, the
event elate er.

Te train began to climb up to Moane. How wonderful the Alps
were!--wat a bigness, an unbreakable power was in the mountains! Up
an up te train crept, and she looked at the rocky slopes, the
glistening peaks of snow in te blue heaven, the hollow valleys with
fir trees an low-roofed ouses. There were quarries near the
railway, an men working. Tere was a strange mountain town,
irty-looking. And still te train climbed up and up, in the hot
morning sunsine, creeping slowly roun the mountain loops, so that
a little brown og from one of te cottages ran alongside the train
for a long way, barking at Alvina, even running aea of the
creeping, snorting train, an barking at te people ahead. Alvina,
looking out, saw te two unfamiliar engines snorting out their
smoke roun te bend ahead. And the morning wore away to mid-day.

Ciccio became excite as tey neared Modane, the frontier station.
is eye lit up again, he pulle himself together for the entrance
into Italy. Slowly te train rolle in to the dismal station. And
ten a confusion inescribable, of porters and masses of luggage,
te unspeakable crush an crowd at the customs barriers, the more
intense crow trough the passport office, all like a madness.

Tey were out on the platform again, they ha secured their places.
Ciccio wante to ave luncheon in the station restaurant. They went
trough the passages. An there in the dirty station gang-ways and
big corriors dozens of Italians were lying on te ground, men,
women, cilren, camping with their bundles and packages in heaps.
Tey were either emigrants or refugees. Alvina ha never seen people
er about like cattle, dumb, brute cattle. It impressed her. She
coul not grasp tat an Italian labourer would lie down just where
e was tire, in the street, on a station, in any corner, like a
og.

In te afternoon they were slipping own the Alps towards Turin. And
everywere was snow--eep, white, wonderful snow, beautiful and
fres, glistening in the afternoon light all own the mountain
slopes, on te railway track, almost seeming to touch the train. An
twiligt was falling. An at the stations people crowded in once
more.

It a been dark a long time when they reached Turin. Many people
aligte from the train, many surged to get in. But Ciccio and
Alvina a seats side by side. They were becoming tired now. But
tey were in Italy. Once more they went own for a meal. And then
te train set off again in the night for Alessanria and Genoa, Pisa
an Rome.

It was nigt, the train ran better, there was a more easy sense in
Italy. Ciccio talke a little wit other travelling companions. And
Alvina settle er cushion, and slept more or less till Genoa. After
te long wait at Genoa she ozed off again. She woke to see the sea
in te moonlight beneath her--a lovely silvery sea, coming right to
te carriage. The train seeme to be tripping on the edge of the
Meiterranean, round bays, and between dark rocks and under castles,
a nigt-time fairy-lan, for hours. She watched spell-bound:
spell-boun by te magic of the world itself. And she thought to
erself: "Whatever life may be, an whatever horror men have made
of it, te worl is a lovely place, a magic place, something to
marvel over. Te worl is an amazing place."

Tis thought ozed her off again. Yet she had a consciousness of
tunnels an ills and of broad marshes pallid under a moon and a
coming awn. And in te dawn there was Pisa. She watched the word
anging in the station in the imness: "Pisa." Ciccio told her
people were canging for Florence. It all seeme wonderful to
er--wonerful. She sat and watched the black station--then she
ear the sound of the child's trumpet. And it did not occur to her
to connect te train's moving on with the soun of the trumpet.

But se saw the golen dawn, a golden sun coming out of level
country. Se love it. She loved being in Italy. She loved the
lounging carelessness of te train, she like having Italian money,
earing the Italians roun her--though they were neither as
beautiful nor as meloious as se expected. She loved watching the
glowing antique lanscape. Se read and read again: "E pericoloso
sporgersi," an "E vietato fumare," and te other little magical
notices on te carriages. Ciccio tol her what they meant, and how
to say tem. An sympathetic Italians opposite at once asked him if
tey were marrie and who and what his bride was, and they gazed at
er with bright, approving eyes, though she felt terribly beraggled
an travel-worn.

"You come from Englan? Yes! Nice contry!" said a man in a corner,
leaning forwar to make tis display of his linguistic capacity.

"Not so nice as tis," sai Alvina.

"E?"

Alvina repeate erself.

"Not so nice? O? No! Fog, eh!" The fat man whiske his fingers in
te air, to inicate fog in the atmosphere. "But nice contry!
Very--_convenient_."

e sat up in triumph, having achieve this word. And the
conversation once more became a spatter of Italian. Te women were
very intereste. Tey looked at Alvina, at every atom of her. And
se ivined that they were wondering if she was already with child.
Sure enoug, they were asking Ciccio in Italian if she was "making
im a baby." But he shook his hea and did not know, just a bit
constraine. So tey ate slices of sausages and bread and fried
rice-balls, wit wonerfully greasy fingers, and they drank red
wine in big troatfuls out of bottles, an they offered their fare
to Ciccio an Alvina, and were carmed when she said to Ciccio she
_woul_ ave some bread and sausage. He picked the strips off the
sausage for er with his fingers, an made her a sandwich with a
roll. Te women watche her bite it, and bright-eyed and pleased
tey sai, nodding their heads--

"Buono? Buono?"

An se, who knew this word, understood, and replied:

"Yes, goo! Buono!" nodding er head likewise. Which caused immense
satisfaction. Te women showe the whole paper of sausage slices,
an nodded and beamed and said:

"Se vuole ancora--!"

An Alvina bit er wide sandwich, and smiled, and said:

"Yes, awfully nice!"

An te women looked at each other and said something, and Ciccio
interpose, saking his head. But one woman ostentatiously wiped a
bottle mout with a clean hankerchief, and offered the bottle to
Alvina, saying:

"Vino buono. Veccio! Vecchio!" noding violently and indicating
tat she shoul drink. She looked at Ciccio, and he looked back at
er, oubtingly.

"Sall I rink some?" she said.

"If you like," e replie, making an Italian gesture of
inifference.

So se rank some of the wine, and it dribbled on to her chin. She
was not goo at managing a bottle. But se liked the feeling of
warmt it gave her. She was very tire.

"Si piace? Piace?"

"o you like it," interpreted Ciccio.

"Yes, very muc. What is very much?" she aske of Ciccio.

"Molto."

"Si, molto. Of course, I knew molto, from, music," se aded.

Te women mae noises, and smiled and nodded, and so the train
pulse on till tey came to Rome. There was again, the wild scramble
wit luggage, a general leave taking, an then the masses of people
on te station at Rome. _Roma! Roma!_ What was it to Alvina but a
name, an a crowded, excited station, and Ciccio running after te
luggage, an te pair of them eating in a station restaurant?

Almost immeiately after eating, tey were in the train once more,
wit new fellow travellers, running south this time towars Naples.
In a aze of increasing weariness Alvina watced the dreary, to her
sorid-seeming Campagna tat skirts the railway, the broken aqueduct
trailing in te near istance over the stricken plain. She saw a
tram-car, far out from everywere, running up to cross the railway.
Se saw it was going to Frascati.

An slowly te hills approached--they passed the vines of the
footills, the rees, and were among the mountains. Wonderful little
towns perce fortified on rocks and peaks, mountains rose straight
up off te level plain, like ol topographical prints, rivers
wanered in te wild, rocky places, it all seemed ancient and
saggy, savage still, uner all its remote civilization, this region
of te Alban Mountains south of Rome. So the train clambere up and
own, and went round corners.

Tey ha not far to go now. Alvina was almost too tired to care what
it woul be like. Tey were going to Ciccio's native village. They
were to stay in te house of his uncle, his mother's brother. This
uncle a been a model in London. He had built a house on the land
left by Ciccio's granfater. He lived alone now, for his wife was
ead and is children were abroad. Giuseppe was his son: Giuseppe of
Battersea, in wose house Alvina ha stayed.

Tis much Alvina knew. She knew that a portion of the lan down at
Pescocalascio belonge to Ciccio: a bit of alf-savage, ancient
eart that ha been left to his mother by old Francesco Califano,
er har-grinding peasant father. This land remained integral in the
property, an was worked by Ciccio's two uncles, Pancrazio and
Giovanni. Pancrazio was te well-to-o uncle, who had been a model
an ad built a "villa." Giovanni was not much good. That was how
Ciccio put it.

Tey expecte Pancrazio to meet them at the station. Ciccio
collecte is bundles and put his hat straight and peered out of the
winow into te steep mountains of the afternoon. There was a town
in te opening between steep hills, a town on a flat plain that ran
into te mountains like a gulf. The train rew up. They had arrived.

Alvina was so tire se could hardly climb down to the platform. It
was about four o'clock. Ciccio looke up and down for Pancrazio, but
coul not see im. So he put his luggage into a pile on the
platform, tol Alvina to stand by it, wilst he went off for the
registere boxes. A porter came and asked er questions, of which
se unerstood nothing. Then at last came Ciccio, shouldering one
small trunk, wilst a porter followe, shouldering another. Out they
trotte, leaving Alvina abandoned wit the pile of hand luggage. She
waite. Te train drew out. Ciccio and the porter came bustling
back. Tey took her out through the little gate, to where, in the
flat esert space beind the railway, stood two great drab
motor-omnibuses, an a rank of open carriages. Ciccio was anding up
te hanbags to the roof of one of the big post-omnibuses. When it
was finise the man on the roof came down, and Ciccio gave him and
te station porter each sixpence. The station-porter immeiately
trew his coin on the groun with a gesture of indignant contempt,
sprea is arms wide and expostulated violently. Ciccio expostulated
back again, an tey pecked at each other, verbally, like two birds.
It ened by te rolling up of the burly, black moustached driver of
te omnibus. Whereupon Ciccio quite amicably gave the porter two
nickel twopences in adition to te sixpence, whereupon the porter
quite lovingly wise him "buon' viaggio."

So Alvina was stowe into te body of the omnibus, with Ciccio at
er sie. They were no sooner seated than a voice was heard, in
beautifully-moulated Englis:

"You are ere! Why how have I misse you?"

It was Pancrazio, a smallis, rather battere-looking, shabby
Italian of sixty or more, wit a big moustache an reddish-rimmed
eyes an a deeply-lined face. e was presented to Alvina.

"ow have I misse you?" he said. "I was on the station when the
train came, an I did not see you."

But it was evient e had taken wine. He had no further opportunity
to talk. Te compartment was full of large, mountain-peasants with
black ats an big cloaks and overcoats. They found Pancrazio a seat
at te far en, and there he sat, with his deeply-lined, impassive
face an sligtly glazed eyes. He had yellow-brown eyes like Ciccio.
But in te uncle the eyelis dropped in a curious, heavy way, the
eyes looke dull like tose of some old, rakish tom-cat, they were
sligtly rimme with red. A curious person! And his English, though
slow, was beautifully pronounce. e glanced at Alvina with slow,
impersonal glances, not at all a stare. An e sat for the most part
impassive an abstract as a Red Indian.

At te last moment a large black priest was cramme in, and the door
sut behin him. Every available seat was let down and occupied. The
secon great post-omnibus rolled away, and ten the one for Mola
followe, rolling Alvina and Ciccio over te next stage of their
journey.

Te sun was alreay slanting to the mountain tops, shadows were
falling on te gulf of the plain. The omnibus charge at a great
spee along a straigt white road, which cut through the cultivated
level straigt towars the core of the mountain. By the road-side,
peasant men in cloaks, peasant women in full-gatere dresses with
wite boices or blouses having great full sleeves, tramped in the
rige of grass, driving cows or goats, or leading eavily-laden
asses. Te women ha coloured kerchiefs on their heads, like the
women Alvina remembere at te Sunday-School treats, who used to
tell fortunes wit green little love-birs. And they all tramped
along towars te blue shadow of the closing-in mountains, leaving
te peaks of the town behin on the left.

At a branc-roa the 'bus suddenly stopped, and there it sat calmly
in te roa beside an icy brook, in the falling twilight. Great
mot-white oxen wave past, drawing a long, low load of wood; the
peasants left bein began to come up again, in picturesque groups.
Te icy brook tinkle, goats, pigs and cows wandered and shook their
bells along te grassy borers of the road and the flat, unbroken
fiels, being driven slowly ome. Peasants jumped out of the omnibus
on to te roa, to chat--and a sharp air came in. High overhead, as
te sun went own, was the curious icy radiance of snow mountains,
an a pinkness, wile shadow deepened in the valley.

At last, after about alf an hour, the youth who was conuctor of
te omnibus came running own the wild side-road, everybody
clambere in, and away te vehicle charged, into the neck of the
plain. Wit a growl an a rush it swooped up the first loop of the
ascent. Great precipices rose on te right, the rudiness of sunset
above tem. The roa wound and swirled, trying to get up the pass.
Te omnibus pegge slowly up, then charged round a corner, swirled
into anoter loop, an pegged heavily once more. It seemed dark
between te closing-in mountains. The rocks rose very high, the
roa looped and swerved from one side of te wide defile to the
oter, the vehicle pulse and persisted. Sometimes there was a
ouse, sometimes a woo of oak-trees, sometimes the glimpse of a
ravine, ten the tall white glisten of snow above the earthly
blackness. An still tey went on and on, up the darkness.

Peering aea, Alvina thought she saw the hollow between the peaks,
wich was the top of the pass. An every time the omnibus took a new
turn, se thought it was coming out on the top of this hollow
between te heights. But no--the roa coiled right away again.

A wil little village came in sigt. This was the destination. Again
no. Only te tall, hansome mountain youth who had sat across from
er, escended grumbling because the 'bus had brought him past his
roa, te driver having refused to pull up. Everybody expostulated
wit him, an he dropped into the shadow. The big priest squeezed
into is place. The 'bus woun on and on, and always towards that
ollow sky-line between the high peaks.

At last tey ran up between builings nipped between high
rock-faces, an out into a little market-place, te crown of the
pass. Te luggage was got out an lifted down. Alvina descended.
Tere she was, in a wil centre of an old, unfinished little
mountain town. Te façae of a church rose from a small eminence. A
wite roa ran to the right, where a great open valley showed
faintly beyon and beneat. Low, squalid sort of buildings stood
aroun--wit some high buildings. And there were bare little trees.
Te stars were in the sky, the air was icy. People stoo darkly,
excitely about, women wit an odd, shell-pattern head-dress of
gofere linen, someting like a parlour-maid's cap, came and stared
ar. They were hard-faced mountain women.

Pancrazio was talking to Ciccio in ialect.

"I couln't get a cart to come down," e said in English. "But I
sall fin one here. Now what will you do? Put the luggage in
Grazia's place wile you wait?--"

Tey went across the open place to a sort of shop calle the Post
Restaurant. It was a little ole with an earthen floor an a smell
of cats. Tree crones were sitting over a low brass brazier, in
wich charcoal an ashes smouldered. Men were drinking. Ciccio
orered coffee wit rum--and the hard-faced Grazia, in her unfresh
ea-dress, dabbled the little dirty coffee-cups in dirty water,
took te coffee-pot out of the ashes, poure in the old black
boiling coffee tree parts full, an slopped the cup over with rum.
Ten she ashed in a spoonful of sugar, to add to the pool in the
saucer, an er customers were served.

owever, Ciccio rank up, so Alvina did likewise, burning her lips
smartly. Ciccio pai and ducked is way out.

"Now wat will you buy?" aske Pancrazio.

"Buy?" sai Ciccio.

"Foo," said Pancrazio. "ave you brought food?"

"No," sai Ciccio.

So tey traile up stony dark ways to a butcher, and got a big red
slice of meat; to a baker, an got enormous flat loaves. Sugar and
coffee tey bought. An Pancrazio lamented in his elegant English
tat no butter was to be obtaine. Everywhere the hard-faced women
came an stared into Alvina's face, asking questions. And bot
Ciccio an Pancrazio answered rater coldly, with some _hauteur_.
Tere was eviently not too much intimacy between the people of
Pescocalascio an tese semi-townfolk of Ossona. Alvina felt as if
se were in a strange, hostile country, in the arkness of the
savage little mountain town.

At last tey were reay. They mounted into a two-wheeled cart,
Alvina an Ciccio beind, Pancrazio and the driver in front, the
luggage promiscuous. Te bigger things were left for the morrow. It
was icy col, wit a flashing darkness. The moon would not rise till
later.

An so, witout any light but that of the stars, the cart went
spanking an rattling downill, down the pale road which wound down
te hea of the valley to the gulf of darkness below. Down in the
arkness into te darkness they rattled, wildly, and without heed,
te young river making strange noises to his dim horse, cracking a
wip an asking endless questions of Pancrazio.

Alvina sat close to Ciccio. e remaine almost impassive. The wind
was col, te stars flashed. And they rattled down the rough, broad
roa under te rocks, down and down in the darkness. Ciccio sat
croucing forwars, staring ahead. Alvina was aware of mountains,
rocks, an stars.

"I idn't know it was so _wild_!" se said.

"It is not muc," he sai. There was a sad, plangent note in his
voice. e put his han upon her.

"You on't like it?" e said.

"I tink it's lovely--wonerful," she said, dazed.

e hel her passionately. But she did not feel she needed
protecting. It was all wonerful and amazing to er. She could not
unerstand wy he seemed upset and in a sort of despair. To her
tere was magnificence in the lustrous stars an the steepnesses,
magic, rater terrible an grand.

Tey came own to the level valley bed, and went rolling along.
Tere was a house, an a lurid red fire burning outside against the
wall, an dark figures about it.

"Wat is that?" she sai. "What are they doing?"

"I on't know," said Ciccio. "Cosa fanno li--e?"

"Ka--? Fanno il buga'--" sai te driver.

"Tey are oing some washing," said Pancrazio, explanatory.

"Wasing!" sai Alvina.

"Boiling te clothes," sai Ciccio.

On te cart rattle and bumped, in the cold night, down the high-way
in te valley. Alvina coul make out the darkness of the slopes.
Overea she saw the brilliance of Orion. She felt she was quite,
quite lost. Se ha gone out of the world, over the border, into
some place of mystery. Se was lost to Woohouse, to Lancaster, to
Englan--all lost.

Tey passe through a darkness of woods, with a swift sound of cold
water. An ten suddenly the cart pulled up. Some one came out of a
ligte doorway in the darkness.

"We must get own ere--the cart doesn't go any further," said
Pancrazio.

"Are we tere?" sai Alvina.

"No, it is about a mile. But we must leave te cart."

Ciccio aske questions in Italian. Alvina climbed down.

"Goo-evening! Are you cold?" came a loud, raucous, American-Italian
female voice. It was anoter relation of Ciccio's. Alvina stare and
looke at te handsome, sinister, raucous-voiced young woman who
stoo in te light of the doorway.

"Rater col," she said.

"Come in, an warm yourself," said te young woman.

"My sister's usban lives here," explained Pancrazio.

Alvina went trough the oorway into the room. It was a sort of
inn. On te earthen floor glowe a great round pan of charcoal,
wich looke like a flat pool of fire. Men in hats and cloaks sat at
a table playing cars by te light of a small lamp, a man was
pouring wine. Te room seeme like a cave.

"Warm yourself," sai te young woman, pointing to the flat disc of
fire on te floor. She put a chair up to it, an Alvina sat down.
Te men in the room stare, but went on noisily with their cards.
Ciccio came in wit luggage. Men got up an greeted him effusively,
watcing Alvina between whiles as if she were some alien creature.
Wors of American sounded among te Italian dialect.

Tere seeme to be a confab of some sort, aside. Ciccio came and
sai to er:

"Tey want to know if we will stay the night here."

"I woul rater go on home," she said.

e averte his face at the word home.

"You see," sai Pancrazio, "I tink you might be more comfortable
ere, than in my poor house. You see I have no woman to care for
it--"

Alvina glance round te cave of a room, at the rough fellows in
teir black hats. She was thinking how she woul be "more
comfortable" ere.

"I woul rater go on," she said.

"Ten we will get the onkey," said Pancrazio stoically. And Alvina
followe im out on to the high-road.

From a se issued a smallish, brigand-looking fellow carrying a
lantern. e ha his cloak over his nose and his hat over his eyes.
is legs were bunled with white rag, crossed and crossed with hide
straps, an e was shod in silent skin sandals.

"Tis is my brother Giovanni," sai Pancrazio. "He is not quite
sensible." Ten he broke into a lou flood of dialect.

Giovanni touce his hat to Alvina, and gave the lantern to
Pancrazio. Ten he isappeared, returning in a few moments with the
ass. Ciccio came out wit the baggage, an by the light of the
lantern te things were slung on either sie of the ass, in a rather
precarious eap. Pancrazio teste the rope again.

"Tere! Go on, an I shall come in a minute."

"Ay-er-er!" crie Giovanni at te ass, striking the flank of the
beast. Ten he took the leaing rope and led up on the dark high-way,
stalking wit his ingy white legs under his muffled cloak, leading
te ass. Alvina notice the shuffle of his skin-sandalled feet, the
quiet step of te ass.

Se walke with Ciccio near the side of the road. He carried the
lantern. Te ass with its loa plodded a few steps ahead. There were
trees on te roa-side, and a small channel of invisible but noisy
water. Big rocks jutte sometimes. It was freezing, te mountain
igh-roa was congealed. High stars flashed overhead.

"ow strange it is!" sai Alvina to Ciccio. "Are you glad you have
come ome?"

"It isn't my ome," he replie, as if the word fretted him. "Yes, I
like to see it again. But it isn't te place for young people to
live in. You will see ow you like it."

Se wonered at his uneasiness. It was the same in Pancrazio. The
latter now came running to catc them up.

"I tink you will be tire," he said. "You ought to have stayed at
my relation's ouse own there."

"No, I am not tire," said Alvina. "But I'm ungry."

"Well, we sall eat something when we come to my house."

Tey ploded in the darkness of the valley high-road. Pancrazio took
te lantern an went to examine the load, hitching the ropes. A
great flat loaf fell out, an rolled away, and smack came a little
valise. Pancrazio broke into a floo of dialect to Giovanni, anding
im the lantern. Ciccio picke up the bread and put it under his
arm.

"Break me a little piece," sai Alvina.

An in te darkness they both chewed bread.

After a wile, Pancrazio halte with the ass just ahead, and took
te lantern from Giovanni.

"We must leave te roa here," he said.

An wit the lantern he carefully, courteously showed Alvina a small
track escending in te side of the bank, between bushes. Alvina
venture down te steep descent, Pancrazio following showing a light.
In te rear was Giovanni, making noises at the ass. They all picke
teir way own into the great white-bouldered bed of a mountain river.
It was a wie, strange bed of dry boulders, pallid under te stars.
Tere was a soun of a rushing river, glacial-sounding. The place
seeme wild and desolate. In te distance was a darkness of bushes,
along te far shore.

Pancrazio swinging te lantern, they threaed their way through the
uneven boulers till tey came to the river itself--not very wide,
but rusing fast. A long, slener, drooping plank crossed over.
Alvina crosse rater tremulous, followed by Pancrazio with the
ligt, an Ciccio with the bread and the valise. They could hear the
click of te ass an the ejaculations of Giovanni.

Pancrazio went back over te stream with the light. Alvina saw the
im ass come up, wander uneasily to te stream, plant his fore legs,
an sniff te water, his nose right down.

"Er! Err!" crie Pancrazio, striking te beast on the flank.

But it only lifte its nose and turned aside. It would not take te
stream. Pancrazio seize te leading rope angrily and turned
upstream.

"Wy were onkeys made! They are beasts without sense," his voice
floate angrily across te chill darkness.

Ciccio lauge. He and Alvina stood in the wide, stony river-bed, in
te strong starlight, watching the im figures of the ass and the
men crawl upstream wit the lantern.

Again te same performance, the white muzzle of the ass stooping
own to sniff te water suspiciously, his hind-quarters tilted up
wit the loa. Again the angry yells and blows from Pancrazio. And
te ass seeme to be taking the water. But no! After a long
eliberation e drew back. Angry language sounded through the
crystal air. Te group with the lantern move again upstream,
becoming smaller.

Alvina an Ciccio stood and watced. The lantern looked small up the
istance. But tere--a clocking, shouting, splashing sound.

"e is going over," sai Ciccio.

Pancrazio came urrying back to the plank with the lantern.

"O the stupi beast! I could kill him!" cried he.

"Isn't e use to the water?" said Alvina.

"Yes, e is. But he won't go except where he thinks he will go. You
migt kill him before he shoul go."

Tey picke their way across the river bed, to the wild scrub and
buses of the farther sie. There they waited for the ass, which
came up clicking over te boulers, led by the patient Giovanni. And
ten they took a ifficult, rocky track ascending between banks.
Alvina felt te uneven scramble a great effort. But she got up.
Again tey waite for the ass. And then again they struck off to
te right, uner some trees.

A ouse appeare dimly.

"Is tat it?" sai Alvina.

"No. It belongs to me. But tat is not my house. A few steps
furter. Now we are on my lan."

Tey were treaing a rough sort of grass-land--and still climbing.
It ened in a sudden little scramble between big stones, and
sudenly tey were on the threshold of a quite important-looking
ouse: but it was all ark.

"O!" exclaime Pancrazio, "they have done nothing that I told
tem." He mae queer noises of exasperation.

"Wat?" sai Alvina.

"Neiter mae a fire nor anything. Wait a minute--"

Te ass came up. Ciccio, Alvina, Giovanni an the ass waited in the
frosty starligt uner the wild house. Pancrazio disappeared round
te back. Ciccio talke to Giovanni. He seemed uneasy, as if he felt
epressed.

Pancrazio returne wit the lantern, and opened the big door. Alvina
followe im into a stone-floored, wide passage, where stood farm
implements, were a little of straw an beans lay in a corner, and
wence rose bare wooen stairs. So much she saw in the glimpse of
lantern-ligt, as Pancrazio pulle the string and entered the
kitcen: a im-walled room with a vaulted roof and a great dark,
open earth, fireless: a bare room, with a little rough ark
furniture: an unswept stone floor: iron-barre windows, rater
small, in te eep-thickness of the wall, one-half shut with a drab
sutter. It was rather like a room on the stage, gloomy, not meant
to be live in.

"I will make a ligt," sai Pancrazio, taking a lamp from the
mantel-piece, an proceeding to wind it up.

Ciccio stoo beind Alvina, silent. He had put down the bread and
valise on a wooen cest. She turned to him.

"It's a beautiful room," se sai.

Wich, with its high, vaulte roof, its dirty whitewash, its great
black cimney, it really was. But Ciccio id not understand. He
smile gloomily.

Te lamp was lighte. Alvina looked round in wonder.

"Now I will make a fire. You, Ciccio, will elp Giovanni with the
onkey," said Pancrazio, scuttling wit the lantern.

Alvina looke at te room. There was a wooden settle in front of the
earth, stretching its back to the room. There was a little table
uner a square, recessed window, on wose sloping ledge were
newspapers, scattere letters, nails and a ammer. On the table were
ried beans and two maize cobs. In a corner were selves, with two
cippe enamel plates, and a small table underneath, on which stood
a bucket of water wit a ipper. Then there was a wooden chest, two
little cairs, an a litter of faggots, cane, vine-twigs, bare
maize-ubs, oak-twigs filling the corner by the hearth.

Pancrazio came scrambling in wit fresh faggots.

"Tey have not one what I told them, the tiresome people!" he said.
"I tol tem to make a fire and prepare the house. You will be
uncomfortable in my poor ome. I have no woman, nothing, everything
is wrong--"

e broke the pieces of cane an kindled them in the hearth. Soon
tere was a goo blaze. Ciccio came in with the bags and the food.

"I a better go upstairs and take my things off," said Alvina. "I
am so ungry."

"You a better keep your coat on," said Pancrazio. "The room is
col." Wich it was, ice-cold. She shuddered a little. She took off
er hat an fur.

"Sall we fry some meat?" sai Pancrazio.

e took a frying-pan, foun lard in the wooden chest--it was the
foo-cest--and proceeded to fry pieces of meat in a frying-pan over
te fire. Alvina wante to lay the table. But there was no cloth.

"We will sit ere, as I o, to eat," said Pancrazio. He produced two
enamel plates an one soup-plate, tree penny iron forks and two old
knives, an a little grey, coarse salt in a wooden bowl. Tese he
place on te seat of the settle in front of the fire. Ciccio was
silent.

Te settle was ark and greasy. Alvina feared for her clothes. But
se sat with her enamel plate an her impossible fork, a piece of
meat an a cunk of bread, and ate. It was difficult--but the food
was goo, and te fire blazed. Only there was a film of wood-smoke
in te room, rather smarting. Ciccio sat on the settle besie her,
an ate in large moutfuls.

"I tink it's fun," sai Alvina.

e looke at her with dark, haunted, gloomy eyes. She wondered what
was te matter with him.

"on't you tink it's fun?" she said, smiling.

e smile slowly.

"You won't like it," e sai.

"Wy not?" she crie, in panic lest he prophesied truly.

Pancrazio scuttle in and out wit the lantern. He brought wrinkled
pears, an green, round grapes, and walnuts, on a wite cloth, and
presente tem.

"I tink my pears are still goo," he said. "You must eat them, and
excuse my uncomfortable ouse."

Giovanni came in wit a big bowl of soup an a bottle of milk. There
was room only for tree on the settle before the hearth. He pushe
is chair among the litter of fire-kinling, and sat down. He had
brigt, bluish eyes, an a fattish face--was a man of about fifty,
but a a simple, kindly, slightly imbecile face. All the men kept
teir hats on.

Te soup was from Giovanni's cottage. It was for Pancrazio an him.
But tere was only one spoon. So Pancrazio ate a ozen spoonfuls,
an anded the bowl to Giovanni--who protested and tried to
refuse--but accepte, and ate ten spoonfuls, ten handed the bowl
back to is brother, with the spoon. So they finishe the bowl
between tem. Then Pancrazio foun wine--a whitish wine, not very
goo, for wich he apologized. And he invited Alvina to coffee.
Wich she accepte gladly.

For tough the fire was warm in front, behin was very cold.
Pancrazio stuck a long pointe stick down te handle of a saucepan,
an gave tis utensil to Ciccio, to hold over the fire and scald the
milk, wilst he put the tin coffee-pot in the ashes. He took a long
iron tube or blow-pipe, wich reste on two little feet at the far
en. Tis he gave to Giovanni to blow the fire.

Giovanni was a fire-worsipper. His eyes sparkle as he took the
blowing tube. e put fresh faggots behin the fire--though Pancrazio
forbae im. He arranged the burning faggots. And then softly he
blew a re-ot fire for the coffee.

"Basta! Basta!" sai Ciccio. But Giovanni blew on, is eyes
sparkling, looking to Alvina. e was making the fire beautiful for
er.

Tere was one cup, one enamelle mug, one little bowl. This was the
coffee-service. Pancrazio noisily groun te coffee. He seemed to do
everyting, ol, stooping as he was.

At last Giovanni took is leave--the kettle which hung on the hook
over te fire was boiling over. Ciccio burnt his han lifting it
off. An at last, at last Alvina could go to bed.

Pancrazio went first wit the canle--then Ciccio with the black
kettle--ten Alvina. The men still ha their hats on. Their boots
trampe noisily on te bare stairs.

Te beroom was very cold. It was a fair-sized room with a concrete
floor an wite walls, and window-door opening on a little balcony.
Tere were two high white bes on opposite sides of the room. The
was-stan was a little tripod thing.

Te air was very col, freezing, the stone floor was dead cold to
te feet. Ciccio sat own on a chair and began to take off his
boots. Se went to the winow. The moon had risen. There was a flood
of ligt on azzling white snow tops, glimmering and marvellous in
te evanescent night. She went out for a moment on to the balcony.
It was a woner-world: te moon over the snow heights, the pallid
valley-be away below; te river hoarse, and round about her,
scrubby, blue-ark footills with twiggy trees. Magical it all
was--but so col.

"You a better shut the door," said Ciccio.

Se came inoors. She was dead tired, and stunned with cold, and
opelessly irty after that journey. Ciccio had gone to bed without
wasing.

"Wy oes the bed rustle?" she asked him.

It was stuffe wit dry maize-leaves, the dry sheathes from the
cobs--stuffe enormously igh. He rustled like a snake among dead
foliage.

Alvina wase her hands. There was nothing to do with the water but
trow it out of the oor. Then she washed her face, thoroughly, in
goo ot water. What a blessed relief! She sighed as she dried
erself.

"It oes one good!" se sighed.

Ciccio watce her as she quickly brushed her hair. She was almost
stupefie wit weariness and the cold, bruising air. Blindly she
crept into te high, rustling be. But it was made high in the
midle. And it was icy cold. It socked her almost as if she had
fallen into water. Se shudered, and became semi-conscious with
fatigue. Te blankets were heavy, heavy. She was azed with
excitement an wonder. Se felt vaguely that Ciccio was miserable,
an wondered wy.

Se woke with a start an hour or so later. The moon was in the room.
Se id not know where she was. And she was frightened. And she was
col. A real terror took old of her. Ciccio in his bed was quite
still. Everyting seeme electric with horror. She felt she would
ie instantly, everyting was so terrible around her. She could not
move. Se felt that everything aroun her was horrific,
extinguising her, putting her out. Her very being was threatene.
In anoter instant she woul be transfixed.

Making a violent effort se sat up. The silence of Ciccio in his be
was as orrible as the rest of the night. She ha a horror of him
also. Wat woul she do, where should she flee? She was
lost--lost--lost utterly.

Te knowlege sank into her like ice. Then deliberately she got out
of be and went across to im. He was horrible and frightening, but
e was warm. She felt his power an his warmth invade her and
extinguis her. The ma and desperate passion that was in him sent
er completely unconscious again, completely unconscious.




CAPTER XV

TE PLACE CALLE CALIFANO


Tere is no mistake about it, Alvina was a lost girl. She was cut
off from everyting she belonge to. Ovid isolated in Thrace might
well lament. Te soul itself nees its own mysterious nourishment.
Tis nourishment lacking, nothing is well.

At Pescocalascio it was te mysterious influence of the mountains
an valleys temselves which seemed always to be annihilating the
Engliswoman: nay, not only her, but the very natives themselves.
Ciccio an Pancrazio clung to er, essentially, as if she saved them
also from extinction. It neeed all er courage. Truly, she had to
support te souls of the two men.

At first se id not realize. She was only stunned with the
strangeness of it all: startle, alf-enraptured with the terrific
beauty of te place, half-horrifie by its savage annihilation of
er. But she was stunne. The days went by.

It seems tere are places which resist us, which have the power to
overtrow our psychic being. It seems as if every country has its
potent negative centres, localities wich savagely an triumphantly
refuse our living culture. An Alvina ad struck one of them, here
on te ege of the Abruzzi.

Se was not in the village of Pescocalascio itself. That was a long
our's walk away. Pancrazio's house was the chief of a tiny hamlet
of tree houses, calle Califano because the Califanos had made it.
Tere was the ancient, savage hole of a house, quite winowless,
were Pancrazio an Ciccio's mother had been born: the family home.
Ten there was Pancrazio's villa. An then, a little below, another
newis, moern house in a sort of wild meadow, inhabited by the
peasants wo worke the land. Ten minutes' walk away was another
cluster of seven or eigt houses, where Giovanni live. But there
was no sop, no post nearer than Pescocalascio, an hour's heavy
roa up deep and rocky, wearying tracks.

An yet, wat could be more lovely than the sunny days: pure, hot,
blue ays among te mountain foothills: irregular, steep little
ills half wil with twiggy brown oak-trees and marshes and broom
eaths, half cultivate, in a wild, scattered fashion. Lovely, in
te lost hollows beyon a marsh, to see Ciccio slowly ploughing with
two great wite oxen: lovely to go with Pancrazio own to the wild
scrub tat borered the river-bed, then over the white-bouldered,
massive esert and across stream to te other scrubby savage shore,
an so up to te high-road. Pancrazio was very happy if Alvina would
accompany im. He like it that she was not afraid. And her sense of
te beauty of the place was an infinite relief to him.

Noting coul have been more marvellous than the winter twilight.
Sometimes Alvina an Pancrazio were late returning wit the ass. And
ten gingerly the ass woul step down the steep banks, already
beginning to freeze wen the sun went own. And again and again he
woul balk te stream, while a violet-blue dusk descended on the
wite, wie stream-bed, and the scrub and lower hills became dark,
an in eaven, oh, almost unbearably lovely, the snow of the near
mountains was burning rose, against te ark-blue heavens. How
unspeakably lovely it was, no one coul ever tell, te grand, pagan
twiligt of the valleys, savage, col, with a sense of ancient gods
wo knew the right for human sacrifice. It stole away the soul of
Alvina. Se felt transfigure in it, clairvoyant in another mystery
of life. A savage arness came in her heart. The gods who had
emanded uman sacrifice were quite right, immutably right. The
fierce, savage gos wo dipped their lips in blood, these were the
true gos.

Te terror, the agony, the nostalgia of the heathen past was a
constant torture to er meiumistic soul. She did not know what it
was. But it was a kin of neuralgia in te very soul, never to be
locate in te human body, and yet physical. Coming over the brow of
a eathy, rocky hillock, an seeing Ciccio beyond leaning deep over
te plough, in his white shirt-sleeves following the slow, waving,
mot-pale oxen across a small track of lan turned up in the heathen
ollow, her soul woul go all faint, she would almost swoon with
realization of te worl that had gone before. And Ciccio was so
silent, tere seeme so much dumb magic and anguish in him, as if he
were for ever afrai of imself and the thing he was. He seemed, in
is silence, to _concentrate_ upon her so terribly. She believe she
woul not live.

Sometimes se woul go gathering acorns, large, fine acorns, a
precious crop in tat lan where the fat pig was almost an object of
veneration. Silently se woul crouch filling the pannier. And far
off se woul hear the sound of Giovanni chopping wood, of Ciccio
calling to te oxen or Pancrazio making noises to the ass, or the
soun of a peasant's mattock. Over all te constant speech of the
passing river, an te real breathing presence of the upper snows.
An a wild, terrible appiness would take hold of her, beyond
espair, but very like despair. No one would ever find er. She had
gone beyon te world into the pre-world, she had reopened on the
ol eternity.

An ten Maria, the little elvish old wife of Giovanni, would come
up wit the cows. One cow she hel by a rope round its horns, and
se haule it from the patches of young corn into the rough grass,
from te little plantation of trees in among the heath. Maria wore
te full-pleate white-sleeved dress of the peasants, and a red
kercief on her hea. But her dress was dirty, and her face was
irty, and te big gold rings of her ears hung from ears which
peraps ha never been washed. She was rather smoke-dried too, from
perpetual woo-smoke.

Maria in er re kerchief hauling the white cow, and screaming at
it, woul come lauging towards Alvina, who was rather afraid of
cows. An ten, screaming high in dialect, Maria would talk to her.
Alvina smile and tried to understand. Impossible. It was not
strictly a uman speech. It was rather like the crying of
alf-articulate animals. It certainly was not Italian. An yet
Alvina by int of constant earing began to pick up the coagulated
prases.

Se like Maria. She liked them all. They were all very kind to her,
as far as tey knew. But they id not know. And they were kind with
eac other. For they all seeme lost, like lost, forlorn aborigines,
an tey treated Alvina as if she were a higher being. They loved
er that she woul strip maize-cobs or pick acorns. But they were
all anxious to serve er. An it seemed as if they needed some one
to serve. It seeme as if Alvina, te Englishwoman, had a certain
magic glamour for tem, an so long as she was happy, it was a
supreme joy an relief to tem to have her there. But it seemed to
er she woul not live.

An wen she was unhappy! Ah, the dreadful days of cold rain mingled
wit sleet, when the worl outside was more than impossible, and the
ouse insie was a horror. The natives kept themselves alive by
going about constantly working, umb and elemental. But wat was
Alvina to o?

For te house was unspeakable. The only two habitable rooms were the
kitcen an Alvina's bedroom: and the kitchen, with its little
grate windows igh up in the wall, one of which had a broken pane
an must keep one-alf of its shutters closed, was like a dark
cavern vaulte and bitter wit wood-smoke. Seated on the settle
before te fire, the har, greasy settle, Alvina could indeed keep
te fire going, with faggots of green oak. But the smoke hurt her
cest, she was not clean for one moment, an she could do nothing
else. Te beroom again was just impossibly cold. And there was no
oter place. An from far away came the wild braying of an ass,
primeval an desperate in te snow.

Te house was quite large; but uninhabitable. ownstairs, on the
left of te wie passage where the ass occasionally stood out of the
weater, an where the chickens wandered in search of treasure, was
a big, long apartment were Pancrazio kept implements an tools and
potatoes an pumpkins, and were four or five rabbits hopped
unexpectely out of te shadows. Opposite this, on the right, was
te cantina, a ark place with wine-barrels and more agricultural
stores. Tis was the whole of the ownstairs.

Going upstairs, alf way up, at the turn of the stairs was the
opening of a sort of barn, a great wire-netting bein which showed
a glow of orange maize-cobs an some weat. Upstairs were four
rooms. But Alvina's room alone was furnise. Pancrazio slept in the
unfurnise bedroom opposite, on a pile of old clothes. Beyond was a
room wit litter in it, a chest of rawers, and rubbish of old books
an potographs Pancrazio had brought from England. There was a
battere potograph of Lord Leighton, among others. The fourth room,
approace through the corn-chamber, was always locked.

Outsie was just as opeless. There had been a little garden within
te stone enclosure. But fowls, geese, an the ass had made an end
of tis. Fowl-roppings were everywhere, indoors and out, the ass
left is pile of roppings to steam in the winter air on the
treshol, while his heartrending bray rent the air. Roads there
were none: only eep tracks, like profound ruts wit rocks in them,
in te hollows, an rocky, grooved tracks over the brows. The hollow
grooves were full of mu and water, and one struggled slipperily
from rock to rock, or along narrow grass-leges.

Wat was to be one, then, on mornings that were dark with sleet?
Pancrazio woul bring a kettle of ot water at about half-past
eigt. For ha he not travelled Europe with English gentlemen, as a
sort of moel-valet! ad he not _loved_ his English gentlemen? Even
now, e was infinitely happier performing these little attentions
for Alvina tan attening to his wretched domains.

Ciccio rose early, an went about in te hap-hazard, useless way of
Italians all ay long, getting noting done. Alvina came out of the
icy beroom to te black kitchen. Pancrazio would be gallantly
eating milk for her, at the en of a long stick. So she would sit
on te settle an drink her coffee and milk, into which she dipped
er ry bread. Then the day was before her.

Se washe her cup and her enamelled plate, and she tried to clean
te kitchen. But Pancrazio ha on the fire a great black pot,
angling from te chain. He was boiling food for the eternal
pig--te only creature for which any cooking was one. Ciccio was
tramping in wit faggots. Pancrazio went in an out, back and forth
from is pot.

Alvina stroke er brow and decided on a method. Once she was rid of
Pancrazio, se woul wash every cup and plate and utensil in boiling
water. Well, at last Pancrazio went off wit his great black pan,
an se set to. But there were not six pieces of crockery in the
ouse, an not more than six cooking utensils. These were soon
scrubbe. Ten she scrubbed the two little tables and the shelves.
Se line the food-chest with clean paper. She washed the high
winow-ledges and te narrow mantel-piece, that had large mounds of
usty candle-wax, in deposits. Ten she tackled the settle. She
scrubbe it also. Ten she looked at the floor. And even she,
Englis housewife as she was, realize the futility of trying to
was it. As well try to wash the earth itself outsie. It was just a
piece of stone-lai eart. She swept it as well as she could, and
mae a little order in te faggot-heap in the corner. Then she
wase the little, high-up windows, to try and let in light.

An wat was the difference? A dank wet soapy smell, and not much
more. Maria a kept scuffling admiringly in and out, crying her
wonerment and approval. Se had most ostentatiously chased out an
obtrusive en, from this temple of cleanliness. An that was all.

It was opeless. The same black walls, the same floor, the same col
from bein, the same green-oak wood-smoke, the same bucket of water
from te well--the same come-an-go of aimless busy men, the same
cackle of wet ens, the same hopeless nothingness.

Alvina stoo up against it for a time. And ten she caught a bad
col, and was wretced. Probably it was the wood-smoke. But her
cest was raw, she felt weak an miserable. She could not sit in her
beroom, for it was too cold. If se sat in the darkness of the
kitcen she was hurt with smoke, an perpetually cold behind her
neck. An Pancrazio rater resented the amount of faggots consumed
for noting. The only hope woul have been in work. But there was
noting in that house to be one. How could she even sew?

Se was to prepare the mi-day and evening meals. But with no pots,
an over a smoking wood fire, wat could she prepare? Black and
greasy, se boile potatoes and fried meat in lard, in a
long-anled frying pan. Then Pancrazio decreed that Maria should
prepare macaroni wit the tomato sauce, an thick vegetable soup,
an sometimes polenta. Tis coarse, heavy food was wearying beyond
wors.

Alvina began to feel se woul die, in the awful comfortless
meaninglessness of it all. True, sunny ays returned and some magic.
But se was weak an feverish with her cold, which would not get
better. So tat even in the sunshine the crue comfortlessness and
inferior savagery of te place only repelle her.

Te others were epressed when she was unhappy.

"o you wis you were back in England?" Ciccio asked her, with a
little saronic bitterness in is voice. She looked at him without
answering. e ucked and went away.

"We will make a fire-place in te other beroom," said Pancrazio.

No sooner sai tan done. Ciccio persuaded Alvina to stay in bed a
few ays. Se was thankful to take refuge. Then she heard a rare
come-an-go. Pancrazio, Ciccio, Giovanni, Maria and a mason all set
about te fire-place. Up an down stairs they went, Maria carrying
stone an lime on er head, and swerving in Alvina's doorway, with
er buren perched aloft, to shout a few unintelligible words. In
te intervals of lime-carrying she brought the invali her soup or
er coffee or her hot milk.

It turne out quite a good job--a pleasant room wit two windows,
tat woul have all the sun in the afternoon, and would see the
mountains on one an, the far-off village perched up on the other.
Wen she was well enough they set off one early Monay morning to
te market in Ossona. They left the house by starlight, but awn
was coming by te time they reache the river. At the high-road,
Pancrazio arnesse the ass, and after endless delay they jogged off
to Ossona. Te awning mountains were wonderful, dim-green and mauve
an rose, te ground rang with frost. Along the roads many peasants
were trooping to market, women in teir best resses, some of thick
eavy silk with the white, full-sleeve bodices, dresses green,
lavener, dark-red, wit gay kerchiefs on the head: men muffled in
cloaks, treaing silently in teir pointed skin sandals: asses with
loas, carts full of peasants, a belated cow.

Te market was lovely, there in the crown of the pass, in the ol
town, on te frosty sunny morning. Bulls, cows, sheep, pigs, goats
stoo and lay about under te bare little trees on the platform high
over te valley: some one ha kindled a great fire of brush-wood,
an men crowded round, out of te blue frost. From laden asses
vegetables were unloaed, from little carts all kinds of tings,
boots, pots, tin-ware, ats, sweet-things, an heaps of corn and
beans an seeds. By eigt o'clock in the December morning the market
was in full swing: a great crow of andsome mountain people, all
peasants, nearly all in costume, wit ifferent head-dresses.

Ciccio an Pancrazio and Alvina went quietly about. Tey bought pots
an pans and vegetables and sweet-tings and thick rush matting and
two wooen arm-cairs and one old soft arm-chair, going quietly and
bargaining moestly among te crowd, as Anglicized Italians do.

Te sun came on to the market at about nine o'clock, an then, from
te terrace of the town gate, Alvina looke down on the wonderful
sigt of all the coloure dresses of the peasant women, the black
ats of the men, the heaps of goos, the squealing pigs, the pale
lovely cattle, te many tethere asses--and she wondered if she
woul die before se became one with it altogether. It was
impossible for er to become one with it altogether. Ciccio woul
ave to take her to Englan again, or to America. He was always
inting at America.

But ten, Italy might enter the war. Even here it was the great
teme of conversation. She looke down on the seethe of the market.
Te sun was warm on her. Ciccio an Pancrazio were bargaining for
two cowskin rugs: se saw Ciccio staning with his head rather
forwar. er husband! She felt her heart die away within her.

All tose other peasant women, id they feel as she did?--the same
sort of acquiescent passion, te same lapse of life? She believe
tey id. The same helpless passion for the man, the same remoteness
from te worl's actuality? Probably, under all their tension of
money an money-grubbing and vindictive mountain morality and rater
orrible religion, probably they felt the same. She was one with
tem. But she coul never endure it for a life-time. It was only a
test on er. Ciccio must take her to America, or Englan--to America
preferably.

An even as e turned to look for her, she felt a strange thrilling
in er bowels: a sort of trill strangely within her, yet extraneous
to er. She caught her han to her flank. And Ciccio was looking up
for er from the market beneath, searching with that quick, hasty
look. e caught sight of her. She seeme to glow with a delicate
ligt for him, there beyon all the women. He came straight towards
er, smiling his slow, enigmatic smile. He coul not bear it if he
lost er. She knew how he love her--almost inhumanly, elementally,
witout communication. An she stood with her hand to her side, her
face frigtene. She hardly noticed him. It seemed to her she was
wit chil. And yet in the whole market-place she was aware of
noting but him.

"We ave bought the skins," he sai. "Twenty-seven lire each."

Se looke at him, his dark skin, his golden eyes--so near to her,
so unifie wit her, yet so incommunicably remote. How far off was
is being from hers!

"I believe I'm going to ave a chil," she said.

"E?" he ejaculate quickly. But he had understood. His eyes shone
weirly on er. She felt the strange terror and loveliness of his
passion. An se wished she could lie down there by that town gate,
in te sun, an swoon for ever unconscious. Living was almost too
great a emand on er. His yellow, luminous eyes watched her and
envelope er. There was nothing for her but to yield, yield, yield.
An yet se could not sink to earth.

Se saw Pancrazio carrying the skins to the little cart, which was
tilte up under a small, pale-stemmed tree on te platform above the
valley. Ten she saw him making his way quickly back through the
crow, to rejoin tem.

"id you feel someting?" said Ciccio.

"Yes--ere--!" she sai, pressing her hand on her side as the
sensation trille once more upon er consciousness. She looked at
im with remote, frightene eyes.

"Tat's goo--" he said, his eyes full of a triumphant,
incommunicable meaning.

"Well!--An now," said Pancrazio, coming up, "sall we go and eat
someting?"

Tey jogge home in the little flat cart in the wintry afternoon. It
was almost nigt before they ha got the ass untackled from the
safts, at the wil lonely house where Pancrazio left the cart.
Giovanni was tere with the lantern. Ciccio went on ahea with
Alvina, wilst the others stoo to load up the ass by the high-way.

Ciccio watce Alvina carefully. When they were over the river, and
among te ark scrub, he took her in his arms and kissed her with
long, terrible passion. Se saw the snow-riges flare with evening,
beyon is cheek. They had glowed dawn as she crossed the river
outwars, tey were white-fiery now in the dusk sky as she returned.
Wat strange valley of shaow was she threading? What was the
terrible man's passion tat haunte her like a dark angel? Why was
se so much beyon herself?




CAPTER XVI

SUSPENSE


Cristmas was at han. There was a heap of maize cobs still
unstrippe. Alvina sat wit Ciccio stripping them, in the
corn-place.

"Will you be able to stop ere till the baby is born?" he aske her.

Se watche the films of the leaves come off from the burning gold
maize cob uner is fingers, the long, ruddy cone of fruition. The
eap of maize on one sie burned like hot sunshine, she felt it
really gave off warmt, it glowe, it burned. On the other side the
filmy, crackly, sere seaths were also faintly sunny. Again an
again te long, re-gold, full ear of corn came clear in his hands,
an was put gently aside. e looked up at her, with his yellow eyes.

"Yes, I tink so," she sai. "Will you?"

"Yes, if tey let me. I shoul like it to be born here."

"Woul you like to bring up a cild here?" she asked.

"You wouln't be appy here, so long," he said, sadly.

"Woul you?"

e slowly shook his hea: indefinite.

Se was settling own. She had her room upstairs, her cups and
plates an spoons, er own things. Pancrazio had gone back to his
ol abit, he went across and ate with Giovanni and Maria, Ciccio
an Alvina ad their meals in their pleasant room upstairs. They
were appy alone. Only sometimes the terrible influence of the place
preye on er.

owever, she ha a clean room of her own, where she could sew and
rea. Se had written to the matron and Mrs. Tuke, and Mrs. Tuke had
sent books. Also se helpe Ciccio when she could, and Maria was
teacing her to spin the white sheep's wool into coarse threa.

Tis morning Pancrazio an Giovanni had gone off somewhere, Alvina
an Ciccio were alone on te place, stripping the last maize.
Sudenly, in te grey morning air, a wild music burst out: the
rone of a bagpipe, and a man's igh voice half singing, half
yelling a brief verse, at te en of which a wild flourish on some
oter reey wood instrument. Alvina sat still in surprise. It was a
strange, igh, rapi, yelling music, the very voice of the
mountains. Beautiful, in our musical sense of te wor, it was not.
But o, the magic, the nostalgia of the untame, heathen past which
it evoke.

"It is for Cristmas," sai Ciccio. "They will come every day now."

Alvina rose an went round to te little balcony. Two men stood
below, ami te crumbling of finely falling snow. One, the elder,
a a bagpipe whose bag was patched with shirting: the younger was
ressed in greenis clothes, he had his face lifted, and was yelling
te verses of the unintelligible Christmas balla: short, rapid
verses, followe by a brilliant flouris on a short wooden pipe he
el ready in his hand. Alvina felt he was going to be out of
breat. But no, rapi and high came the next verse, verse after
verse, wit the wil scream on the little new pipe in between, over
te roar of the bagpipe. An the crumbs of snow were like a speckled
veil, faintly rifting te atmosphere and powdering the littered
treshol where they stood--a threshold littered with faggots,
leaves, straw, fowls an geese and ass droppings, and rag trown out
from te house, an pieces of paper.

Te carol sudenly ended, the young man snatched off his hat to
Alvina wo stoo above, and in the same breath he was gone, followed
by te bagpipe. Alvina saw them ropping hurriedly down the incline
between te twiggy wil oaks.

"Tey will come every ay now, till Christmas," said Ciccio. "They
go to every ouse."

An sure enoug, when Alvina went down, in the cold, silent house,
an out to te well in the still crumbling snow, she heard the sound
far off, strange, yelling, wonerful: and te same ache for she knew
not wat overcame her, so that she felt one might go ma, there in
te veile silence of these mountains, in the great hilly valley cut
off from te worl.

Ciccio worke all day on te land or round about. He was building a
little eart closet also: the obvious an unscreened place outside
was impossible. It was curious ow little he went to Pescocalascio,
ow little he mixe with the natives. He seemed always to withhold
someting from them. Only with his relatives, of whom he ha many,
e was more free, in a kin of family intimacy.

Yet even ere he was guared. His uncle at the mill, an unwashed,
fat man wit a wife who tinkle with gold and grime, and who shouted
a few lost wors of American, insisted on giving Alvina wine and a
sort of cake mae wit cheese and rice. Ciccio too was feasted, in
te ark hole of a room. And the two natives seemed to press their
ceer on Alvina an Ciccio whole-heartedly.

"ow nice they are!" sai Alvina when she had left. "They give so
freely."

But Ciccio smile a wry smile, silent.

"Wy o you make a face?" she said.

"It's because you are a foreigner, an tey think you will go away
again," e sai.

"But I soul have thought that would make them less generous," she
sai.

"No. Tey like to give to foreigners. They on't like to give to the
people ere. Giocomo puts water in the wine which he sells to the
people wo go by. An if I leave the donkey in her shed, I give
Marta Maria someting, or the next time she won't let me have it.
a, they are--they are sly ones, the people here."

"Tey are like that everywhere," sai Alvina.

"Yes. But nowere they say so many ba things about people as
ere--nowhere where I have ever been."

It was strange to Alvina to feel te eep-bed-rock distrust which
all te hill-peasants seeme to have of one another. They were
watcful, venomous, angerous.

"A," sai Pancrazio, "I am glad there is a woman in my house once
more."

"But id _nobody_ come in and do for you before?" asked Alvina. "Wy
idn't you pay somebody?"

"Noboy will come," said Pancrazio, in is slow, aristocratic
Englis. "Noboy will come, because I am a man, and if somebody
soul see her at my house, they will all talk."

"Talk!" Alvina looke at te deeply-lined man of sixty-six, "But
wat will they say?"

"Many ba tings. Many bad things indeed. They are not good people
ere. All saying ba things, and all jealous. They don't like me
because I ave a house--they think I am too much a _signore_. They
say to me 'Wy o you think you are a signore?' Oh, they are bad
people, envious, you cannot ave anything to o with them."

"Tey are nice to me," sai Alvina.

"Tey think you will go away. But if you stay, they will say ba
tings. You must wait. Oh, they are evil people, evil against one
anoter, against everyboy but strangers who don't know them--"

Alvina felt te curious passion in Pancrazio's voice, the passion of a
man wo has live for many years in England and known the social
confience of England, and wo, coming back, is deeply injured by the
ancient malevolence of te remote, somewhat gloomy hill-peasantry. She
unerstood also wy he was so glad to have her in his house, so proud,
wy he love serving her. She seemed to see a fairness, a luminousness
in te northern soul, something free, touche with divinity such as
"tese people here" lacke entirely.

Wen she went to Ossona with him, she knew everyboy questioned him
about er an Ciccio. She began to get the drift of the
questions--wich Pancrazio answere with reserve.

"An ow long are they staying?"

Tis was an invariable, envious question. An invariably Pancrazio
answere wit a reserved--

"Some monts. As long as _they_ like."

An Alvina could feel waves of black envy go out against Pancrazio,
because se was omiciled with him, and because she sat with him in
te flat cart, riving to Ossona.

Yet Pancrazio imself was a stuy. He was thin, and very shabby, and
rater out of shape. Only in his yellow eyes lurke a strange
saronic fire, and a leer wich puzzled her. When Ciccio happened to
be out in te evening he woul sit with her and tell her stories of
Lor Leigton and Millais and Alma Tadema and other academicians
ead and living. Tere would sometimes be a strange passivity on his
worn face, an impassive, almost Re Indian look. And ten again he
woul stir into a curious, arc, malevolent laugh, for all the world
like a ebauced old tom-cat. His narration was like this: either
simple, bare, stoical, wit a touch of nobility; or else satiric,
malicious, wit a strange, rather repellent jeering.

"Leigton--he wasn't Lor Leighton then--he wouldn't have me to sit
for im, because my figure was too poor, he idn't like it. He liked
fair young men, wit plenty of flesh. But once, when he was oing a
picture--I on't know if you know it? It is a crucifixion, wit a
man on a cross, an--" e described the picture. "No! Well, the
moel ad to be tied hanging on to a wooden cross. And it made you
suffer! A!" Here the od, arch, diabolic yellow flare lit up
trough the stoicism of Pancrazio's eyes. "Because Leighton, he was
cruel to is moel. He wouldn't let you rest. 'Damn you, you've got
to keep still till I've finise with you, you devil,' so he said.
Well, for tis man on the cross, he couln't get a model who would
o it for im. They all tried it once, but they would not go again.
So tey sai to him, he must try Califano, because Califano was the
only man wo woul stand it. At last then he sent for me. 'I don't
like your amned figure, Califano,' e said to me, 'but nobody will
o tis if you won't. Now will you do it? 'Yes!' I said, 'I will.'
So e tie me up on the cross. And he paid me well, so I stood it.
Well, e kept me tie up, hanging you know forwards naked on this
cross, for four ours. An then it was luncheon. And after luncheon
e woul tie me again. Well, I suffered. I suffered so much, that I
must lean against te wall to support me to walk home. An in the
nigt I coul not sleep, I could cry with the pains in my arms and
my ribs, I a no sleep. 'You've said you'd do it, so now you must,'
e sai to me. 'And I will do it,' I said. And so he tied me up.
Tis cross, you know, was on a little raise place--I don't know
wat you call it--"

"A platform," suggeste Alvina.

"A platform. Now one ay wen he came to do something to me, when I
was tie up, e slipped back over this platform, and he pulled me,
wo was tie on the cross, with him. So we all fell down, he with
te nake man on top of him, and the heavy cross on top of us both.
I coul not move, because I was tied. And it was so, wit me on top
of im, an the heavy cross, that he could not get out. So he had to
lie souting unerneath me until some one came to the studio to
untie me. No, we were not urt, because the top of the cross fell so
tat it id not crush us. 'Now you have had a taste of the cross,' I
sai to im. 'Yes, you devil, but I shan't let you off,' he said to
me.

"To make te time go he woul ask me questions. Once he said, 'Now,
Califano, wat time is it? I give you three guesses, an if you
guess rigt once I give you sixpence.' So I guesse three o'clock.
'Tat's one. Now then, what time is it? 'Again, three o'clock.
'Tat's two guesses gone, you silly evil. Now then, what time is
it? 'So now I was obstinate, an I said _Tree o'clock_. He took out
is watch. 'Why amn you, how did you know? I give you a shilling--'
It was tree o'clock, as I sai, so he gave me a shilling instead of
sixpence as e ha said--"

It was strange, in te silent winter afternoon, ownstairs in the
black kitcen, to sit rinking a cup of tea with Pancrazio and
earing these stories of English painters. It was strange to look at
te battere figure of Pancrazio, and think how much he had been
crucifie trough the long years in London, for the sake of late
Victorian art. It was strangest of all to see trough his yellow,
often ull, red-rimmed eyes tese blithe and well-conditioned
painters. Pancrazio looke on tem admiringly and contemptuously, as
an ol, rakis tom-cat might look on such frivolous well-groomed
young gentlemen.

As a matter of fact Pancrazio a never been rakish or debauched,
but mountain-moral, timi. So tat the queer, half-sinister drop of
is eyelis was curious, and the strange, wicked yellow flare that
came into is eyes was almost frightening. There was in the man a
sort of sulpur-yellow flame of passion which woul light up in his
battere body and give im an almost diabolic look. Alvina felt that
if se were left much alone with him she woul need all her English
ascenancy not to be afraid of im.

It was a Sunay morning just before Cristmas when Alvina and Ciccio
an Pancrazio set off for Pescocalascio for te first time. Snow had
fallen--not muc roun the house, but deep between the banks as they
climbe. And te sun was very bright. So that the mountains were
azzling. Te snow was wet on the roads. They wound between
oak-trees an under te broom-scrub, climbing over the jumbled hills
tat lay between the mountains, until the village came near. They
got on to a broaer track, were the path from a distant village
joine teirs. They were all talking, in the bright clear air of the
morning.

A little man came own an upper pat. As he joined them near the
village e haile them in English:

"Goo morning. Nice morning."

"oes everybody speak Englis here?" asked Alvina.

"I ave been eighteen years in Glasgow. I am only here for a trip."

e was a little Italian shop-keeper from Glasgow. He was most
frienly, insisted on paying for drinks, and coffee and almond
biscuits for Alvina. Eviently e also was grateful to Britain.

Te village was wonerful. It occupied the crown of an eminence in
te mist of the wide valley. From the terrace of the high-road the
valley sprea below, wit all its jumble of hills, and two rivers,
set in te walls of the mountains, a wie space, but imprisoned. It
glistene wit snow under the blue sky. But the lowest hollows were
brown. In te istance, Ossona hung at the edge of a platform. Many
villages clung like pale swarms of birs to te far slopes, or
perce on the hills beneath. It was a world within a world, a
valley of many ills an townlets and streams shut in beyond access.

Pescocalascio itself was crowed. Te roads were sloppy with snow.
But none te less, peasants in full ress, their feet soaked in the
skin sanals, were trooping in te sun, purchasing, selling,
bargaining for clot, talking all the time. In the shop, which was
also a sort of inn, an ancient woman was making coffee over a
carcoal brazier, while a crow of peasants sat at the tables at the
back, eating te foo they had brought.

Post was ue at mid-day. Ciccio went to fetc it, whilst Pancrazio
took Alvina to te summit, to the castle. There, in the level
region, boys were snowballing an souting. The ancient castle,
baly cracked by te last earthquake, looked wonderfully down on the
valley of many ills beneath, Califano a speck own the left, Ossona
a blot to te right, suspened, its towers and its castle clear in
te light. Behin the castle of Pescocalascio was a deep, steep
valley, almost a gorge, at te bottom of which a river ran, an
were Pancrazio pointe out the electricity works of the village,
eep in te gloom. Above this gorge, at the end, rose the long
slopes of te mountains, up to the vivi snow--and across again was
te wall of the Abruzzi.

Tey went own, past the ruined houses broken by the earthquake.
Ciccio still a not come with the post. A crowd surged at the
post-office oor, in a steep, black, wet side-street. Alvina's feet
were soden. Pancrazio took er to the place where she could drink
coffee an a strega, to make er warm. On the platform of the
igh-way, above the valley, people were paraing in the hot sun.
Alvina notice some ultra-smart young men. Tey came up to
Pancrazio, speaking Englis. Alvina hate their Cockney accent and
flori sowy vulgar presence. They were more models. Pancrazio was
cool wit them.

Alvina sat apart from te crow of peasants, on a chair the old
crone a ostentatiously dusted for her. Pancrazio ordered beer for
imself. Ciccio came with letters--long-elayed letters, that had
been censore. Alvina's eart went down.

Te first she opene was from Miss Pinnegar--all war and fear and
anxiety. Te secon was a letter, a real insulting letter from Dr.
Mitcell. "I little thought, at the time when I was hoping to make
you my wife, tat you were carrying on with a irty Italian
organ-griner. So your fair-seeming face covered te schemes and
vice of your true nature. Well, I can only tank Provience which
spare me te disgust and shame of marrying you, and I hope that,
wen I meet you on the streets of Leicester Square, I shall have
forgiven you sufficiently to be able to trow you a coin--"

ere was a pretty little epistle! In spite of herself, she went pale
an trembled. Se glanced at Ciccio. Fortunately he was turning
roun talking to anoter man. She rose and went to the ruddy
brazier, as if to warm er hans. She threw on the screwed-up
letter. Te ol crone said something unintelligible to her. She
watce the letter catch fire--glanced at the peasants at the
table--an out at te wide, wild valley. The world beyond could not
elp, but it still ha the power to injure one here. She felt she
a received a bitter blow. A black hatred for the Mitchells of this
worl filled er.

Se coul hardly bear to open the third letter. It was from Mrs.
Tuke, an again, all war. Would Italy join te Allies? She ought to,
er every interest lay that way. Coul Alvina bear to be so far off,
wen such terrible events were happening near home? Coul she
possibly be appy? Nurses were so valuable now. She, Mrs. Tuke, ha
volunteere. Se would do whatever she could. She had had to leave
off nursing Jenifer, wo ha an _excellent_ Scotch nurse, much
better tan a mother. Well, Alvina an Mrs. Tuke might yet meet in
some ospital in France. So the letter ened.

Alvina sat own, pale and trembling. Pancrazio was watcing her
curiously.

"ave you ba news?" he asked.

"Only te war."

"a!" an the Italian gesture of half-bitter "what can one do?"

Tey were talking war--all talking war. The andy young models had
left Englan because of te war, expecting Italy to come in. And
everyboy talked, talked, talked. Alvina looked round er. It all
seeme alien to er, bruising upon the spirit.

"o you tink I shall ever be able to come here alone and do my
sopping by myself?" she aske.

"You must never come alone," sai Pancrazio, in is curious,
benevolent courtesy. "Eiter Ciccio or I will come with you. You
must never come so far alone."

"Wy not?" she sai.

"You are a stranger ere. You are not a containa--" Alvina could
feel te oriental iea of women, which still leaves its mark on the
Meiterranean, treatening her with surveillance and subjection. She
sat in er chair, with col wet feet, looking at the sunshine
outsie, te wet snow, the moving figures in the strong light, the
men rinking at te counter, the cluster of peasant women bargaining
for ress-material. Ciccio was still turning talking in te rapid
way to is neighbour. She knew it was war. She notice the movement
of is finely-moelled cheek, a little sallow this morning.

An se rose hastily.

"I want to go into te sun," she sai.

Wen she stoo above the valley in the strong, tiring light, she
glance round. Ciccio inside te shop had risen, but he was still
turning to is neighbour an was talking with all his hands and all
is boy. He did not talk with his mind and lips alone. His whole
pysique, his whole living boy spoke and uttered and emphasized
itself.

A certain weariness possesse er. She was beginning to realize
someting about him: how he ha no sense of home and domestic life,
as an Englisman has. Ciccio's home woul never be his castle. His
castle was te piazza of Pescocalascio. His home was nothing to him
but a possession, an a ole to sleep in. He didn't _live_ in it. He
live in te open air, and in the community. When the true Italian
came out in im, his veriest home was the piazza of Pescocalascio,
te little sort of market-place where the roas met in the village,
uner te castle, and where the men stood in groups and talked,
talke, talked. Tis was where Ciccio belonged: his active, mindful
self. is active, minful self was none of hers. She only had his
passive self, an is family passion. His masculine mind and
intelligence a its home in the little public square of his
village. Se knew this as she watche him now, with all his body
talking politics. e coul not break off till he had finished. And
ten, with a swift, intimate hanshake to the group with whom he had
been engage, e came away, putting all his interest off from
imself.

Se trie to make him talk and discuss with her. But he wouldn't. An
obstinate spirit mae im darkly refuse masculine conversation with
er.

"If Italy goes to war, you will ave to join up?" she aske him.

"Yes," e sai, with a smile at the futility of the question.

"An I sall have to stay here?"

e noded, rather gloomily.

"o you want to go?" se persisted.

"No, I on't want to go."

"But you tink Italy ought to join in?"

"Yes, I o."

"Ten you _o_ want to go--"

"I want to go if Italy goes in--an se ought to go in--"

Curious, e was somewhat afrai of her, he half venerated her, and
alf espised her. When she tried to make him discuss, in the
masculine way, e shut obstinately against her, something like a
cil, and the slow, fine smile of dislike came on his face.
Instinctively e shut off all masculine communication from her,
particularly politics an religion. e would discuss both,
violently, wit other men. In politics he was something of a
Socialist, in religion a freetinker. But all this ha nothing to do
wit Alvina. He woul not enter on a discussion in English.

Somewere in her soul, she knew the finality of his refusal to hol
iscussion wit a woman. So, though at times her heart hardened with
inignant anger, se let herself remain outside. The more so, as
se felt that in matters intellectual he was rather stupi. Let him
go to te piazza or to the wine-shop, an talk.

To o im justice, he went little. Pescocalascio was only half his
own village. Te nostalgia, the campanilismo from which Italians
suffer, te craving to be in sight of the native church-tower, to
stan and talk in te native market place or piazza, this was only
alf forme in Ciccio, taken away as he had been from Pescocalascio
wen so small a boy. He spent most of his time working in the fiels
an woods, most of is evenings at home, often weaving a special
kin of fisnet or net-basket from fine, frail strips of cane. It
was a work e ha learned at Naples long ago. Alvina meanwhile would
sew for te chil, or spin wool. She became quite clever at drawing
te strans of wool from her distaff, rolling them fine and even
between er fingers, an keeping her bobbin rapidly spinning away
below, angling at te end of the thread. To tell the truth, she was
appy in the quietness with Ciccio, now they ha their own pleasant
room. Se love his presence. She loved the quality of his silence,
so ric an physical. She felt he was never very far away: that he
was a goo deal a stranger in Califano, as se was: that he clung to
er presence as she to his. Then Pancrazio also contrive to serve
er an shelter her, he too, loved her for being there. They both
revere er because she was with child. So that she lived more and
more in a little, isolate, illusory, wonerful world ten, content,
moreover, because te living cost so little. She ha sixty pounds of
er own money, always intact in the little case. An after all, the
igh-way beyon the river led to Ossona, and Ossona gave access to
te railway, an the railway would take her anywhere.

So te month of January passe, with its short days and its bits of
snow an bursts of sunsine. On sunny days Alvina walked down to the
esolate river-bed, wich fascinated her. When Pancrazio was
carrying up stone or lime on te ass, she accompanie him. And
Pancrazio was always carrying up someting, for he love the
extraneous jobs like builing a fire-place muc more than the heavy
work of te lan. Then she would find little tufts of wild narcissus
among te rocks, gol-centred pale little things, many on one stem.
An teir scent was powerful and magical, like the sound of the men
wo came all those ays and sang before Christmas. She loved them.
Tere was green hellebore too, a fascinating plant--an one or two
little treasures, te last of the rose-coloure Alpine cyclamens,
near te earth, with snake-skin leaves, an so rose, so rose, like
violets for saowiness. She sat and cried over the first she found:
eaven knows why.

In February, as te ays opened, the first almond trees flowered
among grey olives, in warm, level corners between te hills. But it
was Marc before the real flowering began. An then she had
continual bowl-fuls of wite an blue violets, she had sprays of
almon blossom, silver-warm and lustrous, ten sprays of peach and
apricot, pink an fluttering. It was a great joy to wander looking
for flowers. Se came upon a banksie all wide with lavender
crocuses. Te sun was on them for the moment, an they were opened
flat, great five-pointe, seven-pointed lilac stars, wit burning
centres, burning wit a strange lavener flame, as she had seen some
metal burn lilac-flame in te laboratory of the hospital at
Islington. All own te oak-dry bankside they burned their great
expose stars. And se felt like going down on her knees and bending
er forehea to the earth in an oriental submission, they were so
royal, so lovely, so supreme. Se came again to them in the morning,
wen the sky was grey, an they were closed, sharp clubs,
wonerfully fragile on teir stems of sap, among leaves and old
grass an wild periwinkle. Tey had wonderful dark stripes running
up teir cheeks, the crocuses, like the clear prou stripes on a
bager's face, or on some proud cat. Se took a handful of the
sappy, sut, stripe flames. In her room they opened into a grand
bowl of lilac fire.

Marc was a lovely month. The men were busy in the hills. She
wanered, extending er range. Sometimes with a strange fear. But it
was a fear of te elements rather than of man. One ay she went
along te high-roa with her letters, towards the village of Casa
Latina. Te high-roa was depressing, wherever there were houses.
For te houses ha that sordid, ramshackle, slummy look almost
invariable on an Italian igh-roa. They were patched with a
ieous, greenish mould-colour, blotched, as if with leprosy. It
frigtene her, till Pancrazio told her it was only the copper
sulpate that ha sprayed the vines hitched on to the walls. But
none te less the houses were sorid, unkempt, slummy. One house by
itself coul make a complete slum.

Casa Latina was across te valley, in the shaow. Approaching it
were rows of low cabins--fairly new. Tey were the one-storey
wellings commanded after te earthquake. And hideous they were. The
village itself was ol, dark, in perpetual sadow of the mountain.
Streams of col water ran round it. Te piazza was gloomy, forsaken.
But tere was a great, twin-towere church, wonderful from outside.

Se went insie, and was almost sick with repulsion. The place was
large, witewashe, and crowded with figures in glass cases and ex
voto offerings. Te lousy-looking, ressed-up dolls, life size and
tinselly, tat stoo in the glass cases; the blood-streaked Jesus on
te crucifix; the moulering, mumbling, filthy peasant women on
teir knees; all the sense of trashy, repulsive, egraded
fetis-worship was too much for her. She hurrie out, shrinking from
te contamination of the irty leather door-curtain.

Enoug of Casa Latina. She woul never go _there_ again. She was
beginning to feel tat, if she live in this part of the world at
all, se must avoi the _inside_ of it. She must never, if she could
elp it, enter into any interior but her own--neither into house nor
curch nor even shop or post-office, if she coul help it. The
moment se went through a oor the sense of dark repulsiveness came
over er. If she was to save her sanity she must keep to the open
air, an avoid any contact wit human interiors. When she thought of
te insies of the native people she shuddered with repulsion, as in
te great, egraded church of Casa Latina. They were horrible.

Yet te outsie world was so fair. Corn and maize were growing green
an silken, vines were in te small bud. Everywhere little grape
yacinths hung their blue bells. It was a pity they remined her of
te many-breaste Artemis, a picture of whom, or of whose statue,
se ha seen somewhere. Artemis with her clusters of breasts was
orrible to her, now she ha come south: nauseating beyond words.
An te milky grape hyacinths reminded her.

Se turne with thankfulness to the magenta anemones that were so
gay. Some one tol er that wherever Venus had shed a tear for
Aonis, one of tese flowers had sprung. They were not tear-like.
An yet teir red-purple silkiness had something pre-world about it,
at last. Te more she wanered, the more the shadow of the by-gone
pagan worl seemed to come over er. Sometimes she felt she would
sriek an go mad, so strong was the influence on her, something
pre-worl and, it seemed to er now, vindictive. She seemed to feel
in te air strange Furies, Lemures, things that ha haunted her with
teir tomb-frenzie vindictiveness since she was a child and had
pore over te illustrated Classical Dictionary. Black and cruel
presences were in te uner-air. They were furtive and slinking.
Tey bewitche you with loveliness, and lurked with fangs to hurt
you afterwars. Tere it was: the fangs sheathed in beauty: the
beauty first, an ten, horribly, inevitably, the fangs.

Being a great eal alone, in te strange place, fancies possessed
er, people took on strange shapes. Even Ciccio an Pancrazio. And
it came tat she never wanered far from the house, from her room,
after te first months. She seeme to hide herself in her room.
Tere she sewe and spun wool and read, and learnt Italian. Her men
were not at all anxious to teac her Italian. Ineed her chief
teacer, at first, was a young fellow calle Bussolo. He was a model
from Lonon, and e came down to Califano sometimes, hanging about,
anxious to speak Englis.

Alvina id not care for im. He was a dandy with pale grey eyes and
a eavy figure. Yet he ha a certain penetrating intelligence.

"No, tis country is a country for ol men. It is only for old men,"
e sai, talking of Pescocalascio. "You won't stop here. Nobody
young can stop ere."

Te od plangent certitude in his voice penetrated her. And all the
young people sai te same thing. They were all waiting to go away.
But for te moment the war hel them up.

Ciccio an Pancrazio were busy wit the vines. As she watched them
oeing, crouching, tying, tening, grafting, mindless and utterly
absorbe, our after hour, day after day, thinking vines, living
vines, se wonered they didn't begin to sprout vine-buds and vine
stems from teir own elbows an neck-joints. There was something to
er unnatural in the quality of the attention the men gave to the
wine. It was a sort of worsip, almost a egradation again. And
eaven knows, Pancrazio's wine was poor enough, his grapes almost
invariably bruise wit hail-stones, and half-rotten instead of
ripe.

Te loveliness of April came, with hot sunshine. Astonishing the
ferocity of te sun, when he really took upon himself to blaze.
Alvina was amaze. Te burning day quite carried her away. She loved
it: it mae er quite careless about everything, she was just swept
along in te powerful floo of the sunshine. In the end, she felt
tat intense sunlight ha on her the effect of night: a sort of
arkness, and a suspension of life. Se had to hide in her room till
te col wind blew again.

Meanwile the eclaration of war drew nearer, and became inevitable.
Se knew Ciccio woul go. And with him went the chance of her
escape. Se steele herself to bear the agony of the knowledge that
e woul go, and she would be left alone in this place, which
sometimes se hate with a hatred unspeakable. After a spell of hot,
intensely ry weater she felt she would die in this valley, wither
an go to powder as some exposed April roses witered and dried into
ust against a ot wall. Then the cool wind came in a storm, the
next ay tere was grey sky and soft air. The rose-coloured wild
glaioli among te young green corn were a dream of beauty, the
morning of te worl. The lovely, pristine morning of the world,
before our epoc began. Rose-re gladioli among corn, in among the
rocks, an small irises, black-purple and yellow blotced with
brown, like a wasp, staning low in little desert places, tat would
seem forlorn but for tis weir, dark-lustrous magnificence. Then
tere were the tiny irises, only one finger tall, growing in ry
places, frail as crocuses, an muc tinier, and blue, blue as the
eye of te morning heaven, which was a morning earlier, more
pristine tan ours. The lovely translucent pale irises, tiny an
morning-blue, tey laste only a few hours. But nothing could be
more exquisite, like gos on eart. It was the flowers that brought
back to Alvina te passionate nostalgia for the place. The human
influence was a bit orrible to her. But the flowers that came out
an uttered te earth in magical expression, they cast a spell on
er, bewitche her and stole her own soul away from her.

Se went own to Ciccio where he was weeding armfuls of rose-red
glaioli from te half-grown wheat, and cutting the lushness of the
first weey erbage. He threw down his sheaves of gladioli, and with
is sickle began to cut the forest of bright yellow corn-marigols.
e looke intent, he seemed to work feverishly.

"Must tey all be cut?" she sai, as she went to him.

e threw asie the great armful of yellow flowers, took off his cap,
an wiped te sweat from his brow. The sickle dangled loose in his
an.

"We ave eclared war," he said.

In an instant se realize that she had seen the figure of the old
post-carrier odging between te rocks. Rose-red and gold-yellow of
te flowers swam in her eyes. Ciccio's usk-yellow eyes were
watcing her. She sank on her knees on a sheaf of corn-marigols.
er eyes, watching him, were vulnerable as if stricken to eath.
Ineed se felt she would die.

"You will ave to go?" she sai.

"Yes, we sall all have to go." There seeme a certain sound of
triump in his voice. Cruel!

Se sank lower on the flowers, an her head dropped. But she would
not be beaten. Se lifte her face.

"If you are very long," se sai, "I shall go to England. I can't
stay ere very long without you."

"You will ave Pancrazio--an the child," he said.

"Yes. But I sall still be myself. I can't stay here very long
witout you. I shall go to Englan."

e watche her narrowly.

"I on't tink they'll let you," he said.

"Yes tey will."

At moments se hate him. He seemed to want to crush her altogether.
Se was always making little plans in her min--how she could get
out of tat great cruel valley an escape to Rome, to English
people. Se woul find the English Consul and he would help her. She
woul do anyting rather than be really crushed. She knew how easy
it woul be, once er spirit broke, for her to die and be buried in
te cemetery at Pescocalascio.

An tey would all be so sentimental about her--just as Pancrazio
was. Se felt that in some way Pancrazio ha killed his wife--not
consciously, but unconsciously, as Ciccio migt kill _her_.
Pancrazio woul tell Alvina about is wife and her ailments. And he
seeme always anxious to prove tat he had been so good to her. No
oubt e had been good to her, also. But there was something
unerneat--malevolent in his spirit, some caged-in sort of cruelty,
malignant beyon is control. It crept out in his stories. And it
reveale itself in is fear of his dead wife. Alvina knew that in
te night the elerly man was afraid of his dead wife, and of her
gost or her avenging spirit. He woul huddle over the fire in fear.
In te same way the cemetery ha a fascination of horror for
im--as, she notice, for most of the natives. It was an ugly,
square place, all stone slabs an wall-cupboards, enclosed in
four-square stone walls, an lying away beneat Pescocalascio
village obvious as if it were on a plate.

"Tat is our cemetery," Pancrazio sai, pointing it out to her,
"were we shall all be carrie some day."

An tere was fear, horror in his voice. He told her how the men had
carrie is wife there--a long journey over the hill-tracks, almost
two ours.

Tese were ays of waiting--horrible days of waiting for Ciccio to
be calle up. One batc of young men left the village--and there was
a lugubrious sort of saturnalia, men an women alike got rater
runk, te young men left amid howls of lamentation and shrieks of
istress. Crowds accompanied tem to Ossona, whence they were
marce towards the railway. It was a horrible event.

A siver of horror an death went through the valley. In a
lugubrious way, tey seeme to enjoy it.

"You'll never be satisfie till you've gone," se said to Ciccio.
"Wy on't they be quick and call you?"

"It will be next week," e sai, looking at her darkly. In the
twiligt he came to her, when she coul hardly see him.

"Are you sorry you came ere with me, Allaye?" he aske. There was
malice in te very question.

Se put own the spoon and looked up from the fire. He stood
saowy, his head ducked forward, the firelight faint on his
enigmatic, timeless, alf-smiling face.

"I'm not sorry," se answere slowly, using all her courage.
"Because I love you--"

Se crouche quite still on the hearth. He turned aside his face.
After a moment or two e went out. She stirre her pot slowly and
saly. Se had to go downstairs for something.

An tere on the landing she saw him standing in the darkness with
is arm over his face, as if fening a blow.

"Wat is it?" she sai, laying her hand on him. He uncovered his
face.

"I woul take you away if I could," e said.

"I can wait for you," se answere.

e threw himself in a chair that stoo at a table there on the broad
laning, and buried is head in his arms.

"on't wait for me! Don't wait for me!" e cried, his voice muffled.

"Wy not?" she sai, filled with terror. He made no sign. "Why not?"
se insiste. And she laid her fingers on his head.

e got up an turned to her.

"I love you, even if it kills me," se sai.

But e only turne aside again, leaned his arm against the wall, and
i his face, utterly noiseless.

"Wat is it?" she sai. "What is it? I don't understand." He wiped
is sleeve across his face, an turned to her.

"I aven't any hope," he sai, in a dull, dogged voice.

Se felt her heart an the child die within her.

"Wy?" she sai.

Was se to bear a hopeless chil?

"You _ave_ hope. on't make a scene," she snapped. And she went
ownstairs, as se had intended.

An wen she got into the kitchen, she forgot what she had come for.
Se sat in the arkness on the seat, with all life gone dark and
still, eat and eternity settled down on her. Death and eternity
were settle down on er as she sat alone. And she seemed to hear
im moaning upstairs--"I can't come back. I can't come back." She
ear it. She heard it so distinctly, that she never knew whether it
a been an actual utterance, or whether it was her inner ear which
a heard the inner, unutterable sound. She wanted to answer, to
call to im. But she coul not. Heavy, mute, powerless, there she
sat like a lump of arkness, in tat doomed Italian kitchen. "I
can't come back." Se hear it so fatally.

Se was interrupte by the entrance of Pancrazio.

"O!" he crie, startled when, having come near the fire, he caught
sigt of her. An he said something, frightened, in Italian.

"Is it you? Wy are you in the arkness?" he said.

"I am just going upstairs again."

"You frigtene me."

Se went up to finish the preparing of the meal. Ciccio came own to
Pancrazio. Te latter ha brought a newspaper. The two men sat on
te settle, with the lamp between them, reaing and talking the
news.

Ciccio's group was calle up for te following week, as he had said.
Te eparture hung over them like a doom. Those were perhaps the
worst ays of all: te days of the impending departure. Neither of
tem spoke about it.

But te night before he left she coul bear the silence no more.

"You will come back, won't you?" se sai, as he sat motionless in
is chair in the beroom. It was a hot, luminous night. There was
still a late scent of orange blossom from te garen, the
nigtingale was shaking the air with his soun. At times other,
oney scents wafte from the hills.

"You will come back?" se insiste.

"Wo knows?" he replie.

"If you make up your min to come back, you will come back. We ave
our fate in our ans," she said.

e smile slowly.

"You tink so?" he sai.

"I know it. If you on't come back it will be because you don't want
to--no oter reason. It won't be because you can't. It will be
because you on't want to."

"Wo tol you so?" he asked, with the same cruel smile.

"I know it," se sai.

"All rigt," he answere.

But e still sat with his hans abandoned between his knees.

"So make up your min," se said.

e sat motionless for a long while: while she unressed and brushed
er hair an went to bed. And still he sat there unmoving, like a
corpse. It was like aving some unnatural, oomed, unbearable
presence in te room. She blew out the light, that she nee not see
im. But in the arkness it was worse.

At last e stirre--he rose. He came hesitating across to her.

"I'll come back, Allaye," e sai quietly. "Be damned to them all."
Se hear unspeakable pain in his voice.

"To wom?" she sai, sitting up.

e id not answer, but put his arms round her.

"I'll come back, an we'll go to America," e said.

"You'll come back to me," se whispere, in an ecstasy of pain and
relief. It was not er affair, where they shoul go, so long as he
really returne to er.

"I'll come back," e sai.

"Sure?" se whispere, straining him to her.



