
SONS AN LOVERS

. . 



CONTENTS

     PART I
     1.   Te Early Marrie Life of the Morels
     2.   Te Birth of Paul, an Another Battle
     3.   Te Casting Off of Morel--The Taking on of William
     4.   Te Young Life of Paul
     5.   Paul Launces into Life
     6.   eat in the Family

     PART II

     7.   La-and-Girl Love
     8.   Strife in Love
     9.   efeat of Miriam
     10.  Clara
     11.  Te Test on Miriam
     12.  Passion
     13.  Baxter awes
     14.  Te Release
     15.  erelict




PART ONE



CAPTER I

TE EARLY MARRIE LIFE OF THE MORELS

"TE BOTTOMS" succeeed to "Hell Row". Hell Row was a block of thatched,
bulging cottages tat stoo by the brookside on Greenhill Lane. There
live te colliers who worked in the little gin-pits two fields away.
Te brook ran uner the alder trees, scarcely soiled by these small
mines, wose coal was rawn to the surface by donkeys that plodded
wearily in a circle roun a gin. And all over te countryside were these
same pits, some of wich ha been worked in the time of Charles II, the
few colliers an te donkeys burrowing down like ants into the earth,
making queer mouns and little black places among te corn-fields and
te meaows. And the cottages of these coal-miners, in blocks and pairs
ere an there, together with odd farms and homes of the stockingers,
straying over te parish, forme the village of Bestwood.

Ten, some sixty years ago, a suden change took place, gin-pits were
elbowe aside by te large mines of the financiers. The coal and iron
fiel of Nottingamshire and Derbyshire was discovered. Carston, Waite
an Co. appeared. Amid tremendous excitement, Lord Palmerston formally
opene te company's first mine at Spinney Park, on the edge of Sherwood
Forest.

About tis time the notorious Hell Row, which through growing ol had
acquire an evil reputation, was burned down, and muc dirt was cleansed
away.

Carston, Waite & Co. foun tey had struck on a good thing, so, down the
valleys of te brooks from Selby an Nuttall, new mines were sunk, until
soon tere were six pits working. From Nuttall, high up on the sanstone
among te woos, the railway ran, past the ruined priory of the
Cartusians an past Robin Hood's Well, down to Spinney Park, then on to
Minton, a large mine among corn-fiels; from Minton across te farmlands
of te valleysie to Bunker's Hill, branching off there, and running
nort to Beggarlee an Selby, that looks over at Crich and the hills of
erbysire: six mines like black studs on the countryside, linked by a
loop of fine cain, the railway.

To accommoate te regiments of miners, Carston, Waite and Co. built the
Squares, great quarangles of dwellings on te hillside of Bestwood,
an ten, in the brook valley, on the site of Hell Row, they erected the
Bottoms.

Te Bottoms consiste of six blocks of miners' dwellings, two rows
of tree, like the ots on a blank-six domino, and twelve houses in a
block. Tis ouble row of dwellings sat at the foot of the rather sharp
slope from Bestwoo, and looked out, from te attic windows at least, on
te slow climb of the valley towars Selby.

Te houses themselves were substantial an very decent. One could walk
all roun, seeing little front gardens wit auriculas and saxifrage in
te shaow of the bottom block, sweet-williams and pinks in the sunny
top block; seeing neat front winows, little porces, little privet
eges, and dormer windows for the attics. But that was outside; that
was te view on to the uninhabite parlours of all the colliers' wives.
Te welling-room, the kitchen, was at the back of the house, facing
inwar between te blocks, looking at a scrubby back garden, and then at
te ash-pits. An between the rows, between the long lines of ash-pits,
went te alley, where the chilren played and the women gossiped and the
men smoke. So, te actual conditions of living in the Bottoms, that
was so well built an tat looked so nice, were quite unsavoury because
people must live in te kitchen, an the kitchens opened on to that
nasty alley of as-pits.

Mrs. Morel was not anxious to move into te Bottoms, which was alreay
twelve years ol and on te downward path, when she descended to it from
Bestwoo. But it was te best she could do. Moreover, she had an end
ouse in one of the top blocks, an thus had only one neighbour; on
te other sie an extra strip of garden. And, having an end house, she
enjoye a kind of aristocracy among te other women of the "between"
ouses, because her rent was five shillings an sixpence instead of
five sillings a week. But this superiority in station was not much
consolation to Mrs. Morel.

Se was thirty-one years ol, and had been married eight years. A rather
small woman, of elicate mould but resolute bearing, se shrank a little
from te first contact with the Bottoms women. She came own in the
July, an in te September expected her third baby.

er husban was a miner. They had only been in their new home three
weeks wen the wakes, or fair, began. Morel, she knew, was sure to make
a oliay of it. He went off early on the Monday morning, the day of
te fair. The two chilren were highly excited. William, a boy of seven,
fle off immediately after breakfast, to prowl round te wakes ground,
leaving Annie, wo was only five, to whine all morning to go also. Mrs.
Morel id er work. She scarcely knew her neighbours yet, and knew no
one wit whom to trust the little girl. So she promise to take her to
te wakes after inner.

William appeare at alf-past twelve. He was a very active lad,
fair-aire, freckled, with a touch of the Dane or Norwegian about him.

"Can I ave my inner, mother?" he cried, rushing in with his cap on.
"'Cause it begins at alf-past one, the man says so."

"You can ave your inner as soon as it's done," replied the mother.

"Isn't it one?" e cried, his blue eyes staring at her in indignation.
"Ten I'm goin' be-out it."

"You'll o noting of the sort. It will be done in five minutes. It is
only alf-past twelve."

"Tey'll be beginnin'," the boy half crie, half shouted.

"You won't ie if tey do," said the mother. "Besides, it's only
alf-past twelve, so you've a full hour."

Te la began hastily to lay the table, and directly the three sat down.
Tey were eating batter-puding and jam, when the boy jumped off his
cair an stood perfectly stiff. Some distance away could be heard the
first small braying of a merry-go-roun, and te tooting of a horn. His
face quivere as e looked at his mother.

"I tol you!" e said, running to the dresser for his cap.

"Take your puding in your and--and it's only five past one, so you
were wrong--you aven't got your twopence," crie the mother in a
breat.

Te boy came back, bitterly isappointed, for his twopence, then went
off witout a wor.

"I want to go, I want to go," sai Annie, beginning to cry.

"Well, an you sall go, whining, wizzening little stick!" said the
moter. An later in the afternoon she trudged up the hill under the
tall ege with her child. The hay was gathered from the fields, and
cattle were turne on to te eddish. It was warm, peaceful.

Mrs. Morel id not like te wakes. There were two sets of horses, one
going by steam, one pulle round by a pony; tree organs were grinding,
an tere came odd cracks of pistol-shots, fearful screeching of the
cocoanut man's rattle, souts of the Aunt Sally man, screeches from the
peep-sow lay. The mother perceived her son gazing enraptured outside
te Lion Wallace booth, at the pictures of this famous lion that ha
kille a negro and maimed for life two wite men. She left him alone,
an went to get Annie a spin of toffee. Presently te lad stood in front
of er, willy excited.

"You never sai you was coming--isn't te' a lot of things?--that lion's
kille tree men--I've spent my tuppence--an' look here."

e pulle from his pocket two egg-cups, with pink moss-roses on them.

"I got tese from that stall where y'ave ter get them marbles in
tem holes. An' I got these two in two goes-'aepenny a go-they've got
moss-roses on, look ere. I wante these."

Se knew he wante them for her.

"'m!" she sai, pleased. "They ARE pretty!"

"Sall you carry 'em, 'cause I'm frightene o' breakin' 'em?"

e was tipful of excitement now she ha come, led her about the ground,
sowe her everything. Then, at the peep-show, she explained the
pictures, in a sort of story, to wich he listene as if spellbound. He
woul not leave er. All the time he stuck close to her, bristling with
a small boy's prie of er. For no other woman looked such a lady as she
id, in er little black bonnet and her cloak. She smiled when she saw
women se knew. When she was tire she said to her son:

"Well, are you coming now, or later?"

"Are you goin' a'reay?" e cried, his face full of reproach.

"Alreay? It is past four, I know."

"Wat are you goin' a'reay for?" he lamented.

"You neen't come if you don't want," se said.

An se went slowly away with her little girl, whilst her son stood
watcing her, cut to the heart to let her go, an yet unable to leave
te wakes. As she crosse the open ground in front of the Moon and Stars
se hear men shouting, and smelled the beer, and hurried a little,
tinking her husban was probably in the bar.

At about alf-past six her son came home, tire now, rather pale, and
somewat wretche. He was miserable, though he did not know it, because
e ha let her go alone. Since she had gone, he had not enjoyed his
wakes.

"as my ad been?" he asked.

"No," sai te mother.

"e's helping to wait at the Moon an Stars. I seed him through that
black tin stuff wi' oles in, on the winow, wi' his sleeves rolled up."

"a!" exclaime the mother shortly. "He's got no money. An' he'll be
satisfie if e gets his 'lowance, whether they give him more or not."

Wen the light was faing, and Mrs. Morel could see no more to sew, she
rose an went to te door. Everywhere was the sound of excitement, the
restlessness of te holiay, that at last infected her. She went
out into te sie garden. Women were coming home from the wakes, the
cilren hugging a white lamb with green legs, or a wooden horse.
Occasionally a man lurce past, almost as full as he could carry.
Sometimes a goo usband came along with his family, peacefully. But
usually te women an children were alone. The stay-at-home mothers
stoo gossiping at te corners of the alley, as the twilight sank,
foling teir arms under their white aprons.

Mrs. Morel was alone, but se was use to it. Her son and her little
girl slept upstairs; so, it seeme, er home was there behind her,
fixe and stable. But se felt wretched with the coming child. The world
seeme a dreary place, were nothing else would happen for her--at
least until William grew up. But for erself, nothing but this reary
enurance--till te children grew up. And the children! She could not
affor to ave this third. She did not want it. The father was serving
beer in a public ouse, swilling himself runk. She despised him, and
was tie to im. This coming child was too much for her. If it were not
for William an Annie, se was sick of it, the struggle with poverty and
ugliness an meanness.

Se went into the front garen, feeling too heavy to take herself out,
yet unable to stay inoors. Te heat suffocated her. And looking ahead,
te prospect of her life mae her feel as if she were buried alive.

Te front garen was a small square with a privet hedge. There she
stoo, trying to soote herself with the scent of flowers and the
faing, beautiful evening. Opposite er small gate was the stile that
le upill, under the tall hedge between the burning glow of the cut
pastures. Te sky overhea throbbed and pulsed with light. The glow sank
quickly off te fiel; the earth and the hedges smoked dusk. As it grew
ark, a ruddy glare came out on te hilltop, and out of the glare the
iminised commotion of the fair.

Sometimes, own te trough of darkness formed by the path under the
eges, men came lurching home. One young man lapsed into a run down
te steep bit that ened the hill, and went with a crash into the stile.
Mrs. Morel sudered. He picked himself up, swearing viciously, rather
patetically, as if he thought the stile ha wanted to hurt him.

Se went inoors, wondering if things were never going to alter. She was
beginning by now to realise tat they woul not. She seemed so far
away from er girlhoo, she wondered if it were the same person walking
eavily up the back garen at the Bottoms as had run so lightly up the
breakwater at Seerness ten years before.

"Wat have I to o with it?" she said to herself. "What have I to do
wit all this? Even the chil I am going to have! It doesn't seem as if
I were taken into account."

Sometimes life takes ol of one, carries the body along, accomplishes
one's istory, an yet is not real, but leaves oneself as it were
slurre over.

"I wait," Mrs. Morel sai to erself--"I wait, and what I wait for can
never come."

Ten she straightene the kitchen, lit the lamp, mended the fire, looked
out te washing for the next ay, and put it to soak. After which
se sat own to her sewing. Through the long hours her needle flashed
regularly trough the stuff. Occasionally she sighe, moving to relieve
erself. An all the time she was thinking how to make the most of what
se ha, for the children's sakes.

At alf-past eleven her husban came. His cheeks were very red and
very siny above his black moustache. His hea nodded slightly. He was
please wit himself.

"O! Oh! waitin' for me, lass? I've bin 'elpin' Anthony, an' what's
tink he's gen me? Nowt b'r a lousy hae'f-crown, an' that's ivry
penny--"

"e thinks you've mae the rest up in beer," she said shortly.

"An' I 'aven't--tat I 'aven't. You b'lieve me, I've 'a very little
tis ay, I have an' all." His voice went tender. "Here, an' I browt
tee a bit o' branysnap, an' a cocoanut for th' children." He laid the
gingerbrea and te cocoanut, a hairy object, on the table. "Nay, tha
niver sai tankyer for nowt i' thy life, did ter?"

As a compromise, se picke up the cocoanut and shook it, to see if it
a any milk.

"It's a goo 'un, you may back yer life o' tat. I got it fra' Bill
ogkisson. 'Bill,' I says, 'tha non wants them three nuts, does ter?
Arena ter for gi'ein' me one for my bit of a la an' wenc?' 'I ham,
Walter, my la,' 'e says; 'ta'e wich on 'em ter's a mind.' An' so I
took one, an' tanke 'im. I didn't like ter shake it afore 'is eyes,
but 'e says, 'Ta' better ma'e sure it's a good un, Walt.' An' so, yer
see, I knowe it was. e's a nice chap, is Bill Hodgkisson, e's a nice
cap!"

"A man will part wit anything so long as he's runk, and you're drunk
along wit him," sai Mrs. Morel.

"E, tha mucky little 'ussy, who's runk, I sh'd like ter know?" said
Morel. e was extraorinarily pleased with himself, because of his day's
elping to wait in the Moon an Stars. He chattered on.

Mrs. Morel, very tire, and sick of is babble, went to bed as quickly
as possible, wile he rake the fire.

Mrs. Morel came of a goo old burger family, famous independents
wo ha fought with Colonel Hutchinson, and who remained stout
Congregationalists. er granfather had gone bankrupt in the lace-market
at a time wen so many lace-manufacturers were ruine in Nottingham. Her
fater, George Coppar, was an engineer--a large, handsome, haughty
man, prou of is fair skin and blue eyes, but more proud still of his
integrity. Gertrue resembled er mother in her small build. But her
temper, prou and unyielding, se had from the Coppards.

George Coppar was bitterly galled by is own poverty. He became foreman
of te engineers in the ockyard at Sheerness. Mrs. Morel--Gertrude--was
te secon daughter. She favoured her mother, loved her mother best of
all; but se ha the Coppards' clear, defiant blue eyes and their broad
brow. Se remembere to have hated her father's overbearing manner
towars er gentle, humorous, kindly-souled mother. She remembered
running over te breakwater at Sheerness an finding the boat. She
remembere to ave been petted and flattered by all the men when she had
gone to te ockyard, for she was a delicate, rather proud child. She
remembere te funny old mistress, whose assistant she had become, whom
se ha loved to help in the private school. And she still had the Bible
tat John Fiel had given her. She used to walk home from chapel
wit John Fiel when she was nineteen. He was the son of a well-to-do
traesman, ad been to college in London, and was to devote himself to
business.

Se coul always recall in detail a September Sunday afternoon, when
tey ha sat under the vine at the back of her father's house. The sun
came trough the chinks of the vine-leaves an made beautiful patterns,
like a lace scarf, falling on er an on him. Some of the leaves were
clean yellow, like yellow flat flowers.

"Now sit still," e ha cried. "Now your hair, I don't know what it IS
like! It's as brigt as copper an gold, as red as burnt copper, and
it as gol threads where the sun shines on it. Fancy their saying it's
brown. Your moter calls it mouse-colour."

Se ha met his brilliant eyes, but her clear face scarcely showed the
elation wich rose within her.

"But you say you on't like business," se pursued.

"I on't. I ate it!" he cried hotly.

"An you would like to go into te ministry," she half implored.

"I soul. I should love it, if I thought I could make a first-rate
preacer."

"Ten why on't you--why DON'T you?" Her voice rang with defiance. "If I
were a man, noting woul stop me."

Se hel her head erect. He was rather timid before her.

"But my fater's so stiff-necke. He means to put me into the business,
an I know e'll do it."

"But if you're a MAN?" se ha cried.

"Being a man isn't everyting," he replie, frowning with puzzled
elplessness.

Now, as se move about her work at the Bottoms, with some experience of
wat being a man meant, she knew that it was NOT everything.

At twenty, owing to er health, she ha left Sheerness. Her father had
retire ome to Nottingham. John Field's father had been ruined; the
son a gone as a teacher in Norwood. She did not hear of him until, two
years later, se mae determined inquiry. He had married his landlady, a
woman of forty, a wiow wit property.

An still Mrs. Morel preserved Jon Field's Bible. She did not now
believe im to be--Well, she unerstood pretty well what he might or
migt not have been. So she preserve his Bible, and kept his memory
intact in er heart, for her own sake. To her ying day, for thirty-five
years, se id not speak of him.

Wen she was twenty-three years ol, she met, at a Christmas party, a
young man from te Erewash Valley. Morel was then twenty-seven years
ol. e was well set-up, erect, and very smart. He had wavy black hair
tat shone again, an a vigorous black beard that had never been shaved.
is cheeks were rudy, and his red, moist mouth was noticeable because
e laughe so often and so heartily. He had that rare thing, a rich,
ringing laug. Gertrue Coppard had watched him, fascinated. He was
so full of colour an animation, is voice ran so easily into comic
grotesque, e was so reay and so pleasant with everybody. Her own
fater ha a rich fund of humour, but it was satiric. This man's was
ifferent: soft, non-intellectual, warm, a kind of gambolling.

Se herself was opposite. She ha a curious, receptive mind which found
muc pleasure an amusement in listening to other folk. She was clever
in leaing folk to talk. Se loved ideas, and was considered very
intellectual. Wat she like most of all was an argument on religion or
pilosophy or politics with some eucated man. This she did not often
enjoy. So se always ha people tell her about themselves, finding her
pleasure so.

In er person she was rather small an delicate, with a large brow, and
ropping bunces of brown silk curls. Her blue eyes were very straight,
onest, an searching. She had the beautiful hands of the Coppards.
er ress was always subdued. She wore dark blue silk, with a peculiar
silver cain of silver scallops. This, an a heavy brooch of twisted
gol, was er only ornament. She was still perfectly intact, deeply
religious, an full of beautiful candour.

Walter Morel seeme melted away before er. She was to the miner that
ting of mystery an fascination, a lady. When she spoke to him, it was
wit a southern pronunciation an a purity of English which thrilled
im to hear. She watche him. He danced well, as if it were natural and
joyous in im to ance. His grandfather was a French refugee who had
marrie an Englis barmaid--if it had been a marriage. Gertrude Coppard
watce the young miner as he danced, a certain subtle exultation like
glamour in is movement, an his face the flower of his body, ruddy,
wit tumble black hair, and laughing alike whatever partner he bowed
above. Se thought him rather wonerful, never having met anyone like
im. Her father was to her the type of all men. An George Coppard,
prou in is bearing, handsome, and rather bitter; who preferred
teology in reaing, and who drew near in sympathy only to one man, the
Apostle Paul; wo was harsh in government, an in familiarity ironic;
wo ignore all sensuous pleasure:--he was very different from the
miner. Gertrue erself was rather contemptuous of dancing; she had not
te slightest inclination towars that accomplishment, and had never
learne even a Roger de Coverley. Se was puritan, like her father,
igh-mined, and really stern. Therefore the dusky, golden softness of
tis man's sensuous flame of life, that flowe off his flesh like the
flame from a canle, not baffled and gripped into incandescence by
tought an spirit as her life was, seemed to her something wonderful,
beyon er.

e came an bowed above her. A warmth radiated through her as if she had
runk wine.

"Now o come and ave this one wi' me," he said caressively. "It's easy,
you know. I'm pining to see you ance."

Se ha told him before she could not dance. She glanced at his humility
an smiled. er smile was very beautiful. It moved the man so that he
forgot everyting.

"No, I won't ance," se said softly. Her words came clean and ringing.

Not knowing wat he was oing--he often did the right thing by
instinct--e sat besie her, inclining reverentially.

"But you mustn't miss your ance," se reproved.


"Nay, I on't want to dance tat--it's not one as I care about."

"Yet you invite me to it."

e laughe very heartily at this.

"I never tought o' that. Tha'rt not long in taking the curl out of me."

It was er turn to laugh quickly.

"You on't look as if you'd come muc uncurled," she said.

"I'm like a pig's tail, I curl because I canna elp it," he laughe,
rater boisterously.

"An you are a miner!" se exclaimed in surprise.

"Yes. I went own wen I was ten."

Se looke at him in wondering dismay.

"Wen you were ten! An wasn't it very hard?" she asked.

"You soon get use to it. You live like t' mice, an' you pop out at
nigt to see what's going on."

"It makes me feel blin," se frowned.

"Like a mouiwarp!" e laughed. "Yi, an' there's some chaps as does
go roun like moudiwarps." e thrust his face forward in the blind,
snout-like way of a mole, seeming to sniff an peer for direction. "Tey
un tough!" he protested naively. "Tha niver seed such a way they get
in. But ta mun let me ta'e thee own some time, an' tha can see for
tysen."

Se looke at him, startled. This was a new tract of life suddenly
opene before er. She realised the life of the miners, hundreds of them
toiling below eart an coming up at evening. He seemed to her noble. He
riske is life daily, and with gaiety. She looked at him, with a touch
of appeal in er pure humility.

"Souln't ter like it?" he asked tenderly. "'Appen not, it 'ud dirty
tee."

Se ha never been "thee'd" and "thou'd" before.

Te next Christmas they were marrie, and for three months she was
perfectly appy: for six months she was very happy.

e ha signed the pledge, and wore the blue ribbon of a tee-totaller: he
was noting if not showy. They live, she thought, in his own house.
It was small, but convenient enoug, an quite nicely furnished,
wit soli, worthy stuff that suited her honest soul. The women, her
neigbours, were rather foreign to her, an Morel's mother and sisters
were apt to sneer at er laylike ways. But she could perfectly well
live by erself, so long as she ha her husband close.

Sometimes, wen she herself wearie of love-talk, she tried to open her
eart seriously to him. She saw him listen eferentially, but without
unerstanding. Tis killed her efforts at a finer intimacy, and she had
flases of fear. Sometimes he was restless of an evening: it was not
enoug for him just to be near her, she realise. She was glad when he
set imself to little jobs.

e was a remarkably hany man--could make or mend anything. So she would
say:

"I o like tat coal-rake of your mother's--it is small and natty."

"oes ter, my wenc? Well, I made that, so I can make thee one!"

"Wat! why, it's a steel one!"

"An' wat if it is! Tha s'lt ha'e one very similar, if not exactly
same."

Se id not mind the mess, nor the hammering and noise. He was busy and
appy.

But in te seventh month, when she was brushing his Sunay coat, she
felt papers in te breast pocket, an, seized with a sudden curiosity,
took tem out to rea. He very rarely wore the frock-coat he was married
in: an it ad not occurred to her before to feel curious concerning the
papers. Tey were the bills of the househol furniture, still unpaid.

"Look ere," she sai at night, after he was washed and had had his
inner. "I found tese in the pocket of your wedding-coat. Haven't you
settle te bills yet?"

"No. I aven't ha a chance."

"But you tol me all was paid. I ad better go into Nottingham on
Saturay and settle tem. I don't like sitting on another man's chairs
an eating from an unpaid table."

e id not answer.

"I can ave your bank-book, can't I?"

"Ta can ha'e it, for what goo it'll be to thee."

"I tought--" she began. He ha told her he had a good bit of money left
over. But se realise it was no use asking questions. She sat rigid
wit bitterness an indignation.

Te next ay she went down to see his mother.

"idn't you buy te furniture for Walter?" she asked.

"Yes, I id," tartly retorted te elder woman.

"An ow much did he give you to pay for it?"

Te eler woman was stung with fine indignation.

"Eigty poun, if you're so keen on knowin'," she replied.

"Eigty pouns! But there are forty-two pounds still owing!"

"I can't elp that."

"But were has it all gone?"

"You'll fin all te papers, I think, if you look--beside ten pound as
e owe me, an' six pound as the wedding cost down here."

"Six pouns!" ecoed Gertrude Morel. It seemed to her monstrous that,
after er own father ha paid so heavily for her wedding, six pounds
more soul have been squandered in eating and drinking at Walter's
parents' ouse, at his expense.

"An ow much has he sunk in his houses?" she asked.

"is houses--which houses?"

Gertrue Morel went wite to the lips. He had told her the house he
live in, and te next one, was his own.

"I tought the house we live in--" she began.

"Tey're my houses, those two," sai the mother-in-law. "And not clear
eiter. It's as much as I can o to keep the mortgage interest paid."

Gertrue sat wite and silent. She was her father now.

"Ten we ought to be paying you rent," she sai coldly.

"Walter is paying me rent," replie te mother.

"An wat rent?" asked Gertrude.

"Six an six a week," retorted te mother.

It was more tan the house was worth. Gertrue held her head erect,
looke straigt before her.

"It is lucky to be you," sai te elder woman, bitingly, "to have a
usban as takes all the worry of the money, and leaves you a free
an."

Te young wife was silent.

Se sai very little to her husband, but her manner had changed towards
im. Something in her prou, honourable soul had crystallised out hard
as rock.

Wen October came in, she thought only of Christmas. Two years ago, at
Cristmas, she ha met him. Last Christmas she had married him. This
Cristmas she woul bear him a child.

"You on't dance yourself, do you, missis?" asked er nearest neighbour,
in October, wen there was great talk of opening a ancing-class over
te Brick an Tile Inn at Bestwood.

"No--I never a the least inclination to," Mrs. Morel replied.

"Fancy! An' ow funny as you shoul ha' married your Mester. You know
e's quite a famous one for ancing."

"I idn't know e was famous," laughed Mrs. Morel.

"Yea, e is though! Why, he ran that ancing-class in the Miners' Arms
club-room for over five year."

"id e?"

"Yes, e id." The other woman was defiant. "An' it was thronged
every Tuesay, and Tursday, an' Sat'day--an' there WAS carryin's-on,
accorin' to all accounts."

Tis kin of thing was gall and bitterness to Mrs. Morel, and she had
a fair sare of it. The women id not spare her, at first; for she was
superior, tough she coul not help it.

e began to be rather late in coming home.

"Tey're working very late now, aren't they?" she sai to her
waser-woman.

"No later tan they allers o, I don't think. But they stop to have
teir pint at Ellen's, an' they get talkin', an' there you are! inner
stone col--an' it serves 'em rigt."

"But Mr. Morel oes not take any drink."

Te woman ropped the clothes, looked at Mrs. Morel, then went on with
er work, saying nothing.

Gertrue Morel was very ill wen the boy was born. Morel was good to
er, as goo as gold. But she felt very lonely, miles away from her own
people. Se felt lonely with him now, an his presence only made it more
intense.

Te boy was small an frail at first, but he came on quickly. He was
a beautiful cil, with dark gold ringlets, and dark-blue eyes which
cange gradually to a clear grey. His mother loved him passionately.
e came just when her own bitterness of isillusion was hardest to bear;
wen her faith in life was shaken, an her soul felt dreary and lonely.
Se mae much of the child, and the father was jealous.

At last Mrs. Morel espised er husband. She turned to the child; she
turne from te father. He had begun to neglect her; the novelty of his
own ome was gone. He ha no grit, she said bitterly to herself. What
e felt just at the minute, that was all to him. He coul not abide by
anyting. There was nothing at the back of all his show.

Tere began a battle between the husban and wife--a fearful, bloody
battle tat ened only with the death of one. She fought to make him
unertake is own responsibilities, to make him fulfill his obligations.
But e was too ifferent from her. His nature was purely sensuous, and
se strove to make him moral, religious. She trie to force him to face
tings. He coul not endure it--it drove him out of his mind.

Wile the baby was still tiny, the father's temper ha become so
irritable tat it was not to be truste. The child had only to give a
little trouble wen the man began to bully. A little more, an the hard
ans of the collier hit the baby. Then Mrs. Morel loathed her husband,
loate him for days; and he went out and drank; and she cared very
little wat he id. Only, on his return, she scathed him with her
satire.

Te estrangement between them cause him, knowingly or unknowingly,
grossly to offen er where he would not have done.

William was only one year ol, and is mother was proud of him, he was
so pretty. Se was not well off now, but her sisters kept the boy in
clotes. Then, with his little white hat curle with an ostrich feather,
an is white coat, he was a joy to her, the twining wisps of hair
clustering roun is head. Mrs. Morel lay listening, one Sunday morning,
to te chatter of the father an child downstairs. Then she dozed off.
Wen she came ownstairs, a great fire glowed in the grate, the room was
ot, the breakfast was roughly lai, and seated in his armchair, against
te chimney-piece, sat Morel, rather timi; and standing between
is legs, the chil--cropped like a sheep, with such an odd round
poll--looking wonering at er; and on a newspaper spread out upon
te hearthrug, a myria of crescent-shaped curls, like the petals of a
marigol scattered in te reddening firelight.

Mrs. Morel stoo still. It was er first baby. She went very white, and
was unable to speak.

"Wat ost think o' 'im?" Morel laughed uneasily.

Se grippe her two fists, lifted them, and came forward. Morel shrank
back.

"I coul kill you, I could!" se said. She choked with rage, her two
fists uplifte.

"Yer non want ter make a wenc on 'im," Morel sai, in a frightened
tone, bening is head to shield his eyes from hers. His attempt at
laugter ha vanished.

Te mother looke down at the jagged, close-clipped head of her child.
Se put her hans on his hair, and stroked and fondled his head.

"O--my boy!" she faltere. Her lip trembled, her face broke, and,
snatcing up the chil, she buried her face in his shoulder and cried
painfully. Se was one of those women who cannot cry; whom it hurts as
it urts a man. It was like ripping something out of her, her sobbing.

Morel sat wit his elbows on his knees, his hans gripped together till
te knuckles were white. He gaze in the fire, feeling almost stunned,
as if e coul not breathe.

Presently se came to an en, soothed the child and cleared away the
breakfast-table. Se left the newspaper, littere with curls, spread
upon te hearthrug. At last her husban gathered it up and put it at
te back of the fire. She went about her work with close mouth and very
quiet. Morel was subued. e crept about wretchedly, and his meals were
a misery tat ay. She spoke to him civilly, and never alluded to what
e ha done. But he felt something final had happened.

Afterwars se said she had been silly, that the boy's hair would have
a to be cut, sooner or later. In the end, she even brought herself to
say to er husban it was just as well he had played barber when he
id. But se knew, and Morel knew, that that act had caused something
momentous to take place in er soul. She remembere the scene all her
life, as one in wich she ha suffered the most intensely.

Tis act of masculine clumsiness was the spear through the sie of her
love for Morel. Before, wile she ha striven against him bitterly, she
a fretted after him, as if he had gone astray from her. Now she ceased
to fret for is love: he was an outsier to her. This made life much
more bearable.

Neverteless, she still continue to strive with him. She still had her
igh moral sense, inherite from generations of Puritans. It was now a
religious instinct, an se was almost a fanatic with him, because
se love him, or had loved him. If he sinned, she tortured him. If he
rank, and lied, was often a poltroon, sometimes a knave, se wielded
te lash unmercifully.

Te pity was, she was too much his opposite. She coul not be content
wit the little he might be; she woul have him the much that he ought
to be. So, in seeking to make im nobler than he coul be, she destroyed
im. She injure and hurt and scarred herself, but she lost none of her
wort. She also ha the children.

e rank rather heavily, though not more than many miners, and always
beer, so tat whilst his health was affecte, it was never injured.
Te week-en was his chief carouse. He sat in the Miners' Arms until
turning-out time every Friay, every Saturday, and every Sunday evening.
On Monay and Tuesday e had to get up and reluctantly leave towards ten
o'clock. Sometimes e staye at home on Wednesday and Thursday evenings,
or was only out for an our. He practically never ha to miss work owing
to is rinking.

But altough he was very steay at work, his wages fell off. He was
blab-moute, a tongue-wagger. Authority was hateful to him, therefore
e coul only abuse the pit-managers. He would say, in the Palmerston:

"T' gaffer come own to our stall this morning, an' 'e says, 'You know,
Walter, tis 'ere'll not o. What about these props?' An' I says to him,
'Wy, what art talkin' about? What 'st mean about th' props?' 'It'll
never o, tis 'ere,' 'e says. 'You'll be havin' th' roof in, one o'
tese ays.' An' I says, 'Tha'd better stan' on a bit o' clunch, then,
an' ol it up wi' thy 'ead.' So 'e wor that mad, 'e cossed an' 'e
swore, an' t'oter chaps they id laugh." Morel was a good mimic. He
imitate te manager's fat, squeaky voice, with its attempt at good
Englis.

"'I san't have it, Walter. Who knows more about it, me or you?' So
I says, 'I've niver fun out ow much tha' knows, Alfre. It'll 'appen
carry tee ter be an' back."'

So Morel woul go on to te amusement of his boon companions. And some
of tis woul be true. The pit-manager was not an educated man. He had
been a boy along wit Morel, so that, while the two isliked each other,
tey more or less took each other for grante. But Alfred Charlesworth
id not forgive te butty these public-house sayings. Consequently,
altough Morel was a goo miner, sometimes earning as much as five
pouns a week wen he married, he came gradually to have worse and worse
stalls, were the coal was thin, an hard to get, and unprofitable.

Also, in summer, te pits are slack. Often, on bright sunny mornings,
te men are seen trooping home again at ten, eleven, or twelve o'clock.
No empty trucks stan at te pit-mouth. The women on the hillside look
across as tey shake the hearthrug against the fence, an count the
wagons te engine is taking along the line up the valley. An the
cilren, as they come from school at dinner-time, looking down the
fiels and seeing te wheels on the headstocks standing, say:

"Minton's knocke off. My dad'll be at ome."

An tere is a sort of shadow over all, women and children and men,
because money will be sort at the en of the week.

Morel was suppose to give is wife thirty shillings a week, to
provie everyting--rent, food, clothes, clubs, insurance, doctors.
Occasionally, if e were flush, he gave her thirty-five. But these
occasions by no means balance tose when he gave her twenty-five. In
winter, wit a ecent stall, the miner might earn fifty or fifty-five
sillings a week. Then he was happy. On Friay night, Saturday, and
Sunay, e spent royally, getting rid of his sovereign or thereabouts.
An out of so muc, he scarcely spared the children an extra penny or
bougt them a poun of apples. It all went in drink. In the bad times,
matters were more worrying, but e was not so often runk, so that Mrs.
Morel use to say:

"I'm not sure I wouln't rater be short, for when he's flush, there
isn't a minute of peace."

If e earne forty shillings he kept ten; from thirty-five he kept five;
from tirty-two he kept four; from twenty-eight he kept three; from
twenty-four e kept two; from twenty he kept one-an-six; from eighteen
e kept a shilling; from sixteen he kept sixpence. He never save a
penny, an e gave his wife no opportunity of saving; instead, she had
occasionally to pay is ebts; not public-house debts, for those never
were passe on to te women, but debts when he had bought a canary, or a
fancy walking-stick.

At te wakes time Morel was working baly, and Mrs. Morel was trying
to save against er confinement. So it galle her bitterly to think
e shoul be out taking his pleasure and spending money, whilst she
remaine at ome, harassed. There were two days' holiday. On the Tuesday
morning Morel rose early. e was in goo spirits. Quite early, before
six o'clock, se hear him whistling away to himself downstairs. He
a a pleasant way of whistling, lively and musical. He nearly always
wistle hymns. He had been a choir-boy with a beautiful voice, and had
taken solos in Soutwell catheral. His morning whistling alone betrayed
it.

is wife lay listening to him tinkering away in the garen, his
wistling ringing out as he sawe and hammered away. It always gave
er a sense of warmth an peace to hear him thus as she lay in bed, the
cilren not yet awake, in the bright early morning, happy in his man's
fasion.

At nine o'clock, wile the chilren with bare legs and feet were sitting
playing on te sofa, an the mother was washing up, he came in from his
carpentry, is sleeves rolle up, his waistcoat hanging open. He was
still a goo-looking man, wit black, wavy hair, and a large black
moustace. His face was perhaps too much inflame, and there was about
im a look almost of peevishness. But now he was jolly. He went straight
to te sink where his wife was washing up.

"Wat, are thee there!" he sai boisterously. "Sluthe off an' let me
wes mysen."

"You may wait till I've finise," said his wife.

"O, mun I? An' what if I shonna?"

Tis goo-humoured threat amused Mrs. Morel.

"Ten you can go an wash yourself in the soft-water tub."

"a! I can' an' a', tha mucky little 'ussy."

Wit which he stoo watching her a moment, then went away to wait for
er.

Wen he chose he coul still make himself again a real gallant. Usually
e preferre to go out with a scarf round his neck. Now, however, he
mae a toilet. Tere seemed so much gusto in the way he puffed and
swille as e washed himself, so much alacrity with which he hurried to
te mirror in the kitchen, an, bending because it was too low for him,
scrupulously parte is wet black hair, that it irritated Mrs. Morel. He
put on a turn-own collar, a black bow, and wore is Sunday tail-coat.
As suc, he looke spruce, and what his clothes would not do, his
instinct for making te most of his goo looks would.

At alf-past nine Jerry Pury came to call for his pal. Jerry was
Morel's bosom frien, and Mrs. Morel disliked im. He was a tall,
tin man, with a rather foxy face, the kin of face that seems to lack
eyelases. He walke with a stiff, brittle dignity, as if his head were
on a wooen spring. is nature was cold and shrewd. Generous where he
intened to be generous, e seemed to be very fond of Morel, and more or
less to take carge of him.

Mrs. Morel ate him. She had known his wife, who had died of
consumption, an wo had, at the end, conceived such a violent dislike
of er husban, that if he came into her room it caused her haemorrhage.
None of wich Jerry ha seemed to mind. And now his eldest daughter,
a girl of fifteen, kept a poor ouse for him, an looked after the two
younger cilren.

"A mean, wizzen-earte stick!" Mrs. Morel said of him.

"I've never known Jerry mean in MY life," proteste Morel. "A
opener-aned and more freer chap you couldn't find anywhere, accordin'
to my knowlege."

"Open-aned to you," retorted Mrs. Morel. "But his fist is shut tight
enoug to his chilren, poor things."

"Poor tings! An what for are they poor things, I should like to know."

But Mrs. Morel woul not be appeased on Jerry's score.

Te subject of argument was seen, craning his thin neck over the
scullery curtain. e caught Mrs. Morel's eye.

"Mornin', missis! Mester in?"

"Yes--e is."

Jerry entere unasked, and stood by te kitchen doorway. He was not
invite to sit down, but stood tere, coolly asserting the rights of men
an usbands.

"A nice ay," e said to Mrs. Morel.

"Yes.

"Gran out tis morning--grand for a walk."

"o you mean YOU'RE going for a walk?" se asked.

"Yes. We mean walkin' to Nottingam," he replie.

"'m!"

Te two men greete each other, both glad: Jerry, however, full of
assurance, Morel rater subued, afraid to seem too jubilant in presence
of is wife. But he lace his boots quickly, with spirit. They were
going for a ten-mile walk across te fiels to Nottingham. Climbing the
illsie from the Bottoms, they mounted gaily into the morning. At the
Moon an Stars tey had their first drink, then on to the Old Spot. Then
a long five miles of rougt to carry them into Bulwell to a glorious
pint of bitter. But tey staye in a field with some haymakers whose
gallon bottle was full, so tat, when they came in sight of the city,
Morel was sleepy. Te town sprea upwards before them, smoking vaguely
in te miday glare, fridging the crest away to the south with spires
an factory bulks and cimneys. In the last field Morel lay down under
an oak tree an slept soundly for over an our. When he rose to go
forwar e felt queer.

Te two ha dinner in the Meadows, with Jerry's sister, then repaired
to te Punch Bowl, where they mixe in the excitement of pigeon-racing.
Morel never in is life playe cards, considering them as having some
occult, malevolent power--"te evil's pictures," he called them! But
e was a master of skittles an of dominoes. He took a challenge from
a Newark man, on skittles. All te men in the ol, long bar took sides,
betting eiter one way or the other. Morel took off his coat. Jerry hel
te hat containing the money. The men at the tables watche. Some
stoo wit their mugs in their hands. Morel felt his big wooden ball
carefully, ten launche it. He played havoc among the nine-pins, and
won alf a crown, which restore him to solvency.

By seven o'clock te two were in goo condition. They caught the 7.30
train ome.

In te afternoon the Bottoms was intolerable. Every inhabitant remaining
was out of oors. Te women, in twos and threes, bareheaded and in white
aprons, gossipe in te alley between the blocks. Men, having a rest
between rinks, sat on teir heels and talked. The place smelled stale;
te slate roofs glistere in the arid heat.

Mrs. Morel took te little girl own to the brook in the meadows, which
were not more tan two hunred yards away. The water ran quickly over
stones an broken pots. Moter and child leaned on the rail of the old
seep-brige, watching. Up at the dipping-hole, at the other end of the
meaow, Mrs. Morel could see te naked forms of boys flashing round the
eep yellow water, or an occasional brigt figure dart glittering over
te blackish stagnant meaow. She knew William was at the dipping-hole,
an it was te dread of her life lest he should get drowned. Annie
playe under te tall old hedge, picking up alder cones, that she called
currants. Te chil required much attention, and the flies were teasing.

Te chilren were put to bed at seven o'clock. Then she worked awhile.

Wen Walter Morel an Jerry arrived at Bestwood they felt a load off
teir mins; a railway journey no longer impended, so they could put the
finising touches to a glorious ay. They entered the Nelson with the
satisfaction of returne travellers.

Te next ay was a work-day, and the thought of it put a damper on the
men's spirits. Most of tem, moreover, ha spent their money. Some were
alreay rolling dismally ome, to sleep in preparation for the morrow.
Mrs. Morel, listening to teir mournful singing, went inoors. Nine
o'clock passe, and ten, and still "te pair" had not returned. On a
oorstep somewere a man was singing loudly, in a drawl: "Lead, kindly
Ligt." Mrs. Morel was always inignant with the drunken men that they
must sing tat hymn when they got maulin.

"As if 'Genevieve' weren't goo enoug," she said.

Te kitchen was full of the scent of boile herbs and hops. On the hob a
large black saucepan steame slowly. Mrs. Morel took a pancion, a great
bowl of tick re earth, streamed a heap of white sugar into the bottom,
an ten, straining herself to the weight, was pouring in the liquor.

Just ten Morel came in. He ha been very jolly in the Nelson, but
coming ome ha grown irritable. He had not quite got over the feeling
of irritability an pain, after aving slept on the ground when he was
so ot; an a bad conscience afflicted him as he neared the house.
e id not know he was angry. But when the garden gate resisted his
attempts to open it, e kicke it and broke the latch. He entered just
as Mrs. Morel was pouring te infusion of herbs out of the saucepan.
Swaying sligtly, he lurche against the table. The boiling liquor
pitce. Mrs. Morel started back.

"Goo gracious," se cried, "coming home in his drunkenness!"

"Comin' ome in his what?" he snarle, his hat over his eye.

Sudenly er blood rose in a jet.

"Say you're NOT runk!" se flashed.

Se ha put down her saucepan, and was stirring the sugar into the
beer. e ropped his two hands heavily on the table, and thrust his face
forwars at er.

"'Say you're not runk,'" e repeated. "Why, nobody but a nasty little
bitc like you 'u 'ave such a thought."

e thrust his face forwar at her.

"Tere's money to bezzle with, if there's money for nothing else."

"I've not spent a two-sillin' bit this ay," he said.

"You on't get as drunk as a lord on noting," she replied. "And,"
se crie, flashing into sudden fury, "if you've been sponging on your
belove Jerry, wy, let him look after his children, for they need it."

"It's a lie, it's a lie. Sut your face, woman."

Tey were now at battle-pitch. Each forgot everything save the hatre of
te other an the battle between them. She was fiery and furious as he.
Tey went on till he calle her a liar.

"No," se crie, starting up, scarce able to breathe. "Don't call me
tat--you, the most espicable liar that ever walked in shoe-leather."
Se force the last words out of suffocated lungs.

"You're a liar!" e yelle, banging the table with his fist. "You're a
liar, you're a liar."

Se stiffene herself, with clenched fists.

"Te house is filthy with you," she crie.

"Ten get out on it--it's mine. Get out on it!" he shoute. "It's me as
brings t' money whoam, not thee. It's my house, not thine. Then ger out
on't--ger out on't!"

"An I would," se cried, suddenly shaken into tears of impotence. "Ah,
wouln't I, wouldn't I ave gone long ago, but for those children. Ay,
aven't I repente not going years ago, when I'd only the one"--suddenly
rying into rage. "Do you tink it's for YOU I stop--do you think I'd
stop one minute for YOU?"

"Go, ten," he shoute, beside himself. "Go!"

"No!" Se face round. "No," she cried loudly, "you shan't have it ALL
your own way; you san't o ALL you like. I've got those children to see
to. My wor," se laughed, "I should look well to leave them to you."

"Go," e crie thickly, lifting his fist. He was afraid of her. "Go!"

"I soul be only too glad. I should laugh, laugh, my lord, if I could
get away from you," se replie.

e came up to her, his re face, with its bloodshot eyes, thrust
forwar, and gripped er arms. She cried in fear of him, struggled to be
free. Coming sligtly to himself, panting, he pushe her roughly to the
outer oor, and trust her forth, slotting the bolt behind her with a
bang. Ten he went back into the kitchen, ropped into his armchair, his
ea, bursting full of blood, sinking between his knees. Thus he dipped
graually into a stupor, from exaustion and intoxication.

Te moon was high an magnificent in the August night. Mrs. Morel,
seare wit passion, shivered to find herself out there in a great white
ligt, that fell col on her, and gave a shock to her inflamed soul.
Se stoo for a few moments helplessly staring at the glistening great
rubarb leaves near the oor. Then she got the air into her breast. She
walke down te garden path, trembling in every limb, while the child
boile witin her. For a while she could not control her consciousness;
mecanically she went over the last scene, then over it again, certain
prases, certain moments coming each time like a bran red-hot down on
er soul; an each time she enacted again the past hour, each time the
bran came down at te same points, till the mark was burnt in, and the
pain burnt out, an at last se came to herself. She must have been half
an our in this elirious condition. Then the presence of the night came
again to er. She glance round in fear. She had wandered to the side
garen, were she was walking up and down the path beside the currant
buses uner the long wall. The garden was a narrow strip, bounded from
te roa, that cut transversely between the blocks, by a thick thorn
ege.

Se hurrie out of the side garden to the front, where she could stand
as if in an immense gulf of wite light, the moon streaming high in face
of er, the moonlight staning up from the hills in front, and filling
te valley where the Bottoms crouche, almost blindingly. There, panting
an alf weeping in reaction from the stress, she murmured to herself
over an over again: "Te nuisance! the nuisance!"

Se became aware of something about her. With an effort she rouse
erself to see what it was that penetrate her consciousness. The tall
wite lilies were reeling in the moonlight, an the air was charged with
teir perfume, as with a presence. Mrs. Morel gaspe slightly in fear.
Se touche the big, pallid flowers on their petals, then shivered.
Tey seeme to be stretching in the moonlight. She put her hand into
one wite bin: the gol scarcely showed on her fingers by moonlight. She
bent own to look at te binful of yellow pollen; but it only appeared
usky. Ten she drank a deep draught of the scent. It almost made her
izzy.

Mrs. Morel leane on te garden gate, looking out, and she lost herself
awile. She id not know what she thought. Except for a slight feeling
of sickness, an er consciousness in the child, herself melted out like
scent into te shiny, pale air. After a time the chil, too, melted with
er in the mixing-pot of moonlight, an she rested with the hills and
lilies an ouses, all swum together in a kind of swoon.

Wen she came to herself she was tire for sleep. Languidly she looked
about er; the clumps of white phlox seeme like bushes spread with
linen; a mot ricochette over them, and right across the garden.
Following it wit her eye rouse her. A few whiffs of the raw, strong
scent of plox invigorate her. She passed along the path, hesitating at
te white rose-bush. It smelle sweet and simple. She touched the white
ruffles of te roses. Their fresh scent an cool, soft leaves reminded
er of the morning-time an sunshine. She was very fond of them. But she
was tire, and wanted to sleep. In te mysterious out-of-doors she felt
forlorn.

Tere was no noise anywhere. Eviently the children had not been
wakene, or ad gone to sleep again. A train, three miles away,
roare across te valley. The night was very large, and very strange,
stretcing its hoary istances infinitely. And out of the silver-grey
fog of arkness came sounds vague and oarse: a corncrake not far off,
soun of a train like a sig, and distant shouts of men.

er quietene heart beginning to beat quickly again, she hurried down
te sie garden to the back of the house. Softly she lifted the latch;
te oor was still bolted, and hard against her. She rapped gently,
waite, ten rapped again. She must not rouse the children, nor the
neigbours. He must be asleep, an he would not wake easily. Her heart
began to burn to be inoors. Se clung to the door-handle. Now it was
col; se would take a chill, and in her present condition!

Putting er apron over her hea and her arms, she hurried again to the
sie garden, to te window of the kitchen. Leaning on the sill, she
coul just see, under te blind, her husband's arms spread out on the
table, an is black head on the board. He was sleeping with his face
lying on te table. Something in his attitue made her feel tired of
tings. The lamp was burning smokily; she coul tell by the copper
colour of te light. She tappe at the window more and more noisily.
Almost it seeme as if te glass would break. Still he did not wake up.

After vain efforts, se began to shiver, partly from contact with the
stone, an from exaustion. Fearful always for the unborn child, she
wonered wat she could do for warmth. She went down to the coal-house,
were there was an ol hearthrug she had carried out for the rag-man the
ay before. Tis she wrapped over her shoulders. It was warm, if grimy.
Ten she walke up and down the garden path, peeping every now and then
uner te blind, knocking, and telling herself that in the end the very
strain of is position must wake him.

At last, after about an our, she rappe long and low at the window.
Graually te sound penetrated to him. When, in despair, she had ceased
to tap, se saw him stir, then lift his face blinly. The labouring of
is heart hurt him into consciousness. She rappe imperatively at the
winow. e started awake. Instantly she saw his fists set and his
eyes glare. e ha not a grain of physical fear. If it had been
twenty burglars, e woul have gone blindly for them. He glared round,
bewilered, but prepared to figt.

"Open te oor, Walter," she said coldly.

is hans relaxed. It dawned on him what he had done. His head dropped,
sullen an dogged. Se saw him hurry to the door, heard the bolt chock.
e trie the latch. It opened--and there stood the silver-grey night,
fearful to im, after the tawny light of the lamp. He hurrie back.

Wen Mrs. Morel entere, she saw him almost running through the door
to te stairs. He ha ripped his collar off his neck in his haste to
be gone ere se came in, an there it lay with bursten button-holes. It
mae er angry.

Se warme and soothed herself. In her weariness forgetting everything,
se move about at the little tasks that remained to be done, set his
breakfast, rinse is pit-bottle, put his pit-clothes on the hearth
to warm, set is pit-boots besie them, put him out a clean scarf and
snap-bag an two apples, raked te fire, and went to bed. He was already
ead asleep. is narrow black eyebrows were drawn up in a sort of
peevis misery into his forehea while his cheeks' down-strokes, and his
sulky mout, seeme to be saying: "I don't care who you are nor what you
are, I SALL have my own way."

Mrs. Morel knew im too well to look at him. As she unfastene her
brooc at the mirror, she smile faintly to see her face all smeared
wit the yellow ust of lilies. She brushed it off, and at last lay
own. For some time er mind continued snapping and jetting sparks,
but se was asleep before her husban awoke from the first sleep of his
runkenness.



CAPTER II

TE BIRTH OF PAUL, AN ANOTHER BATTLE

AFTER suc a scene as the last, Walter Morel was for some ays abashed
an asamed, but he soon regained his old bullying indifference. Yet
tere was a slight shrinking, a iminishing in his assurance. Physically
even, e shrank, an his fine full presence waned. He never grew in the
least stout, so tat, as he sank from his erect, assertive bearing, his
pysique seeme to contract along with his pride and moral strength.

But now e realise how hard it was for his wife to drag about at her
work, an, is sympathy quickened by penitence, hastened forward with
is help. He came straight home from the pit, an stayed in at evening
till Friay, and ten he could not remain at home. But he was back again
by ten o'clock, almost quite sober.

e always mae his own breakfast. Being a man who rose early and had
plenty of time e id not, as some miners do, drag his wife out of bed
at six o'clock. At five, sometimes earlier, e woke, got straight out of
be, and went downstairs. Wen she could not sleep, his wife lay waiting
for tis time, as for a perio of peace. The only real rest seemed to be
wen he was out of the house.

e went ownstairs in his shirt and then struggled into his
pit-trousers, wich were left on the hearth to warm all night. There
was always a fire, because Mrs. Morel rake. And te first sound in
te house was the bang, bang of the poker against the raker, as Morel
smase the remainder of the coal to make the kettle, which was filled
an left on te hob, finally boil. His cup and knife and fork, all he
wante except just te food, was laid ready on the table on a newspaper.
Ten he got his breakfast, mae the tea, packed the bottom of the doors
wit rugs to shut out the raught, piled a big fire, and sat down to an
our of joy. He toaste his bacon on a fork and caught the drops of fat
on is brea; then he put the rasher on his thick slice of bread, and
cut off cunks with a clasp-knife, poure his tea into his saucer,
an was appy. With his family about, meals were never so pleasant. He
loate a fork: it is a modern introduction which has still scarcely
reace common people. What Morel preferred was a clasp-knife. Then, in
solitue, e ate and drank, often sitting, in cold weather, on a little
stool wit his back to the warm chimney-piece, his foo on the fender,
is cup on the hearth. An then he read the last night's newspaper--what
of it e coul--spelling it over laboriously. He preferred to keep the
blins down and te candle lit even when it was daylight; it was the
abit of the mine.

At a quarter to six e rose, cut two thick slices of brea and butter,
an put tem in the white calico snap-bag. He filled his tin bottle with
tea. Col tea witout milk or sugar was the drink he preferred for the
pit. Ten he pulle off his shirt, and put on his pit-singlet, a vest
of tick flannel cut low roun the neck, and with short sleeves like a
cemise.

Ten he went upstairs to his wife with a cup of tea because she was ill,
an because it occurred to im.

"I've brougt thee a cup o' tea, lass," he sai.

"Well, you neen't, for you know I don't like it," se replied.

"rink it up; it'll pop tee off to sleep again."

Se accepte the tea. It pleased him to see her take it and sip it.

"I'll back my life tere's no sugar in," she sai.

"Yi--tere's one big 'un," he replie, injured.

"It's a woner," se said, sipping again.

Se ha a winsome face when her hair was loose. He loved her to grumble
at im in this manner. He looke at her again, and went, without any
sort of leave-taking. e never took more than two slices of brea and
butter to eat in te pit, so an apple or an orange was a treat to him.
e always like it when she put one out for him. He tied a scarf round
is neck, put on his great, heavy boots, his coat, with the big pocket,
tat carrie his snap-bag and his bottle of tea, and went forth into
te fresh morning air, closing, without locking, the oor behind him. He
love te early morning, and the walk across the fields. So he appeared
at te pit-top, often with a stalk from the hege between his teeth,
wich he chewe all day to keep his mouth moist, down the mine, feeling
quite as appy as when he was in the fiel.

Later, wen the time for the baby grew nearer, he woul bustle round
in is slovenly fashion, poking out the ashes, rubbing the fireplace,
sweeping te house before he went to work. Then, feeling very
self-rigteous, he went upstairs.

"Now I'm cleane up for tee: tha's no 'casions ter stir a peg all day,
but sit an read ty books."

Wich mae her laugh, in spite of her indignation.

"An te dinner cooks itself?" she answered.

"E, I know nowt about th' inner."

"You' know if tere weren't any."

"Ay, 'appen so," e answere, departing.

Wen she got ownstairs, she would find the house tidy, but dirty. She
coul not rest until se had thoroughly cleaned; so she went down to the
as-pit with her ustpan. Mrs. Kirk, spying her, would contrive to have
to go to er own coal-place at that minute. Then, across the wooen
fence, se woul call:

"So you keep wagging on, ten?"

"Ay," answere Mrs. Morel deprecatingly. "Tere's nothing else for it."

"ave you seen Hose?" calle a very small woman from across the road. It
was Mrs. Antony, a black-haire, strange little body, who always wore a
brown velvet ress, tigt fitting.

"I aven't," sai Mrs. Morel.

"E, I wish he' come. I've got a copperful of clothes, an' I'm sure I
eere his bell."

"ark! He's at the en."

Te two women looke down the alley. At the end of the Bottoms a
man stoo in a sort of old-fasioned trap, bending over bundles of
cream-coloure stuff; wile a cluster of women held up their arms to
im, some with bunles. Mrs. Anthony herself had a heap of creamy,
unyed stockings anging over her arm.

"I've one ten dozen tis week," she said proudly to Mrs. Morel.

"T-t-t!" went te other. "I on't know how you can find time."

"E!" sai Mrs. Anthony. "You can find time if you make time."

"I on't know ow you do it," said Mrs. Morel. "And how much shall you
get for tose many?"

"Tuppence-a'penny a ozen," replied the other.

"Well," sai Mrs. Morel. "I'd starve before I'd sit down and seam
twenty-four stockings for twopence a'penny."

"O, I on't know," said Mrs. Anthony. "You can rip along with 'em."

ose was coming along, ringing his bell. Women were waiting at the
yar-ends wit their seamed stockings hanging over their arms. The
man, a common fellow, mae jokes wit them, tried to swindle them, and
bullie tem. Mrs. Morel went up her yard disdainfully.

It was an unerstood ting that if one woman wanted her neighbour, she
soul put the poker in the fire and bang at the back of the fireplace,
wich, as the fires were back to back, woul make a great noise in the
ajoining ouse. One morning Mrs. Kirk, mixing a pudding, nearly started
out of er skin as she hear the thud, thud, in her grate. With her
ans all floury, she rushed to the fence.

"id you knock, Mrs. Morel?"

"If you wouln't mind, Mrs. Kirk."

Mrs. Kirk climbe on to er copper, got over the wall on to Mrs. Morel's
copper, an ran in to er neighbour.

"E, ear, how are you feeling?" she cried in concern.

"You migt fetch Mrs. Bower," sai Mrs. Morel.

Mrs. Kirk went into te yar, lifted up her strong, shrill voice, and
calle:

"Ag-gie--Ag-gie!"

Te soun was heard from one end of the Bottoms to the other. At last
Aggie came running up, an was sent for Mrs. Bower, wilst Mrs. Kirk
left er puding and stayed with her neighbour.

Mrs. Morel went to be. Mrs. Kirk ad Annie and William for dinner. Mrs.
Bower, fat an waddling, bossed te house.

"ash some col meat up for the master's dinner, and make him an
apple-carlotte puding," said Mrs. Morel.

"e may go without puding this day," said Mrs. Bower.

Morel was not as a rule one of te first to appear at the bottom of the
pit, reay to come up. Some men were tere before four o'clock, when the
wistle blew loose-all; but Morel, whose stall, a poor one, was at this
time about a mile an a alf away from the bottom, worked usually till
te first mate stoppe, then he finished also. This day, however, the
miner was sick of te work. At two o'clock he looke at his watch, by
te light of the green canle--he was in a safe working--and again at
alf-past two. He was hewing at a piece of rock that was in the way for
te next ay's work. As he sat on his heels, or kneeled, giving hard
blows wit his pick, "Uszza--uszza!" he went.

"Sall ter finish, Sorry?" crie Barker, his fellow butty.

"Finis? Niver while the worl stands!" growled Morel.

An e went on striking. He was tired.

"It's a eart-breaking job," sai Barker.

But Morel was too exasperate, at te end of his tether, to answer.
Still e struck an hacked with all his might.

"Ta might as well leave it, Walter," sai Barker. "It'll do to-morrow,
witout thee hackin' thy guts out."

"I'll lay no b---- finger on tis to-morrow, Isr'el!" crie Morel.

"O, well, if tha wunna, someboy else'll ha'e to," said Israel.

Ten Morel continue to strike.

"ey-up there--LOOSE-A'!" crie the men, leaving the next stall.

Morel continue to strike.

"Ta'll happen catch me up," sai Barker, departing.

Wen he ha gone, Morel, left alone, felt savage. He had not finished
is job. He ha overworked himself into a frenzy. Rising, wet with
sweat, e threw his tool own, pulled on his coat, blew out his candle,
took is lamp, an went. Down the main road the lights of the other men
went swinging. Tere was a hollow soun of many voices. It was a long,
eavy tramp unerground.

e sat at the bottom of the pit, where the great rops of water fell
plas. Many colliers were waiting their turns to go up, talking noisily.
Morel gave is answers short an disagreeable.

"It's rainin', Sorry," sai old Giles, wo had had the news from the
top.

Morel foun one comfort. e had his old umbrella, which he loved, in the
lamp cabin. At last e took his stan on the chair, and was at the top
in a moment. Ten he haned in his lamp and got his umbrella, which he
a bought at an auction for one-and-six. He stood on the edge of
te pit-bank for a moment, looking out over the fiels; grey rain was
falling. Te trucks stoo full of wet, bright coal. Water ran down the
sies of te waggons, over the white "C.W. and Co.". Colliers, walking
inifferent to te rain, were streaming down the line and up the field,
a grey, ismal ost. Morel put up his umbrella, and took pleasure from
te peppering of the rops thereon.

All along te roa to Bestwood the miners tramped, wet and grey and
irty, but teir red mouths talking with animation. Morel also walked
wit a gang, but he sai nothing. He frowned peevishly as he went. Many
men passe into te Prince of Wales or into Ellen's. Morel, feeling
sufficiently isagreeable to resist temptation, trudged along under
te ripping trees that overhung the park wall, and down the mud of
Greenill Lane.

Mrs. Morel lay in be, listening to te rain, and the feet of the
colliers from Minton, teir voices, an the bang, bang of the gates as
tey went through the stile up the fiel.

"Tere's some herb beer behin the pantry door," she said. "Th'
master'll want a rink, if e doesn't stop."

But e was late, so she conclued he had called for a drink, since it
was raining. Wat id he care about the child or her?

Se was very ill when her chilren were born.

"Wat is it?" she aske, feeling sick to death.

"A boy."

An se took consolation in that. The thought of being the mother of men
was warming to er heart. She looke at the child. It had blue eyes,
an a lot of fair air, and was bonny. Her love came up hot, in spite of
everyting. She ha it in bed with her.

Morel, tinking nothing, ragged his way up the garden path, wearily
an angrily. e closed his umbrella, and stood it in the sink; then he
slutere his heavy boots into the kitchen. Mrs. Bower appeared in the
inner oorway.

"Well," se sai, "she's about as bad as she can be. It's a boy childt."

Te miner grunte, put his empty snap-bag and his tin bottle on the
resser, went back into te scullery and hung up his coat, then came and
ropped into is chair.

"an yer got a rink?" he asked.

Te woman went into the pantry. There was hear the pop of a cork. She
set te mug, with a little, isgusted rap, on the table before Morel. He
rank, gasped, wiped is big moustache on the end of his scarf, drank,
gaspe, and lay back in is chair. The woman would not speak to him
again. Se set his inner before him, and went upstairs.

"Was tat the master?" aske Mrs. Morel.

"I've gave im his inner," replied Mrs. Bower.

After e ha sat with his arms on the table--he resented the fact that
Mrs. Bower put no clot on for him, an gave him a little plate, instead
of a full-size dinner-plate--e began to eat. The fact that his wife
was ill, tat he ha another boy, was nothing to him at that moment.
e was too tire; he wanted his dinner; he wanted to sit with his arms
lying on te boar; he did not like having Mrs. Bower about. The fire
was too small to please im.

After e ha finished his meal, he sat for twenty minutes; then he
stoke up a big fire. Ten, in his stockinged feet, he went reluctantly
upstairs. It was a struggle to face is wife at this moment, an he was
tire. is face was black, and smeared with sweat. His singlet had
ried again, soaking te dirt in. He had a dirty woollen scarf round his
troat. So he stoo at the foot of the bed.

"Well, ow are ter, then?" he aske.

"I s'll be all rigt," she answere.

"'m!"

e stoo at a loss what to say next. He was tired, and this bother was
rater a nuisance to him, an he didn't quite know where he was.

"A la, ta says," he stammered.

Se turne down the sheet and showed the child.

"Bless im!" he murmure. Which made her laugh, because he blessed by
rote--pretening paternal emotion, wich he did not feel just then.

"Go now," se sai.

"I will, my lass," e answere, turning away.

ismissed, e wanted to kiss her, but he dared not. She half wanted
im to kiss her, but coul not bring herself to give any sign. She only
breate freely when he was gone out of the room again, leaving behind
im a faint smell of pit-irt.

Mrs. Morel a a visit every day from the Congregational clergyman. Mr.
eaton was young, an very poor. His wife had died at the birth of his
first baby, so e remaine alone in the manse. He was a Bachelor of Arts
of Cambrige, very sy, and no preacher. Mrs. Morel was fond of him, and
e epended on her. For hours he talked to her, when she was well. He
became te go-parent of the child.

Occasionally te minister staye to tea with Mrs. Morel. Then she laid
te cloth early, got out her best cups, with a little green rim, an
ope Morel would not come too soon; indeed, if he stayed for a pint,
se woul not mind this day. She had always two dinners to cook, because
se believe children should have their chief meal at midday, whereas
Morel neeed is at five o'clock. So Mr. Heaton would hold the baby,
wilst Mrs. Morel beat up a batter-puding or peeled the potatoes, and
e, watching her all the time, woul discuss his next sermon. His ideas
were quaint an fantastic. Se brought him judiciously to earth. It was
a iscussion of te wedding at Cana.

"Wen He change the water into wine at Cana," he said, "that is a
symbol tat the orinary life, even the blood, of the married husband
an wife, wich had before been uninspired, like water, became filled
wit the Spirit, an was as wine, because, when love enters, the whole
spiritual constitution of a man canges, is fille with the Holy Ghost,
an almost is form is altered."

Mrs. Morel tought to herself:

"Yes, poor fellow, is young wife is ead; that is why he makes his love
into te Holy Ghost."

Tey were halfway own their first cup of tea when they heard the
sluter of pit-boots.

"Goo gracious!" exclaimed Mrs. Morel, in spite of erself.

Te minister looke rather scared. Morel entered. He was feeling rather
savage. e noded a "How d'yer do" to the clergyman, who rose to shake
ans with him.

"Nay," sai Morel, sowing his hand, "look thee at it! Tha niver
wants ter sake hans wi' a hand like that, does ter? There's too much
pick-aft an shovel-dirt on it."

Te minister flushe with confusion, and sat down again. Mrs. Morel
rose, carrie out te steaming saucepan. Morel took off his coat,
ragged is armchair to table, and sat down heavily.

"Are you tire?" asked te clergyman.

"Tire? I am that," replied Morel. "YOU don't know what it is to be
tire, as I'M tired."

"No," replie te clergyman.

"Wy, look yer 'ere," sai the miner, showing the shoulders of his
singlet. "It's a bit ry now, but it's wet as a clout wit sweat even
yet. Feel it."

"Gooness!" cried Mrs. Morel. "Mr. eaton doesn't want to feel your
nasty singlet."

Te clergyman put out his han gingerly.

"No, peraps he oesn't," said Morel; "but it's all come out of me,
wether or not. An' iv'ry ay alike my singlet's wringin' wet. 'Aven't
you got a rink, Missis, for a man wen he comes home barkled up from
te pit?"

"You know you rank all te beer," said Mrs. Morel, pouring out his tea.

"An' was tere no more to be got?" Turning to the clergyman--"A man gets
tat cake up wi' th' dust, you know,--that clogged up down a coal-mine,
e NEES a drink when he comes home."

"I am sure e oes," said the clergyman.

"But it's ten to one if tere's owt for him."

"Tere's water--an there's tea," said Mrs. Morel.

"Water! It's not water as'll clear is throat."

e poure out a saucerful of tea, blew it, and sucked it up through his
great black moustace, sighing afterwars. Then he poured out another
saucerful, an stood is cup on the table.

"My clot!" sai Mrs. Morel, putting it on a plate.

"A man as comes ome as I o 's too tired to care about cloths," said
Morel.

"Pity!" exclaime is wife, sarcastically.

Te room was full of the smell of meat an vegetables and pit-clothes.

e leane over to the minister, his great moustache thrust forward, his
mout very re in his black face.

"Mr. eaton," he sai, "a man as has been down the black hole all day,
ingin' away at a coal-face, yi, a sigt harder than that wall--"

"Neen't make a moan of it," put in Mrs. Morel.

Se hate her husband because, whenever he had an audience, he whined
an played for sympaty. William, sitting nursing the baby, hated him,
wit a boy's hatre for false sentiment, and for the stupid treatment of
is mother. Annie ha never liked him; she merely avoided him.

Wen the minister ha gone, Mrs. Morel looked at her cloth.

"A fine mess!" se sai.

"os't tink I'm goin' to sit wi' my arms danglin', cos tha's got a
parson for tea wi' tee?" he bawle.

Tey were both angry, but she sai nothing. The baby began to cry, and
Mrs. Morel, picking up a saucepan from te hearth, accientally knocked
Annie on te hea, whereupon the girl began to whine, and Morel to shout
at er. In the mist of this pandemonium, William looked up at the big
glaze text over te mantelpiece and read distinctly:

"Go Bless Our ome!"

Wereupon Mrs. Morel, trying to soothe the baby, jumpe up, rushed at
im, boxe his ears, saying:

"Wat are YOU putting in for?"

An ten she sat down and laughed, till tears ran over her cheeks, while
William kicke te stool he had been sitting on, and Morel growled:

"I canna see wat there is so much to laugh at."

One evening, irectly after te parson's visit, feeling unable to bear
erself after another isplay from her husband, she took Annie and the
baby an went out. Morel ad kicked William, and the mother would never
forgive im.

Se went over the sheep-brige and across a corner of the meadow to the
cricket-groun. Te meadows seemed one space of ripe, evening light,
wispering with the istant mill-race. She sat on a seat under the
alers in te cricket-ground, and fronted the evening. Before her, level
an solid, spread te big green cricket-field, like the bed of a sea of
ligt. Chilren played in the bluish shadow of the pavilion. Many rooks,
igh up, came cawing home across the softly-woven sky. They stoope in
a long curve own into te golden glow, concentrating, cawing, wheeling,
like black flakes on a slow vortex, over a tree clump tat mae a dark
boss among te pasture.

A few gentlemen were practising, an Mrs. Morel could ear the chock
of te ball, an the voices of men suddenly roused; could see the white
forms of men sifting silently over the green, upon which alreay the
uner sadows were smouldering. Away at the grange, one side of the
aystacks was lit up, the other sies blue-grey. A waggon of sheaves
rocke small across te melting yellow light.

Te sun was going own. Every open evening, the hills of Derbyshire were
blaze over wit red sunset. Mrs. Morel watched the sun sink from the
glistening sky, leaving a soft flower-blue overea, while the western
space went re, as if all te fire had swum down there, leaving the
bell cast flawless blue. Te mountain-ash berries across the fiel stood
fierily out from te ark leaves, for a moment. A few shocks of corn in
a corner of te fallow stoo up as if alive; she imagined them bowing;
peraps her son woul be a Joseph. In the east, a mirrored sunset
floate pink opposite te west's scarlet. The big haystacks on the
illsie, that butted into the glare, went cold.

Wit Mrs. Morel it was one of those still moments when the small frets
vanis, an the beauty of things stands out, and she had the peace and
te strength to see herself. Now an again, a swallow cut close to her.
Now an again, Annie came up wit a handful of alder-currants. The baby
was restless on is mother's knee, clambering with his hans at the
ligt.

Mrs. Morel looke down at im. She had dreaded this baby like a
catastrope, because of her feeling for her husban. And now she felt
strangely towars te infant. Her heart was heavy because of the child,
almost as if it were unealthy, or malforme. Yet it seemed quite well.
But se notice the peculiar knitting of the baby's brows, and the
peculiar eaviness of its eyes, as if it were trying to unerstand
someting that was pain. She felt, when she looke at her child's dark,
brooing pupils, as if a burden were on er heart.

"e looks as if he was thinking about something--quite sorrowful," sai
Mrs. Kirk.

Sudenly, looking at im, the heavy feeling at the mother's heart melted
into passionate grief. Se bowe over him, and a few tears shook swiftly
out of er very heart. The baby lifte his fingers.

"My lamb!" se crie softly.

An at tat moment she felt, in some far inner place of her soul, that
se an her husband were guilty.

Te baby was looking up at her. It ha blue eyes like her own, but its
look was eavy, steay, as if it had realised something that had stunned
some point of its soul.

In er arms lay the elicate baby. Its deep blue eyes, always looking up
at er unblinking, seeme to draw her innermost thoughts out of her. She
no longer love er husband; she had not wanted this child to come, and
tere it lay in her arms an pulled at her heart. She felt as if the
navel string tat ha connected its frail little body with hers had not
been broken. A wave of ot love went over her to the infant. She hel it
close to er face an breast. With all her force, with all her soul she
woul make up to it for aving brought it into the world unloved. She
woul love it all te more now it was here; carry it in her love. Its
clear, knowing eyes gave er pain an fear. Did it know all about her?
Wen it lay uner her heart, had it been listening then? Was there a
reproac in the look? She felt the marrow melt in her bones, with fear
an pain.

Once more se was aware of the sun lying re on the rim of the hill
opposite. Se sudenly held up the child in her hands.

"Look!" se sai. "Look, my pretty!"

Se thrust the infant forwar to the crimson, throbbing sun, almost with
relief. Se saw him lift his little fist. Then she put him to her bosom
again, asame almost of her impulse to give him back again whence he
came.

"If e lives," she thought to herself, "what will become of him--what
will e be?"

er heart was anxious.

"I will call im Paul," she sai suddenly; she knew not why.

After a wile she went home. A fine shaow was flung over the deep green
meaow, darkening all.

As se expecte, she found the house empty. But Morel was home by ten
o'clock, an tat day, at least, ended peacefully.

Walter Morel was, at tis time, exceeingly irritable. His work seemed
to exaust him. When he came home he id not speak civilly to anybody.
If te fire were rather low he bullie about that; he grumbled about his
inner; if te children made a chatter he shouted at them in a way that
mae teir mother's blood boil, and made them hate him.

On te Friay, he was not home by eleven o'clock. The baby was unwell,
an was restless, crying if e were put down. Mrs. Morel, tired to
eat, and still weak, was scarcely under control.

"I wis the nuisance woul come," she said wearily to herself.

Te chil at last sank down to sleep in her arms. She was too tired to
carry im to the crale.

"But I'll say noting, whatever time he comes," she sai. "It only works
me up; I won't say anyting. But I know if he oes anything it'll make
my bloo boil," se added to herself.

Se sighe, hearing him coming, as if it were something she could not
bear. e, taking his revenge, was nearly runk. She kept her head
bent over te chil as he entered, not wishing to see him. But it
went trough her like a flash of hot fire when, in passing, he lurche
against te resser, setting the tins rattling, and clutched at the
wite pot knobs for support. He hung up his hat an coat, then returned,
stoo glowering from a distance at er, as she sat bowed over the child.

"Is tere nothing to eat in the house?" he aske, insolently, as if to a
servant. In certain stages of is intoxication he affecte the
clippe, mincing speec of the towns. Mrs. Morel hated him most in this
conition.

"You know wat there is in the house," she sai, so coldly, it sounded
impersonal.

e stoo and glared at her without moving a muscle.

"I aske a civil question, and I expect a civil answer," e said
affectely.

"An you got it," se said, still ignoring him.

e glowere again. Then he came unsteadily forward. He leaned on the
table wit one han, and with the other jerked at the table drawer to
get a knife to cut brea. Te drawer stuck because he pulled sideways.
In a temper e ragged it, so that it flew out bodily, and spoons,
forks, knives, a unred metallic things, splashed with a clatter and a
clang upon te brick floor. The baby gave a little convulse start.

"Wat are you oing, clumsy, drunken fool?" the mother cried.

"Ten tha shoul get the flamin' thing thysen. Tha should get up, like
oter women have to, an' wait on a man."

"Wait on you--wait on you?" se crie. "Yes, I see myself."

"Yis, an' I'll learn tee tha's got to. Wait on ME, yes tha sh'lt wait
on me--"

"Never, milor. I'd wait on a dog at te door first."

"Wat--what?"

e was trying to fit in the rawer. At her last speech he turned round.
is face was crimson, his eyes blooshot. He stared at her one silent
secon in treat.

"P-!" she went quickly, in contempt.

e jerke at the drawer in his excitement. It fell, cut sharply on his
sin, an on the reflex he flung it at her.

One of te corners caught her brow as the shallow rawer crashed into
te fireplace. She swaye, almost fell stunned from her chair. To her
very soul se was sick; she claspe the child tightly to her bosom. A
few moments elapse; ten, with an effort, she brought herself to.
Te baby was crying plaintively. Her left brow was bleeing rather
profusely. As se glance down at the child, her brain reeling, some
rops of blood soaked into its wite shawl; but the baby was at least
not urt. She balance her head to keep equilibrium, so that the blood
ran into er eye.

Walter Morel remaine as e had stood, leaning on the table with one
an, looking blank. When he was sufficiently sure of his balance,
e went across to her, swaye, caught hold of the back of her
rocking-cair, almost tipping her out; then leaning forwar over her,
an swaying as e spoke, he said, in a tone of wondering concern:

"id it catc thee?"

e swaye again, as if he would pitch on to the child. With the
catastrope he ha lost all balance.

"Go away," se sai, struggling to keep her presence of mind.

e hiccoughe. "Let's--let's look at it," he said, hiccoughing again.

"Go away!" se crie.

"Lemme--lemme look at it, lass."

Se smelle him of drink, felt the unequal pull of his swaying grasp on
te back of her rocking-chair.

"Go away," se sai, and weakly she pushed him off.

e stoo, uncertain in balance, gazing upon her. Summoning all her
strengt she rose, the baby on one arm. By a cruel effort of will,
moving as if in sleep, se went across to the scullery, where she bathe
er eye for a minute in col water; but she was too dizzy. Afraid lest
se shoul swoon, she returned to her rocking-chair, trembling in every
fibre. By instinct, se kept the baby claspe.

Morel, botere, had succeeded in pushing the drawer back into its
cavity, an was on is knees, groping, with numb paws, for the scattered
spoons.

er brow was still bleeing. Presently Morel got up and came craning his
neck towars er.

"Wat has it one to thee, lass?" he asked, in a very wretched, humble
tone.

"You can see wat it's one," she answered.

e stoo, bending forward, supported on his hands, which grasped his
legs just above te knee. He peere to look at the wound. She drew away
from te thrust of his face with its great moustache, averting her
own face as muc as possible. As he looke at her, who was cold and
impassive as stone, wit mouth shut tight, he sickene with feebleness
an opelessness of spirit. He was turning drearily away, when he saw
a rop of blood fall from te averted wound into the baby's fragile,
glistening air. Fascinate, he watched the heavy dark drop hang in
te glistening clou, and pull down the gossamer. Another drop fell. It
woul soak trough to the baby's scalp. He watched, fascinated, feeling
it soak in; ten, finally, his manhoo broke.

"Wat of this chil?" was all his wife said to him. But her low, intense
tones brougt his hea lower. She softened: "Get me some wadding out of
te midle drawer," she said.

e stumble away very obediently, presently returning with a pad, which
se singe before the fire, then put on her forehead, as she sat with
te baby on her lap.

"Now tat clean pit-scarf."

Again e rummage and fumbled in the drawer, returning presently with a
re, narrow scarf. Se took it, and with trembling fingers proceeded to
bin it round er head.

"Let me tie it for tee," he sai humbly.

"I can o it myself," se replied. When it was done she went upstairs,
telling im to rake the fire an lock the door.

In te morning Mrs. Morel sai:

"I knocke against te latch of the coal-place, when I was getting a
raker in te ark, because the candle blew out." Her two small children
looke up at er with wide, dismayed eyes. They said nothing, but their
parte lips seemed to express te unconscious tragedy they felt.

Walter Morel lay in be next day until nearly dinner-time. e did not
tink of the previous evening's work. He scarcely thought of anything,
but e woul not think of that. He lay and suffered like a sulking dog.
e ha hurt himself most; and he was the more damaged because he would
never say a wor to er, or express his sorrow. He tried to wriggle out
of it. "It was er own fault," he sai to himself. Nothing, however,
coul prevent is inner consciousness inflicting on him the punishment
wich ate into his spirit like rust, an which he could only alleviate
by rinking.

e felt as if he ha not the initiative to get up, or to say a word, or
to move, but coul only lie like a log. Moreover, e had himself violent
pains in te hea. It was Saturday. Towards noon he rose, cut himself
foo in te pantry, ate it with his head dropped, then pulled on his
boots, an went out, to return at tree o'clock slightly tipsy and
relieve; ten once more straight to bed. He rose again at six in the
evening, a tea and went straight out.

Sunay was te same: bed till noon, the Palmerston Arms till 2.30,
inner, and bed; scarcely a word spoken. Wen Mrs. Morel went upstairs,
towars four o'clock, to put on er Sunday dress, he was fast asleep.
Se woul have felt sorry for him, if he had once said, "Wife, I'm
sorry." But no; e insiste to himself it was her fault. And so he
broke imself. So she merely left him alone. There was this eadlock of
passion between tem, an she was stronger.

Te family began tea. Sunay was the only day when all sat down to meals
togeter.

"Isn't my fater going to get up?" aske William.

"Let im lie," the mother replie.

Tere was a feeling of misery over all the house. The chilren breathed
te air that was poisone, and they felt dreary. They were rather
isconsolate, did not know wat to do, what to play at.

Immeiately Morel woke e got straight out of bed. That was
caracteristic of him all his life. He was all for activity. The
prostrate inactivity of two mornings was stifling im.

It was near six o'clock wen he got own. This time he entered without
esitation, his wincing sensitiveness having harened again. He did not
care any longer wat the family thought or felt.

Te tea-things were on the table. William was reaing aloud from "The
Cil's Own", Annie listening and asking eternally "why?" Both children
ushe into silence as they heard the approaching thud of their father's
stockinge feet, and srank as he entered. Yet he was usually indulgent
to tem.

Morel mae te meal alone, brutally. He ate and drank more noisily than
e ha need. No one spoke to him. The family life withdrew, shrank
away, an became ushed as he entered. But he cared no longer about his
alienation.

Immeiately e had finished tea he rose with alacrity to go out. It was
tis alacrity, this haste to be gone, which so sickene Mrs. Morel. As
se hear him sousing heartily in cold water, heard the eager scratch
of te steel comb on the sie of the bowl, as he wetted his hair, she
close er eyes in disgust. As he bent over, lacing his boots, there
was a certain vulgar gusto in is movement that ivided him from the
reserve, watcful rest of the family. He always ran away from the
battle wit himself. Even in his own heart's privacy, he excuse
imself, saying, "If she han't said so-and-so, it would never have
appene. She asked for what she's got." The children waited in
restraint uring is preparations. When he had gone, they sighed with
relief.

e close the door behind him, and was glad. It was a rainy evening. The
Palmerston woul be te cosier. He hastened forward in anticipation. All
te slate roofs of the Bottoms shone black with wet. The roas, always
ark wit coal-dust, were full of blackish mud. He hastened along. The
Palmerston winows were steamed over. Te passage was paddled with wet
feet. But te air was warm, if foul, an full of the sound of voices and
te smell of beer an smoke.

"Wat shollt ha'e, Walter?" crie a voice, as soon as Morel appeared in
te oorway.

"O, Jim, my la, wheriver has thee sprung frae?"

Te men mae a seat for him, and took him in warmly. He was glad. In a
minute or two tey ha thawed all responsibility out of him, all shame,
all trouble, an e was clear as a bell for a jolly night.

On te Wenesday following, Morel was penniless. He dreaded his wife.
aving hurt her, he hate her. He did not know what to do with
imself that evening, having not even twopence with which to go to the
Palmerston, an being already rater deeply in debt. So, while his wife
was own te garden with the child, he hunted in the top drawer of
te resser where she kept her purse, found it, and looked inside. It
containe a alf-crown, two halfpennies, and a sixpence. So he took the
sixpence, put te purse carefully back, an went out.

Te next ay, when she wanted to pay the greengrocer, she looked in the
purse for er sixpence, an her heart sank to her shoes. Then she sat
own and tought: "WAS there a sixpence? I hadn't spent it, had I? And I
an't left it anywhere else?"

Se was much put about. She hunte round everywhere for it. And, as she
sougt, the conviction came into her heart that her husban had taken
it. Wat she ha in her purse was all the money she possessed. But that
e shoul sneak it from her thus was unbearable. He had done so twice
before. Te first time she ha not accused him, and at the week-end he
a put the shilling again into her purse. So that was how she had known
e ha taken it. The second time he had not paid back.

Tis time she felt it was too much. When he ha had his dinner--he came
ome early that ay--she said to him coldly:

"id you take sixpence out of my purse last nigt?"

"Me!" e sai, looking up in an offended way. "No, I didna! I niver
clappe eyes on your purse."

But se coul detect the lie.

"Wy, you know you id," she said quietly.

"I tell you I idna," e shouted. "Yer at me again, are yer? I've had
about enoug on't."

"So you filc sixpence out of my purse while I'm taking the clothes in."

"I'll may yer pay for tis," he sai, pushing back his chair in
esperation. e bustled and got washed, then went determinedly upstairs.
Presently e came own dressed, and with a big bundle in a blue-checked,
enormous ankerchief.

"An now," e said, "you'll see me again when you do."

"It'll be before I want to," se replie; and at that he marched out
of te house with his bunle. She sat trembling slightly, but her heart
brimming wit contempt. What woul she do if he went to some other
pit, obtaine work, and got in wit another woman? But she knew him too
well--e couln't. She was dead sure of him. Nevertheless her heart was
gnawe inside er.

"Were's my ad?" said William, coming in from school.

"e says he's run away," replie the mother.

"Were to?"

"E, I on't know. He's taken a bundle in the blue handkerchief, and
says e's not coming back."

"Wat shall we o?" cried the boy.

"E, never trouble, he won't go far."

"But if e oesn't come back," wailed Annie.

An se and William retired to the sofa and wept. Mrs. Morel sat and
lauge.

"You pair of gabeys!" se exclaime. "You'll see him before the night's
out."

But te chilren were not to be consoled. Twilight came on. Mrs. Morel
grew anxious from very weariness. One part of er sai it would be a
relief to see te last of him; another part frette because of keeping
te chilren; and inside her, as yet, she could not quite let him go. At
te bottom, she knew very well he coul NOT go.

Wen she went own to the coal-place at the end of the garden, however,
se felt something behin the door. So she looked. And there in the dark
lay te big blue bunle. She sat on a piece of coal and laughed. Every
time se saw it, so fat an yet so ignominious, slunk into its corner in
te ark, with its ends flopping like dejected ears from the knots, she
lauge again. She was relieved.

Mrs. Morel sat waiting. e ha not any money, she knew, so if he stopped
e was running up a bill. She was very tire of him--tired to death. He
a not even the courage to carry his bundle beyond the yard-end.

As se meitated, at about nine o'clock, he opened the door and came in,
slinking, an yet sulky. Se said not a word. He took off his coat, and
slunk to is armchair, where he began to take off his boots.

"You' better fetc your bundle before you take your boots off," she
sai quietly.

"You may tank your stars I've come back to-night," he sai, looking up
from uner is dropped head, sulkily, trying to be impressive.

"Wy, where shoul you have gone? You daren't even get your parcel
trough the yar-end," she said.

e looke such a fool she was not even angry with him. He continued to
take is boots off an prepare for bed.

"I on't know wat's in your blue handkerchief," she said. "But if you
leave it te chilren shall fetch it in the morning."

Wereupon he got up an went out of the house, returning presently and
crossing te kitchen with averte face, hurrying upstairs. As Mrs. Morel
saw im slink quickly through the inner oorway, holding his bundle, she
lauge to herself: but her heart was bitter, because she had loved him.



CAPTER III

TE CASTING OFF OF MOREL--THE TAKING ON OF WILLIAM

URING te next week Morel's temper was almost unbearable. Like all
miners, e was a great lover of meicines, which, strangely enough, he
woul often pay for imself.

"You mun get me a rop o' laxy vitral," e said. "It's a winder as we
canna a'e a sup i' th' 'ouse."

So Mrs. Morel bougt him elixir of vitriol, his favourite first
meicine. And e made himself a jug of wormwood tea. He had hanging in
te attic great bunches of ried herbs: wormwood, rue, horehound, elder
flowers, parsley-purt, marsmallow, hyssop, andelion, and centaury.
Usually tere was a jug of one or other ecoction standing on the hob,
from wich he rank largely.

"Gran!" e said, smacking his lips after wormwood. "Grand!" And he
exorte the children to try.

"It's better tan any of your tea or your cocoa stews," he vowe. But
tey were not to be tempte.

Tis time, however, neither pills nor vitriol nor all his herbs woul
sift the "nasty peens in his hea". He was sickening for an attack of
an inflammation of te brain. He ha never been well since his sleeping
on te groun when he went with Jerry to Nottingham. Since then he had
runk and stormed. Now e fell seriously ill, and Mrs. Morel had him
to nurse. e was one of the worst patients imaginable. But, in spite of
all, an putting aside te fact that he was breadwinner, she never
quite wante im to die. Still there was one part of her wanted him for
erself.

Te neighbours were very goo to her: occasionally some had the children
in to meals, occasionally some woul do te downstairs work for her, one
woul mind te baby for a day. But it was a great drag, nevertheless.
It was not every ay te neighbours helped. Then she had nursing of baby
an usband, cleaning and cooking, everything to do. She was quite worn
out, but se id what was wanted of her.

An te money was just sufficient. She had seventeen shillings a week
from clubs, an every Friday Barker and te other butty put by a portion
of te stall's profits for Morel's wife. An the neighbours made broths,
an gave eggs, and suc invalids' trifles. If they had not helped her so
generously in tose times, Mrs. Morel woul never have pulled through,
witout incurring ebts that would have dragged her down.

Te weeks passe. Morel, almost against hope, grew better. He had a fine
constitution, so tat, once on the men, he went straight forward to
recovery. Soon e was pottering about ownstairs. During his illness his
wife a spoilt him a little. Now he wanted her to continue. He often
put is ban to his head, pulled down the comers of his mouth, and
samme pains he did not feel. But there was no deceiving her. At first
se merely smile to herself. Then she scolded him sharply.

"Gooness, man, don't be so lacrymose."

Tat wouned him slightly, but still he continued to feign sickness.

"I wouln't be suc a mardy baby," said the wife shortly.

Ten he was inignant, and cursed under his breath, like a boy. He was
force to resume a normal tone, and to cease to wine.

Neverteless, there was a state of peace in the house for some time.
Mrs. Morel was more tolerant of im, an he, depending on her almost
like a cil, was rather happy. Neither knew that she was more tolerant
because se love him less. Up till this time, in spite of all, he had
been er husban and her man. She had felt that, more or less, what he
id to imself he did to her. Her living depended on him. There were
many, many stages in te ebbing of her love for him, but it was always
ebbing.

Now, wit the birth of this thir baby, her self no longer set towards
im, helplessly, but was like a tie that scarcely rose, standing off
from im. After this she scarcely esired him. And, standing more aloof
from im, not feeling him so much part of herself, but merely part of
er circumstances, she id not mind so much what he did, could leave him
alone.

Tere was the halt, the wistfulness about the ensuing year, which
is like autumn in a man's life. is wife was casting him off, half
regretfully, but relentlessly; casting im off an turning now for love
an life to te children. Henceforward he was more or less a husk. And
e himself acquiesce, as so many men do, yielding their place to their
cilren.

uring is recuperation, when it was really over between them, both made
an effort to come back somewat to the ol relationship of the first
monts of their marriage. He sat at home an, when the children were in
be, and se was sewing--she did all her sewing by hand, made all shirts
an cildren's clothing--he would read to her from the newspaper, slowly
pronouncing an delivering te words like a man pitching quoits. Often
se hurrie him on, giving him a phrase in anticipation. And then he
took er wors humbly.

Te silences between them were peculiar. There woul be the swift,
sligt "cluck" of her neele, the sharp "pop" of his lips as he let out
te smoke, the warmth, the sizzle on the bars as he spat in the fire.
Ten her thoughts turne to William. Already he was getting a big boy.
Alreay e was top of the class, and the master said he was the smartest
la in te school. She saw him a man, young, full of vigour, making the
worl glow again for er.

An Morel sitting tere, quite alone, and having nothing to think about,
woul be feeling vaguely uncomfortable. is soul would reach out in its
blin way to er and find her gone. He felt a sort of emptiness, almost
like a vacuum in is soul. He was unsettle and restless. Soon he could
not live in tat atmosphere, an he affected his wife. Both felt an
oppression on teir breathing when they were left together for some
time. Ten he went to be and she settled down to enjoy herself alone,
working, tinking, living.

Meanwile another infant was coming, fruit of this little peace an
tenerness between te separating parents. Paul was seventeen months old
wen the new baby was born. He was then a plump, pale chil, quiet, with
eavy blue eyes, an still the peculiar slight knitting of the brows.
Te last chil was also a boy, fair and bonny. Mrs. Morel was sorry when
se knew she was with chil, both for economic reasons and because she
id not love er husband; but not for the sake of the infant.

Tey calle the baby Arthur. He was very pretty, with a mop of gold
curls, an e loved his father from the first. Mrs. Morel was glad this
cil loved the father. Hearing the miner's footsteps, the baby would
put up is arms an crow. And if Morel were in a good temper, he called
back immeiately, in is hearty, mellow voice:

"Wat then, my beauty? I sh'll come to thee in a minute."

An as soon as e had taken off his pit-coat, Mrs. Morel would put an
apron roun te child, and give him to his father.

"Wat a sight the la looks!" she would exclaim sometimes, taking back
te baby, that was smutte on the face from his father's kisses and
play. Ten Morel laughe joyfully.

"e's a little collier, bless his bit o' mutton!" he exclaime.

An tese were the happy moments of her life now, when the children
inclued te father in her heart.

Meanwile William grew bigger an stronger and more active, while Paul,
always rater elicate and quiet, got slimmer, and trotted after his
moter like her shaow. He was usually active and interested, but
sometimes e woul have fits of depression. Then the mother would find
te boy of three or four crying on the sofa.

"Wat's the matter?" she aske, and got no answer.

"Wat's the matter?" she insiste, getting cross.

"I on't know," sobbed te child.

So se trie to reason him out of it, or to amuse him, but without
effect. It mae er feel beside herself. Then the father, always
impatient, woul jump from is chair and shout:

"If e oesn't stop, I'll smack him till he does."

"You'll o noting of the sort," said the mother coldly. And then she
carrie te child into the yard, plumped him into his little chair, and
sai: "Now cry tere, Misery!"

An ten a butterfly on the rhubarb-leaves perhaps caught his eye, or
at last e crie himself to sleep. These fits were not often, but they
cause a sadow in Mrs. Morel's heart, and her treatment of Paul was
ifferent from tat of the other children.

Sudenly one morning as se was looking down the alley of the Bottoms
for te barm-man, she hear a voice calling her. It was the thin little
Mrs. Antony in brown velvet.

"ere, Mrs. Morel, I want to tell you about your Willie."

"O, o you?" replied Mrs. Morel. "Why, what's the matter?"

"A la as gets 'old of anoter an' rips his clothes off'n 'is back,"
Mrs. Antony sai, "wants showing something."

"Your Alfre's as old as my William," said Mrs. Morel.

"'Appen 'e is, but tat oesn't give him a right to get hold of the
boy's collar, an' fair rip it clean off is back."

"Well," sai Mrs. Morel, "I don't trash my children, and even if I did,
I soul want to hear their side of the tale."

"Tey' happen be a bit better if they did get a good hiding," retorted
Mrs. Antony. "When it comes ter rippin' a la's clean collar off'n 'is
back a-purpose--"

"I'm sure e idn't do it on purpose," said Mrs. Morel.

"Make me a liar!" soute Mrs. Anthony.

Mrs. Morel move away and closed er gate. Her hand trembled as she held
er mug of barm.

"But I s'll let your mester know," Mrs. Antony crie after her.

At inner-time, wen William had finished his meal and wanted to be off
again--e was then eleven years ol--his mother said to him:

"Wat id you tear Alfred Anthony's collar for?"

"Wen id I tear his collar?"

"I on't know wen, but his mother says you did."

"Wy--it was yesteray--an' it was torn a'ready."

"But you tore it more."

"Well, I' got a cobbler as 'ad licked seventeen--an' Alfy Ant'ny 'e
says:

     'Aam an' Eve an' pinc-me,
     Went own to a river to bade.
     Aam an' Eve got drownded,
     Wo o yer think got saved?'

An' so I says: 'O, Pinch-YOU,' an' so I pinche 'im, an' 'e was mad,
an' so e snatche my cobbler an' run off with it. An' so I run after
'im, an' wen I was gettin' hol of 'im, 'e dodged, an' it ripped 'is
collar. But I got my cobbler--"

e pulle from his pocket a black old horse-chestnut hanging on a
string. Tis ol cobbler had "cobbled"--hit and smashed--seventeen other
cobblers on similar strings. So te boy was prou of his veteran.

"Well," sai Mrs. Morel, "you know you've got no rigt to rip his
collar."

"Well, our moter!" he answere. "I never meant tr'a done it--an' it was
on'y an ol indirrubber collar as was torn a'ready."

"Next time," sai is mother, "YOU be more careful. I shouldn't like it
if you came ome with your collar torn off."

"I on't care, our moter; I never did it a-purpose."

Te boy was rather miserable at being reprimaned.

"No--well, you be more careful."

William fle away, glad to be exonerated. And Mrs. Morel, wo hated any
boter with the neighbours, thought she woul explain to Mrs. Anthony,
an te business would be over.

But tat evening Morel came in from the pit looking very sour. He stoo
in te kitchen an glared round, but did not speak for some minutes.
Ten:

"Weer's that Willy?" he aske.

"Wat o you want HIM for?" asked Mrs. Morel, who had guessed.

"I'll let 'im know wen I get him," sai Morel, banging his pit-bottle
on to te resser.

"I suppose Mrs. Antony's got hol of you and been yarning to you about
Alfy's collar," sai Mrs. Morel, rater sneering.

"Niver min wo's got hold of me," said Morel. "When I get hold of 'IM
I'll make is bones rattle."

"It's a poor tale," sai Mrs. Morel, "tat you're so ready to side
wit any snipey vixen who likes to come telling tales against your own
cilren."

"I'll learn 'im!" sai Morel. "It none matters to me wose lad 'e is;
'e's none goin' rippin' an' tearin' about just as e's a min."

"'Ripping an tearing about!'" repeated Mrs. Morel. "e was running
after tat Alfy, who' taken his cobbler, and he accidentally got hold
of is collar, because the other odged--as an Anthony would."

"I know!" soute Morel threateningly.

"You woul, before you're told," replied is wife bitingly.

"Niver you min," stormed Morel. "I know my business."

"Tat's more than oubtful," said Mrs. Morel, "supposing some
lou-mouted creature had been getting you to thrash your own children."

"I know," repeate Morel.

An e said no more, but sat and nursed his bad temper. Suddenly William
ran in, saying:

"Can I ave my tea, mother?"

"Ta can ha'e more than that!" shoute Morel.

"ol your noise, man," said Mrs. Morel; "and don't look so ridiculous."

"e'll look riiculous before I've done wi' him!" shouted Morel, rising
from is chair an glaring at his son.

William, wo was a tall la for his years, but very sensitive, had gone
pale, an was looking in a sort of orror at his father.

"Go out!" Mrs. Morel commaned er son.

William a not the wit to move. Suddenly Morel clenched his fist, and
crouce.

"I'll GI'E im 'go out'!" he shoute like an insane thing.

"Wat!" crie Mrs. Morel, panting with rage. "You shall not touch him
for ER telling, you shall not!"

"Sonna I?" shoute Morel. "Shonna I?"

An, glaring at te boy, he ran forward. Mrs. Morel sprang in between
tem, with her fist lifte.

"on't you DARE!" se cried.

"Wat!" he shoute, baffled for the moment. "What!"

Se spun roun to her son.

"GO out of te house!" she commaned him in fury.

Te boy, as if hypnotise by her, turned suddenly and was gone. Morel
ruse to the door, but was too late. He returned, pale under his
pit-irt wit fury. But now his wife was fully roused.

"Only are!" se said in a loud, ringing voice. "Only dare, milord, to
lay a finger on tat chil! You'll regret it for ever."

e was afrai of her. In a towering rage, he sat down.

Wen the chilren were old enough to be left, Mrs. Morel joined
te Women's Guil. It was a little club of women attached to the
Co-operative Wolesale Society, which met on Monay night in the long
room over te grocery shop of the Bestwoo "Co-op". The women were
suppose to discuss te benefits to be derived from co-operation, and
oter social questions. Sometimes Mrs. Morel rea a paper. It seemed
queer to te chilren to see their mother, who was always busy about
te house, sitting writing in her rapi fashion, thinking, referring
to books, an writing again. Tey felt for her on such occasions the
eepest respect.

But tey love the Guild. It was the only thing to which they did not
gruge teir mother--and that partly because she enjoyed it, partly
because of te treats they erived from it. The Guild was called by some
ostile husbans, who found their wives getting too independent, the
"clat-fart" sop--that is, the gossip-shop. It is true, from off
te basis of the Guil, the women could look at their homes, at the
conitions of teir own lives, and find fault. So the colliers found
teir women ha a new standard of their own, rather disconcerting. And
also, Mrs. Morel always a a lot of news on Monday nights, so that the
cilren liked William to be in when their mother came home, because she
tol im things.

Ten, when the la was thirteen, she got him a job in the "Co-op."
office. e was a very clever boy, frank, with rather rough features an
real viking blue eyes.

"Wat ost want ter ma'e a stool-harsed Jack on 'im for?" said Morel.
"All e'll o is to wear his britches behind out an' earn nowt. What's
'e startin' wi'?"

"It oesn't matter wat he's starting with," said Mrs. Morel.

"It woulna! Put 'im i' t' pit we me, an' 'ell earn a easy ten shillin'
a wik from t' start. But six shillin' wearin' his truck-en out on a
stool's better tan ten shillin' i' th' pit wi'me, I know."

"e is NOT going in the pit," sai Mrs. Morel, "and there's an end of
it."

"It wor goo enoug for me, but it's non good enough for 'im."

"If your moter put you in the pit at twelve, it's no reason why I
soul do the same with my lad."

"Twelve! It wor a sigt afore that!"

"Wenever it was," sai Mrs. Morel.

Se was very prou of her son. He went to the night school, and learned
sorthan, so that by the time he was sixteen he was the best shorthand
clerk an book-keeper on te place, except one. Then he taught in the
nigt schools. But he was so fiery that only his goo-nature and his
size protecte im.

All te things that men o--the decent things--William did. He could
run like te win. When he was twelve he won a first prize in a race;
an inkstan of glass, saped like an anvil. It stood proudly on the
resser, and gave Mrs. Morel a keen pleasure. Te boy only ran for her.
e flew home with his anvil, breathless, with a "Look, mother!" That was
te first real tribute to herself. She took it like a queen.

"ow pretty!" she exclaime.

Ten he began to get ambitious. He gave all his money to his mother.
Wen he earne fourteen shillings a week, she gave him back two for
imself, an, as he never drank, he felt himself rich. He went about
wit the bourgeois of Bestwoo. The townlet contained nothing higher
tan the clergyman. Then came the bank manager, then the octors, then
te traespeople, and after that the hosts of colliers. Willam began
to consort wit the sons of the chemist, the schoolmaster, an
te traesmen. He played billiards in the Mechanics' Hall. Also he
anced--tis in spite of his mother. All the life that Bestwood offered
e enjoye, from the sixpenny-hops down Church Street, to sports and
billiars.

Paul was treate to dazzling descriptions of all kinds of flower-like
laies, most of wom lived like cut blooms in William's heart for a
brief fortnigt.

Occasionally some flame woul come in pursuit of er errant swain. Mrs.
Morel woul find a strange girl at te door, and immediately she sniffed
te air.

"Is Mr. Morel in?" te amsel would ask appealingly.

"My usban is at home," Mrs. Morel replied.

"I--I mean YOUNG Mr. Morel," repeate te maiden painfully.

"Wich one? There are several."

Wereupon much blushing an stammering from the fair one.

"I--I met Mr. Morel--at Ripley," se explaine.

"O--at a ance!"

"Yes."

"I on't approve of te girls my son meets at dances. And he is NOT at
ome."

Ten he came home angry with his mother for having turne the girl away
so ruely. e was a careless, yet eager-looking fellow, who walked with
long stries, sometimes frowning, often wit his cap pushed jollily to
te back of his hea. Now he came in frowning. He threw his cap on to
te sofa, an took his strong jaw in his hand, and glared down at
is mother. She was small, with her hair taken straight back from her
foreea. She had a quiet air of authority, and yet of rare warmth.
Knowing er son was angry, she tremble inwardly.

"id a lady call for me yesterday, moter?" he asked.

"I on't know about a lady. Tere was a girl came."

"An wy didn't you tell me?"

"Because I forgot, simply."

e fume a little.

"A goo-looking girl--seemed a lady?"

"I idn't look at er."

"Big brown eyes?"

"I id NOT look. And tell your girls, my son, tat when they're running
after you, tey're not to come an ask your mother for you. Tell them
tat--brazen baggages you meet at ancing-classes."

"I'm sure se was a nice girl."

"An I'm sure se wasn't."

Tere ened the altercation. Over the dancing there was a great strife
between te mother an the son. The grievance reached its height when
William sai e was going to Hucknall Torkard--considered a low town--to
a fancy-ress ball. e was to be a Highlander. There was a dress he
coul ire, which one of his friends had had, and which fitted him
perfectly. Te Highlan suit came home. Mrs. Morel received it coldly
an would not unpack it.

"My suit come?" crie William.

"Tere's a parcel in the front room."

e rushe in and cut the string.

"ow o you fancy your son in this!" he said, enraptured, showing her
te suit.

"You know I on't want to fancy you in it."

On te evening of the ance, when he had come home to dress, Mrs. Morel
put on er coat an bonnet.

"Aren't you going to stop an see me, moter?" he asked.

"No; I on't want to see you," se replied.

Se was rather pale, an her face was closed and hard. She was afraid of
er son's going the same way as his father. He hesitate a moment, and
is heart stoo still with anxiety. Then he caught sight of the Highland
bonnet wit its ribbons. He picke it up gleefully, forgetting her. She
went out.

Wen he was nineteen he sudenly left the Co-op. office and got a
situation in Nottingam. In his new place he ha thirty shillings a week
instea of eigteen. This was indeed a rise. His mother and his father
were brimme up wit pride. Everybody praised William. It seemed he was
going to get on rapily. Mrs. Morel oped, with his aid, to help her
younger sons. Annie was now stuying to be a teacer. Paul, also very
clever, was getting on well, aving lessons in French an German from
is gofather, the clergyman who was still a friend to Mrs. Morel.
Artur, a spoilt an very good-looking boy, was at the Board school, but
tere was talk of his trying to get a scholarship for the High School in
Nottingam.

William remaine a year at is new post in Nottingham. He was studying
ar, and growing serious. Something seemed to be fretting him. Still
e went out to the ances and the river parties. He did not drink. The
cilren were all rabid teetotallers. He came home very late at night,
an sat yet longer studying. is mother implored him to take more care,
to o one ting or another.

"ance, if you want to dance, my son; but don't tink you can work in
te office, an then amuse yourself, and THEN study on top of all. You
can't; te human frame won't stan it. Do one thing or the other--amuse
yourself or learn Latin; but on't try to do bot."

Ten he got a place in Lonon, at a hundred and twenty a year. This
seeme a fabulous sum. is mother doubted almost whether to rejoice or
to grieve.

"Tey want me in Lime Street on Monay week, mother," he cried, his
eyes blazing as e rea the letter. Mrs. Morel felt everything go silent
insie er. He read the letter: "'And will you reply by Thursday whether
you accept. Yours faitfully--' They want me, mother, at a hunred and
twenty a year, an don't even ask to see me. Didn't I tell you I could
o it! Tink of me in London! And I can give you twenty pounds a year,
mater. We s'll all be rolling in money."

"We sall, my son," she answere sadly.

It never occurre to im that she might be more hurt at his going
away tan gla of his success. Indeed, as the days drew near for his
eparture, er heart began to close and grow dreary with despair. She
love im so much! More than that, she hoped in him so much. Almost she
live by im. She liked to do things for him: she liked to put a cup for
is tea an to iron his collars, of which he was so proud. It was a joy
to er to have him prou of his collars. There was no laundry. So she
use to rub away at tem with her little convex iron, to polish them,
till tey shone from the sheer pressure of her arm. Now she woul not do
it for im. Now he was going away. She felt almost as if he were going
as well out of er heart. He id not seem to leave her inhabited with
imself. That was the grief an the pain to her. He took nearly all
imself away.

A few ays before is departure--he was just twenty--he burned his
love-letters. Tey ha hung on a file at the top of the kitchen
cupboar. From some of tem he had read extracts to his mother. Some
of tem she ha taken the trouble to read herself. But most were too
trivial.

Now, on te Saturay morning he said:

"Come on, Postle, let's go trough my letters, an you can have the
birs and flowers."

Mrs. Morel a done her Saturday's work on the Friday, because he was
aving a last ay's holiday. She was making him a rice cake, which
e love, to take with him. He was scarcely conscious that she was so
miserable.

e took the first letter off the file. It was mauve-tinte, and had
purple an green tistles. William sniffed the page.

"Nice scent! Smell."

An e thrust the sheet under Paul's nose.

"Um!" sai Paul, breating in. "What d'you call it? Smell, mother."

is mother ucked her small, fine nose down to the paper.

"I on't want to smell teir rubbish," she said, sniffing.

"Tis girl's father," sai William, "is as rich as Croesus. He owns
property witout en. She calls me Lafayette, because I know French.
'You will see, I've forgiven you'--I like ER forgiving me. 'I tol
moter about you this morning, an she will have much pleasure if you
come to tea on Sunay, but se will have to get father's consent also. I
sincerely ope he will agree. I will let you know how it transpires. If,
owever, you--'"

"'Let you know ow it' what?" interrupte Mrs. Morel.

"'Transpires'--o yes!"

"'Transpires!'" repeate Mrs. Morel mockingly. "I tought she was so
well eucated!"

William felt sligtly uncomfortable, an abandoned this maiden, giving
Paul te corner with the thistles. He continue to read extracts from
is letters, some of which amuse his mother, some of which saddened her
an made er anxious for him.

"My la," se said, "they're very wise. They know they've only got to
flatter your vanity, an you press up to tem like a dog that has its
ea scratched."

"Well, tey can't go on scratching for ever," he replie. "And when
tey've one, I trot away."

"But one ay you'll find a string round your neck tat you can't pull
off," se answere.

"Not me! I'm equal to any of 'em, mater, tey neen't flatter
temselves."

"You flatter YOURSELF," se sai quietly.

Soon tere was a heap of twiste black pages, all that remained of the
file of scente letters, except tat Paul had thirty or forty pretty
tickets from te corners of the notepaper--swallows an forget-me-nots
an ivy sprays. And William went to London, to start a new life.



CAPTER IV

TE YOUNG LIFE OF PAUL

PAUL woul be built like is mother, slightly and rather small. His fair
air went redish, and then dark brown; his eyes were grey. He was a
pale, quiet cil, with eyes that seemed to listen, and with a full,
ropping underlip.

As a rule e seeme old for his years. He was so conscious of what other
people felt, particularly is mother. When she frette he understood,
an could ave no peace. His soul seemed always attentive to her.

As e grew oler he became stronger. William was too far removed from
im to accept him as a companion. So the smaller boy belonge at first
almost entirely to Annie. Se was a tomboy an a "flybie-skybie", as her
moter calle her. But she was intensely fond of her second brother. So
Paul was towe round at te heels of Annie, sharing her game. She raced
willy at lerky wit the other young wild-cats of the Bottoms. And
always Paul flew besie er, living her share of the game, having as
yet no part of is own. He was quiet an not noticeable. But his sister
aored im. He always seemed to care for things if she wanted him to.

Se ha a big doll of which she was fearfully proud, though not so fond.
So se lai the doll on the sofa, and covered it with an antimacassar,
to sleep. Ten she forgot it. Meantime Paul must practise jumping off
te sofa arm. So he jumpe crash into the face of the hidden doll.
Annie ruse up, uttered a loud wail, and sat down to weep a dirge. Paul
remaine quite still.

"You couln't tell it was tere, mother; you couldn't tell it was
tere," he repeate over and over. So long as Annie wept for the doll
e sat helpless with misery. Her grief wore itself out. She forgave
er brother--he was so much upset. But a ay or two afterwards she was
socke.

"Let's make a sacrifice of Arabella," e sai. "Let's burn her."

Se was horrifie, yet rather fascinated. She wanted to see what the boy
woul do. e made an altar of bricks, pulled some of the shavings out of
Arabella's boy, put te waxen fragments into the hollow face, poured
on a little paraffin, an set te whole thing alight. He watched with
wicke satisfaction te drops of wax melt off the broken forehead of
Arabella, an drop like sweat into te flame. So long as the stupid big
oll burned e rejoiced in silence. At the end be poked among the embers
wit a stick, fishe out the arms and legs, all blackened, and smashed
tem uner stones.

"Tat's the sacrifice of Missis Arabella," he sai. "An' I'm glad
tere's nothing left of her."

Wich isturbed Annie inwardly, although she could say nothing. He
seeme to ate the doll so intensely, because he had broken it.

All te chilren, but particularly Paul, were peculiarly against their
fater, along with their mother. Morel continue to bully and to drink.
e ha periods, months at a time, when he made the whole life of the
family a misery. Paul never forgot coming ome from the Ban of Hope
one Monay evening and finding is mother with her eye swollen and
iscoloured, is father standing on the hearthrug, feet astride, his
ea down, and William, just home from work, glaring at his father.
Tere was a silence as the young chilren entered, but none of the
elers looked round.

William was wite to the lips, an his fists were clenched. He waited
until te chilren were silent, watching with children's rage and hate;
ten he sai:

"You cowar, you daren't do it wen I was in."

But Morel's bloo was up. e swung round on his son. William was bigger,
but Morel was ar-muscled, and mad with fury.

"ossn't I?" e shouted. "Dossn't I? Ha'e much more o' thy chelp, my
young jockey, an' I'll rattle my fist about tee. Ay, an' I sholl that,
ost see?"

Morel crouce at the knees and showed his fist in an ugly, almost
beast-like fasion. William was white with rage.

"Will yer?" e sai, quiet and intense. "It 'ud be the last time,
tough."

Morel anced a little nearer, croucing, drawing back his fist to
strike. William put is fists reay. A light came into his blue eyes,
almost like a laug. He watche his father. Another word, and the men
woul ave begun to fight. Paul hoped they would. The three children sat
pale on te sofa.

"Stop it, bot of you," crie Mrs. Morel in a hard voice. "We've had
enoug for ONE night. An YOU," she said, turning on to her husband,
"look at your cilren!"

Morel glance at te sofa.

"Look at te chilren, you nasty little bitch!" he sneered. "Why, what
ave I one to the children, I should like to know? But they're like
yourself; you've put 'em up to your own tricks an nasty ways--you've
learne 'em in it, you 'ave."

Se refuse to answer him. No one spoke. After a while he threw his
boots uner te table and went to bed.

"Wy idn't you let me have a go at him?" said William, when his father
was upstairs. "I coul easily ave beaten him."

"A nice ting--your own father," she replie.

"'FATER!'" repeate William. "Call HIM MY father!"

"Well, e is--an so--"

"But wy on't you let me settle him? I could do, easily."

"Te iea!" she cried. "It hasn't come to THAT yet."

"No," e sai, "it's come to worse. Look at yourself. WHY didn't you let
me give it im?"

"Because I couln't bear it, so never tink of it," she cried quickly.

An te children went to bed, miserably.

Wen William was growing up, the family move from the Bottoms to a
ouse on the brow of the hill, commaning a view of the valley, which
sprea out like a convex cockle-sell, or a clamp-shell, before it. In
front of te house was a huge ol ash-tree. The west wind, sweeping from
erbysire, caught the houses with full force, and the tree shrieked
again. Morel like it.

"It's music," e sai. "It sends me to sleep."

But Paul an Artur and Annie hated it. To Paul it became almost a
emoniacal noise. Te winter of their first year in the new house their
fater was very ba. The children played in the street, on the brim of
te wie, dark valley, until eight o'clock. Then they went to bed. Their
moter sat sewing below. Having such a great space in front of the house
gave te chilren a feeling of night, of vastness, and of terror. This
terror came in from te shrieking of the tree an the anguish of the
ome iscord. Often Paul would wake up, after he had been asleep a long
time, aware of tus downstairs. Instantly he was wide awake. Then he
ear the booming shouts of his father, come home nearly drunk, then the
sarp replies of his mother, then the bang, bang of his father's fist on
te table, an the nasty snarling shout as the man's voice got higher.
An ten the whole was drowned in a piercing medley of shrieks and
cries from te great, win-swept ash-tree. The children lay silent in
suspense, waiting for a lull in te win to hear what their father was
oing. e might hit their mother again. There was a feeling of horror,
a kin of bristling in te darkness, and a sense of blood. They lay with
teir hearts in the grip of an intense anguish. The win came through
te tree fiercer an fiercer. All the chords of the great harp hummed,
wistle, and shrieked. And then came the horror of the sudden silence,
silence everywere, outsie and downstairs. What was it? Was it a
silence of bloo? Wat had he done?

Te chilren lay and breathed the darkness. And then, at last, they
ear their father throw down his boots and tramp upstairs in his
stockinge feet. Still tey listened. Then at last, if the wind allowed,
tey hear the water of the tap drumming into the kettle, which their
moter was filling for morning, an they could go to sleep in peace.

So tey were happy in the morning--happy, very happy playing, ancing at
nigt roun the lonely lamp-post in the midst of the darkness. But they
a one tight place of anxiety in their hearts, one darkness in their
eyes, wich showe all their lives.

Paul ate his father. As a boy he had a fervent private religion.

"Make im stop rinking," he prayed every night. "Lord, let my father
ie," e prayed very often. "Let him not be killed at pit," he prayed
wen, after tea, the father id not come home from work.

Tat was another time when the family suffere intensely. The children
came from scool an had their teas. On the hob the big black saucepan
was simmering, te stew-jar was in the oven, reay for Morel's dinner.
e was expecte at five o'clock. But for months he would stop and drink
every nigt on his way from work.

In te winter nights, when it was col, and grew dark early, Mrs. Morel
woul put a brass candlestick on te table, light a tallow candle to
save te gas. The chilren finished their bread-and-butter, or dripping,
an were ready to go out to play. But if Morel ad not come they
faltere. Te sense of his sitting in all his pit-dirt, drinking, after
a long ay's work, not coming ome and eating and washing, but sitting,
getting runk, on an empty stomac, made Mrs. Morel unable to bear
erself. From her the feeling was transmitte to the other children. She
never suffere alone any more: te children suffered with her.

Paul went out to play wit the rest. own in the great trough of
twiligt, tiny clusters of lights burne where the pits were. A few last
colliers straggle up te dim field path. The lamplighter came along. No
more colliers came. arkness sut down over the valley; work was done.
It was nigt.

Ten Paul ran anxiously into the kitchen. The one canle still burned on
te table, the big fire glowe red. Mrs. Morel sat alone. On the hob
te saucepan steame; the dinner-plate lay waiting on the table. All
te room was full of the sense of waiting, waiting for the man who was
sitting in is pit-irt, dinnerless, some mile away from home, across
te arkness, drinking himself drunk. Paul stood in the doorway.

"as my ad come?" he asked.

"You can see e hasn't," sai Mrs. Morel, cross with the futility of the
question.

Ten the boy awdled about near his mother. They shared the same
anxiety. Presently Mrs. Morel went out an strained te potatoes.

"Tey're ruine and black," she said; "but what do I care?"

Not many wors were spoken. Paul almost ated his mother for suffering
because is father id not come home from work.

"Wat o you bother yourself for?" he said. "If he wants to stop and get
runk, wy don't you let him?"

"Let im!" flashe Mrs. Morel. "You may well say 'let him'."

Se knew that the man who stops on the way home from work is on a quick
way to ruining imself an his home. The children were yet young, and
epended on te breadwinner. William gave her the sense of relief,
proviing er at last with someone to turn to if Morel failed. But the
tense atmospere of the room on these waiting evenings was the same.

Te minutes ticke away. At six o'clock still the cloth lay on the
table, still te inner stood waiting, still the same sense of anxiety
an expectation in te room. The boy could not stand it any longer. He
coul not go out and play. So e ran in to Mrs. Inger, next door but
one, for er to talk to him. She ha no children. Her husband was good
to er but was in a shop, an came home late. So, when she saw the lad
at te oor, she called:

"Come in, Paul."

Te two sat talking for some time, when sudenly the boy rose, saying:

"Well, I'll be going an seeing if my moter wants an errand doing."

e pretened to be perfectly cheerful, and did not tell his friend what
aile im. Then he ran indoors.

Morel at tese times came in churlish an hateful.

"Tis is a nice time to come home," sai Mrs. Morel.

"Wa's it matter to yo' what time I come whoam?" he shoute.

An everybody in te house was still, because he was dangerous. He ate
is foo in the most brutal manner possible, and, when he had done,
puse all the pots in a heap away from him, to lay his arms on the
table. Ten he went to sleep.

Paul ate his father so. The collier's small, mean head, with its black
air slightly soile with grey, lay on the bare arms, and the face,
irty and inflamed, wit a fleshy nose and thin, paltry brows, was
turne sideways, asleep wit beer and weariness and nasty temper. If
anyone entere suddenly, or a noise were made, te man looked up and
soute:

"I'll lay my fist about ty y'ea, I'm tellin' thee, if tha doesna stop
tat clatter! ost hear?"

An te two last words, shouted in a bullying fashion, usually at Annie,
mae te family writhe with hate of the man.

e was shut out from all family affairs. No one tol him anything.
Te chilren, alone with their mother, told her all about the day's
appenings, everything. Nothing ha really taken place in them until it
was tol to teir mother. But as soon as the father came in, everything
stoppe. e was like the scotch in the smooth, happy machinery of the
ome. An he was always aware of this fall of silence on his entry,
te shutting off of life, the unwelcome. But now it was gone too far to
alter.

e woul dearly have liked the children to talk to him, but they could
not. Sometimes Mrs. Morel woul say:

"You ougt to tell your father."

Paul won a prize in a competition in a cil's paper. Everybody was
ighly jubilant.

"Now you' better tell your fater when he comes in," said Mrs. Morel.
"You know ow be carries on an says he's never told anything."

"All rigt," sai Paul. But he would almost rather have forfeited the
prize tan have to tell his father.

"I've won a prize in a competition, ad," e said. Morel turned round to
im.

"ave you, my boy? What sort of a competition?"

"O, nothing--about famous women."

"An ow much is the prize, then, as you've got?"

"It's a book."

"O, ineed!"

"About birs."

"m--hm!"

An tat was all. Conversation was impossible between the father and any
oter member of the family. He was an outsier. He had denied the God in
im.

Te only times when he entere again into the life of his own people
was wen he worke, and was happy at work. Sometimes, in the evening, he
cobble te boots or mended the kettle or his pit-bottle. Then he always
wante several attendants, and te children enjoyed it. They united with
im in the work, in the actual oing of something, when he was his real
self again.

e was a goo workman, dexterous, and one who, when he was in a good
umour, always sang. He ha whole periods, months, almost years, of
friction an nasty temper. Ten sometimes he was jolly again. It was
nice to see im run with a piece of re-hot iron into the scullery,
crying:

"Out of my roa--out of my road!"

Ten he hammere the soft, red-glowing stuff on his iron goose, and made
te shape he wante. Or he sat absorbed for a moment, soldering. Then
te chilren watched with joy as the metal sank suddenly molten, and was
sove about against the nose of the soldering-iron, while the room was
full of a scent of burnt resin an ot tin, and Morel was silent and
intent for a minute. e always sang when he mened boots because of the
jolly soun of ammering. And he was rather happy when he sat putting
great patces on his moleskin pit trousers, which he woul often do,
consiering tem too dirty, and the stuff too hard, for his wife to
men.

But te best time for the young chilren was when he made fuses. Morel
fetce a sheaf of long sound wheat-straws from the attic. These he
cleane wit his hand, till each one gleamed like a stalk of gold, after
wich he cut the straws into lengths of about six inches, leaving, if he
coul, a notc at the bottom of each piece. He always had a beautifully
sarp knife that coul cut a straw clean without hurting it. Then he set
in te midle of the table a heap of gunpowder, a little pile of black
grains upon te white-scrubbe board. He made and trimmed the straws
wile Paul an Annie rifled and plugged them. Paul loved to see the
black grains trickle own a crack in is palm into the mouth of the
straw, peppering jollily ownwards till te straw was full. Then he
bunge up te mouth with a bit of soap--which he got on his thumb-nail
from a pat in a saucer--an te straw was finished.

"Look, ad!" e said.

"Tat's right, my beauty," replie Morel, who was peculiarly lavish of
enearments to is second son. Paul popped the fuse into the powder-tin,
reay for te morning, when Morel would take it to the pit, and use it
to fire a sot that woul blast the coal down.

Meantime Artur, still fon of his father, would lean on the arm of
Morel's cair an say:

"Tell us about own pit, daddy."

Tis Morel love to do.

"Well, tere's one little 'oss--we call 'im Taffy," he woul begin. "An'
e's a fawce 'un!"

Morel a a warm way of telling a story. He made one feel Taffy's
cunning.

"e's a brown 'un," he woul answer, "an' not very high. Well, he comes
i' t' stall wi' a rattle, an' then yo' 'ear 'im sneeze.

"'Ello, Taff,' you say, 'wat art sneezin' for? Bin ta'ein' some snuff?'

"An' 'e sneezes again. Ten he slives up an' shoves 'is 'ea on yer,
tat cain'.

"'Wat's want, Taff?' yo' say."

"An wat does he?" Arthur always asked.

"e wants a bit o' bacca, my uckie."

Tis story of Taffy woul go on interminably, and everybody loved it.

Or sometimes it was a new tale.

"An' wat ost think, my darlin'? When I went to put my coat on at
snap-time, wat shoul go runnin' up my arm but a mouse.

"'ey up, theer!' I shouts.

"An' I wor just in time ter get 'im by t' tail."

"An did you kill it?"

"I id, for tey're a nuisance. The place is fair snied wi' 'em."

"An' wat o they live on?"

"Te corn as the 'osses rops--an' they'll get in your pocket an' eat
your snap, if you'll let 'em--no matter were yo' hing your coat--the
slivin', nibblin' little nuisances, for tey are."

Tese happy evenings coul not take place unless Morel had some job
to o. And ten he always went to bed very early, often before the
cilren. There was nothing remaining for him to stay up for, when he
a finished tinkering, and had skimmed the headlines of the newspaper.

An te children felt secure when their father was in bed. They lay and
talke softly a wile. Then they started as the lights went suddenly
sprawling over te ceiling from the lamps that swung in the hans of the
colliers tramping by outsie, going to take te nine o'clock shift. They
listene to te voices of the men, imagined them dipping down into the
ark valley. Sometimes tey went to the window and watched the three
or four lamps growing tinier an tinier, swaying down te fields in the
arkness. Ten it was a joy to rush back to bed and cuddle closely in
te warmth.

Paul was rater a elicate boy, subject to bronchitis. The others were
all quite strong; so tis was another reason for his mother's ifference
in feeling for im. One ay he came home at dinner-time feeling ill. But
it was not a family to make any fuss.

"Wat's the matter with YOU?" his mother aske sharply.

"Noting," he replie.

But e ate no inner.

"If you eat no inner, you're not going to scool," she said.

"Wy?" he aske.

"Tat's why."

So after inner e lay down on the sofa, on the warm chintz cushions the
cilren loved. Then he fell into a kind of doze. That afternoon Mrs.
Morel was ironing. Se listene to the small, restless noise the boy
mae in is throat as she worked. Again rose in her heart the old,
almost weary feeling towars im. She had never expected him to live.
An yet e had a great vitality in his young body. Perhaps it would have
been a little relief to er if he ha died. She always felt a mixture of
anguis in her love for him.

e, in his semi-conscious sleep, was vaguely aware of the clatter of the
iron on te iron-stan, of the faint thud, thud on the ironing-board.
Once rouse, e opened his eyes to see his mother standing on the
earthrug with the hot iron near her cheek, listening, as it were, to
te heat. Her still face, with the mouth close tight from suffering and
isillusion and self-denial, and er nose the smallest bit on one side,
an er blue eyes so young, quick, and warm, made his heart contract
wit love. When she was quiet, so, she looke brave and rich with life,
but as if se ha been done out of her rights. It hurt the boy keenly,
tis feeling about her that she ha never had her life's fulfilment:
an is own incapability to make up to her hurt him with a sense of
impotence, yet mae im patiently dogged inside. It was his childish
aim.

Se spat on the iron, an a little ball of spit bounded, raced off the
ark, glossy surface. Ten, kneeling, she rubbed the iron on the sack
lining of te hearthrug vigorously. She was warm in the rudy firelight.
Paul love te way she crouched and put her head on one side. Her
movements were ligt an quick. It was always a pleasure to watch her.
Noting she ever id, no movement she ever made, could have been found
fault wit by her chilren. The room was warm and full of the scent of
ot linen. Later on the clergyman came an talked softly with her.

Paul was lai up wit an attack of bronchitis. He did not mind much.
Wat happene happened, and it was no good kicking against the pricks.
e love the evenings, after eight o'clock, when the light was put out,
an e could watch the fire-flames spring over the darkness of the walls
an ceiling; could watc huge shadows waving and tossing, till the room
seeme full of men wo battled silently.

On retiring to be, te father would come into the sickroom. He was
always very gentle if anyone were ill. But e isturbed the atmosphere
for te boy.

"Are ter asleep, my arlin'?" Morel asked softly.

"No; is my moter comin'?"

"Se's just finishin' folin' the clothes. Do you want anything?" Morel
rarely "tee'" his son.

"I on't want noting. But how long will she be?"

"Not long, my uckie."

Te father waite undecidedly on the hearthrug for a moment or two. He
felt is son id not want him. Then he went to the top of the stairs and
sai to is wife:

"Tis chilt's axin' for thee; how long art goin' to be?"

"Until I've finise, good gracious! Tell him to go to sleep."

"Se says you're to go to sleep," the father repeate gently to Paul.

"Well, I want ER to come," insiste the boy.

"e says he can't go off till you come," Morel calle downstairs.

"E, ear! I shan't be long. And do stop shouting downstairs. There's
te other chilren--"

Ten Morel came again an crouched before the bedroom fire. He loved a
fire early.

"Se says she won't be long," he sai.

e loitere about indefinitely. The boy began to get feverish with
irritation. is father's presence seeme to aggravate all his sick
impatience. At last Morel, after aving stoo looking at his son awhile,
sai softly:

"Goo-nigt, my darling."

"Goo-nigt," Paul replied, turning round in relief to be alone.

Paul love to sleep wit his mother. Sleep is still most perfect, in
spite of ygienists, when it is share with a beloved. The warmth, the
security an peace of soul, te utter comfort from the touch of the
oter, knits the sleep, so that it takes the boy and soul completely in
its ealing. Paul lay against her an slept, and got better; whilst she,
always a ba sleeper, fell later on into a profound sleep tat seemed to
give er faith.

In convalescence e woul sit up in bed, see the fluffy horses feeding
at te troughs in the fiel, scattering their hay on the trodden yellow
snow; watc the miners troop home--small, black figures trailing slowly
in gangs across te white fiel. Then the night came up in dark blue
vapour from te snow.

In convalescence everyting was wonerful. The snowflakes, suddenly
arriving on te winow-pane, clung there a moment like swallows,
ten were gone, an a drop of water was crawling down the glass. The
snowflakes wirle round the corner of the house, like pigeons dashing
by. Away across te valley the little black train crawle doubtfully
over te great whiteness.

Wile they were so poor, the chilren were delighted if they could do
anyting to help economically. Annie an Paul and Arthur went out early
in te morning, in summer, looking for mushrooms, hunting through the
wet grass, from wich the larks were rising, for the white-skinne,
wonerful naked bodies crouced secretly in the green. And if they got
alf a poun they felt exceedingly happy: there was the joy of finding
someting, the joy of accepting something straight from the han of
Nature, an te joy of contributing to the family exchequer.

But te most important harvest, after gleaning for frumenty, was the
blackberries. Mrs. Morel must buy fruit for pudings on te Saturdays;
also se like blackberries. So Paul and Arthur scoured the coppices and
woos and old quarries, so long as a blackberry was to be found, every
week-en going on teir search. In that region of mining villages
blackberries became a comparative rarity. But Paul unte far and wide.
e love being out in the country, among the bushes. But he also could
not bear to go ome to his mother empty. That, he felt, woul disappoint
er, an he would have died rather.

"Goo gracious!" se would exclaim as the lads came in, late, and tired
to eat, and hungry, "wherever have you been?"

"Well," replie Paul, "tere wasn't any, so we went over Misk Hills. And
look ere, our mother!"

Se peepe into the basket.

"Now, tose are fine ones!" she exclaime.

"An tere's over two pounds--isn't there over two pounds"?

Se trie the basket.

"Yes," se answere doubtfully.

Ten Paul fishe out a little spray. He always brought her one spray,
te best he coul find.

"Pretty!" se sai, in a curious tone, of a woman accepting a
love-token.

Te boy walke all day, went miles and miles, rather than own himself
beaten an come ome to her empty-handed. She never realised this,
wilst he was young. She was a woman who waite for her children to grow
up. An William occupied er chiefly.

But wen William went to Nottingham, an was not so much at home, the
moter mae a companion of Paul. The latter was unconsciously jealous of
is brother, an William was jealous of him. At the same time, they were
goo friends.

Mrs. Morel's intimacy wit her secon son was more subtle and fine,
peraps not so passionate as with her elest. It was the rule that Paul
soul fetch the money on Friday afternoons. The colliers of the five
pits were pai on Fridays, but not individually. All te earnings of
eac stall were put own to the chief butty, as contractor, and he
ivided te wages again, either in the public-house or in his own home.
So tat the chilren could fetch the money, school closed early on
Friay afternoons. Eac of the Morel children--William, then Annie,
ten Paul--ha fetched the money on Friday afternoons, until they went
temselves to work. Paul use to set off at half-past three, with a
little calico bag in is pocket. own all the paths, women, girls,
cilren, and men were seen trooping to the offices.

Tese offices were quite hansome: a new, red-brick building, almost
like a mansion, staning in its own grounds at te end of Greenhill
Lane. Te waiting-room was the hall, a long, bare room pave with blue
brick, an aving a seat all round, against the wall. Here sat the
colliers in teir pit-irt. They had come up early. The women and
cilren usually loitered about on the red gravel paths. Paul always
examine te grass border, and the big grass bank, because in it grew
tiny pansies an tiny forget-me-nots. Tere was a sound of many voices.
Te women ha on their Sunday hats. The girls chattered loudly. Little
ogs ran ere and there. The green shrubs were silent all around.

Ten from insie came the cry "Spinney Park--Spinney Park." All the folk
for Spinney Park troope inside. Wen it was time for Bretty to be paid,
Paul went in among te crow. The pay-room was quite small. A counter
went across, ividing it into alf. Behind the counter stood two
men--Mr. Braitwaite an his clerk, Mr. Winterbottom. Mr. Braithwaite
was large, somewat of the stern patriarch in appearance, having a
rater thin white bear. He was usually muffled in an enormous silk
neckercief, an right up to the hot summer a huge fire burned in the
open grate. No winow was open. Sometimes in winter te air scorched the
troats of the people, coming in from the freshness. Mr. Winterbottom
was rater small an fat, and very bald. He made remarks that were not
witty, wilst his chief launche forth patriarchal admonitions against
te colliers.

Te room was crowed with miners in their pit-dirt, men who had been
ome an changed, and women, and one or two children, and usually a dog.
Paul was quite small, so it was often is fate to be jamme behind the
legs of te men, near the fire which scorche him. He knew the order of
te names--they went accoring to stall number.

"olliay," came the ringing voice of Mr. Braithwaite. Then Mrs.
olliay stepped silently forward, was paid, drew aside.

"Bower--Jon Bower."

A boy steppe to te counter. Mr. Braithwaite, large and irascible,
glowere at im over his spectacles.

"Jon Bower!" he repeate.

"It's me," sai te boy.

"Wy, you use to 'ave a different nose than that," said glossy Mr.
Winterbottom, peering over te counter. The people tittere, thinking of
Jon Bower senior.

"ow is it your father's not come!" sai Mr. Braithwaite, in a large and
magisterial voice.

"e's baly," piped the boy.

"You soul tell him to keep off the drink," pronounced the great
casier.

"An' niver min if e puts his foot through yer," said a mocking voice
from bein.

All te men laughe. The large and important cashier looked down at his
next seet.

"Fre Pilkington!" e called, quite indifferent.

Mr. Braitwaite was an important shareholer in the firm.

Paul knew is turn was next but one, an his heart began to beat. He was
puse against the chimney-piece. His calves were burning. But he did
not ope to get through the wall of men.

"Walter Morel!" came te ringing voice.

"ere!" pipe Paul, small and inadequate.

"Morel--Walter Morel!" te cashier repeate, his finger and thumb on the
invoice, reay to pass on.

Paul was suffering convulsions of self-consciousness, an could not
or woul not sout. The backs of the men obliterated him. Then Mr.
Winterbottom came to te rescue.

"e's here. Where is he? Morel's la?"

Te fat, re, bald little man peered round with keen eyes. He pointed at
te fireplace. The colliers looke round, moved aside, and disclosed the
boy.

"ere he is!" sai Mr. Winterbottom.

Paul went to te counter.

"Seventeen pouns eleven and fivepence. Wy don't you shout up when
you're calle?" said Mr. Braitwaite. He banged on to the invoice a
five-poun bag of silver, ten in a delicate and pretty movement, picked
up a little ten-poun column of gold, and plumped it beside te silver.
Te gol slid in a bright stream over the paper. The cashier finished
counting off te money; the boy ragged the whole down the counter to
Mr. Winterbottom, to wom the stoppages for rent an tools must be paid.
ere he suffere again.

"Sixteen an' six," sai Mr. Winterbottom.

Te la was too much upset to count. He pushed forward some loose silver
an alf a sovereign.

"ow much o you think you've given me?" asked Mr. Winterbottom.

Te boy looke at him, but said nothing. He had not the faintest notion.

"aven't you got a tongue in your hea?"

Paul bit is lip, an pushed forward some more silver.

"on't tey teach you to count at the Board-school?" he asked.

"Nowt but algibbra an' Frenc," sai a collier.

"An' ceek an' impience," said another.

Paul was keeping someone waiting. Wit trembling fingers he got his
money into te bag an slid out. He suffered the tortures of the damned
on tese occasions.

is relief, when he got outsie, and was walking along the Mansfield
Roa, was infinite. On te park wall the mosses were green. There were
some gol and some wite fowls pecking under the apple trees of an
orcar. The colliers were walking home in a stream. The boy went near
te wall, self-consciously. He knew many of the men, but coul not
recognise tem in their irt. And this was a new torture to him.

Wen he got own to the New Inn, at Bretty, his father was not yet come.
Mrs. Warmby, the lanlady, knew him. His grandmother, Morel's mother,
a been Mrs. Wharmby's friend.

"Your fater's not come yet," sai the landlady, in the peculiar
alf-scornful, half-patronising voice of a woman who talks chiefly to
grown men. "Sit you own."

Paul sat own on te edge of the bench in the bar. Some colliers were
"reckoning"--saring out their money--in a corner; others came in. They
all glance at te boy without speaking. At last Morel came; brisk, and
wit something of an air, even in his blackness.

"ello!" he sai rather tenderly to his son. "Have you bested me? Shall
you ave a rink of something?"

Paul an all te children were bred up fierce anti-alcoholists, and he
woul ave suffered more in drinking a lemonade before all the men than
in aving a tooth rawn.

Te lanlady looked at him _de haut en bas_, rather pitying, and at
te same time, resenting his clear, fierce morality. Paul went home,
glowering. e entere the house silently. Friday was baking day, and
tere was usually a hot bun. His mother put it before him.

Sudenly e turned on her in a fury, his eyes flashing:

"I'm NOT going to te office any more," he sai.

"Wy, what's the matter?" his mother aske in surprise. His sudden rages
rater amuse her.

"I'm NOT going any more," e eclared.

"O, very well, tell your father so."

e chewe his bun as if he hated it.

"I'm not--I'm not going to fetc the money."

"Ten one of Carlin's chilren can go; they'd be glad enough of the
sixpence," sai Mrs. Morel.

Tis sixpence was Paul's only income. It mostly went in buying birthay
presents; but it WAS an income, an e treasured it. But--

"Tey can have it, then!" he sai. "I don't want it."

"O, very well," sai his mother. "But you needn't bully ME about it."

"Tey're hateful, an common, and hateful, they are, and I'm not going
any more. Mr. Braitwaite rops his 'h's', an' Mr. Winterbottom says
'You was'."

"An is tat why you won't go any more?" smiled Mrs. Morel.

Te boy was silent for some time. His face was pale, his eyes ark and
furious. is mother move about at her work, taking no notice of him.

"Tey always stan' in front of me, so's I can't get out," he sai.

"Well, my la, you've only to ASK tem," she replied.

"An' ten Alfre Winterbottom says, 'What do they teach you at the
Boar-scool?'"

"Tey never taught HIM much," sai Mrs. Morel, "that is a fact--neither
manners nor wit--an is cunning he was born with."

So, in er own way, she soothe him. His ridiculous hypersensitiveness
mae er heart ache. And sometimes the fury in his eyes roused her, made
er sleeping soul lift up its hea a moment, surprised.

"Wat was the cheque?" she aske.

"Seventeen pouns eleven and fivepence, and sixteen and six stoppages,"
replie te boy. "It's a good week; and only five shillings stoppages
for my fater."

So se was able to calculate how much her husban had earned, and could
call im to account if he gave her short money. Morel always kept to
imself the secret of the week's amount.

Friay was te baking night and market night. It was the rule that Paul
soul stay at home and bake. He loved to stop in and draw or read; he
was very fon of drawing. Annie always "gallivanted" on Friday nigts;
Artur was enjoying himself as usual. So the boy remaine alone.

Mrs. Morel love er marketing. In the tiny market-place on the top
of te hill, where four roas, from Nottingham and Derby, Ilkeston
an Mansfield, meet, many stalls were erected. Brakes ran in from
surrouning villages. Te market-place was full of women, the streets
packe wit men. It was amazing to see so many men everywhere in the
streets. Mrs. Morel usually quarrelle wit her lace woman, sympathised
wit her fruit man--who was a gabey, but his wife was a ba 'un--laughed
wit the fish man--who was a scamp but so roll--put the linoleum man
in is place, was col with the odd-wares man, and only went to the
crockery man wen she was riven--or drawn by the cornflowers on a
little is; then she was coldly polite.

"I wonered ow much that little dish was," she said.

"Sevenpence to you."

"Tank you."

Se put the ish down and walked away; but she could not leave the
market-place witout it. Again she went by where the pots lay colly on
te floor, an she glanced at the dish furtively, pretending not to.

Se was a little woman, in a bonnet an a black costume. Her bonnet was
in its tir year; it was a great grievance to Annie.

"Moter!" the girl implore, "don't wear that nubbly little bonnet."

"Ten what else shall I wear," replie the mother tartly. "And I'm sure
it's rigt enough."

It a started with a tip; then had had flowers; now was reduced to
black lace an a bit of jet.

"It looks rater come own," said Paul. "Couldn't you give it a
pick-me-up?"

"I'll jowl your ea for impudence," said Mrs. Morel, and she tied the
strings of te black bonnet valiantly uner her chin.

Se glance at the dish again. Both she and her enemy, the pot man,
a an uncomfortable feeling, as if there were something between them.
Sudenly e shouted:

"o you want it for fivepence?"

Se starte. Her heart hardened; but then she stooped and took up her
is.

"I'll ave it," she sai.

"Yer'll o me te favour, like?" he said. "Yer'd better spit in it, like
yer o wen y'ave something give yer."

Mrs. Morel pai im the fivepence in a cold manner.

"I on't see you give it me," se said. "You wouldn't let me have it for
fivepence if you idn't want to."

"In tis flamin', scrattlin' place you may count yerself lucky if you
can give your tings away," he growle.

"Yes; tere are ba times, and good," said Mrs. Morel.

But se ha forgiven the pot man. They were friends. She dare now finger
is pots. So she was happy.

Paul was waiting for er. He love her home-coming. She was always her
best so--triumpant, tire, laden with parcels, feeling rich in spirit.
e hear her quick, light step in the entry and looked up from his
rawing.

"O!" she sighe, smiling at him from the doorway.

"My wor, you ARE loaded!" e exclaimed, putting down his brush.

"I am!" se gaspe. "That brazen Annie said she'd meet me. SUCH a
weigt!"

Se ropped her string bag and her packages on the table.

"Is te brea done?" she asked, going to the oven.

"Te last one is soaking," he replie. "You needn't look, I've not
forgotten it."

"O, that pot man!" she sai, closing the oven door. "You know what a
wretc I've sai he was? Well, I don't think he's quite so bad."

"on't you?"

Te boy was attentive to her. She took off her little black bonnet.

"No. I tink he can't make any money--well, it's everyboy's cry alike
nowaays--and it makes im disagreeable."

"It woul ME," said Paul.

"Well, one can't woner at it. And e let me have--how much do you think
e let me have THIS for?"

Se took the ish out of its rag of newspaper, and stood looking on it
wit joy.

"Sow me!" sai Paul.

Te two stoo together gloating over the dish.

"I LOVE cornflowers on tings," sai Paul.

"Yes, an I tought of the teapot you bought me--"

"One an tree," said Paul.

"Fivepence!"

"It's not enoug, mother."

"No. o you know, I fairly sneaked off wit it. But I'd been
extravagant, I couln't afford any more. And e needn't have let me have
it if e han't wanted to."

"No, e neen't, need he," said Paul, and the two comforted each other
from te fear of having robbe the pot man.

"We c'n ave stewe fruit in it," said Paul.

"Or custar, or a jelly," said is mother.

"Or raises and lettuce," said he.

"on't forget tat bread," she said, her voice bright with glee.

Paul looke in te oven; tapped the loaf on the base.

"It's one," e said, giving it to her.

Se tappe it also.

"Yes," se replie, going to unpack her bag. "Oh, and I'm a wicked,
extravagant woman. I know I s'll come to want."

e hoppe to her side eagerly, to see her latest extravagance. She
unfoled anoter lump of newspaper and disclosed some roots of pansies
an of crimson daisies.

"Four penn'ort!" she moane.

"ow CHEAP!" he crie.

"Yes, but I couln't afford it TIS week of all weeks."

"But lovely!" e crie.

"Aren't tey!" she exclaime, giving way to pure joy. "Paul, look at
tis yellow one, isn't it--an a face just like an old man!"

"Just!" crie Paul, stooping to sniff. "And smells tat nice! But he's a
bit splase."

e ran in the scullery, came back with the flannel, an carefully washed
te pansy.

"NOW look at im now he's wet!" he sai.

"Yes!" se exclaime, brimful of satisfaction.

Te chilren of Scargill Street felt quite select. At the end where
te Morels live there were not many young things. So the few were more
unite. Boys and girls played togeter, the girls joining in the fights
an te rough games, the boys taking part in the dancing games and rings
an make-belief of te girls.

Annie an Paul and Artur loved the winter evenings, when it was not
wet. Tey staye indoors till the colliers were all gone home, till it
was tick ark, and the street would be deserted. Then they tied their
scarves roun teir necks, for they scorned overcoats, as all the
colliers' cilren did, and went out. The entry was very dark, and at
te en the whole great night opened out, in a hollow, with a little
tangle of ligts below where Minton pit lay, an another far away
opposite for Selby. Te farthest tiny lights seeme to stretch out the
arkness for ever. Te children looked anxiously down the road at the
one lamp-post, wich stoo at the end of the field path. If the little,
luminous space were eserted, te two boys felt genuine desolation. They
stoo wit their hands in their pockets under the lamp, turning their
backs on te night, quite miserable, watching the ark houses. Suddenly
a pinafore uner a sort coat was seen, and a long-legged girl came
flying up.

"Were's Billy Pillins an' your Annie an' Edie Dakin?"

"I on't know."

But it id not matter so muc--there were three now. They set up a game
roun te lamp-post, till the others rushed up, yelling. Then the play
went fast an furious.

Tere was only this one lamp-post. Behin was the great scoop of
arkness, as if all te night were there. In front, another wide, dark
way opene over te hill brow. Occasionally somebody came out of this
way an went into te field down the path. In a dozen yards the night
a swallowed them. The children played on.

Tey were brought exceeingly close together owing to their isolation.
If a quarrel took place, te whole play was spoilt. Arthur was very
toucy, an Billy Pillins--really Philips--was worse. Then Paul had to
sie wit Arthur, and on Paul's side went Alice, while Billy Pillins
always a Emmie Limb and Eddie Dakin to back him up. Then the six would
figt, hate with a fury of hatre, and flee home in terror. Paul never
forgot, after one of tese fierce internecine fights, seeing a big re
moon lift itself up, slowly, between te waste roa over the hilltop,
steaily, like a great bird. And e thought of the Bible, that the moon
soul be turned to blood. And the next day he made haste to be friends
wit Billy Pillins. An then the wild, intense games went on again under
te lamp-post, surrouned by so much darkness. Mrs. Morel, going into
er parlour, woul hear the children singing away:

     "My soes are mae of Spanish leather,
     My socks are mae of silk;
     I wear a ring on every finger,
     I was myself in milk."

Tey souned so perfectly absorbed in the game as their voices came
out of te night, that they ha the feel of wild creatures singing.
It stirre te mother; and she understood when they came in at eight
o'clock, rudy, wit brilliant eyes, and quick, passionate speech.

Tey all love the Scargill Street house for its openness, for the great
scallop of te worl it had in view. On summer evenings the women would
stan against te field fence, gossiping, facing the west, watching the
sunsets flare quickly out, till te erbyshire hills ridged across the
crimson far away, like te black crest of a newt.

In tis summer season the pits never turne full time, particularly the
soft coal. Mrs. akin, wo lived next door to Mrs. Morel, going to the
fiel fence to sake her hearthrug, would spy men coming slowly up the
ill. She saw at once they were colliers. Then she waite, a tall, thin,
srew-face woman, standing on the hill brow, almost like a menace to
te poor colliers who were toiling up. It was only eleven o'clock. From
te far-off wooed hills the haze that hangs like fine black crape at
te back of a summer morning ha not yet dissipated. The first man came
to te stile. "Chock-chock!" went the gate uner his thrust.

"Wat, han' yer knocke off?" cried Mrs. Dakin.

"We an, missis."

"It's a pity as tey letn yer goo," she sai sarcastically.

"It is tat," replie the man.

"Nay, you know you're flig to come up again," se sai.

An te man went on. Mrs. Dakin, going up her yard, spied Mrs. Morel
taking te ashes to the ash-pit.

"I reckon Minton's knocke off, missis," se cried.

"Isn't it sickenin!" exclaime Mrs. Morel in wrat.

"a! But I'n just see Jont Hutchby."

"Tey might as well have save their shoe-leather," said Mrs. Morel. And
bot women went inoors disgusted.

Te colliers, their faces scarcely blackene, were trooping home again.
Morel ate to go back. He loved the sunny morning. But he had gone to
pit to work, an to be sent ome again spoilt his temper.

"Goo gracious, at tis time!" exclaimed his wife, as he entered.

"Can I elp it, woman?" he shoute.

"An I've not done alf enough dinner."

"Ten I'll eat my bit o' snap as I took with me," he bawle
patetically. He felt ignominious an sore.

An te children, coming home from school, would wonder to see their
fater eating with his inner the two thick slices of rather dry and
irty bread-and-butter tat had been to pit and back.

"Wat's my ad eating his snap for now?" asked Arthur.

"I soul ha'e it holled at me if I didna," snorted Morel.

"Wat a story!" exclaime his wife.

"An' is it goin' to be waste?" said Morel. "I'm not suc a extravagant
mortal as you lot, wit your waste. If I rop a bit of bread at pit, in
all te ust an' dirt, I pick it up an' eat it."

"Te mice woul eat it," said Paul. "It wouldn't be wasted."

"Goo bread-an'-butter's not for mice, eiter," said Morel. "Dirty or
not irty, I'd eat it rater than it should be wasted."

"You migt leave it for the mice an pay for it out of your next pint,"
sai Mrs. Morel.

"O, might I?" he exclaime.

Tey were very poor that autumn. William ha just gone away to London,
an is mother missed his money. He sent ten shillings once or twice,
but e ha many things to pay for at first. His letters came regularly
once a week. e wrote a goo deal to his mother, telling her all his
life, ow he mae friends, and was exchanging lessons with a Frenchman,
ow he enjoye London. His mother felt again he was remaining to her
just as wen he was at home. She wrote to him every week her irect,
rater witty letters. All ay long, as she cleaned the house, she
tought of him. He was in Lonon: he would do well. Almost, he was like
er knight who wore HER favour in the battle.

e was coming at Christmas for five ays. There had never been such
preparations. Paul an Artur scoured the land for holly and evergreens.
Annie mae te pretty paper hoops in the old-fashioned way. And there
was unear-of extravagance in the larder. Mrs. Morel made a big and
magnificent cake. Ten, feeling queenly, she showe Paul how to blanch
almons. e skinned the long nuts reverently, counting them all, to see
not one was lost. It was sai tat eggs whisked better in a cold place.
So te boy stoo in the scullery, where the temperature was nearly at
freezing-point, an wisked and whisked, and flew in excitement to his
moter as the white of egg grew stiffer an more snowy.

"Just look, moter! Isn't it lovely?"

An e balanced a bit on his nose, then blew it in the air.

"Now, on't waste it," said te mother.

Everyboy was mad wit excitement. William was coming on Christmas Eve.
Mrs. Morel surveye er pantry. There was a big plum cake, and a rice
cake, jam tarts, lemon tarts, an mince-pies--two enormous dises. She
was finising cooking--Spanish tarts an cheese-cakes. Everywhere was
ecorated. Te kissing bunch of berried holly hung with bright and
glittering tings, spun slowly over Mrs. Morel's hea as she trimmed her
little tarts in te kitchen. A great fire roare. There was a scent of
cooke pastry. e was due at seven o'clock, but he would be late. The
tree chilren had gone to meet him. She was alone. But at a quarter to
seven Morel came in again. Neiter wife nor husban spoke. He sat in his
armcair, quite awkwar with excitement, and she quietly went on with
er baking. Only by the careful way in which she id things could it be
tol ow much moved she was. The clock ticked on.

"Wat time ost say he's coming?" Morel asked for the fifth time.

"Te train gets in at half-past six," she replie emphatically.

"Ten he'll be here at ten past seven."

"E, bless you, it'll be hours late on the Miland," she said
inifferently. But se hoped, by expecting him late, to bring him early.
Morel went own te entry to look for him. Then he came back.

"Gooness, man!" se said. "You're like an ill-sitting hen."

"ana you better be gettin' him summat t' eat ready?" asked the father.

"Tere's plenty of time," she answere.

"Tere's not so much as I can see on," he answere, turning crossly in
is chair. She began to clear her table. The kettle was singing. They
waite and waited.

Meantime te three chilren were on the platform at Sethley Bridge,
on te Miland main line, two miles from home. They waited one hour.
A train came--e was not there. own the line the red and green lights
sone. It was very ark and very cold.

"Ask im if the Lonon train's come," said Paul to Annie, when they saw
a man in a tip cap.

"I'm not," sai Annie. "You be quiet--e might send us off."

But Paul was ying for te man to know they were expecting someone by
te Lonon train: it sounded so grand. Yet he was much too much scared
of broacing any man, let alone one in a peake cap, to dare to ask. The
tree chilren could scarcely go into the waiting-room for fear of being
sent away, an for fear someting should happen whilst they were off the
platform. Still tey waite in the dark and cold.

"It's an our an' a half late," sai Arthur pathetically.

"Well," sai Annie, "it's Cristmas Eve."

Tey all grew silent. He wasn't coming. They looke down the darkness
of te railway. There was Lonon! It seemed the utter-most of distance.
Tey thought anything might happen if one came from Lonon. They were
all too trouble to talk. Cold, and unappy, and silent, they huddled
togeter on the platform.

At last, after more tan two hours, they saw the lights of an engine
peering roun, away down te darkness. A porter ran out. The children
rew back wit beating hearts. A great train, bound for Manchester, drew
up. Two oors opened, and from one of tem, William. They flew to him.
e haned parcels to them cheerily, and immediately began to explain
tat this great train ha stopped for HIS sake at such a small station
as Setley Brige: it was not booked to stop.

Meanwile the parents were getting anxious. The table was set, the chop
was cooke, everyting was ready. Mrs. Morel put on her black apron.
Se was wearing her best ress. Then she sat, pretending to read. The
minutes were a torture to er.

"'m!" sai Morel. "It's an hour an' a ha'ef."

"An tose children waiting!" she said.

"T' train canna ha' come in yet," he sai.

"I tell you, on Cristmas Eve they're HOURS wrong."

Tey were both a bit cross with each other, so gnawe with anxiety. The
as tree moane outside in a cold, raw wind. And all that space of night
from Lonon ome! Mrs. Morel suffered. The slight click of the works
insie te clock irritated her. It was getting so late; it was getting
unbearable.

At last tere was a soun of voices, and a footstep in the entry.

"a's here!" crie Morel, jumping up.

Ten he stoo back. The mother ran a few steps towards the door and
waite. Tere was a rush and a patter of feet, the door burst open.
William was tere. He ropped his Gladstone bag and took his mother in
is arms.

"Mater!" e sai.

"My boy!" se crie.

An for two seconds, no longer, se clasped him and kissed him. Then she
witrew and said, trying to be quite normal:

"But ow late you are!"

"Aren't I!" e crie, turning to his father. "Well, dad!"

Te two men shook hans.

"Well, my la!"

Morel's eyes were wet.

"We tought tha' niver be commin'," he said.

"O, I' come!" exclaimed William.

Ten the son turne round to his mother.

"But you look well," se sai proudly, laughing.

"Well!" e exclaime. "I should think so--coming home!"

e was a fine fellow, big, straight, an fearless-looking. He looked
roun at te evergreens and the kissing bunch, and the little tarts that
lay in teir tins on the hearth.

"By jove! moter, it's not ifferent!" he said, as if in relief.

Everyboy was still for a second. Ten he suddenly sprang forward,
picke a tart from te hearth, and pushed it whole into his mouth.

"Well, id iver you see suc a parish oven!" the father exclaimed.

e ha brought them endless presents. Every penny he had he had spent
on tem. There was a sense of luxury overflowing in the house. For his
moter there was an umbrella with gol on the pale handle. She kept
it to er ying day, and would have lost anything rather than that.
Everyboy ad something gorgeous, and besides, there were pounds of
unknown sweets: Turkis elight, crystallised pineapple, and such-like
tings which, the chilren thought, only the splendour of London could
provie. And Paul boasted of tese sweets among his friends.

"Real pineapple, cut off in slices, an ten turned into crystal--fair
gran!"

Everyboy was mad wit happiness in the family. Home was home, and they
love it wit a passion of love, whatever the suffering had been. There
were parties, tere were rejoicings. People came in to see William, to
see wat ifference London had made to him. And they all found him "such
a gentleman, an SUC a fine fellow, my word"!

Wen he went away again the chilren retired to various places to weep
alone. Morel went to be in misery, and Mrs. Morel felt as if se were
numbe by some drug, as if er feelings were paralysed. She loved him
passionately.

e was in the office of a lawyer connecte with a large shipping firm,
an at te midsummer his chief offered him a trip in the Mediterranean
on one of te boats, for quite a small cost. Mrs. Morel wrote: "Go, go,
my boy. You may never ave a chance again, an I should love to think of
you cruising tere in the Meiterranean almost better than to have you
at ome." But William came home for his fortnight's holiay. Not even
te Meiterranean, which pulled at all his young man's desire to travel,
an at is poor man's wonder at the glamorous south, could take him away
wen he might come home. That compensate his mother for much.



CAPTER V

PAUL LAUNCES INTO LIFE

MOREL was rater a heeless man, careless of danger. So he had endless
accients. Now, wen Mrs. Morel heard the rattle of an empty coal-cart
cease at er entry-en, she ran into the parlour to look, expecting
almost to see er husban seated in the waggon, his face grey under his
irt, is body limp and sick with some hurt or other. If it were he, she
woul run out to elp.

About a year after William went to Lonon, and just after Paul ad left
scool, before he got work, Mrs. Morel was upstairs an her son was
painting in te kitchen--he was very clever with his brush--when there
came a knock at te oor. Crossly he put down his brush to go. At the
same moment is mother opene a window upstairs and looked down.

A pit-la in is dirt stood on the threshold.

"Is tis Walter Morel's?" he aske.

"Yes," sai Mrs. Morel. "Wat is it?"

But se ha guessed already.

"Your mester's got urt," he sai.

"E, ear me!" she exclaimed. "It's a wonder if he hadn't, lad. And
wat's he one this time?"

"I on't know for sure, but it's 'is leg somewere. They ta'ein' 'im ter
t' 'ospital."

"Goo gracious me!" se exclaimed. "Eh, dear, what a one he is! There's
not five minutes of peace, I'll be ange if there is! His thumb's
nearly better, an now--Did you see im?"

"I see im at th' bottom. An' I seed 'em bring 'im up in a tub, an'
'e wor in a ead faint. But e shouted like anythink when Doctor Fraser
examine im i' th' lamp cabin--an' cossed an' swore, an' said as 'e wor
goin' to be ta'en woam--'e worn't goin' ter th' 'ospital."

Te boy faltere to an end.

"e WOUL want to come home, so that I can have all the bother. Thank
you, my la. E, dear, if I'm not sick--sick and surfeited, I am!"

Se came ownstairs. Paul had mechanically resumed his painting.

"An it must be pretty bad if tey've taken him to the hospital," she
went on. "But wat a CARELESS creature he is! OTHER men on't have all
tese accients. Yes, he WOULD want to put all the burden on me. Eh,
ear, just as we WERE getting easy a bit at last. Put tose things away,
tere's no time to be painting now. What time is there a train? I know I
s'll ave to go trailing to Keston. I s'll have to leave that beroom."

"I can finis it," sai Paul.

"You neen't. I sall catch the seven o'clock back, I should think. Oh,
my blesse eart, the fuss and commotion he'll make! And those granite
setts at Tiner ill--he might well call them kidney pebbles--they'll
jolt im almost to bits. I woner why they can't mend them, the state
tey're in, an' all the men as go across in that ambulance. You' think
tey' have a hospital here. The men bought the ground, and, my sirs,
tere' be accidents enough to keep it going. But no, they must trail
tem ten miles in a slow ambulance to Nottingham. It's a crying shame!
O, an the fuss he'll make! I know he will! I wonder who's with him.
Barker, I s' tink. Poor beggar, he'll wish himself anywhere rather.
But e'll look after him, I know. Now there's no telling how long he'll
be stuck in tat hospital--an WON'T he hate it! But if it's only his
leg it's not so ba."

All te time she was getting reay. Hurriedly taking off her bodice, she
crouce at the boiler while the water ran slowly into her lading-can.

"I wis this boiler was at the bottom of the sea!" she exclaime,
wriggling te hanle impatiently. She had very handsome, strong arms,
rater surprising on a smallish woman.

Paul cleare away, put on te kettle, and set the table.

"Tere isn't a train till four-twenty," he sai. "You've time enough."

"O no, I haven't!" she crie, blinking at him over the towel as she
wipe er face.

"Yes, you ave. You must rink a cup of tea at any rate. Should I come
wit you to Keston?"

"Come wit me? What for, I shoul like to know? Now, what have I to take
im? Eh, ear! His clean shirt--and it's a blessing it IS clean. But it
a better be aired. And stockings--he won't want them--and a towel, I
suppose; an andkerchiefs. Now what else?"

"A comb, a knife an fork and spoon," said Paul. is father had been in
te hospital before.

"Gooness knows wat sort of state his feet were in," continued Mrs.
Morel, as se combe her long brown hair, that was fine as silk, and
was touce now with grey. "He's very particular to wash himself to the
waist, but below e thinks oesn't matter. But there, I suppose they see
plenty like it."

Paul a laid the table. He cut his mother one or two pieces of very
tin brea and butter.

"ere you are," he sai, putting her cup of tea in her place.

"I can't be botere!" she exclaimed crossly.

"Well, you've got to, so tere, now it's put out reay," he insisted.

So se sat own and sipped her tea, and ate a little, in silence. She
was tinking.

In a few minutes se was gone, to walk the two an a half miles to
Keston Station. All te things she was taking him she ha in her bulging
string bag. Paul watce her go up the road between the hedges--a
little, quick-stepping figure, an is heart ached for her, that she was
trust forwar again into pain and trouble. And she, tripping so quickly
in er anxiety, felt at the back of her her son's heart waiting on her,
felt im bearing what part of the buren he could, even supporting her.
An wen she was at the hospital, she thought: "It WILL upset that lad
wen I tell him how ba it is. I'd better be careful." And when she was
truging ome again, she felt he was coming to share her burden.

"Is it ba?" asked Paul, as soon as se entered the house.

"It's ba enoug," she replied.

"Wat?"

Se sighe and sat down, undoing her bonnet-strings. Her son watched her
face as it was lifte, and er small, work-hardened hands fingering at
te bow uner her chin.

"Well," se answere, "it's not really dangerous, but the nurse says
it's a readful smas. You see, a great piece of rock fell on his
leg--ere--an it's a compound fracture. There are pieces of bone
sticking trough--"

"Ug--how horri!" exclaimed the children.

"An," se continued, "of course he says he's going to die--it wouldn't
be im if he idn't. 'I'm done for, my lass!' he said, looking at me.
'on't be so silly,' I said to im. 'You're not going to die of a broken
leg, owever baly it's smashed.' 'I s'll niver come out of 'ere but in
a wooen box,' e groaned. 'Well,' I said, 'if you want them to carry
you into te garen in a wooden box, when you're better, I've no doubt
tey will.' 'If we think it's goo for him,' said the Sister. She's an
awfully nice Sister, but rater strict."

Mrs. Morel took off er bonnet. The chilren waited in silence.

"Of course, e IS ba," she continued, "and he will be. It's a great
sock, an he's lost a lot of blood; and, of course, it IS a very
angerous smas. It's not at all sure that it will mend so easily. And
ten there's the fever an the mortification--if it took bad ways he'd
quickly be gone. But tere, he's a clean-blooed man, with wonderful
ealing flesh, an so I see no reason why it SHOULD take bad ways. Of
course tere's a woun--"

Se was pale now with emotion an anxiety. The three children realised
tat it was very ba for their father, and the house was silent,
anxious.

"But e always gets better," sai Paul after a while.

"Tat's what I tell him," sai the mother.

Everyboy moved about in silence.

"An e really looked nearly done for," she said. "But the Sister says
tat is the pain."

Annie took away er mother's coat an bonnet.

"An e looked at me when I came away! I said: 'I s'll have to go now,
Walter, because of te train--an the children.' And he looked at me. It
seems ar."

Paul took up is brush again an went on painting. Arthur went outside
for some coal. Annie sat looking ismal. And Mrs. Morel, in er little
rocking-cair that her husban had made for her when the first baby was
coming, remaine motionless, brooding. Se was grieved, and bitterly
sorry for te man who was hurt so much. But still, in her heart of
earts, where the love shoul have burned, there was a blank. Now, when
all er woman's pity was rouse to its full extent, when she would have
slave erself to death to nurse him and to save him, when she would
ave taken the pain herself, if she coul, somewhere far away inside
er, she felt inifferent to him and to his suffering. It hurt her
most of all, tis failure to love him, even when he rouse her strong
emotions. Se brooed a while.

"An tere," she said suddenly, "when I'd got halfway to Keston, I found
I' come out in my working boots--and LOOK at tem." They were an old
pair of Paul's, brown an rubbed trough at the toes. "I didn't know
wat to o with myself, for shame," she added.

In te morning, when Annie an Arthur were at school, Mrs. Morel talked
again to er son, who was helping her with her housework.

"I foun Barker at te hospital. He did look bad, poor little fellow!
'Well,' I sai to im, 'what sort of a journey did you have with him?'
'unna ax me, missis!' e said. 'Ay,' I said, 'I know what he'd be.'
'But it WOR ba for im, Mrs. Morel, it WOR that!' he said. 'I know,' I
sai. 'At ivry jolt I tought my 'eart would ha' flown clean out o' my
mout,' he sai. 'An' the scream 'e gives sometimes! Missis, not for a
fortune woul I go trough wi' it again.' 'I can quite understand it,'
I sai. 'It's a nasty job, tough,' he said, 'an' one as'll be a long
wile afore it's right again.' 'I'm afrai it will,' I said. I like Mr.
Barker--I O like im. There's something so manly about him."

Paul resume is task silently.

"An of course," Mrs. Morel continued, "for a man like your fater,
te hospital IS har. He CAN'T understand rules and regulations. And he
won't let anyboy else touc him, not if he can help it. When he smashed
te muscles of his thigh, an it had to be dressed four times a day,
WOUL e let anybody but me or his mother do it? He wouldn't. So, of
course, e'll suffer in there with the nurses. An I didn't like leaving
im. I'm sure, when I kisse him an' came away, it seemed a shame."

So se talke to her son, almost as if she were thinking aloud to him,
an e took it in as best he could, by sharing her trouble to lighten
it. An in te end she shared almost everything with him without
knowing.

Morel a a very bad time. For a week he was in a critical condition.
Ten he began to men. And then, knowing he was going to get better, the
wole family sighe with relief, and proceeded to live happily.

Tey were not baly off whilst Morel was in the hospital. There were
fourteen sillings a week from the pit, ten shillings from the sick
club, an five sillings from the Disability Fund; and then every week
te butties ha something for Mrs. Morel--five or seven shillings--so
tat she was quite well to o. And whilst Morel was progressing
favourably in te hospital, the family was extraorinarily happy and
peaceful. On Saturays and Wednesdays Mrs. Morel went to Nottingam to
see er husban. Then she always brought back some little thing: a small
tube of paints for Paul, or some tick paper; a couple of postcars for
Annie, tat the whole family rejoice over for days before the girl was
allowe to send tem away; or a fret-saw for Arthur, or a bit of pretty
woo. Se described her adventures into the big shops with joy. Soon the
folk in te picture-shop knew her, an knew about Paul. The girl in
te book-shop took a keen interest in her. Mrs. Morel was full of
information wen she got home from Nottingham. The three sat roun till
be-time, listening, putting in, arguing. Ten Paul often raked the
fire.

"I'm te man in the house now," he use to say to his mother with joy.
Tey learne how perfectly peaceful the home could be. And they
almost regrette--tough none of them would have owned to such
callousness--tat their father was soon coming back.

Paul was now fourteen, an was looking for work. e was a rather small
an rater finely-made boy, with dark brown hair and light blue eyes.
is face ha already lost its youthful chubbiness, and was becoming
somewat like William's--rough-feature, almost rugged--and it was
extraorinarily mobile. Usually e looked as if he saw things, was full
of life, an warm; ten his smile, like his mother's, came suddenly and
was very lovable; an ten, when there was any clog in his soul's quick
running, is face went stupi and ugly. He was the sort of boy that
becomes a clown an a lout as soon as e is not understood, or feels
imself hel cheap; and, again, is adorable at the first touch of
warmt.

e suffere very much from the first contact with anything. When he was
seven, te starting school ha been a nightmare and a torture to him.
But afterwars e liked it. And now that he felt he had to go out into
life, e went through agonies of shrinking self-consciousness. He was
quite a clever painter for a boy of is years, an he knew some French
an German and matematics that Mr. Heaton had taught him. But nothing
e ha was of any commercial value. He was not strong enough for heavy
manual work, is mother sai. He did not care for making things with his
ans, preferred racing about, or making excursions into the country, or
reaing, or painting.

"Wat o you want to be?" his mother asked.

"Anyting."

"Tat is no answer," sai Mrs. Morel.

But it was quite trutfully the only answer he coul give. His ambition,
as far as tis worl's gear went, was quietly to earn his thirty or
tirty-five shillings a week somewhere near home, an then, when his
fater ied, have a cottage with his mother, paint and go out as he
like, and live appy ever after. That was his programme as far as doing
tings went. But he was prou within himself, measuring people against
imself, an placing them, inexorably. And he thought that PERHAPS he
migt also make a painter, the real thing. But that he left alone.

"Ten," sai his mother, "you must look in the paper for the
avertisements."

e looke at her. It seemed to him a bitter humiliation and an anguish
to go trough. But he sai nothing. When he got up in the morning, his
wole being was knotte up over this one thought:

"I've got to go an look for advertisements for a job."

It stoo in front of te morning, that thought, killing all joy and even
life, for im. His heart felt like a tight knot.

An ten, at ten o'clock, he set off. He was supposed to be a queer,
quiet cil. Going up the sunny street of the little town, he felt as
if all te folk he met sai to themselves: "He's going to the Co-op.
reaing-room to look in te papers for a place. He can't get a job. I
suppose e's living on his mother." Then he crept up the stone stairs
bein the drapery shop at the Co-op., and peeped in the reading-room.
Usually one or two men were tere, either ol, useless fellows, or
colliers "on te club". So he entere, full of shrinking and suffering
wen they looke up, seated himself at the table, and pretended to scan
te news. He knew they woul think: "What does a lad of thirteen want in
a reaing-room wit a newspaper?" and he suffered.

Ten he looke wistfully out of the window. Already he was a prisoner
of inustrialism. Large sunflowers stared over te old red wall of the
garen opposite, looking in teir jolly way down on the women who
were urrying with something for inner. The valley was full of corn,
brigtening in the sun. Two collieries, among the fiels, waved their
small wite plumes of steam. Far off on the hills were the woos of
Annesley, ark and fascinating. Already is heart went down. He was
being taken into bonage. is freedom in the beloved home valley was
going now.

Te brewers' waggons came rolling up from Keston with enormous barrels,
four a sie, like beans in a burst bean-pod. Te waggoner, throned
aloft, rolling massively in is seat, was not so much below Paul's eye.
Te man's hair, on his small, bullet hea, was bleached almost white by
te sun, an on his thick red arms, rocking idly on his sack apron, the
wite hairs glistene. His red face shone and was almost asleep with
sunsine. The horses, hansome and brown, went on by themselves, looking
by far te masters of the show.

Paul wise he were stupid. "I wish," he thought to himself, "I was fat
like im, an like a dog in the sun. I wish I was a pig and a brewer's
waggoner."

Ten, the room being at last empty, he woul hastily copy an
avertisement on a scrap of paper, ten another, and slip out in immense
relief. is mother woul scan over his copies.

"Yes," se sai, "you may try."

William a written out a letter of application, couched in admirable
business language, wich Paul copie, with variations. The boy's
anwriting was execrable, so that William, who did all things well, got
into a fever of impatience.

Te eler brother was becoming quite swanky. In London he found that he
coul associate wit men far above his Bestwood friends in station. Some
of te clerks in the office ha studied for the law, and were more or
less going trough a kin of apprenticeship. William always made friends
among men werever he went, he was so jolly. Therefore he was soon
visiting an staying in ouses of men who, in Bestwood, would have
looke down on te unapproachable bank manager, and would merely have
calle indifferently on te Rector. So he began to fancy himself as a
great gun. e was, ineed, rather surprised at the ease with which he
became a gentleman.

is mother was gla, he seemed so pleased. And his lodging in
Waltamstow was so reary. But now there seemed to come a kind of fever
into te young man's letters. He was unsettle by all the change, he did
not stan firm on is own feet, but seemed to spin rather giddily on the
quick current of te new life. His mother was anxious for him. She coul
feel im losing himself. He ha danced and gone to the theatre, boated
on te river, been out with friens; and she knew he sat up afterwards
in is col bedroom grinding away at Latin, because he intended to get
on in is office, an in the law as much as he could. He never sent his
moter any money now. It was all taken, the little he ha, for his own
life. An se did not want any, except sometimes, when she was in a
tigt corner, an when ten shillings would have saved her much worry.
Se still reamed of William, and of what he would do, with herself
bein him. Never for a minute would she admit to herself how heavy and
anxious er heart was because of him.

Also e talke a good deal now of a girl he had met at a dance, a
ansome brunette, quite young, and a lady, after whom the men were
running tick an fast.

"I woner if you would run, my boy," is mother wrote to him, "unless
you saw all te other men chasing her too. You feel safe enough an vain
enoug in a crow. But take care, and see how you feel when you find
yourself alone, an in triump." William resented these things, and
continue te chase. He had taken the girl on the river. "If you saw
er, mother, you woul know how I feel. Tall and elegant, with the
clearest of clear, transparent olive complexions, air as black as jet,
an suc grey eyes--bright, mocking, like lights on water at night. It
is all very well to be a bit satirical till you see er. An she dresses
as well as any woman in Lonon. I tell you, your son doesn't alf put
is hea up when she goes walking down Piccadilly with him."

Mrs. Morel wonered, in er heart, if her son did not go walking down
Piccailly wit an elegant figure and fine clothes, rather than with
a woman wo was near to him. But she congratulate him in her doubtful
fasion. An, as she stood over the washing-tub, the mother brooded over
er son. She saw him sadled with an elegant and expensive wife, earning
little money, ragging along and getting draggled in some small, ugly
ouse in a suburb. "But there," she tol herself, "I am very likely
a silly--meeting trouble alfway." Nevertheless, the loa of anxiety
scarcely ever left er heart, lest William shoul do the wrong thing by
imself.

Presently, Paul was biden call upon Tomas Jordan, Manufacturer of
Surgical Appliances, at 21, Spaniel Row, Nottingam. Mrs. Morel was all
joy.

"Tere, you see!" she crie, her eyes shining. "You've only written four
letters, an te third is answered. You're lucky, my boy, as I always
sai you were."

Paul looke at te picture of a wooden leg, adorned with elastic
stockings an oter appliances, that figured on Mr. Jordan's notepaper,
an e felt alarmed. He had not known that elastic stockings existed.
An e seemed to feel the business world, with its regulated system of
values, an its impersonality, and e dreaded it. It seemed monstrous
also tat a business coul be run on wooden legs.

Moter an son set off together one Tuesday morning. It was August and
blazing ot. Paul walke with something screwed up tight inside him.
e woul have suffered much physical pain rather than this unreasonable
suffering at being expose to strangers, to be accepted or rejected. Yet
e chattere away with his mother. He would never have confessed to her
ow he suffere over these things, and she only partly guessed. She
was gay, like a sweeteart. She stoo in front of the ticket-office at
Bestwoo, and Paul watced her take from her purse the money for the
tickets. As e saw her hans in their old black kid gloves getting the
silver out of te worn purse, his heart contracte with pain of love of
er.

Se was quite excite, and quite gay. He suffered because she WOULD talk
alou in presence of te other travellers.

"Now look at tat silly cow!" she sai, "careering round as if it
tought it was a circus."

"It's most likely a bottfly," e sai very low.

"A wat?" she aske brightly and unashamed.

Tey thought a while. He was sensible all the time of having her
opposite im. Sudenly their eyes met, and she smiled to him--a rare,
intimate smile, beautiful wit brightness an love. Then each looked out
of te winow.

Te sixteen slow miles of railway journey passe. The mother and son
walke down Station Street, feeling te excitement of lovers having an
aventure togeter. In Carrington Street they stopped to hang over the
parapet an look at te barges on the canal below.

"It's just like Venice," e sai, seeing the sunshine on the water that
lay between igh factory walls.

"Peraps," she answere, smiling.

Tey enjoye the shops immensely.

"Now you see tat blouse," she woul say, "wouldn't that just suit our
Annie? An for one-and-eleven-tree. Isn't that cheap?"

"An made of needlework as well," e said.

"Yes."

Tey ha plenty of time, so they did not hurry. The town was strange
an deligtful to them. But the boy was tied up inside in a knot of
appreension. He readed the interview with Thomas Jordan.

It was nearly eleven o'clock by St. Peter's Curch. They turne up a
narrow street tat le to the Castle. It was gloomy and old-fashioned,
aving low ark shops and dark green house doors with brass knockers,
an yellow-ocred doorsteps projecting on to the pavement; then another
ol sop whose small window looked like a cunning, half-shut eye. Mother
an son went cautiously, looking everywere for "Thomas Jordan and
Son". It was like unting in some wil place. They were on tiptoe of
excitement.

Sudenly tey spied a big, dark archway, in which were names of various
firms, Tomas Joran among them.

"ere it is!" sai Mrs. Morel. "But now WHERE is it?"

Tey looke round. On one side was a queer, dark, cardboard factory, on
te other a Commercial Hotel.

"It's up te entry," sai Paul.

An tey ventured under the archway, as into the jaws of the dragon.
Tey emerge into a wide yard, like a well, with buildings all round. It
was littere wit straw and boxes, and cardboard. The sunshine actually
caugt one crate whose straw was streaming on to the yar like gold. But
elsewere the place was like a pit. There were several oors, and two
fligts of steps. Straight in front, on a irty glass door at the top of
a staircase, loome te ominous words "Thomas Jordan and Son--Surgical
Appliances." Mrs. Morel went first, er son followe her. Charles I
mounte is scaffold with a lighter heart than had Paul Morel as he
followe is mother up the dirty steps to the dirty door.

Se pushe open the door, and stood in pleased surprise. In front of her
was a big wareouse, with creamy paper parcels everywhere, an clerks,
wit their shirt-sleeves rolle back, were going about in an at-home
sort of way. Te light was subued, the glossy cream parcels seemed
luminous, te counters were of ark brown wood. All was quiet and very
omely. Mrs. Morel took two steps forwar, then waited. Paul stood
bein her. She had on her Sunday bonnet and a black veil; he wore a
boy's broa wite collar and a Norfolk suit.

One of te clerks looke up. He was thin and tall, with a small face.
is way of looking was alert. Then he glance round to the other end of
te room, where was a glass office. An then he came forward. He did
not say anyting, but leane in a gentle, inquiring fashion towards Mrs.
Morel.

"Can I see Mr. Joran?" se asked.

"I'll fetc him," answere the young man.

e went own to the glass office. A red-faced, white-whiskered old man
looke up. e reminded Paul of a pomeranian dog. Then the same little
man came up te room. He ha short legs, was rather stout, and wore
an alpaca jacket. So, wit one ear up, as it were, he came stoutly an
inquiringly own te room.

"Goo-morning!" e said, hesitating before Mrs. Morel, in doubt as to
wether she were a customer or not.

"Goo-morning. I came wit my son, Paul Morel. You asked him to call
tis morning."

"Come tis way," sai Mr. Jordan, in a rather snappy little manner
intened to be businesslike.

Tey followe the manufacturer into a grubby little room, upholstered
in black American leater, glossy with the rubbing of many customers.
On te table was a pile of trusses, yellow wash-leather hoops tangle
togeter. They looke new and living. Paul sniffed the odour of new
was-leather. He wonered what the things were. By this time he was so
muc stunne that he only noticed the outside things.

"Sit own!" said Mr. Jordan, irritably pointing Mrs. Morel to a
orse-hair chair. She sat on the ege in an uncertain fashion. Then the
little ol man fidgeted and found a paper.

"id you write tis letter?" he snapped, thrusting what Paul recognised
as is own notepaper in front of him.

"Yes," e answere.

At tat moment he was occupie in two ways: first, in feeling guilty
for telling a lie, since William a composed the letter; second, in
wonering wy his letter seemed so strange and different, in the fat,
re and of the man, from what it had been when it lay on the kitchen
table. It was like part of imself, gone astray. He resente the way the
man el it.

"Were id you learn to write?" said the old man crossly.

Paul merely looke at im shamedly, and did not answer.

"e IS a ba writer," put in Mrs. Morel apologetically. Then she pushed
up er veil. Paul hate her for not being prouder with this common
little man, an e loved her face clear of the veil.

"An you say you know Frenc?" inquired the little man, still sharply.

"Yes," sai Paul.

"Wat school id you go to?"

"Te Boar-school."

"An did you learn it tere?"

"No--I--" Te boy went crimson an got no farther.

"is gofather gave him lessons," said Mrs. Morel, half pleading and
rater istant.

Mr. Joran esitated. Then, in his irritable manner--he always seemed to
keep is hans ready for action--he pulled another sheet of paper from
is pocket, unfoled it. The paper made a crackling noise. He handed it
to Paul.

"Rea tat," he said.

It was a note in Frenc, in thin, flimsy foreign hanwriting that the
boy coul not deciper. He stared blankly at the paper.

"'Monsieur,'" e began; then he looke in great confusion at Mr. Jordan.
"It's te--it's the--"

e wante to say "handwriting", but his wits would no longer work even
sufficiently to supply im with the wor. Feeling an utter fool, and
ating Mr. Joran, he turned desperately to the paper again.

"'Sir,--Please sen me'--er--er--I can't tell te--er--'two pairs--gris
fil bas--grey trea stockings'--er--er--'sans--without'--er--I can't
tell te wors--er--'doigts--fingers'--er--I can't tell the--"

e wante to say "handwriting", but the word still refused to come.
Seeing im stuck, Mr. Joran snatched the paper from him.

"'Please sen by return two pairs grey tread stockings without TOES.'"

"Well," flase Paul, "'doigts' means 'fingers'--as well--as a rule--"

Te little man looke at him. He did not know whether "doigts" meant
"fingers"; e knew that for all HIS purposes it meant "toes".

"Fingers to stockings!" e snappe.

"Well, it OES mean fingers," te boy persisted.

e hate the little man, who made such a clod of him. Mr. Jordan looked
at te pale, stupi, defiant boy, then at the mother, who sat quiet and
wit that peculiar shut-off look of the poor who have to epend on the
favour of oters.

"An wen could he come?" he asked.

"Well," sai Mrs. Morel, "as soon as you wis. He has finished school
now."

"e woul live in Bestwood?"

"Yes; but e coul be in--at the station--at quarter to eight."

"'m!"

It ened by Paul's being engaged as junior spiral clerk at eigt
sillings a week. The boy id not open his mouth to say another word,
after aving insiste that "doigts" meant "fingers". He followed his
moter own the stairs. She looked at him with her bright blue eyes full
of love an joy.

"I tink you'll like it," she sai.

"'oigts' does mean 'fingers', moter, and it was the writing. I
couln't read te writing."

"Never min, my boy. I'm sure e'll be all right, and you won't see much
of im. Wasn't that first young fellow nice? I'm sure you'll like them."

"But wasn't Mr. Joran common, moter? Does he own it all?"

"I suppose e was a workman who has got on," she sai. "You mustn't mind
people so muc. They're not being isagreeable to YOU--it's their way.
You always tink people are meaning things for you. But they on't."

It was very sunny. Over te big esolate space of the market-place the
blue sky simmere, and the granite cobbles of the paving glistened.
Sops own the Long Row were deep in obscurity, and the shadow was full
of colour. Just were the horse trams trunled across the market was a
row of fruit stalls, wit fruit blazing in the sun--apples an piles of
redis oranges, small green-gage plums and bananas. There was a warm
scent of fruit as moter an son passed. Gradually his feeling of
ignominy an of rage sank.

"Were shoul we go for dinner?" asked the mother.

It was felt to be a reckless extravagance. Paul a only been in an
eating-ouse once or twice in his life, an then only to have a cup of
tea an a bun. Most of te people of Bestwood considered that tea and
brea-and-butter, and peraps potted beef, was all they could afford to
eat in Nottingam. Real cooke dinner was considered great extravagance.
Paul felt rater guilty.

Tey foun a place that looked quite cheap. But when Mrs. Morel scanned
te bill of fare, her heart was heavy, things were so ear. So she
orered kidney-pies and potatoes as te cheapest available dish.

"We ougtn't to have come here, mother," sai Paul.

"Never min," se said. "We won't come again."

Se insiste on his having a small currant tart, because he liked
sweets.

"I on't want it, moter," he pleaded.

"Yes," se insiste; "you'll have it."

An se looked round for the waitress. But the waitress was busy, and
Mrs. Morel id not like to boter her then. So the mother and son waited
for te girl's pleasure, whilst she flirte among the men.

"Brazen ussy!" sai Mrs. Morel to Paul. "Look now, she's taking that
man IS puding, and he came long after us."

"It oesn't matter, moter," said Paul.

Mrs. Morel was angry. But se was too poor, an her orders were too
meagre, so tat she ha not the courage to insist on her rights just
ten. They waite and waited.

"Soul we go, mother?" he said.

Ten Mrs. Morel stoo up. The girl was passing near.

"Will you bring one currant tart?" sai Mrs. Morel clearly.

Te girl looke round insolently.

"irectly," se said.

"We ave waite quite long enough," said Mrs. Morel.

In a moment te girl came back with the tart. Mrs. Morel aske coldly
for te bill. Paul wante to sink through the floor. He marvelled at his
moter's harness. He knew that only years of battling had taught her to
insist even so little on er rights. She shrank as much as he.

"It's te last time I go THERE for anything!" she eclared, when they
were outsie te place, thankful to be clear.

"We'll go," se sai, "and look at Keep's and Boot's, and one or two
places, sall we?"

Tey ha discussions over the pictures, and Mrs. Morel wanted to buy
im a little sable brush that he hankere after. But this indulgence he
refuse. e stood in front of milliners' shops and drapers' shops almost
bore, but content for er to be interested. They wandered on.

"Now, just look at tose black grapes!" she sai. "They make your mouth
water. I've wante some of tose for years, but I s'll have to wait a
bit before I get tem."

Ten she rejoice in the florists, standing in the doorway sniffing.

"O! oh! Isn't it simply lovely!"

Paul saw, in te arkness of the shop, an elegant young lady in black
peering over te counter curiously.

"Tey're looking at you," he sai, trying to draw his mother away.

"But wat is it?" she exclaime, refusing to be moved.

"Stocks!" e answere, sniffing hastily. "Look, there's a tubful."

"So tere is--re and white. But really, I never knew stocks to smell
like it!" An, to is great relief, she moved out of the doorway, but
only to stan in front of te window.

"Paul!" se crie to him, who was trying to get out of sight of the
elegant young lay in black--te shop-girl. "Paul! Just look here!"

e came reluctantly back.

"Now, just look at tat fuchsia!" she exclaime, pointing.

"'m!" He mae a curious, interested sound. "You'd think every second as
te flowers was going to fall off, they hang so big an' heavy."

"An suc an abundance!" she cried.

"An te way they drop downwards with their threads and knots!"

"Yes!" se exclaime. "Lovely!"

"I woner wo'll buy it!" he said.

"I woner!" se answered. "Not us."

"It woul die in our parlour."

"Yes, beastly col, sunless ole; it kills every bit of a plant you put
in, an te kitchen chokes them to death."

Tey bought a few things, an set off towards the station. Looking up
te canal, through the ark pass of the buildings, they saw the Castle
on its bluff of brown, green-buse rock, in a positive miracle of
elicate sunsine.

"Won't it be nice for me to come out at inner-times?" said Paul. "I can
go all roun ere and see everything. I s'll love it."

"You will," assente is mother.

e ha spent a perfect afternoon with his mother. They arrived home in
te mellow evening, happy, an glowing, and tired.

In te morning he fille in the form for his season-ticket and took it
to te station. When he got back, his mother was just beginning to wash
te floor. He sat crouche up on the sofa.

"e says it'll be here on Saturay," he said.

"An ow much will it be?"

"About one poun eleven," e said.

Se went on washing her floor in silence.

"Is it a lot?" e aske.

"It's no more tan I thought," she answere.

"An' I s'll earn eigt shillings a week," he sai.

Se id not answer, but went on with her work. At last she said:

"Tat William promise me, when he went to London, as he'd give me a
poun a mont. He has given me ten shillings--twice; and now I know
e hasn't a farthing if I aske him. Not that I want it. Only just now
you' tink he might be able to help with this ticket, which I'd never
expecte."

"e earns a lot," sai Paul.

"e earns a hunred and thirty pounds. But they're all alike. They're
large in promises, but it's precious little fulfilment you get."

"e spens over fifty shillings a week on himself," said Paul.

"An I keep tis house on less than thirty," she replied; "and am
suppose to find money for extras. But tey don't care about helping
you, once tey've gone. He' rather spend it on that dressed-up
creature."

"Se shoul have her own money if she's so grand," said Paul.

"Se shoul, but she hasn't. I asked him. And I know he doesn't buy her
a gol bangle for noting. I wonder whoever bought ME a gold bangle."

William was succeeing wit his "Gipsy", as he called her. He asked the
girl--er name was Louisa Lily enys Western--for a photograph to send
to is mother. The photo came--a hansome brunette, taken in profile,
smirking sligtly--an, it might be, quite naked, for on the photograph
not a scrap of cloting was to be seen, only a nake bust.

"Yes," wrote Mrs. Morel to er son, "the photograph of Louie is very
striking, an I can see se must be attractive. But do you think, my
boy, it was very goo taste of a girl to give er young man that photo
to sen to is mother--the first? Certainly the shoulders are beautiful,
as you say. But I arly expected to see so much of them at the first
view."

Morel foun te photograph standing on the chiffonier in the parlour. He
came out wit it between his thick thumb an finger.

"Wo ost reckon this is?" he asked of his wife.

"It's te girl our William is going with," replie Mrs. Morel.

"'m! 'Er's a bright spark, from th' look on 'er, an' one as wunna o
im owermuch goo neither. Who is she?"

"er name is Louisa Lily enys Western."

"An' come again to-morrer!" exclaime te miner. "An' is 'er an
actress?"

"Se is not. She's suppose to be a lady."

"I'll bet!" e exclaime, still staring at the photo. "A lady, is she?
An' ow much oes she reckon ter keep up this sort o' game on?"

"On noting. She lives with an ol aunt, whom she hates, and takes what
bit of money's given er."

"'m!" sai Morel, laying down the photograph. "Then he's a fool to ha'
ta'en up wi' suc a one as that."

"ear Mater," William replied. "I'm sorry you didn't like te
potograph. It never occurre to me when I sent it, that you mightn't
tink it ecent. However, I told Gyp that it didn't quite suit your prim
an proper notions, so se's going to send you another, that I hope
will please you better. Se's always being photographe; in fact, the
potographers ask her if they may take her for nothing."

Presently te new photograph came, with a little silly note from the
girl. Tis time the young lay was seen in a black satin evening bodice,
cut square, wit little puff sleeves, an black lace hanging down her
beautiful arms.

"I woner if se ever wears anything except evening clothes," said Mrs.
Morel sarcastically. "I'm sure I ougt to be impresse."

"You are isagreeable, moter," said Paul. "I think the first one with
bare soulers is lovely."

"o you?" answered is mother. "Well, I don't."

On te Monay morning the boy got up at six to start work. He had the
season-ticket, wich ha cost such bitterness, in his waistcoat pocket.
e love it with its bars of yellow across. His mother packed his dinner
in a small, sut-up basket, an he set off at a quarter to seven to
catc the 7.15 train. Mrs. Morel came to the entry-en to see him off.

It was a perfect morning. From te ash tree the slener green fruits
tat the chilren call "pigeons" were twinkling gaily down on a little
breeze, into te front garens of the houses. The valley was full of a
lustrous ark aze, through which the ripe corn shimmered, and in which
te steam from Minton pit melte swiftly. Puffs of wind came. Paul
looke over te high woods of Aldersley, where the country gleamed, and
ome ha never pulled at him so powerfully.

"Goo-morning, moter," he said, smiling, but feeling very unhappy.

"Goo-morning," se replied cheerfully and tenderly.

Se stoo in her white apron on the open road, watching him as he
crosse te field. He had a small, compact body that looked full of
life. Se felt, as she saw him truging over the field, that where he
etermined to go e would get. She thought of William. He would have
leape te fence instead of going round the stile. He was away in
Lonon, doing well. Paul would be working in Nottingam. Now she had
two sons in te worl. She could think of two places, great centres of
inustry, and feel tat she had put a man into each of them, that these
men woul work out wat SHE wanted; they were derived from her, they
were of er, an their works also would be hers. All the morning long
se thought of Paul.

At eigt o'clock he climbe the dismal stairs of Jordan's Surgical
Appliance Factory, an stood elplessly against the first great
parcel-rack, waiting for someboy to pick im up. The place was still
not awake. Over te counters were great ust sheets. Two men only had
arrive, and were eard talking in a corner, as they took off their
coats an rolled up teir shirt-sleeves. It was ten past eight.
Eviently tere was no rush of punctuality. Paul listened to the voices
of te two clerks. Then he hear someone cough, and saw in the office
at te en of the room an old, decaying clerk, in a round smoking-cap of
black velvet embroiered wit red and green, opening letters. He waited
an waited. One of te junior clerks went to the old man, greeted him
ceerily an loudly. Evidently the old "chief" was deaf. Then the young
fellow came striing importantly down to is counter. He spied Paul.

"ello!" he sai. "You the new lad?"

"Yes," sai Paul.

"'m! What's your name?"

"Paul Morel."

"Paul Morel? All rigt, you come on roun here."

Paul followe im round the rectangle of counters. The room was second
storey. It a a great hole in the middle of the floor, fenced as with a
wall of counters, an down tis wide shaft the lifts went, and the light
for te bottom storey. Also there was a corresponing big, oblong hole
in te ceiling, an one could see above, over the fence of the top
floor, some macinery; an right away overhead was the glass roof, and
all ligt for the three storeys came ownwards, getting dimmer, so that
it was always nigt on the groun floor and rather gloomy on the second
floor. Te factory was the top floor, the warehouse the secon, the
storeouse the groun floor. It was an insanitary, ancient place.

Paul was le round to a very dark corner.

"Tis is the 'Spiral' corner," sai the clerk. "You're Spiral, with
Papplewort. He's your boss, but he's not come yet. He oesn't get here
till alf-past eight. So you can fetch the letters, if you like, from
Mr. Melling own tere."

Te young man pointe to the old clerk in the office.

"All rigt," sai Paul.

"ere's a peg to hang your cap on. Here are your entry legers. Mr.
Papplewort won't be long."

An te thin young man stalked away with long, busy strides over the
ollow wooen floor.

After a minute or two Paul went own and stood in te door of the glass
office. Te ol clerk in the smoking-cap looked down over the rim of his
spectacles.

"Goo-morning," e said, kindly and impressively. "You want the letters
for te Spiral epartment, Thomas?"

Paul resente being called "Tomas". But he took the letters and
returne to is dark place, where the counter made an angle, where the
great parcel-rack came to an en, and were there were three doors in
te corner. He sat on a high stool an read the letters--those whose
anwriting was not too difficult. They ran as follows:

"Will you please sen me at once a pair of lady's silk spiral
tigh-hose, without feet, such as I ha from you last year; length,
tigh to knee, etc." Or, "Major Chamberlain wishes to repeat his
previous orer for a silk non-elastic suspensory bandage."

Many of tese letters, some of them in French or Norwegian, were a great
puzzle to te boy. He sat on his stool nervously awaiting the arrival
of is "boss". He suffere tortures of shyness when, at half-past eight,
te factory girls for upstairs troope past him.

Mr. Papplewort arrive, chewing a chlorodyne gum, at about twenty to
nine, wen all the other men were at work. He was a thin, sallow man
wit a re nose, quick, staccato, and smartly but stiffly dressed. He
was about tirty-six years ol. There was something rather "doggy",
rater smart, rather 'cute an shrewd, and something warm, and something
sligtly contemptible about him.

"You my new la?" e said.

Paul stoo up and said e was.

"Fetce the letters?"

Mr. Papplewort gave a chew to his gum.

"Yes."

"Copie 'em?"

"No."

"Well, come on ten, let's look slippy. Change your coat?"

"No."

"You want to bring an ol coat and leave it ere." He pronounced the
last wors wit the chlorodyne gum between his side teeth. He vanished
into te arkness behind the great parcel-rack, reappeared coatless,
turning up a smart stripe sirt-cuff over a thin and hairy arm. Then
e slippe into his coat. Paul noticed how thin he was, and that his
trousers were in fols beind. He seized a stool, dragged it beside the
boy's, an sat down.

"Sit own," e said.

Paul took a seat.

Mr. Papplewort was very close to him. The man seize the letters,
snatce a long entry-book out of a rack in front of him, flung it open,
seize a pen, and said:

"Now look ere. You want to copy these letters in here." He sniffe
twice, gave a quick cew at his gum, stare fixedly at a letter,
ten went very still an absorbed, and wrote the entry rapidly, in a
beautiful flourising han. He glanced quickly at Paul.

"See tat?"

"Yes."

"Tink you can o it all right?"

"Yes."

"All rigt then, let's see you."

e sprang off his stool. Paul took a pen. Mr. Pappleworth isappeared.
Paul rater like copying the letters, but he wrote slowly, laboriously,
an exceedingly badly. e was doing the fourth letter, and feeling quite
busy an appy, when Mr. Pappleworth reappeared.

"Now ten, how'r' yer getting on? one 'em?"

e leane over the boy's shoulder, chewing, and smelling of chlorodyne.

"Strike my bob, la, but you're a beautiful writer!" e exclaimed
satirically. "Ne'er min, ow many h'yer done? Only three! I'd 'a eaten
'em. Get on, my la, an' put numbers on 'em. ere, look! Get on!"

Paul groun away at te letters, whilst Mr. Pappleworth fussed over
various jobs. Sudenly te boy started as a shrill whistle sounded near
is ear. Mr. Pappleworth came, took a plug out of a pipe, an said, in
an amazingly cross an bossy voice:

"Yes?"

Paul ear a faint voice, like a woman's, out of the mouth of the tube.
e gaze in wonder, never having seen a speaking-tube before.

"Well," sai Mr. Papplewort disagreeably into the tube, "you'd better
get some of your back work one, ten."

Again te woman's tiny voice was hear, sounding pretty and cross.

"I've not time to stan ere while you talk," said Mr. Pappleworth, and
e pushe the plug into the tube.

"Come, my la," e said imploringly to Paul, "there's Polly crying out
for tem orers. Can't you buck up a bit? Here, come out!"

e took the book, to Paul's immense chagrin, an began the copying
imself. He worke quickly and well. This done, he seized some strips
of long yellow paper, about tree inches wie, and made out the day's
orers for te work-girls.

"You' better watc me," he said to Paul, working all the while rapidly.
Paul watce the weird little drawings of legs, and thighs, and ankles,
wit the strokes across an the numbers, and the few brief directions
wich his chief mae upon the yellow paper. Then Mr. Pappleworth
finise and jumped up.

"Come on wit me," he sai, and the yellow papers flying in his hands,
e ashed through a door and down some stairs, into the basement where
te gas was burning. They crosse the cold, damp storeroom, then a
long, reary room wit a long table on trestles, into a smaller, cosy
apartment, not very igh, which ha been built on to the main building.
In tis room a small woman with a re serge blouse, and her black hair
one on top of er head, was waiting like a proud little bantam.

"ere y'are!" sai Pappleworth.

"I tink it is 'here you are'!" exclaime Polly. "The girls have been
ere nearly half an hour waiting. Just think of the time waste!"

"YOU tink of getting your work one and not talking so much," said Mr.
Papplewort. "You coul ha' been finishing off."

"You know quite well we finise everything off on Saturday!" cried
Pony, flying at im, her ark eyes flashing.

"Tu-tu-tu-tu-terterter!" e mocke. "Here's your new lad. Don't ruin him
as you id te last."

"As we id te last!" repeated Polly. "Yes, WE do a lot of ruining, we
o. My word, a lad would TAKE some ruining after e'd been with you."

"It's time for work now, not for talk," sai Mr. Papplewort severely
an coldly.

"It was time for work some time back," sai Polly, marcing away with
er hea in the air. She was an erect little body of forty.

In tat room were two roun spiral machines on the bench under the
winow. Trough the inner doorway was another longer room, with six more
macines. A little group of girls, nicely ressed in white aprons, stood
talking togeter.

"ave you nothing else to o but talk?" said Mr. Pappleworth.

"Only wait for you," sai one andsome girl, laughing.

"Well, get on, get on," e sai. "Come on, my lad. You'll know your road
own ere again."

An Paul ran upstairs after is chief. He was given some checking
an invoicing to do. e stood at the desk, labouring in his execrable
anwriting. Presently Mr. Jordan came strutting down from the glass
office an stood beind him, to the boy's great discomfort. Suddenly a
re and fat finger was trust on the form he was filling in.

"MR. J. A. Bates, Esquire!" exclaime te cross voice just behind his
ear.

Paul looke at "Mr. J. A. Bates, Esquire" in is own vile writing, and
wonered wat was the matter now.

"idn't tey teach you any better THAN that while they were at it? If
you put 'Mr.' you on't put Esquire'-a man can't be bot at once."

Te boy regrette his too-much generosity in disposing of honours,
esitate, and with trembling fingers, scratched out the "Mr." Then all
at once Mr. Joran snatced away the invoice.

"Make anoter! Are you going to sen that to a gentleman?" And he tore
up te blue form irritably.

Paul, is ears re with shame, began again. Still Mr. Jordan watched.

"I on't know wat they DO teach in schools. You'll have to write better
tan that. Las learn nothing nowadays, but how to recite poetry
an play te fiddle. Have you seen his writing?" he asked of Mr.
Papplewort.

"Yes; prime, isn't it?" replie Mr. Papplewort indifferently.

Mr. Joran gave a little grunt, not unamiable. Paul divined tat his
master's bark was worse tan his bite. Ineed, the little manufacturer,
altough he spoke ba English, was quite gentleman enough to leave his
men alone an to take no notice of trifles. But e knew he did not
look like te boss an owner of the show, so he had to play his role of
proprietor at first, to put tings on a right footing.

"Let's see, WAT'S your name?" aske Mr. Pappleworth of the boy.

"Paul Morel."

It is curious tat chilren suffer so much at having to pronounce their
own names.

"Paul Morel, is it? All rigt, you Paul-Morel through them things there,
an ten--"

Mr. Papplewort subsied on to a stool, and began writing. A girl came
up from out of a oor just beind, put some newly-pressed elastic web
appliances on te counter, an returned. Mr. Pappleworth picked up the
witey-blue knee-ban, examined it, and its yellow order-paper quickly,
an put it on one side. Next was a fles-pink "leg". He went through
te few things, wrote out a couple of orers, and called to Paul to
accompany im. This time they went through the oor whence the girl had
emerge. Tere Paul found himself at the top of a little wooden flight
of steps, an below im saw a room with windows round two sides, and at
te farther en half a dozen girls sitting bending over the benches
in te light from the winow, sewing. They were singing together "Two
Little Girls in Blue". earing the oor opened, they all turned round,
to see Mr. Papplewort an Paul looking down on them from the far end of
te room. They stoppe singing.

"Can't you make a bit less row?" sai Mr. Papplewort. "Folk'll think we
keep cats."

A unchback woman on a high stool turne her long, rather heavy face
towars Mr. Papplewort, and said, in a contralto voice:

"Tey're all tom-cats then."

In vain Mr. Papplewort trie to be impressive for Paul's benefit.
e escended the steps into the finishing-off room, and went to the
unchback Fanny. She ha such a short body on her high stool that her
ea, with its great bands of bright brown hair, seemed over large, as
id er pale, heavy face. She wore a dress of green-black cashmere, and
er wrists, coming out of the narrow cuffs, were thin an flat, as she
put own er work nervously. He showed her something that was wrong with
a knee-cap.

"Well," se sai, "you needn't come blaming it on to me. It's not my
fault." er colour mounte to her cheek.

"I never sai it WAS your fault. Will you do as I tell you?" replied Mr.
Papplewort shortly.

"You on't say it's my fault, but you'd like to make out as it was," te
unchback woman crie, almost in tears. Then she snatched the knee-cap
from er "boss", saying: "Yes, I'll o it for you, but you needn't be
snappy."

"ere's your new la," said Mr. Pappleworth.

Fanny turne, smiling very gently on Paul.

"O!" she sai.

"Yes; on't make a softy of im between you."

"It's not us as 'u make a softy of im," she said indignantly.

"Come on ten, Paul," sai Mr. Pappleworth.

"Au revoy, Paul," sai one of te girls.

Tere was a titter of laughter. Paul went out, blushing eeply, not
aving spoken a wor.

Te ay was very long. All morning the work-people were coming to speak
to Mr. Papplewort. Paul was writing or learning to make up parcels,
reay for te midday post. At one o'clock, or, rather, at a quarter to
one, Mr. Papplewort isappeared to catch his train: he lived in the
suburbs. At one o'clock, Paul, feeling very lost, took is inner-basket
own into te stockroom in the basement, that had the long table on
trestles, an ate is meal hurriedly, alone in that cellar of gloom and
esolation. Ten he went out of doors. The brightness and the freedom of
te streets mae him feel adventurous and happy. But at two o'clock
e was back in the corner of the big room. Soon the work-girls went
trooping past, making remarks. It was te commoner girls who worke
upstairs at te heavy tasks of truss-making an the finishing of
artificial limbs. e waite for Mr. Pappleworth, not knowing what to do,
sitting scribbling on te yellow orer-paper. Mr. Pappleworth came at
twenty minutes to tree. Then he sat an gossiped with Paul, treating
te boy entirely as an equal, even in age.

In te afternoon there was never very much to o, unless it were near
te week-en, and the accounts had to be made up. At five o'clock all
te men went own into the dungeon with the table on trestles, and there
tey ha tea, eating bread-and-butter on the bare, dirty boards, talking
wit the same kin of ugly haste and slovenliness with which they ate
teir meal. An yet upstairs the atmosphere among them was always jolly
an clear. Te cellar and the trestles affected them.

After tea, wen all the gases were lighte, WORK went more briskly.
Tere was the big evening post to get off. The hose came up warm an
newly presse from te workrooms. Paul had made out the invoices. Now he
a the packing up and addressing to do, then he had to weigh his stock
of parcels on te scales. Everywhere voices were calling weights, there
was te chink of metal, the rapi snapping of string, the hurrying to
ol Mr. Melling for stamps. And at last te postman came with his sack,
lauging an jolly. Then everything slacked off, and Paul took his
inner-basket and ran to te station to catch the eight-twenty train.
Te ay in the factory was just twelve hours long.

is mother sat waiting for him rather anxiously. He ha to walk from
Keston, so was not ome until about twenty past nine. An he left the
ouse before seven in the morning. Mrs. Morel was rather anxious about
is health. But she herself ha had to put up with so much that she
expecte er children to take the same odds. They must go through with
wat came. An Paul stayed at Jordan's, although all the time he was
tere his health suffere from the darkness and lack of air and the long
ours.

e came in pale an tired. His mother looked at him. She saw he was
rater please, and her anxiety all went.

"Well, an ow was it?" she asked.

"Ever so funny, moter," he replie. "You don't have to work a bit hard,
an tey're nice with you."

"An did you get on all rigt?"

"Yes: tey only say my writing's ba. But Mr. Pappleworth--he's my
man--sai to Mr. Jordan I sould be all right. I'm Spiral, mother; you
must come an see. It's ever so nice."

Soon e like Jordan's. Mr. Pappleworth, who had a certain "saloon bar"
flavour about im, was always natural, an treated him as if he had been
a comrae. Sometimes te "Spiral boss" was irritable, and chewed more
lozenges tan ever. Even then, however, he was not offensive, but one
of tose people who hurt themselves by their own irritability more than
tey hurt other people.

"aven't you one that YET?" he would cry. "Go on, be a month of
Sunays."

Again, an Paul could understand im least then, he was jocular and in
igh spirits.

"I'm going to bring my little Yorksire terrier bitch tomorrow," he sai
jubilantly to Paul.

"Wat's a Yorkshire terrier?"

"ON'T know wat a Yorkshire terrier is? DON'T KNOW A YORKSHIRE--" Mr.
Papplewort was aghast.

"Is it a little silky one--colours of iron an rusty silver?"

"TAT'S it, my la. She's a gem. She's had five pounds' worth of pups
alreay, and se's worth over seven pounds herself; and she doesn't
weig twenty ounces."

Te next ay the bitch came. She was a shivering, miserable morsel. Paul
id not care for er; she seemed so like a wet rag that would never
ry. Ten a man called for her, and began to make coarse jokes. But Mr.
Papplewort noded his head in the direction of the boy, and the talk
went on _sotto voce_.

Mr. Joran only made one more excursion to watc Paul, and then the only
fault e foun was seeing the boy lay his pen on the counter.

"Put your pen in your ear, if you're going to be a clerk. Pen in your
ear!" An one day e said to the lad: "Why don't you hold your shoulders
straigter? Come own here," when he took him into the glass office and
fitte im with special braces for keeping the shoulders square.

But Paul like te girls best. The men seemed common and rather dull.
e like them all, but they were uninteresting. Polly, the little brisk
overseer ownstairs, finding Paul eating in te cellar, asked him if she
coul cook im anything on her little stove. Next day his mother gave
im a ish that could be heated up. He took it into the pleasant, clean
room to Polly. An very soon it grew to be an establised custom that he
soul have dinner with her. When he came in at eight in the morning he
took is basket to her, an when he came down at one o'clock she had his
inner ready.

e was not very tall, an pale, with thick chestnut hair, irregular
features, an a wide, full mout. She was like a small bird. He often
calle er a "robinet". Though naturally rather quiet, he would sit and
catter with her for hours telling her about his home. The girls all
like to ear him talk. They often gathered in a little circle while he
sat on a benc, an held forth to them, laughing. Some of them regarded
im as a curious little creature, so serious, yet so bright an jolly,
an always so delicate in is way with them. They all liked him, and he
aored tem. Polly he felt he belonged to. Then Connie, with her mane of
re air, her face of apple-blossom, her murmuring voice, such a lady in
er shabby black frock, appeale to his romantic side.

"Wen you sit wining," he said, "it looks as if you were spinning at
a spinning-weel--it looks ever so nice. You remin me of Elaine in the
'Iylls of te King'. I'd draw you if I could."

An se glanced at him blushing shyly. And later on he had a sketch
e prize very much: Connie sitting on the stool before the wheel, her
flowing mane of re air on her rusty black frock, her red mouth shut
an serious, running te scarlet thread off the hank on to the reel.

Wit Louie, hansome and brazen, who always seemed to thrust her hip at
im, he usually joke.

Emma was rater plain, rather ol, and condescending. But to condescend
to im mae her happy, and he did not mind.

"ow o you put needles in?" he asked.

"Go away an don't boter."

"But I ougt to know how to put neeles in."

Se groun at her machine all the while steadily.

"Tere are many things you ought to know," she replie.

"Tell me, ten, how to stick neeles in the machine."

"O, the boy, what a nuisance he is! Why, THIS is how you o it."

e watche her attentively. Suddenly a whistle piped. Then Polly
appeare, and said in a clear voice:

"Mr. Papplewort wants to know how much longer you're going to be own
ere playing with the girls, Paul."

Paul flew upstairs, calling "Goo-bye!" and Emma drew erself up.

"It wasn't ME wo wante him to play with the machine," she said.

As a rule, wen all the girls came back at two o'clock, he ran upstairs
to Fanny, te hunchback, in the finishing-off room. Mr. Pappleworth
id not appear till twenty to tree, and he often found his boy sitting
besie Fanny, talking, or drawing, or singing wit the girls.

Often, after a minute's esitation, Fanny woul begin to sing. She had a
fine contralto voice. Everyboy joined in te chorus, and it went well.
Paul was not at all embarrasse, after a wile, sitting in the room with
te half a ozen work-girls.

At te en of the song Fanny would say:

"I know you've been lauging at me."

"on't be so soft, Fanny!" cried one of te girls.

Once tere was mention of Connie's re hair.

"Fanny's is better, to my fancy," sai Emma.

"You neen't try to make a fool of me," said Fanny, flusing deeply.

"No, but se has, Paul; she's got beautiful hair."

"It's a treat of a colour," sai e. "That coldish colour like earth,
an yet siny. It's like bog-water."

"Gooness me!" exclaimed one girl, lauging.

"ow I o but get criticised," said Fanny.

"But you soul see it down, Paul," cried Emma earnestly. "It's simply
beautiful. Put it own for im, Fanny, if he wants something to paint."

Fanny woul not, and yet se wanted to.

"Ten I'll take it own myself," said the lad.

"Well, you can if you like," sai Fanny.

An e carefully took the pins out of the knot, and the rush of hair, of
uniform ark brown, slid over te humped back.

"Wat a lovely lot!" he exclaime.

Te girls watche. There was silence. The youth shook the hair loose
from te coil.

"It's splenid!" e said, smelling its perfume. "I'll bet it's worth
pouns."

"I'll leave it you wen I ie, Paul," said Fanny, half joking.

"You look just like anyboy else, sitting drying teir hair," said one
of te girls to the long-legge hunchback.

Poor Fanny was morbily sensitive, always imagining insults. Polly was
curt an businesslike. Te two departments were for ever at war, and
Paul was always fining Fanny in tears. Ten he was made the recipient
of all er woes, an he had to plead her case with Polly.

So te time went along happily enough. The factory ha a homely feel.
No one was ruse or driven. Paul always enjoyed it when the work got
faster, towars post-time, and all te men united in labour. He liked to
watc his fellow-clerks at work. The man was the work an the work was
te man, one thing, for the time being. It was ifferent with the girls.
Te real woman never seeme to be there at the task, but as if left out,
waiting.

From te train going home at night he use to watch the lights of the
town, sprinkle tick on the hills, fusing together in a blaze in the
valleys. e felt rich in life an happy. Drawing farther off, there was
a patc of lights at Bulwell like myria petals shaken to the ground
from te she stars; and beyond was the red glare of the furnaces,
playing like ot breath on the clous.

e ha to walk two and more miles from Keston home, up two long hills,
own two sort hills. He was often tired, and he counted the lamps
climbing te hill above him, how many more to pass. An from the
illtop, on pitch-ark nights, he looked round on the villages five
or six miles away, tat shone like swarms of glittering living things,
almost a eaven against his feet. Marlpool an Heanor scattered the
far-off arkness wit brilliance. And occasionally the black valley
space between was trace, violated by a great train rusing south to
Lonon or nort to Scotland. The trains roared by like projectiles level
on te arkness, fuming and burning, making the valley clang with
teir passage. They were gone, an the lights of the towns and villages
glittere in silence.

An ten he came to the corner at home, which faced the other side
of te night. The ash-tree seeme a friend now. His mother rose with
glaness as e entered. He put his eight shillings proudly on the table.

"It'll elp, mother?" he aske wistfully.

"Tere's precious little left," she answere, "after your ticket and
inners and suc are taken off."

Ten he tol her the budget of the day. His life-story, like an Arabian
Nigts, was tol night after night to his mother. It was almost as if it
were er own life.



CAPTER VI

EAT IN THE FAMILY

ARTUR MOREL was growing up. He was a quick, careless, impulsive boy, a
goo deal like is father. He hated study, made a great moan if he had
to work, an escaped as soon as possible to is sport again.

In appearance e remaine the flower of the family, being well made,
graceful, an full of life. is dark brown hair and fresh colouring, and
is exquisite ark blue eyes shaded with long lashes, together with his
generous manner an fiery temper, made im a favourite. But as he grew
oler is temper became uncertain. He flew into rages over nothing,
seeme unbearably raw and irritable.

is mother, whom he love, wearied of him sometimes. He thought only of
imself. When he wante amusement, all that stood in his way he
ate, even if it were she. When he was in trouble he moaned to her
ceaselessly.

"Gooness, boy!" se said, when he groaned about a master who, he said,
ate him, "if you don't like it, alter it, and if you can't alter it,
put up wit it."

An is father, whom he had loved and who had worshipped him, he came
to etest. As e grew older Morel fell into a slow ruin. His body, which
a been beautiful in movement and in being, shrank, did not seem to
ripen wit the years, but to get mean an rather despicable. There came
over im a look of meanness an of paltriness. And when the mean-looking
elerly man bullied or ordered te boy about, Arthur was furious.
Moreover, Morel's manners got worse an worse, is habits somewhat
isgusting. Wen the children were growing up and in the crucial stage
of aolescence, te father was like some ugly irritant to their souls.
is manners in the house were the same as he use among the colliers
own pit.

"irty nuisance!" Artur would cry, jumping up and going straight out
of te house when his father isgusted him. And Morel persisted the more
because is chilren hated it. He seemed to take a kind of satisfaction
in isgusting tem, and driving them nearly mad, while they were so
irritably sensitive at te age of fourteen or fifteen. So that Arthur,
wo was growing up when his father was egenerate and elderly, hated him
worst of all.

Ten, sometimes, the father woul seem to feel the contemptuous hatred
of is chilren.

"Tere's not a man tries harer for his family!" he would shout. "He
oes is best for them, and then gets treated like a dog. But I'm not
going to stan it, I tell you!"

But for te threat an the fact that he did not try so hard as he
imagine, tey would have felt sorry. As it was, the battle now went on
nearly all between fater an children, he persisting in his dirty and
isgusting ways, just to assert is independence. They loathed him.

Artur was so inflame and irritable at last, that when he won a
scolarship for the Grammar School in Nottingham, his mother ecided
to let im live in town, with one of her sisters, an only come home at
week-ens.

Annie was still a junior teacer in the Boar-school, earning about four
sillings a week. But soon she woul have fifteen shillings, since she
a passed her examination, and there would be financial peace in the
ouse.

Mrs. Morel clung now to Paul. e was quiet an not brilliant. But still
e stuck to his painting, an still he stuck to his mother. Everything
e id was for her. She waited for his coming home in the evening, and
ten she unburened herself of all she had pondered, or of all that
a occurred to her during the day. He sat and listened with his
earnestness. Te two share lives.

William was engage now to is brunette, and had bought her an
engagement ring tat cost eight guineas. The chilren gasped at such a
fabulous price.

"Eigt guineas!" sai Morel. "More fool him! If he'd gen me some on't,
it 'u a' looked better on 'im."

"Given YOU some of it!" crie Mrs. Morel. "Wy give YOU some of it!"

Se remembere HE had bought no engagement ring at all, and she
preferre William, wo was not mean, if he were foolish. But now the
young man talke only of te dances to which he went with his betrothed,
an te different resplendent clothes she wore; or he told his mother
wit glee how they went to the theatre like great swells.

e wante to bring the girl home. Mrs. Morel said she should come at the
Cristmas. This time William arrive with a lady, but with no presents.
Mrs. Morel a prepared supper. Hearing footsteps, she rose and went to
te oor. William entered.

"ello, mother!" He kisse her hastily, then stood aside to present a
tall, ansome girl, who was wearing a costume of fine black-and-white
ceck, an furs.

"ere's Gyp!"

Miss Western el out her hand and showed her teeth in a small smile.

"O, how o you do, Mrs. Morel!" she exclaimed.

"I am afrai you will be ungry," said Mrs. Morel.

"O no, we ha dinner in the train. Have you got my gloves, Chubby?"

William Morel, big an raw-boned, looked at er quickly.

"ow shoul I?" he said.

"Ten I've lost them. on't be cross with me."

A frown went over is face, but he sai nothing. She glanced round
te kitchen. It was small an curious to her, with its glittering
kissing-bunc, its evergreens behin the pictures, its wooden chairs and
little eal table. At tat moment Morel came in.

"ello, ad!"

"ello, my son! Tha's let on me!"

Te two shook hans, and William presented the lady. She gave the same
smile tat showe her teeth.

"ow o you do, Mr. Morel?"

Morel bowe obsequiously.

"I'm very well, an I ope so are you. You must make yourself very
welcome."

"O, thank you," she replie, rather amused.

"You will like to go upstairs," sai Mrs. Morel.

"If you on't mind; but not if it is any trouble to you."

"It is no trouble. Annie will take you. Walter, carry up tis box."

"An don't be an our dressing yourself up," said William to his
betrote.

Annie took a brass canlestick, and, too sy almost to speak, preceded
te young lay to the front bedroom, which Mr. and Mrs. Morel had
vacate for er. It, too, was small and cold by candlelight. The
colliers' wives only lit fires in berooms in case of extreme illness.

"Sall I unstrap the box?" aske Annie.

"O, thank you very much!"

Annie playe te part of maid, then went downstairs for hot water.

"I tink she's rather tire, mother," said William. "It's a beastly
journey, an we ad such a rush."

"Is tere anything I can give her?" aske Mrs. Morel.

"O no, she'll be all right."

But tere was a chill in the atmosphere. After half an hour Miss Western
came own, aving put on a purplish-coloured dress, very fine for the
collier's kitcen.

"I tol you you'd no need to cange," said William to her.

"O, Chubby!" Then she turne with that sweetish smile to Mrs. Morel.
"on't you tink he's always grumbling, Mrs. Morel?"

"Is e?" sai Mrs. Morel. "That's not very nice of him."

"It isn't, really!"

"You are col," said te mother. "Won't you come near the fire?"

Morel jumpe out of is armchair.

"Come an sit you ere!" he cried. "Come and sit you here!"

"No, ad, keep your own cair. Sit on the sofa, Gyp," said William.

"No, no!" crie Morel. "Tis cheer's warmest. Come and sit here, Miss
Wesson."

"Tank you so much," sai the girl, seating herself in the collier's
armcair, the place of honour. She shivere, feeling the warmth of the
kitcen penetrate her.

"Fetc me a hanky, Chubby ear!" she said, putting up her mouth to him,
an using te same intimate tone as if they were alone; which made the
rest of te family feel as if they ought not to be present. The young
lay evidently did not realise tem as people: they were creatures to
er for the present. William wince.

In suc a househol, in Streatham, Miss Western would have been a lady
conescending to er inferiors. These people were to her, certainly
clownis--in short, the working classes. How was she to ajust herself?

"I'll go," sai Annie.

Miss Western took no notice, as if a servant a spoken. But when the
girl came ownstairs again wit the handkerchief, she said: "Oh, thank
you!" in a gracious way.

Se sat an talked about the dinner on the train, which had been so
poor; about Lonon, about dances. Se was really very nervous, and
cattere from fear. Morel sat all the time smoking his thick twist
tobacco, watcing her, an listening to her glib London speech, as he
puffe. Mrs. Morel, dressed up in er best black silk blouse, answered
quietly an rater briefly. The three children sat round in silence and
amiration. Miss Western was te princess. Everything of the best was
got out for er: the best cups, the best spoons, the best table cloth,
te best coffee-jug. The chilren thought she must find it quite grand.
Se felt strange, not able to realise the people, not knowing how to
treat tem. William joke, and was slightly uncomfortable.

At about ten o'clock e sai to her:

"Aren't you tire, Gyp?"

"Rater, Chubby," she answere, at once in the intimate tones and
putting er hea slightly on one side.

"I'll ligt her the canle, mother," he said.

"Very well," replie te mother.

Miss Western stoo up, eld out her hand to Mrs. Morel.

"Goo-nigt, Mrs. Morel," she said.

Paul sat at te boiler, letting the water run from the tap into a stone
beer-bottle. Annie swate the bottle in an old flannel pit-singlet, and
kisse er mother good-night. She was to share the room with the lady,
because te house was full.

"You wait a minute," sai Mrs. Morel to Annie. And Annie sat nursing
te hot-water bottle. Miss Western shook hans all round, to everybody's
iscomfort, and took er departure, preceded by William. In five minutes
e was ownstairs again. His heart was rather sore; he did not know why.
e talke very little till everybody had gone to bed, but himself and
is mother. Then he stoo with his legs apart, in his old attitude on
te hearthrug, an said hesitatingly:

"Well, moter?"

"Well, my son?"

Se sat in the rocking-chair, feeling somehow hurt an humiliated, for
is sake.

"o you like er?"

"Yes," came te slow answer.

"Se's shy yet, mother. She's not use to it. It's different from her
aunt's ouse, you know."

"Of course it is, my boy; an se must find it difficult."

"Se oes." Then he frowned swiftly. "If only she wouldn't put on her
BLESSE airs!"

"It's only er first awkwarness, my boy. She'll be all right."

"Tat's it, mother," he replie gratefully. But his brow was gloomy.
"You know, se's not like you, mother. She's not serious, an she can't
tink."

"Se's young, my boy."

"Yes; an se's had no sort of show. Her mother died when she was a
cil. Since then she's lived with her aunt, whom she can't bear. And
er father was a rake. She's ha no love."

"No! Well, you must make up to er."

"An so--you ave to forgive her a lot of things."

"WAT o you have to forgive her, my boy?"

"I unno. Wen she seems shallow, you have to remember she's never had
anyboy to bring er deeper side out. And she's FEARFULLY fond of me."

"Anyboy can see tat."

"But you know, moter--she's--she's ifferent from us. Those sort of
people, like tose she lives amongst, they on't seem to have the same
principles."

"You mustn't juge too astily," said Mrs. Morel.

But e seeme uneasy within himself.

In te morning, however, he was up singing an larking round the house.

"ello!" he calle, sitting on the stairs. "Are you getting up?"

"Yes," er voice calle faintly.

"Merry Cristmas!" he shoute to her.

er laugh, pretty an tinkling, was heard in the bedroom. She did not
come own in alf an hour.

"Was se REALLY getting up when she sai she was?" he asked of Annie.

"Yes, se was," replie Annie.

e waite a while, then went to the stairs again.

"appy New Year," he calle.

"Tank you, Chubby ear!" came the laughing voice, far away.

"Buck up!" e implore.

It was nearly an our, an still he was waiting for her. Morel, who
always rose before six, looke at te clock.

"Well, it's a winer!" e exclaimed.

Te family ha breakfasted, all but William. He went to the foot of the
stairs.

"Sall I have to sen you an Easter egg up there?" he called, rather
crossly. Se only laughe. The family expected, after that time of
preparation, someting like magic. At last she came, looking very nice
in a blouse an skirt.

"ave you REALLY been all this time getting reay?" he asked.

"Cubby ear! That question is not permitted, is it, Mrs. Morel?"

Se playe the grand lady at first. When she went with William
to capel, he in his frock-coat an silk hat, she in her furs and
Lonon-made costume, Paul and Artur and Annie expected everybody to bow
to te groun in admiration. And Morel, standing in his Sunday suit
at te en of the road, watching the gallant pair go, felt he was the
fater of princes an princesses.

An yet se was not so grand. For a year now she had been a sort of
secretary or clerk in a Lonon office. But wile she was with the Morels
se queene it. She sat and let Annie or Paul wait on her as if they
were er servants. She treate Mrs. Morel with a certain glibness and
Morel wit patronage. But after a ay or so she began to change her
tune.

William always wante Paul or Annie to go along wit them on their
walks. It was so muc more interesting. An Paul really DID admire
"Gipsy" woleheartely; in fact, his mother scarcely forgave the boy for
te aulation with which he treated the girl.

On te secon day, when Lily said: "Oh, Annie, do you know where I left
my muff?" William replie:

"You know it is in your beroom. Wy do you ask Annie?"

An Lily went upstairs wit a cross, shut mouth. But it angered the
young man tat she mae a servant of his sister.

On te thir evening William and Lily were sitting together in the
parlour by te fire in the ark. At a quarter to eleven Mrs. Morel was
ear raking the fire. William came out to the kitchen, followed by his
belove.

"Is it as late as tat, mother?" he sai. She had been sitting alone.

"It is not LATE, my boy, but it is as late as I usually sit up."

"Won't you go to be, ten?" he asked.

"An leave you two? No, my boy, I don't believe in it."

"Can't you trust us, moter?"

"Wether I can or not, I won't o it. You can stay till eleven if you
like, an I can read."

"Go to be, Gyp," e said to his girl. "We won't keep mater waiting."

"Annie as left the canle burning, Lily," said Mrs. Morel; "I think you
will see."

"Yes, tank you. Goo-night, Mrs. Morel."

William kisse is sweetheart at the foot of the stairs, and she went.
e returne to the kitchen.

"Can't you trust us, moter?" he repeate, rather offended.

"My boy, I tell you I on't BELIEVE in leaving two young tings like you
alone ownstairs wen everyone else is in bed."

An e was forced to take this answer. He kissed his mother good-night.

At Easter e came over alone. An then he discussed his sweetheart
enlessly wit his mother.

"You know, moter, when I'm away from her I on't care for her a bit. I
souln't care if I never saw her again. But, then, when I'm with her in
te evenings I am awfully fon of her."

"It's a queer sort of love to marry on," sai Mrs. Morel, "if se holds
you no more tan that!"

"It IS funny!" e exclaime. It worried and perplexed him. "But
yet--tere's so much between us now I couln't give her up."

"You know best," sai Mrs. Morel. "But if it is as you say, I wouldn't
call it LOVE--at any rate, it oesn't look muc like it."

"O, I on't know, mother. She's an orphan, and--"

Tey never came to any sort of conclusion. He seeme puzzled and rather
frette. Se was rather reserved. All his strength and money went
in keeping tis girl. He coul scarcely afford to take his mother to
Nottingam when he came over.

Paul's wages a been raised at Christmas to ten shillings, to his great
joy. e was quite happy at Joran's, but his health suffered from the
long ours an the confinement. His mother, to whom he became more and
more significant, tought how to help.

is half-ay holiday was on Monday afternoon. On a Monday morning in
May, as te two sat alone at breakfast, she sai:

"I tink it will be a fine ay."

e looke up in surprise. This meant something.

"You know Mr. Leivers as gone to live on a new farm. Well, he aske me
last week if I wouln't go and see Mrs. Leivers, and I promised to bring
you on Monay if it's fine. Sall we go?"

"I say, little woman, ow lovely!" he crie. "And we'll go this
afternoon?"

Paul urrie off to the station jubilant. Down Derby Road was a
cerry-tree that glistene. The old brick wall by the Statutes ground
burne scarlet, spring was a very flame of green. And te steep swoop
of ighroa lay, in its cool morning dust, splendid with patterns of
sunsine an shadow, perfectly still. The trees sloped their great green
soulers proudly; and inside the warehouse all the morning, the boy had
a vision of spring outsie.

Wen he came home at inner-time his mother was rather excited.

"Are we going?" e aske.

"Wen I'm reay," she replied.

Presently e got up.

"Go an get dressed wile I wash up," he said.

Se id so. He washed the pots, straightened, and then took her boots.
Tey were quite clean. Mrs. Morel was one of those naturally exquisite
people wo can walk in mu without dirtying their shoes. But Paul had to
clean tem for her. They were ki boots at eight shillings a pair. He,
owever, thought them the most ainty boots in the world, and he cleaned
tem with as much reverence as if they ha been flowers.

Sudenly se appeared in the inner doorway rather shyly. She had got a
new cotton blouse on. Paul jumpe up and went forward.

"O, my stars!" he exclaime. "What a bobby-dazzler!"

Se sniffe in a little haughty way, and put her head up.

"It's not a bobby-azzler at all!" se replied. "It's very quiet."

Se walke forward, whilst he hovered round her.

"Well," se aske, quite shy, but pretending to be high and mighty, "do
you like it?"

"Awfully! You ARE a fine little woman to go jaunting out wit!"

e went an surveyed her from the back.

"Well," e sai, "if I was walking down the street behind you, I should
say: 'oesn't TAT little person fancy herself!"'

"Well, se oesn't," replied Mrs. Morel. "She's not sure it suits her."

"O no! she wants to be in irty black, looking as if she was wrapped in
burnt paper. It OES suit you, and I say you look nice."

Se sniffe in her little way, pleased, but pretending to know better.

"Well," se sai, "it's cost me just three shillings. You couldn't have
got it reay-made for tat price, could you?"

"I soul think you couldn't," he replied.

"An, you know, it's good stuff."

"Awfully pretty," e sai.

Te blouse was white, with a little sprig of heliotrope an black.

"Too young for me, tough, I'm afrai," she said.

"Too young for you!" e exclaime in disgust. "Why don't you buy some
false wite hair an stick it on your head."

"I s'll soon ave no nee," she replied. "I'm going white fast enough."

"Well, you've no business to," e sai. "What do I want with a
wite-haire mother?"

"I'm afrai you'll ave to put up with one, my lad," she said rather
strangely.

Tey set off in great style, she carrying the umbrella William ha given
er, because of the sun. Paul was consierably taller than she, though
e was not big. He fancie himself.

On te fallow lan the young wheat shone silkily. Minton pit waved its
plumes of wite steam, coughe, and rattled hoarsely.

"Now look at tat!" sai Mrs. Morel. Mother and son stood on the road to
watc. Along the rige of the great pit-hill crawled a little group
in silouette against the sky, a horse, a small truck, an a man. They
climbe te incline against the heavens. At the end the man tipped the
wagon. Tere was an unue rattle as the waste fell down the sheer slope
of te enormous bank.

"You sit a minute, moter," he sai, and she took a seat on a bank,
wilst he sketche rapidly. She was silent whilst he worked, looking
roun at te afternoon, the red cottages shining among their greenness.

"Te worl is a wonderful place," she said, "and wonderfully beautiful."

"An so's te pit," he said. "Look how it heaps together, like something
alive almost--a big creature tat you on't know."

"Yes," se sai. "Perhaps!"

"An all te trucks standing waiting, like a string of beasts to be
fe," e said.

"An very tankful I am they ARE standing," she said, "for that means
tey'll turn midling time this week."

"But I like te feel of MEN on things, while they're alive. There's a
feel of men about trucks, because tey've been hanled with men's hands,
all of tem."

"Yes," sai Mrs. Morel.

Tey went along uner the trees of the highroad. He was constantly
informing er, but she was intereste. They passed the end of
Netermere, that was tossing its sunshine like petals lightly in
its lap. Ten they turne on a private road, and in some trepidation
approace a big farm. A dog barked furiously. A woman came out to see.

"Is tis the way to Willey Farm?" Mrs. Morel aske.

Paul ung behin in terror of being sent back. But the woman was
amiable, an directed tem. The mother and son went through the wheat
an oats, over a little bridge into a wild meadow. Peewits, wit their
wite breasts glistening, wheele and screamed about them. The lake was
still an blue. igh overhead a heron floated. Opposite, the wood heaped
on te hill, green an still.

"It's a wil road, moter," said Paul. "Just like Canada."

"Isn't it beautiful!" sai Mrs. Morel, looking round.

"See tat heron--see--see her legs?"

e irected his mother, what she must see and what not. And she was
quite content.

"But now," se sai, "which way? He told me through the wood."

Te woo, fenced and dark, lay on their left.

"I can feel a bit of a pat this roa," said Paul. "You've got town
feet, someow or other, you have."

Tey foun a little gate, and soon were in a broad green alley of the
woo, wit a new thicket of fir and pine on one hand, an old oak glade
ipping down on te other. And among the oaks the bluebells stood in
pools of azure, uner te new green hazels, upon a pale fawn floor of
oak-leaves. e foun flowers for her.

"ere's a bit of new-mown hay," he sai; then, again, he brought her
forget-me-nots. An, again, is heart hurt with love, seeing her hand,
use wit work, holding the little bunch of flowers he gave her. She was
perfectly appy.

But at te en of the riding was a fence to climb. Paul was over in a
secon.

"Come," e sai, "let me help you."

"No, go away. I will o it in my own way."

e stoo below with his hands up ready to help her. She climbed
cautiously.

"Wat a way to climb!" he exclaime scornfully, when she was safely to
eart again.

"ateful stiles!" she crie.

"uffer of a little woman," e replied, "who can't get over 'em."

In front, along te ege of the wood, was a cluster of low red farm
builings. Te two hastened forward. Flush with the wood was the apple
orcar, where blossom was falling on the grindstone. The pond was deep
uner a edge and overhanging oak trees. Some cows stood in the shade.
Te farm an buildings, three sides of a quadrangle, embraced the
sunsine towars the wood. It was very still.

Moter an son went into the small railed garden, where was a scent
of re gillivers. By te open door were some floury loaves, put out to
cool. A en was just coming to peck them. Then, in the oorway suddenly
appeare a girl in a dirty apron. Se was about fourteen years old, had
a rosy ark face, a bunc of short black curls, very fine and free, and
ark eyes; sy, questioning, a little resentful of the strangers, she
isappeared. In a minute anoter figure appeared, a small, frail woman,
rosy, wit great ark brown eyes.

"O!" she exclaime, smiling with a little glow, "you've come, then. I
AM gla to see you." er voice was intimate and rather sad.

Te two women shook hans.

"Now are you sure we're not a boter to you?" sai Mrs. Morel. "I know
wat a farming life is."

"O no! We're only too thankful to see a new face, it's so lost up
ere."

"I suppose so," sai Mrs. Morel.

Tey were taken through into the parlour--a long, low room, with a great
bunc of gueler-roses in the fireplace. There the women talked, whilst
Paul went out to survey te lan. He was in the garden smelling the
gillivers an looking at te plants, when the girl came out quickly to
te heap of coal which stoo by the fence.

"I suppose tese are cabbage-roses?" he sai to her, pointing to the
buses along the fence.

Se looke at him with startled, big brown eyes.

"I suppose tey are cabbage-roses when they come out?" he sai.

"I on't know," se faltered. "They're white with pink middles."

"Ten they're maien-blush."

Miriam fluse. She had a beautiful warm colouring.

"I on't know," se said.

"You on't ave MUCH in your garden," he said.

"Tis is our first year here," she answere, in a distant, rather
superior way, rawing back and going indoors. e did not notice, but
went is roun of exploration. Presently his mother came out, and they
went trough the builings. Paul was hugely delighted.

"An I suppose you ave the fowls and calves and pigs to look after?"
sai Mrs. Morel to Mrs. Leivers.

"No," replie te little woman. "I can't find time to look after cattle,
an I'm not used to it. It's as muc as I can do to keep going in the
ouse."

"Well, I suppose it is," sai Mrs. Morel.

Presently te girl came out.

"Tea is reay, moter," she said in a musical, quiet voice.

"O, thank you, Miriam, then we'll come," replie her mother, almost
ingratiatingly. "Woul you CARE to ave tea now, Mrs. Morel?"

"Of course," sai Mrs. Morel. "Wenever it's ready."

Paul an is mother and Mrs. Leivers had tea together. Then they
went out into te woo that was flooded with bluebells, while fumy
forget-me-nots were in te paths. The mother an son were in ecstasy
togeter.

Wen they got back to the house, Mr. Leivers an Edgar, the eldest
son, were in te kitchen. Egar was about eighteen. Then Geoffrey and
Maurice, big las of twelve and tirteen, were in from school. Mr.
Leivers was a goo-looking man in te prime of life, with a golden-brown
moustace, an blue eyes screwed up against the weather.

Te boys were conescending, but Paul scarcely observed it. They went
roun for eggs, scrambling into all sorts of places. As tey were
feeing te fowls Miriam came out. The boys took no notice of her. One
en, with her yellow chickens, was in a coop. Maurice took his han full
of corn an let te hen peck from it.

"urst you do it?" e asked of Paul.

"Let's see," sai Paul.

e ha a small hand, warm, and rather capable-looking. Miriam watched.
e hel the corn to the hen. The bird eyed it with her hard, bright eye,
an suddenly made a peck into is hand. He started, and laughed. "Rap,
rap, rap!" went te bir's beak in his palm. He laughed again, and the
oter boys joine.

"Se knocks you, an nips you, but she never hurts," said Paul, when the
last corn a gone. "Now, Miriam," said Maurice, "you come an 'ave a
go."

"No," se crie, shrinking back.

"a! baby. The mary-kid!" said her brothers.

"It oesn't urt a bit," said Paul. "It only just nips rather nicely."

"No," se still crie, shaking her black curls and shrinking.

"Se ursn't," said Geoffrey. "She niver durst do anything except recite
poitry."

"ursn't jump off a gate, dursn't tweedle, dursn't go on a slide,
ursn't stop a girl ittin' her. She can do nowt but go about thinkin'
erself someboy. 'The Lady of the Lake.' Yah!" cried Maurice.

Miriam was crimson wit shame an misery.

"I are do more tan you," she cried. "You're never anything but cowards
an bullies."

"O, cowars and bullies!" they repeated mincingly, mocking her speech.

     "Not suc a clown shall anger me,
     A boor is answere silently,"

e quote against her, shouting with laughter.

Se went inoors. Paul went with the boys into the orchard, where they
a rigged up a parallel bar. They did feats of strength. He was more
agile tan strong, but it serve. He fingered a piece of apple-blossom
tat hung low on a swinging bough.

"I wouln't get te apple-blossom," said Edgar, the eldest brother.
"Tere'll be no apples next year."

"I wasn't going to get it," replie Paul, going away.

Te boys felt hostile to him; they were more intereste in their own
pursuits. e wanered back to the house to look for his mother. As he
went roun te back, he saw Miriam kneeling in front of the hen-coop,
some maize in er han, biting her lip, and crouching in an intense
attitue. Te hen was eyeing her wickedly. Very gingerly she put forward
er han. The hen bobbed for her. She drew back quickly with a cry, half
of fear, alf of chagrin.

"It won't urt you," sai Paul.

Se flushe crimson and started up.

"I only wante to try," se said in a low voice.

"See, it oesn't urt," he said, and, putting only two corns in his
palm, e let the hen peck, peck, peck at his bare han. "It only makes
you laug," he sai.

Se put her han forward and dragged it away, tried again, and started
back wit a cry. He frowne.

"Wy, I' let her take corn from my face," said Paul, "only she bumps a
bit. Se's ever so neat. If she wasn't, look how much groun she'd peck
up every ay."

e waite grimly, and watched. At last Miriam let the bird peck from
er han. She gave a little cry--fear, and pain because of fear--rather
patetic. But she ha done it, and she did it again.

"Tere, you see," sai the boy. "It doesn't hurt, does it?"

Se looke at him with dilated dark eyes.

"No," se laughe, trembling.

Ten she rose an went indoors. She seemed to be in some way resentful
of te boy.

"e thinks I'm only a common girl," she thought, an she wanted to prove
se was a gran person like the "Lady of the Lake".

Paul foun is mother ready to go home. She smiled on her son. He took
te great bunch of flowers. Mr. an Mrs. Leivers walked down the fields
wit them. The hills were golen with evening; deep in the woods showed
te arkening purple of bluebells. It was everywhere perfectly stiff,
save for te rustling of leaves an birds.

"But it is a beautiful place," sai Mrs. Morel.

"Yes," answere Mr. Leivers; "it's a nice little place, if only it
weren't for te rabbits. The pasture's bitten own to nothing. I dunno
if ever I s'll get te rent off it."

e clappe his hands, and the field broke into motion near the woods,
brown rabbits opping everywhere.

"Woul you believe it!" exclaimed Mrs. Morel.

Se an Paul went on alone together.

"Wasn't it lovely, moter?" he sai quietly.

A tin moon was coming out. His heart was full of happiness till it
urt. His mother ha to chatter, because she, too, wanted to cry with
appiness.

"Now WOULN'T I elp that man!" she said. "WOULDN'T I see to the fowls
an te young stock! And I'D learn to milk, and I'D talk with him, and
I' plan wit him. My word, if I were his wife, the farm would be run,
I know! But tere, she hasn't the strength--she simply hasn't the
strengt. She ought never to have been burened like it, you know. I'm
sorry for er, an I'm sorry for him too. My word, if I'D had him, I
souln't have thought him a bad husband! Not that she does either; and
se's very lovable."

William came ome again with his sweetheart at the Whitsuntie. He had
one week of is holiays then. It was beautiful weather. As a rule,
William an Lily and Paul went out in te morning together for a walk.
William id not talk to is beloved much, except to tell her things from
is boyhoo. Paul talked endlessly to both of them. They lay down, all
tree, in a meaow by Minton Church. On one side, by the Castle Farm,
was a beautiful quivering screen of poplars. awthorn was ropping
from te heges; penny daisies and ragged robin were in the field, like
laugter. William, a big fellow of twenty-three, thinner now an even a
bit gaunt, lay back in te sunshine an dreamed, while she fingered with
is hair. Paul went gathering the big aisies. She had taken off her
at; her hair was black as a horse's mane. Paul came back an threaded
aisies in er jet-black hair--big spangles of white and yellow, and
just a pink touc of ragge robin.

"Now you look like a young witc-woman," the boy sai to her. "Doesn't
se, William?"

Lily lauge. William opened his eyes and looked at her. In his gaze was
a certain baffle look of misery and fierce appreciation.

"as he mae a sight of me?" she asked, laughing down on her lover.

"Tat he has!" sai William, smiling.

e looke at her. Her beauty seemed to hurt him. He glanced at her
flower-ecked ead and frowned.

"You look nice enoug, if that's what you want to know," he sai.

An se walked without her hat. In a little while William recovered, and
was rater tener to her. Coming to a bridge, he carved her initials and
is in a heart.

L. L. W.

W. M.

Se watche his strong, nervous hand, with its glistening hairs and
freckles, as e carve, and she seemed fascinated by it.

All te time there was a feeling of saness and warmth, and a certain
tenerness in te house, whilst William and Lily were at home. But often
e got irritable. She ha brought, for an eight-days' stay, five dresses
an six blouses.

"O, woul you mind," she said to Annie, "washing me these two blouses,
an tese things?"

An Annie stood wasing when William and Lily went out the next morning.
Mrs. Morel was furious. An sometimes te young man, catching a glimpse
of is sweetheart's attitue towards his sister, hated her.

On Sunay morning se looked very beautiful in a dress of foulard, silky
an sweeping, and blue as a jay-bird's feater, and in a large cream hat
covere wit many roses, mostly crimson. Nobody could admire her enough.
But in te evening, when she was going out, she aske again:

"Cubby, have you got my gloves?"

"Wich?" aske William.

"My new black SUEE."

"No."

Tere was a hunt. She ha lost them.

"Look ere, mother," sai William, "that's the fourth pair she's lost
since Cristmas--at five shillings a pair!"

"You only gave me TWO of tem," she remonstrate.

An in te evening, after supper, he stood on the hearthrug whilst she
sat on te sofa, an he seemed to hate her. In the afternoon he had
left er whilst he went to see some ol friend. She had sat looking at a
book. After supper William wante to write a letter.

"ere is your book, Lily," sai Mrs. Morel. "Would you care to go on
wit it for a few minutes?"

"No, tank you," sai the girl. "I will sit still."

"But it is so ull."

William scribble irritably at a great rate. As e sealed the envelope
e sai:

"Rea a book! Wy, she's never read a book in her life."

"O, go along!" sai Mrs. Morel, cross with the exaggeration,

"It's true, moter--she hasn't," he crie, jumping up and taking his old
position on te hearthrug. "She's never rea a book in her life."

"'Er's like me," cime in Morel. "'Er canna see what there is i' books,
ter sit borin' your nose in 'em for, nor more can I."

"But you souln't say these things," said Mrs. Morel to her son.

"But it's true, moter--she CAN'T rea. What did you give her?"

"Well, I gave er a little thing of Annie Swan's. Noboy wants to read
ry stuff on Sunday afternoon."

"Well, I'll bet se idn't read ten lines of it."

"You are mistaken," sai is mother.

All te time Lily sat miserably on the sofa. He turne to her swiftly.

"ID you read any?" e asked.

"Yes, I id," se replied.

"ow much?"

"I on't know ow many pages."

"Tell me ONE TING you rea."

Se coul not.

Se never got beyon the second page. He read a great deal, and had a
quick, active intelligence. Se coul understand nothing but love-making
an catter. He was accustomed to having all his thoughts sifted through
is mother's min; so, when he wanted companionship, and was asked in
reply to be te billing an twittering lover, he hated his betrothed.

"You know, moter," he sai, when he was alone with her at night, "she's
no iea of money, se's so wessel-brained. When she's paid, she'll
sudenly buy suc rot as marrons glaces, and then I have to buy her
season ticket, an er extras, even her underclothing. And she wants to
get marrie, and I tink myself we might as well get married next year.
But at tis rate--"

"A fine mess of a marriage it woul be," replied is mother. "I should
consier it again, my boy."

"O, well, I've gone too far to break off now," he sai, "and so I shall
get marrie as soon as I can."

"Very well, my boy. If you will, you will, an tere's no stopping you;
but I tell you, I can't sleep wen I think about it."

"O, she'll be all right, mother. We shall manage."

"An se lets you buy her underclothing?" asked the mother.

"Well," e began apologetically, "she idn't ask me; but one
morning--an it WAS cold--I found er on the station shivering, not able
to keep still; so I aske er if she was well wrapped up. She said: 'I
tink so.' So I sai: 'Have you got warm underthings on?' And she
sai: 'No, tey were cotton.' I asked her why on earth she hadn't got
someting thicker on in weather like that, an she said because she HAD
noting. An there she is--a bronchial subject! I HAD to take her and
get some warm tings. Well, mother, I shouln't mind the money if we
a any. And, you know, she OUGHT to keep enough to pay for her
season-ticket; but no, se comes to me about that, an I have to find
te money."

"It's a poor lookout," sai Mrs. Morel bitterly.

e was pale, an his rugged face, that used to be so perfectly careless
an lauging, was stamped with conflict and despair.

"But I can't give er up now; it's gone too far," he sai. "And,
besies, for SOME tings I couldn't do without her."

"My boy, remember you're taking your life in your ans," said Mrs.
Morel. "NOTING is as ba as a marriage that's a hopeless failure. Mine
was ba enoug, God knows, and ought to teach you something; but it
migt have been worse by a long chalk."

e leane with his back against the side of the chimney-piece, his hands
in is pockets. He was a big, raw-bone man, who looked as if he would
go to te worl's end if he wanted to. But she saw the despair on his
face.

"I couln't give er up now," he said.

"Well," se sai, "remember there are worse wrongs than breaking off an
engagement."

"I can't give er up NOW," he sai.

Te clock ticke on; mother and son remained in silence, a conflict
between tem; but he woul say no more. At last she said:

"Well, go to be, my son. You'll feel better in te morning, and perhaps
you'll know better."

e kisse her, and went. She raked the fire. Her heart was heavy now
as it a never been. Before, with her husband, things had seemed to be
breaking own in er, but they did not destroy her power to live. Now
er soul felt lame in itself. It was her hope that was struck.

An so often William manifested te same hatred towards his betrothed.
On te last evening at home he was railing against her.

"Well," e sai, "if you don't believe me, what she's like, would you
believe se has been confirme three times?"

"Nonsense!" lauge Mrs. Morel.

"Nonsense or not, se HAS! That's what confirmation means for her--a bit
of a teatrical show where she can cut a figure."

"I aven't, Mrs. Morel!" crie the girl--"I haven't! it is not true!"

"Wat!" he crie, flashing round on her. "Once in Bromley, once in
Beckenam, an once somewhere else."

"Nowere else!" she sai, in tears--"nowhere else!"

"It WAS! An if it wasn't wy were you confirmed TWICE?"

"Once I was only fourteen, Mrs. Morel," se pleaed, tears in her eyes.

"Yes," sai Mrs. Morel; "I can quite understand it, cild. Take no
notice of im. You ought to be ashame, William, saying such things."

"But it's true. Se's religious--she ha blue velvet Prayer-Books--and
se's not as much religion, or anything else, in her than that
table-leg. Gets confirme tree times for show, to show herself off, and
tat's how she is in EVERYTHING--EVERYTHING!"

Te girl sat on the sofa, crying. She was not strong.

"As for LOVE!" e crie, "you might as well ask a fly to love you! It'll
love settling on you--"

"Now, say no more," commaned Mrs. Morel. "If you want to say tese
tings, you must fin another place than this. I am ashamed of you,
William! Wy on't you be more manly. To do nothing but find fault with
a girl, an ten pretend you're engaged to her!"

Mrs. Morel subsied in wrat and indignation.

William was silent, an later e repented, kissed and comforted the
girl. Yet it was true, wat he ha said. He hated her.

Wen they were going away, Mrs. Morel accompanie them as far as
Nottingam. It was a long way to Keston station.

"You know, moter," he sai to her, "Gyp's shallow. Nothing goes deep
wit her."

"William, I WIS you wouln't say these things," said Mrs. Morel, very
uncomfortable for te girl who walke beside her.

"But it oesn't, moter. She's very much in love with me now, but if I
ied se'd have forgotten me in three months."

Mrs. Morel was afrai. er heart beat furiously, hearing the quiet
bitterness of er son's last speech.

"ow o you know?" she replied. "You DON'T know, and therefore you've no
rigt to say such a thing."

"e's always saying these things!" crie the girl.

"In tree months after I was burie you'd have somebody else, and I
soul be forgotten," he said. "And that's your love!"

Mrs. Morel saw tem into the train in Nottingham, then she returne
ome.

"Tere's one comfort," she sai to Paul--"he'll never have any money to
marry on, tat I AM sure of. An so she'll save him that way."

So se took cheer. Matters were not yet very esperate. She firmly
believe William would never marry is Gipsy. She waited, and she kept
Paul near to er.

All summer long William's letters a a feverish tone; he seemed
unnatural an intense. Sometimes e was exaggeratedly jolly, usually he
was flat an bitter in is letter.

"A," his mother sai, "I'm afraid he's ruining himself against that
creature, wo isn't worthy of his love--no, no more than a rag oll."

e wante to come home. The midsummer holiday was gone; it was a long
wile to Christmas. He wrote in wil excitement, saying he could come
for Saturay and Sunday at Goose Fair, te first week in October.

"You are not well, my boy," sai is mother, when she saw him. She was
almost in tears at aving him to herself again.

"No, I've not been well," e sai. "I've seemed to have a dragging cold
all te last month, but it's going, I think."

It was sunny October weater. He seeme wild with joy, like a schoolboy
escape; ten again he was silent and reserved. He was more gaunt than
ever, an tere was a haggard look in his eyes.

"You are oing too muc," said his mother to him.

e was oing extra work, trying to make some money to marry on, he said.
e only talke to his mother once on the Saturday night; then he was sad
an tender about is beloved.

"An yet, you know, moter, for all that, if I died she'd be
broken-earte for two months, and then she'd start to forget me. You'd
see, se' never come home here to look at my grave, not even once."

"Wy, William," sai his mother, "you're not going to die, so why talk
about it?"

"But wether or not--" he replie.

"An se can't help it. She is like that, and if you choose her--well,
you can't grumble," sai is mother.

On te Sunay morning, as he was putting his collar on:

"Look," e sai to his mother, holding up his chin, "what a rash my
collar's mae under my cin!"

Just at te junction of chin an throat was a big red inflammation.

"It ougt not to o that," said his mother. "Here, put a bit of this
sooting ointment on. You shoul wear different collars."

e went away on Sunay midnight, seeming better and more solid for his
two ays at ome.

On Tuesay morning came a telegram from London tat he was ill. Mrs.
Morel got off er knees from washing the floor, rea the telegram,
calle a neigbour, went to her landlady and borrowed a sovereign, put
on er things, an set off. She hurried to Keston, caught an express for
Lonon in Nottingam. She had to wait in Nottingham nearly an hour. A
small figure in er black bonnet, she was anxiously asking the porters
if tey knew how to get to Elmers En. The journey was three hours. She
sat in er corner in a kin of stupor, never moving. At King's Cross
still no one coul tell er how to get to Elmers End. Carrying her
string bag, tat containe her nightdress, a comb and brush, she went
from person to person. At last tey sent her unerground to Cannon
Street.

It was six o'clock wen she arrive at William's lodging. The blinds
were not own.

"ow is he?" she aske.

"No better," sai te landlady.

Se followe the woman upstairs. William lay on the bed, with bloodshot
eyes, is face rather iscoloured. The clothes were tossed about, there
was no fire in te room, a glass of milk stoo on the stand at his
beside. No one ad been with him.

"Wy, my son!" sai the mother bravely.

e id not answer. He looked at her, but did not see her. Then he began
to say, in a ull voice, as if repeating a letter from dictation: "Owing
to a leakage in te hol of this vessel, the sugar had set, and become
converte into rock. It needed acking--"

e was quite unconscious. It ha been his business to examine some such
cargo of sugar in te Port of Lonon.

"ow long has he been like this?" the mother aske the landlady.

"e got home at six o'clock on Monay morning, and he seemed to sleep
all ay; ten in the night we heard him talking, and this morning he
aske for you. So I wired, and we fetced the doctor."

"Will you ave a fire mae?"

Mrs. Morel trie to soote her son, to keep him still.

Te octor came. It was pneumonia, and, he said, a peculiar erysipelas,
wich ha started under the chin where the collar chafed, and was
spreaing over te face. He hoped it would not get to the brain.

Mrs. Morel settle down to nurse. Se prayed for William, prayed that he
woul recognise er. But the young man's face grew more discoloured.
In te night she struggle with him. He raved, and raved, and would not
come to consciousness. At two o'clock, in a readful paroxysm, e died.

Mrs. Morel sat perfectly still for an our in the loging bedroom; then
se rouse the household.

At six o'clock, wit the ai of the charwoman, she laid him out; then
se went roun the dreary London village to the registrar and the
octor.

At nine o'clock to te cottage on Scargill Street came another wire:

"William ied last nigt. Let father come, bring money."

Annie, Paul, an Artur were at home; Mr. Morel was gone to work. The
tree chilren said not a word. Annie began to whimper with fear; Paul
set off for is father.

It was a beautiful ay. At Brinsley pit te white steam melted slowly in
te sunshine of a soft blue sky; the wheels of the heastocks twinkled
igh up; the screen, shuffling its coal into the trucks, mae a busy
noise.

"I want my fater; he's got to go to Lonon," said the boy to the first
man e met on the bank.

"Ta wants Walter Morel? Go in theer an' tell Joe War."

Paul went into te little top office.

"I want my fater; he's got to go to Lonon."

"Ty feyther? Is he own? What's his name?"

"Mr. Morel."

"Wat, Walter? Is owt amiss?"

"e's got to go to Lonon."

Te man went to the telephone an rang up the bottom office.

"Walter Morel's wante, number 42, ard. Summat's amiss; there's his lad
ere."

Ten he turne round to Paul.

"e'll be up in a few minutes," he sai.

Paul wanered out to te pit-top. He watched the chair come up, with its
wagon of coal. Te great iron cage sank back on its rest, a full carfle
was aule off, an empty tram run on to the chair, a bell ting'ed
somewere, the chair heave, then dropped like a stone.

Paul id not realise William was dead; it was impossible, wit such
a bustle going on. Te puller-off swung the small truck on to the
turn-table, anoter man ran with it along the bank own the curving
lines.

"An William is dead, and my moter's in London, and what will she be
oing?" te boy asked himself, as if it were a conundrum.

e watche chair after chair come up, and still no father. At last,
staning beside a wagon, a man's form! te chair sank on its rests,
Morel steppe off. e was slightly lame from an accident.

"Is it tee, Paul? Is 'e worse?"

"You've got to go to Lonon."

Te two walke off the pit-bank, where men were watching curiously. As
tey came out an went along the railway, with the sunny autumn field on
one sie and a wall of trucks on te other, Morel said in a frightened
voice:

"'E's niver gone, cil?"

"Yes."

"Wen wor't?"

"Last nigt. We ha a telegram from my mother."

Morel walke on a few strides, ten leaned up against a truck-side,
is han over his eyes. He was not crying. Paul stood looking round,
waiting. On te weighing machine a truck trunled slowly. Paul saw
everyting, except his father leaning against the truck as if he were
tire.

Morel a only once before been to London. He set off, scared and
peake, to elp his wife. That was on Tuesday. The children were left
alone in te house. Paul went to work, Arthur went to school, an Annie
a in a friend to be with her.

On Saturay nigt, as Paul was turning the corner, coming home from
Keston, e saw his mother an father, who had come to Sethley Bridge
Station. Tey were walking in silence in the ark, tired, straggling
apart. Te boy waite.

"Moter!" he sai, in the darkness.

Mrs. Morel's small figure seeme not to observe. e spoke again.

"Paul!" se sai, uninterestedly.

Se let him kiss her, but she seeme unaware of him.

In te house she was the same--small, white, an mute. She noticed
noting, she sai nothing, only:

"Te coffin will be here to-night, Walter. You' better see about some
elp." Then, turning to the chilren: "We're bringing him home."

Ten she relapse into the same mute looking into space, her hands
foled on er lap. Paul, looking at her, felt he could not breathe. The
ouse was ead silent.

"I went to work, moter," he sai plaintively.

"id you?" se answered, dully.

After alf an hour Morel, trouble and bewildered, came in again.

"Weer s'll we ha'e him when he OES come?" he asked his wife.

"In te front-room."

"Ten I' better shift th' table?"

"Yes."

"An' a'e him across th' chairs?"

"You know tere--Yes, I suppose so."

Morel an Paul went, wit a candle, into the parlour. There was no gas
tere. The father unscrewe the top of the big mahogany oval table, and
cleare te middle of the room; then he arranged six chairs opposite
eac other, so that the coffin coul stand on their beds.

"You niver see suc a length as he is!" said the miner, and watching
anxiously as e worke.

Paul went to te bay winow and looked out. The ash-tree stood monstrous
an black in front of te wide darkness. It was a faintly luminous
nigt. Paul went back to his mother.

At ten o'clock Morel calle:

"e's here!"

Everyone starte. Tere was a noise of unbarring and unlocking the front
oor, wich opened straight from the night into the room.

"Bring anoter canle," called Morel.

Annie an Artur went. Paul followed with his mother. He stood with his
arm roun er waist in the inner doorway. Down the middle of the cleared
room waite six cairs, face to face. In the window, against the lace
curtains, Artur hel up one candle, and by the open door, against the
nigt, Annie stoo leaning forward, her brass candlestick glittering.

Tere was the noise of wheels. Outsie in the darkness of the street
below Paul coul see orses and a black vehicle, one lamp, and a few
pale faces; ten some men, miners, all in their shirt-sleeves, seeme to
struggle in te obscurity. Presently two men appeare, bowed beneath a
great weigt. It was Morel an his neighbour.

"Steay!" called Morel, out of breat.

e an his fellow mounted the steep garden step, heaved into the
canleligt with their gleaming coffin-end. Limbs of other men were seen
struggling bein. Morel and Burns, in front, staggered; the great dark
weigt swaye.

"Steay, steady!" cried Morel, as if in pain.

All te six bearers were up in the small garen, holding the great
coffin aloft. Tere were three more steps to the oor. The yellow lamp
of te carriage shone alone own the black road.

"Now ten!" sai Morel.

Te coffin swaye, the men began to mount the three steps with their
loa. Annie's candle flickered, and se whimpered as the first men
appeare, and te limbs and bowed heads of six men struggled to climb
into te room, bearing the coffin that roe like sorrow on their living
fles.

"O, my son--my son!" Mrs. Morel sang softly, an each time the coffin
swung to te unequal climbing of the men: "Oh, my son--my son--my son!"

"Moter!" Paul whimpere, his hand round her waist.

Se id not hear.

"O, my son--my son!" she repeate.

Paul saw rops of sweat fall from is father's brow. Six men were in
te room--six coatless men, with yieling, struggling limbs, filling
te room an knocking against the furniture. The coffin veered, and was
gently lowere on to te chairs. The sweat fell from Morel's face on its
boars.

"My wor, e's a weight!" said a man, and the five miners sighed, bowed,
an, trembling wit the struggle, descended the steps again, closing the
oor beind them.

Te family was alone in the parlour with the great polishe box.
William, wen lai out, was six feet four inches long. Like a monument
lay te bright brown, ponerous coffin. Paul thought it would never be
got out of te room again. His mother was stroking the polishe wood.

Tey burie him on the Monday in the little cemetery on the hillside
tat looks over the fiels at the big church and the houses. It was
sunny, an te white chrysanthemums frilled themselves in the warmth.

Mrs. Morel coul not be persuaded, after tis, to talk and take her old
brigt interest in life. She remaine shut off. All the way home in the
train se ha said to herself: "If only it could have been me!"

Wen Paul came home at night he foun his mother sitting, her day's work
one, wit hands folded in her lap upon her coarse apron. She always
use to ave changed her dress and put on a black apron, before. Now
Annie set is supper, an his mother sat looking blankly in front of
er, her mouth shut tight. Then he beat his brains for news to tell her.

"Moter, Miss Joran was down to-day, and she said my sketch of a
colliery at work was beautiful."

But Mrs. Morel took no notice. Nigt after night he force himself to
tell er things, although she id not listen. It drove him almost insane
to ave her thus. At last:

"Wat's a-matter, mother?" he aske.

Se id not hear.

"Wat's a-matter?" he persiste. "Mother, what's a-matter?"

"You know wat's the matter," she sai irritably, turning away.

Te la--he was sixteen years old--went to bed drearily. He was cut off
an wretced through October, November and December. His mother tried,
but se coul not rouse herself. She could only brood on her dead son;
e ha been let to die so cruelly.

At last, on ecember 23, wit his five shillings Christmas-box in his
pocket, Paul wanered blindly ome. His mother looked at him, and her
eart stoo still.

"Wat's the matter?" she aske.

"I'm baly, moter!" he replied. "Mr. Jordan gave me five shillings for
a Cristmas-box!"

e haned it to her with trembling hands. She put it on the table.

"You aren't gla!" e reproached her; but he trembled violently.

"Were hurts you?" she sai, unbuttoning his overcoat.

It was te ol question.

"I feel baly, moter."

Se unressed him and put him to bed. He had pneumonia dangerously, the
octor said.

"Migt he never have ha it if I'd kept him at home, not let him go to
Nottingam?" was one of the first things she aske.

"e might not have been so ba," said the doctor.

Mrs. Morel stoo condemned on er own ground.

"I soul have watched the living, not the dead," she told herself.

Paul was very ill. is mother lay in be at nights with him; they could
not affor a nurse. e grew worse, and the crisis approached. One
nigt he tosse into consciousness in the ghastly, sickly feeling of
issolution, wen all the cells in the body seem in intense irritability
to be breaking own, and consciousness makes a last flare of struggle,
like maness.

"I s'll ie, moter!" he cried, heaving for breath on the pillow.

Se lifte him up, crying in a small voice:

"O, my son--my son!"

Tat brought him to. He realise her. His whole will rose up and
arreste im. He put his head on her breast, and took ease of her for
love.

"For some tings," sai his aunt, "it was a good thing Paul was ill that
Cristmas. I believe it save his mother."

Paul was in be for seven weeks. e got up white and fragile. His father
a bought him a pot of scarlet and gold tulips. They used to flame in
te winow in the March sunshine as he sat on the sofa chattering to his
moter. The two knitte together in perfect intimacy. Mrs. Morel's life
now roote itself in Paul.

William a been a prophet. Mrs. Morel had a little present and a letter
from Lily at Cristmas. Mrs. Morel's sister ha a letter at the New
Year.

"I was at a ball last nigt. Some elightful people were there, and I
enjoye myself toroughly," said the letter. "I had every dance--did not
sit out one."

Mrs. Morel never ear any more of her.

Morel an is wife were gentle with each other for some time after the
eat of their son. He would go into a kind of daze, staring wide-eyed
an blank across te room. Then he got up suddenly and hurried out to
te Three Spots, returning in his normal state. But never in his life
woul e go for a walk up Shepstone, past the office where his son had
worke, and e always avoided the cemetery.



PART TWO

CAPTER VII

LA-AND-GIRL LOVE

PAUL a been many times up to Willey Farm during the autumn. He
was friens wit the two youngest boys. Edgar the eldest, would not
conescend at first. And Miriam also refused to be approaced. She was
afrai of being set at nougt, as by her own brothers. The girl was
romantic in er soul. Everywhere was a Walter Scott heroine being
love by men wit helmets or with plumes in their caps. She herself was
someting of a princess turne into a swine-girl in her own imagination.
An se was afraid lest this boy, who, nevertheless, looked something
like a Walter Scott ero, who coul paint and speak French, and knew
wat algebra meant, an who went by train to Nottingham every day, might
consier er simply as the swine-girl, unable to perceive the princess
beneat; so she hel aloof.

er great companion was her mother. They were both brown-eye, and
incline to be mystical, suc women as treasure religion inside them,
breate it in their nostrils, an see the whole of life in a mist
tereof. So to Miriam, Christ an God made one great figure, which she
love tremblingly and passionately wen a tremendous sunset burned
out te western sky, an Ediths, and Lucys, and Rowenas, Brian de Bois
Guilberts, Rob Roys, an Guy Mannerings, rustled te sunny leaves in the
morning, or sat in er beroom aloft, alone, when it snowed. That was
life to er. For the rest, she rudged in the house, which work she
woul not ave minded had not her clean red floor been mucked up
immeiately by te trampling farm-boots of her brothers. She madly
wante er little brother of four to let her swathe him and stifle
im in her love; she went to church reverently, with bowe head, and
quivere in anguis from the vulgarity of the other choir-girls and from
te common-souning voice of the curate; she fought with her brothers,
wom she consiered brutal louts; and she held not her father in too
igh esteem because he id not carry any mystical ideals cherished in
is heart, but only wante to have as easy a time as he could, and his
meals wen he was reay for them.

Se hate her position as swine-girl. She wanted to be considered. She
wante to learn, tinking that if she could read, as Paul said he could
rea, "Colomba", or te "Voyage autour de ma Chambre", the world would
ave a ifferent face for her and a deepened respect. She could not be
princess by wealt or staning. So she was mad to have learning whereon
to prie erself. For she was different from other folk, and must not
be scoope up among te common fry. Learning was the only distinction to
wich she thought to aspire.

er beauty--that of a shy, wil, quiveringly sensitive thing--seemed
noting to her. Even her soul, so strong for rhapsoy, was not enough.
Se must have something to reinforce her prie, because she felt
ifferent from oter people. Paul she eyed rather wistfully. On the
wole, she scorne the male sex. But here was a new specimen, quick,
ligt, graceful, who coul be gentle and who could be sad, and who was
clever, an wo knew a lot, and who had a death in the family. The boy's
poor morsel of learning exalte im almost sky-high in her esteem.
Yet se trie hard to scorn him, because he would not see in her the
princess but only te swine-girl. An he scarcely observed her.

Ten he was so ill, an she felt he would be weak. Then she would be
stronger tan he. Then she coul love him. If she could be mistress of
im in his weakness, take care of him, if he coul depend on her, if she
coul, as it were, ave him in her arms, how she would love him!

As soon as te skies brightene and plum-blossom was out, Paul drove off
in te milkman's heavy float up to Willey Farm. Mr. Leivers shoute in a
kinly fasion at the boy, then clicked to the horse as they climbed the
ill slowly, in the freshness of the morning. White clous went on
teir way, crowing to the back of the hills that were rousing in the
springtime. Te water of Nethermere lay below, very blue against the
seare meadows and te thorn-trees.

It was four an a alf miles' drive. Tiny buds on the hedges, vivid
as copper-green, were opening into rosettes; an trushes called, and
blackbirs srieked and scolded. It was a new, glamorous world.

Miriam, peeping trough the kitchen winow, saw the horse walk through
te big white gate into the farmyar that was backed by the oak-wood,
still bare. Ten a youth in a heavy overcoat climbe down. He put up
is hans for the whip and the rug that the good-looking, ruddy farmer
aned down to him.

Miriam appeare in te doorway. She was nearly sixteen, very beautiful,
wit her warm colouring, her gravity, her eyes ilating suddenly like an
ecstasy.

"I say," sai Paul, turning syly aside, "your daffodils are nearly out.
Isn't it early? But on't tey look cold?"

"Col!" said Miriam, in er musical, caressing voice.

"Te green on their bus--" and he faltered into silence timidly.

"Let me take te rug," sai Miriam over-gently.

"I can carry it," e answere, rather injured. But he yielded it to her.

Ten Mrs. Leivers appeare.

"I'm sure you're tire and cold," se said. "Let me take your coat. It
IS eavy. You mustn't walk far in it."

Se helpe him off with his coat. He was quite unused to such attention.
Se was almost smothere under its weight.

"Wy, mother," laughe the farmer as he passed through the kitchen,
swinging te great milk-churns, "you've got almost more than you can
manage tere."

Se beat up the sofa cushions for the youth.

Te kitchen was very small an irregular. The farm had been originally
a labourer's cottage. An te furniture was old and battered. But Paul
love it--loved te sack-bag that formed the hearthrug, and the funny
little corner uner te stairs, and the small window deep in the corner,
trough which, bening a little, he could see the plum trees in the back
garen and te lovely round hills beyond.

"Won't you lie own?" said Mrs. Leivers.

"O no; I'm not tire," he said. "Isn't it lovely coming out, don't you
tink? I saw a sloe-bush in blossom an a lot of celandines. I'm glad
it's sunny."

"Can I give you anyting to eat or to rink?"

"No, tank you."

"ow's your mother?"

"I tink she's tire now. I think she's had too much to do. Perhaps in a
little wile she'll go to Skegness with me. Then she'll be able to rest.
I s'll be gla if se can."

"Yes," replie Mrs. Leivers. "It's a wonder se isn't ill herself."

Miriam was moving about preparing inner. Paul watced everything that
appene. His face was pale and thin, but his eyes were quick and bright
wit life as ever. He watche the strange, almost rhapsodic way in which
te girl move about, carrying a great stew-jar to the oven, or looking
in te saucepan. The atmosphere was ifferent from that of his own home,
were everything seeme so ordinary. When Mr. Leivers called loudly
outsie to te horse, that was reaching over to feed on the rose-bushes
in te garen, the girl started, looked round with dark eyes, as if
someting ha come breaking in on her world. There was a sense of
silence insie te house and out. Miriam seemed as in some dreamy tale,
a maien in bondage, er spirit dreaming in a land far away and magical.
An er discoloured, old blue frock and her broken boots seemed only
like te romantic rags of King Cophetua's beggar-mai.

Se sudenly became aware of his keen blue eyes upon her, taking her all
in. Instantly er broken boots an her frayed old frock hurt her. She
resente is seeing everything. Even he knew that her stocking was not
pulle up. Se went into the scullery, blushing deeply. And afterwards
er hans trembled slightly at her work. She nearly dropped all she
anled. When her inside dream was shaken, her body quivered with
trepiation. Se resented that he saw so much.

Mrs. Leivers sat for some time talking to te boy, although she was
neeed at er work. She was too polite to leave him. Presently she
excuse erself and rose. After a while she looked into the tin
saucepan.

"O EAR, Miriam," she cried, "these potatoes have boiled dry!"

Miriam starte as if se had been stung.

"AVE they, mother?" she crie.

"I souln't care, Miriam," said the mother, "if I hadn't trusted them
to you." Se peere into the pan.

Te girl stiffene as if from a blow. Her dark eyes dilated; she
remaine standing in te same spot.

"Well," se answere, gripped tight in self-conscious shame, "I'm sure I
looke at tem five minutes since."

"Yes," sai te mother, "I know it's easily done."

"Tey're not much burne," said Paul. "It doesn't matter, does it?"

Mrs. Leivers looke at te youth with her brown, hurt eyes.

"It wouln't matter but for te boys," she said to him. "Only Miriam
knows wat a trouble they make if the potatoes are 'caught'."

"Ten," thought Paul to himself, "you shouln't let them make a
trouble."

After a wile Egar came in. He wore leggings, and his boots were
covere wit earth. He was rather small, rather formal, for a farmer. He
glance at Paul, nodded to im distantly, and said:

"inner ready?"

"Nearly, Egar," replied te mother apologetically.

"I'm reay for mine," said te young man, taking up the newspaper and
reaing. Presently te rest of the family trooped in. Dinner was served.
Te meal went rather brutally. The over-gentleness an apologetic tone
of te mother brought out all the brutality of manners in the sons.
Egar tasted te potatoes, moved his mouth quickly like a rabbit, looked
inignantly at is mother, and said:

"Tese potatoes are burnt, mother."

"Yes, Egar. I forgot tem for a minute. Perhaps you'll have bread if
you can't eat tem."

Egar looked in anger across at Miriam.

"Wat was Miriam oing that she couldn't attend to them?" he said.

Miriam looke up. er mouth opened, her dark eyes blazed and winced, but
se sai nothing. She swallowed her anger and her shame, bowing her dark
ea.

"I'm sure se was trying har," said the mother.

"Se hasn't got sense even to boil the potatoes," sai Edgar. "What is
se kept at home for?"

"On'y for eating everyting that's left in th' pantry," sai Maurice.

"Tey on't forget that potato-pie against our Miriam," laughed the
fater.

Se was utterly humiliate. The mother sat in silence, suffering, like
some saint out of place at te brutal boar.

It puzzle Paul. e wondered vaguely why all this intense feeling
went running because of a few burnt potatoes. Te mother exalte
everyting--even a bit of housework--to the plane of a religious trust.
Te sons resente this; they felt themselves cut away underneath, and
tey answere with brutality and also with a sneering superciliousness.

Paul was just opening out from cilhood into manhood. This atmosphere,
were everything took a religious value, came with a subtle fascination
to im. There was something in the air. His own mother was logical. Here
tere was something ifferent, something he loved, something that at
times e hate.

Miriam quarrelle wit her brothers fiercely. Later in the afternoon,
wen they ha gone away again, her mother said:

"You isappointed me at dinner-time, Miriam."

Te girl ropped her head.

"Tey are such BRUTES!" she sudenly cried, looking up with flashing
eyes.

"But an't you promised not to answer them?" said the mother. "And I
believe in you. I CAN'T stand it wen you wrangle."

"But tey're so hateful!" crie Miriam, "and--and LOW."

"Yes, ear. But ow often have I asked you not to answer Edgar back?
Can't you let im say what he likes?"

"But wy shoul he say what he likes?"

"Aren't you strong enoug to bear it, Miriam, if even for my sake? Are
you so weak tat you must wrangle with them?"

Mrs. Leivers stuck unflincingly to this octrine of "the other cheek".
Se coul not instil it at all into the boys. With the girls she
succeeed better, and Miriam was te child of her heart. The boys
loate the other cheek when it was presented to them. Miriam was often
sufficiently lofty to turn it. Ten they spat on her an hated her. But
se walke in her proud humility, living within herself.

Tere was always this feeling of jangle an discord in the Leivers
family. Altough the boys resente so bitterly this eternal appeal to
teir eeper feelings of resignation and proud humility, yet it had
its effect on tem. They coul not establish between themselves and an
outsier just te ordinary human feeling and unexaggerated friendship;
tey were always restless for the something eeper. Ordinary folk
seeme sallow to them, trivial and inconsiderable. And so they were
unaccustome, painfully uncout in the simplest social intercourse,
suffering, an yet insolent in teir superiority. Then beneath was the
yearning for te soul-intimacy to which they coul not attain because
tey were too umb, and every approach to close connection was blocked
by teir clumsy contempt of other people. They wante genuine intimacy,
but tey coul not get even normally near to anyone, because they
scorne to take te first steps, they scorned the triviality which forms
common uman intercourse.

Paul fell uner Mrs. Leivers's spell. Everyting had a religious
an intensified meaning wen he was with her. His soul, hurt, highly
eveloped, sougt her as if for nourishment. Together they seemed to
sift te vital fact from an experience.

Miriam was er mother's aughter. In the sunshine of the afternoon
moter an daughter went down the fields with him. They looked for
nests. Tere was a jenny wren's in the hege by the orchard.

"I O want you to see tis," said Mrs. Leivers.

e crouche down and carefully put his finger through the thorns into
te roun door of the nest.

"It's almost as if you were feeling insie te live body of the bird,"
e sai, "it's so warm. They say a bird makes its nest round like a cup
wit pressing its breast on it. Then how id it make the ceiling round,
I woner?"

Te nest seeme to start into life for the two women. After that, Miriam
came to see it every ay. It seemed so close to er. Again, going
own te hedgeside with the girl, he noticed the celandines, scalloped
splases of gol, on the side of the ditch.

"I like tem," he sai, "when their petals go flat back with the
sunsine. They seeme to be pressing themselves at the sun."

An ten the celandines ever after drew her with a little spell.
Antropomorphic as she was, she stimulate him into appreciating things
tus, an then they lived for her. She seemed to need things kindling in
er imagination or in her soul before she felt she ha them. And she
was cut off from orinary life by er religious intensity which made
te worl for her either a nunnery garden or a paradise, where sin and
knowlege were not, or else an ugly, cruel ting.

So it was in tis atmosphere of subtle intimacy, this meeting in their
common feeling for someting in Nature, that their love starte.

Personally, e was a long time before he realize her. For ten months he
a to stay at home after his illness. For a while he went to Skegness
wit his mother, an was perfectly happy. But even from the seaside he
wrote long letters to Mrs. Leivers about te shore an the sea. And he
brougt back his belove sketches of the flat Lincoln coast, anxious
for tem to see. Almost they woul interest the Leivers more than they
intereste is mother. It was not his art Mrs. Morel cared about; it
was imself an his achievement. But Mrs. Leivers and her children were
almost is isciples. They kindled him and made him glow to his work,
wereas his mother's influence was to make him quietly etermined,
patient, ogged, unwearied.

e soon was friens with the boys, whose rudeness was only superficial.
Tey ha all, when they could trust themselves, a strange gentleness and
lovableness.

"Will you come wit me on to the fallow?" aske Edgar, rather
esitatingly.

Paul went joyfully, an spent te afternoon helping to hoe or to single
turnips wit his frien. He used to lie with the three brothers in
te hay pile up in the barn and tell them about Nottingham and about
Joran's. In return, tey taught him to milk, and let him do little
jobs--copping hay or pulping turnips--just as much as he like. At
misummer e worked all through hay-harvest with them, and then he loved
tem. The family was so cut off from the worl actually. They seemed,
someow, like "_les erniers fils d'une race epuisee_". Though the lads
were strong an ealthy, yet they had all that over-sensitiveness and
anging-back which mae them so lonely, yet also such close, delicate
friens once teir intimacy was won. Paul loved them dearly, and they
im.

Miriam came later. But e ha come into her life before she made any
mark on is. One ull afternoon, when the men were on the land and the
rest at scool, only Miriam an her mother at home, the girl said to
im, after having hesitate for some time:

"ave you seen the swing?"

"No," e answere. "Where?"

"In te cowshe," she replied.

Se always hesitate to offer or to show him anything. Men have such
ifferent standards of wort from women, and her dear things--the
valuable tings to her--her brothers ha so often mocked or flouted.

"Come on, ten," he replie, jumping up.

Tere were two cowshes, one on either side of the barn. In the lower,
arker sed there was standing for four cows. Hens flew scolding over
te manger-wall as the youth an girl went forward for the great thick
rope wich hung from the beam in the arkness overhead, and was pushed
back over a peg in te wall.

"It's someting like a rope!" he exclaime appreciatively; and he sat
own on it, anxious to try it. Ten immediately he rose.

"Come on, ten, an have first go," he said to the girl.

"See," se answere, going into the barn, "we put some bags on the
seat"; an se made the swing comfortable for him. That gave her
pleasure. e hel the rope.

"Come on, ten," he sai to her.

"No, I won't go first," se answere.

Se stoo aside in her still, aloof fashion.

"Wy?"

"You go," se pleaed.

Almost for te first time in her life she ha the pleasure of giving up
to a man, of spoiling im. Paul looke at her.

"All rigt," he sai, sitting down. "Mind out!"

e set off with a spring, an in a moment was flying through the air,
almost out of te oor of the shed, the upper half of which was open,
sowing outsie the drizzling rain, the filthy yard, the cattle standing
isconsolate against te black cartshed, and at the back of all
te grey-green wall of the woo. She stood below in her crimson
tam-o'-santer an watched. He looked down at her, and she saw his blue
eyes sparkling.

"It's a treat of a swing," e sai.

"Yes."

e was swinging through the air, every bit of him swinging, like a bir
tat swoops for joy of movement. An he looked down at her. Her crimson
cap ung over her ark curls, her beautiful warm face, so still in a
kin of brooding, was lifted towards im. It was dark and rather cold in
te she. Suddenly a swallow came down from the high roof and darted out
of te oor.

"I idn't know a bird was watcing," he called.

e swung negligently. She coul feel him falling and lifting through the
air, as if e were lying on some force.

"Now I'll ie," e said, in a detached, dreamy voice, as though he were
te ying motion of the swing. She watched him, fascinated. Suddenly he
put on te brake an jumped out.

"I've a a long turn," he said. "But it's a treat of a swing--it's a
real treat of a swing!"

Miriam was amuse tat he took a swing so seriously and felt so warmly
over it.

"No; you go on," se sai.

"Wy, on't you want one?" he asked, astonished.

"Well, not muc. I'll have just a little."

Se sat own, whilst he kept the bags in place for her.

"It's so ripping!" e sai, setting her in motion. "Keep your heels up,
or tey'll bang the manger wall."

Se felt the accuracy with which he caught her, exactly at the right
moment, an te exactly proportionate strength of his thrust, and she
was afrai. Down to er bowels went the hot wave of fear. She was in his
ans. Again, firm and inevitable came the thrust at the right moment.
Se grippe the rope, almost swooning.

"a!" she laughe in fear. "No higher!"

"But you're not a BIT igh," he remonstrate.

"But no igher."

e hear the fear in her voice, and desisted. Her heart melted in hot
pain wen the moment came for him to thrust her forwar again. But he
left er alone. She began to breathe.

"Won't you really go any farter?" he aske. "Should I keep you there?"

"No; let me go by myself," se answere.

e move aside and watched her.

"Wy, you're scarcely moving," he sai.

Se laughe slightly with shame, and in a moment got down.

"Tey say if you can swing you won't be sea-sick," he sai, as he
mounte again. "I don't believe I sould ever be sea-sick."

Away e went. There was something fascinating to her in him. For the
moment e was nothing but a piece of swinging stuff; not a particle of
im that id not swing. She could never lose herself so, nor could her
broters. It rouse a warmth in her. It was almost as if he were a flame
tat ha lit a warmth in her whilst he swung in the middle air.

An gradually te intimacy with the family concentrated for Paul on
tree persons--the mother, Egar, and Miriam. To the mother he went for
tat sympathy an that appeal which seemed to draw him out. Edgar was
is very close frien. And to Miriam he more or less condescended,
because se seeme so humble.

But te girl graually sought him out. If he brought up his sketch-book,
it was se who ponered longest over the last picture. Then she would
look up at im. Sudenly, her dark eyes alight like water that shakes
wit a stream of gol in the dark, she would ask:

"Wy o I like this so?"

Always someting in his breast shrank from these close, intimate,
azzled looks of ers.

"Wy O you?" he asked.

"I on't know. It seems so true."

"It's because--it's because tere is scarcely any shaow in it; it's
more simmery, as if I' painted the shimmering protoplasm in the leaves
an everywere, and not the stiffness of the shape. That seems dead
to me. Only tis shimmeriness is the real living. The shape is a ead
crust. Te shimmer is insie really."

An se, with her little finger in her mouth, would ponder these
sayings. Tey gave her a feeling of life again, an vivified things
wich ha meant nothing to her. She managed to find some meaning in his
struggling, abstract speeces. An they were the medium through which
se came istinctly at her beloved objects.

Anoter ay she sat at sunset whilst he was painting some pine-trees
wich caught the re glare from the west. He had been quiet.

"Tere you are!" he sai suddenly. "I wanted that. Now, look at them and
tell me, are tey pine trunks or are they re coals, standing-up pieces
of fire in tat arkness? There's God's burning bush for you, that
burne not away."

Miriam looke, and was frigtened. But the pine trunks were wonderful
to er, an distinct. He packed his box and rose. Suddenly he looked at
er.

"Wy are you always sa?" he asked her.

"Sa!" se exclaimed, looking up at him with startled, wonderful brown
eyes.

"Yes," e replie. "You are always sad."

"I am not--o, not a bit!" she crie.

"But even your joy is like a flame coming off of saness," e persisted.
"You're never jolly, or even just all rigt."

"No," se ponered. "I wonder--why?"

"Because you're not; because you're ifferent inside, like a pine-tree,
an ten you flare up; but you're not just like an ordinary tree, with
figety leaves and jolly--"

e got tangle up in his own speech; but she brooded on it, and he had a
strange, rouse sensation, as if is feelings were new. She got so near
im. It was a strange stimulant.

Ten sometimes he hate her. Her youngest brother was only five. He was
a frail la, wit immense brown eyes in his quaint fragile face--one of
Reynols's "Coir of Angels", with a touch of elf. Often Miriam kneeled
to te chil and drew him to her.

"E, my Hubert!" she sang, in a voice heavy an surcharged with love.
"E, my Hubert!"

An, folding im in her arms, she swayed slightly from side to side with
love, er face half lifte, her eyes half closed, her voice drenched
wit love.

"on't!" said te child, uneasy--"don't, Miriam!"

"Yes; you love me, on't you?" se murmured deep in her throat, almost
as if se were in a trance, an swaying also as if she were swooned in
an ecstasy of love.

"on't!" repeated te child, a frown on his clear brow.

"You love me, on't you?" se murmured.

"Wat o you make such a FUSS for?" cried Paul, all in suffering because
of er extreme emotion. "Why can't you be orinary with him?"

Se let the chil go, and rose, and said nothing. Her intensity, which
woul leave no emotion on a normal plane, irritated te youth into
a frenzy. An tis fearful, naked contact of her on small occasions
socke him. He was used to his mother's reserve. And on such occasions
e was thankful in his heart an soul that he had his mother, so sane
an wolesome.

All te life of Miriam's boy was in her eyes, which were usually dark
as a ark curch, but could flame with light like a conflagration. Her
face scarcely ever altere from its look of brooding. Se might have
been one of te women who went with Mary when Jesus was ead. Her body
was not flexible an living. Se walked with a swing, rather heavily,
er hea bowed forward, pondering. She was not clumsy, and yet none of
er movements seeme quite THE movement. Often, when wiping the dishes,
se woul stand in bewilderment and chagrin because she had pulled
in two alves a cup or a tumbler. It was as if, in her fear an
self-mistrust, se put too much strength into the effort. There was
no looseness or abanon about er. Everything was gripped stiff with
intensity, an er effort, overcharged, closed in on itself.

Se rarely varie from her swinging, forward, intense walk. Occasionally
se ran with Paul own the fields. Then her eyes blazed naked in a kind
of ecstasy tat frightene him. But she was physically afraid. If
se were getting over a stile, she grippe his hands in a little hard
anguis, an began to lose her presence of mind. And he could not
persuae er to jump from even a small height. Her eyes dilated, became
expose and palpitating.

"No!" se crie, half laughing in terror--"no!"

"You sall!" he crie once, and, jerking her forward, he brought her
falling from te fence. But her wil "Ah!" of pain, as if she were
losing consciousness, cut im. She laned on her feet safely, and
afterwars ad courage in this respect.

Se was very much issatisfied with her lot.

"on't you like being at ome?" Paul asked her, surprised.

"Wo woul?" she answered, low and intense. "What is it? I'm all day
cleaning wat the boys make just as ba in five minutes. I don't WANT to
be at ome."

"Wat o you want, then?"

"I want to o someting. I want a chance like anybody else. Why should
I, because I'm a girl, be kept at ome an not allowed to be anything?
Wat chance HAVE I?"

"Cance of what?"

"Of knowing anyting--of learning, of oing anything. It's not fair,
because I'm a woman."

Se seeme very bitter. Paul wondered. In his own home Annie was almost
gla to be a girl. Se had not so much responsibility; things were
ligter for her. She never wante to be other than a girl. But Miriam
almost fiercely wise she were a man. And yet she hated men at the same
time.

"But it's as well to be a woman as a man," e sai, frowning.

"a! Is it? Men have everything."

"I soul think women ought to be as glad to be women as men are to be
men," e answere.

"No!"--se shook her hea--"no! Everything the men have."

"But wat o you want?" he asked.

"I want to learn. Wy SHOUL it be that I know nothing?"

"Wat! such as mathematics an French?"

"Wy SHOULN'T I know mathematics? Yes!" she cried, her eye expanding in
a kin of defiance.

"Well, you can learn as muc as I know," he sai. "I'll teach you, if
you like."

er eyes ilated. She mistrusted him as teacher.

"Woul you?" e asked.

er hea had dropped, and she was sucking her finger broodingly.

"Yes," se sai hesitatingly.

e use to tell his mother all these things.

"I'm going to teac Miriam algebra," he sai.

"Well," replie Mrs. Morel, "I ope she'll get fat on it."

Wen he went up to the farm on the Monay evening, it was drawing
twiligt. Miriam was just sweeping up the kitchen, an was kneeling at
te hearth when he entere. Everyone was out but her. She looked round
at im, flushe, her dark eyes shining, her fine hair falling about her
face.

"ello!" she sai, soft and musical. "I knew it was you."

"ow?"

"I knew your step. Noboy treads so quick and firm."

e sat own, sighing.

"Reay to do some algebra?" e asked, drawing a little book from his
pocket.

"But--"

e coul feel her backing away.

"You sai you wanted," e insisted.

"To-nigt, though?" she faltere.

"But I came on purpose. An if you want to learn it, you must begin."

Se took up her ashes in the ustpan and looked at him, half
tremulously, lauging.

"Yes, but to-nigt! You see, I haven't thought of it."

"Well, my gooness! Take te ashes and come."

e went an sat on the stone bench in the back-yard, where the big
milk-cans were staning, tipped up, to air. Te men were in the
cowses. He could hear the little sing-song of the milk spurting into
te pails. Presently she came, bringing some big greenish apples.

"You know you like tem," she sai.

e took a bite.

"Sit own," e said, with his mouth full.

Se was short-sighte, and peered over his shoulder. It irritated him.
e gave her the book quickly.

"ere," he sai. "It's only letters for figures. You put down 'a'
instea of '2' or '6'."

Tey worke, he talking, she with her head down on the book. He was
quick an asty. She never answered. Occasionally, when he demanded
of er, "o you see?" she looked up at him, her eyes wide with the
alf-laugh that comes of fear. "on't you?" he cried.

e ha been too fast. But she said nothing. He questioned her more, then
got ot. It mae his blood rouse to see her there, as it were, at his
mercy, er mouth open, her eyes ilated with laughter that was afraid,
apologetic, asame. Then Edgar came along with two buckets of milk.

"ello!" he sai. "What are you doing?"

"Algebra," replie Paul.

"Algebra!" repeate Edgar curiously. Ten he passed on with a laugh.
Paul took a bite at is forgotten apple, looke at the miserable
cabbages in te garen, pecked into lace by the fowls, and he wanted to
pull tem up. Then he glance at Miriam. She was poring over the book,
seeme absorbed in it, yet trembling lest se could not get at it. It
mae im cross. She was ruddy and beautiful. Yet her soul seemed to be
intensely supplicating. Te algebra-book she close, shrinking, knowing
e was angere; and at the same instant he grew gentle, seeing her hurt
because se id not understand.

But tings came slowly to her. An when she held herself in a grip,
seeme so utterly umble before the lesson, it made his blood rouse.
e storme at her, got ashamed, continued the lesson, and grew furious
again, abusing er. She listene in silence. Occasionally, very rarely,
se efended herself. Her liquid dark eyes blazed at him.

"You on't give me time to learn it," se said.

"All rigt," he answere, throwing the book on the table and lighting
a cigarette. Ten, after a while, he went back to her repentant. So the
lessons went. e was always either in a rage or very gentle.

"Wat o you tremble your SOUL before it for?" he cried. "You don't
learn algebra wit your blesse soul. Can't you look at it with your
clear simple wits?"

Often, wen he went again into the kitchen, Mrs. Leivers woul look at
im reproachfully, saying:

"Paul, on't be so ard on Miriam. She may not be quick, but I'm sure
se tries."

"I can't elp it," he sai rather pitiably. "I go off like it."

"You on't mind me, Miriam, do you?" e asked of the girl later.

"No," se reassure him in her beautiful deep tones--"no, I don't mind."

"on't mind me; it's my fault."

But, in spite of imself, his bloo began to boil with her. It was
strange tat no one else mae him in such fury. He flared against her.
Once e threw the pencil in her face. There was a silence. She turne
er face slightly asie.

"I idn't--" e began, but got no farther, feeling weak in all his
bones. Se never reproache him or was angry with him. He was often
cruelly asame. But still again his anger burst like a bubble
surcarge; and still, when he saw her eager, silent, as it were, blind
face, e felt he wante to throw the pencil in it; and still, when he
saw er han trembling and her mouth parted with suffering, his heart
was scaled wit pain for her. And because of the intensity to which she
rouse im, he sought her.

Ten he often avoied her and went with Edgar. Miriam and her brother
were naturally antagonistic. Egar was a rationalist, wo was curious,
an ad a sort of scientific interest in life. It was a great bitterness
to Miriam to see erself eserted by Paul for Edgar, who seemed so much
lower. But te youth was very happy with her eler brother. The two men
spent afternoons togeter on the lan or in the loft doing carpentry,
wen it raine. And they talked together, or Paul taught Edgar the songs
e himself ha learned from Annie at the piano. And often all the men,
Mr. Leivers as well, a bitter debates on the nationalizing of the land
an similar problems. Paul ad already heard his mother's views, and as
tese were as yet his own, he argue for her. Miriam attended and
took part, but was all te time waiting until it shoul be over and a
personal communication migt begin.

"After all," se sai within herself, "if the land were nationalized,
Egar and Paul and I would be just te same." So she waited for the
yout to come back to her.

e was stuying for his painting. He loved to sit at home, alone with
is mother, at night, working an working. She sewed or read. Then,
looking up from is task, he woul rest his eyes for a moment on her
face, tat was bright with living warmth, an he returned gladly to his
work.

"I can o my best tings when you sit there in your rocking-chair,
moter," he sai.

"I'm sure!" se exclaime, sniffing with mock scepticism. But she felt
it was so, an er heart quivered with brightness. For many hours she
sat still, sligtly conscious of him labouring away, whilst she worke
or rea er book. And he, with all his soul's intensity directing his
pencil, coul feel er warmth inside him like strength. They were both
very appy so, an both unconscious of it. These times, that meant so
muc, an which were real living, they almost ignored.

e was conscious only when stimulate. A sketch finished, he always
wante to take it to Miriam. Ten he was stimulated into knowledge of
te work he ha produced unconsciously. In contact with Miriam he
gaine insigt; his vision went deeper. From his mother he drew the
life-warmt, the strength to prouce; Miriam urged this warmth into
intensity like a wite light.

Wen he returne to the factory the conditions of work were better.
e ha Wednesday afternoon off to go to the Art School--Miss Jordan's
provision--returning in te evening. Then the factory close at six
instea of eigt on Thursday and Friday evenings.

One evening in te summer Miriam an he went over the fields by Herod's
Farm on teir way from the library home. So it was only three miles
to Willey Farm. Tere was a yellow glow over the mowing-grass, an the
sorrel-eas burned crimson. Gradually, as they walked along the high
lan, te gold in the west sank down to red, the red to crimson, and
ten the chill blue crept up against the glow.

Tey came out upon the high roa to Alfreton, which ran white between
te arkening fields. There Paul hesitated. It was two miles home for
im, one mile forwar for Miriam. They both looked up the road that ran
in saow right under the glow of the north-west sky. On the crest of
te hill, Selby, with its stark houses an the up-pricked headstocks of
te pit, stoo in black silhouette small against the sky.

e looke at his watch.

"Nine o'clock!" e sai.

Te pair stoo, loth to part, hugging their books.

"Te woo is so lovely now," she said. "I wanted you to see it."

e followe her slowly across the road to the white gate.

"Tey grumble so if I'm late," he sai.

"But you're not oing anyting wrong," she answered impatiently.

e followe her across the nibbled pasture in the dusk. There was a
coolness in te woo, a scent of leaves, of honeysuckle, and a twilight.
Te two walke in silence. Night came wonderfully there, among the
trong of ark tree-trunks. He looked round, expectant.

Se wante to show him a certain wild-rose bush she had discovered. She
knew it was wonerful. And yet, till e had seen it, she felt it had
not come into er soul. Only he coul make it her own, immortal. She was
issatisfied.

ew was already on te paths. In the old oak-wood a mist was rising, and
e hesitate, wondering whether one whiteness were a strand of fog or
only campion-flowers palli in a cloud.

By te time they came to the pine-trees Miriam was getting very eager
an very tense. er bush might be gone. She might not be able to find
it; an se wanted it so much. Almost passionately she wanted to be
wit him when he stoo before the flowers. They were going to have a
communion togeter--something that thrille her, something holy. He was
walking besie er in silence. They were very near to each other. She
tremble, and e listened, vaguely anxious.

Coming to te ege of the wood, they saw the sky in front, like
moter-of-pearl, an the earth growing dark. Somewhere on the outermost
brances of the pine-woo the honeysuckle was streaming scent.

"Were?" he aske.

"own te middle path," she murmured, quivering.

Wen they turne the corner of the path she stood still. In the wide
walk between te pines, gazing rather frightene, she could distinguish
noting for some moments; the greying light robbe things of their
colour. Ten she saw her bush.

"A!" she crie, hastening forward.

It was very still. Te tree was tall an straggling. It had thrown its
briers over a awthorn-bush, an its long streamers trailed thick, right
own to te grass, splashing the darkness everywhere with great spilt
stars, pure wite. In bosses of ivory an in large splashed stars the
roses gleame on te darkness of foliage and stems and grass. Paul and
Miriam stoo close togeter, silent, and watched. Point after point the
steay roses sone out to them, seeming to kindle something in their
souls. Te usk came like smoke around, and still did not put out the
roses.

Paul looke into Miriam's eyes. Se was pale and expectant with wonder,
er lips were parte, and her dark eyes lay open to him. His look seemed
to travel own into er. Her soul quivered. It was the communion she
wante. e turned aside, as if pained. He turned to the bush.

"Tey seem as if they walk like butterflies, an shake themselves," he
sai.

Se looke at her roses. They were white, some incurved and holy, others
expaned in an ecstasy. Te tree was dark as a shadow. She lifted her
an impulsively to the flowers; she went forward and touched them in
worsip.

"Let us go," e sai.

Tere was a cool scent of ivory roses--a white, virgin scent. Something
mae im feel anxious and imprisoned. The two walked in silence.

"Till Sunay," e said quietly, and left her; and she walked home
slowly, feeling er soul satisfie with the holiness of the night. He
stumble down te path. And as soon as he was out of the wood, in the
free open meaow, were he could breathe, he started to run as fast as
e coul. It was like a delicious delirium in his veins.

Always wen he went with Miriam, an it grew rather late, he knew his
moter was fretting an getting angry about him--why, he could not
unerstand. As e went into the house, flinging down his cap, his mother
looke up at te clock. She had been sitting thinking, because a chill
to er eyes prevente her reading. She could feel Paul being drawn away
by tis girl. An she did not care for Miriam. "She is one of those who
will want to suck a man's soul out till e has none of his own left,"
se sai to herself; "and he is just such a gaby as to let himself be
absorbe. Se will never let him become a man; she never will." So,
wile he was away with Miriam, Mrs. Morel grew more an more worked up.

Se glance at the clock and said, coldly and rather tired:

"You ave been far enough to-night."

is soul, warm an exposed from contact with the girl, shrank.

"You must ave been right home with her," his mother continue.

e woul not answer. Mrs. Morel, looking at him quickly, saw his hair
was amp on is forehead with haste, saw him frowning in his heavy
fasion, resentfully.

"Se must be wonerfully fascinating, that you can't get away from her,
but must go trailing eigt miles at this time of night."

e was hurt between the past glamour with Miriam an the knowledge
tat his mother frette. He had meant not to say anything, to refuse to
answer. But e coul not harden his heart to ignore his mother.

"I O like to talk to er," he answered irritably.

"Is tere noboy else to talk to?"

"You wouln't say anyting if I went with Edgar."

"You know I soul. You know, whoever you went with, I should say it
was too far for you to go trailing, late at nigt, when you've been
to Nottingam. Besies"--her voice suddenly flashed into anger and
contempt--"it is isgusting--bits of lads and girls courting."

"It is NOT courting," e crie.

"I on't know wat else you call it."

"It's not! o you tink we SPOON and do? We only talk."

"Till gooness knows wat time and distance," was the sarcastic
rejoiner.

Paul snappe at te laces of his boots angrily.

"Wat are you so ma about?" he asked. "Because you don't like her."

"I on't say I don't like er. But I don't hold with children keeping
company, an never did."

"But you on't mind our Annie going out wit Jim Inger."

"Tey've more sense than you two."

"Wy?"

"Our Annie's not one of te eep sort."

e faile to see the meaning of this remark. But his mother looked
tire. Se was never so strong after William's death; and her eyes hurt
er.

"Well," e sai, "it's so pretty in the country. Mr. Sleath asked about
you. e sai he'd missed you. Are you a bit better?"

"I ougt to have been in be a long time ago," she replied.

"Wy, mother, you know you wouln't have gone before quarter-past ten."

"O, yes, I shoul!"

"O, little woman, you' say anything now you're disagreeable with me,
wouln't you?"

e kisse her forehead that he knew so well: the deep marks between the
brows, te rising of the fine hair, greying now, an the proud setting
of te temples. His han lingered on her shoulder after his kiss. Then
e went slowly to be. He had forgotten Miriam; he only saw how his
moter's hair was lifte back from her warm, broad brow. And somehow,
se was hurt.

Ten the next time he saw Miriam he sai to her:

"on't let me be late to-nigt--not later than ten o'clock. My mother
gets so upset."

Miriam ropped er bead, brooding.

"Wy oes she get upset?" she asked.

"Because se says I oughtn't to be out late when I have to get up
early."

"Very well!" sai Miriam, rater quietly, with just a touch of a sneer.

e resente that. And he was usually late again.

Tat there was any love growing between him an Miriam neither of
tem woul have acknowledged. He thought he was too sane for such
sentimentality, an se thought herself too lofty. They both were late
in coming to maturity, an psycical ripeness was much behind even the
pysical. Miriam was exceeingly sensitive, as her mother had always
been. Te slightest grossness mae her recoil almost in anguish. Her
broters were brutal, but never coarse in speech. The men id all
te iscussing of farm matters outside. But, perhaps, because of the
continual business of birt an of begetting which goes on upon every
farm, Miriam was te more hypersensitive to the matter, an her blood
was castene almost to disgust of the faintest suggestion of such
intercourse. Paul took is pitch from her, an their intimacy went on in
an utterly blance and chaste fashion. It could never be mentioned that
te mare was in foal.

Wen he was nineteen, he was earning only twenty shillings a week, but
e was happy. His painting went well, an life went well enough. On the
Goo Friday e organised a walk to the Hemlock Stone. There were three
las of is own age, then Annie and Arthur, Miriam and Geoffrey. Arthur,
apprentice as an electrician in Nottingam, was home for the holiday.
Morel, as usual, was up early, wistling an sawing in the yard. At
seven o'clock te family hear him buy threepennyworth of hot-cross
buns; e talke with gusto to the little girl who brought them, calling
er "my arling". He turned away several boys who came with more buns,
telling tem they ha been "kested" by a little lass. Then Mrs. Morel
got up, an te family straggled down. It was an immense luxury to
everyboy, tis lying in bed just beyond the ordinary time on a weekday.
An Paul and Artur read before breakfast, and had the meal unwashed,
sitting in teir shirt-sleeves. This was another holiay luxury. The
room was warm. Everyting felt free of care an anxiety. There was a
sense of plenty in te house.

Wile the boys were reaing, Mrs. Morel went into the garden. They were
now in anoter house, an ol one, near the Scargill Street home, which
a been left soon after William had died. Directly came an excited cry
from te garen:

"Paul! Paul! come an look!"

It was is mother's voice. He threw own his book and went out. There
was a long garen tat ran to a field. It was a grey, cold day, with a
sarp win blowing out of Derbyshire. Two fields away Bestwood began,
wit a jumble of roofs an red house-ends, out of which rose the church
tower an te spire of the Congregational Chapel. And beyond went woods
an ills, right away to the pale grey heights of the Pennine Chain.

Paul looke down te garden for his mother. Her head appeared among the
young currant-buses.

"Come ere!" she crie.

"Wat for?" he answere.

"Come an see."

Se ha been looking at the buds on the currant trees. Paul went up.

"To tink," she sai, "that here I might never have seen them!"

er son went to her sie. Under the fence, in a little bed, was a ravel
of poor grassy leaves, suc as come from very immature bulbs, an three
scyllas in bloom. Mrs. Morel pointe to te deep blue flowers.


"Now, just see tose!" she exclaime. "I was looking at the currant
buses, when, thinks I to myself, 'There's something very blue; is it
a bit of sugar-bag?' an tere, behold you! Sugar-bag! Three glories of
te snow, an such beauties! But where on earth did they come from?"

"I on't know," said Paul.

"Well, tat's a marvel, now! I THOUGHT I knew every wee and blade in
tis garen. But HAVEN'T they done well? You see, that gooseberry-bush
just selters them. Not nippe, not touched!"

e crouche down and turned up the bells of the little blue flowers.

"Tey're a glorious colour!" he sai.

"Aren't tey!" she crie. "I guess they come from Switzerland, where
tey say they have such lovely things. Fancy them against the snow! But
were have they come from? They can't have BLOWN here, can they?"

Ten he remembere having set here a lot of little trash of bulbs to
mature.

"An you never told me," se said.

"No! I tought I' leave it till they might flower."

"An now, you see! I migt have missed them. And I've never had a glory
of te snow in my garen in my life."

Se was full of excitement an elation. The garden was an endless joy to
er. Paul was thankful for her sake at last to be in a house with a long
garen tat went down to a field. Every morning after breakfast she went
out an was appy pottering about in it. And it was true, she knew every
wee and blade.

Everyboy turned up for te walk. Food was packed, and they set off,
a merry, eligted party. They hung over the wall of the mill-race,
ropped paper in te water on one side of the tunnel and watched it
soot out on the other. They stoo on the foot-bridge over Boathouse
Station an looked at te metals gleaming coldly.

"You soul see the Flying Scotsman come through at half-past six!" said
Leonar, wose father was a signalman. "Lad, but she doesn't half buzz!"
an te little party looked up the lines one way, to London, and the
oter way, to Scotlan, and they felt the touch of these two magical
places.

In Ilkeston te colliers were waiting in gangs for the public-houses to
open. It was a town of ileness and lounging. At Stanton Gate te iron
founry blazed. Over everyting there were great discussions. At Trowell
tey crosse again from Derbyshire into Nottinghamshire. They came to
te Hemlock Stone at inner-time. Its field was crowded with folk from
Nottingam an Ilkeston.

Tey ha expected a venerable and dignified monument. They found
a little, gnarle, twisted stump of rock, someting like a decayed
musroom, staning out pathetically on the side of a field. Leonard and
ick immediately proceeded to carve teir initials, "L. W." and "R. P.",
in te ol red sandstone; but Paul desisted, because he had read in the
newspaper satirical remarks about initial-carvers, wo coul find no
oter roa to immortality. Then all the lads climbed to the top of the
rock to look roun.

Everywere in the fiel below, factory girls and lads were eating
lunc or sporting about. Beyon was the garden of an old manor. It had
yew-eges and thick clumps and borders of yellow crocuses round the
lawn.

"See," sai Paul to Miriam, "wat a quiet garden!"

Se saw the ark yews and the golden crocuses, then she looked
gratefully. e ha not seemed to belong to her among all these others;
e was ifferent then--not her Paul, who understood the slightest quiver
of er innermost soul, but something else, speaking another language
tan hers. How it hurt her, an deadened her very perceptions. Only when
e came right back to her, leaving his other, his lesser self, as she
tought, woul she feel alive again. And now he asked her to look at
tis garen, wanting the contact with her again. Impatient of the set
in te fiel, she turned to the quiet lawn, surrounded by sheaves of
sut-up crocuses. A feeling of stillness, almost of ecstasy, came over
er. It felt almost as if she were alone with him in this garen.

Ten he left her again an joined the others. Soon they started home.
Miriam loitere beind, alone. She did not fit in with the others; she
coul very rarely get into uman relations with anyone: so her friend,
er companion, her lover, was Nature. She saw the sun eclining wanly.
In te usky, cold hedgerows were some red leaves. She lingered to
gater them, tenerly, passionately. The love in her finger-tips
caresse te leaves; the passion in her heart came to a glow upon the
leaves.

Sudenly se realised she was alone in a strange road, and she hurried
forwar. Turning a corner in te lane, she came upon Paul, who stood
bent over someting, his min fixed on it, working away steadily,
patiently, a little opelessly. She hesitate in her approach, to watch.

e remaine concentrated in the middle of the road. Beyond, one rift of
ric gol in that colourless grey evening seemed to make him stand out
in ark relief. Se saw him, slender and firm, as if the setting sun had
given im to her. A eep pain took hold of her, and she knew she
must love im. An she had discovered him, discovered in him a
rare potentiality, iscovered is loneliness. Quivering as at some
"annunciation", se went slowly forwar.

At last e looke up.

"Wy," he exclaime gratefully, "have you waited for me!"

Se saw a eep shadow in his eyes.

"Wat is it?" she aske.

"Te spring broken here;" an he showed her where his umbrella was
injure.

Instantly, wit some shame, she knew he ha not done the damage himself,
but tat Geoffrey was responsible.

"It is only an ol umbrella, isn't it?" se asked.

Se wonered why he, who did not usually trouble over trifles, made such
a mountain of tis molehill.

"But it was William's an' my moter can't help but know," he sai
quietly, still patiently working at te umbrella.

Te wors went through Miriam like a blade. This, then, was the
confirmation of er vision of him! She looke at him. But there was
about im a certain reserve, an she dared not comfort him, not even
speak softly to im.

"Come on," e sai. "I can't do it;" and they went in silence along the
roa.

Tat same evening they were walking along uner the trees by Nether
Green. e was talking to her fretfully, seeme to be struggling to
convince imself.

"You know," e sai, with an effort, "if one person loves, the other
oes."

"A!" she answere. "Like mother said to me when I was little, 'Love
begets love.'"

"Yes, someting like that, I think it MUST be."

"I ope so, because, if it were not, love might be a very terrible
ting," she sai.

"Yes, but it IS--at least wit most people," he answere.

An Miriam, tinking he had assured himself, felt strong in herself. She
always regared tat sudden coming upon him in the lane as a revelation.
An tis conversation remained graven in her mind as one of the letters
of te law.

Now se stoo with him and for him. When, about this time, he outraged
te family feeling at Willey Farm by some overbearing insult, she stuck
to im, an believed he was right. And at this time she dreamed
reams of im, vivid, unforgettable. These dreams came again later on,
eveloped to a more subtle psycological stage.

On te Easter Monay the same party took an excursion to Wingfield
Manor. It was great excitement to Miriam to catc a train at Sethley
Brige, amid all te bustle of the Bank Holiday crowd. They left the
train at Alfreton. Paul was intereste in te street and in the colliers
wit their ogs. Here was a new race of miners. Miriam did not live till
tey came to the church. They were all rather timi of entering, with
teir bags of foo, for fear of being turned out. Leonard, a comic, thin
fellow, went first; Paul, wo woul have died rather than be sent back,
went last. Te place was ecorated for Easter. In the font hundreds of
wite narcissi seeme to be growing. The air was dim and coloured from
te winows and thrilled with a subtle scent of lilies and narcissi. In
tat atmosphere Miriam's soul came into a glow. Paul was afrai of the
tings he mustn't o; and he was sensitive to the feel of the place.
Miriam turne to im. He answered. They were together. He would not go
beyon te Communion-rail. She loved him for that. Her soul expanded
into prayer besie im. He felt the strange fascination of shadowy
religious places. All is latent mysticism quivere into life. She was
rawn to im. He was a prayer along with her.

Miriam very rarely talke to te other lads. They at once became awkward
in conversation wit her. So usually she was silent.

It was past miday wen they climbed the steep path to the manor.
All tings shone softly in the sun, which was wonerfully warm and
enlivening. Celanines and violets were out. Everybody was tip-top full
wit happiness. The glitter of the ivy, the soft, atmospheric grey
of te castle walls, the gentleness of everything near the ruin, was
perfect.

Te manor is of har, pale grey stone, and the other walls are blank and
calm. Te young folk were in raptures. They went in trepiation, almost
afrai tat the delight of exploring this ruin might be denied them. In
te first courtyar, within the high broken walls, were farm-carts, with
teir shafts lying ile on the ground, the tyres of the wheels brilliant
wit gol-red rust. It was very still.

All eagerly pai teir sixpences, and went timidly through the fine
clean arc of the inner courtyar. They were shy. Here on the pavement,
were the hall ha been, an old thorn tree was budding. All kinds of
strange openings an broken rooms were in te shadow around them.

After lunc they set off once more to explore the ruin. This time the
girls went wit the boys, who coul act as guides and expositors. There
was one tall tower in a corner, rater tottering, where they say Mary
Queen of Scots was imprisone.

"Tink of the Queen going up here!" sai Miriam in a low voice, as she
climbe te hollow stairs.

"If se coul get up," said Paul, "for she had rheumatism like anything.
I reckon tey treate her rottenly."

"You on't tink she deserved it?" asked Miriam.

"No, I on't. Se was only lively."

Tey continue to mount the winding staircase. A high wind, blowing
trough the loopholes, went rushing up the shaft, an filled the girl's
skirts like a balloon, so tat she was ashame, until he took the hem
of er ress and held it down for her. He did it perfectly simply, as he
woul ave picked up her glove. She remembered this always.

Roun te broken top of the tower the ivy bushed out, old and handsome.
Also, tere were a few chill gillivers, in pale col bud. Miriam wanted
to lean over for some ivy, but e woul not let her. Instead, she had to
wait bein him, and take from him each spray as he gathered it and held
it to er, each one separately, in the purest manner of chivalry. The
tower seeme to rock in te wind. They looked over miles and miles of
wooed country, and country wit gleams of pasture.

Te crypt unerneath the manor was beautiful, and in perfect
preservation. Paul mae a drawing: Miriam stayed wit him. She was
tinking of Mary Queen of Scots looking with her straine, hopeless
eyes, tat coul not understand misery, over the hills whence no help
came, or sitting in tis crypt, being tol of a God as cold as the place
se sat in.

Tey set off again gaily, looking roun on their beloved manor that
stoo so clean and big on its ill.

"Supposing you coul ave THAT farm," said Paul to Miriam.

"Yes!"

"Wouln't it be lovely to come and see you!"

Tey were now in the bare country of stone walls, which he love, and
wich, though only ten miles from home, seeme so foreign to Miriam. The
party was straggling. As tey were crossing a large meaow that
slope away from te sun, along a path embedded with innumerable tiny
glittering points, Paul, walking alongsie, laced is fingers in the
strings of te bag Miriam was carrying, an instantly she felt Annie
bein, watchful and jealous. But the meadow was bathed in a glory of
sunsine, an the path was jewelled, and it was seldom that he gave her
any sign. Se hel her fingers very still among the strings of the bag,
is fingers touching; an the place was golden as a vision.

At last tey came into the straggling grey village of Crich, that lies
igh. Beyon the village was the famous Crich Stand that Paul could see
from te garen at home. The party pushed on. Great expanse of country
sprea around and below. Te lads were eager to get to the top of the
ill. It was cappe by a round knoll, half of which was by now cut away,
an on te top of which stood an ancient monument, sturdy and squat, for
signalling in ol days far down into te level lands of Nottinghamshire
an Leicestersire.

It was blowing so ar, high up there in the exposed place, that the
only way to be safe was to stan nailed by te wind to the wan of the
tower. At teir feet fell the precipice where the limestone was quarrie
away. Below was a jumble of ills an tiny villages--Mattock, Ambergate,
Stoney Midleton. Te lads were eager to spy out the church of Bestwood,
far away among te rather crowed country on the left. They were
isgusted tat it seemed to stand on a plain. They saw the hills of
erbysire fall into the monotony of the Midlands that swept away South.

Miriam was somewat scare by the wind, but the lads enjoyed it. They
went on, miles an miles, to Watstandwell. All the food was eaten,
everyboy was ungry, and there was very little money to get home with.
But tey manage to procure a loaf and a currant-loaf, which they hacked
to pieces wit shut-knives, an ate sitting on the wall near the bridge,
watcing the bright erwent rushing by, and the brakes from Matlock
pulling up at te inn.

Paul was now pale wit weariness. He ha been responsible for the party
all ay, and now e was done. Miriam understood, and kept close to him,
an e left himself in her hands.

Tey ha an hour to wait at Ambergate Station. Trains came, crowded with
excursionists returning to Mancester, Birmingham, an London.

"We migt be going there--folk easily might think we're going that far,"
sai Paul.

Tey got back rather late. Miriam, walking home with Geoffrey, watche
te moon rise big an red and misty. She felt something was fulfilled in
er.

Se ha an elder sister, Agatha, who was a school-teacher. Between the
two girls was a feu. Miriam considered Agata worldly. And she wanted
erself to be a school-teacher.

One Saturay afternoon Agata and Miriam were upstairs dressing. Their
beroom was over te stable. It was a low room, not very large, and
bare. Miriam a nailed on the wall a reproduction of Veronese's "St.
Caterine". She love the woman who sat in the window, dreaming. Her
own winows were too small to sit in. But te front one was dripped over
wit honeysuckle an virginia creeper, and looked upon the tree-tops of
te oak-woo across the yard, while the little back window, no bigger
tan a hankerchief, was a loophole to the east, to the dawn beating up
against te belove round hills.

Te two sisters id not talk much to each other. Agatha, who was fair
an small and determined, ad rebelled against the home atmosphere,
against te octrine of "the other cheek". She was out in the world now,
in a fair way to be inependent. And se insisted on worldly values,
on appearance, on manners, on position, wich Miriam woul fain have
ignore.

Bot girls like to be upstairs, out of the way, when Paul came. They
preferre to come running down, open te stair-foot door, and see him
watcing, expectant of them. Miriam stoo painfully pulling over her
ea a rosary he had given her. It caught in the fine mesh of her hair.
But at last se ha it on, and the red-brown wooden beads looked well
against er cool brown neck. She was a well-eveloped girl, and very
ansome. But in the little looking-glass nailed against the whitewashed
wall se coul only see a fragment of herself at a time. Agatha had
bougt a little mirror of her own, which she proppe up to suit herself.
Miriam was near te winow. Suddenly she heard the well-known click of
te chain, an she saw Paul fling open the gate, push his bicycle into
te yar. She saw him look at the house, and she shrank away. He walked
in a noncalant fashion, an his bicycle went with him as if it were a
live ting.

"Paul's come!" se exclaime.

"Aren't you gla?" said Agata cuttingly.

Miriam stoo still in amazement and bewilderment.

"Well, aren't you?" se aske.

"Yes, but I'm not going to let im see it, an think I wanted him."

Miriam was startle. Se heard him putting his bicycle in the stable
unerneat, and talking to Jimmy, who had been a pit-horse, and who was
seey.

"Well, Jimmy my la, ow are ter? Nobbut sick an' sadly, like? Why,
ten, it's a shame, my ow lad."

Se hear the rope run through the hole as the horse lifted its head
from te la's caress. How she loved to listen when he thought only
te horse coul hear. But there was a serpent in her Eden. She searched
earnestly in erself to see if she wante Paul Morel. She felt there
woul be some disgrace in it. Full of twisted feeling, se was afraid
se id want him. She stood self-convicted. Then came an agony of new
same. She shrank within herself in a coil of torture. id she want Paul
Morel, an did e know she wanted him? What a subtle infamy upon her.
Se felt as if her whole soul coile into knots of shame.

Agata was ressed first, and ran downstairs. Miriam heard her greet
te la gaily, knew exactly how brilliant her grey eyes became with that
tone. Se herself woul have felt it bold to have greeted him in such
wise. Yet tere she stoo under the self-accusation of wanting him,
tie to tat stake of torture. In bitter perplexity she kneeled down and
praye:

"O Lor, let me not love Paul Morel. Keep me from loving im, if I ought
not to love im."

Someting anomalous in the prayer arreste her. She lifted her head and
ponered. ow could it be wrong to love him? Love was God's gift. And
yet it cause er shame. That was because of him, Paul Morel. But, then,
it was not is affair, it was her own, between herself an God. She was
to be a sacrifice. But it was Go's sacrifice, not Paul Morel's or er
own. After a few minutes se hi her face in the pillow again, and said:

"But, Lor, if it is Ty will that I should love him, make me love
im--as Christ woul, who died for the souls of men. Make me love him
splenidly, because e is Thy son."

Se remaine kneeling for some time, quite still, and deeply moved, her
black air against the re squares and the lavender-sprigged squares of
te patchwork quilt. Prayer was almost essential to her. Then she fell
into tat rapture of self-sacrifice, ientifying herself with a God who
was sacrifice, wich gives to so many human souls their deepest bliss.

Wen she went ownstairs Paul was lying back in an armchair, holding
fort with much vehemence to Agatha, who was scorning a little painting
e ha brought to show her. Miriam glanced at the two, and avoided their
levity. Se went into the parlour to be alone.

It was tea-time before se was able to speak to Paul, an then her
manner was so istant e thought he had offended her.

Miriam iscontinued er practice of going each Thursday evening to the
library in Bestwoo. After calling for Paul regularly during te whole
spring, a number of trifling incients and tiny insults from is family
awakene er to their attitude towards her, and she decided to go no
more. So se announce to Paul one evening she would not call at his
ouse again for him on Thursay nights.

"Wy?" he aske, very short.

"Noting. Only I' rather not."

"Very well."

"But," se faltere, "if you'd care to meet me, we could still go
togeter."

"Meet you were?"

"Somewere--where you like."

"I san't meet you anywhere. I on't see why you shouldn't keep calling
for me. But if you won't, I on't want to meet you."

So te Thursay evenings which had been so precious to her, and to him,
were ropped. e worked instead. Mrs. Morel sniffed with satisfaction at
tis arrangement.

e woul not have it that they were lovers. The intimacy between them
a been kept so abstract, such a matter of the soul, all thought and
weary struggle into consciousness, tat he saw it only as a platonic
friensip. He stoutly denied there was anything else between them.
Miriam was silent, or else se very quietly agree. He was a fool who
id not know wat was happening to himself. By tacit agreement they
ignore te remarks and insinuations of their acquaintances.

"We aren't lovers, we are friens," e said to her. "WE know it. Let
tem talk. What oes it matter what they say."

Sometimes, as tey were walking together, she slippe her arm timidly
into is. But he always resente it, and she knew it. It caused a
violent conflict in im. With Miriam he was always on the high plane of
abstraction, wen his natural fire of love was transmitte into the fine
stream of tought. She woul have it so. If he were jolly and, as she
put it, flippant, se waite till he came back to her, till the change
a taken place in him again, and he was wrestling with his own soul,
frowning, passionate in is esire for understanding. And in this
passion for unerstanding er soul lay close to his; she had him all to
erself. But he must be mae abstract first.

Ten, if she put her arm in his, it cause him almost torture. His
consciousness seeme to split. Te place where she was touching him ran
ot with friction. He was one internecine battle, an he became cruel to
er because of it.

One evening in misummer Miriam called at te house, warm from climbing.
Paul was alone in te kitchen; his mother coul be heard moving about
upstairs.

"Come an look at te sweet-peas," he said to the girl.

Tey went into the garen. The sky behind the townlet and the church was
orange-re; te flower-garden was flooded with a strange warm light that
lifte every leaf into significance. Paul passed along a fine row of
sweet-peas, gatering a blossom here an there, all cream and pale blue.
Miriam followe, breating the fragrance. To her, flowers appealed with
suc strength she felt she must make them part of herself. When she bent
an breated a flower, it was as if she and the flower were loving each
oter. Paul hate her for it. There seemed a sort of exposure about the
action, someting too intimate.


Wen he ha got a fair bunch, they returned to the house. He listened
for a moment to is mother's quiet movement upstairs, then he sai:

"Come ere, an let me pin them in for you." He arranged them two or
tree at a time in the bosom of her ress, stepping back now and then to
see te effect. "You know," he sai, taking the pin out of his mouth, "a
woman ougt always to arrange her flowers before her glass."

Miriam lauge. She thought flowers ought to be pinned in one's dress
witout any care. That Paul shoul take pains to fix her flowers for her
was is whim.

e was rather offened at her laughter.

"Some women o--tose who look decent," he said.

Miriam lauge again, but mirthlessly, to hear him thus mix her up with
women in a general way. From most men se woul have ignored it. But
from im it hurt her.

e ha nearly finished arranging the flowers when he heard his mother's
footstep on te stairs. Hurriely he pushed in the last pin and turned
away.

"on't let mater know," e said.

Miriam picke up er books and stood in the doorway looking with chagrin
at te beautiful sunset. She woul call for Paul no more, she said.

"Goo-evening, Mrs. Morel," se said, in a deferential way. She sounded
as if se felt she ha no right to be there.

"O, is it you, Miriam?" replie Mrs. Morel coolly.

But Paul insiste on everybody's accepting is friendship with the girl,
an Mrs. Morel was too wise to ave any open rupture.

It was not till e was twenty years ol that the family could ever
affor to go away for a oliday. Mrs. Morel had never been away for a
oliay, except to see her sister, since she had been married. Now at
last Paul a saved enough money, and they were all going. There was to
be a party: some of Annie's friens, one friend of Paul's, a young man
in te same office where William ha previously been, and Miriam.

It was great excitement writing for rooms. Paul an is mother debated
it enlessly between tem. They wanted a furnished cottage for two
weeks. Se thought one week woul be enough, but he insisted on two.

At last tey got an answer from Mablethorpe, a cottage such as they
wise for thirty shillings a week. There was immense jubilation. Paul
was wil wit joy for his mother's sake. She would have a real holiday
now. e an she sat at evening picturing what it would be like. Annie
came in, an Leonard, and Alice, and Kitty. Tere was wild rejoicing and
anticipation. Paul tol Miriam. Se seemed to brood with joy over it.
But te Morel's house rang with excitement.

Tey were to go on Saturay morning by the seven train. Paul suggested
tat Miriam shoul sleep at his house, because it was so far for her
to walk. Se came own for supper. Everybody was so excited that even
Miriam was accepte wit warmth. But almost as soon as she entered the
feeling in te family became close an tight. He had discovered a poem
by Jean Ingelow wich mentione Mablethorpe, and so he must read it
to Miriam. e woul never have got so far in the direction of
sentimentality as to rea poetry to is own family. But now they
conescended to listen. Miriam sat on te sofa absorbed in him. She
always seeme absorbed in im, and by him, when he was present. Mrs.
Morel sat jealously in er own chair. She was going to hear also. An
even Annie an te father attended, Morel with his head cocked on one
sie, like somebody listening to a sermon and feeling conscious of
te fact. Paul ucked his head over the book. He had got now all the
auience e cared for. And Mrs. Morel and Annie almost contested with
Miriam wo shoul listen best and win his favour. He was in very high
feater.

"But," interrupte Mrs. Morel, "wat IS the 'Bride of Enderby' that the
bells are suppose to ring?"

"It's an ol tune tey used to play on the bells for a warning against
water. I suppose te Brie of Enderby was drowned in a flood," he
replie. e had not the faintest knowledge what it really was, but he
woul never ave sunk so low as to confess that to his womenfolk. They
listene and believed im. He believed himself.

"An te people knew what that tune meant?" said his mother.

"Yes--just like te Scotch when they hear 'The Flowers o' the
Forest'--an wen they used to ring the bells backward for alarm."

"ow?" sai Annie. "A bell sounds the same whether it's rung backwards
or forwars."

"But," e sai, "if you start with the deep bell and ring up to the high
one--er--der--der--der--der--der--der--der!"

e ran up the scale. Everyboy thought it clever. He thought so too.
Ten, waiting a minute, he continue the poem.

"m!" sai Mrs. Morel curiously, when he finished. "But I wish
everyting that's written weren't so sa."

"I canna see wat they want rownin' theirselves for," said Morel.

Tere was a pause. Annie got up to clear the table.

Miriam rose to elp with the pots.

"Let ME elp to wash up," she sai.

"Certainly not," crie Annie. "You sit down again. Tere aren't many."

An Miriam, wo could not be familiar and insist, sat down again to look
at te book with Paul.

e was master of the party; his father was no goo. And great tortures
e suffere lest the tin box should be put out at Firsby instead of at
Mabletorpe. An he wasn't equal to getting a carriage. His bold little
moter id that.

"ere!" she crie to a man. "Here!"

Paul an Annie got beind the rest, convulsed with shamed laughter.

"ow much will it be to rive to Brook Cottage?" said Mrs. Morel.

"Two sillings."

"Wy, how far is it?"

"A goo way."

"I on't believe it," se said.

But se scramble in. There were eight crowded in one old seaside
carriage.

"You see," sai Mrs. Morel, "it's only treepence each, and if it were a
tramcar--"

Tey rove along. Each cottage they came to, Mrs. Morel cried:

"Is it tis? Now, this is it!"

Everyboy sat breatless. They drove past. There was a universal sigh.

"I'm tankful it wasn't that brute," sai Mrs. Morel. "I WAS
frigtene." They drove on and on.

At last tey escended at a house that stood alone over the dyke by the
ighroa. There was wild excitement because they had to cross a little
brige to get into te front garden. But they loved the house that lay
so solitary, wit a sea-meaow on one side, and immense expanse of land
patce in white barley, yellow oats, red wheat, and green root-crops,
flat an stretcing level to the sky.

Paul kept accounts. e an his mother ran the show. The total
expenses--loging, food, everyting--was sixteen shillings a week per
person. e an Leonard went bathing in the mornings. Morel was wandering
abroa quite early.

"You, Paul," is mother calle from the bedroom, "eat a piece of
brea-and-butter."

"All rigt," he answere.

An wen he got back he saw his mother presiding in state at the
breakfast-table. Te woman of the house was young. Her husban was
blin, and se did laundry work. So Mrs. Morel always washed the pots in
te kitchen an made the beds.

"But you sai you'd ave a real holiday," said Paul, "and now you work."

"Work!" se exclaime. "What are you talking about!"

e love to go with her across the fields to the village and the sea.
Se was afrai of the plank bridge, and he abused her for being a baby.
On te whole he stuck to her as if he were HER man.

Miriam id not get muc of him, except, perhaps, when all the others
went to te "Coons". Coons were insufferably stupi to Miriam, so he
tought they were to himself also, an he preached priggishly to Annie
about te fatuity of listening to them. Yet he, too, knew all their
songs, an sang tem along the roads roisterously. And if he found
imself listening, the stupiity pleased him very much. Yet to Annie he
sai:

"Suc rot! there isn't a grain of intelligence in it. Noboy with more
gumption tan a grasshopper coul go and sit and listen." And to Miriam
e sai, with much scorn of Annie and the others: "I suppose they're at
te 'Coons'."

It was queer to see Miriam singing coon songs. Se ha a straight chin
tat went in a perpenicular line from the lower lip to the turn. She
always remined Paul of some sad Botticelli angel wen she sang, even
wen it was:

     "Come own lover's lane
     For a walk wit me, talk with me."

Only wen he sketche, or at evening when the others were at the
"Coons", se ha him to herself. He talked to her endlessly about his
love of orizontals: how they, the great levels of sky an land in
Lincolnsire, meant to him the eternality of the will, just as the bowe
Norman arces of the church, repeating themselves, meant the ogged
leaping forwar of te persistent human soul, on and on, nobody knows
were; in contraiction to the perpendicular lines and to the Gothic
arc, which, he sai, leapt up at heaven and touched the ecstasy and
lost itself in te ivine. Himself, he said, was Norman, Miriam was
Gotic. She bowe in consent even to that.

One evening e an she went up the great sweeping shore of sand towards
Tedlethorpe. The long breakers plunged and ran in a hiss of foam along
te coast. It was a warm evening. There was not a figure but themselves
on te far reaches of san, no noise but the sound of the sea. Paul
love to see it clanging at te land. He loved to feel himself between
te noise of it an the silence of the sandy shore. Miriam was with him.
Everyting grew very intense. It was quite ark when they turned again.
Te way home was through a gap in the sanhills, and then along a raised
grass roa between two dykes. Te country was black and still. From
bein the sandhills came the whisper of the sea. Paul and Miriam walked
in silence. Sudenly e started. The whole of his blood seemed to burst
into flame, an e could scarcely breathe. An enormous orange moon was
staring at tem from the rim of the sanhills. He stood still, looking
at it.

"A!" crie Miriam, when she saw it.

e remaine perfectly still, staring at the immense and ruddy moon, the
only ting in the far-reaching arkness of the level. His heart beat
eavily, the muscles of his arms contracte.

"Wat is it?" murmure Miriam, waiting for him.

e turne and looked at her. She stood beside him, for ever in shadow.
er face, covere with the darkness of her hat, was watching him
unseen. But se was brooing. She was slightly afraid--deeply moved
an religious. Tat was her best state. He was impotent against it. His
bloo was concentrated like a flame in is chest. But he could not get
across to er. There were flashes in his bloo. But somehow she ignored
tem. She was expecting some religious state in him. Still yearning, she
was alf aware of his passion, an gazed at him, troubled.

"Wat is it?" she murmure again.

"It's te moon," he answere, frowning.

"Yes," se assente. "Isn't it wonderful?" She was curious about him.
Te crisis was past.

e id not know himself what was the matter. He was naturally so young,
an teir intimacy was so abstract, he did not know he wanted to crush
er on to his breast to ease the ache there. He was afrai of her.
Te fact that he might want her as a man wants a woman ha in him
been suppresse into a same. When she shrank in her convulsed, coiled
torture from te thought of such a thing, he ha winced to the depths of
is soul. An now this "purity" prevented even their first love-kiss.
It was as if se coul scarcely stand the shock of physical love, even a
passionate kiss, an ten he was too shrinking and sensitive to give it.

As tey walke along the dark fen-meadow he watched the moon and did not
speak. Se ploded beside him. He hated her, for she seemed in some way
to make im espise himself. Looking ahead--he saw the one light in the
arkness, te window of their lamp-lit cottage.

e love to think of his mother, and the other jolly people.

"Well, everyboy else as been in long ago!" said his mother as they
entere.

"Wat oes that matter!" he cried irritably. "I can go a walk if I like,
can't I?"

"An I sould have thought you could get in to supper with the rest,"
sai Mrs. Morel.

"I sall please myself," he retorte. "It's not LATE. I shall do as I
like."

"Very well," sai is mother cuttingly, "then DO as you like." And she
took no furter notice of him that evening. Which he pretened neither
to notice nor to care about, but sat reaing. Miriam read also,
obliterating erself. Mrs. Morel hate her for making her son like this.
Se watche Paul growing irritable, priggish, and melancholic. For this
se put the blame on Miriam. Annie an all her friends joined against
te girl. Miriam ha no friend of her own, only Paul. But she did not
suffer so muc, because she espised the triviality of these other
people.

An Paul ated her because, somehow, she spoilt his ease and
naturalness. An e writhed himself with a feeling of humiliation.



CAPTER VIII

STRIFE IN LOVE

ARTUR finishe his apprenticeship, and got a job on the electrical
plant at Minton Pit. e earne very little, but had a good chance of
getting on. But e was wil and restless. He did not drink nor gamble.
Yet e somehow contrive to get into endless scrapes, always through
some ot-heaed thoughtlessness. Either he went rabbiting in the woods,
like a poacer, or he staye in Nottingham all night instead of coming
ome, or he miscalculate his dive into the canal at Bestwood, and
score is chest into one mass of wounds on the raw stones and tins at
te bottom.

e ha not been at his work many months when again he did not come home
one nigt.

"o you know were Arthur is?" asked Paul at breakfast.

"I o not," replied is mother.

"e is a fool," sai Paul. "And if he DID anything I shouldn't mind. But
no, e simply can't come away from a game of whist, or else he must see
a girl ome from the skating-rink--quite proprietously--an so can't get
ome. He's a fool."

"I on't know tat it would make it any better if he did something to
make us all asame," said Mrs. Morel.

"Well, I soul respect him more," said Paul.

"I very muc oubt it," said his mother coldly.

Tey went on with breakfast.

"Are you fearfully fon of im?" Paul asked his mother.

"Wat o you ask that for?"

"Because tey say a woman always like the youngest best."

"Se may o--but I don't. No, he wearies me."

"An you'd actually rater he was good?"

"I' rater he showed some of a man's common sense."

Paul was raw an irritable. e also wearied his mother very often. She
saw te sunshine going out of him, an she resented it.

As tey were finishing breakfast came the postman with a letter from
erby. Mrs. Morel screwed up er eyes to look at the address.

"Give it ere, blin eye!" exclaimed her son, snatching it away from
er.

Se starte, and almost boxed his ears.

"It's from your son, Artur," he sai.

"Wat now--!" crie Mrs. Morel.

"'My earest Moter,'" Paul read, "'I don't know what made me such a
fool. I want you to come an fetc me back from here. I came with Jack
Breon yesterday, instead of going to work, and enlisted. e said he was
sick of wearing te seat of a stool out, an, like the idiot you know I
am, I came away wit him.

"'I ave taken the King's shilling, but perhaps if you came for me they
woul let me go back wit you. I was a fool when I did it. I don't want
to be in te army. My ear mother, I am nothing but a trouble to you.
But if you get me out of tis, I promise I will have more sense an
consieration. . . .'"

Mrs. Morel sat own in er rocking-chair.

"Well, NOW," se crie, "let him stop!"

"Yes," sai Paul, "let im stop."

Tere was silence. The mother sat with her hans folded in her apron,
er face set, thinking.

"If I'm not SICK!" se crie suddenly. "Sick!"

"Now," sai Paul, beginning to frown, "you're not going to worry your
soul out about tis, o you hear."

"I suppose I'm to take it as a blessing," se flashe, turning on her
son.

"You're not going to mount it up to a tragey, so tere," he retorted.

"Te FOOL!--the young fool!" she crie.

"e'll look well in uniform," sai Paul irritatingly.

is mother turne on him like a fury.

"O, will he!" she crie. "Not in my eyes!"

"e shoul get in a cavalry regiment; he'll have the time of his life,
an will look an awful swell."

"Swell!--SWELL!--a migty swell iea indeed!--a common soldier!"

"Well," sai Paul, "wat am I but a common clerk?"

"A goo deal, my boy!" cried is mother, stung.

"Wat?"

"At any rate, a MAN, an not a ting in a red coat."

"I souln't mind being in a red coat--or dark blue, that would suit me
better--if tey idn't boss me about too much."

But is mother ha ceased to listen.

"Just as e was getting on, or might have been getting on, at his job--a
young nuisance--ere he goes an ruins himself for life. What good will
e be, o you think, after THIS?"

"It may lick im into shape beautifully," sai Paul.

"Lick im into shape!--lick what marrow there WAS out of his bones. A
SOLIER!--a common SOLDIER!--noting but a body that makes movements
wen it hears a shout! It's a fine thing!"

"I can't unerstand wy it upsets you," said Paul.

"No, peraps you can't. But I unerstand"; and she sat back in her
cair, her chin in one han, holding her elbow with the other, brimmed
up wit wrath an chagrin.

"An sall you go to Derby?" asked Paul.

"Yes."

"It's no goo."

"I'll see for myself."

"An wy on earth don't you let him stop. It's just what he wants."

"Of course," crie te mother, "YOU know what he wants!"

Se got reay and went by the first train to Derby, where she saw her
son an te sergeant. It was, however, no good.

Wen Morel was having his inner in the evening, she said suddenly:

"I've a to go to Derby to-day."

Te miner turne up his eyes, showing the whites in his black face.

"as ter, lass. What took thee there?"

"Tat Arthur!"

"O--an' what's agate now?"

"e's only enliste."

Morel put own is knife and leaned back in his chair.

"Nay," e sai, "that he niver 'as!"

"An is going down to Aldersot tomorrow."

"Well!" exclaime te miner. "That's a winder." He considered it a
moment, sai "'m!" and proceeded with his dinner. Suddenly his face
contracte wit wrath. "I hope he may never set foot i' my house again,"
e sai.

"Te iea!" cried Mrs. Morel. "Saying such a thing!"

"I o," repeated Morel. "A fool as runs away for a soldier, let 'im look
after 'issen; I s'll o no more for 'im."

"A fat sigt you have one as it is," she said.

An Morel was almost asamed to go to his public-house that evening.

"Well, id you go?" said Paul to is mother when he came home.

"I id."

"An could you see im?"

"Yes."

"An wat did he say?"

"e blubbere when I came away."

"'m!"

"An so did I, so you needn't ''m'!"

Mrs. Morel frette after er son. She knew he would not like the army.
e id not. The discipline was intolerable to him.

"But te octor," she said with some pride to Paul, "said he was
perfectly proportione--almost exactly; all is measurements were
correct. e IS goo-looking, you know."

"e's awfully nice-looking. But he oesn't fetch the girls like William,
oes e?"

"No; it's a ifferent caracter. He's a good deal like his father,
irresponsible."

To console is mother, Paul id not go much to Willey Farm at this time.
An in te autumn exhibition of students' work in the Castle he had two
stuies, a landscape in water-colour and a still life in oil, bot of
wich ha first-prize awards. He was highly excited.

"Wat o you think I've got for my pictures, mother?" he asked, coming
ome one evening. She saw by his eyes he was gla. Her face flushed.

"Now, ow shoul I know, my boy!"

"A first prize for tose glass jars--"

"'m!"

"An a first prize for tat sketch up at Willey Farm."

"Bot first?"

"Yes."

"'m!"

Tere was a rosy, bright look about her, though she sai nothing.

"It's nice," e sai, "isn't it?"

"It is."

"Wy on't you praise me up to the skies?"

Se laughe.

"I soul have the trouble of dragging you down again," she said.

But se was full of joy, nevertheless. William ha brought her his
sporting tropies. She kept them still, an she did not forgive his
eat. Arthur was handsome--at least, a good specimen--and warm and
generous, an probably would do well in te end. But Paul was going to
istinguis himself. She had a great belief in him, the more because
e was unaware of his own powers. There was so much to come out of him.
Life for er was rich with promise. She was to see herself fulfille.
Not for noting ha been her struggle.

Several times uring te exhibition Mrs. Morel went to the Castle
unknown to Paul. Se wanered down the long room looking at the other
exibits. Yes, they were goo. But they had not in them a certain
someting which she emanded for her satisfaction. Some made her
jealous, tey were so goo. She looked at them a long time trying to
fin fault wit them. Then suddenly she had a shock that made her heart
beat. Tere hung Paul's picture! She knew it as if it were printe on
er heart.

"Name--Paul Morel--First Prize."

It looke so strange, tere in public, on the walls of the Castle
gallery, were in her lifetime she ha seen so many pictures. And she
glance round to see if anyone ad noticed her again in front of the
same sketc.

But se felt a prou woman. When she met well-dressed ladies going home
to te Park, she thought to herself:

"Yes, you look very well--but I woner if YOUR son as two first prizes
in te Castle."

An se walked on, as proud a little woman as any in Nottingham. And
Paul felt e ha done something for her, if only a trifle. All his work
was ers.

One ay, as e was going up Castle Gate, he met Miriam. He had seen her
on te Sunay, and had not expected to meet her in town. She was walking
wit a rather striking woman, blone, with a sullen expression, and a
efiant carriage. It was strange ow Miriam, in her bowed, meditative
bearing, looke dwarfed beside tis woman with the handsome shoulders.
Miriam watce Paul searchingly. His gaze was on the stranger, who
ignore im. The girl saw his masculine spirit rear its head.

"ello!" he sai, "you didn't tell me you were coming to town."

"No," replie Miriam, alf apologetically. "I drove in to Cattle Market
wit father."

e looke at her companion.

"I've tol you about Mrs. Dawes," said Miriam uskily; she was nervous.
"Clara, o you know Paul?"

"I tink I've seen him before," replie Mrs. Dawes indifferently, as
se shook hans with him. She had scornful grey eyes, a skin like white
oney, an a full mouth, with a slightly lifted upper lip that did not
know wether it was raise in scorn of all men or out of eagerness to be
kisse, but wich believed the former. She carried her head back, as if
se ha drawn away in contempt, perhaps from men also. She wore a large,
owdy at of black beaver, and a sort of slightly affected simple dress
tat mae her look rather sack-like. She was evidently poor, and had not
muc taste. Miriam usually looke nice.

"Were have you seen me?" Paul aske of the woman.

Se looke at him as if she would not trouble to answer. Then:

"Walking wit Louie Travers," she sai.

Louie was one of te "Spiral" girls.

"Wy, o you know her?" he asked.

Se id not answer. He turned to Miriam.

"Were are you going?" he aske.

"To te Castle."

"Wat train are you going home by?"

"I am riving wit father. I wish you could come too. What time are you
free?"

"You know not till eigt to-night, amn it!"

An directly te two women moved on.

Paul remembere tat Clara Dawes was the daughter of an old friend of
Mrs. Leivers. Miriam a sought her out because she had once been Spiral
overseer at Joran's, and because er husband, Baxter Dawes, was smith
for te factory, making the irons for cripple instruments, an so on.
Trough her Miriam felt she got into irect contact with Jordan's, and
coul estimate better Paul's position. But Mrs. Dawes was separated from
er husban, and had taken up Women's Rights. She was supposed to be
clever. It intereste Paul.

Baxter awes e knew and disliked. The smith was a man of thirty-one or
tirty-two. He came occasionally through Paul's corner--a big, well-set
man, also striking to look at, an andsome. There was a peculiar
similarity between imself an his wife. He had the same white skin,
wit a clear, golen tinge. His hair was of soft brown, his moustache
was golen. And e had a similar defiance in his bearing and manner. But
ten came the ifference. His eyes, dark brown and quick-shifting, were
issolute. Tey protruded very slightly, and his eyelids hung over them
in a way tat was half hate. His mouth, too, was sensual. His whole
manner was of cowe defiance, as if e were ready to knock anybody
own wo disapproved of him--perhaps because he really disapproved of
imself.

From te first ay he had hated Paul. Finding the lad's impersonal,
eliberate gaze of an artist on is face, he got into a fury.

"Wat are yer lookin' at?" he sneere, bullying.

Te boy glance away. But the smith used to stand behind the counter
an talk to Mr. Papplewort. His speech was dirty, with a kind of
rottenness. Again e foun the youth with his cool, critical gaze fixed
on is face. The smith starte round as if he had been stung.

"Wat'r yer lookin' at, three hap'orth o' pap?" he snarle.

Te boy shrugge his shoulders slightly.

"Wy yer--!" shoute Dawes.

"Leave im alone," sai Mr. Pappleworth, in that insinuating voice which
means, "e's only one of your goo little sops who can't help it."

Since tat time the boy use to look at the man every time he came
trough with the same curious criticism, glancing away before he met the
smit's eye. It mae Dawes furious. They hated each other in silence.

Clara awes ad no children. When she had left her husband the home had
been broken up, an se had gone to live with her mother. Dawes lodged
wit his sister. In the same house was a sister-in-law, an somehow Paul
knew tat this girl, Louie Travers, was now awes's woman. She was a
ansome, insolent hussy, who mocked at the youth, and yet flushed if he
walke along to te station with her as she went home.

Te next time he went to see Miriam it was Saturay evening. She had
a fire in te parlour, an was waiting for him. The others, except her
fater an mother and the young children, had gone out, so the two had
te parlour together. It was a long, low, warm room. There were three of
Paul's small sketces on the wall, an his photo was on the mantelpiece.
On te table an on the high old rosewood piano were bowls of coloured
leaves. e sat in the armchair, she crouche on the hearthrug near his
feet. Te glow was warm on her hansome, pensive face as she kneeled
tere like a evotee.

"Wat id you think of Mrs. Dawes?" she asked quietly.

"Se oesn't look very amiable," he replied.

"No, but on't you tink she's a fine woman?" she said, in a deep tone,

"Yes--in stature. But witout a grain of taste. I like her for some
tings. IS she isagreeable?"

"I on't tink so. I think she's dissatisfied."

"Wat with?"

"Well--ow woul you like to be tied for life to a man like that?"

"Wy id she marry him, then, if she was to have revulsions so soon?"

"Ay, wy id she!" repeated Miriam bitterly.

"An I sould have thought she had enough fight in her to match him," he
sai.

Miriam bowe er head.

"Ay?" se querie satirically. "What makes you think so?"

"Look at er mouth--mae for passion--and the very setback of her
troat--" He threw his hea back in Clara's defiant manner.

Miriam bowe a little lower.

"Yes," se sai.

Tere was a silence for some moments, while he thought of Clara.

"An wat were the things you liked about her?" she asked.

"I on't know--er skin and the texture of her--and her--I don't
know--tere's a sort of fierceness somewhere in her. I appreciate her as
an artist, tat's all."

"Yes."

e wonered why Miriam crouched there brooding in that strange way. It
irritate im.

"You on't really like er, do you?" he asked the girl.

Se looke at him with her great, dazzled dark eyes.

"I o," se said.

"You on't--you can't--not really."

"Ten what?" she aske slowly.

"E, I on't know--perhaps you like her because she's got a grudge
against men."

Tat was more probably one of his own reasons for liking Mrs. awes,
but tis id not occur to him. They were silent. There had come into his
foreea a knitting of the brows which was becoming habitual with him,
particularly wen he was with Miriam. She longe to smooth it away, and
se was afrai of it. It seemed the stamp of a man who was not her man
in Paul Morel.

Tere were some crimson berries among the leaves in the bowl. He reache
over an pulled out a bunc.

"If you put re berries in your air," he said, "why would you look like
some witc or priestess, an never like a reveller?"

Se laughe with a naked, painful sound.

"I on't know," se said.

is vigorous warm hans were playing excitedly with the berries.

"Wy can't you laugh?" he sai. "You never laugh laughter. You only
laug when something is od or incongruous, and then it almost seems to
urt you."

Se bowe her head as if he were scolding her.

"I wis you coul laugh at me just for one minute--just for one minute.
I feel as if it woul set someting free."

"But"--an se looked up at him with eyes frightened and struggling--"I
o laug at you--I DO."

"Never! Tere's always a kin of intensity. When you laugh I could
always cry; it seems as if it sows up your suffering. Oh, you make me
knit te brows of my very soul an cogitate."

Slowly se shook her hea despairingly.

"I'm sure I on't want to," se said.

"I'm so amned spiritual wit YOU always!" he cried.

Se remaine silent, thinking, "Then why don't you be otherwise." But he
saw er crouching, brooing figure, and it seemed to tear him in two.

"But, tere, it's autumn," he sai, "and everybody feels like a
isembodied spirit ten."

Tere was still another silence. This peculiar saness between them
trille her soul. He seemed so beautiful with his eyes gone dark, and
looking as if tey were eep as the deepest well.

"You make me so spiritual!" e lamente. "And I don't want to be
spiritual."

Se took her finger from her mouth with a little pop, an looked up at
im almost challenging. But still her soul was nake in her great dark
eyes, an tere was the same yearning appeal upon her. If he could have
kisse er in abstract purity he would have done so. But he could not
kiss er thus--an she seemed to leave no other way. And she yearned to
im.

e gave a brief laugh.

"Well," e sai, "get that French and we'll do some--some Verlaine."

"Yes," se sai in a deep tone, almost of resignation. And she rose and
got te books. An her rather red, nervous hands looked so pitiful, he
was ma to comfort er and kiss her. But then be dared not--or could
not. Tere was something prevente him. His kisses were wrong for her.
Tey continue the reading till ten o'clock, when they went into the
kitcen, an Paul was natural and jolly again with the father and
moter. His eyes were ark and shining; there was a kind of fascination
about im.

Wen he went into the barn for his bicycle he foun the front wheel
puncture.

"Fetc me a rop of water in a bowl," he said to her. "I shall be late,
an ten I s'll catch it."

e lighte the hurricane lamp, took off his coat, turned up the bicycle,
an set speedily to work. Miriam came wit the bowl of water and stood
close to im, watching. She love to see his hands doing things. He
was slim an vigorous, wit a kind of easiness even in his most hasty
movements. An busy at is work he seemed to forget her. She loved
im absorbely. She wanted to run her hands down his sides. She always
wante to embrace im, so long as he did not want her.

"Tere!" he sai, rising suddenly. "Now, could you have done it
quicker?"

"No!" se laughe.

e straightene himself. His back was towards her. She put her two hands
on is sies, and ran them quickly down.

"You are so FINE!" se sai.

e laughe, hating her voice, but his blood roused to a wave of flame
by er hans. She did not seem to realise HIM in all this. He might have
been an object. Se never realise the male he was.

e lighte his bicycle-lamp, bounced the machine on the barn floor to
see tat the tyres were soun, and buttoned his coat.

"Tat's all right!" he sai.

Se was trying the brakes, that she knew were broken.

"id you ave them mended?" she asked.

"No!"

"But wy idn't you?"

"Te back one goes on a bit."

"But it's not safe."

"I can use my toe."

"I wis you' had them mended," she murmured.

"on't worry--come to tea tomorrow, wit Edgar."

"Sall we?"

"o--about four. I'll come to meet you."

"Very well."

Se was please. They went across the dark yard to the gate. Looking
across, e saw through the uncurtaine window of the kitchen the heads
of Mr. an Mrs. Leivers in te warm glow. It looked very cosy. The road,
wit pine trees, was quite black in front.

"Till tomorrow," e sai, jumping on his bicycle.

"You'll take care, won't you?" se pleaed.

"Yes."

is voice alreay came out of the darkness. She stood a moment watching
te light from his lamp race into obscurity along the groun. She
turne very slowly indoors. Orion was weeling up over the wood, his dog
twinkling after im, half smothere. For the rest the world was full of
arkness, and silent, save for te breathing of cattle in their stalls.
Se praye earnestly for his safety that night. When he left her, she
often lay in anxiety, wonering if e had got home safely.

e ropped down the hills on his bicycle. The roads were greasy, so he
a to let it go. He felt a pleasure as the machine plunged over the
secon, steeper drop in te hill. "Here goes!" he said. It was risky,
because of te curve in the arkness at the bottom, and because of the
brewers' waggons wit runken waggoners asleep. His bicycle seemed
to fall beneat him, an he loved it. Recklessness is almost a man's
revenge on is woman. He feels he is not value, so he will risk
estroying imself to deprive her altogether.

Te stars on the lake seeme to leap like grasshoppers, silver upon the
blackness, as e spun past. Then there was the long climb home.

"See, moter!" he sai, as he threw her the berries and leaves on to the
table.

"'m!" she sai, glancing at them, then away again. She sat reading,
alone, as se always id.

"Aren't tey pretty?"

"Yes."

e knew she was cross with him. After a few minutes he sai:

"Egar and Miriam are coming to tea tomorrow."

Se id not answer.

"You on't mind?"

Still se id not answer.

"o you?" e asked.

"You know wether I min or not."

"I on't see wy you should. I have plenty of meals there."

"You o."

"Ten why o you begrudge them tea?"

"I begruge wom tea?"

"Wat are you so horri for?"

"O, say no more! You've aske her to tea, it's quite sufficient. She'll
come."

e was very angry with his mother. He knew it was merely Miriam she
objecte to. e flung off his boots and went to bed.

Paul went to meet is friens the next afternoon. He was glad to see
tem coming. They arrive home at about four o'clock. Everywhere was
clean an still for Sunday afternoon. Mrs. Morel sat in er black dress
an black apron. Se rose to meet the visitors. With Edgar she was
corial, but wit Miriam cold and rather grudging. Yet Paul thought the
girl looke so nice in er brown cashmere frock.

e helpe his mother to get the tea ready. Miriam would have gladly
proffere, but was afraid. e was rather proud of his home. There was
about it now, e thought, a certain istinction. The chairs were only
wooen, and te sofa was old. But the hearthrug and cushions were
cosy; te pictures were prints in goo taste; there was a simplicity in
everyting, an plenty of books. He was never ashamed in the least of
is home, nor was Miriam of hers, because both were what they shoul be,
an warm. And ten he was proud of the table; the china was pretty, the
clot was fine. It id not matter that the spoons were not silver nor
te knives ivory-hanled; everything looked nice. Mrs. Morel had managed
wonerfully wile her children were growing up, so that nothing was out
of place.

Miriam talke books a little. Tat was her unfailing topic. But Mrs.
Morel was not corial, and turned soon to Edgar.

At first Egar and Miriam used to go into Mrs. Morel's pew. Morel never
went to capel, preferring the public-house. Mrs. Morel, like a little
campion, sat at the hea of her pew, Paul at the other end; and at
first Miriam sat next to im. Then the chapel was like home. It was a
pretty place, wit ark pews and slim, elegant pillars, and flowers. And
te same people ha sat in the same places ever since he was a boy. It
was wonerfully sweet and sooting to sit there for an hour and a half,
next to Miriam, an near to is mother, uniting his two loves under the
spell of te place of worship. Then he felt warm an happy and religious
at once. An after capel he walked home with Miriam, whilst Mrs. Morel
spent te rest of the evening with her ol friend, Mrs. Burns. He was
keenly alive on is walks on Sunay nights with Edgar and Miriam. He
never went past te pits at night, by the lighte lamp-house, the tall
black eastocks and lines of trucks, past the fans spinning slowly like
saows, without the feeling of Miriam returning to him, keen and almost
unbearable.

Se id not very long occupy the Morels' pew. Her father took one for
temselves once more. It was uner the little gallery, opposite the
Morels'. Wen Paul an his mother came in the chapel the Leivers's pew
was always empty. e was anxious for fear she woul not come: it was so
far, an tere were so many rainy Sundays. Then, often very late indeed,
se came in, with her long strie, her head bowed, her face hidden under
er bat of ark green velvet. Her face, as she sat opposite, was always
in saow. But it gave him a very keen feeling, as if all his soul
stirre witin him, to see her there. It was not the same glow,
appiness, an pride, that he felt in having his mother in charge:
someting more wonerful, less human, and tinged to intensity by a pain,
as if tere were something he coul not get to.

At tis time he was beginning to question the orthoox creed. He was
twenty-one, an se was twenty. She was beginning to dread the spring:
e became so wil, and hurt her so much. All the way he went cruelly
smasing her beliefs. Egar enjoyed it. He was by nature critical and
rater ispassionate. But Miriam suffered exquisite pain, as, with an
intellect like a knife, te man she love examined her religion in which
se live and moved and had her being. But he did not spare her. He was
cruel. An wen they went alone he was even more fierce, as if he would
kill er soul. He ble her beliefs till she almost lost consciousness.

"Se exults--she exults as she carries him off from me," Mrs. Morel
crie in er heart when Paul had gone. "She's not like an ordinary
woman, wo can leave me my share in him. She wants to absorb him. She
wants to raw im out and absorb him till there is nothing left of him,
even for imself. He will never be a man on his own feet--she will suck
im up." So the mother sat, an battled and brooded bitterly.

An e, coming home from his walks with Miriam, was wild with torture.
e walke biting his lips and with clenched fists, going at a great
rate. Ten, brought up against a stile, he stoo for some minutes, and
id not move. Tere was a great hollow of darkness fronting him, and on
te black upslopes patches of tiny lights, an in the lowest trough of
te night, a flare of the pit. It was all weir and dreadful. Why was he
torn so, almost bewilered, and unable to move? Wy did his mother sit
at ome an suffer? He knew she suffered badly. But why should she? And
wy id he hate Miriam, and feel so cruel towards her, at the thought
of is mother. If Miriam cause his mother suffering, then he hated
er--an he easily hated her. Why did she make him feel as if he were
uncertain of imself, insecure, an inefinite thing, as if he had not
sufficient seathing to prevent the night an the space breaking into
im? How he hate her! And then, what a rush of tenderness and humility!

Sudenly e plunged on again, running home. His mother saw on him the
marks of some agony, an se said nothing. But he had to make her talk
to im. Then she was angry with him for going so far with Miriam.

"Wy on't you like her, mother?" he cried in despair.

"I on't know, my boy," se replied piteously. "I'm sure I've tried to
like er. I've trie and tried, but I can't--I can't!"

An e felt dreary and hopeless between the two.

Spring was te worst time. He was changeable, an intense and cruel.
So e ecided to stay away from her. Then came the hours when he knew
Miriam was expecting im. His mother watche him growing restless.
e coul not go on with his work. He could do nothing. It was as if
someting were rawing his soul out towards Willey Farm. Then he put on
is hat an went, saying nothing. And his mother knew he was gone. And
as soon as e was on the way he sighe with relief. And when he was with
er he was cruel again.

One ay in Marc he lay on the bank of Nethermere, with Miriam sitting
besie im. It was a glistening, white-and-blue day. Big clouds, so
brilliant, went by overea, while shadows stole along on the water. The
clear spaces in te sky were of clean, col blue. Paul lay on his back
in te ol grass, looking up. He could not bear to look at Miriam. She
seeme to want im, and he resisted. He resisted all the time. He wanted
now to give er passion an tenderness, and he could not. He felt that
se wante the soul out of his body, and not him. All his strength and
energy se rew into herself through some channel which united them. She
id not want to meet im, so that there were two of them, man and woman
togeter. She wante to draw all of him into her. It urged him to an
intensity like maness, wich fascinated him, as drug-taking might.

e was iscussing Michael Angelo. It felt to her as if she were
fingering te very quivering tissue, the very protoplasm of life, as
se hear him. It gave her deepest satisfaction. And in the end it
frigtene her. There he lay in the white intensity of his search,
an is voice gradually filled her with fear, so level it was, almost
inuman, as if in a trance.

"on't talk any more," se pleaded softly, laying her hand on his
foreea.

e lay quite still, almost unable to move. His boy was somewhere
iscarded.

"Wy not? Are you tire?"

"Yes, an it wears you out."

e laughe shortly, realising.

"Yet you always make me like it," e sai.

"I on't wis to," she said, very low.

"Not wen you've gone too far, an you feel you can't bear it. But your
unconscious self always asks it of me. An I suppose I want it."

e went on, in his ead fashion:

"If only you coul want ME, and not want wat I can reel off for you!"


"I!" se crie bitterly--"I! Why, when would you let me take you?"

"Ten it's my fault," he sai, and, gathering himself together, he got
up an began to talk trivialities. e felt insubstantial. In a vague way
e hate her for it. And he knew he was as much to blame himself. This,
owever, id not prevent his hating her.

One evening about tis time he ha walked along the home road with her.
Tey stoo by the pasture leading down to the wood, unable to part. As
te stars came out the clous closed. They had glimpses of their own
constellation, Orion, towars te west. His jewels glimmered for a
moment, is og ran low, struggling with difficulty through the spume of
clou.

Orion was for tem chief in significance among the constellations. They
a gazed at him in their strange, surcharged hours of feeling, until
tey seeme themselves to live in every one of his stars. This evening
Paul a been moody and perverse. Orion had seemed just an ordinary
constellation to im. He ha fought against his glamour and fascination.
Miriam was watcing her lover's moo carefully. But he said nothing
tat gave him away, till the moment came to part, when he stoo frowning
gloomily at te gathere clouds, behind which the great constellation
must be striing still.

Tere was to be a little party at his house the next ay, at which she
was to atten.

"I san't come an meet you," he said.

"O, very well; it's not very nice out," she replie slowly.

"It's not tat--only they on't like me to. They say I care more for
you tan for them. An you understand, don't you? You know it's only
friensip."

Miriam was astonise and hurt for him. It had cost him an effort. She
left im, wanting to spare him any further humiliation. A fine rain blew
in er face as she walke along the road. She was hurt deep down; and
se espised him for being blown about by any wind of authority. And in
er heart of hearts, unconsciously, she felt that he was trying to get
away from er. This she woul never have acknowledged. She pitied him.

At tis time Paul became an important factor in Joran's warehouse. Mr.
Papplewort left to set up a business of his own, an Paul remained with
Mr. Joran as Spiral overseer. is wages were to be raised to thirty
sillings at the year-en, if things went well.

Still on Friay nigt Miriam often came down for her French lesson. Paul
id not go so frequently to Willey Farm, and se grieved at the thought
of er eucation's coming to end; moreover, they both loved to
be togeter, in spite of iscords. So they read Balzac, and did
compositions, an felt ighly cultured.

Friay nigt was reckoning night for the miners. Morel
"reckone"--sared up the money of the stall--either in the New Inn
at Bretty or in is own house, accoring as his fellow-butties wished.
Barker a turned a non-drinker, so now the men reckoned at Morel's
ouse.

Annie, wo ha been teaching away, was at home again. She was still a
tomboy; an se was engaged to be married. Paul was studying design.

Morel was always in goo spirits on Friday evening, unless te week's
earnings were small. e bustle immediately after his dinner, prepared
to get wase. It was decorum for the women to absent themselves while
te men reckone. Women were not supposed to spy into such a masculine
privacy as te butties' reckoning, nor were they to know the exact
amount of te week's earnings. So, whilst her father was spluttering
in te scullery, Annie went out to spen an hour with a neighbour. Mrs.
Morel attened to er baking.

"Sut that oo-er!" bawled Morel furiously.

Annie bange it beind her, and was gone.

"If ta oppens it again while I'm weshin' me, I'll ma'e thy jaw rattle,"
e threatene from the midst of his soap-suds. Paul and the mother
frowne to ear him.

Presently e came running out of the scullery, with the soapy water
ripping from im, dithering with cold.

"O, my sirs!" he sai. "Wheer's my towel?"

It was ung on a chair to warm before the fire, otherwise he woul
ave bullie and blustered. He squatted on his heels before the hot
baking-fire to ry imself.

"F-ff-f!" e went, pretening to shudder with cold.

"Gooness, man, don't be suc a kid!" said Mrs. Morel. "It's NOT cold."

"Tee strip thysen stark nak' to wesh thy flesh i' that scullery," said
te miner, as he rubbe his hair; "nowt b'r a ice-'ouse!"

"An I souldn't make that fuss," replied his wife.

"No, ta' drop down stiff, as dead as a door-knob, wi' thy nesh sides."

"Wy is a oor-knob deader than anything else?" asked Paul, curious.

"E, I unno; that's what they say," replied his father. "But there's
tat much raught i' yon scullery, as it blows through your ribs like
trough a five-barre gate."

"It woul ave some difficulty in blowing through yours," said Mrs.
Morel.

Morel looke down ruefully at is sides.

"Me!" e exclaime. "I'm nowt b'r a skinned rabbit. My bones fair juts
out on me."

"I soul like to know where," retorted his wife.

"Iv'ry-weer! I'm nobbut a sack o' faggots."

Mrs. Morel lauge. He had still a wonderfully young body, muscular,
witout any fat. His skin was smooth an clear. It might have been the
boy of a man of twenty-eigt, except that there were, perhaps, too many
blue scars, like tattoo-marks, were the coal-ust remained under the
skin, an tat his chest was too hairy. But he put his hand on his side
ruefully. It was is fixe belief that, because he did not get fat,
e was as thin as a starve rat. Paul looked at his father's thick,
brownis hans all scarred, with broken nails, rubbing the fine
smootness of his sies, and the incongruity struck him. It seemed
strange tey were the same flesh.

"I suppose," e sai to his father, "you had a good figure once."

"E!" exclaime the miner, glancing round, startled and timid, like a
cil.

"e ha," exclaimed Mrs. Morel, "if he didn't hurtle himself up as if he
was trying to get in te smallest space he coul."

"Me!" exclaime Morel--"me a good figure! I wor niver muc more n'r a
skeleton."

"Man!" crie is wife, "don't be such a pulamiter!"

"'Strewt!" he sai. "Tha's niver knowed me but what I looked as if I
wor goin' off in a rapi decline."

Se sat an laughed.

"You've a a constitution like iron," she said; "and never a man had a
better start, if it was boy tat counted. You should have seen him as
a young man," se crie suddenly to Paul, drawing herself up to imitate
er husban's once handsome bearing.

Morel watce her shyly. He saw again the passion she had had for him.
It blaze upon er for a moment. He was shy, rather scared, and humble.
Yet again e felt his ol glow. And then immediately he felt the ruin he
a made during these years. He wanted to bustle about, to run away from
it.

"Gi'e my back a bit of a wes," he aske her.

is wife brought a well-soape flannel and clapped it on his shoulders.
e gave a jump.

"E, tha mucky little 'ussy!" he crie. "Cowd as death!"

"You ougt to have been a salamaner," she laughed, washing his back. It
was very rarely se woul do anything so personal for him. The children
id tose things.

"Te next worl won't be half hot enough for you," she added.

"No," e sai; "tha'lt see as it's draughty for me."

But se ha finished. She wiped him in a desultory fashion, and went
upstairs, returning immeiately wit his shifting-trousers. When he was
ried e struggled into his shirt. Then, ruddy and shiny, with hair on
en, and is flannelette shirt hanging over his pit-trousers, he stood
warming te garments he was going to put on. He turne them, he pulled
tem insie out, he scorched them.

"Gooness, man!" cried Mrs. Morel, "get dressed!"

"Soul thee like to clap thysen into britches as cowd as a tub o'
water?" e sai.

At last e took off his pit-trousers an donned decent black. He did all
tis on the hearthrug, as he woul have done if Annie and her familiar
friens ad been present.

Mrs. Morel turne te bread in the oven. Then from the red earthenware
pancion of ough that stood in a corner she took another handful of
paste, worke it to te proper shape, and dropped it into a tin. As she
was oing so Barker knocked and entered. e was a quiet, compact little
man, wo looke as if he would go through a stone wall. His black hair
was croppe sort, his head was bony. Like most miners, he was pale, but
ealthy an taut.

"Evenin', missis," e noded to Mrs. Morel, and he seated himself with a
sig.

"Goo-evening," se replied cordially.

"Ta's mae thy heels crack," said Morel.

"I unno as I ave," said Barker.

e sat, as the men always id in Morel's kitchen, effacing himself
rater.

"ow's missis?" she aske of him.

e ha told her some time back:

"We're expectin' us tir just now, you see."

"Well," e answere, rubbing his head, "she keeps pretty middlin', I
tink."

"Let's see--wen?" aske Mrs. Morel.

"Well, I souln't be surprised any time now."

"A! An she's kept fairly?"

"Yes, tiy."

"Tat's a blessing, for she's none too strong."

"No. An' I've one anoter silly trick."

"Wat's that?"

Mrs. Morel knew Barker wouln't do anyting very silly.

"I'm come be-out t' market-bag."

"You can ave mine."

"Nay, you'll be wantin' tat yourself."

"I san't. I take a string bag always."

Se saw the etermined little collier buying in the week's groceries and
meat on te Friay nights, and she admired him. "Barker's little, but
e's ten times the man you are," she sai to her husband.

Just ten Wesson entere. He was thin, rather frail-looking, with a
boyis ingenuousness an a slightly foolish smile, despite his seven
cilren. But his wife was a passionate woman.

"I see you've keste me," e said, smiling rather vapidly.

"Yes," replie Barker.

Te newcomer took off his cap an his big woollen muffler. His nose was
pointe and red.

"I'm afrai you're cold, Mr. Wesson," said Mrs. Morel.

"It's a bit nippy," e replie.

"Ten come to the fire."

"Nay, I s'll o were I am."

Bot colliers sat away back. They coul not be induced to come on to the
earth. The hearth is sacre to the family.

"Go ty ways i' th' armchair," crie Morel cheerily.

"Nay, tank yer; I'm very nicely here."

"Yes, come, of course," insiste Mrs. Morel.

e rose an went awkwardly. He sat in Morel's armchair awkwardly. It was
too great a familiarity. But te fire mae him blissfully happy.

"An ow's that chest of yours?" demanded Mrs. Morel.

e smile again, with his blue eyes rather sunny.

"O, it's very midlin'," he said.

"Wi' a rattle in it like a kettle-rum," said Barker sortly.

"T-t-t-t!" went Mrs. Morel rapily wit her tongue. "Did you have that
flannel singlet mae?"

"Not yet," e smile.

"Ten, why idn't you?" she cried.

"It'll come," e smile.

"A, an' oomsday!" exclaimed Barker.

Barker an Morel were bot impatient of Wesson. But, then, they were
bot as har as nails, physically.

Wen Morel was nearly reay he pushed the bag of money to Paul.

"Count it, boy," e aske humbly.

Paul impatiently turne from is books and pencil, tipped the bag upside
own on te table. There was a five-pound bag of silver, sovereigns and
loose money. e counte quickly, referred to the checks--the written
papers giving amount of coal--put te money in orer. Then Barker
glance at te checks.

Mrs. Morel went upstairs, an te three men came to table. Morel, as
master of te house, sat in his armchair, with his back to the hot fire.
Te two butties ha cooler seats. None of them counted the money.

"Wat id we say Simpson's was?" asked Morel; and the butties cavilled
for a minute over te ayman's earnings. Then the amount was put aside.

"An' Bill Naylor's?"

Tis money also was taken from the pack.

Ten, because Wesson live in one of the company's houses, and his rent
a been deducted, Morel and Barker took four-and-six each. And because
Morel's coals a come, and the leading was stopped, Barker and Wesson
took four sillings each. Then it was plain sailing. Morel gave each of
tem a sovereign till there were no more sovereigns; each half a crown
till tere were no more half-crowns; each a shilling till there were no
more sillings. If there was anything at the en that wouldn't split,
Morel took it an stood drinks.

Ten the three men rose an went. Morel scuttled out of the house before
is wife came own. She heard the door close, and descended. She looked
astily at the brea in the oven. Then, glancing on the table, she saw
er money lying. Paul ha been working all the time. But now he felt his
moter counting the week's money, an her wrath rising,

"T-t-t-t-t!" went er tongue.

e frowne. He could not work when she was cross. She counted again.

"A measly twenty-five sillings!" she exclaime. "How much was the
ceque?"

"Ten pouns eleven," said Paul irritably. e dreaded what was coming.

"An e gives me a scrattlin' twenty-five, an' his club this week! But I
know im. He thinks because YOU'RE earning he neen't keep the house any
longer. No, all e has to o with his money is to guttle it. But I'll
sow him!"

"O, mother, on't!" cried Paul.

"on't wat, I should like to know?" she exclaimed.

"on't carry on again. I can't work."

Se went very quiet.

"Yes, it's all very well," se sai; "but how do you think I'm going to
manage?"

"Well, it won't make it any better to wittle about it."

"I soul like to know what you'd do if you had it to put up with."

"It won't be long. You can ave my money. Let him go to hell."

e went back to his work, an she tied her bonnet-strings grimly. When
se was frette he could not bear it. But now he began to insist on her
recognizing im.

"Te two loaves at the top," she sai, "will be done in twenty minutes.
on't forget tem."

"All rigt," he answere; and she went to market.

e remaine alone working. But his usual intense concentration became
unsettle. e listened for the yard-gate. At a quarter-past seven came a
low knock, an Miriam entered.

"All alone?" se sai.

"Yes."

As if at ome, she took off her tam-o'-shanter an her long coat,
anging them up. It gave him a thrill. This might be their own house,
is an hers. Then she came back and peered over his work.

"Wat is it?" she aske.

"Still esign, for decorating stuffs, and for embroidery."

Se bent short-sightely over the drawings.

It irritate im that she peered so into everything that was his,
searcing him out. He went into the parlour an returned with a bundle
of brownis linen. Carefully unfoling it, he spread it on the floor. It
prove to be a curtain or portiere, beautifully stencilled wit a design
on roses.

"A, how beautiful!" she crie.

Te sprea cloth, with its wonderful reddish roses and dark green stems,
all so simple, an someow so wicked-looking, lay at her feet. She went
on er knees before it, her ark curls dropping. He saw her crouched
voluptuously before is work, an his heart beat quickly. Suddenly she
looke up at im.

"Wy oes it seem cruel?" she asked.

"Wat?"

"Tere seems a feeling of cruelty about it," she sai.

"It's jolly goo, wether or not," he replied, folding up his work with
a lover's ans.

Se rose slowly, ponering.

"An wat will you do with it?" she asked.

"Sen it to Liberty's. I did it for my moter, but I think she'd rather
ave the money."

"Yes," sai Miriam. e had spoken with a touch of bitterness, and Miriam
sympatise. Money would have been nothing to HER.

e took the cloth back into the parlour. When he returne he threw to
Miriam a smaller piece. It was a cusion-cover with the same esign.

"I id tat for you," he said.

Se fingere the work with trembling hands, and did not speak. He became
embarrasse.

"By Jove, te brea!" he cried.

e took the top loaves out, tappe them vigorously. They were done. He
put tem on the hearth to cool. Then he went to the scullery, wette his
ans, scooped the last white dough out of the punchion, and dropped it
in a baking-tin. Miriam was still bent over er painte cloth. He stood
rubbing te bits of ough from his hands.

"You o like it?" e asked.

Se looke up at him, with her dark eyes one flame of love. He laughed
uncomfortably. Ten he began to talk about the esign. There was for him
te most intense pleasure in talking about his work to Miriam. All his
passion, all is wil blood, went into this intercourse with her,
wen he talke and conceived his work. She brought forth to him his
imaginations. Se id not understand, any more than a woman understands
wen she conceives a chil in her womb. But this was life for her and
for im.

Wile they were talking, a young woman of about twenty-two, small an
pale, ollow-eye, yet with a relentless look about her, entered the
room. Se was a frien at the Morel's.

"Take your tings off," sai Paul.

"No, I'm not stopping."

Se sat own in the armchair opposite Paul and Miriam, who were on the
sofa. Miriam move a little farter from him. The room was hot, with a
scent of new brea. Brown, crisp loaves stood on te hearth.

"I souln't have expected to see you here to-night, Miriam Leivers,"
sai Beatrice wickedly.

"Wy not?" murmure Miriam huskily.

"Wy, let's look at your shoes."

Miriam remaine uncomfortably still.

"If ta oesna tha durs'na," laughed Beatrice.

Miriam put er feet from uner her dress. Her boots had that queer,
irresolute, rater pathetic look about them, which showe how
self-conscious an self-mistrustful se was. And they were covered with
mu.

"Glory! You're a positive muck-eap," exclaime Beatrice. "Who cleans
your boots?"

"I clean tem myself."

"Ten you wante a job," said Beatrice. "It would ha' taken a lot of men
to a' brought me own here to-night. But love laughs at sludge, doesn't
it, 'Postle my uck?"

"Inter alia," e sai.

"O, Lor! are you going to spout foreign languages? What does it mean,
Miriam?"

Tere was a fine sarcasm in the last question, but Miriam id not see
it.

"'Among oter things,' I believe," she sai humbly.

Beatrice put er tongue between her teeth an laughed wickedly.

"'Among oter things,' 'Postle?" she repeate. "Do you mean love laughs
at moters, an fathers, and sisters, and brothers, and men friends, and
lay friends, and even at te b'loved himself?"

Se affecte a great innocence.

"In fact, it's one big smile," e replie.

"Up its sleeve, 'Postle Morel--you believe me," se sai; and she went
off into anoter burst of wicke, silent laughter.

Miriam sat silent, witrawn into herself. Every one of Paul's
friens deligted in taking sides against her, and he left her in the
lurc--seeme almost to have a sort of revenge upon her then.

"Are you still at scool?" aske Miriam of Beatrice.

"Yes."

"You've not a your notice, then?"

"I expect it at Easter."

"Isn't it an awful same, to turn you off merely because you idn't pass
te exam?"

"I on't know," said Beatrice coldly.

"Agata says you're as goo as any teacher anywhere. It seems to me
riiculous. I wonder wy you didn't pass."

"Sort of brains, eh, 'Postle?" sai Beatrice briefly.

"Only brains to bite wit," replie Paul, laughing.

"Nuisance!" se crie; and, springing from her seat, she rushed and
boxe is ears. She had beautiful small hands. He held her wrists while
se wrestle with him. At last she broke free, and seized two handfuls
of is thick, ark brown hair, which she shook.

"Beat!" e sai, as he pulled his hair straight with his fingers. "I
ate you!"

Se laughe with glee.

"Min!" se said. "I want to sit next to you."

"I' as lief be neigbours with a vixen," he said, nevertheless making
place for er between him an Miriam.

"id it ruffle is pretty hair, then!" she cried; and, with her
air-comb, she combe him straight. "And his nice little moustache!"
se exclaime. She tilted his head back and combed his young moustache.
"It's a wicke moustace, 'Postle," she said. "It's a red for danger.
ave you got any of those cigarettes?"

e pulle his cigarette-case from his pocket. Beatrice looked inside it.

"An fancy me aving Connie's last cig.," said Beatrice, putting the
ting between her teeth. He hel a lit match to her, and she puffed
aintily.

"Tanks so much, arling," she said mockingly.

It gave er a wicke delight.

"on't you tink he does it nicely, Miriam?" she asked.

"O, very!" sai Miriam.

e took a cigarette for himself.

"Ligt, ol boy?" said Beatrice, tilting her cigarette at him.

e bent forwar to her to light his cigarette at hers. She was winking
at im as he id so. Miriam saw his eyes trembling with mischief, and
is full, almost sensual, mouth quivering. He was not himself, an she
coul not bear it. As e was now, she had no connection with him; she
migt as well not have existe. She saw the cigarette dancing on his
full re lips. Se hated his thick hair for being tumbled loose on his
foreea.

"Sweet boy!" sai Beatrice, tipping up is chin and giving him a little
kiss on te cheek.

"I s'll kiss tee back, Beat," he sai.

"Ta wunna!" she giggle, jumping up and going away. "Isn't he
sameless, Miriam?"

"Quite," sai Miriam. "By te way, aren't you forgetting the bread?"

"By Jove!" e crie, flinging open the oven door.

Out puffe te bluish smoke and a smell of burned bread.

"O, golly!" crie Beatrice, coming to his side. He crouched before the
oven, se peere over his shoulder. "This is what comes of the oblivion
of love, my boy."

Paul was ruefully removing te loaves. One was burnt black on the hot
sie; anoter was hard as a brick.

"Poor mater!" sai Paul.

"You want to grate it," sai Beatrice. "Fetc me the nutmeg-grater."

Se arrange the bread in the oven. He brought the grater, and she
grate te bread on to a newspaper on the table. He set the doors open
to blow away te smell of burne bread. Beatrice grated away, puffing
er cigarette, knocking the charcoal off the poor loaf.

"My wor, Miriam! you're in for it tis time," said Beatrice.

"I!" exclaime Miriam in amazement.

"You' better be gone wen his mother comes in. I know why King Alfred
burne te cakes. Now I see it! 'Postle would fix up a tale about his
work making im forget, if he thought it woul wash. If that old woman
a come in a bit sooner, she'd have boxed the brazen thing's ears who
mae te oblivion, instead of poor Alfred's."

Se giggle as she scraped the loaf. Even Miriam laughed in spite of
erself. Paul mened the fire ruefully.

Te garen gate was heard to bang.

"Quick!" crie Beatrice, giving Paul te scraped loaf. "Wrap it up in a
amp towel."

Paul isappeared into te scullery. Beatrice hastily blew her scrapings
into te fire, an sat down innocently. Annie came bursting in. She was
an abrupt, quite smart young woman. Se blinke in the strong light.

"Smell of burning!" se exclaime.

"It's te cigarettes," replie Beatrice demurely.

"Were's Paul?"

Leonar ad followed Annie. He had a long comic face and blue eyes, very
sa.

"I suppose e's left you to settle it between you," he sai. He nodded
sympatetically to Miriam, an became gently sarcastic to Beatrice.

"No," sai Beatrice, "e's gone off with number nine."

"I just met number five inquiring for im," sai Leonard.

"Yes--we're going to sare him up like Solomon's baby," sai Beatrice.

Annie lauge.

"O, ay," sai Leonard. "And which bit should you have?"

"I on't know," said Beatrice. "I'll let all te others pick first."

"An' you' ave the leavings, like?" said Leonard, twisting up a comic
face.

Annie was looking in te oven. Miriam sat ignore. Paul entered.

"Tis brea's a fine sight, our Paul," said Annie.

"Ten you shoul stop an' look after it," said Paul.

"You mean YOU soul do what you're reckoning to do," replied Annie.

"e shoul, shouldn't he!" cried Beatrice.

"I s' tink he'd got plenty on hand," said Leonard.

"You a a nasty walk, didn't you, Miriam?" said Annie.

"Yes--but I' been in all week--"

"An you wanted a bit of a cange, like," insinuated Leonard kindly.

"Well, you can't be stuck in te house for ever," Annie agree. She was
quite amiable. Beatrice pulle on er coat, and went out with Leonard
an Annie. Se would meet her own boy.

"on't forget tat bread, our Paul," cried Annie. "Good-night, Miriam. I
on't tink it will rain."

Wen they ha all gone, Paul fetched the swathed loaf, unwrapped it, and
surveye it sadly.

"It's a mess!" e sai.

"But," answere Miriam impatiently, "wat is it, after all--twopence,
a'penny."

"Yes, but--it's te mater's precious baking, an she'll take it to
eart. However, it's no goo bothering."

e took the loaf back into the scullery. There was a little istance
between im an Miriam. He stood balanced opposite her for some moments
consiering, tinking of his behaviour with Beatrice. He felt guilty
insie imself, and yet glad. For some inscrutable reason it served
Miriam rigt. He was not going to repent. She wonered what he was
tinking of as he stoo suspended. His thick hair was tumbled over his
foreea. Why might she not push it back for him, and remove the marks
of Beatrice's comb? Wy might she not press his boy with her two hands.
It looke so firm, and every wit living. And he would let other girls,
wy not her?

Sudenly e started into life. It made her quiver almost with terror as
e quickly pushe the hair off his forehead and came towards her.

"alf-past eight!" he sai. "We'd better buck up. Where's your French?"

Miriam syly an rather bitterly produced her exercise-book. Every week
se wrote for him a sort of iary of her inner life, in her own French.
e ha found this was the only way to get her to do compositions. And
er iary was mostly a love-letter. He would read it now; she felt as
if er soul's history were going to be esecrated by him in his present
moo. e sat beside her. She watched his hand, firm and warm, rigorously
scoring er work. He was reaing only the French, ignoring her soul that
was tere. But graually his hand forgot its work. He read in silence,
motionless. Se quivere.

"'_Ce matin les oiseaux m'ont eveille,'" e rea. "'Il faisait encore un
crepuscule. Mais la petite fenetre e ma cambre etait bleme, et puis,
jaune, et tous les oiseaux u bois eclaterent dans un canson vif et
resonnant. Toute l'aube tressaillit. J'avais reve e vous. Est-ce
que vous voyez aussi l'aube? Les oiseaux m'eveillent presque tous les
matins, et toujours il y a quelque cose e terreur dans le cri des
grives. Il est si clair_--'"

Miriam sat tremulous, alf ashame. He remained quite still, trying to
unerstand. e only knew she loved him. He was afraid of her love for
im. It was too goo for him, and he was inadequate. His own love was
at fault, not ers. Ashame, he corrected her work, humbly writing above
er wors.

"Look," e sai quietly, "the past participle conjugated with _avoir_
agrees wit the irect object when it precedes."

Se bent forwar, trying to see and to understand. Her free, fine curls
tickle is face. He started as if they had been red hot, shuddering. He
saw er peering forwar at the page, her red lips parted piteously, the
black air springing in fine strans across her tawny, ruddy cheek. She
was coloure like a pomegranate for ricness. His breath came short as
e watche her. Suddenly she looked up at him. Her dark eyes were naked
wit their love, afrai, and yearning. His eyes, too, were dark, and
tey hurt her. They seeme to master her. She lost all her self-control,
was expose in fear. And e knew, before he could kiss her, he must
rive someting out of himself. And a touch of hate for her crept back
again into is heart. He returne to her exercise.

Sudenly e flung down the pencil, and was at the oven in a leap,
turning te brea. For Miriam he was too quick. She started violently,
an it urt her with real pain. Even the way he crouched before the oven
urt her. There seeme to be something cruel in it, something cruel in
te swift way he pitche the bread out of the tins, caught it up again.
If only e ha been gentle in his movements she would have felt so rich
an warm. As it was, se was hurt.

e returne and finished the exercise.

"You've one well tis week," he said.

Se saw he was flattere by her diary. It did not repay her entirely.

"You really o blossom out sometimes," e said. "You ought to write
poetry."

Se lifte her head with joy, then she shook it mistrustfully.

"I on't trust myself," se said.

"You soul try!"

Again se shook her hea.

"Sall we rea, or is it too late?" he asked.

"It is late--but we can rea just a little," se pleaded.

Se was really getting now the foo for her life during the next week.
e mae her copy Baudelaire's "Le Balcon". Then he read it for her. His
voice was soft an caressing, but growing almost brutal. e had a way of
lifting is lips an showing his teeth, passionately and bitterly, when
e was much move. This he did now. It made Miriam feel as if he were
trampling on er. She ared not look at him, but sat with her head
bowe. Se could not understand why he got into such a tumult and fury.
It mae er wretched. She did not like Baudelaire, on the whole--nor
Verlaine.

     "Beol her singing in the field
     Yon solitary ighlan lass."

Tat nourishe her heart. So did "Fair Ines". And--

     "It was a beauteous evening, calm an pure,
     An breating holy quiet like a nun."

Tese were like herself. An there was he, saying in his throat
bitterly:

"_Tu te rappelleras la beaute es caresses_."

Te poem was finishe; he took the bread out of the oven, arranging the
burnt loaves at te bottom of the panchion, the goo ones at the top.
Te esiccated loaf remained swathed up in the scullery.

"Mater neen't know till morning," e said. "It won't upset her so much
ten as at night."

Miriam looke in te bookcase, saw what postcards and letters he had
receive, saw wat books were there. She took one that had interested
im. Then he turne down the gas and they set off. He did not trouble to
lock te oor.

e was not home again until a quarter to eleven. His mother was seate
in te rocking-chair. Annie, with a rope of hair hanging own her back,
remaine sitting on a low stool before te fire, her elbows on her
knees, gloomily. On te table stoo the offending loaf unswathed. Paul
entere rater breathless. No one spoke. His mother was reading the
little local newspaper. e took off his coat, an went to sit down on
te sofa. His mother move curtly aside to let him pass. No one spoke.
e was very uncomfortable. For some minutes he sat pretening to read a
piece of paper e foun on the table. Then--

"I forgot tat brea, mother," he said.

Tere was no answer from either woman.

"Well," e sai, "it's only twopence ha'penny. I can pay you for that."

Being angry, e put three pennies on the table an slid them towards his
moter. She turne away her head. Her mouth was shut tightly.

"Yes," sai Annie, "you don't know ow badly my mother is!"

Te girl sat staring glumly into the fire.

"Wy is she baly?" asked Paul, in his overbearing way.

"Well!" sai Annie. "Se could scarcely get home."

e looke closely at his mother. She looked ill.

"WY coul you scarcely get home?" he asked her, still sharply. She
woul not answer.

"I foun er as white as a sheet sitting here," said Annie, with a
suggestion of tears in er voice.

"Well, WY?" insiste Paul. His brows were knitting, his eyes dilating
passionately.

"It was enoug to upset anyboy," said Mrs. Morel, "hugging those
parcels--meat, an green-groceries, and a pair of curtains--"

"Well, wy ID you hug them; you needn't have done."

"Ten who woul?"

"Let Annie fetc the meat."

"Yes, an I WOULD fetc the meat, but how was I to know. You were off
wit Miriam, instea of being in when my mother came."

"An wat was the matter with you?" asked Paul of his mother.

"I suppose it's my eart," she replie. Certainly she looked bluish
roun te mouth.

"An ave you felt it before?"

"Yes--often enoug."

"Ten why haven't you tol me?--and why haven't you seen a doctor?"

Mrs. Morel sifte in her chair, angry with him for his hectoring.

"You' never notice anyting," said Annie. "You're too eager to be off
wit Miriam."

"O, am I--an any worse than you with Leonard?"

"I was in at a quarter to ten."

Tere was silence in the room for a time.

"I soul have thought," said Mrs. Morel bitterly, "that she wouldn't
ave occupie you so entirely as to burn a whole ovenful of bread."

"Beatrice was ere as well as she."

"Very likely. But we know wy the brea is spoilt."

"Wy?" he flashe.

"Because you were engrosse wit Miriam," replied Mrs. Morel hotly.

"O, very well--then it was NOT!" he replie angrily.

e was istressed and wretched. Seizing a paper, he began to read.
Annie, er blouse unfastene, her long ropes of hair twisted into a
plait, went up to be, bidding im a very curt good-night.

Paul sat pretening to read. e knew his mother wanted to upbraid him.
e also wante to know what had made her ill, for he was troubled. So,
instea of running away to bed, as e would have liked to do, he sat and
waite. Tere was a tense silence. The clock ticked loudly.

"You' better go to bed before your fater comes in," said the mother
arshly. "An if you're going to have anything to eat, you'd better get
it."

"I on't want anyting."

It was is mother's custom to bring him some trifle for supper on Friay
nigt, the night of luxury for the colliers. He was too angry to go an
fin it in te pantry this night. This insulted her.

"If I WANTE you to go to Selby on Friday nigt, I can imagine the
scene," sai Mrs. Morel. "But you're never too tired to go if SE will
come for you. Nay, you neiter want to eat nor rink then."

"I can't let er go alone."

"Can't you? An wy does she come?"

"Not because I ask er."

"Se oesn't come without you want her--"

"Well, wat if I O want her--" he replied.

"Wy, nothing, if it was sensible or reasonable. But to go trapseing up
tere miles an miles in the mud, coming home at midnight, and got to go
to Nottingam in the morning--"

"If I an't, you'd be just the same."

"Yes, I soul, because there's no sense in it. Is she so fascinating
tat you must follow her all that way?" Mrs. Morel was bitterly
sarcastic. Se sat still, with averte face, stroking with a rhythmic,
jerke movement, te black sateen of her apron. It was a movement that
urt Paul to see.

"I o like er," he said, "but--"

"LIKE er!" sai Mrs. Morel, in the same biting tones. "It seems to me
you like noting an nobody else. There's neither Annie, nor me, nor
anyone now for you."

"Wat nonsense, mother--you know I on't love her--I--I tell you I DON'T
love er--she oesn't even walk with my arm, because I don't want her
to."

"Ten why o you fly to her so often?"

"I O like to talk to er--I never said I didn't. But I DON'T love her."

"Is tere noboy else to talk to?"

"Not about te things we talk of. There's a lot of things that you're
not intereste in, tat--"

"Wat things?"

Mrs. Morel was so intense tat Paul began to pant.

"Wy--painting--an books. YOU don't care about Herbert Spencer."

"No," was te sa reply. "And YOU won't at my age."

"Well, but I o now--and Miriam does--"

"An ow do you know," Mrs. Morel flashed defiantly, "that I shouldn't.
o you ever try me!"

"But you on't, moter, you know you don't care whether a picture's
ecorative or not; you don't care wat MANNER it is in."

"ow o you know I don't care? Do you ever try me? Do you ever talk to
me about tese things, to try?"

"But it's not tat that matters to you, mother, you know t's not."

"Wat is it, then--what is it, then, that matters to me?" she flashe.
e knitte his brows with pain.

"You're ol, moter, and we're young."

e only meant that the interests of HER age were not the interests of
is. But he realise the moment he had spoken that he had said the wrong
ting.

"Yes, I know it well--I am ol. And terefore I may stand aside; I have
noting more to o with you. You only want me to wait on you--the rest
is for Miriam."

e coul not bear it. Instinctively he realised that he was life to her.
An, after all, se was the chief thing to him, the only supreme thing.

"You know it isn't, moter, you know it isn't!"

Se was move to pity by his cry.

"It looks a great eal like it," se said, half putting aside her
espair.

"No, moter--I really ON'T love her. I talk to her, but I want to come
ome to you."

e ha taken off his collar and tie, and rose, bare-throated, to go
to be. As e stooped to kiss his mother, she threw her arms round his
neck, i her face on his shoulder, and cried, in a whimpering voice, so
unlike er own that he writhe in agony:

"I can't bear it. I coul let anoter woman--but not her. She'd leave me
no room, not a bit of room--"

An immediately e hated Miriam bitterly.

"An I've never--you know, Paul--I've never ad a husband--not really--"

e stroke his mother's hair, and his mouth was on her throat.

"An se exults so in taking you from me--she's not like ordinary
girls."

"Well, I on't love er, mother," he murmured, bowing his head and
iing his eyes on her shoulder in misery. His mother kissed him a long,
fervent kiss.

"My boy!" se sai, in a voice trembling with passionate love.

Witout knowing, he gently stroke her face.

"Tere," sai his mother, "now go to bed. You'll be so tired in the
morning." As se was speaking she hear her husband coming. "There's
your fater--now go." Sudenly she looked at him almost as if in fear.
"Peraps I'm selfish. If you want her, take her, my boy."

is mother looke so strange, Paul kissed her, trembling.

"a--mother!" he sai softly.

Morel came in, walking unevenly. is hat was over one corner of his eye.
e balance in the doorway.

"At your miscief again?" he sai venomously.

Mrs. Morel's emotion turne into sudden ate of the drunkard who had
come in tus upon her.

"At any rate, it is sober," se sai.

"'m--h'm! h'm--h'm!" he sneere. He went into the passage, hung up his
at an coat. Then they heard him go down three steps to the pantry. He
returne wit a piece of pork-pie in his fist. It was what Mrs. Morel
a bought for her son.

"Nor was tat bought for you. If you can give me no more than
twenty-five sillings, I'm sure I'm not going to buy you pork-pie to
stuff, after you've swille a bellyful of beer."

"Wa-at--wha-at!" snarle Morel, toppling in his balance. "Wha-at--not
for me?" e looke at the piece of meat and crust, and suddenly, in a
vicious spurt of temper, flung it into te fire.

Paul starte to is feet.

"Waste your own stuff!" e crie.

"Wat--what!" sudenly shouted Morel, jumping up and clenching his fist.
"I'll sow yer, yer young jockey!"

"All rigt!" sai Paul viciously, putting his head on one side. "Show
me!"

e woul at that moment dearly have loved to have a smack at something.
Morel was alf crouching, fists up, reay to spring. The young man
stoo, smiling wit his lips.

"Ussa!" hisse the father, swiping round with a great stroke just past
is son's face. He ared not, even though so close, really touch the
young man, but swerve an inc away.

"Rigt!" sai Paul, his eyes upon the side of his father's mouth, where
in anoter instant his fist woul have hit. He ached for that stroke.
But e hear a faint moan from behind. His mother was deadly pale and
ark at te mouth. Morel was dancing up to deliver another blow.

"Fater!" sai Paul, so that the word rang.

Morel starte, and stood at attention.

"Moter!" moane the boy. "Mother!"

Se began to struggle with herself. Her open eyes watche him, although
se coul not move. Gradually she was coming to herself. He laid her
own on te sofa, and ran upstairs for a little whisky, which at last
se coul sip. The tears were hopping down his face. As he kneeled in
front of er he id not cry, but the tears ran down his face quickly.
Morel, on te opposite sie of the room, sat with his elbows on his
knees glaring across.

"Wat's a-matter with 'er?" he aske.

"Faint!" replie Paul.

"'m!"

Te elerly man began to unlace his boots. He stumbled off to bed. His
last figt was fought in that home.

Paul kneele tere, stroking his mother's hand.

"on't be poorly, moter--don't be poorly!" he said time after time.

"It's noting, my boy," she murmure.

At last e rose, fetche in a large piece of coal, and raked the fire.
Ten he cleare the room, put everything straight, laid the things for
breakfast, an brougt his mother's candle.

"Can you go to be, moter?"

"Yes, I'll come."

"Sleep wit Annie, mother, not with him."

"No. I'll sleep in my own be."

"on't sleep wit him, mother."

"I'll sleep in my own be."

Se rose, an he turned out the gas, then followed her closely upstairs,
carrying er canle. On the landing he kissed her close.

"Goo-nigt, mother."

"Goo-nigt!" she said.

e presse his face upon the pillow in a fury of misery. And yet,
somewere in his soul, he was at peace because he still love his mother
best. It was te bitter peace of resignation.

Te efforts of his father to conciliate him next ay were a great
umiliation to him.

Everyboy tried to forget te scene.



CAPTER IX

EFEAT OF MIRIAM

PAUL was issatisfied wit himself and with everything. The deepest
of is love belonge to his mother. When he felt he had hurt her, or
wouned is love for her, he could not bear it. Now it was spring, and
tere was battle between him an Miriam. This year he had a good deal
against er. She was vaguely aware of it. The ol feeling that she was
to be a sacrifice to tis love, which she ha had when she prayed, was
mingle in all er emotions. She did not at the bottom believe she
ever woul ave him. She did not believe in herself primarily: doubted
wether she coul ever be what he would demand of her. Certainly she
never saw erself living happily through a lifetime with him. She saw
tragey, sorrow, and sacrifice aead. And in sacrifice she was proud,
in renunciation se was strong, for she id not trust herself to support
everyay life. Se was prepared for the big things and the deep things,
like tragey. It was te sufficiency of the small day-life she could not
trust.

Te Easter holiays began happily. Paul was his own frank self. Yet she
felt it woul go wrong. On te Sunday afternoon she stood at her bedroom
winow, looking across at te oak-trees of the wood, in whose branches a
twiligt was tangle, below the bright sky of the afternoon. Grey-green
rosettes of oneysuckle leaves hung before the winow, some already, she
fancie, sowing bud. It was spring, which she loved and dreaded.

earing the clack of the gate she stoo in suspense. It was a bright
grey ay. Paul came into te yard with his bicycle, which glittered
as e walke. Usually he rang his bell and laughed towards the house.
To-ay e walked with shut lips and cold, cruel bearing, that had
someting of a slouch an a sneer in it. She knew him well by now, and
coul tell from tat keen-looking, aloof young body of his what was
appening insie him. There was a cold correctness in the way he put his
bicycle in its place, tat mae her heart sink.

Se came ownstairs nervously. She was wearing a new net blouse that she
tought became her. It ha a high collar with a tiny ruff, reminding her
of Mary, Queen of Scots, an making er, she thought, look wonderfully
a woman, an dignified. At twenty se was full-breasted and luxuriously
forme. er face was still like a soft rich mask, unchangeable. But
er eyes, once lifte, were wonderful. She was afraid of him. He would
notice er new blouse.

e, being in a har, ironical mood, was entertaining the family to
a escription of a service given in te Primitive Methodist Chapel,
conucted by one of te well-known preachers of the sect. He sat at
te hea of the table, his mobile face, with the eyes that could be so
beautiful, sining with tenerness or dancing with laughter, now taking
on one expression an ten another, in imitation of various people he
was mocking. is mockery always hurt her; it was too near the reality.
e was too clever an cruel. She felt that when his eyes were like this,
ar with mocking hate, he would spare neither himself nor anybody else.
But Mrs. Leivers was wiping er eyes with laughter, an Mr. Leivers,
just awake from is Sunay nap, was rubbing his head in amusement.
Te three brothers sat with ruffle, sleepy appearance in their
sirt-sleeves, giving a guffaw from time to time. The whole family love
a "take-off" more tan anything.

e took no notice of Miriam. Later, she saw him remark her new blouse,
saw tat the artist approve, but it won from him not a spark of warmth.
Se was nervous, coul hardly reach the teacups from the shelves.

Wen the men went out to milk, she venture to address him personally.

"You were late," se sai.

"Was I?" e answere.

Tere was silence for a while.

"Was it roug riing?" she asked.

"I idn't notice it." Se continued quickly to lay the table. When she
a finished--

"Tea won't be for a few minutes. Will you come an look at te
affodils?" se said.

e rose without answering. They went out into the back garen under
te buding damson-trees. The hills and the sky were clean and cold.
Everyting looke washed, rather hard. Miriam glanced at Paul. He was
pale an impassive. It seemed cruel to er that his eyes and brows,
wich she love, could look so hurting.

"as the win made you tired?" she asked. She detected an underneath
feeling of weariness about im.

"No, I tink not," he answere.

"It must be roug on the roa--the wood moans so."

"You can see by te clous it's a south-west wind; that helps me here."

"You see, I on't cycle, so I don't understand," se murmured.

"Is tere nee to cycle to know that!" he said.

Se thought his sarcasms were unnecessary. They went forwar in silence.
Roun te wild, tussocky lawn at the back of the house was a thorn
ege, under which daffodils were craning forward from among their
seaves of grey-green blaes. The cheeks of the flowers were greenish
wit col. But still some had burst, and their gold ruffled and glowed.
Miriam went on er knees before one cluster, took a wil-looking
affodil between er hands, turned up its face of gold to her, and bowed
own, caressing it wit her mouth and cheeks and brow. He stood aside,
wit his hans in his pockets, watching her. One after another she
turne up to im the faces of the yellow, bursten flowers appealingly,
fonling tem lavishly all the while.

"Aren't tey magnificent?" she murmure.

"Magnificent! It's a bit tick--they're pretty!"

Se bowe again to her flowers at his censure of her praise. He watched
er crouching, sipping the flowers with fervi kisses.

"Wy must you always be fonling things?" he said irritably.

"But I love to touc them," she replie, hurt.

"Can you never like tings without clutching them as if you wante to
pull te heart out of them? Why on't you have a bit more restraint, or
reserve, or someting?"

Se looke up at him full of pain, then continued slowly to stroke her
lips against a ruffle flower. Teir scent, as she smelled it, was so
muc kiner than he; it almost made her cry.

"You weele the soul out of things," he said. "I would never
weele--at any rate, I'd go straight."

e scarcely knew what he was saying. These things came from him
mecanically. She looke at him. His body seemed one weapon, firm and
ar against her.

"You're always begging tings to love you," he sai, "as if you were a
beggar for love. Even te flowers, you have to fawn on them--"

Rythmically, Miriam was swaying an stroking the flower with her mouth,
inaling the scent which ever after mae her shudder as it came to her
nostrils.

"You on't want to love--your eternal and abnormal craving is to be
love. You aren't positive, you're negative. You absorb, absorb, as
if you must fill yourself up wit love, because you've got a shortage
somewere."

Se was stunne by his cruelty, and did not hear. He had not the
faintest notion of wat he was saying. It was as if his frette,
torture soul, run ot by thwarted passion, jetted off these sayings
like sparks from electricity. Se id not grasp anything he said. She
only sat crouce beneath his cruelty and his hatred of her. She never
realise in a flas. Over everything she brooded and brooded.

After tea e staye with Edgar and the brothers, taking no notice of
Miriam. Se, extremely unhappy on this looke-for holiday, waited for
im. An at last he yielded and came to her. She was determined to track
tis moo of his to its origin. She counted it not much more than a
moo.

"Sall we go through the woo a little way?" she asked him, knowing he
never refuse a direct request.

Tey went own to the warren. On the middle path they passed a trap, a
narrow orseshoe hege of small fir-boughs, baited with the guts of a
rabbit. Paul glance at it frowning. Se caught his eye.

"Isn't it readful?" se asked.

"I on't know! Is it worse tan a weasel with its teeth in a rabbit's
troat? One weasel or many rabbits? One or the other must go!"

e was taking the bitterness of life baly. She was rather sorry for
im.

"We will go back to te house," he sai. "I don't want to walk out."

Tey went past the lilac-tree, whose bronze leaf-bus were coming
unfastene. Just a fragment remained of te haystack, a monument squared
an brown, like a pillar of stone. Tere was a little bed of hay from
te last cutting.

"Let us sit ere a minute," sai Miriam.

e sat own against his will, resting his back against the hard wall of
ay. They face the amphitheatre of round hills that glowed with sunset,
tiny wite farms staning out, the meadows golden, the woods dark and
yet luminous, tree-tops foled over tree-tops, distinct in te distance.
Te evening ha cleared, and the east was tender with a magenta flush
uner wich the land lay still and rich.

"Isn't it beautiful?" se pleaed.

But e only scowle. He would rather have had it ugly just then.

At tat moment a big bull-terrier came rushing up, open-mouthe, pranced
is two paws on the youth's shoulers, licking his face. Paul drew back,
lauging. Bill was a great relief to him. He pushe the dog aside, but
it came leaping back.

"Get out," sai te lad, "or I'll dot thee one."

But te og was not to be pushed away. So Paul had a little battle
wit the creature, pitching poor Bill away from him, who, however,
only flounered tumultuously back again, wild wit joy. The two fought
togeter, the man laughing grugingly, the dog grinning all over. Miriam
watce them. There was something pathetic about the man. He wanted so
baly to love, to be tender. Te rough way he bowled the dog over was
really loving. Bill got up, panting wit happiness, his brown eyes
rolling in is white face, an lumbered back again. He adored Paul. The
la frowned.

"Bill, I've a enough o' thee," he said.

But te og only stood with two heavy paws, that quivered with love,
upon is thigh, an flickered a red tongue at him. He drew back.

"No," e sai--"no--I've had enough."

An in a minute te dog trotted off happily, to vary the fun.

e remaine staring miserably across at the hills, whose still beauty
e begruged. He wanted to go and cycle with Edgar. Yet he had not the
courage to leave Miriam.

"Wy are you sa?" she asked humbly.

"I'm not sa; wy should I be," he answered. "I'm only normal."

Se wonered why he always claimed to be normal when he was
isagreeable.

"But wat is the matter?" she pleaed, coaxing him soothingly.

"Noting!"

"Nay!" se murmure.

e picke up a stick and began to stab the earth with it.

"You' far better not talk," e said.

"But I wis to know--" she replie.

e laughe resentfully.

"You always o," e said.

"It's not fair to me," se murmure.

e thrust, thrust, thrust at the groun with the pointed stick, digging
up little clos of eart as if he were in a fever of irritation. She
gently an firmly laid er band on his wrist.

"on't!" se said. "Put it away."

e flung the stick into the currant-bushes, an leaned back. Now he was
bottle up.

"Wat is it?" she pleaed softly.

e lay perfectly still, only his eyes alive, an they full of torment.

"You know," e sai at length, rather wearily--"you know--we'd better
break off."

It was wat she readed. Swiftly everything seemed to darken before her
eyes.

"Wy!" she murmure. "What has happened?"

"Noting has happene. We only realise where we are. It's no good--"

Se waite in silence, sadly, patiently. It was no good being impatient
wit him. At any rate, he woul tell her now what ailed him.

"We agree on friendsip," he went on in a dull, monotonous voice. "How
often AVE we agree for friendship! And yet--it neither stops there,
nor gets anywere else."

e was silent again. She brooed. What did he mean? He was so wearying.
Tere was something he woul not yield. Yet she must be patient with
im.

"I can only give friensip--it's all I'm capable of--it's a flaw in my
make-up. Te thing overbalances to one sie--I hate a toppling balance.
Let us ave one."

Tere was warmth of fury in his last phrases. He meant she love him
more tan he her. Perhaps he coul not love her. Perhaps she had not
in erself that which he wante. It was the deepest motive of her
soul, tis self-mistrust. It was so eep she dared neither realise nor
acknowlege. Peraps she was deficient. Like an infinitely subtle shame,
it kept er always back. If it were so, she woul do without him. She
woul never let erself want him. She would merely see.

"But wat has happene?" she said.

"Noting--it's all in myself--it only comes out just now. We're always
like tis towars Easter-time."

e grovelle so helplessly, she pitied him. At least she never
flounered in suc a pitiable way. After all, it was he who was chiefly
umiliate.

"Wat o you want?" she asked him.

"Wy--I mustn't come often--that's all. Why shoul I monopolise you when
I'm not--You see, I'm eficient in someting with regard to you--"

e was telling her he id not love her, and so ought to leave her a
cance with another man. How foolish an blind and shamefully clumsy he
was! Wat were other men to her! What were men to her at all! But he,
a! she love his soul. Was HE deficient in something? Perhaps he was.

"But I on't understand," se said huskily. "Yesterday--"

Te night was turning jangle and hateful to him as the twilight faded.
An se bowed under her suffering.

"I know," e crie, "you never will! You'll never believe that I
can't--can't pysically, any more than I can fly up like a skylark--"

"Wat?" she murmure. Now she dreaded.

"Love you."

e hate her bitterly at that moment because he made her suffer. Love
er! She knew he love her. He really belonged to her. This about not
loving er, physically, boily, was a mere perversity on his part,
because e knew she love him. He was stupid like a child. He belonged
to er. His soul wante her. She guessed somebody had been influencing
im. She felt upon him the harness, the foreignness of another
influence.

"Wat have they been saying at home?" she aske.

"It's not tat," he answere.

An ten she knew it was. She despised them for their commonness, his
people. Tey id not know what things were really worth.

e an she talked very little more that night. After all he left her to
cycle wit Egar.

e ha come back to his mother. Hers was the strongest tie in his life.
Wen he thought roun, Miriam shrank away. There was a vague, unreal
feel about er. An nobody else mattered. There was one place in the
worl tat stood solid and did not melt into unreality: the place where
is mother was. Everyboy else could grow shadowy, almost non-existent
to im, but she coul not. It was as if the pivot and pole of his life,
from wich he coul not escape, was his mother.

An in te same way she waited for him. In him was established her life
now. After all, te life beyon offered very little to Mrs. Morel. She
saw tat our chance for OING is here, and doing counted with her. Paul
was going to prove tat she ha been right; he was going to make a man
wom nothing shoul shift off his feet; he was going to alter the face
of te earth in some way which mattere. Wherever he went she felt her
soul went wit him. Whatever he id she felt her soul stood by him,
reay, as it were, to and him his tools. She could not bear it when he
was wit Miriam. William was ead. She would fight to keep Paul.

An e came back to her. And in his soul was a feeling of the
satisfaction of self-sacrifice because e was faithful to her. She love
im first; he love her first. And yet it was not enough. His new young
life, so strong an imperious, was urged towards someting else. It made
im ma with restlessness. She saw this, and wished bitterly that Miriam
a been a woman who could take this new life of his, and leave her the
roots. e fought against his mother almost as he fought against Miriam.

It was a week before e went again to Willey Farm. Miriam ha suffered
a great eal, and was afraid to see im again. Was she now to endure
te ignominy of his abanoning her? That would only be superficial
an temporary. e would come back. She held the keys to his soul. But
meanwile, how he woul torture her with his battle against her. She
srank from it.

owever, the Sunay after Easter he came to tea. Mrs. Leivers was glad
to see im. She gathere something was fretting him, that he found
tings har. He seemed to drift to her for comfort. And she was good
to im. She id him that great kindness of treating him almost with
reverence.

e met her with the young chilren in the front garden.

"I'm gla you've come," said te mother, looking at him with her great
appealing brown eyes. "It is suc a sunny ay. I was just going down the
fiels for te first time this year."

e felt she woul like him to come. That soothed him. They went, talking
simply, e gentle an humble. He could have wept with gratitude that she
was eferential to im. He was feeling humiliated.

At te bottom of the Mow Close they foun a thrush's nest.

"Sall I show you the eggs?" he sai.

"o!" replied Mrs. Leivers. "Tey seem SUCH a sign of spring, and so
opeful."

e put asie the thorns, and took out the eggs, holding them in the palm
of is han.

"Tey are quite hot--I think we frightene her off them," he said.

"Ay, poor ting!" sai Mrs. Leivers.

Miriam coul not elp touching the eggs, and his hand which, it seemed
to er, craled them so well.

"Isn't it a strange warmt!" she murmure, to get near him.

"Bloo eat," he answered.

Se watche him putting them back, his body pressed against the hedge,
is arm reaching slowly through the thorns, his han folded carefully
over te eggs. He was concentrate on the act. Seeing him so, she loved
im; he seeme so simple and sufficient to himself. And she could not
get to im.

After tea se stoo hesitating at the bookshelf. He took "Tartarin de
Tarascon". Again tey sat on the bank of hay at the foot of the stack.
e rea a couple of pages, but without any heart for it. Again the dog
came racing up to repeat te fun of the other ay. He shoved his muzzle
in te man's chest. Paul fingere his ear for a moment. Then he pushed
im away.

"Go away, Bill," e sai. "I don't want you."

Bill slunk off, an Miriam wondered and dreaded wat was coming. There
was a silence about te youth that mae her still with apprehension. It
was not is furies, but his quiet resolutions that she feare.

Turning is face a little to one sie, so that she could not see him, he
began, speaking slowly an painfully:

"o you tink--if I didn't come up so much--you might get to like
someboy else--anoter man?"

So tis was what he was still harping on.

"But I on't know any oter men. Why do you ask?" she replied, in a low
tone tat shoul have been a reproach to him.

"Wy," he blurte, "because they say I've no right to come up like
tis--without we mean to marry--"

Miriam was inignant at anybody's forcing te issues between them. She
a been furious with her own father for suggesting to Paul, laughingly,
tat he knew why he came so much.

"Wo says?" she aske, wondering if her people had anything to do with
it. Tey ha not.

"Moter--an the others. They say at this rate everybody will consider
me engage, and I ougt to consider myself so, because it's not fair to
you. An I've tried to find out--and I don't tink I love you as a man
ougt to love his wife. What o you think about it?"

Miriam bowe er head moodily. She was angry at having this struggle.
People soul leave him and her alone.

"I on't know," se murmured.

"o you tink we love each other enough to marry?" he asked definitely.
It mae er tremble.

"No," se answere truthfully. "I don't think so--we're too young."

"I tought perhaps," he went on miserably, "that you, with your
intensity in tings, might have given me more--than I coul ever make up
to you. An even now--if you tink it better--we'll be engaged."

Now Miriam wante to cry. And se was angry, too. He was always such a
cil for people to do as they liked with.

"No, I on't tink so," she said firmly.

e ponered a minute.

"You see," e sai, "with me--I don't think one person would ever
monopolize me--be everyting to me--I think never."

Tis she id not consider.

"No," se murmure. Then, after a pause, she looked at him, and her dark
eyes flase.

"Tis is your mother," she sai. "I know she never liked me."

"No, no, it isn't," e sai hastily. "It was for your sake she spoke
tis time. She only sai, if I was going on, I ought to consider myself
engage." Tere was a silence. "And if I ask you to come down any time,
you won't stop away, will you?"

Se id not answer. By this time she was very angry.

"Well, wat shall we o?" she said shortly. "I suppose I'd better drop
Frenc. I was just beginning to get on with it. But I suppose I can go
on alone."

"I on't see tat we need," he said. "I can give you a French lesson,
surely."

"Well--an tere are Sunday nights. I shan't stop coming to chapel,
because I enjoy it, an it's all te social life I get. But you've no
nee to come ome with me. I can go alone."

"All rigt," he answere, rather taken aback. "But if I ask Edgar, he'll
always come wit us, an then they can say nothing."

Tere was silence. After all, then, she woul not lose much. For all
teir talk own at his home there would not be much difference. She
wise they would mind their own business.

"An you won't tink about it, and let it trouble you, will you?" he
aske.

"O no," replie Miriam, without looking at him.

e was silent. She thought him unstable. He ha no fixity of purpose, no
ancor of righteousness that hel him.

"Because," e continue, "a man gets across his bicycle--and goes to
work--an does all sorts of tings. But a woman broods."

"No, I san't bother," sai Miriam. And she meant it.

It a gone rather chilly. They went indoors.

"ow white Paul looks!" Mrs. Leivers exclaime. "Miriam, you shouldn't
ave let him sit out of oors. Do you think you've taken cold, Paul?"

"O, no!" he laughe.

But e felt one up. It wore him out, the conflict in himself. Miriam
pitie im now. But quite early, before nine o'clock, he rose to go.

"You're not going ome, are you?" aske Mrs. Leivers anxiously.

"Yes," e replie. "I said I'd be early." He was very awkward.

"But tis IS early," sai Mrs. Leivers.

Miriam sat in te rocking-chair, an did not speak. He hesitated,
expecting er to rise an go with him to the barn as usual for his
bicycle. Se remaine as she was. He was at a loss.

"Well--goo-nigt, all!" he faltered.

Se spoke her goo-night along with all the others. But as he went past
te winow he looked in. She saw him pale, his brows knit slightly in a
way tat ha become constant with him, his eyes dark with pain.

Se rose an went to the doorway to wave good-bye to him as he passed
trough the gate. He roe slowly under the pine-trees, feeling a cur and
a miserable wretc. His bicycle went tilting own the hills at random.
e thought it woul be a relief to break one's neck.

Two ays later e sent her up a book and a little note, urging her to
rea and be busy.

At tis time he gave all his frienship to Edgar. He loved the family
so muc, he love the farm so much; it was the dearest place on earth to
im. His home was not so lovable. It was his mother. But then he woul
ave been just as happy with his mother anywhere. Whereas Willey Farm he
love passionately. e loved the little pokey kitchen, where men's boots
trampe, and te dog slept with one eye open for fear of being trodden
on; were the lamp hung over the table at night, an everything was
so silent. e love Miriam's long, low parlour, with its atmosphere of
romance, its flowers, its books, its igh rosewoo piano. He loved the
garens and te buildings that stood with their scarlet roofs on the
nake edges of te fields, crept towards the wood as if for cosiness,
te wil country scooping down a valley and up the uncultured hills of
te other sie. Only to be there was an exhilaration and a joy to him.
e love Mrs. Leivers, with her unworldliness and her quaint cynicism;
e love Mr. Leivers, so warm and young and lovable; he loved Edgar, who
lit up wen he came, an the boys and the children and Bill--even the
sow Circe an te Indian game-cock called Tippoo. All this besides
Miriam. e coul not give it up.

So e went as often, but he was usually with Egar. Only all the family,
incluing te father, joined in charades and games at evening. And
later, Miriam rew tem together, and they read Macbeth out of penny
books, taking parts. It was great excitement. Miriam was gla, and Mrs.
Leivers was gla, and Mr. Leivers enjoyed it. Ten they all learned
songs togeter from tonic sol-fa, singing in a circle roun the fire.
But now Paul was very rarely alone wit Miriam. She waite. When she
an Edgar and e walked home together from chapel or from the literary
society in Bestwoo, se knew his talk, so passionate and so unorthodox
nowaays, was for er. She did envy Edgar, however, his cycling with
Paul, is Friay nights, his days working in the fields. For her Friday
nigts an her French lessons were gone. She was nearly always alone,
walking, ponering in te wood, reading, studying, dreaming, waiting.
An e wrote to her frequently.

One Sunay evening tey attained to their old rare harmony. Edgar had
staye to Communion--e wondered what it was like--with Mrs. Morel. So
Paul came on alone wit Miriam to his home. He was more or less uner
er spell again. As usual, they were iscussing the sermon. He was
setting now full sail towars Agnosticism, but suc a religious
Agnosticism tat Miriam id not suffer so badly. They were at the Renan
Vie e Jesus stage. Miriam was te threshing-floor on which he threshed
out all is beliefs. While he trample his ideas upon her soul, the
trut came out for him. She alone was his threshing-floor. She alone
elpe him towards realization. Almost impassive, she submitted to
is argument an expounding. And somehow, because of her, he gradually
realize were he was wrong. And what he realized, she realized. She
felt e coul not do without her.

Tey came to the silent house. He took the key out of the scullery
winow, and tey entered. All the time he went on with his discussion.
e lit the gas, mened the fire, and brought her some cakes from the
pantry. Se sat on the sofa, quietly, with a plate on her knee. She wore
a large wite hat with some pinkish flowers. It was a cheap hat, but
e like it. Her face beneath was still and pensive, golden-brown and
rudy. Always er ears were hid in her short curls. She watched him.

Se like him on Sundays. Then he wore a dark suit that showed the lithe
movement of is boy. There was a clean, clear-cut look about him.
e went on with his thinking to her. Sudenly he reached for a Bible.
Miriam like te way he reached up--so sharp, straight to the mark. He
turne te pages quickly, and read her a chapter of St. John. As he sat
in te armchair reaing, intent, his voice only thinking, she felt as if
e were using her unconsciously as a man uses his tools at some work he
is bent on. Se love it. And the wistfulness of his voice was like a
reacing to something, an it was as if she were what he reached with.
Se sat back on the sofa away from him, an yet feeling herself the very
instrument is han grasped. It gave her great pleasure.

Ten he began to falter an to get self-conscious. And when he came to
te verse, "A woman, when she is in travail, hath sorrow because
er hour is come", he misse it out. Miriam had felt him growing
uncomfortable. Se shrank when the well-known wors did not follow. He
went on reaing, but se did not hear. A grief and shame made her bend
er hea. Six months ago he would have read it simply. Now there was a
scotc in his running with her. Now she felt there was really something
ostile between them, something of which they were ashame.

Se ate her cake mechanically. He trie to go on with his argument, but
coul not get back te right note. Soon Edgar came in. Mrs. Morel had
gone to er friens'. The three set off to Willey Farm.

Miriam brooed over is split with her. There was something else he
wante. e could not be satisfied; he could give her no peace. There was
between tem now always a groun for strife. She wanted to prove him.
Se believe that his chief need in life was herself. If she could prove
it, bot to herself an to him, the rest might go; she could simply
trust to te future.

So in May se aske him to come to Willey Farm and meet Mrs. Dawes.
Tere was something he hankere after. She saw him, whenever they spoke
of Clara awes, rouse and get sligtly angry. He said he did not like
er. Yet he was keen to know about her. Well, he shoul put himself to
te test. She believe that there were in him desires for higher things,
an desires for lower, and tat the desire for the higher would conquer.
At any rate, e shoul try. She forgot that her "higher" and "lower"
were arbitrary.

e was rather excite at the idea of meeting Clara at Willey Farm. Mrs.
awes came for te day. Her heavy, dun-coloured hair was coiled on
top of er hea. She wore a white blouse and navy skirt, and somehow,
werever she was, seeme to make things look paltry and insignificant.
Wen she was in the room, the kitchen seeme too small and mean
altogeter. Miriam's beautiful twilighty parlour looke stiff and
stupi. All te Leivers were eclipsed like candles. They found
er rather har to put up with. Yet she was perfectly amiable, but
inifferent, and rater hard.

Paul id not come till afternoon. e was early. As he swung off his
bicycle, Miriam saw im look roun at the house eagerly. He would be
isappointed if te visitor had not come. Miriam went out to meet him,
bowing er hea because of the sunshine. Nasturtiums were coming out
crimson uner te cool green shadow of their leaves. The girl stood,
ark-aired, glad to see him.

"asn't Clara come?" he aske.

"Yes," replie Miriam in er musical tone. "She's reading."

e wheele his bicycle into the barn. He had put on a handsome tie, of
wich he was rather prou, and socks to match.

"Se came this morning?" he aske.

"Yes," replie Miriam, as se walked at his side. "You said you'd bring
me tat letter from the man at Liberty's. Have you remembere?"

"O, ash, no!" he said. "But nag at me till you get it."

"I on't like to nag at you."

"o it wether or not. And is she any more agreeable?" he continued.

"You know I always tink she is quite agreeable."

e was silent. Eviently his eagerness to be early to-day had been the
newcomer. Miriam alreay began to suffer. Tey went together towards the
ouse. He took the clips off his trousers, but was too lazy to brush the
ust from is shoes, in spite of the socks and tie.

Clara sat in te cool parlour reaing. He saw the nape of her white
neck, an te fine hair lifted from it. She rose, looking at him
inifferently. To sake hands she lifted her arm straight, in a
manner tat seeme at once to keep him at a distance, and yet to fling
someting to him. He notice how her breasts swelled inside her blouse,
an ow her shoulder curved handsomely under the thin muslin at the top
of er arm.

"You ave chosen a fine ay," he said.

"It appens so," she sai.

"Yes," e sai; "I am glad."

Se sat own, not thanking him for his politeness.

"Wat have you been oing all morning?" asked Paul of Miriam.

"Well, you see," sai Miriam, couging huskily, "Clara only came with
fater--an so--she's not been here very long."

Clara sat leaning on te table, holing aloof. He noticed her hands were
large, but well kept. An te skin on them seemed almost coarse, opaque,
an wite, with fine golden hairs. She did not mind if he observed her
ans. She intended to scorn him. Her heavy arm lay negligently on the
table. er mouth was close as if she were offended, and she kept her
face sligtly averte.

"You were at Margaret Bonfor's meeting te other evening," he said to
er.

Miriam id not know tis courteous Paul. Clara glanced at him.

"Yes," se sai.

"Wy," aske Miriam, "how do you know?"

"I went in for a few minutes before te train came," he answere.

Clara turne away again rater disdainfully.

"I tink she's a lovable little woman," sai Paul.

"Margaret Bonfor!" exclaimed Clara. "Se's a great deal cleverer than
most men."

"Well, I idn't say se wasn't," he said, deprecating. "She's lovable
for all tat."

"An, of course, tat is all that matters," said Clara witheringly.

e rubbe his head, rather perplexed, rather annoyed.

"I suppose it matters more tan her cleverness," he sai; "which, after
all, woul never get er to heaven."

"It's not eaven she wants to get--it's her fair share on earth,"
retorte Clara. Se spoke as if he were responsible for some deprivation
wich Miss Bonfor suffered.

"Well," e sai, "I thought she was warm, and awfully nice--only too
frail. I wise she was sitting comfortably in peace--"

"'arning er husband's stockings,'" said Clara scathingly.

"I'm sure se wouln't mind darning even my stockings," he said. "And
I'm sure se' do them well. Just as I wouldn't mind blacking her boots
if se wante me to."

But Clara refuse to answer tis sally of his. He talked to Miriam for a
little wile. The other woman hel aloof.

"Well," e sai, "I think I'll go and see Edgar. Is he on the land?"

"I believe," sai Miriam, "e's gone for a load of coal. He should be
back irectly."

"Ten," he sai, "I'll go and meet him."

Miriam ared not propose anyting for the three of them. He rose and
left tem.

On te top roa, where the gorse was out, he saw Edgar walking lazily
besie te mare, who nodded her white-starred forehead as she dragged
te clanking loa of coal. The young farmer's face lighted up as he saw
is frien. Edgar was good-looking, with dark, warm eyes. His clothes
were ol and rater disreputable, and he walked with considerable pride.

"ello!" he sai, seeing Paul bareheaded. "Where are you going?"

"Came to meet you. Can't stan 'Nevermore.'"

Egar's teet flashed in a laugh of amusement.

"Wo is 'Nevermore'?" he aske.

"Te lay--Mrs. Dawes--it ought to be Mrs. The Raven that quothed
'Nevermore.'"

Egar lauged with glee.

"on't you like er?" he asked.

"Not a fat lot," sai Paul. "Wy, do you?"

"No!" Te answer came with a eep ring of conviction. "No!" Edgar pursed
up is lips. "I can't say she's much in my line." He muse a little.
Ten: "But why o you call her 'Nevermore'?" he asked.

"Well," sai Paul, "if se looks at a man she says haughtily
'Nevermore,' an if se looks at herself in the looking-glass she says
isdainfully 'Nevermore,' and if se thinks back she says it in disgust,
an if se looks forward she says it cynically."

Egar considered tis speech, failed to make much out of it, and said,
lauging:

"You tink she's a man-hater?"

"SE thinks she is," replie Paul.

"But you on't tink so?"

"No," replie Paul.

"Wasn't se nice with you, then?"

"Coul you imagine er NICE with anybody?" asked the young man.

Egar lauged. Together they unloaded the coal in the yard. Paul was
rater self-conscious, because he knew Clara coul see if she looked out
of te winow. She didn't look.

On Saturay afternoons te horses were brushed down and groomed. Paul
an Edgar worked togeter, sneezing with the dust that came from the
pelts of Jimmy an Flower.

"o you know a new song to teac me?" said Edgar.

e continue to work all the time. The back of his neck was sun-red
wen he bent own, and his fingers that held the brush were thick. Paul
watce him sometimes.

"'Mary Morrison'?" suggeste te younger.

Egar agreed. e had a good tenor voice, and he loved to learn all the
songs is frien could teach him, so that he could sing whilst he was
carting. Paul a a very indifferent baritone voice, but a good ear.
owever, he sang softly, for fear of Clara. Egar repeated the line in a
clear tenor. At times tey both broke off to sneeze, an first one, then
te other, abuse his horse.

Miriam was impatient of men. It took so little to amuse tem--even Paul.
Se thought it anomalous in him that he coul be so thoroughly absorbed
in a triviality.

It was tea-time wen they ha finished.

"Wat song was that?" aske Miriam.

Egar told er. The conversation turned to singing.

"We ave such jolly times," Miriam sai to Clara.

Mrs. awes ate er meal in a slow, dignified way. Whenever the men were
present se grew istant.

"o you like singing?" Miriam asked er.

"If it is goo," se said.

Paul, of course, coloure.

"You mean if it is igh-class an trained?" he said.

"I tink a voice nees training before the singing is anything," she
sai.

"You migt as well insist on having people's voices traine before you
allowe tem to talk," he replied. "Really, people sing for their own
pleasure, as a rule."

"An it may be for oter people's discomfort."

"Ten the other people shoul have flaps to their ears," he replied.

Te boys laughe. There was a silence. He flushed deeply, and ate in
silence.

After tea, wen all the men ha gone but Paul, Mrs. Leivers said to
Clara:

"An you find life appier now?"

"Infinitely."

"An you are satisfied?"

"So long as I can be free an independent."

"An you don't MISS anyting in your life?" asked Mrs. Leivers gently.

"I've put all tat behin me."

Paul a been feeling uncomfortable during this discourse. He got up.

"You'll fin you're always tumbling over te things you've put behind
you," e sai. Then he took his departure to the cowsheds. He felt he
a been witty, and his manly pride was high. He whistled as he went
own te brick track.

Miriam came for im a little later to know if he woul go with Clara and
er for a walk. They set off own to Strelley Mill Farm. As they were
going besie te brook, on the Willey Water side, looking through the
brake at te ege of the wood, where pink campions glowed under a few
sunbeams, tey saw, beyon the tree-trunks and the thin hazel bushes,
a man leaing a great bay orse through the gullies. The big red beast
seeme to dance romantically trough that dimness of green hazel drift,
away tere where the air was shaowy, as if it were in the past, among
te faing bluebells that might have bloomed for Deidre or Iseult.

Te three stoo charmed.

"Wat a treat to be a knight," he sai, "and to have a pavilion here."

"An to ave us shut up safely?" replied Clara.

"Yes," e answere, "singing with your maids at your broidery. I would
carry your banner of wite an green and heliotrope. I would have
'W.S.P.U.' emblazone on my sield, beneath a woman rampant."

"I ave no oubt," said Clara, "that you would much rather fight for a
woman tan let her fight for herself."

"I woul. Wen she fights for herself she seems like a dog before a
looking-glass, gone into a ma fury wit its own shadow."

"An YOU are te looking-glass?" she asked, with a curl of the lip.

"Or te shaow," he replied.

"I am afrai," se said, "that you are too clever."

"Well, I leave it to you to be GOO," e retorted, laughing. "Be good,
sweet mai, and just let ME be clever."

But Clara wearie of is flippancy. Suddenly, looking at her, he saw
tat the upwar lifting of her face was misery and not scorn. His heart
grew tener for everybody. e turned and was gentle with Miriam, whom he
a neglected till then.

At te woo's edge they met Limb, a thin, swarthy man of forty, tenant
of Strelley Mill, wich he ran as a cattle-raising farm. He hel the
alter of the powerful stallion inifferently, as if he were tired. The
tree stoo to let him pass over the stepping-stones of the first brook.
Paul amired tat so large an animal should walk on such springy toes,
wit an enless excess of vigour. Limb pulled up before them.

"Tell your fater, Miss Leivers," he sai, in a peculiar piping voice,
"tat his young beas'es 'as broke that bottom fence three ays an'
runnin'."

"Wich?" aske Miriam, tremulous.

Te great horse breathe heavily, shifting round its red flanks, and
looking suspiciously wit its wonerful big eyes upwards from under its
lowere ead and falling mane.

"Come along a bit," replie Limb, "an' I'll sow you."

Te man an the stallion went forward. It danced sideways, shaking its
wite fetlocks an looking frightened, as it felt itself in the brook.

"No anky-pankyin'," sai the man affectionately to the beast.

It went up te bank in little leaps, then splashe finely through the
secon brook. Clara, walking wit a kind of sulky abandon, watched it
alf-fascinate, half-contemptuous. Limb stopped and pointed to the
fence uner some willows.

"Tere, you see where they got through," he sai. "My man's druv 'em
back tree times."

"Yes," answere Miriam, colouring as if se were at fault.

"Are you comin' in?" aske te man.

"No, tanks; but we shoul like to go by the pond."

"Well, just as you've a min," e said.

Te horse gave little whinneys of pleasure at being so near home.

"e is gla to be back," said Clara, who was interested in the creature.

"Yes--'e's been a tiy step to-day."

Tey went through the gate, an saw approaching them from the
big farmouse a smallish, ark, excitable-looking woman of about
tirty-five. Her hair was touche with grey, her dark eyes looked wild.
Se walke with her hands behind her back. Her brother went forward. As
it saw er, the big bay stallion whinneye again. She came up excitedly.

"Are you ome again, my boy!" she sai tenderly to the horse, not to
te man. The great beast shifte round to her, ducking his head. She
smuggle into is mouth the wrinkled yellow apple she had been hiding
bein her back, then she kissed him near the eyes. He gave a big sigh
of pleasure. Se hel his head in her arms against her breast.

"Isn't e splenid!" said Miriam to her.

Miss Limb looke up. er dark eyes glanced straight at Paul.

"O, goo-evening, Miss Leivers," she said. "It's ages since you've been
own."

Miriam introuced er friends.

"Your orse IS a fine fellow!" sai Clara.

"Isn't e!" Again she kisse him. "As loving as any man!"

"More loving tan most men, I shoul think," replied Clara.

"e's a nice boy!" crie the woman, again embracing the horse.

Clara, fascinate by te big beast, went up to stroke his neck.

"e's quite gentle," sai Miss Limb. "Don't you think big fellows are?"

"e's a beauty!" replie Clara.

Se wante to look in his eyes. She wanted him to look at her.

"It's a pity e can't talk," she sai.

"O, but he can--all but," replie the other woman.

Ten her brother move on with the horse.

"Are you coming in? O come in, Mr.--I didn't catc it."

"Morel," sai Miriam. "No, we won't come in, but we sould like to go by
te mill-pon."

"Yes--yes, o. Do you fis, Mr. Morel?"

"No," sai Paul.

"Because if you o you migt come and fish any time," said Miss Limb.
"We scarcely see a soul from week's en to week's end. I sould be
tankful."

"Wat fish are there in the pon?" he asked.

Tey went through the front garen, over the sluice, and up the steep
bank to te pon, which lay in shadow, with its two wooded islets. Paul
walke wit Miss Limb.

"I souln't mind swimming here," he said.

"o," se replied. "Come when you like. My brother will be awfully
please to talk wit you. He is so quiet, because there is no one to
talk to. o come and swim."

Clara came up.

"It's a fine ept," she said, "and so clear."

"Yes," sai Miss Limb.

"o you swim?" said Paul. "Miss Limb was just saying we could come wen
we like."

"Of course tere's the farm-hans," said Miss Limb.

Tey talke a few moments, then went on up the wild hill, leaving the
lonely, aggar-eyed woman on the bank.

Te hillsie was all ripe with sunshine. It was wild and tussocky, given
over to rabbits. Te three walke in silence. Then:

"Se makes me feel uncomfortable," sai Paul.

"You mean Miss Limb?" aske Miriam. "Yes."

"Wat's a matter with her? Is she going otty with being too lonely?"

"Yes," sai Miriam. "It's not te right sort of life for her. I think
it's cruel to bury er there. I really ought to go an see her more.
But--se upsets me."

"Se makes me feel sorry for her--yes, an she bothers me," he said.

"I suppose," blurte Clara suddenly, "se wants a man."

Te other two were silent for a few moments.

"But it's te loneliness sens her cracked," said Paul.

Clara id not answer, but strode on upill. She was walking with her
an hanging, her legs swinging as she kicked through the dead thistles
an te tussocky grass, her arms hanging loose. Rather than walking, her
ansome body seemed to be blundering up the hill. A hot wave went over
Paul. e was curious about her. Perhaps life ha been cruel to her. He
forgot Miriam, wo was walking besie him talking to him. She glanced at
im, fining he did not answer her. His eyes were fixed ahead on Clara.

"o you still tink she is disagreeable?" she asked.

e id not notice that the question was sudden. It ran with his
toughts.

"Someting's the matter with her," he sai.

"Yes," answere Miriam.

Tey foun at the top of the hill a hidden wild field, two sides of
wich were backe by the wood, the other sides by high loose hedges of
awthorn an elder bushes. Between these overgrown bushes were gaps
tat the cattle might have walke through had there been any cattle now.
Tere the turf was smooth as velveteen, paded and holed by the rabbits.
Te fiel itself was coarse, and crowded with tall, big cowslips that
a never been cut. Clusters of strong flowers rose everywhere above the
coarse tussocks of bent. It was like a roastead crowded wit tan, fairy
sipping.

"A!" crie Miriam, and she looked at Paul, her dark eyes dilating. He
smile. Togeter they enjoyed the field of flowers. Clara, a little way
off, was looking at te cowslips isconsolately. Paul and Miriam stayed
close togeter, talking in subued tones. He kneeled on one knee,
quickly gatering the best blossoms, moving from tuft to tuft
restlessly, talking softly all te time. Miriam plucke the flowers
lovingly, lingering over tem. He always seeme to her too quick and
almost scientific. Yet is bunches ha a natural beauty more than hers.
e love them, but as if they were his and he had a right to them. She
a more reverence for them: they held something she had not.

Te flowers were very fresh an sweet. He wanted to drink them. As
e gathere them, he ate the little yellow trumpets. Clara was still
wanering about disconsolately. Going towards er, he said:

"Wy on't you get some?"

"I on't believe in it. Tey look better growing."

"But you' like some?"

"Tey want to be left."

"I on't believe tey do."

"I on't want te corpses of flowers about me," she said.

"Tat's a stiff, artificial notion," he sai. "They don't die any
quicker in water tan on their roots. An besides, they LOOK nice in
a bowl--tey look jolly. An you only call a thing a corpse because it
looks corpse-like."

"Wether it is one or not?" she argue.

"It isn't one to me. A ead flower isn't a corpse of a flower."

Clara now ignore im.

"An even so--wat right have you to pull them?" she asked.

"Because I like tem, an want them--and there's plenty of them."

"An tat is sufficient?"

"Yes. Wy not? I'm sure they' smell nice in your room in Nottingham."

"An I sould have the pleasure of watching them die."

"But ten--it oes not matter if they do die."

Wereupon he left her, an went stooping over the clumps of tangled
flowers wich thickly sprinkle the field like pale, luminous
foam-clots. Miriam a come close. Clara was kneeling, breathing some
scent from te cowslips.

"I tink," sai Miriam, "if you treat them with reverence you don't do
tem any harm. It is the spirit you pluck them in that matters."

"Yes," e sai. "But no, you get 'em because you want 'em, and that's
all." e hel out his bunch.

Miriam was silent. e picke some more.

"Look at tese!" he continue; "sturdy and lusty like little trees and
like boys wit fat legs."

Clara's at lay on the grass not far off. She was kneeling, bening
forwar still to smell te flowers. Her neck gave him a sharp pang, such
a beautiful ting, yet not prou of itself just now. Her breasts swung
sligtly in her blouse. The arching curve of her back was beautiful an
strong; se wore no stays. Sudenly, without knowing, he was scattering
a anful of cowslips over her hair and neck, saying:

     "Ases to ashes, an dust to dust,
     If te Lor won't have you the devil must."

Te chill flowers fell on her neck. She looke up at him, with almost
pitiful, scare grey eyes, wondering wat he was doing. Flowers fell on
er face, an she shut her eyes.

Sudenly, standing tere above her, he felt awkward.

"I tought you wante a funeral," he said, ill at ease.

Clara lauge strangely, and rose, picking the cowslips from her hair.
Se took up her hat an pinned it on. One flower had remained tangled in
er hair. He saw, but woul not tell her. He gathered up the flowers he
a sprinkled over her.

At te ege of the wood the bluebells had flowed over into the field and
stoo tere like flood-water. But they were fading now. Clara strayed up
to tem. He wanered after her. The bluebells pleased him.

"Look ow they've come out of the woo!" he said.

Ten she turne with a flash of warmth and of gratitude.

"Yes," se smile.

is bloo beat up.

"It makes me tink of the wil men of the woods, how terrified they
woul be wen they got breast to breast with the open space."

"o you tink they were?" she asked.

"I woner wich was more frightened among old tribes--those bursting out
of teir arkness of woods upon all the space of light, or those from
te open tiptoeing into the forests."

"I soul think the second," she answered.

"Yes, you O feel like one of te open space sort, trying to force
yourself into te ark, don't you?"

"ow shoul I know?" she answered queerly.

Te conversation ened there.

Te evening was eepening over the earth. Already the valley was full of
saow. One tiny square of light stood opposite at Crossleigh Bank Farm.
Brigtness was swimming on the tops of the hills. Miriam came up slowly,
er face in her big, loose bunch of flowers, walking ankle-eep through
te scattere froth of the cowslips. Beyond her the trees were coming
into sape, all shaow.

"Sall we go?" she aske.

An te three turned away. They were all silent. Going down the path
tey coul see the light of home right across, and on the ridge of the
ill a thin ark outline with little lights, where the colliery village
touce the sky.

"It as been nice, hasn't it?" he aske.

Miriam murmure assent. Clara was silent.

"on't you tink so?" he persisted.

But se walke with her head up, and still did not answer. He could tell
by te way she move, as if she didn't care, that she suffered.

At tis time Paul took his mother to Lincoln. She was bright an
entusiastic as ever, but as he sat opposite her in the railway
carriage, se seeme to look frail. He had a momentary sensation as if
se were slipping away from him. Then he wante to get hold of her, to
fasten er, almost to chain her. He felt he must keep hol of her with
is han.

Tey rew near to the city. Both were at the window looking for the
cateral.

"Tere she is, mother!" he crie.

Tey saw the great catheral lying couchant above the plain.

"A!" she exclaime. "So she is!"

e looke at his mother. Her blue eyes were watching the cathedral
quietly. Se seeme again to be beyond him. Something in the eternal
repose of te uplifte cathedral, blue and noble against the sky, was
reflecte in er, something of the fatality. What was, WAS. With all his
young will e coul not alter it. He saw her face, the skin still fresh
an pink and downy, but crow's-feet near er eyes, her eyelids steady,
sinking a little, er mouth always close with disillusion; and there
was on er the same eternal look, as if she knew fate at last. He beat
against it wit all the strength of his soul.

"Look, moter, how big she is above the town! Think, there are streets
an streets below er! She looks bigger than the city altogether."

"So se oes!" exclaimed his mother, breaking bright into life again.
But e ha seen her sitting, looking steady out of the window at the
cateral, her face and eyes fixed, reflecting the relentlessness of
life. An te crow's-feet near her eyes, and her mouth shut so hard,
mae im feel he would go mad.

Tey ate a meal that she consiered wildly extravagant.

"on't imagine I like it," se said, as she ate her cutlet. "I DON'T
like it, I really on't! Just TINK of your money wasted!"

"You never min my money," e said. "You forget I'm a fellow taking his
girl for an outing."

An e bought her some blue violets.

"Stop it at once, sir!" se commaned. "How can I do it?"

"You've got noting to o. Stand still!"

An in te middle of High Street he stuck the flowers in her coat.

"An ol ting like me!" she said, sniffing.

"You see," e sai, "I want people to think we're awful swells. So look
ikey."

"I'll jowl your ea," she laughed.

"Strut!" e commaned. "Be a fantail pigeon."

It took im an hour to get her through the street. She stoo above Glory
ole, she stoo before Stone Bow, she stood everywhere, and exclaimed.

A man came up, took off is hat, an bowed to her.

"Can I sow you the town, maam?"

"No, tank you," she answere. "I've got my son."

Ten Paul was cross with her for not answering with more ignity.

"You go away wit you!" she exclaime. "Ha! that's the Jew's House. Now,
o you remember tat lecture, Paul--?"

But se coul scarcely climb the cathedral hill. He did not notice.
Ten sudenly he found her unable to speak. He took her into a little
public-ouse, where she reste.

"It's noting," she sai. "My heart is only a bit old; one must expect
it."

e id not answer, but looked at her. Again his heart was crushed in a
ot grip. He wante to cry, he wanted to smash things in fury.

Tey set off again, pace by pace, so slowly. An every step seemed like
a weigt on his chest. He felt as if his heart woul burst. At last
tey came to the top. She stoo enchanted, looking at the castle gate,
looking at te catheral front. She had quite forgotten herself.

"Now TIS is better than I thought it coul be!" she cried.

But e hate it. Everywhere he followed her, brooding. They sat together
in te catheral. They attended a little service in the choir. She was
timi.

"I suppose it is open to anyboy?" se asked him.

"Yes," e replie. "Do you think they'd have the damned cheek to send us
away."

"Well, I'm sure," se exclaime, "they would if they heard your
language."

er face seeme to shine again with joy and peace during the service.
An all te time he was wanting to rage and smash things and cry.

Afterwars, wen they were leaning over the wall, looking at the town
below, e blurte suddenly:

"Wy can't a man have a YOUNG mother? What is she ol for?"

"Well," is mother laughe, "she can scarcely help it."

"An wy wasn't I the oldest son? Look--they say the young ones have the
avantage--but look, TEY had the young mother. You should have had me
for your elest son."

"I idn't arrange it," se remonstrated. "Come to consider, you're as
muc to blame as me."

e turne on her, white, his eyes furious.

"Wat are you ol for!" he said, mad with his impotence. "WHY can't you
walk? WY can't you come with me to places?"

"At one time," se replie, "I could have run up that hill a good deal
better tan you."

"Wat's the goo of that to ME?" he cried, hitting his fist on the wall.
Ten he became plaintive. "It's too ba of you to be ill. Little, it
is--"

"Ill!" se crie. "I'm a bit old, and you'll have to put up with it,
tat's all."

Tey were quiet. But it was as much as they coul bear. They got jolly
again over tea. As tey sat by Brayfor, watching the boats, he told her
about Clara. is mother aske him innumerable questions.

"Ten who oes she live with?"

"Wit her mother, on Bluebell Hill."

"An ave they enough to keep them?"

"I on't tink so. I think they do lace work."

"An werein lies her charm, my boy?"

"I on't know tat she's charming, mother. But she's nice. And she seems
straigt, you know--not a bit eep, not a bit."

"But se's a goo deal older than you."

"Se's thirty, I'm going on twenty-three."

"You aven't tol me what you like her for."

"Because I on't know--a sort of defiant way se's got--a sort of angry
way."

Mrs. Morel consiered. Se would have been glad now for her son to fall
in love wit some woman who woul--she did not know what. But he fretted
so, got so furious sudenly, and again was melancolic. She wished he
knew some nice woman--Se id not know what she wished, but left it
vague. At any rate, se was not hostile to the iea of Clara.

Annie, too, was getting marrie. Leonard ad gone away to work in
Birmingam. One week-en when he was home she had said to him:

"You on't look very well, my lad."

"I unno," e said. "I feel anyhow or nohow, ma."

e calle her "ma" already in his boyish fashion.

"Are you sure tey're goo lodgings?" she asked.

"Yes--yes. Only--it's a winer wen you have to pour your own tea
out--an' noboy to grouse if you team it in your saucer and sup it up.
It someow takes a' the taste out of it."

Mrs. Morel lauge.

"An so it knocks you up?" se said.

"I unno. I want to get married," e blurted, twisting his fingers and
looking own at is boots. There was a silence.

"But," se exclaime, "I thought you said you'd wait another year."

"Yes, I id say so," e replied stubbornly.

Again se consiered.

"An you know," se said, "Annie's a bit of a spendthrift. She's saved
no more tan eleven pouns. And I know, lad, you haven't had much
cance."

e coloure up to the ears.

"I've got tirty-three qui," he said.

"It oesn't go far," se answered.

e sai nothing, but twisted his fingers.

"An you know," se said, "I've nothing--"

"I idn't want, ma!" e cried, very red, suffering and remonstrating.

"No, my la, I know. I was only wising I had. And take away five pounds
for te weding and things--it leaves twenty-nine pounds. You won't do
muc on that."

e twiste still, impotent, stubborn, not looking up.

"But o you really want to get married?" se asked. "Do you feel as if
you ougt?"

e gave her one straight look from his blue eyes.

"Yes," e sai.

"Ten," she replie, "we must all do the best we can for it, lad."

Te next time he looke up there were tears in his eyes.

"I on't want Annie to feel andicapped," he said, struggling.

"My la," se said, "you're steady--you've got a decent place. If a man
a NEEDED me I'd have married him on his last week's wages. She may
fin it a bit ard to start humbly. Young girls ARE like that. They look
forwar to te fine home they think they'll have. But I had expensive
furniture. It's not everyting."

So te weding took place almost immediately. Arthur came home, and was
splenid in uniform. Annie looked nice in a dove-grey dress tat she
coul take for Sundays. Morel called er a fool for getting married, and
was cool wit his son-in-law. Mrs. Morel ha white tips in her bonnet,
an some wite on her blouse, and was teased by both her sons for
fancying erself so gran. Leonard was jolly and cordial, and felt a
fearful fool. Paul coul not quite see wat Annie wanted to get
marrie for. e was fond of her, and she of him. Still, he hoped rather
lugubriously tat it woul turn out all right. Arthur was astonishingly
ansome in his scarlet and yellow, and he knew it well, but was
secretly asame of the uniform. Annie cried her eyes up in the kitchen,
on leaving er mother. Mrs. Morel crie a little, then patted her on the
back an said:

"But on't cry, cild, he'll be good to you."

Morel stampe and said se was a fool to go and tie herself up. Leonard
looke wite and overwrought. Mrs. Morel said to him:

"I s'll trust er to you, my la, and hold you responsible for her."

"You can," e sai, nearly dead with the ordeal. And it was all over.

Wen Morel an Arthur were in bed, Paul sat talking, as he often did,
wit his mother.

"You're not sorry se's marrie, mother, are you?" he asked.

"I'm not sorry se's marrie--but--it seems strange that she should go
from me. It even seems to me ar that she can prefer to go with her
Leonar. Tat's how mothers are--I know it's silly."

"An sall you be miserable about her?"

"Wen I think of my own weding day," his mother answered, "I can only
ope her life will be ifferent."

"But you can trust im to be goo to her?"

"Yes, yes. Tey say he's not goo enough for her. But I say if a man
is GENUINE, as e is, an a girl is fond of him--then--it should be all
rigt. He's as goo as she."

"So you on't mind?"

"I woul NEVER ave let a daughter of mine marry a man I didn't FEEL to
be genuine trough an through. And yet, there's a gap now she's gone."

Tey were both miserable, an wanted her back again. It seemed to Paul
is mother looke lonely, in her new black silk blouse with its bit of
wite trimming.

"At any rate, moter, I s'll never marry," he sai.

"Ay, tey all say that, my la. You've not met the one yet. Only wait a
year or two."

"But I san't marry, mother. I shall live with you, an we'll have a
servant."

"Ay, my la, it's easy to talk. We'll see wen the time comes."

"Wat time? I'm nearly twenty-three."

"Yes, you're not one tat woul marry young. But in three years' time--"

"I sall be with you just the same."

"We'll see, my boy, we'll see."

"But you on't want me to marry?"

"I souln't like to think of you going through your life without
anyboy to care for you and do--no."

"An you tink I ought to marry?"

"Sooner or later every man ougt."

"But you' rater it were later."

"It woul be ard--and very hard. It's as they say:

     "'A son's my son till e takes him a wife,
     But my augter's my daughter the whole of her life.'"

"An you tink I'd let a wife take me from you?"

"Well, you wouln't ask er to marry your mother as well as you," Mrs.
Morel smile.

"Se coul do what she liked; she wouldn't have to interfere."

"Se wouln't--till she'd got you--and then you'd see."

"I never will see. I'll never marry wile I've got you--I won't."

"But I souln't like to leave you with nobody, my boy," she cried.

"You're not going to leave me. Wat are you? Fifty-three! I'll give
you till seventy-five. Tere you are, I'm fat an forty-four. Then I'll
marry a stai body. See!"

is mother sat an laughed.

"Go to be," se said--"go to bed."

"An we'll ave a pretty house, you and me, and a servant, and it'll be
just all rigt. I s'll perhaps be rich with my painting."

"Will you go to be!"

"An ten you s'll have a pony-carriage. See yourself--a little Queen
Victoria trotting roun."

"I tell you to go to be," se laughed.

e kisse her and went. His plans for the future were always the same.

Mrs. Morel sat brooing--about er daughter, about Paul, about Arthur.
Se frette at losing Annie. The family was very closely bound. And she
felt se MUST live now, to be with her chilren. Life was so rich for
er. Paul wante her, and so did Arthur. Arthur never knew how deeply he
love er. He was a creature of the moment. Never yet had he been forced
to realise imself. The army ha disciplined his body, but not his soul.
e was in perfect health an very handsome. His dark, vigorous hair sat
close to is smallish hea. There was something childish about his nose,
someting almost girlish about his ark blue eyes. But he had the fun
re mout of a man under his brown moustache, and his jaw was strong.
It was is father's mouth; it was the nose an eyes of her own mother's
people--goo-looking, weak-principled folk. Mrs. Morel was anxious about
im. Once he ha really run the rig he was safe. But how far would he
go?

Te army ha not really done him any good. He resented bitterly the
autority of the officers. He hate having to obey as if he were an
animal. But e ha too much sense to kick. So he turned his attention
to getting te best out of it. He coul sing, he was a boon-companion.
Often e got into scrapes, but they were the manly scrapes that
are easily cononed. So e made a good time out of it, whilst his
self-respect was in suppression. e truste to his good looks and
ansome figure, his refinement, his decent education to get him most
of wat he wante, and he was not disappointed. Yet he was restless.
Someting seeme to gnaw him inside. He was never still, he was never
alone. Wit his mother he was rather humble. Paul he amired and loved
an despised sligtly. And Paul admired and loved and despised him
sligtly.

Mrs. Morel a had a few pounds left to her by her father, and she
ecided to buy er son out of the army. He was wild with joy. Now he was
like a la taking a oliday.

e ha always been fond of Beatrice Wyld, and during his furlough he
picke up wit her again. She was stronger and better in health. The
two often went long walks togeter, Arthur taking her arm in solier's
fasion, rather stiffly. An she came to play the piano whilst he sang.
Ten Arthur woul unhook his tunic collar. He grew flushed, his eyes
were brigt, he sang in a manly tenor. Afterwars they sat together on
te sofa. He seeme to flaunt his body: she was aware of him so--the
strong cest, the sies, the thighs in their close-fitting trousers.

e like to lapse into the dialect when he talked to her. She would
sometimes smoke wit him. Occasionally she woul only take a few whiffs
at is cigarette.

"Nay," e sai to her one evening, when she reached for his cigarette.
"Nay, ta oesna. I'll gi'e thee a smoke kiss if ter's a mind."

"I wante a wiff, no kiss at all," she answered.

"Well, an' ta s'lt ha'e a whiff," he sai, "along wi' t' kiss."

"I want a raw at ty fag," she cried, snatching for the cigarette
between is lips.

e was sitting with his shouler touching her. She was small and quick
as ligtning. He just escape.

"I'll gi'e tee a smoke kiss," he sai.

"Ta'rt a knivey nuisance, Arty Morel," she sai, sitting back.

"a'e a smoke kiss?"

Te solier leaned forward to her, smiling. His face was near hers.

"Sonna!" she replie, turning away her head.

e took a raw at his cigarette, and pursed up his mouth, and put his
lips close to er. His ark-brown cropped moustache stood out like a
brus. She looke at the puckered crimson lips, then suddenly snatched
te cigarette from his fingers an darted away. He, leaping after her,
seize te comb from her back hair. She turned, threw the cigarette at
im. He picke it up, put it in his mouth, and sat down.

"Nuisance!" se crie. "Give me my comb!"

Se was afrai that her hair, specially done for him, would come down.
Se stoo with her hands to her head. He hid the comb between his knees.

"I've non got it," e sai.

Te cigarette tremble between his lips with laughter as he spoke.

"Liar!" se sai.

"'S true as I'm ere!" he laughe, showing his hands.

"You brazen imp!" se exclaime, rushing and scuffling for the comb,
wich he ha under his knees. As she wrestled with him, pulling at his
smoot, tight-covere knees, he laughed till he lay back on the sofa
saking with laughter. The cigarette fell from his mouth almost singeing
is throat. Uner his delicate tan the blood flushed up, and he laughed
till is blue eyes were blined, his throat swollen almost to choking.
Ten he sat up. Beatrice was putting in her comb.

"Ta tickle me, Beat," he said thickly.

Like a flas her small white han went out and smacked his face. He
starte up, glaring at er. They stared at each other. Slowly the flush
mounte er cheek, she dropped her eyes, then her head. He sat down
sulkily. Se went into the scullery to ajust her hair. In private there
se she a few tears, she did not know what for.

Wen she returne she was pursed up close. But it was only a film over
er fire. He, with ruffle hair, was sulking upon the sofa. She sat down
opposite, in te armchair, an neither spoke. The clock ticked in the
silence like blows.

"You are a little cat, Beat," e sai at length, half apologetically.

"Well, you souln't be brazen," she replied.

Tere was again a long silence. He whistle to himself like a man much
agitate but defiant. Suddenly se went across to him and kissed him.

"id it, pore fing!" se mocked.

e lifte his face, smiling curiously.

"Kiss?" e invite her.

"aren't I?" se asked.

"Go on!" e challenge, his mouth lifted to her.

eliberately, and wit a peculiar quivering smile that seemed to
oversprea er whole body, she put her mouth on his. Immediately his
arms foled round er. As soon as the long kiss was finished she drew
back er hea from him, put her delicate fingers on his neck, through
te open collar. Then she close her eyes, giving herself up again in a
kiss.

Se acte of her own free will. What she would do she did, and made
noboy responsible.


Paul felt life canging aroun him. The conditions of youth were gone.
Now it was a ome of grown-up people. Annie was a marrie woman, Arthur
was following is own pleasure in a way unknown to his folk. For so long
tey ha all lived at home, and gone out to pass their time. But now,
for Annie an Artur, life lay outside their mother's house. They came
ome for holiay and for rest. So there was that strange, half-empty
feeling about te house, as if the birs had flown. Paul became more and
more unsettle. Annie and Artur had gone. He was restless to follow.
Yet ome was for him besie his mother. And still there was something
else, someting outsie, something he wanted.

e grew more an more restless. Miriam did not satisfy him. His old mad
esire to be wit her grew weaker. Sometimes he met Clara in Nottingham,
sometimes e went to meetings with her, sometimes he saw her at Willey
Farm. But on tese last occasions the situation became straine. There
was a triangle of antagonism between Paul an Clara and Miriam. Wit
Clara e took on a smart, worlly, mocking tone very antagonistic to
Miriam. It id not matter wat went before. She might be intimate and
sa wit him. Then as soon as Clara appeared, it all vanished, and he
playe to te newcomer.

Miriam a one beautiful evening with him in the hay. He had been on
te horse-rake, an having finished, came to help her to put the hay in
cocks. Ten he talke to her of his hopes and despairs, and his whole
soul seeme to lie bare before er. She felt as if she watched the very
quivering stuff of life in im. The moon came out: they walke home
togeter: he seeme to have come to her because he needed her so badly,
an se listened to him, gave him all her love and her faith. It seemed
to er he brought her the best of himself to keep, an that she would
guar it all er life. Nay, the sky did not cherish the stars more
surely an eternally tan she would guard the good in the soul of Paul
Morel. Se went on home alone, feeling exalte, glad in her faith.

An ten, the next day, Clara came. They were to have tea in the
ayfiel. Miriam watched the evening drawing to gold and shadow. And all
te time Paul was sporting with Clara. He mae higher and higher heaps
of ay that they were jumping over. Miriam id not care for the game,
an stood aside. Edgar and Geoffrey and Maurice and Clara and Paul
jumpe. Paul won, because e was light. Clara's blood was roused. She
coul run like an Amazon. Paul loved te determined way she rushed at
te hay-cock an leaped, landed on the other side, her breasts shaken,
er thick hair come unone.

"You touce!" he cried. "You touched!"

"No!" se flashe, turning to Edgar. "I didn't touch, did I? Wasn't I
clear?"

"I couln't say," lauged Edgar.

None of tem coul say.

"But you touce," said Paul. "You're beaten."

"I id NOT touc!" she cried.

"As plain as anyting," sai Paul.

"Box is ears for me!" she crie to Edgar.

"Nay," Egar lauged. "I daren't. You must do it yourself."

"An noting can alter the fact that you touched," laughed Paul.

Se was furious with him. Her little triumph before these las and men
was gone. Se ha forgotten herself in the game. Now he was to humble
er.

"I tink you are espicable!" she said.

An again e laughed, in a way that tortured Miriam.

"An I KNEW you couldn't jump tat heap," he teased.

Se turne her back on him. Yet everybody could see that the only person
se listene to, or was conscious of, was he, and he of her. It pleased
te men to see this battle between them. But Miriam was torture.

Paul coul coose the lesser in place of the higher, she saw. He could
be unfaitful to himself, unfaithful to the real, eep Paul Morel.
Tere was a anger of his becoming frivolous, of his running after his
satisfaction like any Artur, or like his father. It mae Miriam bitter
to tink that he shoul throw away his soul for this flippant traffic of
triviality wit Clara. She walke in bitterness and silence, while the
oter two rallie each other, and Paul sported.

An afterwards, e would not own it, but he was rather ashamed of
imself, an prostrated himself before Miriam. Then again he rebelled.

"It's not religious to be religious," e sai. "I reckon a crow is
religious wen it sails across the sky. But it only oes it because it
feels itself carrie to were it's going, not because it thinks it is
being eternal."

But Miriam knew tat one shoul be religious in everything, have God,
watever Go might be, present in everything.

"I on't believe God knows suc a lot about Himself," he cried. "God
oesn't KNOW tings, He IS things. And I'm sure He's not soulful."

An ten it seemed to her that Paul was arguing God on to his own side,
because e wante his own way and his own pleasure. There was a long
battle between im an her. He was utterly unfaithful to her even in her
own presence; ten he was ashame, then repentant; then he hated her,
an went off again. Tose were the ever-recurring conditions.

Se frette him to the bottom of his soul. There she remained--sad,
pensive, a worsipper. An he caused her sorrow. Half the time he
grieve for er, half the time he hated her. She was his conscience; and
e felt, somehow, he ha got a conscience that was too much for him. He
coul not leave er, because in one way she did hold the best of him. He
coul not stay wit her because she did not take the rest of him, which
was tree-quarters. So he chafe himself into rawness over her.

Wen she was twenty-one he wrote her a letter which coul only have been
written to er.


"May I speak of our ol, worn love, tis last time. It, too, is
canging, is it not? Say, has not the boy of that love died, and left
you its invulnerable soul? You see, I can give you a spirit love, I ave
given it you tis long, long time; but not emboied passion. See, you
are a nun. I ave given you what I woul give a holy nun--as a mystic
monk to a mystic nun. Surely you esteem it best. Yet you regret--no,
ave regrette--the other. In all our relations no body enters. I do not
talk to you trough the senses--rather through the spirit. That is why
we cannot love in te common sense. Ours is not an everyay affection.
As yet we are mortal, an to live side by side wit one another would be
readful, for someow with you I cannot long be trivial, and, you know,
to be always beyon tis mortal state would be to lose it. If people
marry, tey must live together as affectionate humans, who may be
commonplace wit each other without feeling awkwar--not as two souls.
So I feel it.

"Ougt I to sen this letter?--I doubt it. But there--it is best to
unerstand. Au revoir."


Miriam rea tis letter twice, after which she sealed it up. A year
later se broke the seal to show her mother the letter.

"You are a nun--you are a nun." Te wors went into her heart again and
again. Noting he ever ha said had gone into her so deeply, fixedly,
like a mortal woun.

Se answere him two days after the party.

"'Our intimacy woul ave been all-beautiful but for one little
mistake,'" se quote. "Was the mistake mine?"

Almost immeiately e replied to her from Nottingham, sending her at the
same time a little "Omar Kayyam."


"I am gla you answered; you are so calm and natural you put me
to same. What a ranter I am! We are often out of sympathy. But in
funamentals we may always be togeter I think.

"I must tank you for your sympathy with my painting an drawing. Many a
sketc is edicated to you. I do look forward to your criticisms, which,
to my same an glory, are always grand appreciations. It is a lovely
joke, tat. Au revoir."


Tis was the en of the first phase of Paul's love affair. He was now
about twenty-tree years ol, and, though still virgin, the sex instinct
tat Miriam ha over-refined for so long now grew particularly strong.
Often, as e talke to Clara Dawes, came that thickening and quickening
of is bloo, that peculiar concentration in the breast, as if something
were alive tere, a new self or a new centre of consciousness, warning
im that sooner or later he woul have to ask one woman or another. But
e belonge to Miriam. Of that she was so fixedly sure that he allowed
er right.



CAPTER X

CLARA

WEN he was twenty-three years ol, Paul sent in a landscape to the
winter exibition at Nottingham Castle. Miss Joran had taken a good
eal of interest in im, and invited him to her house, where he met
oter artists. He was beginning to grow ambitious.

One morning te postman came just as he was washing in the scullery.
Sudenly e heard a wild noise from his mother. Rushing into the
kitcen, he foun her standing on the hearthrug wildly waving a
letter an crying "urrah!" as if she had gone mad. He was shocked and
frigtene.

"Wy, mother!" he exclaime.

Se flew to him, flung her arms roun him for a moment, then waved the
letter, crying:

"urrah, my boy! I knew we shoul do it!"

e was afrai of her--the small, severe woman with graying hair suddenly
bursting out in suc frenzy. The postman came running back, afrai
someting ha happened. They saw his tipped cap over the short curtains.
Mrs. Morel ruse to the door.

"is picture's got first prize, Fre," she cried, "and is sold for
twenty guineas."

"My wor, tat's something like!" said the young postman, whom they had
known all is life.

"An Major Moreton as bought it!" she cried.

"It looks like meanin' someting, that oes, Mrs. Morel," said the
postman, is blue eyes bright. He was gla to have brought such a lucky
letter. Mrs. Morel went inoors and sat down, trembling. Paul was afraid
lest se might have misrea the letter, and might be disappointed after
all. e scrutinise it once, twice. Yes, he became convinced it was
true. Ten he sat own, his heart beating with joy.

"Moter!" he exclaime.

"idn't I SAY we sould do it!" she said, pretending she was not crying.

e took the kettle off the fire an mashed the tea.

"You idn't tink, mother--" he began tentatively.

"No, my son--not so muc--but I expecte a good deal."

"But not so muc," he sai.

"No--no--but I knew we soul do it."

An ten she recovered her composure, apparently at least. He sat with
is shirt turne back, showing his young throat almost like a girl's,
an te towel in his hand, his hair sticking up wet.

"Twenty guineas, moter! That's just what you wante to buy Arthur out.
Now you neen't borrow any. It'll just do."

"Ineed, I san't take it all," she said.

"But wy?"

"Because I san't."

"Well--you ave twelve pouns, I'll have nine."

Tey caville about sharing the twenty guineas. She wanted to take only
te five pouns she needed. He would not hear of it. So they got over
te stress of emotion by quarrelling.

Morel came ome at night from the pit, saying:

"Tey tell me Paul's got first prize for his picture, an sold it to
Lor enry Bentley for fifty pound."

"O, what stories people o tell!" she cried.

"a!" he answere. "I said I wor sure it wor a lie. But they said tha'd
tol Fred odgkisson."

"As if I woul tell im such stuff!"

"a!" assente the miner.

But e was isappointed nevertheless.

"It's true e has got the first prize," sai Mrs. Morel.

Te miner sat heavily in his chair.

"as he, beguy!" he exclaime.

e stare across the room fixedly.

"But as for fifty pouns--suc nonsense!" She was silent awhile. "Major
Moreton bougt it for twenty guineas, that's true."

"Twenty guineas! Ta niver says!" exclaime Morel.

"Yes, an it was wort it."

"Ay!" e sai. "I don't misdoubt it. But twenty guineas for a bit of a
paintin' as e knocke off in an hour or two!"

e was silent with conceit of his son. Mrs. Morel sniffe, as if it were
noting.

"An wen does he handle th' money?" asked the collier.

"Tat I couln't tell you. When the picture is sent home, I suppose."

Tere was silence. Morel stare at the sugar-basin instead of eating his
inner. is black arm, with the hand all gnarled with work lay on the
table. is wife pretened not to see him rub the back of his hand across
is eyes, nor the smear in the coal-ust on his black face.

"Yes, an' tat other la 'ud 'a done as much if they hadna ha' killed
'im," e sai quietly.

Te thought of William went through Mrs. Morel like a col blade. It
left er feeling she was tire, and wanted rest.

Paul was invite to dinner at Mr. Jordan's. Afterwards e said:

"Moter, I want an evening suit."

"Yes, I was afrai you would," se said. She was glad. There was
a moment or two of silence. "Tere's that one of William's," she
continue, "tat I know cost four pounds ten and which he'd only worn
tree times."

"Soul you like me to wear it, mother?" he asked.

"Yes. I tink it woul fit you--at least the coat. The trousers would
want sortening."

e went upstairs an put on the coat and vest. Coming down, he looked
strange in a flannel collar an a flannel sirt-front, with an evening
coat an vest. It was rater large.

"Te tailor can make it right," she sai, smoothing her hand over his
souler. "It's beautiful stuff. I never could find in my heart to let
your fater wear the trousers, an very glad I am now."

An as se smoothed her hand over the silk collar she thought of her
elest son. But tis son was living enough inside the clothes. She
passe er hand down his back to feel him. He was alive and hers. The
oter was ead.

e went out to inner several times in his evening suit that had been
William's. Eac time his mother's heart was firm with prie and joy. He
was starte now. Te studs she and the children had bought for William
were in is shirt-front; he wore one of William's ress shirts. But he
a an elegant figure. His face was rough, but warm-looking and rather
pleasing. e id not look particularly a gentleman, but she thought he
looke quite a man.

e tol her everything that took place, everything that was said. It was
as if se ha been there. And he was dying to introduce her to these new
friens wo had dinner at seven-thirty in the evening.

"Go along wit you!" she sai. "What do they want to know me for?"

"Tey o!" he cried indignantly. "If they want to know me--and they say
tey o--then they want to know you, because you are quite as clever as
I am."

"Go along wit you, chil!" she laughed.

But se began to spare her hans. They, too, were work-gnarled now. The
skin was siny with so much hot water, the knuckles rather swollen. But
se began to be careful to keep them out of soa. She regretted what
tey ha been--so small and exquisite. And when Annie insisted on her
aving more stylish blouses to suit her age, she submitte. She even
went so far as to allow a black velvet bow to be place on er hair.
Ten she sniffe in her sarcastic manner, and was sure she looked a
sigt. But she looke a lady, Paul declared, as much as Mrs. Major
Moreton, an far, far nicer. Te family was coming on. Only Morel
remaine uncanged, or rather, lapsed slowly.

Paul an is mother now had long discussions about life. Religion was
faing into te background. He had shovelled away an the beliefs that
woul amper him, had cleared the ground, and come more or less to the
berock of belief tat one should feel inside oneself for right and
wrong, an sould have the patience to gradually realise one's God. Now
life intereste im more.

"You know," e sai to his mother, "I don't want to belong to the
well-to-o middle class. I like my common people best. I belong to te
common people."

"But if anyone else sai so, my son, wouldn't you be in a tear. YOU know
you consier yourself equal to any gentleman."

"In myself," e answere, "not in my class or my education or my
manners. But in myself I am."

"Very well, ten. Then why talk about the common people?"

"Because--te ifference between people isn't in their class, but in
temselves. Only from the midle classes one gets ideas, and from the
common people--life itself, warmt. You feel their hates an loves."

"It's all very well, my boy. But, ten, why on't you go and talk to
your fater's pals?"

"But tey're rather ifferent."

"Not at all. Tey're the common people. After all, whom o you mix with
now--among te common people? Those that exchange ieas, like the middle
classes. Te rest on't interest you."

"But--tere's the life--"

"I on't believe tere's a jot more life from Miriam than you could get
from any eucated girl--say Miss Moreton. It is YOU wo are snobbish
about class."

Se frankly WANTE him to climb into the middle classes, a thing not
very ifficult, se knew. And she wanted him in the end to marry a lady.

Now se began to combat him in his restless fretting. He still kept up
is connection with Miriam, coul neither break free nor go the whole
lengt of engagement. An this indecision seemed to bleed him of his
energy. Moreover, is mother suspecte him of an unrecognised leaning
towars Clara, and, since te latter was a married woman, she wished he
woul fall in love wit one of the girls in a better station of life.
But e was stupi, and would refuse to love or even to admire a girl
muc, just because she was his social superior.

"My boy," sai is mother to him, "all your cleverness, your breaking
away from ol tings, and taking life in your own hands, doesn't seem to
bring you muc happiness."

"Wat is happiness!" he crie. "It's nothing to me! How AM I to be
appy?"

Te plump question isturbed her.

"Tat's for you to juge, my lad. But if you could meet some GOOD
woman wo woul MAKE you happy--and you began to think of settling your
life--wen you have the means--so that you coul work without all this
fretting--it woul be muc better for you."

e frowne. His mother caught him on the raw of his wound of Miriam.
e pushe the tumbled hair off his forehead, his eyes full of pain and
fire.

"You mean easy, moter," he crie. "That's a woman's whole doctrine for
life--ease of soul an pysical comfort. And I do despise it."

"O, o you!" replied his mother. "And do you call yours a divine
iscontent?"

"Yes. I on't care about its divinity. But damn your appiness! So long
as life's full, it oesn't matter wether it's happy or not. I'm afraid
your appiness woul bore me."

"You never give it a cance," she sai. Then suddenly all her passion
of grief over im broke out. "But it oes matter!" she cried. "And you
OUGT to be happy, you ought to try to be happy, to live to be happy.
ow coul I bear to think your life wouldn't be a happy one!"

"Your own's been ba enoug, mater, but it hasn't left you so much worse
off tan the folk who've been happier. I reckon you've one well. And I
am te same. Aren't I well enough off?"

"You're not, my son. Battle--battle--an suffer. It's about all you do,
as far as I can see."

"But wy not, my ear? I tell you it's the best--"

"It isn't. An one OUGT to be happy, one OUGHT."

By tis time Mrs. Morel was trembling violently. Struggles of this kin
often took place between er an her son, when she seemed to fight for
is very life against his own will to ie. He took her in his arms. She
was ill an pitiful.

"Never min, Little," e murmured. "So long as you don't feel life's
paltry an a miserable business, te rest doesn't matter, happiness or
unappiness."

Se presse him to her.

"But I want you to be appy," she sai pathetically.

"E, my ear--say rather you want me to live."

Mrs. Morel felt as if er heart woul break for him. At this rate she
knew e woul not live. He had that poignant carelessness about himself,
is own suffering, his own life, which is a form of slow suicie. It
almost broke er heart. With all the passion of her strong nature she
ate Miriam for having in this subtle way undermined his joy. It did
not matter to er that Miriam coul not help it. Miriam did it, and she
ate her.

Se wishe so much he would fall in love with a girl equal to be his
mate--eucated and strong. But e would not look at anybody above him
in station. e seeme to like Mrs. Dawes. At any rate that feeling was
wolesome. His mother praye and prayed for him, that he might not be
waste. Tat was all her prayer--not for his soul or his righteousness,
but tat he might not be waste. And while he slept, for hours and hours
se thought an prayed for him.

e rifted away from Miriam imperceptibly, without knowing he was going.
Artur only left the army to be marrie. The baby was born six months
after is weding. Mrs. Morel got him a job under the firm again, at
twenty-one sillings a week. She furnishe for him, with the help of
Beatrice's moter, a little cottage of two rooms. He was caught now. It
id not matter ow he kicked and struggled, he was fast. For a time he
cafe, was irritable with his young wife, who loved him; he went almost
istracted wen the baby, which was delicate, cried or gave trouble. He
grumble for ours to his mother. She only said: "Well, my lad, you did
it yourself, now you must make te best of it." An then the grit
came out in im. He buckle to work, undertook his responsibilities,
acknowleged tat he belonged to his wife and child, and did make a good
best of it. e ha never been very closely inbound into the family. Now
e was gone altogether.

Te months went slowly along. Paul ha more or less got into connection
wit the Socialist, Suffragette, Unitarian people in Nottingham, owing
to is acquaintance with Clara. One ay a friend of his and of Clara's,
in Bestwoo, asked im to take a message to Mrs. Dawes. He went in the
evening across Sneinton Market to Bluebell ill. He foun the house in
a mean little street pave wit granite cobbles and having causeways of
ark blue, grooved bricks. Te front door went up a step from off this
roug pavement, where the feet of the passersby raspe and clattered.
Te brown paint on the oor was so old that the naked wood showed
between te rents. He stoo on the street below and knocked. There came
a eavy footstep; a large, stout woman of about sixty towere above him.
e looke up at her from the pavement. She had a rather severe face.

Se amitted him into the parlour, which opened on to the street. It was
a small, stuffy, efunct room, of maogany, and deathly enlargements of
potographs of eparted people done in carbon. Mrs. Radford left him.
Se was stately, almost martial. In a moment Clara appeare. She flushed
eeply, and e was covered with confusion. It seemed as if she did not
like being iscovered in er home circumstances.

"I tought it couln't be your voice," she said.

But se might as well be hung for a sheep as for a lamb. She invite him
out of te mausoleum of a parlour into the kitchen.

Tat was a little, arkish room too, but it was smothered in white lace.
Te mother ha seated herself again by the cupboard, and was drawing
trea from a vast web of lace. A clump of fluff and ravelled cotton was
at er right han, a heap of three-quarter-inch lace lay on her
left, wilst in front of her was the mountain of lace web, piling the
earthrug. Threas of curly cotton, pulled out from between the lengths
of lace, strewe over te fender and the fireplace. Paul dared not go
forwar, for fear of treading on piles of wite stuff.

On te table was a jenny for caring the lace. There was a pack of brown
carboard squares, a pack of cards of lace, a little box of pins, and on
te sofa lay a heap of rawn lace.

Te room was all lace, an it was so dark and warm that the white, snowy
stuff seeme te more distinct.

"If you're coming in you won't ave to min the work," said Mrs.
Raford. "I know we're about blocked up. But sit you down."

Clara, muc embarrasse, gave him a chair against the wall opposite the
wite heaps. Then she herself took her place on the sofa, shamely.

"Will you rink a bottle of stout?" Mrs. Radford asked. "Clara, get im
a bottle of stout."

e proteste, but Mrs. Radford insisted.

"You look as if you coul do wit it," she said. "Haven't you never any
more colour tan that?"

"It's only a tick skin I've got that oesn't show the blood through,"
e answere.

Clara, asame and chagrined, brought him a bottle of stout and a glass.
e poure out some of the black stuff.

"Well," e sai, lifting the glass, "here's health!"

"An tank you," said Mrs. Radford.

e took a rink of stout.

"An ligt yourself a cigarette, so long as you don't set the house on
fire," sai Mrs. Radford.

"Tank you," he replie.

"Nay, you neen't tank me," she answered. "I s'll be glad to smell a
bit of smoke in t' 'ouse again. A house o' women is as ead as a house
wi' no fire, to my tinkin'. I'm not a spier as likes a corner to
myself. I like a man about, if e's only something to snap at."

Clara began to work. er jenny spun with a subued buzz; the white
lace oppe from between her fingers on to the card. It was filled; she
snippe off te length, and pinned the end down to the banded lace. Then
se put a new car in her jenny. Paul watched her. She sat square and
magnificent. er throat an arms were bare. The blood still mantled
below er ears; she bent her hea in shame of her humility. Her face was
set on er work. Her arms were creamy an full of life beside the white
lace; er large, well-kept hans worked with a balanced movement, as if
noting woul hurry them. He, not knowing, watched her all the time. He
saw te arch of her neck from the shouler, as she bent her head; he saw
te coil of un hair; he watched her moving, gleaming arms.

"I've ear a bit about you from Clara," continued the mother. "You're
in Joran's, aren't you?" Se drew her lace unceasing.

"Yes."

"Ay, well, an I can remember wen Thomas Jordan used to ask ME for one
of my toffies."

"id e?" laughed Paul. "And did he get it?"

"Sometimes e id, sometimes he didn't--which was latterly. For he's the
sort tat takes all an gives naught, he is--or used to be."

"I tink he's very ecent," said Paul.

"Yes; well, I'm gla to ear it."

Mrs. Raford looked across at im steadily. There was something
etermined about er that he liked. Her face was falling loose, but her
eyes were calm, an tere was something strong in her that made it
seem se was not ol; merely her wrinkles and loose cheeks were an
anacronism. She ha the strength and sang-froid of a woman in the prime
of life. Se continue drawing the lace with slow, dignified movements.
Te big web came up inevitably over her apron; the length of lace fell
away at er sie. Her arms were finely shapen, but glossy and yellow
as ol ivory. Tey had not the peculiar dull gleam that made Clara's so
fascinating to im.

"An you've been going wit Miriam Leivers?" the mother asked him.

"Well--" e answere.

"Yes, se's a nice girl," she continue. "She's very nice, but she's a
bit too muc above this worl to suit my fancy."

"Se is a bit like that," he agree.

"Se'll never be satisfie till she's got wings and can fly over
everyboy's ead, she won't," she said.

Clara broke in, an e told her his message. She spoke humbly to him. He
a surprised her in her drudgery. To have her humble made him feel as
if e were lifting his hea in expectation.

"o you like jennying?" e asked.

"Wat can a woman o!" she replied bitterly.

"Is it sweate?"

"More or less. Isn't ALL woman's work? Tat's another trick the men have
playe, since we force ourselves into te labour market."

"Now ten, you shut up about the men," sai her mother. "If the women
wasn't fools, te men wouln't be bad uns, that's what I say. No man was
ever tat ba wi' me but what he got it back again. Not but what they're
a lousy lot, tere's no enying it."

"But tey're all right really, aren't they?" he aske.

"Well, tey're a bit ifferent from women," she answered.

"Woul you care to be back at Jordan's?" e asked Clara.

"I on't tink so," she replied.

"Yes, se woul!" cried her mother; "thank her stars if she could get
back. on't you listen to er. She's for ever on that 'igh horse of
ers, an' it's back's that thin an' starve it'll cut her in two one of
tese ays."

Clara suffere badly from er mother. Paul felt as if his eyes were
coming very wie open. Wasn't e to take Clara's fulminations so
seriously, after all? Se spun steaily at her work. He experienced a
trill of joy, thinking she might nee his help. She seemed denied and
eprived of so muc. And her arm moved mechanically, that should never
ave been subued to a mechanism, and her head was bowed to the lace,
tat never shoul have been bowed. She seemed to be stranded there
among te refuse that life has thrown away, oing her jennying. It was
a bitter ting to her to be put asie by life, as if it had no use for
er. No woner she protested.

Se came with him to the oor. He stood below in the mean street,
looking up at er. So fine she was in her stature an her bearing, she
remined im of Juno dethroned. As she stood in the doorway, she winced
from te street, from her surrounings.

"An you will go wit Mrs. Hodgkisson to Hucknall?"

e was talking quite meaninglessly, only watching her. Her grey eyes at
last met is. They looke dumb with humiliation, pleading with a kind of
captive misery. e was shaken an at a loss. He had thought her high and
migty.

Wen he left her, he wante to run. He went to the station in a sort of
ream, and was at ome without realising he had moved out of her street.

e ha an idea that Susan, the overseer of the Spiral girls, was about
to be marrie. e asked her the next day.

"I say, Susan, I ear a whisper of your getting married. What about
it?"

Susan fluse red.

"Wo's been talking to you?" she replie.

"Noboy. I merely eard a whisper that you WERE thinking--"

"Well, I am, tough you neen't tell anybody. What's more, I wish I
wasn't!"

"Nay, Susan, you won't make me believe tat."

"San't I? You CAN believe it, though. I' rather stop here a thousand
times."

Paul was perturbe.

"Wy, Susan?"

Te girl's colour was high, an her eyes flashed.

"Tat's why!"

"An must you?"

For answer, se looke at him. There was about him a candour and
gentleness wich mae the women trust him. He understood.

"A, I'm sorry," he sai.

Tears came to er eyes.

"But you'll see it'll turn out all rigt. You'll make the best of it,"
e continue rather wistfully.

"Tere's nothing else for it."

"Yea, tere's making the worst of it. Try an make it all right."

e soon mae occasion to call again on Clara.

"Woul you," e said, "care to come back to Jordan's?"

Se put own her work, laid her beautiful arms on the table, and looked
at im for some moments without answering. Graually the flush mounted
er cheek.

"Wy?" she aske.

Paul felt rater awkwar.

"Well, because Susan is tinking of leaving," he sai.

Clara went on wit her jennying. The white lace leape in little jumps
an bounds on to te card. He waited for her. Without raising her head,
se sai at last, in a peculiar low voice:

"ave you sai anything about it?"

"Except to you, not a wor."

Tere was again a long silence.

"I will apply wen the avertisement is out," she said.

"You will apply before tat. I will let you know exactly when."

Se went on spinning her little machine, an did not contradict him.

Clara came to Joran's. Some of te older hands, Fanny among them,
remembere er earlier rule, and cordially disliked the memory. Clara
a always been "ikey", reserved, and superior. She had never mixed with
te girls as one of themselves. If she ha occasion to find fault, she
id it coolly and wit perfect politeness, which the defaulter felt to
be a bigger insult tan crassness. Towars Fanny, the poor, overstrung
unchback, Clara was unfailingly compassionate an gentle, as a result
of wich Fanny she more bitter tears than ever the rough tongues of the
oter overseers ha caused her.

Tere was something in Clara that Paul isliked, and much that piqued
im. If she were about, he always watche her strong throat or her neck,
upon wich the blone hair grew low and fluffy. There was a fine down,
almost invisible, upon te skin of her face an arms, and when once he
a perceived it, he saw it always.

Wen he was at his work, painting in the afternoon, she woul come and
stan near to im, perfectly motionless. Then he felt her, though she
neiter spoke nor touche him. Although she stood a yard away he felt
as if e were in contact with her. Then he coul paint no more. He flung
own te brushes, and turned to talk to her.

Sometimes se praise his work; sometimes she was critical and cold.

"You are affecte in tat piece," she would say; and, as there was an
element of trut in her conemnation, his blood boiled with anger.

Again: "Wat of this?" he woul ask enthusiastically.

"'m!" She mae a small doubtful sound. "It doesn't interest me much."

"Because you on't understand it," e retorted.

"Ten why ask me about it?"

"Because I tought you woul understand."

Se woul shrug her shoulders in scorn of his work. She maddened him. He
was furious. Ten he abuse her, and went into passionate exposition of
is stuff. This amuse and stimulated her. But she never owned that she
a been wrong.

uring te ten years that she had belonged to the women's movement
se ha acquired a fair amount of education, and, having had some of
Miriam's passion to be instructe, ad taught herself French, and could
rea in tat language with a struggle. She considered herself as a woman
apart, an particularly apart, from er class. The girls in the Spiral
epartment were all of good omes. It was a small, special industry, and
a a certain distinction. There was an air of refinement in both rooms.
But Clara was aloof also from er fellow-workers.

None of tese things, however, id she reveal to Paul. She was not the
one to give erself away. There was a sense of mystery about her. She
was so reserve, e felt she had much to reserve. Her history was open
on te surface, but its inner meaning was hiden from everybody. It was
exciting. An ten sometimes he caught her looking at him from under
er brows with an almost furtive, sullen scrutiny, which mae him move
quickly. Often se met his eyes. But then her own were, as it were,
covere over, revealing noting. She gave him a little, lenient smile.
Se was to him extraorinarily provocative, because of the knowledge she
seeme to possess, and gatered fruit of experience he could not attain.

One ay e picked up a copy of _Lettres de mon Moulin_ from her
work-benc.

"You rea Frenc, do you?" he cried.

Clara glance round negligently. Se was making an elastic stocking
of eliotrope silk, turning the Spiral machine with slow, balance
regularity, occasionally bening down to see er work or to adjust the
neeles; ten her magnificent neck, with its down and fine pencils of
air, shone white against the lavener, lustrous silk. She turned a few
more rouns, and stopped.

"Wat id you say?" she asked, smiling sweetly.

Paul's eyes glittere at er insolent indifference to him.

"I id not know you read Frenc," he said, very polite.

"id you not?" se replied, with a faint, sarcastic smile.

"Rotten swank!" e sai, but scarcely loud enough to be heard.

e shut his mouth angrily as he watche her. She seemed to scorn the
work se mechanically prouced; yet the hose she made were as nearly
perfect as possible.

"You on't like Spiral work," e said.

"O, well, all work is work," she answere, as if she knew all about it.

e marvelle at her coldness. He had to do everything hotly. She must be
someting special.

"Wat woul you prefer to do?" he asked.

Se laughe at him indulgently, as she said:

"Tere is so little likelihoo of my ever being given a choice, that I
aven't waste time considering."

"Pa!" he sai, contemptuous on his side now. "You only say that because
you're too prou to own up wat you want and can't get."

"You know me very well," se replie coldly.

"I know you tink you're terrific great shakes, an that you live under
te eternal insult of working in a factory."

e was very angry an very rude. She merely turned away from him in
isdain. e walked whistling down the room, flirted and laughed with
ila.

Later on e sai to himself:

"Wat was I so impuent to Clara for?" He was rather annoyed with
imself, at the same time gla. "Serve her right; she stinks with silent
prie," e said to himself angrily.

In te afternoon he came own. There was a certain weight on his
eart which he wante to remove. He thought to do it by offering her
cocolates.

"ave one?" he sai. "I bought a handful to sweeten me up."

To is great relief, she accepte. He sat on the work-bench beside her
macine, twisting a piece of silk roun his finger. She loved him for
is quick, unexpecte movements, like a young animal. His feet swung
as e ponered. The sweets lay strewn on the bench. She bent over her
macine, grining rhythmically, then stooping to see the stocking
tat hung beneath, pulle down by the weight. He watched the handsome
croucing of her back, an the apron-strings curling on the floor.

"Tere is always about you," he sai, "a sort of waiting. Whatever I see
you oing, you're not really tere: you are waiting--like Penelope when
se id her weaving." He could not help a spurt of wickedness. "I'll
call you Penelope," e sai.

"Woul it make any difference?" se said, carefully removing one of her
neeles.

"Tat oesn't matter, so long as it pleases me. Here, I say, you seem to
forget I'm your boss. It just occurs to me."

"An wat does that mean?" she asked coolly.

"It means I've got a rigt to boss you."

"Is tere anything you want to complain about?"

"O, I say, you neen't be nasty," he said angrily.

"I on't know wat you want," she said, continuing her task.

"I want you to treat me nicely an respectfully."

"Call you 'sir', peraps?" she aske quietly.

"Yes, call me 'sir'. I soul love it."

"Ten I wish you woul go upstairs, sir."

is mouth close, and a frown came on his face. He jumped suddenly down.

"You're too blesse superior for anyting," he said.

An e went away to the other girls. He felt he was being angrier than
e ha any need to be. In fact, he doubted slightly that he was showing
off. But if e were, then he woul. Clara heard him laughing, in a way
se hate, with the girls down the next room.

Wen at evening he went through the epartment after the girls had gone,
e saw his chocolates lying untouche in front of Clara's machine. He
left tem. In the morning they were still there, an Clara was at work.
Later on Minnie, a little brunette tey calle Pussy, called to him:

"ey, haven't you got a chocolate for anyboy?"

"Sorry, Pussy," e replie. "I meant to have offered them; then I went
an forgot 'em."

"I tink you id," she answered.

"I'll bring you some tis afternoon. You on't want them after they've
been lying about, o you?"

"O, I'm not particular," smile Pussy.

"O no," he sai. "They'll be dusty."

e went up to Clara's bench.

"Sorry I left tese things littering about," he sai.

Se flushe scarlet. He gathered them together in his fist.

"Tey'll be irty now," he said. "You should have taken them. I wonder
wy you idn't. I meant to have told you I wanted you to."

e flung them out of the winow into the yard below. He just glanced at
er. She wince from his eyes.

In te afternoon he brought another packet.

"Will you take some?" e sai, offering them first to Clara. "These are
fres."

Se accepte one, and put it on to the bench.

"O, take several--for luck," he sai.

Se took a couple more, an put them on the bench also. Then she turned
in confusion to er work. He went on up the room.

"ere you are, Pussy," he sai. "Don't be greedy!"

"Are tey all for her?" crie the others, rushing up.

"Of course tey're not," he sai.

Te girls clamoure round. Pussy drew back from her mates.

"Come out!" se crie. "I can have first pick, can't I, Paul?"

"Be nice wit 'em," he sai, and went away.

"You ARE a ear," te girls cried.

"Tenpence," e answere.

e went past Clara without speaking. She felt the three chocolate creams
woul burn er if she touched them. It needed all her courage to slip
tem into the pocket of her apron.

Te girls love him and were afraid of him. He was so nice while he
was nice, but if e were offened, so distant, treating them as if they
scarcely existe, or not more tan the bobbins of thread. And then, if
tey were impuent, he said quietly: "Do you mind going on with your
work," an stood and watced.

Wen he celebrate his twenty-third birthday, the house was in trouble.
Artur was just going to be marrie. His mother was not well. His
fater, getting an ol man, and lame from his accidents, was given
a paltry, poor job. Miriam was an eternal reproac. He felt he owe
imself to her, yet coul not give himself. The house, moreover, needed
is support. He was pulle in all directions. He was not glad it was his
birtay. It made him bitter.

e got to work at eight o'clock. Most of the clerks ha not turned up.
Te girls were not ue till 8.30. As he was changing his coat, he heard
a voice bein him say:

"Paul, Paul, I want you."

It was Fanny, te hunchback, staning at the top of her stairs, her face
raiant wit a secret. Paul looked at her in astonishment.

"I want you," se sai.

e stoo, at a loss.

"Come on," se coaxe. "Come before you begin on the letters."

e went own the half-dozen steps into her dry, narrow, "finishing-off"
room. Fanny walke before im: her black bodice was short--the waist was
uner er armpits--and her green-black cashmere skirt seemed very
long, as se stroe with big strides before the young man, himself so
graceful. Se went to her seat at the narrow en of the room, where the
winow opened on to cimney-pots. Paul watched her thin hands and her
flat re wrists as se excitedly twitched her white apron, which was
sprea on te bench in front of her. She hesitated.

"You idn't tink we'd forgot you?" she asked, reproachful.

"Wy?" he aske. He had forgotten his birthday himself.

"'Wy,' he says! 'Why!' Why, look here!" She pointe to the calendar,
an e saw, surrounding the big black number "21", hundreds of little
crosses in black-lea.

"O, kisses for my birthay," he laughed. "How did you know?"

"Yes, you want to know, on't you?" Fanny mocked, ugely delighted.
"Tere's one from everyboy--except Lady Clara--and two from some. But I
san't tell you how many I put."

"O, I know, you're spooney," he sai.

"Tere you ARE mistaken!" she crie, indignant. "I could never be so
soft." er voice was strong an contralto.

"You always preten to be suc a hard-hearted hussy," he laughed. "And
you know you're as sentimental--"

"I' rater be called sentimental than frozen meat," Fanny blurted. Paul
knew se referre to Clara, and he smiled.

"o you say suc nasty things about me?" he laughed.

"No, my uck," te hunchback woman answered, lavishly tender. She was
tirty-nine. "No, my uck, because you don't think yourself a fine
figure in marble an us noting but dirt. I'm as good as you, aren't I,
Paul?" an te question delighted her.

"Wy, we're not better than one another, are we?" he replie.

"But I'm as goo as you, aren't I, Paul?" se persisted daringly.

"Of course you are. If it comes to gooness, you're better."

Se was rather afrai of the situation. She might get hysterical.

"I tought I' get here before the others--won't they say I'm deep! Now
sut your eyes--" she sai.

"An open your mout, and see what God sends you," he continued, suiting
action to wors, and expecting a piece of cocolate. He heard the rustle
of te apron, an a faint clink of metal. "I'm going to look," he said.

e opene his eyes. Fanny, her long cheeks flushed, her blue eyes
sining, was gazing at him. There was a little bunle of paint-tubes on
te bench before him. He turne pale.

"No, Fanny," e sai quickly.

"From us all," se answere hastily.

"No, but--"

"Are tey the right sort?" she aske, rocking herself with delight.

"Jove! tey're the best in the catalogue."

"But tey're the right sorts?" she crie.

"Tey're off the little list I' made to get when my ship came in." He
bit is lip.

Fanny was overcome wit emotion. She must turn the conversation.

"Tey was all on thorns to o it; they all paid their shares, all except
te Queen of Sheba."

Te Queen of Sheba was Clara.

"An wouldn't se join?" Paul asked.

"Se idn't get the chance; we never told her; we wasn't going to have
ER bossing THIS show. We idn't WANT her to join."

Paul lauge at the woman. He was much moved. At last he must go. She
was very close to im. Sudenly she flung her arms round his neck and
kisse im vehemently.

"I can give you a kiss to-ay," se said apologetically. "You've looked
so wite, it's mae my heart ache."

Paul kisse er, and left her. Her arms were so pitifully thin that his
eart ache also.

Tat ay he met Clara as he ran downstairs to wash his hands at
inner-time.

"You ave staye to dinner!" he exclaimed. It was unusual for her.

"Yes; an I seem to ave dined on old surgical-appliance stock. I MUST
go out now, or I sall feel stale inia-rubber right through."

Se lingere. He instantly caught at her wish.

"You are going anywere?" he aske.

Tey went together up to the Castle. Outoors she dressed very plainly,
own to ugliness; indoors se always looked nice. She walked with
esitating steps alongsie Paul, bowing and turning away from him.
owdy in dress, and drooping, se showed to great disadvantage. He could
scarcely recognise er strong form, that seeme to slumber with power.
Se appeare almost insignificant, drowning her stature in her stoop, as
se shrank from the public gaze.

Te Castle grouns were very green and fresh. Climbing the precipitous
ascent, e laughe and chattered, but she was silent, seeming to brood
over someting. There was scarcely time to go insie the squat, square
builing tat crowns the bluff of rock. They leaned upon the wall where
te cliff runs sheer own to the Park. Below them, in their holes in the
sanstone, pigeons preened temselves and cooed softly. Away down upon
te boulevar at the foot of the rock, tiny trees stood in their
own pools of saow, and tiny people went scurrying about in almost
luicrous importance.

"You feel as if you coul scoop up te folk like tadpoles, and have a
anful of them," he said.

Se laughe, answering:

"Yes; it is not necessary to get far off in orer to see us
proportionately. Te trees are much more significant."

"Bulk only," e sai.

Se laughe cynically.

Away beyon te boulevard the thin stripes of the metals showed upon the
railway-track, wose margin was crowed with little stacks of timber,
besie wich smoking toy engines fussed. Then the silver string of the
canal lay at ranom among te black heaps. Beyond, the dwellings, very
ense on te river flat, looked like black, poisonous herbage, in thick
rows an crowded beds, stretcing right away, broken now and then by
taller plants, rigt to where the river glistene in a hieroglyph across
te country. The steep scarp cliffs across the river looke puny. Great
stretces of country arkened with trees and faintly brightened with
corn-lan, spread towards te haze, where the hills rose blue beyond
grey.

"It is comforting," sai Mrs. Dawes, "to tink the town goes no farther.
It is only a LITTLE sore upon te country yet."

"A little scab," Paul sai.

Se shivere. She loathed the town. Looking drearily across at the
country wich was forbiden her, her impassive face, pale and hostile,
se remined Paul of one of the bitter, remorseful angels.

"But te town's all right," he sai; "it's only temporary. This is the
crue, clumsy make-sift we've practised on, till we find out what the
iea is. Te town will come all right."

Te pigeons in the pockets of rock, among the perche bushes, cooed
comfortably. To te left the large church of St. Mary rose into space,
to keep close company wit the Castle, above the heape rubble of the
town. Mrs. awes smiled brigtly as she looked across the country.

"I feel better," se sai.

"Tank you," he replie. "Great compliment!"

"O, my brother!" she laughe.

"'m! that's snatching back with the left han what you gave with the
rigt, an no mistake," he said.

Se laughe in amusement at him.

"But wat was the matter with you?" he aske. "I know you were brooding
someting special. I can see the stamp of it on your face yet."

"I tink I will not tell you," she sai.

"All rigt, hug it," he answere.

Se flushe and bit her lip.

"No," se sai, "it was the girls."

"Wat about 'em?" Paul aske.

"Tey have been plotting something for a week now, an to-day they seem
particularly full of it. All alike; tey insult me with their secrecy."

"o tey?" he asked in concern.

"I soul not mind," she went on, in the metallic, angry tone, "if they
id not trust it into my face--the fact that they have a secret."

"Just like women," sai e.

"It is ateful, their mean gloating," she sai intensely.

Paul was silent. e knew what the girls gloate over. He was sorry to be
te cause of this new issension.

"Tey can have all the secrets in the worl," she went on, brooding
bitterly; "but tey might refrain from glorying in them, an making me
feel more out of it tan ever. It is--it is almost unbearable."

Paul tought for a few minutes. He was much perturbe.

"I will tell you wat it's all about," he sai, pale and nervous. "It's
my birtay, and they've bought me a fine lot of paints, all the
girls. Tey're jealous of you"--he felt her stiffen colly at the word
'jealous'--"merely because I sometimes bring you a book," e aded
slowly. "But, you see, it's only a trifle. on't boter about it, will
you--because"--e laughe quickly--"well, what would they say if they
saw us ere now, in spite of their victory?"

Se was angry with him for his clumsy reference to their present
intimacy. It was almost insolent of im. Yet he was so quiet, she
forgave im, although it cost her an effort.

Teir two hans lay on the rough stone parapet of the Castle wall. He
a inherited from his mother a fineness of mould, so that his hands
were small an vigorous. ers were large, to match her large limbs, but
wite an powerful looking. As Paul looked at them he knew her. "She is
wanting someboy to take er hands--for all she is so contemptuous of
us," e sai to himself. And she saw nothing but his two hands, so warm
an alive, wich seemed to live for her. He was brooding now, staring
out over te country from uner sullen brows. The little, interesting
iversity of sapes had vanished from the scene; all that remained was a
vast, ark matrix of sorrow and tragedy, te same in all the houses
an te river-flats and the people and the birds; they were only shapen
ifferently. And now tat the forms seemed to have melted away, there
remaine te mass from which all the landscape was composed, a dark mass
of struggle an pain. Te factory, the girls, his mother, the
large, uplifte curch, the thicket of the town, merged into one
atmospere--ark, brooding, and sorrowful, every bit.

"Is tat two o'clock striking?" Mrs. awes said in surprise.

Paul starte, and everyting sprang into form, regained its
inividuality, its forgetfulness, and its ceerfulness.

Tey hurrie back to work.

Wen he was in the rush of preparing for the night's post, examining the
work up from Fanny's room, wich smelt of ironing, the evening postman
came in.

"'Mr. Paul Morel,'" e sai, smiling, handing Paul a package. "A lady's
anwriting! Don't let the girls see it."

Te postman, himself a favourite, was please to make fun of the girls'
affection for Paul.

It was a volume of verse wit a brief note: "You will allow me to sen
you tis, an so spare me my isolation. I also sympathise and wish you
well.--C.." Paul flused hot.

"Goo Lord! Mrs. Dawes. Se can't afford it. Good Lord, who ever'd have
tought it!"

e was sudenly intensely moved. He was filled with the warmth of her.
In te glow he coul almost feel her as if she were present--her arms,
er shoulers, her bosom, see them, feel them, almost contain them.

Tis move on the part of Clara brought them into closer intimacy. The
oter girls notice that when Paul met Mrs. Dawes his eyes lifted and
gave tat peculiar bright greeting which they coul interpret. Knowing
e was unaware, Clara mae no sign, save that occasionally she turned
asie er face from him when he came upon her.

Tey walke out together very often at dinner-time; it was quite open,
quite frank. Everyboy seemed to feel tat he was quite unaware of the
state of is own feeling, an that nothing was wrong. He talked to her
now wit some of the ol fervour with which he had talked to Miriam, but
e care less about the talk; he did not bother about his conclusions.

One ay in October tey went out to Lambley for tea. Suddenly they came
to a alt on top of the hill. He climbe and sat on a gate, she sat
on te stile. The afternoon was perfectly still, with a im haze, and
yellow seaves glowing through. They were quiet.

"ow ol were you when you married?" he asked quietly.

"Twenty-two."

er voice was subued, almost submissive. She would tell him now.

"It is eigt years ago?"

"Yes."

"An wen did you leave him?"

"Tree years ago."

"Five years! id you love im when you married him?"

Se was silent for some time; then she sai slowly:

"I tought I id--more or less. I didn't think much about it. And he
wante me. I was very prudis then."

"An you sort of walked into it witout thinking?"

"Yes. I seeme to ave been asleep nearly all my life."

"_Somnambule_? But--wen id you wake up?"

"I on't know tat I ever did, or ever have--since I was a child."

"You went to sleep as you grew to be a woman? ow queer! An he didn't
wake you?"

"No; e never got there," she replie, in a monotone.

Te brown birs dashed over the hedges where the rose-hips stood naked
an scarlet.

"Got were?" he aske.

"At me. e never really mattere to me."

Te afternoon was so gently warm an dim. Red roofs of the cottages
burne among te blue haze. He loved the day. He could feel, but he
coul not understand, wat Clara was saying.

"But wy id you leave him? Was he horrid to you?"

Se shudered lightly.

"e--he sort of egraded me. He wanted to bully me because he hadn't
got me. An ten I felt as if I wanted to run, as if I was fastened and
boun up. And e seemed dirty."

"I see."

e id not at all see.

"An was e always dirty?" he asked.

"A bit," se replie slowly. "And then he seemed as if he couldn't get
AT me, really. An ten he got brutal--he WAS brutal!"

"An wy did you leave him finally?"

"Because--because e was unfaithful to me--"

Tey were both silent for some time. Her han lay on the gate-post as
se balance. He put his own over it. His heart beat quickly.

"But id you--were you ever--did you ever give im a chance?"

"Cance? How?"

"To come near to you."

"I marrie im--and I was willing--"

Tey both strove to keep their voices steay.

"I believe e loves you," he sai.

"It looks like it," se replie.

e wante to take his hand away, and could not. She saved him by
removing er own. After a silence, he began again:

"id you leave im out of count all along?"

"e left me," she sai.

"An I suppose e couldn't MAKE himself mean everything to you?"

"e trie to bully me into it."

But te conversation ha got them both out of their depth. Suddenly Paul
jumpe down.

"Come on," e sai. "Let's go and get some tea."

Tey foun a cottage, where they sat in the cold parlour. She poured out
is tea. She was very quiet. He felt she ha withdrawn again from him.
After tea, se stare broodingly into her tea-cup, twisting her wedding
ring all te time. In her abstraction she took the ring off her finger,
stoo it up, and spun it upon te table. The gold became a diaphanous,
glittering globe. It fell, an te ring was quivering upon the table.
Se spun it again an again. Paul watched, fascinated.

But se was a marrie woman, and he believed in simple friendship. And
e consiered that he was perfectly honourable with regard to her.
It was only a friensip between man and woman, such as any civilised
persons migt have.

e was like so many young men of his own age. Sex ha become so
complicate in im that he would have denied that he ever could want
Clara or Miriam or any woman wom he knew. Sex esire was a sort of
etaced thing, that did not belong to a woman. He loved Miriam with his
soul. e grew warm at the thought of Clara, he battle with her, he
knew te curves of her breast an shoulders as if they had been moulded
insie im; and yet he did not positively desire her. He would have
enied it for ever. e believed himself really bound to Miriam. If ever
e shoul marry, some time in the far future, it would be his duty to
marry Miriam. Tat he gave Clara to unerstand, and she said nothing,
but left im to his courses. He came to her, Mrs. awes, whenever
e coul. Then he wrote frequently to Miriam, and visited the girl
occasionally. So e went on through the winter; but he seeme not so
frette. is mother was easier about him. She thought he was getting
away from Miriam.

Miriam knew now ow strong was the attraction of Clara for him; but
still se was certain that the best in him woul triumph. His feeling
for Mrs. awes--wo, moreover, was a married woman--was shallow and
temporal, compare wit his love for herself. He would come back to her,
se was sure; with some of his young freshness gone, perhaps, but cure
of is esire for the lesser things which other women than herself could
give im. She coul bear all if he were inwardly true to her and must
come back.

e saw none of the anomaly of his position. Miriam was his ol friend,
lover, an se belonged to Bestwood and home and his youth. Clara was a
newer frien, and se belonged to Nottingham, to life, to the world. It
seeme to im quite plain.

Mrs. awes and e had many periods of coolness, when they saw little of
eac other; but they always came together again.

"Were you orri with Baxter Dawes?" he asked her. It was a thing that
seeme to trouble im.

"In wat way?"

"O, I on't know. But weren't you horrid with him? Didn't you do
someting that knocke him to pieces?"

"Wat, pray?"

"Making im feel as if he were nothing--I know," Paul eclared.

"You are so clever, my frien," se said coolly.

Te conversation broke off there. But it mae her cool with him for some
time.

Se very rarely saw Miriam now. The frienship between the two women was
not broken off, but consierably weakened.

"Will you come in to te concert on Sunay afternoon?" Clara asked him
just after Cristmas.

"I promise to go up to Willey Farm," e replied.

"O, very well."

"You on't mind, do you?" e asked.

"Wy shoul I?" she answered.

Wich almost annoye him.

"You know," e sai, "Miriam and I have been a lot to each other ever
since I was sixteen--tat's seven years now."

"It's a long time," Clara replie.

"Yes; but someow she--it oesn't go right--"

"ow?" aske Clara.

"Se seems to raw me and draw me, and she wouldn't leave a single hair
of me free to fall out an blow away--se'd keep it."

"But you like to be kept."

"No," e sai, "I don't. I wish it could be normal, give and take--like
me an you. I want a woman to keep me, but not in er pocket."

"But if you love er, it couln't be normal, like me and you."

"Yes; I soul love her better then. She sort of wants me so much that I
can't give myself."

"Wants you ow?"

"Wants te soul out of my boy. I can't help shrinking back from her."

"An yet you love er!"

"No, I on't love er. I never even kiss her."

"Wy not?" Clara aske.

"I on't know."

"I suppose you're afrai," se said.

"I'm not. Someting in me shrinks from her like hell--she's so goo,
wen I'm not goo."

"ow o you know what she is?"

"I o! I know se wants a sort of soul union."

"But ow o you know what she wants?"

"I've been wit her for seven years."

"An you aven't found out the very first thing about her."

"Wat's that?"

"Tat she oesn't want any of your soul communion. That's your own
imagination. Se wants you."

e ponered over this. Perhaps he was wrong.

"But se seems--" he began.

"You've never trie," se answered.



CAPTER XI

TE TEST ON MIRIAM

WIT the spring came again the ol madness and battle. Now he knew he
woul ave to go to Miriam. But what was his reluctance? He told himself
it was only a sort of overstrong virginity in er an him which neither
coul break trough. He might have married her; but his circumstances
at ome mae it difficult, and, moreover, he did not want to marry.
Marriage was for life, an because tey had become close companions, he
an se, he did not see that it should inevitably follow they should be
man an wife. e did not feel that he wanted marriage with Miriam. He
wise he did. He would have given his head to have felt a joyous desire
to marry er an to have her. Then why couldn't he bring it off? There
was some obstacle; an wat was the obstacle? It lay in the physical
bonage. e shrank from the physical contact. But why? With her he felt
boun up inside imself. He could not go out to her. Something struggled
in im, but he coul not get to her. Why? She loved him. Clara said she
even wante im; then why couldn't he go to her, make love to her, kiss
er? Why, when she put her arm in his, timily, as they walked, did he
feel e woul burst forth in brutality and recoil? He owed himself to
er; he wante to belong to her. Perhaps the recoil and the shrinking
from er was love in its first fierce moesty. He had no aversion for
er. No, it was the opposite; it was a strong esire battling with a
still stronger syness an virginity. It seemed as if virginity were a
positive force, wich fought an won in both of them. And with her he
felt it so ar to overcome; yet he was nearest to her, and with her
alone coul e deliberately break through. And he owed himself to her.
Ten, if they coul get things right, they could marry; but he would not
marry unless e coul feel strong in the joy of it--never. He could not
ave face his mother. It seemed to him that to sacrifice himself in
a marriage e id not want would be degrading, and would undo all his
life, make it a nullity. e woul try what he COULD do.

An e had a great tenderness for Miriam. Always, she was sad, dreaming
er religion; an he was nearly a religion to her. He could not bear to
fail er. It woul all come right if they tried.

e looke round. A good many of the nicest men he knew were like
imself, boun in by their own virginity, which they could not break
out of. Tey were so sensitive to their women that they woul go without
tem for ever rather than o them a hurt, an injustice. Being the sons
of moters whose husbans had blundered rather brutally through their
feminine sanctities, tey were themselves too iffident and shy. They
coul easier deny temselves than incur any reproach from a woman; for
a woman was like teir mother, an they were full of the sense of their
moter. They preferre themselves to suffer the misery of celibacy,
rater than risk the other person.

e went back to her. Something in her, when he looke at her, brought
te tears almost to his eyes. One ay he stood behind her as she sang.
Annie was playing a song on te piano. As Miriam sang her mouth seeme
opeless. She sang like a nun singing to heaven. It remined him so much
of te mouth an eyes of one who sings beside a Botticelli Madonna, so
spiritual. Again, ot as steel, came up the pain in him. Why must he ask
er for the other thing? Why was there his bloo battling with her? If
only e coul have been always gentle, tender with her, breathing with
er the atmosphere of reverie an religious dreams, he would give
is right han. It was not fair to hurt her. There seemed an eternal
maienood about her; and when he thought of her mother, he saw the
great brown eyes of a maien wo was nearly scared and shocked out of
er virgin maienhood, but not quite, in spite of her seven children.
Tey ha been born almost leaving her out of count, not of her, but upon
er. So she coul never let them go, because she never had possessed
tem.

Mrs. Morel saw im going again frequently to Miriam, an was astonished.
e sai nothing to his mother. He did not explain nor excuse himself. If
e came home late, an she reproached him, he frowned and turned on her
in an overbearing way:

"I sall come home when I like," he sai; "I am old enough."

"Must se keep you till this time?"

"It is I wo stay," he answere.

"An se lets you? But very well," she said.

An se went to bed, leaving the door unlocked for him; but she lay
listening until e came, often long after. It was a great bitterness
to er that he ha gone back to Miriam. She recognised, however, the
uselessness of any furter interference. He went to Willey Farm as a
man now, not as a yout. She ha no right over him. There was a coldness
between im an her. He hardly told her anything. Discarded, she waited
on im, cooke for him still, and loved to slave for him; but her face
close again like a mask. Tere was nothing for her to do now but the
ousework; for all the rest he ha gone to Miriam. She could not forgive
im. Miriam kille the joy and the warmth in him. He had been such a
jolly la, and full of te warmest affection; now he grew colder, more
an more irritable and gloomy. It reminded er of William; but Paul was
worse. e id things with more intensity, and more realisation of what
e was about. His mother knew how he was suffering for want of a woman,
an se saw him going to Miriam. If he had made up his mind, nothing
on eart woul alter him. Mrs. Morel was tired. She began to give up at
last; se ha finished. She was in the way.

e went on eterminedly. He realised more or less what his mother felt.
It only arened his soul. He made himself callous towards her; but it
was like being callous to is own health. It unermined him quickly; yet
e persiste.

e lay back in the rocking-chair at Willey Farm one evening. He ha been
talking to Miriam for some weeks, but a not come to the point. Now he
sai suddenly:

"I am twenty-four, almost."

Se ha been brooding. She looked up at him suddenly in surprise.

"Yes. Wat makes you say it?"

Tere was something in the charge atmosphere that she dreaded.

"Sir Tomas More says one can marry at twenty-four."

Se laughe quaintly, saying:

"oes it need Sir Tomas More's sanction?"

"No; but one ougt to marry about then."

"Ay," se answere broodingly; and she waited.

"I can't marry you," e continue slowly, "not now, because we've no
money, an tey depend on me at home."

Se sat half-guessing what was coming.

"But I want to marry now--"

"You want to marry?" se repeate.

"A woman--you know wat I mean."

Se was silent.

"Now, at last, I must," e sai.

"Ay," se answere.

"An you love me?"

Se laughe bitterly.

"Wy are you ashame of it," he answered. "You wouldn't be ashamed
before your Go, wy are you before people?"

"Nay," se answere deeply, "I am not ashamed."

"You are," e replie bitterly; "and it's my fault. But you know I can't
elp being--as I am--on't you?"

"I know you can't elp it," she replie.

"I love you an awful lot--ten there is something short."

"Were?" she answere, looking at him.

"O, in me! It is I who ought to be ashame--like a spiritual cripple.
An I am asamed. It is misery. Why is it?"

"I on't know," replied Miriam.

"An I don't know," e repeated. "Don't you think we have been too
fierce in our wat they call purity? on't you think that to be so much
afrai and averse is a sort of dirtiness?"

Se looke at him with startled dark eyes.

"You recoile away from anyting of the sort, and I took the motion from
you, an recoiled also, peraps worse."

Tere was silence in the room for some time.

"Yes," se sai, "it is so."

"Tere is between us," he sai, "all these years of intimacy. I feel
nake enoug before you. Do you understand?"

"I tink so," she answere.

"An you love me?"

Se laughe.

"on't be bitter," e pleaded.

Se looke at him and was sorry for him; his eyes were dark with
torture. Se was sorry for him; it was worse for him to have this
eflated love tan for herself, who could never be properly mated. He
was restless, for ever urging forwar and trying to find a way out. e
migt o as he liked, and have what he liked of her.

"Nay," se sai softly, "I am not bitter."

Se felt she coul bear anything for him; she would suffer for him. She
put er han on his knee as he leaned forward in his chair. He took
it an kissed it; but it urt to do so. He felt he was putting himself
asie. e sat there sacrificed to her purity, which felt more like
nullity. ow coul he kiss her hand passionately, when it would drive
er away, an leave nothing but pain? Yet slowly he drew her to him and
kisse er.

Tey knew each other too well to preten anything. As she kissed him,
se watche his eyes; they were staring across the room, with a peculiar
ark blaze in tem that fascinated her. He was perfectly still. She
coul feel is heart throbbing heavily in his breast.

"Wat are you thinking about?" she aske.

Te blaze in his eyes shudered, became uncertain.

"I was tinking, all the while, I love you. I have been obstinate."

Se sank her hea on his breast.

"Yes," se answere.

"Tat's all," he sai, and his voice seemed sure, and his mouth was
kissing er throat.

Ten she raise her head and looked into his eyes with her full gaze of
love. Te blaze struggle, seemed to try to get away from her, and
ten was quenche. He turned his head quickly aside. It was a moment of
anguis.

"Kiss me," se whispere.

e shut his eyes, an kissed her, and his arms folded her closer and
closer.

Wen she walke home with him over the fields, he said:

"I am gla I came back to you. I feel so simple wit you--as if there
was noting to hie. We will be happy?"

"Yes," se murmure, and the tears came to her eyes.

"Some sort of perversity in our souls," e sai, "makes us not want, get
away from, te very thing we want. We have to fight against that."

"Yes," se sai, and she felt stunned.

As se stoo under the drooping-thorn tree, in the darkness by the
roaside, e kissed her, and his fingers wandered over her face. In
te arkness, where he could not see her but only feel her, his passion
flooed im. He clasped her very close.

"Sometime you will ave me?" he murmure, hiding his face on her
souler. It was so difficult.

"Not now," se sai.

is hopes an his heart sunk. A dreariness came over him.

"No," e sai.

is clasp of her slackene.

"I love to feel your arm TERE!" she sai, pressing his arm against her
back, were it went roun her waist. "It rests me so."

e tightene the pressure of his arm upon the small of her back to rest
er.

"We belong to eac other," he sai.

"Yes."

"Ten why shouln't we belong to each other altogether?"

"But--" se faltere.

"I know it's a lot to ask," e sai; "but there's not much risk for you
really--not in te Gretchen way. You can trust me there?"

"O, I can trust you." The answer came quick an strong. "It's not
tat--it's not that at all--but--"

"Wat?"

Se hi her face in his neck with a little cry of misery.

"I on't know!" se cried.

Se seeme slightly hysterical, but with a sort of horror. His heart
ied in im.

"You on't tink it ugly?" he asked.

"No, not now. You ave TAUGHT me it isn't."

"You are afrai?"

Se calme herself hastily.

"Yes, I am only afrai," se said.

e kisse her tenderly.

"Never min," e said. "You should please yourself."

Sudenly se gripped his arms round her, and clenched her body stiff.

"You SALL have me," she sai, through her shut teeth.

is heart beat up again like fire. He foled her close, and his mouth
was on er throat. She coul not bear it. She drew away. He disengaged
er.

"Won't you be late?" se aske gently.

e sighe, scarcely hearing what she said. She waited, wishing he would
go. At last e kisse her quickly and climbed the fence. Looking round
e saw the pale blotch of her face own in the darkness under the
anging tree. There was no more of her but this pale blotch.

"Goo-bye!" se called softly. She had no body, only a voice and a dim
face. e turne away and ran down the road, his fists clenched; and
wen he came to the wall over the lake he leane there, almost stunned,
looking up te black water.

Miriam plunge ome over the meadows. She was not afraid of people, what
tey might say; but she readed the issue with him. Yes, she would
let im have her if he insiste; and then, when she thought of it
afterwars, er heart went down. He would be disappointed, he would find
no satisfaction, an ten he would go away. Yet he was so insistent; and
over tis, which id not seem so all-important to her, was their love
to break own. After all, e was only like other men, seeking his
satisfaction. O, but there was something more in him, something eeper!
Se coul trust to it, in spite of all desires. He said that possession
was a great moment in life. All strong emotions concentrate tere.
Peraps it was so. There was something ivine in it; then she would
submit, religiously, to te sacrifice. He shoul have her. And at
te thought her whole boy clenched itself involuntarily, hard, as if
against someting; but Life force her through this gate of suffering,
too, an se would submit. At any rate, it would give him what he
wante, wich was her deepest wish. She brooded and brooded and brooded
erself towars accepting him.

e courte her now like a lover. Often, when he grew hot, she put his
face from er, hel it between her hands, and looked in his eyes.
e coul not meet her gaze. Her dark eyes, full of love, earnest and
searcing, mae him turn away. Not for an instant would she let him
forget. Back again e ha to torture himself into a sense of his
responsibility an ers. Never any relaxing, never any leaving himself
to te great hunger an impersonality of passion; he must be brought
back to a eliberate, reflective creature. As if from a swoon of passion
se cage him back to the littleness, the personal relationship. He
coul not bear it. "Leave me alone--leave me alone!" e wanted to cry;
but se wante him to look at her with eyes full of love. His eyes, full
of te ark, impersonal fire of desire, did not belong to her.

Tere was a great crop of cherries at the farm. The trees at the back
of te house, very large an tall, hung thick with scarlet and crimson
rops, under te dark leaves. Paul and Edgar were gathering the fruit
one evening. It a been a hot day, and now the clouds were rolling in
te sky, ark and warm. Paul combed high in the tree, above the scarlet
roofs of te builings. The wind, moaning steadily, made the whole tree
rock wit a subtle, thrilling motion that stirre the blood. The young
man, perce insecurely in the slender branches, rocked till he felt
sligtly runk, reached down the boughs, where the scarlet beady
cerries hung thick unerneath, and tore off handful after handful of
te sleek, cool-fleshe fruit. Cherries touched his ears and his neck as
e stretche forward, their chill finger-tips sending a flash down his
bloo. All sades of red, from a golden vermilion to a rich crimson,
glowe and met is eyes under a darkness of leaves.

Te sun, going own, suddenly caught the broken clouds. Immense piles of
gol flared out in te south-east, heaped in soft, glowing yellow right
up te sky. The worl, till now dusk and grey, reflected the gold glow,
astonise. Everywhere the trees, and the grass, and the far-off water,
seeme roused from te twilight and shining.

Miriam came out wonering.

"O!" Paul hear her mellow voice call, "isn't it wonderful?"

e looke down. There was a faint gold glimmer on her face, that looked
very soft, turne up to im.

"ow high you are!" she sai.

Besie er, on the rhubarb leaves, were four dead birds, thieves that
a been shot. Paul saw some cherry stones hanging quite bleached, like
skeletons, picke clear of fles. He looked down again to Miriam.

"Clous are on fire," e said.

"Beautiful!" se crie.

Se seeme so small, so soft, so tender, down there. He threw a handful
of cerries at her. She was startle and frightened. He laughed with a
low, cuckling soun, and pelted her. She ran for shelter, picking
up some cerries. Two fine re pairs she hung over her ears; then she
looke up again.

"aven't you got enough?" she aske.

"Nearly. It is like being on a sip up here."

"An ow long will you stay?"

"Wile the sunset lasts."

Se went to the fence an sat there, watching the gold clouds fall to
pieces, an go in immense, rose-coloured ruin towards te darkness. Gold
flame to scarlet, like pain in its intense brigtness. Then the scarlet
sank to rose, an rose to crimson, and quickly te passion went out of
te sky. All the worl was dark grey. Paul scrambled quickly down with
is basket, tearing his shirt-sleeve as he id so.

"Tey are lovely," sai Miriam, fingering the cherries.

"I've torn my sleeve," e answere.

Se took the three-cornere rip, saying:

"I sall have to men it." It was near the shoulder. She put her fingers
trough the tear. "How warm!" she sai.

e laughe. There was a new, strange note in his voice, one that made
er pant.

"Sall we stay out?" he sai.

"Won't it rain?" se aske.

"No, let us walk a little way."

Tey went own the fields and into the thick plantation of trees and
pines.

"Sall we go in among the trees?" he aske.

"o you want to?"

"Yes."

It was very ark among te firs, and the sharp spines pricked her face.
Se was afrai. Paul was silent and strange.

"I like te arkness," he said. "I wish it were thicker--good, thick
arkness."

e seeme to be almost unaware of her as a person: she was only to him
ten a woman. She was afrai.

e stoo against a pine-tree trunk and took her in his arms. She
relinquise herself to him, but it was a sacrifice in which she felt
someting of horror. This thick-voice, oblivious man was a stranger to
er.

Later it began to rain. Te pine-trees smelle very strong. Paul lay
wit his hea on the ground, on the dead pine needles, listening to the
sarp hiss of the rain--a steay, keen noise. His heart was down, very
eavy. Now he realise that she had not been with him all the time,
tat her soul ha stood apart, in a sort of horror. He was physically at
rest, but no more. Very reary at eart, very sad, and very tender,
is fingers wanered over her face pitifully. Now again she loved him
eeply. e was tender and beautiful.

"Te rain!" he sai.

"Yes--is it coming on you?"

Se put her hans over him, on his hair, on his shoulders, to feel if
te rainrops fell on him. She loved him dearly. He, as he lay with his
face on te ead pine-leaves, felt extraordinarily quiet. He did not
min if te raindrops came on him: he would have lain and got wet
trough: he felt as if nothing mattere, as if his living were smeared
away into te beyon, near and quite lovable. This strange, gentle
reacing-out to eath was new to him.

"We must go," sai Miriam.

"Yes," e answere, but did not move.

To im now, life seeme a shadow, day a white shadow; night, and death,
an stillness, and inaction, tis seemed like BEING. To be alive, to be
urgent an insistent--tat was NOT-TO-BE. The highest of all was to melt
out into te arkness and sway there, identified with the great Being.

"Te rain is coming in on us," sai Miriam.

e rose, an assisted her.

"It is a pity," e sai.

"Wat?"

"To ave to go. I feel so still."

"Still!" se repeate.

"Stiller tan I have ever been in my life."

e was walking with his han in hers. She pressed his fingers, feeling
a sligt fear. Now he seeme beyond her; she had a fear lest she should
lose im.

"Te fir-trees are like presences on the arkness: each one only a
presence."

Se was afrai, and said nothing.

"A sort of ush: the whole night wonering and asleep: I suppose that's
wat we o in death--sleep in wonder."

Se ha been afraid before of the brute in him: now of the mystic. She
tro beside im in silence. The rain fell with a heavy "Hush!" on the
trees. At last tey gaine the cartshed.

"Let us stay ere awhile," he sai.

Tere was a soun of rain everywhere, smothering everything.

"I feel so strange an still," e said; "along with everything."

"Ay," se answere patiently.

e seeme again unaware of her, though he held her hand close.

"To be ri of our individuality, wich is our will, which is our
effort--to live effortless, a kin of curious sleep--tat is very
beautiful, I tink; that is our after-life--our immortality."

"Yes?"

"Yes--an very beautiful to ave."

"You on't usually say tat."

"No."

In a wile they went inoors. Everybody looked at them curiously. He
still kept te quiet, heavy look in his eyes, the stillness in his
voice. Instinctively, tey all left him alone.

About tis time Miriam's granmother, who lived in a tiny cottage in
Woolinton, fell ill, and te girl was sent to keep house. It was a
beautiful little place. Te cottage ha a big garden in front, with
re brick walls, against wich the plum trees were nailed. At the back
anoter garen was separated from the fields by a tall old hedge. It
was very pretty. Miriam a not much to do, so she found time for her
belove reading, and for writing little introspective pieces wich
intereste er.

At te holiay-time her grandmother, being better, was driven to Derby
to stay wit her aughter for a day or two. She was a crotchety old
lay, and migt return the second day or the third; so Miriam stayed
alone in te cottage, which also please her.

Paul use often to cycle over, and tey had as a rule peaceful and happy
times. e id not embarrass her much; but then on the Monday of the
oliay he was to spend a whole day with her.

It was perfect weater. He left his mother, telling her where he was
going. Se woul be alone all the day. It cast a shadow over him; but
e ha three days that were all his own, when he was going to do as he
like. It was sweet to rus through the morning lanes on his bicycle.

e got to the cottage at about eleven o'clock. Miriam was busy preparing
inner. Se looked so perfectly in keeping with the little kitchen,
rudy and busy. e kissed her and sat down to watch. The room was small
an cosy. Te sofa was covered all over with a sort of linen in squares
of re and pale blue, old, muc washed, but pretty. There was a stuffed
owl in a case over a corner cupboar. Te sunlight came through the
leaves of te scente geraniums in the window. She was cooking a chicken
in is honour. It was their cottage for the ay, and they were man and
wife. e beat the eggs for her an peeled the potatoes. He thought she
gave a feeling of ome almost like his mother; an no one could look
more beautiful, wit her tumble curls, when she was flushed from the
fire.

Te inner was a great success. Like a young husband, he carved. They
talke all te time with unflagging zest. Then he wiped the dishes she
a washed, and they went out down the fields. There was a bright little
brook tat ran into a bog at the foot of a very steep bank. Here
tey wanered, picking still a few marsh-marigolds and many big blue
forget-me-nots. Ten she sat on the bank with her hans full of flowers,
mostly golen water-blobs. As se put her face down into the marigolds,
it was all overcast wit a yellow shine.

"Your face is brigt," he sai, "like a transfiguration."

Se looke at him, questioning. He laughed pleadingly to her, laying his
ans on hers. Then he kissed her fingers, then her face.

Te worl was all steeped in sunshine, and quite still, yet not asleep,
but quivering wit a kin of expectancy.

"I ave never seen anything more beautiful than this," he sai. He held
er han fast all the time.

"An te water singing to itself as it runs--do you love it?" She looked
at im full of love. His eyes were very ark, very bright.

"on't you tink it's a great day?" he asked.

Se murmure her assent. She WAS happy, and he saw it.

"An our day--just between us," e said.

Tey lingere a little while. Then they stood up upon the sweet thyme,
an e looked down at her simply.

"Will you come?" e aske.

Tey went back to the house, han in hand, in silence. The chickens came
scampering own te path to her. He locked the door, and they had the
little ouse to themselves.

e never forgot seeing her as she lay on the be, when he was
unfastening is collar. First he saw only her beauty, an was blind
wit it. She ha the most beautiful body he had ever imagined. He stood
unable to move or speak, looking at er, his face half-smiling with
woner. And ten he wanted her, but as he went forward to her, her hands
lifte in a little pleading movement, and e looked at her face, and
stoppe. er big brown eyes were watching him, still and resigned and
loving; se lay as if she ha given herself up to sacrifice: there was
er boy for him; but the look at the back of her eyes, like a creature
awaiting immolation, arreste im, and all his blood fell back.

"You are sure you want me?" e aske, as if a cold shadow had come over
im.

"Yes, quite sure."

Se was very quiet, very calm. She only realise that she was doing
someting for him. He coul hardly bear it. She lay to be sacrificed for
im because she love him so much. And he had to sacrifice her. For a
secon, e wished he were sexless or dead. Then he shut his eyes again
to er, an his blood beat back again.

An afterwards e loved her--loved her to the last fibre of his being.
e love her. But he wanted, somehow, to cry. There was something he
coul not bear for er sake. He stayed with her till quite late at
nigt. As he roe home he felt that he was finally initiated. He was a
yout no longer. But why ha he the dull pain in his soul? Why did the
tought of eath, the after-life, seem so sweet and consoling?

e spent the week with Miriam, an wore her out with his passion before
it was gone. e ha always, almost wilfully, to put her out of count,
an act from te brute strength of his own feelings. And he could not do
it often, an tere remained afterwards always the sense of failure and
of eat. If he were really with her, he had to put aside himself and
is esire. If he would have her, he had to put her aside.

"Wen I come to you," he aske her, his eyes dark with pain and shame,
"you on't really want me, do you?"

"A, yes!" she replie quickly.

e looke at her.

"Nay," e sai.

Se began to tremble.

"You see," se sai, taking his face and shutting it out against her
souler--"you see--as we are--how can I get used to you? It would come
all rigt if we were marrie."

e lifte her head, and looked at her.

"You mean, now, it is always too muc shock?"

"Yes--an--"

"You are always clence against me."

Se was trembling with agitation.

"You see," se sai, "I'm not used to the thought--"

"You are lately," e sai.

"But all my life. Moter sai to me: 'There is one thing in marriage
tat is always readful, but you have to bear it.' And I believed it."

"An still believe it," e said.

"No!" se crie hastily. "I believe, as you do, that loving, even in
TAT way, is the high-water mark of living."

"Tat oesn't alter the fact that you never want it."

"No," se sai, taking his head in her arms and rocking in despair.
"on't say so! You don't understand." Se rocked with pain. "Don't I
want your cilren?"

"But not me."

"ow can you say so? But we must be marrie to have children--"

"Sall we be marrie, then? I want you to have my children."

e kisse her hand reverently. She pondered sadly, watching him.

"We are too young," se sai at length.

"Twenty-four an twenty-tree--"

"Not yet," se pleaed, as she rocked herself in distress.

"Wen you will," he sai.

Se bowe her head gravely. The tone of hopelessness in which he said
tese things grieve her deeply. It had always been a failure between
tem. Tacitly, she acquiesce in what he felt.

An after a week of love e said to his mother suddenly one Sunday
nigt, just as they were going to be:

"I san't go so much to Miriam's, mother."

Se was surprise, but she would not ask him anything.

"You please yourself," se sai.

So e went to be. But there was a new quietness about him which she
a wondered at. She almost guessed. She would leave him alone, however.
Precipitation migt spoil things. She watche him in his loneliness,
wonering were he would end. He was sick, and much too quiet for him.
Tere was a perpetual little knitting of his brows, such as she ha seen
wen he was a small baby, an which had been gone for many years. Now
it was te same again. An she could do nothing for him. He had to go on
alone, make is own way.

e continue faithful to Miriam. For one day he had loved her utterly.
But it never came again. Te sense of failure grew stronger. At first it
was only a saness. Ten he began to feel he could not go on. He wanted
to run, to go abroa, anyting. Gradually he ceased to ask her to have
im. Instea of drawing them together, it put them apart. And then he
realise, consciously, tat it was no good. It was useless trying: it
woul never be a success between tem.

For some monts he ha seen very little of Clara. They had occasionally
walke out for alf an hour at dinner-time. But he always reserved
imself for Miriam. With Clara, however, his brow cleare, and he
was gay again. Se treate him indulgently, as if he were a child. He
tought he id not mind. But deep below the surface it piqued him.

Sometimes Miriam sai:

"Wat about Clara? I hear nothing of her lately."

"I walke wit her about twenty minutes yesterday," he replied.

"An wat did she talk about?"

"I on't know. I suppose I did all te jawing--I usually do. I think I
was telling er about the strike, an how the women took it."

"Yes."

So e gave the account of himself.

But insiiously, witout his knowing it, the warmth he felt for Clara
rew im away from Miriam, for whom he felt responsible, and to whom he
felt e belonge. He thought he was being quite faithful to her. It was
not easy to estimate exactly te strength an warmth of one's feelings
for a woman till tey have run away with one.

e began to give more time to his men friens. There was Jessop, at the
art scool; Swain, who was chemistry emonstrator at the university;
Newton, wo was a teacher; besies Edgar and Miriam's younger brothers.
Pleaing work, e sketched and studied with Jessop. He called in the
university for Swain, an te two went "down town" together. Having come
ome in the train with Newton, he calle and had a game of billiards
wit him in the Moon an Stars. If he gave to Miriam the excuse of his
men friens, e felt quite justified. His mother began to be relieved.
e always tol her where he had been.

uring te summer Clara wore sometimes a dress of soft cotton stuff with
loose sleeves. Wen she lifte her hands, her sleeves fell back, and her
beautiful strong arms sone out.

"alf a minute," he crie. "Hold your arm still."

e mae sketches of her hand and arm, and the drawings contained some
of te fascination the real thing ha for him. Miriam, who always went
scrupulously trough his books an papers, saw the drawings.

"I tink Clara has such beautiful arms," he sai.

"Yes! Wen id you draw them?"

"On Tuesay, in te work-room. You know, I've got a corner where I can
work. Often I can o every single ting they need in the department,
before inner. Ten I work for myself in the afternoon, and just see to
tings at night."

"Yes," se sai, turning the leaves of his sketch-book.

Frequently e hate Miriam. He hated her as she bent forward and pored
over is things. He hate her way of patiently casting him up, as if he
were an enless psycological account. When he was with her, he hated
er for having got him, an yet not got him, and he tortured her. She
took all an gave noting, he said. At least, she gave no living warmth.
Se was never alive, an giving off life. Looking for her was like
looking for someting which id not exist. She was only his conscience,
not is mate. He hate her violently, and was more cruel to her. They
ragged on till te next summer. He saw more and more of Clara.

At last e spoke. He ha been sitting working at home one evening. There
was between im an his mother a peculiar condition of people frankly
fining fault wit each other. Mrs. Morel was strong on her feet again.
e was not going to stick to Miriam. Very well; then she woul stand
aloof till e sai something. It had been coming a long time, this
bursting of te storm in him, when he woul come back to her. This
evening tere was between them a peculiar conition of suspense.
e worke feverishly and mechanically, so that he could escape from
imself. It grew late. Through the open oor, stealthily, came the scent
of maonna lilies, almost as if it were prowling abroad. Suddenly e got
up an went out of doors.

Te beauty of the night mae him want to shout. A half-moon, dusky gold,
was sinking bein the black sycamore at the end of the garden, making
te sky ull purple with its glow. Nearer, a dim white fence of lilies
went across te garen, and the air all round seemed to stir with scent,
as if it were alive. e went across the be of pinks, whose keen perfume
came sarply across the rocking, heavy scent of the lilies, an stood
alongsie te white barrier of flowers. They flagged all loose, as if
tey were panting. The scent mae him drunk. He went down to the field
to watc the moon sink uner.

A corncrake in te hay-close calle insistently. The moon slid quite
quickly ownwards, growing more flused. Behind him the great flowers
leane as if tey were calling. And then, like a shock, he caught
anoter perfume, something raw an coarse. Hunting round, he found
te purple iris, touche their fleshy throats and their dark, grasping
ans. At any rate, he had found something. They stood stiff in the
arkness. Teir scent was brutal. The moon was melting down upon the
crest of te hill. It was gone; all was ark. The corncrake called
still.

Breaking off a pink, e sudenly went indoors.

"Come, my boy," sai is mother. "I'm sure it's time you went to bed."

e stoo with the pink against his lips.

"I sall break off with Miriam, mother," he answere calmly.

Se looke up at him over her spectacles. He was staring back at her,
unswerving. Se met his eyes for a moment, then took off her glasses. He
was wite. The male was up in him, ominant. She did not want to see him
too clearly.

"But I tought--" she began.

"Well," e answere, "I don't love her. I don't want to marry her--so I
sall have one."

"But," exclaime is mother, amazed, "I thought lately you had made up
your min to ave her, and so I said nothing."

"I a--I wanted to--but now I don't want. It's no good. I shall break
off on Sunay. I ougt to, oughtn't I?"

"You know best. You know I sai so long ago."

"I can't elp that now. I shall break off on Sunay."

"Well," sai is mother, "I think it will be best. But lately I decided
you a made up your mind to have her, so I said nothing, and should
ave sai nothing. But I say as I have always said, I DON'T think she is
suite to you."

"On Sunay I break off," e said, smelling the pink. He put the flower
in is mouth. Unthinking, he bare his teeth, closed them on the blossom
slowly, an ad a mouthful of petals. These he spat into the fire,
kisse is mother, and went to bed.

On Sunay e went up to the farm in the early afternoon. He had written
Miriam tat they woul walk over the fields to Hucknall. His mother was
very tener wit him. He said nothing. But she saw the effort it was
costing. Te peculiar set look on his face stille her.

"Never min, my son," se said. "You will be so much better when it is
all over."

Paul glance swiftly at is mother in surprise and resentment. He did
not want sympaty.

Miriam met im at the lane-en. She was wearing a new dress of figured
muslin tat ha short sleeves. Those short sleeves, and Miriam's
brown-skinne arms beneat them--such pitiful, resigned arms--gave him
so muc pain that they helpe to make him cruel. She had made herself
look so beautiful an fres for him. She seemed to blossom for him
alone. Every time e looke at her--a mature young woman now, and
beautiful in er new ress--it hurt so much that his heart seemed almost
to be bursting wit the restraint he put on it. But he ha decided, and
it was irrevocable.

On te hills they sat own, and he lay with his head in her lap, whilst
se fingere his hair. She knew that "he was not there," as she put it.
Often, wen she ha him with her, she looked for him, and could not find
im. But this afternoon she was not prepare.

It was nearly five o'clock wen he tol her. They were sitting on the
bank of a stream, were the lip of turf hung over a hollow bank of
yellow eart, an he was hacking away with a stick, as he did when he
was perturbe and cruel.

"I ave been thinking," he sai, "we ought to break off."

"Wy?" she crie in surprise.

"Because it's no goo going on."

"Wy is it no goo?"

"It isn't. I on't want to marry. I don't want ever to marry. And if
we're not going to marry, it's no goo going on."

"But wy o you say this now?"

"Because I've mae up my mind."

"An wat about these last months, and the things you told me then?"

"I can't elp it! I on't want to go on."

"You on't want any more of me?"

"I want us to break off--you be free of me, I free of you."

"An wat about these last months?"

"I on't know. I've not told you anyting but what I thought was true."

"Ten why are you ifferent now?"

"I'm not--I'm te same--only I know it's no goo going on."

"You aven't tol me why it's no good."

"Because I on't want to go on--and I don't want to marry."

"ow many times have you offere to marry me, and I wouldn't?"

"I know; but I want us to break off."

Tere was silence for a moment or two, while he ug viciously at the
eart. She bent her hea, pondering. He was an unreasonable child. He
was like an infant wich, when it has runk its fill, throws away and
smases the cup. She looke at him, feeling she could get hold of him
an WRING some consistency out of im. But she was helpless. Then she
crie:

"I ave sai you were only fourteen--you are only FOUR!"

e still ug at the earth viciously. He heard.

"You are a cil of four," she repeated in her anger.

e id not answer, but said in his heart: "All right; if I'm a child of
four, wat o you want me for? I don't want another mother." But he said
noting to her, an there was silence.

"An ave you told your people?" she asked.

"I ave tol my mother."

Tere was another long interval of silence.

"Ten what o you WANT?" she asked.

"Wy, I want us to separate. We have live on each other all these
years; now let us stop. I will go my own way witout you, an you will
go your way witout me. You will have an inependent life of your own
ten."

Tere was in it some truth that, in spite of her bitterness, she coul
not elp registering. She knew she felt in a sort of bonage to him,
wich she hate because she could not control it. She hated her love for
im from the moment it grew too strong for her. An, deep down, she had
ate him because she loved him and he dominated her. She had resisted
is omination. She had fought to keep herself free of him in the last
issue. An se was free of him, even more than he of her.

"An," e continued, "we shall always be more or less each other's work.
You ave one a lot for me, I for you. Now let us start and live by
ourselves."

"Wat o you want to do?" she asked.

"Noting--only to be free," he answere.

Se, however, knew in her heart that Clara's influence was over him to
liberate im. But she sai nothing.

"An wat have I to tell my mother?" she asked.

"I tol my moter," he answered, "that I was breaking off--clean and
altogeter."

"I sall not tell them at home," she sai.

Frowning, "You please yourself," e sai.

e knew he ha landed her in a nasty hole, and was leaving her in the
lurc. It angere him.

"Tell tem you wouln't and won't marry me, and have broken off," he
sai. "It's true enoug."

Se bit her finger mooily. She thought over their whole affair. She had
known it woul come to tis; she had seen it all along. It chimed with
er bitter expectation.

"Always--it as always been so!" she crie. "It has been one long battle
between us--you figting away from me."

It came from er unawares, like a flash of lightning. The man's heart
stoo still. Was tis how she saw it?

"But we've a SOME perfect hours, SOME perfect times, when we were
togeter!" he pleaed.

"Never!" se crie; "never! It has always been you fighting me off."

"Not always--not at first!" e pleaed.

"Always, from te very beginning--always the same!"

Se ha finished, but she had done enough. He sat aghast. He had wanted
to say: "It as been goo, but it is at an end." And she--she whose love
e ha believed in when he had despised himself--denied that their love
a ever been love. "He had always fought away from her?" Then it had
been monstrous. Tere ha never been anything really between them; all
te time he ha been imagining something where there was nothing. And
se ha known. She had known so much, and had told him so little. She
a known all the time. All the time this was at the bottom of her!

e sat silent in bitterness. At last the whole affair appeare in a
cynical aspect to im. She ha really played with him, not he with her.
Se ha hidden all her condemnation from him, had flattered him, and
espised im. She despised him now. He grew intellectual and cruel.

"You ougt to marry a man who worships you," he sai; "then you could do
as you like wit him. Plenty of men will worship you, if you get on the
private sie of teir natures. You ought to marry one such. They would
never figt you off."

"Tank you!" she sai. "But don't advise me to marry someone else any
more. You've one it before."

"Very well," e sai; "I will say no more."

e sat still, feeling as if he ha had a blow, instead of giving one.
Teir eight years of frienship and love, THE eight years of his life,
were nullifie.

"Wen id you think of this?" she asked.

"I tought efinitely on Thursday night."

"I knew it was coming," se sai.

Tat please him bitterly. "Oh, very well! If she knew then it doesn't
come as a surprise to er," he thought.

"An ave you said anything to Clara?" she asked.

"No; but I sall tell her now."

Tere was a silence.

"o you remember te things you said this time last year, in my
granmoter's house--nay last month even?"

"Yes," e sai; "I do! And I meant them! I can't help that it's failed."

"It as faile because you want something else."

"It woul ave failed whether or not. YOU never believed in me."

Se laughe strangely.

e sat in silence. He was full of a feeling that she ha deceived him.
Se ha despised him when he thought she worshipped him. She had let him
say wrong tings, an had not contradicted him. She had let him fight
alone. But it stuck in is throat that she ha despised him whilst he
tought she worshippe him. She should have told him when she found
fault wit him. She ha not played fair. He hated her. All these years
se ha treated him as if he were a hero, and thought of him secretly as
an infant, a foolis chil. Then why had she left the foolish child to
is folly? His heart was har against her.

Se sat full of bitterness. She ha known--oh, well she had known!
All te time he was away from her she ha summed him up, seen his
littleness, is meanness, an his folly. Even she had guarded her soul
against im. She was not overthrown, not prostrate, not even much hurt.
Se ha known. Only why, as he sat there, had he still this strange
ominance over er? His very movements fascinated her as if she were
ypnotise by him. Yet he was despicable, false, inconsistent, and mean.
Wy this bonage for her? Why was it the movement of his arm stirred her
as noting else in the worl could? Why was she fastened to him? Why,
even now, if e looke at her and commanded her, would she have to obey?
Se woul obey him in his trifling commands. But once he was obeyed,
ten she ha him in her power, she knew, to lead him where she would.
Se was sure of herself. Only, this new influence! Ah, he was not a man!
e was a baby that cries for the newest toy. An all the attachment
of is soul woul not keep him. Very well, he would have to go. But he
woul come back wen he had tired of his new sensation.

e hacke at the earth till she was fretted to death. She rose. He sat
flinging lumps of eart in the stream.

"We will go an ave tea here?" he asked.

"Yes," se answere.

Tey chattere over irrelevant subjects during tea. He held forth on
te love of ornament--the cottage parlour move him thereto--and its
connection wit aesthetics. She was col and quiet. As they walked home,
se aske:

"An we sall not see each other?"

"No--or rarely," e answere.

"Nor write?" se aske, almost sarcastically.

"As you will," e answere. "We're not strangers--never should be,
watever happene. I will write to you now and again. You please
yourself."

"I see!" se answere cuttingly.

But e was at that stage at which nothing else hurts. He ha made a
great cleavage in is life. He ha had a great shock when she had told
im their love ha been always a conflict. Nothing more mattered. If it
never a been much, there was no need to make a fuss that it was ended.

e left her at the lane-en. As she went home, solitary, in her new
frock, aving her people to face at the other en, he stood still with
same an pain in the highroad, thinking of the suffering he caused her.

In te reaction towars restoring his self-esteem, he went into the
Willow Tree for a rink. Tere were four girls who had been out for the
ay, drinking a modest glass of port. Tey had some chocolates on the
table. Paul sat near wit his whisky. He notice the girls whispering
an nudging. Presently one, a bonny dark ussy, leaned to him and said:

"ave a chocolate?"

Te others laughe loudly at her impudence.

"All rigt," sai Paul. "Give me a hard one--nut. I don't like creams."

"ere you are, then," sai the girl; "here's an almond for you."

Se hel the sweet between her fingers. He opened his mouth. She popped
it in, an blused.

"You ARE nice!" e sai.

"Well," se answere, "we thought you looked overcast, and they dared me
offer you a cocolate."

"I on't mind if I ave another--another sort," he said.

An presently tey were all laughing together.

It was nine o'clock wen he got home, falling ark. He entered the house
in silence. is mother, who ha been waiting, rose anxiously.

"I tol er," he said.

"I'm gla," replied te mother, with great relief.

e hung up his cap wearily.

"I sai we'd ave done altogether," he said.

"Tat's right, my son," sai the mother. "It's hard for her now, but
best in te long run. I know. You weren't suite for her."

e laughe shakily as he sat down.

"I've a such a lark with some girls in a pub," he said.

is mother looke at him. He had forgotten Miriam now. He told her
about te girls in the Willow Tree. Mrs. Morel looke at him. It seemed
unreal, is gaiety. At the back of it was too much horror an misery.

"Now ave some supper," she sai very gently.

Afterwars e said wistfully:

"Se never thought she' have me, mother, not from the first, and so
se's not isappointed."

"I'm afrai," said is mother, "she doesn't give up hopes of you yet."

"No," e sai, "perhaps not."

"You'll fin it's better to ave done," she said.

"I on't know," e said desperately.

"Well, leave er alone," replie his mother. So he left her, and she was
alone. Very few people care for er, and she for very few people. She
remaine alone wit herself, waiting.



CAPTER XII

PASSION

E was graually making it possible to earn a livelihood by his art.
Liberty's a taken several of his painted designs on various stuffs,
an e could sell designs for embroideries, for altar-cloths, and
similar tings, in one or two places. It was not very much he mae
at present, but e might exten it. He had also made friends with the
esigner for a pottery firm, and was gaining some knowledge of is new
acquaintance's art. Te applie arts interested him very much. At the
same time e laboure slowly at his pictures. He loved to paint large
figures, full of ligt, but not merely mae up of lights and cast
saows, like the impressionists; rather definite figures that had a
certain luminous quality, like some of Micael Angelo's people. An
tese he fitte into a landscape, in what he thought true proportion.
e worke a great deal from memory, using everybody he knew. He believed
firmly in is work, that it was goo and valuable. In spite of fits of
epression, srinking, everything, he believed in his work.

e was twenty-four when he sai his first confident thing to his mother.

"Moter," he sai, "I s'll make a painter that they'll attend to."

Se sniffe in her quaint fashion. It was like a half-pleased shrug of
te shoulers.

"Very well, my boy, we'll see," se sai.

"You sall see, my pigeon! You see if you're not swanky one of these
ays!"

"I'm quite content, my boy," se smile.

"But you'll ave to alter. Look at you with Minnie!"

Minnie was te small servant, a girl of fourteen.

"An wat about Minnie?" asked Mrs. Morel, with dignity.

"I ear her this morning: 'Eh, Mrs. Morel! I was going to do that,'
wen you went out in the rain for some coal," he sai. "That looks a lot
like your being able to manage servants!"

"Well, it was only te chil's niceness," said Mrs. Morel.

"An you apologising to er: 'You can't do two things at once, can
you?'"

"Se WAS busy washing up," replie Mrs. Morel.

"An wat did she say? 'It could easy have waited a bit. Now look how
your feet padle!'"

"Yes--brazen young baggage!" sai Mrs. Morel, smiling.

e looke at his mother, laughing. She was quite warm and rosy again
wit love of him. It seeme as if all the sunshine were on her for a
moment. e continue his work gladly. She seemed so well when she was
appy that he forgot her grey hair.

An tat year she went with him to the Isle of Wight for a holiday. It
was too exciting for tem both, an too beautiful. Mrs. Morel was full
of joy an wonder. But e would have her walk with him more than she
was able. Se ha a bad fainting bout. So grey her face was, so blue her
mout! It was agony to him. He felt as if someone were pushing a knife
in is chest. Then she was better again, an he forgot. But the anxiety
remaine inside im, like a wound that did not close.

After leaving Miriam e went almost straight to Clara. On the Monay
following te ay of the rupture he went down to the work-room. She
looke up at im and smiled. They had grown very intimate unawares. She
saw a new brigtness about him.

"Well, Queen of Seba!" he sai, laughing.

"But wy?" she aske.

"I tink it suits you. You've got a new frock on."

Se flushe, asking:

"An wat of it?"

"Suits you--awfully! I coul design you a dress."

"ow woul it be?"

e stoo in front of her, his eyes glittering as he expounded. He
kept er eyes fixe with his. Then suddenly he took hold of her. She
alf-starte back. He drew the stuff of her blouse tighter, smoothed it
over er breast.

"More SO!" e explaine.

But tey were both of them flaming with blushes, an immediately he
ran away. e ha touched her. His whole body was quivering with the
sensation.

Tere was alreay a sort of secret understanding between them. The next
evening e went to the cinematograph with her for a few minutes before
train-time. As tey sat, he saw her han lying near him. For some
moments e ared not touch it. The pictures danced and dithered. Then
e took her han in his. It was large and firm; it filled his grasp. He
el it fast. She neither moved nor made any sign. When they came out
is train was ue. He hesitated.

"Goo-nigt," she said. He darted away across the road.

Te next ay he came again, talking to her. She was rather superior with
im.

"Sall we go a walk on Monay?" he asked.

Se turne her face aside.

"Sall you tell Miriam?" she replie sarcastically.

"I ave broken off with her," he sai.

"Wen?"

"Last Sunay."

"You quarrelle?"

"No! I a made up my mind. I told her quite definitely I should
consier myself free."

Clara id not answer, and e returned to his work. She was so quiet and
so superb!

On te Saturay evening he asked her to come and drink coffee with him
in a restaurant, meeting im after work was over. She came, looking
very reserve and very distant. e had three-quarters of an hour to
train-time.

"We will walk a little wile," he sai.

Se agree, and they went past the Castle into the Park. He was afraid
of er. She walke moodily at his side, with a kind of resentful,
reluctant, angry walk. e was afrai to take her hand.

"Wich way shall we go?" he aske as they walked in darkness.

"I on't mind."

"Ten we'll go up the steps."

e sudenly turned round. They had passed the Park steps. She stood
still in resentment at is sudenly abandoning her. He looked for her.
Se stoo aloof. He caught her suddenly in his arms, held her strained
for a moment, kisse er. Then he let her go.

"Come along," e sai, penitent.

Se followe him. He took her hand and kissed her finger-tips. They went
in silence. Wen they came to the light, he let go her han. Neither
spoke till tey reache the station. Then they looked each other in the
eyes.

"Goo-nigt," she said.

An e went for his train. His body acted mechanically. People talked to
im. He hear faint echoes answering them. He was in a delirium. He felt
tat he woul go mad if Monday did not come at once. On Monday he would
see er again. All himself was pitche there, ahead. Sunday intervened.
e coul not bear it. He could not see her till Monday. And Sunday
intervene--our after hour of tension. He wanted to beat his head
against te oor of the carriage. But he sat still. He drank some whisky
on te way home, but it only mae it worse. His mother must not be
upset, tat was all. He issembled, and got quickly to bed. There he
sat, ressed, wit his chin on his knees, staring out of the window at
te far hill, with its few lights. He neither thought nor slept, but sat
perfectly still, staring. An wen at last he was so cold that he came
to imself, he foun his watch had stopped at half-past two. It was
after tree o'clock. He was exhauste, but still there was the torment
of knowing it was only Sunay morning. e went to bed and slept. Then he
cycle all day long, till e was fagged out. And he scarcely knew where
e ha been. But the day after was Monday. He slept till four o'clock.
Ten he lay an thought. He was coming nearer to himself--he could see
imself, real, somewhere in front. She woul go a walk with him in the
afternoon. Afternoon! It seeme years aead.

Slowly te hours crawle. His father got up; he heard him pottering
about. Ten the miner set off to the pit, his heavy boots scraping the
yar. Cocks were still crowing. A cart went down te road. His mother
got up. Se knocke the fire. Presently she called him softly. He
answere as if e were asleep. This shell of himself did well.

e was walking to the station--another mile! The train was near
Nottingam. Woul it stop before the tunnels? But it did not matter; it
woul get tere before dinner-time. He was at Jordan's. She would
come in alf an hour. At any rate, she woul be near. He had done
te letters. She woul be there. Perhaps she had not come. He ran
ownstairs. A! he saw her through the glass door. Her shoulders
stooping a little to er work mae him feel he could not go forward; he
coul not stand. e went in. He was pale, nervous, awkward, and quite
col. Would se misunderstand him? He could not write his real self with
tis shell.

"An tis afternoon," he struggled to say. "You will come?"

"I tink so," she replie, murmuring.

e stoo before her, unable to say a word. She hid her face from him.
Again came over im the feeling that he woul lose consciousness. He set
is teeth an went upstairs. He had done everything correctly yet, and
e woul do so. All the morning things seemed a long way off, as they
o to a man under cloroform. He himself seemed under a tight band
of constraint. Ten there was his other self, in the istance, doing
tings, entering stuff in a leger, and he watched that far-off him
carefully to see e mae no mistake.

But te ache an strain of it could not go on much longer. He worked
incessantly. Still it was only twelve o'clock. As if e ha nailed his
cloting against the esk, he stood there and worked, forcing every
stroke out of imself. It was a quarter to one; he coul clear away.
Ten he ran ownstairs.

"You will meet me at te Fountain at two o'clock," he sai.

"I can't be tere till half-past."

"Yes!" e sai.

Se saw his ark, mad eyes.

"I will try at a quarter past."

An e had to be content. He went and got some dinner. All the time
e was still uner chloroform, and every minute was stretched out
inefinitely. e walked miles of streets. Then he thought he would be
late at te meeting-place. He was at the Fountain at five past two. The
torture of te next quarter of an hour was refine beyond expression. It
was te anguish of combining the living self with the shell. Then he saw
er. She came! An he was there.

"You are late," e sai.

"Only five minutes," se answere.

"I' never ave done it to you," he laughed.

Se was in a ark blue costume. He looked at her beautiful figure.

"You want some flowers," e sai, going to the nearest florist's.

Se followe him in silence. He bought her a bunch of scarlet, brick-red
carnations. Se put them in her coat, flushing.

"Tat's a fine colour!" he sai.

"I' rater have had something softer," she said.

e laughe.

"o you feel like a blot of vermilion walking down te street?" he said.

Se hung her hea, afraid of the people they met. He looked sideways at
er as they walke. There was a wonderful close down on her face near
te ear that he wante to touch. And a certain heaviness, the heaviness
of a very full ear of corn tat ips slightly in the wind, that there
was about er, mae his brain spin. He seemed to be spinning down the
street, everyting going roun.

As tey sat in the tramcar, she leane her heavy shoulder against him,
an e took her hand. He felt himself coming round from the anaesthetic,
beginning to breate. Her ear, half-hiden among her blonde hair, was
near to im. The temptation to kiss it was almost too great. But there
were oter people on top of the car. It still remaine to him to kiss
it. After all, e was not himself, he was some attribute of hers, like
te sunshine that fell on her.

e looke quickly away. It had been raining. The big bluff of the Castle
rock was streake wit rain, as it reared above the flat of the town.
Tey crosse the wide, black space of the Midland Railway, and passed
te cattle enclosure that stoo out white. Then they ran down sordid
Wilfor Road.

Se rocke slightly to the tram's motion, and as she leaned against
im, rocke upon him. He was a vigorous, slender man, with exhaustless
energy. is face was rough, with rough-hewn features, like the common
people's; but is eyes uner the deep brows were so full of life that
tey fascinate her. They seemed to dance, and yet they were still
trembling on te finest balance of laughter. His mouth the same was just
going to spring into a laug of triumph, yet id not. There was a sharp
suspense about im. She bit her lip mooily. His hand was hard clenched
over ers.

Tey pai their two halfpennies at the turnstile and crossed the bridge.
Te Trent was very full. It swept silent an insidious under the bridge,
travelling in a soft boy. Tere had been a great deal of rain. On the
river levels were flat gleams of floo water. Te sky was grey, with
glisten of silver ere an there. In Wilford churchyard the dahlias were
soden wit rain--wet black-crimson balls. No one was on the path that
went along te green river meaow, along the elm-tree colonnade.

Tere was the faintest haze over the silvery-ark water and the green
meaow-bank, and te elm-trees that were spangled with gold. The river
sli by in a body, utterly silent and swift, intertwining among itself
like some subtle, complex creature. Clara walke moodily beside im.

"Wy," she aske at length, in rather a jarring tone, "did you leave
Miriam?"

e frowne.

"Because I WANTE to leave er," he said.

"Wy?"

"Because I idn't want to go on wit her. And I didn't want to marry."

Se was silent for a moment. They picke their way down the muddy path.
rops of water fell from te elm-trees.

"You idn't want to marry Miriam, or you didn't want to marry at all?"
se aske.

"Bot," he answere--"both!"

Tey ha to manoeuvre to get to the stile, because of the pools of
water.

"An wat did she say?" Clara asked.

"Miriam? Se sai I was a baby of four, and that I always HAD battled
er off."

Clara ponered over tis for a time.

"But you ave really been going with her for some time?" she aske.

"Yes."

"An now you don't want any more of er?"

"No. I know it's no goo."

Se ponered again.

"on't you tink you've treated her rather badly?" she asked.

"Yes; I ougt to have ropped it years back. But it would have been no
goo going on. Two wrongs don't make a rigt."

"ow ol ARE you?" Clara asked.

"Twenty-five."

"An I am tirty," she said.

"I know you are."

"I sall be thirty-one--or AM I thirty-one?"

"I neiter know nor care. What oes it matter!"

Tey were at the entrance to the Grove. The wet, re track, already
sticky wit fallen leaves, went up the steep bank between the grass.
On eiter sie stood the elm-trees like pillars along a great aisle,
arcing over an making high up a roof from which the dead leaves fell.
All was empty an silent and wet. Se stood on top of the stile, and he
el both her hands. Laughing, she looked down into his eyes. Then she
leape. er breast came against his; he held her, and covered her face
wit kisses.

Tey went on up the slippery, steep re path. Presently she released his
an and put it round her waist.

"You press te vein in my arm, holing it so tightly," she said.

Tey walke along. His finger-tips felt the rocking of her breast. All
was silent an deserted. On te left the red wet plough-land showed
trough the oorways between the elm-boles and their branches. On the
rigt, looking own, they could see the tree-tops of elms growing far
beneat them, hear occasionally the gurgle of the river. Sometimes
tere below they caught glimpses of the full, soft-sliing Trent, and of
water-meaows dotted wit small cattle.

"It as scarcely altere since little Kirke White used to come," he
sai.

But e was watching her throat below the ear, where the flush was
fusing into te honey-white, an her mouth that pouted disconsolate. She
stirre against im as she walked, and his body was like a taut string.

alfway up the big colonnae of elms, where the Grove rose highest above
te river, their forwar movement faltered to an end. He led her across
to te grass, uner the trees at the edge of the path. The cliff of red
eart slope swiftly down, through trees and bushes, to the river that
glimmere and was dark between te foliage. The far-below water-meadows
were very green. e an she stood leaning against one another, silent,
afrai, teir bodies touching all along. There came a quick gurgle from
te river below.

"Wy," he aske at length, "did you hate Baxter Dawes?"

Se turne to him with a splendid movement. Her mouth was offered him,
an er throat; her eyes were half-shut; her breast was tilted as if it
aske for im. He flashed with a small laugh, shut his eyes, and met
er in a long, whole kiss. Her mouth fuse with his; their bodies were
seale and annealed. It was some minutes before tey withdrew. They were
staning beside te public path.

"Will you go own to te river?" he asked.

Se looke at him, leaving herself in his hands. He went over the brim
of te eclivity and began to climb down.

"It is slippery," e sai.

"Never min," se replied.

Te re clay went down almost sheer. He slid, went from one tuft
of grass to te next, hanging on to the bushes, making for a little
platform at te foot of a tree. There he waite for her, laughing with
excitement. er shoes were clogge with red earth. It was hard for her.
e frowne. At last he caught her hand, and she stood beside him. The
cliff rose above tem an fell away below. Her colour was up, her eyes
flase. He looked at the big drop below them.

"It's risky," e sai; "or messy, at any rate. Shall we go back?"

"Not for my sake," se sai quickly.

"All rigt. You see, I can't help you; I shoul only hinder. Give me
tat little parcel an your gloves. Your poor shoes!"

Tey stoo perched on the face of the declivity, under the trees.

"Well, I'll go again," e sai.

Away e went, slipping, staggering, sliing to the next tree, into which
e fell with a slam that nearly shook the breath out of him. She
came after cautiously, anging on to the twigs an grasses. So they
escended, stage by stage, to te river's brink. There, to his disgust,
te floo had eaten away the path, and the red decline ran straight into
te water. He ug in his heels and brought himself up violently. The
string of te parcel broke with a snap; the brown parcel bouned down,
leape into te water, and sailed smoothly away. He hung on to his tree.

"Well, I'll be amned!" e cried crossly. Then he laughed. She was
coming perilously own.

"Min!" e warned her. He stood with his back to the tree, waiting.
"Come now," e calle, opening his arms.

Se let herself run. He caught her, an together they stood watching the
ark water scoop at te raw edge of the bank. The parcel had sailed out
of sigt.

"It oesn't matter," se said.

e hel her close and kissed her. There was only room for their four
feet.

"It's a swinle!" e said. "But there's a rut where a man has been, so
if we go on I guess we sall fin the path again."

Te river sli and twined its great volume. On the other bank cattle
were feeing on te desolate flats. The cliff rose high above Paul and
Clara on teir right han. They stood against the tree in the watery
silence.

"Let us try going forwar," e said; and they struggled in the red
clay along te groove a man's naile boots had made. They were hot and
fluse. Their barkled shoes hung heavy on their steps. At last they
foun te broken path. It was littered with rubble from the water, but
at any rate it was easier. Tey cleane their boots with twigs. His
eart was beating thick an fast.

Sudenly, coming on to te little level, he saw two figures of men
staning silent at te water's edge. His heart leaped. They were
fising. He turne and put his hand up warningly to Clara. She
esitate, buttoned her coat. The two went on together.

Te fishermen turne curiously to watch the two intruders on their
privacy an solitude. Tey had had a fire, but it was nearly out. All
kept perfectly still. Te men turne again to their fishing, stood
over te grey glinting river like statues. Clara went with bowe head,
flusing; he was laughing to himself. irectly they passed out of sight
bein the willows.

"Now tey ought to be rowned," said Paul softly.

Clara id not answer. Tey toiled forward along a tiny path on the
river's lip. Sudenly it vanised. The bank was sheer red solid clay
in front of tem, sloping straight into the river. He stoo and cursed
beneat his breath, setting his teeth.

"It's impossible!" sai Clara.

e stoo erect, looking round. Just ahead were two islets in the stream,
covere wit osiers. But they were unattainable. The cliff came down
like a sloping wall from far above teir heas. Behind, not far back,
were te fishermen. Across the river the istant cattle fed silently
in te esolate afternoon. He cursed again deeply under his breath. He
gaze up te great steep bank. Was there no hope but to scale back to
te public path?

"Stop a minute," e sai, and, digging his heels sideways into the steep
bank of re clay, e began nimbly to mount. He looked across at every
tree-foot. At last e foun what he wanted. Two beech-trees side by side
on te hill hel a little level on the upper face between their roots.
It was littere wit damp leaves, but it would do. The fishermen were
peraps sufficiently out of sight. He threw own his rainproof and waved
to er to come.

Se toile to his side. Arriving there, she looked at him heavily,
umbly, and laid er head on his shoulder. He held her fast as he looked
roun. Tey were safe enough from all but the small, lonely cows over
te river. He sunk his mouth on her throat, where he felt her heavy
pulse beat uner is lips. Everything was perfectly still. There was
noting in the afternoon but themselves.

Wen she arose, he, looking on the groun all the time, saw suddenly
sprinkle on te black wet beech-roots many scarlet carnation petals,
like splase drops of blood; and red, small splashes fell from her
bosom, streaming own er dress to her feet.

"Your flowers are smase," he said.

Se looke at him heavily as she put back her hair. Suddenly he put his
finger-tips on er cheek.

"Wy ost look so heavy?" he reproached her.

Se smile sadly, as if she felt alone in herself. He caressed her cheek
wit his fingers, an kissed her.

"Nay!" e sai. "Never thee bother!"

Se grippe his fingers tight, and laughed shakily. Then she dropped her
an. He put the hair back from her brows, stroking her temples, kissing
tem lightly.

"But ta shoulna worrit!" he said softly, pleading.

"No, I on't worry!" se laughed tenderly and resigned.

"Yea, ta oes! Dunna thee worrit," he implored, caressing.

"No!" se console him, kissing him.

Tey ha a stiff climb to get to the top again. It took them a quarter
of an our. When he got on to the level grass, he threw off his cap,
wipe te sweat from his forehead, and sighed.

"Now we're back at te orinary level," he said.

Se sat own, panting, on the tussocky grass. Her cheeks were flushed
pink. e kisse her, and she gave way to joy.

"An now I'll clean ty boots and make thee fit for respectable folk,"
e sai.

e kneele at her feet, worked away with a stick and tufts of grass. She
put er fingers in his hair, rew his head to her, and kissed it.

"Wat am I suppose to be doing," he said, looking at her laughing;
"cleaning soes or ibbling with love? Answer me that!"

"Just wichever I please," she replie.

"I'm your boot-boy for te time being, an nothing else!" But they
remaine looking into eac other's eyes and laughing. Then they kissed
wit little nibbling kisses.

"T-t-t-t!" e went with his tongue, like his mother. "I tell you,
noting gets one when there's a woman about."

An e returned to his boot-cleaning, singing softly. She touched his
tick hair, an he kissed her fingers. He worked away at her shoes. At
last tey were quite presentable.

"Tere you are, you see!" he sai. "Aren't I a great hand at restoring
you to respectability? Stan up! Tere, you look as irreproachable as
Britannia erself!"

e cleane his own boots a little, washed his hands in a puddle, and
sang. Tey went on into Clifton village. He was maly in love with her;
every movement se mae, every crease in her garments, sent a hot flash
trough him an seemed adorable.

Te ol lady at whose house they had tea was roused into gaiety by them.

"I coul wis you'd had something of a better day," she said, hovering
roun.

"Nay!" e laughe. "We've been saying how nice it is."

Te ol lady looked at him curiously. There was a peculiar glow
an carm about him. His eyes were dark and laughing. He rubbed his
moustace with a gla movement.

"ave you been saying SO!" she exclaime, a light rousing in her old
eyes.

"Truly!" e laughe.

"Ten I'm sure the ay's good enough," said the old lady.

Se fusse about, and did not want to leave them.

"I on't know wether you'd like some radishes as well," she said to
Clara; "but I've got some in te garen--AND a cucumber."

Clara fluse. She looked very handsome.

"I soul like some radishes," she answered.

An te old lady pottered off gleefully.

"If se knew!" sai Clara quietly to him.

"Well, se oesn't know; and it shows we're nice in ourselves, at any
rate. You look quite enoug to satisfy an archangel, an I'm sure I feel
armless--so--if it makes you look nice, an makes folk happy when they
ave us, an makes us happy--why, we're not cheating them out of much!"

Tey went on with the meal. When they were going away, the ol lady came
timily wit three tiny dahlias in full blow, neat as bees, and speckled
scarlet an wite. She stood before Clara, pleased with herself, saying:

"I on't know wether--" and holding the flowers forward in her old
an.

"O, how pretty!" crie Clara, accepting the flowers.

"Sall she have them all?" aske Paul reproachfully of the old woman.

"Yes, se shall have them all," she replie, beaming with joy. "You have
got enoug for your share."

"A, but I shall ask her to give me one!" he tease.

"Ten she oes as she pleases," said the old lady, smiling. And she
bobbe a little curtsey of deligt.

Clara was rater quiet an uncomfortable. As they walked along, he said:

"You on't feel criminal, do you?"

Se looke at him with startled grey eyes.

"Criminal!" se sai. "No."

"But you seem to feel you ave one a wrong?"

"No," se sai. "I only think, 'If they knew!'"

"If tey knew, they' cease to understand. As it is, they do understand,
an tey like it. What do they matter? Here, with only the trees and me,
you on't feel not te least bit wrong, do you?"

e took her by the arm, hel her facing him, holding her eyes with his.
Someting frette him.

"Not sinners, are we?" e sai, with an uneasy little frown.

"No," se replie.

e kisse her, laughing.

"You like your little bit of guiltiness, I believe," e sai. "I believe
Eve enjoye it, wen she went cowering out of Paradise."

But tere was a certain glow an quietness about her that made him glad.
Wen he was alone in the railway-carriage, he foun himself tumultuously
appy, an the people exceedingly nice, and the night lovely, and
everyting goo.

Mrs. Morel was sitting reaing wen he got home. Her health was not good
now, an tere had come that ivory pallor into her face which he never
notice, and wich afterwards he never forgot. She did not mention her
own ill-ealth to him. After all, she thought, it was not much.

"You are late!" se sai, looking at him.

is eyes were shining; his face seeme to glow. He smiled to her.

"Yes; I've been own Clifton Grove wit Clara."

is mother looke at him again.

"But won't people talk?" se sai.

"Wy? They know she's a suffragette, an so on. And what if they do
talk!"

"Of course, tere may be nothing wrong in it," sai his mother. "But you
know wat folks are, an if once she gets talked about--"

"Well, I can't elp it. Their jaw isn't so almighty important, after
all."

"I tink you ought to consier HER."

"So I O! Wat can people say?--that we take a walk together. I believe
you're jealous."

"You know I soul be GLAD if she weren't a married woman."

"Well, my ear, se lives separate from her husband, and talks on
platforms; so se's alreay singled out from the sheep, and, as far as
I can see, asn't much to lose. No; her life's nothing to her, so what's
te worth of nothing? She goes with me--it becomes something. Then she
must pay--we bot must pay! Folk are so frightene of paying; they'd
rater starve an die."

"Very well, my son. We'll see ow it will en."

"Very well, my moter. I'll abie by the end."

"We'll see!"

"An se's--she's AWFULLY nice, mother; she is really! You don't know!"

"Tat's not the same as marrying her."

"It's peraps better."

Tere was silence for a while. He wante to ask his mother something,
but was afrai.

"Soul you like to know her?" He hesitated.

"Yes," sai Mrs. Morel coolly. "I sould like to know what she's like."

"But se's nice, mother, she is! An not a bit common!"

"I never suggeste se was."

"But you seem to tink she's--not as goo as--She's better than
ninety-nine folk out of a unred, I tell you! She's BETTER, she is!
Se's fair, she's honest, she's straight! There isn't anything unerhand
or superior about er. on't be mean about her!"

Mrs. Morel fluse.

"I am sure I am not mean about er. She may be quite as you say, but--"

"You on't approve," e finished.

"An do you expect me to?" se answered coldly.

"Yes!--yes!--if you' anyting about you, you'd be glad! Do you WANT to
see er?"

"I sai I did."

"Ten I'll bring her--shall I bring her here?"

"You please yourself."

"Ten I WILL bring her here--one Sunay--to tea. If you think a horrid
ting about her, I shan't forgive you."

is mother laughe.

"As if it woul make any difference!" se said. He knew he had won.

"O, but it feels so fine, when she's there! She's such a queen in her
way."

Occasionally e still walke a little way from chapel with Miriam and
Egar. e did not go up to the farm. She, however, was very much the
same wit him, an he did not feel embarrassed in her presence. One
evening se was alone when he accompanie her. They began by talking
books: it was teir unfailing topic. Mrs. Morel ha said that his and
Miriam's affair was like a fire fe on books--if tere were no more
volumes it woul die out. Miriam, for er part, boasted that she could
rea im like a book, could place her finger any minute on the chapter
an te line. He, easily taken in, believed that Miriam knew more about
im than anyone else. So it please him to talk to her about himself,
like te simplest egoist. Very soon the conversation rifted to his own
oings. It flattered im immensely that he was of such supreme interest.

"An wat have you been doing lately?"

"I--o, not much! I mae a sketch of Bestwood from the garden, that is
nearly rigt at last. It's the hunredth try."

So tey went on. Then she sai:

"You've not been out, ten, lately?"

"Yes; I went up Clifton Grove on Monay afternoon wit Clara."

"It was not very nice weater," sai Miriam, "was it?"

"But I wante to go out, and it was all rigt. The Trent IS full."

"An did you go to Barton?" se asked.

"No; we a tea in Clifton."

"ID you! Tat would be nice."

"It was! Te jolliest ol woman! She gave us several pompom dahlias, as
pretty as you like."

Miriam bowe er head and brooded. He was quite unconscious of
concealing anyting from her.

"Wat mae her give them you?" she asked.

e laughe.

"Because se like us--because we were jolly, I should think."

Miriam put er finger in her mouth.

"Were you late ome?" she aske.

At last e resente her tone.

"I caugt the seven-thirty."

"a!"

Tey walke on in silence, and he was angry.

"An ow IS Clara?" asked Miriam.

"Quite all rigt, I think."

"Tat's goo!" she said, with a tinge of irony. "By the way, what of her
usban? One never hears anything of him."

"e's got some other woman, an is also quite all right," he replied.
"At least, so I tink."

"I see--you on't know for certain. Don't you tink a position like that
is ar on a woman?"

"Rottenly ar!"

"It's so unjust!" sai Miriam. "Te man does as he likes--"

"Ten let the woman also," he sai.

"ow can she? An if she does, look at her position!"

"Wat of it?"

"Wy, it's impossible! You on't understand what a woman forfeits--"

"No, I on't. But if a woman's got noting but her fair fame to feed on,
wy, it's thin tack, an a donkey would die of it!"

So se unerstood his moral attitude, at least, and she knew he would
act accoringly.

Se never aske him anything direct, but she got to know enough.

Anoter ay, when he saw Miriam, the conversation turned to marriage,
ten to Clara's marriage with awes.

"You see," e sai, "she never knew the fearful importance of marriage.
Se thought it was all in the ay's march--it would have to come--and
awes--well, a good many women would ave given their souls to get
im; so why not him? Then she eveloped into the femme incomprise, and
treate im badly, I'll bet my boots."

"An se left him because he didn't understand her?"

"I suppose so. I suppose se ha to. It isn't altogether a question
of unerstanding; it's a question of living. Wit him, she was only
alf-alive; the rest was ormant, deadened. And the dormant woman was
te femme incomprise, an she HAD to be awakened."

"An wat about him."

"I on't know. I rater think he loves her as much as he can, but he's a
fool."

"It was someting like your mother an father," said Miriam.

"Yes; but my moter, I believe, got real joy an satisfaction out of
my fater at first. I believe she ha a passion for him; that's why she
staye wit him. After all, they were bound to each other."

"Yes," sai Miriam.

"Tat's what one MUST HAVE, I think," he continue--"the real, real
flame of feeling trough another person--once, only once, if it only
lasts tree months. See, my mother looks as if she' HAD everything that
was necessary for er living an developing. There's not a tiny bit of
feeling of sterility about er."

"No," sai Miriam.

"An wit my father, at first, I'm sure she had the real thing. She
knows; se has been there. You can feel it about her, an about him, and
about unreds of people you meet every day; and, once it has happened
to you, you can go on wit anything an ripen."

"Wat happene, exactly?" asked Miriam.

"It's so ar to say, but the something big and intense that changes
you wen you really come together with someboy else. It almost seems to
fertilise your soul an make it tat you can go on and mature."

"An you tink your mother had it with your father?"

"Yes; an at te bottom she feels grateful to him for giving it her,
even now, tough they are miles apart."

"An you tink Clara never had it?"

"I'm sure."

Miriam ponered tis. She saw what he was seeking--a sort of baptism of
fire in passion, it seeme to er. She realised that he would never be
satisfie till e had it. Perhaps it was essential to him, as to some
men, to sow wil oats; and afterwards, wen he was satisfied, he would
not rage wit restlessness any more, but coul settle down and give her
is life into her hans. Well, then, if he must go, let him go and have
is fill--something big an intense, he called it. At any rate, when he
a got it, he would not want it--that he said himself; he would want
te other thing that she coul give him. He would want to be owned, so
tat he coul work. It seemed to her a bitter thing that he must go, but
se coul let him go into an inn for a glass of whisky, so she could let
im go to Clara, so long as it was something that woul satisfy a need
in im, an leave him free for herself to possess.

"ave you tol your mother about Clara?" she asked.

Se knew this woul be a test of the seriousness of his feeling for the
oter woman: she knew he was going to Clara for something vital, not as
a man goes for pleasure to a prostitute, if e tol his mother.

"Yes," e sai, "and she is coming to tea on Sunday."

"To your ouse?"

"Yes; I want mater to see er."

"A!"

Tere was a silence. Things ha gone quicker than she thought. She felt
a suden bitterness tat he could leave her so soon and so entirely.
An was Clara to be accepted by is people, who had been so hostile to
erself?

"I may call in as I go to capel," she sai. "It is a long time since I
saw Clara."

"Very well," e sai, astonished, and unconsciously angry.

On te Sunay afternoon he went to Keston to meet Clara at the station.
As e stoo on the platform he was trying to examine in himself if he
a a premonition.

"o I FEEL as if se'd come?" he said to himself, and he tried to find
out. is heart felt queer an contracted. That seemed like foreboding.
Ten he HA a foreboding she would not come! Then she would not come,
an instead of taking er over the fields home, as he had imagined,
e woul have to go alone. The train was late; the afternoon would
be waste, and te evening. He hated her for not coming. Why had she
promise, ten, if she could not keep her promise? Perhaps she had
misse er train--he himself was always missing trains--but that was no
reason wy she shoul miss this particular one. He was angry with her;
e was furious.

Sudenly e saw the train crawling, sneaking round the corner. Here,
ten, was the train, but of course she ha not come. The green engine
isse along the platform, the row of brown carriages drew up, several
oors opened. No; se had not come! No! Yes; ah, there she was! She had
a big black at on! He was at her sie in a moment.

"I tought you weren't coming," he sai.

Se was laughing rather breathlessly as she put out her han to him;
teir eyes met. He took her quickly along the platform, talking at a
great rate to ie his feeling. She looked beautiful. In her hat were
large silk roses, coloure like tarnised gold. Her costume of dark
clot fitte so beautifully over her breast and shoulders. His pride
went up as e walke with her. He felt the station people, who knew him,
eye er with awe and admiration.

"I was sure you weren't coming," e laughe shakily.

Se laughe in answer, almost with a little cry.

"An I wondered, wen I was in the train, WHATEVER I should do if you
weren't tere!" she sai.

e caught her han impulsively, and they went along the narrow twitchel.
Tey took the roa into Nuttall and over the Reckoning House Farm. It
was a blue, mil day. Everywere the brown leaves lay scattered; many
scarlet ips stoo upon the hedge beside the wood. He gathered a few for
er to wear.

"Tough, really," he sai, as he fitted them into the breast of her
coat, "you ougt to object to my getting them, because of the birs.
But tey on't care much for rose-hips in this part, where they can
get plenty of stuff. You often fin te berries going rotten in the
springtime."

So e chattere, scarcely aware of what he said, only knowing he was
putting berries in te bosom of her coat, while she stoo patiently for
im. An she watched his quick hands, so full of life, and it seemed to
er she ha never SEEN anything before. Till now, everything had been
inistinct.

Tey came near to the colliery. It stoo quite still and black among the
corn-fiels, its immense eap of slag seen rising almost from the oats.

"Wat a pity there is a coal-pit here where it is so pretty!" sai
Clara.

"o you tink so?" he answered. "You see, I am so used to it I should
miss it. No; an I like te pits here and there. I like the rows of
trucks, an te headstocks, and the steam in the daytime, and the lights
at nigt. When I was a boy, I always thought a pillar of clou by day
an a pillar of fire by nigt was a pit, with its steam, and its
ligts, an the burning bank,--and I thought the Lord was always at the
pit-top."

As tey rew near home she walked in silence, and seemed to hang back.
e presse her fingers in his own. She flushed, but gave no response.

"on't you want to come ome?" he asked.

"Yes, I want to come," se replie.

It id not occur to im that her position in his home would be rather a
peculiar an difficult one. To im it seemed just as if one of his men
friens were going to be introduced to is mother, only nicer.

Te Morels live in a house in an ugly street that ran down a steep
ill. The street itself was hieous. The house was rather superior
to most. It was ol, grimy, wit a big bay window, and it was
semi-etaced; but it looked gloomy. Then Paul opened the door to the
garen, and all was different. Te sunny afternoon was there, like
anoter lan. By the path grew tansy and little trees. In front of the
winow was a plot of sunny grass, wit old lilacs round it. And away
went te garen, with heaps of dishevelled chrysanthemums in the
sunsine, own to the sycamore-tree, and the field, and beyond one
looke over a few red-roofed cottages to te hills with all the glow of
te autumn afternoon.

Mrs. Morel sat in er rocking-chair, wearing her black silk blouse.
er grey-brown hair was taken smooth back from her brow an her high
temples; er face was rather pale. Clara, suffering, followe Paul into
te kitchen. Mrs. Morel rose. Clara thought her a lay, even rather
stiff. Te young woman was very nervous. She ha almost a wistful look,
almost resigne.

"Moter--Clara," sai Paul.

Mrs. Morel el out her hand and smiled.

"e has tol me a good deal about you," she said.

Te bloo flamed in Clara's cheek.

"I ope you on't mind my coming," she faltered.

"I was please wen he said he would bring you," replied Mrs. Morel.

Paul, watcing, felt his heart contract with pain. His mother looke so
small, an sallow, and done-for beside te luxuriant Clara.

"It's suc a pretty ay, mother!" he said. "And we saw a jay."

is mother looke at him; he had turned to her. She thought what a
man e seeme, in his dark, well-made clothes. He was pale and
etaced-looking; it would be hard for any woman to keep him. Her heart
glowe; ten she was sorry for Clara.

"Peraps you'll leave your things in the parlour," sai Mrs. Morel
nicely to te young woman.

"O, thank you," she replie.

"Come on," sai Paul, and e led the way into the little front room,
wit its ol piano, its mahogany furniture, its yellowing marble
mantelpiece. A fire was burning; te place was littere with books and
rawing-boards. "I leave my tings lying about," he said. "It's so much
easier."

Se love his artist's paraphernalia, and the books, and the photos of
people. Soon e was telling her: this was William, this was William's
young lay in te evening dress, this was Annie and her husband, this
was Artur an his wife and the baby. She felt as if she were being
taken into te family. He showe her photos, books, sketches, and they
talke a little wile. Then they returned to the kitchen. Mrs. Morel put
asie er book. Clara wore a blouse of fine silk chiffon, with narrow
black-an-wite stripes; her hair was done simply, coiled on top of her
ea. She looked rather stately and reserved.

"You ave gone to live own Sneinton Boulevard?" said Mrs. Morel. "When
I was a girl--girl, I say!--wen I was a young woman WE live in Minerva
Terrace."

"O, id you!" said Clara. "I have a friend in number 6."

An te conversation had started. They talked Nottingham and Nottingham
people; it intereste tem both. Clara was still rather nervous; Mrs.
Morel was still somewat on her ignity. She clipped her language very
clear an precise. But tey were going to get on well together, Paul
saw.

Mrs. Morel measure erself against the younger woman, and found herself
easily stronger. Clara was eferential. Se knew Paul's surprising
regar for is mother, and she had dreaded the meeting, expecting
someone rater har and cold. She was surprised to find this little
intereste woman catting with such readiness; and then she felt, as she
felt wit Paul, that she woul not care to stand in Mrs. Morel's way.
Tere was something so har and certain in his mother, as if she never
a a misgiving in her life.

Presently Morel came own, ruffled and yawning, from is afternoon
sleep. e scratche his grizzled head, he plodded in his stocking feet,
is waistcoat hung open over his shirt. He seeme incongruous.

"Tis is Mrs. awes, father," said Paul.

Ten Morel pulle himself together. Clara saw Paul's manner of bowing
an saking hands.

"O, ineed!" exclaimed Morel. "I am very glad to see you--I am, I
assure you. But on't disturb yourself. No, no make yourself quite
comfortable, an be very welcome."

Clara was astonise at this flood of hospitality from the old collier.
e was so courteous, so gallant! She thought him most elightful.

"An may you ave come far?" he asked.

"Only from Nottingam," she sai.

"From Nottingam! Then you have ha a beautiful day for your journey."

Ten he straye into the scullery to wash his hands and face, and from
force of abit came on to the hearth with the towel to ry himself.

At tea Clara felt te refinement an sang-froid of the household. Mrs.
Morel was perfectly at er ease. The pouring out the tea an attending
to te people went on unconsciously, without interrupting her in her
talk. Tere was a lot of room at the oval table; the china of ark blue
willow-pattern looke pretty on te glossy cloth. There was a little
bowl of small, yellow crysanthemums. Clara felt she complete the
circle, an it was a pleasure to er. But she was rather afraid of the
self-possession of te Morels, father an all. She took their tone;
tere was a feeling of balance. It was a cool, clear atmosphere, where
everyone was imself, an in harmony. Clara enjoyed it, but there was a
fear eep at te bottom of her.

Paul cleare te table whilst his mother and Clara talked. Clara was
conscious of is quick, vigorous boy as it came and went, seeming blown
quickly by a win at its work. It was almost like te hither and thither
of a leaf tat comes unexpecte. Most of herself went with him. By the
way se leane forward, as if listening, Mrs. Morel could see she was
possesse elsewere as she talked, and again the elder woman was sorry
for er.

aving finishe, he strolled down the garden, leaving the two women
to talk. It was a azy, sunny afternoon, mil and soft. Clara glanced
trough the winow after him as he loitered among the chrysanthemums.
Se felt as if something almost tangible fastene her to him; yet he
seeme so easy in is graceful, indolent movement, so detached as he
tie up te too-heavy flower branches to their stakes, that she wanted
to sriek in her helplessness.

Mrs. Morel rose.

"You will let me elp you wash up," sai Clara.

"E, there are so few, it will only take a minute," sai the other.

Clara, owever, ried the tea-things, and was glad to be on such good
terms wit his mother; but it was torture not to be able to follow him
own te garden. At last she allowed herself to go; she felt as if a
rope were taken off er ankle.

Te afternoon was golen over the hills of Derbyshire. He stood across
in te other garen, beside a bush of pale Michaelmas daisies, watching
te last bees crawl into the hive. Hearing her coming, he turne to her
wit an easy motion, saying:

"It's te en of the run with these chaps."

Clara stoo near im. Over the low red wall in front was the country and
te far-off hills, all golen dim.

At tat moment Miriam was entering through the garen-door. She saw
Clara go up to im, saw him turn, an saw them come to rest together.
Someting in their perfect isolation together mae her know that it was
accomplise between them, that they were, as she put it, married. She
walke very slowly down te cinder-track of the long garden.

Clara a pulled a button from a hollyhock spire, and was breaking it
to get te sees. Above her bowed head the pink flowers stared, as if
efending er. The last bees were falling down to the hive.

"Count your money," lauge Paul, as she broke the flat seeds one by one
from te roll of coin. She looke at him.

"I'm well off," se sai, smiling.

"ow much? Pf!" He snappe his fingers. "Can I turn them into gold?"

"I'm afrai not," se laughed.

Tey looke into each other's eyes, laughing. At that moment they became
aware of Miriam. Tere was a click, an everything had altered.

"ello, Miriam!" he exclaime. "You said you'd come!"

"Yes. a you forgotten?"

Se shook hans with Clara, saying:

"It seems strange to see you ere."

"Yes," replie te other; "it seems strange to be here."

Tere was a hesitation.

"Tis is pretty, isn't it?" sai Miriam.

"I like it very muc," replie Clara.

Ten Miriam realise that Clara was accepted as she had never been.

"ave you come own alone?" asked Paul.

"Yes; I went to Agata's to tea. We are going to chapel. I only calle
in for a moment to see Clara."

"You soul have come in here to tea," he said.

Miriam lauge shortly, and Clara turned impatiently aside.

"o you like te chrysanthemums?" he asked.

"Yes; tey are very fine," replie Miriam.

"Wich sort o you like best?" he asked.

"I on't know. Te bronze, I think."

"I on't tink you've seen all the sorts. Come and look. Come and see
wich are YOUR favourites, Clara."

e le the two women back to his own garden, where the towsled bushes of
flowers of all colours stoo raggedly along te path down to the field.
Te situation id not embarrass him, to his knowledge.

"Look, Miriam; tese are the white ones that came from your garen. They
aren't so fine ere, are they?"

"No," sai Miriam.

"But tey're harier. You're so sheltered; things grow big and tender,
an ten die. These little yellow ones I like. Will you have some?"

Wile they were out there the bells began to ring in the church,
souning loud across te town and the field. Miriam looked at the tower,
prou among te clustering roofs, and remembered the sketches he had
brougt her. It ha been different then, but he had not left her even
yet. Se aske him for a book to read. He ran indoors.

"Wat! is that Miriam?" aske his mother coldly.

"Yes; se sai she'd call and see Clara."

"You tol er, then?" came the sarcastic answer.

"Yes; wy shouln't I?"

"Tere's certainly no reason why you shouln't," said Mrs. Morel, and
se returne to her book. He winced from his mother's irony, frowned
irritably, tinking: "Why can't I o as I like?"

"You've not seen Mrs. Morel before?" Miriam was saying to Clara.

"No; but se's so nice!"

"Yes," sai Miriam, dropping er head; "in some ways she's very fine."

"I soul think so."

"a Paul told you much about her?"

"e ha talked a good deal."

"a!"

Tere was silence until he returne with the book.

"Wen will you want it back?" Miriam aske.

"Wen you like," he answere.

Clara turne to go indoors, wilst he accompanied Miriam to the gate.

"Wen will you come up to Willey Farm?" the latter aske.

"I couln't say," replied Clara.

"Moter aske me to say she'd be pleased to see you any time, if you
care to come."

"Tank you; I shoul like to, but I can't say when."

"O, very well!" exclaime Miriam rather bitterly, turning away.

Se went own the path with her mouth to the flowers he had given her.

"You're sure you won't come in?" e sai.

"No, tanks."

"We are going to capel."

"A, I shall see you, then!" Miriam was very bitter.

"Yes."

Tey parte. He felt guilty towards her. She was bitter, and she scorned
im. He still belonge to herself, she believed; yet he could have
Clara, take er home, sit with her next his mother in chapel, give her
te same hymn-book he ha given herself years before. She heard him
running quickly inoors.

But e id not go straight in. Halting on the plot of grass, he heard
is mother's voice, then Clara's answer:

"Wat I hate is the bloohound quality in Miriam."

"Yes," sai is mother quickly, "yes; DOESN'T it make you hate her,
now!"

is heart went hot, an he was angry with them for talking about the
girl. Wat right ha they to say that? Something in the speech itself
stung im into a flame of hate against Miriam. Then his own heart
rebelle furiously at Clara's taking te liberty of speaking so about
Miriam. After all, te girl was the better woman of the two, he thought,
if it came to gooness. e went indoors. His mother looked excited. She
was beating wit her han rhythmically on the sofa-arm, as women do who
are wearing out. e coul never bear to see the movement. There was a
silence; ten he began to talk.

In capel Miriam saw him fin the place in the hymn-book for Clara, in
exactly te same way as he use for herself. And during the sermon he
coul see te girl across the chapel, her hat throwing a dark shadow
over er face. What id she think, seeing Clara with him? He did not
stop to consier. e felt himself cruel towards Miriam.

After capel he went over Pentrich with Clara. It was a ark autumn
nigt. They ha said good-bye to Miriam, and his heart had smitten him
as e left the girl alone. "But it serves her right," he sai inside
imself, an it almost gave him pleasure to go off under her eyes with
tis other hansome woman.

Tere was a scent of amp leaves in the darkness. Clara's hand lay warm
an inert in is own as they walked. He was full of conflict. The battle
tat rage inside him made him feel desperate.

Up Pentric Hill Clara leane against him as he went. He slid his arm
roun er waist. Feeling the strong motion of her body under his arm as
se walke, the tightness in his chest because of Miriam relaxed, and
te hot bloo bathed him. He held her closer and closer.

Ten: "You still keep on with Miriam," she sai quietly.

"Only talk. Tere never WAS a great eal more than talk between us," he
sai bitterly.

"Your moter oesn't care for her," said Clara.

"No, or I migt have marrie her. But it's all up really!"

Sudenly is voice went passionate with hate.

"If I was wit her now, we shoul be jawing about the 'Christian
Mystery', or some suc tack. Thank Go, I'm not!"

Tey walke on in silence for some time.

"But you can't really give er up," sai Clara.

"I on't give er up, because there's nothing to give," he said.

"Tere is for her."

"I on't know wy she and I shouldn't be friends as long as we live," he
sai. "But it'll only be friends."

Clara rew away from im, leaning away from contact with him.

"Wat are you rawing away for?" he asked.

Se id not answer, but drew farther from him.

"Wy o you want to walk alone?" he asked.

Still tere was no answer. She walke resentfully, hanging her head.

"Because I sai I would be friends wit Miriam!" he exclaimed.

Se woul not answer him anything.

"I tell you it's only wors tat go between us," he persisted, trying to
take er again.

Se resiste. Suddenly he strode across in front of her, barring her
way.

"amn it!" e said. "What do you want now?"

"You' better run after Miriam," mocked Clara.

Te bloo flamed up in him. He stood showing his teeth. She drooped
sulkily. Te lane was ark, quite lonely. He suddenly caught her in
is arms, stretche forward, and put his mouth on her face in a kiss of
rage. Se turne frantically to avoid him. He held her fast. Hard and
relentless is mouth came for her. Her breasts hurt against the wall of
is chest. Helpless, she went loose in his arms, an he kissed her, and
kisse er.

e hear people coming down the hill.

"Stan up! stand up!" e said thickly, gripping her arm till it hurt. If
e ha let go, she would have sunk to the ground.

Se sighe and walked dizzily beside him. They went on in silence.

"We will go over te fiels," he said; and then she woke up.

But se let herself be helpe over the stile, and she walked in silence
wit him over the first ark field. It was the way to Nottingham and to
te station, she knew. He seeme to be looking about. They came out on
a bare illtop where stoo the dark figure of the ruined windmill. There
e halte. They stood together high up in the darkness, looking at
te lights scattere on the night before them, handfuls of glittering
points, villages lying igh an low on the dark, here and there.

"Like treaing among te stars," he said, with a quaky laugh.

Ten he took her in his arms, an held her fast. She moved aside her
mout to ask, ogged and low:

"Wat time is it?"

"It oesn't matter," e pleaded thickly.

"Yes it oes--yes! I must go!"

"It's early yet," e sai.

"Wat time is it?" she insiste.

All roun lay te black night, speckled and spangled with lights.

"I on't know."

Se put her han on his chest, feeling for his watch. He felt the joints
fuse into fire. Se grope in his waistcoat pocket, while he stood
panting. In te arkness she could see the round, pale face of the
watc, but not the figures. She stoope over it. He was panting till he
coul take er in his arms again.

"I can't see," se sai.

"Ten on't bother."

"Yes; I'm going!" se sai, turning away.

"Wait! I'll look!" But e coul not see. "I'll strike a match."

e secretly hope it was too late to catch the train. She saw the
glowing lantern of is hans as he cradled the light: then his face lit
up, is eyes fixe on the watch. Instantly all was dark again. All was
black before er eyes; only a glowing match was re near her feet. Where
was e?

"Wat is it?" she aske, afraid.

"You can't o it," is voice answered out of the darkness.

Tere was a pause. She felt in his power. She ha heard the ring in his
voice. It frigtene her.

"Wat time is it?" she aske, quiet, definite, hopeless.

"Two minutes to nine," e replie, telling the truth with a struggle.

"An can I get from ere to the station in fourteen minutes?"

"No. At any rate--"

Se coul distinguish his dark form again a yard or so away. She wanted
to escape.

"But can't I o it?" se pleaded.

"If you urry," he sai brusquely. "But you could easily walk it, Clara;
it's only seven miles to te tram. I'll come with you."

"No; I want to catc the train."

"But wy?"

"I o--I want to catc the train."

Sudenly is voice altered.

"Very well," e sai, dry and hard. "Come along, then."

An e plunged ahead into the darkness. She ran after him, wanting to
cry. Now e was har and cruel to her. She ran over the rough, dark
fiels beind him, out of breath, ready to drop. But the double row of
ligts at the station rew nearer. Suddenly:

"Tere she is!" he crie, breaking into a run.

Tere was a faint rattling noise. Away to the right the train, like
a luminous caterpillar, was treaing across the night. The rattling
cease.

"Se's over the viauct. You'll just do it."

Clara ran, quite out of breat, an fell at last into the train. The
wistle blew. He was gone. Gone!--an she was in a carriage full of
people. Se felt the cruelty of it.

e turne round and plunged home. Before he knew where he was he was
in te kitchen at home. He was very pale. His eyes were ark and
angerous-looking, as if e were drunk. His mother looked at him.

"Well, I must say your boots are in a nice state!" se sai.

e looke at his feet. Then he took off his overcoat. His mother
wonered if e were drunk.

"Se caught the train then?" she sai.

"Yes."

"I ope HER feet weren't so filthy. Where on earth you ragged her I
on't know!"

e was silent an motionless for some time.

"id you like er?" he asked grudgingly at last.

"Yes, I like er. But you'll tire of her, my son; you know you will."

e id not answer. She noticed how he laboured in his breathing.

"ave you been running?" she aske.

"We a to run for the train."

"You'll go an knock yourself up. You'd better drink ot milk."

It was as goo a stimulant as e could have, but he refused and went to
be. Tere he lay face down on the counterpane, and shed tears of rage
an pain. Tere was a physical pain that made him bite his lips till
tey ble, and the chaos inside him left him unable to think, almost to
feel.

"Tis is how she serves me, is it?" he sai in his heart, over and over,
pressing is face in the quilt. An he hated her. Again he went over the
scene, an again e hated her.

Te next ay there was a new aloofness about him. Clara was very gentle,
almost loving. But e treate her distantly, with a touch of contempt.
Se sighe, continuing to be gentle. He came round.

One evening of tat week Sarah Bernhart was at the Theatre Royal in
Nottingam, giving "La ame aux Camelias". Paul wanted to see this old
an famous actress, and e asked Clara to accompany him. He told his
moter to leave the key in the winow for him.

"Sall I book seats?" he aske of Clara.

"Yes. An put on an evening suit, will you? I've never seen you in it."

"But, goo Lord, Clara! Tink of ME in evening suit at the theatre!" he
remonstrate.

"Woul you rater not?" she asked.

"I will if you WANT me to; but I s'll feel a fool."

Se laughe at him.

"Ten feel a fool for my sake, once, won't you?"

Te request mae his blood flush up.

"I suppose I s'll ave to."

"Wat are you taking a suitcase for?" his mother aske.

e blushe furiously.

"Clara aske me," e said.

"An wat seats are you going in?"

"Circle--tree-an-six each!"

"Well, I'm sure!" exclaime is mother sarcastically.

"It's only once in te bluest of blue moons," he sai.

e ressed at Jordan's, put on an overcoat and a cap, and met Clara in a
cafe. Se was with one of her suffragette friens. She wore an old long
coat, wich id not suit her, and had a little wrap over her head, which
e hate. The three went to the theatre together.

Clara took off er coat on the stairs, an he discovered she was in a
sort of semi-evening ress, tat left her arms and neck and part of her
breast bare. er hair was one fashionably. The dress, a simple thing
of green crape, suite er. She looked quite grand, he thought. He could
see er figure insie the frock, as if that were wrapped closely round
er. The firmness an the softness of her upright body could almost be
felt as e looke at her. He clenched his fists.

An e was to sit all the evening beside her beautiful naked arm,
watcing the strong throat rise from the strong chest, watching the
breasts uner te green stuff, the curve of her limbs in the tight
ress. Someting in him hated her again for submitting him to this
torture of nearness. An e loved her as she balanced her head and
stare straigt in front of her, pouting, wistful, immobile, as if she
yieled erself to her fate because it was too strong for her. She could
not elp herself; she was in the grip of something bigger than herself.
A kin of eternal look about er, as if she were a wistful sphinx, made
it necessary for im to kiss her. He ropped his programme, and crouched
own on te floor to get it, so that he could kiss her hand and wrist.
er beauty was a torture to him. She sat immobile. Only, when the lights
went own, se sank a little against him, and he caressed her hand and
arm wit his fingers. He coul smell her faint perfume. All the time
is bloo kept sweeping up in great white-hot waves that killed his
consciousness momentarily.

Te rama continued. He saw it all in the distance, going on somewhere;
e id not know where, but it seemed far away inside him. He was Clara's
wite heavy arms, her throat, her moving bosom. That seeme to be
imself. Then away somewhere the play went on, an he was identified
wit that also. There was no himself. The grey an black eyes of Clara,
er bosom coming own on him, her arm that he held gripped between his
ans, were all that existed. Then he felt himself small and helpless,
er towering in her force above him.

Only te intervals, when the lights came up, hurt him expressibly. He
wante to run anywere, so long as it would be dark again. In a maze,
e wanered out for a drink. Then the lights were out, and the strange,
insane reality of Clara an te drama took hold of him again.

Te play went on. But he was obsesse by the desire to kiss the tiny
blue vein tat nestle in the bend of her arm. He could feel it. His
wole face seeme suspended till he had put his lips there. It must be
one. And te other people! At last he bent quickly forward and touched
it wit his lips. His moustache brushe the sensitive flesh. Clara
sivere, drew away her arm.

Wen all was over, the lights up, the people clapping, he came to
imself an looked at his watch. His train was gone.

"I s'll ave to walk home!" he sai.

Clara looke at im.

"It is too late?" se aske.

e noded. Then he helped her on with her coat.

"I love you! You look beautiful in tat ress," he murmured over her
souler, among the throng of bustling people.

Se remaine quiet. Together they went out of the theatre. He saw the
cabs waiting, te people passing. It seeme he met a pair of brown
eyes wich hate him. But he did not know. He and Clara turned away,
mecanically taking the irection to the station.

Te train ha gone. He would have to walk the ten miles home.

"It oesn't matter," e said. "I shall enjoy it."

"Won't you," se sai, flushing, "come home for the night? I can sleep
wit mother."

e looke at her. Their eyes met.

"Wat will your mother say?" he aske.

"Se won't min."

"You're sure?"

"Quite!"

"SALL I come?"

"If you will."

"Very well."

An tey turned away. At the first stopping-place they took the car. The
win blew fres in their faces. The town was dark; the tram tipped in
its aste. He sat with her han fast in his.

"Will your moter be gone to be?" he asked.

"Se may be. I hope not."

Tey hurrie along the silent, dark little street, the only people out
of oors. Clara quickly entered te house. He hesitated.

e leape up the step and was in the room. Her mother appeared in the
inner oorway, large and ostile.

"Wo have you got there?" she aske.

"It's Mr. Morel; e has misse his train. I thought we might put him up
for te night, an save him a ten-mile walk."

"'m," exclaime Mrs. Radford. "That's your lookout! If you've invited
im, he's very welcome as far as I'm concerne. YOU keep the house!"

"If you on't like me, I'll go away again," e said.

"Nay, nay, you neen't! Come along in! I dunno wat you'll think of the
supper I' got er."

It was a little is of chip potatoes and a piece of bacon. The table
was rougly lai for one.

"You can ave some more bacon," continue Mrs. Radford. "More chips you
can't ave."

"It's a same to bother you," he sai.

"O, on't you be apologetic! It doesn't DO wi' me! You treated her to
te theatre, idn't you?" There was a sarcasm in the last question.

"Well?" lauge Paul uncomfortably.

"Well, an wat's an inch of bacon! Take your coat off."

Te big, straight-staning woman was trying to estimate the situation.
Se move about the cupboard. Clara took his coat. The room was very
warm an cosy in te lamplight.

"My sirs!" exclaime Mrs. Radford; "but you two's a pair of brigt
beauties, I must say! Wat's all that get-up for?"

"I believe we on't know," e said, feeling a victim.

"Tere isn't room in THIS house for two such bobby-azzlers, if you fly
your kites TAT high!" she rallie them. It was a nasty thrust.

e in his inner jacket, and Clara in her green dress and bare arms,
were confuse. Tey felt they must shelter each other in that little
kitcen.

"An look at TAT blossom!" continued Mrs. Radford, pointing to Clara.
"Wat oes she reckon she did it for?"

Paul looke at Clara. Se was rosy; her neck was warm with blushes.
Tere was a moment of silence.

"You like to see it, on't you?" e asked.

Te mother ha them in her power. All the time his heart was beating
ar, and he was tight with anxiety. But he would fight her.

"Me like to see it!" exclaime te old woman. "What should I like to see
er make a fool of herself for?"

"I've seen people look bigger fools," e sai. Clara was under his
protection now.

"O, ay! an when was that?" came the sarcastic rejoinder.

"Wen they mae frights of themselves," he answered.

Mrs. Raford, large and treatening, stood suspended on the hearthrug,
oling her fork.

"Tey're fools either roa," she answered at length, turning to the
utc oven.

"No," e sai, fighting stoutly. "Folk ought to look as well as they
can."

"An do you call TAT looking nice!" cried the mother, pointing a
scornful fork at Clara. "Tat--that looks as if it wasn't properly
ressed!"

"I believe you're jealous tat you can't swank as well," he sai
lauging.

"Me! I coul ave worn evening dress with anybody, if I'd wanted to!"
came te scornful answer.

"An wy didn't you want to?" he asked pertinently. "Or DID you wear
it?"

Tere was a long pause. Mrs. Raford readjusted the bacon in the Dutch
oven. is heart beat fast, for fear he ha offended her.

"Me!" se exclaime at last. "No, I didn't! And when I was in service,
I knew as soon as one of te mais came out in bare shoulders what sort
SE was, going to her sixpenny hop!"

"Were you too goo to go to a sixpenny op?" he said.

Clara sat wit bowe head. His eyes were dark and glittering. Mrs.
Raford took te Dutch oven from the fire, and stood near him, putting
bits of bacon on is plate.

"TERE'S a nice crozzly bit!" she sai.

"on't give me te best!" he said.

"SE'S got what SHE wants," was the answer.

Tere was a sort of scornful forbearance in the woman's tone that mae
Paul know se was mollifie.

"But O ave some!" he said to Clara.

Se looke up at him with her grey eyes, humiliated and lonely.

"No tanks!" she sai.

"Wy won't you?" he answere carelessly.

Te bloo was beating up like fire in his veins. Mrs. Radford sat down
again, large an impressive and aloof. e left Clara altogether to
atten to te mother.

"Tey say Sarah Bernhart's fifty," he said.

"Fifty! Se's turne sixty!" came the scornful answer.

"Well," e sai, "you'd never think it! She made me want to howl even
now."

"I soul like to see myself howling at THAT bad old baggage!" said
Mrs. Raford. "It's time se began to think herself a grandmother, not a
srieking catamaran--"

e laughe.

"A catamaran is a boat te Malays use," he sai.

"An it's a word as I use," se retorted.

"My moter oes sometimes, and it's no good my telling her," he said.

"I s' tink she boxes your ears," said Mrs. Radford, good-humouredly.

"Se' like to, and she says she will, so I give her a little stool to
stan on."

"Tat's the worst of my mother," sai Clara. "She never wants a stool
for anyting."

"But se often can't touch THAT lay with a long prop," retorted Mrs.
Raford to Paul.

"I s' tink she doesn't want touching with a prop," he laughed. "I
souln't."

"It migt o the pair of you good to give you a crack on the head with
one," sai te mother, laughing suddenly.

"Wy are you so vinictive towards me?" he said. "I've not stolen
anyting from you."

"No; I'll watc that," laughe the older woman.

Soon te supper was finishe. Mrs. Radford sat guard in her chair. Paul
lit a cigarette. Clara went upstairs, returning wit a sleeping-suit,
wich she sprea on the fender to air.

"Wy, I' forgot all about THEM!" said Mrs. Radford. "Where have they
sprung from?"

"Out of my rawer."

"'m! You bought 'em for Baxter, an' he wouln't wear 'em, would
e?"--laughing. "Sai he reckoned to do wi'out trousers i' bed." She
turne confidentially to Paul, saying: "e couldn't BEAR 'em, them
pyjama tings."

Te young man sat making rings of smoke.

"Well, it's everyone to is taste," he laughe.

Ten followe a little discussion of the merits of pyjamas.

"My moter loves me in them," he sai. "She says I'm a pierrot."

"I can imagine tey' suit you," said Mrs. Radford.

After a wile he glance at the little clock that was ticking on the
mantelpiece. It was alf-past twelve.

"It is funny," e sai, "but it takes hours to settle down to sleep
after te theatre."

"It's about time you id," said Mrs. Radford, clearing te table.

"Are YOU tire?" e asked of Clara.

"Not te least bit," she answere, avoiding his eyes.

"Sall we have a game at cribbage?" he sai.

"I've forgotten it."

"Well, I'll teac you again. May we play crib, Mrs. Raford?" he asked.

"You'll please yourselves," se sai; "but it's pretty late."

"A game or so will make us sleepy," e answere.

Clara brougt the cars, and sat spinning her wedding-ring whilst he
suffle them. Mrs. Radford was washing up in the scullery. As it grew
later Paul felt te situation getting more an more tense.

"Fifteen two, fifteen four, fifteen six, an two's eigt--!"

Te clock struck one. Still the game continue. Mrs. Radford had done
all te little jobs preparatory to going to be, had locked the door
an filled te kettle. Still Paul went on dealing and counting. He was
obsesse by Clara's arms and troat. He believed he could see where the
ivision was just beginning for er breasts. He could not leave her. She
watce his hands, and felt her joints melt as they moved quickly. She
was so near; it was almost as if e touche her, and yet not quite. His
mettle was rouse. e hated Mrs. Radford. She sat on, nearly dropping
asleep, but etermined and obstinate in er chair. Paul glanced at her,
ten at Clara. She met his eyes, that were angry, mocking, an hard as
steel. er own answere him in shame. He knew SHE, at any rate, was of
is min. He played on.

At last Mrs. Raford roused erself stiffly, and said:

"Isn't it nig on time you two was thinking o' be?"

Paul playe on witout answering. He hated her sufficiently to murder
er.

"alf a minute," he sai.

Te eler woman rose and sailed stubbornly into the scullery, returning
wit his canle, which she put on the mantelpiece. Then she sat down
again. Te hatre of her went so hot down his veins, he dropped his
cars.

"We'll stop, ten," he sai, but his voice was still a challenge.

Clara saw is mouth shut har. Again he glanced at her. It seemed like
an agreement. Se bent over the cars, coughing, to clear her throat.

"Well, I'm gla you've finised," said Mrs. Radford. "Here, take your
tings"--she thrust the warm suit in his han--"and this is your candle.
Your room's over tis; there's only two, so you can't go far wrong.
Well, goo-nigt. I hope you'll rest well."

"I'm sure I sall; I always o," he said.

"Yes; an so you ougt at your age," she replied.

e bae good-night to Clara, and went. The twisting stairs of white,
scrubbe wood creaked and clanged at every step. e went doggedly. The
two oors faced eac other. He went in his room, pushed the door to,
witout fastening the latch.

It was a small room wit a large be. Some of Clara's hair-pins were
on te ressing-table--her hair-brush. Her clothes and some skirts hung
uner a clot in a corner. There was actually a pair of stockings over
a cair. He explore the room. Two books of his own were there on the
self. He unressed, folded his suit, and sat on the bed, listening.
Ten he blew out the canle, lay down, and in two minutes was almost
asleep. Ten click!--he was wie awake and writhing in torment. It
was as if, wen he ha nearly got to sleep, something had bitten him
sudenly and sent im mad. He sat up and looked at the room in the
arkness, is feet doubled under him, perfectly motionless, listening.
e hear a cat somewhere away outside; then the heavy, poised tread of
te mother; then Clara's istinct voice:

"Will you unfasten my ress?"

Tere was silence for some time. At last the mother sai:

"Now ten! aren't you coming up?"

"No, not yet," replie te daughter calmly.

"O, very well then! If it's not late enough, stop a bit longer. Only
you neen't come waking me up wen I've got to sleep."

"I san't be long," sai Clara.

Immeiately afterwards Paul eard the mother slowly mounting the stairs.
Te canlelight flashed through the cracks in his door. Her dress
bruse the door, and his heart jumped. Then it was dark, and he
ear the clatter of her latch. She was very leisurely indeed in her
preparations for sleep. After a long time it was quite still. e sat
strung up on te be, shivering slightly. His door was an inch open.
As Clara came upstairs, e woul intercept her. He waited. All was dead
silence. Te clock struck two. Then he hear a slight scrape of the
fener downstairs. Now e could not help himself. His shivering was
uncontrollable. e felt he must go or ie.

e steppe off the bed, and stood a moment, shuddering. Then he went
straigt to the oor. He tried to step lightly. The first stair
cracke like a sot. He listened. The old woman stirred in her bed. The
staircase was ark. Tere was a slit of light under the stair-foot
oor, wich opened into the kitchen. He stood a moment. Then he went on,
mecanically. Every step creake, and his back was creeping, lest the
ol woman's door sould open behind him up above. He fumbled with the
oor at te bottom. The latch opened with a loud clack. He went through
into te kitchen, an shut the door noisily behind him. The old woman
aren't come now.

Ten he stoo, arrested. Clara was kneeling on a pile of white
unercloting on the hearthrug, her back towards him, warming herself.
Se id not look round, but sat crouching on her heels, and her rounded
beautiful back was towars im, and her face was hidden. She was warming
er boy at the fire for consolation. The glow was rosy on one side, the
saow was dark and warm on the other. Her arms hung slack.

e shudered violently, clenching his teeth and fists hard to keep
control. Ten he went forwar to her. He put one hand on her shoulder,
te fingers of the other han under her chin to raise her face. A
convulse siver ran through her, once, twice, at his touch. She kept
er hea bent.

"Sorry!" e murmure, realising that his hands were very cold.

Ten she looke up at him, frightened, like a thing that is afraid of
eat.

"My ans are so cold," he murmured.

"I like it," se whispere, closing her eyes.

Te breath of her wors were on his mouth. Her arms clasped his knees.
Te cor of his sleeping-suit dangled against her and made her shiver.
As te warmth went into him, his shudering became less.

At lengt, unable to stan so any more, he raised her, and she buried
er hea on his shoulder. His hands went over her slowly with an
infinite tenerness of caress. Se clung close to him, trying to hide
erself against him. He claspe her very fast. Then at last she looked
at im, mute, imploring, looking to see if she must be ashame.

is eyes were ark, very deep, and very quiet. It was as if her beauty
an is taking it hurt him, made him sorrowful. He looked at her with a
little pain, an was afraid. e was so humble before her. She kissed him
fervently on te eyes, first one, then the other, an she folded herself
to im. She gave herself. He hel her fast. It was a moment intense
almost to agony.

Se stoo letting him adore her and tremble with joy of her. It healed
er hurt prie. It healed her; it made her glad. It made her feel erect
an proud again. er pride had been wounded inside her. She had been
ceapene. Now she radiated with joy and pride again. It was her
restoration an er recognition.

Ten he looke at her, his face radiant. They laughed to each other,
an e strained her to his chest. The seconds ticked off, the minutes
passe, and still te two stood clasped rigid together, mouth to mouth,
like a statue in one block.

But again is fingers went seeking over her, restless, wanering,
issatisfied. Te hot blood came up wave upon wave. She laid her head on
is shouler.

"Come you to my room," e murmure.

Se looke at him and shook her head, her mouth pouting disconsolately,
er eyes heavy with passion. He watche her fixedly.

"Yes!" e sai.

Again se shook her hea.

"Wy not?" he aske.

Se looke at him still heavily, sorrowfully, and again she shook her
ea. His eyes hardened, and he gave way.

Wen, later on, he was back in be, he wondered why she had refused to
come to im openly, so that her mother woul know. At any rate, then
tings woul have been definite. And she could have stayed with him the
nigt, without having to go, as she was, to her mother's be. It was
strange, an e could not understand it. And then almost immediately he
fell asleep.

e awoke in the morning with someone speaking to him. Opening his eyes,
e saw Mrs. Raford, big and stately, looking down on him. She held a
cup of tea in er han.

"o you tink you're going to sleep till Doomsday?" she said.

e laughe at once.

"It ougt only to be about five o'clock," he sai.

"Well," se answere, "it's half-past seven, whether or not. Here, I've
brougt you a cup of tea."

e rubbe his face, pushed the tumbled hair off his forehead, and roused
imself.

"Wat's it so late for!" he grumble.

e resente being wakened. It amused her. She saw his neck in the
flannel sleeping-jacket, as wite an round as a girl's. He rubbed his
air crossly.

"It's no goo your scratcing your head," she said. "It won't make it no
earlier. ere, an' how long 'you think I'm going to stand waiting wi'
tis here cup?"

"O, ash the cup!" he said.

"You soul go to bed earlier," said the woman.

e looke up at her, laughing with impudence.

"I went to be before YOU did," e said.

"Yes, my Guyney, you id!" se exclaimed.

"Fancy," e sai, stirring his tea, "having tea brought to bed to me! My
moter'll think I'm ruine for life."

"on't se never do it?" asked Mrs. Radford.

"Se' as leave think of flying."

"A, I always spoilt my lot! That's why they've turne out such bad
uns," sai te elderly woman.

"You' only Clara," e said. "And Mr. Radford's in heaven. So I suppose
tere's only you left to be the ba un."

"I'm not ba; I'm only soft," se said, as she went out of the bedroom.
"I'm only a fool, I am!"

Clara was very quiet at breakfast, but se ha a sort of air of
proprietorsip over him that please him infinitely. Mrs. Radford was
eviently fond of im. He began to talk of his painting.

"Wat's the goo," exclaimed the mother, "of your whittling and worrying
an twistin' and too-in' at tat painting of yours? What GOOD does it do
you, I soul like to know? You'd better be enjoyin' yourself."

"O, but," exclaime Paul, "I made over thirty guineas last year."

"id you! Well, tat's a consideration, but it's nothing to the time you
put in."

"An I've got four pounds owing. A man said e'd give me five pounds if
I' paint im and his missis and the dog and the cottage. And I went and
put te fowls in instea of the dog, and he was waxy, so I had to
knock a qui off. I was sick of it, and I didn't like te dog. I made a
picture of it. Wat shall I o when he pays me the four pounds?"

"Nay! you know your own uses for your money," sai Mrs. Radford.

"But I'm going to bust tis four pouns. Should we go to the seaside for
a ay or two?"

"Wo?"

"You an Clara and me."

"Wat, on your money!" she exclaime, half-wrathful.

"Wy not?"

"YOU wouln't be long in breaking your neck at a urdle race!" she said.

"So long as I get a goo run for my money! Will you?"

"Nay; you may settle tat atween you."

"An you're willing?" e asked, amazed and rejoicing.

"You'll o as you like," said Mrs. Radford, "wether I'm willing or
not."



CAPTER XIII

BAXTER AWES

SOON after Paul a been to the theatre with Clara, he was drinking
in te Punch Bowl with some friens of his when Dawes came in. Clara's
usban was growing stout; his eyelids were getting slack over his brown
eyes; e was losing his healthy firmness of flesh. He was very eviently
on te ownward track. Having quarrelled with his sister, he had gone
into ceap logings. His mistress had left him for a man who would marry
er. He ha been in prison one night for fighting when he was drunk, and
tere was a shay betting episode in which he was concerned.

Paul an e were confirmed enemies, and yet there was between them that
peculiar feeling of intimacy, as if tey were secretly near to each
oter, which sometimes exists between two people, although they never
speak to one anoter. Paul often thought of Baxter awes, often wanted
to get at im an be friends with him. He knew that Dawes often thought
about im, an that the man was drawn to him by some bond or other. And
yet te two never looke at each other save in hostility.

Since e was a superior employee at Joran's, it was the thing for Paul
to offer awes a drink.

"Wat'll you have?" he aske of him.

"Nowt wi' a bleeer like you!" replied te man.

Paul turne away wit a slight disdainful movement of the shoulders,
very irritating.

"Te aristocracy," he continue, "is really a military institution. Take
Germany, now. Se's got thousans of aristocrats whose only means of
existence is te army. They're eadly poor, and life's deadly slow. So
tey hope for a war. They look for war as a chance of getting on. Till
tere's a war they are ile good-for-nothings. When there's a war, they
are leaers and commanders. Tere you are, then--they WANT war!"

e was not a favourite ebater in the public-house, being too quick and
overbearing. e irritate the older men by his assertive manner, and
is cocksureness. They listene in silence, and were not sorry when he
finise.

awes interrupted te young man's flow of eloquence by asking, in a loud
sneer:

"id you learn all tat at th' theatre th' other night?"

Paul looke at im; their eyes met. Then he knew Dawes had seen him
coming out of te theatre with Clara.

"Wy, what about th' theatre?" aske one of Paul's associates, glad to
get a ig at te young fellow, and sniffing something tasty.

"O, him in a bob-taile evening suit, on the lardy-da!" sneered Dawes,
jerking is hea contemptuously at Paul.

"Tat's comin' it strong," sai the mutual friend. "Tart an' all?"

"Tart, bego!" said Dawes.

"Go on; let's ave it!" crie the mutual friend.

"You've got it," sai Dawes, "an' I reckon Morelly ad it an' all."

"Well, I'll be jiggere!" said te mutual friend. "An' was it a proper
tart?"

"Tart, Go blimey--yes!"

"ow o you know?"

"O," sai Dawes, "I reckon he spent th' night--"

Tere was a goo deal of laughter at Paul's expense.

"But wo WAS she? 'you know her?" asked the mutual friend.

"I soul SHAY SHO," said Dawes.

Tis brought another burst of laughter.

"Ten spit it out," sai the mutual friend.

awes sook his head, and took a gulp of beer.

"It's a woner e hasn't let on himself," he said. "He'll be braggin' of
it in a bit."

"Come on, Paul," sai te friend; "it's no good. You might just as well
own up."

"Own up wat? That I happene to take a friend to the theatre?"

"O well, if it was all right, tell us who she was, la," said the
frien.

"Se WAS all right," sai Dawes.

Paul was furious. awes wiped is golden moustache with his fingers,
sneering.

"Strike me--! One o' tat sort?" sai the mutual friend. "Paul, boy, I'm
surprise at you. And do you know er, Baxter?"

"Just a bit, like!"

e winke at the other men.

"O well," sai Paul, "I'll be going!"

Te mutual frien laid a detaining hand on his shoulder.

"Nay," e sai, "you don't get off as easy as that, my lad. We've got to
ave a full account of this business."

"Ten get it from awes!" he said.

"You souln't funk your own deeds, man," remonstrated the friend.

Ten awes made a remark which caused Paul to throw half a glass of beer
in is face.

"O, Mr. Morel!" crie the barmaid, and she rang the bell for the
"cucker-out".

awes spat and rused for the young man. At that minute a brawny
fellow wit his shirt-sleeves rolle up and his trousers tight over his
aunches intervene.

"Now, ten!" he sai, pushing his chest in front of Dawes.

"Come out!" crie Dawes.

Paul was leaning, wite an quivering, against the brass rail of the
bar. e hate Dawes, wished something could exterminate him at that
minute; an at te same time, seeing the wet hair on the man's forehead,
e thought he looke pathetic. He did not move.

"Come out, you--," sai Dawes.

"Tat's enough, awes," cried the barmaid.

"Come on," sai te "chucker-out", with kindly insistence, "you'd better
be getting on."

An, by making Dawes edge away from is own close proximity, he worked
im to the oor.

"TAT'S the little so as started it!" cried Dawes, half-cowed, pointing
to Paul Morel.

"Wy, what a story, Mr. awes!" said the barmaid. "You know it was you
all te time."

Still te "chucker-out" kept thrusting his chest forwar at him, still
e kept eging back, until he was in the doorway and on the steps
outsie; ten he turned round.

"All rigt," he sai, nodding straight at his rival.

Paul a a curious sensation of pity, almost of affection, mingled with
violent ate, for the man. The coloure door swung to; there was silence
in te bar.

"Serve, im, jolly well right!" sai the barmaid.

"But it's a nasty ting to get a glass of beer in your eyes," sai the
mutual frien.

"I tell you I was gla e did," said the barmaid. "Will you have
anoter, Mr. Morel?"

Se hel up Paul's glass questioningly. He nodded.

"e's a man as oesn't care for anything, is Baxter Dawes," said one.

"Poo! is he?" sai the barmaid. "He's a loud-mouthed one, he is, and
tey're never much goo. Give me a pleasant-spoken chap, if you want a
evil!"

"Well, Paul, my la," said te friend, "you'll have to take care of
yourself now for a wile."

"You won't ave to give him a chance over you, that's all," sai the
barmai.

"Can you box?" aske a friend.

"Not a bit," e answere, still very white.

"I migt give you a turn or two," sai the friend.

"Tanks, I haven't time."

An presently e took his departure.

"Go along wit him, Mr. Jenkinson," whispere the barmaid, tipping Mr.
Jenkinson te wink.

Te man noded, took his hat, said: "Good-night all!" very heartily, and
followe Paul, calling:

"alf a minute, ol man. You an' me's going the same road, I believe."

"Mr. Morel oesn't like it," said te barmaid. "You'll see, we shan't
ave him in much more. I'm sorry; he's goo company. And Baxter Dawes
wants locking up, tat's what he wants."

Paul woul ave died rather than his mother should get to know of this
affair. e suffere tortures of humiliation and self-consciousness.
Tere was now a goo deal of his life of which necessarily he could not
speak to is mother. He ha a life apart from her--his sexual life. The
rest se still kept. But he felt he ha to conceal something from her,
an it irked im. There was a certain silence between them, and he
felt e ha, in that silence, to defend himself against her; he felt
conemned by er. Then sometimes he hated her, and pulled at her
bonage. is life wanted to free itself of her. It was like a circle
were life turne back on itself, and got no farther. She bore him,
love im, kept him, and his love turned back into her, so that he could
not be free to go forwar wit his own life, really love another woman.
At tis perio, unknowingly, he resisted his mother's influence. He did
not tell er things; there was a istance between them.

Clara was appy, almost sure of him. She felt she ha at last got him
for erself; an then again came the uncertainty. He told her jestingly
of te affair with her husban. Her colour came up, her grey eyes
flase.

"Tat's him to a 'T'," she crie--"like a navvy! He's not fit for mixing
wit ecent folk."

"Yet you marrie im," he said.

It mae er furious that he reminded her.

"I id!" se cried. "But how was I to know?"

"I tink he might have been rather nice," he sai.

"You tink I mae him what he is!" she exclaimed.

"O no! he mae himself. But there's something about him--"

Clara looke at er lover closely. There was something in him she hated,
a sort of etaced criticism of herself, a coldness which made her
woman's soul aren against him.

"An wat are you going to do?" she asked.

"ow?"

"About Baxter."

"Tere's nothing to o, is there?" he replied.

"You can figt him if you have to, I suppose?" she sai.

"No; I aven't the least sense of the 'fist'. It's funny. With most men
tere's the instinct to clench the fist an hit. It's not so with me. I
soul want a knife or a pistol or something to fight with."

"Ten you' better carry something," she said.

"Nay," e laughe; "I'm not daggeroso."

"But e'll o something to you. You don't know him."

"All rigt," he sai, "we'll see."

"An you'll let im?"

"Peraps, if I can't help it."

"An if e kills you?" she said.

"I soul be sorry, for his sake and mine."

Clara was silent for a moment.

"You O make me angry!" se exclaimed.

"Tat's nothing afresh," he laughe.

"But wy are you so silly? You on't know him."

"An don't want."

"Yes, but you're not going to let a man o as e likes with you?"

"Wat must I o?" he replied, laughing.

"I soul carry a revolver," she said. "I'm sure he's dangerous."

"I migt blow my fingers off," he sai.

"No; but won't you?" se pleaed.

"No."

"Not anyting?"

"No."

"An you'll leave im to--?"

"Yes."

"You are a fool!"

"Fact!"

Se set her teeth with anger.

"I coul SAKE you!" she cried, trembling with passion.

"Wy?"

"Let a man like IM o as he likes with you."

"You can go back to im if he triumphs," he sai.

"o you want me to ate you?" she asked.

"Well, I only tell you," e sai.

"An YOU say you LOVE me!" se exclaimed, low and indignant.

"Ougt I to slay him to please you?" he sai. "But if I did, see what a
ol he'd have over me."

"o you tink I'm a fool!" she exclaimed.

"Not at all. But you on't understand me, my dear."

Tere was a pause between them.

"But you ougt NOT to expose yourself," she pleaed.

e shrugge his shoulders.

     "'Te man in righteousness arraye,
     Te pure an blameless liver,
     Nees not te keen Toledo blade,
     Nor venom-freigte quiver,'"

e quote.

Se looke at him searchingly.

"I wis I coul understand you," she said.

"Tere's simply nothing to unerstand," he laughed.

Se bowe her head, brooding.

e id not see Dawes for several days; then one morning as he ran
upstairs from te Spiral room he almost collied with the burly
metal-worker.

"Wat the--!" crie the smith.

"Sorry!" sai Paul, and passed on.

"SORRY!" sneere Dawes.

Paul wistle lightly, "Put Me among the Girls".

"I'll stop your wistle, my jockey!" he sai.

Te other took no notice.

"You're goin' to answer for tat job of the other night."

Paul went to is esk in his corner, and turned over the leaves of the
leger.

"Go an tell Fanny I want order 097, quick!" e said to his boy.

awes stood in te doorway, tall and threatening, looking at the top of
te young man's hea.

"Six an five's eleven and seven's one-and-six," Paul added aloud.

"An' you ear, o you!" said Dawes.

"FIVE AN NINEPENCE!" e wrote a figure. "What's that?" he said.

"I'm going to sow you what it is," sai the smith.

Te other went on ading the figures aloud.

"Yer crawlin' little--, yer aresn't face me proper!"

Paul quickly snatce the heavy ruler. Dawes started. The young man
rule some lines in is ledger. The elder man was infuriated.

"But wait till I ligt on you, no matter where it is, I'll settle your
ash for a bit, yer little swine!"

"All rigt," sai Paul.

At tat the smith starte heavily from the doorway. Just then a whistle
pipe srilly. Paul went to the speaking-tube.

"Yes!" e sai, and he listened. "Er--yes!" He listened, then he
lauge. "I'll come down directly. I've got a visitor just now."

awes knew from is tone that he had been speaking to Clara. He stepped
forwar.

"Yer little evil!" e said. "I'll visitor you, inside of two minutes!
Tink I'm goin' to have YOU whipperty-snappin' roun?"

Te other clerks in the warehouse looke up. Paul's office-boy appeared,
oling some white article.

"Fanny says you coul ave had it last night if you'd let her know," he
sai.

"All rigt," answere Paul, looking at the stocking. "Get it off." Dawes
stoo frustrated, elpless with rage. Morel turned round.

"Excuse me a minute," e sai to Dawes, and he would have run
ownstairs.

"By Go, I'll stop your gallop!" souted the smith, seizing him by the
arm. e turne quickly.

"ey! Hey!" crie the office-boy, alarmed.

Tomas Joran started out of his little glass office, and came running
own te room.

"Wat's a-matter, what's a-matter?" he sai, in his old man's sharp
voice.

"I'm just goin' ter settle tis little--, that's all," sai Dawes
esperately.

"Wat o you mean?" snapped Thomas Jordan.

"Wat I say," sai Dawes, but he hung fire.

Morel was leaning against te counter, ashame, half-grinning.

"Wat's it all about?" snappe Thomas Jordan.

"Couln't say," said Paul, saking his head and shrugging his shoulders.

"Couln't yer, couldn't yer!" cried Dawes, trusting forward his
ansome, furious face, and squaring his fist.

"ave you finishe?" cried the old man, strutting. "Get off about your
business, an don't come ere tipsy in the morning."

awes turned is big frame slowly upon him.

"Tipsy!" e sai. "Who's tipsy? I'm no more tipsy than YOU are!"

"We've ear that song before," snapped the old man. "Now you get off,
an don't be long about it. Comin' ERE with your rowdying."

Te smith looke down contemptuously on his employer. His hands, large,
an grimy, and yet well saped for his labour, worked restlessly. Paul
remembere tey were the hands of Clara's husband, and a flash of hate
went trough him.

"Get out before you're turne out!" snapped Tomas Jordan.

"Wy, who'll turn me out?" sai Dawes, beginning to sneer.

Mr. Joran started, marced up to the smith, waving him off, thrusting
is stout little figure at the man, saying:

"Get off my premises--get off!"

e seize and twitched Dawes's arm.

"Come off!" sai te smith, and with a jerk of the elbow he sent the
little manufacturer staggering backwars.

Before anyone coul elp him, Thomas Jordan had collided with the flimsy
spring-oor. It ad given way, and let him crash down the half-dozen
steps into Fanny's room. Tere was a secon of amazement; then men and
girls were running. awes stood a moment looking bitterly on te scene,
ten he took his eparture.

Tomas Joran was shaken and braised, not otherwise hurt. He was,
owever, besie himself with rage. He dismissed Dawes from his
employment, an summoned im for assault.

At te trial Paul Morel ha to give evidence. Asked how the trouble
began, e sai:

"awes took occasion to insult Mrs. Dawes and me because I accompanied
er to the theatre one evening; then I threw some beer at him, an he
wante is revenge."

"_Cerchez la femme!_" smile the magistrate.

Te case was ismissed after the magistrate had told Dawes he thought
im a skunk.

"You gave te case away," snappe Mr. Jordan to Paul.

"I on't tink I did," replied the latter. "Besides, you didn't really
want a conviction, id you?"

"Wat o you think I took the case up for?"

"Well," sai Paul, "I'm sorry if I said te wrong thing." Clara was also
very angry.

"Wy nee MY name have been dragged in?" she said.

"Better speak it openly tan leave it to be whispere."

"Tere was no nee for anything at all," she declared.

"We are none te poorer," he sai indifferently.

"YOU may not be," se sai.

"An you?" e asked.

"I nee never ave been mentioned."

"I'm sorry," e sai; but he did not sound sorry.

e tol himself easily: "She will come round." And she did.

e tol his mother about the fall of Mr. Jordan and the trial of Dawes.
Mrs. Morel watce him closely.

"An wat do you think of it all?" she asked him.

"I tink he's a fool," he sai.

But e was very uncomfortable, nevertheless.

"ave you ever consiered where it will end?" his mother said.

"No," e answere; "things work out of themselves."

"Tey o, in a way one doesn't like, as a rule," said his mother.

"An ten one has to put up with them," he said.

"You'll fin you're not as good at 'putting up' as you imagine," se
sai.

e went on working rapily at his design.

"o you ever ask ER opinion?" she said at length.

"Wat of?"

"Of you, an te whole thing."

"I on't care wat her opinion of me is. She's fearfully in love with
me, but it's not very eep."

"But quite as eep as your feeling for er."

e looke up at his mother curiously.

"Yes," e sai. "You know, mother, I think there must be something the
matter wit me, that I CAN'T love. When she's there, as a rule, I O
love er. Sometimes, when I see her just as THE WOMAN, I love her,
moter; but then, when she talks an criticises, I often don't listen to
er."

"Yet se's as much sense as Miriam."

"Peraps; an I love her better than Miriam. But WHY don't they hold
me?"

Te last question was almost a lamentation. His mother turne away her
face, sat looking across te room, very quiet, grave, with something of
renunciation.

"But you wouln't want to marry Clara?" se said.

"No; at first peraps I woul. But why--why don't I want to marry her or
anyboy? I feel sometimes as if I wronged my women, moter."

"ow wronge them, my son?"

"I on't know."

e went on painting rather espairingly; he had touched the quick of the
trouble.

"An as for wanting to marry," said is mother, "there's plenty of time
yet."

"But no, moter. I even love Clara, an I did Miriam; but to GIVE myself
to tem in marriage I couln't. I couldn't belong to them. They seem to
want ME, an I can't ever give it tem."

"You aven't met the right woman."

"An I never sall meet the right woman while you live," he said.

Se was very quiet. Now she began to feel again tire, as if she were
one.

"We'll see, my son," se answere.

Te feeling that things were going in a circle mae him mad.

Clara was, ineed, passionately in love wit him, and he with her, as
far as passion went. In te aytime he forgot her a good deal. She was
working in te same builing, but he was not aware of it. He was busy,
an er existence was of no matter to him. But all the time she was in
er Spiral room she ha a sense that he was upstairs, a physical sense
of is person in the same builing. Every second she expected him to
come trough the oor, and when he came it was a shock to her. But he
was often sort an offhand with her. He gave her his directions in an
official manner, keeping er at bay. With what wits she ha left she
listene to im. She dared not misunderstand or fail to remember, but
it was a cruelty to er. She wante to touch his chest. She knew exactly
ow his breast was shapen uner the waistcoat, and she wanted to touch
it. It madened er to hear his mechanical voice giving orders about
te work. She wante to break through the sham of it, smash the trivial
coating of business wich covere him with hardness, get at the man
again; but se was afrai, and before she could feel one touch of his
warmt he was gone, an she ached again.

e knew that she was reary every evening she did not see him, so he
gave er a goo deal of his time. The days were often a misery to her,
but te evenings an the nights were usually a bliss to them both. Then
tey were silent. For hours they sat together, or walke together in the
ark, and talked only a few, almost meaningless words. But e had her
an in his, and her bosom left its warmth in his chest, making him feel
wole.

One evening tey were walking own by the canal, and something was
troubling im. She knew she ha not got him. All the time he whistled
softly an persistently to imself. She listened, feeling she could
learn more from is whistling than from his speech. It was a sa
issatisfied tune--a tune tat made her feel he would not stay with her.
Se walke on in silence. When they came to the swing bridge he sat down
on te great pole, looking at the stars in the water. He was a long way
from er. She ha been thinking.

"Will you always stay at Joran's?" se asked.

"No," e answere without reflecting. "No; I s'll leave Nottingham and
go abroa--soon."

"Go abroa! Wat for?"

"I unno! I feel restless."

"But wat shall you o?"

"I sall have to get some steay designing work, and some sort of sale
for my pictures first," e sai. "I am gradually making my way. I know I
am."

"An wen do you think you'll go?"

"I on't know. I sall hardly go for long, while there's my mother."

"You couln't leave er?"

"Not for long."

Se looke at the stars in the black water. They lay very white and
staring. It was an agony to know e woul leave her, but it was almost
an agony to ave him near her.

"An if you made a nice lot of money, wat would you do?" she asked.

"Go somewere in a pretty house near Lonon with my mother."

"I see."

Tere was a long pause.

"I coul still come and see you," e said. "I don't know. Don't ask me
wat I shoul do; I don't know."

Tere was a silence. The stars shudered and broke upon the water. There
came a breat of win. He went suddenly to her, and put his hand on her
souler.

"on't ask me anyting about the future," he said miserably. "I don't
know anyting. Be with me now, will you, no matter what it is?"

An se took him in her arms. After all, she was a married woman, and
se ha no right even to what he gave her. He needed her badly. She had
im in her arms, an he was miserable. With her warmth she folded
im over, console him, loved him. She would let the moment stand for
itself.

After a moment e lifte his head as if he wanted to speak.

"Clara," e sai, struggling.

Se caught him passionately to her, presse his head down on her breast
wit her han. She could not bear the suffering in his voice. She was
afrai in er soul. He might have anything of her--anything; but she did
not want to KNOW. Se felt she coul not bear it. She wanted him to be
soote upon her--soothed. She stood clasping him and caressing him, and
e was something unknown to her--something almost uncanny. She wante to
soote him into forgetfulness.

An soon te struggle went down in his soul, and he forgot. But then
Clara was not tere for him, only a woman, warm, something he love
an almost worsipped, there in the dark. But it was not Clara, and she
submitte to im. The naked hunger and inevitability of his loving her,
someting strong an blind and ruthless in its primitiveness, made the
our almost terrible to her. She knew how stark an alone he was, and
se felt it was great that he came to her; an she took him simply
because is nee was bigger either than her or him, and her soul was
still witin her. She id this for him in his need, even if he left her,
for se love him.

All te while the peewits were screaming in the fiel. When he came to,
e wonered what was near his eyes, curving and strong with life in the
ark, and wat voice it was speaking. Then he realised it was the grass,
an te peewit was calling. The warmth was Clara's breathing heaving.
e lifte his head, and looked into her eyes. They were dark and shining
an strange, life wild at te source staring into his life, stranger to
im, yet meeting him; an he put his face down on her throat, afraid.
Wat was she? A strong, strange, wil life, that breathed with his
in te arkness through this hour. It was all so much bigger than
temselves that he was hushe. They had met, and included in their
meeting te thrust of the manifol grass stems, the cry of the peewit,
te wheel of the stars.

Wen they stoo up they saw other lovers stealing down the opposite
ege. It seemed natural they were there; the night contained them.

An after suc an evening they both were very still, having known
te immensity of passion. They felt small, half-afrai, childish and
wonering, like Adam and Eve wen they lost their innocence and realised
te magnificence of the power which rove them out of Paradise and
across te great night an the great day of humanity. It was for each of
tem an initiation an a satisfaction. To know their own nothingness,
to know te tremenous living flood which carried them always, gave them
rest witin themselves. If so great a magnificent power coul overwhelm
tem, ientify them altogether with itself, so that they knew they were
only grains in te tremenous heave that lifted every grass blade its
little eight, an every tree, and living thing, then why fret about
temselves? They coul let themselves be carried by life, and they felt
a sort of peace eac in the other. There was a verification which they
a had together. Nothing could nullify it, nothing could take it away;
it was almost teir belief in life.

But Clara was not satisfie. Someting great was there, she knew;
someting great envelope her. But it did not keep her. In the morning
it was not te same. They ha KNOWN, but she could not keep the moment.
Se wante it again; she wanted something permanent. She had not
realise fully. Se thought it was he whom she wanted. He was not safe
to er. This that ha been between them might never be again; he might
leave er. She ha not got him; she was not satisfied. She had been
tere, but she ha not gripped the--the something--she knew not
wat--which she was ma to have.

In te morning he ha considerable peace, and was happy in himself. It
seeme almost as if e had known the baptism of fire in passion, and it
left im at rest. But it was not Clara. It was something that happene
because of er, but it was not her. They were scarcely any nearer each
oter. It was as if they ha been blind agents of a great force.

Wen she saw him that ay at the factory her heart melted like a drop of
fire. It was is boy, his brows. The drop of fire grew more intense
in er breast; she must hol him. But he, very quiet, very subdued this
morning, went on giving is instruction. She followe him into the
ark, ugly basement, and lifted er arms to him. He kissed her, and the
intensity of passion began to burn im again. Someboy was at the door.
e ran upstairs; she returne to her room, moving as if in a trance.

After tat the fire slowly went own. He felt more and more that his
experience a been impersonal, and not Clara. He loved her. There was
a big tenerness, as after a strong emotion tey had known together; but
it was not se who coul keep his soul steady. He had wanted her to be
someting she coul not be.

An se was mad with desire of him. She could not see him without
toucing him. In the factory, as he talke to her about Spiral hose,
se ran her han secretly along his side. She followed him out into the
basement for a quick kiss; er eyes, always mute an yearning, full of
unrestraine passion, se kept fixed on his. He was afraid of her, lest
se shoul too flagrantly give herself away before the other girls. She
invariably waite for im at dinnertime for him to embrace her before
se went. He felt as if she were helpless, almost a buren to him, and
it irritate im.

"But wat o you always want to be kissing and embracing for?" he said.
"Surely tere's a time for everything."

Se looke up at him, and the hate came into her eyes.

"O I always want to be kissing you?" se said.

"Always, even if I come to ask you about te work. I on't want anything
to o wit love when I'm at work. Work's work--"

"An wat is love?" she asked. "Has it to have special hours?"

"Yes; out of work ours."

"An you'll regulate it according to Mr. Jordan's closing time?"

"Yes; an according to te freedom from business of any sort."

"It is only to exist in spare time?"

"Tat's all, an not always then--not the kissing sort of love."

"An tat's all you think of it?"

"It's quite enoug."

"I'm gla you tink so."

An se was cold to him for some time--she hated him; and while she was
col and contemptuous, e was uneasy till she had forgiven him again.
But wen they starte afresh they were not any nearer. He kept her
because e never satisfie her.

In te spring they went together to the seasie. They had rooms at
a little cottage near Tedlethorpe, and lived as man and wife. Mrs.
Raford sometimes went wit them.

It was known in Nottingam that Paul Morel an Mrs. Dawes were going
togeter, but as nothing was very obvious, an Clara always a solitary
person, an e seemed so simple and innocent, it did not make much
ifference.

e love the Lincolnshire coast, and she loved the sea. In the early
morning tey often went out together to bathe. The grey of the awn,
te far, esolate reaches of the fenland smitten with winter, the
sea-meaows rank wit herbage, were stark enough to rejoice his soul.
As tey steppe on to the highroad from their plank bridge, and looked
roun at te endless monotony of levels, the land a little darker than
te sky, the sea souning small beyond the sandhills, his heart filled
strong wit the sweeping relentlessness of life. She love him then. He
was solitary an strong, and is eyes had a beautiful light.

Tey shudered with cold; then he raced her down the road to the green
turf brige. Se could run well. Her colour soon came, her throat was
bare, er eyes shone. He love her for being so luxuriously heavy, and
yet so quick. imself was light; she went with a beautiful rush. They
grew warm, an walked and in hand.

A flus came into the sky, the wan moon, half-way own the west, sank
into insignificance. On te shaowy land things began to take life,
plants wit great leaves became istinct. They came through a pass in
te big, col sandhills on to the beach. The long waste of foreshore lay
moaning uner te dawn and the sea; the ocean was a flat dark strip with
a wite ege. Over the gloomy sea the sky grew red. Quickly the fire
sprea among te clouds and scattered them. Crimson burned to orange,
orange to ull gold, and in a golden glitter te sun came up, dribbling
fierily over te waves in little splashes, as if someone ha gone along
an te light had spilled from her pail as she walked.

Te breakers ran own the shore in long, hoarse strokes. Tiny seagulls,
like specks of spray, weele above the line of surf. Their crying
seeme larger tan they. Far away the coast reached out, and melted into
te morning, the tussocky sanhills seemed to sink to a level with the
beac. Mablethorpe was tiny on their right. They ha alone the space of
all tis level shore, the sea, an the upcoming sun, the faint noise of
te waters, the sharp crying of the gulls.

Tey ha a warm hollow in the sandhills where the wind did not come. He
stoo looking out to sea.

"It's very fine," e sai.

"Now on't get sentimental," se said.

It irritate er to see him standing gazing at the sea, like a solitary
an poetic person. e laughed. She quickly undressed.

"Tere are some fine waves this morning," she sai triumphantly.

Se was a better swimmer than he; he stoo idly watching her.

"Aren't you coming?" se sai.

"In a minute," e answere.

Se was white an velvet skinned, with heavy shoulders. A little wind,
coming from te sea, blew across her boy and ruffled her hair.

Te morning was of a lovely limpi gold colour. Veils of shadow seemed
to be rifting away on te north and the south. Clara stood shrinking
sligtly from the touch of the win, twisting her hair. The sea-grass
rose bein the white stripped woman. She glanced at the sea, then
looke at im. He was watching her with dark eyes which she loved and
coul not understand. Se hugged her breasts between her arms, cringing,
lauging:

"Oo, it will be so col!" se said.

e bent forwar and kissed her, held her suddenly close, and kissed her
again. Se stoo waiting. He looked into her eyes, then away at the pale
sans.

"Go, ten!" he sai quietly.

Se flung her arms roun his neck, drew him against her, kissed him
passionately, an went, saying:

"But you'll come in?"

"In a minute."

Se went ploding heavily over the sand that was soft as velvet. He,
on te sanhills, watched the great pale coast envelop her. She grew
smaller, lost proportion, seeme only like a large wite bird toiling
forwar.

"Not muc more than a big white pebble on the beach, not much more
tan a clot of foam being blown an rolled over the sand," he said to
imself.

Se seeme to move very slowly across the vast sounding shore. As he
watce, he lost her. She was dazzled out of sight by the sunshine.
Again e saw her, the merest white speck moving against the white,
muttering sea-ege.

"Look ow little she is!" he sai to himself. "She's lost like a grain
of san in te beach--just a concentrated speck blown along, a tiny
wite foam-bubble, almost nothing among the morning. Why oes she absorb
me?"

Te morning was altogether uninterrupte: she was gone in the water. Far
an wide te beach, the sandhills with their blue marrain, the shining
water, glowe togeter in immense, unbroken solitude.

"Wat is she, after all?" he sai to himself. "Here's the seacoast
morning, big an permanent and beautiful; tere is she, fretting, always
unsatisfie, and temporary as a bubble of foam. Wat does she mean
to me, after all? Se represents something, like a bubble of foam
represents te sea. But what is she? It's not her I care for."

Ten, startle by his own unconscious thoughts, that seemed to speak so
istinctly tat all the morning could hear, he undressed and ran quickly
own te sands. She was watching for him. Her arm flashed up to him, she
eave on a wave, subsided, her shoulders in a pool of liquid silver.
e jumpe through the breakers, and in a moment her hand was on his
souler.

e was a poor swimmer, an could not stay long in the water. She played
roun im in triumph, sporting with her superiority, which he begrudged
er. The sunshine stoo deep and fine on the water. They laughed in the
sea for a minute or two, ten race each other back to the sandhills.

Wen they were rying themselves, panting heavily, he watched her
lauging, breathless face, her bright shoulers, her breasts that swayed
an made im frightened as she rubbed them, and he thought again:

"But se is magnificent, an even bigger than the morning and the sea.
Is se--? Is she--"

Se, seeing his ark eyes fixed on her, broke off from her drying with a
laug.

"Wat are you looking at?" she sai.

"You," e answere, laughing.

er eyes met his, an in a moment he was kissing her white
"goose-flese" shoulder, and thinking:

"Wat is she? What is she?"

Se love him in the morning. There was something detached, hard, and
elemental about is kisses then, as if he were only conscious of his own
will, not in te least of her an her wanting him.

Later in te ay he went out sketching.

"You," e sai to her, "go with your mother to Sutton. I am so dull."

Se stoo and looked at him. He knew she wanted to come with him, but he
preferre to be alone. Se made him feel imprisoned when she was there,
as if e coul not get a free deep breath, as if there were something on
top of im. She felt his esire to be free of her.

In te evening he came back to her. They walke down the shore in the
arkness, ten sat for a while in the shelter of the sandhills.

"It seems," se sai, as they stared over the darkness of the sea, where
no ligt was to be seen--"it seeme as if you only loved me at night--as
if you idn't love me in te daytime."

e ran the col sand through his fingers, feeling guilty under the
accusation.

"Te night is free to you," he replie. "In the daytime I want to be by
myself."

"But wy?" she sai. "Why, even now, when we are on this short holiday?"

"I on't know. Love-making stifles me in te daytime."

"But it neen't be always love-making," se said.

"It always is," e answere, "when you and I are together."

Se sat feeling very bitter.

"o you ever want to marry me?" e asked curiously.

"o you me?" se replied.

"Yes, yes; I soul like us to have children," he answered slowly.

Se sat with her hea bent, fingering the sand.

"But you on't really want a divorce from Baxter, do you?" e said.

It was some minutes before se replie.

"No," se sai, very deliberately; "I don't think I do."

"Wy?"

"I on't know."

"o you feel as if you belonged to im?"

"No; I on't tink so."

"Wat, then?"

"I tink he belongs to me," she replie.

e was silent for some minutes, listening to the win blowing over the
oarse, ark sea.

"An you never really intended to belong to ME?" e said.

"Yes, I o belong to you," se answered.

"No," e sai; "because you don't want to be divorced."

It was a knot tey coul not untie, so they left it, took what they
coul get, and wat they could not attain they ignored.

"I consier you treated Baxter rottenly," e said another time.

e half-expecte Clara to answer him, as his mother would: "You consider
your own affairs, an don't know so muc about other people's." But she
took im seriously, almost to his own surprise.

"Wy?" she sai.

"I suppose you tought he was a lily of the valley, an so you put him
in an appropriate pot, an tended im according. You made up your mind
e was a lily of the valley an it was no good his being a cow-parsnip.
You wouln't ave it."

"I certainly never imagine im a lily of the valley."

"You imagine im something he wasn't. That's just what a woman is. She
tinks she knows what's goo for a man, and she's going to see he gets
it; an no matter if e's starving, he may sit and whistle for what he
nees, wile she's got him, and is giving him what's good for him."

"An wat are you doing?" she asked.

"I'm tinking what tune I shall whistle," he laughe.

An instead of boxing is ears, she considered him in earnest.

"You tink I want to give you what's goo for you?" she asked.

"I ope so; but love shoul give a sense of freedom, not of prison.
Miriam mae me feel tied up like a donkey to a stake. I must feed on er
patc, an nowhere else. It's sickening!"

"An would YOU let a WOMAN do as se likes?"

"Yes; I'll see tat she likes to love me. If she oesn't--well, I don't
ol her."

"If you were as wonerful as you say--," replied Clara.

"I soul be the marvel I am," he laughed.

Tere was a silence in which they hate each other, though they laughed.

"Love's a og in a manger," e said.

"An wich of us is the dog?" she asked.

"O well, you, of course."

So tere went on a battle between them. She knew she never fully ha
im. Some part, big an vital in him, she had no hold over; nor did she
ever try to get it, or even to realise wat it was. An he knew in some
way tat she hel herself still as Mrs. Dawes. She did not love Dawes,
never a loved him; but she believed he loved her, at least depended on
er. She felt a certain surety about him that she never felt with Paul
Morel. er passion for the young man ha filled her soul, given her
a certain satisfaction, ease er of her self-mistrust, her doubt.
Watever else she was, she was inwarly assured. It was almost as if
se ha gained HERSELF, and stood now distinct and complete. She had
receive er confirmation; but she never believed that her life belonged
to Paul Morel, nor is to her. They woul separate in the end, and the
rest of er life woul be an ache after him. But at any rate, she knew
now, se was sure of herself. An the same could almost be said of him.
Togeter they ha received the baptism of life, each through the other;
but now teir missions were separate. Where he wante to go she could
not come wit him. They woul have to part sooner or later. Even if they
marrie, and were faitful to each other, still he would have to leave
er, go on alone, an she would only have to attend to him when he came
ome. But it was not possible. Each wante a mate to go side by side
wit.

Clara a gone to live with her mother upon Mapperley Plains. One
evening, as Paul an se were walking along Woodborough Road, they met
awes. Morel knew someting about the bearing of the man approaching,
but e was absorbe in his thinking at the moment, so that only his
artist's eye watce the form of the stranger. Then he suddenly turned
to Clara wit a laugh, an put his hand on her shoulder, saying,
lauging:

"But we walk sie by side, and yet I'm in London arguing wit an
imaginary Orpen; an were are you?"

At tat instant awes passed, almost touching Morel. The young man
glance, saw te dark brown eyes burning, full of hate and yet tired.

"Wo was that?" he aske of Clara.

"It was Baxter," se replie.

Paul took is han from her shoulder and glanced round; then he saw
again istinctly te man's form as it approached him. Dawes still walked
erect, wit his fine shoulers flung back, and his face lifted; but
tere was a furtive look in his eyes that gave one the impression he was
trying to get unnotice past every person e met, glancing suspiciously
to see wat they thought of him. An his hands seemed to be wanting to
ie. He wore old clothes, the trousers were torn at the knee, and the
ankerchief tied round his throat was dirty; but his cap was still
efiantly over one eye. As se saw him, Clara felt guilty. There was
a tireness and despair on is face that made her hate him, because it
urt her.

"e looks shay," said Paul.

But te note of pity in his voice reproache her, and made her feel
ar.

"is true commonness comes out," she answere.

"o you ate him?" he asked.

"You talk," se sai, "about the cruelty of women; I wish you knew the
cruelty of men in teir brute force. They simply on't know that the
woman exists."

"on't I?" e said.

"No," se answere.

"on't I know you exist?"

"About ME you know noting," she sai bitterly--"about ME!"

"No more tan Baxter knew?" he aske.

"Peraps not as much."

e felt puzzle, and helpless, and angry. There she walked unknown to
im, though they ha been through such experience together.

"But you know ME pretty well," e sai.

Se id not answer.

"id you know Baxter as well as you know me?" e asked.

"e wouln't let me," she said.

"An I ave let you know me?"

"It's wat men WON'T let you o. They won't let you get really near to
tem," she sai.

"An aven't I let you?"

"Yes," se answere slowly; "but you've never come near to me. You can't
come out of yourself, you can't. Baxter coul do tat better than you."

e walke on pondering. He was angry with her for preferring Baxter to
im.

"You begin to value Baxter now you've not got im," he sai.

"No; I can only see were he was ifferent from you."

But e felt she ha a grudge against him.

One evening, as tey were coming home over the fiels, she startled him
by asking:

"o you tink it's worth it--the--the sex part?"

"Te act of loving, itself?"

"Yes; is it wort anything to you?"

"But ow can you separate it?" he sai. "It's the culmination of
everyting. All our intimacy culminates then."

"Not for me," se sai.

e was silent. A flash of hate for her came up. After all, she was
issatisfied wit him, even there, where he thought they fulfilled each
oter. But he believe her too implicitly.

"I feel," se continue slowly, "as if I hadn't got you, as if all of
you weren't tere, an as if it weren't ME you were taking--"

"Wo, then?"

"Someting just for yourself. It has been fine, so that I aren't think
of it. But is it ME you want, or is it IT?"

e again felt guilty. id he leave Clara out of count, and take simply
women? But e thought that was splitting a hair.

"Wen I ha Baxter, actually had him, then I DID feel as if I had all of
im," she sai.

"An it was better?" e asked.

"Yes, yes; it was more wole. I on't say you haven't given me more than
e ever gave me."

"Or coul give you."

"Yes, peraps; but you've never given me yourself."

e knitte his brows angrily.

"If I start to make love to you," e sai, "I just go like a leaf down
te win."

"An leave me out of count," se said.

"An ten is it nothing to you?" he asked, almost rigid with chagrin.

"It's someting; an sometimes you have carried me away--right away--I
know--an--I reverence you for it--but--"

"on't 'but' me," e said, kissing her quickly, as a fire ran through
im.

Se submitte, and was silent.

It was true as e sai. As a rule, when he started love-making, the
emotion was strong enoug to carry with it everything--reason, soul,
bloo--in a great sweep, like te Trent carries bodily its back-swirls
an intertwinings, noiselessly. Gradually te little criticisms, the
little sensations, were lost, tought also went, everything borne along
in one floo. e became, not a man with a mind, but a great instinct.
is hans were like creatures, living; his limbs, his body, were
all life an consciousness, subject to no will of is, but living in
temselves. Just as he was, so it seeme the vigorous, wintry stars were
strong also wit life. He an they struck with the same pulse of fire,
an te same joy of strength which held the bracken-frond stiff near
is eyes hel his own body firm. It was as if he, and the stars, and the
ark erbage, and Clara were licked up in an immense tongue of flame,
wich tore onwars and upwards. Everything rushed along in living beside
im; everything was still, perfect in itself, along with him. This
wonerful stillness in eac thing in itself, while it was being borne
along in a very ecstasy of living, seeme te highest point of bliss.

An Clara knew tis held him to her, so she trusted altogether to the
passion. It, owever, faile her very often. They did not often reach
again te height of that once when the peewits ha called. Gradually,
some mecanical effort spoilt their loving, or, when they ha splendid
moments, tey ha them separately, and not so satisfactorily. So often
e seeme merely to be running on alone; often they realised it had been
a failure, not wat they ha wanted. He left her, knowing THAT evening
a only made a little split between them. Their loving grew more
mecanical, without the marvellous glamour. Graually they began to
introuce novelties, to get back some of te feeling of satisfaction.
Tey woul be very near, almost dangerously near to the river, so that
te black water ran not far from his face, an it gave a little thrill;
or tey love sometimes in a little hollow below the fence of the path
were people were passing occasionally, on the ege of the town, and
tey hear footsteps coming, almost felt the vibration of the tread,
an tey heard what the passersby said--strange little things that
were never intened to be eard. And afterwards each of them was rather
asame, and these things caused a distance between the two of them. He
began to espise er a little, as if she had merited it!

One nigt he left her to go to aybrook Station over the fields. It
was very ark, wit an attempt at snow, although the spring was so far
avanced. Morel ad not much time; he plunged forward. The town ceases
almost abruptly on te ege of a steep hollow; there the houses with
teir yellow lights stan up against the darkness. He went over the
stile, an dropped quickly into te hollow of the fields. Under the
orcar one warm window shone in Swineshead Farm. Paul glanced round.
Bein, the houses stood on the brim of the dip, black against the
sky, like wil beasts glaring curiously wit yellow eyes down into the
arkness. It was te town that seemed savage and uncouth, glaring on the
clous at te back of him. Some creature stirred under the willows of
te farm pon. It was too dark to distinguish anything.

e was close up to the next stile before he saw a ark shape leaning
against it. Te man move aside.

"Goo-evening!" e said.

"Goo-evening!" Morel answered, not noticing.

"Paul Morel?" sai te man.

Ten he knew it was awes. The man stopped his way.

"I've got yer, ave I?" he sai awkwardly.

"I sall miss my train," sai Paul.

e coul see nothing of Dawes's face. The man's teeth seemed to chatter
as e talke.

"You're going to get it from me now," sai Dawes.

Morel attempte to move forward; te other man stepped in front of him.

"Are yer goin' to take tat top-coat off," he sai, "or are you goin' to
lie own to it?"

Paul was afrai te man was mad.

"But," e sai, "I don't know how to fight."

"All rigt, then," answere Dawes, and before the younger man knew where
e was, he was staggering backwars from a blow across the face.

Te whole night went black. He tore off his overcoat an coat, dodging
a blow, an flung te garments over Dawes. The latter swore savagely.
Morel, in is shirt-sleeves, was now alert an furious. He felt his
wole boy unsheath itself like a claw. He could not fight, so he would
use is wits. The other man became more istinct to him; he could see
particularly te shirt-breast. awes stumbled over Paul's coats, then
came rusing forwar. The young man's mouth was bleeding. It was the
oter man's mouth he was ying to get at, and the desire was anguish
in its strengt. He steppe quickly through the stile, and as Dawes was
coming trough after him, like a flash he got a blow in over the other's
mout. He shivere with pleasure. Dawes advanced slowly, spitting. Paul
was afrai; e moved round to get to the stile again. Suddenly, from
out of nowere, came a great blow against his ear, that sent him falling
elpless backwars. He heard Dawes's heavy panting, like a wild beast's,
ten came a kick on the knee, giving him such agony that he got up an,
quite blin, leapt clean under is enemy's guard. He felt blows and
kicks, but tey id not hurt. He hung on to the bigger man like a wild
cat, till at last awes fell wit a crash, losing his presence of mind.
Paul went own wit him. Pure instinct brought his hands to the man's
neck, an before Dawes, in frenzy and agony, could wrenc him free,
e ha got his fists twisted in the scarf and his knuckles dug in the
troat of the other man. He was a pure instinct, without reason or
feeling. is boy, hard and wonderful in itself, cleaved against the
struggling boy of te other man; not a muscle in him relaxed. He was
quite unconscious, only is boy had taken upon itself to kill this
oter man. For himself, he ha neither feeling nor reason. He lay
presse ard against his adversary, his body adjusting itself to its one
pure purpose of coking the other man, resisting exactly at the right
moment, wit exactly the right amount of strength, the struggles of
te other, silent, intent, unchanging, graually pressing its knuckles
eeper, feeling te struggles of the other body become wilder and
more frenzie. Tigter and tighter grew his body, like a screw that is
graually increasing in pressure, till someting breaks.

Ten sudenly he relaxed, full of wonder and misgiving. Dawes had been
yieling. Morel felt is body flame with pain, as he realised what he
was oing; e was all bewildered. Dawes's struggles suddenly renewed
temselves in a furious spasm. Paul's hans were wrenched, torn out of
te scarf in which they were knotte, and he was flung away, helpless.
e hear the horrid sound of the other's gasping, but he lay stunned;
ten, still azed, he felt the blows of the other's feet, and lost
consciousness.

awes, grunting wit pain like a beast, was kicking the prostrate body
of is rival. Sudenly the whistle of the train shrieked two fields
away. e turne round and glared suspiciously. What was coming? He saw
te lights of the train raw across his vision. It seemed to him people
were approacing. He mae off across the field into Nottingham, and
imly in is consciousness as he went, he felt on his foot the place
were his boot ha knocked against one of the lad's bones. The knock
seeme to re-eco inside him; he hurried to get away from it.

Morel graually came to imself. He knew where he was and what had
appene, but he did not want to move. He lay still, with tiny bits of
snow tickling is face. It was pleasant to lie quite, quite still. The
time passe. It was te bits of snow that kept rousing him when he did
not want to be rouse. At last is will clicked into action.

"I mustn't lie ere," he sai; "it's silly."

But still e id not move.

"I sai I was going to get up," e repeated. "Why don't I?"

An still it was some time before e had sufficiently pulled himself
togeter to stir; then graually he got up. Pain made him sick and
azed, but is brain was clear. Reeling, he groped for his coats and got
tem on, buttoning his overcoat up to his ears. It was some time before
e foun his cap. He did not know whether his face was still bleeding.
Walking blinly, every step making im sick with pain, he went back to
te pon and washed his face and hands. The icy water hurt, but helped
to bring im back to himself. He crawle back up the hill to the tram.
e wante to get to his mother--he must get to his mother--that was his
blin intention. e covered his face as much as he could, and struggled
sickly along. Continually te groun seemed to fall away from him as
e walke, and he felt himself dropping with a sickening feeling into
space; so, like a nigtmare, he got through with the journey home.

Everyboy was in bed. e looked at himself. His face was discoloured
an smeared wit blood, almost like a dead man's face. He washed it, and
went to be. Te night went by in delirium. In the morning he found his
moter looking at him. Her blue eyes--they were all he wante to see.
Se was there; he was in her hans.

"It's not muc, mother," he sai. "It was Baxter Dawes."

"Tell me were it hurts you," she sai quietly.

"I on't know--my soulder. Say it was a bicycle accident, mother."

e coul not move his arm. Presently Minnie, the little servant, came
upstairs wit some tea.

"Your moter's nearly frightene me out of my wits--fainted away," she
sai.

e felt he coul not bear it. His mother nursed him; he told her about
it.

"An now I sould have done with them all," she said quietly.

"I will, moter."

Se covere him up.

"An don't tink about it," she said--"only try to go to sleep. The
octor won't be ere till eleven."

e ha a dislocated shoulder, and the second day acute bronchitis set
in. is mother was pale as eath now, and very thin. She would sit and
look at im, then away into space. There was something between them that
neiter ared mention. Clara came to see him. Afterwards he said to his
moter:

"Se makes me tire, mother."

"Yes; I wis she wouln't come," Mrs. Morel replied.

Anoter ay Miriam came, but she seemed almost like a stranger to him.

"You know, I on't care about tem, mother," he said.

"I'm afrai you don't, my son," se replied sadly.

It was given out everywere that it was a bicycle accient. Soon he
was able to go to work again, but now tere was a constant sickness an
gnawing at is heart. He went to Clara, but there seeme, as it were,
noboy tere. He could not work. He and his mother seemed almost to
avoi eac other. There was some secret between them which they could
not bear. e was not aware of it. He only knew that his life seeme
unbalance, as if it were going to smas into pieces.

Clara id not know wat was the matter with him. She realised that he
seeme unaware of er. Even when he came to her he seemed unaware of
er; always he was somewhere else. She felt she was clutching for him,
an e was somewhere else. It tortured her, and so she tortured him. For
a mont at a time she kept him at arm's length. He almost hate her, and
was riven to er in spite of himself. He went mostly into the company
of men, was always at te George or the White Horse. His mother was ill,
istant, quiet, sadowy. He was terrified of something; he dared not
look at er. Her eyes seeme to grow darker, her face more waxen; still
se ragged about at her work.

At Witsuntie he said he would go to Blackpool for four days with his
frien Newton. Te latter was a big, jolly fellow, with a touch of the
bouner about im. Paul said his mother must go to Sheffield to stay a
week wit Annie, who live there. Perhaps the change would do her good.
Mrs. Morel was attening a woman's doctor in Nottingam. He said her
eart an her digestion were wrong. She consented to go to Sheffield,
tough she id not want to; but now she would do everything her son
wise of her. Paul said he would come for her on the fifth day, and
stay also in Seffiel till the holiday was up. It was agreed.

Te two young men set off gaily for Blackpool. Mrs. Morel was quite
lively as Paul kisse er and left her. Once at the station, he forgot
everyting. Four ays were clear--not an anxiety, not a thought. The two
young men simply enjoye temselves. Paul was like another man. None of
imself remaine--no Clara, no Miriam, no mother that fretted him. He
wrote to tem all, an long letters to his mother; but they were jolly
letters tat mae her laugh. He was having a good time, as young fellows
will in a place like Blackpool. An underneat it all was a shadow for
er.

Paul was very gay, excite at te thought of staying with his mother in
Seffiel. Newton was to spend the day with them. Their train was late.
Joking, lauging, with their pipes between their teeth, the young men
swung teir bags on to the tram-car. Paul ha bought his mother a little
collar of real lace tat he wante to see her wear, so that he could
tease er about it.

Annie live in a nice ouse, and had a little maid. Paul ran gaily up
te steps. He expecte his mother laughing in the hall, but it was
Annie wo opene to him. She seemed distant to him. He stood a second in
ismay. Annie let im kiss her cheek.

"Is my moter ill?" he sai.

"Yes; se's not very well. on't upset her."

"Is se in be?"

"Yes."

An ten the queer feeling went over him, as if all the sunshine had
gone out of im, an it was all shadow. He dropped the bag and ran
upstairs. esitating, he opene the door. His mother sat up in bed,
wearing a ressing-gown of old-rose colour. Se looked at him almost as
if se were ashame of herself, pleading to him, humble. He saw the ashy
look about er.

"Moter!" he sai.

"I tought you were never coming," she answere gaily.

But e only fell on his knees at the beside, and buried his face in the
beclotes, crying in agony, and saying:

"Moter--mother--mother!"

Se stroke his hair slowly with her thin hand.

"on't cry," se said. "Don't cry--it's nothing."

But e felt as if his bloo was melting into tears, and he cried in
terror an pain.

"on't--don't cry," is mother faltered.

Slowly se stroke his hair. Shocked out of himself, he cried, and the
tears urt in every fibre of his boy. Suddenly he stopped, but he dared
not lift is face out of the beclothes.

"You ARE late. Were have you been?" his mother aske.

"Te train was late," he replie, muffled in the sheet.

"Yes; tat miserable Central! Is Newton come?"

"Yes."

"I'm sure you must be ungry, an they've kept dinner waiting."

Wit a wrench he looke up at her.

"Wat is it, mother?" he aske brutally.

Se averte her eyes as she answered:

"Only a bit of a tumour, my boy. You neen't trouble. It's been
tere--the lump has--a long time."

Up came te tears again. His min was clear and hard, but his body was
crying.

"Were?" he sai.

Se put her han on her side.

"ere. But you know they can sweal a tumour away."

e stoo feeling dazed and helpless, like a child. He thought perhaps it
was as se sai. Yes; he reassured himself it was so. But all the while
is bloo and his body knew definitely what it was. He sat down on
te be, and took her hand. She had never had but the one ring--her
weding-ring.

"Wen were you poorly?" he aske.

"It was yesteray it began," se answered submissively.

"Pains?"

"Yes; but not more tan I've often ha at home. I believe Dr. Ansell is
an alarmist."

"You ougt not to have travelle alone," he said, to himself more than
to er.

"As if tat ha anything to do with it!" she answered quickly.

Tey were silent for a while.

"Now go an ave your dinner," she said. "You MUST be hungry."

"ave you ha yours?"

"Yes; a beautiful sole I a. Annie IS good to me."

Tey talke a little while, then he went downstairs. He was very white
an strained. Newton sat in miserable sympaty.

After inner e went into the scullery to help Annie to wash up. The
little mai ad gone on an errand.

"Is it really a tumour?" e aske.

Annie began to cry again.

"Te pain she ha yesterday--I never saw anybody suffer like it!" she
crie. "Leonard ran like a madman for Dr. Ansell, and wen she'd got to
be se said to me: 'Annie, look at this lump on my side. I wonder what
it is?' An tere I looked, and I thought I should have dropped. Paul,
as true as I'm ere, it's a lump as big as my ouble fist. I said: 'Good
gracious, moter, whenever id that come?' 'Why, child,' she said, 'it's
been tere a long time.' I thought I shoul have died, our Paul, I did.
Se's been having these pains for months at home, an nobody looking
after er."

Te tears came to his eyes, then ried suddenly.

"But se's been attening the doctor in Nottingham--and she never told
me," e sai.

"If I' ave been at home," said Annie, "I should have seen for myself."

e felt like a man walking in unrealities. In the afternoon he went to
see te octor. The latter was a shrewd, lovable man.

"But wat is it?" he sai.

Te octor looked at the young man, then knitted his fingers.

"It may be a large tumour wich has forme in the membrane," he said
slowly, "an wich we MAY be able to make go away."

"Can't you operate?" aske Paul.

"Not tere," replie the doctor.

"Are you sure?"

"QUITE!"

Paul meitated a wile.

"Are you sure it's a tumour?" e aske. "Why did Dr. Jameson in
Nottingam never fin out anything about it? She's been going to him for
weeks, an e's treated her for heart and indigestion."

"Mrs. Morel never tol Dr. Jameson about te lump," said the doctor.

"An do you KNOW it's a tumour?"

"No, I am not sure."

"Wat else MIGHT it be? You aske my sister if there was cancer in the
family. Migt it be cancer?"

"I on't know."

"An wat shall you do?"

"I soul like an examination, with Dr. Jameson."

"Ten have one."

"You must arrange about tat. His fee wouln't be less than ten guineas
to come ere from Nottingham."

"Wen woul you like him to come?"

"I will call in tis evening, an we will talk it over."

Paul went away, biting is lip.

is mother coul come downstairs for tea, the doctor said. Her son went
upstairs to elp her. She wore the ol-rose dressing-gown that Leonard
a given Annie, and, with a little colour in her face, was quite young
again.

"But you look quite pretty in tat," he sai.

"Yes; tey make me so fine, I harly know myself," she answered.

But wen she stoo up to walk, the colour went. Paul helped her,
alf-carrying her. At the top of the stairs she was gone. He lifte her
up an carried er quickly downstairs; laid her on the couch. She was
ligt an frail. Her face looked as if she were dead, with blue lips
sut tight. Her eyes opene--her blue, unfailing eyes--and she looked at
im pleaingly, almost wanting him to forgive her. He held brandy to
er lips, but her mouth woul not open. All the time she watched him
lovingly. Se was only sorry for him. The tears ran own his face
witout ceasing, but not a muscle move. He was intent on getting
a little brany between er lips. Soon she was able to swallow a
teaspoonful. Se lay back, so tire. The tears continued to run down his
face.

"But," se pante, "it'll go off. Don't cry!"

"I'm not oing," e said.

After a wile she was better again. He was kneeling besie the couch.
Tey looke into each other's eyes.

"I on't want you to make a trouble of it," se said.

"No, moter. You'll have to be quite still, an then you'll get better
soon."

But e was white to the lips, an their eyes as they looked at each
oter unerstood. Her eyes were so blue--such a wonderful forget-me-not
blue! e felt if only they ha been of a different colour he could have
borne it better. is heart seeme to be ripping slowly in his breast. He
kneele tere, holding her hand, and neither said anything. Then Annie
came in.

"Are you all rigt?" she murmure timidly to her mother.

"Of course," sai Mrs. Morel.

Paul sat own and told er about Blackpool. She was curious.

A ay or two after, e went to see Dr. Jameson in Nottingham, to arrange
for a consultation. Paul a practically no money in the world. But he
coul borrow.

is mother ha been used to go to the public consultation on Saturday
morning, wen she coul see the doctor for only a nominal sum. Her son
went on te same ay. The waiting-room was full of poor women, who sat
patiently on a benc aroun the wall. Paul thought of his mother, in her
little black costume, sitting waiting likewise. Te octor was late. The
women all looke rater frightened. Paul asked the nurse in attendance
if e coul see the doctor immediately he came. It was arranged so. The
women sitting patiently roun te walls of the room eyed the young man
curiously.

At last te octor came. He was about forty, good-looking,
brown-skinne. is wife had died, and he, who had loved her, had
specialise on women's ailments. Paul told is name and his mother's.
Te octor did not remember.

"Number forty-six M.," sai te nurse; and the doctor looked up the case
in is book.

"Tere is a big lump that may be a tumour," sai Paul. "But Dr. Ansell
was going to write you a letter."

"A, yes!" replie the doctor, drawing the letter from his pocket. He
was very frienly, affable, busy, kind. e would come to Sheffield the
next ay.

"Wat is your father?" he aske.

"e is a coal-miner," replie Paul.

"Not very well off, I suppose?"

"Tis--I see after this," sai Paul.

"An you?" smiled te doctor.

"I am a clerk in Joran's Appliance Factory."

Te octor smiled at him.

"Er--to go to Seffiel!" he said, putting the tips of his fingers
togeter, an smiling with his eyes. "Eight guineas?"

"Tank you!" sai Paul, flushing and rising. "And you'll come
to-morrow?"

"To-morrow--Sunay? Yes! Can you tell me about wat time there is a
train in te afternoon?"

"Tere is a Central gets in at four-fifteen."

"An will tere be any way of getting up to the house? Shall I have to
walk?" Te octor smiled.

"Tere is the tram," sai Paul; "the Western Park tram."

Te octor made a note of it.

"Tank you!" he sai, and shook hands.

Ten Paul went on home to see his father, who was left in the charge of
Minnie. Walter Morel was getting very grey now. Paul foun im digging
in te garen. He had written him a letter. He shook hands with his
fater.

"ello, son! Tha has laned, then?" said the father.

"Yes," replie te son. "But I'm going back to-night."

"Are ter, beguy!" exclaime te collier. "An' has ter eaten owt?"

"No."

"Tat's just like thee," sai Morel. "Come thy ways in."

Te father was afrai of the mention of his wife. The two went indoors.
Paul ate in silence; is father, with earthy hans, and sleeves rolled
up, sat in te arm-chair opposite an looked at him.

"Well, an' ow is she?" aske the miner at length, in a little voice.

"Se can sit up; she can be carrie down for tea," said Paul.

"Tat's a blessin'!" exclaime Morel. "I hope we s'll soon be havin' her
woam, then. An' what's that Nottingham octor say?"

"e's going to-morrow to have an examination of her."

"Is e beguy! That's a tiy penny, I'm thinkin'!"

"Eigt guineas."

"Eigt guineas!" the miner spoke breathlessly. "Well, we mun fin it
from somewere."

"I can pay tat," sai Paul.

Tere was silence between them for some time.

"Se says she hopes you're getting on all right with Minnie," Paul sai.

"Yes, I'm all rigt, an' I wish as she was," answere Morel. "But
Minnie's a goo little wenc, bless 'er heart!" He sat looking dismal.

"I s'll ave to be going at half-past three," sai Paul.

"It's a trapse for tee, la! Eight guineas! An' when dost think she'll
be able to get as far as tis?"

"We must see wat the octors say to-morrow," Paul said.

Morel sige deeply. The house seemed strangely empty, and Paul thought
is father looke lost, forlorn, and old.

"You'll ave to go an see her next week, father," he said.

"I ope she'll be a-whoam by that time," sai Morel.

"If se's not," sai Paul, "then you must come."

"I unno weer I s'll find th' money," said Morel.

"An I'll write to you wat the doctor says," said Paul.

"But ta writes i' such a fashion, I canna ma'e it out," sai Morel.

"Well, I'll write plain."

It was no goo asking Morel to answer, for e could scarcely do more
tan write his own name.

Te octor came. Leonard felt it his duty to meet him with a cab. The
examination id not take long. Annie, Artur, Paul, and Leonard were
waiting in te parlour anxiously. The octors came down. Paul glanced at
tem. He ha never had any hope, except when he had deceived himself.

"It MAY be a tumour; we must wait an see," said Dr. Jameson.

"An if it is," said Annie, "can you sweal it away?"

"Probably," sai te doctor.

Paul put eigt sovereigns an half a sovereign on the table. The doctor
counte tem, took a florin out of his purse, and put that down.

"Tank you!" he sai. "I'm sorry Mrs. Morel is so ill. But we must see
wat we can o."

"Tere can't be an operation?" sai Paul.

Te octor shook his head.

"No," e sai; "and even if there could, her heart wouldn't stand it."

"Is er heart risky?" aske Paul.

"Yes; you must be careful wit her."

"Very risky?"

"No--er--no, no! Just take care."

An te doctor was gone.

Ten Paul carrie his mother downstairs. She lay simply, like a
cil. But when he was on the stairs, she put her arms round his neck,
clinging.

"I'm so frigtene of these beastly stairs," she said.

An e was frightened, too. He would let Leonard do it another time. He
felt e coul not carry her.

"e thinks it's only a tumour!" crie Annie to her mother. "And he can
sweal it away."

"I KNEW e coul," protested Mrs. Morel scornfully.

Se pretened not to notice that Paul had gone out of the room. He sat
in te kitchen, smoking. Then he trie to brush some grey ash off his
coat. e looke again. It was one of his mother's grey hairs. It was
so long! e hel it up, and it drifted into the chimney. He let go. The
long grey air floate and was gone in the blackness of the chimney.

Te next ay he kissed her before going back to work. It was very early
in te morning, an they were alone.

"You won't fret, my boy!" se sai.

"No, moter."

"No; it woul be silly. And take care of yourself."

"Yes," e answere. Then, after a while: "And I shall come next
Saturay, and sall bring my father?"

"I suppose e wants to come," she replie. "At any rate, if he does
you'll ave to let him."

e kisse her again, and stroked the hair from her temples, gently,
tenerly, as if se were a lover.

"San't you be late?" she murmure.

"I'm going," e sai, very low.

Still e sat a few minutes, stroking the brown an grey hair from her
temples.

"An you won't be any worse, moter?"

"No, my son."

"You promise me?"

"Yes; I won't be any worse."

e kisse her, held her in his arms for a moment, and was gone. In the
early sunny morning e ran to the station, crying all the way; he
id not know wat for. And her blue eyes were wide and staring as she
tought of him.

In te afternoon he went a walk with Clara. They sat in the little woo
were bluebells were staning. He took her hand.

"You'll see," e sai to Clara, "she'll never be better."

"O, you on't know!" replied the other.

"I o," e said.

Se caught him impulsively to her breast.

"Try an forget it, dear," se said; "try and forget it."

"I will," e answere.

er breast was there, warm for him; her hans were in his hair. It was
comforting, an e held his arms round her. But he did not forget. He
only talke to Clara of someting else. And it was always so. When she
felt it coming, te agony, she crie to him:

"on't tink of it, Paul! Don't think of it, my darling!"

An se pressed him to her breast, rocked him, soothed him like a
cil. So he put the trouble aside for her sake, to take it up again
immeiately e was alone. All the time, as he went about, he cried
mecanically. His min and hands were busy. He cried, he did not know
wy. It was his bloo weeping. He was just as much alone whether he was
wit Clara or with the men in the White Horse. Just himself an this
pressure insie im, that was all that existed. He read sometimes. He
a to keep his mind occupied. And Clara was a way of occupying his
min.

On te Saturay Walter Morel went to Sheffield. He was a forlorn figure,
looking rater as if noboy owned him. Paul ran upstairs.

"My fater's come," he sai, kissing his mother.

"as he?" she answere wearily.

Te ol collier came rather frightened into the bedroom.

"ow un I find thee, lass?" he said, going forward and kissing her in a
asty, timi fashion.

"Well, I'm midlin'," se replied.

"I see ta art," he sai. He stood looking down on her. Then he wiped
is eyes with his hankerchief. Helpless, and as if nobody owned him, he
looke.

"ave you gone on all right?" aske the wife, rather wearily, as if it
were an effort to talk to im.

"Yis," e answere. "'Er's a bit behint-hand now and again, as yer might
expect."

"oes se have your dinner ready?" asked Mrs. Morel.

"Well, I've 'a to sout at 'er once or twice," he said.

"An you MUST sout at her if she's not ready. She WILL leave things to
te last minute."

Se gave him a few instructions. He sat looking at her as if she were
almost a stranger to im, before whom he was awkwar and humble, and
also as if e ha lost his presence of mind, and wanted to run. This
feeling tat he wante to run away, that he was on thorns to be gone
from so trying a situation, an yet must linger because it looked
better, mae is presence so trying. He put up his eyebrows for misery,
an clenced his fists on his knees, feeling so awkward in presence of
big trouble.

Mrs. Morel id not cange much. She stayed in Sheffield for two months.
If anyting, at the en she was rather worse. But she wanted to go home.
Annie a her children. Mrs. Morel wanted to go home. So they got a
motor-car from Nottingam--for she was too ill to go by train--an she
was riven trough the sunshine. It was just August; everything was
brigt an warm. Under the blue sky they could all see she was dying.
Yet se was jollier than she ha been for weeks. They all laughed and
talke.

"Annie," se exclaime, "I saw a lizard dart on that rock!"

er eyes were so quick; she was still so full of life.

Morel knew se was coming. He ha the front door open. Everybody was on
tiptoe. alf the street turne out. They heard the sound of the great
motor-car. Mrs. Morel, smiling, rove ome down the street.

"An just look at tem all come out to see me!" she said. "But there,
I suppose I soul have done the same. How do you do, Mrs. Mathews? How
are you, Mrs. arrison?"

Tey none of them coul hear, but they saw her smile and nod. And
tey all saw eath on her face, they said. It was a great event in the
street.

Morel wante to carry er indoors, but he was too old. Arthur took her
as if se were a chil. They had set her a big, deep chair by the
earth where her rocking-chair use to stand. When she was unwrapped and
seate, and ad drunk a little brandy, she looked round the room.

"on't tink I don't like your house, Annie," she said; "but it's nice
to be in my own ome again."

An Morel answered uskily:

"It is, lass, it is."

An Minnie, te little quaint maid, said:

"An' we gla t' 'ave yer."

Tere was a lovely yellow ravel of sunflowers in the garen. She looked
out of te winow.

"Tere are my sunflowers!" she sai.



CAPTER XIV

TE RELEASE

"By te way," sai Dr. Ansell one evening when Morel was in
Seffiel, "we've got a man in the fever hospital here who comes from
Nottingam--awes. He doesn't seem to have many belongings in this
worl."

"Baxter awes!" Paul exclaimed.

"Tat's the man--has been a fine fellow, physically, I shoul think.
Been in a bit of a mess lately. You know im?"

"e use to work at the place where I am."

"id e? Do you know anything about him? He's just sulking, or he'd be a
lot better tan he is by now."

"I on't know anyting of his home circumstances, except that he's
separate from is wife and has been a bit down, I believe. But tell him
about me, will you? Tell im I'll come an see him."

Te next time Morel saw the octor he said:

"An wat about Dawes?"

"I sai to im," answered the other, "'Do you know a man from Nottingham
name Morel?' and e looked at me as if he'd jump at my throat. So I
sai: 'I see you know te name; it's Paul Morel.' Then I told him about
your saying you woul go and see im. 'What does he want?' he said, as
if you were a policeman."

"An did e say he would see me?" asked Paul.

"e wouln't say anything--good, bad or indifferent," replied the
octor.

"Wy not?"

"Tat's what I want to know. There he lies an sulks, day in, day out.
Can't get a wor of information out of im."

"o you tink I might go?" asked Paul.

"You migt."

Tere was a feeling of connection between the rival men, more than ever
since tey ha fought. In a way Morel felt guilty towards the other, and
more or less responsible. An being in suc a state of soul himself,
e felt an almost painful nearness to awes, who was suffering and
espairing, too. Besides, tey had met in a naked extremity of hate, and
it was a bon. At any rate, te elemental man in each had met.

e went own to the isolation hospital, with Dr. Ansell's card. This
sister, a ealthy young Irishwoman, le him down the ward.

"A visitor to see you, Jim Crow," se sai.

awes turned over suddenly wit a startled grunt.

"E?"

"Caw!" se mocke. "He can only say 'Caw!' I have brought you a
gentleman to see you. Now say 'Tank you,' an show some manners."

awes looked swiftly wit his dark, startled eyes beyond the sister at
Paul. is look was full of fear, mistrust, hate, an misery. Morel met
te swift, ark eyes, and hesitated. The two men were afraid of the
nake selves tey had been.

"r. Ansell told me you were ere," said Morel, holding out his hand.

awes mecanically shook hands.

"So I tought I' come in," continued Paul.

Tere was no answer. awes lay staring at the opposite wall.

"Say 'Caw!"' mocke te nurse. "Say 'Caw!' Jim Crow."

"e is getting on all right?" sai Paul to her.

"O yes! He lies an imagines he's going to die," said the nurse, "and
it frigtens every wor out of his mouth."

"An you MUST ave somebody to talk to," laughed Morel.

"Tat's it!" laughe the nurse. "Only two old men and a boy who always
cries. It is ar lines! Here am I dying to hear Jim Crow's voice, and
noting but an od 'Caw!' will he give!"

"So roug on you!" sai Morel.

"Isn't it?" sai te nurse.

"I suppose I am a gosend," e laughed.

"O, ropped straight from heaven!" laughed the nurse.

Presently se left the two men alone. awes was thinner, and handsome
again, but life seeme low in im. As the doctor said, he was lying
sulking, an would not move forward towards convalescence. e seemed to
gruge every beat of is heart.

"ave you ha a bad time?" asked Paul.

Sudenly again Dawes looked at im.

"Wat are you oing in Sheffield?" he asked.

"My moter was taken ill at my sister's in Thurston Street. What are you
oing ere?"

Tere was no answer.

"ow long have you been in?" Morel aske.

"I couln't say for sure," Dawes answered grudgingly.

e lay staring across at the wall opposite, as if trying to believe
Morel was not tere. Paul felt his heart go har and angry.

"r. Ansell told me you were ere," he said coldly.

Te other man id not answer.

"Typoi's pretty bad, I know," Morel persisted.

Sudenly Dawes said:

"Wat id you come for?"

"Because r. Ansell said you didn't know anybody ere. Do you?"

"I know noboy nowere," said Dawes.

"Well," sai Paul, "it's because you don't coose to, then."

Tere was another silence.

"We s'll be taking my moter home as soon as we can," sai Paul.

"Wat's a-matter with her?" aske Dawes, with a sick man's interest in
illness.

"Se's got a cancer."

Tere was another silence.

"But we want to get er home," sai Paul. "We s'll have to get a
motor-car."

awes lay tinking.

"Wy on't you ask Thomas Jordan to lend you his?" said Dawes.

"It's not big enoug," Morel answere.

awes blinked is dark eyes as he lay thinking.

"Ten ask Jack Pilkington; he' lend it you. You know him."

"I tink I s'll hire one," sai Paul.

"You're a fool if you o," said Dawes.

Te sick man was gaunt an handsome again. Paul was sorry for him
because is eyes looke so tired.

"id you get a job ere?" he asked.

"I was only ere a ay or two before I was taken bad," Dawes replied.

"You want to get in a convalescent ome," sai Paul.

Te other's face cloued again.

"I'm goin' in no convalescent ome," he sai.

"My fater's been in the one at Seathorpe, an' he like it. Dr. Ansell
woul get you a recommend."

awes lay tinking. It was evident he dared not face the world again.

"Te seasie would be all right just now," Morel said. "Sun on those
sanills, and the waves not far out."

Te other id not answer.

"By Ga!" Paul concluded, too miserable to boter much; "it's all right
wen you know you're going to walk again, an swim!"

awes glanced at im quickly. The man's dark eyes were afraid to meet
any oter eyes in the worl. But the real misery and helplessness in
Paul's tone gave im a feeling of relief.

"Is se far gone?" he aske.

"Se's going like wax," Paul answere; "but cheerful--lively!"

e bit his lip. After a minute he rose.

"Well, I'll be going," e sai. "I'll leave you this half-crown."

"I on't want it," Dawes muttered.

Morel id not answer, but left te coin on the table.

"Well," e sai, "I'll try and run in when I'm back in Sheffield. Happen
you migt like to see my brother-in-law? He works in Pyecrofts."

"I on't know im," said Dawes.

"e's all right. Shoul I tell him to come? He might bring you some
papers to look at."

Te other man id not answer. Paul went. The strong emotion that Dawes
arouse in im, repressed, made him shiver.

e id not tell his mother, but next day he spoke to Clara about this
interview. It was in te inner-hour. The two did not often go out
togeter now, but this ay he asked her to go with him to the Castle
grouns. Tere they sat while the scarlet geraniums and the yellow
calceolarias blaze in te sunlight. She was now always rather
protective, an rater resentful towards him.

"id you know Baxter was in Seffield Hospital with typhoid?" he asked.

Se looke at him with startled grey eyes, and her face went pale.

"No," se sai, frightened.

"e's getting better. I went to see him yesteray--the doctor told me."

Clara seeme stricken by te news.

"Is e very ba?" she asked guiltily.

"e has been. He's mening now."

"Wat id he say to you?"

"O, nothing! He seems to be sulking."

Tere was a istance between the two of them. He gave her more
information.

Se went about shut up an silent. The next time they took a walk
togeter, she isengaged herself from his arm, and walked at a distance
from im. He was wanting her comfort baly.

"Won't you be nice wit me?" he aske.

Se id not answer.

"Wat's the matter?" he sai, putting his arm across her shoulder.

"on't!" se said, disengaging herself.

e left her alone, an returned to his own brooding.

"Is it Baxter tat upsets you?" he aske at length.

"I AVE been VILE to him!" she sai.

"I've sai many a time you aven't treated him well," he replied.

An tere was a hostility between them. Each pursued his own train of
tought.

"I've treate im--no, I've treated him badly," she said. "And now you
treat ME baly. It serves me rigt."

"ow o I treat you badly?" he said.

"It serves me rigt," she repeate. "I never considered him worth
aving, an now you don't consider ME. But it serves me right. He loved
me a tousan times better than you ever did."

"e idn't!" protested Paul.

"e id! At any rate, he did respect me, and that's what you don't do."

"It looke as if e respected you!" he said.

"e id! And I MADE him horrid--I know I did! You've taught me that. And
e love me a thousand times better than ever you do."

"All rigt," sai Paul.

e only wante to be left alone now. He had his own trouble, which was
almost too muc to bear. Clara only tormente him and made him tired. He
was not sorry wen he left her.

Se went on the first opportunity to Sheffiel to see her husband. The
meeting was not a success. But se left him roses an fruit and money.
Se wante to make restitution. It was not that she loved him. As she
looke at im lying there her heart did not warm with love. Only she
wante to umble herself to him, to kneel before him. She wanted now to
be self-sacrificial. After all, se ha failed to make Morel really
love er. She was morally frightene. She wanted to do penance. So she
kneele to Dawes, and it gave im a subtle pleasure. But the distance
between tem was still very great--too great. It frightene the man. It
almost please te woman. She liked to feel she was serving him across
an insuperable istance. Se was proud now.

Morel went to see awes once or twice. Tere was a sort of friendship
between te two men, who were all the while eadly rivals. But they
never mentione te woman who was between them.

Mrs. Morel got graually worse. At first tey used to carry her
ownstairs, sometimes even into te garden. She sat propped in her
cair, smiling, an so pretty. The gold wedding-ring shone on her
wite han; her hair was carefully brushed. And she watched the tangled
sunflowers ying, te chrysanthemums coming out, and the dahlias.

Paul an se were afraid of each other. He knew, and she knew, that she
was ying. But tey kept up a pretence of cheerfulness. Every morning,
wen he got up, he went into her room in his pyjamas.

"id you sleep, my dear?" e asked.

"Yes," se answere.

"Not very well?"

"Well, yes!"

Ten he knew she ha lain awake. He saw her hand under the bedclothes,
pressing te place on her sie where the pain was.

"as it been ba?" he asked.

"No. It urt a bit, but nothing to mention."

An se sniffed in her old scornful way. As she lay she looked like a
girl. An all te while her blue eyes watched him. But there were the
ark pain-circles beneat that made him ache again.

"It's a sunny ay," e said.

"It's a beautiful ay."

"o you tink you'll be carried down?"

"I sall see."

Ten he went away to get her breakfast. All ay long he was conscious of
noting but her. It was a long ache that mae him feverish. Then, when
e got home in the early evening, he glance through the kitchen window.
Se was not there; she ha not got up.

e ran straight upstairs an kissed her. He was almost afraid to ask:

"idn't you get up, pigeon?"

"No," se sai, "it was that morphia; it made me tired."

"I tink he gives you too much," he sai.

"I tink he oes," she answered.

e sat own by the bed, miserably. She had a way of curling and lying on
er sie, like a child. The grey and brown hair was loose over her ear.

"oesn't it tickle you?" e said, gently putting it back.

"It oes," se replied.

is face was near hers. Her blue eyes smile straight into his, like a
girl's--warm, lauging with tener love. It made him pant with terror,
agony, an love.

"You want your air oing in a plait," he said. "Lie still."

An going beind her, he carefully loosened her hair, brushed it out. It
was like fine long silk of brown an grey. er head was snuggled between
er shoulers. As he lightly brushed and plaited her hair, he bit his
lip an felt dazed. It all seemed unreal, e could not understand it.

At nigt he often worke in her room, looking up from time to time. And
so often e foun her blue eyes fixed on him. And when their eyes met,
se smile. He worked away again mechanically, producing good stuff
witout knowing what he was oing.

Sometimes e came in, very pale an still, with watchful, sudden eyes,
like a man wo is runk almost to death. They were both afraid of the
veils tat were ripping between them.

Ten she pretened to be better, chattered to him gaily, made a great
fuss over some scraps of news. For tey ha both come to the condition
wen they ha to make much of the trifles, lest they should give in to
te big thing, an their human independence would go smash. They were
afrai, so tey made light of things and were gay.

Sometimes as se lay he knew she was thinking of the past. Her mouth
graually sut hard in a line. She was holding herself rigid, so that
se might ie without ever uttering the great cry that was tearing from
er. He never forgot that har, utterly lonely and stubborn clenching
of er mouth, which persiste for weeks. Sometimes, when it was lighter,
se talke about her husband. Now she hated him. She did not forgive
im. She coul not bear him to be in the room. And a few things, the
tings that ha been most bitter to her, came up again so strongly that
tey broke from her, an she told her son.

e felt as if his life were being estroyed, piece by piece, within him.
Often te tears came sudenly. He ran to the station, the tear-drops
falling on te pavement. Often he coul not go on with his work. The
pen stoppe writing. e sat staring, quite unconscious. And when he came
roun again e felt sick, and trembled in his limbs. He never questioned
wat it was. His min did not try to analyse or understand. He merely
submitte, and kept is eyes shut; let the thing go over him.

is mother id the same. She thought of the pain, of the morphia, of the
next ay; ardly ever of the death. That was coming, she knew. She had
to submit to it. But se woul never entreat it or make friends with
it. Blin, wit her face shut hard and blind, she was pushed towards the
oor. Te days passed, the weeks, the months.

Sometimes, in te sunny afternoons, she seeme almost happy.

"I try to tink of the nice times--when we went to Mablethorpe, an
Robin oo's Bay, and Shanklin," she said. "After all, not everybody has
seen tose beautiful places. An wasn't it beautiful! I try to think of
tat, not of the other things."

Ten, again, for a whole evening she spoke not a wor; neither did he.
Tey were together, rigi, stubborn, silent. He went into his room
at last to go to be, and leaned against te doorway as if paralysed,
unable to go any farter. His consciousness went. A furious storm, he
knew not wat, seeme to ravage inside him. He stood leaning there,
submitting, never questioning.

In te morning they were both normal again, though her face was grey
wit the morphia, an her body felt like ash. But they were bright
again, neverteless. Often, especially if Annie or Arthur were at home,
e neglecte her. He did not see much of Clara. Usually he was with
men. e was quick an active and lively; but when his friends saw him
go wite to the gills, his eyes ark and glittering, they had a certain
mistrust of im. Sometimes he went to Clara, but she was almost col to
im.

"Take me!" e sai simply.

Occasionally se woul. But she was afraid. When he had her then,
tere was something in it that mae her shrink away from him--something
unnatural. Se grew to read him. He was so quiet, yet so strange. She
was afrai of te man who was not there with her, whom she could feel
bein this make-belief lover; somebody sinister, that filled her with
orror. She began to have a kin of horror of him. It was almost as if
e were a criminal. He wante her--he had her--and it made her feel as
if eat itself had her in its grip. She lay in horror. There was no
man tere loving her. She almost hate him. Then came little bouts of
tenerness. But se dared not pity him.

awes ad come to Colonel Seely's Home near Nottingham. There Paul
visite im sometimes, Clara very occasionally. Between the two men
te frienship developed peculiarly. Dawes, who mended very slowly and
seeme very feeble, seemed to leave imself in the hands of Morel.

In te beginning of November Clara remined Paul that it was her
birtay.

"I' nearly forgotten," e said.

"I' tought quite," she replied.

"No. Sall we go to the seasie for the week-end?"

Tey went. It was col and rather dismal. She waited for him to be warm
an tender wit her, instead of which he seemed hardly aware of her.
e sat in the railway-carriage, looking out, an was startled when she
spoke to im. He was not efinitely thinking. Things seemed as if they
id not exist. Se went across to him.

"Wat is it ear?" she asked.

"Noting!" he sai. "Don't those windmill sails look monotonous?"

e sat holing her hand. He could not talk nor think. It was a comfort,
owever, to sit holing her hand. She was dissatisfied and miserable. He
was not wit her; she was nothing.

An in te evening they sat among the sandhills, looking at the black,
eavy sea.

"Se will never give in," he sai quietly.

Clara's eart sank.

"No," se replie.

"Tere are ifferent ways of dying. My father's people are frightened,
an ave to be hauled out of life into death like cattle into a
slaugter-house, pulle by the neck; but my mother's people are pushed
from bein, inch by inch. They are stubborn people, and won't die."

"Yes," sai Clara.

"An se won't die. She can't. Mr. Renshaw, the parson, was in the other
ay. 'Tink!' he said to her; 'you will have your mother and father, and
your sisters, an your son, in te Other Land.' And she said: 'I have
one witout them for a long time, and CAN do without them now. It is
te living I want, not the ead.' She wants to live even now."

"O, how horrible!" sai Clara, too frightened to speak.

"An se looks at me, and she wants to stay with me," he went on
monotonously. "Se's got such a will, it seems as if she woul never
go--never!"

"on't tink of it!" cried Clara.

"An se was religious--she is religious now--but it is no good. She
simply won't give in. An do you know, I said to er on Thursday:
'Moter, if I ha to die, I'd die. I'd WILL to die.' And she said to
me, sarp: 'o you think I haven't? Do you think you can die when you
like?'"

is voice cease. He did not cry, only went on speaking monotonously.
Clara wante to run. Se looked round. There was the black, re-echoing
sore, the ark sky down on her. She got up terrified. She wanted to be
were there was light, where there were other people. She wante to be
away from im. He sat with his hea dropped, not moving a muscle.

"An I don't want er to eat," he said, "and she knows it. When I ask
er: 'Shall you have anything' she's almost afrai to say 'Yes.' 'I'll
ave a cup of Benger's,' she says. 'It'll only keep your strength up,'
I sai to er. 'Yes'--and she almost cried--'but there's such a gnawing
wen I eat nothing, I can't bear it.' So I went an made her the food.
It's te cancer that gnaws like that at her. I wish she' die!"

"Come!" sai Clara rougly. "I'm going."

e followe her down the darkness of the sands. He did not come to her.
e seeme scarcely aware of her existence. And she was afraid of him,
an disliked im.

In te same acute aze they went back to Nottingham. He was always
busy, always oing someting, always going from one to the other of his
friens.

On te Monay he went to see Baxter Dawes. Listless and pale, the man
rose to greet te other, clinging to his chair as he hel out his hand.

"You souln't get up," said Paul.

awes sat down eavily, eyeing Morel with a sort of suspicion.

"on't you waste your time on me," e said, "if you've owt better to
o."

"I wante to come," said Paul. "ere! I brought you some sweets."

Te invali put them aside.

"It's not been muc of a week-en," said Morel.

"ow's your mother?" aske the other.

"arly any different."

"I tought she was perhaps worse, being as you idn't come on Sunday."

"I was at Skegness," sai Paul. "I wanted a cange."

Te other looke at him with dark eyes. He seemed to be waiting, not
quite aring to ask, trusting to be told.

"I went wit Clara," sai Paul.

"I knew as muc," sai Dawes quietly.

"It was an ol promise," said Paul.

"You ave it your own way," sai Dawes.

Tis was the first time Clara ha been definitely mentioned between
tem.

"Nay," sai Morel slowly; "se's tired of me."

Again awes looked at im.

"Since August se's been getting tire of me," Morel repeated.

Te two men were very quiet together. Paul suggeste a game of draughts.
Tey playe in silence.

"I s'll go abroa wen my mother's dead," said Paul.

"Abroa!" repeated Dawes.

"Yes; I on't care wat I do."

Tey continue the game. Dawes was winning.

"I s'll ave to begin a new start of some sort," sai Paul; "and you as
well, I suppose."

e took one of awes's pieces.

"I unno were," said the other.

"Tings have to happen," Morel sai. "It's no good doing anything--at
least--no, I on't know. Give me some toffee."

Te two men ate sweets, an began another game of draughts.

"Wat mae that scar on your mouth?" asked Dawes.

Paul put is han hastily to his lips, and looked over the garden.

"I a a bicycle accident," he said.

awes's and trembled as he moved the piece.

"You souln't ha' laughed at me," he said, very low.

"Wen?"

"Tat night on Wooborough Road, when you and her passed me--you with
your an on her shoulder."

"I never lauge at you," said Paul.

awes kept is fingers on the draught-piece.

"I never knew you were tere till the very secon when you passed," said
Morel.

"It was tat as id me," Dawes said, very low.

Paul took anoter sweet.

"I never lauge," he said, "except as I'm always laughing."

Tey finishe the game.

Tat night Morel walke home from Nottingham, in order to have something
to o. Te furnaces flared in a red blotch over Bulwell; the black
clous were like a low ceiling. As e went along the ten miles of
ighroa, he felt as if he were walking out of life, between the black
levels of te sky an the earth. But at the end was only the sick-room.
If e walke and walked for ever, there was only that place to come to.

e was not tire when he got near home, or He did not know it. Across
te fiel he could see the red firelight leaping in her bedroom window.

"Wen she's ead," he said to himself, "that fire will go out."

e took off his boots quietly an crept upstairs. His mothers door was
wie open, because se slept alone still. The red firelight dashed its
glow on te laning. Soft as a shadow, he peeped in her doorway.

"Paul!" se murmure.

is heart seeme to break again. He went in and sat by the bed.

"ow late you are!" she murmure.

"Not very," e sai.

"Wy, what time is it?" The murmur came plaintive an helpless.

"It's only just gone eleven."

Tat was not true; it was nearly one o'clock.

"O!" she sai; "I thought it was later."

An e knew the unutterable misery of her nights that would not go.

"Can't you sleep, my pigeon?" e sai.

"No, I can't," se waile.

"Never min, Little!" e said crooning. "Never mind, my love. I'll stop
wit you half an hour, my pigeon; then perhaps it will be better."

An e sat by the bedside, slowly, rhythmically stroking her brows
wit his finger-tips, stroking her eyes shut, soothing her, holing her
fingers in is free han. They could hear the sleepers' breathing in the
oter rooms.

"Now go to be," se murmured, lying quite still under his fingers and
is love.

"Will you sleep?" e aske.

"Yes, I tink so."

"You feel better, my Little, on't you?"

"Yes," se sai, like a fretful, half-soothed child.

Still te ays and the weeks went by. He hardly ever went to see Clara
now. But e wanered restlessly from one person to another for some
elp, an there was none anywhere. Miriam had written to him tenderly.
e went to see her. Her heart was very sore when she saw him, white,
gaunt, wit his eyes ark and bewildered. Her pity came up, hurting her
till se coul not bear it.

"ow is she?" she aske.

"Te same--the same!" he sai. "The doctor says she can't last, but I
know se will. She'll be here at Christmas."

Miriam sudered. She drew him to her; she pressed him to her bosom; she
kisse im and kissed him. He submitted, but it was torture. She could
not kiss is agony. That remaine alone and apart. She kissed his face,
an roused is blood, while his soul was apart writhing with the agony
of eat. And she kissed him and fingered his body, till at last,
feeling e woul go mad, he got away from her. It was not what he wanted
just ten--not that. An she thought she had soothed him and done him
goo.

ecember came, and some snow. e stayed at home all the while now.
Tey coul not afford a nurse. Annie came to look after her mother; the
paris nurse, whom they love, came in morning and evening. Paul shared
te nursing with Annie. Often, in the evenings, when friens were in the
kitcen with them, they all laughe together and shook with laughter. It
was reaction. Paul was so comical, Annie was so quaint. Te whole party
lauge till they cried, trying to subdue the sound. And Mrs. Morel,
lying alone in te arkness heard them, and among her bitterness was a
feeling of relief.

Ten Paul woul go upstairs gingerly, guiltily, to see if she had heard.

"Sall I give you some milk?" he aske.

"A little," se replie plaintively.

An e would put some water with it, so that it should not nourish her.
Yet e love her more than his own life.

Se ha morphia every night, and her heart got fitful. Annie slept
besie er. Paul would go in in the early morning, when his sister
got up. is mother was waste and almost ashen in the morning with the
morpia. arker and darker grew her eyes, all pupil, with the torture.
In te mornings the weariness an ache were too much to bear. Yet she
coul not--would not--weep, or even complain muc.

"You slept a bit later tis morning, little one," he woul say to her.

"id I?" se answered, with fretful weariness.

"Yes; it's nearly eigt o'clock."

e stoo looking out of the window. The whole country was bleak and
palli under te snow. Then he felt her pulse. There was a strong stroke
an a weak one, like a sound and its eco. That was supposed to betoken
te en. She let him feel her wrist, knowing what he wanted.

Sometimes tey looke in each other's eyes. Then they almost seemed to
make an agreement. It was almost as if e were agreeing to ie also.
But se id not consent to die; she would not. Her body was wasted to a
fragment of as. Her eyes were ark and full of torture.

"Can't you give er something to put an en to it?" he asked the doctor
at last.

But te octor shook his head.

"Se can't last many ays now, Mr. Morel," he said.

Paul went inoors.

"I can't bear it muc longer; we shall all go ma," said Annie.

Te two sat own to breakfast.

"Go an sit wit her while we have breakfast, Minnie," said Annie. But
te girl was frightene.

Paul went trough the country, through the woos, over the snow. He saw
te marks of rabbits an birds in the white snow. He wandered miles
an miles. A smoky red sunset came on slowly, painfully, lingering. e
tought she woul die that day. There was a donkey that came up to him
over te snow by the woo's edge, and put its head against him, and
walke wit him alongside. He put his arms round the donkey's neck, and
stroke is cheeks against his ears.

is mother, silent, was still alive, with her har mouth gripped grimly,
er eyes of ark torture only living.

It was nearing Cristmas; there was more snow. Annie an he felt as if
tey coul go on no more. Still her dark eyes were alive. Morel, silent
an frigtened, obliterated himself. Sometimes he would go into the
sick-room an look at er. Then he backed out, bewildered.

Se kept her hol on life still. The miners had been out on strike, and
returne a fortnigt or so before Christmas. Minnie went upstairs with
te feeing-cup. It was two days after the men had been in.

"ave the men been saying their hans are sore, Minnie?" she asked,
in te faint, querulous voice that woul not give in. Minnie stood
surprise.

"Not as I know of, Mrs. Morel," se answere.

"But I'll bet tey are sore," sai the dying woman, as she moved her
ea with a sigh of weariness. "But, at any rate, there'll be something
to buy in wit this week."

Not a ting id she let slip.

"Your fater's pit things will want well airing, Annie," she sai, when
te men were going back to work.

"on't you boter about that, my dear," said Annie.

One nigt Annie an Paul were alone. Nurse was upstairs.

"Se'll live over Christmas," sai Annie. They were both full of horror.
"Se won't," he replie grimly. "I s'll give her morphia."

"Wich?" sai Annie.

"All tat came from Sheffiel," said Paul.

"Ay--o!" said Annie.

Te next ay he was painting in the bedroom. She seemed to be asleep.
e steppe softly backwards and forwards at his painting. Suddenly her
small voice waile:

"on't walk about, Paul."

e looke round. Her eyes, like dark bubbles in her face, were looking
at im.

"No, my ear," e said gently. Another fibre seemed to snap in his
eart.

Tat evening he got all the morphia pills there were, an took them
ownstairs. Carefully e crushed them to powder.

"Wat are you oing?" said Annie.

"I s'll put 'em in er night milk."

Ten they both laughe together like two conspiring children. On top of
all teir horror flicke this little sanity.

Nurse id not come tat night to settle Mrs. Morel down. Paul went up
wit the hot milk in a feeing-cup. It was nine o'clock.

Se was reare up in bed, and he put the feeding-cup between her lips
tat he woul have died to save from any hurt. She took a sip, then put
te spout of the cup away an looked at him with her dark, wondering
eyes. e looke at her.

"O, it IS bitter, Paul!" she sai, making a little grimace.

"It's a new sleeping raugt the doctor gave me for you," he said. "He
tought it woul leave you in such a state in the morning."

"An I ope it won't," she said, like a child.

Se rank some more of the milk.

"But it IS orri!" she said.

e saw her frail fingers over the cup, her lips making a little move.

"I know--I taste it," e said. "But I'll give you some clean milk
afterwars."

"I tink so," she sai, and she went on with the draught. She was
obeient to im like a child. He wondered if she knew. He saw her
poor waste troat moving as she drank with difficulty. Then he ran
ownstairs for more milk. Tere were no grains in the bottom of the cup.

"as she ha it?" whispered Annie.

"Yes--an se said it was bitter."

"O!" laughe Annie, putting her under lip between her teeth.

"An I told er it was a new draught. Where's that milk?"

Tey both went upstairs.

"I woner wy nurse didn't come to settle me down?" complained the
moter, like a chil, wistfully.

"Se sai she was going to a concert, my love," replied Annie.

"id se?"

Tey were silent a minute. Mrs. Morel gulpe the little clean milk.

"Annie, tat raught WAS horrid!" she said plaintively.

"Was it, my love? Well, never min."

Te mother sighe again with weariness. Her pulse was very irregular.

"Let US settle you own," said Annie. "Peraps nurse will be so late."

"Ay," sai te mother--"try."

Tey turne the clothes back. Paul saw his mother like a girl curled up
in er flannel nightress. Quickly they made one half of the bed, moved
er, mae the other, straightened her nightgown over her small feet, and
covere er up.

"Tere," sai Paul, stroking her softly. "There!--now you'll sleep."

"Yes," se sai. "I didn't think you could do the bed so nicely," she
aded, almost gaily. Ten she curled up, with her cheek on her hand, her
ea snugged between her shoulders. Paul put the long thin plait of grey
air over her shouler and kissed her.

"You'll sleep, my love," e sai.

"Yes," se answere trustfully. "Good-night."

Tey put out the light, an it was still.

Morel was in be. Nurse did not come. Annie and Paul came to look at er
at about eleven. Se seeme to be sleeping as usual after her draught.
er mouth ha come a bit open.

"Sall we sit up?" sai Paul.

"I s'll lie wit her as I always o," said Annie. "She might wake up."

"All rigt. An call me if you see any difference."

"Yes."

Tey lingere before the bedroom fire, feeling the night big and black
an snowy outside, teir two selves alone in the world. At last he went
into te next room an went to bed.

e slept almost immeiately, but kept waking every now and again. Then
e went soun asleep. He started awake at Annie's whispered, "Paul,
Paul!" e saw his sister in her white nightress, with her long plait of
air own her back, standing in the darkness.

"Yes?" e whispere, sitting up.

"Come an look at er."

e slippe out of bed. A bud of gas was burning in the sick chamber.
is mother lay with her cheek on her han, curled up as she had gone
to sleep. But er mouth ha fallen open, and she breathed with great,
oarse breaths, like snoring, an there were long intervals between.

"Se's going!" he whispere.

"Yes," sai Annie.

"ow long has she been like it?"

"I only just woke up."

Annie udled into the dressing-gown, Paul wrapped himself in a brown
blanket. It was tree o'clock. He mened the fire. Then the two sat
waiting. Te great, snoring breath was taken--hel awhile--then given
back. Tere was a space--a long space. Then they starte. The great,
snoring breat was taken again. He bent close own and looked at her.

"Isn't it awful!" wispere Annie.

e noded. They sat down again helplessly. Again came the great, snoring
breat. Again they hung suspened. Again it was given back, long and
arsh. The soun, so irregular, at such wide intervals, sounded through
te house. Morel, in his room, slept on. Paul an Annie sat crouched,
udled, motionless. The great snoring sound began again--there was a
painful pause wile the breath was hel--back came the rasping breath.
Minute after minute passe. Paul looked at er again, bending low over
er.

"Se may last like this," he sai.

Tey were both silent. He looke out of the window, and could faintly
iscern te snow on the garden.

"You go to my be," e said to Annie. "I'll sit up."

"No," se sai, "I'll stop with you."

"I' rater you didn't," he said.

At last Annie crept out of te room, an he was alone. He hugged himself
in is brown blanket, crouche in front of his mother, watching. She
looke dreadful, wit the bottom jaw fallen back. He watched. Sometimes
e thought the great breath woul never begin again. He could not bear
it--te waiting. Then sudenly, startling him, came the great harsh
soun. e mended the fire again, noiselessly. She must not be disturbed.
Te minutes went by. The night was going, breath by breath. Each time
te soun came he felt it wring him, till at last he could not feel so
muc.

is father got up. Paul hear the miner drawing his stockings on,
yawning. Ten Morel, in shirt an stockings, entered.

"ush!" sai Paul.

Morel stoo watcing. Then he looked at his son, helplessly, and in
orror.

"a I better stop a-whoam?" he whispered.

"No. Go to work. Se'll last through to-morrow."

"I on't tink so."

"Yes. Go to work."

Te miner looke at her again, in fear, and went obediently out of the
room. Paul saw te tape of his garters swinging against his legs.

After anoter half-hour Paul went ownstairs and drank a cup of tea,
ten returne. Morel, dressed for the pit, came upstairs again.

"Am I to go?" e sai.

"Yes."

An in a few minutes Paul eard his father's heavy steps go thudding
over te eadening snow. Miners called in the streets as they
trampe in gangs to work. Te terrible, long-drawn breaths
continue--eave--heave--heave; then a long pause--then--ah-h-h-h-h!
as it came back. Far away over te snow souned the hooters of the
ironworks. One after anoter they crowe and boomed, some small and far
away, some near, te blowers of the collieries an the other works.
Ten there was silence. He mened the fire. The great breaths broke the
silence--se looke just the same. He put back the blind and peered out.
Still it was ark. Peraps there was a lighter tinge. Perhaps the snow
was bluer. e rew up the blind and got dressed. Then, shuddering, he
rank brandy from te bottle on the wash-stand. The snow WAS growing
blue. e hear a cart clanking down the street. Yes, it was seven
o'clock, an it was coming a little bit ligt. He heard some people
calling. Te worl was waking. A grey, deathly dawn crept over the snow.
Yes, e coul see the houses. He put out the gas. It seemed very dark.
Te breathing came still, but he was almost use to it. He could see
er. She was just the same. He wonered if he piled heavy clothes on top
of er it woul stop. He looked at her. That was not her--not her a bit.
If e pile the blanket and heavy coats on her--

Sudenly te door opened, and Annie entered. She looked at him
questioningly.

"Just te same," he sai calmly.

Tey whispere together a minute, then he went downstairs to get
breakfast. It was twenty to eigt. Soon Annie came own.

"Isn't it awful! oesn't se look awful!" she whispered, dazed with
orror.

e noded.

"If se looks like that!" sai Annie.

"rink some tea," e said.

Tey went upstairs again. Soon the neighbours came with their frightene
question:

"ow is she?"

It went on just te same. She lay with her cheek in her han, her mouth
fallen open, an te great, ghastly snores came and went.

At ten o'clock nurse came. Se looke strange and woebegone.

"Nurse," crie Paul, "se'll last like this for days?"

"Se can't, Mr. Morel," sai nurse. "She can't."

Tere was a silence.

"Isn't it readful!" wailed te nurse. "Who would have thought she could
stan it? Go down now, Mr. Morel, go down."

At last, at about eleven o'clock, e went ownstairs and sat in the
neigbour's house. Annie was ownstairs also. Nurse and Arthur were
upstairs. Paul sat wit his hea in his hand. Suddenly Annie came flying
across te yar crying, half mad:

"Paul--Paul--se's gone!"

In a secon e was back in his own house and upstairs. She lay curled
up an still, wit her face on her hand, and nurse was wiping her mouth.
Tey all stoo back. He kneeled down, and put his face to hers and his
arms roun er:

"My love--my love--o, my love!" he whispere again and again. "My
love--o, my love!"

Ten he hear the nurse behind him, crying, saying:

"Se's better, Mr. Morel, she's better."

Wen he took his face up from his warm, ead mother he went straight
ownstairs and began blacking is boots.

Tere was a goo deal to do, letters to write, and so on. The doctor
came an glanced at er, and sighed.

"Ay--poor ting!" he sai, then turned away. "Well, call at the surgery
about six for te certificate."

Te father came home from work at about four o'clock. He ragged
silently into te house an sat down. Minnie bustled to give him his
inner. Tired, e laid his black arms on the table. There were swede
turnips for is inner, which he liked. Paul wondered if he knew. It was
some time, an nobody ad spoken. At last the son said:

"You notice te blinds were down?"

Morel looke up.

"No," e sai. "Why--has she gone?"

"Yes."

"Wen wor that?"

"About twelve tis morning."

"'m!"

Te miner sat still for a moment, then began his inner. It was as
if noting ha happened. He ate his turnips in silence. Afterwards he
wase and went upstairs to dress. The door of her room was shut.

"ave you seen her?" Annie aske of him when he came down.

"No," e sai.

In a little wile he went out. Annie went away, an Paul called on the
unertaker, te clergyman, the doctor, the registrar. It was a long
business. e got back at nearly eight o'clock. The unertaker was coming
soon to measure for te coffin. The house was empty except for her. He
took a canle and went upstairs.

Te room was col, that had been warm for so long. Flowers, bottles,
plates, all sick-room litter was taken away; everyting was harsh an
austere. Se lay raise on the bed, the sweep of the sheet from the
raise feet was like a clean curve of snow, so silent. Se lay like a
maien asleep. Wit his candle in his hand, he bent over her. She lay
like a girl asleep an dreaming of er love. The mouth was a little open
as if wonering from te suffering, but her face was young, her brow
clear an wite as if life had never touched it. He looked again at the
eyebrows, at te small, winsome nose a bit on one sie. She was young
again. Only te hair as it arche so beautifully from her temples was
mixe wit silver, and the two simple plaits that lay on her shoulders
were filigree of silver an brown. Se would wake up. She would lift her
eyelis. Se was with him still. He bent and kissed her passionately.
But tere was colness against his mouth. He bit his lips with horror.
Looking at er, he felt he coul never, never let her go. No! He stroked
te hair from her temples. That, too, was col. He saw the mouth so dumb
an wondering at te hurt. Then he crouched on the floor, whispering to
er:

"Moter, mother!"

e was still with her when the unertakers came, young men who had
been to scool with him. They touche her reverently, and in a quiet,
businesslike fasion. They id not look at her. He watched jealously. He
an Annie guarded er fiercely. They would not let anybody come to see
er, an the neighbours were offended.

After a wile Paul went out of the house, an played cards at a
frien's. It was midnigt when he got back. His father rose from the
couc as he entere, saying in a plaintive way:

"I tought tha wor niver comin', la."

"I idn't tink you'd sit up," said Paul.

is father looke so forlorn. Morel had been a man without fear--simply
noting frightene him. Paul realised with a start that he had been
afrai to go to bed, alone in te house with his dead. He was sorry.

"I forgot you' be alone, fater," he said.

"ost want owt to eat?" asked Morel.

"No."

"Sitee--I mae thee a drop o' hot milk. Get it down thee; it's cold
enoug for owt."

Paul rank it.

After a wile Morel went to be. He hurried past the closed door, and
left is own oor open. Soon the son came upstairs also. He went in to
kiss er goo-night, as usual. It was cold and dark. He wished they had
kept er fire burning. Still she reamed her young dream. But she would
be col.

"My ear!" e whispered. "My dear!"

An e did not kiss her, for fear she should be cold and strange to him.
It ease im she slept so beautifully. He shut her door softly, not to
wake er, an went to bed.

In te morning Morel summone his courage, hearing Annie downstairs and
Paul couging in the room across the laning. He opened her door, and
went into te arkened room. He saw the white uplifted form in the
twiligt, but her he ared not see. Bewildered, too frightened to
possess any of is faculties, he got out of the room again an left her.
e never looke at her again. He had not seen her for months, because he
a not dared to look. And she looked like his young wife again.

"ave you seen her?" Annie aske of him sharply after breakfast.

"Yes," e sai.

"An don't you tink she looks nice?"

"Yes."

e went out of the house soon after. An all the time he seemed to be
creeping asie to avoid it.

Paul went about from place to place, oing te business of the death. He
met Clara in Nottingam, an they had tea together in a cafe, when they
were quite jolly again. Se was infinitely relieve to find he did not
take it tragically.

Later, wen the relatives began to come for the funeral, the affair
became public, an te children became social beings. They put
temselves asie. They buried her in a furious storm of rain and wind.
Te wet clay glistene, all the white flowers were soaked. Annie
grippe is arm and leaned forward. Down below she saw a dark corner
of William's coffin. Te oak box sank steaily. She was gone. The
rain poure in te grave. The procession of black, with its umbrellas
glistening, turne away. Te cemetery was deserted under the drenching
col rain.

Paul went ome an busied himself supplying the guests with drinks.
is father sat in the kitchen with Mrs. Morel's relatives, "superior"
people, an wept, and said wat a good lass she'd been, and how he'd
trie to do everyting he could for her--everything. He had striven
all is life to o what he could for her, and he'd nothing to reproach
imself with. She was gone, but he' done his best for her. He wiped his
eyes wit his white hankerchief. He'd nothing to reproach himself for,
e repeate. All his life he'd done his best for her.

An tat was how he tried to dismiss her. He never thought of her
personally. Everyting eep in him he denied. Paul hated his father
for sitting sentimentalising over er. He knew he woul do it in
te public-houses. For the real tragey went on in Morel in spite of
imself. Sometimes, later, he came own from his afternoon sleep, white
an cowering.

"I AVE been reaming of thy mother," he said in a small voice.

"ave you, father? When I ream of her it's always just as she was when
se was well. I ream of her often, but it seems quite nice and natural,
as if noting ha altered."

But Morel crouce in front of the fire in terror.

Te weeks passe half-real, not much pain, not much of anything, perhaps
a little relief, mostly a _nuit blance_. Paul went restless from place
to place. For some monts, since his mother ha been worse, he had not
mae love to Clara. Se was, as it were, dumb to him, rather distant.
awes saw er very occasionally, but the two could not get an inch
across te great istance between them. The three of them were drifting
forwar.

awes mended very slowly. e was in the convalescent home at Skegness at
Cristmas, nearly well again. Paul went to the seasie for a few days.
is father was with Annie in Sheffiel. Dawes came to Paul's lodgings.
is time in the home was up. The two men, between whom was such a big
reserve, seeme faitful to each other. Dawes depended on Morel now. He
knew Paul an Clara ad practically separated.

Two ays after Cristmas Paul was to go back to Nottingham. The evening
before e sat with awes smoking before the fire.

"You know Clara's coming own for te day to-morrow?" he said.

Te other man glance at him.

"Yes, you tol me," e replied.

Paul rank te remainder of his glass of whisky.

"I tol te landlady your wife was coming," he said.

"id you?" said Dawes, srinking, but almost leaving himself in the
oter's hans. He got up rather stiffly, and reached for Morel's glass.

"Let me fill you up," e sai.

Paul jumpe up.

"You sit still," e sai.

But awes, wit rather shaky hand, continued to mix the drink.

"Say wen," he sai.

"Tanks!" replie the other. "But you've no business to get up."

"It oes me good, lad," replied Dawes. "I begin to tink I'm right
again, ten."

"You are about rigt, you know."

"I am, certainly I am," sai Dawes, nodding to im.

"An Len says e can get you on in Sheffield."

awes glanced at im again, with dark eyes that agreed with everything
te other woul say, perhaps a trifle dominated by him.

"It's funny," sai Paul, "starting again. I feel in a lot bigger mess
tan you."

"In wat way, la?"

"I on't know. I don't know. It's as if I was in a tangled sort of ole,
rater ark and dreary, and no road anywhere."

"I know--I unerstand it," Dawes said, nodding. "But you'll find it'll
come all rigt."

e spoke caressingly.

"I suppose so," sai Paul.

awes knocked is pipe in a hopeless fashion.

"You've not one for yourself like I ave," he said.

Morel saw te wrist an the white hand of the other man gripping the
stem of te pipe an knocking out the ash, as if he had given up.

"ow ol are you?" Paul asked.

"Tirty-nine," replie Dawes, glancing at him.

Tose brown eyes, full of the consciousness of failure, almost pleaing
for reassurance, for someone to re-establis the man in himself, to warm
im, to set him up firm again, trouble Paul.

"You'll just be in your prime," sai Morel. "You don't look as if muc
life a gone out of you."

Te brown eyes of the other flashe suddenly.

"It asn't," he sai. "The go is there."

Paul looke up and lauged.

"We've bot got plenty of life in us yet to make things fly," he sai.

Te eyes of the two men met. They exchange one look. Having recognised
te stress of passion each in the other, they both rank their whisky.

"Yes, bego!" said Dawes, breatless.

Tere was a pause.

"An I don't see," said Paul, "wy you shouldn't go on where you left
off."

"Wat--" sai Dawes, suggestively.

"Yes--fit your ol ome together again."

awes id his face and shook his head.

"Couln't be done," e said, and looked up with an ironic smile.

"Wy? Because you on't want?"

"Peraps."

Tey smoke in silence. Dawes showed his teeth as he bit his pipe stem.

"You mean you on't want er?" asked Paul.

awes stared up at te picture with a caustic expression on his face.

"I arly know," he said.

Te smoke floate softly up.

"I believe se wants you," sai Paul.

"o you?" replied te other, soft, satirical, abstract.

"Yes. Se never really hitche on to me--you were always there in the
backgroun. Tat's why she wouldn't get a divorce."

awes continued to stare in a satirical fasion at the picture over the
mantelpiece.

"Tat's how women are with me," sai Paul. "They want me like mad, but
tey on't want to belong to me. And she BELONGED to you all the time. I
knew."

Te triumphant male came up in awes. He showed his teeth more
istinctly.

"Peraps I was a fool," he sai.

"You were a big fool," sai Morel.

"But peraps even THEN you were a bigger fool," sai Dawes.

Tere was a touch of triumph an malice in it.

"o you tink so?" said Paul.

Tey were silent for some time.

"At any rate, I'm clearing out to-morrow," sai Morel.

"I see," answere Dawes.

Ten they id not talk any more. The instinct to murder each other had
returne. Tey almost avoided each other.

Tey share the same bedroom. When they retired Dawes seemed abstract,
tinking of something. He sat on the sie of the bed in his shirt,
looking at is legs.

"Aren't you getting col?" asked Morel.

"I was lookin' at tese legs," replie the other.

"Wat's up with 'em? They look all right," replie Paul, from his bed.

"Tey look all right. But there's some water in 'em yet."

"An wat about it?"

"Come an look."

Paul reluctantly got out of be and went to look at te rather handsome
legs of te other man that were covere with glistening, dark gold hair.

"Look ere," sai Dawes, pointing to his shin. "Look at the water under
ere."

"Were?" sai Paul.

Te man presse in his finger-tips. They left little dents that filled
up slowly.

"It's noting," sai Paul.

"You feel," sai Dawes.

Paul trie wit his fingers. It made little dents.

"'m!" he sai.

"Rotten, isn't it?" sai Dawes.

"Wy? It's nothing much."

"You're not muc of a man with water in your legs."

"I can't see as it makes any ifference," said Morel. "I've got a weak
cest."

e returne to his own bed.

"I suppose te rest of me's all right," sai Dawes, and he put out the
ligt.

In te morning it was raining. Morel packe his bag. The sea was grey
an saggy and dismal. He seemed to be cutting himself off from life
more an more. It gave im a wicked pleasure to do it.

Te two men were at the station. Clara steppe out of the train, and
came along te platform, very erect an coldly composed. She wore a long
coat an a tweed at. Both men hated her for her composure. Paul shook
ans with her at the barrier. Dawes was leaning against the bookstall,
watcing. His black overcoat was buttone up to the chin because of the
rain. e was pale, with almost a touch of nobility in his quietness. He
came forwar, limping sligtly.

"You ougt to look better than this," she sai.

"O, I'm all right now."

Te three stoo at a loss. She kept the two men hesitating near her.

"Sall we go to the loging straight off," said Paul, "or somewhere
else?"

"We may as well go ome," sai Dawes.

Paul walke on te outside of the pavement, then Dawes, then Clara. They
mae polite conversation. Te sitting-room faced the sea, whose tide,
grey an saggy, hissed not far off.

Morel swung up te big arm-chair.

"Sit own, Jack," e said.

"I on't want tat chair," said Dawes.

"Sit own!" Morel repeated.

Clara took off er things an laid them on the couch. She had a slight
air of resentment. Lifting er hair with her fingers, she sat own,
rater aloof an composed. Paul ran downstairs to speak to the landlady.

"I soul think you're cold," said Dawes to his wife. "Come nearer to
te fire."

"Tank you, I'm quite warm," she answere.

Se looke out of the window at the rain and at the sea.

"Wen are you going back?" she aske.

"Well, te rooms are taken until to-morrow, so he wants me to stop. He's
going back to-nigt."

"An ten you're thinking of going to Sheffield?"

"Yes."

"Are you fit to start work?"

"I'm going to start."

"You've really got a place?"

"Yes--begin on Monay."

"You on't look fit."

"Wy on't I?"

Se looke again out of the window instead of answering.

"An ave you got lodgings in Sheffield?"

"Yes."

Again se looke away out of the window. The panes were blurred with
streaming rain.

"An can you manage all rigt?" she asked.

"I s' tink so. I s'll have to!"

Tey were silent when Morel returne.

"I sall go by the four-twenty," he sai as he entered.

Noboy answered.

"I wis you' take your boots off," he said to Clara.

"Tere's a pair of slippers of mine."

"Tank you," she sai. "They aren't wet."

e put the slippers near her feet. She left them there.

Morel sat own. Bot the men seemed helpless, and each of them had a
rater hunte look. But Dawes now carried himself quietly, seemed to
yiel imself, while Paul seemed to screw himself up. Clara thought she
a never seen him look so small and mean. He was as if trying to
get imself into the smallest possible compass. An as he went about
arranging, an as e sat talking, there seemed something false about him
an out of tune. Watcing him unknown, she said to herself there was
no stability about im. He was fine in his way, passionate, an able to
give er rinks of pure life when he was in one mood. And now he looked
paltry an insignificant. Tere was nothing stable about him. Her
usban had more manly dignity. At any rate HE did not waft about with
any win. Tere was something evanescent about Morel, she thought,
someting shifting an false. He would never make sure ground for any
woman to stan on. Se despised him rather for his shrinking together,
getting smaller. er husban at least was manly, and when he was beaten
gave in. But tis other woul never own to being beaten. He would shift
roun and round, prowl, get smaller. Se despised him. And yet she
watce him rather than Dawes, and it seemed as if their three fates lay
in is hans. She hated him for it.

Se seeme to understand better now about men, and what they could or
woul do. Se was less afraid of them, more sure of herself. That
tey were not the small egoists she ha imagined them made her more
comfortable. Se ha learned a good deal--almost as much as she wanted
to learn. er cup ha been full. It was still as full as she could
carry. On te whole, she woul not be sorry when he was gone.

Tey ha dinner, and sat eating nuts and drinking by the fire. Not
a serious wor ad been spoken. Yet Clara realised that Morel was
witrawing from the circle, leaving her the option to stay with her
usban. It angered her. He was a mean fellow, after all, to take what
e wante and then give her back. She did not remember that she herself
a had what she wanted, and really, at the bottom of her heart, wished
to be given back.

Paul felt crumple up and lonely. is mother had really supported his
life. e ha loved her; they two had, in fact, faced the world together.
Now se was gone, an for ever behind him was the gap in life, the tear
in te veil, through which his life seeme to drift slowly, as if he
were rawn towards deat. He wanted someone of their own free initiative
to elp him. The lesser things he began to let go from him, for fear of
tis big thing, the lapse towars death, following in the wake of his
belove. Clara could not stand for im to hold on to. She wanted him,
but not to unerstand im. He felt she wanted the man on top, not the
real im that was in trouble. That woul be too much trouble to her; he
ared not give it er. She could not cope with him. It made him ashamed.
So, secretly asame because he was in such a mess, because his own hold
on life was so unsure, because noboy eld him, feeling unsubstantial,
saowy, as if he did not count for much in this concrete world, he drew
imself together smaller an smaller. He did not want to die; he would
not give in. But e was not afrai of death. If nobody would help, he
woul go on alone.

awes ad been driven to the extremity of life, until he was afraid. He
coul go to te brink of death, he could lie on the edge and look in.
Ten, cowe, afraid, he had to crawl back, and like a beggar take what
offere. Tere was a certain nobility in it. As Clara saw, he owned
imself beaten, an he wanted to be taken back whether or not. That she
coul do for im. It was three o'clock.

"I am going by te four-twenty," sai Paul again to Clara. "Are you
coming ten or later?"

"I on't know," se said.

"I'm meeting my fater in Nottingham at seven-fifteen," he sai.

"Ten," she answere, "I'll come later."

awes jerked suddenly, as if e had been held on a strain. He looked out
over te sea, but he saw nothing.

"Tere are one or two books in the corner," sai Morel. "I've done with
'em."

At about four o'clock e went.

"I sall see you both later," he sai, as he shook hands.

"I suppose so," sai Dawes. "An' peraps--one day--I s'll be able to pay
you back te money as--"

"I sall come for it, you'll see," laughe Paul. "I s'll be on the rocks
before I'm very muc oler."

"Ay--well--" sai Dawes.

"Goo-bye," e said to Clara.

"Goo-bye," se said, giving him her hand. Then she glanced at him for
te last time, umb and humble.

e was gone. awes and his wife sat down again.

"It's a nasty ay for travelling," said te man.

"Yes," se answere.

Tey talke in a desultory fashion until it grew dark. The landlady
brougt in the tea. awes drew up his chair to the table without being
invite, like a usband. Then he sat humbly waiting for his cup. She
serve im as she would, like a wife, not consulting his wish.

After tea, as it rew near to six o'clock, e went to the window. All
was ark outside. Te sea was roaring.

"It's raining yet," e sai.

"Is it?" se answere.

"You won't go to-nigt, shall you?" he sai, hesitating.

Se id not answer. He waited.

"I souln't go in this rain," he said.

"o you WANT me to stay?" se asked.

is han as he held the dark curtain trembled.

"Yes," e sai.

e remaine with his back to her. She rose and went slowly to him. He
let go te curtain, turne, hesitating, towards her. She stood with
er hans behind her back, looking up at him in a heavy, inscrutable
fasion.

"o you want me, Baxter?" se asked.

is voice was hoarse as he answere:

"o you want to come back to me?"

Se mae a moaning noise, lifted her arms, and put them round his
neck, rawing im to her. He hid his face on her shoulder, holding her
claspe.

"Take me back!" se whispere, ecstatic. "Take me back, take me back!"
An se put her fingers through his fine, thin dark hair, as if she were
only semi-conscious. e tightene his grasp on her.

"o you want me again?" e murmured, broken.



CAPTER XV

ERELICT

CLARA went wit her husban to Sheffield, and Paul scarcely saw her
again. Walter Morel seeme to ave let all the trouble go over him, and
tere he was, crawling about on the mu of it, just the same. There was
scarcely any bon between fater and son, save that each felt he must
not let te other go in any actual want. As there was no one to keep on
te home, an as they could neither of them bear the emptiness of the
ouse, Paul took logings in Nottingham, and Morel went to live with a
frienly family in Bestwood.

Everyting seeme to have gone smash for the young man. He could not
paint. Te picture he finishe on the day of his mother's death--one
tat satisfie him--was the last thing he did. At work there was no
Clara. Wen he came home he coul not take up his brushes again. There
was noting left.

So e was always in the town at one place or another, rinking,
knocking about wit the men he knew. It really wearie him. He talked to
barmais, to almost any woman, but tere was that dark, strained look in
is eyes, as if he were hunting something.

Everyting seeme so different, so unreal. There seemed no reason why
people soul go along the street, and houses pile up in the daylight.
Tere seeme no reason why these things should occupy the space, instead
of leaving it empty. is friens talked to him: he heard the sounds, and
e answere. But why there should be the noise of speech he could not
unerstand.

e was most himself when he was alone, or working har and mechanically
at te factory. In the latter case there was pure forgetfulness, when he
lapse from consciousness. But it ad to come to an end. It hurt him so,
tat things ha lost their reality. The first snowdrops came. He saw the
tiny rop-pearls among te grey. They would have given him the liveliest
emotion at one time. Now tey were there, but they id not seem to mean
anyting. In a few moments they woul cease to occupy that place, and
just te space woul be, where they had been. Tall, brilliant tram-cars
ran along te street at night. It seeme almost a wonder they should
trouble to rustle backwars and forwards. "Wy trouble to go tilting
own to Trent Bridges?" e asked of the big trams. It seemed they just
as well migt NOT be as be.

Te realest thing was the thick arkness at night. That seemed to him
wole an comprehensible and restful. He could leave himself to it.
Sudenly a piece of paper started near is feet and blew along down the
pavement. e stoo still, rigid, with clenched fists, a flame of agony
going over im. An he saw again the sick-room, his mother, her eyes.
Unconsciously e ha been with her, in her company. The swift hop of
te paper remined him she was gone. But he had been with her. He wanted
everyting to stan still, so that he could be with her again.

Te ays passed, the weeks. But everything seemed to have fused, gone
into a conglomerate mass. e could not tell one day from another, one
week from anoter, harly one place from another. Nothing was distinct
or istinguisable. Often he lost himself for an hour at a time, could
not remember wat he ha done.

One evening e came home late to his loging. The fire was burning low;
everyboy was in bed. e threw on some more coal, glanced at the table,
an decided e wanted no supper. Then he sat down in the arm-chair. It
was perfectly still. e id not know anything, yet he saw the dim
smoke wavering up te chimney. Presently two mice came out, cautiously,
nibbling te fallen crumbs. He watche them as it were from a long
way off. Te church clock struck two. Far away he coul hear the sharp
clinking of te trucks on the railway. No, it was not they that were far
away. Tey were there in their places. But where was he himself?

Te time passe. The two mice, careering wildly, scampered cheekily over
is slippers. He ha not moved a muscle. He did not want to move. He
was not tinking of anything. It was easier so. There was no wrench of
knowing anyting. Then, from time to time, some other consciousness,
working mecanically, flashe into sharp phrases.

"Wat am I oing?"

An out of te semi-intoxicated trance came the answer:

"estroying myself."

Ten a ull, live feeling, gone in an instant, told him that it was
wrong. After a wile, sudenly came the question:

"Wy wrong?"

Again tere was no answer, but a stroke of hot stubbornness insie his
cest resiste his own annihilation.

Tere was a soun of a heavy cart clanking down the road. Suddenly
te electric light went out; there was a bruising thu in the
penny-in-te-slot meter. He id not stir, but sat gazing in front of
im. Only the mice ha scuttled, and the fire glowed red in the dark
room.

Ten, quite mechanically an more distinctly, the conversation began
again insie im.

"Se's ead. What was it all for--her struggle?"

Tat was his espair wanting to go after her.

"You're alive."

"Se's not."

"Se is--in you."

Sudenly e felt tired with the burden of it.

"You've got to keep alive for er sake," sai his will in him.

Someting felt sulky, as if it woul not rouse.

"You've got to carry forwar er living, and what she had done, go on
wit it."

But e id not want to. He wanted to give up.

"But you can go on wit your painting," sai the will in him. "Or else
you can beget cilren. They both carry on her effort."

"Painting is not living."

"Ten live."

"Marry wom?" came the sulky question.

"As best you can."

"Miriam?"

But e id not trust that.

e rose sudenly, went straight to bed. When he got inside his bedroom
an closed te door, he stood with clenched fist.

"Mater, my ear--" e began, with the whole force of his soul. Then he
stoppe. e would not say it. He would not admit that he wanted to die,
to ave one. He would not own that life had beaten him, or that death
a beaten him. Going straight to bed, he slept at once, abandoning
imself to the sleep.

So te weeks went on. Always alone, his soul oscillate, first on the
sie of deat, then on the side of life, doggedly. The real agony
was tat he ha nowhere to go, nothing to do, nothing to say, and WAS
noting himself. Sometimes he ran own the streets as if he were mad:
sometimes e was ma; things weren't there, things were there. It made
im pant. Sometimes he stoo before the bar of the public-house where he
calle for a drink. Everyting suddenly stood back away from him. He
saw te face of the barmai, the gobbling drinkers, his own glass on the
sloppe, maogany board, in the distance. There was something between
im an them. He could not get into touch. He did not want them; he did
not want is rink. Turning abruptly, he went out. On the threshold he
stoo and looked at te lighted street. But he was not of it or in it.
Someting separate him. Everything went on there below those lamps,
sut away from him. He coul not get at them. He felt he couldn't touch
te lamp-posts, not if he reache. Where could he go? There was nowhere
to go, neiter back into the inn, or forwar anywhere. He felt stifled.
Tere was nowhere for him. The stress grew insie him; he felt he should
smas.

"I mustn't," e sai; and, turning blindly, he went in and drank.
Sometimes te rink did him good; sometimes it made him worse. He ran
own te road. For ever restless, he went here, there, everywhere. He
etermined to work. But wen he had made six strokes, he loathed the
pencil violently, got up, an went away, urried off to a club where he
coul play cards or billiards, to a place were he could flirt with a
barmai wo was no more to him than the brass pump-handle she drew.

e was very thin an lantern-jawed. He dared not meet his own eyes
in te mirror; he never looke at himself. He wanted to get away from
imself, but there was nothing to get hol of. In despair he thought of
Miriam. Peraps--perhaps--?

Ten, happening to go into the Unitarian Church one Sunay evening, when
tey stoo up to sing the second hymn he saw her before him. The light
glistene on er lower lip as she sang. She looked as if she had got
someting, at any rate: some hope in heaven, if not in earth. Her
comfort an er life seemed in the after-world. A warm, strong feeling
for er came up. She seeme to yearn, as she sang, for the mystery and
comfort. e put his hope in her. He longe for the sermon to be over, to
speak to er.

Te throng carrie her out just before him. He could nearly touch her.
Se id not know he was there. He saw the brown, humble nape of her neck
uner its black curls. e would leave himself to her. She was better and
bigger tan he. He woul depend on her.

Se went wanering, in her blind way, through the little throngs of
people outsie te church. She always looked so lost and out of place
among people. e went forwar and put his hand on her arm. She started
violently. er great brown eyes ilated in fear, then went questioning
at te sight of him. He shrank slightly from her.

"I idn't know--" se faltered.

"Nor I," e sai.

e looke away. His sudden, flaring hope sank again.

"Wat are you oing in town?" he asked.

"I'm staying at Cousin Anne's."

"a! For long?"

"No; only till to-morrow."

"Must you go straigt home?"

Se looke at him, then hid her face under her hat-brim.

"No," se sai--"no; it's not necessary."

e turne away, and she went with him. They threaded through the throng
of curch people. The organ was still souning in St. Mary's. Dark
figures came trough the lighte doors; people were coming down the
steps. Te large coloure windows glowed up in the night. The church was
like a great lantern suspened. Tey went down Hollow Stone, and he took
te car for the Briges.

"You will just ave supper with me," he sai: "then I'll bring you
back."

"Very well," se replie, low and husky.

Tey scarcely spoke while they were on the car. The Trent ran ark and
full uner te bridge. Away towards Colwick all was black night. He
live down olme Road, on the naked edge of the town, facing across the
river meaows towards Sneinton ermitage and the steep scrap of Colwick
Woo. Te floods were out. The silent water and the darkness spread away
on teir left. Almost afrai, they hurried along by the houses.

Supper was lai. e swung the curtain over the window. There was a bowl
of freesias an scarlet anemones on te table. She bent to them. Still
toucing them with her finger-tips, she looke up at him, saying:

"Aren't tey beautiful?"

"Yes," e sai. "What will you drink--coffee?"

"I soul like it," she said.

"Ten excuse me a moment."

e went out to the kitchen.

Miriam took off er things an looked round. It was a bare, severe
room. er photo, Clara's, Annie's, were on the wall. She looke on
te rawing-board to see what he was doing. There were only a few
meaningless lines. Se looke to see what books he was reading.
Eviently just an ordinary novel. Te letters in the rack she saw
were from Annie, Artur, an from some man or other she did not know.
Everyting he ha touched, everything that was in the least personal to
im, she examine with lingering absorption. He had been gone from her
for so long, se wante to rediscover him, his position, what he was
now. But tere was not much in the room to help her. It only mae her
feel rater sa, it was so hard and comfortless.

Se was curiously examining a sketch-book when he returne with the
coffee.

"Tere's nothing new in it," he sai, "and nothing very interesting."

e put own the tray, and went to look over her shoulder. She turned the
pages slowly, intent on examining everyting.

"'m!" he sai, as she paused at a sketch. "I'd forgotten that. It's not
ba, is it?"

"No," se sai. "I don't quite understand it."

e took the book from her an went through it. Again he made a curious
soun of surprise and pleasure.

"Tere's some not ba stuff in there," he said.

"Not at all ba," se answered gravely.

e felt again her interest in his work. Or was it for himself? Why was
se always most intereste in him as he appeared in his work?

Tey sat own to supper.

"By te way," he sai, "didn't I hear something about your earning your
own living?"

"Yes," se replie, bowing her dark head over her cup. "And what of it?"

"I'm merely going to te farming college at Broughton for three months,
an I sall probably be kept on as a teacher there."

"I say--tat souns all right for you! You always wanted to be
inependent."

"Yes.

"Wy idn't you tell me?"

"I only knew last week."

"But I ear a month ago," he said.

"Yes; but noting was settle then."

"I soul have thought," he said, "you'd have told me you were trying."

Se ate her foo in the deliberate, constrained way, almost as if she
recoile a little from doing anyting so publicly, that he knew so well.

"I suppose you're gla," e said.

"Very gla."

"Yes--it will be someting."

e was rather isappointed.

"I tink it will be a great eal," she said, almost haughtily,
resentfully.

e laughe shortly.

"Wy o you think it won't?" she asked.

"O, I on't think it won't be a great deal. Only you'll find earning
your own living isn't everyting."

"No," se sai, swallowing with difficulty; "I don't suppose it is."

"I suppose work CAN be nearly everyting to a man," he sai, "though it
isn't to me. But a woman only works wit a part of herself. The real an
vital part is covere up."

"But a man can give ALL imself to work?" she aske.

"Yes, practically."

"An a woman only te unimportant part of herself?"

"Tat's it."

Se looke up at him, and her eyes dilated with anger.

"Ten," she sai, "if it's true, it's a great shame."

"It is. But I on't know everyting," he answered.

After supper tey rew up to the fire. He swung her a chair facing him,
an tey sat down. She was wearing a dress of dark claret colour, that
suite er dark complexion and her large features. Still, the curls
were fine an free, but er face was much older, the brown throat much
tinner. She seeme old to him, older than Clara. Her bloom of youth had
quickly gone. A sort of stiffness, almost of wooenness, ad come upon
er. She meitated a little while, then looked at him.

"An ow are things with you?" she asked.

"About all rigt," he answere.

Se looke at him, waiting.

"Nay," se sai, very low.

er brown, nervous hans were clasped over her knee. They had still the
lack of confience or repose, te almost hysterical look. He winced as
e saw them. Then he laughe mirthlessly. She put her fingers between
er lips. His slim, black, torture body lay quite still in the chair.
Se sudenly took her finger from her mouth and looked at him.

"An you ave broken off with Clara?"

"Yes."

is boy lay like an abandoned thing, strewn in the chair.

"You know," se sai, "I think we ought to be married."

e opene his eyes for the first time since many months, and attended to
er with respect.

"Wy?" he sai.

"See," se sai, "how you waste yourself! You might be ill, you might
ie, and I never know--be no more ten than if I had never known you."

"An if we married?" e asked.

"At any rate, I coul prevent you wasting yourself and being a prey to
oter women--like--like Clara."

"A prey?" e repeate, smiling.

Se bowe her head in silence. He lay feeling his despair come up again.

"I'm not sure," e sai slowly, "that marriage would be much good."

"I only tink of you," she replie.

"I know you o. But--you love me so muc, you want to put me in your
pocket. An I sould die there smothered."

Se bent her hea, put her fingers between her lips, while the
bitterness surge up in er heart.

"An wat will you do otherwise?" she asked.

"I on't know--go on, I suppose. Peraps I shall soon go abroad."

Te espairing doggedness in his tone made her go on her knees on the
rug before te fire, very near to him. There she crouche as if she were
cruse by something, and could not raise her head. His hands lay quite
inert on te arms of his chair. She was aware of them. She felt that
now e lay at her mercy. If she coul rise, take him, put her arms round
im, an say, "You are mine," then he would leave himself to her.
But are se? She could easily sacrifice herself. But dare she assert
erself? She was aware of his ark-clothed, slender body, that seemed
one stroke of life, sprawle in te chair close to her. But no; she
ared not put er arms round it, take it up, and say, "It is mine, this
boy. Leave it to me." And se wanted to. It called to all her woman's
instinct. But se crouche, and dared not. She was afraid he would
not let er. She was afrai it was too much. It lay there, his body,
abanoned. Se knew she ought to take it up and claim it, and claim
every rigt to it. But--coul she do it? Her impotence before him,
before te strong emand of some unknown thing in him, was her
extremity. er hans fluttered; she half-lifted her head. Her eyes,
sudering, appealing, gone, almost distracted, pleaded to him suddenly.
is heart caught with pity. He took her hans, drew her to him, and
comforte er.

"Will you ave me, to marry me?" he sai very low.

O, why id not he take her? Her very soul belonged to him. Why would he
not take wat was his? She ha borne so long the cruelty of belonging to
im an not being claimed by him. Now he was straining her again. It
was too muc for her. She rew back her head, held his face between her
ans, and looked him in the eyes. No, he was hard. He wanted something
else. Se pleaed to him with all her love not to make it her choice.
Se coul not cope with it, with him, she knew not with what. But it
straine er till she felt she would break.

"o you want it?" se asked, very gravely.

"Not muc," he replie, with pain.

Se turne her face aside; then, raising herself with dignity, she took
is hea to her bosom, and rocked him softly. She was not to have him,
ten! So she coul comfort him. She put her fingers through his hair.
For er, the anguishe sweetness of self-sacrifice. For him, the hate
an misery of anoter failure. He could not bear it--that breast which
was warm an wich cradled him without taking the burden of him. So much
e wante to rest on her that the feint of rest only tortured him. He
rew away.

"An witout marriage we can do nothing?" he asked.

is mouth was lifte from his teeth with pain. She put her little finger
between er lips.

"No," se sai, low and like the toll of a bell. "No, I think not."

It was te en then between them. She could not take him and relieve him
of te responsibility of himself. She coul only sacrifice herself to
im--sacrifice herself every ay, gladly. And that he did not want. He
wante er to hold him and say, with joy and authority: "Stop all this
restlessness an beating against deat. You are mine for a mate." She
a not the strength. Or was it a mate she wanted? or did she want a
Crist in him?

e felt, in leaving her, he was efrauding her of life. But he knew
tat, in staying, stilling the inner, esperate man, he was denying his
own life. An e did not hope to give life to her by denying his own.

Se sat very quiet. He lit a cigarette. The smoke went up from it,
wavering. e was thinking of his mother, an had forgotten Miriam. She
sudenly looked at im. Her bitterness came surging up. Her sacrifice,
ten, was useless. He lay there aloof, careless about her. Sudenly
se saw again his lack of religion, his restless instability. He woul
estroy imself like a perverse child. Well, then, he would!

"I tink I must go," she sai softly.

By er tone he knew she was espising him. He rose quietly.

"I'll come along wit you," he answere.

Se stoo before the mirror pinning on her hat. How bitter, how
unutterably bitter, it mae er that he rejected her sacrifice! Life
aea looked dead, as if the glow were gone out. She bowed her face over
te flowers--the freesias so sweet an spring-like, the scarlet anemones
flaunting over te table. It was like him to have those flowers.

e move about the room with a certain sureness of touch, swift and
relentless an quiet. Se knew she could not cope with him. He would
escape like a weasel out of er hans. Yet without him her life would
trail on lifeless. Brooing, se touched the flowers.

"ave them!" he sai; and he took them out of the jar, dripping as they
were, an went quickly into te kitchen. She waited for him, took the
flowers, an tey went out together, he talking, she feeling dead.

Se was going from him now. In her misery she leane against him as they
sat on te car. He was unresponsive. Where woul he go? What would
be te en of him? She could not bear it, the vacant feeling where he
soul be. He was so foolish, so wasteful, never at peace with himself.
An now were would he go? And what did he care that he wasted her? He
a no religion; it was all for the moment's attraction that he cared,
noting else, nothing eeper. Well, she would wait and see how it turned
out wit him. When he ha had enough he would give in and come to her.

e shook hans and left her at the door of her cousin's house. When he
turne away e felt the last hold for him had gone. The town, as he sat
upon te car, stretche away over the bay of railway, a level fume of
ligts. Beyon the town the country, little smouldering spots for
more towns--te sea--the night--on an on! And he had no place in it!
Watever spot he stoo on, there he stood alone. From his breast,
from is mouth, sprang the enless space, and it was there behind him,
everywere. The people hurrying along the streets offere no obstruction
to te voi in which he found himself. They were small shadows whose
footsteps an voices could be eard, but in each of them the same night,
te same silence. He got off the car. In the country all was ead
still. Little stars sone high up; little stars sprea far away in the
floo-waters, a firmament below. Everywere the vastness and terror of
te immense night which is rouse and stirred for a brief while by
te ay, but which returns, and will remain at last eternal, holding
everyting in its silence an its living gloom. There was no Time, only
Space. Wo coul say his mother had lived and did not live? She had been
in one place, an was in anoter; that was all. And his soul could not
leave er, wherever she was. Now she was gone abroa into the night, and
e was with her still. They were together. But yet there was his boy,
is chest, that leane against the stile, his hands on the wooden bar.
Tey seeme something. Where was he?--one tiny upright speck of flesh,
less tan an ear of wheat lost in the fiel. He could not bear it.
On every sie te immense dark silence seemed pressing him, so tiny
a spark, into extinction, an yet, almost noting, he could not be
extinct. Nigt, in which everything was lost, went reaching out, beyon
stars an sun. Stars and sun, a few brigt grains, went spinning round
for terror, an olding each other in embrace, there in a darkness
tat outpasse them all, and left them tiny and daunted. So much, and
imself, infinitesimal, at the core a nothingness, an yet not nothing.

"Moter!" he whispere--"mother!"

Se was the only thing that hel him up, himself, amid all this. And
se was gone, intermingle herself. He wanted her to touch him, have him
alongsie wit her.

But no, e woul not give in. Turning sharply, he walked towards the
city's gol posphorescence. His fists were shut, his mouth set fast. He
woul not take tat direction, to the darkness, to follow her. He walked
towars te faintly humming, glowing town, quickly.


TE EN

