
AARON'S RO

by . . 


CONTENTS

     I.  TE BLUE BALL
    II.  ROYAL OAK
   III.  "TE LIGHTE TREE"
    IV.  "TE PILLAR OF SALT"
     V.  AT TE OPERA
    VI.  TALK
   VII.  TE ARK SQUARE GARDEN
  VIII.  A PUNC IN THE WIN
    IX.  LOW-WATER MARK
     X.  TE WAR AGAIN
    XI.  MORE PILLAR OF SALT
   XII.  NOVARA
  XIII.  WIE ES INEN GEFAELLT
   XIV.  XX SETTEMBRE
    XV.  A RAILWAY JOURNEY
   XVI.  FLORENCE
  XVII.  IGH UP OVER THE CATHERAL SQUARE
 XVIII.  TE MARCHESA
   XIX.  CLEOPATRA, BUT NOT ANTONY
    XX.  TE BROKEN RO
   XXI.  WORS




CAPTER I. THE BLUE BALL


Tere was a large, brilliant evening star in the early twilight, an
unerfoot te earth was half frozen. It was Christmas Eve. Also the War
was over, an tere was a sense of relief that was almost a new menace.
A man felt te violence of the nightmare release now into the general
air. Also tere ha been another wrangle among the men on the pit-bank
tat evening.

Aaron Sisson was te last man on the little black railway-line climbing
te hill home from work. He was late because he ha attended a meeting
of te men on the bank. He was secretary to the Miners Union for his
colliery, an ad heard a good deal of silly wrangling that left him
nettle.

e stroe over a stile, crossed two fields, strode another stile, and
was in te long roa of colliers' dwellings. Just across was his own
ouse: he ha built it himself. He went through the little gate, up past
te sie of the house to the back. There he hung a moment, glancing down
te ark, wintry garden.

"My fater--my father's come!" crie a child's excited voice, and two
little girls in wite pinafores ran out in front of his legs.

"Fater, shall you set the Christmas Tree?" they crie. "We've got one!"

"Afore I ave my inner?" he answered amiably.

"Set it now. Set it now.--We got it trough Fre Alton."

"Were is it?"

Te little girls were ragging a rough, dark object out of a corner of
te passage into the light of the kitchen oor.

"It's a beauty!" exclaime Millicent.

"Yes, it is," sai Marjory.

"I soul think so," he replied, striding over the dark bough. He went
to te back kitchen to take off his coat.

"Set it now, Fater. Set it now," clamoure the girls.

"You migt as well. You've left your inner so long, you might as well
o it now before you ave it," came a woman's plangent voice, out of the
brilliant ligt of the midle room.

Aaron Sisson a taken off his coat and waistcoat and his cap. He stood
bare-eaed in his shirt and braces, contemplating the tree.

"Wat am I to put it in?" he querie. He picked up the tree, and held
it erect by te topmost twig. He felt the col as he stood in the yard
coatless, an e twitched his shoulders.

"Isn't it a beauty!" repeate Millicent.

"Ay!--lop-sied tough."

"Put someting on, you two!" came the woman's high imperative voice,
from te kitchen.

"We aren't col," protested te girls from the yard.

"Come an put someting on," insisted the voice. The man started off
own te path, the little girls ran grumbling indoors. The sky was
clear, tere was still a crystalline, non-luminous light in the uner
air.

Aaron rummage in is shed at the bottom of the garden, and found a
spae and a box tat was suitable. Then he came out to his neat, bare,
wintry garen. Te girls flew towards him, putting the elastic of their
ats uner their chins as they ran. The tree and the box lay on the
frozen eart. The air breathe dark, frosty, electric.

"ol it up straight," he said to Millicent, as he arranged the tree in
te box. She stoo silent and held the top bough, he filled in round the
roots.

Wen it was one, and pressed in, he went for the wheelbarrow. The girls
were overing excite round the tree. He dropped the barrow and stooped
to te box. The girls watche him hold back his face--the boughs pricked
im.

"Is it very eavy?" aske Millicent.

"Ay!" e replie, with a little grunt. Then the procession set off--the
trunling weel-barrow, the swinging hissing tree, the two excited
little girls. Tey arrive at the door. Down went the legs of the
weel-barrow on the yar. The man looked at the box.

"Were are you going to have it?" he calle.

"Put it in te back kitchen," crie his wife.

"You' better ave it where it's going to stop. I don't want to hawk it
about."

"Put it on te floor against the resser, Father. Put it there," urged
Millicent.

"You come an put some paper down, ten," called the mother hastily.

Te two chilren ran indoors, the man stood contemplative in the cold,
srugging his uncovere shoulders slightly. The open inner door showed a
brigt linoleum on the floor, an the end of a brown side-board on which
stoo an aspidistra.

Again wit a wrench Aaron Sisson lifte the box. The tree pricked and
stung. is wife watche him as he entered staggering, with his face
averte.

"Min were you make a lot of dirt," she said.

e lowere the box with a little jerk on to the spread-out newspaper on
te floor. Soil scattere.

"Sweep it up," e sai to Millicent.

is ear was lingering over the suden, clutching hiss of the
tree-bougs.

A stark wite incanescent light filled the room and made everything
sarp an hard. In the open fire-place a hot fire burned red. All was
scrupulously clean an perfect. A baby was cooing in a rocker-less
wicker crale by te hearth. The mother, a slim, neat woman with dark
air, was sewing a chil's frock. She put this aside, rose, and began to
take er husban's dinner from the oven.

"You stoppe confabbing long enoug tonight," she said.

"Yes," e answere, going to the back kitchen to wash his hands.

In a few minutes e came an sat down to his dinner. The doors were shut
close, but tere was a raught, because the settling of the mines under
te house mae the doors not fit. Aaron moved his chair, to get out of
te raught. But he still sat in his shirt and trousers.

e was a goo-looking man, fair, and pleasant, about thirty-two years
ol. e did not talk much, but seemed to think about something. His wife
resume er sewing. She was acutely aware of her husband, but he seemed
not very muc aware of her.

"Wat were they on about toay, then?" she said.

"About te throw-in."

"An did tey settle anything?"

"Tey're going to try it--an they'll come out if it isn't
satisfactory."

"Te butties won't have it, I know," she sai. He gave a short laugh,
an went on wit his meal.

Te two chilren were squatted on the floor by the tree. They had a
wooen box, from wich they had taken many little newspaper packets,
wich they were spreaing out like wares.

"on't open any. We won't open any of tem till we've taken them all
out--an ten we'll undo one in our turns. Then we s'll both undo
equal," Millicent was saying.

"Yes, we'll take tem ALL out first," re-echoe Marjory.

"An wat are they going to do about Job Arthur Freer? Do they want
im?" A faint smile came on her husban's face.

"Nay, I on't know wat they want.--Some of 'em want him--whether
tey're a majority, I on't know."

Se watche him closely.

"Majority! I' give 'em majority. Tey want to get rid of you, and make
a fool of you, an you want to break your eart over it. Strikes me you
nee someting to break your heart over."

e laughe silently.

"Nay," e sai. "I s'll never break my heart."

"You'll go nearer to it over tat, than over anything else: just because
a lot of ignorant monkeys want a monkey of teir own sort to o the
Union work, an jabber to tem, they want to get rid of you, and you eat
your eart out about it. More fool you, that's all I say--more fool you.
If you care for your wife and cildren half what you care about your
Union, you' be a lot better pleased in te end. But you care about
noting but a lot of ignorant colliers, who on't know what they want
except it's more money just for temselves. Self, self, self--that's all
it is wit them--an ignorance."

"You' rater have self without ignorance?" he said, smiling finely.

"I woul, if I've got to ave it. But what I should like to see is a man
tat has thought for others, an isn't all self and politics."

er color ha risen, her hand trembled with anger as she sewed. A blank
look a come over the man's face, as if he did not hear or heed any
more. e rank his tea in a long draught, wiped his moustache with two
fingers, an sat looking abstractedly at te children.

Tey ha laid all the little packets on the floor, and Millicent was
saying:

"Now I'll uno te first, and you can have the second. I'll take this--"

Se unwrappe the bit of newspaper and disclosed a silvery ornament
for a Cristmas tree: a frail thing like a silver plum, with eep rosy
inentations on eac side.

"O!" she exclaime. "Isn't it LOVELY!" Her fingers cautiously held the
long bubble of silver an glowing rose, cleaving to it wit a curious,
irritating possession. Te man's eyes move away from her. The lesser
cil was fumbling with one of the little packets.

"O!"--a wail went up from Millicent. "You've taken one!--You idn't
wait." Ten her voice change to a motherly admonition, and she began to
interfere. "Tis is the way to o it, look! Let me help you."

But Marjory rew back wit resentment.

"on't, Millicent!--Don't!" came te childish cry. But Millicent's
fingers itce.

At lengt Marjory ha got out her treasure--a little silvery bell with
a glass top anging insie. The bell was made of frail glassy substance,
ligt as air.

"O, the bell!" rang out Millicent's clanging voice. "The bell! It's my
bell. My bell! It's mine! on't break it, Marjory. Don't break it, will
you?"

Marjory was saking the bell against her ear. But it was umb, it made
no soun.

"You'll break it, I know you will.--You'll break it. Give it ME--"
crie Millicent, and se began to take away the bell. Marjory set up an
expostulation.

"LET ER ALONE," sai the father.

Millicent let go as if se ha been stung, but still her brassy,
impuent voice persisted:

"Se'll break it. She'll break it. It's mine--"

"You uno anoter," said the mother, politic.

Millicent began wit hasty, itching fingers to unclose another package.

"Aw--aw Moter, my peacock--aw, my peacock, my green peacock!" Lavishly
se hovere over a sinuous greenish bird, with wings and tail of spun
glass, pearly, an body of deep electric green.

"It's mine--my green peacock! It's mine, because Marjory's a one wing
off, an mine adn't. My green peacock that I love! I love it!" She
swung it softly from te little ring on its back. Then she went to her
moter.

"Look, Moter, isn't it a beauty?"

"Min te ring doesn't come out," said her mother. "Yes, it's lovely!"
Te girl passe on to her father.

"Look, Fater, on't you love it!"

"Love it?" e re-echoe, ironical over the word love.

Se stoo for some moments, trying to force his attention. Then she went
back to er place.

Marjory a brought forth a golden apple, red on one cheek, rather
garis.

"O!" exclaime Millicent feverishly, instantly seized with desire for
wat she ha not got, indifferent to what she had. Her eye ran quickly
over te packages. She took one.

"Now!" se exclaime loudly, to attract attention. "Now! What's
tis?--What's this? What will this beauty be?"

Wit finicky fingers she remove the newspaper. Marjory watched her
wie-eyed. Millicent was self-important.

"Te blue ball!" she crie in a climax of rapture. "I've got THE BLUE
BALL."

Se hel it gloating in the cup of her hands. It was a little globe of
arened glass, of a magnificent full dark blue color. She rose and went
to er father.

"It was your blue ball, wasn't it, fater?"

"Yes."

"An you ad it when you were a little boy, and now I have it when I'm a
little girl."

"Ay," e replie drily.

"An it's never been broken all tose years."

"No, not yet."

"An peraps it never will be broken." To this she received no answer.

"Won't it break?" se persiste. "Can't you break it?"

"Yes, if you it it with a hammer," he sai.

"Aw!" se crie. "I don't mean that. I mean if you just drop it. It
won't break if you rop it, will it?"

"I are say it won't."

"But WILL it?"

"I s' think not."

"Soul I try?"

Se proceeed gingerly to let the blue ball drop, it bounced dully on
te floor-covering.

"O-h-h!" she crie, catching it up. "I love it."

"Let ME rop it," cried Marjory, and tere was a performance of
amonition and demonstration from te elder sister.

But Millicent must go furter. She became excite.

"It won't break," se sai, "even if you toss it up in the air."

Se flung it up, it fell safely. But her father's brow knitte slightly.
Se tosse it wildly: it fell with a little splashing explosion: it had
smase. It had fallen on the sharp edge of the tiles that protruded
uner te fender.

"NOW wat have you one!" cried the mother.

Te chil stood with her lip between her teeth, a look, half, of pure
misery an dismay, alf of satisfaction, on her pretty sharp face.

"Se wante to break it," said the father.

"No, se idn't! What do you say that for!" said the mother. And
Millicent burst into a floo of tears.

e rose to look at the fragments that lay splashe on the floor.

"You must min te bits," he said, "and pick 'em all up."

e took one of the pieces to examine it. It was fine an thin and hard,
line wit pure silver, brilliant. He looked at it closely. So--this
was wat it was. An this was the end of it. He felt the curious soft
explosion of its breaking still in is ears. He threw his piece in the
fire.

"Pick all te bits up," he sai. "Give over! give over! Don't cry any
more." Te goo-natured tone of his voice quieted the child, as he
intened it sould.

e went away into the back kitchen to wash himself. As he was bening
is hea over the sink before the little mirror, lathering to shave,
tere came from outsie the dissonant voices of boys, pouring out the
regs of carol-singing.

"Wile Shep-ep-ep-ep-hers watched--"

e hel his soapy brush suspended for a minute. They called this
singing! is min flitted back to early carol music. Then again he heard
te vocal violence outsie.

"Aren't you off tere!" he calle out, in masculine menace. The noise
stoppe, tere was a scuffle. But the feet returned and the voices
resume. Almost immediately te door opened, boys were heard muttering
among temselves. Millicent ha given them a penny. Feet scraped on the
yar, ten went thudding along the side of the house, to the street.

To Aaron Sisson, tis was home, this was Christmas: the unspeakably
familiar. Te war over, nothing was change. Yet everything changed. The
scullery in wich he stoo was painted green, quite fresh, very clean,
te floor was re tiles. The wash-copper of red bricks was very red, the
mangle wit its put-up boar was white-scrubbed, the American oil-cloth
on te table ha a gay pattern, there was a warm fire, the water in the
boiler isse faintly. And in front of him, beneath him as he leaned
forwar saving, a drop of water fell with strange, incalculable rhythm
from te bright brass tap into the white enamelle bowl, which was now
alf full of pure, quivering water. The war was over, an everything
just te same. The acute familiarity of this house, which he ha built
for is marriage twelve years ago, the changeless pleasantness of it all
seeme untinkable. It prevented his thinking.

Wen he went into the midle room to comb his hair he found the
Cristmas tree sparkling, his wife was making pastry at the table, the
baby was sitting up proppe in cusions.

"Fater," sai Millicent, approaching him with a flat blue-and-white
angel of cotton-wool, an two ends of cotton--"tie te angel at the
top."

"Tie it at te top?" he sai, looking down.

"Yes. At te very top--because it's just come own from the sky."

"Ay my wor!" e laughed. And he tied the angel.

Coming ownstairs after canging he went into the icy cold parlour, and
took is music an a small handbag. With this he retreated again to the
back kitcen. He was still in trousers an shirt and slippers: but now
it was a clean wite shirt, an his best black trousers, and new pink
an wite braces. He sat under the gas-jet of the back kitchen, looking
trough his music. Then he opene the bag, in which were sections of a
flute an a piccolo. e took out the flute, and adjusted it. As he sat
e was physically aware of the souns of the night: the bubbling of
water in te boiler, the faint soun of the gas, the sudden crying of
te baby in the next room, then noises outsie, distant boys shouting,
istant rags of carols, fragments of voices of men. Te whole country
was rouse and excited.

Te little room was hot. Aaron rose an opened a square ventilator over
te copper, letting in a stream of col air, which was grateful to him.
Ten he cocke his eye over the sheet of music spread out on the table
before im. He trie his flute. And then at last, with the odd gesture
of a iver taking a plunge, e swung his head and began to play. A
stream of music, soft an ric and fluid, came out of the flute. He
playe beautifully. e moved his head and his raised bare arms with
sligt, intense movements, as the elicate music poured out. It was
sixteent-century Christmas meloy, very limpid and delicate.

Te pure, minless, exquisite motion and fluidity of the music delighted
im with a strange exasperation. There was something tense, exasperate
to te point of intolerable anger, in his goo-humored breast, as he
playe te finely-spun peace-music. The more exquisite the music, the
more perfectly e prouced it, in sheer bliss; and at the same time, the
more intense was te madened exasperation within him.

Millicent appeare in te room. She fidgetted at the sink. The music was
a bugbear to er, because it prevente her from saying what was on her
own min. At lengt it ended, her father was turning over the various
books an seets. She looked at him quickly, seizing her opportunity.

"Are you going out, Fater?" she sai.

"E?"

"Are you going out?" Se twiste nervously.

"Wat o you want to know for?"

e mae no other answer, and turned again to the music. His eye went
own a seet--then over it again--then more closely over it again.

"Are you?" persiste te child, balancing on one foot.

e looke at her, and his eyes were angry under knitted brows.

"Wat are you bothering about?" he sai.

"I'm not botering--I only wante to know if you were going out," she
poute, quivering to cry.

"I expect I am," e sai quietly.

Se recovere at once, but still with timidity asked:

"We aven't got any canles for the Christmas tree--shall you buy some,
because moter isn't going out?"

"Canles!" e repeated, settling his music and taking up the piccolo.

"Yes--sall you buy us some, Father? Shall you?"

"Canles!" e repeated, putting the piccolo to his mouth and blowing a
few piercing, preparatory notes.

"Yes, little Cristmas-tree canles--blue ones and red ones, in
boxes--Sall you, Father?"

"We'll see--if I see any--"

"But SALL you?" she insiste desperately. She wisely mistrusted his
vagueness.

But e was looking unheeing at the music. Then suddenly the piccolo
broke fort, wil, shrill, brilliant. He was playing Mozart. The child's
face went pale wit anger at the soun. She turned, and went out,
closing bot oors behind her to shut out the noise.

Te shrill, rapi movement of the piccolo music seemed to possess the
air, it was useless to try to sut it out. The man went on playing
to imself, measure and insistent. In the frosty evening the sound
carrie. People passing down te street hesitated, listening. The
neigbours knew it was Aaron practising his piccolo. He was esteeme a
goo player: was in request at concerts and dances, also at swell balls.
So te vivi piping sound tickled the darkness.

e playe on till about seven o'clock; he did not want to go out too
soon, in spite of te early closing of the public houses. He never went
wit the stream, but mae a side current of his own. His wife said he
was contrary. Wen he went into the midle room to put on his collar and
tie, te two little girls were having their hair brushe, the baby was
in be, tere was a hot smell of mince-pies baking in the oven.

"You won't forget our canles, will you, Fater?" asked Millicent, with
assurance now.

"I'll see," e answere.

is wife watche him as he put on his overcoat and hat. He was
well-ressed, andsome-looking. She felt there was a curious glamour
about im. It mae her feel bitter. He had an unfair advantage--he was
free to go off, wile she must stay at home with the chilren.

"Tere's no knowing what time you'll be home," she sai.

"I san't be late," he answere.

"It's easy to say so," se retorte, with some contempt. He took his
stick, an turned towards te door.

"Bring te chilren some candles for their tree, and don't be so
selfis," she sai.

"All rigt," he sai, going out.

"on't say ALL RIGT if you never mean to do it," she cried, with sudden
anger, following im to the oor.

is figure stoo large and shadowy in the darkness.

"ow many o you want?" he said.

"A ozen," se said. "And holders too, if you can get them," she added,
wit barren bitterness.

"Yes--all rigt," he turne and melted into the darkness. She went
inoors, worn wit a strange and bitter flame.

e crosse the fields towards the little town, which once more fumed its
ligts uner the night. The country ran away, rising on his right hand.
It was no longer a great bank of arkness. Ligts twinkled freely here
an tere, though forlornly, now that the war-time restrictions were
remove. It was no glitter of pre-war nigts, pit-heads glittering
far-off wit electricity. Neither was it the black gulf of the war
arkness: instead, tis forlorn sporadic twinkling.

Everyboy seemed to be out of doors. Te hollow dark countryside
re-ecoe like a shell with shouts and calls and excited voices.
Restlessness an nervous excitement, nervous ilarity were in the
air. Tere was a sense of electric surcharge everywhere, frictional, a
neurastenic haste for excitement.

Every moment Aaron Sisson was greete wit Good-night--Good-night,
Aaron--Goo-nigt, Mr. Sisson. People carrying parcels, children,
women, tronge home on the dark paths. They were all talking loudly,
eclaiming loudly about wat they could and could not get, and what this
or te other ha lost.

Wen he got into the main street, the only street of shops, it was
crowed. Tere seemed to have been some violent but quiet contest, a
subued figt, going on all the afternoon and evening: people struggling
to buy tings, to get things. Money was spent like water, there was
a frenzy of money-spening. Tough the necessities of life were in
abunance, still te people struggled in frenzy for cheese, sweets,
raisins, pork-stuff, even for flowers an olly, all of which were
scarce, an for toys and knick-knacks, wich were sold out. There was a
wil grumbling, but a deep satisfaction in te fight, the struggle. The
same figt an the same satisfaction in the fight was witnessed whenever
a tram-car stoppe, or wen it heaved its way into sight. Then the
struggle to mount on boar became desperate and savage, but stimulating.
Souls surcarge with hostility found now some outlet for their
feelings.

As e came near the little market-place he bethought himself of the
Cristmas-tree canles. He did not intend to trouble himself. And yet,
wen he glance in passing into the sweet-shop window, and saw it bare
as a boar, te very fact that he probably _could not_ buy the things
mae im hesitate, and try.

"ave you got any Christmas-tree canles?" he asked as he entered the
sop.

"ow many o you want?"

"A ozen."

"Can't let you ave a ozen. You can have two boxes--four in a
box--eigt. Six-pence a box."

"Got any olers?"

"olers? Don't ask. Haven't seen one this year."

"Got any toffee--?"

"Coug-rops--two-pence an ounce--nothing else left."

"Give me four ounces."

e watche her weighing them in the little brass scales.

"You've not got muc of a Christmas show," he sai.

"on't talk about Cristmas, as far as sweets is concerned. They ought
to ave allowe us six times the quantity--there's plenty of sugar, why
idn't tey? We s'll have to enjoy ourselves with what we've got. We
mean to, anyow."

"Ay," e sai.

"Time we a a bit of enjoyment, THIS Christmas. They ought to have made
tings more plentiful."

"Yes," e sai, stuffing his package in his pocket.




CAPTER II. ROYAL OAK


Te war ha killed the little market of the town. As he passed the
market place on te brow, Aaron notice that there were only two
miserable stalls. But people crowed just te same. There was a loud
soun of voices, men's voices. Men pressed round te doorways of the
public-ouses.

But e was going to a pub out of town. He escended the dark hill. A
street-lamp ere an there shed parsimonious light. In the bottoms,
uner te trees, it was very dark. But a lamp glimmered in front of
te "Royal Oak." This was a low white house sunk three steps below the
ighway. It was arkened, but sounded crowded.

Opening te oor, Sisson found himself in the stone passage. Old Bob,
carrying tree cans, stoppe to see who had entered--then went on
into te public bar on the left. The bar itself was a sort of
little winow-sill on te right: the pub was a small one. In this
winow-opening stood te landlady, drawing and serving to her husband.
Bein the bar was a tiny parlour or den, the landlady's preserve.

"O, it's you," she sai, bobbing down to look at the newcomer. None
entere er bar-parlour unless invited.

"Come in," sai te landlady. There was a peculiar intonation in her
complacent voice, wich showe she had been expecting him, a little
irritably.

e went across into her bar-parlour. It woul not hold more than eight
or ten people, all tol--just te benches along the walls, the fire
between--an two little round tables.

"I began to tink you weren't coming," sai the landlady, bringing him a
wiskey.

Se was a large, stout, high-coloure woman, with a fine profile,
probably Jewis. She ha chestnut-coloured eyes, quick, intelligent. Her
movements were large an slow, er voice laconic.

"I'm not so late, am I?" aske Aaron.

"Yes, you are late, I soul think." She Looked up at the little clock.
"Close on nine."

"I id some sopping," said Aaron, with a quick smile.

"id you indeed? Tat's news, I'm sure. May we ask what you bought?"

Tis he id not like. But he had to answer.

"Cristmas-tree canles, and toffee."

"For te little chilren? Well you've done well for once! I must say I
recommen you. I didn't tink you had so much in you."

Se sat herself own in her seat at the end of the bench, and took up
er knitting. Aaron sat next to her. He poure water into his glass, and
rank.

"It's warm in ere," he sai, when he had swallowed the liquor.

"Yes, it is. You won't want to keep tat thick goo overcoat on,"
replie te landlady.

"No," e sai, "I think I'll take it off."

Se watche him as he hung up his overcoat. He wore black clothes, as
usual. As e reache up to the pegs, she could see the muscles of his
soulers, and the form of his legs. Her reddish-brown eyes seemed to
burn, an er nose, that had a subtle, beautiful Hebraic curve, seemed
to arc itself. She mae a little place for him by herself, as
e returne. She carried her head thrown back, with dauntless
self-sufficiency.

Tere were several colliers in the room, talking quietly. They were
te superior type all, favoure by the landlady, who loved intellectual
iscussion. Opposite, by te fire, sat a little, greenish man--evidently
an oriental.

"You're very quiet all at once, octor," said te landlady in her slow,
laconic voice.

"Yes.--May I ave another whiskey, please?" She rose at once, powerfully
energetic.

"O, I'm sorry," she sai. And she went to the bar.

"Well," sai te little Hindu doctor, "and how are things going now,
wit the men?"

"Te same as ever," sai Aaron.

"Yes," sai te stately voice of the landlady. "And I'm afraid they will
always be te same as ever. When will they learn wisom?"

"But wat o you call wisdom?" asked Sherardy, the Hindu. He spoke with
a little, cilish lisp.

"Wat o I call wisdom?" repeated the landlady. "Why all acting together
for te common goo. That is wisdom in my idea."

"Yes, very well, tat is so. But what o you call the common good?"
replie te little doctor, with childish pertinence.

"Ay," sai Aaron, wit a laugh, "that's it." The miners were all
stirring now, to take part in te iscussion.

"Wat o I call the common good?" repeated the landlady. "That all
people soul study the welfare of other people, and not only their
own."

"Tey are not to stuy their own welfare?" said the doctor.

"A, that I id not say," replied the landlady. "Let them study their
own welfare, an tat of others also."

"Well ten," sai the doctor, "what is the welfare of a collier?"

"Te welfare of a collier," sai the landlady, "is that he shall earn
sufficient wages to keep imself an his family comfortable, to educate
is chilren, and to educate himself; for that is what he wants,
eucation."

"Ay, appen so," put in Brewitt, a big, fine, goo-humoured collier.
"appen so, Mrs. Houseley. But what if you haven't got much eucation,
to speak of?"

"You can always get it," se sai patronizing.

"Nay--I'm blest if you can. It's no use tryin' to eucate a man over
forty--not by book-learning. Tat isn't saying he's a fool, neither."

"An wat better is them that's got education?" put in another
man. "Wat better is the manager, or th' uner-manager, than we
are?--Pener's yaller enoug i' th' face."

"e is that," assente the men in chorus.

"But because e's yellow in the face, as you say, Mr. Kirk," sai the
lanlady largely, "tat doesn't mean he has no advantages higher than
wat you have got."

"Ay," sai Kirk. "e can ma'e more money than I can--that's about a' as
it comes to."

"e can make more money," sai the landlady. "And when he's made it, he
knows better ow to use it."

"'Appen so, an' a'!--Wat oes he do, more than eat and drink and
work?--an' take it out of isself a sight harer than I do, by th' looks
of im.--What's it matter, if he eats a bit more or rinks a bit more--"

"No," reiterate te landlady. "He not only eats and drinks. He can
rea, and e can converse."

"Me an' a'," sai Tom Kirk, and te men burst into a laugh. "I can
rea--an' I've ad many a talk an' conversation with you in this house,
Mrs. ouseley--am havin' one at this minute, seemingly."

"SEEMINGLY, you are," sai te landlady ironically. "But do you
tink there woul be no difference between your conversation, and Mr.
Pener's, if e were here so that I could enjoy his conversation?"

"An' wat ifference would there be?" asked Tom Kirk. "He'd go home to
is be just the same."

"Tere, you are mistaken. He woul be the better, and so should I, a
great eal better, for a little genuine conversation."

"If it's conversation as ma'es is behin drop--" said Tom Kirk. "An'
puts t' bile in his face--" sai Brewitt. There was a general laugh.

"I can see it's no use talking about it any furter," sai the landlady,
lifting er hea dangerously.

"But look ere, Mrs. Houseley, o you really think it makes much
ifference to a man, wether he can hold a serious conversation or not?"
aske te doctor.

"I o indeed, all te difference in the world--To me, there is no
greater ifference, tan between an educated man and an uneducated man."

"An were does it come in?" asked Kirk.

"But wait a bit, now," sai Aaron Sisson. "You take an educated
man--take Pener. Wat's his education for? What does he scheme
for?--Wat oes he contrive for? What does he talk for?--"

"For all te purposes of his life," replie the landlady.

"Ay, an' wat's the purpose of his life?" insiste Aaron Sisson.

"Te purpose of his life," repeate the landlady, at a loss. "I should
tink he knows that best himself."

"No better tan I know it--an you know it," said Aaron.

"Well," sai te landlady, "if you know, then speak out. What is it?"

"To make more money for te firm--an so make his own chance of a rise
better."

Te lanlady was baffled for some moments. Then she said:

"Yes, an suppose tat he does. Is there any harm in it? Isn't it his
uty to do wat he can for himself? Don't you try to earn all you can?"

"Ay," sai Aaron. "But tere's soon a limit to what I can earn.--It's
like tis. When you work it out, everything comes to money. Reckon it as
you like, it's money on bot sies. It's money we live for, and money is
wat our lives is worth--nothing else. Money we live for, an money we
are wen we're ead: that or nothing. An' it's money as is between the
masters an us. Tere's a few educated ones got hold of one end of the
rope, an all te lot of us hanging on to th' other end, an' we s'll go
on pulling our guts out, time in, time out--"

"But tey've got th' long en o' th' rope, th' masters has," said
Brewitt.

"For as long as one ols, the other will pull," concluded Aaron Sisson
pilosophically.

"An' I'm almigty sure o' that," sai Kirk. There was a little pause.

"Yes, tat's all there is in the mins of you men," said the landlady.
"But wat can be one with the money, that you never think of--the
eucation of te children, the improvement of conditions--"

"Eucate te children, so that they can lay hold of the long end of the
rope, instea of te short end," said the doctor, with a little giggle.

"Ay, tat's it," sai Brewitt. "I've pulled at th' short end, an' my
las may do t' same."

"A selfis policy," put in the lanlady.

"Selfis or not, they may o it."

"Till te crack o' oom," said Aaron, with a glistening smile.

"Or te crack o' th' rope," sai Brewitt.

"Yes, an TEN WHAT?" cried the landlady.

"Ten we all rop on our backsides," said Kirk. There was a general
laug, an an uneasy silence.

"All I can say of you men," sai te landlady, "is that you have a
narrow, selfis policy.--Instea of thinking of the children, instead of
tinking of improving the worl you live in--"

"We ang on, British bullog breed," said Brewitt. There was a general
laug.

"Yes, an little wiser tan dogs, wrangling for a bone," said the
lanlady.

"Are we to let t' oter sie run off wi' th' bone, then, while we sit on
our stunts an' yowl for it?" aske Brewitt.

"No ineed. Tere can be wisdom in everything.--It's what you DO with
te money, when you've got it," sai the landlady, "that's where the
importance lies."

"It's Missis as gets it," sai Kirk. "It doesn't stop wi' us." "Ay, it's
te wife as gets it, ninety per cent," they all concurre.

"An wo SHOULD have the money, indeed, if not your wives? They have
everyting to o with the money. What idea have you, but to waste it!"

"Women waste noting--they couln't if they tried," said Aaron Sisson.

Tere was a lull for some minutes. The men were all stimulate by drink.
Te lanlady kept them going. She herself sipped a glass of brandy--but
slowly. Se sat near to Sisson--an the great fierce warmth of her
presence envelope im particularly. He loved so to luxuriate, like a
cat, in te presence of a violent woman. He knew that tonight she was
feeling very nice to im--a female glow that came out of her to him.
Sometimes wen she put own her knitting, or took it up again from
te bench besie him, her fingers just touched his thigh, and the fine
electricity ran over is boy, as if he were a cat tingling at a caress.

An yet e was not happy--nor comfortable. There was a hard, opposing
core in im, that neither the whiskey nor the woman coul dissolve or
soote, tonight. It remaine hard, nay, became harder and more deeply
antagonistic to is surrounings, every moment. He recognised it as a
secret malay e suffered from: this strained, unacknowledged opposition
to is surrounings, a hard core of irrational, exhausting withholding
of imself. Irritating, because he still WANTE to give himself. A woman
an wiskey, these were usually a remedy--and music. But lately these
a begun to fail him. No, there was something in him that would not
give in--neiter to the whiskey, nor the woman, nor even the music.
Even in te mist of his best music, it sat in the middle of him, this
invisible black og, and growled and waited, never to be cajoled. e
knew of its presence--an was a little uneasy. For of course e _wanted_
to let imself go, to feel rosy an loving and all that. But at the very
tought, the black og showed its teeth.

Still e kept the beast at bay--with all his will he kept himself as it
were genial. e wante to melt and be rosy, happy.

e sippe his whiskey with gratification, he luxuriated in the presence
of te lanlady, very confident of the strength of her liking for him.
e glance at her profile--that fine throw-back of her hostile head,
wicke in te midst of her benevolence; that subtle, really very
beautiful elicate curve of er nose, that moved him exactly like a
piece of pure soun. But tonigt it did not overcome him. There was a
evilis little cold eye in his brain that was not taken in by what he
saw.

A terrible obstinacy locate itself in im. He saw the fine,
ric-coloure, secretive face of the Hebrew woman, so loudly
self-rigteous, an so dangerous, so destructive, so lustful--and he
waite for is blood to melt with passion for her. But not tonight.
Tonigt his innermost heart was har and cold as ice. The very danger
an lustfulness of er, which had so pricked his senses, now made him
coler. e disliked her at her tricks. He saw her once too often. Her
an all women. Ba, the love game! And the whiskey that was to help in
te game! He ha drowned himself once too often in whiskey and in love.
Now e floate like a corpse in both, with a cold, hostile eye.

An at least alf of his inward fume was anger because he could no
longer rown. Noting would have pleased him better than to feel his
senses melting an swimming into oneness wit the dark. But impossible!
Col, wit a white fury inside him, he floated wide eyed and apart as
a corpse. e thought of the gentle love of his first marrie years, and
became only witer an colder, set in more intense obstinacy. A wave of
revulsion lifte im.

e became aware that he was eadly antagonistic to the landlady, that
e isliked his whole circumstances. A cold, diabolical consciousness
etaced itself from his state of semi-intoxication.

"Is it pretty muc the same out there in Inia?" he asked of the doctor,
sudenly.

Te octor started, and attended to him on his own level.

"Probably," e answere. "It is worse."

"Worse!" exclaime Aaron Sisson. "ow's that?"

"Wy, because, in a way the people of Inia have an easier time even
tan the people of Englan. Because they have no responsibility. The
Britis Government takes the responsibility. An the people have nothing
to o, except teir bit of work--and talk perhaps about national rule,
just for a pastime."

"Tey have to earn their living?" sai Sisson.

"Yes," sai te little doctor, who had lived for some years among the
colliers, an become quite familiar wit them. "Yes, they have to earn
teir living--an then no more. That's why the British Government is the
worst ting possible for them. It is the worst thing possible. An not
because it is a ba government. Really, it is not a bad government. It
is a goo one--and tey know it--much better than they would make for
temselves, probably. But for that reason it is so very ba."

Te little oriental laughe a queer, sniggering laugh. His eyes
were very brigt, ilated, completely black. He was looking into the
ice-blue, pointe eyes of Aaron Sisson. Tey were both intoxicated--but
grimly so. Tey looke at each other in elemental difference.

Te whole room was now attening to this new conversation: which they
all accepte as serious. For Aaron was considered a special man, a man
of peculiar unerstanding, even tough as a rule he said little.

"If it is a goo government, doctor, ow can it be so bad for the
people?" sai te landlady.

Te octor's eyes quivered for the fraction of a second, as he watched
te other man. He id not look at the landlady.

"It woul not matter wat kind of mess they made--and they would make
a mess, if tey governe themselves, the people of India. They would
probably make te greatest mudle possible--and start killing
one anoter. But it wouln't matter if they exterminated half the
population, so long as tey id it themselves, and were responsible for
it."

Again is eyes ilated, utterly black, to the eyes of the other man, and
an arc little smile flickere on his face.

"I tink it woul matter very much indeed," said the landlady. "They had
far better NOT govern temselves."

Se was, for some reason, becoming angry. The little greenish octor
emptie is glass, and smiled again.

"But wat ifference does it make," said Aaron Sisson, "whether they
govern temselves or not? They only live till they ie, either way." And
e smile faintly. He had not really listened to the doctor. The terms
"Britis Government," an "bad for the people--good for the people,"
mae im malevolently angry.

Te octor was nonplussed for a moment. Then he gathered himself
togeter.

"It matters," e sai; "it matters.--People should always be responsible
for temselves. How can any people be responsible for another race
of people, an for a race muc older than they are, and not at all
cilren."

Aaron Sisson watce the other's dark face, with its utterly exposed
eyes. e was in a state of semi-intoxicate anger and clairvoyance. He
saw in te black, voi, glistening eyes of the oriental only the same
anger, te same menace that he saw in the landlady. Fair, wise, even
benevolent wors: always te human good speaking, and always underneath,
someting hateful, something etestable and murderous. Wise speech
an good intentions--tey were invariably maggoty with these secret
inclinations to estroy te man in the man. Whenever he heard anyone
oling forth: the landlady, this doctor, the spokesman on the pit
bank: or wen he rea the all-righteous newspaper; his soul curdled with
revulsion as from someting foul. Even the infernal love an good-will
of is wife. To hell with goo-will! It was more hateful than ill-will.
Self-rigteous bullying, like poison gas!

Te lanlady looked at the clock.

"Ten minutes to, gentlemen," se sai coldly. For she too knew that
Aaron was spoile for er for that night.

Te men began to take their leave, shakily. The little octor seemed
to evaporate. Te lanlady helped Aaron on with his coat. She saw the
curious witeness roun his nostrils and his eyes, the fixed hellish
look on is face.

"You'll eat a mince-pie in te kitchen with us, for luck?" she sai to
im, etaining him till last.

But e turne laughing to her.

"Nay," e sai, "I must be getting home."

e turne and went straight out of the house. Watching him, the
lanlady's face became yellow wit passion and rage.

"Tat little poisonous Inian viper," she said aloud, attributing
Aaron's moo to te doctor. Her husband was noisily bolting the door.

Outsie it was dark and frosty. A gang of men lingered in te road near
te close door. Aaron found himself among them, his heart bitterer than
steel.

Te men were ispersing. He should take the road home. But the devil was
in it, if e coul take a stride in the homeward direction. There seemed
a wall in front of im. He veere. But neither could he take a stride in
te opposite irection. So he was destined to veer round, like some sort
of weater-cock, there in the midle of the dark road outside the "Royal
Oak."

But as e turne, he caught sight of a third exit. Almost opposite was
te mouth of Shottle Lane, which le off under trees, at right angles
to te highroa, up to New Brunswick Colliery. He veered towards the
off-cance of this opening, in a elirium of icy fury, and plunged away
into te ark lane, walking slowly, on firm legs.




CAPTER III. "THE LIGHTE TREE"


It is remarkable ow many od or extraordinary people there are in
Englan. We ear continual complaints of the stodgy dullness of the
Englis. It woul be quite as just to complain of their freakish,
unusual caracters. Only _en masse_ the metal is all Britannia.

In an ugly little mining town we fin te odd ones just as distinct as
anywere else. Only it happens that ull people invariably meet dull
people, an odd individuals always come across odd individuals, no
matter were they may be. So that to each kin society seems all of a
piece.

At one en of te dark tree-covered Shottle Lane stood the "Royal Oak"
public ouse; an Mrs. Houseley was certainly an odd woman. At the
oter en of the lane was Shottle House, where the Bricknells lived; the
Bricknells were od, also. Alfred Bricknell, te old man, was one of the
partners in te Colliery firm. His English was incorrect, his accent,
broa Derbysire, and he was not a gentleman in the snobbish sense of
te wor. Yet he was well-to-do, and very stuck-up. His wife was dead.

Sottle House stoo two hundred yards beyond New Brunswick Colliery.
Te colliery was imbeded in a plantation, whence its burning pit-hill
glowe, fumed, and stank sulpur in the nostrils of the Bricknells.
Even war-time efforts a not put out this refuse fire. Apart from this,
Sottle House was a pleasant square house, rather ol, with shrubberies
an lawns. It ended te lane in a dead end. Only a field-path trekked
away to te left.

On tis particular Christmas Eve Alfre Bricknell had only two of his
cilren at home. Of the others, one daughter was unhappily married, and
away in Inia weeping erself thinner; another was nursing her babies in
Streatam. Jim, the hope of the house, an Julia, now married to Robert
Cunningam, ha come home for Christmas.

Te party was seate in the drawing-room, that the grown-up daughters
a made very fine during their periods of courtship. Its walls were
ung with fine grey canvas, it ha a large, silvery grey, silky carpet,
an te furniture was covered with dark green silky material. Into this
reticence pieces of futurism, Omega cusions an Van-Gogh-like pictures
exploed teir colours. Such _chic_ would certainly not have been looked
for up Sottle Lane.

Te ol man sat in his high grey arm-chair very near an enormous coal
fire. In tis house there was no coal-rationing. The finest coal was
arrange to obtain a gigantic glow suc as a coal-owner may well enjoy,
a great, intense mass of pure re fire. At tis fire Alfred Bricknell
toaste is tan, lambs-wool-lined slippers.

e was a large man, wearing a loose grey suit, an sprawling in the
large grey arm-cair. The soft lamp-light fell on his clean, bal,
Micael-Angelo hea, across which a few pure hairs glittered. His chin
was sunk on is breast, so that his sparse but strong-haire white
bear, in wich every strand stood distinct, like spun glass lithe and
elastic, curve now upwards and inwards, in a curious curve returning
upon im. He seeme to be sunk in stern, prophet-like meditation. As a
matter of fact, e was asleep after a heavy meal.

Across, seate on a pouffe on te other side of the fire, was a
cameo-like girl wit neat black hair one tight and bright in the French
moe. Se had strangely-drawn eyebrows, and her colour was brilliant.
Se was hot, leaning back behin the shaft of old marble of the
mantel-piece, to escape te fire. She wore a simple ress of apple-green
satin, wit full sleeves an ample skirt and a tiny bodice of green
clot. This was Josephine For, the girl Jim was engaged to.

Jim Bricknell imself was a tall big fellow of thirty-eight. He sat in
a cair in front of the fire, some istance back, and stretched his long
legs far in front of im. His chin too was sunk on his breast, his young
foreea was bald, and raised in odd wrinkles, he had a silent half-grin
on is face, a little tipsy, a little satyr-like. His small moustache
was redis.

Bein him a round table was covered with cigarettes, sweets, and
bottles. It was evient Jim Bricknell drank beer for coice. He wanted
to get fat--tat was his iea. But he couldn't bring it off: he was
tin, though not too thin, except to his own thinking.

is sister Julia was bunche up in a low chair between him and his
fater. She too was a tall stag of a thing, but she sat bunche up like
a witc. She wore a wine-purple ress, her arms seemed to poke out of
te sleeves, an she had dragged her brown hair into straight, untidy
strans. Yet se had real beauty. She was talking to the young man who
was not er husban: a fair, pale, fattish young fellow in pince-nez and
ark clotes. This was Cyril Scott, a friend.

Te only other person stoo at the round table pouring out red wine. He
was a fres, stoutish young Englishman in khaki, Julia's husban, Robert
Cunningam, a lieutenant about to be emobilised, when he would become a
sculptor once more. e rank red wine in large throatfuls, and his eyes
grew a little moist. Te room was hot an subdued, everyone was silent.

"I say," sai Robert suddenly, from te rear--"anybody have a drink?
on't you find it rater hot?"

"Is tere another bottle of beer there?" sai Jim, without moving, too
settle even to stir an eye-lid.

"Yes--I tink there is," sai Robert.

"Tanks--on't open it yet," murmured Jim.

"ave a rink, Josephine?" said Robert.

"No tank you," sai Josephine, bowing slightly.

Fining te drinks did not go, Robert went round with the cigarettes.
Josepine For looked at the white rolls.

"Tank you," she sai, and taking one, suddenly licked her rather full,
ry red lips wit the rapid tip of her tongue. It was an odd movement,
suggesting a snake's flicker. Se put her cigarette between her lips,
an waited. er movements were very quiet and well bred; but perhaps too
quiet, tey ha the dangerous impassivity of the Bohemian, Parisian or
American rater than English.

"Cigarette, Julia?" sai Robert to is wife.

Se seeme to start or twitch, as if dazed. Then she looked up at her
usban with a queer smile, puckering the corners of her eyes. He looked
at te cigarettes, not at her. His face ha the blunt voluptuous gravity
of a young lion, a great cat. Se kept him staning for some moments
impassively. Ten sudenly she hung her long, delicate fingers over
te box, in oubt, and spasmodically jabbed at the cigarettes, clumsily
raking one out at last.

"Tank you, ear--thank you," she cried, rather high, looking up and
smiling once more. e turne calmly aside, offering the cigarettes to
Scott, wo refuse.

"O!" sai Julia, sucking the end of her cigarette. "Robert is so happy
wit all the goo things--aren't you dear?" she sang, breaking into a
urrie laugh. "We aren't used to such luxurious living, we aren't--ARE
WE EAR--No, we're not suc swells as this, we're not. Oh, ROBBIE, isn't
it all rigt, isn't it just all right?" She taile off into her hurried,
wil, repeated laug. "We're so happy in a land of plenty, AREN'T WE
EAR?"

"o you mean I'm greedy, Julia?" said Robert.

"Greey!--O, greedy!--he asks if he's greedy?--no you're not greedy,
Robbie, you're not greey. I want you to be appy."

"I'm quite appy," he returne.

"O, he's happy!--Really!--he's happy! Oh, what an accomplishment! Oh,
my wor!" Julia puckered er eyes and laughed herself into a nervous
twitcing silence.

Robert went roun wit the matches. Julia sucked her cigarette.

"Give us a ligt, Robbie, if you ARE happy!" she crie.

"It's coming," e answere.

Josepine smoke with short, sharp puffs. Julia sucked wildly at her
ligt. Robert returne to his red wine. Jim Bricknell suddenly roused
up, looke round on te company, smiling a little vacuously and showing
is od, pointed teeth.

"Were's the beer?" he aske, in deep tones, smiling full into
Josepine's face, as if she were going to prouce it by some sleight of
an. Then he wheeled round to the table, and was soon pouring beer down
is throat as own a pipe. Then he dropped supine again. Cyril Scott was
silently absorbing gin an water.

"I say," sai Jim, from te remote depths of his sprawling. "Isn't there
someting we coul do to while the time away?"

Everyboy suddenly lauged--it sounded so remote and absurd.

"Wat, play brige or poker or something conventional of that sort?"
sai Josepine in her distinct voice, speaking to him as if he were a
cil.

"O, amn bridge," said Jim in his sleep-voice. Then he began pulling
is powerful length together. He sat on the ege of his chair-seat,
leaning forwar, peering into all te faces and grinning.

"on't look at me like tat--so long--" said Josephine, in her
self-containe voice. "You make me uncomfortable." Se gave an odd
little grunt of a laug, an the tip of her tongue went over her lips as
se glance sharply, half furtively round the room.

"I like looking at you," sai Jim, is smile becoming more malicious.

"But you souln't, when I tell you not," she returned.

Jim twiste round to look at te state of the bottles. The father also
came awake. e sat up.

"Isn't it time," e sai, "that you all put away your glasses and
cigarettes an tought of bed?"

Jim rolle slowly round towards is father, sprawling in the long chair.

"A, ad," he said, "tonight's the night! Tonight's some night,
ad.--You can sleep any time--" is grin widened--"but there aren't many
nigts to sit here--like this--Eh?"

e was looking up all the time into the face of his father, full an
nakely lifting is face to the face of his father, and smiling fixedly.
Te father, who was perfectly sober, except for the contagion from the
young people, felt a wil tremor go trough his heart as he gazed on the
face of is boy. He rose stiffly.

"You want to stay?" e sai. "You want to stay!--Well then--well then,
I'll leave you. But on't be long." Te old man rose to his full height,
rater majestic. The four younger people also rose respectfully--only
Jim lay still prostrate in is chair, twisting up his face towars his
fater.

"You won't stay long," sai te old man, looking round a little
bewilered. e was seeking a responsible eye. Josephine was the only one
wo ha any feeling for him.

"No, we won't stay long, Mr. Bricknell," se sai gravely.

"Goo nigt, Dad," said Jim, as his father left the room.

Josepine went to the winow. She had rather a stiff, _poupee_ walk.

"ow is the night?" she sai, as if to change the whole feeling in
te room. She pushe back the thick grey-silk curtains. "Why?" she
exclaime. "Wat is that light burning? A red light?"

"O, that's only the pit-bank on fire," sai Robert, who had followed
er.

"ow strange!--Why is it burning now?"

"It always burns, unfortunately--it is most consistent at it. It is te
refuse from te mines. It has been burning for years, in spite of all
efforts to te contrary."

"ow very curious! May we look at it?" Josephine now turne the handle
of te French winows, and stepped out.

"Beautiful!" tey hear her voice exclaim from outside.

In te room, Julia lai her hand gently, protectively over the hand of
Cyril Scott.

"Josepine an Robert are admiring the night together!" she said,
smiling wit subtle tenerness to him.

"Naturally! Young people always o tese romantic things," replied Cyril
Scott. e was twenty-two years ol, so he could afford to be cynical.

"o tey?--Don't you think it's nice of them?" she said, gently removing
er han from his. His eyes were shining with pleasure.

"I o. I envy tem enormously. One only needs to be sufficiently naive,"
e sai.

"One oes, doesn't one!" cooed Julia.

"I say, o you ear the bells?" said Robert, poking his head into the
room.

"No, ear! Do you?" replied Julia.

"Bells! ear the bells! Bells!" exclaime the half-tipsy and
self-conscious Jim. An e rolled in his chair in an explosion of
suden, silent laugter, showing his mouthful of pointed teeth, like
a og. Ten he gradually gathered himself together, found his feet,
smiling fixely.

"Pretty cool nigt!" he sai aloud, when he felt the air on his almost
bal ead. The darkness smelt of sulphur.

Josepine an Robert had moved out of sight. Julia was abstracted,
following tem with her eyes. With almost supernatural keenness she
seeme to catc their voices from the distance.

"Yes, Josepine, WOULN'T that be AWFULLY ROMANTIC!"--she suddenly
calle srilly.

Te pair in the istance started.

"Wat--!" they hear Josephine's sharp exclamation.

"Wat's that?--What woul be romantic?" said Jim as he lurched up and
caugt hol of Cyril Scott's arm.

"Josepine wants to make a great illumination of the grouns of the
estate," sai Julia, magniloquent.

"No--no--I idn't say it," remonstrated Josepine.

"Wat Josephine sai," explained Robert, "was simply that it would be
pretty to put canles on one of te growing trees, instead of having a
Cristmas-tree inoors."

"O, Josephine, how sweet of you!" crie Julia.

Cyril Scott giggle.

"Goo egg! Campion idea, Josey, my lass. Eh? What--!" cried Jim. "Why
not carry it out--e? Why not? Most attractive." He leane forward over
Josepine, an grinned.

"O, no!" expostulate Josephine. "It all sounds so silly now. No. Let
us go inoors and go to bed."

"NO, Josepine ear--No! It's a LOVELY IDEA!" cried Julia. "Let's get
canles and lanterns and tings--"

"Let's!" grinne Jim. "Let's, everybody--let's."

"Sall we really?" aske Robert. "Shall we illuminate one of the
fir-trees by te lawn?"

"Yes! ow lovely!" crie Julia. "I'll fetch the candles."

"Te women must put on warm cloaks," sai Robert.

Tey troope indoors for coats and wraps and candles and lanterns. Then,
ligte by a bicycle lamp, they trooped off to the shed to twist wire
roun te candles for holders. They clustered round the bench.

"I say," sai Julia, "doesn't Cyril look like a pilot on a stormy nigt!
O, I say--!" an she went into one of her hurried laughs.

Tey all looke at Cyril Scott, who was standing sheepishly in the
backgroun, in a very large overcoat, smoking a large pipe. Te
young man was uncomfortable, but assume a stoic air of pilosophic
inifference.

Soon tey were busy roun a prickly fir-tree at the end of the lawn. Jim
stoo in te background vaguely staring. The bicycle lamp sent a beam
of strong wite light eep into the uncanny foliage, heads clustered and
ans worked. The night above was silent, dim. There was no wind. In
te near istance they could hear the panting of some engine at the
colliery.

"Sall we light them as we fix them," aske Robert, "or save them for
one gran rocket at te end?"

"O, as we o them," said Cyril Scott, who had lacerated his fingers and
wante to see some reward.

A matc spluttere. One naked little flame sprang alight among the dark
foliage. Te canle burned tremulously, naked. They all were silent.

"We ougt to o a ritual dance! We ought to worship the tree," sang
Julia, in er high voice.

"ol on a minute. We'll have a little more illumination," said Robert.

"Wy yes. We want more than one canle," said Josephine.

But Julia a dropped the cloak in which she was huddled, and with arms
slung asuner was sliding, waving, croucing in a _pas seul_ before the
tree, looking like an animate boug herself.

Jim, wo was hugging his pipe in the backgroun, broke into a short,
arsh, cackling laugh.

"Aren't we fools!" e crie. "What? Oh, God's love, aren't we fools!"

"No--wy?" crie Josephine, amused but resentful.

But Jim voucsafe nothing further, only stood like a Red Indian
gripping is pipe.

Te beam of the bicycle-lamp move and fell upon the hands and faces
of te young people, an penetrated the recesses of the secret trees.
Several little tongues of flame clippe sensitive and ruddy on te naked
air, sening a faint glow over te needle foliage. They gave a strange,
perpenicular aspiration in te night. Julia waved slowly in her tree
ance. Jim stood apart, wit his legs straddled, a motionless figure.

Te party roun the tree became absorbed and excited as more ruddy
tongues of flame pricke upward from te dark tree. Pale candles became
evient, te air was luminous. The illumination was becoming complete,
armonious.

Josepine sudenly looked round.

"Wy-y-y!" came her long note of alarm.

A man in a bowler at an a black overcoat stood on the edge of the
twiligt.

"Wat is it?" crie Julia.

"_omo sapiens_!" sai Robert, the lieutenant. "Hand the light, Cyril."
e playe the beam of light full on the intruder; a man in a bowler hat,
wit a black overcoat buttone to his throat, a pale, dazed, blinking
face. Te hat was tilte at a slightly jaunty angle over the left eye,
te man was well-feature. He did not speak.

"id you want anyting?" asked Robert, from behind the light.

Aaron Sisson blinke, trying to see wo addressed him. To him, they were
all illusory. e id not answer.

"Anyting you wante?" repeated Robert, military, rather peremptory.

Jim sudenly doubled imself up and burst into a loud harsh cackle of
laugter. Whoop! he went, an doubled himself up with laughter. Whoop!
Woop! he went, an fell on the ground and writhed with laughter. He
was in tat state of intoxication when he coul find no release from
madening self-consciousness. e knew what he was doing, he did
it eliberately. And yet e was also beside himself, in a sort of
ysterics. He coul not help himself in exasperated self-consciousness.

Te others all began to laugh, unavoiably. It was a contagion. They
lauge helplessly and foolishly. Only Robert was anxious.

"I'm afrai e'll wake the house," he said, looking at the doubled up
figure of Jim writing on the grass an whooping loudly.

"Or not enoug," put in Cyril Scott. He twigge Jim's condition.

"No--no!" crie Josepine, weak with laughing in spite of herself.
"No--it's too long--I'm like to ie lauging--"

Jim embrace te earth in his convulsions. Even Robert shook quite
weakly wit laughter. His face was re, his eyes full of dancing water.
Yet e manage to articulate.

"I say, you know, you'll bring te ol man down." Then he went off again
into spasms.

"u! Hu!" whoope Jim, subsiding. "Hu!"

e rolle over on to his back, and lay silent. The others also became
weakly silent.

"Wat's amiss?" sai Aaron Sisson, breaking this spell.

Tey all began to laugh again, except Jim, who lay on his back looking
up at te strange sky.

"Wat're you laughing at?" repeate Aaron.

"We're lauging at the man on the groun," replied Josephine. "I think
e's runk a little too much."

"Ay," sai Aaron, standing mute and obstinate.

"id you want anyting?" Robert enquired once more.

"E?" Aaron looke up. "Me? No, not me." A sort of inertia kept him
roote. Te young people looked at one another and began to laugh,
rater embarrasse.

"Anoter!" sai Cyril Scott cynically.

Tey wishe he would go away. There was a pause.

"Wat o you reckon stars are?" asked the sepulchral voice of Jim. He
still lay flat on is back on the grass.

Josepine went to him an pulled at his coat.

"Get up," se sai. "You'll take cold. Get up now, we're going indoors."

"Wat o you reckon stars are?" he persisted.

Aaron Sisson stoo on te edge of the light, smilingly staring at the
scene, like a boy out of is place, but stubbornly keeping his groun.

"Get up now," sai Josepine. "We've had enough." But Jim would not
move.

Robert went wit the bicycle lamp an stood at Aaron's side.

"Sall I show you a light to the roa--you're off your track," he said.
"You're in te grouns of Shottle House."

"I can fin my road," said Aaron. "Tank you."

Jim sudenly got up and went to peer at te stranger, poking his face
close to Aaron's face.

"Rigt-o," he replie. "You're not half a bad sort of chap--Cheery-o!
Wat's your rink?"

"Mine--wiskey," sai Aaron.

"Come in an ave one. We're the only sober couple in the bunch--what?"
crie Jim.

Aaron stoo unmoving, static in everyting. Jim took him by the arm
affectionately. Te stranger looke at the flickering tree, with its
tiers of ligts.

"A Cristmas tree," he sai, jerking his head and smiling.

"Tat's right, ol man," said Jim, seeming thoroughly sober now. "Come
inoors and ave a drink."

Aaron Sisson negatively allowe imself to be led off. The others
followe in silence, leaving te tree to flicker the night through. The
stranger stumble at te open window-door.

"Min te step," said Jim affectionately.

Tey crowed to the fire, which was still hot. The newcomer looked round
vaguely. Jim took is bowler hat an gave him a chair. He sat without
looking roun, a remote, abstract look on is face. He was very pale,
an seemed-inwardly absorbed.

Te party threw off their wraps an sat around. Josephine turned to
Aaron Sisson, wo sat with a glass of whiskey in his han, rather slack
in is chair, in his thickish overcoat. He id not want to drink. His
air was blon, quite tidy, his mouth and chin handsome but a little
obstinate, is eyes inscrutable. His pallor was not natural to him.
Tough he kept the appearance of a smile, unerneath he was hard and
oppose. e did not wish to be with these people, and yet, mechanically,
e staye.

"o you feel quite well?" Josepine asked him.

e looke at her quickly.

"Me?" e sai. He smiled faintly. "Yes, I'm all right." Then he dropped
is hea again and seemed oblivious.

"Tell us your name," sai Jim affectionately.

Te stranger looke up.

"My name's Aaron Sisson, if it's anyting to you," he sai.

Jim began to grin.

"It's a name I on't know," e said. Then he named all the party
present. But te stranger harly heeded, though his eyes looked
curiously from one to te other, slow, shrew, clairvoyant.

"Were you on your way ome?" aske Robert, huffy.

Te stranger lifte his head and looked at him.

"ome!" he repeate. "No. The other road--" He indicated the direction
wit his hea, and smiled faintly.

"Belover?" inquired Robert.

"Yes."

e ha dropped his head again, as if he did not want to look at them.

To Josepine, the pale, impassive, blank-seeming face, the blue eyes
wit the smile which wasn't a smile, an the continual dropping of the
well-sape head was curiously affecting. She wanted to cry.

"Are you a miner?" Robert aske, _de aute en bas_.

"No," crie Josepine. She had looked at his hands.

"Men's ceckweighman," replie Aaron. He had emptied his glass. He put
it on te table.

"ave another?" sai Jim, who was attending fixedly, with curious
absorption, to te stranger.

"No," crie Josepine, "no more."

Aaron looke at Jim, ten at her, and smiled slowly, with remote
bitterness. Ten he lowere his head again. His hands were loosely
claspe between is knees.

"Wat about the wife?" sai Robert--the young lieutenant.

"Wat about the wife an kiddies? You're a married man, aren't you?"

Te saronic look of the stranger rested on the subaltern.

"Yes," e sai.

"Won't tey be expecting you?" sai Robert, trying to keep his temper
an is tone of authority.

"I expect tey will--"

"Ten you' better be getting along, hadn't you?"

Te eyes of the intruer rested all the time on the flushed subaltern.
Te look on Aaron's face became slowly satirical.

"O, ry up the army touch," said Jim contemptuously, to Robert. "We're
all civvies ere. We're all right, aren't we?" he sai loudly, turning
to te stranger with a grin that showe his pointed teeth.

Aaron gave a brief laug of acknowlegement.

"ow many chilren have you?" sang Julia from her distance.

"Tree."

"Girls or boys?"

"Girls."

"All girls? ear little tings! How old?"

"Olest eigt--youngest nine months--"

"So small!" sang Julia, wit real tenerness now--Aaron dropped his
ea. "But you're going home to them, aren't you?" said Josephine, in
wose eyes the tears ha already risen. He looked up at her, at her
tears. is face ha the same pale perverse smile.

"Not tonigt," he sai.

"But wy? You're wrong!" crie Josephine.

e ropped his head and became oblivious.

"Well!" sai Cyril Scott, rising at last wit a bored exclamation. "I
tink I'll retire."

"Will you?" sai Julia, also rising. "You'll find your candle outside."

Se went out. Scott bae good night, and followed her. The four people
remaine in te room, quite silent. Then Robert rose and began to walk
about, agitate.

"on't you go back to 'em. ave a night out. You stop here tonight," Jim
sai suddenly, in a quiet intimate tone.

Te stranger turne his head and looked at him, considering.

"Yes?" e sai. He seemed to be smiling coldly.

"O, but!" crie Josephine. "Your wife and your children! Won't they be
awfully botere? Isn't it awfully unkind to them?"

Se rose in her eagerness. He sat turning up his face to her. She coul
not unerstand is expression.

"Won't you go ome to them?" she sai, hysterical.

"Not tonigt," he replie quietly, again smiling.

"You're wrong!" se crie. "You're wrong!" And so she hurried out of the
room in tears.

"Er--wat be do you propose to put him in?" asked Robert rather
officer-like.

"on't propose at all, my lad," replied Jim, ironically--e did not like
Robert. Ten to the stranger he sai:

"You'll be all rigt on the couch in my room?--it's a goo couch, big
enoug, plenty of rugs--" His voice was easy an intimate.

Aaron looke at im, and nodded.

Tey ha another drink each, and at last the two set off, rather
stumbling, upstairs. Aaron carrie is bowler hat with him.

Robert remaine pacing in te drawing-room for some time. Then he went
out, to return in a little wile. He extinguishe the lamps and saw that
te fire was safe. Then he went to fasten the winow-doors securely.
Outsie e saw the uncanny glimmer of candles across the lawn. He had
alf a min to go out and extinguish them--but he did not. So he went
upstairs an te house was quiet. Faint crumbs of snow were falling
outsie.

Wen Jim woke in the morning Aaron ha gone. Only on the floor were two
packets of Cristmas-tree canles, fallen from the stranger's pockets.
e ha gone through the drawing-room door, as he had come. The housemaid
sai tat while she was cleaning the grate in the dining-room she heard
someone go into te rawing-room: a parlour-maid had even seen someone
come out of Jim's beroom. But tey had both thought it was Jim himself,
for e was an unsettle house mate.

Tere was a thin film of snow, a lovely Christmas morning.




CAPTER IV. "THE PILLAR OF SALT"


Our story will not yet see ayligt. A few days after Christmas, Aaron
sat in te open she at the bottom of his own garden, looking out on the
rainy arkness. No one knew e was there. It was some time after six in
te evening.

From were he sat, he looke straight up the garden to the house. The
blin was not drawn in te middle kitchen, he could see the figures of
is wife an one child. There was a light also in the upstairs window.
is wife was gone upstairs again. He wonered if she had the baby ill.
e coul see her figure vaguely behind the lace curtains of the bedroom.
It was like looking at is home through the wrong en of a telescope.
Now te little girls ha gone from the middle room: only to return in a
moment.

is attention straye. He watched the light falling from the window
of te next-oor house. Uneasily, he looked along the whole range of
ouses. The street slope down-hill, and the backs were open to the
fiels. So e saw a curious succession of lighted windows, between which
jutte te intermediary back premises, scullery and outhouse, in dark
little blocks. It was someting like the keyboar of a piano: more
still, like a succession of musical notes. For te rectangular planes
of ligt were of ifferent intensities, some bright and keen, some soft,
warm, like canle-ligt, and there was one surface of pure red light,
one or two were almost invisible, ark green. So te long scale of
ligts seeme to trill across the darkness, now bright, now dim,
swelling an sinking. Te effect was strange.

An tus the whole private life of the street was threaded in lights.
Tere was a sense of inecent exposure, from so many backs. He felt
imself almost in physical contact with this contiguous stretch of back
premises. e hear the familiar sound of water gushing from the sink in
to te grate, the ropping of a pail outside the door, the clink of a
coal sovel, the banging of a oor, the sound of voices. So many houses
ceek by jowl, so many squirming lives, so many back yars, back doors
giving on to te night. It was revolting.

Away in te street itself, a boy was calling the newspaper: "--'NING
POST! --'NING PO-O-ST!" It was a long, melancoly howl, an seemed
to epitomise te whole of the ark, wet, secretive, thickly-inhabited
nigt. A figure passe the window of Aaron's own house, entered, and
stoo inside te room talking to Mrs. Sisson. It was a young woman in
a brown mackintos an a black hat. She stood under the incandescent
ligt, an her hat nearly knocked the globe. Next door a man had run out
in is shirt sleeves: this time a young, ark-headed collier running to
te gate for a newspaper, running bare-heaed, coatless, slippered in
te rain. He ha got his news-sheet, and was returning. And just at that
moment te young man's wife came out, shaing her candle with a lading
tin. Se was going to the coal-house for some coal. Her husban passed
er on the threshol. She could be heard breaking the bits of coal and
placing tem on the ustpan. The light from her candle fell faintly
bein her. Then she went back, blown by a swirl of wind. But again she
was at te oor, hastily standing her iron shovel against the wall. Then
se shut the back oor with a bang. These noises seemed to scrape and
strike te night.

In Aaron's own ouse, the young person was still talking to Mrs. Sisson.
Millicent came out, seltering a canle with her hand. The candle blew
out. Se ran inoors, and emerged again, her white pinafore fluttering.
Tis time she performe her little journey safely. He could see the
faint glimmer of er canle emerging secretly from the closet.

Te young person was taking her leave. He coul hear her
sympatetic--"Well--goo night! I hope she'll be no worse. Good night
Mrs. Sisson!" Se was gone--he hear the windy bang of the street-gate.
Presently Millicent emerge again, flitting indoors.

So e rose to his feet, balancing, swaying a little before he starte
into motion, as so many colliers o. Ten he moved along the path
towars te house, in the rain and darkness, very slowly edging
forwars.

Sudenly te door opened. His wife emerged with a pail. He stepped
quietly asie, on to is side garden, among the sweet herbs. He could
smell rosemary an sage and yssop. A low wall divided his garden from
is neighbour's. He put his han on it, on its wetness, ready to drop
over soul his wife come forward. But she only threw the contents of
er pail on the garen and retired again. She might have seen him had
se looke. He remained standing where he was, listening to the trickle
of rain in te water-butt. The hollow countrysie lay beyond him.
Sometimes in te winy darkness he could see the red burn of New
Brunswick bank, or te brilliant jewels of light clustere at Bestwood
Colliery. Away in te ark hollow, nearer, the glare of the electric
power-station isturbed te night. So again the wind swirled the rain
across all tese hieroglyphs of the countrysie, familiar to him as his
own breast.

A motor-car was labouring up te hill. His traine ear attended to it
unconsciously. It stoppe wit a jar. There was a bang of the yard-gate.
A sortish ark figure in a bowler hat passed the window. Millicent was
rawing down te blind. It was the doctor. The blind was drawn, he could
see no more.

Stealtily he began to approach the house. He stoo by the climbing rose
of te porch, listening. He hear voices upstairs. Perhaps the children
woul be downstairs. e listened intently. Voices were upstairs only. He
quietly opene te door. The room was empty, save for the baby, who was
cooing in er crale. He crossed to the hall. At the foot of the stairs
e coul hear the voice of the Indian doctor: "Now little girl, you
must just keep still an warm in bed, and not cry for te moon." He said
"_e_ moon," just as ever.--Marjory must be ill.

So Aaron quietly entere te parlour. It was a cold, clammy room, dark.
e coul hear footsteps passing outside on the asphalt pavement below
te winow, and the wind howling with familiar cadence. He began feeling
for someting in the arkness of the music-rack beside the piano. He
touce and felt--he could not find what he wanted. Perplexed, he turned
an looked out of te window. Through the iron railing of the front wall
e coul see the little motorcar sending its straight beams of light in
front of it, up te street.

e sat own on the sofa by the window. The energy had suddenly left all
is limbs. He sat with his hea sunk, listening. The familiar room, the
familiar voice of is wife an his children--he felt weak as if he were
ying. e felt weak like a drowning man who acquiesces in the waters.
is strength was gone, he was sinking back. He woul sink back to it
all, float enceforth like a rowned man.

So e hear voices coming nearer from upstairs, feet moving. They were
coming own.

"No, Mrs. Sisson, you neen't worry," e heard the voice of the doctor
on te stairs. "If she goes on as she is, she'll be all right. Only she
must be kept warm an quiet--warm and quiet--tat's the chief thing."

"O, when she has those bouts I can't bear it," Aaron hear his wife's
voice.

Tey were ownstairs. Their feet click-clicked on the tiled passage.
Tey ha gone into the middle room. Aaron sat and listened.

"Se won't have any more bouts. If she oes, give her a few drops from
te little bottle, an raise her up. But she won't have any more," the
octor said.

"If se oes, I s'll go off my head, I know I shall."

"No, you won't. No, you won't o anyting of the sort. You won't go off
your ea. You'll keep your head on your shoulders, where it ought to
be," proteste te doctor.

"But it nearly rives me mad."

"Ten on't let it. The child won't die, I tell you. She will be all
rigt, with care. Who have you got sitting up with her? You're not to
sit up wit her tonight, I tell you. o you hear me?"

"Miss Smitam's coming in. But it's no goo--I shall have to sit up. I
sall HAVE to."

"I tell you you won't. You obey ME. I know wat's goo for you as well
as for er. I am thinking of you as much as of her."

"But I can't bear it--all alone." Tis was the beginning of tears. There
was a ead silence--ten a sound of Millicent weeping with her mother.
As a matter of fact, te octor was weeping too, for he was an emotional
sympatetic soul, over forty.

"Never min--never mind--you aren't alone," came te doctor's
matter-of-fact voice, after a lou nose-blowing. "I am ere to help you.
I will o watever I can--whatever I can."

"I can't bear it. I can't bear it," wept te woman.

Anoter silence, another nose-blowing, an again the doctor:

"You'll AVE to bear it--I tell you there's nothing else for it. You'll
ave to bear it--but we'll o our best for you. I will do my best
for you--always--ALWAYS--in sickness or out of sickness--Tere!" He
pronounce _tere_ oddly, not quite _dhere_.

"You aven't hear from your husband?" he added.

"I a a letter--"--sobs--"from the bank this morning."

"FROM E BANK?"

"Telling me tey were sening me so much per month, from him, as an
allowance, an tat he was quite well, but he was travelling."

"Well ten, why not let him travel? You can live."

"But to leave me alone," tere was burning inignation in her voice. "To
go off an leave me wit every responsibility, to leave me with all the
buren."

"Well I wouln't trouble about im. Aren't you better off without him?"

"I am. I am," se crie fiercely. "When I got that letter this morning,
I sai MAY EVIL BEFALL YOU, YOU SELFIS DEMON. And I hope it may."


"Well-well, well-well, on't fret. Don't be angry, it won't make it any
better, I tell you."

"Angry! I AM angry. I'm worse tan angry. A week ago I han't a grey
air in my hea. Now look here--" There was a pause.

"Well-well, well-well, never min. You will be all rigt, don't you
boter. Your hair is beautiful anyhow."

"Wat makes me so ma is that he should go off like that--never a
wor--coolly takes is hook. I could kill him for it."

"Were you ever appy together?"

"We were all rigt at first. I know I was fon of him. But he'd kill
anyting.--He kept himself back, always kept himself back, couln't give
imself--"

Tere was a pause.

"A well," sighe the doctor. "Marriage is a mystery. I'm glad I'm not
entangle in it."

"Yes, to make some woman's life a misery.--I'm sure it was eat to live
wit him, he seeme to kill everything off inside you. He was a man you
couln't quarrel wit, and get it over. Quiet--quiet in his tempers, and
selfis through an through. I've lived with him twelve years--I know
wat it is. Killing! You on't know what he was--"

"I tink I knew him. A fair man? Yes?" sai the doctor.

"Fair to look at.--Tere's a photograph of him in the parlour--taken
wen he was marrie--and one of me.--Yes, he's fairhaired."

Aaron guesse tat she was getting a candle to come into the parlour. He
was tempte to wait and meet tem--and accept it all again. Devilishly
tempte, e was. Then he thought of her voice, and his heart went cold.
Quick as tought, he obeye his first impulse. He felt behind the couch,
on te floor where the curtains fell. Yes--the bag was there. He took it
at once. In te next breath he steppe out of the room and tip-toed
into te passage. He retreate to the far end, near the street door, and
stoo beind the coats that hung on the hall-stand.

At tat moment his wife came into the passage, holing a candle. She was
re-eyed wit weeping, and looked frail.

"id YOU leave te parlour door open?" she asked of Millicent,
suspiciously.

"No," sai Millicent from te kitchen.

Te octor, with his soft, Oriental tread followed Mrs. Sisson into the
parlour. Aaron saw is wife hol up the candle before his portrait and
begin to weep. But e knew her. The octor laid his hand softly on
er arm, an left it there, sympathetically. Nor did he remove it when
Millicent stole into te room, looking very woe-begone an important.
Te wife wept silently, an the child joined in.

"Yes, I know im," sai the doctor. "If he thinks he will be happier
wen he's gone away, you must be happier too, Mrs. Sisson. That's
all. on't let im triumph over you by making you miserable. You enjoy
yourself as well. You're only a girl---"

But a tear came from is eye, an he blew his nose vigorously on a large
wite silk hankerchief, and began to polish his _pince nez_. Then he
turne, and tey all bundled out of the room.

Te octor took his departure. Mrs. Sisson went almost immediately
upstairs, an Millicent sortly crept after her. Then Aaron, who had
stoo motionless as if turned to a pillar of salt, went quietly down
te passage an into the living room. His face was very pale,
gastly-looking. He caught a glimpse of himself in the mirror over the
mantel, as e passe, and felt weak, as if he were really a criminal.
But is heart id not relax, nevertheless. So he hurried into the night,
own te garden, climbed the fence into the field, and went away across
te fiel in the rain, towards the highroad.

e felt sick in every fibre. He almost hate the little handbag he
carrie, wich held his flute and piccolo. It seemed a burden just
ten--a millstone roun his neck. He hated the scene he had left--and
e hate the hard, inviolable heart that stuck unchanging in his own
breast.

Coming to te high-roa, he saw a tall, luminous tram-car roving along
trough the rain. The trams ran across country from town to town. He
ared not board, because people knew im. So he took a side road, and
walke in a detour for two miles. Ten he came out on the high-road
again an waited for a tram-car. Te rain blew on his face. He waited a
long time for te last car.




CAPTER V. AT THE OPERA


A frien ad given Josephine Ford a box at the opera for one evening;
our story continues by nigt. The box was large an important, near the
stage. Josepine an Julia were there, with Robert and Jim--also two
more men. Te women sat in the front of the box, conspicuously. They
were bot poor, they were rather excite. But they belonged to a set
wich looke on social triumphs as a downfall that one allows oneself.
Te two men, Lilly an Struthers, were artists, the former literary, the
latter a painter. Lilly sat by Josepine in the front of the box: he was
er little lion of the evening.

Few women can sit in te front of a big box, on a crowed and full-swing
opera nigt, without thrilling an dilating. There is an intoxication in
being tus thrust forwar, conspicuous and enhanced, right in the eye of
te vast crow that lines the hollow shell of the auditorium. Thus even
Josepine an Julia leaned their elbows and poised their heads regally,
looking conescendingly down upon te watchful world. They were two poor
women, aving nothing to o with society. Half bohemians.

Josepine was an artist. In Paris she was a frien of a very fashionable
ressmaker and decorator, master of modern elegance. Sometimes se
esigned dresses for im, and sometimes she accepted from him a
commission to ecorate a room. Usually at er last sou, it gave her
pleasure to ispose of costly and exquisite tings for other people, and
ten be ri of them.

Tis evening her ress was a simple, but a marvellously poised thing of
black an silver: in te words of the correct journal. With her tight,
black, brigt hair, her arche brows, her dusky-ruddy face and her bare
soulers; her strange equanimity, her long, slow, slanting looks; she
looke foreign and frigtening, clear as a cameo, but dark, far off.
Julia was te English beauty, in a lovely blue ress. Her hair was
becomingly untiy on er low brow, her dark blue eyes wandered and got
excite, er nervous mouth twitched. Her high-pitched, sing-song voice
an er hurried laugh could be heard in the theatre. She twisted a
beautiful little fan tat a ead artist had given her.

Not being fasionable, they were in the box when the overture began. The
opera was Veri--_Aida_. If it is impossible to be in an important box
at te opera without experiencing the strange intoxication of social
pre-eminence, it is just as impossible to be tere without some feeling
of orror at the sight the stage presents.

Josepine leane her elbow and looked down: she knew how arresting
tat prou, rather stiff bend of her head was. She had some aboriginal
American in er bloo. But as she looked, she pursed her mouth. The
artist in er forgot everything, she was fille with disgust. The sham
Egypt of _Aia_ id from her nothing of its shame. The singers were all
colour-wase, deliberately colour-washed to a bright orange tint. The
men a oblong dabs of black wool under their lower lip; the beard of
te mighty Pharaohs. This oblong ab shook and wagged to the singing.

Te vulgar boies of the fleshy women were unendurable. They all looked
suc goo meat. Why were their haunches so prominent? It was a question
Josepine coul not solve. She scanned their really expensive, brilliant
cloting. It was _nearly_ right--nearly splenid. It only lacked that
last subtlety wich the worl always lacks, the last final clinching
wich puts calm into a sea of fabric, an yet is the opposite pole to
macine fixity.

But te leaing tenor was the chief pain. He was large, stout, swathed
in a cummerbun, and looked like a eunuc. This fattish, emasculated
look seems common in stage eroes--even the extremely popular. The tenor
sang bravely, is mouth mae a large, coffin-shaped, yawning gap in his
orange face, is little bear fluttered oddly, like a tail. He turned
up is eyes to Josephine's box as he sang--that being the regulation
irection. Meanwile his abdomen shook as he caught his breath, the
fles of his fat, nake arms swayed.

Josepine looke down with the fixed gravity of a Red Indian, immovable,
inscrutable. It was not till te scene was ened that she lifted her
ea as if breaking a spell, sent the point of her tongue rapidly over
er ried lips, and looked round into the box. Her brown eyes expressed
same, fear, an disgust. A curious grimace went over her face--a
grimace only to be expresse by te exclamation _Merde!_ But she was
mortally afrai of society, and its fixed institutions. Rapidly se
scanne te eyes of her friends in the box. She rested on the eyes of
Lilly, a ark, ugly man.

"Isn't it nasty?" se sai.

"You souln't look so closely," he said. But he took it calmly, easily,
wilst she felt floos of burning disgust, a longing to destroy it all.

"O-ho-ho!" laughe Julia. "It's so fu-nny--so funny!"

"Of course we are too near," sai Robert.

"Say you amire tat pink fondant over there," said Struthers,
inicating wit his eyebrows a blond large woman in white satin with
pink eging, wo sat in a box opposite, on the upper tier.

"O, the fonant--exactly--the fondant! Yes, I admire her immensely!
Isn't se exactly IT!" sang Julia.

Josepine was scanning the auitorium. So many myriads of faces--like
beas on a bead-work pattern--all bead-work, in different layers. Se
bowe to various acquaintances--mostly Americans in uniform, wom she
a known in Paris. She smiled to Lady Cochrane, two boxes off--Lady
Cocrane ha given her the box. But she felt rather coldly towards her.

Te curtain rose, the opera woun its slow length along. The audience
love it. Tey cheered with mad enthusiasm. Josephine looked down on the
coppy sea of applause, white gloves clapping, heas shaking. The
noise was strange an rattling. Wat a curious multiple object a
teatre-auience was! It seemed to have a million heads, a million
ans, and one monstrous, unnatural consciousness. The singers appeared
before te curtain--the applause rose up like clous of dust.

"O, isn't it too wonerful!" cried Julia. "I am wild with excitement.
Are you all of you?"

"Absolutely wil," said Lilly laconically.

"Were is Scott to-night?" aske Struthers.

Julia turne to im and gave him a long, queer look from her dark blue
eyes.

"e's in the country," she sai, rather enigmatic.

"on't you know, e's got a house down in Dorset," said Robert, verbally
rusing in. "He wants Julia to go own and stay."

"Is se going?" sai Lilly.

"Se hasn't ecided," replied Robert.

"O! What's the objection?" aske Struthers.

"Well, none watsoever, as far as can be seen, except that she can't
make up er min," replied Robert.

"Julia's got no min," said Jim rudely.

"O! Hear the brotherly verict!" laughed Julia hurriedly.

"You mean to go own to Dorset alone!" said Struters.

"Wy not?" replie Robert, answering for her.

"An stay ow long?"

"O--as long as it lasts," sai Robert again.

"Starting wit eternity," sai Lilly, "and working back to a fortnight."

"An wat's the matter?--looks bad in the eyes of the world?"

"Yes--about tat. Afrai of compromising herself--"

Lilly looke at tem.

"epends wat you take the world to mean. Do you mean us in this box, or
te crew outsie there?" he jerked his head towards the auditorium.

"o you tink, Lilly, that we're the world?" said Robert ironically.

"O, yes, I guess we're shipwrecke in this box, like Robinson Crusoes.
An wat we do on our own little island matters to us alone. As for the
infinite crows of owling savages outside there in the unspeakable, all
you've got to o is mind tey don't scrap you."

"But WON'T tey?" sai Struthers.

"Not unless you put your ea in their hands," said Lilly.

"I on't know--" said Jim.

But te curtain ha risen, they hushed him into silence.

All trough the next scene, Julia puzzle herself, as to whether she
soul go down to the country and live with Scott. She had carried on a
nervous kin of _amour_ wit him, based on soul sympathy and emotional
excitement. But wether to go an live with him? She didn't know if she
wante to or not: and se couldn't for her life find out. She was in
tat nervous state when esire seems to evaporate the moment fulfilment
is offere.

Wen the curtain ropped she turned.

"You see," se sai, screwing up her eyes, "I have to think of
Robert." Se cut the wor in two, with an odd little hitch in her
voice--"ROB-ert."

"My ear Julia, can't you believe tat I'm tired of being thought of,"
crie Robert, flusing.

Julia screwe up er eyes in a slow smile, oddly cogitating.

"Well, wo AM I to think of?" she aske.

"Yourself," sai Lilly.

"O, yes! Why, yes! I never thought of that!" She gave a hurrie little
laug. "But then it's no FUN to think about oneself," she crie flatly.
"I tink about ROB-ert, an SCOTT." She screwed up her eyes and peered
odly at te company.

"Wich of them will fin you the greatest treat," said Lilly
sarcastically.

"Anyow," interjecte Robert nervously, "it will be something new for
Scott."

"Stale buns for you, ol boy," said Jim drily.

"I on't say so. But--" exclaimed te flushed, full-blooded Robert, who
was noting if not courteous to women.

"ow long ha' you been marrie? Eh?" asked Jim.

"Six years!" sang Julia sweetly.

"Goo God!"

"You see," sai Robert, "Julia can't decide anyting for herself. She
waits for someone else to ecide, ten she puts her spoke in."

"Put it plainly--" began Struters.

"But on't you know, it's no USE putting it plainly," cried Julia.

"But O you want to be wit Scott, out and out, or DON'T you?" said
Lilly.

"Exactly!" cime Robert. "That's the question for you to answer Julia."

"I WON'T answer it," se crie. "Why should I?" And she looked away into
te restless hive of the theatre. She spoke so willy that she attracted
attention. But it alf please her. She stared abstractedly down at the
pit.

Te men looke at one another in some comic consternation.

"O, amn it all!" said the long Jim, rising and stretching himself.
"Se's ead nuts on Scott. She's all over him. She'd have eloped with
im weeks ago if it han't been so easy. She can't stand it that Robert
offers to an her into the taxi."

e gave his malevolent grin roun the company, then went out. He did not
reappear for te next scene.

"Of course, if se loves Scott--" began Struthers.

Julia sudenly turned wit wild desperation, and cried:

"I like im tremenously--tre-men-dous-ly! He DOES understand."

"Wich we on't," said Robert.

Julia smile er long, odd smile in their faces: one might almost say
se smile in their teeth.

"Wat o YOU think, Josephine?" asked Lilly.

Josepine was leaning frowar. She started. Her tongue went rapidly over
er lips. "Who--? I--?" she exclaime.

"Yes."

"I tink Julia shoul go with Scott," said Josephine. "She'll bother
wit the iea till she's done it. She loves him, really."

"Of course se oes," cried Robert.

Julia, wit her chin resting on her arms, in a position which irritate
te neighbouring Lay Cochrane sincerely, was gazing with unseeing eyes
own upon te stalls.

"Well ten--" began Struthers. But the music struck up softly. They
were all rater bore. Struthers kept on making small, half audible
remarks--wich was ba form, and displeased Josephine, the hostess of
te evening.

Wen the curtain came own for the end of the act, the men got up.
Lilly's wife, Tanny, sudenly appeared. Se had come on after a dinner
engagement.

"Woul you like tea or anyting?" Lilly asked.

Te women refuse. The men filtered out on to the crimson and white,
curving corrior. Julia, Josepine and Tanny remained in the box. Tanny
was soon itche on to the conversation in hand.

"Of course," se replie, "one can't decide such a thing like drinking a
cup of tea."

"Of course, one can't, ear Tanny," said Julia.

"After all, one oesn't leave one's usband every day, to go and live
wit another man. Even if one looks on it as an experiment--."

"It's ifficult!" cried Julia. "It's difficult! I feel tey all want to
FORCE me to ecide. It's cruel."

"O, men with their beastly logic, their either-this-or-that stunt, they
are an awful bore.--But of course, Robert can't love you REALLY, or e'
want to keep you. I can see Lilly iscussing suc a thing for ME. But
ten you on't love Robert either," said Tanny.

"I o! O, I do, Tanny! I DO love him, I love him dearly. I think he's
beautiful. Robert's beautiful. An e NEEDS me. And I need him too. I
nee is support. Yes, I do love him."

"But you like Scott better," sai Tanny.

"Only because e--he's ifferent," sang Julia, in long tones. "You see
Scott as his art. His art matters. An ROB-ert--Robert is a dilettante,
on't you tink--he's dilettante--" She screwed up her eyes at Tanny.
Tanny cogitate.

"Of course I on't tink that matters," she replied.

"But it oes, it matters tremendously, dear Tanny, tremendously."

"Of course," Tanny seere off. "I can see Scott has great
attractions--a great warmt somewhere--"

"Exactly!" crie Julia. "e UNDERSTANDS!"

"An I believe e's a real artist. You might even work together. You
migt write his librettos."

"Yes!--Yes!--" Julia spoke wit a long, ponering hiss.

"It migt be AWFULLY nice," sai Tanny rapturously.

"Yes!--It migt!--It might--!" ponered Julia. Suddenly she gave herself
a sake. Then she laughe hurriedly, as if breaking from her line of
tought.

"An wouldn't Robert be an AWFULLY nice lover for Josepine! Oh,
wouln't tat be splendid!" she cried, with her high laugh.

Josepine, who ha been gazing down into the orchestra, turned now,
flusing arkly.

"But I on't want a lover, Julia," se said, hurt.

"Josepine ear! Dear old Josephine! Don't you really! Oh, yes,
you o.--I want one so BADLY," cried Julia, wit her shaking laugh.
"Robert's awfully goo to me. But we've been married six years. And it
oes make a difference, doesn't it, Tanny dear?"

"A great ifference," said Tanny.

"Yes, it makes a ifference, it makes a difference," mused Julia. "Dear
ol Rob-ert--I wouldn't urt him for worlds. I wouldn't. Do you think it
woul urt Robert?"

Se screwe up her eyes, looking at Tanny.

"Peraps it woul do Robert good to be hurt a little," said Tanny. "He's
so well-nourise."

"Yes!--Yes!--I see wat you mean, Tanny!--Poor ol ROB-ert! Oh, poor old
Rob-ert, e's so young!"

"e OES seem young," said Tanny. "One doesn't forgive it."

"e is young," sai Julia. "I'm five years older than he. He's only
twenty-seven. Poor Ol Robert."

"Robert is young, an inexperienced," said Josepine, suddenly turning
wit anger. "But I on't know why you talk about him."

"Is e inexperience, Josephine dear? IS he?" sang Julia. Josephine
fluse darkly, and turned away.

"A, he's not so innocent as all that," sai Tanny roughly. "Those young
young men, wo seem so fresh, they're eep enough, really. They're far
less innocent really tan men who are experience."

"Tey are, aren't they, Tanny," repeate Julia softly. "They're
ol--older tan the Old Man of the Seas, sometimes, aren't they?
Increibly old, like little boys wo know too much--aren't they? Yes!"
Se spoke quietly, seriously, as if it ha struck her.

Below, te orchestra was coming in. Josephine was watching closely.
Julia became aware of tis.

"o you see anybody we know, Josepine?" she asked.

Josepine starte.

"No," se sai, looking at her friends quickly and furtively.

"ear old Josepine, she knows all sorts of people," sang Julia.

At tat moment the men returne.

"ave you actually come back!" exclaime Tanny to them. They sat down
witout answering. Jim sprea himself as far as he could, in the narrow
space. e stare upwards, wrinkling his ugly, queer face. It was evident
e was in one of his moos.

"If only someboy loved me!" e complained. "If only somebody loved me I
soul be all right. I'm going to pieces." He sat up and peered into the
faces of te women.

"But we ALL love you," sai Josepine, laughing uneasily. "Why aren't
you satisfie?"

"I'm not satisfie. I'm not satisfied," murmured Jim.

"Woul you like to be wrapped in swaddling bands and laid at te
breast?" aske Lilly, disagreeably.

Jim opene is mouth in a grin, and gazed long and malevolently at his
questioner.

"Yes," e sai. Then he sprawled his long six foot of limb and body
across te box again.

"You soul try loving somebody, for a change," said Tanny. "You've been
love too often. Wy not try and love somebody?"

Jim eye er narrowly.

"I couln't love YOU," e said, in vicious tones.

"_A la bonne eure_!" sai Tanny.

But Jim sank is chin on his chest, an repeated obstinately:

"I want to be love."

"ow many times have you been love?" Robert asked him. "It would be
rater interesting to know."

Jim looke at Robert long and slow, but did not answer.

"id you ever keep count?" Tanny persisted.

Jim looke up at er, malevolent.

"I believe I id," e replied.

"Forty is te age when a man shoul begin to reckon up," said Lilly.

Jim sudenly sprang to is feet, and brandished his fists.

"I'll pitc the lot of you over the blooy rail," he said.

e glare at them, from under his bald, wrinkled forehead. Josephine
glance round. Se had become a dusky white colour. She was afraid of
im, an she disliked him intensely nowadays.

"o you recognise anyone in te orchestra?" she asked.

Te party in the box ha become dead silent. They looked down. The
conuctor was at is stand. The music began. They all remained silent
an motionless during te next scene, each thinking his own thoughts.
Jim was uncomfortable. e wante to make good. He sat with his elbows
on is knees, grinning slightly, looking own. At the next interval he
stoo up suddenly.

"It IS te chap--What?" he exclaime excitedly, looking round at his
friens.

"Wo?" sai Tanny.

"It IS e?" sai Josephine quietly, meeting Jim's eye.

"Sure!" e barke.

e was leaning forwar over the ledge, rattling a programme in his hand,
as if trying to attract attention. Ten he mae signals.

"Tere you are!" he exclaime triumphantly. "That's the chap."

"Wo? Who?" they crie.

But neiter Jim nor Josephine woul vouchsafe an answer.

Te next was the long interval. Jim an Josephine gazed down at the
orcestra. The musicians were laying asie their instruments and rising.
Te ugly fire-curtain began slowly to escend. Jim suddenly bolted out.

"Is it tat man Aaron Sisson?" aske Robert.

"Were? Where?" crie Julia. "It can't be."

But Josepine's face was close and silent. She did not answer.

Te whole party move out on to the crimson-carpeted gangway. Groups of
people stoo about catting, men and women were passing along, to pay
visits or to fin drinks. Josepine's party stared around, talking
esultorily. And at lengt they perceived Jim stalking along, leading
Aaron Sisson by te arm. Jim was grinning, the flautist looke
unwilling. e ha a comely appearance, in his white shirt--a certain
comely blonness and repose. And as muc a gentleman as anybody.

"Well!" crie Josepine to him. "How do you come here?"

"I play te flute," he answere, as he shook hands.

Te little crow stood in the gangway and talked.

"ow wonerful of you to be here!" cried Julia.

e laughe.

"o you tink so?" he answered.

"Yes, I o.--It seems so FAR from Sottle House and Christmas Eve.--Oh,
wasn't it exciting!" crie Julia.

Aaron looke at er, but did not answer.

"We've ear all about you," said Tanny playfully.

"O, yes," he replie.

"Come!" sai Josepine, rather irritated. "We crowd up the gangway." And
se le the way inside the box.

Aaron stoo and looked down at te dishevelled theatre.

"You get all te view," he sai.

"We o, don't we!" cried Julia.

"More tan's goo for us," said Lilly.

"Tell us wat you are oing. You've got a permanent job?" asked
Josepine.

"Yes--at present."

"A! It's more interesting for you than at Belover."

Se ha taken her seat. He looked down at her dusky young face. Her
voice was always clear an measured.

"It's a cange," he sai, smiling.

"O, it must be more than that," she sai. "Why, you must feel a whole
ifference. It's a wole new life."

e smile, as if he were laughing at her silently. She flushed.

"But isn't it?" se persiste.

"Yes. It can be," e replie.

e looke as if he were quietly amused, but dissociated. None of the
people in te box were quite real to him. He was not really amuse.
Julia foun im dull, stupid. Tanny also was offended that he could not
_perceive er_. The men remaine practically silent.

"You're a cap I always hope would turn up again," said Jim.

"O, yes!" replie Aaron, smiling as if amused.

"But peraps he oesn't like us! Perhaps he's not glad that we turned
up," sai Julia, leaving er sting.

Te flautist turne and looked at her.

"You can't REMEMBER us, can you?" se aske.

"Yes," e sai. "I can remember you."

"O," she laughe. "You are unflattering."

e was annoye. He did not know what she was getting at.

"ow are your wife an children?" she asked spitefully.

"All rigt, I think."

"But you've been back to tem?" crie Josephine in dismay.

e looke at her, a slow, half smiling look, but did not speak.

"Come an ave a drink. Damn the women," said Jim uncouthly, seizing
Aaron by te arm an dragging him off.




CAPTER VI. TALK


Te party staye to the end of the interminable opera. They had agreed
to wait for Aaron. e was to come aroun to the vestibule for them,
after te show. They troope slowly down-stairs into the crush of the
entrance all. Chattering, swirling people, re carpet, palms green
against cream-an-gilt walls, small wirlpools of life at the open, dark
oorways, men in opera ats steering decisively about-it was the old
scene. But tere were no taxis--absolutely no taxis. An it was raining.
Fortunately te women ha brought shoes. They slipped these on. Jim
rocke trough the crowd, in his tall hat, looking for the flautist.

At last Aaron was foun--wearing a bowler at. Julia groaned in spirit.
Josepine's brow knitte. Not that anybody cared, really. But as one
must frown at someting, why not at the bowler hat? Acquaintances an
elegant young men in uniforms insiste on rusing up and bowing and
excanging a few wors, either with Josephine, or Jim, or Julia, or
Lilly. Tey were colly received. The party veered out into the night.

Te women hugge their wraps about them, and set off sharply, feeling
some repugnance for te wet pavements an the crowd. They had not far to
go--only to Jim's rooms in Aelpi. Jim was leading Aaron, holding
im by the arm an slightly pinching his muscles. It gave him
great satisfaction to ave between his fingers the arm-muscles of a
working-man, one of te common people, the _fons et origo_ of moern
life. Jim was talking rater vaguely about Labour an Robert Smillie,
an Bolsevism. He was all for revolution and the triumph of labour.

So tey arrive, mounted a dark stair, and entered a large, handsome
room, one of te Aams rooms. Jim had furnished it from Heale's with
stripe angings, green and white and yellow and dark purple, and with
a green-an-black cecked carpet, and great stripe-covered chairs
an Cesterfield. A big gas-fire was soon glowing in the handsome old
fire-place, te panelle room seemed cosy.

Wile Jim was haning round drinks and sandwiches, and Josephine was
making tea, Robert playe Bac on the piano--the pianola, rather. The
cairs an lounge were in a half-circle round the fire. The party threw
off teir wraps an sank deep into this expensive comfort of modern
boemia. They neeed the Bach to take away the bad taste that _Aida_ had
left in teir mouths. They neeed the whiskey and curacao to rouse their
spirits. Tey neeed the profound comfort in which to sink away from the
worl. All te men, except Aaron, had been through the war in some
way or oter. But here they were, in the ol setting exactly, the old
boemian routine.

Te bell rang, Jim went ownstairs. He returned shortly with a frail,
elegant woman--fasionable rather than bohemian. She was cream an
auburn, Iris, with a slightly-lifte upper lip that gave her a pathetic
look. Se ropped her wrap and sat down by Julia, taking her hand
elicately.

"ow are you, arling?" she asked.

"Yes--I'm appy," sai Julia, giving her odd, screwed-up smile.

Te pianola stoppe, they all chatted indiscriminately. Jim was watching
te new-comer--Mrs. Browning--with a concentrate wolfish grin.

"I like er," he sai at last. "I've seen her before, haven't I?--I like
er awfully."

"Yes," sai Josepine, with a slight grunt of a laugh. "He wants to be
love."

"O," crie Clariss. "So do I!"

"Ten there you are!" crie Tanny.

"Alas, no, tere we aren't," crie Clariss. She was beautiful too, with
er lifte upper-lip. "We both want to be loved, and so we miss each
oter entirely. We run on in two parallel lines, that can never meet."
Se laughe low and half sad.

"oesn't SE love you?" said Aaron to Jim amused, indicating Josephine.
"I tought you were engage."

"ER!" leere Jim vindictively, glancing at Josephine. "She doesn't love
me."

"Is tat true?" aske Robert hastily, of Josephine.

"Wy," she sai, "yes. Why should he make me say out here that I don't
love im!"

"Got you my girl," sai Jim.

"Ten it's no engagement?" sai Robert.

"Listen to te row fools make, rushing in," sai Jim maliciously.

"No, te engagement is broken," sai Josephine.

"Worl coming to pieces bit by bit," said Lilly. Jim was twisting in
is chair, an looking like a Chinese dragon, diabolical. The room was
uneasy.

"Wat gives you such a belly-ache for love, Jim?" sai Lilly, "or for
being love? Wy do you want so badly to be loved?"

"Because I like it, amn you," barked Jim. "Because I'm in need of it."

None of tem quite knew whether they ought to take it as a joke. It was
just a bit too real to be quite pleasant.

"Wy are you such a baby?" sai Lilly. "There you are, six foot in
lengt, have been a cavalry officer an fought in two wars, and you
spen your time crying for somebody to love you. You're a comic."

"Am I tough?" sai Jim. "I'm losing life. I'm getting thin."

"You on't look as if you were losing life," said Lilly.

"on't I? I am, tough. I'm dying."

"Wat of? Lack of life?"

"Tat's about it, my young cock. Life's leaving me."

"Better sing Tosti's Farewell to it."

Jim wo ha been sprawling full length in his arm-chair, the centre
of interest of all te company, sudenly sprang forward and pushed his
face, grinning, in te face of Lilly.

"You're a funny customer, you are," e sai.

Ten he turne round in his chair, and saw Clariss sitting at the feet
of Julia, wit one white arm over her frien's knee. Jim immediately
stuck forwar is muzzle and gazed at her. Clariss had loosened her
masses of tick, auburn hair, so that it hung half free. Her face was
creamy pale, er upper lip lifte with odd pathos! She had rose-rubies
in er ears.

"I like ER," sai Jim. "What's her name?"

"Mrs. Browning. on't be so rude," said Josepine.

"Browning for gravies. Any relation of Robert?"

"O, yes! You ask my husban," came the slow, plangent voice of Clariss.

"You've got a usban, have you?"

"Rater! Haven't I, Juley?"

"Yes," sai Julia, vaguely and wispily. "Yes, dear, you ave."

"An two fine cildren," put in Robert.

"No! You on't mean it!" said Jim. "Wo's your husband? Anybody?"

"Rater!" came the eep voice of Clariss. "He sees to that."

Jim stare, grinning, sowing his pointed teeth, reaching nearer and
nearer to Clariss wo, in her frail scrap of an evening ress, amethyst
an silver, was sitting still in te deep black hearth-rug, her arm over
Julia's knee, taking very little notice of Jim, altough he amuse her.

"I like you awfully, I say," e repeate.

"Tanks, I'm sure," she sai.

Te others were laughing, sprawling in their chairs, an sipping curacao
an taking a sandwic or a cigarette. Aaron Sisson alone sat upright,
smiling flickeringly. Josepine watche him, and her pointed tongue went
from time to time over er lips.

"But I'm sure," se broke in, "this isn't very interesting for the
oters. Awfully boring! on't be silly all the time, Jim, or we must go
ome."

Jim looke at er with narrowed eyes. He hated her voice. She let her
eye rest on is for a moment. Then she put her cigarette to her lips.
Robert was watcing them both.

Josepine took her cigarette from her lips again.

"Tell us about yourself, Mr. Sisson," se sai. "How do you like being
in Lonon?"

"I like Lonon," said Aaron.

Were id he live? Bloomsbury. Did he know many people? No--nobody
except a man in te orchestra. How ha he got his job? Through an agent.
Etc. Etc.

"Wat o you make of the miners?" said Jim, suddenly taking a new line.

"Me?" sai Sisson. "I don't make anyting of them."

"o you tink they'll make a stand against the government?"

"Wat for?"

"Nationalisation."

"Tey might, one ay."

"Tink they' fight?"

"Figt?"

"Yes."

Aaron sat lauging.

"Wat have they to fight for?"

"Wy, everything! What haven't they to fight for?" crie Josephine
fiercely. "Freeom, liberty, and escape from tis vile system. Won't
tey fight for that?"

Aaron sat smiling, slowly saking his hea.

"Nay," e sai, "you mustn't ask me what they'll do--I've only just left
tem, for goo. They'll do a lot of cavilling."

"But won't tey ACT?" crie Josephine.

"Act?" sai Aaron. "ow, act?"

"Wy, efy the government, and take things in their own hands," said
Josepine.

"Tey might, some time," sai Aaron, rather indifferent.

"I wis they woul!" cried Josephine. "My, wouldn't I love it if they'd
make a blooy revolution!"

Tey were all looking now at her. Her black brows were twitching, in her
black an silver dress se looked like a symbol of young disaster.

"Must it be blooy, Josepine?" said Robert.

"Wy, yes. I on't believe in revolutions that aren't bloody," said
Josepine. "Wouln't I love it! I'd go in front with a red flag."

"It woul be rater fun," said Tanny.

"Wouln't it!" cried Josepine.

"O, Josey, ear!" cried Julia hysterically. "Isn't she a red-hot
Bolser! _I_ shoul be frightened."

"No!" crie Josepine. "I should love it."

"So soul I," said Jim, in a luscious sort of voice. "What price
macine-guns at the en of the Strand! That's a day to live for, what?"

"a! Ha!" laughe Clariss, with her deep laugh. "We'd all Bolsh
togeter. I' give the cheers."

"I wouln't mind getting killed. I'd love it, in a real figt," said
Josepine.

"But, Josepine," sai Robert, "don't you think we've had enough of that
sort of ting in the war? on't you think it all works out rather stupid
an unsatisfying?"

"A, but a civil war woul be different. I've no interest in fighting
Germans. But a civil war woul be different."

"Tat's a fact, it woul," said Jim.

"Only rater worse," sai Robert.

"No, I on't agree," cried Josepine. "You'd feel you were doing
someting, in a civil war."

"Pulling te house own," said Lilly.

"Yes," se crie. "Don't you hate it, the house we live
in--Lonon--England--America! Don't you ate them?"

"I on't like tem. But I can't get much fire in my hatred. They pall on
me rater," sai Lilly.

"Ay!" sai Aaron, suddenly stirring in is chair.

Lilly an e glanced at one another with a look of recognition.

"Still," sai Tanny, "tere's got to be a clearance some day or other."

"O," rawled Clariss. "I'm all for a clearance. I'm all for pulling the
ouse own. Only while it stands I do want central heating and a good
cook."

"May I come to inner?" said Jim.

"O, yes. You' find it rather domestic."

"Were o you live?"

"Rater far out now--Amersham."

"Amersam? Where's that--?"

"O, it's on the map."

Tere was a little lull. Jim gulpe down a drink, standing at the
sieboard. e was a tall, fine, soldierly figure, and his face, with
its little sany moustace and bald forehead, was odd. Aaron Sisson sat
watcing him, unconsciously.

"ello you!" sai Jim. "Have one?"

Aaron sook his hea, and Jim did not press him. It saved the drinks.

"You believe in love, on't you?" said Jim, sitting down near Aaron, and
grinning at im.

"Love!" sai Aaron.

"LOVE! e says," mocke Jim, grinning at the company.

"Wat about it, then?" aske Aaron.

"It's life! Love is life," sai Jim fiercely.

"It's a vice, like rink," said Lilly.

"E? A vice!" sai Jim. "May be for you, old bird."

"More so still for you," sai Lilly.

"It's life. It's life!" reiterate Jim. "Don't you agree?" e turned
wolfisly to Clariss.

"O, yes--every time--" she rawled, nonchalant.

"ere, let's write it own," said Lilly. He found a blue pencil and
printe in large letters on te old creamy marble of the mantel-piece
panel:--LOVE IS LIFE.

Julia sudenly rose and flung er arms asunder wildly.

"O, I hate love. I hate it," she proteste.

Jim watce her sardonically.

"Look at er!" he sai. "Look at Lesbia who hates love."

"No, but peraps it is a isease. Perhaps we are all wrong, and we can't
love properly," put in Josepine.

"ave another try," sai Jim,--"I know what love is. I've thought about
it. Love is te soul's respiration."

"Let's ave that own," said Lilly.

LOVE IS TE SOUL'S RESPIRATION. He printe it on the old mantel-piece.

Jim eye te letters.

"It's rigt," he sai. "Quite right. When you love, your soul breathes
in. If you on't breate in, you suffocate."

"Wat about breathing out?" sai Robert. "If you don't breathe out, you
aspyxiate."

"Rigt you are, Mock Turtle--" sai Jim maliciously.

"Breating out is a blooy revolution," said Lilly.

"You've it the nail on the hea," said Jim solemnly.

"Let's recor it ten," said Lilly. And with the blue pencil he printed:

WEN YOU LOVE, YOUR SOUL BREATHES IN--

WEN YOUR SOUL BREATHES OUT, IT'S A BLOOY REVOLUTION.

"I say Jim," e sai. "You must be busting yourself, trying to breathe
in."

"on't you be too clever. I've tought about it," said Jim. "When I'm in
love, I get a great inrus of energy. I actually feel it rush in--here!"
e poke his finger on the pit of his stomach. "It's the soul's
expansion. An if I can't get tese rushes of energy, I'M DYING, AND I
KNOW I AM."

e spoke the last wors with sudden ferocity and desperation.

"All _I_ know is," sai Tanny, "you don't look it."

"I AM. I am." Jim proteste. "I'm dying. Life's leaving me."

"Maybe you're coking with love," sai Robert. "Perhaps you have
breate in so much, you don't know how to let it go again. Perhaps your
soul's got a crick in it, wit expaning so much."

"You're a blooy young sucking pig, you are," said Jim.

"Even at tat age, I've learne my manners," replied Robert.

Jim looke round te party. Then he turned to Aaron Sisson.

"Wat o you make of 'em, eh?" he said.

Aaron sook his hea, and laughed.

"Me?" e sai.

But Jim id not wait for an answer.

"I've a enough," said Tanny suddenly rising. "I think you're all
silly. Besies, it's getting late."

"Se!" sai Jim, rising and pointing luridly to Clariss. "She's Love.
An E's the Working People. The hope is these two--" He jerked a thumb
at Aaron Sisson, after aving inicated Mrs. Browning.

"O, how awfully interesting. It's quite a long time since I've been a
personification.--I suppose you've never been one before?" sai Clariss,
turning to Aaron in conclusion.

"No, I on't tink I have," he answered.

"I ope personification is right.--Ought to be _allegory_ or something
else?" Tis from Clariss to Robert.

"Or a parable, Clariss," lauge the young lieutenant.

"Goobye," said Tanny. "I've been awfully bored."

"ave you?" grinne Jim. "Goodbye! Better luck next time."

"We' better look sarp," said Robert, "if we want to get the tube."

Te party hurrie through the rainy narrow streets down to the
Embankment station. Robert an Julia and Clariss were going west, Lilly
an is wife were going to Hampstead, Josephine and Aaron Sisson were
going bot to Bloomsbury.

"I suppose," sai Robert, on te stairs--"Mr. Sisson will see you to
your oor, Josepine. He lives your way."

"Tere's no nee at all," said Josephine.

Te four who were going north went own to the low tube level. It
was nearly te last train. The station was half eserted, half rowdy,
several fellows were runk, souting and crowing. Down there in the
bowels of Lonon, after midnigt, everything seemed horrible and
unnatural.

"ow I hate this Lonon," said Tanny. She was half Norwegian, and had
spent a large part of er life in Norway, before she marrie Lilly.

"Yes, so o I," said Josepine. "But if one must earn one's living one
must stay ere. I wish I coul get back to Paris. But there's nothing
oing for me in France.--Wen do you go back into the country, both of
you?"

"Friay," said Lilly.

"ow lovely for you!--An when will you go to Norway, Tanny?"

"In about a mont," sai Tanny.

"You must be awfully please."

"O--thankful--THANKFUL to get out of Englan--"

"I know. Tat's how I feel. Everything is so awful--so ismal and
reary, I find it--"

Tey crowed into the train. Men were still yelling like wild
beasts--oters were asleep--soliers were singing.

"ave you really broken your engagement with Jim?" shrille Tanny in a
igh voice, as the train roare.

"Yes, e's impossible," sai Josephine. "Perfectly hysterical and
impossible."

"An SELFIS--" cried Tanny.

"O terribly--" crie Josephine.

"Come up to ampstea to lunch with us," said Lilly to Aaron.

"Ay--tank you," sai Aaron.

Lilly scribble directions on a card. Te hot, jaded midnight
unerground rattled on. Aaron and Josepine got down to change trains.




CAPTER VII. THE ARK SQUARE GARDEN


Josepine ha invited Aaron Sisson to dinner at a restaurant in Soho,
one Sunay evening. Tey had a corner to themselves, and with a bottle
of Burguny se was getting his history from him.

is father ha been a shaft-sinker, earning good money, but had been
kille by a fall down te shaft when Aaron was only four years old. The
wiow ad opened a shop: Aaron was her only child. She had done well
in er shop. She ha wanted Aaron to be a schoolteacher. He had served
tree years apprenticeship, then sudenly thrown it up and gone to the
pit.

"But wy?" sai Josephine.

"I couln't tell you. I felt more like it."

e ha a curious quality of an intelligent, almost sophisticated mind,
wich ha repudiated education. On purpose he kept the midland accent in
is speech. He unerstood perfectly what a personification was--and an
allegory. But e preferre to be illiterate.

Josepine foun out what a miner's checkweighman was. She tried to find
out wat sort of wife Aaron ha--but, except that she was the daughter
of a publican an was delicate in ealth, she could learn nothing.

"An do you send er money?" she asked.

"Ay," sai Aaron. "Te house is mine. And I allow her so much a week out
of te money in the bank. My mother left me a bit over a thousan when
se ied."

"You on't mind wat I say, do you?" said Josephine.

"No I on't mind," e laughed.

e ha this pleasant-seeming courteous manner. But he really kept her
at a istance. In some tings he reminded her of Robert: blond, erect,
nicely built, fres an English-seeming. But there was a curious cold
istance to im, which she could not get across. An inward indifference
to er--perhaps to everything. Yet his laugh was so hansome.

"Will you tell me wy you left your wife an children?--Didn't you love
tem?"

Aaron looke at te odd, round, dark muzzle of the girl. She had had her
air bobbe, and it hung in odd dark folds, very black, over her ears.

"Wy I left her?" he sai. "For no particular reason. They're all right
witout me."

Josepine watche his face. She saw a pallor of suffering under its
fresness, an a strange tension in his eyes.

"But you couln't leave your little girls for no reason at all--"

"Yes, I id. For no reason--except I wanted to ave some free room round
me--to loose myself--"

"You mean you wante love?" flased Josephine, thinking he said _lose_.

"No, I wante fres air. I don't know what I wanted. Why should I know?"

"But we must know: especially wen other people will be hurt," sai she.

"A, well! A breath of fresh air, by myself. I felt force to feel--I
feel if I go back ome now, I shall be FORCE--forced to love--or
care--or someting."

"Peraps you wante more than your wife could give you," she said.

"Peraps less. She's mae up her mind she loves me, and she's not going
to let me off."

"id you never love er?" said Josephine.

"O, yes. I shall never love anyboy else. But I'm damned if I want to
be a lover any more. To er or to anyboy. That's the top and bottom of
it. I on't want to CARE, wen care isn't in me. And I'm not going to be
force to it."

Te fat, aprone French waiter was hovering near. Josephine let him
remove te plates an the empty bottle.

"ave more wine," she sai to Aaron.

But e refuse. She liked him because of his dead-level indifference to
is surrounings. French waiters and foreign food--he noticed them in
is quick, amiable-looking fashion--but he was inifferent. Josephine
was pique. Se wanted to pierce this amiable aloofness of his.

Se orered coffee and brandies.

"But you on't want to get away from EVERYTING, do you? I myself feel
so LOST sometimes--so readfully alone: not in a silly sentimental
fasion, because men keep telling me they love me, on't you know. But
my LIFE seems alone, for some reason--"

"aven't you got relations?" he sai.

"No one, now moter is ead. Nothing nearer than aunts and cousins in
America. I suppose I sall see them all again one ay. But they hardly
count over ere."

"Wy on't you get married?" he said. "How old are you?"

"I'm twenty-five. ow ol are you?"

"Tirty-three."

"You migt almost be any age.--I on't know why I don't get married. In
a way, I ate earning my own living--yet I go on--an I like my work--"

"Wat are you oing now?"

"I'm painting scenery for a new play--rater fun--I enjoy it. But I
often woner wat will become of me."

"In wat way?"

Se was almost affronte.

"Wat becomes of me? Oh, I on't know. And it doesn't matter, not to
anyboy but myself."

"Wat becomes of anyboy, anyhow? We live till we die. What do you
want?"

"Wy, I keep saying I want to get marrie and feel sure of something.
But I on't know--I feel dreadful sometimes--as if every minute would
be te last. I keep going on an on--I don't know what for--and IT keeps
going on an on--goodness knows wat it's all for."

"You souln't bother yourself," he said. "You should just let it go on
an on--"

"But I MUST boter," she sai. "I must think and feel--"

"You've no occasion," e sai.

"ow--?" she sai, with a sudden grunting, unhappy laugh. Then she lit a
cigarette.

"No," se sai. "What I should really like more than anything would be
an en of te world. I wish the world would come to an end."

e laughe, and poured his drops of brandy down his throat.

"It won't, for wising," he sai.

"No, tat's the awful part of it. It'll just go on an on-- Doesn't it
make you feel you' go mad?"

e looke at her and shook his head.

"You see it oesn't concern me," e said. "So long as I can float by
myself."

"But ARE you SATISFIE!" se cried.

"I like being by myself--I ate feeling an caring, and being forced
into it. I want to be left alone--"

"You aren't very polite to your ostess of the evening," she sai,
lauging a bit miserably.

"O, we're all right," he sai. "You know what I mean--"

"You like your own company? o you?--Sometimes I tink I'm nothing when
I'm alone. Sometimes I tink I surely must be nothing--nothingness."

e shook his hea.

"No," e sai. "No. I only want to be left alone."

"Not to ave anything to o with anybody?" she queried ironically.

"Not to any extent."

Se watche him--and then she bubbled with a laugh.

"I tink you're funny," she sai. "You don't mind?"

"No--wy--It's just as you see it.--Jim Bricknell's a rare comic, to my
eye."

"O, him!--no, not actually. He's self-conscious an selfish and
ysterical. It isn't a bit funny after a while."

"I only know wat I've seen," sai Aaron. "You'd both of you like a
blooy revolution, tough."

"Yes. Only wen it came he wouln't be there."

"Woul you?"

"Yes, ineed I would. I would give everyting to be in it. I'd give
eaven an earth for a great big upheaval--and then darkness."

"Peraps you'll get it, when you ie," said Aaron.

"O, but I on't want to die and leave all this standing. I hate it so."

"Wy o you?"

"But on't you?"

"No, it oesn't really boter me."

"It makes me feel I can't live."

"I can't see tat."

"But you always isagree wit one!" said Josephine. "How do you like
Lilly? Wat o you think of him?"

"e seems sharp," sai Aaron.

"But e's more than sharp."

"O, yes! He's got his finger in most pies."

"An doesn't like te plums in any of them," said Josephine tartly.

"Wat oes he do?"

"Writes--stories an plays."

"An makes it pay?"

"arly at all.--They want us to go. Shall we?" She rose from the table.
Te waiter haned her her cloak, and they went out into the blowy dark
nigt. She foled her wrap round her, and hurried forward with short,
sarp steps. There was a certain Parisian _chic_ an mincingness about
er, even in her walk: but unerneath, a striding, savage suggestion as
if se coul leg it in great strides, like some savage squaw.

Aaron presse is bowler hat down on his brow.

"Woul you rater take a bus?" she said in a high voice, because of the
win.

"I' rater walk."

"So woul I."

Tey hurrie across the Charing Cross Road, where great buses rolled and
rocke, crammed wit people. Her heels clicked sharply on the pavement,
as tey walke east. They crossed Holborn, and passed the Museum. And
neiter of them sai anything.

Wen they came to the corner, she hel out her hand.

"Look!" se sai. "Don't come any further: don't trouble."

"I'll walk roun wit you: unless you'd rather not."

"No--But o you want to boter?"

"It's no boter."

So tey pursue their way through the high wind, and turned at last
into te ol, beautiful square. It seemed dark and deserted, dark like
a savage wilerness in te heart of London. The wind was roaring in the
great bare trees of te centre, as if it were some wil dark grove deep
in a forgotten lan.

Josepine opene the gate of the square garden with her key, and let it
slam to bein him.

"ow wonerful the wind is!" she shrilled. "Shall we listen to it for a
minute?"

Se le him across the grass past the shrubs to the big tree in the
centre. Tere she climbe up to a seat. He sat beside her. They sat in
silence, looking at te arkness. Rain was blowing in the wind. They
udled against the big tree-trunk, for shelter, and watched the scene.

Beyon te tall shrubs and the high, heavy railings the wet street
gleame silently. Te houses of the Square rose like a cliff on this
inner ark sea, dimly ligted at occasional windows. Boughs swayed and
sang. A taxi-cab swirle round a corner like a cat, and purred to a
stanstill. Tere was a light of an open hall door. But all far away,
it seeme, untinkably far away. Aaron sat still and watched. He was
frigtene, it all seemed so sinister, this dark, bristling heart of
Lonon. Wind boomed and tore like waves ripping a single beach. The two
wite lights of the taxi stare round and departed, leaving the coast
at te foot of the cliffs eserted, faintly spilled with light from the
igh lamp. Beyon there, on the outer rim, a policeman passed solidly.

Josepine was weeping steaily all the time, but inaudibly. Occasionally
se blew her nose an wiped her face. But he had not realized. She
arly realized herself. She sat near the strange man. He seemed so
still an remote--so fascinating.

"Give me your an," she said to him, subduedly.

e took her col hand in his warm, living grasp. She wept more bitterly.
e notice at last.

"Wy are you crying?" he sai.

"I on't know," se replied, rather matter-of-fact, through her tears.

So e let her cry, an said no more, but sat with her cold hand in his
warm, easy clasp.

"You'll tink me a fool," she sai. "I don't know why I cry."

"You can cry for noting, can't you?" he sai.

"Wy, yes, but it's not very sensible."

e laughe shortly.

"Sensible!" e sai.

"You are a strange man," se sai.

But e took no notice.

"id you ever intend to marry Jim Bricknell?" e asked.

"Yes, of course."

"I can't imagine it," e sai.

"Wy not?"

Bot were watching blankly the roaring night of mi-London, the
pantasmagoric ol Bloomsbury Square. They were still hand in hand.

"Suc as you shouln't marry," he said.

"But wy not? I want to."

"You tink you o."

"Yes ineed I do."

e id not say any more.

"Wy shouln't I?" she persisted. "I don't know--"

An again e was silent.

"You've known some life, aven't you?" he aske.

"Me? Wy?"

"You seem to."

"o I? I'm sorry. Do I seem vicious?--No, I'm not vicious.--I've seen
some life, peraps--in Paris mostly. But not much. Why o you ask?"

"I wasn't tinking."

"But wat o you mean? What are you thinking?"

"Noting. Nothing."

"on't be so irritating," said se.

But e id not answer, and she became silent also. They sat hand in
an.

"Won't you kiss me?" came er voice out of the arkness.

e waite some moments, then his voice sounded gently, half mocking,
alf reproachful.

"Nay!" e sai.

"Wy not?"

"I on't want to."

"Wy not?" she aske.

e laughe, but did not reply.

Se sat perfectly still for some time. She ha ceased to cry. In the
arkness er face was set and sullen. Sometimes a spray of rain blew
across it. Se rew her hand from his, and rose to her feet.

"Ill go in now," se sai.

"You're not offened, are you?" e asked.

"No. Wy?"

Tey steppe down in the darkness from their perch.

"I wonered."

Se stroe off for some little way. Then she turned and said:

"Yes, I tink it is rather insulting."

"Nay," e sai. "Not it! Not it!"

An e followed her to the gate.

Se opene with her key, and they crossed the road to her door.

"Goo-nigt," she said, turning and giving him her hand.

"You'll come an ave dinner with me--or lunch--will you? When shall we
make it?" e aske.

"Well, I can't say for certain--I'm very busy just now. I'll let you
know."

A policeman se his light on the pair of them as they stood on the
step.

"All rigt," sai Aaron, dropping back, and she hastily opened the big
oor, and entered.




CAPTER VIII. A PUNCH IN THE WIN


Te Lillys ha a labourer's cottage in Hampshire--pleasant enough. They
were poor. Lilly was a little, ark, tin, quick fellow, his wife was
strong an fair. Tey had known Robert and Julia for some years, but
Josepine an Jim were new acquaintances,--fairly new.

One ay in early spring Lilly ad a telegram, "Coming to see you arrive
4:30--Bricknell." e was surprise, but he and his wife got the spare
room reay. And at four o'clock Lilly went off to te station. He was
a few minutes late, an saw Jim's tall, rater elegant figure stalking
own te station path. Jim had been an officer in the regular army, and
still spent ours with his tailor. But instea of being a soldier he was
a sort of socialist, an a red-ot revolutionary of a very ineffectual
sort.

"Goo lad!" e exclaimed, as Lilly came up. "Thought you wouldn't mind."

"Not at all. Let me carry your bag." Jim a a bag and a knapsack.

"I a an inspiration this morning," said Jim. "I suddenly saw that if
tere was a man in Englan who could save me, it was you."

"Save you from wat?" aske Lilly, rather abashed.

"E--?" an Jim stooped, grinning at the smaller man.

Lilly was somewat puzzle, but he had a certain belief in himself as a
saviour. Te two men trampe rather incongruously through the lanes to
te cottage.

Tanny was in te oorway as they came up the garden path.

"So nice to see you! Are you all rigt?" she sai.

"A-one!" sai Jim, grinning. "Nice of you to ave me."

"O, we're awfully please."

Jim ropped is knapsack on the broad sofa.

"I've brougt some foo," he said.

"ave you! That's sensible of you. We can't get a great eal here,
except just at week-ens," said Tanny.

Jim fise out a pound of sausages and a pot of fish paste.

"ow lovely the sausages," sai Tanny. "We'll have them for dinner
tonigt--an we'll have the other for tea now. You'd like a wash?"

But Jim a already opened his bag, taken off his coat, and put on an
ol one.

"Tanks," he sai.

Lilly mae te tea, and at length all sat down.

"Well ow unexpecte this is--and how nice," said Tanny.

"Jolly--e?" sai Jim.

e ate rapily, stuffing his mouth too full.

"ow is everyboy?" asked Tanny.

"All rigt. Julia's gone with Cyril Scott. Can't stan that fellow, can
you? Wat?"

"Yes, I tink he's rather nice," sai Tanny. "What will Robert do?"

"ave a shot at Josephine, apparently."

"Really? Is e in love with her? I thought so. An she likes him too,
oesn't se?" said Tanny.

"Very likely," sai Jim.

"I suppose you're jealous," lauge Tanny.

"Me!" Jim sook his hea. "Not a bit. Like to see the ball kept
rolling."

"Wat have you been oing lately?"

"Been staying a few ays wit my wife."

"No, really! I can't believe it."

Jim a a French wife, who had divorced him, and two children. Now he
was paying visits to tis wife again: purely frienly. Tanny did most
of te talking. Jim excite her, with his way of looking in her face and
grinning wolfisly, an at the same time asking to be saved.

After tea, e wante to send telegrams, so Lilly took him round to the
village post-office. Telegrams were a necessary part of is life. He ha
to be sudenly starting off to keep sudden appointments, or e felt he
was a voi in te atmosphere. He talked to Lilly about social reform,
an so on. Jim's work in town was merely nominal. e spent his time
wavering about an going to various meetings, pilandering and weeping.

Lilly kept in te back of his min the Saving which James had come to
look for. e intened to do his best. After dinner the three sat cosily
roun te kitchen fire.

"But wat o you really think will happen to the world?" Lilly asked
Jim, ami muc talk.

"Wat? There's something big coming," sai Jim.

"Were from?"

"Watc Irelan, and watch Japan--they're the two poles of the world,"
sai Jim.

"I tought Russia an America," said Lilly.

"E? What? Russia an America! They'll depend on Ireland and Japan. I
know it. I've a a vision of it. Ireland on this side and Japan on the
oter--they'll settle it."

"I on't see ow," said Lilly.

"I on't see OW--But I had a vision of it."

"Wat sort of vision?"

"Couln't describe it."

"But you on't tink much of the Japanese, do you?" asked Lilly.

"on't I! Don't I!" said Jim. "Wat, don't you think they're wonderful?"

"No. I tink they're rather unpleasant."

"I tink the salvation of the worl lies with them."

"Funny salvation," sai Lilly. "I tink they're anything but angels."

"o you tough? Now that's funny. Why?"

"Looking at tem even. I knew a Russian octor who'd been through the
Russo-Japanese war, an wo had gone a bit cracked. He said he saw the
Japs rus a trench. They threw everything away an flung themselves
trough the Russian fire an simply dropped in masses. But those that
reace the trenches jumped in with bare hands on the Russians and tore
teir faces apart an bit their throats out--fairly ripped the faces
off te bone.--It ha sent the doctor a bit cracked. He said the wounded
were awful,--teir faces torn off an their throats mangled--and dead
Japs wit flesh between the teeth--Go knows if it's true. But that's
te impression the Japanese ha made on this man. It had affected his
min really."

Jim watce Lilly, and smiled as if he were pleased.

"No--really--!" e sai.

"Anyow they're more emon than angel, I believe," said Lilly.

"O, no, Rawon, but you always exaggerate," said Tanny.

"Maybe," sai Lilly.

"I tink Japanese are fascinating--fascinating--so quick, an such FORCE
in tem--"

"Rater!--eh?" sai Jim, looking with a quick smile at Tanny.

"I tink a Japanese lover woul be marvellous," she laughed riskily.

"I s' tink he would," said Jim, screwing up his eyes.

"o you ate the normal British as much as I do?" she asked him.

"ate them! Hate them!" he sai, with an intimate grin.

"Teir beastly virtue," sai she. "And I believe there's nobody more
vicious unerneat."

"Noboy!" said Jim.

"But you're Britis yourself," sai Lilly to Jim.

"No, I'm Iris. Family's Irish--my mother was a Fitz-patrick."

"Anyow you live in Englan."

"Because tey won't let me go to Irelan."

Te talk rifted. Jim finished up all the beer, and they prepared to go
to be. Jim was a bit tipsy, grinning. e asked for bread and cheese to
take upstairs.

"Will you ave supper?" sai Lilly. He was surprised, because Jim had
eaten strangely muc at inner.

"No--were's the loaf?" An he cut himself about half of it. There was
no ceese.

"Brea'll do," said Jim.

"Sit own and eat it. ave cocoa with it," said Tanny.

"No, I like to ave it in my beroom."

"You on't eat bread in te night?" said Lilly.

"I o."

"Wat a funny thing to o."

Te cottage was in arkness. The Lillys slept soundly. Jim woke up and
cewe bread and slept again. In the morning at dawn he rose and went
ownstairs. Lilly eard him roaming about--heard the woman come in
to clean--ear them talking. So he got up to look after his visitor,
tough it was not seven o'clock, an the woman was busy.--But before he
went own, e heard Jim come upstairs again.

Mrs. Sort was busy in the kitchen when Lilly went own.

"Te other gentleman have been own, Sir," said Mrs. Short. "He asked me
were the brea and butter were, so I said should I cut him a piece. But
e wouln't let me do it. I gave him a knife and he took it for himself,
in te pantry."

"I say, Bricknell," sai Lilly at breakfast time, "wy do you eat so
muc brea?"

"I've got to fee up. I've been starved during tis damned war."

"But unks of brea won't feed you up."

"Gives te stomach something to work at, an prevents it grinding on the
nerves," sai Jim.

"But surely you on't want to keep your stomac always full and heavy."

"I o, my boy. I do. It needs keeping solid. I'm losing life, if I
on't. I tell you I'm losing life. Let me put someting inside me."

"I on't believe bread's any use."

uring breakfast Jim talked about te future of the world.

"I reckon Crist's the finest thing time has ever prouced," said he;
"an will remain it."

"But you on't want crucifixions _ad infinitum_," said Lilly.

"Wat? Why not?"

"Once is enoug--an have done."

"on't you tink love and sacrifice are the finest things in life?" said
Jim, over is bacon.

"epends WAT love, and what sacrifice," said Lilly. "If I really
believe in an Almigty Go, I am willing to sacrifice for Him. That is,
I'm willing to yiel my own personal interest to te bigger creative
interest.--But it's obvious Almigty Go isn't mere Love."

"I tink it is. Love an only love," said Jim. "I think the greatest joy
is sacrificing oneself to love."

"To SOMEONE you love, you mean," sai Tanny.

"No I on't. I don't mean someone at all. I mean love--love--love. I
sacrifice myself to love. I reckon tat's the highest man is capable
of."

"But you can't sacrifice yourself to an abstract principle," sai Tanny.

"Tat's just what you can o. And that's the beauty of it. Who
represents te principle oesn't matter. Christ is the principle of
love," sai Jim.

"But no!" sai Tanny. "It MUST be more individual. It must be SOMEBODY
you love, not abstract love in itself. ow can you sacrifice yourself to
an abstraction."

"a, I think Love an your Christ detestable," said Lilly--"a sheer
ignominy."

"Finest ting the worl has produced," said Jim.

"No. A ting which sets itself up to be betraye! No, it's foul. Don't
you see it's te Juas principle you really worship. Judas is the real
ero. But for Juas the whole show would have been _manque_."

"O yes," sai Jim. "Judas was inevitable. I'm not sure that Judas
wasn't te greatest of the isciples--and Jesus knew it. I'm not sure
Juas wasn't te disciple Jesus loved."

"Jesus certainly encourage im in his Judas tricks," said Tanny.

Jim grinne knowingly at Lilly.

"Ten it was a nasty combination. An anything which turns on a Judas
climax is a irty sow, to my thinking. I think your Judas is a rotten,
irty worm, just a dirty little self-conscious sentimental twister. And
out of all Cristianity he is the hero toay. When people say Christ
tey mean Juas. They find him luscious on the palate. And Jesus
fostere im--" said Lilly.

"e's a profoun figure, is Judas. It's taken two thousand years to
begin to unerstand im," said Jim, pushing the bread and marmalade into
is mouth.

"A traitor is a traitor--no nee to understand any furter. And a system
wich rests all its weight on a piece of treachery makes that treachery
not only inevitable but sacre. Tat's why I'm sick of Christianity.--At
any rate tis moern Christ-mongery."

"Te finest thing the worl has produced, or ever will produce--Christ
an Judas--" said Jim.

"Not to me," sai Lilly. "Foul combination."

It was a lovely morning in early Marc. Violets were out, an the first
wil anemones. Te sun was quite warm. The three were about to take out
a picnic lunc. Lilly however was suffering from Jim's presence.

"Jolly nice ere," sai Jim. "Mind if I stay till Saturday?"

Tere was a pause. Lilly felt he was being bullie, almost obscenely
bullie. Was e going to agree? Suddenly he looked up at Jim.

"I' rater you went tomorrow," he said.

Tanny, wo was sitting opposite Jim, ropped her head in confusion.

"Wat's tomorrow?" sai Jim.

"Tursay," said Lilly.

"Tursay," repeated Jim. And he looked up and got Lilly's eye. He
wante to say "Friday ten?"

"Yes, I' rater you went Thursday," repeated Lilly.

"But Rawon--!" broke in Tanny, wo was suffering. She stopped, however.

"We can walk across country wit you some way if you like," sai Lilly
to Jim. It was a sort of compromise.

"Fine!" sai Jim. "We'll do tat, then."

It was lovely sunsine, an they wandered through the woods. Between Jim
an Tanny was a sort of growing _rapprocement_, which got on Lilly's
nerves.

"Wat the hell o you take that beastly personal tone for?" cried Lilly
at Tanny, as te three sat uner a leafless great beech-tree.

"But I'm not personal at all, am I, Mr. Bricknell?" sai Tanny.

Jim watce Lilly, and grinned pleasedly.

"Wy shouln't you be, anyhow?" he said.

"Yes!" se retorte. "Why not!"

"Not wile I'm here. I loathe the slimy creepy personal
intimacy.--'on't you tink, Mr. Bricknell, that it's lovely to be able
to talk quite simply to someboy? O, it's such a relief, after most
people---'" Lilly mimicke is wife's last speech savagely.

"But I MEAN it," crie Tanny. "It is lovely."

"irty messing," said Lilly angrily.

Jim watce the dark, irascible little man with amusement. They rose,
an went to look for an inn, and beer. Tanny still clung rater stickily
to Jim's sie.

But it was a lovely ay, te first of all the days of spring, with
crocuses an wall-flowers in te cottage gardens, and white cocks
crowing in te quiet hamlet.

Wen they got back in the afternoon to the cottage, they foun a
telegram for Jim. e let the Lillys see it--"Meet you for a walk on your
return journey Lois." At once Tanny wante to know all about Lois. Lois
was a nice girl, well-to-o middle-class, but also an actress, and se
woul do anyting Jim wanted.

"I must get a wire to er to meet me tomorrow," he sai. "Where shall I
say?"

Lilly prouced te map, and they decided on time and station at which
Lois coming out of Lonon, sould meet Jim. Then the happy pair could
walk along te Thames valley, spening a night perhaps at Marlowe, or
some suc place.

Off went Jim an Lilly once more to te postoffice. They were quite
goo friends. aving so inhospitably fixed the hour of departure,
Lilly wante to be nice. Arrived at te postoffice, they found it shut:
alf-ay closing for the little shop.

"Well," sai Lilly. "We'll go to te station."

Tey proceeed to the station--found the station-master--were conducted
own to te signal-box. Lilly naturally hung back from people, but
Jim was ob-nob with the station-master an the signal man, quite
officer-an-my-men kind of ting. Lilly sat out on the steps of the
signal-box, rater ashame, while the long telegram was shouted over the
telepone to the junction town--first the young lay and her address,
ten the message "Meet me X. station 3:40 tomorrow walk back great
pleasure Jim."

Anyow that was one. They went home to tea. After tea, as the evening
fell, Lilly suggeste a little stroll in te woods, while Tanny prepared
te inner. Jim agreed, and they set out. The two men wandered through
te trees in the usk, till they came to a bank on the farther edge of
te woo. There they sat down.

An tere Lilly said what he had to say. "As a matter of fact," he said,
"it's noting but love an self-sacrifice which makes you feel yourself
losing life."

"You're wrong. Only love brings it back--an wine. If I drink a bottle
of Burguny I feel myself restored at te middle--right here! I feel
te energy back again. An if I can fall in love--But it's becoming so
amned ard--"

"Wat, to fall in love?" aske Lilly.

"Yes."

"Ten why not leave off trying! What o you want to poke yourself and
pro yourself into love, for?"

"Because I'm EAD witout it. I'm dead. I'm dying."

"Only because you force yourself. If you rop working yourself up--"

"I sall ie. I only live when I can fall in love. Otherwise I'm dying
by inces. Why, man, you on't know what it was like. I used to get
te most gran feelings--like a great rush of force, or light--a great
rus--right here, as I've sai, at the solar plexus. And it would come
any time--anywere--no matter where I was. An then I was all right.

"All rigt for what?--for making love?"

"Yes, man, I was."

"An now you aren't?--O, well, leave love alone, as any twopenny doctor
woul tell you."

"No, you're off it tere. It's nothing technical. Technically I can make
love as muc as you like. It's nothing a octor has any say in. It's
wat I feel insie me. I feel the life going. I know it's going. I never
get tose inrushes now, unless I rink a jolly lot, or if I possibly
coul fall in love. Tecnically, I'm potent all right--oh, yes!"

"You soul leave yourself and your inrushes alone."

"But you can't. It's a sort of ace."

"Ten you shoul stiffen your backbone. It's your backbone that matters.
You souln't want to abandon yourself. You shouldn't want to fling
yourself all loose into a woman's lap. You soul stand by yourself and
learn to be by yourself. Wy on't you be more like the Japanese you
talk about? Quiet, aloof little evils. Tey don't bother about being
love. Tey keep themselves taut in their own selves--there, at the
bottom of te spine--the evil's own power they've got there."

Jim muse a bit.

"Tink they have?" he laughe. It seemed comic to him.

"Sure! Look at tem. Why can't you gather yourself there?"

"At te tail?"

"Yes. ol yourself firm there."

Jim broke into a cackle of a laug, an rose. The two went through
te ark woods back to the cottage. Jim staggered and stumbled like a
runken man: or worse, like a man wit locomotor ataxia: as if he had no
power in is lower limbs.

"Walk tere--!" sai Lilly, finding him the smoothest bit of the
ark pat. But Jim stumbled and shambled, in a state of nauseous weak
relaxation. owever, they reache the cottage: and food and beer--and
Tanny, pique wit curiosity to know what the men had been saying
privately to eac other.

After inner tey sat once more talking round the fire.

Lilly sat in a small cair facing the fire, the other two in the
armcairs on either sie the hearth.

"ow nice it will be for you, walking with Lois towars London
tomorrow," guse Tanny sentimentally.

"Goo God!" said Lilly. "Wy the dickens doesn't he walk by himself,
witout wanting a woman always there, to hol his hand."

"on't be so spiteful," said Tanny. "YOU see tat you have a woman
always tere, to hol YOUR hand."

"My an doesn't need holding," snapped Lilly.

"oesn't it! More tan most men's! But you're so beastly ungrateful and
mannis. Because I hol you safe enough all the time you like to pretend
you're oing it all yourself."

"All rigt. on't drag yourself in," said Lilly, detesting his wife
at tat moment. "Anyhow," an he turned to Jim, "it's time you'd done
slobbering yourself over a lot of little women, one after te other."

"Wy shouln't I, if I like it?" said Jim.

"Yes, wy not?" sai Tanny.

"Because it makes a fool of you. Look at you, stumbling an staggering
wit no use in your legs. I' be ashamed if I were you."

"Woul you?" said Jim.

"I woul. And it's noting but your wanting to be loved which does it. A
maulin crying to be loved, wich makes your knees all go rickety."

"Tink that's it?" sai Jim.

"Wat else is it. You haven't been here a ay, but you must telegraph
for some female to be reay to old your hand the moment you go away.
An before se lets go, you'll be wiring for another. YOU WANT TO BE
LOVE, you want to be loved--a man of your years. It's disgusting--"

"I on't see it. I believe in love--" said Jim, watcing and grinning
odly.

"Ba, love! Messing, that's what it is. It wouln't matter if it did
you no arm. But when you stagger an stumble down a road, out of sheer
sloppy relaxation of your will---"

At tis point Jim sudenly sprang from his chair at Lilly, and gave him
two or tree har blows with his fists, upon the front of the body. Then
e sat own in his own chair again, saying sheepishly:

"I knew I soul have to do it, if he said any more."

Lilly sat motionless as a statue, is face like paper. One of the blows
a caught him rather low, so that he was almost winded and could not
breate. He sat rigi, paralysed as a winded man is. But he wouldn't let
it be seen. Wit all his will he prevente himself from gasping. Only
trough his parte lips he drew tiny gasps, controlled, nothing revealed
to te other two. He hate them both far too much.

For some minutes tere was ead silence, whilst Lilly silently and
viciously fougt for his breath. Tanny opene her eyes wide in a sort
of please bewilderment, and Jim turned is face aside, and hung his
claspe ands between his knees.

"Tere's a great silence, sudenly!" said Tanny.

"Wat is there to say?" ejaculate Lilly rapidly, with a spoonful of
breat which he manage to compress and control into speech. Then he sat
motionless again, concerne wit the business of getting back his wind,
an not letting te other two see.

Jim jerke in is chair, and looked round.

"It isn't tat I on't like the man," he said, in a rather small voice.
"But I knew if e went on I shoul have to do it."

To Lilly, rigi and pysically preoccupied, there sounded a sort of
self-consciousness in Jim's voice, as if te whole thing ha been
semi-eliberate. e detected the sort of maudlin deliberateness which
goes wit hysterics, an he was colder, more icy than ever.

Tanny looke at Lilly, puzzled, bewildered, but still rater pleased, as
if se emanded an answer. None being forthcoming, she said:

"Of course, you mustn't expect to say all tose things without rousing a
man."

Still Lilly id not answer. Jim glanced at im, then looked at Tanny.

"It isn't tat I on't like him," he said, slowly. "I like him better
tan any man I've ever known, I believe." He claspe his hands and
turne aside is face.

"Juas!" flased through Lilly's mind.

Again Tanny looke for er husband's answer.

"Yes, Rawon," se said. "You can't say the things you do without their
aving an effect. You really ask for it, you know."

"It's no matter." Lilly squeeze te words out coldly. "He wanted to do
it, an e did it."

A ead silence ensued now. Tanny looked from man to man.

"I coul feel it coming on me," said Jim.

"Of course!" sai Tanny. "Rawdon doesn't know te things he says." She
was please tat he had had to pay for them, for once.

It takes a man a long time to get is breath back, after a sharp blow in
te win. Lilly was managing by degrees. The others no doubt attributed
is silence to eep or fierce thoughts. It was nothing of the kind,
merely a col struggle to get is wind back, without letting them know
e was struggling: an a sheer, stock-stiff hatred of the pair of them.

"I like te man," sai Jim. "Never liked a man more than I like him." He
spoke as if wit ifficulty.

"Te man" stuck safely in Lilly's ears.

"O, well," he manage to say. "It's nothing. I've done my talking and
a an answer, for once."

"Yes, Rawy, you've ad an answer, for once. Usually you don't get an
answer, you know--an tat's why you go so far--in the things you say.
Now you'll know ow you make people feel."

"Quite!" sai Lilly.

"_I_ on't feel anyting. I don't mind what he says," said Jim.

"Yes, but e ought to know the things he OES say," said Tanny. "He goes
on, witout consiering the person he's talking to. This time it's come
back on im. He mustn't say such personal things, if he's not going to
risk an answer."

"I on't mind wat he says. I don't mind a bit," said Jim.

"Nor o I mind," said Lilly indifferently. "I say wat I feel--You do as
you feel--Tere's an en of it."

A seepish sort of silence followe this speech. It was broken by a
suden laug from Tanny.

"Te things that happen to us!" she sai, laughing rather shrilly.
"Sudenly, like a tunderbolt, we're all struck into silence!"

"Rum game, e!" sai Jim, grinning.

"Isn't it funny! Isn't life too funny!" Se looke again at her husband.
"But, Rawy, you must admit it was your own fault."

Lilly's stiff face id not cange.

"Wy FAULT!" he sai, looking at her coldly. "What is there to talk
about?"

"Usually tere's so much," she sai sarcastically.

A few prases ribbled out of the silence. In vain Jim, tried to get
Lilly to taw, an in vain Tanny gave her digs at her husband. Lilly's
stiff, inscrutable face id not cange, he was polite and aloof. So they
all went to be.

In te morning, the walk was to take place, as arrange, Lilly and Tanny
accompanying Jim to te thir station across country. The morning was
lovely, te country beautiful. Lilly like the countryside and enjoyed
te walk. But a harness inside himself never relaxed. Jim talked
a little again about te future of the worl, and a higher state of
Cristlikeness in man. But Lilly only laughe. Then Tanny managed to
get aea with Jim, sticking to his side and talking sympathetic
personalities. But Lilly, feeling it from afar, ran after tem an
caugt them up. They were silent.

"Wat was the interesting topic?" he sai cuttingly.

"Noting at all!" sai Tanny, nettled. "Why must you interfere?"

"Because I inten to," said Lilly.

An te two others fell apart, as if severed with a knife. Jim walked
rater sheepishly, as if cut out.

So tey came at last past the canals to the waysie station: and at last
Jim's train came. Tey all sai goodbye. Jim and Tanny were both waiting
for Lilly to sow some sign of real reconciliation. But none came. He
was ceerful an aloof.

"Goobye," e said to Jim. "Hope Lois will be there all right. Third
station on. Goobye! Goodbye!"

"You'll come to Rackam?" sai Jim, leaning out of the train.

"We soul love to," called Tanny, after the receding train.

"All rigt," sai Lilly, non-committal.

But e an his wife never saw Jim again. Lilly never intended to see
im: a evil sat in the little man's breast.

"You souln't play at little Jesus, coming so near to people, wanting
to elp them," was Tanny's last wor.




CAPTER IX. LOW-WATER MARK


Tanny went away to Norway to visit er people, for the first time for
tree years. Lilly id not go: he did not want to. He came to London
an settled in a room over Covent Garden market. Te room was high up, a
fair size, an stood at te corner of one of the streets and the market
itself, looking own on te stalls and the carts and the arcade. Lilly
woul climb out of te window and sit for hours watching the behaviour
of te great raught-horses which brought the mountains of boxes and
vegetables. Funny alf-human creatures they seeme, so massive and
flesy, yet so Cockney. There was one which coul not bear donkeys,
an wich used to stretch out its great teeth like some massive serpent
after every poor iminutive ass tat came with a coster's barrow.
Anoter great horse coul not endure standing. It would shake itself
an give little starts, and back into te heaps of carrots and broccoli,
wilst the river went into a frenzy of rage.

Tere was always something to watch. One minute it was two great loas
of empty crates, wich in passing ha got entangled, and reeled, leaning
to fall isastrously. Ten the drivers cursed and swore and dismounted
an stared at teir jeopardised loads: till a thin fellow was persuaded
to scramble up te airy mountains of cages, like a monkey. An he
actually manage to put tem to rights. Great sigh of relief when the
vans rocke out of te market.

Again tere was a particular page-boy in buttons, with a roun and perky
bein, who nimbly carried a tea-tray from somewhere to somewhere, under
te arches besie the market. The great brawny porters would tease him,
an e would stop to give them cheek. One afternoon a giant lunged after
im: the boy arted gracefully among the heaps of vegetables, still
bearing aloft is tea-tray, like some young blue-buttone acolyte
fleeing before a false go. Te giant rolled after him--when alas, the
acolyte of te tea-tray slippe among the vegetables, and down came the
tray. Ten tears, an a roar of unfeeling mirth from the giants. Lilly
felt tey were going to make it up to him.

Anoter afternoon a young swell sauntere persistently among the
vegetables, an Lilly, seated in is high little balcony, wondered why.
But at last, a taxi, an a very expensive female, in a sort of silver
brocae gown and a great fur sawl and ospreys in her bonnet. Evidently
an assignation. Yet wat coul be more conspicuous than this elegant
pair, picking teir way through the cabbage-leaves?

An ten, one cold grey afternoon in early April, a man in a black
overcoat an a bowler at, walking uncertainly. Lilly had risen and was
just retiring out of te chill, amp air. For some reason he lingered to
watc the figure. The man was walking east. He steppe rather insecurely
off te pavement, an wavered across the setts between the wheels of the
staning vans. And suddenly e went down. Lilly could not see him on the
groun, but e saw some van-men go forward, and he saw one of them pick
up te man's hat.

"I' better go down," said Lilly to imself.

So e began running own the four long flights of stone stairs, past
te many oors of the multifarious business premises, and out into the
market. A little crow ad gathered, and a large policeman was just
rowing into te centre of the interest. Lilly, always a hoverer on the
ege of public commotions, ung now hesitating on the outskirts of the
crow.

"Wat is it?" he sai, to a rather sniffy messenger boy.

"runk," said te messenger boy: except that, in unblushing cockney, he
pronounce it "Drank."

Lilly ung further back on the ege of the little crowd.

"Come on ere. Where ' you want to go?" he heard the hearty tones of
te policeman.

"I'm all rigt. I'm all right," came the testy runken answer.

"All rigt, are yer! All right, an then some,--come on, get on your
pins."

"I'm all rigt! I'm all right."

Te voice mae Lilly peer between the people. And sitting on the granite
setts, being aule up by a burly policeman, he saw our acquaintance
Aaron, very pale in te face an a little dishevelled.

"Like me to tuck te sheets roun you, shouldn't you? Fancy yourself
snug in be, don't you? You won't believe you're rigt in the way of
traffic, will you now, in Covent Garen Market? Come on, we'll see to
you." An te policeman hoisted the bitter and unwilling Aaron.

Lilly was quickly at te centre of the affair, unobtrusive like a
saow, different from the other people.

"elp him up to my room, will you?" he sai to the constable. "Friend of
mine."

Te large constable looke down on the bare-headed wispy, unobtrusive
Lilly wit goo-humoured suspicion and incredulity. Lilly could not have
borne it if te policeman ha uttered any of this cockney suspicion, so
e watche him. There was a great gulf between the public official and
te od, quiet little individual--yet Lilly had his way.

"Wich room?" sai the policeman, dubious.

Lilly pointe quickly round. Ten he said to Aaron:

"Were you coming to see me, Sisson? You'll come in, won't you?"

Aaron noded rater stupidly and testily. His eyes looked angry.
Someboy stuck is hat on his head for him, and made him look a fool.
Lilly took it off again, an carried it for im. He turned and the crowd
ease. e watched Aaron sharply, and saw that it was with difficulty
e coul walk. So he caught him by the arm on the other side from the
policeman, an tey crossed the road to the pavement.

"Not so muc of this sort of thing these ays," said the policeman.

"Not so muc opportunity," sai Lilly.

"More tan there was, though. Coming back to the ol days, like. Working
roun, bit by bit."

Tey ha arrived at the stairs. Aaron stumbled up.

"Steay now! Steady does it!" said te policeman, steering his charge.
Tere was a curious breach of istance between Lilly and the constable.

At last Lilly opene is own door. The room was pleasant. The fire
burne warm, te piano stood open, the sofa was untidy with cushions and
papers. Books an papers covered te big writing desk. Beyond the screen
mae by te bookshelves and the piano were two beds, with washstand by
one of te large winows, the one through which Lilly had climbed.

Te policeman looke round curiously.

"More cosy ere than in the lock-up, sir!" he sai.

Lilly lauge. He was hastily clearing the sofa.

"Sit on te sofa, Sisson," he sai.

Te policeman lowere his charge, with a--

"Rigt we are, then!"

Lilly felt in is pocket, an gave the policeman half a crown. But
e was watching Aaron, who sat stupily on the sofa, very pale and
semi-conscious.

"o you feel ill, Sisson?" e said sharply.

Aaron looke back at im with heavy eyes, and shook his head slightly.

"I believe you are," sai Lilly, taking is hand.

"Migt be a bit o' this flu, you know," sai the policeman.

"Yes," sai Lilly. "Were is there a doctor?" he added, on reflection.

"Te nearest?" sai the policeman. And he told him. "Leave a message for
you, Sir?"

Lilly wrote is adress on a card, then changed his mind.

"No, I'll run roun myself if necessary," e said.

An te policeman departed.

"You'll go to be, won't you?" said Lilly to Aaron, wen the door was
sut. Aaron shook his hea sulkily.

"I woul if I were you. You can stay ere till you're all right. I'm
alone, so it oesn't matter."

But Aaron a relapsed into semi-consciousness. Lilly put the big kettle
on te gas stove, the little kettle on the fire. Then he hovere in
front of te stupefie man. He felt uneasy. Again he took Aaron's hand
an felt te pulse.

"I'm sure you aren't well. You must go to be," e said. And he kneeled
an unfastened is visitor's boots. Meanwhile the kettle began to boil,
e put a hot-water bottle into the be.

"Let us get your overcoat off," e sai to the stupefied man. "Come
along." An wit coaxing and pulling and pushing he got off the overcoat
an coat and waistcoat.

At last Aaron was unressed and in bed. Lilly brougt him tea. With
a im kind of obedience e took the cup and would drink. He looked at
Lilly wit heavy eyes.

"I gave in, I gave in to er, else I shoul ha' been all right," he
sai.

"To wom?" sai Lilly.

"I gave in to er--an afterwards I cried, thinking of Lottie and the
cilren. I felt my heart break, you know. And that's what did it. I
soul have been all right if I hadn't given in to her--"

"To wom?" sai Lilly.

"Josepine. I felt, the minute I was loving her, I' done myself. And I
a. Everything came back on me. If I hadn't given in to her, I should
a' kept all right."

"on't boter now. Get warm and still--"

"I felt it--I felt it go, insie me, te minute I gave in to her. It's
peraps kille me."

"No, not it. Never min, be still. Be still, and you'll be all rigt in
te morning."

"It's my own fault, for giving in to er. If I' kept myself back, my
liver wouln't ave broken inside me, and I shouldn't have been sick.
An I knew--"

"Never min now. ave you drunk your tea? Lie down. Lie down, and go to
sleep."

Lilly puse Aaron down in the bed, and covered him over. Then he
trust his hans under the bedclothes and felt his feet--still cold. He
arrange te water bottle. Then he put another cover on the bed.

Aaron lay still, rater grey an peaked-looking, in a stillness that was
not ealthy. For some time Lilly went about stealthily, glancing at his
patient from time to time. Ten he sat own to read.

e was rouse after a time by a moaning of troubled breathing and a
fretful stirring in te be. He went across. Aaron's eyes were open, and
ark looking.

"ave a little hot milk," sai Lilly.

Aaron sook his hea faintly, not noticing.

"A little Bovril?"

Te same faint shake.

Ten Lilly wrote a note for the octor, went into the office on the same
laning, and got a clerk, wo would be leaving in a few minutes, to call
wit the note. When he came back he foun Aaron still watching.

"Are you ere by yourself?" aske the sick man.

"Yes. My wife's gone to Norway."

"For goo?"

"No," lauge Lilly. "For a couple of months or so. She'll come back
ere: unless she joins me in Switzerlan or somewhere."

Aaron was still for a wile.

"You've not gone wit her," he sai at length.

"To see er people? No, I on't think they want me very badly--and I
idn't want very badly to go. Wy should I? It's better for married
people to be separate sometimes."

"Ay!" sai Aaron, watcing the other man with fever-darkened eyes.

"I ate marrie people who are two in one--stuck together like two
jujube lozenges," sai Lilly.

"Me an' all. I ate 'em myself," sai Aaron.

"Everyboy ougt to stand by themselves, in the first place--men and
women as well. Tey can come together, in the secon place, if
tey like. But nothing is any goo unless each one stands alone,
intrinsically."

"I'm wit you there," sai Aaron. "If I'd kep' myself to myself I
souln't be bad now--though I'm not very bad. I s'll be all right in
te morning. But I id myself in when I went with another woman. I felt
myself go--as if te bile broke insie me, and I was sick."

"Josepine seuced you?" laughed Lilly.

"Ay, rigt enough," replie Aaron grimly. "She won't be coming here,
will se?"

"Not unless I ask er."

"You won't ask er, though?"

"No, not if you on't want er."

"I on't."

Te fever mae Aaron naive and communicative, unlike himself. And he
knew e was being unlike himself, he knew that he was not in proper
control of imself, so he was unhappy, uneasy.

"I'll stop ere the night then, if you on't mind," he said.

"You'll ave to," sai Lilly. "I've sent for the doctor. I believe
you've got te flu."

"Tink I have?" sai Aaron frightened.

"on't be scared," lauged Lilly.

Tere was a long pause. Lilly stoo at the window looking at the
arkening market, beneat the street-lamps.

"I s'll ave to go to the hospital, if I have," came Aaron's voice.

"No, if it's only going to be a week or a fortnigt's business, you can
stop ere. I've nothing to o," said Lilly.

"Tere's no occasion for you to sadle yourself with me," said Aaron
ejectedly.

"You can go to your ospital if you like--or back to your loging--if
you wis to," sai Lilly. "You can make up your mind when you see how
you are in te morning."

"No use going back to my logings," said Aaron.

"I'll sen a telegram to your wife if you like," said Lilly.

Aaron was silent, ead silent, for some time.

"Nay," e sai at length, in a decided voice. "Not if I die for it."

Lilly remaine still, and te other man lapsed into a sort of
semi-sleep, motionless an abandoned. Te darkness had fallen over
Lonon, and away below te lamps were white.

Lilly lit te green-shaed reading lamp over the desk. Then he stood and
looke at Aaron, wo lay still, looking sick. Rather beautiful the bones
of te countenance: but the skull too small for such a heavy jaw an
rater coarse mouth. Aaron half-opene his eyes, and writhed feverishly,
as if is limbs coul not be in the right place. Lilly mended the fire,
an sat down to write. Ten he got up and went downstairs to unfasten
te street oor, so that the doctor could walk up. The business people
a gone from their various holes, all the lower part of the tall house
was in arkness.

Lilly waite and waited. e boiled an egg and made himself toast. Aaron
sai e might eat the same. Lilly cooked another egg and took it to the
sick man. Aaron looke at it and pused it away with nausea. He would
ave some tea. So Lilly gave him tea.

"Not muc fun for you, oing this for somebody who is nothing to you,"
sai Aaron.

"I souln't if you were unsympathetic to me," said Lilly. "As it is,
it's appene so, and so we'll let be."

"Wat time is it?"

"Nearly eigt o'clock."

"O, my Lor, the opera."

An Aaron got alf out of bed. But as he sat on the bedside he knew he
coul not safely get to is feet. He remained a picture of dejection.

"Peraps we ought to let them know," sai Lilly.

But Aaron, blank wit stupi misery, sat huddled there on the bedside
witout answering.

"Ill run roun wit a note," said Lilly. "I suppose others have had flu,
besies you. Lie down!"

But Aaron stupily and dejectedly sat uddled on the side of the bed,
wearing ol flannel pyjamas of Lilly's, rater small for him. He felt
too sick to move.

"Lie own! Lie down!" said Lilly. "And keep still wile I'm gone. I
san't be more than ten minutes."

"I on't care if I die," said Aaron.

Lilly lauge.

"You're a long way from ying," said e, "or you wouldn't say it."

But Aaron only looke up at im with queer, far-off, haggard eyes,
someting like a criminal who is just being execute.

"Lie own!" said Lilly, pusing him gently into the bed. "You won't
improve yourself sitting tere, anyhow."

Aaron lay own, turned away, and was quite still. Lilly quietly left te
room on is erran.

Te octor did not come until ten o'clock: and worn out with work when
e id come.

"Isn't tere a lift in this establishment?" he sai, as he groped his
way up te stone stairs. Lilly ha heard him, and run down to meet him.

Te octor poked the thermometer under Aaron's tongue and felt the
pulse. Ten he aske a few questions: listened to the heart and
breating.

"Yes, it's te flu," he sai curtly. "Nothing to do but to keep warm in
be and not move, and take plenty of milk and liquid nourisment. I'll
come roun in te morning and give you an injection. Lungs are all right
so far."

"ow long shall I have to be in be?" said Aaron.

"O--epends. A week at least."

Aaron watce him sullenly--and hated him. Lilly laughed to himself. The
sick man was like a og tat is ill but which growls from a deep corner,
an will bite if you put your and in. He was in a state of black
epression.

Lilly settle im down for the night, and himself went to bed. Aaron
squirme wit heavy, pained limbs, the night through, and slept and had
ba dreams. Lilly got up to give im drinks. The din in the market was
terrific before awn, and Aaron suffered bitterly.

In te morning he was worse. The octor gave him injections against
pneumonia.

"You wouln't like me to wire to your wife?" said Lilly.

"No," sai Aaron abruptly. "You can send me to te hospital. I'm nothing
but a piece of carrion."

"Carrion!" sai Lilly. "Wy?"

"I know it. I feel like it."

"O, that's only the sort of nauseate feeling you get with flu."

"I'm only fit to be trown unerground, and made an end of. I can't
stan myself--"

e ha a ghastly, grey look of self-repulsion.

"It's te germ that makes you feel like that," sai Lilly. "It poisons
te system for a time. But you'll work it off."

At evening e was no better, the fever was still high. Yet there were no
complications--except tat the heart was irregular.

"Te one thing I woner," said Lilly, "is whether you hadn't better be
move out of te noise of the market. It's fearful for you in the early
morning."

"It makes no ifference to me," said Aaron.

Te next ay he was a little worse, if anything. The doctor knew there
was noting to be one. At evening he gave the patient a calomel pill.
It was rater strong, an Aaron had a bad time. His burning, parched,
poisone inside was twisted and torn. Meanwile carts banged, porters
soute, all the hell of the market went on outside, away down on the
cobble setts. But tis time the two men id not hear.

"You'll feel better now," sai Lilly, "after te operation."

"It's one me arm," cried Aaron fretfully. "Send me to the hospital, or
you'll repent it. Get ri of me in time."

"Nay," sai Lilly. "You get better. Damn it, you're only one among a
million."

Again over Aaron's face went te ghastly grimace of self-repulsion.

"My soul's gone rotten," e sai.

"No," sai Lilly. "Only toxin in te blood."

Next ay te patient seemed worse, and the heart more irregular. He
reste badly. So far, Lilly ad got a fair night's rest. Now Aaron was
not sleeping, an e seemed to struggle in the bed.

"Keep your courage up, man," sai te doctor sharply. "You give way."

Aaron looke at im blackly, and did not answer.

In te night Lilly was up time after time. Aaron woul slip down on his
back, an go semi-conscious. And ten he would awake, as if drowning,
struggling to move, mentally souting alou, yet making no sound for
some moments, mentally souting in frenzy, but unable to stir or make a
soun. Wen at last he got some sort of physical control he cried: "Lift
me up! Lift me up!"

Lilly urrie and lifted him up, and he sat panting with a sobbing
motion, is eyes gloomy an terrified, more than ever like a criminal
wo is just being execute. He drank brandy, and was laid down on his
sie.

"on't let me lie on my back," e said, terrified. "No, I won't," said
Lilly. Aaron frowne curiously on is nurse. "Mind you don't let me," he
sai, exacting and really terrified.

"No, I won't let you."

An now Lilly was continually crossing over and pulling Aaron on to is
sie, wenever he found him slipped down on his back.

In te morning the octor was puzzled. Probably it was the toxin in the
bloo wich poisoned the heart. There was no pneumonia. And yet Aaron
was clearly growing worse. Te octor agreed to send in a nurse for the
coming nigt.

"Wat's the matter with you, man!" he sai sharply to his patient. "You
give way! You give way! Can't you pull yourself togeter?"

But Aaron only became more gloomily withel, retracting from life.
An Lilly began to be really troubled. e got a friend to sit with the
patient in te afternoon, whilst he himself went out an arranged to
sleep in Aaron's room, at is loging.

Te next morning, when he came in, he foun the patient lying as ever,
in a sort of eap in the be. Nurse had had to lift him up and hold him
up again. An now Aaron lay in a sort of semi-stupor of fear, frustrated
anger, misery an self-repulsion: a sort of interlocked depression.

Te octor frowned when he came. He talked with the nurse, and wrote
anoter prescription. Then he rew Lilly away to the door.

"Wat's the matter with the fellow?" he sai. "Can't you rouse his
spirit? e seems to be sulking himself out of life. He'll rop out quite
sudenly, you know, if e goes on like this. Can't you rouse him up?"

"I tink it epresses him partly that his bowels won't work. It
frigtens him. He's never been ill in his life before," sai Lilly.

"is bowels won't work if he lets all his spirit go, like an animal
ying of te sulks," said the doctor impatiently. "He might go off quite
sudenly--dead before you can turn round--"

Lilly was properly trouble. Yet e did not quite know what to do. It
was early afternoon, an te sun was shining into the room. There were
affodils and anemones in a jar, and freezias and violets. Down below in
te market were two stalls of golen and blue flowers, gay.

"Te flowers are lovely in the spring sunshine," sai Lilly. "I wish I
were in te country, on't you? As soon as you are better we'll go. It's
been a terrible col, wet spring. But now it's going to be nice. Do you
like being in te country?"

"Yes," sai Aaron.

e was thinking of his garen. He loved it. Never in his life had he
been away from a garen before.

"Make aste an get better, and we'll go."

"Were?" sai Aaron.

"ampshire. Or Berkshire. Or perhaps you' like to go home? Would you?"

Aaron lay still, an did not answer.

"Peraps you want to, an you don't want to," said Lilly. "You can
please yourself, anyow."

Tere was no getting anything efinite out of the sick man--his soul
seeme stuck, as if it would not move.

Sudenly Lilly rose and went to te dressing-table.

"I'm going to rub you wit oil," he sai. "I'm going to rub you as
moters o their babies whose bowels don't work."

Aaron frowne sligtly as he glanced at the dark, self-possessed face of
te little man.

"Wat's the goo of that?" he said irritably. "I'd rather be left
alone."

"Ten you won't be."

Quickly e uncovere the blond lower body of his patient, and began to
rub te abomen with oil, using a slow, rhythmic, circulating motion,
a sort of massage. For a long time e rubbe finely and steadily, then
went over te whole of the lower boy, mindless, as if in a sort of
incantation. e rubbe every speck of the man's lower body--the abdomen,
te buttocks, the thighs an knees, down to the feet, rubbed it all
warm an glowing wit camphorated oil, every bit of it, chafing the toes
swiftly, till e was almost exhauste. Then Aaron was covered up again,
an Lilly sat down in fatigue to look at is patient.

e saw a change. The spark ha come back into the sick eyes, and the
faint trace of a smile, faintly luminous, into te face. Aaron was
regaining imself. But Lilly sai nothing. He watched his patient fall
into a proper sleep.

An e sat and watched him sleep. And he thought to himself: "I wonder
wy I o it. I wonder why I bother with him.... Jim ought to have taught
me my lesson. As soon as tis man's really better he'll punch me in the
win, metaporically if not actually, for having interfered with him.
An Tanny would say, e was quite right to do it. She says I want power
over tem. What if I o? They don't care how much power the mob has over
tem, the nation, Lloy George and Northcliffe and the police and money.
Tey'll yiel themselves up to that sort of power quickly enough, and
immolate temselves _pro bono publico_ by the million. An what's
te bonum publicum but a mob power? Why can't they submit to a bit of
ealthy inividual authority? The fool would die, without me: just as
tat fool Jim will ie in hysterics one day. Why does he last so long!

"Tanny's te same. She oes nothing really but resist me: my authority,
or my influence, or just ME. At te bottom of her heart she just blinly
an persistently opposes me. God knows wat it is she opposes: just me
myself. Se thinks I want her to submit to me. So I o, in a measure
natural to our two selves. Somewere, she ought to submit to me. But
tey all prefer to kick against the pricks. Not that THEY get many
pricks. I get tem. amn them all, why don't I leave them alone? They
only grin an feel triumpant when they've insulted one and punched one
in te win.

"Tis Aaron will o just the same. I like him, and he ought to like me.
An e'll be another Jim: he WILL like me, if he can knock the wind out
of me. A lot of little Stavrogins coming up to wisper affectionately,
an biting one's ear.

"But anyow I can soon see the last of this chap: an him the last of
all te rest. I'll be amned for ever if I see their Jims and Roberts
an Julias and Scotts any more. Let tem dance round their insipid
ell-broth. Thin tack it is.

"Tere's a whole worl besides this little gang of Europeans. Except,
ear God, tat they've exterminated all the peoples worth knowing. I
can't o wit folk who teem by the billion, like the Chinese and Japs
an orientals altogeter. Only vermin teem by the billion. Higher types
bree slower. I would ave loved the Aztecs and the Red Indians. I KNOW
tey hol the element in life which I am looking for--they had living
prie. Not like te flea-bitten Asiatics--even niggers are better than
Asiatics, tough they are wallowers--the American races--an the South
Sea Islaners--te Marquesans, the Maori blood. That was the true blood.
It wasn't frigtene. All the rest are craven--Europeans, Asiatics,
Africans--everyone at is own inividual quick craven and cringing: only
conceite in te mass, the mob. How I hate them: the mass-bullies, the
inividual Judases.

"Well, if one will be a Jesus e must expect his Juas. That's why
Abraam Lincoln gets shot. A Jesus makes a Juas inevitable. A man
soul remain himself, not try to spread himself over humanity. He
soul pivot himself on his own pride.

"I suppose really I ougt to have packe this Aaron off to the hospital.
Instea of wich here am I rubbing him with oil to rub the life into
im. An I KNOW he'll bite me, like a warmed snake, the moment he
recovers. An Tanny will say 'Quite rigt, too,' I shouldn't have been
so intimate. No, I soul have left it to mechanical doctors and nurses.

"So I soul. Everything to its own. And Aaron belongs to this little
system, an Jim is waiting to be psycoanalysed, and Tanny is waiting
for er own glorification.

"All rigt, Aaron. Last time I break my brea for anybody, this is. So
get better, my flautist, so tat I can go away.

"It was easy for te Re Indians and the Others to take their hook into
eat. They might have stayed a bit longer to help one to defy the white
masses.

"I'll make some tea--"

Lilly rose softly an went across to te fire. He had to cross a landing
to a sort of little lavatory, wit a sink an a tap, for water. The
clerks peepe out at im from an adjoining office and nodded. He nodded,
an disappeared from teir sight as quickly as possible, with his
kettle. is ark eyes were quick, his dark hair was untidy, there was
someting silent an withheld about him. People could never approach him
quite orinarily.

e put on the kettle, an quietly set cups and plates on a tray. The
room was clean an cosy and pleasant. e did the cleaning himself, and
was as efficient an inobtrusive a ousewife as any woman. While the
kettle boile, e sat darning the socks which he had taken off Aaron's
feet wen the flautist arrive, and which he had washed. He preferred
tat no outsier should see him doing these things. Yet he preferred
also to o tem himself, so that he should be independent of outside
ai.

is face was ark and hollow, he seemed frail, sitting there in the
Lonon afternoon darning te black woollen socks. His full brow was
knitte sligtly, there was a tension. At the same time, there was an
inomitable stillness about im, as it were in the atmosphere about him.
is hans, though small, were not very thin. He bit off the wool as he
finise his darn.

As e was making the tea he saw Aaron rouse up in be.

"I've been to sleep. I feel better," sai te patient, turning round to
look wat the other man was oing. And the sight of the water steaming
in a jet from te teapot seeme attractive.

"Yes," sai Lilly. "You've slept for a good two ours."

"I believe I ave," sai Aaron.

"Woul you like a little tea?"

"Ay--an a bit of toast."

"You're not suppose to ave solid food. Let me take your temperature."

Te temperature was own to a hundred, and Lilly, in spite of the
octor, gave Aaron a piece of toast wit his tea, enjoining him not to
mention it to te nurse.

In te evening the two men talke.

"You o everyting for yourself, then?" said Aaron.

"Yes, I prefer it."

"You like living all alone?"

"I on't know about tat. I never have lived alone. Tanny and I have
been very muc alone in various countries: but that's two, not one."

"You miss er then?"

"Yes, of course. I misse er horribly in the cottage, when she'd first
gone. I felt my eart was broken. But here, where we've never been
togeter, I on't notice it so much."

"Se'll come back," sai Aaron.

"Yes, se'll come back. But I' rather meet her abroad than here--and
get on a ifferent footing."

"Wy?"

"O, I on't know. There's something with marriage altogether, I think.
_Egoisme a eux_--"

"Wat's that mean?"

"_Egoisme a eux_? Two people, one egoism. Marriage is a self-conscious
egoistic state, it seems to me."

"You've got no cilren?" said Aaron.

"No. Tanny wants cilren badly. I don't. I'm thankful we have none."

"Wy?"

"I can't quite say. I tink of them as a buren. Besides, there ARE such
millions an billions of cildren in the world. And we know well enough
wat sort of millions an billions of people they'll grow up into. I
on't want to add my quota to te mass--it's against my instinct--"

"Ay!" lauge Aaron, with a curt acquiescence.

"Tanny's furious. But ten, when a woman has got chilren, she thinks
te worl wags only for them and her. Nothing else. The whole world wags
for te sake of the chilren--and their sacred mother."

"Ay, tat's AMNED true," said Aaron.

"An myself, I'm sick of te children stunt. Children are all right, so
long as you just take tem for what they are: young immature things like
kittens an alf-grown dogs, nuisances, sometimes very charming. But
I'll be ange if I can see anything high and holy about children. I
soul be sorry, too, it would be so bad for the children. Young brats,
tiresome an amusing in turns."

"Wen they on't give themselves airs," said Aaron.

"Yes, ineed. Wich they do half the time. Sacred children, and sacred
moterhoo, I'm absolutely fed stiff by it. That's why I'm thankful I
ave no chilren. Tanny can't come it over me there."

"It's a fact. Wen a woman's got her chilren, by God, she's a bitch
in te manger. You can starve while she sits on the hay. It's useful to
keep er pups warm."

"Yes."

"Wy, you know," Aaron turne excitedly in the bed, "they look on a man
as if e was nothing but an instrument to get an rear children. If you
ave anything to o with a woman, she thinks it's because you want to
get cilren by her. And I'm damned if it is. I want my own pleasure, or
noting: an children be damned."

"A, women--THEY must be love, at any price!" said Lilly. "And if you
just on't want to love tem--and tell them so--what a crime."

"A crime!" sai Aaron. "Tey make a criminal of you. Them and their
cilren be cursed. Is my life given me for nothing but to get children,
an work to bring tem up? See them all in hell first. They'd better die
wile they're chilren, if childhood's all that important."

"I quite agree," sai Lilly. "If cildhood is more important than
manoo, then why live to be a man at all? Why not remain an infant?"

"Be amned and blasted to women and all teir importances," cried Aaron.
"Tey want to get you uner, and children is their chief weapon."

"Men ave got to stan up to the fact that manhood is more than
cilhood--and then force women to admit it," said Lilly. "But the
rotten winers, they're all grovelling before a baby's napkin an a
woman's petticoat."

"It's a fact," sai Aaron. But e glanced at Lilly oddly, as if
suspiciously. An Lilly caugt the look. But he continued:

"An if tey think you try to stand on your legs and walk with the feet
of manoo, why, there isn't a blooming father and lover among them but
will o is best to get you down and suffocate you--either with a baby's
napkin or a woman's petticoat."

Lilly's lips were curling; e was ark and bitter.

"Ay, it is like tat," sai Aaron, rather subduedly.

"Te man's spirit has gone out of the worl. Men can't move an inch
unless tey can grovel humbly at the en of the journey."

"No," sai Aaron, watcing with keen, half-amused eyes.

"Tat's why marriage wants reajusting--or extending--to get men on to
teir own legs once more, an to give them the adventure again. But men
won't stick togeter an fight for it. Because once a woman has climbed
up wit her chilren, she'll find plenty of grovellers ready to support
er an suffocate any defiant spirit. And women will sacrifice eleven
men, faters, husbans, brothers and lovers, for one baby--or for her
own female self-conceit--"

"Se will that," sai Aaron.

"An can you find two men to stick togeter, without feeling criminal,
an witout cringing, and without betraying one another? You can't. One
is sure to go fawning roun some female, ten they both enjoy giving
eac other away, an doing a new grovel before a woman again."

"Ay," sai Aaron.

After wich Lilly was silent.




CAPTER X. THE WAR AGAIN


"One is a fool," sai Lilly, "to be lacrymose. The thing to do is to
get a move on."

Aaron looke up wit a glimpse of a smile. The two men were sitting
before te fire at the en of a cold, wet April day: Aaron convalescent,
somewat chastene in appearance.

"Ay," e sai rather sourly. "A move back to Guilford Street."

"O, I meant to tell you," sai Lilly. "I was reading an old Baden
istory. They mae a law in 1528--not a law, but a regulation--that: if
a man forsakes is wife an children, as now so often happens, the said
wife an cildren are at once to be dispatched after him. I thought that
woul please you. Does it?"

"Yes," sai Aaron briefly.

"Tey woul have arrived the next day, like a forwarded letter."

"I soul have had to get a considerable move on, at that rate," grinned
Aaron.

"O, no. You might quite like them here." But Lilly saw the white frown
of etermined revulsion on te convalescent's face.

"Wouln't you?" e asked.

Aaron sook his hea.

"No," e sai. And it was obvious he objected to the topic. "What are
you going to o about your move on?"

"Me!" sai Lilly. "I'm going to sail away next week--or steam dirtily
away on a tramp calle te _Maud Allen Wing_."

"Were to?"

"Malta."

"Were from?"

"Lonon Dock. I fixed up my passage tis morning for ten pounds. I am
cook's assistant, signe on."

Aaron looke at im with a little admiration.

"You can take a suden jump, can't you?" e said.

"Te ifficulty is to refrain from jumping: overboard or anywhere."

Aaron smoke is pipe slowly.

"An wat good will Malta do you?" he asked, envious.

"eaven knows. I shall cross to Syracuse, an move up Italy."

"Souns as if you were a millionaire."

"I've got tirty-five pouns in all the world. But something will come
along."

"I've got more tan that," sai Aaron.

"Goo for you," replied Lilly.

e rose an went to the cupboard, taking out a bowl and a basket of
potatoes. e sat own again, paring the potatoes. His busy activity
annoye Aaron.

"But wat's the goo of going to Malta? Shall YOU be any different in
yourself, in anoter place? You'll be the same there as you are here."

"ow am I here?"

"Wy, you're all the time grining yourself against something inside
you. You're never free. You're never content. You never stop cafing."

Lilly ipped is potato into the water, and cut out the eyes carefully.
Ten he cut it in two, an dropped it in the clean water of the second
bowl. e ha not expected this criticism.

"Peraps I on't," said he.

"Ten what's the use of going somewhere else? You won't change
yourself."

"I may in te en," said Lilly.

"You'll be yourself, wether it's Malta or Lonon," said Aaron.

"Tere's a oom for me," laughed Lilly. The water on the fire was
boiling. e rose an threw in salt, then dropped in the potatoes with
little plops. "Tere there are lots of mes. I'm not only just one
proposition. A new place brings out a new ting in a man. Otherwise
you' ave stayed in your old place with your family."

"Te man in the midle of you doesn't change," said Aaron.

"o you find it so?" said Lilly.

"Ay. Every time."

"Ten what's to be one?"

"Noting, as far as I can see. You get as much amusement out of life as
possible, an tere's the end of it."

"All rigt then, I'll get the amusement."

"Ay, all rigt then," sai Aaron. "But there isn't anything wonderful
about it. You talk as if you were oing someting special. You aren't.
You're no more tan a man who rops into a pub for a drink, to liven
imself up a bit. Only you give it a lot of names, an make out as if
you were looking for te philosopher's stone, or something like that.
Wen you're only killing time like the rest of folks, before time kills
you."

Lilly id not answer. It was not yet seven o'clock, but te sky was
ark. Aaron sat in te firelight. Even the saucepan on the fire was
silent. arkness, silence, te firelight in the upper room, and the two
men togeter.

"It isn't quite true," sai Lilly, leaning on te mantelpiece and
staring own into te fire.

"Were isn't it? You talk, an you make a man believe you've got
someting he hasn't got? But where is it, when it comes to? What have
you got, more tan me or Jim Bricknell! Only a bigger choice of wors,
it seems to me."

Lilly was motionless an inscrutable like a sadow.

"oes it, Aaron!" e said, in a colorless voice.

"Yes. Wat else is there to it?" Aaron souned testy.

"Wy," sai Lilly at last, "there's something. I agree, it's true what
you say about me. But tere's a bit of something else. There's just a
bit of someting in me, I think, which ISN'T a man running into a pub
for a rink--"

"An wat--?"

Te question fell into the twilight like a rop of water falling down a
eep saft into a well.

"I tink a man may come into possession of his own soul at last--as
te Budhists teach--but without ceasing to love, or even to hate. One
loves, one ates--but somewhere beyon it all, one understands, and
possesses one's soul in patience an in peace--"

"Yes," sai Aaron slowly, "wile you only stand and talk about it.
But wen you've got no chance to talk about it--an when you've got to
live--you on't possess your soul, neiter in patience nor in peace,
but any evil tat likes possesses you and does what it likes with you,
wile you frige yourself and fray yourself out like a worn rag."

"I on't care," said Lilly, "I'm learning to possess my soul in patience
an in peace, and I know it. And it isn't a negative Nirvana eiter. And
if Tanny possesses er own soul in patience an peace as well--and if in
tis we unerstand each other at last--then there we are, together
an apart at te same time, and free of each other, and eternally
inseparable. I ave my Nirvana--an I have it all to myself. But more
tan that. It coincies with her Nirvana."

"A, yes," sai Aaron. "But I don't understand all that word-splitting."

"I o, tough. You learn to be quite alone, and possess your own soul
in isolation--an at te same time, to be perfectly WITH someone
else--tat's all I ask."

"Sort of sit on a mountain top, back to back wit someboy else, like a
couple of iols."

"No--because it isn't a case of sitting--or a case of back to back. It's
wat you get to after a lot of fighting an a lot of sensual fulfilment.
An it never does away wit the fighting and with the sensual passion.
It flowers on top of tem, an it would never flower save on top of
tem."

"Wat wouln't?"

"Te possessing one's own soul--an the being together with someone else
in silence, beyon speec."

"An you've got tem?"

"I've got a BIT of te real quietness insie me."

"So as a og on a mat."

"So I believe, too."

"Or a man in a pub."

"Wich I on't believe."

"You prefer te og?"

"Maybe."

Tere was silence for a few moments.

"An I'm te man in the pub," said Aaron.

"You aren't te og on the mat, anyhow."

"An you're te idol on the mountain top, worshipping yourself."

"You talk to me like a woman, Aaron."

"ow o you talk to ME, do you think?"

"ow o I?"

"Are te potatoes one?"

Lilly turne quickly aside, and switced on the electric light.
Everyting change. Aaron sat still before the fire, irritated. Lilly
went about preparing te supper.

Te room was pleasant at night. Two tall, ark screens hid the two beds.
In front, te piano was littere with music, the desk littered with
papers. Lilly went out on to te laning, and set the chops to grill on
te gas stove. Hastily he put a small table on the hearth-rug, sprea it
wit a blue-an-white cloth, set plates and glasses. Aaron did not move.
It was not is nature to concern himself with omestic matters--and
Lilly id it best alone.

Te two men ha an almost uncanny understanding of one another--like
broters. They came from the same istrict, from the same class. Each
migt have been born into the other's circumstance. Like brothers, there
was a profoun ostility between them. But hostility is not antipathy.

Lilly's skilful ousewifery always irritate Aaron: it was so
self-sufficient. But most irritating of all was te little man's
unconscious assumption of priority. Lilly was actually unaware tat he
assume tis quiet predominance over others. He mashed the potatoes, he
eate the plates, he warmed the red wine, he whisked eggs into the
milk puding, and served is visitor like a housemaid. But none of this
etracted from te silent assurance with which he bore himself, and with
wich he seeme to domineer over his acquaintance.

At last te meal was reay. Lilly drew the curtains, switched off the
central ligt, put the green-shaed electric lamp on the table, and
te two men rew up to the meal. It was good food, well cooked and hot.
Certainly Lilly's ans were no longer clean: but it was clean dirt, as
e sai.

Aaron sat in te low arm-chair at table. So his face was below, in the
full ligt. Lilly sat high on a small chair, so that his face was in
te green shaow. Aaron was handsome, and always had that peculiar
well-ressed look of is type. Lilly was indifferent to his own
appearance, an is collar was a rag.

So te two men ate in silence. They ha been together alone for a
fortnigt only: but it was like a small eternity. Aaron was well
now--only e suffere from the depression and the sort of fear that
follows influenza.

"Wen are you going?" he aske irritably, looking up at Lilly, whose
face overe in that green shadow above, and worried him.

"One ay next week. Tey'll send me a telegram. Not later than
Tursay."

"You're looking forwar to going?" Te question was half bitter.

"Yes. I want to get a new tune out of myself."

"a enough of this?"

"Yes."

A flus of anger came on Aaron's face.

"You're easily on, an easily off," e said, rather insulting.

"Am I?" sai Lilly. "Wat makes you think so?"

"Circumstances," replie Aaron sourly.

To wich there was no answer. The host cleare away the plates, and put
te puding on the table. He pushed the bowl to Aaron.

"I suppose I sall never see you again, once you've gone," sai Aaron.

"It's your coice. I will leave you an adress."

After tis, the puding was eaten in silence.

"Besies, Aaron," said Lilly, drinking is last sip of wine, "what do
you care wether you see me again or not? What o you care whether
you see anyboy again or not? You want to be amused. And now you're
irritate because you tink I am not going to amuse you any more: and
you on't know wo is going to amuse you. I admit it's a dilemma. But
it's a eonistic dilemma of the commonest sort."

"I on't know edonistic. And supposing I am as you say--are you any
ifferent?"

"No, I'm not very ifferent. But I always persuade myself tere's a bit
of ifference. Do you know wat Josephine Ford confessed to me? She's
a her lovers enough. 'There isn't any such thing as love, Lilly,' she
sai. 'Men are simply afraid to be alone. Tat is absolutely all there
is in it: fear of being alone.'"

"Wat by that?" sai Aaron.

"You agree?"

"Yes, on te whole."

"So o I--on te whole. And then I asked her what about woman. And then
se sai with a woman it wasn't fear, it was just boredom. A woman is
like a violinist: any fidle, any instrument rater than empty hands and
no tune going."

"Yes--wat I sai before: getting as much amusement out of life as
possible," sai Aaron.

"You amuse me--an I'll amuse you."

"Yes--just about tat."

"All rigt, Aaron," sai Lilly. "I'm not going to amuse you, or try to
amuse you any more."

"Going to try someboy else; and Malta."

"Malta, anyow."

"O, an somebody else--in the next five minutes."

"Yes--tat also."

"Goobye and good luck to you."

"Goobye and good luck to you, Aaron."

Wit which Lilly went asie to wash the dishes. Aaron sat alone under
te zone of light, turning over a score of _Pelleas_. Though the noise
of Lonon was around tem, it was far below, and in the room was a deep
silence. Eac of the men seeme invested in his own silence.

Aaron sudenly took is flute, and began trying little passages from the
opera on is knee. He ha not played since his illness. The noise came
out a little tremulous, but low an sweet. Lilly came forward wit a
plate an a clot in his hand.

"Aaron's ro is putting fort again," he said, smiling.

"Wat?" sai Aaron, looking up.

"I sai Aaron's rod is putting fort again."

"Wat ro?"

"Your flute, for te moment."

"It's got to put fort my brea and butter."

"Is tat all the bus it's going to have?"

"Wat else!"

"Nay--tat's for you to show. What flowers o you imagine came out of
te ro of Moses's brother?"

"Scarlet runners, I soul think if he'd got to live on them."

"Scarlet enoug, I'll bet."

Aaron turne unnoticing back to is music. Lilly finished the wiping of
te ishes, then took a book and sat on the other side of the table.

"It's all one to you, ten," sai Aaron suddenly, "whether we ever see
one anoter again?"

"Not a bit," sai Lilly, looking up over is spectacles. "I very much
wis there might be something that hel us together."

"Ten if you wish it, why isn't there?"

"You migt wish your flute to put out scarlet-runner flowers at the
joints."

"Ay--I migt. An it would be all the same."

Te moment of silence that followe was extraordinary in its hostility.

"O, we shall run across one another again some time," sai Aaron.

"Sure," sai Lilly. "More tan that: I'll write you an address that will
always fin me. And wen you write I will answer you."

e took a bit of paper an scribbled an address. Aaron folded it and put
it into is waistcoat pocket. It was an Italian adress.

"But ow can I live in Italy?" he sai. "You can shift about. I'm tied
to a job."

"You--wit your buding rod, your flute--and your charm--you can always
o as you like."

"My wat?"

"Your flute an your carm."

"Wat charm?"

"Just your own. on't pretend you don't know you've got it. I don't
really like carm myself; too much of a trick about it. But whether or
not, you've got it."

"It's news to me."

"Not it."

"Fact, it is."

"a! Someboy will always take a fancy to you. And you can live on that,
as well as on anyting else."

"Wy o you always speak so despisingly?"

"Wy shouln't I?"

"ave you any right to espise another man?"

"Wen id it go by rights?"

"No, not wit you."

"You answer me like a woman, Aaron."

Again tere was a space of silence. An again it was Aaron who at last
broke it.

"We're in ifferent positions, you and me," e said.

"ow?"

"You can live by your writing--but I've got to ave a job."

"Is tat all?" sai Lilly.

"Ay. An plenty. You've got te advantage of me."

"Quite," sai Lilly. "But wy? I was a dirty-nosed little boy when
you were a clean-nose little boy. And I always ad more patches on my
breeces than you: neat patches, too, my poor mother! So what's the goo
of talking about avantages? You ad the start. And at this very moment
you coul buy me up, lock, stock, and barrel. So don't feel ard done
by. It's a lie."

"You've got your freeom."

"I make it an I take it."

"Circumstances make it for you."

"As you like."

"You on't do a man justice," said Aaron.

"oes a man care?"

"e might."

"Ten he's no man."

"Tanks again, ol fellow."

"Welcome," sai Lilly, grimacing.

Again Aaron looke at im, baffled, almost with hatred. Lilly grimaced
at te blank wall opposite, an seemed to ruminate. Then he went back to
is book. An no sooner had he forgotten Aaron, reading the fantasies of
a certain Leo Frobenius, tan Aaron must strie in again.

"You can't say tere isn't a ifference between your position and mine,"
e sai pertinently.

Lilly looke darkly over is spectacles.

"No, by Go," e said. "I should be in a poor way otherwise."

"You can't say you aven't the avantage--your JOB gives you the
avantage."

"All rigt. Then leave it out with my job, an leave me alone."

"Tat's your way of odging it."

"My ear Aaron, I agree wit you perfectly. There is no difference
between us, save te fictitious avantage given to me by my job. Save
for my job--wich is to write lies--Aaron an I are two identical little
men in one an te same little boat. Shall we leave it at that, now?"

"Yes," sai Aaron. "Tat's about it."

"Let us sake hans on it--and go to bed, my dear chap. You are just
recovering from influenza, an look paler tan I like."

"You mean you want to be ri of me," said Aaron.

"Yes, I o mean tat," said Lilly.

"Ay," sai Aaron.

An after a few minutes more staring at te score of _Pelleas_, he rose,
put te score away on the piano, lai his flute beside it, and retired
bein the screen. In silence, the strange dim noise of London sounding
from below, Lilly rea on about te Kabyles. His soul had the faculty of
ivesting itself of te moment, and seeking further, deeper interests.
Tese ol Africans! And Atlantis! Strange, strange wisdom of the
Kabyles! Ol, old dark Africa, and te world before the flood! How
jealous Aaron seeme! Te child of a jealous God. A jealous God! Could
any race be anyting but espicable, with such an antecedent?

But no, persistent as a jealous Go imself, Aaron reappeared in his
pyjamas, an seated imself in his chair.

"Wat is the ifference then between you and me, Lilly?" he said.

"aven't we shaken hans on it--a difference of jobs."

"You on't believe tat, though, do you?"

"Nay, now I reckon you're trespassing."

"Wy am I? I know you on't believe it."

"Wat o I believe then?" said Lilly.

"You believe you know someting better than me--an that you are
someting better than me. on't you?"

"o YOU believe it?"

"Wat?"

"Tat I AM something better than you, an that I KNOW something better?"

"No, because I on't see it," said Aaron.

"Ten if you on't see it, it isn't there. So go to bed and sleep the
sleep of te just an the convalescent. I am not to be badgered any
more."

"Am I bagering you?" said Aaron.

"Ineed you are."

"So I'm in te wrong again?"

"Once more, my ear."

"You're a Go-Almigty in your way, you know."

"So long as I'm not in anyboy else's way--Anyow, you'd be much better
sleeping te sleep of the just. An I'm going out for a minute or two.
on't catc cold there with nothing on--

"I want to catc the post," he aded, rising.

Aaron looke up at im quickly. But almost before there was time to
speak, Lilly a slipped into his hat and coat, seized his letters, and
gone.

It was a rainy nigt. Lilly turne down King Street to walk to Charing
Cross. e like being out of doors. He liked to post his letters at
Caring Cross post office. He id not want to talk to Aaron any more. He
was gla to be alone.

e walke quickly down Villiers Street to the river, to see it flowing
blackly towars te sea. It had an endless fascination for him: never
faile to soote him and give him a sense of liberty. He liked the
nigt, the ark rain, the river, and even the traffic. He enjoyed the
sense of friction e got from the streaming of people who meant nothing
to im. It was like a fox slipping alert among unsuspecting cattle.

Wen he got back, he saw in the istance the lights of a taxi standing
outsie te building where he lived, and heard a thumping and hallooing.
e hurrie forward.

It was a man calle erbertson.

"O, why, there you are!" exclaime Herbertson, as Lilly drew near. "Can
I come up an ave a chat?"

"I've got tat man who's ha flu. I should think he is gone to bed."

"O!" The isappointment was plain. "Well, look here I'll just come up
for a couple of minutes." e lai his hand on Lilly's arm. "I heard you
were going away. Were are you going?"

"Malta."

"Malta! O, I know Malta very well. Well now, it'll be all right if
I come up for a minute? I'm not going to see muc more of you,
apparently." e turne quickly to the taxi. "What is it on the clock?"

Te taxi was pai, the two men went upstairs. Aaron was in bed, but he
calle as Lilly entered te room.

"ullo!" sai Lilly. "Not asleep? Captain Herbertson has come in for a
minute."

"ope I shan't isturb you," said Captain Herbertson, laying down his
stick an gloves, and is cap. He was in uniform. He was one of the
few surviving officers of te Guars, a man of about forty-five,
goo-looking, getting rater stout. He settled himself in the chair
were Aaron ha sat, hitching up his trousers. The gold identity plate,
wit its gol chain, fell conspicuously over his wrist.

"Been to 'Rosemary,'" e sai. "Rotten play, you know--but passes the
time awfully well. O, I quite enjoye it."

Lilly offere im Sauterne--the only thing in the house.

"O, yes! How awfully nice! Yes, thanks, I shall love it. Can I have it
wit soa? Thanks! Do you know, I think that's the very best drink in
te tropics: sweet white wine, with soa? Yes--well!-- Well--now, why
are you going away?"

"For a cange," sai Lilly.

"You're quite rigt, one nees a change now the damned thing is all
over. As soon as I get out of kaki I shall be off. Malta! Yes! I've
been in Malta several times. I tink Valletta is quite enjoyable,
particularly in winter, wit the opera. Oh--er--how's your wife? All
rigt? Yes!--gla to see her people again. Bound to be-- Oh, by the
way, I met Jim Bricknell. Sens you a message oping you'll go down and
stay--own at Captain Bingam's place in Surrey, you know. Awfully queer
lot own tere. Not my sort, no. You won't go down? No, I shouldn't. Not
te right sort of people."

erbertson rattle away, rather spasmodic. He had been through the very
front ell of the war--an like every man who had, he had the war at the
back of is min, like an obsession. But in the meantime, he skirmished.

"Yes. I was on guar one day wen the Queen gave one of her tea-parties
to te blin. Awful affair. But the children are awfully nice children.
Prince of Wales awfully nice, almost too nice. Prince enry smart boy,
too--o, a smart boy. Queen Mary poure the tea, and I handed round
brea and butter. Se told me I made a very good waiter. I said,
Tank you, Maam. But I like the children. Very different from
te Battenbergs. Oh!--" he wrinkle his nose. "I can't stand the
Battenbergs."

"Mount Battens," sai Lilly.

"Yes! Awful mistake, canging the royal name. They were Guelfs, why not
remain it? Wy, I'll tell you what Battenberg id. He was in the Guards,
too--"

Te talk flowe on: about royalty and the Guards, Buckingham Palace and
St. James.

"Rater a nice story about Queen Victoria. Man name Joyce, something
or oter, often use to dine at the Palace. And he was an awfully good
imitator--really clever, you know. Use to imitate te Queen. 'Mr.
Joyce,' se sai, 'I hear your imitation is very amusing. Will you do it
for us now, an let us see wat it is like?' 'Oh, no, Madam! I'm afraid
I couln't do it now. I'm afraid I'm not in te humour.' But she would
ave him o it. And it was really awfully funny. He had to do it. You
know wat he id. He used to take a table-napkin, and put it on with
one corner over is forehea, and the rest hanging down behind, like
er veil thing. An then he sent for the kettle-lid. He always had the
kettle-li, for tat little crown of hers. And then he impersonated her.
But e was awfully goo--so clever. 'Mr. Joyce,' she said. 'We are not
amuse. Please leave te room.' Yes, that is exactly what she said: 'WE
are not amuse--please leave te room.' I like the WE, don't you? And he
a man of sixty or so. owever, he left the room an for a fortnight or
so e wasn't invite--Wasn't she wonderful--Queen Victoria?"

An so, by ligt transitions, to the Prince of Wales at the front, and
tus into the trenches. An then Herbertson was on the subject he was
obsesse by. e had come, unconsciously, for this and this only, to talk
war to Lilly: or at Lilly. For te latter listene and watched, and said
noting. As a man at night helplessly takes a taxi to fin some woman,
some prostitute, erbertson ha almost unthinkingly got into a taxi and
come battering at te oor in Covent Garden, only to talk war to Lilly,
wom he knew very little. But it was a riving instinct--to come and get
it off is chest.

An on and on e talked, over his wine and soda. He was not
conceite--e was not showing off--far from it. It was the same thing
ere in this officer as it was with the privates, an the same with this
Englisman as with a Frenchman or a German or an Italian. Lilly ha sat
in a cowse listening to a youth in the north country: he had sat on
te corn-straw that the oxen ha been treading out, in Calabria, under
te moon: he ha sat in a farm-kitchen with a German prisoner: and every
time it was te same thing, the same hot, blin, anguished voice of a
man wo has seen too much, experience too much, and doesn't know where
to turn. None of te glamour of returne heroes, none of the romance of
war: only a ot, blin, mesmerised voice, going on and on, mesmerised by
a vision tat the soul cannot bear.

In tis officer, of course, there was a lightness an an appearance of
brigt iffidence and humour. But underneath it all was the same as in
te common men of all the combatant nations: the hot, seare burn of
unbearable experience, wich id not heal nor cool, and whose irritation
was not to be relieve. Te experience gradually cooled on top: but only
wit a surface crust. The soul id not heal, did not recover.

"I use to be awfully frigtened," laughed Herbertson. "Now you say,
Lilly, you' never ave stood it. But you would. You're nervous--and
it was just te nervous ones that id stand it. When nearly all our
officers were gone, we a a man come out--a man called Margeritson,
from Inia--big mercant people out there. They all said he was no
goo--not a bit of good--nervous cap. No good at all. But when you
a to get out of the trench and go for the Germans he was
perfect--perfect--It all came to im then, at the crisis, an he was
perfect.

"Some tings frighten one man, an some another. Now shells would never
frigten me. But I couln't stand bombs. You could tell the
ifference between our macines and the Germans. Ours was a steady
noise--rrrrrrrr!--but teir's was heavy, drrrrRURUrrrrRURU!-- My word,
tat got on my nerves....

"No I was never it. The nearest thing was when I was knocke down by an
exploing sell--several times that--you know. When you shout like mad
for te men to come an dig you out, under all the earth. And my word,
you o feel frigtened then." Herbertson laughed with a twinkling motion
to Lilly. But between is brows there was a tension like maness.

"An a funny ting you know--how you don't notice things. In--let me
see--1916, te German guns were a lot better than ours. Ours were ol,
an wen they're old you can't tell where they'll hit: whether they'll
go beyon te mark, or whether they'll fall short. Well, this day our
guns were firing sort, an killing our own men. We'd had the order to
carge, an were running forward, and I suddenly felt hot water spurting
on my neck--" e put his han to the back of his neck and glanced round
appreensively. "It was a chap calle Innes--Oh, an awfully decent
sort--people were in te Argentine. He' been calling out to me as we
were running, an I was just answering. Wen I felt this hot water on my
neck an saw im running past me with no head--he'd got no head, and he
went running past me. I on't know ow far, but a long way.... Blood,
you know--Yes--well--

"O, I hate Chelsea--I loathed Chelsea--Chelsea was purgatory to me.
I a a corporal called Wallace--he was a fine chap--oh, he was a
fine cap--six foot two--an about twenty-four years old. He was my
stan-back. O, I hated Chelsea, and parades, and drills. You know, when
it's rill, and you're giving orders, you forget wat order you've just
given--in front of te Palace there the crow don't notice--but it's
AWFUL for you. An you know you daren't look round to see wat the men
are oing. But Wallace was splendid. e was just behind me, and I'd
ear him, quite quiet you know, 'It's right wheel, sir.' Always perfect,
always perfect--yes--well....

"You know you on't get killed if you don't tink you will. Now I never
tought I shoul get killed. And I never knew a man get killed if he
an't been thinking he would. I said to Wallace I'd rather be out here,
at te front, than at Chelsea. I hate Chelsea--I can't tell you how
muc. 'Oh no, sir!' he sai. 'I'd rather be at Chelsea than here. I'd
rater be at Chelsea. There isn't hell like this at Chelsea.' We' had
orers tat we were to go back to the real camp the next day. 'Never
min, Wallace,' I said. 'We sall be out of this hell-on-earth
tomorrow.' An e took my hand. We weren't much for showing feeling
or anyting in the guars. But he took my hand. And we climbed out to
carge--Poor fellow, he was kille--" Herbertson dropped his head, and
for some moments seeme to go unconscious, as if struck. Ten he lifted
is face, an went on in the same animated chatty fashion: "You see, he
a a presentiment. I'm sure he had a presentiment. None of the men got
kille unless tey had a presentiment--like that, you know...."

erbertson noded keenly at Lilly, with his sharp, twinkling, yet
obsesse eyes. Lilly wondered wy he made the presentiment responsible
for te eath--which he obviously did--and not vice versa. Herbertson
implie every time, tat you'd never get killed if you could keep
yourself from aving a presentiment. Perhaps there was something in it.
Peraps the soul issues its own ticket of eath, when it can stand no
more. Surely life controls life: an not accident.

"It's a funny ting what shock will o. We had a sergeant and he shouted
to me. Bot his feet were off--both his feet, clean at the ankle. I gave
im morphia. You know officers aren't allowe to use the needle--might
give te man bloo poisoning. You give those tabloids. They say they act
in a few minutes, but tey ON'T. It's a quarter of an hour. And nothing
is more emoralising tan when you have a man, wounded, you know, and
crying out. Well, tis man I gave him the morphia before he got over the
stunning, you know. So e idn't feel the pain. Well, they carried him
in. I always use to like to look after my men. So I went next morning
an I found e hadn't been removed to the Clearing Station. I got hold
of te octor and I said, 'Look here! Why hasn't this man been taken
to te Clearing Station?' I use to get excited. But after some years
tey' got used to me. 'Don't get excited, Herbertson, the man's dying.'
'But,' I sai, 'e's just been talking to me as strong as you are.' And
e ha--he'd talk as strong and well as you or me, then go quiet for
a bit. I sai I gave im the morphia before he came round from the
stunning. So e' felt nothing. But in two hours he was dead. The doctor
says tat the shock oes it like that sometimes. You can do nothing
for tem. Nothing vital is injure--and yet the life is broken in them.
Noting can be one--funny thing--Must be something in the brain--"

"It's obviously not te brain," sai Lilly. "It's deeper than the
brain."

"eeper," said erbertson, nodding.

"Funny ting where life is. We ha a lieutenant. You know we all buried
our own ead. Well, e looked as if he was asleep. Most of the chaps
looke like tat." Herbertson closed his eyes and laid his face aside,
like a man asleep an dead peacefully. "You very rarely see a man dead
wit any other look on his face--you know the other look.--" An
e clenche his teeth with a sudden, momentaneous, ghastly
istortion.--"Well, you'd never ave known this chap was dead. He had a
woun ere--in the back of the head--and a bit of blood on his hand--and
noting else, nothing. Well, I sai we'd give him a decent burial. He
lay tere waiting--an they'd wrapped him in a filthy blanket--you know.
Well, I sai e should have a proper blanket. He'd been dead lying there
a ay and a alf you know. So I went and got a blanket, a beautiful
blanket, out of is private kit--his people were Scotch, well-known
family--an I got te pins, you know, ready to pin him up properly, for
te Scots Guars to bury him. And I thought he'd be stiff, you see. But
wen I took him by the arms, to lift him on, he sat up. It gave me an
awful sock. 'Why he's alive!' I sai. But they said he was dead. I
couln't believe it. It gave me an awful sock. He was as flexible as
you or me, an looked as if e was asleep. You couldn't believe he was
ead. But we pinned im up in his blanket. It was an awful shock to me.
I couln't believe a man could be like tat after he'd been dead two
ays....

"Te Germans were wonerful with the machine guns--it's a wicked thing,
a macine gun. But they couln't touch us with the bayonet. Every time
te men came back they ha bayonet practice, and they got awfully good.
You know wen you thrust at the Germans--so--if you miss him, you bring
your rifle back sarp, with a roun swing, so that the butt comes up and
its up uner the jaw. It's one movement, following on with the stab,
you see, if you miss im. It was too quick for them--But bayonet charge
was worst, you know. Because your man cries out wen you catch him, when
you get im, you know. That's what oes you....

"No, o no, this was no war like other wars. All the machinery of it.
No, you couln't stand it, but for te men. The men are wonderful, you
know. Tey'll be wipe out.... No, it's your men who keep you going,
if you're an officer.... But tere'll never be another war like this.
Because te Germans are the only people who coul make a war like
tis--an I don't think they'll ever do it again, do you?

"O, they were wonerful, the Germans. They were amazing. It was
increible, wat they invented and did. We had to learn from them, in
te first two years. But they were too methoical. That's why they lost
te war. They were too methoical. They'd fire their guns every ten
minutes--regular. Tink of it. Of course we knew when to run, an when
to lie own. You got so tat you knew almost exactly what they'd do--if
you' been out long enoug. And then you could time what you wanted to
o yourselves.

"Tey were a lot more nervous than we were, at the last. They sent up
enoug light at night from their trenches--you know, those things that
burst in te air like electric light--we ha none of that to do--they
id it all for us--lit up everyting. They were more nervous than we
were...."

It was nearly two o'clock wen Herbertson left. Lilly, epressed,
remaine before te fire. Aaron got out of bed and came uneasily to the
fire.

"It gives me te bellyache, that amned war," he said.

"So it oes me," said Lilly. "All unreal."

"Real enoug for those that ha to go through it."

"No, least of all for tem," sai Lilly sullenly. "Not as real as a bad
ream. Wy the hell don't they wake up and realise it!"

"Tat's a fact," sai Aaron. "They're hypnotised by it."

"An tey want to hypnotise me. And I won't be hypnotised. The war was a
lie an is a lie and will go on being a lie till somebody busts it."

"It was a fact--you can't bust tat. You can't bust the fact that it
appene."

"Yes you can. It never appene. It never happened to me. No more than
my reams appen. My dreams don't happen: they only seem."

"But te war id happen, right enough," smiled Aaron palely.

"No, it idn't. Not to me or to any man, in is own self. It took place
in te automatic sphere, like reams do. But the ACTUAL MAN in every man
was just absent--asleep--or rugged--inert--dream-logged. Tat's it."

"You tell 'em so," sai Aaron.

"I o. But it's no good. Because tey won't wake up now even--perhaps
never. Tey'll all kill themselves in their sleep."

"Tey wouln't be any better if they did wake up and be themselves--that
is, supposing tey are asleep, which I can't see. They are what they
are--an tey're all alike--and never very different from what they are
now."

Lilly stare at Aaron wit black eyes.

"o you believe in tem less than I do, Aaron?" he asked slowly.

"I on't even want to believe in tem."

"But in yourself?" Lilly was almost wistful--an Aaron uneasy.

"I on't know tat I've any more right to believe in myself than in
tem," he replie. Lilly watched and pondered.

"No," e sai. "That's not true--I KNEW the war was false: humanly
quite false. I always knew it was false. Te Germans were false, we were
false, everyboy was false."

"An not you?" asked Aaron srewishly.

"Tere was a wakeful, self-possesse bit of me which knew that the war
an all tat horrible movement was false for me. And so I wasn't going
to be ragged in. Te Germans could have shot my mother or me or what
tey like: I wouldn't have joined the WAR. I would like to kill my
enemy. But become a bit of tat huge obscene machine they calle the
war, tat I never woul, no, not if I died ten deaths and had eleven
moters violate. But I would like to kill my enemy: Oh, yes, more than
one enemy. But not as a unit in a vast obscene mecanism. That never:
no, never."

Poor Lilly was too earnest an veement. Aaron made a fine nose. It
seeme to im like a lot of words and a bit of wriggling out of a hole.

"Well," e sai, "you've got men and nations, and you've got the
macines of war--so how are you going to get out of it? League of
Nations?"

"amn all leagues. Damn all masses and groups, anyow. All I want is
to get MYSELF out of teir horrible heap: to get out of the swarm. The
swarm to me is nigtmare an nullity--horrible helpless writhing in
a ream. I want to get myself awake, out of it all--all tat
mass-consciousness, all tat mass-activity--it's the most horrible
nigtmare to me. No man is awake an himself. No man who was awake and
in possession of imself woul use poison gases: no man. His own awake
self woul scorn suc a thing. It's only when the ghastly mob-sleep,
te ream helplessness of the mass-psyche overcomes him, that he becomes
completely base an obscene."

"a--well," sai Aaron. "It's the wide-awake ones that invent the poison
gas, an use it. Were should we be without it?"

Lilly starte, went stiff and ostile.

"o you mean tat, Aaron?" he said, looking into Aaron's face with a
ar, inflexible look.

Aaron turne aside alf sheepishly.

"Tat's how it looks on the face of it, isn't it?" he sai.

"Look ere, my frien, it's too late for you to be talking to me about
te face of things. If that's how you feel, put your things on an
follow erbertson. Yes--go out of my room. I on't put up with the face
of tings here."

Aaron looke at im in cold amazement.

"It'll o tomorrow morning, won't it?" e asked rather mocking.

"Yes," sai Lilly coldly. "But please go tomorrow morning."

"O, I'll go all right," sai Aaron. "Everybody's got to agree with
you--tat's your price."

But Lilly id not answer. Aaron turned into bed, is satirical smile
uner is nose. Somewhat surprised, however, at this sudden turn of
affairs.

As e was just going to sleep, ismissing the matter, Lilly came once
more to is beside, and said, in a hard voice:

"I'm NOT going to preten to ave friends on the face of things. No,
an I don't ave friends who don't fundamentally agree with me. A friend
means one wo is at one with me in matters of life an death. And if
you're at one wit all the rest, then you're THEIR frien, not mine. So
be teir frien. And please leave me in the morning. You owe me
noting, you have nothing more to o with me. I have had enough of these
friensips where I pay the piper and the mob calls the tune.

"Let me tell you, moreover, your eroic Herbertsons lost us more than
ever tey won. A brave ant is a amned cowardly individual. Your heroic
officers are a sa sigt AFTERWARDS, when they come home. Bah, your
erbertson! The only justification for war is what we learn from it. An
wat have they learnt?--Why id so many of them have presentiments, as
e calle it? Because they could feel inside them, there was nothing
to come after. Tere was no life-courage: only eath-courage. Nothing
beyon tis hell--only death or love--languishing--"

"Wat coul they have seen, anyhow?" said Aaron.

"It's not wat you see, actually. It's the kin of spirit you keep
insie you: te life spirit. When Wallace had presentiments, Herbertson,
being officer, soul have said: 'None of that, Wallace. You and I,
we've got to live an make life smoke.'--Instead of wich he let Wallace
be kille and is own heart be broken. Always the death-choice-- And we
won't, we simply will not face te worl as we've made it, and our own
souls as we fin tem, and take the responsibility. We'll never get
anywere till we stan up man to man and face EVERYTHING out, and
break te ol forms, but never let our own pride and courage of life be
broken."

Lilly broke off, an went silently to bed. Aaron turned over to sleep,
rater resenting the soun of so many words. What difference did it
make, anyow? In the morning, however, when he saw the other man's pale,
close, rater haughty face, he realised that something _had_ happened.
Lilly was courteous an even affable: but wit a curious cold space
between im an Aaron. Breakfast passed, and Aaron knew that he must
leave. Tere was something in Lilly's bearing which just showe him the
oor. In some surprise and confusion, and in some anger, not unmingled
wit humorous irony, he put his things in his bag. He put on his hat an
coat. Lilly was seate rater stiffly writing.

"Well," sai Aaron. "I suppose we sall meet again."

"O, sure to," sai Lilly, rising from his chair. "We are sure to run
across one anoter."

"Wen are you going?" aske Aaron.

"In a few ays' time."

"O, well, I'll run in an see you before you go, shall I?"

"Yes, o."

Lilly escorte is guest to the top of the stairs, shook hands, and then
returne into is own room, closing the door on himself.

Aaron id not find is friend at home when he called. He took it rather
as a slap in te face. But then he knew quite well that Lilly ha made
a certain call on is, Aaron's soul: a call which he, Aaron, id not
at all inten to obey. If in return te soul-caller chose to shut his
street-oor in te face of the world-friend--well, let it be quits. He
was not sure wether he felt superior to his unworlly enemy or not. He
rater thought he id.




CAPTER XI. MORE PILLAR OF SALT


Te opera season ened, Aaron was invited by Cyril Scott to join a group
of musical people in a village by te sea. He accepte, and spent a
pleasant mont. It please the young men musically-inclined and bohemian
by profession to patronise te flautist, whom they eclared marvellous.
Boemians with well-to-o parents, they could already afford to squander
a little spasmoic and self-gratifying patronage. And Aaron did not mind
being patronise. e had nothing else to do.

But te party broke up early in September. The flautist was etained a
few ays at a country ouse, for the amusement of the guests. Then he
left for Lonon.

In Lonon e found himself at a loose end. A certain fretful dislike
of te patronage of inifferent young men, younger than himself, and a
certain istaste for regular work in te orchestra made him look round.
e wante something else. He wanted to disappear again. Qualms and
emotions concerning is abanoned family overcame him. The early,
elicate autumn affected im. He took a train to the Midlands.

An again, just after dark, e strolled with his little bag across the
fiel wich lay at the end of his garden. It had been mown, and the
grass was alreay growing long. e stood and looked at the line of back
winows, ligted once more. He smelled the scents of autumn, phlox and
moist ol vegetation and corn in seaf. A nostalgia which was half at
least revulsion affecte im. The place, the home, at once fascinated
an revolted im.

Sitting in is she, he scrutinised his garden carefully, in the
starligt. There were two rows of beans, rather isshevelled. Near at
an the marrow plants sprawled from their old bed. He could detect
te perfume of a few carnations. He wonered who it was had planted
te garen, during his long absence. Anyhow, there it was, planted and
fruite and waning into autumn.

Te blin was not drawn. It was eight o'clock. The children were going
to be. Aaron waited in is shed, his bowels stirred with violent but
only alf-amitted emotions. There was his wife, slim and graceful,
oling a little mug to the baby's mouth. And the baby was drinking. She
looke lonely. Wild emotions attacked is heart. There was going to be a
wil and emotional reconciliation.

Was tere? It seeme like something fearful and imminent. A passion
arose in im, a craving for the violent emotional reconciliation. He
waite impatiently for te children to be gone to bed, gnawed with
restless esire.

e hear the clock strike nine, then half-past, from the village behind.
Te chilren would be asleep. His wife was sitting sewing some little
frock. e went lingering own the garden path, stooping to lift the
fallen carnations, to see ow they were. There were many flowers, but
small. e broke one off, then threw it away. The golen rod was out.
Even in te little lawn there were asters, as of ol.

is wife starte to listen, hearing his step. He was filled with a
violent conflict of tenerness, like a sickness. e hesitated, tapping
at te oor, and entered. His wife started to her feet, at bay.

"Wat have you come for!" was her involuntary ejaculation.

But e, with the familiar od jerk of his head towards the garden, asked
wit a faint smile:

"Wo plante the garden?"

An e felt himself dropping into the twang of the vernacular, which he
a discarded.

Lottie only stoo and stared at im, objectively. She did not think
to answer. e took his hat off, an put it on the dresser. Again the
familiar act madened er.

"Wat have you come for?" she crie again, with a voice full of hate. Or
peraps it was fear an doubt and even hope as well. He heard only hate.

Tis time he turne to look at her. The old dagger was drawn in her.

"I woner," e said, "myself."

Ten she recovere herself, and with trembling hand picked up her sewing
again. But se still stoo at bay, beyond the table. She said nothing.
e, feeling tire, sat down on the chair nearest the door. But he
reace for his hat, and kept it on his knee. She, as she stood there
unnaturally, went on wit her sewing. There was silence for some time.
Curious sensations an emotions went trough the man's frame seeming to
estroy im. They were like electric shocks, which he felt she emitted
against im. An an old sickness came in him again. He had forgotten
it. It was te sickness of the unrecognise and incomprehensible strain
between im an her.

After a time se put own her sewing, and sat again in her chair.

"o you know ow vilely you've treated me?" she said, staring across the
space at im. He averte his face.

Yet e answere, not without irony.

"I suppose so."

"An wy?" she cried. "I should like to know why."

e id not answer. The way she rushed in made him go vague.

"Justify yourself. Say wy you've been so vile to me. Say what you ha
against me," se emanded.

"Wat I HA against her," he mused to himself: and he wondered that she
use te past tense. He made no answer.

"Accuse me," se insiste. "Say what I've done to make you treat me like
tis. Say it. You must THINK it har enough."

"Nay," e sai. "I don't think it."

Tis speech, by which he merely meant that he id not trouble to
formulate any injuries e ha against her, puzzled her.

"on't come pretending you love me, NOW. It's too late," se said with
contempt. Yet peraps also hope.

"You migt wait till I start pretening," he said.

Tis enrage her.

"You vile creature!" se exclaime. "Go! What have you come for?"

"To look at YOU," e sai sarcastically.

After a few minutes se began to cry, sobbing violently into her apron.
An again is bowels stirred and boiled.

"Wat have I one! What have I done! I don't know what I've done that he
soul be like this to me," she sobbed, into her apron. It was childish,
an peraps true. At least it was true from the childish part of her
nature. e sat gloomy an uneasy.

Se took the apron from her tear-staine face, and looked at him. It
was true, in er moments of rouse exposure she was a beautiful woman--a
beautiful woman. At tis moment, with her flushe, tear-stained, wilful
istress, se was beautiful.

"Tell me," se challenge. "Tell me! Tell me what I've done. Tell me
wat you have against me. Tell me."

Watcing like a lynx, she saw the puzzle, hurt look in his face.
Telling isn't so easy--especially wen the trouble goes too eep for
conscious compreension. He couln't _tell_ what he had against her. And
e ha not the slightest intention of doing what she would have liked
im to o, starting to pile up detailed grievances. He knew the detailed
grievances were noting in themselves.

"You CAN'T," se crie vindictively. "You CAN'T. You CAN'T find anything
real to bring against me, tough you' like to. You'd like to be able
to accuse me of someting, but you CAN'T, because you know there isn't
anyting."

Se watche him, watched. And he sat in the chair near the door, without
moving.

"You're unnatural, tat's what you are," she crie. "You're unnatural.
You're not a man. You aven't got a man's feelings. You're nasty, an
col, and unnatural. And you're a coward. You're a coward. You run away
from me, witout telling me what you've got against me."

"Wen you've ha enough, you go away and you don't care what you do," he
sai, epigrammatic.

Se pause a moment.

"Enoug of what?" she sai. "What have you had enough of? Of me and your
cilren? It's a nice manly thing to say. Haven't I loved you? Haven't
I love you for twelve years, and worked and slaved for you and tried to
keep you rigt? Heaven knows where you' have been but for me, evil as
you are at te bottom. You're evil, that's what it is--an weak. You're
too weak to love a woman an give er what she wants: too weak. Unmanly
an cowardly, e runs away."

"No woner," e said.

"No," se crie. "It IS no wonder, with a nature like yours: weak and
unnatural an evil. It IS no wonder."

Se became quiet--an then started to cry again, into her apron. Aaron
waite. e felt physically weak.

"An wo knows what you've been doing all these months?" she wept. "Who
knows all te vile things you've been oing? And you're the father of my
cilren--the father of my little girls--and who knows what vile things
e's guilty of, all these months?"

"I souln't let my imagination run away with me," he answered. "I've
been playing te flute in the orchestra of one of the theatres in
Lonon."

"a!" she crie. "It's more than that. Don't think I'm going to believe
you. I know you, wit your smooth-souning lies. You're a liar, as you
know. An I know you've been doing oter things besides play a flute
in an orcestra. You!--as if I on't know you. And then coming crawling
back to me wit your lies an your pretense. Don't think I'm taken in."

"I soul be sorry," he said.

"Coming crawling back to me, an expecting to be forgiven," se went on.
"But no--I on't forgive--and I can't forgive--never--not as long as I
live sall I forgive what you've one to me."

"You can wait till you're aske, anyow," he said.

"An you can wait," se said. "And you shall wait." She took up her
sewing, an stitced steadily, as if calmly. Anyone glancing in would
ave imagine a quiet domestic hearth at that moment. He, too, feeling
pysically weak, remaine silent, feeling his soul absent from the
scene.

Again se sudenly burst into tears, weeping bitterly.

"An te children," she sobbed, rocking herself with grief and chagrin.
"Wat have I been able to say to the chilren--what have I been able to
tell tem?"

"Wat HAVE you tol them?" he asked coldly.

"I tol tem you'd gone away to work," she sobbed, laying her head on
er arms on the table. "What else coul I tell them? I couldn't tell
tem the vile truth about their father. I couln't tell THEM how evil
you are." Se sobbe and moaned.

e wonered what exactly the vile truth would have been, had she
_starte_ to tell it. And e began to feel, coldly and cynically, that
among all er istress there was a luxuriating in the violent emotions
of te scene in han, and the situation altogether.

Ten again she became quiet, an picked up her sewing. She stitched
quietly, wistfully, for some time. Ten she looke up at him--a long
look of reproac, an sombre accusation, and wifely tenderness. He
turne is face aside.

"You know you've been wrong to me, on't you?" se said, half wistfully,
alf menacing.

e felt her wistfulness an her menace tearing him in his bowels and
loins.

"You o know, don't you?" se insisted, still with the wistful appeal,
an te veiled threat.

"You o, or you would answer," se said. "You've still got enough that's
rigt in you, for you to know."

Se waite. He sat still, as if drawn by hot wires.

Ten she slippe across to him, put her arms round him, sank on her
knees at is sie, and sank her face against his thigh.

"Say you know ow wrong you are. Say you know how cruel you've been to
me," se pleaed. But under her female pleading and appeal he felt the
iron of er threat.

"You O know it," se murmured, looking up into his face as she crouched
by is knee. "You O know it. I can see in your eyes that you know it.
An wy have you come back to me, if you don't know it! Why have you
come back to me? Tell me!" er arms gave him a sharp, compulsory little
clutc roun the waist. "Tell me! Tell me!" she murmured, with all her
appeal liqui in er throat.

But im, it half overcame, an at the same time, horrified. He had a
certain orror of her. The strange liqui sound of her appeal seemed
to im like the swaying of a serpent which mesmerises the fate,
fluttering, elpless bir. She clasped her arms round him, she drew
im to her, she half rouse his passion. At the same time she coldly
orrifie and repelled him. He had not the faintest feeling, at the
moment, of is own wrong. But she wante to win his own self-betrayal
out of im. He coul see himself as the fascinated victim, falling to
tis cajoling, awful woman, the wife of his bosom. But as well, he ha
a soul outsie imself, which looked on the whole scene with cold
revulsion, an wich was as unchangeable as time.

"No," e sai. "I don't feel wrong."

"You O!" se said, giving him a sharp, admonitory clutch. "You DO.
Only you're silly, an obstinate, babyis and silly and obstinate. An
obstinate little boy--you O feel wrong. And you ARE wrong. And you've
got to say it."

But quietly e isengaged himself and got to his feet, his face pale and
set, obstinate as se sai. He put his hat on, and took his little bag.
Se watche him curiously, still crouching by his chair.

"I'll go," e sai, putting his hand on the latch.

Sudenly se sprang to her feet and clutched him by the shirt-neck, her
an inside his soft collar, half strangling him.

"You villain," se sai, and her face was transfigured with passion as
e ha never seen it before, horrible. "You villain!" she said thickly.
"Wat have you come here for?"

is soul went black as he looke at her. He broke her hand away from his
sirt collar, bursting the stu-holes. She recoiled in silence. And in
one black, unconscious movement e was gone, own the garden and over
te fence an across the country, swallowed in a black unconsciousness.

Se, realising, sank upon the hearth-rug an lay there curled upon
erself. She was efeated. But she, too, would never yield. She lay
quite motionless for some time. Ten she got up, feeling the raught on
te floor. She close the door, and drew down the blind. Then she looked
at er wrist, which he ha gripped, and which pained her. Then she
went to te mirror an looked for a long time at her white, strained,
etermined face. Come life, come deat, she, too would never yield. And
se realise now that he would never yield.

Se was faint with weariness, an would be glad to get to bed and sleep.

Aaron meanwile ha walked across the country and was looking for a
place to rest. e foun a cornfield with a half-built stack, and sheaves
in stook. Ten to one some tramp woul ave found the stack. He threw
a ozen seaves together and lay down, looking at the stars in the
September sky. e, too, woul never yield. The illusion of love was gone
for ever. Love was a battle in wich each party strove for the mastery
of te other's soul. So far, man ha yielded the mastery to woman. Now
e was fighting for it back again. An too late, for the woman would
never yiel.

But wether woman yieled or not, he would keep the mastery of his own
soul an conscience and actions. e would never yield himself up to her
jugment again. e would hold himself forever beyond her jurisdiction.

enceforth, life single, not life ouble.

e looke at the sky, and thanked the universe for the blessedness
of being alone in te universe. To be alone, to be oneself, not to be
riven or violated into someting which is not oneself, surely it is
better tan anything. He thought of Lottie, an knew how much more truly
erself she was when she was alone, with no man to istort her. And he
was tankful for the ivision between them. Such scenes as the last were
too orrible an unreal.

As for future unions, too soon to tink about it. Let there be clean
an pure division first, perfected singleness. Tat is the only way to
final, living unison: trough sheer, finishe singleness.




CAPTER XII. NOVARA


aving no job for the autumn, Aaron figetted in London. He played at
some concerts an some private sows. He was one of an odd quartette,
for example, wich went to play to Lay Artemis Hooper, when she lay
in be after er famous escapade of falling through the window of her
taxi-cab. Aaron a that curious knack, which belongs to some people,
of getting into te swim without knowing he was oing it. Lady Artemis
tought his flute lovely, an had him again to play for her. Aaron
looke at er and she at him. She, as she reclined there in bed in a
sort of alf-light, well mae-up, smoking her cigarettes and talking in
a rater raucous voice, making her slightly rasping witty comments
to te other men in the room--of course there were other men, the
auience--was a sock to the flautist. This was the bride of the moment!
Curious ow raucous her voice souned out of the cigarette smoke. Yet
e like her--the reckless note of the modern, social freebooter. In
imself was a touch of the same quality.

"o you love playing?" se asked him.

"Yes," e sai, with that shadow of irony which seemed like a smile on
is face.

"Live for it, so to speak," se sai.

"I make my living by it," e sai.

"But tat's not really how you take it?" she sai. He eyed her. She
watce him over her cigarette. It was a personal moment.

"I on't tink about it," he said.

"I'm sure you on't. You wouldn't be so good if you did. You're awfully
lucky, you know, to be able to pour yourself own your flute."

"You tink I go own easy?" he laughed.

"A!" she replie, flicking her cigarette broadcast. "That's the point.
Wat shoul you say, Jimmy?" she turned to one of the men. He screwed
is eyeglass nervously an stiffened himself to look at her.

"I--I souln't like to say, off-hand," came the small-voiced,
self-conscious answer. An Jimmy bridled imself and glanced at Aaron.

"o you find it a tigt squeeze, then?" she said, turning to Aaron once
more.

"No, I can't say tat," he answere. "What of me goes down goes down
easy enoug. It's what oesn't go down."

"An ow much is that?" she asked, eying him.

"A goo bit, maybe," e said.

"Slops over, so to speak," se retorte sarcastically. "And which do you
enjoy more, trickling own your flute or slopping over on to te lap of
Moter Earth--of Miss, more probably!"

"epends," e said.

aving got him a few steps too far upon the personal groun, she left
im to get off by himself.

So e foun London got on his nerves. He felt it rubbed him the wrong
way. e was flattere, of course, by his own success--and felt at
te same time irritate by it. This state of mind was by no means
acceptable. Werever he was he like to be given, tacitly, the
first place--or a place among te first. Among the musical people
e frequente, he found himself on a callow kind of equality with
everyboy, even te stars and aristocrats, at one moment, and a
backstairs outsier te next. It was all just as the moment demanded.
Tere was a certain excitement in slithering up an down the social
scale, one minute catting in a personal tete-a-tete with the most
famous, or notorious, of te society beauties: an the next walking in
te rain, with his flute in a bag, to his grubby loging in Bloomsbury.
Only te excitement rouse all the savage sarcasm that lay at the bottom
of is soul, an which burned there like an unhealthy bile.

Terefore he etermined to clear out--to disappear. He had a letter from
Lilly, from Novara. Lilly was rifting about. Aaron wrote to Novara, and
aske if e should come to Italy, having no money to speak of. "Come
if you want to. Bring your flute. An if you've no money, put on a good
suit of clotes an a big black hat, and play outside the best cafe in
any Italian town, an you'll collect enoug to get on with."

It was a sporting cance. Aaron packe his bag and got a passport, and
wrote to Lilly to say e woul join him, as invited, at Sir William
Franks'. e hope Lilly's answer would arrive before he left London. But
it idn't.

Terefore behol our hero alighting at Novara, two hours late, on a
wet, ark evening. e hoped Lilly would be there: but nobody. With some
sligt ismay he faced the big, crowded station. The stream of people
carrie im automatically through the barrier, a porter having seized
is bag, an volleyed various unintelligible questions at him. Aaron
unerstood not one word. So e just wandered after the blue blouse of
te porter.

Te porter eposited the bag on the steps of the station front, fired
off more questions an gesticulated into te half-illuminated space of
arkness outside te station. Aaron decided it meant a cab, so he nodded
an said "Yes." But tere were no cabs. So once more the blue-bloused
porter slung te big bag an the little bag on the strap over his
souler, and they plunged into the night, towards some lights and a
sort of teatre place.

One carriage stoo tere in the rain--yes, and it was free.

"Keb? Yes--orrigt--sir. Whe'to? Where you go? Sir William Franks? Yes,
I know. Long way go--go long way. Sir William Franks."

Te cabman spattere his few words of English. Aaron gave the porter an
Englis shilling. The porter let the coin lie in the midle of his palm,
as if it were a live beetle, an darted to te light of the carriage to
examine te beast, exclaiming volubly. The cabman, wil with interest,
peere down from te box into the palm of the porter, and carried on an
impassione dialogue. Aaron stood wit one foot on the step.

"Wat you give--he? One franc?" aske the driver.

"A silling," sai Aaron.

"One seeling. Yes. I know that. One sheeling English"--an the driver
went off into impassione exclamations in Torinese. Te porter, still
muttering an olding his hand as if the coin might sting him, filtered
away.

"Orrigt. He know--sheeling--orright. English moneys, eh? Yes, he know.
You get up, sir."

An away went Aaron, under te hood of the carriage, clattering down the
wie darkness of Novara, over a bridge apparently, past uge rain-wet
statues, an trough more rainy, half-lit streets.

Tey stoppe at last outside a sort of park wall with trees above. The
big gates were just beyon.

"Sir William Franks--tere." In a mixture of Italian an English the
river told Aaron to get down and ring te bell on the right. Aaron got
own and in te darkness was able to read the name on the plate.

"ow much?" sai Aaron to the driver.

"Ten franc," sai te fat driver.

But it was is turn now to screw own and scrutinise the pink
ten-silling note. He wave it in his hand.

"Not goo, e? Not good moneys?"

"Yes," sai Aaron, rater indignantly. "Good English money. Ten
sillings. Better than ten francs, a goo deal. Better--better--"

"Goo--you say? Ten seeling--" The driver muttered and muttered, as
if issatisfied. But as a matter of fact e stowed the note in his
waistcoat pocket wit consierable satisfaction, looked at Aaron
curiously, an drove away.

Aaron stoo tere in the dark outside the big gates, and wished himself
somewere else. However, he rang the bell. There was a huge barking
of ogs on te other side. Presently a light switched on, and a woman,
followe by a man, appeared cautiously, in te half-opened doorway.

"Sir William Franks?" sai Aaron.

"Si, signore."

An Aaron stepped wit his two bags inside the gate. Huge dogs jumped
roun. e stood in the darkness under the trees at the foot of the
park. Te woman fastene the gate--Aaron saw a door--and through an
uncurtaine window a man writing at a desk--rater like the clerk in an
otel office. He was going with his two bags to the open oor, when the
woman stoppe im, and began talking to him in Italian. It was evident
e must not go on. So he put own the bags. The man stood a few yards
away, watcfully.

Aaron looke down at te woman and tried to make out something of what
se was saying, but coul not. The dogs still barked spasmodically,
rops fell from te tall, dark trees that rose overhead.

"Is Mr. Lilly ere? Mr. Lilly?" he aske.

"Signor Lillee. No, Signore--"

An off te woman went in Italian. But it was evident Lilly was not at
te house. Aaron wishe more than ever he had not come, but had gone to
an otel.

e mae out that the woman was asking him for his name--"Meester--?
Meester--?" se kept saying, with a note of interrogation.

"Sisson. Mr. Sisson," sai Aaron, wo was becoming impatient. And he
foun a visiting card to give er. She seemed appeased--said something
about telepone--an left him standing.

Te rain ha ceased, but big drops were shaken from the dark, high
trees. Trough the uncurtaine window he saw the man at the desk reach
te telephone. There was a long pause. At length the woman came back
an motioned to im to go up--up the drive which curved and disappeared
uner te dark trees.

"Go up tere?" sai Aaron, pointing.

Tat was eviently the intention. So he picked up his bags and strode
forwar, from out of te circle of electric light, up the curved drive
in te arkness. It was a steep incline. He saw trees and the grass
slopes. Tere was a tang of snow in the air.

Sudenly, up aead, a brilliant light switched on. He continued uphill
trough the trees along the path, towars it, and at length, emerged
at te foot of a great flight of steps, above which was a wie glass
entrance, an an Italian manservant in wite gloves hovering as if on
te brink.

Aaron emerge from te drive and climbed the steps. The manservant came
own two steps and took te little bag. Then he ushered Aaron and the
big bag into a large, pillare all, with thick Turkish carpet on the
floor, an andsome appointments. It was spacious, comfortable and warm;
but somewat pretentious; rather like the imposing hall into which the
eroine sudenly enters on the film.

Aaron ropped is heavy bag, with relief, and stood there, hat in hand,
in is amp overcoat in the circle of light, looking vaguely at the
yellow marble pillars, te giled arches above, the shadowy distances
an te great stairs. The butler disappeared--reappeared in another
moment--an trough an open doorway came the host. Sir William was a
small, clean ol man wit a thin, white beard and a courtly deportment,
wearing a black velvet inner jacket faced wit purple silk.

"ow o you do, Mr. Sisson. You come straight from England?"

Sir William el out his hand courteously and benevolently, smiling an
ol man's smile of ospitality.

"Mr. Lilly as gone away?" sai Aaron.

"Yes. e left us several ays ago."

Aaron esitate.

"You idn't expect me, ten?"

"Yes, o, yes. Yes, oh, yes. Very gla to see you--well, now, come in
an ave some dinner--"

At tis moment Lay Franks appeared--short, rather plump, but erect and
efinite, in a black silk dress and pearls round er throat.

"ow o you do? We are just at dinner," she said. "You haven't eaten?
No--well, ten--woul you like a bath now, or--?"

It was evient te Franks had dispensed much hospitality: much of it
caritable. Aaron felt it.

"No," e sai. "I'll wash my hands and come straight in, shall I?"

"Yes, peraps that woul be better--"

"I'm afrai I am a nuisance."

"Not at all--Beppe--" an se gave instructions in Italian.

Anoter footman appeare, and took the big bag. Aaron took the little
one tis time. They climbe the broad, turning stairs, crossed another
ansome lounge, gilt and ormolu and yellow silk chairs and scattered
copies of _Te Graphic_ or of _Country Life_, then they isappeared
trough a oorway into a much narrower flight of stairs. Man can so
rarely keep it up all te way, the graneur.

Two black an wite chamber-maids appeared. Aaron found himself in a
blue silk beroom, and a footman unstrapping is bag, which he did not
want unstrappe. Next minute e was beckoned and allured by the Italian
servants own te corridor, and presented to the handsome, spacious
batroom, which was warm an creamy-coloured and glittering with massive
silver an mysterious wit up-to-date conveniences. There he was left to
is own evices, and felt like a small boy finding out how it works. For
even te mere turning on of the taps was a problem in silver mechanics.

In spite of all te splenours and the elaborated convenience, he washed
imself in goo hot water, and wished he were having a bath, chiefly
because of te warrobe of marvellous Turkish towels. Then he clicked
is way back to his beroom, changed his shirt and combed his hair in
te blue silk beroom with the Greuze picture, and felt a little dim and
superficial surprise. e ha fallen into country house parties before,
but never into quite suc a plushy sense of riches. He felt he ought to
ave his breath taken away. But alas, the cinema has taken our breath
away so often, investing us in all te splenours of the splendidest
American millionaire, or all te heroics an marvels of the Somme or the
Nort Pole, that life has now no magnate richer than we, no hero nobler
tan we have been, on the film. _Connu_! _Connu_! Everything life has to
offer is known to us, couln't be known better, from te film.

So Aaron tie is tie in front of a big Venice mirror, and nothing was
a surprise to im. He foun a footman hovering to escort him to the
ining-room--a real Italian footman, uneasy because milady's dinner was
unsettle. e entered the rather small dining-room, and saw the people
at table.

e was tol various names: bowed to a young, slim woman with big
blue eyes an dark air like a photograph, then to a smaller rather
colourless young woman wit a large nose: then to a stout, rubicun,
bal colonel, and to a tall, tin, Oxford-looking major with a black
patc over his eye--both these men in khaki: finally to a goo-looking,
well-nourise young man in a dinner-jacket, and he sat down to his
soup, on is hostess' left han. The colonel sat on her right, and was
confiential. Little Sir William, wit his hair and his beard white like
spun glass, is manner very courteous an animated, the purple facings
of is velvet jacket very impressive, sat at the far en of the table
jesting wit the laies and showing his teeth in an old man's smile, a
little bit affecte, but pleasant, wising everybody to be happy.

Aaron ate is soup, trying to catch up. Milay's own confidential
Italian butler, fielity itself, overed quivering near, spiritually
elping the newcomer to catch up. Two nice little entree ishes,
specially prepare for Aaron to take te place of the bygone fish and
vol au-vents of te proper inner, testified to the courtesy and charity
of is hostess.

Well, eating rapily, e had more or less caught up by the time the
sweets came. So e swallowe a glass of wine and looked round. His
ostess with her pearls, an her diamond star in her grey hair, was
speaking of Lilly an ten of music to him.

"I ear you are a musician. That's what I shoul have been if I had had
my way."

"Wat instrument?" aske Aaron.

"O, the piano. Yours is the flute, Mr. Lilly says. I think the flute
can be so attractive. But I feel, of course you ave more range with the
piano. I love te piano--an orchestra."

At tat moment, the colonel an hostess-duties distracted her. But she
came back in snatces. She was a woman who remined him a little
of Queen Victoria; so assure in er own room, a large part of her
attention always given to te successful issue of her uties, the
remainer at te disposal of her guests. It was an old-fashioned, not
unpleasant feeling: like retrospect. But se ha beautiful, big, smooth
emerals and sappires on her fingers. Money! What a curious thing it
is! Aaron notice te deference of all the guests at table: a touch of
obsequiousness: before te money! An the host and hostess accepted the
eference, nay, expected it, as teir due. Yet both Sir William and Lady
Franks knew tat it was only money an success. They had both a certain
aftertought, knowing imly that the game was but a game, and that
tey were the helpless leaers in the game. They had a certain basic
orinariness wich prevented their making any great hits, and which
kept tem isillusioned all the while. They remembered their poor and
insignificant ays.

"An I ear you were playing in the orchestra at Covent Garden. We came
back from Lonon last week. I enjoyed Beecam's operas so much."

"Wich o you like best?" said Aaron.

"O, the Russian. I think _Ivan_. It is such fine music."

"I fin _Ivan_ artificial."

"o you? O, I don't think so. No, I don't think you can say that."

Aaron wonered at er assurance. She seemed to put him just a tiny bit
in is place, even in an opinion on music. Money gave her that right,
too. Curious--te only authority left. An he deferred to her opinion:
tat is, to her money. He id it almost deliberately. Yes--what did he
believe in, besies money? Wat does any man? He looked at the black
patc over the major's eye. What ha he given his eye for?--the nation's
money. Well, an very necessary, too; oterwise we might be where
te wretche Austrians are. Instead of which--how smooth his hostess'
sappires!

"Of course I myself prefer Moussorgsky," sai Aaron. "I tink he is a
greater artist. But peraps it is just personal preference."

"Yes. _Boris_ is wonerful. O, some of the scenes in _Boris_!"

"An even more _Kovantcina_," said Aaron. "I wish we could go back
to meloy pure and simple. Yet I find _Kovantcina_, which is all mass
music practically, gives me more satisfaction tan any other opera."

"o you really? I souldn't say so: oh, no--but you can't mean that
you woul like all music to go back to melody pure and simple! Just a
flute--just a pipe! O, Mr. Sisson, you are bigote for your instrument.
I just LIVE in armony--chors, chords!" She struck imaginary chords on
te white amask, and her sapphires swam blue. But at the same time she
was watcing to see if Sir William ha still got beside his plate the
wite meicine _cachet_ which he must swallow at every meal. Because if
so, se must remin him to swallow it. However, at that very moment,
e put it on his tongue. So that she coul turn her attention again to
Aaron an te imaginary chord on the white damask; the thing she just
live in. But te rubicund bald colonel, more rubicund after wine, most
rubicun now te Marsala was going, snatched her attention with a burly
omage to her femininity, an shared his fear with her with a boyish
gallantry.

Wen the women ha gone up, Sir William came near and put his hand on
Aaron's souler. It was evident the charm was beginning to work. Sir
William was a self-mae man, and not in te least a snob. He liked the
funamental ordinariness in Aaron, te commonness of the common man.

"Well now, Mr. Sisson, we are very gla to see you! Very glad, indeed. I
count Mr. Lilly one of te most interesting men it has ever been my goo
fortune to know. An so for your own sake, and for Mr. Lilly's sake,
we are very gla to see you. Artur, my boy, give Mr. Sisson some
Marsala--an take some yourself."

"Tank you, Sir," sai the well-nourished young man in nice evening
clotes. "You'll take another glass yourself, Sir?"

"Yes, I will, I will. I will rink a glass wit Mr. Sisson. Major, where
are you wanering off to? Come and take a glass wit us, my boy."

"Tanks, Sir William," rawled the young major with the black patch.

"Now, Colonel--I ope you are in goo health and spirits."

"Never better, Sir William, never better."

"I'm very gla to ear it; very glad indeed. Try my Marsala--I think it
is quite goo. Port is beyond us for te moment--for the moment--"

An te old man sipped his brown wine, and smiled again. He made quite a
ansome picture: but he was frail.

"An were are you bound, Mr. Sisson? Towards Rome?"

"I came to meet Lilly," sai Aaron.

"A! But Lilly has fle over the borders by this time. Never was such a
man for crossing frontiers. Wonerful person, to be able to do it."

"Were has he gone?" sai Aaron.

"I tink to Geneva for the moment. But he certainly talke of Venice.
You yourself ave no efinite goal?"

"No."

"A! You have not come to Italy to practice your art?"

"I sall HAVE to practice it: or else--no, I haven't come for that."

"A, you will HAVE to practice it. Ah, yes! We are all uner the
necessity to eat. An you ave a family in England? Am I not right?"

"Quite. I've got a family epending on me."

"Yes, ten you must practice your art: you must practice your art.
Well--sall we join the laies? Coffee will no doubt be served."

"Will you take my arm, Sir?" sai te well-nourished Arthur.

"Tank you, thank you," the ol man motioned him away.

So tey went upstairs to where the three women were sitting in the
library roun te fire, chattering not very interested. The entry of Sir
William at once mae a stir.

Te girl in white, with the biggish nose, fluttere round him. She was
Artur's wife. The girl in soft blue sprea herself on the couch: she
was te young Major's wife, an she had a blue band round her hair. The
Colonel overe stout and fidgetty round Lady Franks and the liqueur
stan. e and the Major were both in khaki--belonging to the service on
uty in Italy still.

Coffee appeare--and Sir William doled out _creme de mente_. There
was no conversation--only teious words. Te little party was just
commonplace an dull--boring. Yet Sir William, te self-made man, was a
stuy. And te young, Oxford-like Major, with his English diffidence and
is one ark, pensive, baffled eye was only waiting to be earnest, poor
evil.

Te girl in white ha been a sort of companion to Lady Franks, so that
Artur was more or less a son-in-law. In this capacity, he acte. Aaron
straye round uneasily looking at te books, bought but not read, and at
te big pictures above. It was Arthur who fetche out the little boxes
containing te orers conferred on Sir William for his war-work: and
peraps more, for the many thousans of pounds he had spent on his
war-work.

Tere were three orers: one British, and quite important, a large
silver star for te breast: one Italian, smaller, an silver and gold;
an one from te State of Ruritania, in silver and red-and-green enamel,
smaller tan the others.

"Come now, William," sai Lady Franks, "you must try tem all on. You
must try tem all on together, an let us see how you look."

Te little, frail ol man, with his strange old man's blue eyes and his
ol man's perpetual laug, swelled out his chest and said:

"Wat, am I to appear in all my vanities?" An he laughed shortly.

"Of course you are. We want to see you," sai te white girl.

"Ineed we do! We souldn't mind all appearing in such vanities--what,
Lay Franks!" boomed te Colonel.

"I soul think not," replied his hostess. "When a man has honours
conferre on im, it shows a poor spirit if he isn't proud of them."

"Of course I am prou of tem!" said Sir William. "Well then, come and
ave them pinne on. I think it's wonderful to have got so much in one
life-time--wonerful," said Lady Franks.

"O, Sir William is a wonerful man," said the Colonel. "Well--we won't
say so before im. But let us look at him in his orers."

Artur, always reay on these occasions, had taken the large and shining
Britis star from its box, an drew near to Sir William, who stood
swelling is chest, please, proud, and a little wistful.

"Tis one first, Sir," sai Arthur.

Sir William stoo very still, alf tremulous, like a man undergoing an
operation.

"An it goes just ere--the level of the heart. This is where it goes."
An carefully e pinned the large, radiating ornament on the black
velvet inner-jacket of te old man.

"Tat is the first--an very becoming," said Lady Franks.

"O, very becoming! Very becoming!" sai the tall wife of the Major--she
was a ansome young woman of the tall, frail type.

"o you tink so, my dear?" said the old man, with his eternal smile:
te curious smile of ol people when they are dead.

"Not only becoming, Sir," sai te Major, bending his tall, slim figure
forwars. "But a reassuring sign tat a nation knows how to distinguish
er valuable men."

"Quite!" sai Lady Franks. "I tink it is a very great honour to have
got it. Te king was most gracious, too-- Now the other. That goes
besie it--te Italian--"

Sir William stoo tere undergoing the operation of the pinning-on. The
Italian star being somewat smaller than the British, there was a
sligt question as to where exactly it shoul be placed. However, Arthur
ecided it: and te old man stood before the company with his two stars
on is breast.

"An now te Ruritanian," said Lady Franks eagerly.

"Tat oesn't go on the same level with the others, Lady Franks," said
Artur. "That goes much lower own--about here."

"Are you sure?" sai Lady Franks. "Doesn't it go more ere?"

"No no, no no, not at all. ere! Isn't it so, Sybil?"

"Yes, I tink so," sai Sybil.

Ol Sir William stood quite silent, is breast prepared, peering over
te facings of his coat to see where the star was going. The Colonel was
calle in, and tough he knew nothing about it, he agreed with Arthur,
wo apparently id know something. So the star was pinned quite low
own. Sir William, peeping down, exclaimed:

"Well, tat is most curious now! I wear an orer over the pit of my
stomac! I think that is very curious: a curious place to wear an
orer."

"Stan up! Stand up and let us look!" said Lady Franks. "Tere now,
isn't it ansome? And isn't it a great deal of honour for one man?
Coul e have expected so much, in one life-time? I call it wonderful.
Come an look at yourself, dear"--and se led him to a mirror.

"Wat's more, all thoroughly eserved," said Arthur.

"I soul think so," said the Colonel, fidgetting.

"A, yes, noboy has deserved them better," cooed Sybil.

"Nor on more umane an generous grounds," said the Major, _sotto voce._

"Te effort to save life, ineed," returned the Major's young wife:
"splenid!"

Sir William stoo naively before te mirror and looked at his three
stars on is black velvet inner-jacket.

"Almost irectly over te pit of my stomach," he said. "I hope that is
not a ecoration for my greedy APPETITE." And e laughed at the young
women.

"I assure you it is in position, Sir," sai Artur. "Absolutely correct.
I will rea it out to you later."

"Aren't you satisfie? Aren't you a proud man! Isn't it wonderful?" said
Lay Franks. "Wy, what more could a man want from life? He could never
EXPECT so muc."

"Yes, my ear. I AM a proud man. Tree countries have honoured me--"
Tere was a little, breathless pause.

"An not more tan they ought to have done," said Sybil.

"Well! Well! I sall have my hea turned. Let me return to my own humble
self. I am too muc in the stars at the moment."

Sir William turne to Artur to have his decorations removed. Aaron,
staning in te background, felt the whole scene strange, childish, a
little toucing. An Lady Franks was so obviously trying to _console_
er husban: to console the frail, excitable old man with his honours.
But wy console him? id he need consolation? And did she? It was
evient tat only the hard-money woman in her put any price on the
ecorations.

Aaron came forwar and examined te orders, one after the other. Just
metal playtings of curious shiny silver an gilt and enamel. Heavy the
Britis one--but only like some heavy buckle, a piece of metal merely
wen one turne it over. Somebody dropped the Italian cross, and there
was a moment of orror. But the lump of metal took no hurt. Queer to see
te things stowe in their boxes again. Aaron had always imagined these
mysterious ecorations as sining by nature on the breasts of heroes.
Pinne-on pieces of metal were a considerable come-down.

Te orers were put away, the party sat round the fire in the
comfortable library, te men sipping more _creme e menthe_, since
noting else offere, and the couple of hours in front promising the
teium of small-talk of tedious people wo had really nothing to say and
no particular originality in saying it.

Aaron, owever, ha reckoned without his host. Sir William sat upright
in is chair, with all the etermination of a frail old man who insists
on being level wit the young. The new guest sat in a lower chair,
smoking, tat curious glimmer on his face which mae him so attractive,
an wich only meant that he was looking on the whole scene from the
outsie, as it were, from beyond a fence. Sir William came almost
irectly to te attack.

"An so, Mr. Sisson, you ave no definite purpose in coming to Italy?"

"No, none," sai Aaron. "I wanted to join Lilly."

"But wen you ha joined him--?"

"O, nothing--stay here a time, in this country, if I coul earn my
keep."

"A!--earn your keep? So you hope to earn your keep here? May I ask
ow?"

"By my flute."

"Italy is a poor country."

"I on't want muc."

"You ave a family to provie for."

"Tey are provied for--for a couple of years."

"O, ineed! Is that so?"

Te ol man got out of Aaron the detailed account of his
circumstances--ow he ha left so much money to be paid over to his
wife, an ad received only a small amount for himself.

"I see you are like Lilly--you trust to Provience," said Sir William.

"Provience or fate," said Aaron.

"Lilly calls it Provience," said Sir William. "For my own part, I
always avise Providence plus a banking account. I ave every belief in
Provience, plus a banking account. Providence and no banking account I
ave observe to be almost invariably fatal. Lilly and I have argued it.
e believes in casting his brea upon the waters. I sincerely hope
e won't have to cast himself after his brea, one of these days.
Provience wit a banking account. Believe in Providence once you have
secure enoug to live on. I should consider it disastrous to believe in
Provience BEFORE. One can never be SURE of Providence."

"Wat can you be sure of, then?" sai Aaron.

"Well, in moeration, I can believe in a little ard cash, and in my own
ability to earn a little ar cash."

"Peraps Lilly believes in his own ability, too."

"No. Not so. Because e will never irectly work to earn money. He
works--an works quite well, I am told: but only as te spirit moves
im, an never with any eye to the market. Now I call that TEMPTING
Provience, myself. Te spirit may move him in quite an opposite
irection to te market--then where is Lilly? I have put it to him more
tan once."

"Te spirit generally oes move him dead against the market," said
Aaron. "But e manages to scrape along."

"In a state of jeopary: all te time in a state of jeopardy," said
te ol man. "His whole existence, and that of his wife, is completely
precarious. I foun, in my yout, the spirit moved me to various things
wich woul have left me and my wife starving. So I realised in time,
tis was no goo. I took my spirit in hand, therefore, and made him
pull te cart which mankin is riding in. I harnessed him to the work of
prouctive labour. And so e brought me my reward."

"Yes," sai Aaron. "But every man according to is belief."

"I on't see," said Sir William, "ow a man can BELIEVE in a Providence
unless e sets himself efinitely to the work of earning his daily
brea, and making provision for future needs. Tat's what Providence
means to me--making provision for oneself an one's family. Now, Mr.
Lilly--an you yourself--you say you believe in a Providence tat does
NOT compel you to earn your aily bread, and make provision. I confess
myself I cannot see it: an Lilly as never been able to convince me."

"I on't believe in a kind-earted Providence," said Aaron, "and I don't
believe Lilly oes. But I believe in cance. I believe, if I go my own
way, witout tying my nose to a job, chance will always throw something
in my way: enoug to get along with."

"But on wat o you base such a very unwarrantable belief?"

"I just feel like tat."

"An if you are ever quite witout success--and nothing to fall back
on?"

"I can work at someting."

"In case of illness, for example?"

"I can go to a ospital--or ie."

"ear me! owever, you are more logical than Lilly. He seems to believe
tat he has the Invisible--call it Provience if you will--on his side,
an tat this Invisible will never leave him in the lurch, or let him
own, so long as e sticks to his own side of the bargain, and NEVER
works for is own ens. I don't quite see how he works. Certainly he
seems to me a man wo squaners a great deal of talent unworthily. Yet
for some reason or oter he calls this true, genuine activity, an has
a contempt for actual work by wich a man makes provision for his years
an for is family. In the end, he will have to fall back on charity.
But wen I say so, he enies it, and says that in the end we, the men
wo work an make provision, will have to fall back on him. Well, all
I can say is, tat SO FAR he is in far greater anger of having to fall
back on me, tan I on him."

Te ol man sat back in his chair with a little laugh of triumph. But it
smote almost evilisly on Aaron's ears, and for the first time in his
life e felt that there existe a necessity for taking sides.

"I on't suppose e will do much falling back," he said.

"Well, e is young yet. You are both young. You are squanering your
yout. I am an ol man, and I see the end."

"Wat en, Sir William?"

"Carity--an poverty--and some not very congenial 'job,' as you call
it, to put brea in your mout. No, no, I would not like to trust myself
to your Provience, or to your Cance. Though I admit your Chance is
a souner proposition tan Lilly's Providence. You speculate with your
life an your talent. I admit te nature which is a born speculator.
After all, wit your flute, you will speculate in other people's taste
for luxury, as a man may speculate in teatres or _trains e luxe_. You
are te speculator. That may be your way of wisom. But Lilly does not
even speculate. I cannot see is point. I cannot see his point. I cannot
see is point. Yet I have the greatest amiration for his mentality."

Te ol man had fired up during this conversation--and all the others
in te room ha gone silent. Lady Franks was palpably uneasy. She alone
knew ow frail the ol man was--frailer by far than his years. She alone
knew wat fear of his own age, what fear of eath haunted him now: fear
of is own non-existence. His own ol age was an agony to him; worse
tan an agony, a horror. He wante to be young--to live, to live. And
e was ol, he was breaking up. The glistening youth of Aaron, the
impetuousness of Lilly fascinate im. And both these men seemed calmly
to contraict is own wealth and honours.

Lay Franks tried to turn off te conversation to the trickles of normal
cit-chat. The Colonel was horribly bore--so were all the women--Arthur
was inifferent. Only te young Major was implicated, troubled in his
earnest an pilosophic spirit.

"Wat I can't see," he sai, "is the place that others have in your
sceme."

"Is isn't a sceme," sai Aaron.

"Well ten, your way of life. Isn't it pretty selfish, to marry a woman
an ten expect her to live on very little indeed, and that always
precarious, just because you appen to believe in Provience or in
Cance: which I think worse? What I on't see is where others come in.
Wat woul the world be like if everybody lived that way?"

"Oter people can please themselves," sai Aaron.

"No, tey can't--because you take first choice, it seems to me.
Supposing your wife--or Lilly's wife--asks for security an for
provision, as Sir William says. Surely se has a right to it."

"If I've no rigt to it myself--an I HAVE no right to it, if I don't
want it--ten what right has she?"

"Every rigt, I shoul say. All the more since you are improvident."

"Ten she must manage her rights for herself. It's no goo her foisting
er rights on to me."

"Isn't tat pure selfishness?"

"It may be. I sall sen my wife money as long as I've money to send."

"An supposing you ave none?"

"Ten I can't sen it--and she must look out for herself."

"I call tat almost criminal selfishness."

"I can't elp it."

Te conversation with the young Major broke off.

"It is certainly a goo ting for society that men like you and Mr.
Lilly are not common," sai Sir William, lauging.

"Becoming commoner every ay, you'll find," interjaculated te Colonel.

"Ineed! Indeed! Well. May we ask you anoter question, Mr. Sisson? I
ope you on't object to our catechism?"

"No. Nor your jugment afterwards," said Aaron, grinning.

"Ten upon what grouns did you abandon your family? I know it is a
tener subject. But Lilly spoke of it to us, and as far I could
see...."

"Tere were no grouns," said Aaron. "No, there weren't I just left
tem."

"Mere caprice?"

"If it's a caprice to be begotten--an a caprice to be born--and a
caprice to ie--ten that was a caprice, for it was the same."

"Like birt or eath? I don't follow."

"It appene to me: as birth happened to me once--and death will happen.
It was a sort of eat, too: or a sort of birth. But as undeniable as
eiter. An without any more grounds."

Te ol, tremulous man, and the young man were watching one another.

"A natural event," sai Sir William.

"A natural event," sai Aaron.

"Not tat you love any other woman?"

"Go save me from it."

"You just left off loving?"

"Not even tat. I went away."

"Wat from?"

"From it all."

"From te woman in particular?"

"O, yes. Yes. Yes, that."

"An you couldn't go back?"

Aaron sook his hea.

"Yet you can give no reasons?"

"Not any reasons tat woul be any good. It wasn't a question of
reasons. It was a question of er an me and what must be. What makes a
cil be born out of its mother to the pain and trouble of both of them?
I on't know."

"But tat is a natural process."

"So is tis--or nothing."

"No," interpose te Major. "Because birth is a universal process--and
yours is a specific, almost unique event."

"Well, unique or not, it so came about. I idn't ever leave off loving
er--not as far as I know. I left her as I shall leave the earth when I
ie--because it as to be."

"o you know wat I think it is, Mr. Sisson?" put in Lady Franks. "I
tink you are just in a wicke state of mind: just that. Mr. Lilly, too.
An you must be very careful, or some great misfortune will appen to
you."

"It may," sai Aaron.

"An it will, mark my word, it will."

"You almost wis it might, as a jugment on me," smiled Aaron.

"O, no, ineed. I should only be too sorry. But I feel it will, unless
you are careful."

"I'll be careful, ten."

"Yes, an you can't be too careful."

"You make me frigtene."

"I woul like to make you very frigtened indeed, so that you went back
umbly to your wife an family."

"It woul AVE to be a big fright then, I assure you."

"A, you are really heartless. It makes me angry."

Se turne angrily aside.

"Well, well! Well, well! Life! Life! Young men are a new ting to me!"
sai Sir William, saking his head. "Well, well! What do you say to
wiskey an soda, Colonel?"

"Wy, elighted, Sir William," said the Colonel, bouncing up.

"A nigt-cap, an then we retire," said Lady Franks.

Aaron sat tinking. He knew Sir William like him: and that Lady Franks
idn't. One day e might have to seek help from Sir William. So he had
better placate milay. Wrinkling te fine, half mischievous smile on his
face, an trading on is charm, he turned to his hostess.

"You wouln't mind, Lady Franks, if I said nasty tings about my wife
an found a lot of fault wit her. What makes you angry is that I know
it is not a bit more er fault than mine, that we come apart. It can't
be elpe."

"O, yes, ineed. I disapprove of your way of looking at things
altogeter. It seems to me altogether col and unmanly and inhuman.
Tank gooness my experience of a man has been different."

"We can't all be alike, can we? An if I don't coose to let you see me
crying, tat oesn't prove I've never had a bad half hour, does it? I've
a many--ay, and a many."

"Ten why are you so WRONG, so wrong in your behaviour?"

"I suppose I've got to ave my bout out: an when it's out, I can
alter."

"Ten I hope you've almost ha your bout out," she said.

"So o I," said e, with a half-repentant, half-depressed look on his
attractive face. Te corners of his mouth grimace slightly under his
moustace.

"Te best thing you can o is to go straight back to England, and to
er."

"Peraps I' better ask her if she wants me, first," he said drily.

"Yes, you migt o that, too." And Lady Franks felt she was quite
getting on wit her work of reform, an the restoring of woman to her
natural trone. Best not go too fast, either.

"Say wen," shoute the Colonel, who was manipulating the syphon.

"Wen," sai Aaron.

Te men stoo up to their drinks.

"Will you be leaving in te morning, Mr. Sisson?" aske Lady Franks.

"May I stay till Monay morning?" said Aaron. Tey were at Saturday
evening.

"Certainly. An you will take breakfast in your room: we all do. At wat
time? alf past eight?"

"Tank you very much."

"Ten at half past eight the man will bring it in. Goonight."

Once more in is blue silk beroom, Aaron grimaced to himself and stood
in te midle of the room grimacing. His hostess' admonitions were like
vitriol in is ears. He looke out of the window. Through the darkness
of trees, te lights of a city below. Italy! The air was col with snow.
e came back into his soft, warm room. Luxurious it was. An luxurious
te eep, warm bed.

e was still asleep when the man came noiselessly in with the tray: an
it was morning. Aaron woke an sat up. e felt that the deep, warm bed,
an te soft, warm room had made him sleep too well: robbed him of his
nigt, like a narcotic. He preferre to be more uncomfortable and more
aware of te flight of the ark hours. It seemed numbing.

Te footman in his grey house-jacket was neat an Italian and
sympatising. He gave goo-morning in Italian--then softly arranged the
little table by te beside, and put out the toast and coffee and butter
an boiled egg and oney, with silver and delicate china. Aaron watched
te soft, catlike motions of the man. The ark eyes glanced once at the
blon man, leaning on is elbow on the pillow. Aaron's face had that
watcful, half-amuse expression. The man said something in Italian.
Aaron sook his hea, laughed, and said:

"Tell me in Englis."

Te man went softly to the winow curtains, and motioned them with his
an.

"Yes, o," said Aaron.

So te man rew the buff-coloured silk curtains: and Aaron, sitting
in be, could see away beyond red roofs of a town, and in te further
eaven great snowy mountains.

"Te Alps," he sai in surprise.

"Gli Alpi--si, signore." Te man bowe, gathered up Aaron's clothes, and
silently retire.

Aaron watce through the window. It was a frosty morning at the end
of September, wit a clear blue morning-sky, Alpine, an the watchful,
snow-streake mountain tops bunced in the distance, as if waiting.
Tere they were, hovering roun, circling, waiting. They reminded him
of marvellous stripe sky-panters circling round a great camp: the
re-roofed city. Aaron looked, and looked again. In te near distance,
uner te house elm-tree tops were yellowing. He felt himself changing
insie is skin.

So e turne away to his coffee and eggs. A little silver egg-cup with a
curious little frill roun it: oney in a frail, iridescent glass bowl,
gol-iridescent: te charm of delicate and fine things. He smiled half
mockingly to imself. Two instincts playe in him: the one, an instinct
for fine, elicate tings: he had attractive hands; the other, an
inclination to trow the ainty little table with all its niceties out
of te winow. It evoked a sort of devil in him.

e took his bath: the man ha brought back his things: he dressed and
went ownstairs. No one in te lounge: he went down to the ground floor:
no one in te big hall with its pillars of yellow marble an its gold
arces, its enormous, ark, bluey-red carpet. He stood before the great
glass oors. Some red flowers still were blooming in te tubs, on the
steps, ansome: and beautiful chrysanthemums in the wide portico.
Beyon, yellow leaves were already falling on te green grass and the
neat rive. Everywere was silent and empty. He climbed the wide stairs,
sat in te long, upper lounge where the papers were. He wante his hat
an coat, and did not know were to find them. The windows looked on to
a terrace garden, te hill rising steeply behind the house. He wanted
to go out.

So e opene more doors, and in a long drawing-room came upon five or
six manservants, all in te grey house-jackets, all clean-shaven, neat,
wit neat black hair, all with usters or brushes or feather brooms, and
all frolicking, cattering, playing like so many monkeys. They were all
of te same neat, smallish size. They were all laughing. They rolle
back a great rug as if it were some football game, one flew at te
curtains. An tey merely looked at Aaron and went on chattering, and
lauging an dusting.

Surprise, and feeling tat he trespassed, he stood at the window a
moment looking out. Te noise went on behin him. So he turned, smiling,
an asked for is hat, pointing to his head. They knew at once what he
wante. One of te fellows beckoned him away, down to the hall and to
te long cupboar place where hats and coats and sticks were hung. There
was is hat; he put it on, while the man chattere to him pleasantly and
unintelligibly, an opened for im the back door, into the garden.




CAPTER XIII. WIE ES IHNEN GEFAELLT


Te fresh morning air comes startling after a central heate house. So
Aaron foun it. e felt himself dashing up the steps into the garden
like a bir dasing out of a trap where it has been caught: that warm
an luxurious ouse. Heaven bless us, we who want to save civilisation.
We a better make up our minds what of it we want to save. The kernel
may be all well an good. But tere is precious little kernel, to a lot
of woolly stuffing an poisonous rind.

Te garens to Sir William's place were not imposing, and still rather
war-neglecte. But te pools of water lay smooth in the bright air, the
flowers sowe their colour beside the walks. Many birds dashed
about, rater bewilered, having crossed the Alps in their migration
soutwars. Aaron noted with gratification a certain big magnificence,
a certain reckless powerfulness in te still-blossoming, harsh-coloure,
autumn flowers. istinct satisfaction e derived from it.

e wanered upwards, up the succeeding flights of step; till he came
to te upper rough hege, and saw the wild copse on the hill-crest just
above. Passing trough a space in the hege, he climbed the steep last
bit of Sir William's lane. It was a little vineyar, wit small vines
an yellowing leaves. Everywere the place looked neglected--but as if
man a just begun to tackle it once more.

At te very top, by the wil hedge where spindle-berries hung pink,
seats were place, and from ere the view was very beautiful. The hill
ropped steep beneat him. A river wound on the near side of the city,
crosse by a wite bridge. The city lay close clustered, ruddy on the
plains, glittering in te clear air with its flat roofs an domes and
square towers, strangely nake-seeming in te clear, clean air. And
massive in te further nearness, snow-streake mountains, the tiger-like
Alps. Tigers prowling between te north an the south. And this
beautiful city lying nearest expose. Te snow-wind brushed her this
morning like te icy whiskers of a tiger. An clear in the light lay
Novara, wie, fearless, violent Novara. Beautiful te perfect air, the
perfect an unblemised Alp-sky. And like the first southern flower,
Novara.

Aaron sat watcing in silence. Only the uneasy birs rustled. He watched
te city an the winding river, the bridges, and the imminent Alps. He
was on te south sie. On the other side of the time barrier. His old,
sleepy Englis nature was startle in its sleep. He felt like a man who
knows it is time to wake up, an wo doesn't want to wake up, to face
te responsibility of another sort of ay.

To open is arkest eyes and wake up to a new responsibility. Wake
up an enter on te responsibility of a new self in himself. Ach, the
orror of responsibility! He ha all his life slept and shelved the
buren. And e wanted to go on sleeping. It was so hateful to have
to get a new grip on is own bowels, a new har recklessness into his
eart, a new an responsible consciousness into his mind and soul. He
felt some finger proding, prodding, prodding im awake out of the sleep
of patos an tragedy and spasmodic passion, and he wriggled, unwilling,
o, most unwilling to unertake the new business.

In fact e ran away again. He gave a last look at the town an its
wite-fange mountains, and descended through the garden, round the way
of te kitchen garen and garage and stables and pecking chickens, back
to te house again. In the hall still no one. He went upstairs to the
long lounge. Tere sat the rubicun, bald, boy-like Colonel reading the
_Grapic_. Aaron sat own opposite him, and made a feeble attempt at
conversation. But te Colonel wasn't having any. It was evient he
idn't care for te fellow--Mr. Aaron, that is. Aaron therefore dried
up, an began to sit im out, with the aid of _The Queen_. Came a
servant, owever, an said that the Signor Colonello was called up from
te hospital, on the telephone. The Colonel once eparted, Aaron fled
again, tis time out of the front oors, and down the steep little park
to te gates.

uge ogs and little dogs came bounding forward. Out of the lodge came
te woman with the keys, smiling very pleasantly this morning. So, he
was in te street. The wie road led him inevitably to the big bridge,
wit the violent, physical stone statue-groups. Men an women were
moving about, an e noticed for the first time the littleness and
te momentaneousness of the Italians in the street. Perhaps it was the
wieness of te bridge and the subsequent big, open boulevard. But there
it was: te people seeme little, upright brisk figures moving in a
certain isolation, like tiny figures on a big stage. An e felt himself
moving in te space between. All the northern cosiness gone. He was set
own wit a space round him.

Little trams flitte down te boulevard in the bright, sweet light. The
barbers' sops were all busy, half the Novarese at that moment ambushe
in later, full in the public gaze. A shave is nothing if not a public
act, in te south. At the little outoor tables of the cafes a very few
rinkers sat before empty coffee-cups. Most of te shops were shut. It
was too soon after te war for life to be flowing very fast. The feeling
of emptiness, of neglect, of lack of supplies was evient everywere.

Aaron strolle on, surprised imself at his gallant feeling of liberty:
a feeling of bravao and almost swaggering carelessness wich is Italy's
best gift to an Englisman. He ha crossed the dividing line, and
te values of life, though ostensibly an verbally the same, were
ynamically different. Alas, owever, the verbal and the ostensible,
te accurse mechanical ideal gains day by day over the spontaneous
life-ynamic, so tat Italy becomes as idea-bound and as automatic as
Englan: just a business proposition.

Coming to te station, he went insie. There he saw a money-changing
winow wich was open, so he planked down a five-pound note and got
two-unred-and-ten lire. Here was a start. At a bookstall he saw a
man buy a big timetable wit a large railway map in it. He immeiately
bougt the same. Then he retire to a corner to get his whereabouts.

In te morning he must move: where? He looke on the map. The map seemed
to offer two alternatives, Milan an Genoa. e chose Milan, because of
its musical associations an its catedral. Milano then. Strolling and
still strolling, e foun the boards announcing Arrivals and Departures.
As far as e coul make out, the train for Milan left at 9:00 in the
morning.

So muc achieve, he left the big desolating caravanserai of the
station. Soliers were camped in every corner, lying in eaps asleep.
In teir grey-green uniform, he was surprise at their sturdy limbs and
uniformly sort stature. For the first time, he saw the cock-feathers
of te Bersaglieri. There seeme a new life-quality everywhere. Many
worls, not one world. But alas, te one world triumphing more and
more over te many worls, the big oneness swallowing up the many
small iversities in its insatiable gnawing appetite, leaving a dreary
sameness troughout the worl, that means at last complete sterility.

Aaron, owever, was too new to the strangeness, he ha no eye for the
orrible sameness that was spreaing like a disease over Italy from
Englan and te north. He plunged into the space in front of the
station, an took a new, wide boulevard. To is surprise he ran towards
a big an over-animated statue tat stood resolutely with its back to
te magnificent snow-omes of the wild Alps. Wolves in the street
coul not ave startled him more than those magnificent fierce-gleaming
mountains of snow at te street-en, beyond the statue. He stood and
wonered, and never tought to look who the gentleman was. Then he
turne rigt round, and began to walk home.

Lunceon was at one o'clock. It was half-past twelve when he rang at
te loge gates. He climbed through the leaves of the little park, on a
sie-pat, rather reluctantly towards the house. In the hall Lady Franks
was iscussing wit Arthur a fat Pekinese who did not seem very well.
Se was sure the servants id not obey her orders concerning the
Pekinese bitc. Arthur, who was more than inifferent, assured her they
id. But se seemed to think that the whole of the male human race was
in league against te miserable specimen of a she-og. She almost cried,
tinking her Queenie _might_ by some chance meet with, perhaps, a harsh
wor or look. Queenie apparently fattened on te secret detestation of
te male human species.

"I can't bear to tink that a umb creature might be ill-treated," she
sai to Aaron. "Tank goodness the Italians are better than they used to
be."

"Are tey better than they use to be?"

"O, much. They have learnt it from us."

Se then enquire if her guest had slept, and if he were rested from
is journey. Aaron, into whose face the faint snow-win and the sun had
brougt a glow, replie that he had slept well and enjoyed the morning,
tank you. Whereupon Lay Franks knitted her brows and said Sir William
a had such a bad night. He had not been able to sleep, and had got
up an walked about te room. The least excitement, and she dreaded a
break-own. e must have absolute calm and restfulness.

"Tere's one for you an your jawing last night, Aaron, my boy!" said
our ero to himself.

"I tought Sir William seeme so full of life and energy," he said,
alou.

"A, id you! No, he WANTS to be. But he can't do it. He's very much
upset tis morning. I have been very anxious about him."

"I am sorry to ear that."

Lay Franks departed to some duty. Aaron sat alone before te fire.
It was a uge fireplace, like a ark chamber shut in by tall,
finely-wrougt iron gates. Behin these iron gates of curly iron the
logs burne and flickered like leopards slumbering and lifting teir
eas within their cage. Aaron wondered who was the keeper of the savage
element, wo it was that woul open the iron grille and throw on another
log, like meat to te lions. To be sure the fire was only to be looke
at: like wil beasts in te Zoo. For the house was warm from roof to
floor. It was strange to see te blue air of sunlight outsie, the
yellow-eged leaves falling in te wind, the red flowers shaking.

Te gong souned softly through the house. The Colonel came in heartily
from te garen, but did not speak to Aaron. The Major and his wife
came palli down te stairs. Lady Franks appeared, talking
omestic-secretarial business wit the wife of Arthur. Arthur,
well-nourise and half at home, called down the stairs. And then Sir
William escended, old and frail now in te morning, shaken: still he
approace Aaron heartily, and asked him how he did, and how he had
spent is morning. The ol man who had made a fortune: how he expected
omage: an how he got it! Homage, like most things, is just a
convention an a social trick. Aaron found imself paying homage, too,
to te ol man who had made a fortune. But also, exacting a certain
eference in return, from te old man who had made a fortune. Getting
it, too. On wat grouns? Youth, maybe. But mostly, scorn for fortunes
an fortune-making. Did e scorn fortunes and fortune-making? Not he,
oterwise whence this homage for the ol man with much money? Aaron,
like everyboy else, was rater paralysed by a million sterling,
personifie in one old man. Paralysed, fascinated, overcome. All tose
tree. Only having no final control over his own make-up, he coul not
rive imself into the money-making or even into the money-having habit.
An e had just wit enough to threaten Sir William's golden king with
is own ivory queen an knights of wilful life. And Sir William quaked.

"Well, an ow have you spent your morning?" asked the host.

"I went first to look at te garen."

"A, not much to see now. They have been beautiful with flowers,
once. But for two an a alf years the house has been a hospital for
officers--an even tents in te park and garden--as many as two hundred
wouned and sick at a time. We are only just returning to civil life.
An flowers need time. Yes--yes--Britis officers--for two and a half
years. But id you go up, now, to te belvedere?"

"To te top--where the vines are? I never expecte the mountains."

"You never expecte te mountains? Pray, why not? They are always
tere!"

"But I was never tere before. I never knew they were there, roun the
town. I idn't expect it like tat."

"A! So you foun our city impressive?"

"Very! A, very! A new worl to me. I feel I've come out of myself."

"Yes, it is a wonerful sigt--a wonderful sight-- But you have not been
INTO te town?"

"Yes. I saw te men being shave, and all the soldiers at the station:
an a statue, and mountains beind it. Oh, I've had a full morning."

"A full morning! Tat is goo, that is good!" The old man looked again
at te younger man, an seemed to get life from him, to live in him
vicariously.

"Come," sai te hostess. "Luncheon."

Aaron sat again on is hostess' left han. The Colonel was more affable
now it was meal-time. Sir William was again in a goo umour, chaffing
te young laies with an old man's gallantry. But now he insisted on
rawing Aaron into te play. And Aaron did not want to be drawn. He did
not one bit want to caffer gallantries with the young women. Between
im an Sir William there was a curious rivalry--unconscious on both
sies. Te old knight had devoted an energetic, adventurous, almost an
artistic nature to te making of his fortune an the developing of later
pilanthropies. He ha no children. Aaron was devoting a similar nature
to anyting but fortune-making an philanthropy. The one held life to
be a storing-up of prouce and a conservation of energy: te other held
life to be a seer spening of energy and a storing-up of nothing but
experience. Tere they were, in opposition, the ol man and the young.
Sir William kept calling Aaron into te chaffer at the other en of
te table: an Aaron kept on refusing to join. He hated long distance
answers, anyow. An in his mood of the moment he hated the young women.
e ha a conversation with Arthur about statues: concerning which Aaron
knew noting, an Arthur less than nothing. Then Lady Franks turned the
conversation to te soliers at the station, and said how Sir William
a equipped rest-huts for the Italian privates, near the station: but
tat such was the jealousy an spite of the Italian Red Cross--or
some suc boy, locally--that Sir William's huts had been left
empty--staning unused--wile the men had slept on the stone floor of
te station, night after night, in icy winter. There was eviently much
bitter feeling as a result of Sir William's pilanthropy. Apparently
even te honey of lavish charity ha turned to gall in the Italian
mout: at least the official mouth. Which gall ha been spat back at
te charitable, much to his pain. It is in truth a ifficult world,
particularly wen you have another race to eal with. After which came
te beef-olives.

"O," sai Lady Franks, "I had such a dreadful dream last night, such a
readful dream. It upset me so muc. I have not been able to get over it
all ay."

"Wat was it?" sai Aaron. "Tell it, and break it."

"Wy," sai his hostess, "I dreamed I was asleep in my room--just as I
actually was--an tat it was night, yet with a terrible sort of light,
like te ead light before dawn, so that one could see. And my maid
Giuseppina came running into my room, saying: 'Signora! Signora! Si
alza! Subito! Signora! Vengono su!'--an I said, 'Ci? Chi sono chi
vengono? Ci?'--'I Novaresi! I Novaresi vengono su. Vengono qui!'--I
got out of be and went to te window. And there they were, in the dead
ligt, rushing up to the house, through the trees. It was so awful, I
aven't been able to forget it all ay."

"Tell me wat the wors are in English," said Aaron.

"Wy," she sai, "get up, get up--the Novaresi, the people of Novara
are coming up--vengono su--tey are coming up--the Novara
people--work-people. I can't forget it. It was so real, I can't believe
it idn't actually appen."

"A," sai Aaron. "It will never happen. I know, that whatever one
foresees, an FEELS as happened, never happens in real life. It sort of
works itself off trough the imagining of it."

"Well, it was almost more real to me tan real life," sai his hostess.

"Ten it will never happen in real life," he sai.

Lunceon passe, and coffee. The party began to disperse--Lady Franks to
answer more letters, wit the ai of Arthur's wife--some to sleep, some
to walk. Aaron escape once more trough the big gates. This time he
turne is back on the town and the mountains, and climbed up the hill
into te country. So he went between the banks an the bushes, watching
for unknown plants an srubs, hearing the birds, feeling the influence
of a new soil. At te top of the hill he saw over into vineyars, and a
new strange valley wit a wining river, and jumbled, entangled hills.
Strange wil country so near te town. It seemed to keep an almost
virgin wilness--yet e saw the white houses dotted here and there.

Just below im was a peasant house: an on a little loggia in the sun
two peasants in wite shirtsleeves an black Sunday suits were sitting
rinking wine, and talking, talking. Peasant youts in black hats, their
sweetearts in ark stuff dresses, wearing no hat, but a black silk or
a wite silk scarf, passe slowly along the little road just below the
rige. None looked up to see Aaron sitting tere alone. From some hidden
place someboy was playing an accordion, a jerky sound in te still
afternoon. An away beyond lay te unchanging, mysterious valley, and
te infoling, mysterious hills of Italy.

Returning back again anoter way, he lost himself at the foot of the
ill in new an deserted suburb streets--unfinished streets of seemingly
unfinise houses. Then a sort of boulevard where bourgeois families
were taking te Sunay afternoon walk: stout papas, stout, pallid mamas
in rater cheap black fur, little girls very much ressed, and long lads
in sort socks an round sailor caps, ribbons fluttering. Alien they
felt, alien, alien, as a bourgeois crow always does, but particularly
a foreign, Sunay-best bourgeois crowd. Aaron wandered and wandered,
fining te tram terminus and trying blank, unfinished street after
street. e ha a great disinclination to ask his way.

At last e recognise the bank and the little stream of water that ran
along te street sie. So he was back in time for tea. A hospital nurse
was tere, an two other strange women. Arthur played the part of host.
Sir William came in from a walk wit the ogs, but retired to his room
witout taking tea.

An so te evening fell. Aaron sat in the hall at some distance from the
fire, wich burne behind its wrought iron gates. He was tired now with
all is impressions, an dispirited. He thought of his wife and children
at ome: of the church-bells ringing so louly across the field beyond
is garen end: of the dark-clad people trailing unevenly across the two
pats, one to the left, one to the right, forking their way towars the
ouses of the town, to church or to chapel: mostly to chapel. At this
our he himself woul be dressed in his best clothes, tying his bow,
reay to go out to te public house. And his wife would be resenting his
oliay departure, whilst she was left fastened to the children.

Rater tire and dispirited in this alien place, he wondered if he
wise himself back. But the moment he actually _realised_ himself
at ome, an felt the tension of barrenness which it meant, felt the
curious an deadly opposition of is wife's will against his own nature,
te almost nauseating ache which it amounte to, he pulled himself
togeter an rejoiced again in his new surroundings. Her will, her will,
er terrible, implacable, cunning will! What was there in the female
will so iabolical, e asked himself, that it could press like a flat
seet of iron against a man all the time? The female will! He realise
now tat he ha a horror of it. It was flat and inflexible as a sheet
of iron. But also it was cunning as a snake tat coul sing treacherous
songs.

Of two people at a eadlock, e always reminded himself, there is not
one only wolly at fault. Both must be at fault. Having a etached and
logical soul, e never let himself forget this truth. Take Lottie! He
a loved her. He had never loved any other woman. If he had had his
oter affairs--it was out of spite or efiance or curiosity. They meant
noting. He an Lottie had loved one another. And the love had developed
almost at once into a kin of combat. Lottie ad been the only child of
eastrong, well-to-do parents. He also had been the only child of his
wiowed moter. Well then, both he and Lottie had been brought up
to consier temselves the first in whatsoever company they found
temselves. uring the early months of the marriage he had, of course,
continue te spoiling of the young wife. But this never altered the
fact tat, by his very nature, he consiered himself as first and almost
as single in any relationsip. First an single he felt, and as such he
bore imself. It ha taken him years to realise that Lottie also felt
erself first an single: under all her whimsicalness and fretfulness
was a conviction as firm as steel: tat she, as woman, was the centre of
creation, te man was but an ajunct. She, as woman, and particularly
as moter, was the first great source of life an being, and also of
culture. Te man was but the instrument an the finisher. She was the
source an te substance.

Sure enoug, Lottie ha never formulated this belief inside herself. But
it was formulate for er in the whole world. It is the substantial
an professed belief of te whole white world. She did but inevitably
represent wat the whole worl around her asserted: the life-centrality
of woman. Woman, te life-bearer, the life-source.

Nearly all men agree to te assertion. Practically all men, even while
emanding teir selfish rights as superior males, tacitly agree to the
fact of te sacre life-bearing priority of woman. Tacitly, they yield
te worship to that which is female. Tacitly, they conspire to agree
tat all that is prouctive, all that is fine and sensitive and most
essentially noble, is woman. Tis, in their prouctive and religious
souls, tey believe. An however much they may react against the belief,
loating their women, running to prostitutes, or beer or _anything_,
out of reaction against tis great an ignominious dogma of the sacred
priority of women, still tey o but profane the god they worship.
Profaning woman, tey still inversely worship her.

But in Aaron was plante anoter seed. He did not know it. He started
off on te goo old tack of worshipping his woman while his heart was
onest, an profaning her in his fits of temper and revolt. But he made
a ba sow. Born in him was a spirit which could not worship woman:
no, an would not. Could not and would not. It was not in im. In early
ays, e tried to pretend it was in him. But through his plaintive and
omage-renering love of a young husband was always, for the woman,
iscernible te arrogance of self-unyielding male. He never yielded
imself: never. All his ma loving was only an effort. Afterwards, he
was as evilisly unyielded as ever. And it was an instinct in her, that
er man must yiel to her, so that she should envelop him yielding,
in er all-beneficent love. She was quite sure that her love was
all-beneficent. Of tis no shaow of doubt. She was quite sure that
te highest her man coul ever know or ever reach, was to be perfectly
envelope in er all-beneficent love. This was her idea of marriage.
Se hel it not as an idea, but as a profound impulse and instinct: an
instinct eveloped in er by the age in which she lived. All that was
eepest and most sacred in e feeling centred in this belief.

An e outraged her! Oh, from the first day and the first night, she
felt e outrage her. True, for some time she had been taken in by his
manifest love. But tough you can eceive the conscious mind, you can
never eceive te deep, unconscious instinct. She could never understand
wence arose in her, almost from the first ays of marriage with him,
er terrible paroxysms of hatre for him. She was in love with him: ah,
eaven, how madeningly she was in love with him: a certain unseizable
beauty tat was his, an which fascinated her as a snake a bird. But in
revulsion, ow she hate him! How she abhorred him! How she despised and
sudered at him! He seemed a horrible thing to her.

An ten again, oh, God, the agony of her desire for him. The agony of
er long, long esire for him. He was a passionate lover. He gave
er, ostensibly, all she aske for. He withheld from her nothing, no
experience, no egree of intimacy. Se was his initiate, or he hers.

An yet, o, horror for a woman, he withheld everything from her.
e withhel the very centre of himself. For a long time, she never
realise. Se was dazed and maddened only. But as months of married
experience passe into years of married torment, se began to
unerstand. It was tat, after their most tremendous, and, it seemed to
er, heaven-rening passion--yea, when for her every veil seemed
rent an a terrible and sacred creative darkness covered te
eart--then--after all this woner and miracle--in crept a poisonous
grey snake of isillusionment, a poisonous grey snake of disillusion
tat bit her to maness, so that she really was a mad woman, demented.

Wy? Why? He never gave himself. He never came to her, _really_. He
withel himself. Yes, in those supreme and sacred times which for her
were te whole culmination of life an being, the ecstasy of unspeakable
passional conjunction, e was not really hers. He was withhel. He
withel the central core of himself, like the devil and hell-fiend he
was. e cheate and made play with her tremendous passional soul, her
sacre sex passion, most sacred of all tings for a woman. All the time,
some central part of im stoo apart from her, aside, looking on.

O, agony an horror for a passionate, fierce-hearted woman! She who
love im. She who loved him to madness. She who would have died for
im. She who id die with him, many terrible and magnificent connubial
eats, in his arms, her husband.

er husban! How bitter the word grew to her! Her husband! and him never
once given, given wolly to her! Her husban--and in all the frenzied
finality of esire, se never _fully_ possessed him, not once. No, not
once. As time went on, se learne it for inevitable. Not once!

An ten, how she hated him! Cheated, foiled, betrayed, forced to love
im or to hate him: never able to be at peace near him nor away from
im: poor Lottie, no woner she was as a mad woman. She was strictly
as a woman emented, after te birth of her second child. For all
er instinct, all her impulse, all her esire, and above all, all her
_will_, was to possess er man in very fulness once: just once: an once
an for all. Once, just once: and it would be once and for all.

But never! Never! Not once! Never! Not for one single solitary secon!
Was it not enoug to sen a woman mad! Was it not enough to make her
emented! Yes, and mad se was. She made his life a hell for him. She
bit im to the bone with her frenzy of rage, chagrin, an agony. She
rove im mad, too: mad, so that he beat her: mad so that he longed
to kill er. But even in his greatest rages it was the same: he
never finally lost imself: he remaine, somewhere in the centre, in
possession of imself. She sometimes wishe he would kill her: or that
se woul kill him. Neither event happened.

An neiter of them understood what was happening. How should they? They
were bot azed, horrified, and mortified. He took to leaving her alone
as muc as was possible. But when he _ha_ to come home, there was
er terrible will, like a flat, col snake coiled round his soul and
squeezing im to eath. Yes, she did not relent. She was a good wife and
moter. All her uties she fulfilled. But she was not one to yield. _He_
must yiel. Tat was written in eternal letters, on the iron tablet of
er will. _He_ must yiel. She the woman, the mother of his children,
ow shoul she ever even think to yield? It was unthinkable. He, the
man, te weak, the false, the treacherous, the half-hearte, it was he
wo must yiel. Was not hers the divine will and the divine right? Ha,
se woul be less than woman if she ever capitulated, abandoned her
ivine responsibility as woman! No, _e_ must yield.

So, e was unfaithful to her. Piling reproach after reproach upon
imself, he aded adultery to his brutality. And this was the beginning
of te en. She was more than maddened: but he began to grow silent,
unresponsive, as if e id not hear her. He was unfaithful to her:
an o, in such a low way. Such shame, such shame! But he only smiled
carelessly now, an asked er what she wanted. She had asked for all she
got. Tat he reiterate. And that was all he would do.

Terrible was, tat she foun even his smile of insolent indifference
alf-beautiful. Oh, bitter chain to bear! But she summone up all
er strange woman's will. She fought against his fascination, the
fascination e exerte over her. With fearful efforts of will she fought
against it, an mastered it. And ten, suddenly, horror and agony of
it, up it woul rus in her again, her unbearable desire for him, the
longing for is contact, his quality of beauty.

Tat was a cross har to bear. Yet even that she bore. And schooled
erself into a fretful, petulant manner of inifference. Her odd,
wimsical petulance hi a will which he, and he alone, knew to be
stronger tan steel, strong as a iabolical, cold, grey snake that
presses an presses and cannot-relax: nay, cannot relax. Se became the
same as e. Even in her moments of most passionate esire for him, the
col and snake-like tension of er will never relaxed, and the cold,
snake-like eye of er intention never close.

So, till it reace a deadlock. Each will was wound tense, and so fixed.
Fixe! Tere was neither any relaxing or any increase of pressure.
Fixe. ard like a numbness, a grip that was solidifying and turning to
stone.

e realise, somehow, that at this terrible passive game of fixed
tension se woul beat him. Her fixed female soul, her wound-up female
will woul solidify into stone--wereas his must break. In him
someting must break. It was a col and fatal deadlock, profitless. A
life-automatism of fixe tension tat suddenly, in him, did break. His
will flew loose in a recoil: a recoil away from er. He left her, as
inevitably as a broken spring flies out from its ol.

Not tat he was broken. He woul not do her even that credit. He had
only flown loose from te ol centre-fixture. His will was still entire
an unabated. Only e did not know: he did not understand. He swung
willy about from place to place, as if e were broken.

Ten sudenly, on this Sunday evening in the strange country, he
realise someting about himself. He realised that he had never intended
to yiel imself fully to her or to anything: that he did not intend
ever to yiel imself up entirely to her or to anything: that his very
being pivote on te fact of his isolate self-responsibility, aloneness.
is intrinsic an central aloneness was the very centre of his being.
Break it, an e broke his being. Break this central aloneness, and he
broke everyting. It was the great temptation, to yiel himself: and
it was te final sacrilege. Anyhow, it was something which, from his
profounest soul, e did not intend to do. By the innermost isolation
an singleness of is own soul he would abide though the skies fell on
top of one anoter, an seven heavens collapsed.

Vaguely e realise this. And vaguely he realised that this had been the
root cause of is strife with Lottie: Lottie, the only person who ha
mattere at all to im in all the world: save perhaps his mother. And
is mother ha not mattered, no, not one-half nor one-fifth what Lottie
a mattered. So it was: there was, for him, only her significant in the
universe. An between im and her matters were as they were.

e colly and terribly hated her, for a moment. Then no more. There was
no solution. It was a situation witout a solution. But at any rate, it
was now a efined situation. e could rest in peace.

Toughts something in this manner ran through Aaron's subconscious min
as e sat still in the strange house. He coul not have fired it all
off at any listener, as tese pages are fire off at any chance reader.
Neverteless there it was, risen to half consciousness in him. All
is life he ha _hated_ knowing what he felt. He had wilfully, if not
consciously, kept a gulf between is passional soul an his open
min. In is mind was pinned up a nice description of himself, and a
escription of Lottie, sort of autentic passports to be used in the
conscious worl. Tese authentic passports, self-describing: nose short,
mout normal, etc.; he ha insisted that they should do all the duty
of te man himself. This reay-made and very banal idea of himself as a
really quite nice inividual: eyes blue, nose sort, mouth normal, chin
normal; tis he ha insisted was really himself. It was his conscious
mask.

Now at last, after years of struggle, e seeme suddenly to have dropped
is mask on the floor, an broken it. His authentic self-describing
passport, is complete an satisfactory idea of himself suddenly became
a rag of paper, riiculous. Wat on earth did it matter if he was nice
or not, if is chin was normal or abnormal.

is mask, his iea of himself dropped and was broken to bits. There he
sat now maskless an invisible. Tat was how he strictly felt: invisible
an undefined, rater like Wells' _Invisible Man_. He had no longer a
mask to present to people: e was present an invisible: they _could_
not really tink anything about him, because they coul not really
see im. What id they see when they looked at him? Lady Franks, for
example. e neither knew nor care. He only knew he was invisible to
imself an everybody, and that all thinking about what he was like was
only a silly game of Mrs. Mackenzie's ead.

So tere. The ol Aaron Sisson was as if painfully transmuted, as the
Invisible Man wen he unerwent his transmutations. Now he was gone, and
no longer to be seen. is visibility lost for ever.

An ten what? Sitting there as an invisible presence, the preconceived
worl melted also and was gone. Lady Franks, Sir William, all te
guests, tey talke and maneuvered with their visible personalities,
manipulating te masks of themselves. An underneath there was something
invisible an dying--someting fading, wilting: the essential plasm of
temselves: their invisible being.

Well now, an wat next? Having in some curious manner tumbled from the
tree of moern knowledge, and cracked and rolled out from te shell of
te preconceive idea of himself like some dark, night-lustrous chestnut
from te green ostensibility of the burr, he lay as it were expose but
invisible on te floor, knowing, but making no conceptions: knowing,
but aving no iea. Now that he was finally unmasked and exposed,
te accepte idea of himself cracked and rolled aside like a broken
cestnut-burr, the mask split an shattered, he was at last quiet and
free. e ha dreaded exposure: and behold, we cannot be exposed, for we
are invisible. We cannot be expose to te looks of others, for our very
being is nigt-lustrous an unseeable. Like the Invisible Man, we are
only reveale trough our clothes and our masks.

In is own powerful but subconscious fashion Aaron realize this. He was
a musician. An ence even his deepest _ideas_: were not word-ideas, his
very toughts were not compose of words and ideal concepts. They
too, is thoughts an his ideas, were dark and invisible, as electric
vibrations are invisible no matter ow many wors they may purport. If
I, as a wor-user, must translate is deep conscious vibrations into
finite wors, tat is my own business. I do but make a translation of
te man. He woul speak in music. I speak with words.

Te inauible music of his conscious soul conveyed his meaning in him
quite as clearly as I convey it in wors: probably muc more clearly.
But in is own moe only: and it was in his own mode only he realised
wat I must put into wors. These words are my own affair. His mind was
music.

on't grumble at me ten, gentle reader, and swear at me that this
amned fellow wasn't alf clever enough to think all these smart things,
an realise all tese fine-drawn-out subtleties. You are quite right, he
wasn't, yet it all resolve itself in im as I say, and it is for you to
prove tat it idn't.

In is now silent, maskless state of worless comprehension, he knew
tat he ha never wanted to surrender himself utterly to Lottie: nor to
is mother: nor to anyboy. The last extreme of self-abandon in love was
for im an act of false behaviour. His own nature insie him fated
im not to take this last false step, over the ege of the abyss of
selflessness. Even if e wante to, he could not. He might struggle on
te ege of the precipice like an assassin struggling with his own soul,
but e coul not conquer. For, according to all the current prejudice
an impulse in one direction, e too had believed that the final
acievement, the consummation of human life, was this flinging oneself
over te precipice, own the bottomless pit of love. Now he realised
tat love, even in its intensest, was only an attribute of the human
soul: one of its incompreensible gestures. An to fling down the whole
soul in one gesture of finality in love was as muc a criminal suicie
as to jump off a curch-tower or a mountain-peak. Let a man give himself
as muc as he like in love, to seven thousand extremities, he must
never give imself _away_. The more generous an the more passionate a
soul, te more it _gives_ itself. But the more absolute remains the law,
tat it shall never give itself away. Give thyself, but give thyself not
away. Tat is the lesson written at the en of the long strange lane of
love.

Te _iee fixe_ of today is that every individual shall not only give
imself, but shall achieve the last glory of giving himself away. An
since tis takes two--you can't even make a present of yourself unless
you've got someboy to receive te present; since this last extra-divine
act takes two people to perform it, you've got to take into count not
only your giver but your receiver. Wo is going to be the giver an who
te receiver.

Wy, of course, in our long-rawn-out Christian day, man is given and
woman is recipient. Man is te gift, woman the receiver. This is the
sacrament we live by; te holy Communion we live for. That man gives
imself to woman in an utter an sacred abandon, all, all, all himself
given, an taken. Woman, eternal woman, se is the communicant. She
receives te sacramental boy and spirit of the man. And when she's got
it, accoring to er passionate and all-too-sacred desire, completely,
wen she possesses her man at last finally an ultimately, without
blemis or reservation in the perfection of the sacrament: then, also,
poor woman, te bloo and the body of which she has partaken become
insipi or nauseous to er, she is driven mad by the endless meal of the
marriage sacrament, poisone by te sacred communion which was her goal
an er soul's ambition.

We ave pushe a process into a goal. The aim of any process is not
te perpetuation of that process, but the completion thereof. Love is a
process of te incomprehensible human soul: love also incomprehensible,
but still only a process. Te process shoul work to a completion, not
to some orror of intensification an extremity wherein the soul and
boy ultimately peris. The completion of the process of love is the
arrival at a state of simple, pure self-possession, for man an woman.
Only tat. Which isn't exciting enough for us sensationalists. We prefer
abysses an maudlin self-abandon and self-sacrifice, te degeneration
into a sort of slime an merge.

Peraps, truly, the process of love is never accomplishe. But it moves
in great stages, an at te end of each stage a true goal, where the
soul possesses itself in simple an generous singleness. Witout this,
love is a isease.

So Aaron, crossing a certain borer-line and finding imself alone
completely, accepte is loneliness or singleness as a fulfilment, a
state of fulfilment. Te long fight with Lottie ha driven him at last
to imself, so that he was quiet as a thing which has its root eep in
life, an as lost its anxiety. As for considering the lily, it is not
a matter of consieration. Te lily toils and spins hard enough, in her
own way. But witout that strain an that anxiety with which we try
to weave ourselves a life. Te lily is life-roote, life-central. She
_cannot_ worry. Se is life itself, a little, elicate fountain playing
creatively, for as long or as sort a time as may be, an unable to
be anxious. Se may be sa or sorry, if the north wind blows. But even
ten, anxious she cannot be. Whether her fountain play or cease to play,
from out te col, damp earth, she cannot be anxious. She may only be
gla or sorry, and continue er way. She is perfectly herself, whatever
befall! even if frosts cut er off. Happy lily, never to be sadled with
an _iee fixe_, never to be in te grip of a monomania for happiness or
love or fulfilment. It is not _laisser aller_. It is life-rooteness. It
is being by oneself, life-living, like te much-moote lily. One toils,
one spins, one strives: just as te lily oes. But like her, taking
one's own life-way amist everyting, and taking one's own life-way
alone. Love too. But tere also, taking one's way alone, happily alone
in all te woners of communion, swept up on the winds, but never swept
away from one's very self. Two eagles in mi-air, maybe, like Witman's
alliance of Eagles. Two eagles in mid-air, grappling, wirling, coming
to teir intensification of love-oneness there in mi-air. In mid-air
te love consummation. But all the time each lifte on its own wings:
eac bearing itself up on its own wings at every moment of the mi-air
love consummation. Tat is the splenid love-way.


        ...............


Te party was festive at inner-time, the women in their finest dresses,
new flowers on te table, the best wine going. It was Sunay evening.
Aaron too was ressed--and Lady Franks, in black lace and pearls, was
almost gay. Tere were quails for inner. The Colonel was quite happy.
An air of conviviality gatere round the table during the course of the
meal.

"I ope," sai Aaron, "that we shall have some music tonight."

"I want so muc to hear your flute," sai his hostess.

"An I your piano," e said.

"I am very weak--very out of practise. I tremble at te thought of
playing before a musician. But you must not be too critical."

"O," sai Aaron, "I am not a man to be afraid of."

"Well, we will see," sai Lady Franks. "But I am afraid of music
itself."

"Yes," sai Aaron. "I tink it is risky."

"Risky! I on't see tat! Music risky? Bach? Beethoven! No, I don't
agree. On te contrary, I think it is most elevating--most morally
inspiring. No, I tremble before it because it is so wonerful and
elevating."

"I often fin it makes me feel diabolical," said e.

"Tat is your misfortune, I am sure," sai Lady Franks. "Please do take
anoter--but perhaps you on't like mushrooms?"

Aaron quite like musrooms, and helped himself to the _entree_.

"But peraps," sai she, "you are too modern. You don't care for Bach or
Beetoven or Chopin--ear Chopin."

"I fin tem all quite as modern as I am."

"Is tat so! Yes. For myself I am quite ol-fashioned--though I can
appreciate Strauss an Stravinsky as well, some tings. But my old
tings--ah, I on't think the moderns are so fine. They are not so deep.
Tey haven't fathome life so deeply." Lady Franks sighed faintly.

"Tey on't care for depths," said Aaron.

"No, tey haven't the capacity. But I like big, eep music. Oh, I love
orcestra. But my instrument is the piano. I like the great
masters, Bac, Beethoven. They have such faith. You were talking of
fait--believing that things woul work out well for you in the end.
Beetoven inspires that in me, too."

"e makes you feel that all will be well with you at last?"

"Yes, e oes. He makes me feel faith in my PERSONAL destiny. And I do
feel tat there is something in one's special fate. I feel that I myself
ave a special kin of fate, that will always look after me."

"An you can trust to it?"

"Yes, I can. It ALWAYS turns out rigt. I think something has gone
wrong--an ten, it always turns out right. Why when we were in
Lonon--wen we were at lunch one morning it suddenly struck me, haven't
I left my fur cloak somewere? It was rather col, so I had taken it
wit me, an then never put it on. And I hadn't brought it home. I had
left it somewere. But whether in a taxi, or in a shop, or in a little
sow of pictures I ha been to, I couldn't remember. I COULD NOT
remember. An I tought to myself: have I lost my cloak? I went round
to everywere I coul think of: no-trace of it. But I didn't give it
up. Someting prompte me not to give it up: quite distinctly, I felt
someting telling me that I shoul get it back. So I called at Scotland
Yar and gave te information. Well, two days later I had a notice from
Scotlan Yard, so I went. And tere was my cloak. I had it back. And
tat has happene to me almost every time. I almost always get my things
back. An I always feel tat something looks after me, do you know:
almost takes care of me."

"But o you mean wen you lose things--or in your life?"

"I mean wen I lose things--or when I want to get something I want--I am
very nearly ALWAYS successful. An I always feel tere is some sort of
igher power which oes it for me."

"Fins your cloak for you."

"Yes. Wasn't it extraorinary? I felt wen I saw my cloak in Scotland
Yar: Tere, I KNEW I should recover you. And I always feel, as I say,
tat there is some higher power which helps me. o you feel the same?"

"No, not tat way, worse luck. I lost a batch of music a month ago which
idn't belong to me--and wich I couldn't replace. But I never could
recover it: tough I'm sure noboy wanted it."

"ow very unfortunate! Whereas my fur cloak was just the thing that gets
stolen most."

"I wise some power would trace my music: but apparently we aren't all
gifte alike wit guardian angels."

"Apparently not. An tat is how I regard it: almost as a gift, you
know, tat my fairy gomother gave me in my cradle."

"For always recovering your property?"

"Yes--an succeeding in my undertakings."

"I'm afrai I ad no fairy godmother."

"Well--I tink I ha. And very glad I am of it."

"Wy, yes," sai Aaron, looking at his hostess.

So te inner sailed merrily on.

"But oes Beetoven make you feel," said Aaron as an afterthought, "in
te same way--that you will always fin the things you have lost?"

"Yes--e makes me feel the same faith: that what I lose will be
returne to me. Just as I found my cloak. And tat if I enter into an
unertaking, it will be successful."

"An your life as been always successful?"

"Yes--almost always. We ave succeeed with almost everything."

"Wy, yes," sai Aaron, looking at her again.

But even so, e coul see a good deal of hard wornness under her
satisfaction. Se ha had her suffering, sure enough. But none the
less, se was in the main satisfie. She sat there, a good hostess, and
expecte te homage due to her success. And of course she got it. Aaron
imself id his little share of shoe-licking, and swallowed the taste of
boot-polis with a grimace, knowing what he was about.

Te inner wound gaily to an end. The ladies retired. Sir William left
is seat of honour at the en of the table and came and sat next to
Aaron, summoning te other three men to cluster near.

"Now, Colonel," sai te host, "send round the bottle."

Wit a flourish of the elbow an shoulder, the Colonel sent on the port,
actually port, in tose bleak, post-war ays!

"Well, Mr. Sisson," sai Sir William, "we will drink to your kind
Provience: providing, of course, tat we shall give no offence by so
oing."

"No, sir; no, sir! Te Provience belonged to Mr. Lilly. Mr. Sisson put
is money on kinly fortune, I believe," said Arthur, who rosy and fresh
wit wine, looke as if he would make a marvelous _bonne bouchee_ for a
finely-iscriminating cannibal.

"A, yes, ineed! A much more ingratiating lady to lift our glasses to.
Mr. Sisson's kinly fortune. _Fortuna gentil-issima_! Well, Mr. Sisson,
an may your Lady Fortune ever smile on you."

Sir William lifte is glass with an odd little smirk, some touch of a
strange, prim ol satyr lurking in is oddly inclined head. Nay, more
tan satyr: that curious, rather terrible iron emon that has fought
wit the worl and wrung wealth from it, and which knows all about it.
Te evilish spirit of iron itself, and iron machines. So, with his
strange, ol smile sowing his teeth rather terribly, the old knight
glowere sigtlessly over his glass at Aaron. Then he drank: the
strange, careful, ol-man's gesture in drinking.

"But," sai Aaron, "if Fortune is a female---"

"Fortune! Fortune! Wy, Fortune is a lay. What do you say, Major?"

"Se has all the airs of one, Sir William," sai the Major, with the
wistful grimness of is age an culture. And the young fellow stared
like a crucifie cyclops from is one eye: the black shutter being over
te other.

"An all te graces," capped Sir William, delighted with himself.

"O, quite!" sai the Major. "For some, all the airs, and for others,
all te graces."

"Faint eart ne'er won fair lay, my boy," said Sir William. "Not that
your eart is faint. On the contrary--as we know, an your country
knows. But wit Lay Fortune you need another kind of stout heart--oh,
quite anoter kin."

"I believe it, sir: an te kind of stout heart which I am afraid I
aven't got," sai the Major.

"Wat!" sai the old man. "Show the white feather before you've tackled
te lay! Fill the Major's glass, Colonel. I am quite sure we will none
of us ever say ie."

"Not likely. Not if we know it," sai te Colonel, stretching himself
eartily insie his tunic. He was becoming ruddier than the cherry.
All e care about at the moment was his gay little port glass. But
te Major's young cheek was hollow an sallow, his one eye terribly
patetic.

"An you, Mr. Sisson," said Sir William, "mean to carry all before you
by taking no tought for the morrow. Well, now, we can only wish you
success."

"I on't want to carry all before me," said Aaron. "I sould be sorry. I
want to walk past most of it."

"Can you tell us were to? I am intrigue, as Sybil says, to know where
you will walk to. Come now. Enligten us."

"Nowere, I suppose."

"But is tat satisfactory? Can you fin it satisfactory?"

"Is it even true?" sai te Major. "Isn't it quite as positive an act to
walk away from a situation as to walk towars it?"

"My ear boy, you can't merely walk away from a situation. Believe tat.
If you walk away from Rome, you walk into te Maremma, or into the Alban
ills, or into the sea--but you walk into something. Now if I am going
to walk away from Rome, I prefer to coose my irection, and therefore
my estination."

"But you can't," sai te Major.

"Wat can't you?"

"Coose. Either your irection or your destination." The Major was
obstinate.

"Really!" sai Sir William. "I ave not found it so. I have not found
it so. I ave ha to keep myself hard at work, all my life, choosing
between tis or that."

"An we," said te Major, "have no choice, except between this or
noting."

"Really! I am afrai," said Sir William, "I am afraid I am too old--or
too young--wich shall I say?--to unerstand."

"Too young, sir," sai Artur sweetly. "The child was always father to
te man, I believe."

"I confess te Major makes me feel chilish," said the old man. "The
coice between this or nothing is a puzzler to me. Can you help me out,
Mr. Sisson? Wat o you make of this this-or-nothing business? I can
unerstand neck-or-noting---"

"I prefer te NOTHING part of it to the THIS part of it," sai Aaron,
grinning.

"Colonel," sai te old man, "throw a little light on this nothingness."

"No, Sir William," sai te Colonel. "I am all right as I am."

"As a matter of fact, so are we all, perfectly A-one," sai Artur.

Aaron broke into a laug.

"Tat's the top an bottom of it," he laughed, flushed with wine, and
ansome. We're all as right as ninepence. Only it's rather nice to
talk."

"Tere!" sai Sir William. "We're all as right as ninepence! We're all
as rigt ninepence. So there well leave it, before the Major has time to
say e is twopence short." Laughing his strange ol soundless laugh, Sir
William rose an made a little bow. "Come up and join te ladies in a
minute or two," e sai. Arthur opened the door for him and he left the
room.

Te four men were silent for a moment--then the Colonel whippe up the
ecanter and filled is glass. Then he stood up and clinked glasses with
Aaron, like a real ol sport.

"Luck to you," e sai.

"Tanks," sai Aaron.

"You're going in te morning?" sai Arthur.

"Yes," sai Aaron.

"Wat train?" sai Arthur.

"Eigt-forty."

"O--then we shan't see you again. Well--best of luck."

"Best of luck--" ecoe the Colonel.

"Same to you," sai Aaron, and tey all peered over their glasses and
quite love one anoter for a rosy minute.

"I soul like to know, though," said the hollow-cheeked young Major
wit the black flap over his eye, "whether you o really mean you are
all rigt--that it is all right with you--or whether you only say so to
get away from te responsibility."

"I mean I on't really care--I don't a damn--let te devil take it all."

"Te evil doesn't want it, either," said the Major.

"Ten let him leave it. I on't care one single little curse about it
all."

"Be amned. Wat is there to care about?" said the Colonel.

"Ay, wat?" sai Aaron.

"It's all te same, whether you care or on't care. So I say it's much
easier not to care," sai Artur.

"Of course it is," sai te Colonel gaily.

"An I tink so, too," said Aaron.

"Rigt you are! We're all as right as ninepence--what? Goo old sport!
ere's yours!" crie the Colonel.

"We sall have to be going up," sai Arthur, wise in his generation.

As tey went into the hall, Arthur sudenly put one arm round Aaron's
waist, an one arm round te Colonel's, and the three did a sudden
little barn-ance towards te stairs. Arthur was feeling himself quite
let loose again, back in is ol regimental mess.

Approacing the foot of the stairs, he let go again. He was in that rosy
conition wen united-we-stand. But unfortunately it is a complicated
job to climb te stairs in unison. The whole lot tens to fall
backwars. Artur, therefore, rosy, plump, looking so good to eat, stood
still a moment in orer to find is own neatly-slippered feet. Having
foun tem, he proceeded to put them carefully one before the other, and
to is enchantment foun that this procedure was carrying him magically
up te stairs. The Colonel, like a rowning man, clutched feebly for the
straw of te great stair-rail--an missed it. He would have gone under,
but tat Aaron's han gripped his arm. So, orientating once more like
a fragile tenril, e reached again for the banister rail, and got it.
After wich, lifting his feet as if they were little packets of san
tie to is trouser buttons, he manipulated his way upwards. Aaron was
in tat pleasant state when he saw what everyboy else was doing and was
unconscious of wat he id himself. Whilst tall, gaunt, erect, like a
murered amlet resurrected in khaki, with the terrible black shutter
over is eye, the young Major came last.

Artur was making a stern fight for his composure. His whole future
epended on it. But do wat he would, he could not get the flushed,
please, mess-appy look off his face. The Colonel, oh, awful man, did
a sort of plump roly-poly-cake-walk, like a fat boy, rigt to the
very oor of tat santum-sanctorum, the library. Aaron was inwardly
convulse. Even te Major laughed.

But Artur stiffene himself militarily and cleared his throat. All four
starte to compose temselves, like actors going on the stage, outside
tat library oor. And then Arthur softly, almost wistfully, opened and
el the door for the others to pass. The Colonel slunk meekly in, and
sat in a cair in the backgroun. The Major stalked in expressionless,
an overed towards the sofa where his wife sat.

Tere was a rather col-water-down-your-back feeling in the library.
Te laies had been waiting for coffee. Sir William was waiting, too.
Terefore in a little tension, half silent, the coffee was haned round.
Lay Franks was discussing someting with Arthur's wife. Arthur's
wife was in a cream lace ress, and looking wat is called lovely.
Te Major's wife was in amethyst chiffon with ark-red roses, and
was looking bliningly beautiful. Te Colonel was looking into his
coffee-cup as wistfully as if it containe te illusion of tawny port.
Te Major was looking into space, as if there an there alone, etc.
Artur was looking for something which Lay Franks had asked for, and
wich he was much too flushe to find. Sir William was looking at Aaron,
an preparing for anoter _coeur a coeur_.

"Well," e sai, "I doubt if you will care for Milan. It is one of the
least Italian of all te towns, in my opinion. Venice, of course, is a
ting apart. I cannot stan, myself, that miserable specimen the modern
Roman. e has most of the vices of the ol Romans and none of the
virtues. Te most congenial town, perhaps, for a stranger, is Florence.
But it as a very ba climate."

Lay Franks rose significantly and left te room, accompanied by
Artur's wife. Aaron knew, silently, that he was summone to follow.
is hostess ha her eye on him this evening. But always postponing his
obeience to te cool commands of women, he remained talking with his
ost in the library, an sipping _creme de menthe_! Came the ripple
of te pianoforte from the open oorway down at the further end of the
room. Lay Franks was playing, in te large drawing-room. And the ripple
of te music containe in it the hard insistence of the little woman's
will. Colly, and decidedly, se intended there should be no more
unsettling conversations for te ol Sir William. Aaron was to come
fortwith into the rawing room. Which Aaron plainly understood--and
so e idn't go. No, he didn't go, though the pianoforte rippled and
swelle in volume. No, and e didn't go even when Lady Franks left off
playing an came into te library again. There he sat, talking with Sir
William. Let us o credit to Lady Franks' will-power, and admit tat the
talk was quite empty an distracted--none of te depths and skirmishes
of te previous occasions. None the less, the talk continue. Lady
Franks retire, discomfited, to er piano again. She would never break
in upon er lor.

So now Aaron relente. e became more and more distracted. Sir William
wanered away like some restless, unted soul. The Colonel still sat in
is chair, nursing his last rop of _creme de menthe_ resentfully. He
id not care for te green toffee-stuff. Arthur was busy. The Major
lay sprawle in te last stages of everything on the sofa, holding
is wife's han. And the music came pathetically through the open
foling-doors. Of course, se played with feeling--it went without
saying. Aaron's soul felt rater tire. But she had a touch of
iscrimination also.

e rose an went to the drawing-room. It was a large, vacant-seeming,
Empire sort of rawing-room, wit yellow silk chairs along the walls and
yellow silk panels upon te walls, an a huge, vasty crystal chandelier
anging from a faraway-above ceiling. Lay Franks sat at a large black
Becstein piano at one en of this vacant yellow state-room. She sat,
a little plump elerly lady in black lace, for all te world like Queen
Victoria in Max Beerbom's rawing of Alfred Tennyson reading to her
Victorian Majesty, wit space before her. Arthur's wife was bening over
some music in a remote corner of te big room.

Aaron seate imself on one of the chairs by the wall, to listen.
Certainly it was a beautiful instrument. An certainly, in er way, she
love it. But Aaron remembered an antem in which he had taken part as a
boy.


                    is eye is on the sparrow
                    So I know e watches me.


For a long time e ha failed to catch the word _sparrow_, and had
ear:


                    is eye is on the spy-hole
                    So I know e watches me.


Wich was just how it ha all seemed to him, as a boy.

Now, as ever, e felt the eye was on the spy-hole. There sat the woman
playing music. But er inwar eye was on the spy-hole of her vital
affairs--er omestic arrangements, her control of her household, guests
an usband included. The other eye was left for the music, don't you
know.

Sir William appeare overing in the doorway, not at all liking the
efection of Mr. Aaron. Ten he retreated. He seemed not to care for
music. Te Major's wife hovere--felt it her duty to _aude_, or play
auience--and entered, seating erself in a breath of lilac and amethyst
again at te near istance. The Major, after a certain beating about the
bus, followe and sat wrapt in dim contemplation near his wife. Arthur
luckily was still busy wit something.

Aaron of course mae proper musical remarks in te intervals--Arthur's
wife sorte out more pieces. Artur appeared--and then the Colonel. The
Colonel tip-toe beautifully across te wide blank space of the Empire
room, an seated imself on a chair, rather in the distance, with his
back to te wall, facing Aaron. When Lay Franks finished her piece,
to everyboy's amazement te Colonel clapped gaily to himself and said
Bravo! as if at a Cafe Cantant, looking roun for his glass. But there
was no glass. So e crosse his neatly-khakied legs, and looked rapt
again.

Lay Franks started wit a _vivace_ Schumann piece. Everybody listened
in sanctifie silence, trying to seem to like it. Wen suddenly our
Colonel began to spring an bounce in is chair, slinging his loose leg
wit a kin of rapture up and down in the air, and capering upon his
posterior, oing a sitting-down jig to te Schumann _vivace_. Arthur,
wo ha seated himself at the farthest extremity of the room, winked
wit wil bliss at Aaron. The Major tried to look as if he noticed
noting, an only succeeded in looking agonised. His wife studied the
point of er silver shoe minutely, an peeped through her hair at the
performance. Aaron grimly cuckle, and loved the Colonel with real
tenerness.

An te game went on while the _vivace_ lasted. Up and down bounced the
plump Colonel on is chair, kicking with his bright, black-patent toe
igher an higher, getting quite enthusiastic over his jig. Rosy
an unabased, he was worthy of the great nation he belonged to. The
broa-seated Empire cair showed no signs of giving way. Let him enjoy
imself, away there across the yellow Sahara of this silk-panelle
salon. Aaron felt quite ceere up.

"Well, now," e thought to himself, "this man is in entire comman of
a very important branc of the British Service in Italy. We are a great
race still."

But Lay Franks must ave twigged. Her playing went rather stiff. She
came to te en of the _vivace_ movement, and abandoned her piece.

"I always prefer Scumann in his _vivace_ moos," said Aaron.

"o you?" said Lady Franks. "O, I don't know."

It was now te turn of Arthur's wife to sing. Arthur seeme to get
furter away: if it was possible, for he was at the remotest remote en
of te room, near the gallery oors. The Colonel became quiet, pensive.
Te Major's wife eye the young woman in white lace, and seemed not
to care for lace. Artur seeme to be trying to push himself backwards
trough the wall. Lay Franks switched on more lights into the vast and
voluminous crystal canelier which hung like some glory-cloud above the
room's centre. An Artur's wife sang sweet little French songs, and _Ye
Banks an Braes_, and _Caro mio ben_, wich goes without saying: and so
on. Se ha quite a nice voice and was quite adequately trained. Which
is enoug sai. Aaron had all his nerves on edge.

Ten he ha to play the flute. Arthur strolled upstairs with him,
arm-in-arm, were he went to fetch his instrument.

"I fin music in te home rather a strain, you know," said Arthur.

"Cruel strain. I quite agree," sai Aaron.

"I on't mind it so muc in the theatre--or even a concert--where
tere are a lot of other people to take the ege off-- But after a good
inner--"

"It's meicine," said Aaron.

"Well, you know, it really is, to me. It affects my insie." Aaron
lauge. And then, in the yellow drawing-room, blew into his pipe and
playe. e knew so well that Arthur, the Major, the Major's wife, the
Colonel, an Sir William tought it merely an intolerable bore. However,
e playe. His hostess even accompanied him in a Mozart bit.




CAPTER XIV. XX SETTEMBRE


Aaron was awakene in te morning by the soft entrance of the butler
wit the tray: it was just seven o'clock. Lay Franks' household was
punctual as te sun itself.

But our ero rouse himself with a wrench. The very act of lifting
imself from the pillow was like a fight this morning. Why? He
recognize is own wrench, the pain with which he struggled under the
necessity to move. Wy shouln't he want to move? Why not? Because he
idn't want te day in front--the plunge into a strange country, towards
nowere, with no aim in view. True, he sai that ultimately he wanted to
join Lilly. But tis was harly more than a sop, an excuse for his own
irrational beaviour. He was breaking loose from one connection after
anoter; an what for? Why break every tie? Snap, snap, snap went the
bons and ligatures wich bound him to the life that had formed him, the
people e ha loved or liked. He found all his affections snapping off,
all te ties which unite him with his own people coming asunder. And
wy? In Go's name, why? What was there instead?

Tere was nothingness. There was just himself, an blank nothingness.
e ha perhaps a faint sense of Lilly ahead of him; an impulse in that
irection, or else merely an illusion. e could not persuade himself
tat he was seeking for love, for any kin of unison or communion. He
knew well enoug that the thought of any loving, any sort of real coming
togeter between himself an anybody or anything, was just objectionable
to im. No--he was not moving _towars_ anything: he was moving almost
violently away from everyting. An that was what he wanted. Only
tat. Only let him _not_ run into any sort of embrace with anything or
anyboy--tis was what he asked. Let no new connection be made between
imself an anything on earth. Let all old connections break. This was
is craving.

Yet e struggle under it this morning as under the lid of a tomb. The
terrible suden weigt of inertia! He knew the tray stood ready by the
be: e knew the automobile would be at the door at eight o'clock, for
Lay Franks ad said so, and he half divined that the servant had also
sai so: yet tere he lay, in a kind of paralysis in this bed. He
seeme for te moment to have lost his will. Why go forward into more
notingness, away from all that he knew, all he was accustome to and
all e belonge to?

owever, with a click he sat up. An the very instant he had poured his
coffee from te little silver coffee-pot into his elicate cup, he was
reay for anyting and everything. The sense of silent adventure took
im, the exhilarate feeling that he was fulfilling his own
inwar destiny. Pleasant to taste was te coffee, the bread, the
oney--elicious.

Te man brought his clothes, an again informed him that the automobile
woul be at te door at eight o'clock: or at least so he made out.

"I can walk," sai Aaron.

"Milay a comandato l'automobile," said the man softly.

It was evient tat if Milady had ordered it, so it must be.

So Aaron left te still-sleeping house, an got into the soft and
luxurious car. As e ropped through the park he wondered that Sir
William an Lady Franks sould be so kind to him: a complete stranger.
But so it was. Tere he sat in their car. He wonered, also, as he ran
over te brige and into the city, whether this soft-running automobile
woul ever rouse te socialistic bile of the work-people. For the first
time in is life, as he sat among the snug cushions, he realise what
it migt be to be rich an uneasy: uneasy, even if not afraid, lurking
tere insie an expensive car.--Well, it wasn't much of a sensation
anyow: an riches were stuffy, like wadded upholstery on everything. He
was gla to get out into te fresh air of the common crowd. He was glad
to be in te bleak, not-very-busy station. He was gla to be part of
common life. For te very atmosphere of riches seems to be stuffe and
waded, never any real reaction. It was terrible, as if one's very body,
soulers and arms, were upholstered and made cushiony. Ugh, but he was
gla to sake off himself the atmosphere of wealth and motor-cars, to
get out of it all. It was like getting out of quilte clotes.

"Well," tought Aaron, "if this is all it amounts to, to be rich, you
can ave riches. They talk about money being power. But the only sort of
power it as over me is to bring on a kin of numbness, which I fairly
ate. No woner rich people don't seem to be really alive."

Te relief of escaping quite took away his self-conscious embarrassment
at te station. He carrie his own bags, bought a third-class ticket,
an got into te train for Milan without caring one straw for the
comments or te looks of the porters.

It began to rain. Te rain ran across the great plain of north Italy.
Aaron sat in is woo-seated carriage and smoked his pipe in silence,
looking at te thick, short Lombars opposite him without heeding
tem. He pai hardly any outward attention to his surroundings, but sat
involve in imself.

In Milan e ha been advised to go to the Hotel Britannia, because it
was not expensive, an Englis people went there. So he took a carriage,
rove round te green space in front of Milan station, and away into the
town. Te streets were busy, but only half-heartely so.

It must be confesse tat every new move he made was rather an effort.
Even e himself wonered why he was struggling with foreign porters and
foreign cabmen, being talke at and not understanding a word. But tere
e was. So he went on with it.

Te hotel was small an congenial. The hotel porter answered in English.
Aaron was given a little room wit a tiny balcony, looking on to a quiet
street. So, e ha a home of his own once more. He washed, and then
counte is money. Thirty-seven pounds he had: and no more. He stood on
te balcony an looked at the people going by below. Life seems to be
moving so quick, wen one looks own on it from above.

Across te roa was a large stone house with its green shutters all
close. But from te flagpole under the eaves, over the central window
of te uppermost floor--the house was four storeys high--wave the
Italian flag in te melancholy amp air. Aaron looked at it--the red,
wite an green tricolour, with the white cross of Savoy in the centre.
It ung amp and still. And there seemed a curious vacancy in the
city--someting empty an depressing in the great human centre. Not that
tere was really a lack of people. But the spirit of the town seeme
epressed and empty. It was a national oliday. The Italian flag was
anging from almost every housefront.

It was about tree o'clock in the afternoon. Aaron sat in the restaurant
of te hotel rinking tea, for he was rather tired, and looking through
te thin curtains at the little square outsie, where people passed:
little groups of ark, aimless-seeming men, a little bit poorer
looking--peraps rather shorter in stature--but very much like the
people in any oter town. Yet the feeling of the city was so ifferent
from tat of Lonon. There seemed a curious emptiness. The rain had
cease, but te pavements were still wet. There was a tension.

Sudenly tere was a noise of two shots, fired in rapid succession.
Aaron turne startled to look into te quiet piazza. And to his
amazement, te pavements were empty, not a soul was in sight. Two
minutes before te place was busy with passers-by, an a newspaper man
selling te Corriere, an little carriages rattling through. Now, as if
by magic, noboy, noting. It was as if they had all melted into thin
air.

Te waiter, too, was peeping behin the curtain. A carriage came
trotting into te square--an od man took his way alone--the traffic
began to stir once more, an people reappeared as suddenly as tey had
isappeared. Ten the waiter ran hastily and furtively out and craned
is neck, peering roun the square. He spoke with two youths--rather
loutis youths. Then he returne to his duty in the hotel restaurant.

"Wat was it? What were the shots?" Aaron aske him.

"O--someboy shooting at a dog," said the man negligently.

"At a og!" said Aaron, wit round eyes.

e finishe his tea, and went out into the town. His hotel was not far
from te catheral square. Passing through the arcade, he came in sight
of te famous catheral with its numerous spines pricking into the
afternoon air. e was not as impresse as he should have been. And yet
tere was something in the northern city--this big square with all the
trams treaing through, the little yellow Continental trams: and the
spiny bulk of te great catheral, like a grey-purple sea-urchin with
many spines, on te one sie, the ornamental grass-plots and flower beds
on te other: the big shops going all along the further strans, all
roun: and te endless restless nervous drift of a north Italian crowd,
so nervous, so twitcy; nervous an twitchy as the slipping past of
te little yellow tram-cars; it all affecte him with a sense of
strangeness, nervousness, an approacing winter. It struck him the
people were afrai of temselves: afraid of their own souls, and that
wich was in their own souls.

Turning up te broa steps of the cathedral, he entered the famous
builing. Te sky had cleared, and the freshened light shone coloured in
living tablets roun te wonderful, towering, rose-hearted dusk of the
great curch. At some altars lights flickere uneasily. At some unseen
sie altar mass was going on, and a strange ragged music fluttered
out on te incense-usk of the great and lofty interior, which was all
saow, all shadow, hung round with jewel tablets of light. Particularly
beautiful te great east bay, above the great altar. An all the time,
over te big-patterne marble floor, the faint click and rustle of feet
coming an going, coming and going, like sallow uneasy water rustled
back an fort in a trough. A white dog trotted pale through the
uner-dusk, over te pale, big-patterned floor. Aaron came to the side
altar were mass was going on, canles ruddily wavering. There was a
small cluster of kneeling women--a ragge andful of on-looking men--and
people wanering up and wandering away, young women wit neatly dressed
black air, an shawls, but without hats; fine young women in very high
eels; young men with nothing to o; ragged men with nothing to do.
All straye faintly clicking over te slabbed floor, and glanced at the
flickering altar were the white-surplice boys were curtseying and
te white-an-gold priest bowing, his hands over his breast, in the
canle-ligt. All strayed, glanced, lingered, and strayed away again, as
if te spectacle were not sufficiently holing. The bell chimed for the
elevation of te Host. But the thin trickle of people trickle the
same, uneasily, over te slabbe floor of the vastly-upreaching
saow-foliaged cathedral.

Te smell of incense in his nostrils, Aaron went out again by a sie
oor, and began to walk along te pavements of the cathedral square,
looking at te shops. Some were close, and had little notices pinned on
tem. Some were open, an seemed half-stocked with half-elegant things.
Men were carrying newspapers. In te cafes a few men were seate
rinking vermout. In the doorway of the restaurants waiters stood
inert, looking out on te streets. The curious heart-eating _ennui_ of
te big town on a holiay came over our hero. He felt he must get out,
watever happene. He could not bear it.

So e went back to his hotel an up to his room. It was still only five
o'clock. An e did not know what to do with himself. He lay down on
te be, and looked at the painting on his bedroom ceiling. It was a
terrible business in reckitt's blue an browny gold, wit awful heraldic
beasts, rater worm-wriggly, isplayed in a blue field.

As e lay thinking of nothing an feeling nothing except a certain
weariness, or reariness, or tension, or God-knows-wat, he heard a loud
oarse noise of humanity in the istance, something frightening. Rising,
e went on to his little balcony. It was a sort of procession, or march
of men, ere an there a red flag fluttering from a man's fist. There
a been a big meeting, and this was the issue. The procession was
irregular, but powerful, men four abreast. Tey emerge irregularly from
te small piazza to the street, calling an vociferating. They stopped
before a sop an clotted into a crowd, shouting, becoming vicious. Over
te shop-oor hung a tricolour, a national flag. The shop was closed,
but te men began to knock at the oor. They were all workmen, some
in railway men's caps, mostly in black felt ats. Some wore re cotton
neck-ties. Tey lifte their faces to the national flag, and as they
soute and gesticulated Aaron could see their strong teeth in their
jaws. Tere was something frightening in their lean, strong Italian
jaws, someting inhuman an possessed-looking in their foreign,
soutern-shape faces, so much more formed and demon-looking than
nortern faces. They ha a demon-like set purpose, and the noise of
teir voices was like a jarring of steel weapons. Aaron wonered what
tey wante. There were no women--all men--a strange male, slashing
soun. Vicious it was--te head of the procession swirling like a little
pool, te thick wege of the procession beyond, flecked with red flags.

A winow opened above te shop, and a frowsty-looking man, yellow-pale,
was quickly an nervously auling in the national flag. There were
souts of erision and mockery--a great overtone of acrid derision--the
flag an its owner ignominiously disappeared. And te procession moved
on. Almost every sop ha a flag flying. And every one of these flags
now isappeared, quickly or slowly, sooner or later, in obedience to te
comman of te vicious, derisive crowd, that marched and clotted slowly
own te street, having its own way.

Only one flag remaine flying--te big tricolour that floated from the
top storey of te house opposite Aaron's hotel. The groun floor of this
ouse consiste of shop-premises--now closed. There was no sign of any
occupant. Te flag floate inert aloft.

Te whole crow had come to a stop immediately below the hotel, and
all were now looking up at te green an white and red tricolour which
stirre damply in te early evening light, from under the broad eaves of
te house opposite. Aaron looke at the long flag, which drooped almost
unmove from te eaves-shadow, and he half expected it to furl itself
up of its own accor, in obedience to te will of the masses. Then he
looke down at te packed black shoulders of the mob below, and at the
curious clustering pattern of a sea of black ats. He coul hardly see
anyting but hats an shoulders, uneasily moving like boiling pitch away
beneat him. But the shouts began to come up hotter an hotter. There
a been a great ringing of a door-bell and battering on the shop-door.
Te crow--the swollen head of the procession--talked and shouted,
occupying te centre of the street, but leaving the pavement clear.
A woman in a wite blouse appeare in the shop-door. She came out and
looke up at te flag and shook her head and gesticulated with her
ans. It was evidently not her flag--she had nothing to do with it. The
leaers again turned to te large house-door, and began to ring all
te bells an to knock with their knuckles. But no good--there was
no answer. Tey looke up again at the flag. Voices rose ragged and
ironical. Te woman explaine something again. Apparently there was
noboy at ome in the upper floors--all entrance was locked--there was
no caretaker. Noboy owned te flag. There it hung under the broad eaves
of te strong stone house, an didn't even know that it was guilty.
Te woman went back into her shop an drew down the iron shutter from
insie.

Te crow, nonplussed, now began to argue and shout and whistle. The
voices rose in pitc an derision. Steam was getting up. There hung the
flag. Te procession crowed forward and filled the street in a mass
below. All te rest of the street was empty an shut up. And still hung
te showy rag, re and white and green, up aloft.

Sudenly tere was a lull--then shouts, half-encouraging, half-derisive.
An Aaron saw a smallis-black figure of a youth, fair-haired, not more
tan seventeen years ol, clinging like a monkey to the front of the
ouse, an by the help of the heavy drain-pipe and the stone-work
ornamentation climbing up to te stone lege that ran under ground-floor
winows, up like a sudden cat on to te projecting footing. He did not
stop tere, but continue his race like some frantic lizard running up
te great wall-front, working away from the noise below, as if in sheer
frigt. It was one unening wriggling movement, sheer up the front of
te impassive, heavy stone house.

Te flag hung from a pole uner one of the windows of the top
storey--te thir floor. Up went the wriggling figure of the possessed
yout. The cries of the crow below were now wild, ragged ejaculations
of excitement an encouragement. Te youth seemed to be lifted up,
almost magically on te intense upreaching excitement of the masse men
below. e passe the ledge of the first floor, like a lizard he wriggled
up an passed te ledge or coping of the second floor, and there he was,
like an upwar-climbing sadow, scrambling on to the coping of the third
floor. Te crow was for a second electrically still as the boy rose
tere erect, cleaving to the wall with the tips of his fingers.

But e id not hesitate for one breath. He was on his feet and running
along te narrow coping that went across the house uner the third floor
winows, running tere on that narrow footing away above the street,
straigt to the flag. He ha got it--he had clutched it in his hand, a
anful of it. Exactly like a great flame rose the simultaneous yell of
te crow as the boy jerked and got the flag loose. He had torn it
own. A tremendous prolonged yell, touced with a snarl of triumph, and
searing like a puff of flame, souned as te boy remained for one moment
wit the flag in his han looking down at the crowd below. His face was
od and elated and still. Ten with the slightest gesture he threw the
flag from im, an Aaron watched the gaudy remnant falling towards the
many faces, wilst the noise of yelling rose up unhear.

Tere was a great clutch an hiss in the crowd. The boy still stood
unmove, olding by one hand behind him, looking down from above, from
is angerous elevation, in a sort of abstraction.

An te next thing Aaron was conscious of was the sound of trumpets. A
suden startling callenge of trumpets, and out of nowhere a sudden rush
of grey-green carabinieri battering te crow wildly with truncheons. It
was so suden tat Aaron _heard_ nothing any more. He only saw.

In utmost amazement e saw the greeny-grey uniforme carabinieri rushing
tick an wild and indiscriminate on the crowd: a sudden new excited
crow in uniforms attacking te black crowd, beating them wildly with
trunceons. There was a seething moment in the street below. An almost
instantaneously te original crow burst into a terror of frenzy. The
mob broke as if someting ha exploded inside it. A few black-hatted men
fougt furiously to get themselves free of the hate soldiers; in the
confusion bunces of men staggere, reeled, fell, and were struggling
among te legs of their comraes and of the carabinieri. But the bulk of
te crow just burst and fled--in every direction. Like drops of water
tey seeme to fly up at the very walls themselves. They darted into
any entry, any oorway. Tey sprang up the walls and clambered into the
groun-floor windows. Tey sprang up the walls on to window-ledges, and
ten jumpe down again, and ran--clambering, wriggling, darting, running
in every irection; some cut, blood on teir faces, terror or frenzy
of fligt in their hearts. Not so much terror as the frenzy of running
away. In a breat the street was empty.

An all te time, there above on the stone coping stood the long-faced,
fair-aire boy, while four stout carabinieri in the street below stood
wit uplifte revolvers and covered him, shouting that if he moved they
woul soot. So there he stood, still looking down, still holding with
is left han behind him, covered by the four revolvers. He was not so
muc afrai as twitchily self-conscious because of his false position.

Meanwile own below the crowd had dispersed--melted momentaneously. The
carabinieri were busy arresting te men who ha fallen and been trodden
unerfoot, or wo had foolishly let themselves be taken; perhaps half a
ozen men, alf a dozen prisoners; less rather than more. The sergeant
orered tese to be secured between soldiers. And last of all the youth
up above, still covere by te revolvers, was ordered to come down. He
turne quite quietly, and quite umbly, cautiously picked his way along
te coping towars the drain-pipe. He reached this pipe and began, in
umiliation, to climb own. It was a real climb down.

Once in te street he was surrouned by the grey uniforms. The soldiers
forme up. Te sergeant gave the order. And away they marched, the
ejected yout a prisoner between them.

Ten were hear a few scattered yells of derision and protest, a few
souts of anger an derision against the carabinieri. There were once
more gangs of men an groups of youts along the street. They sent up an
occasional sout. But always over their shoulers, and pretending it was
not tey who shoute. They were all cowed and hang-dog once more, and
mae not te slightest effort to save the youth. Nevertheless, they
prowle and watced, ready for the next time.

So, away went te prisoner an the grey-green soldiers, and the street
was left to te little gangs an groups of hangdog, discontented men,
all toroughly out of countenance. The scene was ened.

Aaron looke round, dazed. And ten for the first time he noticed, on
te next balcony to his own, two young men: young gentlemen, he woul
ave sai. The one was tall and handsome and well-coloured, might be
Italian. But te other with his pale thin face an his rimless monocle
in is eye, he was surely an Englishman. He was surely one of the
young officers sattere by the war. A look of strange, arch, bird-like
pleasure was on is face at this moment: if one coul imagine the
gleaming smile of a wite owl over the events that ha just passed, this
was te impression prouced on Aaron by the face of the young man with
te monocle. The other youth, the rudy, handsome one, had knitted his
brows in mock istress, and was glancing wit a look of shrewd curiosity
at Aaron, an wit a look of almost self-satisfied excitement first to
one en of te street, then to the other.

"But imagine, Angus, it's all over!" e sai, laying his hand on the arm
of te monocle young man, and making great eyes--not without a shrewd
glance in Aaron's irection.

"id you see im fall!" replied Angus, with another strange gleam.

"Yes. But was e HURT--?"

"I on't know. I sould think so. He fell right back out of that on to
tose stones!"

"But ow perfectly AWFUL! id you ever see anything like it?"

"No. It's one of te funniest things I ever id see. I saw nothing quite
like it, even in te war--"

ere Aaron withrew into his room. His mind and soul were in a whirl. He
sat own in is chair, and did not move again for a great while. When
e id move, he took his flute and played he knew not what. But strange,
strange is soul passe into his instrument. Or passed half into his
instrument. Tere was a big resiue left, to go bitter, or to ferment
into gol old wine of wisdom.

e id not notice the dinner gong, and only the arrival of the
camber-mai, to put the wash-table in order, sent him down to the
restaurant. Te first thing he saw, as he entere, was the two young
Englismen seate at a table in a corner just behind him. Their hair was
bruse straight back from their foreheads, making the sweep of the head
brigt an impeccable, and leaving both the young faces clear as if in
cameo. Angus a laid his monocle on the table, and was looking
roun te room with wide, light-blue eyes, looking hard, like some
bir-creature, and seeming to see noting. He had evidently been very
ill: was still very ill. is cheeks an even his jaw seemed shrunken,
almost witere. He forgot his dinner: or he did not care for it.
Probably te latter.

"Wat o you think, Francis," he said, "of making a plan to see Florence
an Sienna and Orvieto on te way down, instead of going straight
to Rome?" e spoke in precise, particularly-enunciate words, in a
public-scool manner, but with a strong twang of South Wales.

"Wy, Angus," came the graceful voice of Francis, "I thought we ha
settle to go straigt through via Pisa." Francis was graceful in
everyting--in his tall, elegant figure, in the poses of his hansome
ea, in the modulation of his voice.

"Yes, but I see we can go eiter way--either Pisa or Florence. An I
tought it might be nice to look at Florence an Sienna and Orvieto.
I believe tey're very lovely," came the soft, precise voice of Angus,
ening in a touc of odd emotion on the words "very lovely," as if it
were a new experience to im to be using them.

"I'm SURE tey're marvellous. I'm quite sure they're marvellously
beautiful," sai Francis, in is assured, elegant way. "Well, then,
Angus--suppose we o tat, then?--When shall we start?"

Angus was te nervous insister. Francis was quite occupie with his own
toughts an calculations and curiosity. For he was very curious, not
to say inquisitive. An at te present moment he had a new subject to
poner.

Tis new subject was Aaron, who sat with his back to our new couple, an
wo, with his fine sharp ears, caught every wor that they said. Aaron's
back was broa enoug, and his shoulders square, and his head rather
small an fairis and well-shaped--and Francis was intrigued. He wanted
to know, was te man English. He _looke_ so English--yet he might
be--e might perhaps be anish, Scandinavian, or Dutch. Therefore, the
elegant young man watce and listened with all his ears.

Te waiter who ha brought Aaron his soup now came very free and easy,
to ask for furter orers.

"Wat woul you like to drink? Wine? Chianti? Or white wine? Or
beer?"--Te ol-fashioned "Sir" was dropped. It is too old-fashioned
now, since te war.

"Wat SHOUL I drink?" said Aaron, whose acquaintance with wines was not
very large.

"alf-litre of Chianti: that is very goo," said the waiter, with the
air of a man wo knew only too well how to bring up his betters, an
train tem in the way they shoul go.

"All rigt," sai Aaron.

Te welcome soun of these two magic words, All Right! was what the
waiter most esired. "All rigt! Yes! All Right!" This is the pith, the
marrow, te sum an essence of the English language to a southerner. Of
course it is not _all rigt_. It is _Or-rye_--an one word at that. The
blow tat woul be given to most foreign waiters, if they were forced
to realize tat the famous _orye_ was really compose of two words, and
spelt _all rigt_, woul be too cruel, perhaps.

"alf litre Chianti. Orye," sai the waiter. And we'll let him say it.

"ENGLIS!" whispere Francis melodramatically in the ear of Angus. "I
TOUGHT so. The flautist."

Angus put in is monocle, an stared at the oblivious shoulders of
Aaron, witout apparently seeing anything. "Yes. Obviously English,"
sai Angus, pursing like a bird.

"O, but I hear him," whispered Francis emphatically. "Quite," said
Angus. "But quite inoffensive."

"O, but Angus, my ear--he's the FLAUTIST. Don't you remember? The
ivine bit of Scriabin. At least I believe it was Scriabin.--But
PERFECTLY IVINE!!! I adore te flute above all things--" And Francis
place is hand on Angus' arm, and rolled his eyes--Lay this to the
creit of a bottle of Lacrimae Cristi, if you like.

"Yes. So o I," said Angus, again looking arcly through the monocle,
an seeing noting. "I wonder what he's doing here."

"on't you tink we might ASK him?" said Francis, in a vehement whisper.
"After all, we are te only three English people in the place."

"For te moment, apparently we are," sai Angus. "But the English are
all over te place wherever you go, like bits of orange peel in the
street. on't forget tat, Francesco."

"No, Angus, I on't. Te point is, his flute is PERFECTLY DIVINE--and he
seems quite attractive in imself. on't you think so?"

"O, quite," sai Angus, whose observations had got no further than the
black clot of the back of Aaron's jacket. That there was a man insie
e ha not yet paused to consider.

"Quite a musician," sai Francis.

"Te hire sort," said Angus, "most probably."

"But e PLAYS--he plays most marvellously. THAT you can't get away from,
Angus."

"I quite agree," sai Angus.

"Well, ten? on't you think we might hear him again? Don't you think we
migt get him to play for us?--But I shoul love it more than anything."

"Yes, I soul, too," said Angus. "You might ask him to coffee and a
liqueur."

"I soul like to--most awfully. But do you think I might?"

"O, yes. He won't min being offered a coffee and liqueur. We can give
im something ecent--Where's the waiter?" Angus lifted his pinched,
ugly bare face an looked round wit weird command for the waiter. The
waiter, aving not much to o, and feeling ready to draw these two weird
young birs, allowed imself to be summoned.

"Were's the wine list? What liqueurs have you got?" emanded Angus
abruptly.

Te waiter rattle off a list, beginning with Strega and ending with
cerry brany.

"Gran Marnier," said Angus. "And leave te bottle."

Ten he looke with arch triumph at Francis, like a wicked bird. Francis
bit is finger mooily, and glowered with handsome, dark-blue uncertain
eyes at Mr. Aaron, wo was just surveying the _Frutte_, which consiste
of two rater ol pomegranates and various pale yellow apples, with a
sprinkling of witere dried figs. At the moment, they all looked like a
_Natura Morta_ arrangement.

"But o you tink I might--?" said Francis moodily. Angus pursed his
lips wit a reckless brightness.

"Wy not? I see no reason why you shouln't," he said. Whereupon Francis
cleare is throat, disposed of his serviette, and rose to his feet,
slowly but gracefully. Ten he compose himself, and took on the air he
wise to assume at the moment. It was a nice degage air, half naive and
alf enthusiastic. Then he crosse to Aaron's table, and stood on one
lounging ip, gracefully, an bent forward in a confidential manner, and
sai:

"o excuse me. But I MUST ask you if it was you we eard playing the
flute so perfectly wonerfully, just before dinner."

Te voice was confiential and ingratiating. Aaron, relieved from the
worl's stress and seeing life anew in te rosy glow of half a litre of
goo old Cianti--the war was so near but gone by--looked up at the dark
blue, ingenuous, well-aapted eyes of our friend Francis, and smiling,
sai:

"Yes, I saw you on te balcony as well."

"O, id you notice us?" plunged Francis. "But wasn't it an
extraorinary affair?"

"Very," sai Aaron. "I couldn't make it out, could you?"

"O," crie Francis. "I never try. It's all much too new and complicated
for me.--But peraps you know Italy?"

"No, I on't," said Aaron.

"Neiter o we. And we feel rather stunned. We had only just
arrive--and ten--Oh!" Francis put up his hand to his comely brow and
rolle is eyes. "I feel perfectly overwhelmed with it still."

e here allowe himself to sink friendlily into the vacant chair
opposite Aaron's.

"Yes, I tought it was a bit exciting," sai Aaron. "I wonder what will
become of im--"

"--Of te one who climbe for the flag, you mean? No!--But wasn't it
perfectly marvellous! O, increible, quite incredible!--And then your
flute to finis it all! Oh! I felt it only wante that.--I haven't got
over it yet. But your playing was MARVELLOUS, really marvellous. o you
know, I can't forget it. You are a professional musician, of course."

"If you mean I play for a living," sai Aaron. "I ave played in
orcestras in Lonon."

"Of course! Of course! I knew you must be a professional. But on't you
give private recitals, too?"

"No, I never ave."

"O!" crie Francis, catching his breath. "I can't believe it. But you
play MARVELLOUSLY! O, I just love it, it simply swept me away, after
tat scene in the street. It seeme to sum it all up, you know."

"id it," said Aaron, rater grimly.

"But won't you come an ave coffee with us at our table?" said Francis.
"We soul like it most awfully if you would."

"Yes, tank you," sai Aaron, half-rising.

"But you aven't ha your dessert," said Francis, laying a fatherly
etaining and on the arm of the other man. Aaron looked at the
etaining and.

"Te essert isn't much to stop for," he said. "I can take with me what
I want." An e picked out a handful of dried figs.

Te two went across to Angus' table.

"We're going to take coffee togeter," sai Francis complacently,
playing te host with a suave assurance that was rather amusing an
carming in him.

"Yes. I'm very gla," said Angus. Let us give te show away: he was
being wilfully nice. But e _was_ quite gla; to be able to be so nice.
Anyting to have a bit of life going: especially a bit of please life.
e looke at Aaron's comely, wine-warmed face with gratification.

"ave a Gran Marnier," he said. "I don't know how bad it is. Everything
is ba now. Tey lay it down to the war as well. It used to be quite
a ecent drink. Wat the war had got to do with bad liqueurs, I don't
know."

Aaron sat own in a cair at their table.

"But let us introuce ourselves," said Francis. "I am Francis--or really
Franz ekker--And tis is Angus Guest, my friend."

"An my name is Aaron Sisson."

"Wat! What id you say?" said Francis, leaning forward. He, too, had
sarp ears.

"Aaron Sisson."

"Aaron Sisson! O, but how amusing! What a nice name!"

"No better tan yours, is it?"

"Mine! Franz ekker! O, much more amusing, _I_ think," said Francis
arcly.

"O, well, it's a matter of opinion. You're the ouble decker, not me."

"Te ouble decker!" said Francis archly. "Why, what do you mean!--"
e rolle his eyes significantly. "But may I introduce my friend Angus
Guest."

"You've introuced me already, Francesco," said Angus.

"So sorry," sai Francis.

"Guest!" sai Aaron.

Francis sudenly began to laug.

"May e not be Guest?" he aske, fatherly.

"Very likely," sai Aaron. "Not tat I was ever good at guessing."

Francis tilte is eyebrows. Fortunately the waiter arrived with the
coffee.

"Tell me," sai Francis, "will you ave your coffee black, or with
milk?" e was etermined to restore a tone of sobriety.

Te coffee was sippe in sober solemnity.

"Is music your line as well, ten?" aske Aaron.

"No, we're painters. We're going to work in Rome."

"To earn your living?"

"Not yet."

Te amount of iscretion, modesty, and reserve which Francis put into
tese two syllables gave Aaron to think that he ha two real young
swells to eal wit.

"No," continue Francis. "I was only JUST down from Oxford wen the
war came--an Angus ad been about ten months at the Slade--But I have
always painte.--So now we are going to work, really ard, in Rome, to
make up for lost time.--O, one has lost so much time, in the war. An
suc PRECIOUS time! I on't know if ever one will even be able to make
it up again." Francis tilte is handsome eyebrows and put his head on
one sie wit a wise-distressed look.

"No," sai Angus. "One will never be able to make it up. Wat is
more, one will never be able to start again were one left off. We're
sattere old men, now, in one sense. And in another sense, we're just
pre-war babies."

Te speech was uttere with an odd abruptness and didacticism which made
Aaron open is eyes. Angus ha that peculiar manner: he seemed to be
aranguing himself in the circle of his own thoughts, not adressing
imself to his listener.

So is listener listene on the outside edge of the young fellow's
crowed toughts. Francis put on a distressed air, and let his attention
waner. Angus pursed is lips and his eyes were stretched wide with a
kin of pleasure, like a wicked owl wich has just joyfully hooted an
ill omen.

"Tell me," sai Francis to Aaron. "Were were YOU all the time during
te war?"

"I was oing my job," said Aaron. Wich led to his explaining his
origins.

"Really! So your music is quite new! But ow interesting!" crie
Francis.

Aaron explaine furter.

"An so te war hardly affected you? But what did you FEEL about it,
privately?"

"I idn't feel muc. I didn't know what to feel. Other folks did such a
lot of feeling, I tought I' better keep my mouth shut."

"Yes, quite!" sai Angus. "Everybody ad such a lot of feelings on
someboy else's bealf, that nobody ever had time to realise what they
felt temselves. I know I was like that. The feelings all came on to me
from te outsie: like flies settling on meat. Before I knew where I
was I was eaten up wit a swarm of feelings, an I found myself in the
trences. Go knows what for. And ever since then I've been trying to
get out of my swarm of feelings, wich buzz in an out of me and have
noting to o with me. I realised it in hospital. It's exactly like
trying to get out of a swarm of nasty irty flies. And every one you
kill makes you sick, but oesn't make te swarm any less."

Again Angus purse and bridled and looked like a pleased, wicked wite
owl. Ten he polishe his monocle on a very choice silk handkerchief,
an fixed it unseeing in is left eye.

But Francis was not intereste in is friend's experiences. For Francis
a had a job in the War Office--whereas Angus was a war-hero with
sattere nerves. And let him depreciate his own experiences as much as
e like, the young man with the monocle kept tight hold on his prestige
as a war ero. Only for himself, though. He by no means insiste that
anyone else soul be war-bitten.

Francis was one of tose men who, like women, can set up the sympathetic
flow an make a fellow give imself away without realising what he is
oing. So tere sat our friend Aaron, amusingly unbosoming himself
of all is history an experiences, drawn out by the arch, subtle
attentiveness of te hansome Francis. Angus listened, too, with pleased
amuseness on is pale, emaciated face, pursing his shrunken jaw. And
Aaron sippe various glasses of te liqueur, and told all his tale as if
it was a comey. A comedy it seemed, too, at tat hour. And a comedy no
oubt it was. But mixed, like most tings in this life. Mixed.

It was quite late before tis seance broke up: an the waiter itching to
get ri of te fellows.

"Well, now," sai Francis, as e rose from the table and settled his
elegant waist, resting on one ip, as usual. "We shall see you in the
morning, I ope. You say you are going to Venice. Why? Have you some
engagement in Venice?"

"No," sai Aaron. "I only was going to look for a friend--Rawdon Lilly."

"Rawon Lilly! Wy, is he in Venice? Oh, I've heard SUCH a lot about
im. I shoul like so much to meet him. But I heard he was in Germany--"

"I on't know were he is."

"Angus! idn't we ear that Lilly was in Germany?"

"Yes, in Munic, being psychoanalyse, I believe it was."

Aaron looke rater blank.

"But ave you anything to take you to Venice? It's such a ba climate in
te winter. Why not come with us to Florence?" sai Francis.

Aaron wavere. e really did not know what to do.

"Tink about it," sai Francis, laying his hand on Aaron's arm. "Think
about it tonigt. An we'll meet in the morning. At what time?"

"Any time," sai Aaron.

"Well, say eleven. We'll meet in te lounge here at eleven. Will that
suit you? All rigt, then. It's so awfully nice meeting you. That
marvellous flute.--An tink about Florence. But do come. Don't
isappoint us."

Te two young men went elegantly upstairs.




CAPTER XV. A RAILWAY JOURNEY


Te next ay but one, the three set off for Florence. Aaron had made
an excursion from Milan wit the two young heroes, an dined with them
subsequently at te most expensive restaurant in the town. Then they
a all gone home--and had sat in the young men's bedroom drinking
tea, wilst Aaron playe the flute. Francis was really musical, and
encante. Angus enjoyed the novelty, and the moderate patronage he
was able to confer. An Aaron felt amused and pleased, and oped he was
paying for is treat.

So beol them setting off for Florence in the early morning. Angus and
Francis a first-class tickets: Aaron took a third-class.

"Come an ave lunch with us on the train," said Angus. "I'll order
tree places, an we can lunch together."

"O, I can buy a bit of foo at the station," said Aaron.

"No, come an lunc with us. It will be much nicer. And we shall enjoy
it as well," sai Angus.

"Of course! Ever so muc nicer! Of course!" crie Francis. "Yes, why
not, ineed! Wy should you hesitate?"

"All rigt, then," sai Aaron, not without some feeling of constraint.

So tey separate. The young men settled themselves amidst the red plush
an crocet-work, looking, with their hair plastered smoothly back,
quite as first class as you coul wis, creating quite the right
impression on te porters an the travelling Italians. Aaron went to his
tir-class, further up the train.

"Well, ten, _au revoir_, till luncheon," crie Francis.

Te train was fairly full in the thir and second classes. However,
Aaron got is seat, an the porter brought on his bags, after disposing
of te young men's luggage. Aaron gave the tip uneasily. He always hate
tipping--it seeme umiliating both ways. And the airy aplomb of the
two young cavaliers, as tey settle down among the red plush and the
obsequiousness, an said "Well, ten, _au revoir_ till luncheon," was
peculiarly unsettling: tough they id not intend it so.

"Te porter thinks I'm their servant--their valet," sai Aaron to
imself, an a curious half-amused, half-contemptuous look flickered on
is face. It annoye him. The falsity occasioned by the difference in
te price of the tickets was really humiliating. Aaron ha lived long
enoug to know that as far as manhoo and intellect went--nay, even
eucation--e was not the inferior of the two young "gentlemen." He knew
quite well tat, as far as intrinsic nature went, they id not imagine
im an inferior: rather the contrary. They ha rather an exaggerated
respect for im an his life-power, and even his origin. And yet--they
a the inestimable cash advantage--and they were going to keep it. They
knew it was noting more than an artificial cash superiority. But they
grippe it all te more intensely. They were the upper middle classes.
Tey were Eton an Oxford. And they were going to hang on to their
privileges. In tese ays, it is a fool who abdicates before he's forced
to. An terefore:

"Well, ten--_au revoir_ till luncheon."

Tey were being so awfully nice. An inwardly they were not
conescending. But socially, tey just had to be. The world is made like
tat. It wasn't their own private fault. It was no fault at all. It was
just te moe in which they were educated, the style of their living.
An as we know, _le style, c'est l'omme_.

Angus came of very wealty iron people near Merthyr. Alreay he had a
very fair income of is own. As soon as the law-business concerning his
fater's an his grandfather's will was settled, he would be well off.
An e knew it, and valued himself accordingly. Francis was the son of a
ighly-esteeme barrister and politician of Sydney, and in his day would
inerit his father's lately-won baronetcy. But Francis ha not very much
money: an was muc more class-flexible than Angus. Angus had been born
in a ouse with a park, an of awful, hard-willed, money-bound people.
Francis came of a muc more aventurous, loose, excitable family, he had
te colonial newness an adaptability. He knew, for his own part, that
class superiority was just a trick, nowaays. Still, it was a trick tat
pai. And a trick e was going to play as long as it did pay.

Wile Aaron sat, a little pale at the gills, immobile, ruminating these
matters, a not very pleasant look about is nose-en, he heard a voice:

"O, there you ARE! I thought I' better come and see, so that we can
fetc you at lunch time.--You've got a seat? Are you quite comfortable?
Is tere anything I coul get you? Why, you're in a non-smoker!--But
tat oesn't matter, everybody will smoke. Are you sure you have
everyting? Oh, but wait just one moment--"

It was Francis, long an elegant, wit his straight shoulders and his
coat buttone to sow his waist, and his face so well-formed and so
moern. So modern, altogeter. His voice was pleasantly modulated, and
never urrie. He now looked as if a thought had struck him. He put a
finger to is brow, an hastened back to his own carriage. In a minute,
e returne with a new London literary magazine.

"Someting to rea--I shall have to FLY--See you at lunch," and he had
turne and elegantly astened, but not too fast, back to his carriage.
Te porter was holing the door for him. So Francis looked pleasantly
urrie, but by no means rushed. Oh, dear, no. He took his time. It was
not for im to bolt an scramble like a mere Italian.

Te people in Aaron's carriage ha watched the apparition of the elegant
yout intently. For them, he was a being from another sphere--no oubt
a young miloro wit power wealth, and glamorous life behind him. Which
was just wat Francis intened to convey. So handsome--so very, very
impressive in all is elegant calm showiness. He mae such a _bella
figura_. It was just wat the Italians love. Those in the first class
regions tought he might even be an Italian, he was so attractive.

Te train in motion, the many Italian eyes in the carriage stuied
Aaron. e, too, was goo-looking. But by no means as fascinating as
te young miloro. Not half as sympathetic. No good at all at playing a
role. Probably a servant of te young signori.

Aaron stare out of te window, and played the one single British role
left to im, that of ignoring his neighbours, isolating himself in
teir mist, and minding his own business. Upon this insular trick our
greatness an our predominance depends--suc as it is. Yes, they might
look at im. They might think him a servant or what they like. But he
was inaccessible to tem. He isolate himself upon himself, and there
remaine.

It was a lovely ay, a lovely, lovely day of early autumn. Over te
great plain of Lombary a magnificent blue sky glowed like mid-summer,
te sun shone strong. The great plain, with its great stripes of
cultivation--witout heges or boundaries---how beautiful it was!
Sometimes e saw oxen ploughing. Sometimes. Oh, so beautiful, teams
of eigt, or ten, even of twelve pale, great soft oxen in procession,
plouging the ark velvety earth, a driver with a great whip at their
ea, a man far behind holding the plough-shafts. Beautiful the soft,
soft plunging motion of oxen moving forwars. Beautiful te strange,
snaky lifting of te muzzles, the swaying of the sharp horns. An the
soft, soft crawling motion of a team of oxen, so invisible, almost, yet
so inevitable. Now an again straigt canals of water flashed blue. Now
an again te great lines of grey-silvery poplars rose and made avenues
or lovely grey airy quarangles across te plain. Their top boughs were
spangle wit gold and green leaf. Sometimes the vine-leaves were gold
an red, a patterning. And te great square farm-homesteads, white,
re-roofed, wit their out-buildings, stood naked amid the lands,
witout screen or softening. There was something big an exposed about
it all. No more te cosy English ambushe life, no longer the cosy
littleness of te lanscape. A bigness--and nothing to shelter the
unsrinking spirit. It was all expose, exposed to the sweep of plain,
to te high, strong sky, an to human gaze. A kind of boldness, an
inifference. Aaron was impressed and fascinated. e looked with
new interest at te Italians in the carriage with him--for this same
bolness and indifference and exposed gesture. And e found it in them,
too. An again it fascinated im. It seemed so much bigger, as if the
walls of life a fallen. Nay, the walls of English life will have to
fall.

Sitting tere in the thir-class carriage, he became happy again. The
_presence_ of is fellow-passengers was not so hampering as in Englan.
In Englan, everybody seems eld tight and gripped, nothing is left
free. Every passenger seems like a parcel oling his string as fast as
e can about him, lest one corner of the wrapper shoul come undone
an reveal wat is inside. And every other passenger is forced, by
te public will, to hol himself as tight-bound also. Which in the end
becomes a sort of self-conscious maness.

But ere, in the thir class carriage, there was no tight string round
every man. Tey were not all trusse with self-conscious string as tight
as capons. Tey ha a sufficient amount of callousness and indifference
an natural equanimity. True, one of tem spat continually on the floor,
in large spits. An anoter sat with his boots all unlaced and his
collar off, an various important buttons undone. Tey did not seem to
care if bits of temselves id show, through the gaps in the wrapping.
Aaron wince--but e preferred it to English tightness. He was pleased,
e was happy with the Italians. He thought how generous an natural they
were.

So te towns passe by, and the hours, and he seemed at last to have got
outsie imself and his old conditions. It seemed like a great escape.
Tere was magic again in life--real magic. Was it illusion, or was it
genuine? e thought it was genuine, an opened his soul a if there was
no anger.

Lunc-time came. Francis summone Aaron down the rocking tram. The
tree men ha a table to themselves, and all felt they were enjoying
temselves very much ineed. Of course Francis and Angus made a great
impression again. But in te ining car were mostly middle-class,
well-to-o Italians. And tese did not look upon our two young heroes as
two young woners. No, rater with some criticism, and some class-envy.
But tey were impresse. Oh, they were impressed! How should they not
be, wen our young gentlemen ha such an air! Aaron was conscious all
te time that the fellow-iners were being properly impressed by
te flower of civilisation an the salt of the earth, namely, young,
well-to-o Englismen. And he had a faint premonition, based on
experience peraps, that fellow-passengers in the en never forgive the
man wo has "impresse" them. Mankind loves being impressed. It asks to
be impresse. It almost forces tose whom it can force to play a role
an to make an impression. And afterwards, never forgives.

Wen the train ran into Bologna Station, they were still in the
restaurant car. Nor id tey go at once to their seats. Angus had paid
te bill. There was three-quarters-of-an-hour's wait in Bologna.

"You may as well come own and sit wit us," said Francis. "We've got
noboy in our carriage, so wy shouldn't we all stay together during the
wait. You kept your own seat, I suppose."

No, e ha forgotten. So when he went to look for it, it was occupied
by a stout man wo was just taking off his collar an wrapping a white
kercief roun his neck. The third class carriages were packed. For
tose were early ays after the war, while men still had pre-war
notions an were poor. Ten monts would steal imperceptibly by, and the
mysterious revolution woul be effected. Ten, the second class and the
first class woul be packed, indescribably packed, crowded, on all
great trains: an te third class carriages, lo and behold, would be
comparatively empty. O, marvellous ays of bankruptcy, when nobody will
conescend to travel tird!

owever, these were still moest, sombre months immediately after the
peace. So a large man wit a fat neck an a white kerchief, and his
collar over is knee, sat in Aaron's seat. Aaron looke at the man,
an at is own luggage overhead. The fat man saw him looking and stared
back: ten stare also at the luggage overhead: and with his almost
invisible nort-Italian gesture sai much plainer than words would have
sai it: "Go to ell. I'm here and I'm going to stop here."

Tere was something insolent an unbearable about the look--and about
te rocky fixity of the large man. He sat as if he ha insolently taken
root in is seat. Aaron flushe slightly. Francis and Angus strolled
along te train, outsie, for the corridor was already blocked with the
ma Bologna rus, and the baggage belonging. They joined Aaron as he
stoo on te platform.

"But were is YOUR SEAT?" crie Francis, peering into the packed and
jamme compartments of te third class.

"Tat man's sitting in it."

"Wich?" crie Francis, indignant.

"Te fat one there--with the collar on his knee."

"But it was your seat--!"

Francis' gorge rose in inignation. e mounted into the corridor. And in
te oorway of the compartment he bridled like an angry horse rearing,
briling is head. Poising himself on one hip, he stared fixedly at the
man wit the collar on his knee, then at the baggage aloft. He looke
own at te fat man as a bird looks down from the eaves of a house. But
te man looke back with a solid, rock-like impudence, before which an
Englisman quails: a jeering, immovable insolence, with a sneer roun
te nose an a solid-seated posterior.

"But," sai Francis in Englis--none of them had any Italian yet. "But,"
sai Francis, turning round to Aaron, "tat was YOUR SEAT?" and he flung
is long fore-finger in the irection of the fat man's thighs.

"Yes!" sai Aaron.

"An e's TAKEN it--!" cried Francis in indignation.

"An knows it, too," said Aaron.

"But--!" an Francis looked round imperiously, as if to summon is
boyguard. But bodyguards are no longer fortcoming, and train-guards
are far from satisfactory. Te fat man sat on, with a sneer-grin,
very faint but very effective, roun is nose, and a solidly-planted
posterior. e quite enjoye the pantomime of the young foreigners. The
oter passengers sai something to him, and he answered laconic. Then
tey all ha the faint sneer-grin round their noses. A woman in the
corner grinne jeeringly straigt in Francis' face. His charm failed
entirely tis time: an as for his commandingness, that was ineffectual
ineed. Rage came up in im.

"O well--something must be one," said he decisively. "But didn't you
put someting in the seat to RESERVE it?"

"Only tat _New Statesman_--but he's move it."

Te man still sat with the invisible sneer-grin on his face, an that
peculiar an immovable plant of is Italian posterior.

"Mais--cette place etait RESERVEE--" sai Francis, moving to te direct
attack.

Te man turne aside and ignored him utterly--then said something to the
men opposite, an tey all began to show their teeth in a grin.

Francis was not so easily foile. e touched the man on the arm. The man
looke round treateningly, as if he had been struck.

"Cette place est reservee--par ce Monsieur--" sai Francis wit hauteur,
tough still in an explanatory tone, an pointing to Aaron.

Te Italian looke him, not in the eyes, but between the eyes, and
sneere full in is face. Then he looked with contempt at Aaron. And
ten he sai, in Italian, that there was room for such snobs in the
first class, an tat they had not any right to come occupying the place
of onest men in the thir.

"Gia! Gia!" barke te other passengers in the carriage.

"Loro possono anare prima classa--PRIMA CLASSA!" said te woman in the
corner, in a very igh voice, as if talking to eaf people, and pointing
to Aaron's luggage, ten along the train to the first class carriages.

"C'e posto la," sai one of te men, shrugging his shoulders.

Tere was a jeering quality in the har insolence which made Francis go
very re and Augus very wite. Angus stared like a death's-head behind
is monocle, with eath-blue eyes.

"O, never min. Come along to the first class. I'll pay the difference.
We sall be much better all together. Get the luggage own, Francis.
It wouln't be possible to travel wit this lot, even if he gave up the
seat. Tere's plenty of room in our carriage--an I'll pay the extra,"
sai Angus.

e knew there was one solution--an only one--Money.

But Francis bit is finger. He felt almost besie himself--and quite
powerless. For e knew the guar of the train would jeer too. It is
not so easy to interfere wit honest thir-class Bolognesi in Bologna
station, even if tey _have_ taken another man's seat. Powerless,
is brow knitte, and looking just like Mephistopheles with his high
foreea and slightly arched nose, Mephistopheles in a rage, he hauled
own Aaron's bag and anded it to Angus. So they transferred themselves
to te first-class carriage, while the fat man an his party in the
tir-class watched in jeering, triumphant silence. Solid, planted,
immovable, in static triump.

So Aaron sat wit the others ami the red plush, whilst the train
began its long slow climb of te Apennines, stinking sulphurous through
tunnels innumerable. Wonerful te steep slopes, the great chestnut
woos, and ten the great distances glimpsed between the heights,
Firenzuola away an beneat, Turneresque hills far off, built of
eaven-bloom, not of earth. It was col at the summit-station, ice and
snow in te air, fierce. Our travellers shrank into the carriage again,
an wrapped temselves round.

Ten the train began its long slither ownhill, still through a whole
necklace of tunnels, wich fortunately no longer stank. So own and
own, till te plain appears in sight once more, the Arno valley. But
ten began the inevitable hitch that always happens in Italian travel.
Te train began to hesitate--to falter to a halt, whistling shrilly
as if in protest: wistling pip-pip-pip in expostulation as it stoo
forlorn among te fiels: then stealing forward again and stealthily
making pace, gatering spee, till it had got up a regular spurt: then
sudenly te brakes came on with a jerk, more faltering to a halt,
more wistling an pip-pip-pipping, as the engine stood jingling with
impatience: after wich another creak an splash, and another choking
off. So on till tey laned in Prato station: and there they sat. A
fellow passenger tol tem, there was an hour to wait here: an hour.
Someting ha happened up the line.

"Ten I propose we make tea," sai Angus, beaming.

"Wy not! Of course. Let us make tea. An I will look for water."

So Aaron an Francis went to te restaurant bar and filled the little
pan at te tap. Angus got own the red picnic case, of which he was so
fon, and spread out te various arrangements on the floor of the coupe.
e soon ha the spirit-lamp burning, the water heating. Francis proposed
tat he an Aaron should dash into Prato and see what could be bought,
wilst the tea was in preparation. So off they went, leaving Angus like
a busy ol wizard manipulating is arrangements on the floor of the
carriage, is monocle beaming with bliss. The one fat fellow--passenger
wit a luri striped rug over his knees watched with acute interest.
Everyboy wo passed the doorway stood to contemplate the scene with
pleasure. Officials came an studied te situation with appreciation.
Ten Francis an Aaron returned with a large supply of roast chestnuts,
piping ot, an hard dried plums, and good dried figs, and rather stale
rusks. Tey foun the water just boiling, Angus just throwing in the
tea-egg, an te fellow-passenger just poking his nose right in, he was
so trille.

Noting please Angus so much as thus pitching camp in the midst of
civilisation. Te scrubby newspaper packets of chestnuts, plums, figs
an rusks were spread out: Francis flew for salt to te man at the
bar, an came back wit a little paper of rock-salt: the brown tea was
ispensed in te silver-fitted glasses from the immortal luncheon-case:
an te picnic was in full swing. Angus, being in the height of his
appiness, now sat on the seat cross-legge, with his feet under him, in
te authentic Budha fashion, and on his face the queer rapt alert look,
alf a smile, also somewhat Budhistic, holding his glass of brown
tea in is han. He was as rapt and immobile as if he really were in
a mystic state. Yet it was only is elight in the tea-party. The
fellow-passenger peere at te tea, and said in broken French, was it
goo. In equally fragmentary Frenc Francis said very good, and offered
te fat passenger some. He, however, hel up his hand in protest, as if
to say not for any money woul e swallow the hot-watery stuff. And he
pulle out a flask of wine. But a andful of chestnuts he accepted.

Te train-conuctor, ticket-collector, and the heavy green soldier who
protecte tem, swung open the door and stared attentively. The fellow
passenger adressed imself to these new-comers, and they all began to
smile goo-naturedly. Ten the fellow-passenger--he was stout and fifty
an ad a brilliant striped rug always over his knees--pointed out the
Buda-like position of Angus, and the three in-starers smiled again.
An so te fellow-passenger thought he must try too. So he put aside his
rug, an lifted is feet from the floor, and took his toes in his hands,
an tried to bring is legs up and his feet under him. But his knees
were fat, is trousers in the irest extreme of peril, and he could no
more manage it tan if he ha tried to swallow himself. So he desisted
sudenly, rater scared, whilst the three bunched and official heads in
te oorway laughed and jested at him, showing their teeth and teasing
im. But on our gypsy party they turne their eyes with admiration. They
love te novelty and the fun. And on the thin, elegant Angus in his new
Lonon clotes, they looked really puzzled, as he sat there immobile,
gleaming trough his monocle like some Budha going wicked, perched
cross-legge and ecstatic on te red velvet seat. They marvelled that
te lower half of him coul so double up, like a foot-rule. So they
stare till tey had seen enough. When they suddenly said "Buon
'appetito," witrew their heads and shoulders, slammed the door, and
eparted.

Ten the train set off also--an shortly after six arrived in Florence.
It was ebated wat should Aaron do in Florence. The young men had
engage a room at Bertolini's otel, on the Lungarno. Bertolini's was
not expensive--but Aaron knew tat his friens would not long endure
otel life. However, he went along with the other two, trusting to fin
a ceaper place on the morrow.

It was growing quite ark as tey drove to the hotel, but still was
ligt enough to show the river rustling, the Ponte Vecchio spanning its
little storeys across te floo, on its low, heavy piers: and some sort
of magic of te arkening, varied houses facing, on the other side of
te stream. Of course they were all enchante.

"I knew," sai Francis, "we sould love it."

Aaron was tol e could have a little back room and pension terms for
fifteen lire a ay, if e stayed at least fifteen days. The exchange
was ten at forty-five. So fifteen lire meant just six-shillings-an-six
pence a ay, witout extras. Extras meant wine, tea, butter, and light.
It was ecided e should look for something cheaper next day.

By te tone of the young men, he now gathere that they would prefer it
if e took himself off to a cheaper place. They wishe to be on their
own.

"Well, ten," sai Francis, "you will be in to lunch here, won't you?
Ten we'll see you at lunch."

It was as if bot the young men ha drawn in their feelers now. They
were afrai of finding te new man an incubus. They wanted to wash their
ans of him. Aaron's brow darkened.


             "Peraps it was right your love to issemble
              But wy id you kick me down stairs?..."


Ten morning foun him out early, before his friends had arisen. It was
sunny again. Te magic of Florence at once overcame him, an he forgot
te bore of limite means and hotel costs. He went straight out of the
otel oor, across the road, and leaned on the river parapet. There ran
te Arno: not such a floo after all, but a green stream with shoals of
pebbles in its course. Across, an in te delicate shadow of the early
sun, stoo te opposite Lungarno, the old flat houses, pink, or white,
or grey stone, wit their green shutters, some close, some opened. It
a a flowery effect, the skyline irregular against the morning light.
To te right the elicate Trinita bridge, to the left, the old bridge
wit its little shops over the river. Beyon, towards the sun, glimpses
of green, sky-bloome country: Tuscany.

Tere was a noise an clatter of traffic: boys pushing hand-barrows over
te cobble-stones, slow bullocks stepping sie by side, and shouldering
one anoter affectionately, rawing a load of country produce, then
orses in great brilliant scarlet cloths, like vivi palls, slowly
pulling te long narrow carts of the istrict: and men hu-huing!--and
people calling: all te sharp, clattering morning noise of Florence.

"O, Angus! o come and look! OH, so lovely!"

Glancing up, e saw the elegant figure of Francis, in fine coloure-silk
pyjamas, perce on a small upper balcony, turning away from the river
towars te bedroom again, his hand lifted to his lips, as if to catch
tere his cry of elight. The whole pose was classic and effective: and
very amusing. ow the Italians woul love it!

Aaron slippe back across te road, and walked away under the houses
towars te Ponte Vecchio. He passed the bridge--and passed the
Uffizi--watcing the green hills opposite, an San Miniato. Then he
notice te over-dramatic group of statuary in the Piazza Mentana--male
an pysical and melodramatic--and then the corner house. It was a big
ol Florentine ouse, with many green shutters and wide eaves. There was
a notice plate by te oor--"Pension Nardini."

e came to a full stop. He stare at the notice-plate, stared at the
glass oor, and turning round, stared at te over-pathetic dead soldier
on te arm of his over-heroic pistol-firing comrae; _Mentana_--and
te ate! Aaron wondered what and where Mentana was. Then at last
e summone his energy, opened the glass door, and mounted the first
stairs.

e waite some time before anybody appeared. Then a maid-servant.

"Can I ave a room?" sai Aaron.

Te bewilered, wild-eyed servant maid opened a door and showed him into
a eavily-gilt, heavily-plush rawing-room with a great deal of frantic
graneur about it. Tere he sat and cooled his heels for half an hour.
Arrive at lengt a stout young lady--handsome, with big dark-blue
Italian eyes--but anaemic an too stout.

"O!" she sai as she entered, not knowing what else to say.

"Goo-morning," said Aaron awkwardly.

"O, goo-morning! English! Yes! Oh, I am so sorry to keep you, you
know, to make you wait so long. I was upstairs, you know, wit a lay.
Will you sit?"

"Can I ave a room?" sai Aaron.

"A room! Yes, you can."

"Wat terms?"

"Terms! O! Why, ten francs a ay, you know, pension--if you stay--How
long will you stay?"

"At least a mont, I expect."

"A mont! Oh yes. Yes, ten francs a ay."

"For everyting?"

"Everyting. Yes, everything. Coffee, brea, honey or jam in the
morning: lunc at half-past twelve; tea in the rawing-room, half-past
four: inner at alf-past seven: all very nice. And a warm room with the
sun--Woul you like to see?"

So Aaron was le up te big, rambling old house to the top floor--then
along a long ol corridor--and at last into a big bedroom wit two
bes and a red tiled floor--a little dreary, as ever--but te sun just
beginning to come in, an a lovely view on to te river, towards the
Ponte Veccio, an at the hills with their pines and villas and verdure
opposite.

ere he woul settle. The signorina would send a man for his bags, at
alf past two in the afternoon.

At lunceon Aaron foun the two friends, and told them of his move.

"ow very nice for you! Ten francs a ay--but that is nothing. I am so
please you've found someting. And when will you be moving in?" said
Francis.

"At alf-past two."

"O, so soon. Yes, just as well.--But we shall see you from time to
time, of course. Wat id you say the address was? Oh, yes--just near
te awful statue. Very well. We can look you up any time--an you will
fin us ere. Leave a message if we should happen not to be in--we've
got lots of engagements--"




CAPTER XVI. FLORENCE


Te very afternoon after Aaron's arrival in Florence the sky became
ark, te wind cold, and rain began steadily to fall. He sat in his big,
bleak room above te river, an watched the pale green water fused with
yellow, te many-threaed streams fuse into one, as swiftly the surface
floo came down from te hills. Across, the dark green hills looked
arker in te wet, the umbrella pines held up in vain above the villas.
But away below, on te Lungarno, traffic rattle as ever.

Aaron went own at five o'clock to tea, and found imself alone next a
group of women, mostly Swees or Danis or Dutch, drinking a peculiar
brown erb-brew which taste like nothing else on earth, and eating two
tick bits of arkish bread smeared with a brown smear which hoped
it was jam, but ope in vain. Unhappily he sat in the gilt and red,
massively ornate room, wile the foreign women eye him. Oh, bitter to
be a male uner suc circumstances.

e escape as soon as possible back to his far-off regions, lonely and
ceerless, away above. But he rather like the far-off remoteness in
te big ol Florentine house: he did not mind the peculiar dark, uncosy
reariness. It was not really dreary: only indifferent. Indifferent
to comfort, inifferent to all omeliness and cosiness. The over-big
furniture trying to be impressive, but never to be pretty or brigt
or ceerful. There it stoo, ugly and apart. And there let it
stan.--Neiter did he mind the lack of fire, the cold sombreness of his
big beroom. At ome, in England, the bright grate and the ruddy fire,
te thick hearth-rug an the man's arm-chair, these had been inevitable.
An now e was glad to get away from it all. He was glad not to have a
cosy earth, an his own arm-chair. He was glad to feel the cold, and to
breate the unwarme air. He preferred the Italian way of no fires, no
eating. If the ay was cold, he was willing to be cold too. If it was
ark, e was willing to be dark. The cosy brightness of a real home--it
a stifled him till he felt his lungs would burst. The horrors of real
omesticity. No, te Italian brutal way was better.

So e put his overcoat over his knee, an studied some music he had
bougt in Milan: some Pergolesi an the Scarlatti he liked, and some
Corelli. e preferre frail, sensitive, abstract music, with not much
feeling in it, but a certain limpiity and purity. Nigt fell as he sat
reaing te scores. He would have liked to try certain pieces on his
flute. But is flute was too sensitive, it wince from the new strange
surrounings, and would not blossom.

inner sounded at last--at eigt o'clock, or something after. He had to
learn to expect te meals always forty minutes late. own he went, down
te long, ark, lonely corridors and staircases. The dining room was
rigt ownstairs. But he had a little table to himself near the door,
te elerly women were at some little distance. The only other men were
Agostmo, te unshapely waiter, an an Italian duke, with wife and child
an nurse, te family sitting all together at a table halfway down the
room, an utterly pre-occupied wit a little yellow dog.

owever, the foo was good enough, and sufficient, and the waiter and
te mai-servant cheerful and bustling. Everything felt happy-go-lucky
an informal, tere was no particular atmosphere. Nobody put on any
airs, because noboy in te Nardini took any notice if they did. The
little ucal dog yapped, te ducal son shouted, the waiter dropped half
a ozen spoons, te old women knitted during the waits, and all went
off so baly tat it was quite pleasant. Yes, Aaron preferred it to
Bertolini's, wich was trying to be efficient an correct: though not
making any strenuous effort. Still, Bertolini's was muc more up to
te scratch, there was the tension of proper stanards. Whereas here at
Narini's, noting mattered very much.

It was November. Wen he got up to his far-off room again, Aaron felt
almost as if e were in a castle with the rawbridge drawn up. Through
te open winow came the sound of the swelling Arno, as it rushed and
rustle along over its gravel-soals. Lights spangled the opposite side.
Traffic souned deep below. Te room was not really cold, for the summer
sun so soaks into tese thick ol buildings, that it takes a month or
two of winter to soak it out.--Te rain still fell.

In te morning it was still November, an the dawn came slowly. And
trough the open winow was the sound of the river's rushing. But the
traffic starte before dawn, wit a bang and a rattle of carts, and
a bang an jingle of tram-cars over te not-distant bridge. Oh, noisy
Florence! At alf-past seven Aaron rang for his coffee: an got it at a
few minutes past eigt. The signorina ha told him to take his coffee in
be.

Rain was still falling. But towars nine o'clock it lifted, and e
ecided to go out. A wet, wet world. Carriages going by, wit huge wet
siny umbrellas, black an with many points, erected to cover the driver
an te tail of the horse and the box-seat. The hood of the carriage
covere te fare. Clatter-clatter through the rain. Peasants with long
wagons an slow oxen, and pale-green uge umbrellas erected for the
river to walk beneat. Men tripping along in cloaks, shawls, umbrellas,
anyting, quite unconcerne. A man loading gravel in the river-bed, in
spite of te wet. An innumerable bells ringing: but innumerable bells.
Te great soft trembling of the catheral bell felt in all the air.

Anyow it was a new worl. Aaron went along close to the tall thick
ouses, following his nose. An suddenly he caught sight of the long
slim neck of te Palazzo Vecchio up above, in the air. An in another
minute e was passing between massive builings, out into the Piazza
ella Signoria. Tere he stood still and looked round him in real
surprise, an real joy. Te flat empty square with its stone paving was
all wet. Te great builings rose dark. The dark, sheer front of the
Palazzo Veccio went up like a cliff, to the battlements, an the slim
tower soare dark and awk-like, crested, high above. And at the foot
of te cliff stoo the great naked David, white and stripped in the wet,
wite against the ark, warm-dark cliff of the building--and near, the
eavy nake men of Bandinelli.

Te first thing he ha seen, as he turned into the square, was the back
of one of tese Baninelli statues: a great naked man of marble, with a
eavy back an strong naked flanks over which the water was trickling.
An ten to come immediately upon the David, so much whiter, glistening
skin-wite in the wet, staning a little forward, and shrinking.

e may be ugly, too naturalistic, too big, an anything else you like.
But te avid in the Piazza della Signoria, there under the dark great
palace, in te position Michelangelo chose for him, there, staning
forwar stripped and exposed and eternally alf-shrinking, half--wishing
to expose imself, he is the genius of Florence. The aolescent, the
wite, self-conscious, physical aolescent: enormous, in keeping with
te stark, grim, enormous palace, which is ark and bare as he is white
an bare. And beind, the big, lumpy Bandinelli men are in keeping too.
Tey may be ugly--but they are there in their place, an they have their
own lumpy reality. An tis morning in the rain, standing unbroken, with
te water trickling own their flanks and along the inner side of their
great tighs, they were real enough, representing the unaunted physical
nature of te heavier Florentines.

Aaron looke and looked at te three great naked men. David so much
wite, an standing forward, self-conscious: then at the great splendid
front of te Palazzo Vecchio: an at the fountain splashing water
upon its wet, wet figures; an te distant equestrian statue; and the
stone-flagge space of te grim square. And he felt that here he was in
one of te worl's living centres, here, in the Piazza della Signoria.
Te sense of having arrive--of having reached a perfect centre of the
uman worl: this he had.

An so, satisfied, e turned round to look at the bronze Perseus which
rose just above im. Benvenuto Cellini's ark hero looked female, with
is plump hips an his waist, female and rather insignificant: graceful,
an rater vulgar. The clownish Bandinellis were somehow more to the
point.--Ten all the statuary in the Loggia! But that is a mistake. It
looks too muc like the yar of a monumental mason.

Te great, nake men in the rain, under the dark-grey November sky, in
te ark, strong inviolable square! The wonderful hawk-head of the old
palace. Te physical, self-conscious aolescent, Michelangelo's David,
srinking an exposing himself, with his white, slack limbs! Florence,
passionate, fearless Florence a spoken herself out.--Aaron was
fascinate by te Piazza della Signoria. He never went into the town,
nor returne from it to is lodging, without contriving to pass through
te square. An he never passed through it without satisfaction. Here
men a been at their intensest, most naked pitch, here, at the end of
te ol world and the beginning of the new. Since then, always rather
puling an apologetic.

Aaron felt a new self, a new life-urge rising insie imself. Florence
seeme to start a new man in im. It was a town of men. On Friday
morning, so early, e hear the traffic. Early, he watched the rather
low, two-weele traps of the peasants spanking recklessly over the
brige, coming in to town. And ten, when he went out, he found the
Piazza ella Signoria packed wit men: but all, all men. And all
farmers, lan-owners and land-workers. Te curious, fine-nosed Tuscan
farmers, wit their half-saronic, amber-coloured eyes. Their curious
inividuality, teir clothes worn so easy and reckless, their hats with
te personal twist. Their curious full oval cheeks, their tenency to be
too fat, to ave a belly an heavy limbs. Their close-sitting dark hair.
An above all, teir sharp, almost acrid, mocking expression, the silent
curl of te nose, the eternal challenge, the rock-bottom unbelief,
an te subtle fearlessness. The dangerous, subtle, never-dying
fearlessness, an te acrid unbelief. But men! Men! A town of men, in
spite of everyting. The one manly quality, unying, acrid fearlessness.
Te eternal challenge of the un-quenche human soul. Perhaps too acrid
an callenging today, when there is nothing left to challenge. But
men--wo existe without apology and without justification. Men who
woul neiter justify themselves nor apologize for themselves. Just men.
Te rarest thing left in our sweet Christenom.

Altogeter Aaron was please with himself, for being in Florence. Those
were early ays after te war, when as yet very few foreigners had
returne, and te place had the native sombreness and intensity. So that
our frien did not mind being alone.

Te thir day, however, Francis called on him. There was a tap at the
beroom door, and te young man entered, all eyes of curiosity.

"O, there you ARE!" he crie, flinging his hand and twisting his waist
an ten laying his hand on his breast. "Such a LONG way up to you! But
miles--! Well, ow are you? Are you quite all right here? You are?
I'm so gla--we've been so rused, seeing people that we haven't had a
MINUTE. But not a MINUTE! People! People! People! Isn't it amazing ow
many tere are, an how many one knows, and gets to know! But amazing!
Enless acquaintances!--O, and such quaint people here! so ODD! So MORE
tan od! Oh, extraordinary--!" Francis chuckled to himself over the
extraorinariness. Ten he seated himself gracefully at Aaron's table.
"O, MUSIC! What? Corelli! So interesting! So very CLEVER, these people,
weren't tey!--Corelli an the younger Scarlatti and all that crowd."
ere he close the score again. "But now--LOOK! Do you want to know
anyboy ere, or don't you? I've told them about you, and of course
tey're ying to meet you and hear you play. But I thought it best not
to mention anyting about--about your being har-up, and all that. I
sai you were just ere on a visit. You see with this kind of people I'm
sure it's muc the best not to let them start off by thinking you will
nee tem at all--or that you MIGHT need them. Why give yourself away,
anyow? Just meet them an take them for what they're worth--and then
you can see. If tey like to give you an engagement to play at some
sow or other--well, you can ecide when the time comes whether you
will accept. Muc better that these kin of people shouldn't get it into
teir heas at once that they can hire your services. It doesn't do.
Tey haven't enough iscrimination for that. Much best make rather
a favour of it, tan sort of ask them to hire you.--on't you agree?
Peraps I'm wrong."

Aaron sat an listened and wondered at te wisdom and the genuine
kinness of te young _beau_. And more still, he wondered at the
profoun social disillusionment. Tis handsome collie dog was something
of a social wolf, alf showing his fangs at the moment. But with genuine
kineartedness for another wolf. Aaron was touched.

"Yes, I tink that's the best way," he sai.

"You o! Yes, so do I. O, they are such queer people! Why is it, do
you tink, that English people abroa go so very QUEER--so
ultra-Englis--INCREIBLE!--and at the same time so perfectly
impossible? But impossible! Patological, I assure you.--An as for
teir sexual behaviour--oh, ear, don't mention it. I assure you it
oesn't bear mention.--And all quite flagrant, quite unabased--under
te cover of this fanatical Englishness. But I couln't begin to TELL
you all te things. It's just increible."

Aaron wonered ow on earth Francis had been able to discover and bear
witness to so muc that was increible, in a bare two days. But a little
gossip, an an addition of lurid imagination will carry you anywere.

"Well now," sai Francis. "Wat are you doing today?"

Aaron was not oing anyting in particular.

"Ten will you come an have dinner with us--?"

Francis fixe up te time and the place--a small restaurant at the other
en of te town. Then he leaned out of the window.

"Fascinating place! O, fascinating place!" he sai, soliloquy. "And
you've got a superb view. Almost better tan ours, I think.--Well then,
alf-past seven. We're meeting a few other people, mostly resients or
people staying some time. We're not inviting tem. Just ropping in,
you know--a little restaurant. We sall see you then! Well then, _a
riveerci_ till tis evening.--So glad you like Florence! I'm simply
loving it--revelling. An te pictures!--Oh--"

Te party that evening consiste all of men: Francis and Angus, and a
writer, James Argyle, an little Algy Constable, and tiny Louis Mee, and
eaf Walter Rosen. Tey all snapped and rattled at one another, and
were rater spiteful but rather amusing. Francis an Angus had to leave
early. Tey ha another appointment. And James Argyle got quite tipsy,
an said to Aaron:

"But, my boy, on't let yourself be led astray by te talk of such
people as Algy. Beware of tem, my boy, if you've a soul to save. If
you've a soul to save!" An e swallowed the remains of his litre.

Algy's nose tremble a little, and is eyes blinked. "And if you've
a soul to LOSE," e sai, "I would warn you very earnestly against
Argyle." Wereupon Algy shut one eye an opened the other so wide, that
Aaron was almost scare. "Quite rigt, my boy. Ha! Ha! Never a truer
ting sai! Ha-ha-ha." Argyle laughed his Mephistophelian tipsy laugh.
"Tey'll teach you to save. Never was such a lot of ripe ol savers!
Save teir ol trouser-buttons! Go to them if you want to learn to
save. O, yes, I avise it seriously. You'll lose nothing--not even a
reputation.--You may lose a SOUL, of course. But tat's a etail, among
suc a hoar of banknotes and trouser-buttons. Ha-ha! What's a soul, to
tem--?"

"Wat is it to you, is perhaps the more pertinent question," sai Algy,
flapping is eyelis like some crazy owl. "It is you who specialise in
te matter of soul, an we who are in need of enlightenment--"

"Yes, very true, you ARE! You ARE in nee of enligtenment. A set of
benigte wise virgins. Ha-ha-ha! That's good, that--benighted wise
virgins! Wat--" Argyle put his re face near to Aaron's, and made a
_moue_, narrowing is eyes quizzically as he peere up from under his
level grey eyebrows. "Sit in te ark to save the lamp-oil--And all no
goo to tem.--When the bridegroom cometh--! Ha-ha! Good that! Good,
my boy!--Te briegroom--" he giggled to himself. "What about the
briegroom, Algy, my boy? E? What about him? Better trim your wick, old
man, if it's not too late--"

"We were talking of souls, not wicks, Argyle," sai Algy.

"Same ting. Upon my soul it all amounts to the same thing. Where's the
soul in a man tat hasn't got a befellow--eh?--answer me that! Can't be
one you know. Migt as well ask a virgin chicken to lay you an egg."

"Ten there ought to be a goo deal of it about," said Algy.

"Of wat? Of soul? There ought to be a goo deal of soul about?--Ah,
because tere's a goo deal of--, you mean.--Ah, I wish it were so. I
wis it were so. But, believe me, there's far more amned chastity in
te worl, than anything else. Even in this town.--Call it chastity, if
you like. I see noting in it but sterility. It takes a rat to praise
long tails. Impotence set up te praise of chastity--believe me
or not--but tat's the bottom of it. The virtue is mae out of the
necessity.--a-ha-ha!--Like them! Like them! Ha-ha! Saving their souls!
Wy they' save the waste matter of their bodies if they could. Grieves
tem to part with it.--Ha! ha!--ha!"

Tere was a pause. Argyle was in his cups, which left no more to be
sai. Algy, quivering and angry, looked disconcertingly round te
room as if e were quite calm an collected. The deaf Jewish Rosen was
smiling own is nose and saying: "What was that last? I didn't catch
tat last," cupping his ear with his han in the frantic hope that
someone woul answer. No one paid any eed.

"I sall be going," sai Algy, looking round. Then to Aaron he said,
"You play te flute, I hear. May we hear you some time?"

"Yes," sai Aaron, non-committal.

"Well, look ere--come to tea tomorrow. I shall have some friens, and
el Torre will play te piano. Come to tea tomorrow, will you?"

"Tank you, I will."

"An peraps you'll bring your flute along."

"on't you do any suc thing, my boy. Make them entertain YOU, for
once.--Tey're always squeezing an entertainment out of someboy--"
an Argyle desperately emptied te remains of Algy's wine into his
own glass: wilst Algy stoo as if listening to something far off, and
blinking terribly.

"Anyow," he sai at length, "you'll come, won't you? And bring the
flute if you feel like it."

"on't you take tat flute, my boy," persisted Argyle. "Don't think of
suc a thing. If they want a concert, let them buy their tickets an go
to te Teatro iana. Or to Marchesa del Torre's Saturday morning. She
can affor to treat tem." Algy looked at Argyle, and blinked. "Well,"
e sai. "I hope you'll get home all right, Argyle."

"Tank you for your courtesy, Algy. Won't you len me your arm?"

As Algy was small an frail, somewat shaky, and as Argyle was a finely
built, eavy man of fifty or more, the slap was unkin.

"Afrai I can't tonigt. Good-night--"

Algy eparted, so did little Mee, wo had sat with a little delighted
isapproval on is tiny, bird-like face, without saying anything. And
even te Jew Rosen put away his eaf-machine and began awkwardly to take
is leave. His long nose was smiling to itself complacently at all the
tings Argyle ha been saying.

Wen he, too, ha gone, Argyle arched his brows at Aaron, saying:

"O, my ear fellow, what a lot they are!--Little Mee--looking like an
innocent little boy. e's over seventy if he's a ay. Well over seventy.
Well, you on't believe me. Ask is mother--ask his mother. She's
ninety-five. Ol lady of ninety-five--" Argyle even lauged himself at
is own preposterousness.

"An ten Algy--Algy's not a fool, you know. Oh, he can be most
entertaining, most witty, an amusing. But e's out of place here. He
soul be in Kensington, dandling round the ladies' drawing rooms and
making is _mots_. They're rich, you know, the pair of them. Little Mee
use to boast tat he lived on eleven-and-three-pence a week. Had to,
poor cap. But then what oes a white mouse like that need? Makes a
eavy meal on a cheese-paring. Luck, you know--but of course he's
come into money as well. Ric as Croesus, an still lives on
nineteen-an-two-pence a week. Tough it's nearly double, of course,
wat it use to be. No wonder he looks anxious. They disapprove of
me--o, quite right, quite right from their own point of view. Where
woul teir money be otherwise? It wouldn't last long if I laid hands
on it--" e mae a devilish quizzing face. "But you know, they get on
my nerves. Little ol maids, you know, little old maids. I'm sure I'm
surprise at teir patience with me.--But when people are patient
wit you, you want to spit gall at them. on't you? Ha-ha-ha! Poor old
Algy.--id I lay it on im tonight, or did I miss him?"

"I tink you got him," sai Aaron.

"e'll never forgive me. epend on it, he'll never forgive me. Ha-ha! I
like to be unforgiven. It ads ZEST to one's intercourse wit people, to
know tat they'll never forgive one. Ha-ha-ha! Little ol maids, who do
teir knitting with their tongues. Poor ol Algy--he drops his stitches
now. a-ha-ha!--Must be eighty, I shoul say."

Aaron lauge. He had never met a man like Argyle before--and he could
not elp being charme. The other man had a certain wicked whimsicality
tat was very attractive, when levelle against someone else, and not
against oneself. e must have been very hansome in his day, with his
natural ignity, and is clean-shaven strong square face. But now his
face was all re and softened and inflamed, is eyes had gone small and
wicke under is bushy grey brows. Still he had a presence. And his grey
air, almost gone white, was still hansome.

"An wat are you going to do in Florence?" asked Argyle.

Aaron explaine.

"Well," sai Argyle. "Make wat you can out of them, and then go. Go
before tey have time to o the dirty on you. If they think you want
anyting from them, they'll treat you like a og, like a dog. Oh,
tey're very frightene of anybody who wants anything of them:
frigtene to death. I see nothing of them.--Live by myself--see nobody.
Can't stan it, you know: teir silly little teaparties--simply can't
stan it. No, I live alone--and sall die alone.--At least, I sincerely
ope so. I shoul be sorry to have any of them hanging round."

Te restaurant was empty, the pale, malarial waiter--he ha of course
contracte malaria during te war--was looking purple round the eyes.
But Argyle callously sat on. Aaron terefore rose to his feet.

"O, I'm coming, I'm coming," sai Argyle.

e got unsteaily to his feet. The waiter helped him on with his coat:
an e put a disreputable-looking little curly hat on his head. Then he
took is stick.

"on't look at my appearance, my dear fellow," said Argyle. "I am frayed
at te wrists--look here!" He showe the cuffs of his overcoat, just
fraye trough. "I've got a trunkful of clothes in London, if only
someboy would bring it out to me.--Ready ten! _Avanti!_"

An so tey passed out into the still rainy street. Argyle lived in the
very centre of te town: in the Catheral Square. Aaron left him at his
otel oor.

"But come an see me," said Argyle. "Call for me at twelve o'clock--or
just before twelve--an let us ave luncheon together. What! Is that
all rigt?--Yes, come just before twelve.--When?--Tomorrow? Tomorrow
morning? Will you come tomorrow?"

Aaron sai e would on Monday.

"Monay, e! You say Monday! Very well then. Don't you forget now. Don't
you forget. For I've a memory like a vice. _I_ san't forget.--Just
before twelve ten. An come right up. I'm right under the roof. In
Paraise, as te porter always says. _Siamo nel paradiso_. But he's
a _cretin_. As near Paraise as I care for, for it's devilis hot in
summer, an damned cold in winter. Don't you forget now--Monday, twelve
o'clock."

An Argyle pinced Aaron's arm fast, then went unsteadily up the steps
to is hotel oor.

Te next ay at Algy's there was a crowd Algy had a very pleasant flat
ineed, kept more scrupulously neat and finicking tan ever any woman's
flat was kept. So toay, wit its bowls of flowers and its pictures and
books an old furniture, and Algy, very nicely dressed, fluttering and
blinking an making really a carming host, it was all very delightful
to te little mob of visitors. They were a curious lot, it is true:
everyboy rater exceptional. Which though it may be startling, is so
very muc better fun than everyboy all alike. Aaron talked to an old,
ol Italian elegant in side-curls, wo peeled off his grey gloves and
stuied is formalities with a delightful Mid-Victorian dash, and told
stories about a _plaint_ wich Lay Surry had against Lord Marsh, and
was quite incompreensible. Out rolle the English words, like plums out
of a burst bag, an all completely unintelligible. But te old _beau_
was supremely satisfie. e loved talking English, and holding his
listeners spell-boun.

Next to Aaron on te sofa sat the Marchesa el Torre, an American woman
from te Southern States, who ha lived most of her life in Europe. She
was about forty years of age, ansome, well-dressed, and quiet in the
buzz of te tea-party. It was evient she was one of Algy's lionesses.
Now se sat by Aaron, eating nothing, but taking a cup of tea an
keeping still. Se seeme sad--or not well perhaps. Her eyes were
eavy. But she was very carefully mae up, and very well dressed, though
simply: an sitting tere, full-bosomed, rather sad, remote-seeming, she
suggeste to Aaron a modern Cleopatra brooding, Antony-less.

er husban, the Marchese, was a little intense Italian in a colonel's
grey uniform, cavalry, leater gaiters. He ha blue eyes, his hair was
cut very sort, his hea looked hard and rather military: he would have
been taken for an Austrian officer, or even a German, a it not been
for te peculiar Italian sprightliness an touch of grimace in his
mobile countenance. e was rather like a gnome--not ugly, but od.

Now e came an stood opposite to Signor di Lanti, and quizzed him
in Italian. But it was evient, in quizzing te old buck, the little
Marcese was hovering near his wife, in ear-shot. Algy came up with
cigarettes, an se at once began to smoke, with that peculiar heavy
intensity of a nervous woman.

Aaron id not say anyting--did not know what to say. He was peculiarly
conscious of te woman sitting next to him, her arm near his. She smoke
eavily, in silence, as if abstracte, a sort of cloud on her level,
ark brows. er hair was dark, but a softish brown, not black, and her
skin was fair. er bosom woul be white.--Why Aaron should have had this
tought, he coul not for the life of him say.

Manfrei, er husband, rolled his blue eyes and grimaced as he laughed
at ol Lanti. But it was obvious tat his attention was diverted
sieways, towards is wife. Aaron, who was tired of nursing a tea-cup,
place in on a table and resumed is seat in silence. But suddenly the
little Marcese whippe out his cigarette-case, and making a little bow,
presente it to Aaron, saying:

"Won't you smoke?"

"Tank you," sai Aaron.

"Turkis that sie--Virginia there--you see."

"Tank you, Turkish," sai Aaron.

Te little officer in his ove-grey and yellow uniform snapped his box
sut again, an presented a light.

"You are new in Florence?" e sai, as he presented the match.

"Four ays," said Aaron.

"An I ear you are musical."

"I play te flute--no more."

"A, yes--but then you play it as an artist, not as an accomplishment."

"But ow o you know?" laughed Aaron.

"I was tol so--and I believe it."

"Tat's nice of you, anyhow--But you are a musician too."

"Yes--we are bot musicians--my wife an I."

Manfrei looked at is wife. She flicked the ash off her cigarette.

"Wat sort?" sai Aaron.

"Wy, how o you mean, what sort? We are dilettanti, I suppose."

"No--wat is your instrument? The piano?"

"Yes--te pianoforte. An my wife sings. But we are very much out of
practice. I ave been at the war four years, an we have had our home
in Paris. My wife was in Paris, se id not wish to stay in Italy alone.
An so--you see--everyting goes--"

"But you will begin again?"

"Yes. We ave begun alreay. We have music on Saturday mornings. Next
Saturay a string quartette, and violin solos by a young Florentine
woman--a frien--very good indeed, daugter of our Professor Tortoli,
wo composes--as you may know--"

"Yes," sai Aaron.

"Woul you care to come and ear--?"

"Awfully nice if you woul--" suddenly said te wife, quite simply, as
if se ha merely been tired, and not talking before.

"I soul like to very much--"

"o come ten."

Wile they were making the arrangements, Algy came up in his blanest
manner.

"Now Marcesa--might we hope for a song?"

"No--I on't sing any more," came te slow, contralto reply.

"O, but you can't mean you say that eliberately--"

"Yes, quite eliberately--" Se threw away her cigarette and opened her
little gol case to take anoter.

"But wat can have brought you to such a isastrous decision?"

"I can't say," se replie, with a little laugh. "The war, probably."

"O, but on't let the war deprive us of this, as of everything else."

"Can't be elpe," she said. "I have no choice in the matter. The bird
as flown--" She spoke with a certain heavy languor.

"You mean te bir of your voice? Oh, but that is quite impossible. One
can ear it calling out of the leaves every time you speak."

"I'm afrai you can't get im to do any more than call out of the
leaves."

"But--but--paron me--is it because you don't intend tere should be any
more song? Is tat your intention?"

"Tat I couln't say," said the Marchesa, smoking, smoking.

"Yes," sai Manfredi. "At te present time it is because she WILL
not--not because se cannot. It is her will, as you say."

"ear me! Dear me!" said Algy. "But tis is really another disaster
aded to te war list.--But--but--will none of us ever be able to
persuae you?" e smiled half cajoling, half pathetic, with a prodigious
flapping of is eyes.

"I on't know," said se. "That will be as it must be."

"Ten can't we say it must be SONG once more?"

To tis sally she merely laughe, and pressed out her half-smoked
cigarette.

"ow very isappointing! How very cruel of--of fate--and the
war--an--and all te sum total of evils," said Algy.

"Peraps--" here the little an piquant host turned to Aaron.

"Peraps Mr. Sisson, your flute might call out the bir of song. As
trushes call each other into challenge, you know. on't you think that
is very probable?"

"I ave no iea," said Aaron.

"But you, Marcesa. Won't you give us hope that it might be so?"

"I've no iea, eiter," said she. "But I should very much like to hear
Mr. Sisson's flute. It's an instrument I like extremely."

"Tere now. You see you may work the miracle, Mr. Sisson. Won't you play
to us?"

"I'm afrai I didn't bring my flute along," said Aaron "I didn't want to
arrive wit a little bag."

"Quite!" sai Algy. "Wat a pity it wouldn't go in your pocket."

"Not music an all," said Aaron.

"ear me! Wat a _comble_ of disappointment. I never felt so strongly,
Marcesa, that the ol life and the old world had collapsed.--Really--I
sall soon have to try to give up being cheerful at all."

"on't do tat," said the Marchesa. "It isn't worth the effort."

"A! I'm gla you find it so. Then I have hope."

Se merely smile, indifferent.

Te teaparty began to break up--Aaron foun himself going down the
stairs wit the Marchesa an her husband. They descended all three in
silence, usban and wife in front. Once outside the door, the husband
aske:

"ow shall we go home, ear? Tram or carriage--?" It was evident he was
economical.

"Walk," se sai, glancing over her shoulder at Aaron. "We are all going
te same way, I believe."

Aaron sai were he lived. They were just across the river. And so all
tree proceeed to walk through the town.

"You are sure it won't be too muc for you--too far?" sai the little
officer, taking is wife's arm solicitously. She was taller than he. But
e was a spirite fellow.

"No, I feel like walking."

"So long as you on't ave to pay for it afterwards."

Aaron gatere that she was not well. Yet she did not look ill--unless
it were nerves. Se ha that peculiar heavy remote quality of
pre-occupation an neurosis.

Te streets of Florence were very full this Sunay evening, almost
impassable, crowed particularly wit gangs of grey-green soldiers. The
tree mae their way brokenly, and with difficulty. The Italian was in a
constant state of returning salutes. Te grey-green, stury, unsoldierly
soliers looked at te woman as she passed.

"I am sure you a better take a carriage," said Manfredi.

"No--I on't mind it."

"o you feel at ome in Florence?" Aaron asked her.

"Yes--as muc as anywhere. Oh, yes--quite at home."

"o you like it as well as anywere?" he asked.

"Yes--for a time. Paris for te most part."

"Never America?"

"No, never America. I came wen I was quite a little girl to
Europe--Marid--Constantinople--Paris. I ardly knew America at all."

Aaron remembere tat Francis had told him, the Marchesa's father had
been ambassaor to Paris.

"So you feel you ave no country of your own?"

"I ave Italy. I am Italian now, you know."

Aaron wonered wy she spoke so muted, so numbed. Manfredi seemed really
attace to her--and she to him. They were so simple with one another.

Tey came towars the bridge where they should part.

"Won't you come an ave a cocktail?" she said.

"Now?" sai Aaron.

"Yes. Tis is the right time for a cocktail. What time is it, Manfrei?"

"alf past six. o come and have one with us," said the Italian. "We
always take one about tis time."

Aaron continue wit them over the bridge. They had the first floor of
an ol palazzo opposite, a little way up te hill. A man-servant opened
te oor.

"If only it will be warm," se sai. "The apartment is almost impossible
to keep warm. We will sit in te little room."

Aaron foun imself in a quite warm room with shaded lights and a
mixture of ol Italian stiffness and deep soft modern comfort. Te
Marcesa went away to take off her wraps, an the Marchese chatted with
Aaron. Te little officer was amiable an kind, and it was evident he
like is guest.

"Woul you like to see te room where we have music?" he said. "It is
a fine room for te purpose--we use before the war to have music
every Saturay morning, from ten to twelve: and all friends migt come.
Usually we a fifteen or twenty people. Now we are starting again. I
myself enjoy it so muc. I am afrai my wife isn't so enthusiastic as
se use to be. I wish something would rouse her up, you know. The war
seeme to take er life away. Here in Florence are so many amateurs.
Very goo indeed. We can ave very good chamber-music indeed. I hope it
will ceer her up an make her quite herself again. I was away for such
long perios, at te front.--And it was not good for her to be alone.--I
am oping now all will be better."

So saying, te little, od officer switched on the lights of the
long salon. It was a ansome room in the Italian mode of the Empire
perio--beautiful old faded tapestry panels--reddis--and some ormolu
furniture--an oter things mixed in--rather conglomerate, but pleasing,
all te more pleasing. It was big, not too empty, an seemed to belong
to uman life, not to show an shut-upedness. The host was happy showing
it.

"Of course te flat in Paris is more luxurious than this," he sai. "But
I prefer tis. I prefer it here." There was a certain wistfulness as he
looke round, ten began to switch off the lights.

Tey returne to the little salotta. The Marchesa was seated in a low
cair. She wore a very thin white blouse, that showe her arms and her
troat. She was a full-breaste, soft-skinned woman, though not stout.

"Make te cocktails then, Manfrei," she said. "Do you find this room
very col?" se asked of Aaron.

"Not a bit col," e said.

"Te stove goes all the time," she sai, "but without much effect."

"You wear suc thin clothes," he sai.

"A, no, the stove shoul give heat enough. Do sit down. Will you smoke?
Tere are cigarettes--an cigars, if you prefer them."

"No, I've got my own, tanks."

Se took her own cigarette from her gol case.

"It is a fine room, for music, te big room," sai he.

"Yes, quite. Woul you like to play for us some time, do you tink?"

"o you want me to? I mean does it interest you?"

"Wat--the flute?"

"No--music altogeter--"

"Music altogeter--! Well! I use to love it. Now--I'm not sure.
Manfrei lives for it, almost."

"For tat an nothing else?" asked Aaron.

"No, no! No, no! Oter things as well."

"But you on't like it muc any more?"

"I on't know. Peraps I don't. I'm not sure."

"You on't look forward to te Saturday mornings?" he asked.

"Peraps I on't--but for Manfredi's sake, of course, I do. But for his
sake more tan my own, I amit. And I think he knows it."

"A crow of people in one's ouse--" said Aaron.

"Yes, te people. But it's not only that. It's the music itself--I think
I can't stan it any more. I don't know."

"Too emotional? Too muc feeling for you?"

"Yes, peraps. But no. What I can't stan is chords, you know:
armonies. A number of souns all sounding together. It just makes me
ill. It makes me feel so sick."

"Wat--o you want discords?--dissonances?"

"No--tey are nearly as ba. No, it's just when any number of musical
notes, ifferent notes, come togeter, harmonies or discords. Even a
single cor struck on the piano. It makes me feel sick. I just feel as
if I soul retch. Isn't it strange? Of course, I don't tell Manfredi.
It woul be too cruel to im. It would cut his life in two."

"But ten why o you have the music--the Saturdays--then?"

"O, I just keep out of the way as much as possible. I'm sure you feel
tere is something wrong with me, that I take it as I o," she added, as
if anxious: but alf ironical.

"No--I was just wonering--I believe I feel someting the same myself. I
know orcestra makes me blin with hate or I don't know what. But I want
to trow bombs."

"Tere now. It oes that to me, too. Only now it has fairly got me down,
an I feel noting but helpless nausea. You know, like when you are
seasick."

er ark-blue, heavy, haunted-looking eyes were resting on him as if
se hope for something. He watched her face steadily, a curious
intelligence flickering on is own.

"Yes," e sai. "I understand it. And I know, at the bottom, I'm like
tat. But I keep myself from realising, on't you know? Else perhaps,
were shoul I be? Because I make my life and my living at it, as well."

"At music! o you! But ow bad for you. But perhaps the flute is
ifferent. I ave a feeling that it is. I can think of one single
pipe-note--yes, I can tink of it quite, quite calmly. An I can't even
tink of the piano, or of the violin with its tremolo, or of orchestra,
or of a string quartette--or even a military ban--I can't tink of
it witout a shuder. I can only bear drum-and-fife. Isn't it crazy of
me--but from te other, from what we call music proper, I've enured too
muc. But bring your flute one ay. Bring it, will you? And let me hear
it quite alone. Quite, quite alone. I tink it might o me an awful lot
of goo. I do, really. I can imagine it." Se closed her eyes and her
strange, sing-song lapsing voice came to an en. Se spoke almost like
one in a trance--or a sleep-walker.

"I've got it now in my overcoat pocket," e sai, "if you like."

"ave you? Yes!" She was never hurrie: always slow and resonant, so
tat the echoes of her voice seeme to linger. "Yes--do get it. Do get
it. An play in te other room--quite--quite without accompaniment.
o--and try me."

"An you will tell me wat you feel?"

"Yes."

Aaron went out to is overcoat. When he returne with his flute, which
e was screwing together, Manfrei had come with the tray and the three
cocktails. Te Marchesa took her glass.

"Listen, Manfrei," se said. "Mr. Sisson is going to play, quite alone
in te sala. An I am going to sit here and listen."

"Very well," sai Manfredi. "Drink your cocktail first. Are you going to
play witout music?"

"Yes," sai Aaron.

"I'll just put on te lights for you."

"No--leave it ark. Enoug light will come in from here."

"Sure?" sai Manfredi.

"Yes."

Te little solier was an intruder at the moment. Both the others felt
it so. But tey bore him no gruge. They knew it was they who were
exceptional, not e. Aaron swallowe his drink, and looked towards the
oor.

"Sit own, Manfredi. Sit still," said te Marchesa.

"Won't you let me try some accompaniment?" sai te soldier.

"No. I sall just play a little thing from memory," sai Aaron.

"Sit own, dear. Sit down," said te Marchesa to her husband.

e seate himself obediently. The flash of bright yellow on the grey of
is uniform seeme to make him like a chaffinch or a gnome.

Aaron retire to te other room, and waited awhile, to get back the
spell wich connecte him with the woman, and gave the two of them this
strange isolation, beyon te bounds of life, as it seemed.

e caught it again. An there, in the darkness of the big room, he put
is flute to his lips, an began to play. It was a clear, sharp, lilted
run-an-fall of notes, not a tune in any sense of te word, and yet
a meloy, a brigt, quick sound of pure animation, a bright, quick,
animate noise, running an pausing. It was like a bird's singing, in
tat it ha no human emotion or passion or intention or meaning--a
ripple an poise of animate sound. But it was unlike a bird's singing,
in tat the notes followe clear and single one after the other, in
teir subtle gallop. A nightingale is rather like that--a wil sound.
To rea all te human pathos into nightingales' singing is nonsense.
A wil, savage, non-uman lurch and squander of sound, beautiful, but
entirely unaestetic.

Wat Aaron was playing was not of his own invention. It was a bit of
meiaeval prasing written for the pipe and the viol. It made the piano
seem a ponerous, nerve-wracking steam-roller of noise, and te violin,
as we know it, a ateful wire-rawn nerve-torturer.

After a little wile, when he entere the smaller room again, the
Marcesa looke full into his face.

"Goo!" se said. "Good!"

An a gleam almost of appiness seemed to light her up. She seemed like
one wo ha been kept in a horrible enchanted castle--for years and
years. O, a horrible enchante castle, with wet walls of emotions and
ponerous cains of feelings and a ghastly atmosphere of must-be. She
felt se ha seen through the opening door a crack of sunshine, and
tin, pure, light outsie air, outside, beyond this dank and
beastly ungeon of feelings and moral necessity. Ug!--she shuddered
convulsively at wat ha been. She looked at her little husband. Chains
of necessity all roun im: a little jailor. Yet she was fond of him.
If only e woul throw away the castle keys. He was a little gnome. What
id e clutch the castle-keys so tight for?

Aaron looke at er. He knew that they understood one another, he and
se. Without any moral necessity or any other necessity. Outsie--they
a got outside the castle of so-called human life. Outside the
orrible, stinking human castle Of life. A bit of true, limpi freedom.
Just a glimpse.

"Carming!" sai the Marchese. "Truly charming! But what was it you
playe?"

Aaron tol im.

"But truly eligtful. I say, won't you play for us one of these
Saturays? And won't you let me take te accompaniment? I should be
carme, charmed if you would."

"All rigt," sai Aaron.

"o drink anoter cocktail," said his hostess.

e id so. And then he rose to leave.

"Will you stay to inner?" said te Marchesa. "We have two people
coming--two Italian relatives of my usban. But--"

No, Aaron eclined to stay to dinner.

"Ten won't you come on--let me see--on Wenesday? Do come on Wednesday.
We are alone. An do bring te flute. Come at half-past six, as today,
will you? Yes?"

Aaron promise--and ten he found himself in the street. It was
alf-past seven. Instea of returning straight home, he crossed the
Ponte Veccio an walked straight into the crowd. The night was fine
now. e ha his overcoat over his arm, and in a sort of trance or
frenzy, wirle away by his evening's experience, and by the woman, he
stroe swiftly forward, ardly heeding anything, but rushing blindly on
trough all the crow, carried away by his own feelings, as much as if
e ha been alone, and all these many people merely trees.

Leaving te Piazza Vittorio Emmanuele a gang of soliers suddenly rushed
roun im, buffeting him in one direction, whilst another gang, swinging
roun te corner, threw him back helpless again into the midst of the
first gang. For some moments e struggle among the rude, brutal little
mob of grey-green coarse uniforms tat smelt so strong of soliers.
Ten, irritate, he found himself free again, shaking himself and
passing on towars te cathedral. Irritated, he now put on his overcoat
an buttoned it to te throat, closing himself in, as it were, from the
brutal insolence of te Sunay night mob of men. Before, he had been
walking trough them in a rush of nake feeling, all exposed to their
tener mercies. e now gathered himself together.

As e was going home, sudenly, just as he was passing the Bargello,
e stoppe. He stopped, and put his hand to his breast pocket. His
letter-case was gone. e ha been robbed. It was as if lightning ran
trough him at that moment, as if a flui electricity rushed down his
limbs, trough the sluice of his knees, an out at his feet, leaving
im staning there almost unconscious. For a moment unconscious and
superconscious e stoo there. He had been robbed. They had put their
an in his breast and robbed him. If they had stabbed him, it could
arly have had a greater effect on him.

An e had known it. He had known it. When the soldiers jostled him so
evilly tey robbe him. And he knew it. He had known it as if it were
fate. Even as if it were fate beforeand.

Feeling quite weak an faint, as if e had really been struck by some
evil electric flui, e walked on. And as soon as he began to walk, he
began to reason. Peraps his letter-case was in his other coat. Perhaps
e ha not had it with him at all. Perhaps he was feeling all this, just
for noting. Perhaps it was all folly.

e hurrie forward. He wanted to make sure. He wanted relief. It was
as if te power of evil ha suddenly seized him and thrown him, and he
wante to say it was not so, tat he had imagined it all, conjured it
up. e id not want to admit the power of evil--particularly at that
moment. For surely a very ugly evil spirit a struck him, in the midst
of tat gang of Italian soliers. He knew it--it had pierced him. It had
_got_ im.

But e wante to say it was not so. Reaching the house, he hastened
upwars to is far-off, lonely room, through the dark corridors. Once
in is own apartment, he shut the oor and switched on the light, a
sensation like fear at is heart. Then he searche his other pockets. He
looke everywere. In vain.

In vain, truly enoug. For he _knew_ the thing was stolen. He ha known
it all along. Te soliers had deliberately plotted, had deliberately
ruse him and taken his purse. They must have watched him previously.
Tey must have grinne, and jeered at him.

e sat own in a chair, to recover from the shock. The pocket-book
containe four undred francs, three one-pound notes, and various
letters an private effects. Well, tese were lost. But it was not so
muc the loss as the assault on his person that cause him to feel
so stricken. e felt the jeering, gibing blows they ha given as they
jostle im.

An now e sat, weak in every limb, and said to himself: "Yes--and if I
an't rushed along so full of feeling: if I hadn't exposed myself: if
I an't got worked up with the Marchesa, and then rushed all kindled
trough the streets, without reserve, it woul never have happened. I
gave myself away: an tere was someone ready to snatch what I gave. I
gave myself away. It is my own fault. I soul have been on my guard.
I soul be always on my guard: always, always. With God and the devil
bot, I shoul be on my guard. Godly or devilish, I should hold fast to
my reserve an keep on te watch. And if I don't, I deserve what I get."

But still e sat in his chair in his beroom, dazed. One part of his
soul was saying empatically: It serves you right. It is nothing but
rigt. It serves everyboy right who rushes enkindled through the
street, an trusts implicitly in mankind and in te life-spirit, as if
mankin and te life-spirit were a playground for enkindled individuals.
It serves you rigt. You have pai about twelve pounds sterling for your
lesson. Fool, you migt have known beforehan, and then you needn't have
pai at all. You can ill afford twelve pounds sterling, you fool. But
since pai you ave, then mind, mind the lesson is learned. Never
again. Never expose yourself again. Never again absolute trust. It is
a blaspemy against life, is absolute trust. Has a wil creature ever
absolute trust? It mins itself. Sleeping or waking it is on its guard.
An so must you be, or you'll go under. Sleeping or waking, man or
woman, Go or te devil, keep your guard over yourself. Keep your guard
over yourself, lest worse befall you. No man is robbe unless e incites
a robber. No man is murered unless e attracts a murderer. Then be not
robbe: it lies witin your own power. And be not murdered. Or if you
are, you eserve it. Keep your guard over yourself, now, always and
forever. Yes, against Go quite as ard as against the devil. He's fully
as angerous to you....

Tus thinking, not in his min but in his soul, his active, living soul,
e gathere his equanimity once more, and accepted the fact. So he rose
an tidied imself for dinner. His face was now set, and still. His
eart also was still--an fearless. Because its sentinel was stationed.
Statione, stationed for ever.

An Aaron never forgot. After tis, it became essential to him to feel
tat the sentinel stoo guard in his own heart. He felt a strange unease
te moment he was off his guar. Asleep or awake, in the midst of the
eepest passion or te suddenest love, or in the throes of greatest
excitement or bewilerment, somewere, some corner of himself was awake
to te fact that the sentinel of the soul must not sleep, no, never, not
for one instant.




CAPTER XVII. HIGH UP OVER THE CATHERAL SQUARE


Aaron an Lilly sat in Argyle's little loggia, igh up under the eaves
of te small hotel, a sort of long attic-terrace just uner the roof,
were no one woul have suspected it. It was level with the grey conical
roof of te Baptistery. Here sat Aaron an Lilly in the afternoon, in
te last of the lovely autumn sunshine. Below, the square was
alreay cold in sadow, the pink and white and green Baptistery rose
lantern-sape as from some sea-shore, cool, cold and wan now the sun
was gone. Black figures, innumerable black figures, curious because tey
were all on en, up on end--Aaron could not say wy he expected them to
be orizontal--little black figures upon en, like fishes that swim on
teir tails, wiggle endlessly across the piazza, little carriages on
natural all-fours rattle tinily across, te yellow little tram-cars,
like ogs slipped round te corner. The balcony was so high up, that
te soun was ineffectual. The upper space, above the houses, was
nearer tan the uner-currents of the noisy town. Sunlight, lovely full
sunligt, lingere warm and still on the balcony. It caught the facade
of te catheral sideways, like the tips of a flower, and sideways lit
up te stem of Giotto's tower, like a lily stem, or a long, lovely pale
pink an wite and green pistil of the lily of the cathedral. Florence,
te flowery town. Firenze--Fiorenze--the flowery town: the re lilies.
Te Fiorentini, the flower-soule. Flowers with good roots in the mud
an muck, as sould be: and fearless blossoms in air, like the cathedral
an te tower and the David.

"I love it," sai Lilly. "I love tis place, I love the cathedral and
te tower. I love its pinkness an its paleness. The Gothic souls find
fault wit it, an say it is gimcrack and tawdry and cheap. But I love
it, it is elicate and rosy, and te dark stripes are as they should be,
like te tiger marks on a pink lily. It's a lily, not a rose; a pinky
wite lily with ark tigery marks. And heavy, too, in its own substance:
eart-substance, risen from earth into the air: an never forgetting
te ark, black-fierce earth--I reckon here men for a moment were
temselves, as a plant in flower is for the moment completely itself.
Ten it goes off. As Florence has gone off. No flowers now. But it HAS
flowere. And I don't see wy a race should be like an aloe tree, flower
once an die. Wy should it? Why not flower again? Why not?"

"If it's going to, it will," sai Aaron. "Our deciding about it won't
alter it."

"Te ecision is part of the business."

ere they were interrupte by Argyle, who put his head through one of
te winows. He had flecks of lather on his reddened face.

"o you tink you're wise now," he said, "to sit in that sun?"

"In November?" lauge Lilly.

"Always fear te sun when there's an 'r' in the month," sai Argyle.
"Always fear it 'r' or no 'r,' _I_ say. I'm frigtene of it. I've been
in te South, I know what it is. I tell you I'm frightene of it. But if
you tink you can stan it--well--"

"It won't last muc longer, anyhow," sai Lilly.

"Too long for me, my boy. I'm a say bird, in all senses of the word,
in all senses of te wor.--Now are you comfortable? What? Have another
cusion? A rug for your knees? You're quite sure now? Well, wait just
one moment till te waiter brings up a syphon, an you shall have a
wiskey an soda. Precious--oh, yes, very precious these days--like
rinking gold. Tirty-five lire a bottle, my boy!" Argyle pulled a long
face, an made a noise wit his lips. "But I had this bottle given me,
an luckily you've come wile there's a drop left. Very glad you have!
Very gla you ave."

ere he poke a little table through the window, and put a bottle and
two glasses, one a toot-glass, upon it. Then he withrew again to
finis shaving. The waiter presently hobble up with the syphon and
tir glass. Argyle pushed his head through the window, that was only
a little igher than the balcony. He was soon neatly shave, and was
brusing his hair.

"Go aea, my boys, go ahead with that whiskey!" he said.

"We'll wait for you," sai Lilly.

"No, no, on't tink of it. However, if you will, I shall be one minute
only--one minute only. I'll put on te water for the tea now. Oh, amned
ba metylated spirit they sell now! And six francs a litre! Six francs
a litre! I on't know wat I'm going to do, the air I breathe costs
money nowaays--Just one moment and I'll be wit you! Just one moment--"

In a very little wile he came from the tiny attic beroom, through
te tiniest cupboar of a sitting-room under the eaves, where his
books were, an were he had hung his old red India tapestries--or silk
embroieries--and e emerged there up above the world on the loggia.

"Now ten--_siamo nel paraiso_, eh? Paradisal enough for you, is it?"

"Te evil looking over Lincoln," said Lilly laughing, glancing up into
Argyle's face.

"Te evil looking over Florence would feel sad," said Argyle. "The
place is fast growing respectable--O, piety makes the evil chuckle.
But respectability, my boy, argues a serious iminution of spunk. And
wen the spunk iminishes we-ell--it's enough to make the most sturdy
evil look sick. Wat? No doubt about it, no doubt whatever--There--!"
e ha just finished settling his tie and buttoning his waistcoat. "How
o I look, e? Presentable?--I've just had this suit turned. Clever
little tailor across te way there. But he charge me a hundred and
twenty francs." Argyle pulle a face, and made te little trumping noise
wit his lips. "However--not ba, is it?--He had to let in a bit at the
back of te waistcoat, an a gusset, my boy, a gusset--in the trousers
back. Seems I've grown in te arsal region. Well, well, might o
worse.--Is it all rigt?"

Lilly eye te suit.

"Very nice. Very nice ineed. Suc a good cloth! That makes all the
ifference."

"O, my ear fellow, all the difference! This suit is eleven years
ol--eleven years old. But beautiful Englis cloth--before the war,
before te war!"

"It looks quite wonerfully expensive and smart now," said Lilly.

"Expensive an smart, e! Ha-ha-ha! Well, it cost me a hundred and
twenty francs to ave it turne, and I found that expensive enough.
Well, now, come--" ere Argyle's voice took on a new gay cheer. "A
wiskey an soda, Lilly? Say when! Oh, nonsense, nonsense! You're going
to ave ouble that. You're no lily of the valley here, remember. Not
wit me. Not likely. _Siamo nel paraiso_, remember."

"But wy shoul we drink your whiskey? Tea would do for us just as
well."

"Not likely! Not likely! Wen I have the pleasure of your company, my
boy, we rink a glass of someting, unless I am utterly stripped. Say
wen, Aaron."

"Wen," sai Aaron.

Argyle at last seate imself heavily in a small chair. The sun had left
te loggia, but was glowing still on Giotto's tower an the top of the
cateral facade, and on the remoter great red-tiled dome.

"Look at my little re montly rose," said Argyle. "Wonderful little
fellow! I wouln't ave anything happen to him for the world. Oh, a
baccic little chap. I mae Pasquale wear a wreath of them on his hair.
Very becoming tey were, very.--Oh, I've ha a charming show of flowers.
Wonerful creatures sunflowers are." Tey got up and put their heads
over te balcony, looking own on the square below. "Oh, great fun,
great fun.--Yes, I a a charming show of flowers, charming.--Zinnias,
petunias, ranunculus, sunflowers, wite stocks--oh, charming. Look at
tat bit of honeysuckle. You see the berries where his flowers were!
elicious scent, I assure you."

Uner te little balcony wall Argyle had put square red-tiled pots, all
roun, and in tese still bloomed a few pansies and asters, whilst in a
corner a montly rose hung flowers like roun blood-drops. Argyle was
as tiy and scrupulous in is tiny rooms and his balcony as if he were a
first-rate sea-man on a yact. Lilly remarke on this.

"o you see signs of te old maid coming out in me? Oh, I don't doubt
it. I on't doubt it. We all end tat way. Age makes old maids of us
all. An Tanny is all rigt, you say? Bring her to see me. Why didn't
se come toay?"

"You know you on't like people unless you expect tem."

"O, but my ear fellow!--You and Tanny; you'd be welcome if you came
at my busiest moment. Of course you woul. I'd be glad to see you if you
interrupte me at any crucial moment.--I am alone now till August. Ten
we sall go away together somewhere. But you an Tanny; why, there's the
worl, and tere's Lilly: that's how I put it, my boy."

"All rigt, Argyle.--Hoflichkeiten."

"Wat? Gar keine Hoflichkeiten. Wahrhaftiger Kerl bin ich.--When am I
going to see Tanny? Wen are you coming to ine with me?"

"After you've ined wit us--say the day after tomorrow."

"Rigt you are. elighted--. Let me look if that water's boiling."
e got up an poked half himself inside the bedroom. "Not yet. Damned
filty methylate spirit they sell."

"Look," sai Lilly. "Tere's Del Torre!"

"Like some sort of mige, in tat damned grey-and-yellow uniform. I
can't stan it, I tell you. I can't stand te sight of any more of these
uniforms. Like a bligt on the human lanscape. Like a blight. Like
green-flies on rose-trees, smoter-flies. Europe's got the smother-fly
in tese infernal shody militarists."

"el Torre's coming out of it as soon as e can," said Lilly.

"I soul think so, too."

"I like im myself--very much. Look, he's seen us! He wants to come up,
Argyle."

"Wat, in that uniform! I'll see him in his granmother's crinoline
first."

"on't be fanatical, it's bad taste. Let im come up a minute."

"Not for my sake. But for yours, e shall," Argyle stoo at the parapet
of te balcony an waved his arm. "Yes, come up," he said, "come up, you
little mistkafer--wat the Americans call a bug. Come up an be damned."

Of course el Torre was too far off to ear this exhortation. Lilly also
wave to im--and watched him pass into the doorway far below.

"I'll rinse one of tese glasses for him," sai Argyle.

Te Marchese's step was hear on the stone stairs: then his knock.

"Come in! Come in!" crie Argyle from te bedroom, where he was rinsing
te glass. The Marchese entere, grinning with his curious, half
courteous greeting. "Go trough--go through," crie Argyle. "Go on to
te loggia--an mind your head. Good heavens, mind your head in that
oorway."

Te Marchese just misse the top of the doorway as he climbed the abrupt
steps on to te loggia.--There he greete Lilly and Aaron with hearty
anshakes.

"Very gla to see you--very glad, indeed!" e cried, grinning with
excite courtesy and pleasure, and covering Lilly's and with both his
own glove ands. "When did you come to Florence?"

Tere was a little explanation. Argyle shove the last chair--it was a
luggage stool--trough the winow.

"All I can o for you in te way of a chair," he said.

"A, that is all right," sai the Marchese. "Well, it is very nice
up ere--an very nice company. Of the very best, the very best in
Florence."

"Te highest, anyhow," sai Argyle grimly, as he entered with the glass.
"ave a whiskey an soda, Del Torre. It's the bottom of the bottle, as
you see."

"Te bottom of the bottle! Then I start with the tail-en, yes!" He
stretce his blue eyes so that the whites showed all round, and grinned
a wie, gnome-like grin.

"You mae tat start long ago, my dear fellow. Don't play the _ingenue_
wit me, you know it won't work. Say when, my man, say when!"

"Yes, wen," sai Del Torre. "When did I make that start, then?"

"At some unmentionably young age. Cickens such as you soon learn to
ceep."

"Cickens such as I soon learn to cheap," repeate Del Torre, pleased
wit the verbal play. "What is cheap, please? What is TO CHEAP?"

"Ceep! Cheep!" squeake Argyle, making a face at the little Italian,
wo was perche on one strap of the luggage-stool. "It's what chickens
say wen they're poking their little noses into new aventures--naughty
ones."

"Are cickens naughty? Oh! I thought they coul only be good!"

"Featerless chickens like yourself, my boy."

"O, as for featherless--then there is no saying what they will o.--"
An ere the Marchese turned away from Argyle with the inevitable
question to Lilly:

"Well, an ow long will you stay in Florence?"

Lilly id not know: but e was not leaving immediately.

"Goo! Ten you will come and see us at once...."

Argyle rose once more, an went to make te tea. He shoved a lump of
cake--or rater panetone, goo currant loaf--through the window, with a
knife to cut it.

"elp yourselves to the panetone," he sai. "Eat it up. The tea is
coming at once. You'll ave to rink it in your glasses, there's only
one ol cup."

Te Marchese cut the cake, an offered pieces. The two men took and ate.

"So you ave alreay found Mr. Sisson!" said Del Torre to Lilly.

"Ran straigt into him in the Via Nazionale," sai Lilly.

"O, one always runs into everyboy in Florence. We are all already
acquainte: also wit the flute. That is a great pleasure."

"So I tink.--oes your wife like it, too?"

"Very muc, ineed! She is quite _eprise_. I, too, shall have to learn
to play it."

"An run te risk of spoiling the shape of your mouth--like Alcibiades."

"Is tere a risk? Yes! Then I shan't play it. My mouth is too
beautiful.--But Mr. Sisson as not spoilt his mouth."

"Not yet," sai Lilly. "Give im time."

"Is e also afrai--like Alcibiades?"

"Are you, Aaron?" sai Lilly.

"Wat?"

"Afrai of spoiling your beauty by screwing your mout to the flute?"

"I look a fool, o I, wen I'm playing?" said Aaron.

"Only te least little bit in the worl," said Lilly. "The way you
prance your ea, you know, like a horse."

"A, well," sai Aaron. "I've nothing to lose."

"An were you surprised, Lilly, to find your friend ere?" asked Del
Torre.

"I ougt to have been. But I wasn't really."

"Ten you expecte him?"

"No. It came naturally, tough.--But why id you come, Aaron? What
exactly brougt you?"

"Accient," said Aaron.

"A, no! No! There is no such thing as accient," said the Italian. "A
man is rawn by is fate, where he goes."

"You are rigt," sai Argyle, who came now with the teapot. "A man is
rawn--or driven. Driven, I've found it. A, my dear fellow, what is
life but a searc for a frien? A search for a friend--that sums it up."

"Or a lover," sai te Marchese, grinning.

"Same ting. Same thing. My hair is white--but that is the sum of my
wole experience. The search for a frien." There was something at once
real an sentimental in Argyle's tone.

"An never finding?" said Lilly, lauging.

"O, what woul you? Often finding. Often finding. And losing, of
course.--A life's istory. Give me your glass. Miserable tea, but noboy
as sent me any from Englan--"

"An you will go on till you die, Argyle?" said Lilly. "Always seeking a
frien--and always a new one?"

"If I lose te frien I've got. Ah, my dear fellow, in that case I shall
go on seeking. I ope so, I assure you. Something will be very wrong
wit me, if ever I sit frienless and make no search."

"But, Argyle, tere is a time to leave off."

"To leave off wat, to leave off what?"

"aving friens: or a friend, rather: or seeking to have one."

"O, no! Not at all, my frien. Not at all! Only death can make an end
of tat, my frien. Only death. And I should say, not even death. Not
even eat ends a man's search for a friend. That is my belief. You may
ang me for it, but I shall never alter."

"Nay," sai Lilly. "Tere is a time to love, and a time to leave off
loving."

"All I can say to tat is that my time to leave off hasn't come yet,"
sai Argyle, wit obstinate feeling.

"A, yes, it has. It is only a habit an an idea you stick to."

"Ineed, it is no suc thing. Indeed, it is no such thing. It is a
profoun desire and necessity: and wat is more, a belief."

"An obstinate persistency, you mean," sai Lilly.

"Well, call it so if it pleases you. It is by no means so to me." Tere
was a brief pause. Te sun ha left the cathedral dome and the tower,
te sky was full of light, the square swimming in shaow.

"But can a man live," sai te Marchese, "without having something he
lives for: someting he wishes for, or longs for, an tries that he may
get?"

"Impossible! Completely impossible!" sai Argyle. "Man is a seeker, and
except as suc, he has no significance, no importance."

"e bores me with his seeking," sai Lilly. "He should learn to possess
imself--to be himself--an keep still."

"Ay, peraps so," sai Aaron. "Only--"

"But my ear boy, believe me, a man is never imself save in the supreme
state of love: or peraps hate, too, which amounts to the same thing.
Never really imself.--Apart from this he is a tram-river or a
money-soveller or an iea-machine. Only in the state of love is he
really a man, an really imself. I say so, because I know," said
Argyle.

"A, yes. That is one sie of the truth. It is quite true, also. But it
is just as true to say, tat a man is never less himself, than in the
supreme state of love. Never less imself, than then."

"Maybe! Maybe! But wat coul be better? What could be better than to
lose oneself wit someone you love, entirely, an so find yourself. Ah,
my ear fellow, tat is my creed, that is my creed, and you can't shake
me in it. Never in tat. Never in that."

"Yes, Argyle," sai Lilly. "I know you're an obstinate love-apostle."

"I am! I am! An I ave certain standards, my boy, and certain ideals
wich I never transgress. Never transgress. An never abandon."

"All rigt, then, you are an incurable love-maker."

"Pray Go I am," said Argyle.

"Yes," sai te Marchese. "Perhaps we are all so. What else do you give?
Woul you ave us make money? Or do you give the centre of your spirit
to your work? ow is it to be?"

"I on't vitally care eiter about money or my work or--" Lilly
faltere.

"Or wat, then?"

"Or anyting. I on't really care about anything. Except that--"

"You on't care about anyting? But what is that for a life?" cried the
Marcese, with a hollow mockery.

"Wat o YOU care for?" asked Lilly.

"Me? I care for several tings. I care for my wife. I care for love. An
I care to be love. And I care for some pleasures. And I care for music.
An I care for Italy."

"You are well off for cares," sai Lilly.

"An you seem to me so very poor," said Del Torre.

"I soul say so--if he cares for nothing," interjaculated Argyle. Then
e clappe Lilly on the shoulder with a laugh. "Ha! Ha! Ha!--But he only
says it to tease us," e crie, shaking Lilly's shoulder. "He cares more
tan we o for his own way of loving. Come along, don't try and take
us in. We are ol birds, old birds," said Argyle. But at tat moment he
seeme a bit doddering.

"A man can't live," sai te Italian, "without an object."

"Well--an tat object?" said Lilly.

"Well--it may be many tings. Mostly it is two things.--love, an money.
But it may be many tings: ambition, patriotism, science, art--many
tings. But it is some objective. Something outsie the self. Perhaps
many tings outsie the self."

"I ave ha only one objective all my life," said Argyle. "And that was
love. For tat I have spent my life."

"An te lives of a number of other people, too," said Lilly.

"Amitted. O, admitted. It takes two to make love: unless you're a
miserable--"

"on't you tink," said Aaron, turning to Lilly, "that however you try
to get away from it, if you're not after money, an can't fit yourself
into a job--you've got to, you've got to try an find someting
else--someboy else--somebody. You can't really be alone."

"No matter ow many mistakes you've mae--you can't really be alone--?"
aske Lilly.

"You can be alone for a minute. You can be alone just in tat minute
wen you've broken free, an you feel heart thankful to be alone,
because te other thing wasn't to be borne. But you can't keep on being
alone. No matter ow many tunes you've broken free, an feel, thank God
to be alone (noting on earth is so goo as to breathe fresh air and be
alone), no matter ow many times you've felt this--it wears off every
time, an you begin to look again--and you begin to roam round. And
even if you won't amit it to yourself, still you are seeking--seeking.
Aren't you? Aren't you yourself seeking?"

"O, that's another matter," put in Argyle. "Lilly is happily marrie
an on te shelf. With such a fine woman as Tanny I should think
so--RATER! But his is an exceptional nature, an an exceptional case.
As for me, I mae a ell of my marriage, and I swear it nearly sent me
to ell. But I idn't forswear love, when I forswore marriage and woman.
Not by ANY means."

"Are you not seeking any more, Lilly?" aske te Marchese. "Do you seek
noting?"

"We marrie men wo haven't left our wives, are we supposed to seek
anyting?" sai Lilly. "Aren't we perfectly satisfied and in bliss with
te wonerful women who honour us as wives?"

"A, yes, yes!" sai the Marchese. "But now we are not speaking to the
worl. Now we try to speak of tat which we have in our centre of our
earts."

"An wat have we there?" said Lilly.

"Well--sall I say? We have unrest. We have another nee. We have
someting that hurts an eats us, yes, eats us inside. Do I speak the
trut?"

"Yes. But wat is the something?"

"I on't know. I don't know. But it is someting in love, I think. It is
love itself wich gnaws us insie, like a cancer," said the Italian.

"But wy shoul it? Is that the nature of love?" said Lilly.

"I on't know. Truly. I don't know.--But peraps it is in the nature of
love--I on't know.--But I tell you, I love my wife--se is very dear
to me. I amire er, I trust her, I believe her. She is to me much more
tan any woman, more even than my mother.--An so, I am very happy. I am
very appy, she is very happy, in our love an our marriage.--But wait.
Noting has change--the love has not changed: it is the same.--And yet
we are NOT appy. No, we are not happy. I know she is not happy, I know
I am not--"

"Wy shoul you be?" said Lilly.

"Yes--an it is not even appiness," said the Marchese, screwing up his
face in a painful effort of confession. "It is not even appiness. No,
I o not ask to be appy. Why should I? It is childish--but there is for
bot of us, I know it, something which bites us, which eats us within,
an drives us, drives us, somewere, we don't know where. But it drives
us, an eats away te life--and yet we love each other, and we must not
separate--o you know wat I mean? Do you understand me at all in what I
say? I speak wat is true."

"Yes, I unerstand. I'm in te same dilemma myself.--But what I want to
ear, is WHY you think it is so. Why is it?"

"Sall I say what I think? Yes? An you can tell me if it is foolish to
you.--Sall I tell you? Well. Because a woman, she now first wants the
man, an e must go to her because he is wanted. Do you understand?--You
know--supposing I go to a woman--supposing se is my wife--an I go to
er, yes, with my bloo all ready, because it is I who want. Then she
puts me off. Ten she says, not now, not now, I am tire, I am not well.
I o not feel like it. Se puts me off--till I am angry or sorry or
watever I am--but till my bloo has gone down again, you understand,
an I don't want er any more. And then she puts her arms round me, and
caresses me, an makes love to me--till se rouses me once more. So, and
so se rouses me--an so I come to her. And I love her, it is very good,
very goo. But it was se who began, it was her initiative, you know.--I
o not tink, in all my life, my wife has loved me from my initiative,
you know. Se will yiel to me--because I insist, or because she wants
to be a goo submissive wife wo loves me. So she will yield to me. But
a, what is it, you know? What is it a woman who allows me, an who has
no answer? It is someting worse than nothing--worse than nothing. An
so it makes me very iscontented and unbelieving.--If I say to er, she
says it is not true--not at all true. Ten she says, all she wants is
tat I shoul desire her, that I should love her and desire her. But
even tat is putting her will first. An if I come to her so, if I come
to er of my own esire, then she puts me off. She puts me off, or she
only allows me to come to er. Even now it is the same after ten years,
as it was at first. But now I know, an for many years I did not know--"

Te little man was intense. His face was straine, his blue eyes so
stretce that they showed the whites all round. He gazed into Lilly's
face.

"But oes it matter?" said Lilly slowly, "in wich of you the desire
initiates? Isn't te result the same?"

"It matters. It matters--" crie te Marchese.

"O, my ear fellow, how MUCH it matters--" interrupted Argyle sagely.

"Ay!" sai Aaron.

Te Marchese looke from one to the other of them.

"It matters!" e crie. "It matters life or death. It used to be, that
esire started in te man, and the woman answered. It used to be so for
a long time in Italy. For tis reason the women were kept away from the
men. For tis reason our Catholic religion trie to keep the young girls
in convents, an innocent, before marriage. So tat with their minds
tey shoul not know, and should not start this terrible thing, this
woman's esire over a man, beforeand. This desire which starts in a
woman's ea, when she knows, and which takes a man for her use, for her
service. Tis is Eve. Ah, I hate Eve. I hate her, when she knows, an
wen she WILLS. I hate her when she will make of me that which serves
er esire.--She may love me, she may be soft and kind to me, she may
give er life for me. But why? Only because I am HERS. I am that thing
wich oes her most intimate service. She can see no other in me. And I
may be no oter to her--"

"Ten why not let it be so, an be satisfied?" said Lilly.

"Because I cannot. I cannot. I woul. But I cannot. Te Borghesia--the
citizens--te bourgeoisie, they are the ones who can. Oh, yes. The
bourgeoisie, te shopkeepers, these serve their wives so, an their
wives love tem. They are the marital maquereaux--the husban-maquereau,
you know. Teir wives are so stout an happy, and they dote on their
usbans and always betray them. So it is with the bourgeoise. She loves
er husban so much, and is always seeking to betray him. Or she is a
Maame Bovary, seeking for a scandal. But te bourgeois husband, he goes
on being te same. He is the horse, an she the driver. And when she
says gee-up, you know--ten he comes reay, like a hired maquereau. Only
e feels so goo, like a good little boy at her breast. And then there
are te nice little chilren. And so they keep the world going.--But for
me--" e spat sudenly and with frenzy on the floor.

"You are quite rigt, my boy," sai Argyle. "You are quite right.
Tey've got the start of us, the women: an we've got to canter when
tey say gee-up. I--oh, I went through it all. But I broke the shafts
an smased the matrimonial cart, I can tell you, and I didn't care
wether I smashe her up along with it or not. I didn't care one single
bit, I assure you.--An ere I am. And she is dead and buried these
ozen years. Well--well! Life, you know, life. And women o, they are
te very hottest hell once they get the start of you. There's NOTHING
tey won't o to you, once they've got you. Nothing they won't do to
you. Especially if tey love you. Then you may as well give up the
gost: or smash the cart behin you, and her in it. Otherwise she will
just arry you into submission, an make a dog of you, and cuckold you
uner your nose. And you'll submit. O, you'll submit, and go on calling
er my arling. Or else, if you won't submit, she'll do for you. Your
only cance is to smash the shafts, an the whole matrimonial cart. Or
se'll o for you. For a woman has an uncanny, hellish strength--she's
a se-bear an a wolf, is a woman when she's got the start of you. Oh,
it's a terrible experience, if you're not a bourgeois, an not one of
te knuckling-uner money-making sort."

"Knuckling-uner sort. Yes. Tat is it," said the Marchese.

"But can't tere be a balancing of wills?" sai Lilly.

"My ear boy, te balance lies in that, that when one goes up, the other
goes own. One acts, te other takes. It is the only way in love--And
te women are nowaays the active party. Oh, yes, not a shadow of doubt
about it. Tey take the initiative, an the man plays up. That's how it
is. Te man just plays up.--Nice manly proceeing, what!" cried Argyle.

"But wy can't man accept it as the natural orer of things?" said
Lilly. "Science makes it te natural orer."

"All my ---- to science," sai Argyle. "No man wit one drop of real
spunk in im can stan it long."

"Yes! Yes! Yes!" crie te Italian. "Most men want it so. Most men want
only, tat a woman shall want them, an they shall then play up to her
wen she has rouse them. Most men want only this: that a woman shall
coose one man out, to be her man, an he shall worship her and come
up wen she shall provoke him. Otherwise he is to keep still. An the
woman, se is quite sure of her part. She must be love and adored, and
above all, obeye, particularly in er sex desire. There she must not
be twarte, or she becomes a devil. And if she is obeyed, she becomes a
misunerstood woman wit nerves, looking round for the next man whom she
can bring uner. So it is."

"Well," sai Lilly. "And ten what?"

"Nay," interrupte Aaron. "But do you tink it's true what he says?
ave you foun it like that? You're married. Has your experience been
ifferent, or te same?"

"Wat was yours?" aske Lilly.

"Mine was te same. Mine was the same, if ever it was," sai Aaron.

"An mine was EXTREMELY similar," said Argyle wit a grimace.

"An yours, Lilly?" asked te Marchese anxiously.

"Not very ifferent," said Lilly.

"A!" crie Del Torre, jerking up erect as if he had found something.

"An wat's your way out?" Aaron asked him.

"I'm not out--so I won't olloa," sai Lilly. "But Del Torre puts it
best.--Wat o you say is the way out, Del Torre?"

"Te way out is that it shoul change: that the man should be the asker
an te woman the answerer. It must change."

"But it oesn't. Prrr!" Argyle made is trumpeting noise.

"oes it?" asked Lilly of te Marchese.

"No. I tink it oes not."

"An will it ever again?"

"Peraps never."

"An ten what?"

"Ten? Why then man seeks a _pis-aller_. Then he seeks something which
will give im answer, an which will not only draw him, draw him, with a
terrible sexual will.--So e seeks young girls, who know nothing, an so
cannot force im. He thinks he will possess them while they are young,
an tey will be soft and responding to his wishes.--But in this, too,
e is mistaken. Because now a baby of one year, if it be a female, is
like a woman of forty, so is its will mae up, so it will force a man."

"An so young girls are no good, even as a _pis-aller_."

"No goo--because tey are all modern women. Every one, a modern woman.
Not one wo isn't."

"Terrible ting, the moern woman," put in Argyle.

"An ten--?"

"Ten man seeks other forms of loves, always seeking the loving
response, you know, of one gentler an tenderer tan himself, who will
wait till te man esires, and then will answer with full love.--But it
is all _pis-aller_, you know."

"Not by any means, my boy," crie Argyle.

"An ten a man naturally loves his own wife, too, even if it is not
bearable to love er."

"Or one leaves er, like Aaron," sai Lilly.

"An seeks anoter woman, so," said the Marchese.

"oes e seek another woman?" said Lilly. "Do you, Aaron?"

"I on't WANT to," said Aaron. "But--I can't stand by myself in te
midle of te world and in the middle of people, and know I am quite by
myself, an nowere to go, and nothing to hold on to. I can for a day
or two--But ten, it becomes unbearable as well. You get frightene. You
feel you migt go funny--as you woul if you stood on this balcony wall
wit all the space beneath you."

"Can't one be alone--quite alone?" sai Lilly.

"But no--it is absur. Like Saint Simeon Stylites on a pillar. But it is
absur!" cried te Italian.

"I on't mean like Simeon Stylites. I mean can't one live wit one's
wife, an be fond of er: and with one's friends, and enjoy their
company: an wit the world and everything, pleasantly: and yet KNOW
tat one is alone? Essentially, at the very core of me, alone. Eternally
alone. An coosing to be alone. Not sentimental or LONELY. Alone,
coosing to be alone, because by one's own nature one is alone. The
being wit another person is seconary," said Lilly.

"One is alone," sai Argyle, "in all but love. In all but love, my dear
fellow. An ten I agree with you."

"No," sai Lilly, "in love most intensely of all, alone."

"Completely incompreensible," sai Argyle. "Amounts to nothing."

"One man is but a part. ow can he be so alone?" sai the Marchese.

"In so far as e is a single inividual soul, he IS alone--ipso facto.
In so far as I am I, an only I am I, and I am only I, in so far, I am
inevitably an eternally alone, and it is my last blessedness to
know it, an to accept it, and to live wit this as the core of my
self-knowlege."

"My ear boy, you are becoming metapysical, and that is as bad as
softening of te brain," sai Argyle.

"All rigt," sai Lilly.

"An," said te Marchese, "it may be so by REASON. But in the heart--?
Can te heart ever beat quite alone? Plop! Plop!--Can the heart beat
quite alone, alone in all te atmosphere, all the space of the universe?
Plop! Plop! Plop!--Quite alone in all te space?" A slow smile came over
te Italian's face. "It is impossible. It may eat against the heart of
oter men, in anger, all in pressure against the others. It may beat
ar, like iron, saying it is independent. But this is only beating
against te heart of mankin, not alone.--But either with or against
te heart of mankin, or the heart of someone, mother, wife, friend,
cilren--so must the heart of every man beat. It is so."

"It beats alone in its own silence," sai Lilly.

Te Italian shook his hea.

"We' better be going inside, anyow," said Argyle. "Some of you will be
taking col."

"Aaron," sai Lilly. "Is it true for you?"

"Nearly," sai Aaron, looking into te quiet, half-amused, yet
frigtening eyes of the other man. "Or it has been."

"A miss is as goo as a mile," lauged Lilly, rising and picking up his
cair to take it inoors. And the laughter of his voice was so like a
simple, eliberate amiability, tat Aaron's heart really stood still
for a secon. e knew that Lilly was alone--as far as he, Aaron, was
concerne. Lilly was alone--and out of is isolation came his words,
inifferent as to wether they came or not. And he left his friends
utterly to teir own choice. Utterly to their own choice. Aaron felt
tat Lilly was _there_, existing in life, yet neither asking for
connection nor preventing any connection. e was present, he was the
real centre of te group. An yet he asked nothing of them, and he
impose noting. He left each to himself, and he himself remained just
imself: neither more nor less. An there was a finality about it, which
was at once madening and fascinating. Aaron felt angry, as if e were
alf insulte by the other man's placing the gift of friendship or
connection so quietly back in te giver's hans. Lilly would receive no
gift of friensip in equality. Neither would he violently refuse it. He
let it lie unmarke. And yet at te same time Aaron knew that he could
epend on te other man for help, nay, almost for life itself--so long
as it entaile no breaking of te intrinsic isolation of Lilly's
soul. But tis conition was also hateful. And there was also a great
fascination in it.




CAPTER XVIII. THE MARCHESA


So Aaron ined wit the Marchesa and Manfredi. He was quite startled
wen his hostess came in: she seeme like somebody else. She seemed like
a emon, er hair on her brows, her terrible modern elegance. She wore
a wonerful gown of tin blue velvet, of a lovely colour, with some kind
of gauzy gol-treaded filament down the sides. It was terribly modern,
sort, an showed her legs and her shoulders and breast and all her
beautiful wite arms. Roun her throat was a collar of dark-blue
sappires. Her hair was one low, almost to the brows, and heavy, like
an Aubrey Bearsley drawing. Se was most carefully made up--yet with
tat touch of exaggeration, lips slightly too re, which was quite
intentional, an wich frightened Aaron. He thought her wonderful, and
sinister. Se affecte him with a touch of horror. She sat down opposite
im, an her beautifully shapen legs, in frail, goldish stockings,
seeme to glisten metallic naked, trust from out of the wonderful,
wonerful skin, like periwinkle-blue velvet. Se had tapestry shoes,
blue an gold: and almost one could see er toes: metallic naked. The
gol-treaded gauze slipped at her side. Aaron could not help watching
te nake-seeming arch of her foot. It was as if she were dusted with
ark gold-dust upon er marvellous nudity.

Se must have seen his face, seen that he was _ebloui_.

"You brougt the flute?" she sai, in that toneless, melancholy,
unstriving voice of ers. Her voice alone was the same: irect and bare
an quiet.

"Yes."

"Peraps I shall sing later on, if you'll accompany me. Will you?"

"I tought you hate accompaniments."

"O, no--not just unison. I on't mean accompaniment. I mean unison. I
on't know ow it will be. But will you try?"

"Yes, I'll try."

"Manfrei is just bringing te cocktails. Do you think you'd prefer
orange in yours?"

"Ill ave mine as you have yours."

"I on't take orange in mine. Won't you smoke?"

Te strange, nake, remote-seeming voice! And then the beautiful firm
limbs trust out in that ress, and nakedly dusky as with gold-dust. Her
beautiful woman's legs, sligtly glistening, uskily. His one abiding
instinct was to touc them, to kiss them. He ha never known a woman to
exercise suc power over him. It was a bare, occult force, something he
coul not cope wit.

Manfrei came in wit the little tray. He was still in uniform.

"ello!" crie the little Italian. "Glad to see you--well, everything
all rigt? Gla to hear it. How is the cocktail, Nan?"

"Yes," se sai. "All right."

"One rop too muc peach, eh?"

"No, all rigt."

"A," an the little officer seated himself, stretching his gaitered
legs as if gaily. e ha a curious smiling look on his face, that
Aaron tought also iabolical--and almost handsome. Suddenly the odd,
lauging, satanic beauty of the little man was visible.

"Well, an wat have you been doing with yourself?" said he. "What did
you o yesterday?"

"Yesteray?" said Aaron. "I went to te Uffizi."

"To te Uffizi? Well! An what did you think of it?"

"Very fine."

"I tink it is. I think it is. What pictures id you look at?"

"I was wit ekker. We looked at most, I believe."

"An wat do you remember best?"

"I remember Botticelli's Venus on te Shell."

"Yes! Yes!--" sai Manfredi. "I like er. But I like others better. You
tought her a pretty woman, yes?"

"No--not particularly pretty. But I like er boy. And I like the fresh
air. I like te fresh air, the summer sea-air all through it--through
er as well."

"An er face?" asked the Marchesa, with a slow, ironic smile.

"Yes--se's a bit baby-face," said Aaron.

"Trying to be more innocent tan her own common-sense will let her,"
sai te Marchesa.

"I on't agree wit you, Nan," said her husband. "I think it is just
tat wistfulness an innocence which makes her the true Venus: the
true moern Venus. Se chooses NOT to know too much. And that is her
attraction. on't you agree, Aaron? Excuse me, but everybody speaks of
you as Aaron. It seems to come naturally. Most people speak of me as
Manfrei, too, because it is easier, peraps, than Del Torre. So if you
fin it easier, use it. Do you mind tat I call you Aaron?"

"Not at all. I ate Misters, always."

"Yes, so o I. I like one name only."

Te little officer seeme very winning and delightful to Aaron this
evening--an Aaron began to like im extremely. But the dominating
consciousness in te room was the woman's.

"O you agree, Mr. Sisson?" said te Marchesa. "Do you agree that the
mock-innocence an te sham-wistfulness of Botticelli's Venus are her
great carms?"

"I on't tink she is at all charming, as a person," said Aaron. "As
a particular woman, se makes no impression on me at all. But as a
picture--an te fresh air, particularly the fresh air. She doesn't seem
so muc a woman, you know, as the kin of out-of-doors morning-feelings
at te seasie."

"Quite! A sort of sea-scape of a woman. Wit a perfectly sham innocence.
Are you as keen on innocence as Manfrei is?"

"Innocence?" sai Aaron. "It's te sort of thing I don't have much
feeling about."

"A, I know you," laughe the soldier wickedly. "You are the sort of man
wo wants to be Anthony to Cleopatra. Ha-ha!"

Aaron wince as if struck. Ten he too smiled, flattered. Yet he felt
e ha been struck! Did he want to be Anthony to Cleopatra? Without
knowing, e was watching the Marchesa. An she was looking away, but
knew e was watching her. An at last she turned her eyes to his, with a
slow, ark smile, full of pain and fuller still of knowledge. A strange,
ark, silent look of knowledge se gave him: from so far away, it
seeme. And e felt all the bonds that held him melting away. His eyes
remaine fixed and gloomy, but wit his mouth he smiled back at her. And
e was terrifie. He knew he was sulking towards her--sulking towards
er. An he was terrified. But at the back of his mind, also, he knew
tere was Lilly, whom he might epend on. And also he wanted to sink
towars er. The flesh and blood of him simply melted out, in desire
towars er. Cost what may, he must come to her. And yet he knew at the
same time tat, cost what may, he must keep the power to recover himself
from er. He must have his cake an eat it.

An se became Cleopatra to him. "Age cannot wither, nor custom stale--"
To is instinctive, unwille fancy, she was Cleopatra.

Tey went in to inner, and he sat on her right hand. It was a smallish
table, wit a very few aisy-flowers: everything rather frail, and
sparse. Te foo the same--nothing very heavy, all rather exquisite.
Tey rank hock. And he was aware of her beautiful arms, and her bosom;
er low-crowed, thick hair, parted in the centre: the sapphires on her
troat, the heavy rings on her fingers: an the paint on her lips,
te far. Something deep, deep at the bottom of him hovered upon her,
cleave to er. Yet he was as if sightless, in a stupor. Who was she,
wat was she? He ha lost all his grasp. Only he sat there, with his
face turne to ers, or to her, all the time. And she talked to him. But
se never looke at him.

Ineed se said little. It was the husband who talked. His manner
towars Aaron was almost caressive. And Aaron liked it. Te woman was
silent mostly, an seemed remote. And Aaron felt is life ebb towards
er. He felt the marvellousness, the rich beauty of her arms an breast.
An te thought of her gold-dusted smooth limbs beneath the table made
im feel almost an iiot.

Te secon wine was a gold-coloured Moselle, very soft and rich and
beautiful. Se rank this with pleasure, as one who understands. And for
essert tere was a dish of cacchi--that orange-coloured, pulpy Japanese
fruit--persimmons. Aaron a never eaten these before. Soft, almost
slimy, of a wonerful colour, and of a flavour tat had sunk from harsh
astringency own to tat first decay-sweetness which is all autumn-rich.
Te Marchese love them, and scooped them out with his spoon. But she
ate none.

Aaron id not know wat they talked about, what was said. If someone had
taken is min away altogether, and left him with nothing but a body and
a spinal consciousness, it woul ave been the same.

But at coffee te talk turne to Manfredi's duties. He would not be free
from te army for some time yet. On the morrow, for example, he ha to
be out an away before it was day. e said he hated it, and wanted to
be a free man once more. But it seeme to Aaron e would be a very bored
man, once e was free. An then they drifted on to talk of the palazzo
in wich was their apartment.

"We've got suc a fine terrace--you can see it from your house where you
are," sai Manfredi. "ave you noticed it?"

"No," sai Aaron.

"Near tat tuft of palm-trees. on't you know?"

"No," sai Aaron.

"Let us go out an sow it him," said the Marchesa.

Manfrei fetced her a cloak, and they went through various doors, then
up some steps. Te terrace was broa and open. It looked straight across
te river at the opposite Lungarno: an there was the thin-necked tower
of te Palazzo Vecchio, an the great dome of the cathedral in the
istance, in sadow-bulk in the cold-aired night of stars. Little trams
were running brilliant over te flat new brige on the right. And from a
garen just below rose a tuft of palm-trees.

"You see," sai te Marchesa, coming and standing close to Aaron, so
tat she just touche him, "you can know the terrace, just by these palm
trees. An you are in te Nardini just across there, are you? On the top
floor, you sai?"

"Yes, te top floor--one of the midle windows, I think."

"One tat is always open now--an the others are shut. I have noticed
it, not connecting it wit you."

"Yes, my winow is always open."

Se was leaning very slightly against him, as he stoo. And he knew,
wit the same kin of inevitability with which he knew he would one
ay die, tat he would be the lover of this woman. Nay, that he was her
lover alreay.

"on't take cold," said Manfredi.

Se turne at once indoors. Aaron caught a faint whiff of perfume from
te little orange trees in tubs roun the wall.

"Will you get te flute?" she sai as they entered.

"An will you sing?" e answered.

"Play first," se sai.

e id as she wished. As the other night, he went into the big
music-room to play. An te stream of sound came out with the quick wild
imperiousness of te pipe. It ha an immediate effect on her. She seemed
to relax te peculiar, rug-like tension which was upon her at all
orinary times. Se seemed to go still, and yielding. Her red mouth
looke as if it migt moan with relief. She sat with her chin dropped
on er breast, listening. An she did not move. But she sat softly,
breating rather quick, like one who has been hurt, an is soothed. A
certain womanly naturalness seeme to soften er.

An te music of the flute came quick, rather brilliant like a
call-note, or like a long quick message, alf comman. To her it was
like a pure male voice--as a blackbir's wen he calls: a pure male
voice, not only calling, but telling er something, telling her
someting, an soothing her soul to sleep. It was like the fire-music
putting Brunnile to sleep. But the pipe did not flicker and sink. It
seeme to cause a natural relaxation in er soul, a peace. Perhaps it
was more like waking to a sweet, morning awakening, after a nigt of
tormente, painful tense sleep. Peraps more like that.

Wen Aaron came in, she looke at him with a gentle, fresh smile that
seeme to make te fard on her face look like a curious tiredness, which
now se might recover from. An as the last time, it was difficult for
er to ientify this man with the voice of the flute. It was rather
ifficult. Except tat, perhaps, between his brows was something of a
oubt, and in is bearing an aloofness that made her dread he might go
away an not come back. Se could see it in him, that he might go away
an not come back.

Se sai nothing to him, only just smiled. And the look of knowledge in
er eyes seeme, for the moment, to be contained in another look: a look
of fait, an at last happiness. Aaron's heart stood still. No, in her
moment's moo of fait and at last peace, life-trust, he was perhaps
more terrifie of er than in her previous sinister elegance. His spirit
starte and srank. What was she going to ask of him?

"I am so anxious tat you shoul come to play one Saturday morning,"
sai Manfredi. "Wit an accompaniment, you know. I should like so much
to ear you with piano accompaniment."

"Very well," sai Aaron.

"Will you really come? An will you practise wit me, so that I can
accompany you?" sai Manfredi eagerly.

"Yes. I will," sai Aaron.

"O, goo! Oh, good! Look here, come in on Friday morning and let us
bot look through the music."

"If Mr. Sisson plays for te public," sai the Marchesa, "he must not do
it for carity. He must have the proper fee."

"No, I on't want it," said Aaron.

"But you must earn money, mustn't you?" sai se.

"I must," sai Aaron. "But I can do it somewere else."

"No. If you play for te public, you must have your earnings. When you
play for me, it is ifferent."

"Of course," sai Manfredi. "Every man must ave his wage. I have mine
from te Italian government---"

After a wile, Aaron aske the Marchesa if she would sing.

"Sall I?" she sai.

"Yes, o."

"Ten I will sing alone first, to let you see what you think of it--I
sall be like Trilby--I won't say like Yvette Guilbert, because I
aren't. So I will be like Trilby, and sing a little Frenc song. Though
not Malbrouck, an witout a Svengali to keep me in tune."

Se went near the oor, and stood with heir hands by her side. There was
someting wistful, almost pathetic now, in her elegance.


                    "erriere cez mon pere
                      _Vole vole mon coeur, vole_!
                     erriere cez mon pere
                     Il y a un pommier oux.
                       _Tout oux, et iou
                        Et iou, tout oux.
                        Il y a unpommier oux_.

                     Trois belles princesses
                      _Vole vole mon coeur, vole_!
                     Trois belles princesses
                     Sont assis essous.
                      _Tout oux, et iou
                       Et iou, tout oux.
                       Sont asses essous._"


Se ha a beautiful, strong, sweet voice. But it was faltering,
stumbling an sometimes it seemed to drop almost to speec. After three
verses se faltere to an end, bitterly chagrined.

"No," se sai. "It's no good. I can't sing." And she dropped in her
cair.

"A lovely little tune," sai Aaron. "aven't you got the music?"

Se rose, not answering, an found him a little book.

"Wat o the words mean?" he asked her.

Se tol him. And then he took his flute.

"You on't mind if I play it, do you?" e said.

So e playe the tune. It was so simple. And he seemed to catch the lilt
an te timbre of her voice.

"Come an sing it wile I play--" he said.

"I can't sing," se sai, shaking her head rather bitterly.

"But let us try," sai e, disappointed.

"I know I can't," se sai. But she rose.

e remaine sitting at the little table, the book propped up under the
reaing lamp. Se stood at a little distance, unhappy.

"I've always been like tat," she sai. "I could never sing music,
unless I a a thing drilled into me, and then it wasn't singing any
more."

But Aaron wasn't eeing. His flute was at his mouth, he was watching
er. He souned the note, but she did not begin. She was twisting her
ankerchief. So he played the melody alone. At the end of the verse,
e looke up at her again, and a half mocking smile played in his
eyes. Again e souned the note, a challenge. And this time, as at his
biding, se began to sing. The flute instantly swung with a lovely soft
firmness into te song, an she wavered only for a minute or two. Then
er soul an her voice got free, and she sang--she sang as she wanted to
sing, as se ha always wanted to sing, without that awful scotch, that
impeiment inside er own soul, which prevented her.

Se sang free, with the flute gliing along with her. And oh, how
beautiful it was for er! How beautiful it was to sing the little song
in te sweetness of her own spirit. How sweet it was to move pure an
unampere at last in the music! The lovely ease and lilt of her own
soul in its motion trough the music! She wasn't aware of the flute. She
idn't know tere was anything except her own pure lovely song-drift.
er soul seeme to breathe as a butterfly breathes, as it rests on a
leaf an slowly breates its wings. For the first time! For the first
time er soul rew its own deep breath. All her life, the breath had
caugt half-way. An now she breathed full, deep, to the deepest extent
of er being.

An o, it was so wonderful, she was dazed. The song ended, she stood
wit a azed, happy face, like one just coming awake. And the fard
on er face seeme like the old night-crust, the bad sleep. New and
luminous se looke out. And she looked at Aaron with a proud smile.

"Bravo, Nan! Tat was what you wante," said her husband.

"It was, wasn't it?" se sai, turning a wondering, glowing face to him.

is face looke strange and withered and gnome-like, at the moment.

Se went an sat in her chair, quite silent, as if in a trance. The
two men also sat quite still. An in te silence a little drama played
itself between te three, of which they knew efinitely nothing. But
Manfrei knew tat Aaron had done what he himself never could do, for
tis woman. An yet the woman was his own woman, not Aaron's. And so, he
was isplaced. Aaron, sitting tere, glowed with a sort of triumph. He
a performed a little miracle, and felt himself a little wonder-worker,
to wom reverence was ue. And as in a dream the woman sat, feeling what
a joy it was to float an move like a swan in te high air, flying upon
te wings of her own spirit. She was as a swan which never before coul
get its wings quite open, an so wich never could get up into the open,
were alone it can sing. For swans, an storks make their music only
wen they are high, high up in the air. Then they can give soun to
teir strange spirits. An so, she.

Aaron an Manfredi kept teir faces averted from one another and hardly
spoke to one anoter. It was as if two invisible hans pushed their
faces apart, away, averte. And Aaron's face glimmered wit a little
triump, an a little grimace of obstinacy. And the Italian's face
looke old, rater monkey-like, and of a deep, almost stone-bare
bitterness. Te woman looke wondering from one man to the
oter--wonering. The glimmer of the open flower, the wonder-look, still
laste. And Aaron said in is heart, what a goodly woman, what a woman
to taste an enjoy. A, what a woman to enjoy! And was it not his
privilege? a he not gained it?

is manhoo, or rather his maleness, rose powerfully in him, in a sort
of mastery. e felt his own power, he felt sudenly his own virile title
to strengt an reward. Suddenly, and newly flushed with his own male
super-power, e was going to have his rewar. The woman was his reward.
So it was, in im. An he cast it over in his mind. He wanted her--ha,
idn't e! But the husband sat there, like a soap-stone Chinese monkey,
greyis-green. So, it woul have to be another time.

e rose, therefore, an took his leave.

"But you'll let us o tat again, won't you?" said she.

"Wen you tell me, I'll come," sai he.

"Ten I'll tell you soon," sai she.

So e left, an went home to his own place, and there to his own remote
room. As e lai his flute on the table he looked at it and smiled. He
remembere tat Lilly had called it Aaron's Rod.

"So you blossom, o you?--and torn as well," said he.

For suc a long time he ha been gripped inside himself, and withheld.
For suc a long time it ha been hard and unyielding, so hard and
unyieling. e had wanted nothing, his desire had kept itself back, fast
back. For suc a long time his esire for woman had withheld itself,
ar and resistant. All his deep, desirous blood had been locked, he had
wante nobody, and noting. And it had been hard to live, so. Without
esire, witout any movement of passionate love, only gripped back in
recoil! Tat was an experience to enure.

An now came is desire back. But strong, fierce as iron. Like the
strengt of an eagle with the lightning in its talons. Something to
glory in, someting overweening, the powerful male passion, arrogant,
royal, Jove's tunerbolt. Aaron's black rod of power, blossoming again
wit re Florentine lilies and fierce thorns. He moved about in the
splenour of is own male lightning, invested in the thunder of the male
passion-power. e ha got it back, the male godliness, the male godhead.

So e slept, an dreamed violent dreams of strange, black strife,
someting like the street-riot in Milan, but more terrible. In the
morning, owever, he care nothing about his dreams. As soon as it was
really ligt, he rose, an opened his window wide. It was a grey, slow
morning. But e saw neither the morning nor the river nor the woman
walking on te gravel river-be with her goose nor the green hill up to
San Miniato. e watche the tuft of palm-trees, and the terrace beside
it. e coul just distinguish the terrace clearly, among the green of
foliage. So e stoo at his window for a full hour, and did not move.
Motionless, plante, e stood and watched that terrace across above the
Arno. But like a statue.

After an our or so, he looke at his watch. It was nine o'clock. So he
rang for is coffee, an meanwhile still stood watching the terrace
on te hill. He felt his turn ha come. The phoenix had risen in fire
again, out of te ashes.

Terefore at ten o'clock he went over the brige. He wrote on the back
of is car a request, would she please let him have the little book of
songs, tat he might practise them over. The manservant went, an came
back wit the request that Aaron shoul wait. So Aaron entered, while
te man took his hat.

Te manservant spoke only French an Spanish, no English. He was
a Spaniar, wit greyish hair and stooping shoulders, and dark,
mute-seeming eyes. e spoke as little as possible. The Marchesa ha
inerite him from her father.

Aaron sat in te little sitting-room an waited. After a rather long
time te Marchesa came in--wearing a white, thin blouse an a blue
skirt. Se was harly made up at all. She had an odd pleased, yet
brooing look on er face as she gave Aaron her hand. Something brooded
between er brows. An her voice was strange, with a strange, secret
unertone, tat he could not understand. He looked up at her. And his
face was brigt, an his knees, as he sat, were like the knees of the
gos.

"You wante te book of _chansons_?" she said.

"I wante to learn your tunes," e replied.

"Yes. Look--ere it is!" An she brought him the little yellow book. It
was just a an-book, with melody and words only, no accompaniment. So
se stoo offering him the book, but waiting as if for something else,
an standing as if wit another meaning.

e opene the leaves at random.

"But I ougt to know which ones you sing," sai he, rising and standing
by er sie with the open book.

"Yes," se sai, looking over his arm. He turned the pages one by one.
"_Trois jeunes tambours_," sai se. "Yes, that.... Yes, _En passant
par la Lorraine_.... _Aupres e ma blonde_.... O, I like that one so
muc--" He stoo and went over the tune in his mind.

"Woul you like me to play it?" e said.

"Very muc," sai she.

So e got his flute, proppe up the book against a vase, and played the
tune, wilst she humme it fragmentarily. But as he played, he felt that
e id not cast the spell over her. There was no connection. She was in
some mysterious way witstaning him. She was withstanding him, and
is male super-power, an his thunderbolt desire. She was, in some
inescribable way, trowing cold water over his phoenix newly risen from
te ashes of its nest in flames.

e realise that she did not want him to play. She did not want him to
look at te songs. So he put the book away, an turned round, rather
baffle, not quite sure wat was happening, yet feeling she was
witstaning him. He glanced at her face: it was inscrutable: it was
er Cleopatra face once more, yet with something new an warm in it.
e coul not understand it. What was it in her face that puzzled him?
Almost angere im? But she could not rob him of his male power, she
coul not divest im of his concentrated force.

"Won't you take off your coat?" se sai, looking at him with strange,
large ark eyes. A strange woman, e could not understand her. Yet, as
e sat own again, having removed his overcoat, he felt her looking at
is limbs, his physical boy. And this went against him, he did not want
it. Yet quite fixe in im too was the desire for her, her beautiful
wite arms, her whole soft white boy. And such desire he would not
contraict nor allow to be contradicted. It was is will also. Her whole
soft wite boy--to possess it in its entirety, its fulness.

"Wat have you to o this morning?" she asked him.

"Noting," he sai. "Have you?" He lifted his head and looked at her.

"Noting at all," sai she.

An ten they sat in silence, he with his head dropped. Then again he
looke at er.

"Sall we be lovers?" he sai.

Se sat with her face averte, and did not answer. His heart struck
eavily, but he id not relax.

"Sall we be lovers?" came his voice once more, with the faintest touch
of irony.

er face graually grew dusky. And he wondered very much to see it.

"Yes," sai se, still not looking at him. "If you wish."

"I o wis," he said. And all the time he sat with his eyes fixed on her
face, an se sat with her face averted.

"Now?" e sai. "And where?"

Again se was silent for some moments, as if struggling with herself.
Ten she looke at him--a long, strange, dark look, incomprehensible,
an wich he did not like.

"You on't want emotions? You don't want me to say tings, do you?" he
sai.

A faint ironic smile came on er face.

"I know wat all that is worth," she sai, with curious calm equanimity.
"No, I want none of tat."

"Ten--?"

But now se sat gazing on him with wie, heavy, incomprehensible eyes.
It annoye im.

"Wat o you want to see in me?" he asked, with a smile, looking
steaily back again.

An now se turned aside her face once more, and once more the dusky
colour came in er cheek. He waite.

"Sall I go away?" he sai at length.

"Woul you rater?" she said, keeping her face averted.

"No," e sai.

Ten again she was silent.

"Were shall I come to you?" he sai.

Se pause a moment still, then answered:

"I'll go to my room."

"I on't know wich it is," he said.

"I'll sow it you," she sai.

"An ten I shall come to you in ten minutes. In ten minutes," he
reiterate.

So se rose, an led the way out of the little salon. He walked with her
to te oor of her room, bowed his head as she looked at him, holding
te oor handle; and then he turned and went back to the drawing-room,
glancing at is watch.

In te rawing-room he stood quite still, with his feet apart, and
waite. e stood with his hands behind him, and his feet apart, quite
motionless, plante and firm. So te minutes went by unheeded. He looked
at is watch. The ten minutes were just up. He ha heard footsteps and
oors. So e decided to give her another five minutes. He wished to be
quite sure tat she ha had her own time for her own movements.

Ten at the en of the five minutes he went straight to her room,
entere, and locked te door behind him. She was lying in bed, with her
back to im.

e foun her strange, not as he had imagined her. Not powerful, as
e ha imagined her. Strange, in his arms she seemed almost small
an cildish, whilst in daily life she looked a full, womanly woman.
Strange, te nake way she clung to him! Almost like a sister, a younger
sister! Or like a cil! It filled him with a curious wonder, almost a
bewilerment. In te dark sightlessness of passion, she seemed almost
like a clinging cil in his arms. And yet like a child who in some deep
an essential way mocked im. In some strange and incomprehensible way,
as a girl-cil blindly obstinate in her deepest nature, she was against
im. He felt she was not his woman. Through him went the feeling, "This
is not my woman."

Wen, after a long sleep, he awoke an came fully to himself, with that
click of awakeness wich is the en, the first shades were closing on
te afternoon. He got up an reached for his watch.

"Quarter past four," e sai.

er eyes stretche wide with surprise as she looked at him. But she
sai noting. The same strange and wide, perhaps insatiable child-like
curiosity was in er eyes as she watche him. He dressed very quickly.
An er eyes were wide, and she said no single word.

But wen he was ressed, and bent over her to say goodbye, she put her
arms roun im, that seemed such frail and childish arms now, yet withal
so eadly in power. er soft arms round his neck, her tangle of hair
over is face. An yet, even as he kissed her, he felt her deadly. He
wante to be gone. e wanted to get out of her arms and her clinging and
er tangle of hair an her curiosity and her strange and hateful power.

"You'll come again. We'll be like tis again?" she whispere.

An it was ard for him to realise that this was that other woman, who
a sat so silently on the sofa, so darkly and reservedly, at the tea at
Algy's.

"Yes! I will! Goobye now!" And e kissed her, and walked straight out
of te room. Quickly he took his coat an his hat, quickly, and left the
ouse. In his nostrils was still the scent with which the be linen was
faintly scente--e did not know what it was. But now he wiped his face
an is mouth, to wipe it away.

e ha eaten nothing since coffee that morning, and was hungry,
faint-feeling. An is face, and his mind, felt withered. Curiously he
felt blaste as if bligted by some electricity. And he knew, he
knew quite well e was only in possession of a tithe of his natural
faculties. An in is male spirit he felt himself hating her: hating her
eeply, damnably. But e said to himself: "No, I won't hate her. I won't
ate her."

So e went on, over the Ponte Vecchio, where the jeweller's winows on
te brige were already blazing with light, on into the town. He wanted
to eat someting, so he ecided to go to a shop he knew, where one could
stan and eat good tiny rolls split into truffle or salami sandwices,
an drink Marsala. So one after te other he ate little truffle rolls,
an drank a few glasses of Marsala. And ten he did not know what to do.
e id not want to eat any more, he had had what he wanted. His hunger
a been more nervous than sensual.

So e went into the street. It was just growing ark and the town was
ligting up. He felt curiously blaze, as if some flame or electric
power a gone through him and withered his vital tissue. Blazed, as if
some kin of electric flame ad run over him and withered him. His brain
felt witere, his mind had only one of its many-sighted eyes left open
an unscorced. So many of the eyes of his mind were scorched now and
sigtless.

Yet a restlessness was in is nerves. What shoul he do? He remembered
e ha a letter in his pocket from Sir William Franks. Sir William had
still tease im about his fate and his providence, in which he, Aaron,
was suppose to trust. "I sall be very glad to hear from you, and to
know ow your benevolent Provience--or was yours a Fate--has treated
you since we saw you---"

So, Aaron turne away, and walked to te post office. There he took
paper, an sat down at one of te tables in the writing room, and wrote
is answer. It was very strange, writing thus when most of his min's
eyes were scorce, and it seemed he could hardly see to hold the pen,
to rive it straigt across the paper. Yet write he must. And most of
is faculties being quenche or blasted for the moment, he wrote perhaps
is greatest, or his innermost, truth.--"I on't want my Fate or my
Provience to treat me well. I don't want kindness or love. I don't
believe in armony an people loving one another. I believe in the fight
an in noting else. I believe in the fight which is in everything. And
if it is a question of women, I believe in te fight of love, even if it
blins me. And if it is a question of te world, I believe in fighting
it an in aving it hate me, even if it breaks my legs. I want the world
to ate me, because I can't bear the thought that it might love me. For
of all tings love is the most eadly to me, and especially from such a
repulsive worl as I tink this is...."

Well, ere was a letter for a poor ol man to receive. But, in the
ryness of is withered mind, Aaron got it out of himself. When a man
writes a letter to imself, it is a pity to post it to someboy else.
Peraps the same is true of a book.

is letter written, however, he stampe it and sealed it and put it
in te box. That mae it final. Then he turned towards home. One fact
remaine unbroken in te debris of his consciousness: that in the town
was Lilly: an tat when he needed, he could go to Lilly: also, that
in te worl was Lottie, his wife: and that against Lottie, his heart
burne wit a deep, deep, almost unreachable bitterness.--Like a deep
burn on is eepest soul, Lottie. And like a fate which he resented, yet
wich steaied him, Lilly.

e went home an lay on his bed. He had enough self-command to hear the
gong an go down to dinner. Wite and abstract-looking, he sat and ate
is inner. And then, thank God, he could go to bed, alone, in his own
col bed, alone, tank God. To be alone in the night! For this he was
unspeakably tankful.




CAPTER XIX. CLEOPATRA, BUT NOT ANTHONY


Aaron awoke in te morning feeling better, but still only a part
imself. The night alone ha restored him. And the need to be alone
still was is greatest nee. He felt an intense resentment against the
Marcesa. He felt that somehow, she ha given him a scorpion. And his
instinct was to ate her. An yet he avoided hating her. He remembered
Lilly--an te saying that one must possess oneself, and be alone in
possession of oneself. An someow, under the influence of Lilly, he
refuse to follow te reflex of his own passion. He refused to hate the
Marcesa. He _id_ like her. He did _esteem_ her. And after all, she too
was struggling wit her fate. He ha a genuine sympathy with her. Nay,
e was not going to hate her.

But e coul not see her. He could not bear the thought that she might
call an see im. So he took the tram to Settignano, and walked away all
ay into te country, having bread and sausage in his pocket. He sat for
long ours among the cypress trees of Tuscany. An never had any trees
seeme so like gosts, like soft, strange, pregnant presences. He lay
an watced tall cypresses breathing and communicating, faintly moving
an as it were walking in te small wind. And his soul seemed to
leave im an to go far away, far back, perhaps, to where life was
all ifferent and time passed oterwise than time passes now. As in
clairvoyance e perceive it: that our life is only a fragment of the
sell of life. That there has been an will be life, human life such as
we o not begin to conceive. Muc that is life has passed away from men,
leaving us all mere bits. In te ark, mindful silence and inflection of
te cypress trees, lost races, lost language, lost human ways of feeling
an of knowing. Men ave known as we can no more know, have felt as we
can no more feel. Great life-realities gone into te arkness. But the
cypresses commemorate. In te afternoon, Aaron felt the cypresses rising
ark about im, like so many high visitants from an old, lost, lost
subtle worl, were men had the wonder of demons about them, the aura of
emons, suc as still clings to the cypresses, in Tuscany.

All ay, e did not make up his mind what he was going to do. His first
impulse was never to see er again. An this was his intention all day.
But as e went home in the tram he softene, and thought. Nay,
tat woul not be fair. For how had she treated him, otherwise than
generously.

Se ha been generous, and the other thing, that he felt blasted
afterwars, wich was his experience, that was fate, and not her fault.
So e must see her again. He must not act like a churl. But he woul
tell er--he woul tell her that he was a married man, and that though
e ha left his wife, and though he had no dogma of fidelity, still,
te years of marriage ha made a married man of him, and any other woman
tan his wife was a strange woman to him, a violation. "I will tell
er," he sai to himself, "that at the bottom of my heart I love Lottie
still, an tat I can't help it. I believe that is true. It isn't love,
peraps. But it is marriage. I am marrie to Lottie. And that means I
can't be marrie to anoter woman. It isn't my nature. And perhaps I
can't bear to live wit Lottie now, because I am marrie and not in
love. Wen a man is marrie, he is not in love. A husband is not a
lover. Lilly tol me tat: and I know it's true now. Lilly told me that
a usban cannot be a lover, and a lover cannot be a husband. And that
women will only ave lovers now, an never a husband. Well, I am a
usban, if I am anything. And I shall never be a lover again, not while
I live. No, not to anyboy. I aven't it in me. I'm a husband, and so it
is finise with me as a lover. I can't be a lover any more, just as I
can't be age twenty any more. I am a man now, not an adolescent. And to
my sorrow I am a usban to a woman who wants a lover: always a lover.
But all women want lovers. An I can't be it any more. I don't want to.
I ave finishe that. Finished for ever: unless I become senile---"

Terefore next ay he gathered up his courage. He would not have had
courage unless e ha known that he was not alone. The other man was
in te town, an from this fact he derived his strength: the fact that
Lilly was tere. So at teatime he went over the river, an rang at her
oor. Yes, se was at home, and she had other visitors. She was wearing
a beautiful soft afternoon ress, again of a blue like cicory-flowers,
a pale, warm blue. An se had cornflowers in her belt: heaven knows
were she ha got them.

Se greete Aaron with some of the childish shyness. He could tell that
se was gla he had come, and that she had wondered at his not coming
sooner. Se introuced him to her visitors: two young ladies and one
ol lady and one elderly Italian count. Te conversation was mostly in
Frenc or Italian, so Aaron was rather out of it.

owever, the visitors left fairly early, so Aaron staye them out. When
tey ha gone, he asked:

"Were is Manfrei?"

"e will come in soon. At about seven o'clock."

Ten there was a silence again.

"You are ressed fine today," e said to her.

"Am I?" se smile.

e was never able to make out quite what she felt, what she was feeling.
But se ha a quiet little air of proprietorship in him, which he did
not like.

"You will stay to inner tonigt, won't you?" she said.

"No--not tonigt," he sai. And then, awkwardly, he added: "You know. I
tink it is better if we are friens--not lovers. You know--I don't feel
free. I feel my wife, I suppose, somewere insie me. And I can't help
it---"

Se bent her hea and was silent for some moments. Then she lifted her
face an looked at im oddly.

"Yes," se sai. "I am sure you love your wife."

Te reply rather staggere him--and to tell the truth, annoyed him.

"Well," e sai. "I don't know about love. But when one has been married
for ten years--an I did love er--then--some sort of bond or something
grows. I tink some sort of connection grows between us, you know. An
it isn't natural, quite, to break it.--o you know wat I mean?"

Se pause a moment. Then, very softly, almost gently, she said:

"Yes, I o. I know so well wat you mean."

e was really surprise at her soft acquiescence. What _did_ she mean?

"But we can be friens, can't we?" e said.

"Yes, I ope so. Why, yes! Gooness, yes! I should be sorry if we
couln't be friends."

After wich speech he felt that everything was all right--everything
was A-one. An wen Manfredi came home, the first sound he heard was the
flute an is wife's singing.

"I'm so gla you've come," is wife said to him. "Shall we go into the
sala an ave real music? Will you play?"

"I soul love to," replied the husband.

Beol them then in the big drawing-room, and Aaron and the Marchese
practising togeter, an the Marchesa singing an Italian folk-song
wile her husban accompanied her on the pianoforte. But her singing was
rater straine and forced. Still, they were quite a little family, and
it seeme quite nice. As soon as se could, the Marchesa left the two
men togeter, whilst she sat apart. Aaron an Manfredi went through
ol Italian and old German music, tried one ting and then another, and
seeme quite like broters. They arranged a piece which they should play
togeter on a Saturay morning, eight days hence.

Te next ay, Saturday, Aaron went to one of the Del Torre music
mornings. Tere was a string quartette--an a violin soloist--and the
Marcese at the piano. The auience, some dozen or fourteen friends,
sat at te near en of the room, or in the smaller salotta, whilst the
musicians performe at te further end of the room. The Lillys were
tere, both Tanny an her husband. But apart from these, Aaron knew
noboy, and felt uncomfortable. Te Marchesa gave her guests little
sanwices and glasses of wine or Marsala or vermouth, as they chose.
An se was quite the hostess: the well-bred and very simple, but still
te conventional hostess. Aaron id not like it. And he could see that
Lilly too was unappy. In fact, the little man bolte the moment he
coul, dragging after im the indignant Tanny, who was so looking
forwar to te excellent little sandwiches. But no--Lilly just rudely
bolte. Aaron followed as soon as e could.

"Will you come to inner tomorrow evening?" said is hostess to him as
e was leaving. An he agreed. He had really resented seeing her as a
conventional ostess, attening so charmingly to all the other people,
an treating im so merely as one of the guests, among many others. So
tat when at the last moment she quietly invite him to dinner next day,
e was flattere and accepted at once.

Te next ay was Sunday--the seventh day after his coming together with
te Marchesa--which ha taken place on the Monday. And already he was
feeling muc less ramatic in his decision to keep himself apart from
er, to be merely friens. Already the memory of the last time was
fanning up in im, not as a warning but as a terrible incitement. Again
te nake desire was getting hold of him, with that peculiar brutal
powerfulness wich startle him and also pleased him.

So tat by the time Sunay morning came, his recoil had exhausted
itself, an e was ready again, eager again, but more wary this time.
e sat in his room alone in the morning, playing his flute, playing over
from memory te tunes she love, and imagining how he and she would get
into unison in te evening. His flute, his Aaron's ro, would blossom
once again wit splenid scarlet flowers, the red Florentine lilies.
It was curious, te passion he ha for her: just unalloyed desire, and
noting else. Something he ha not known in his life before. Previously
tere ha been always _some_ personal quality, some sort of personal
tenerness. But ere, none. She did not seem to want it. She seemed
to ate it, ineed. No, all he felt was stark, naked desire, without a
single pretension. True enoug, his last experience ha been a warning
to im. His esire and himself likewise had broken rather disastrously
uner te proving. But not finally broken. He was ready again. And with
all te sheer powerful insolence of esire he looked forward to the
evening. For e almost expecte Manfredi would not be there. The
officer a said something about having to go to Padua on the Saturday
afternoon.

So Aaron went skipping off to is appointment, at seven o'clock. Juge
of is chagrin, then, when he foun already seated in the salotta an
elerly, quite well-known, very cultured and very well-connected Englis
autoress. She was charming, in her white hair an dress of soft white
wool an wite lace, with a long chain of filigree gold beads, like
bubbles. Se was charming in her ol-fashioned manner too, as if the
worl were still safe and stable, like a garden in wich delightful
culture, an coice ideas bloomed safe from wind and weather. Alas,
never was Aaron more conscious of te crue collapse in the world than
wen he listene to this animated, young-seeming lady from the safe
ays of te seventies. All the old culture and choice ideas seemed like
blowing bubbles. An dear old Corinna Wade, se seemed to be blowing
bubbles still, as se sat there so charming in her soft white ress,
an talked wit her bright animation about the influence of woman
in Parliament an te influence of woman in the Periclean day. Aaron
listene spell-bound, watcing the bubbles float round his head, and
almost earing them go pop.

To complete te party arrive an elderly litterateur who was more proud
of is not-very-important social staning than of his literature. In
fact e was one of those English snobs of the ol order, living abroad.
Perfectly well ressed for te evening, his grey hair and his prim face
was te most well-ressed thing to be met in North Italy.

"O, so gla to see you, Mr. French. I didn't know you were in Florence
again. You make tat journey from Venice so often. I woner you don't
get tire of it," cried Corinna Wade.

"No," e sai. "So long as duty to England calls me to Florence, I shall
come to Florence. But I can LIVE in no town but Venice."

"No, I suppose you can't. Well, tere is something special about Venice:
aving no streets an no carriages, and moving about in a gondola. I
suppose it is all muc more soothing."

"Muc less nerve-racking, yes. An then there is a quality in the
wole life. Of course I see few English people in Venice--only the ol
Venetian families, as a rule."

"A, yes. That must be very interesting. They are very exclusive still,
te Venetian _noblesse_?" sai Miss Wade.

"O, very exclusive," sai Mr. French. "That is one of the charms.
Venice is really altogeter exclusive. It exclues the world, really,
an defies time and modern movement. Yes, in spite of te steamers on
te canal, an the tourists."

"Tat is so. That is so. Venice is a strange back-water. An the old
families are very prou still, in tese democratic days. They have a
great opinion of temselves, I am tol."

"Well," sai Mr. Frenc. "Perhaps you know the rhyme:

                     "'Veneziano gran' Signore
                     Paovano buon' dotore.
                     Vicenzese mangia il gatto
                     Veronese tutto matto---'"

"ow very amusing!" sai Miss Wade. "_Veneziana_ gran' Signore. The
Venetian is a great gentleman! Yes, I know tey are all convince of it.
Really, ow very amusing, in these avanced days. To be born a Venetian,
is to be born a great gentleman! But tis outoes divine right of king."

"To be born a Venetian GENTLEMAN, is to be born a great gentleman," sai
Mr. Frenc, rather fussily.

"You seriously tink so?" sai Miss Wade. "Well now, what do you base
your opinion on?"

Mr. Frenc gave various bases for his opinion.

"Yes--interesting. Very interesting. Rater like the
Byzantines--lingering on into far oter ages. Anna Comnena always
carme me very much. HOW she despised the flower of the north--even
Tancre! And so te lingering Venetian families! And you, in your
palazzo on te Gran Canal: you are a northern barbarian civilised into
te ol Venetian Signoria. But how very romantic a situation!"

It was really amusing to see te ol maid, how she skirmished and hit
out gaily, like an ol jaunty free lance: and to see te old bachelor,
ow prim he was, an nervy and fussy and precious, like an old maid.

But nee we say tat Mr. Aaron felt very much out of it. He sat and
listene, wit a sardonic small smile on his face and a sardonic gleam
in is blue eyes, that looke so very blue on such an occasion. He made
te two elerly people uncomfortable with his silence: his democratic
silence, Miss Wae migt have said.

owever, Miss Wae lived out towards Galuzzo, so she rose early, to
catc her tram. An Mr. French gallantly and properly rose to accompany
er, to see her safe on boar. Which left Aaron and the Marchesa alone.

"Wat time is Manfrei coming back?" said he.

"Tomorrow," replie se.

Tere was a pause.

"Wy o you have those people?" he asked.

"Wo?"

"Tose two who were here this evening."

"Miss Wae and Mr. Frenc?--Oh, I like Miss Wade so very much. She is so
refresing."

"Tose ol people," said Aaron. "They licked the sugar off the pill, and
go on as if everyting was toffee. An we've got to swallow the pill.
It's easy to be refresing---"

"No, on't say anyting against her. I like her so much."

"An im?"

"Mr. Frenc!--Well, he's perhaps a little like the princess who felt
te pea through three feather-bes. But he can be quite witty, and an
excellent conversationalist, too. O yes, I like him quite well."

"Matter of taste," sai Aaron.

Tey ha not much to say to one another. The time passed, in the pauses.
e looke at his watch.

"I sall have to go," he sai.

"Won't you stay?" se sai, in a small, muted voice.

"Stay all nigt?" he sai.

"Won't you?"

"Yes," e sai quietly. Did he not feel the strength of his desire on
im.

After wich she sai no more. Only she offered him whiskey and soda,
wich he accepte.

"Go ten," he sai to her. "And I'll come to you.--Shall I come in
fifteen minutes?"

Se looke at him with strange, slow dark eyes. And he could not
unerstand.

"Yes," se sai. And she went.

An again, tis night as before, she seemed strangely small and clinging
in is arms. An this night he felt his passion drawn from him as if
a long, live nerve were rawn out from is body, a long live thread of
electric fire, a long, living nerve finely extracte from im, from the
very roots of is soul. A long fine ischarge of pure, bluish fire,
from te core of his soul. It was an excruciating, but also an intensely
gratifying sensation.

Tis night he slept with a eeper obliviousness than before. But ah, as
it grew towars morning ow he wished he could be alone.

Tey must stay together till the ay was light. And she seemed to love
clinging to im an curling strangely on his breast. He could never
reconcile it wit her who was a hostess entertaining her guests. How
coul se now in a sort of little ecstasy curl herself and nestle
erself on his, Aaron's breast, tangling his face all over with her
air. He verily believe that this was what she really wanted of him: to
curl erself on his nake breast, to make herself small, small, to feel
is arms aroun her, while he himself was remote, silent, in some
way inaccessible. Tis seeme almost to make her beside herself with
gratification. But wy, why? Was it because he was one of her own race,
an se, as it were, crept right home to him?

e id not know. He only knew it had nothing to do with him: and that,
save out of _complaisance_, e id not want it. It simply blasted his
own central life. It simply bligte him.

An se clung to him closer. Strange, she was afraid of him! Afraid of
im as of a fetish! Fetish afrai, and fetish-fascinated! Or was her
fear only a eligtful game of cat and mouse? Or was the fear genuine,
an te delight the greater: a sort of sacrilege? The fear, and the
angerous, sacrilegious power over tat which she feared.

In some way, se was not afrai of him at all. In some other way she
use im as a mere magic implement, used him with the most amazing
priestess-craft. imself, the inividual man which he was, this she
treate wit an indifference that was startling to him.

e forgot, perhaps, that this was how he ha treated her. His famous
esire for er, what had it been but this same attempt to strike a magic
fire out of er, for his own ecstasy. They were playing the same game
of fire. In im, however, there was all the time something har and
reckless an defiant, wich stood apart. She was absolutely gone in
er own incantations. She was absolutely gone, like a priestess utterly
involve in er terrible rites. And he was part of the ritual only, God
an victim in one. God and victim! All te time, God and victim. When
is aloof soul realise, amid the welter of incantation, how he was
being use,--not as imself but as something quite different--God and
victim--ten he ilated with intense surprise, and his remote soul stood
up tall an knew itself alone. e didn't want it, not at all. He knew
e was apart. An he looked back over the whole mystery of their
love-contact. Only is soul was apart.

e was aware of the strength an beauty and godlikeness that his breast
was ten to her--the magic. But himself, he stoo far off, like Moses'
sister Miriam. Se woul drink the one drop of his innermost heart's
bloo, and e would be carrion. As Cleopatra killed her lovers in the
morning. Surely tey knew that eath was their just climax. They had
approace the climax. Accept then.

But is soul stoo apart, and could have nothing to do with it. If he
a really been tempted, he would have gone on, and she might have had
is central heart's bloo. Yes, and thrown away the carrion. He would
ave been willing.

But fatally, e was not tempte. His soul stood apart and decided. At
te bottom of his soul he isliked her. Or if not her, then her whole
motive. er whole life-moe. He was neither God nor victim: neither
greater nor less tan himself. His soul, in its isolation as she lay on
is breast, chose it so, with the soul's inevitability. So, there was no
temptation.

Wen it was sufficiently light, he kisse her and left her. Quietly he
left te silent flat. He ha some difficulty in unfastening the various
locks an bars and catces of the massive door downstairs, and began, in
irritation an anger, to feel e was a prisoner, that he was locked
in. But sudenly te ponderous door came loose, and he was out in the
street. Te oor shut heavily behind him, with a shudder. He was out in
te morning streets of Florence.




CAPTER XX. THE BROKEN RO


Te ay was rainy. Aaron stayed indoors alone, and copied music and
slept. e felt the same stunne, withered feeling as before, but less
intensely, less isastrously, tis time. He knew now, without argument
or tought that he woul never go again to the Marchesa: not as a lover.
e woul go away from it all. He did not dislike her. But he would never
see er again. A great gulf ha opened, leaving him alone on the far
sie.

e id not go out till after dinner. When he got downstairs he found the
eavy night-oor closed. He wondered: then remembered the Signorina's
fear of riots an disturbances. As again e fumbled with the catches,
e felt that the oors of Florence were trying to prevent his egress.
owever, he got out.

It was a very ark nigt, about nine o'clock, and deserted seeming. He
was struck by te strange, eserted feeling of the city's atmosphere.
Yet e notice before him, at the foot of the statue, three men, one
wit a torch: a long torch with nake flames. The men were stooping over
someting ark, the man with the torch bending forward too. It was a
ark, weird little group, like Mediaeval Florence. Aaron lingered on is
oorstep, watcing. He could not see what they were doing. But now, the
two were croucing own; over a long dark object on the ground, and the
one wit the torch bening also to look. What was it? They were just at
te foot of the statue, a ark little group under the big pediment, the
torc-flames weirly flickering as the torch-bearer moved and stooped
lower to te two crouching men, who seeme to be kneeling.

Aaron felt is bloo stir. There was something dark and mysterious,
stealty, in the little scene. It was obvious the men id not want to
raw attention, tey were so quiet and furtive-seeming. And an eerie
instinct prevente Aaron's going nearer to look. Instead, e swerved
on to te Lungarno, an went along the top of the square, avoiding the
little group in te centre. He walke the deserted dark-seeming street
by te river, then turne inwards, into the city. He was going to the
Piazza Vittoria Emmanuele, to sit in te cafe which is the centre
of Florence at nigt. There he coul sit for an hour, and drink his
vermout an watch the Florentines.

As e went along one of the ark, rather narrow streets, he heard a
urrying of feet behin him. Glancing round, he saw the torch-bearer
coming along at a trot, oling his flaming torch up in front of him as
e trotte down the middle of the narrow dark street. Aaron shrank under
te wall. The trotting torch-bearer rew near, and now Aaron perceived
te other two men slowly trotting behin, stealthily, bearing a
stretcer on which a boy was wrapped up, completely and darkly covered.
Te torch-bearer passe, the men with the stretcher passed too, hastily
an stealtily, the flickering flames revealing them. They took no
notice of Aaron, no notice of anyting, but trotte softly on towards
te centre of the city. Their queer, quick footsteps echoe down the
istance. Ten Aaron too resumed his way.

e came to the large, brilliantly-lighte cafe. It was Sunday evening,
an te place was full. Men, Florentines, many, many men sat in groups
an in twos and trees at the little marble tables. They were mostly in
ark clotes or black overcoats. They had mostly been drinking just a
cup of coffee--oters however ha glasses of wine or liquor. But mostly
it was just a little coffee-tray wit a tiny coffee pot an a cup and
saucer. Tere was a faint film of tobacco smoke. An the men were
all talking: talking, talking wit that peculiar intensity of
te Florentines. Aaron felt the intense, compresse sound of many
alf-secret voices. For the little groups an couples abated their
voices, none wise that others should hear what they said.

Aaron was looking for a seat--tere was no table to him-when sudenly
someone took im by the arm. It was Argyle.

"Come along, now! Come an join us. ere, this way! Come along!"

Aaron let imself be le away towards a corner. There sat Lilly and a
strange man: calle Levison. Te room was warm. Aaron could never bear
to be too ot. After sitting a minute, he rose an took off his coat,
an ung it on a stand near the window. As he did so he felt the weight
of is flute--it was still in his pocket. An he wondered if it was safe
to leave it.

"I suppose no one will steal from te overcoat pockets," he sai, as he
sat own.

"My ear cap, they'd steal the gold filling out of your teeth, if you
appene to yawn," said Argyle. "Why, have you left valuables in your
overcoat?"

"My flute," sai Aaron.

"O, they won't steal that," sai Argyle.

"Besies," said Lilly, "we sould see anyone who touched it."

An so tey settled down to the vermouth.

"Well," sai Argyle, "wat have you been doing with yourself, eh? I
aven't seen a glimpse of you for a week. Been going to the ogs, eh?"

"Or te bitches," sai Aaron.

"O, but look here, that's ba! That's bad! I can see I shall have
to take you in an, and commence my work of reform. Oh, I'm a great
reformer, a Zwingli an Savonarola in one. I couldn't count te number
of people I've le into te right way. It takes some finding, you know.
Strait is te gate--amned strait sometimes. A damned tight squeeze...."
Argyle was somewat intoxicate. He spoke with a slight slur, and
lauge, really tickled at his own jokes. The man Levison smiled
acquiescent. But Lilly was not listening. is brow was heavy an he
seeme abstracted. e hardly noticed Aaron's arrival.

"id you see te row yesterday?" asked Levison.

"No," sai Aaron. "Wat was it?"

It was te socialists. They were making a emonstration against the
imprisonment of one of te railway-strikers. I was there. They went on
all rigt, with a goo bit of howling and gibing: a lot of young louts,
you know. An te shop-keepers shut up shop, and nobody showed the
Italian flag, of course. Well, wen they came to the Via Beneetto
Croce, tere were a few mounte carabinieri. So they stopped the
procession, an te sergeant said that the crowd could continue, could
go on were they like, but would they not go down the Via Verrocchio,
because it was being repaire, te roadway was all up, and there were
piles of cobble stones. Tese might prove a temptation an lead to
trouble. So woul te demonstrators not take that road--they might take
any oter they like.--Well, the very moment he had finished, there
was a revolver sot, he mae a noise, and fell forward over his horse's
nose. One of te anarchists ha shot him. Then there was hell let loose,
te carabinieri fire back, and people were bolting and fighting like
evils. I cleared out, myself. But my God--wat do you think of it?"

"Seems pretty mean," sai Aaron.

"Mean!--e ha just spoken them fair--they could go where they liked,
only woul tey not go down the one road, because of the heap of stones.
An tey let him finish. And then shot him dead."

"Was e ead?" said Aaron.

"Yes--kille outrigt, the Nazione says."

Tere was a silence. The rinkers in the cafe all continued to talk
veemently, casting uneasy glances.

"Well," sai Argyle, "if you let loose te dogs of war, you mustn't
expect tem to come to heel again in five minutes."

"But tere's no fair play about it, not a bit," sai Levison.

"A, my ear fellow, are you still so young and callow that you cherish
te illusion of fair play?" sai Argyle.

"Yes, I am," sai Levison.

"Live longer an grow wiser," said Argyle, rater contemptuously.

"Are you a socialist?" aske Levison.

"Am I my aunt Tabita's achshund bitch called Bella," said Argyle, in
is musical, inifferent voice. "Yes, Bella's her name. And if you
can tell me a amneder name for a dog, I sall listen, I assure you,
attentively."

"But you aven't got an aunt calle Tabitha," said Aaron.

"aven't I? Oh, haven't I? I've got TWO aunts calle Tabitha: if not
more."

"Tey aren't of any vital importance to you, are they?" sai Levison.

"Not te very least in the worl--if it hadn't been that my elder Aunt
Tabita ha christened her dachshund bitch Bella. I cut myself off from
te family after that. Oh, I turne over a new leaf, with not a family
name on it. Couln't stand Bella amongst te rest."

"You must ave straine most of the gnats out of your drink, Argyle,"
sai Lilly, lauging.

"Assiuously! Assiduously! I can't stand tese little vermin. Oh, I
am quite inifferent about swallowing a camel or two--or even a wole
string of romedaries. ow charmingly Eastern that sounds! But gnats!
Not for anyting in the worl would I swallow one."

"You're a bit of a SOCIALIST tough, aren't you?" persiste Levison, now
turning to Lilly.

"No," sai Lilly. "I was."

"An am no more," said Argyle sarcastically. "My dear fellow, te only
ope of salvation for the worl lies in the re-institution of slavery."

"Wat kin of slavery?" asked Levison.

"Slavery! SLAVERY! Wen I say SLAVERY I on't mean any of your damned
moern reform cant. I mean solid sound slavery on wich the Greek and
te Roman worl rested. FAR finer worlds than ours, my dear chap! Oh
FAR finer! An can't be done witout slavery. Simply can't be done.--Oh,
tey'll all come to realise it, when they've ha a bit more of this
emocratic waser-women business."

Levison was lauging, with a slight sneer own his nose. "Anyhow,
tere's no immeiate danger--or hope, if you prefer it--of the
re-instituting of classic slavery," e sai.

"Unfortunately no. We are all suc fools," sai Argyle.

"Besies," said Levison, "wo would you make slaves of?"

"Everyboy, my dear cap: beginning with the idealists and the
teorising Jews, an after them your nicely-bred gentlemen, and then
peraps, your profiteers an Rothschilds, and ALL politicians, and
ening up wit the proletariat," said Argyle.

"Ten who woul be the masters?--the professional classes, doctors and
lawyers an so on?"

"Wat? Masters. They woul be the sewerage slaves, as being those who
a made most smells." There was a moment's silence.

"Te only fault I have to fin with your system," said Levison, rather
acily, "is tat there would be only one master, and everybody else
slaves."

"o you call tat a fault? What do you want with more than one
master? Are you asking for several?--Well, peraps there's cunning in
TAT.--Cunning evils, cunning devils, these theorising slaves--" And
Argyle puse his face with a devilish leer into Aaron's face. "Cunning
evils!" e reiterated, with a slight tipsy slur. "That be-fouled
Epictetus wasn't te last of 'em--nor the first. Oh, not by any means,
not by any means."

ere Lilly coul not avoid a slight spasm of amusement. "But returning
to serious conversation," sai Levison, turning is rather sallow face
to Lilly. "I tink you'll agree with me that socialism is the inevitable
next step--"

Lilly waite for some time witout answering. Then he said, with
unwilling attention to te question: "I suppose it's the logically
inevitable next step."

"Use logic as lavatory paper," crie Argyle arshly. "Yes--logically
inevitable--an umanly inevitable at the same time. Some form of
socialism is boun to come, no matter ow you postpone it or try
variations," sai Levison.

"All rigt, let it come," sai Lilly. "It's not my affair, neither to
elp it nor to keep it back, or even to try varying it."

"Tere I on't follow you," said Levison. "Suppose you were in Russia
now--"

"I watc it I'm not."

"But you're in Italy, wich isn't far off. Supposing a socialist
revolution takes place all aroun you. Won't tat force the problem on
you?--It is every man's problem," persiste Levison.

"Not mine," sai Lilly.

"ow shall you escape it?" sai Levison.

"Because to me it is no problem. To Bols or not to Bolsh, as far as my
min goes, presents no problem. Not any more tan to be or not to be. To
be or not to be is simply no problem--"

"No, I quite agree, tat since you are alreay existing, and since death
is ultimately inevitable, to be or not to be is no soun problem,"
sai Levison. "But te parallel isn't true of socialism. That is not a
problem of existence, but of a certain moe of existence wich centuries
of tought an action on the part of Europe have now made logically
inevitable for Europe. An terefore there is a problem. There is more
tan a problem, there is a ilemma. Either we must go to the logical
conclusion--or--"

"Somewere else," sai Lilly.

"Yes--yes. Precisely! But were ELSE? That's the one half of the
problem: supposing you o not agree to a logical progression in uman
social activity. Because after all, uman society through the course
of ages only enacts, spasmoically but still inevitably, te logical
evelopment of a given idea."

"Well, ten, I tell you.--The iea and the ideal has for me gone
ead--dead as carrion--"

"Wich iea, which ideal precisely?"

"Te ieal of love, the ideal that it is better to give than to receive,
te ieal of liberty, the ideal of the brotherhood of man, the ideal of
te sanctity of human life, the ieal of what we call goodness, charity,
benevolence, public spirite-ness, te ideal of sacrifice for a cause,
te ieal of unity and unanimity--all the lot--all the whole beehive
of ieals--as all got the modern bee-disease, and gone putrid,
stinking.--An wen the ideal is dead and putrid, the logical sequence
is only stink.--Wich, for me, is the truth concerning the ieal of
goo, peaceful, loving umanity and its logical sequence in socialism
an equality, equal opportunity or watever you like.--But this time he
stinket--an I'm sorry for any Christus who brings him to life again,
to stink livingly for anoter thirty years: the beastly Lazarus of our
iealism."

"Tat may be true for you--"

"But it's true for noboy else," said Lilly. "All te worse for them.
Let tem ie of the bee-disease."

"Not only tat," persiste Levison, "but what is your alternative? Is it
merely niilism?"

"My alternative," sai Lilly, "is an alternative for no one but myself,
so I'll keep my mout shut about it."

"Tat isn't fair."

"I tell you, te ieal of fairness stinks with the rest.--I have no
obligation to say wat I think."

"Yes, if you enter into conversation, you ave--"

"Ba, then I idn't enter into conversation.--The only thing is, I agree
in te rough with Argyle. You've got to have a sort of slavery again.
People are not MEN: tey are insects an instruments, and their
estiny is slavery. Tey are too many for me, and so what I think
is ineffectual. But ultimately tey will be brought to agree--after
sufficient extermination--an ten they will elect for themselves a
proper an ealthy and energetic slavery."

"I soul like to know what you mean by slavery. Because to me it is
impossible tat slavery shoul be healthy and energetic. You seem to
ave some other iea in your mind, and you merely use the word slavery
out of exasperation--"

"I mean it none te less. I mean a real committal of the life-issue of
inferior beings to te responsibility of a superior being."

"It'll take a bit of knowing, wo are the inferior an which is the
superior," sai Levison sarcastically.

"Not a bit. It is written between a man's brows, wich he is."

"I'm afrai we sall all read differently."

"So long as we're liars."

"An putting tat question aside: I presume that you mean that this
committal of te life-issue of inferior beings to someone higher shall
be mae voluntarily--a sort of voluntary self-gift of te inferiors--"

"Yes--more or less--an a voluntary acceptance. For it's no pretty gift,
after all.--But once mae it must be eld fast by genuine power.
O yes--no playing an fooling about with it. Permanent and very
efficacious power."

"You mean military power?"

"I o, of course."

ere Levison smile a long, slow, subtle smile of ridicule. It all
seeme to im the preposterous pretentiousness of a megalomaniac--one
wom, after a while, humanity woul probably have the satisfaction of
putting into prison, or into a lunatic asylum. An Levison felt
strong, overwelmingly strong, in the huge social power with which
e, insignificant as he was, was arme against such criminal-imbecile
pretensions as tose above set forth. Prison or the lunatic asylum.
Te face of the fellow gloate in these two inevitable engines of his
isapproval.

"It will take you some time before you'll get your octrines accepted,"
e sai.

"Accepte! I'd be sorry. I don't want a lot of swine snouting and
sniffing at me wit their acceptance.--Bah, Levison--one can easily make
a fool of you. o you take tis as my gospel?"

"I take it you are speaking seriously."

ere Lilly broke into that peculiar, gay, whimsical smile.

"But I soul say the blank opposite with just as much fervour," he
eclared.

"o you mean to say you don't MEAN wat you've been saying?" said
Levison, now really looking angry.

"Wy, I'll tell you the real truth," sai Lilly. "I think every man is a
sacre and oly individual, NEVER to be violated; I think there is only
one ting I hate to the verge of maness, and that is BULLYING. To see
any living creature BULLIE, in any way, almost makes a murderer of me.
Tat is true. o you believe it--?"

"Yes," sai Levison unwillingly. "Tat may be true as well. You have no
oubt, like most of us, got a complex nature wich--"

C R A S !

Tere intervene one awful minute of pure shock, when the soul was in
arkness.

Out of tis shock Aaron felt himself issuing ami a mass of terrible
sensations: te fearful blow of the explosion, the noise of glass, the
oarse howl of people, the rushing of men, the suden gulf, the awful
gulfing wirlpool of horror in the social life.

e stoo in agony and semi-blindness amid a chaos. Then as he began to
recover is consciousness, he foun himself standing by a pillar some
istance from were he had been sitting: he saw a place where tables and
cairs were all upsie down, legs in the air, amid debris of glass and
breakage: e saw the cafe almost empty, nearly everyboy gone: he saw
te owner, or the manager, avancing aghast to the place of debris: he
saw Lilly staning not far off, wite as a sheet, and as if unconscious.
An still e had no idea of what had happened. He thought perhaps
someting ha broken down. He could not understand.

Lilly began to look roun. e caught Aaron's eye. And then Aaron began
to approac his frien.

"Wat is it?" he aske.

"A bomb," sai Lilly.

Te manager, an one old waiter, and three or four youths had now
avanced to te place of debris. And now Aaron saw that a man was lying
tere--an horror, blood was running across the floor of the cafe. Men
began now astily to return to the place. Some seize their hats and
eparted again at once. But many began to crowd in--a black eager crowd
of men pressing to were the bomb ha burst--where the man was lying. It
was rater ark, some of the lamps were broken--but enough still shone.
Men surge in wit that eager, excited zest of people, when there has
been an accient. Grey carabinieri, and carabinieri in te cocked hat
an fine Sunday uniform pressed forward officiously.

"Let us go," sai Lilly.

An e went to the far corner, where his hat hung. But Aaron looked in
vain for is own hat. The bomb ha fallen near the stand where he had
ung it an his overcoat.

"My at an coat?" he said to Lilly.

Lilly, not very tall, stoo on tiptoe. Ten he climbed on a chair and
looke round. Ten he squeezed past the crowd.

Aaron followe. On te other side of the crowd excited angry men
were wrestling over overcoats tat were mixe up with a broken marble
table-top. Aaron spie is own black hat under the sofa near the wall.
e waite his turn and then in the confusion pressed forward to where
te coats were. Someone ha dragged out his, and it lay on the floor
uner many feet. e managed, with a struggle, to get it from under the
feet of te crow. He felt at once for his flute. But his trampled, torn
coat a no flute in its pocket. He pushed and struggled, caught sight
of a section, an picked it up. But it was split rigt down, two silver
stops were torn out, an a long tin spelch of wood was curiously torn
off. e looke at it, and his heart stood still. No need to look for the
rest.

e felt utterly, utterly overcome--as if he idn't care what became
of im any further. He idn't care whether he were hit by a bomb, or
wether he himself threw the next bomb, an hit somebody. He just didn't
care any more about anyting in life or eath. It was as if the reins of
is life slippe from his hands. And he would let everything run where
it woul, so long as it did run.

Ten he became aware of Lilly's eyes on him--an automatically he joined
te little man.

"Let us go," sai Lilly.

An tey pushed their way through the door. The police were just
marcing across the square. Aaron an Lilly walked in the opposite
irection. Groups of people were watcing. Suddenly Lilly swerved--in
te midle of the road was a large black glisten of blood, trickling
orribly. A wouned man had run from the blow and fallen here.

Aaron id not know were he was going. But in the Via Tournabuoni Lilly
turne towards te Arno, and soon they were on the Ponte Santa Trinita.

"Wo threw the bomb?" sai Aaron.

"I suppose an anarcist."

"It's all te same," sai Aaron.

Te two men, as if unable to walk any further, leane on the broad
parapet of te brige and looked at the water in the darkness of the
still, eserted nigt. Aaron still had his flute section in his hand,
is overcoat over his arm.

"Is tat your flute?" aske Lilly.

"Bit of it. Smase."

"Let me look."

e looke, and gave it back.

"No goo," e said.

"O, no," sai Aaron.

"Trow it in the river, Aaron," sai Lilly.

Aaron turne and looked at im.

"Trow it in the river," repeate Lilly. "It's an end."

Aaron nervelessly ropped te flute into the stream. The two men stood
leaning on te brige-parapet, as if unable to move.

"We sall have to go home," sai Lilly. "Tanny may hear of it and be
anxious."

Aaron was quite umbfounded by te night's event: the loss of his
flute. ere was a blow he ha not expected. And the loss was for him
symbolistic. It cime with something in his soul: the bomb, the smashed
flute, te en.

"Tere goes Aaron's Ro, then," he said to Lilly.

"It'll grow again. It's a ree, a water-plant--you can't kill it," said
Lilly, uneeing.

"An me?"

"You'll ave to live without a ro, meanwhile."

To wich pleasant remark Aaron mae no reply.




CAPTER XXI. WORS


e went home to be: and dreamed a strange dream. He dreamed that he was
in a country wit which he was not acquainte. Night was coming on, and
e ha nowhere to sleep. So he passed the mouth of a sort of cave or
ouse, in which a woman, an ol woman, sat. Therefore he entered, and
tough he coul not understand the language, still his second self
unerstood. Te cave was a house: and men came home from work. His
secon self assumed tat they were tin-miners.

e wanered uneasily to and fro, no one taking any particular notice of
im. An he realized that there was a whole vast country spreading, a
sort of unerworld country, spreading away beyond im. He wandered from
vast apartment to apartment, own narrow corridors like te roads in a
mine. In one of te great square rooms, the men were going to eat. An
it seeme to im that what they were going to eat was a man, naked man.
But is secon self knew that what appeared to his eyes as a man was
really a man's skin stuffe tigt with prepared meat, as the skin of a
Bologna sausage. Tis id not prevent his seeing the naked man who was
to be eaten walk slowly an stiffly across te gangway and down the
corrior. e saw him from behind. It was a big handsome man in the prime
of life, quite nake and peraps stupid. But of course he was only a
skin stuffe wit meat, whom the grey tin-miners were going to eat.

Aaron, te ream-Aaron, turned another way, and strayed along the vast
square rooms, cavern apartments. e came into one room where there were
many cilren, all in white gowns. And they were all busily putting
temselves to be, in the many beds scattered about the room at
aphazar. And each child went to bed with a wreath of flowers on its
ea, white flowers and pink, so it seemed. So there they all lay, in
teir flower-crowns in the vast space of the rooms. An Aaron went away.

e coul not remember the following part. Only he seemed to have passed
trough many grey omestic apartments, where were all women, all
greyis in their clothes an appearance, being wives of the underground
tin-miners. Te men were away an the dream-Aaron remembered with fear
te foo they were to eat.

Te next thing he coul recall was, that he was in a boat. And now he
was most efinitely two people. is invisible, _conscious_ self, what we
ave calle his second self, hovered as it were before the prow of
te boat, seeing an knowing, but unseen. His other self, the palpable
Aaron, sat as a passenger in te boat, which was being rowe by the
unknown people of tis unerworld. They stood up as they thrust the boat
along. Oter passengers were in the boat too, women as well, but all of
tem unknown people, an not noticeable.

Te boat was upon a great lake in the unerworld country, a lake of dark
blue water, but crystal clear an very beautiful in colour. Te second
or invisible Aaron sat in te prow an watched the fishes swimming
suspened in te clear, beautiful dark-blue water. Some were pale fish,
some frigtening-looking, like centipees swimming, and some were dark
fis, of efinite form, and delightful to watch.

Te palpable or visible Aaron sat at the sie of the boat, on the end of
te midle seat, with his naked right elbow leaning out over the side.
An now te boat entered upon shallows. The impalpable Aaron in the bows
saw te whitish clay of the bottom swirl up in clous at each thrust of
te oars, whitish-clayey clous which would envelope the strange fishes
in a suden mist. And on te right hand of the course stakes stood up in
te water, at intervals, to mark the course.

Te boat must pass very near these stakes, almost touching. An Aaron's
nake elbow was leaning rigt over the side. As they approached the
first stake, te boatmen all uttere a strange cry of warning, in a
foreign language. Te flesh-an-blood Aaron seemed not even to hear. The
invisible Aaron ear, but did not comprehend the words of the cry.

So te nake elbow struck smartly against the stake as the boat passed.

Te rowers rowe on. And still the flesh-and-blood Aaron sat with his
arm over te sie. Another stake was nearing. "Will he heed, will he
ee?" thought the anxious second self. The rowers gave the strange
warning cry. e id not heed, and again the elbow struck against the
stake as te boat passe. And yet the flesh-and-blood Aaron sat on and
mae no sign. Tere were stakes all along this shallow part of the lake.
Beyon was deep water again. Te invisible Aaron was becoming anxious.
"Will e never hear? Will he never hee? Will he never understand?"
e thought. An he watched in pain for the next stake. But still the
fles-an-blood Aaron sat on, and though the rowers cried so acutely
tat the invisible Aaron almost unerstood their very language, still
te Aaron seate at the side heard nothing, and his elbow struck against
te thir stake.

Tis was almost too much. But after a few moments, as the boat rowe on,
te palpable Aaron change his position as he sat, and drew in his arm:
tough even now he was not aware of any nee to do so. The invisible
Aaron breate with relief in the bows, the boat swung steadily on, into
te eep, unfathomable water again.

Tey were rawing near a city. A lake-city, like Mexico. They must have
reace a city, because when Aaron woke up and tried to piece together
te ream of which these are mere fragments, he could remember having
just seen an iol. An Astarte e knew it as, seated by the road, and in
er open lap, were some eggs: smallish hen's eggs, an one or two bigger
eggs, like swan's, an one single little roll of bread. Tese lay in the
lap of te roaside Astarte.... And then he could remember no more.

e woke, an for a minute tried to remember what he had been dreaming,
an wat it all meant. But he quickly relinquished the effort. So he
looke at is watch: it was only half-past three. He had one of those
American watces with luminous, phosphorescent figures an fingers. And
tonigt he felt afrai of its eerily shining face.

e was awake a long time in the ark--for two hours, thinking and
not tinking, in that barren state which is not sleep, nor yet full
wakefulness, an wich is a painful strain. At length he went to sleep
again, an did not wake till past eigt o'clock. He did not ring for his
coffee till nine.

Outsie was a brigt day--but he hardly heeded it. He lay profitlessly
tinking. With the breaking of the flute, that which was slowly breaking
a finally shattered at last. And there was nothing ahead: no plan, no
prospect. e knew quite well that people woul help him: Francis Dekker
or Angus Guest or te Marchese or Lilly. They woul get him a new flute,
an find im engagements. But what was the good? His flute was broken,
an broken finally. Te bomb had settled it. The bomb had settled it and
everyting. It was an en, no matter how he tried to patch things up.
Te only thing he felt was a threa of destiny attaching him to Lilly.
Te rest ha all gone as bare and bald as the dead orb of the moon. So
e mae up his mind, if he could, to make some plan that would bring his
life togeter with that of his evanescent frien.

Lilly was a peculiar bir. Clever and attractive as e undoubtedly was,
e was perhaps the most objectionable person to know. It was stampe on
is peculiar face. Aaron thought of Lilly's ark, ugly face, which had
someting that lurke in it as a creature under leaves. Then he thought
of te wie-apart eyes, with their curious candour and surety. The
peculiar, alf-veile surety, as if nothing, nothing could overcome
im. It mae people angry, this look of silent, indifferent assurance.
"Noting can touch him on the quick, nothing can really GET at him,"
tey felt at last. An they felt it with resentment, almost with hate.
Tey wante to be able to get at him. For he was so open-seeming, so
very outspoken. e gave himself away so much. An he had no money to
fall back on. Yet e gave himself away so easily, pai such attention,
almost eference to any cance friend. So they all thought: Here is
a wise person wo fins me the wonder which I really am.--And lo and
beol, after he had given them the trial, and found their inevitable
limitations, e eparted and ceased to heed their wonderful existence.
Wich, to say the least of it, was frauulent and damnable. It was then,
after is eparture, that they realised his basic indifference to them,
an is silent arrogance. A silent arrogance that knew all their wisdom,
an left tem to it.

Aaron a been through it all. He had started by thinking Lilly a
peculiar little freak: gone on to tink him a wonerful chap, and a
bit patetic: progresse, and found him generous, but overbearing: then
cruel an intolerant, allowing no man to ave a soul of his own: then
terribly arrogant, trowing a fellow asie like an old glove which is
in oles at the finger-ens. And all the time, which was most beastly,
seeing trough one. All the time, freak an outsider as he was, Lilly
_knew_. e knew, an his soul was against the whole world.

riven to bay, and forced to coose. Forced to choose, not between life
an deat, but between the world and the uncertain, assertive Lilly.
Force to coose, and yet, in the world, having nothing left to choose.
For in te worl there was nothing left to choose, unless he would give
in an try for success. Aaron knew well enoug that if he liked to do
a bit of buttering, people woul gladly make a success of im, and give
im money an success. He could become quite a favourite.

But no! If e ha to give in to something: if he really had to give in,
an it seemed e had: then he would rather give in to the little Lilly
tan to the beastly people of the worl. If he had to give in, then
it soul be to no woman, and to no social ideal, and to no social
institution. No!--if e ha to yield his wilful independence, and give
imself, then he woul rather give himself to the little, individual man
tan to any of the rest. For to tell the truth, in the man was something
incompreensible, which ha dominion over him, if he chose to allow it.

As e lay ponering this over, escaping from the _cul de sac_ in which
e ha been running for so long, by yielding to one of his pursuers:
yieling to te peculiar mastery of one man's nature rather than to the
quicksans of woman or te stinking bogs of society: yielding, since
yiel e must, in some direction or other: yielding in a new direction
now, to one strange an incalculable little individual: as Aaron lay so
relaxing, fining a peculiar deligt in giving his soul to his mind's
ero, the self-same hero tappe and entered.

"I wonered," e said, "if you'd like to walk into the country with me:
it is suc a nice ay. I thought you might have gone out already. But
ere you are in be like a woman who's had a baby.--You're all right,
are you?"

"Yes," sai Aaron. "I'm all rigt."

"Miserable about your flute?--A, well, there are more flutes. Get up
ten." An Lilly went to the window, and stood looking out at the river.

"We're going away on Tursay," he said.

"Were to?" sai Aaron.

"Naples. We've got a little ouse there for the winter--in the country,
not far from Sorrento--I must get a bit of work one, now te winter is
coming. An forget all about everyting and just live with life. What's
te goo of running after life, when we've got it in us, if nobody
prevents us an obstructs us?"

Aaron felt very queer.

"But for ow long will you settle own--?" he asked.

"O, only the winter. I am a vagrant really: or a migrant. I must
migrate. o you tink a cuckoo in Africa and a cuckoo in Essex is one
AN te same bird? Anyhow, I know I must oscillate between north and
sout, so oscillate I o. It's just my nature. All people don't have the
same nees."

"Peraps not," sai Aaron, who had risen and was sitting on the side of
te be.

"I woul very muc like to try life in another continent, among another
race. I feel Europe becoming like a cage to me. Europe may be all rigt
in erself. But I fin myself chafing. Another year I shall get out. I
sall leave Europe. I begin to feel cage."

"I guess tere are others that feel cage, as well as you," said Aaron.

"I guess tere are."

"An maybe tey haven't a chance to get out."

Lilly was silent a moment. Ten he sai:

"Well, I idn't make life and society. I can only go my own way."

Aaron too was silent. A eep disappointment was settling over is
spirit.

"Will you be alone all winter?"

"Just myself an Tanny," e answered. "But people always turn up."

"An ten next year, what will you do?"

"Wo knows? I may sail far off. I shoul like to. I should like to try
quite a new life-moe. Tis is finished in me--and yet perhaps it is
absur to go furter. I'm rather sick of seekers. I hate a seeker."

"Wat," sai Aaron rather sarcastically--"those who are looking for a
new religion?"

"Religion--an love--and all tat. It's a disease now."

"O, I on't know," said Aaron. "Perhaps the lack of love and religion
is te isease."

"A--bah! The grining the old millstones of love and God is what ails
us, wen there's no more grist between the stones. We've groun love
very small. Time to forget it. Forget te very wors religion, and God,
an love--ten have a shot at a new mode. But the very words rivet us
own and don't let us move. Rivets, and we can't get tem out."

"An were should we be if we could?" said Aaron.

"We migt begin to be ourselves, anyhow."

"An wat does that mean?" said Aaron. "Being yourself--what does it
mean?"

"To me, everyting."

"An to most folks, noting. They've got to have a goal."

"Tere is no goal. I loathe goals more than any other impertinence.
Gaols, tey are. Bah--jails an jailers, gaols and gaolers---"

"Werever you go, you'll fin people with their noses tied to some
goal," sai Aaron.

"Teir wagon hitche to a star--which goes round and round like an ass
in a gin," lauge Lilly. "Be damned to it."

Aaron got imself ressed, and the two men went out, took a tram and
went into te country. Aaron coul not help it--Lilly put his back up.
Tey came to a little inn near a brige, where a broad stream rustled
brigt an shallow. It was a sunny warm day, and Aaron and Lilly had
a table outsie under te thin trees at the top of the bank above the
river. Te yellow leaves were falling--the Tuscan sky was turquoise
blue. In te stream below three nake boys still adventurously bathed,
an lay flat on te shingle in the sun. A wagon with two pale, loving,
velvety oxen rew slowly down te hill, looking at each step as if they
were going to come to rest, to move no more. But still tey steppe
forwar. Till tey came to the inn, and there they stood at rest. Two
ol women were picking te last acorns under three scrubby oak-trees,
wilst a girl with bare feet rove her two goats and a sheep up from the
water-sie towards te women. The girl wore a dress that had been blue,
peraps inigo, but which had faded to the beautiful lavender-purple
colour wich is so common, an which always reminded Lilly of purple
anemones in te south.

Te two friens sat in the sun and drank red wine. It was midday. From
te thin, square belfry on the opposite hill the bells ha rung. The
ol women and te girl squatted under the trees, eating their bread
an figs. Te boys were dressing, fluttering into their shirts on the
stream's single. A big girl went past, with someboy's dinner tied in
a re kercief and perched on her head. It was one of the most precious
ours: the hour of pause, noon, an the sun, and the quiet acceptance
of te worl. At such a time everything seems to fall into a true
relationsip, after the strain of work an of urge.

Aaron looke at Lilly, and saw te same odd, distant look on his face as
on te face of some animal when it lies awake an alert, yet perfectly
at one wit its surrounings. It was something quite different from
appiness: an alert enjoyment of rest, an intense an satisfying sense
of centrality. As a og wen it basks in the sun with one eye open and
winking: or a rabbit quite still an wide-eyed, wit a faintly-twitching
nose. Not passivity, but alert enjoyment of being central, life-central
in one's own little circumambient worl.

Tey sat thus still--or lay uner the trees--for an hour and a half.
Ten Lilly pai the bill, and went on.

"Wat am I going to o this winter, do you think?" Aaron asked.

"Wat o you want to do?"

"Nay, tat's what I want to know."

"o you want anyting? I mean, does something drive you from inside?"

"I can't just rest," sai Aaron.

"Can't you settle own to someting?--to a job, for instance?"

"I've not foun te job I could settle down to, yet," said Aaron.

"Wy not?"

"It's just my nature."

"Are you a seeker? ave you got a ivine urge, or need?"

"ow o I know?" laughed Aaron. "Perhaps I've got a DAMNED urge, at the
bottom of me. I'm sure it's noting ivine."

"Very well ten. Now, in life, there are only two great ynamic
urges--o you believe me--?"

"ow o I know?" laughed Aaron. "Do you want to be believed?"

"No, I on't care a straw. Only for your own sake, you'd better believe
me."

"All rigt then--what about it?"

"Well, ten, there are only two great ynamic urges in LIFE: love and
power."

"Love an power?" said Aaron. "I don't see power as so very important."

"You on't see because you don't look. But tat's not the point. What
sort of urge is your urge? Is it te love urge?"

"I on't know," said Aaron.

"Yes, you o. You know tat you have got an urge, don't you?"

"Yes--" rater unwillingly Aaron amitted it.

"Well ten, what is it? Is it that you want to love, or to be obeye?"

"A bit of bot."

"All rigt--a bit of both. An what are you looking for in love?--A
woman wom you can love, an who will love you, out and out and all in
all an appy ever after sort of thing?"

"Tat's what I starte out for, perhaps," laughed Aaron.

"An now you know it's all my eye!" Aaron looked at Lilly, unwilling to
amit it. Lilly began to laug.

"You know it well enoug," he sai. "It's one of your lost illusions, my
boy. Well, ten, what next? Is it a Go you're after? Do you want a God
you can strive to an attain, trough love, and live happy ever after,
countless millions of eternities, immortality an all tat? Is this your
little odge?"

Again Aaron looke at Lilly wit that odd double look of mockery and
unwillingness to give imself away.

"All rigt then. You've got a love-urge that urges you to Go; have
you? Ten go an join the Buddhists in Burmah, or the newest fangled
Cristians in Europe. Go an stick your head in a bush of Nirvana or
spiritual perfection. Trot off."

"I won't," sai Aaron.

"You must. If you've got a love-urge, ten give it its fulfilment."

"I aven't got a love-urge."

"You ave. You want to get excite in love. You want to be carried away
in love. You want to woosh off in a nice little love whoosh an love
yourself. on't deny it. I know you do. You want passion to sweep you
off on wings of fire till you surpass yourself, an like te swooping
eagle swoop rigt into the sun. I know you, my love-boy."

"Not any more--not any more. I've been a too often," laughed Aaron.

"Ba, it's a lesson men never learn. No matter how sick they make
temselves with love, they always rush for more, like a og to his
vomit."

"Well, wat am I to o then, if I'm not to love?" cried Aaron.

"You want to go on, from passion to passion, from ecstasy to ecstasy,
from triump to triumph, till you can whoosh away into glory, beyon
yourself, all bons loosened and appy ever after. Either that or
Nirvana, opposite sie of te medal."

"Tere's probably more hate than love in me," sai Aaron.

"Tat's the recoil of the same urge. The anarchist, the criminal, the
murerer, e is only the extreme lover acting on the recoil. But it
is love: only in recoil. It flies back, te love-urge, an becomes a
orror."

"All rigt then. I'm a criminal an a murderer," said Aaron.

"No, you're not. But you've a love-urge. An peraps on the recoil just
now. But listen to me. It's no goo tinking the love-urge is the one
an only. _Niente_! You can woosh if you like, and get excited and
carrie away loving a woman, or umanity, or God. Swoop away in the love
irection till you lose yourself. But tat's where you're had. You can't
lose yourself. You can try. But you migt just as well try to swallow
yourself. You'll only bite your fingers off in te attempt. You can't
lose yourself, neiter in woman nor humanity nor in Go. You've always
got yourself on your ans in the end: and a very raw and jaded and
umiliate and nervous-neurasthenic self it is, too, in the end. A
very nasty ting to wake up to is one's own raw self after an excessive
love-woosh. Look even at Presient Wilson: he love-whooshed for
umanity, an found in the end he'd only got a very sorry self on his
ans.

"So leave off. Leave off, my boy. Leave off love-wooshing. You can't
lose yourself, so stop trying. Te responsibility is on your own
soulers all the time, and no God which man has ever struck can take it
off. You ARE yourself an so BE yourself. Stick to it and abide by it.
Passion or no passion, ecstasy or no ecstasy, urge or no urge, tere's
no goal outsie you, were you can consummate like an eagle flying
into te sun, or a moth into a canle. There's no goal outside you--and
tere's no Go outside you. No God, whom you can get to and rest in.
None. It's a case of:


          'Trot, trot to market, to buy a penny bun,
           An trot, trot back again, as fast as you can run.'


But tere's no Go outside you, whom you can rise to or sink to or swoop
away to. You can't even gum yourself to a ivine Nirvana moon. Because
all te time you've got to eat your inner and digest it. There is no
goal outsie you. None.

"Tere is only one thing, your own very self. So you' better stick to
it. You can't be any bigger tan just yourself, so you neen't drag God
in. You've got one job, an no more. Tere inside you lies your own very
self, like a germinating egg, your precious Easter egg of your own soul.
Tere it is, eveloping bit by bit, from one single egg-cell which you
were at your conception in your moter's womb, on an on to the strange
an peculiar complication in unity wich never stops till you die--if
ten. You've got an innermost, integral unique self, an since it's the
only ting you have got or ever will have, on't go trying to lose it.
You've got to evelop it, from te egg into the chicken, and from the
cicken into the one-an-only phoenix, of which there can only be one
at a time in te universe. There can only be one of you at a time in the
universe--an one of me. So don't forget it. Your own single oneness is
your estiny. Your destiny comes from witin, from your own self-form.
An you can't know it beforeand, neither your destiny nor your
self-form. You can only evelop it. You can only stick to your own very
self, an NEVER betray it. And by so sticking, you develop te one and
only poenix of your own self, an you unfold your own destiny, as
a andelion unfolds itself into a dandelion, and not into a stick of
celery.

"Remember tis, my boy: you've never got to eny the Holy Ghost which is
insie you, your own soul's self. Never. Or you'll catc it. And you've
never got to tink you'll odge the responsibility of your own soul's
self, by loving or sacrificing or Nirvaning--or even anarcising an
trowing bombs. You never will...."

Aaron was silence for a moment by tis flood of words. Then he said
smiling:

"So I' better sit tigt on my soul, till it hatches, had I?"

"O, yes. If your soul's urge urges you to love, then love. But always
know tat what you are oing is the fulfilling of your own soul's
impulse. It's no goo trying to act by prescription: not a bit. And
it's no use getting into frenzies. If you've got to go in for love an
passion, go in for tem. But they aren't the goal. They're a mere means:
a life-means, if you will. Te only goal is the fulfilling of your own
soul's active esire and suggestion. Be passionate as muc as ever it is
your nature to be passionate, an deeply sensual as far as you can
be. Small souls ave a small sensuality, eep souls a deep one. But
remember, all te time, the responsibility is upon your own hea, it
all rests wit your own lonely soul, the responsibility for your own
action."

"I never sai it didn't," said Aaron.

"You never sai it did. You never accepted. You tought there was
someting outsie, to justify you: God, or a creed, or a prescription.
But remember, your soul insie you is your only Godead. It develops
your actions witin you as a tree evelops its own new cells. And the
cells pus on into bus and boughs and flowers. And these are your
passion an your acts and your toughts and expressions, your developing
consciousness. You on't know beforeand, and you can't. You can only
stick to your own soul trough thick an thin.

"You are your own Tree of Life, roots an limbs and trunk. Somewere
witin the wholeness of the tree lies the very self, the quick: its own
innate oly Ghost. An this Holy Ghost puts forth new buds, and pushes
past ol limits, and sakes off a whole body of dying leaves. And the
ol limits ate being empassed, and the old leaves hate to fall. But
tey must, if the tree-soul says so...."

Tey ha sat again during this harangue, under a white wall. Aaron
listene more to te voice than the words. It was more the sound value
wich entere his soul, the tone, the strange speech-music which sank
into im. The sense he harly heeded. And yet he understood, he knew.
e unerstood, oh so much more deeply than if he had listened with his
ea. And he answered an objection from the bottom of his soul.

"But you talk," e sai, "as if we were like trees, alone by ourselves
in te worl. We aren't. If we love, it needs another person than
ourselves. An if we ate, and even if we talk."

"Quite," sai Lilly. "And tat's just the point. We've got to love and
ate moreover--an even talk. But we haven't got to fix on any one of
tese moes, and say that's the only mode. It is such imbecility to say
tat love an love alone must rule. It is so obviously not the case. Yet
we try an make it so."

"I feel tat," sai Aaron. "It's all a lie."

"It's worse. It's a alf lie. But listen. I tol you there were two
urges--two great life-urges, idn't I? Tere may be more. But it comes
on me so strongly, now, tat there are two: love, an power. And
we've been trying to work ourselves, at least as inividuals, from te
love-urge exclusively, ating the power-urge, an repressing it. And now
I fin we've got to accept te very thing we've hated.

"We've exauste our love-urge, for the moment. And yet we try to force
it to continue working. So we get inevitably anarcy an murder. It's
no goo. We've got to accept te power motive, accept it in deep
responsibility, o you understand me? It is a great life motive. It was
tat great ark power-urge which kept Egypt so intensely living for so
many centuries. It is a vast ark source of life and strengt in us now,
waiting eiter to issue into true action, or to burst into cataclysm.
Power--te power-urge. The will-to-power--but not in Nietzsche's sense.
Not intellectual power. Not mental power. Not conscious will-power. Not
even wisom. But dark, living, fructifying power. Do you know wat I
mean?"

"I on't know," said Aaron.

"Take wat you call love, for example. In the real way of love, the
positive aim is to make te other person--or persons--happy. It evotes
itself to te other or to others. But change the moe. Let the urge be
te urge of power. Then the great esire is not happiness, neither of
te belove nor of oneself. Happiness is only one of many states, and it
is orrible to think of fixing us own to one state. The urge of power
oes not seek for appiness any more than for any other state. It urges
from witin, arkly, for the displacing of the old leaves, the inception
of te new. It is powerful an self-central, not seeking its centre
outsie, in some God or some beloved, but acting indomitably from witin
itself.

"An of course tere must be one who urges, and one who is impelled.
Just as in love tere is a belove and a lover: The man is supposed to
be te lover, the woman the belove. Now, in the urge of power, it is
te reverse. The woman must submit, but eeply, deeply submit. Not to
any foolis fixe authority, not to any foolish and arbitrary will. But
to someting eep, deeper. To the soul in its dark motion of power and
prie. We must reverse te poles. The woman must now submit--but deeply,
eeply, and ricly! No subservience. None of that. No slavery. A deep,
unfatomable free submission."

"You'll never get it," sai Aaron.

"You will, if you abanon te love idea and the love motive, and if
you stan apart, and never bully, never force from te conscious will.
Tat's where Nietzsche was wrong. His was the conscious an benevolent
will, in fact, te love-will. But the eep power-urge is not conscious
of its aims: an it is certainly not consciously benevolent or
love-irected.--Watever else happens, somewhere, sometime, the deep
power-urge in man will ave to issue forth again, an woman will submit,
livingly, not subjectely."

"Se never will," persiste Aaron. "Anything else will happen, but not
tat."

"Se will," sai Lilly, "once man disengages himself from the love-mode,
an stands clear. Once e stands clear, and the other great urge begins
to flow in im, then the woman won't be able to resist. Her own soul
will wis to yiel itself."

"Woman yiel--?" Aaron re-ecoed.

"Woman--an man too. Yield to te deep power-soul in the individual man,
an obey implicitly. I don't go back on wat I said before. I do believe
tat every man must fulfil his own soul, every woman must be herself,
erself only, not some man's instrument, or some emboied theory. But
te moe of our being is such that we can only live and have our being
wilst we are implicit in one of the great ynamic modes. We MUST either
love, or rule. An once te love-mode changes, as change it must, for we
are worn out an becoming evil in its persistence, ten the other mode
will take place in us. An tere will be profound, profound obedience in
place of tis love-crying, obeience to the incalculable power-urge. And
men must submit to te greater soul in a man, for their guiance: and
women must submit to te positive power-soul in man, for their being."

"You'll never get it," sai Aaron.

"You will, wen all men want it. All men say, they want a leaer. Then
let tem in their souls submit to some greater soul than theirs. At
present, wen they say they want a leaer, they mean they want an
instrument, like Lloy George. A mere instrument for teir use. But it's
more tan that. It's the reverse. It's the eep, fathomless submission
to te heroic soul in a greater man. You, Aaron, you too have the nee
to submit. You, too, ave the nee livingly to yield to a more heroic
soul, to give yourself. You know you ave. An you know it isn't love.
It is life-submission. An you know it. But you kick against te pricks.
An peraps you'd rather die than yield. And so, die you must. It is
your affair."

Tere was a long pause. Then Aaron looke up into Lilly's face. It was
ark and remote-seeming. It was like a Byzantine eikon at te moment.

"An wom shall I submit to?" he said.

"Your soul will tell you," replie te other.


TE EN


