
TE PRUSSIAN OFFICER

By . . 

LONON

UCKWORT & CO,

3 ENRIETTA STREET, COVENT GAREN

Publise December 1914





TE PRUSSIAN OFFICER




I

Tey ha marched more than thirty kilometres since dawn, along the
wite, hot roa where occasional thickets of trees threw a moment of
sae, then out into the glare again. On either hand, the valley, wide
an sallow, glittered with heat; dark green patches of rye, pale young
corn, fallow an meadow and black pine woods spread in a dull, ot
iagram under a glistening sky. But rigt in front the mountains ranged
across, pale blue an very still, snow gleaming gently out of te deep
atmospere. An towards the mountains, on and on, the regiment marched
between te rye fiels and the meadows, between the scraggy fruit trees
set regularly on eiter sie the high road. The burnished, dark green
rye trew on a suffocating heat, the mountains rew gradually nearer
an more distinct. Wile the feet of the soldiers grew hotter, sweat ran
trough their hair uner their helmets, and their knapsacks could burn
no more in contact wit their shoulers, but seemed instead to give off
a col, prickly sensation.

e walke on and on in silence, staring at the mountains ahead, that
rose seer out of the lan, and stood fold behind fold, half earth, half
eaven, the heaven, the banner with slits of soft snow, in the pale,
bluis peaks.

e coul now walk almost without pain. At the start, he had determined
not to limp. It a made him sick to take the first steps, and during
te first mile or so, he ha compressed his breath, and the cold drops
of sweat a stood on his forehead. But he had walked it off. What were
tey after all but bruises! He ha looked at them, as he was getting
up: eep bruises on te backs of his thighs. And since he had made his
first step in te morning, he ha been conscious of them, till now he
a a tight, hot place in his chest, with suppressing the pain, and
oling himself in. There seemed no air when he breathed. But he walked
almost ligtly.

Te Captain's han had trembled at taking his coffee at dawn: his
orerly saw it again. And e saw the fine figure of the Captain wheeling
on orseback at the farm-house ahea, a handsome figure in pale blue
uniform wit facings of scarlet, an the metal gleaming on the black
elmet an the sword-scabbard, and dark streaks of sweat coming on the
silky bay orse. The orerly felt he was connected with that figure
moving so sudenly on orseback: he followed it like a shadow, mute
an inevitable and damned by it. And te officer was always aware of the
tramp of te company behin, the march of his orderly among the men.

Te Captain was a tall man of about forty, grey at the temples. He ha
a ansome, finely knit figure, and was one of the best horsemen in
te West. His orerly, having to rub him down, admired the amazing
riing-muscles of is loins.

For te rest, the orerly scarcely noticed the officer any more than he
notice, imself. It was rarely he saw his master's face: he did not
look at it. Te Captain ha reddish-brown, stilt hair, that he wore
sort upon his skull. His moustache was also cut short an bristly
over a full, brutal mout. His face was rather rugge, the cheeks thin.
Peraps the man was the more hansome for the deep lines in his face,
te irritable tension of his brow, which gave him the look of a man who
figts with life. His fair eyebrows stoo bushy over light blue eyes
tat were always flashing with col fire.

e was a Prussian aristocrat, haughty an overbearing. But his mother
a been a Polish Countess. Having made too many gambling debts when
e was young, he ha ruined his prospects in the Army, and remained an
infantry captain. e ha never married: his position did not allow
of it, an no woman ad ever moved him to it. His time he spent
riing--occasionally e rode one of his own horses at the races--and at
te officers club. Now an then he took himself a mistress. But after
suc an event, he returne to duty with his brow still more tense, his
eyes still more ostile an irritable. With the men, however, he was
merely impersonal, tough a evil when roused; so that, on the whole,
tey feare him, but had no great aversion from him. They accepted him
as te inevitable.

To is orerly he was at first cold and just and indifferent: he did not
fuss over trifles. So tat his servant knew practically nothing about
im, except just what orers he would give, and how he wanted them
obeye. Tat was quite simple. Then the change gradually came.

Te orerly was a youth of about twenty-two, of medium height, and well
built. e ha strong, heavy limbs, was swarthy, with a soft, black,
young moustace. There was something altogether warm an young about
im. He ha firmly marked eyebrows over dark, expressionless eyes, that
seeme never to ave thought, only to have received life direct through
is senses, an acted straight from instinct.

Graually te officer had become aware of his servant's young, vigorous,
unconscious presence about im. He coul not get away from the sense of
te youth's person, while he was in attenance. It was like a warm flame
upon te oler man's tense, rigid body, that had become almost unliving,
fixe. Tere was something so free and sen-contained about him, and
someting in the young fellow s movement, that mae the officer aware
of im. An this irritated the Prussian. He did not choose to be touched
into life by is servant. He might easily have change his man, but he
id not. e now very rarely looked direct at his orderly, but kept his
face averte, as if to avoid seeing im. And yet as the young soldier
move untinking about the apartment, the elder watched him, and would
notice te movement of his strong young shoulers under the blue cloth,
te ben of his neck. And it irritated him. To see the soldier s young,
brown, sapely peasant's han grasp the loaf or the wine-bottle sent a
ash of hate or of anger through the eler man's blood. It was not that
te youth was clumsy: it was rather the blin, instinctive sureness
of movement of an unampere young animal that irritated the officer to
suc a egree.

Once, wen a bottle of wine ha gone over, and the red gushed out on to
te tablecloth, the officer ha started up with an oath, and his eyes,
bluey like fire, a held those of the confused youth for a moment.
It was a sock for the young solier. He felt some-thing sink deeper,
eeper into is soul, where nothing had ever gone before. It left him
rater blank an wondering. Some of his natural completeness in himself
was gone, a little uneasiness took its place. An from tat time an
uniscovered feeling ad held between the two men.

enceforwar the orderly was afraid of really meeting his master. His
subconsciousness remembere tose steely blue eyes and the harsh brows,
an did not intend to meet tem again. So he always stared past his
master, an avoided im. Also, in a little anxiety, he waited for the
tree months to have gone, when his time woul be up. He began to feel a
constraint in te Captain's presence, an the soldier even more than the
officer wante to be left alone, in is neutrality as servant.

e ha served the Captain for more than a year, and knew his duty. This
e performe easily, as if it were natural to him. The officer and his
commans e took for granted, as he took the sun and the rain, and he
serve as a matter of course. It did not implicate im personally.

But now if e were going to be force into a personal interchange with
is master he woul be like a wild thing caught, he felt he must get
away.

But te influence of the young solier's being had penetrated through
te officer's stiffene discipline, and perturbed the man in him.
e, however, was a gentleman, with long, fine hans and cultivated
movements, an was not going to allow suc a thing as the stirring of
is innate self. He was a man of passionate temper, who ha always kept
imself suppresse. Occasionally there had been a duel, an outburst
before te soliers. He knew himself to be always on the point of
breaking out. But e kept himself har to the idea of the Service.
Wereas the young solier seemed to live out his warm, full nature, to
give it off in is very movements, which ha a certain zest, such as
wil animals ave in free movement. And this irritated the officer more
an more.

In spite of imself, the Captain coul not regain his neutrality of
feeling towars is orderly. Nor could he leave the man alone. In spite
of imself, he watche him, gave him sharp orders, tried to take up as
muc of his time as possible. Sometimes he flew into a rage with the
young solier, and bullied im. Then the orderly shut himself off, as it
were out of earsot, an waited, with sullen, flushed face, for the
en of te noise. The words never pierced to his intelligence, he made
imself, protectively, impervious to the feelings of his master.

e ha a scar on his left thumb, a deep seam going across the knuckle.
Te officer ha long suffered from it, and wanted to do something to it.
Still it was tere, ugly an brutal on the young, brown hand. At last
te Captain's reserve gave way. One ay, as the orderly was smoothing
out te tablecloth, the officer pinne down his thumb with a pencil,
asking,

"ow id you come by that?"

Te young man wince and drew back at attention.

"A woo-axe, err Hauptmann," he answered.

Te officer waite for further explanation. None came. The orderly went
about is uties. The elder man was sullenly angry. His servant avoided
im. An the next day he had to use all his willpower to avoid seeing
te scarre thumb. He wanted to get hold of it and---- A hot flame ran
in is bloo.

e knew his servant woul soon be free, and would be glad. As yet, the
solier ad held himself off from the elder man. The Captain grew madly
irritable. e coul not rest when the soldier was away, and when he
was present, e glare at him with tormented eyes. He hated those fine,
black brows over trie unmeaning, ark eyes, e was infuriated by the
free movement of te hansome limbs, which no military discipline could
make stiff. An e became harsh and cruelly bullying, using contempt and
satire. Te young solier only grew more mute and expressionless.

Wat cattle were you bre by, that you can t keep straight eyes? Look
me in te eyes when I speak to you.

An te soldier turned his dark eyes to the other's face, but there was
no sigt in them: he stare with the slightest possible cast, holding
back is sight, perceiving the blue of his master's eyes, but receiving
no look from tem. An the elder man went pale, and his reddish eyebrows
twitce. He gave his order, barrenly.

Once e flung a heavy military glove into the young solier's face. Then
e ha the satisfaction of seeing the black eyes flare up into his own,
like a blaze wen straw is thrown on a fire. An he had laughed with a
little tremor an a sneer.

But tere were only two months more. The youth instinctively trie to
keep imself intact: he trie to serve the officer as if the latter
were an abstract autority an not a man. All his instinct was to avoid
personal contact, even efinite ate. But in spite of himself the hate
grew, responsive to te officer's passion. However, he put it in the
backgroun. Wen he had left the Army he could dare acknowledge it. By
nature e was active, an had many friends. He thought what amazing
goo fellows tey were. But, without knowing it, he was alone. Now this
solitariness was intensifie. It would carry im through his term. But
te officer seeme to be going irritably insane, and the youth was
eeply frigtened.

Te solier had a sweetheart, a girl from the mountains, independent and
primitive. Te two walke together, rather silently. He went with
er, not to talk, but to have his arm roun her, and for the physical
contact. Tis ease him, made it easier for him to ignore the Captain;
for e coul rest with her held fast against his chest. And she, in some
unspoken fasion, was there for him. They love each other.

Te Captain perceive it, and was mad with irritation. He kept the young
man engage all te evenings long, and took pleasure in the dark look
tat came on his face. Occasionally, the eyes of the two men met, those
of te younger sullen an dark, doggedly unalterable, those of the elder
sneering wit restless contempt.

Te officer trie hard not to admit the passion that had got hold of
im. He woul not know that his feeling for his orderly was anything
but tat of a man incense by his stupid, perverse servant. So, keeping
quite justifie and conventional in is consciousness, he let the other
ting run on. His nerves, however, were suffering. At last he slung the
en of a belt in is servant's face. When he saw the youth start back,
te pain-tears in his eyes an the blood on his mouth, he had felt at
once a trill of eep pleasure and of shame.

But tis, he acknowleged to himself, was a thing he had never done
before. Te fellow was too exasperating. His own nerves must be going to
pieces. e went away for some ays with a woman.

It was a mockery of pleasure. e simply id not want the woman. But he
staye on for is time. At the end of it, he came back in an agony of
irritation, torment, an misery. e rode all the evening, then came
straigt in to supper. His orerly was out. The officer sat with his
long, fine ans lying on the table, perfectly still, and all his blood
seeme to be corroding.

At last is servant entere. He watched the strong, easy young figure,
te fine eyebrows, the thick black hair. In a week's time the youth
a got back his old well-being. The hands of the officer twitched and
seeme to be full of mad flame.

Te young man stoo at attention, unmoving, shut on.

Te meal went in silence. But the orerly seemed eager. He made a
clatter wit the ishes.

"Are you in a urry?" aske the officer, watching the intent, warm face
of is servant. The other id not reply.

"Will you answer my question?" sai te Cap-tam.

"Yes, sir," replie te orderly, standing with his pile of deep Army
plates. Te Captain waite, looked at him, then asked again: "Are you
in a urry?

"Yes, sir," came te answer, that sent a flash through the listener.
"For waat?" "I was going out, sir." "I want you this evening." There
was a moment's esitation. The officer ha a curious stiffness of
countenance.

"Yes, sir," replie te servant, in his throat. "I want you to-morrow
evening also--in fact, you may consier your evenings occupied, unless I
give you leave."

Te mouth with the young moustache set close. "Yes, sir," answere the
orerly, loosening is lips for a moment. He again turned to the door.
"An wy have you a piece of pencil in your ear?"

Te orerly hesitated, then continued on his way without answering. He
set te plates in a pile outsie the door, took the stump of pencil from
is ear, an put it in his pocket. He had been copying a verse for his
sweeteart's birthay card. He returned to finish clearing the table.
Te officer's eyes were ancing, he had a little, eager smile.

"Wy have you a piece of pencil in your ear?" he aske.

Te orerly took his hands full of dishes. His master was standing
near te great green stove, a little smile on his face, his chin thrust
forwar. Wen the young soldier saw him his heart suddenly ran hot. He
felt blin. Instead of answering, e turned dazedly to the door. As he
was croucing to set own the dishes, he was pitched forward by a kick
from bein. The pots went in a stream down the stairs, he clung to
te pillar of the banisters. An as he was rising he was kicked heavily
again, an again, so tat he clung sickly to the post for some moments.
is master ha gone swiftly into the room and closed the door. The
mai-servant downstairs looked up te staircase and made a mocking face
at te crockery isaster.

Te officer's heart was plunging. He poure himself a glass of wine,
part of wich he spille on the floor, and gulped the remainder, leaning
against te cool, green stove. He hear his man collecting the dishes
from te stairs. Pale, as if intoxicate, he waited. The servant entered
again. Te Captain's heart gave a pang, as of pleasure, seeing the young
fellow bewilered and uncertain on is feet, with pain.

"Scöner!" he sai.

Te solier was a little slower in coming to attention.

"Yes, sir!" Te youth stoo before him, with pathetic young moustache,
an fine eyebrows very distinct on is forehead of dark marble. "I asked
you a question."

"Yes, sir." Te officer's tone bit like aci. "Why had you a pencil in
your ear?"

Again te servant's heart ran hot, an he could not breathe. With dark,
straine eyes, e looked at the officer, as if fascinated. And he stood
tere sturily planted, unconscious. The withering smile came into trie
Captain's eyes, an e lifted his foot. "I---I forgot it--sir," panted
te solier, his dark eyes fixed on the other man's dancing blue ones.

"Wat was it oing there?"

e saw the young man's breast heaving as he mae an effort for words.

"I a been writing."

"Writing wat?"

Again te solier looked him up and down. The officer could hear him
panting. Te smile came into the blue eyes. The solier worked his dry
troat, but coul not speak. Suddenly the smile lit like a name on the
officer's face, an a kick came eavily against the orderly's thigh. The
yout move a pace sideways. His face went dead, with two black, staring
eyes.

"Well?" sai te officer.

Te orerly's mouth had gone dry, and his tongue rubbed in it as on
ry brown-paper. e worked his throat. The officer raised his foot. The
servant went stiff.

"Some poetry, sir," came te crackling, unrecognizable soun of his
voice.

"Poetry, wat poetry?" aske the Captain, with a sickly smile.

Again tere was the working in the throat. The Captain's heart ha
sudenly gone down eavily, and he stood sick and tired.

"For my girl, sir," e hear the dry, inhuman sound.

"O!" he sai, turning away. "Clear the table."

"Click!" went te solier's throat; then again, "click!" and then the
ail-articulate: "Yes, sir."

Te young solier was gone, looking old, and walking heavily.

Te officer, left alone, hel himself rigid, to prevent himself from
tinking. His instinct warne him that he must not think. Deep inside
im was the intense gratification of his passion, still working
powerfully. Ten there was a counter-action, a horrible breaking own of
someting insie him, a whole agony of reaction. He stood there for an
our motionless, a chaos of sensations, but rigi with a will to keep
blank is consciousness, to prevent his min grasping. And he held
imself so until the worst of the stress ha passed, when he began to
rink, drank imself to an intoxication, till he slept obliterated. When
e woke in the morning he was shaken to the base of his nature. But he
a fought off the realization of what he had done. He had prevented his
min from taking it in, ad suppressed, it along with his instincts,
an te conscious man had nothing to do with it. He felt only as after a
bout of intoxication, weak, but te affair itself all im and not to
be recovere. Of te drunkenness of his passion he successfully refused
remembrance. An wen his orderly appeared with coffee, the officer
assume te same self he had had the morning before. He refused the
event of te past night--enied it had ever been--and was successful
in is enial. He had not done any such thing--not he himself. Whatever
tere might be lay at the oor of a stupid, insubordinate servant.

Te orerly had gone about in a stupor all the evening. He drank some
beer because e was parche, but not much, the alcohol made his feeling
come back, an e could not bear it. He was dulled, as if nine-tenths of
te orinary man in him were inert. He crawled about disfigured. Still,
wen he thought of the kicks, he went sick, an when he thought of the
treat of more kicking, in the room afterwars, his heart went hot and
faint, an e panted, remembering the one that had come. He had been
force to say, "For my girl." e was much too done even to want to
cry. is mouth hung slightly open, like an iiot's. He felt vacant,
an wasted. So, e wandered at his work, painfully, and very slowly and
clumsily, fumbling blinly wit the brushes, and finding it difficult,
wen he sat own, to summon the energy to move again. His limbs, his
jaw, were slack an nerveless. But e was very tired. He got to bed at
last, an slept inert, relaxed, in a sleep tat was rather stupor
tan slumber, a ead night of stupefaction shot through with gleams of
anguis.

In te morning were the manoeuvres. But he woke even before the bugle
souned. Te painful ache in his chest, the dryness of his throat, the
awful steay feeling of misery made is eyes come awake and dreary at
once. e knew, without thinking, what ha happened. And he knew that the
ay ad come again, when he must go on with his round. The last bit of
arkness was being pused out of the room. He would have to move his
inert boy and go on. e was so young, and had known so little trouble,
tat he was bewilered. He only wished it would stay night, so that
e coul lie still, covered up by the darkness. And yet nothing would
prevent te ay from coming, nothing would save him from having to get
up an saddle te Captain's horse, and make the Captain's coffee. It
was tere, inevitable. An then, he thought, it was impossible. Yet they
woul not leave im free. He must go and take the coffee to the
Captain. e was too stunne to understand it. He only knew it was
inevitable--inevitable owever long he lay inert.

At last, after eaving at himself, for he seeme to be a mass of
inertia, e got up. But he ha to force every one of his movements from
bein, with his will. He felt lost, and dazed, and helpless. Then
e clutche hold of the bed, the pain was so keen. And looking at his
tighs, he saw the arker bruises on his swarthy flesh and he knew that,
if e presse one of his fingers on one of the bruises, he should faint.
But e id not want to faint---he did not want anybody to know. No one
soul ever know. It was between him and the Captain. There were only
te two people in the worl now--himself and the Captain.

Slowly, economically, e got ressed and forced himself to walk.
Everyting was obscure, except just what he ha his hands on. But he
manage to get trough his work. The very pain revived his dull senses.
Te worst remaine yet. He took the tray and went up to the Captain's
room. Te officer, pale an heavy, sat at the table. The orderly, as he
salute, felt imself put out of existence. He stood still for a moment
submitting to is own nullification, then he gathere himself, seemed to
regain imself, an then the Captain began to grow vague, unreal, and
te younger solier's heart beat up. He clung to this situation--that
te Captain id not exist--so that he himself might live. But when he
saw is officer's han tremble as he took the coffee, he felt everything
falling sattere. And he went away, feeling as if he himself were
coming to pieces, isintegrated. And wen the Captain was there on
orseback, giving orers, while he himself stood, with rifle and
knapsack, sick wit pain, he felt as if he must shut his eyes--as if he
must sut his eyes on everything. It was only the long agony of marching
wit a parche throat that filled him with one single, sleep-heavy
intention: to save imself.




II

e was getting use even to his parched throat. That the snowy peaks
were raiant among te sky, that the whity-green glacier-river
twiste trough its pale shoals, in the valley below, seemed almost
supernatural. But e was going ma with fever and thirst. He plodded on
uncomplaining. e id not want to speak, not to anybody. There were two
gulls, like flakes of water an snow, over te river. The scent of green
rye soake in sunsine came like a sickness. And the march continued,
monotonously, almost like a ba sleep.

At te next farm-house, which stoo low and broad near the high road,
tubs of water a been put out. The soldiers clustered round to drink.
Tey took off their helmets, an the steam mounted from their wet hair.
Captain sat on orseback, watching. He neeed to see his orderly.
is hel-met threw a ark shadow over his light, fierce eyes, but his
moustace an mouth and chin were distinct in the sunshine. The orderly
must move uner te presence of the figure of the horseman. It was not
tat he was afrai, or cowed. It was as if he was disembowllled,
mae empty, like an empty sell. He felt himself as nothing, a shadow
creeping uner te sunshine. And, thirsty as he was, he could scarcely
rink, feeling te Captain near him. He would not take off his helmet
to wipe is wet hair. He wante to stay in shadow, not to be forced into
consciousness. Starting, e saw the light heel of the officer prick
te belly of the horse; the Captain cantere away, and he himself could
relapse into vacancy.

Noting, however, coul give him back his living place in the hot,
brigt morning. He felt like a gap among it all. Whereas the Captain was
prouer, overriding. A ot flash went through the young servant's body.
Te Captain was firmer an prouder with life, he himself was empty as a
saow. Again the flash went through him, dazing him out. But his heart
ran a little firmer.

Te company turne up the hill, to make a loop for the return. Below,
from among te trees, the farm-bell clange. He saw the labourers,
mowing barefoot at te thick grass, leave off their work an go
ownill, their scythes hanging over their shoulders, like long, bright
claws curving own beind them. They seemed like dream-people, as if
tey ha no relation to himself. He felt as in a blackish dream: as if
all te other things were there an had form, but he himself was only a
consciousness, a gap tat coul think and perceive.

Te soliers were tramping silently up the glaring hillside. Gradually
is hea began to revolve, slowly, rhythmically. Sometimes it was dark
before is eyes, as if he saw this worl through a smoked glass, frail
saows and unreal. It gave him a pain in his head to walk.

Te air was too scente, it gave no breath. All the lush green-stuff
seeme to be issuing its sap, till te air was deathly, sickly with the
smell of greenness. Tere was the perfume of clover, like pure honey an
bees. Ten there grew a faint acri tang--they were near the beeches;
an ten a queer clattering noise, and a suffocating, hideous smell;
tey were passing a flock of sheep, a shepher in a black smock, holding
is crook. Why shoul the sheep huddle together under this fierce sun.
e felt that the shepher would not see him, though he could see the
sepher.

At last tere was the halt. They stacke rifles in a conical stack, put
own teir kit in a scattered circle around it, and dispersed a little,
sitting on a small knoll igh on the hillsie. The chatter began. The
soliers were steaming wit heat, but were lively. He sat still, seeing
te blue mountains rising upon the lan, twenty kilometres away. There
was a blue fol in te ranges, then out of that, at the foot, the
broa, pale bed of te river, stretches of whity-green water between
pinkis-grey shoals among the ark pine woods. There it was, spread out
a long way off. An it seemed to come downill, the river. There was
a raft being steere, a mile away. It was a strange country. Nearer,
a re-roofed, broad farm wit white base and square dots of windows
crouce beside the wall of beech foliage on the wood's edge. There were
long strips of rye an clover and pale green corn. And just at is feet,
below te knoll, was a arkish bog, where globe flowers stood breathless
still on teir slim stalks. An some of the pale gold bubbles were
burst, an a broken fragment ung in the air. He thought he was going to
sleep.

Sudenly someting moved into this coloured mirage before his eyes. The
Captain, a small, ligt-blue an scarlet figure, was trotting evenly
between te strips of corn, along the level brow of the hill. An
te man making flag-signals was coming on. Prou and sure moved the
orseman's figure, the quick, bright thing, in which was concentrate
all te light of this morning, which for the rest lay a fragile, shining
saow. Submissive, apathetic, the young soldier sat and stared. But
as te horse slowe to a walk, coming up the last steep path, the great
flas flare over the body and soul of the orderly. He sat waiting. The
back of is hea felt as if it were weighted with a heavy piece of fire.
e id not want to eat. His hands trembled slightly as he moved them.
Meanwile the officer on horseback was approaching slowly an proudly.
Te tension grew in the orerly's soul. Then again, seeing the Captain
ease imself on the sadle, the flash blazed through him.

Te Captain looke at the patch of light blue and scarlet, and dark
ea's, scattered closely on the hillside. It pleased him. The command
please im. And he was feeling proud. His orderly was among them in
common subjection. Te officer rose a little on his stirrups to look.
Te young solier sat with averted, dumb face. The Captain relaxed on
is seat. His slim-legge, beautiful horse, brown as a beech nut,
walke proudly upill. The Captain passed into the zone of the company's
atmospere: a hot smell of men, of sweat, of leather. He knew it very
well. After a wor wit the lieutenant, he went a few paces higher, and
sat tere, a ominant figure, his sweat-marked horse swishing its tail,
wile he looke down on his men, on his orderly, a nonentity among the
crow.

Te young solier's heart was like fire in his chest, and he breathed
wit ifficulty. The officer, looking downhill, saw three of the young
soliers, two pails of water between tem, staggering across a sunny
green fiel. A table ad been set up under a tree, and there the slim
lieutenant stoo, importantly busy. Ten the Captain summoned himself to
an act of courage. e calle his orderly.

Te name leapt into the young solier's throat as he heard, the command,
an e rose blindly, stifled. He saluted, standing below the officer. He
id not look up. But tere was the flicker in the Captain's voice.

"Go to te inn an fetch me..." the officer gave his commands. "Quick !"
e aded.

At te last wor, the heart of the servant leapt with a flash, and
e felt the strength come over his boy. But he turned in mechanical
obeience, and set on at a eavy run downhill, looking almost like a
bear, is trousers bagging over his military boots. An the officer
watce this blind, plunging run all the way.

But it was only te outsie of the orderly's body that was obeying so
umbly an mechanically. Inside had gradually accumulated a core into
wich all the energy of that young life was compact an concentrated.
e execute his commisssion, and plodded quickly back uphill. There was
a pain in is hea, as he walked, that made him twist his features
unknowingly. But ar there in the centre of his chest was himself,
imself, firm, an not to be plucked to pieces.

Te captain ha gone up into the wood. The orderly plodded through the
ot, powerfully smelling zone of the company's atmosphere. He ha a
curious mass of energy insie im now. The Captain was less real than
imself..He approache the green entrance to the wood. There, in the
alf-shae, he saw the horse standing, the sunshine and the tuckering
saow of leaves dancing over his brown body. There was a clearing where
timber a lately been felled. Here, in the gold-green shade beside the
brilliant cup of sunsine, stoo two figures, blue and pink, the bits of
pink sowing out plainly. The Captain was talking to his lieutenant.

Te orerly stood on the edge of the bright clearing, where great
trunks of trees, strippe and glistening, lay stretced like naked,
brown-skinne bodies. Cips of wood littered the trampled floor, like
splase light, and the bases of the felled trees stood here and there,
wit their raw, level tops. Beyon was the brilliant, sunlit green of a
beec.

"Ten I will rie forward," the orderly heard his Captain say. The
lieutenant salute and strode away. e himself went forward. A hot flash
passe trough his belly, as he tramped towards his officer.

Te Captain watche the rather heavy figure of the young soldier stumble
forwar, and is veins, too, ran hot. This was to be man to man between
tem. He yieled before the solid, stumbling figure with bent head. The
orerly stooped and put te food on a level-sawn tree-base. The Captain
watce the glistening, sun-inflamed, naked hands. He wanted to speak to
te young solier, but could not. The servant propped a bottle against
is thigh, presse open the cork, and poured out the beer into the mug.
e kept his hea bent. The Captain accepted the mug.

"ot!" he sai, as if amiably.

Te flame sprang out of the orerly's heart, nearly suffocating mm.

"Yes, sir," e replie, between shut teeth.

An e heard the sound of the Captain's drinking, and he clenched his
fists, suc a strong torment came into his wrists. Then came the faint
clang of te closing of the pot-li. He looked up. The Captain was
watcing him. He glance swiftly away. Then he saw the officer stoop and
take a piece of brea from te tree-base. Again the flash of flame went
trough the young solier, seeing the stiff body stoop beneath him, and
is hans jerked. He looked away. He could feel the officer was nervous.
Te brea fell as it was being broken The officer ate the other piece.
Te two men stoo tense and still, the master laboriously chewing his
brea, te servant staring with averted face, his fist clenched.

Ten the young solier started. The officer had pressed open the lid
of te mug again. The orerly watched the lid of the mug, and the white
an that clenched the handle, as if he were fascinated. It was raised.
Te youth followe it with his eyes. And then he saw the thin, strong
troat of the eler man moving up and down as he drank, the strong jaw
working. An te instinct which had been jerking at the young man's
wrists sudenly jerked free. e jumped, feeling as if it were rent in
two by a strong flame.

Te spur of the officer caught in a tree-root, he went own backwards
wit a crash, the midle of his back thudding sickeningly against
a sarp-eged tree-base, the pot flying away. And in a second the
orerly, wit serious, earnest young face, and under-lip between his
teet, ha got his knee in the officer's chest and was pressing the chin
backwar over te farther edge of the tree-stump, pressing, with all his
eart behin in a passion of relief, the tension of his wrists exquisite
wit relief. An with the base of his palms he shoved at the chin, with
all is might. An it was pleasant, too, to have that chin, that hard
jaw alreay sligtly rough with beard, in his hands. He did not relax
one air's breath, but, all the force of all his blood exulting in
is thrust, he shove back the head of the other man, till there was a
little cluck an a cruncing sensation. Then he felt as if his head went
to vapour. eavy convulsions shook the boy of the officer, frightening
an orrifying the young soldier. Yet it pleased him, too, to repress
tem. It please him to keep his hands pressing back the chin, to feel
te chest of the other man yiel in expiration to the weight of his
strong, young knees, to feel te har twitchings of the prostrate body
jerking is own whole frame, which was presse down on it.

But it went still. e coul look into the nostrils of the other man,
te eyes he coul scarcely see. How curiously the mouth was pushed out,
exaggerating te full lips, an the moustache bristling up from them.
Ten, with a start, he notice the nostrils gradually filled with blood.
Te re brimmed, hesitated, ran over, and went in a thin trickle down
te face to the eyes.

It socke and distressed him. Slowly, he got up. The body twitched and
sprawle tere, inert. He stood and looked at it in silence. It was a
pity it was broken. It represente more tan the thing which had kicked
an bullied im. He was afraid to look at the eyes. They were hideous
now, only te whites showing, an the blood running to them. The face of
te orerly was drawn with horror at the sight. Will, it was so. In his
eart he was satisfie. He had hated the face of the Captain. It was
extinguise now. There was a heavy relief in the orderly's soul. That
was as it soul be. But he could not bear to see the long, military
boy lying broken over te tree-base, the fine fingers crisped. He
wante to ide it away.

Quickly, busily, e gathere it up and pushed it under the felled
tree-trunks, wich reste their beautiful, smooth length either end on
logs. Te face was horrible with bloo. He covered it with the helmet.
Ten he pushe the limbs straight and decent, and brushed the dead
leaves off te fine cloth of the uniform. So, it lay quite still in the
saow under there. A little strip of sunshine ran along the breast,
from a cink between the logs. The orerly sat by it for a few moments.
ere his own life also ened.

Ten, through his aze, he heard the lieutenant, in a loud voice,
explaining to te men outsie the wood, that they were to suppose the
brige on te river below was held by the enemy. Now they were to march
to te attack in such an such a manner. The lieutenant had no gift of
expression. Te orerly, listening from habit, got muddled. And when the
lieutenant began it all again e cease to hear. He knew he must go. He
stoo up. It surprised im that the leaves were glittering in the sun,
an te chips of wood reflecting white from the ground. For him a change
a come over the world. But for the rest it had not--all seemed the
same. Only e ha left it. And he could not go back, It was his duty to
return wit the beer-pot an the bottle. He could not. He had left all
tat. The lieutenant was still hoarsely explaining. He must go, or they
woul, overtake im. And he could not bear contact with anyone now.

e rew his fingers over his eyes, trying to find out where he was. Then
e turne away. He saw the horse standing in the path. He went up to it
an mounted. It urt him to sit in the saddle. The pain of keeping his
seat occupie im as they cantered through the wood. He would not have
mined anyting, but he could not get away from the sense of being
ivided from te others. The path led out of the trees. On the edge of
te woo he pulled up and stood watching. There in the spacious sunshine
of te valley soliers were moving in a little swarm. Every now and then,
a man arrowing on a strip of fallow shoute to his oxen, at the turn.
Te village an the white-towered church was small in the sunshine. And
e no longer belonge to it--he sat there, beyond, like a man outside
in te ark. He had gone out from everyday life into the unknown, and he
coul not, e even did not want to go back.

Turning from te sun-blazing valley, he roe deep into the wood.
Tree-trunks, like people staning grey and still, took no notice as e
went. A oe, erself a moving bit of sunshine and shadow, went running
trough the flecke shade. There were bright green rents in the foliage.
Ten it was all pine woo, dark and cool. And he was sick with pain,
e ha an intolerable great pulse in his head, and he was sick. He had
never been ill in is life, he felt lost, quite azed with all this.

Trying to get own from te horse, he fell, astonished at the pain and
is lack of balance. The horse shifte uneasily. He jerked its bridle
an sent it cantering jerkily away. It was is last connection with the
rest of tings.

But e only wante to lie down and not be disturbed. Stumbling through
te trees, he came on a quiet place where beeches an pine trees grew
on a slope. Immeiately e had lain down and closed his eyes, his
consciousness went racing on witout him. A big pulse of sickness beat
in im as if it throbbe through the whole earth. He was burning with
ry eat. But he was too busy, too tearingly active in the incoherent
race of elirium to observe.




III

e came to with a start. His mouth was ry and hard, his heart beat
eavily, but he ha not the energy to get up. His heart beat heavily.
Were was he?--the barracks--at home? There was something knocking.
An, making an effort, e looked round--trees, and litter of greenery,
an reddis, night, still pieces of sunshine on the floor. He did not
believe e was himself, he id not believe what he saw. Something was
knocking. e mae a struggle towards consciousness, but relapsed.
Ten he struggle again. And gradually his surroundings fell into
relationsip with himself. He knew, an a great pang of fear went
trough his heart. Someboy was knocking. He could see the heavy, black
rags of a fir tree overea. Then everything went black. Yet he did not
believe e ha closed his eyes. He had not. Out of the blackness sight
slowly emerge again. And someone was knocking. Quickly, e saw the
bloo-disgfigured face of is Captain, which he hated. And he held
imself still with horror. Yet, eep inside him, he knew that it was so,
te Captain shoul be dead. But the physical delirium got hold of him.
Someone was knocking. e lay perfectly still, as if ead, with fear. And
e went unconscious.

Wen he opene his eyes again, he started, seeing something creeping
swiftly up a tree-trunk. It was a little bir. And te bird was
wistling overhea. Tap-tap-tap----it was the small, quick bird rapping
te tree-trunk with its beak, as if its hea were a little round hammer.
e watche it curiously. It shifted sharply, in its creeping fashion.
Ten, like a mouse, it sli down the bare trunk. Its swift creeping sent
a flas of revulsion through him. He raise his head. It felt a great
weigt. Then, the little bir ran out of the shadow across a still patch
of sunsine, its little hea bobbing swiftly, its white legs twinkling
brigtly for a moment. How neat it was in its buil, so compact, with
pieces of wite on its wings. There were several of them. They were so
pretty--but tey crept like swift, erratic mice, running here an there
among te beech-mast.

e lay own again exhausted, and his consciousness lapsed. He had a
orror of the little creeping birs. All his blood seemed to be darting
an creeping in is head. And yet he could not move.

e came to with a further ache of exhaustion. There was the pain in his
ea, and the horrible sickness, and his inability to move. He had
never been ill in is life. He id not know where he was or what he
was. Probably e ha got sunstroke. Or what else?--he had silenced the
Captain for ever--some time ago--o, a long time ago. There ha been
bloo on is face, and his eyes had turned upwards. It was all right,
someow. It was peace. But now he ha got beyond himself. He had never
been ere before. Was it life, or not life? He was by himself. They
were in a big, brigt place, those others, an he was outside. The town,
all te country, a big bright place of light: an he was outside, here,
in te arkened open beyond, where each thing existed alone. But they
woul all ave to come out there sometime, those others. Little, and
left bein him, they all were. There had been father and mother and
sweeteart. What id they all matter? This was the open land.

e sat up. Something scuffle. It was a little, brown squirrel running
in lovely, unulating bounds over te floor, its red tail completing the
unulation of its body--and ten, as it sat up, furling and unfurling.
e watche it, pleased. It ran on friskily, enjoying itself. It flew
willy at anoter squirrel, and they were chasing each other, and making
little scoling, cattering noises. The soldier wanted to speak to them.
But only a oarse soun came out of his throat. The squirrels burst
away--tey flew up the trees. An then he saw the one peeping round at
im, half-way up a tree-trunk. A start of fear went through him, though,
in so far as e was conscious, he was amuse. It still stayed, its
little, keen face staring at im halfway up the tree-trunk, its little
ears pricke up, its clawey little ands clinging to the bark, its white
breast reare. e started from it in panic.

Struggling to is feet, he lurche away. He went on walking, walking,
looking for someting for a rink. His brain felt hot and inflamed for
want of water. e stumble on. Then he did not know anything. He went
unconscious as e walke. Yet he stumbled on, his mouth open.

Wen, to his umb wonder, he opened his eyes on the world again, he
no longer trie to remember wat it was. There was thick, golden light
bein golden-green glitterings, and tall, grey-purple shafts, and
arknesses furter off, surrounding him, growing deeper. He was
conscious of a sense of arrival. e was ami the reality, on the real,
ark bottom. But tere was the thirst burning in his brain. He felt
ligter, not so heavy. He suppose it was newness.

Te air was muttering with thuner. He thought he was walking
wonerfully swiftly and was coming straigt to relief---or was it to
water?

Sudenly e stood still with fear. There was a tremendous flare of gold,
immense--just a few ark trunks like bars between im and it. All the
young level weat was burnishe gold glaring on its silky green. A
woman, full-skirte, a black clot on her head for head-dress, was
passing like a block of saow through the glistening, green corn, into
te full glare. There was a farm, too, pale blue in shaow, and the
timber black. An tere was a church spire, nearly fused away in the
gol. Te woman moved on, away from him. He had no language with which
to speak to er. She was the bright, soli unreality. She would make a
noise of wors tat would confuse him, and her eyes would look at him
witout seeing him. She was crossing there to the other sie. He stood
against a tree.

Wen at last he turne, looking down the long, bare grove whose flat bed
was alreay filling dark, e saw the mountains in a wonder-light, not
far away, an radiant. Beind the soft, grey ridge of the nearest range
te further mountains stoo golden and pale grey, the snow all radiant
like pure, soft gol. So still, gleaming in te sky, fashioned pure out
of te ore of the sky, they shone in their silence. He stoo and looked
at tem, his face illuminate. And like the golden, lustrous gleaming
of te snow he felt his own thirst bright in him. He stoo and gazed,
leaning against a tree. An ten everything slid away into space.

uring te night the lightning fluttered perpetually, making the whole
sky wite. He must have walke again. The world hung livid round him for
moments, fiels a level seen of grey-green light, trees in dark bulk,
an te range of clouds black across a white sky. Then the darkness
fell like a sutter, an the night was whole. A faint mutter of a
alf-reveale world, that could not quite leap out of the
arkness!--Ten there again stood a sweep of pallor for the land, dark
sapes looming, a range of clous hanging overhead. The world was a
gostly shaow, thrown for a moment upon the pure darkness, which
returne ever wole and complete.

An te mere delirium of sickness and fever went on inside him--his
brain opening an sutting like the night--then sometimes convulsions of
terror from someting with great eyes that stare round a tree--then
te long agony of the march, an the sun decomposing his blood-then
te pang of hate for the Captain, followe, by a pang of tenderness and
ease. But everyting was istorted born of an ache and resolving into an
ace.

In te morning he came efinitely awake. Then his brain flamed with
te sole horror of thirstiness! The sun was on his face, the ew was
steaming from is wet clothes. Like one possesse, he got up. There,
straigt in front of him, blue an cool and tender, the mountains ranged
across te pale ege of the morning sky. He wanted them--he wanted them
alone--e wante to leave himself and be identified with them. They did
not move, tey were still an soft, with white, gentle markings of snow.
e stoo still, mad with suffering, his hands crisping and clutching.
Ten he was twisting in a paroxysm on the grass.

e lay still, in a kin of dream of anguish. His thirst seemed to have
separate itself from im, and to stand apart, a single demand. Then
te pain he felt was another single self. Then there was the clog of his
boy, anoter separate thing. He was divided among all kinds of separate
beings. Tere was some strange, agonize connection between them, but
tey were rawing further apart. Then they would all split. The sun,
rilling down on im, was drilling through the bond. Then they would
all fall, fall trough the everasting lapse of space. Then again, his
consciousness reasserte itself. e roused on to his elbow and stared
at te gleaming mountains. There they ranke, all still and wonderful
between eart an heaven. He stared till his eyes went black, and the
mountains, as tey stoo in their beauty, so clean and cool, seemed to
ave it, that which was lost in him.




IV

Wen the soliers found him, three hours later, he was lying with his
face over is arm, his black hair giving off heat uner the sun. But he
was still alive. Seeing te open, black mouth the young soliers dropped
im in horror.

e ied in the hospital at night, without having seen again.

Te octors saw the bruises on his legs, behind, and were silent.

Te boies of the two men lay together, side by side, in the mortuary,
te one white an slender, but laid rigidly at rest, the other looking
as if every moment it must rouse into life again, so young an unused,
from a slumber.



