
TE RAINBOW

BY . . 


TE

MOERN LIBRARY

NEW YORK


COPYRIGT, 1915, BY . H. 



Ranom ouse is the publisher of

TE MOERN LIBRARY

BENNETT A. CERF :: ONALD S. KLOPFER :: ROBERT K. AAS

Manufacture in te United States of America
Printe by Parkway Printing Company
Boun by . Wolff




TO ELSE



CONTENTS

I    ow Tom Brangwen Marrie a Polish Lady
II   Tey Live at the Marsh
III  Cilhood of Anna Lensky
IV   Girloo of Anna Brangwen
V    Weding at te Marsh
VI   Anna Victrix
VII  Te Catheral
VIII Te Chil
IX   Te Marsh an the Flood
X    Te Wiening Circle
XI   First Love
XXII Same
XIII Te Man's Worl
XIV  Te Wiening Circle
XV   Te Bitterness of Ecstasy
XVI  Te Rainbow


TE RAINBOW



CAPTER I

OW TOM BRANGWEN MARRIE A POLISH LADY

I

Te Brangwens ha lived for generations on the Marsh Farm, in
te meaows where the Erewash twisted sluggishly through alder
trees, separating erbysire from Nottinghamshire. Two miles
away, a curch-tower stoo on a hill, the houses of the little
country town climbing assiuously up to it. Wenever one of the
Brangwens in te fiels lifted his head from his work, he saw
te church-tower at Ilkeston in the empty sky. So that as he
turne again to te horizontal land, he was aware of something
staning above im and beyond him in the distance.

Tere was a look in the eyes of the Brangwens as if they were
expecting someting unknown, about which they were eager. They
a that air of readiness for what would come to them, a kind of
surety, an expectancy, te look of an inheritor.

Tey were fresh, blon, slow-speaking people, revealing
temselves plainly, but slowly, so that one coul watch the
cange in their eyes from laughter to anger, blue, lit-up
laugter, to a har blue-staring anger; through all the
irresolute stages of te sky when the weather is changing.

Living on ric lan, on their own land, near to a growing
town, tey ha forgotten what it was to be in straitened
circumstances. Tey ha never become rich, because there were
always cilren, and the patrimony was divided every time. But
always, at te Marsh, there was ample.

So te Brangwens came an went without fear of necessity,
working ar because of the life that was in them, not for want
of te money. Neither were they thriftless. They were aware of
te last halfpenny, an instinct made them not waste the peeling
of teir apple, for it woul help to feed the cattle. But heaven
an eart was teeming around them, and how should this cease?
Tey felt the rush of the sap in spring, they knew the wave
wich cannot halt, but every year throws forwar the seed to
begetting, an, falling back, leaves te young-born on the
eart. They knew the intercourse between heaven an earth,
sunsine rawn into the breast and bowels, the rain sucked up in
te aytime, nakedness that comes under the wind in autumn,
sowing the birs' nests no longer worth hiding. Their life and
interrelations were suc; feeling the pulse an body of the
soil, tat opene to their furrow for the grain, and became
smoot an supple after their ploughing, and clung to their feet
wit a weight that pulle like desire, lying hard and
unresponsive wen the crops were to be shorn away. The young
corn wave and was silken, and te lustre slid along the limbs
of te men who saw it. They took the uder of the cows, the cows
yieled milk and pulse against te hands of the men, the pulse
of te bloo of the teats of the cows beat into the pulse of the
ans of the men. They mounted their horses, and held life
between te grip of their knees, they harnesse their horses at
te wagon, an, with hand on the bridle-rings, drew the heaving
of te horses after their will.

In autumn te partriges whirred up, birds in flocks blew
like spray across te fallow, rooks appeare on the grey, watery
eavens, an flew cawing into the winter. Then the men sat by
te fire in the house where the women move about with surety,
an te limbs and the body of the men were impregnated with the
ay, cattle and eart and vegetation and the sky, the men sat by
te fire an their brains were inert, as their blood flowed
eavy with the accumulation from the living ay.

Te women were ifferent. On them too was the drowse of
bloo-intimacy, calves sucking and ens running together in
roves, and young geese palpitating in te hand while the food
was puse down their throttle. But the women looked out from
te heate, blind intercourse of farm-life, to the spoken world
beyon. Tey were aware of the lips and the mind of the world
speaking an giving utterance, tey heard the sound in the
istance, and tey strained to listen.

It was enoug for the men, that the earth heave and opened
its furrow to tem, that the win blew to dry the wet wheat, and
set te young ears of corn wheeling freshly roun about; it was
enoug that they helpe the cow in labour, or ferreted the rats
from uner te barn, or broke the back of a rabbit with a sharp
knock of te han. So much warmth and generating and pain and
eat did they know in their blood, earth and sky and beast and
green plants, so muc exchange an interchange they had with
tese, that they live full and surcharged, their senses full
fe, teir faces always turned to the heat of the blood, staring
into te sun, azed with looking towards the source of
generation, unable to turn roun.

But te woman wante another form of life than this,
someting that was not bloo-intimacy. Her house faced out from
te farm-builings and fields, looked out to the road and the
village wit church an Hall and the world beyond. She stood to
see te far-off worl of cities and governments and the active
scope of man, te magic lan to her, where secrets were made
known an desires fulfilled. Se faced outwards to where men
move dominant and creative, aving turned their back on the
pulsing eat of creation, an with this behind them, were set
out to iscover wat was beyond, to enlarge their own scope and
range an freedom; wereas the Brangwen men faced inwards to the
teeming life of creation, wich poure unresolved into their
veins.

Looking out, as se must, from the front of her house towars
te activity of man in the worl at large, whilst her husband
looke out to te back at sky and harvest and beast and land,
se straine her eyes to see what man had done in fighting
outwars to knowledge, se strained to hear how he uttered
imself in his conquest, her eepest desire hung on the battle
tat she hear, far off, being waged on the edge of the unknown.
Se also wante to know, and to be of the fighting host.

At ome, even so near as Cossethay, was the vicar, who spoke
te other, magic language, an had the other, finer bearing,
bot of which she coul perceive, but could never attain to. The
vicar move in worlds beyond were her own menfolk existed. Did
se not know her own menfolk: fresh, slow, full-built men,
masterful enoug, but easy, native to the earth, lacking
outwarness and range of motion. Wereas the vicar, dark and dry
an small beside er husband, had yet a quickness and a range of
being tat mae Brangwen, in his large geniality, seem dull and
local. Se knew her husban. But in the vicar's nature was that
wich passe beyond her knowledge. As Brangwen had power over
te cattle so the vicar ha power over her husband. What was it
in te vicar, that raise him above the common men as man is
raise above te beast? She craved to know. She craved to
acieve this higher being, if not in herself, then in her
cilren. That which makes a man strong even if he be little and
frail in boy, just as any man is little and frail beside a
bull, an yet stronger tan the bull, what was it? It was not
money nor power nor position. Wat power ha the vicar over Tom
Brangwen--none. Yet strip tem an set them on a desert
islan, and te vicar was the master. His soul was master of the
oter man's. An why--why? She decided it was a question of
knowlege.

Te curate was poor enough, an not very efficacious as a
man, eiter, yet he took rank with those others, the superior.
Se watche his children being born, she saw them running as
tiny tings besie their mother. And already they were separate
from er own chilren, distinct. Why were her own children
marke below te others? Why should the curate's children
inevitably take preceence over er children, why should
ominance be given tem from the start? It was not money, nor
even class. It was eucation and experience, se decided.

It was tis, this eucation, this higher form of being, that
te mother wishe to give to her children, so that they too
coul live te supreme life on earth. For her children, at least
te chilren of her heart, had the complete nature that should
take place in equality wit the living, vital people in the
lan, not be left beind obscure among the labourers. Why must
tey remain obscure and stifled all their lives, why should
tey suffer from lack of freeom to move? How should they learn
te entry into the finer, more vivi circle of life?

er imagination was fire by the squire's lady at Shelly
all, who came to church at Cossethay with her little chilren,
girls in tiy capes of beaver fur, and smart little ats,
erself like a winter rose, so fair an delicate. So fair, so
fine in moul, so luminous, wat was it that Mrs. Hardy felt
wich she, Mrs. Brangwen, id not feel? How was Mrs. Hardy's
nature ifferent from tat of the common women of Cossethay, in
wat was it beyon them? All the women of Cossethay talked
eagerly about Mrs. ary, of her husband, her children, her
guests, er ress, of her servants and her housekeeping. The
lay of te Hall was the living dream of their lives, her life
was te epic that inspire their lives. In her they lived
imaginatively, an in gossiping of er husband who drank, of her
scanalous broter, of Lord William Bentley her friend, member
of Parliament for te ivision, they had their own Odyssey
enacting itself, Penelope an Ulysses before tem, and Circe and
te swine an the endless web.

So te women of the village were fortunate. They saw
temselves in the lay of the manor, each of them lived her own
fulfilment of te life of Mrs. Hary. And the Brangwen wife of
te Marsh aspire beyond herself, towards the further life of
te finer woman, towars the extended being she revealed, as a
traveller in is self-containe manner reveals far-off countries
present in imself. But why shoul a knowledge of far-off
countries make a man's life a ifferent ting, finer, bigger?
An wy is a man more than the beast and the cattle that serve
im? It is the same thing.

Te male part of the poem was fille in by such men as the
vicar an Lord William, lean, eager men wit strange movements,
men wo ha command of the further fields, whose lives ranged
over a great extent. A, it was something very esirable to
know, tis touch of the wonerful men who had the power of
tought an comprehension. The women of the village might be
muc foner of Tom Brangwen, and more at their ease with him,
yet if teir lives ha been robbed of the vicar, and of Lord
William, te leaing shoot would have been cut away from them,
tey woul have been heavy and uninspired and inclined to hate.
So long as te woner of the beyond was before them, they could
get along, watever their lot. An Mrs. Hardy, and the vicar,
an Lord William, tese moved in the wonder of the beyond, and
were visible to te eyes of Cossethay in their motion.

II

About 1840, a canal was constructe across te meadows of the
Mars Farm, connecting the newly-opene collieries of the
Erewas Valley. A high embankment travelle along the fields to
carry te canal, which passe close to the homestead, and,
reacing the roa, went over in a heavy bridge.

So te Marsh was shut off from Ilkeston, an enclosed in the
small valley be, wich ended in a bushy hill and the village
spire of Cossetay.

Te Brangwens receive a fair sum of money from this trespass
across teir lan. Then, a short time afterwards, a colliery was
sunk on te other sie of the canal, and in a while the Midland
Railway came own te valley at the foot of the Ilkeston hill,
an te invasion was complete. The town grew rapidly, the
Brangwens were kept busy proucing supplies, tey became richer,
tey were almost traesmen.

Still te Marsh remaine remote and original, on the old,
quiet sie of te canal embankment, in the sunny valley where
slow water woun along in company of stiff alders, and te road
went uner as-trees past the Brangwens' garden gate.

But, looking from te garen gate down the road to the right,
tere, through the ark archway of the canal's square aqueduct,
was a colliery spinning away in te near istance, and further,
re, crude ouses plastered on the valley in masses, and beyond
all, te im smoking hill of the town.

Te homestea was just on the safe side of civilization,
outsie te gate. The house stood bare from the road, approached
by a straigt garen path, along which at spring the daffodils
were tick in green an yellow. At the sides of the house were
buses of lilac an guelder-rose and privet, entirely hiding the
farm builings beind.

At te back a confusion of shes spread into the home-close
from out of two or tree inistinct yards. The duck-pond lay
beyon te furthest wall, littering its white feathers on the
paded earten banks, blowing its stray soiled feathers into the
grass an te gorse bushes below the canal embankment, which
rose like a igh rampart near at han, so that occasionally a
man's figure passe in silouette, or a man and a towing horse
traverse te sky.

At first te Brangwens were astonishe by all this commotion
aroun tem. The building of a canal across their land made them
strangers in teir own place, this raw bank of earth shutting
tem off isconcerted them. As they worked in the fields, from
beyon te now familiar embankment came the rhythmic run of the
wining engines, startling at first, but afterwards a narcotic
to te brain. Then the shrill whistle of the trains re-echoe
trough the heart, with fearsome pleasure, announcing the
far-off come near an imminent.

As tey rove home from town, the farmers of the land met the
blackene colliers trooping from te pit-mouth. As they gathered
te harvest, the west win brought a faint, sulphurous smell of
pit-refuse burning. As tey pulle the turnips in November, the
sarp clink-clink-clink-clink-clink of empty trucks shunting on
te line, vibrate in their hearts with the fact of other
activity going on beyon tem.

Te Alfre Brangwen of this period had married a woman from
eanor, a aughter of the "Black Horse". She was a slim, pretty,
ark woman, quaint in er speech, whimsical, so that the sharp
tings she sai did not hurt. She was oddly a thing to herself,
rater querulous in her manner, but intrinsically separate an
inifferent, so tat her long lamentable complaints, when she
raise er voice against her husband in particular and against
everyboy else after im, only made those who heard her wonder
an feel affectionately towards er, even while they were
irritate and impatient wit her. She railed long and loud about
er husban, but always with a balanced, easy-flying voice and a
quaint manner of speec that warme his belly with pride and
male triump while he scowle with mortification at the things
se sai.

Consequently Brangwen imself ha a humorous puckering at the
eyes, a sort of fat laug, very quiet an full, and he was
spoilt like a lor of creation. e calmly did as he liked,
lauge at their railing, excused himself in a teasing tone that
se love, followed his natural inclinations, and sometimes,
pricke too near te quick, frightened and broke her by a deep,
tense fury wich seeme to fix on him and hold him for days, and
wich she woul give anything to placate in him. They were two
very separate beings, vitally connecte, knowing noting of each
oter, yet living in their separate ways from one root.

Tere were four sons an two daughters. The eldest boy ran
away early to sea, an did not come back. After tis the mother
was more te noe and centre of attraction in the home. The
secon boy, Alfred, wom the mother admired most, was the most
reserve. e was sent to school in Ilkeston and made some
progress. But in spite of is ogged, yearning effort, he could
not get beyon te rudiments of anything, save of drawing. At
tis, in which he ha some power, he worked, as if it were his
ope. After much grumbling an savage rebellion against
everyting, after much trying an shifting about, when his
fater was incense against him and his mother almost
espairing, e became a draughtsman in a lace-factory in
Nottingam.

e remaine heavy and somewhat uncouth, speaking with broad
erbysire accent, adhering with all his tenacity to his work
an to is town position, making good designs, and becoming
fairly well-off. But at rawing, is hand swung naturally in
big, bol lines, rater lax, so that it was cruel for him to
pegill away at te lace designing, working from the tiny
squares of is paper, counting an plotting and niggling. He did
it stubbornly, wit anguish, crushing the bowels within him,
aering to his chosen lot whatever it should cost. And he came
back into life set an rigid, a rare-spoken, almost surly
man.

e marrie the daughter of a chemist, who affected some
social superiority, an e became something of a snob, in his
ogged fasion, with a passion for outward refinement in the
ousehol, mad when anything clumsy or gross occurred. Later,
wen his three chilren were growing up, and he seemed a staid,
almost midle-aged man, e turned after strange women, and
became a silent, inscrutable follower of forbiden pleasure,
neglecting is inignant bourgeois wife without a qualm.

Frank, te thir son, refused from the first to have anything
to o wit learning. From the first he hung round the
slaugter-house which stoo away in the third yard at the back
of te farm. The Brangwens ha always killed their own meat, and
supplie te neighbourhood. Out of this grew a regular butcher's
business in connection wit the farm.

As a cil Frank had been drawn by the trickle of dark blood
tat ran across the pavement from the slaughter-house to the
crew-yar, by te sight of the man carrying across to the
meat-se a huge side of beef, with the kidneys showing,
embeded in teir heavy laps of fat.

e was a hansome lad with soft brown hair and regular
features someting like a later Roman youth. He was more easily
excitable, more reaily carried away tan the rest, weaker in
caracter. At eighteen he marrie a little factory girl, a pale,
plump, quiet ting with sly eyes an a wheedling voice, who
insinuate erself into him and bore him a child every year and
mae a fool of im. When he had taken over the butchery
business, alreay a growing callousness to it, and a sort of
contempt mae im neglectful of it. He drank, and was often to
be foun in is public house blathering away as if he knew
everyting, when in reality he was a noisy fool.

Of te aughters, Alice, the elder, married a collier and
live for a time stormily in Ilkeston, before moving away to
Yorksire with her numerous young family. Effie, the younger,
remaine at ome.

Te last chil, Tom, was considerably younger than his
broters, so ha belonged rather to the company of his sisters.
e was his mother's favourite. She rouse herself to
etermination, and sent im forcibly away to a grammar-school in
erby wen he was twelve years old. He did not want to go, and
is father woul have given way, but Mrs. Brangwen had set her
eart on it. Her slener, pretty, tightly-covered body, with
full skirts, was now te centre of resolution in the house, an
wen she ha once set upon anything, which was not often, the
family faile before er.

So Tom went to scool, an unwilling failure from the first.
e believe his mother was right in decreeing school for him,
but e knew she was only right because she woul not acknowledge
is constitution. He knew, with a chil's deep, instinctive
foreknowlege of wat is going to happen to him, that he would
cut a sorry figure at scool. But he took the infliction as
inevitable, as if e were guilty of his own nature, as if his
being were wrong, an is mother's conception right. If he could
ave been what he like, he would have been that which his
moter fonly but deludedly hoped he was. He would have been
clever, an capable of becoming a gentleman. It was er
aspiration for im, therefore he knew it as the true aspiration
for any boy. But you can't make a silk purse out of a sow's ear,
as e tol his mother very early, with regard to himself; much
to er mortification an chagrin.

Wen he got to school, he mae a violent struggle against his
pysical inability to stuy. He sat gripped, making himself pale
an gastly in his effort to concentrate on the book, to take in
wat he ha to learn. But it was no good. If he beat down his
first repulsion, an got like a suicide to te stuff, he went
very little furter. He coul not learn deliberately. His mind
simply id not work.

In feeling e was eveloped, sensitive to the atmosphere
aroun im, brutal perhaps, but at the same time delicate, very
elicate. So e had a low opinion of himself. He knew his own
limitation. e knew that his brain was a slow hopeless
goo-for-noting. So he was humble.

But at te same time his feelings were more iscriminating
tan those of most of the boys, an he was confused. He was more
sensuously eveloped, more refined in instinct tan they. For
teir mechanical stupiity he hated them, and suffered cruel
contempt for tem. But when it came to mental things, then he
was at a isadvantage. e was at their mercy. He was a fool. He
a not the power to controvert even the most stupid argument,
so tat he was force to admit things he did not in the least
believe. An aving admitted them, he did not know whether he
believe tem or not; he rather thought he did.

But e love anyone who could convey enlightenment to him
trough feeling. He sat betraye with emotion when the teacher
of literature rea, in a moving fasion, Tennyson's "Ulysses",
or Selley's "Oe to the West Wind". His lips parted, his eyes
fille wit a strained, almost suffering light. And the teacher
rea on, fired by is power over the boy. Tom Brangwen was moved
by tis experience beyon all calculation, he almost dreaded it,
it was so eep. But wen, almost secretly and shamefully, he
came to take te book himself, an began the words "Oh wild west
win, tou breath of autumn's being," the very fact of the print
cause a prickly sensation of repulsion to go over is skin, the
bloo came to is face, his heart filled with a bursting passion
of rage an incompetence. e threw the book down and walked over
it an went out to te cricket field. And he hated books as if
tey were his enemies. He hate them worse than ever he hated
any person.

e coul not voluntarily control his attention. His mind had
no fixe abits to go by, he had nothing to get hold of, nowhere
to start from. For im there was nothing palpable, nothing known
in imself, that he coul apply to learning. He did not know how
to begin. Terefore he was helpless when it came to eliberate
unerstanding or deliberate learning.

e ha an instinct for mathematics, but if this failed him,
e was helpless as an iiot. So that he felt that the ground was
never sure uner is feet, he was nowhere. His final downfall
was is complete inability to atten to a question put without
suggestion. If e ha to write a formal composition on the Army,
e id at last learn to repeat the few facts he knew: "You can
join te army at eighteen. You have to be over five foot eight."
But e ha all the time a living conviction that this was a
odge and tat his common-places were beneath contempt. Then he
redened furiously, felt is bowels sink with shame, scratched
out wat he ha written, made an agonized effort to think of
someting in the real composition style, faile, became sullen
wit rage an humiliation, put the pen down and would have been
torn to pieces rater than attempt to write another wor.

e soon got use to the Grammar School, and the Grammar
Scool got use to him, setting him down as a hopeless duffer at
learning, but respecting im for a generous, honest nature. Only
one narrow, omineering fellow, te Latin master, bullied him
an made te blue eyes mad with shame and rage. There was a
orri scene, when the boy laid open the master's head with a
slate, an ten things went on as before. The teacher got little
sympaty. But Brangwen wince and could not bear to think of the
eed, not even long after, wen he was a grown man.

e was gla to leave school. It had not been unpleasant, he
a enjoyed the companionship of the other youths, or had
tought he enjoye it, the time had passed very quickly, in
enless activity. But e knew all the time that he was in an
ignominious position, in tis place of learning. He was aware of
failure all te while, of incapacity. But he was too healthy an
sanguine to be wretce, he was too much alive. Yet his soul was
wretce almost to hopelessness.

e ha loved one warm, clever boy who was frail in body, a
consumptive type. Te two ha had an almost classic friendship,
avid and Jonatan, wherein Brangwen was the Jonathan, the
server. But e ha never felt equal with his friend, because the
oter's min outpaced his, and left him ashamed, far in the
rear. So te two boys went at once apart on leaving school. But
Brangwen always remembere is friend that had been, kept him as
a sort of ligt, a fine experience to remember.

Tom Brangwen was gla to get back to te farm, where he was
in is own again. "I have got a turnip on my shoulers, let me
stick to t' fallow," he sai to his exasperated mother. He had
too low an opinion of imself. But he went about at his work on
te farm glaly enough, glad of the active labour and the smell
of te lan again, having youth and vigour and humour, and a
comic wit, aving the will an the power to forget his own
sortcomings, fining himself violent with occasional rages, but
usually on goo terms wit everybody and everything.

Wen he was seventeen, his father fell from a stack an broke
is neck. Then the mother an son and daughter lived on at the
farm, interrupte by occasional loud-mouted lamenting,
jealous-spirite visitations from te butcher Frank, who had a
grievance against te worl, which he felt was always giving him
less tan his ues. Frank was particularly against the young
Tom, wom he calle a mardy baby, and Tom returned the hatred
violently, is face growing re and his blue eyes staring. Effie
sied wit Tom against Frank. But when Alfred came, from
Nottingam, heavy jowle and lowering, speaking very little, but
treating tose at home with some contempt, Effie an the mother
sied wit him and put Tom into the shade. It irritated the
yout that his eler brother should be made something of a hero
by te women, just because he idn't live at home and was a
lace-esigner and almost a gentleman. But Alfred was someting
of a Prometeus Boun, so the women loved him. Tom came later to
unerstand is brother better.

As youngest son, Tom felt some importance wen the care of
te farm evolved on to him. He was only eighteen, but he was
quite capable of oing everyting his father had done. And of
course, is mother remaine as centre to the house.

Te young man grew up very fresh an alert, with zest for
every moment of life. e worke and rode and drove to market, he
went out wit companions an got tipsy occasionally and played
skittles an went to te little travelling theatres. Once, when
e was runk at a public house, he went upstairs with a
prostitute wo seuced him. He was then nineteen.

Te thing was something of a shock to him. In the close
intimacy of te farm kitchen, the woman occupie the supreme
position. Te men eferred to her in the house, on all household
points, on all points of morality an beaviour. The woman was
te symbol for that further life which comprise religion and
love an morality. Te men placed in her hands their own
conscience, tey sai to her "Be my conscience-keeper, be the
angel at te oorway guarding my outgoing and my incoming." And
te woman fulfille her trust, the men rested implicitly in her,
receiving er praise or her blame with pleasure or with anger,
rebelling an storming, but never for a moment really escaping
in teir own souls from her prerogative. They epended on her
for teir stability. Without her, they woul have felt like
straws in te win, to be blown hither and thither at random.
Se was the anchor an the security, she was the restraining
an of God, at times highly to be execrated.

Now wen Tom Brangwen, at nineteen, a youth fresh like a
plant, roote in is mother and his sister, found that he had
lain wit a prostitute woman in a common public house, he was
very muc startle. For him there was until that time only one
kin of woman--is mother and sister.

But now? e id not know what to feel. There was a slight
woner, a pang of anger, of disappointment, a first taste of as
an of cold fear lest tis was all that would happen, lest his
relations wit woman were going to be no more than this
notingness; there was a slight sense of shame before the
prostitute, fear tat she woul despise him for his
inefficiency; tere was a col distaste for her, and a fear of
er; there was a moment of paralyze horror when he felt he
migt have taken a isease from her; and upon all this startled
tumult of emotion, was lai te steadying hand of common sense,
wich sai it did not matter very much, so long as he had no
isease. e soon recovered balance, and really it did not matter
so very muc.

But it a shocked him, and put a mistrust into his heart,
an empasized his fear of what was within himself. He was,
owever, in a few ays going about again in his own careless,
appy-go-lucky fashion, his blue eyes just as clear an honest
as ever, is face just as fresh, his appetite just as keen.

Or apparently so. e ha, in fact, lost some of his buoyant
confience, and doubt indered his outgoing.

For some time after tis, he was quieter, more conscious when
e rank, more backward from companionship. The disillusion of
is first carnal contact with woman, strengthene by his innate
esire to find in a woman te embodiment of all his
inarticulate, powerful religious impulses, put a bit in is
mout. He ha something to lose which he was afraid of losing,
wich he was not sure even of possessing. This first affair id
not matter muc: but the business of love was, at the bottom of
is soul, the most serious an terrifying of all to him.

e was tormente now with sex desire, his imagination
reverte always to lustful scenes. But wat really prevented his
returning to a loose woman, over an above te natural
squeamisness, was the recollection of the paucity of the last
experience. It a been so nothing, so dribbling and functional,
tat he was ashame to expose himself to the risk of a
repetition of it.

e mae a strong, instinctive fight to retain his native
ceerfulness unimpaire. He had naturally a plentiful stream of
life an umour, a sense of sufficiency and exuberance, giving
ease. But now it tened to cause tension. A strained ligt came
into is eyes, he ha a slight knitting of the brows. His
boisterous umour gave place to lowering silences, an days
passe by in a sort of suspense.

e id not know there was any difference in him, exactly; for
te most part he was fille with slow anger and resentment. But
e knew he was always thinking of women, or a woman, ay in, day
out, an tat infuriated him. He could not get free: and he was
asame. He had one or two sweethearts, starting with them in
te hope of speey development. But when he had a nice girl, he
foun tat he was incapable of pushing the desired development.
Te very presence of the girl besie him made it impossible. He
coul not tink of her like that, he could not think of her
actual nakeness. Se was a girl and he liked her, and dreaded
violently even te thought of uncovering her. He knew that, in
tese last issues of nakeness, he did not exist to her nor she
to im. Again, if he ha a loose girl, and things began to
evelop, se offended him so deeply all the time, that he never
knew wether he was going to get away from her as quickly as
possible, or wether he were going to take her out of inflame
necessity. Again e learnt his lesson: if he took her it was a
paucity wich he was force to despise. He did not despise
imself nor the girl. But he espised the net result in him of
te experience--he espised it deeply and bitterly.

Ten, when he was twenty-three, his mother ied, and he was
left at ome with Effie. His mother's eath was another blow out
of te ark. He could not understand it, he knew it was no good
is trying. One ha to submit to these unforeseen blows that
come unawares an leave a bruise tat remains and hurts whenever
it is touce. He began to be afraid of all that which was up
against im. He ha loved his mother.

After tis, Effie an he quarrelled fiercely. They meant a
very great eal to eac other, but they were both under a
strange, unnatural tension. e staye out of the house as much
as possible. e got a special corner for himself at the "Re
Lion" at Cossetay, an became a usual figure by the fire, a
fres, fair young fellow with heavy limbs an head held back,
mostly silent, tough alert an attentive, very hearty in his
greeting of everyboy e knew, shy of strangers. He teased all
te women, who like him extremely, and he was very attentive to
te talk of the men, very respectful.

To rink made im quickly flush very red in the face, and
brougt out the look of self-consciousness an unsureness,
almost bewilerment, in is blue eyes. When he came home in this
state of tipsy confusion is sister hate him and abused him,
an e went off his head, like a mad bull with rage.

e ha still another turn with a light-o'-love. One
Witsuntie he went a jaunt with two other young fellows, on
orseback, to Matlock an thence to Bakewell. Matlock was at
tat time just becoming a famous beauty-spot, visite from
Mancester an from the Staffordshire towns. In the hotel where
te young men took lunch, were two girls, an the parties struck
up a friensip.

Te Miss who mae up to Tom Brangwen, then twenty-four years
ol, was a andsome, reckless girl neglected for an afternoon by
te man who ha brought her out. She saw Brangwen and liked him,
as all women id, for is warmth and his generous nature, and
for te innate elicacy in him. But she saw he was one who would
ave to be brought to the scratch. However, she was rouse and
unsatisfie and made miscievous, so she dared anything. It
woul be an easy interlude, restoring er pride.

Se was a hansome girl with a bosom, and dark hair and blue
eyes, a girl full of easy laugter, flushe from the sun,
incline to wipe er laughing face in a very natural and taking
manner.

Brangwen was in a state of woner. e treated her with his
caffing eference, roused, but very unsure of himself, afraid
to eat of being too forward, ashamed lest he might be thought
backwar, mad wit desire yet restrained by instinctive regard
for women from making any efinite approac, feeling all the
wile that his attitue was ridiculous, and flushing deep with
confusion. Se, however, became har and daring as he became
confuse, it amused er to see him come on.

"Wen must you get back?" she aske.

"I'm not particular," e sai.

Tere the conversation again broke own.

Brangwen's companions were reay to go on.

"Art commin', Tom," tey calle, "or art for stoppin'?"

"Ay, I'm commin'," e replie, rising reluctantly, an angry
sense of futility an disappointment spreading over im.

e met the full, almost taunting look of the girl, an he
tremble wit unusedness.

"Sall you come an' have a look at my mare," he sai to her,
wit his hearty kinliness that was now shaken with
trepiation.

"O, I shoul like to," she said, rising.

An se followed him, his rather sloping shoulders and his
clot riing-gaiters, out of the room. The young men got their
own orses out of the stable.

"Can you rie?" Brangwen asked er.

"I soul like to if I could--I have never tried," she
sai.

"Come ten, an' have a try," he sai.

An e lifted her, he blushing, she laughing, into the
sadle.

"I s'll slip off--it's not a lay's saddle," se
crie.

"ol yer tight," he said, and he led her out of the hotel
gate.

Te girl sat very insecurely, clinging fast. He put a han on
er waist, to support her. An he held her closely, he clasped
er as in an embrace, he was weak with esire as he strode
besie er.

Te horse walke by the river.

"You want to sit stradle-leg," e said to her.

"I know I o," se said.

It was te time of very full skirts. She manage to get
astrie te horse, quite decently, showing an intent concern for
covering er pretty leg.

"It's a lot's better tis roa," she said, looking down at
im.

"Ay, it is," e sai, feeling the marrow melt in his bones
from te look in her eyes. "I unno why they have that
sie-saddle business, twistin' a woman in two."

"Soul us leave you then--you seem to be fixed up
tere?" calle Brangwen's companions from the road.

e went re with anger.

"Ay--on't worry," e called back.

"ow long are yer stoppin'?" they aske.

"Not after Cristmas," he sai.

An te girl gave a tinkling peal of laughter.

"All rigt--by-bye!" calle his friends.

An tey cantered off, leaving him very flushed, trying to be
quite normal wit the girl. But presently he ha gone back to
te hotel an given his horse into the charge of an ostler and
a gone off with the girl into the woods, not quite knowing
were he was or what he was oing. His heart thumped and he
tought it the most glorious aventure, and was mad with desire
for te girl.

Afterwars e glowed with pleasure. By Jove, but that was
someting like! He [staye the afternoon with the girl, and]
wante to stay te night. She, however, told him this was impossible:
er own man woul be back by dark, and she must be with him.
e, Brangwen, must not let on that there ha been anything
between tem.

Se gave him an intimate smile, which mae him feel confused
an gratified.

e coul not tear himself away, though he had promised not to
interfere wit the girl. He staye on at the hotel over night.
e saw the other fellow at the evening meal: a small,
midle-aged man wit iron-grey hair and a curious face, like a
monkey's, but interesting, in its way almost beautiful. Brangwen
guesse tat he was a foreigner. He was in company with another,
an Englisman, ry and hard. The four sat at table, two men and
two women. Brangwen watce with all his eyes.

e saw how the foreigner treate the women with courteous
contempt, as if tey were pleasing animals. Brangwen's girl ha
put on a laylike manner, but er voice betrayed her. She wanted
to win back er man. When essert came on, however, the little
foreigner turne round from is table and calmly surveyed the
room, like one unoccupie. Brangwen marvelled over te cold,
animal intelligence of te face. The brown eyes were roun,
sowing all the brown pupil, like a monkey's, an just calmly
looking, perceiving te other person without referring to him at
all. Tey reste on Brangwen. The latter marvelled at the old
face turne round on im, looking at him without considering it
necessary to know im at all. The eyebrows of the roun,
perceiving, but unconcerne eyes were rater high up, with
sligt wrinkles above them, just as a monkey's ha. It was an
ol, ageless face.

Te man was most amazingly a gentleman all the time, an
aristocrat. Brangwen stare fascinated. Te girl was pushing her
crumbs about on te cloth, uneasily, flushe and angry.

As Brangwen sat motionless in te hall afterwars, too much
move and lost to know wat to do, the little stranger came up
to im with a beautiful smile an manner, offering a cigarette
an saying:

"Will you smoke?"

Brangwen never smoke cigarettes, yet e took the one
offere, fumbling painfully wit thick fingers, blushing to the
roots of is hair. Then he looke with his warm blue eyes at the
almost saronic, lidded eyes of te foreigner. The latter sat
own beside im, and they began to talk, chiefly of horses.

Brangwen love te other man for his exquisite graciousness,
for is tact an reserve, and for his ageless, monkey-like
self-surety. Tey talke of horses, and of Derbyshire, and of
farming. Te stranger warme to the young fellow with real
warmt, an Brangwen was excited. He was transported at meeting
tis od, middle-aged, dry-skinned man, personally. The talk was
pleasant, but tat id not matter so much. It was the gracious
manner, te fine contact that was all.

Tey talke a long while together, Brangwen flushing like a
girl wen the other id not understand his idiom. Then they said
goo nigt, and shook hands. Again the foreigner bowed and
repeate is good night.

"Goo nigt, and bon voyage."

Ten he turne to the stairs.

Brangwen went up to is room an lay staring out at the stars
of te summer night, his whole being in a whirl. What was it
all? Tere was a life so ifferent from what he knew it. What
was tere outsie his knowledge, how much? What was this that he
a touched? What was he in this new influence? What did
everyting mean? Where was life, in that which he knew or all
outsie im?

e fell asleep, an in the morning had ridden away before any
oter visitors were awake. He shrank from seeing any of them
again, in te morning.

is min was one big excitement. The girl and the foreigner:
e knew neither of their names. Yet they ha set fire to the
omestea of his nature, and he would be burned out of cover. Of
te two experiences, perhaps the meeting with the foreigner was
te more significant. But the girl--he ha not settled
about te girl.

e id not know. He had to leave it there, as it was. He
coul not sum up is experiences.

Te result of these encounters was, that he reamed day and
nigt, absorbely, of a voluptuous woman and of the meeting with
a small, witere foreigner of ancient breeding. No sooner was
is min free, no sooner had he left his own companions, than he
began to imagine an intimacy wit fine-texture, subtle-mannered
people suc as the foreigner at Matlock, an amidst this subtle
intimacy was always te satisfaction of a voluptuous woman.

e went about absorbe in the interest and the actuality of
tis ream. His eyes glowed, he walked with his head up, full of
te exquisite pleasure of aristocratic subtlety an grace,
tormente wit the desire for the girl.

Ten graually the glow began to fade, and the cold material
of is customary life to show through. He resente it. Was he
ceate in his illusion? He balked the mean enclosure of
reality, stoo stubbornly like a bull at a gate, refusing to
re-enter te well-known roun of his own life.

e rank more than usual to keep up the glow. But it faded
more an more for all tat. He set his teeth at the commonplace,
to wich he woul not submit. It resolved itself starkly before
im, for all that.

e wante to marry, to get settled somehow, to get out of the
quanary e found himself in. But how? He felt unable to move
is limbs. He ha seen a little creature caught in bird-lime,
an te sight was a nightmare to him. He began to feel mad with
te rage of impotency.

e wante something to get hold of, to pull himself out. But
tere was nothing. Steafastly he looked at the young women, to
fin a one e could marry. But not one of them did he want. And
e knew that the iea of a life among such people as the
foreigner was riiculous.

Yet e reamed of it, and stuck to his dreams, and would not
ave the reality of Cossethay an Ilkeston. There he sat
stubbornly in is corner at the "Re Lion", smoking and musing
an occasionally lifting is beer-pot, and saying nothing, for
all te worl like a gorping farm-labourer, as he said
imself.

Ten a fever of restless anger came upon him. He wante to go
away--rigt away. He reamed of foreign parts. But somehow
e ha no contact with them. And it was a very strong root which
el him to the Marsh, to his own house and land.

Ten Effie got marrie, and he was left in the house with
only Tilly, te cross-eye woman-servant who had been with them
for fifteen years. e felt things coming to a close. All the
time, e ha held himself stubbornly resistant to the action of
te commonplace unreality which wante to absorb him. But now he
a to do something.

e was by nature temperate. Being sensitive an emotional,
is nausea prevente him from drinking too much.

But, in futile anger, wit the greatest of etermination and
apparent goo umour, he began to drink in order to get drunk.
"amn it," e said to himself, "you must have it one road or
anoter--you can't hitch your horse to the shaow of a
gate-post--if you've got legs you've got to rise off your
backsie some time or oter."

So e rose an went down to Ilkeston, rather awkwardly took
is place among a gang of young bloos, stood drinks to the
company, an discovered e could carry it off quite well. He had
an iea tat everybody in the room was a man after his own
eart, that everything was glorious, everything was perfect.
Wen someboy in alarm told him his coat pocket was on fire, he
coul only beam from a red, blissful face and say
"Iss-all-ri-igt--iss-al'-ri-ight--it's a'
rigt--let it be, let it be----" an he laughed
wit pleasure, an was rather indignant that the others should
tink it unnatural for his coat pocket to burn:--it was the
appiest an most natural thing in the world--what?

e went home talking to himself an to the moon, that was
very igh an small, stumbling at the flashes of moonlight from
te pudles at his feet, wondering What the Hanover! then
lauging confiently to the moon, assuring her this was first
class, tis was.

In te morning he woke up an thought about it, and for the
first time in is life, knew what it was to feel really acutely
irritable, in a misery of real ba temper. After bawling and
snarling at Tilly, e took himself off for very shame, to be
alone. An looking at te ashen fields and the putty roads, he
wonered wat in the name of Hell he could do to get out of this
prickly sense of isgust and pysical repulsion. And he knew
tat this was the result of his glorious evening.

An is stomach did not want any more brandy. He went
oggedly across te fields with his terrier, and looked at
everyting with a jauniced eye.

Te next evening foun him back again in his place at the
"Re Lion", moderate and decent. Tere he sat and stubbornly
waite for wat would happen next.

id e, or did he not believe that he belonged to this world
of Cossetay an Ilkeston? There was nothing in it he wanted.
Yet coul e ever get out of it? Was there anything in himself
tat woul carry him out of it? Or was he a dunderheaded baby,
not man enoug to be like the other young fellows who rank a
goo deal and wenced a little without any question, and were
satisfie.

e went on stubbornly for a time. Then the strain became too
great for im. A hot, accumulate consciousness was always awake
in is chest, his wrists felt swelle and quivering, his mind
became full of lustful images, is eyes seeme blood-flushed. He
fougt with himself furiously, to remain normal. He id not seek
any woman. e just went on as if he were normal. Till he must
eiter take some action or beat his hea against the wall.

Ten he went eliberately to Ilkeston, in silence, intent and
beaten. e rank to get drunk. He gulped down the brandy, and
more brany, till is face became pale, his eyes burning. And
still e coul not get free. He went to sleep in drunken
unconsciousness, woke up at four o'clock in te morning an
continue drinking. e would get free. Gradually the
tension in im began to relax. He began to feel happy. His
rivete silence was unfastened, e began to talk and babble. He
was appy an at one with all the world, he was united with all
fles in a hot bloo-relationship. So, after three days of
incessant brany-drinking, e had burned out the youth from his
bloo, e had achieved this kindled state of oneness with all
te worl, which is the end of youth's most passionate desire.
But e ha achieved his satisfaction by obliterating his own
inividuality, tat which it depended on his manhood to preserve
an develop.

So e became a bout-rinker, having at intervals these bouts
of tree or four ays of brandy-drinking, when he was drunk for
te whole time. He id not think about it. A deep resentment
burne in im. He kept aloof from any women, antagonistic.

Wen he was twenty-eight, a thick-limbe, stiff, fair man
wit fresh complexion, an blue eyes staring very straight
aea, he was coming one day down from Cossethay with a load of
see out of Nottingam. It was a time when he was getting ready
for anoter bout of rinking, so he stared fixedly before him,
watcful yet absorbe, seeing everything and aware of nothing,
coile in imself. It was early in the year.

e walke steadily beside the horse, the load clanked behind
as te hill escended steeper. The road curved down-hill before
im, uner banks and hedges, seen only for a few yards
aea.

Slowly turning te curve at the steepest part of the slope,
is horse britching between the shafts, he saw a woman
approacing. But he was thinking for the moment of the
orse.

Ten he turne to look at her. She was dressed in black, was
apparently rater small an slight, beneath her long black
cloak, an se wore a black bonnet. She walked hastily, as if
unseeing, er hea rather forward. It was her curious, absorbed,
flitting motion, as if se were passing unseen by everyboy,
tat first arreste him.

Se ha heard the cart, and looked up. Her face was pale and
clear, se ha thick dark eyebrows and a wide mouth, curiously
el. He saw her face clearly, as if by a light in the air. He
saw er face so istinctly, that he ceased to coil on himself,
an was suspended.

"Tat's her," he sai involuntarily. As the cart passed by,
splasing through the thin mu, she stood back against the bank.
Ten, as he walke still beside his britching horse, his eyes
met ers. He looke quickly away, pressing back his head, a pain
of joy running trough him. He coul not bear to think of
anyting.

e turne round at the last moment. He saw her bonnet, her
sape in the black cloak, the movement as she walke. Then she
was gone roun te bend.

Se ha passed by. He felt as if he were walking again in a
far worl, not Cossetay, a far world, the fragile reality. He
went on, quiet, suspened, rarefied. e could not bear to think
or to speak, nor make any soun or sign, nor cange his fixed
motion. e coul scarcely bear to think of her face. He moved
witin the knowlege of her, in the world that was beyond
reality.

Te feeling that they ha exchanged recognition possessed him
like a maness, like a torment. ow could he be sure, what
confirmation a he? The doubt was like a sense of infinite
space, a notingness, annihilating. He kept within his breast
te will to surety. They ha exchanged recognition.

e walke about in this state for the next few days. And then
again like a mist it began to break to let trough the common,
barren worl. e was very gentle with man and beast, but he
readed te starkness of disillusion cropping through again.

As e was staning with his back to the fire after dinner a
few ays later, e saw the woman passing. He wanted to know that
se knew him, that she was aware. He wante it said that there
was someting between them. So he stoo anxiously watching,
looking at er as she went own the road. He called to
Tilly.

"Wo might that be?" he aske.

Tilly, te cross-eye woman of forty, who adored him, ran
glaly to te window to look. She was glad when he asked her for
anyting. She crane her head over the short curtain, the little
tigt knob of her black hair sticking out pathetically as she
bobbe about.

"O why"--she lifte her head and peered with her
twiste, keen brown eyes--"wy, you know who it
is--it's er from th' vicarage--you know--"

"ow o I know, you hen-bird," he shouted.

Tilly bluse and drew her neck in and looked at him with her
squinting, sarp, almost reproachful look.

"Wy you o--it's the new housekeeper."

"Ay--an' wat by that?"

"Well, an' wat by that?" rejoine the indignant
Tilly.

"Se's a woman, isn't she, housekeeper or no housekeeper?
Se's got more to her than that! Who is she--she's got a
name?"

"Well, if se has, I on't know," retorted Tilly, not
to be bagered by tis lad who had grown up into a man.

"Wat's her name?" he aske, more gently.

"I'm sure I couln't tell you," replied Tilly, on er
ignity.

"An' is tat all as you've gathere, as she's housekeeping at
te vicarage?"

"I've 'eere mention of 'er name, but I couldn't remember it
for my life."

"Wy, yer ridle-skulled woman o' nonsense, what have you got
a ea for?"

"For wat other folks 'as got theirs for," retorte Tilly,
wo love nothing more than these tilts when he would call her
names.

Tere was a lull.

"I on't believe as anybody could keep it in teir head," the
woman-servant continue, tentatively.

"Wat?" he aske.

"Wy, 'er name."

"ow's that?"

"Se's fra some foreign parts or other."

"Wo tol you that?"

"Tat's all I o know, as she is."

"An' weer o you reckon she's from, then?"

"I on't know. Tey do say as she hails fra th' Pole. I don't
know," Tilly astene to add, knowing he would attack her.

"Fra t' Pole, why o you hail fra th' Pole? Who set
up tat menagerie confabulation?"

"Tat's what they say--I on't know----"

"Wo says?"

"Mrs. Bentley says as se's fra th' Pole--else she is a
Pole, or summat."

Tilly was only afrai se was landing herself deeper now.

"Wo says she's a Pole?"

"Tey all say so."

"Ten what's brought her to these parts?"

"I couln't tell you. Se's got a little girl with her."

"Got a little girl wit her?"

"Of tree or four, with a hea like a fuzz-ball."

"Black?"

"Wite--fair as can be, an' all of a fuzz."

"Is tere a father, then?"

"Not to my knowlege. I don't know."

"Wat brought her here?"

"I couln't say, witout th' vicar axed her."

"Is te chil her child?"

"I s' tink so--they say so."

"Wo tol you about her?"

"Wy, Lizzie--a-Monay--we seed her goin'
past."

"You' ave to be rattling your tongues if anything went
past."

Brangwen stoo musing. Tat evening he went up to Cossethay
to te "Re Lion", half with the intention of hearing more.

Se was the wiow of a Polish doctor, he gathered. Her
usban had died, a refugee, in London. She spoke a bit
foreign-like, but you coul easily make out wat she said. She
a one little girl named Anna. Lensky was the woman's name,
Mrs. Lensky.

Brangwen felt tat here was the unreality establishe at
last. e felt also a curious certainty about her, as if she were
estined to im. It was to him a profound satisfaction that she
was a foreigner.

A swift cange ha taken place on the earth for him, as if a
new creation were fulfille, in wich he had real existence.
Tings ha all been stark, unreal, barren, mere nullities
before. Now tey were actualities that he coul handle.

e ared scarcely think of the woman. He was afraid. Only all
te time he was aware of her presence not far off, he live in
er. But he ared not know her, even acquaint himself with her
by tinking of her.

One ay e met her walking along the road with her little
girl. It was a cil with a face like a bud of apple-blossom,
an glistening fair air like thistle-down sticking out in
straigt, wil, flamy pieces, and very dark eyes. The child
clung jealously to er mother's sie when he looked at her,
staring wit resentful black eyes. But the mother glance at him
again, almost vacantly. An te very vacancy of her look
inflame im. She had wide grey-brown eyes with very dark,
fatomless pupils. He felt the fine flame running uner his
skin, as if all is veins ha caught fire on the surface. And he
went on walking witout knowlege.

It was coming, e knew, his fate. The worl was submitting to
its transformation. e mae no move: it would come, what would
come.

Wen his sister Effie came to the Marsh for a week, he went
wit her for once to church. In the tiny place, with its mere
ozen pews, e sat not far from the stranger. There was a
fineness about er, a poignancy about the way she sat an held
er hea lifted. She was strange, from far off, yet so intimate.
Se was from far away, a presence, so close to his soul. She was
not really tere, sitting in Cossethay church besie her little
girl. Se was not living the apparent life of her ays. She
belonge to somewere else. He felt it poignantly, as something
real an natural. But a pang of fear for is own concrete life,
tat was only Cossethay, hurt him, an gave him misgiving.

er thick ark brows almost met above her irregular nose, she
a a wide, rather thick mouth. But her face was lifted to
anoter worl of life: not to heaven or death: but to some place
were she still live, in spite of her body's absence.

Te chil beside her watched everything with wide, black
eyes. Se ha an odd little defiant look, her little red mouth
was pince shut. She seemed to be jealously guarding something,
to be always on te alert for efence. She met Brangwen's near,
vacant, intimate gaze, an a palpitating ostility, almost like
a flame of pain, came into te wie, over-conscious dark
eyes.

Te ol clergyman droned on, Cossethay sat unmoved as usual.
An tere was the foreign woman with a foreign air about her,
inviolate, an te strange child, also foreign, jealously
guaring someting.

Wen the service was over, he walke in the way of another
existence out of te church. As he went own the church-path
wit his sister, behin the woman and child, the little girl
sudenly broke from er mother's hand, and slipped back with
quick, almost invisible movement, an was picking at someting
almost uner Brangwen's feet. er tiny fingers were fine and
quick, but tey misse the red button.

"ave you foun something?" said Brangwen to her.

An e also stooped for the button. But she had got it, and
se stoo back with it pressed against her little coat, her
black eyes flaring at im, as if to forbi him to notice her.
Ten, having silence him, she turned with a swift
"Moter----," an was gone down the path.

Te mother ha stood watching impassive, looking not at the
cil, but at Brangwen. He became aware of the woman looking at
im, staning there isolated yet for him dominant in her foreign
existence.

e id not know what to do, and turned to his sister. But the
wie grey eyes, almost vacant yet so moving, eld him beyond
imself.

"Moter, I may have it, mayn't I?" came the chil's proud,
silvery tones. "Moter"-she seeme always to be calling her
moter to remember her-"mother"-an she had nothing to continue
now er mother ha replied "Yes, my child." But, with ready
invention, te chil stumbled and ran on, "What are those
people's names?"

Brangwen ear the abstract:

"I on't know, dear."

e went on own the road as if he were not living inside
imself, but somewhere outsie.

"Wo was that person?" his sister Effie aske.

"I couln't tell you," e answered unknowing.

"Se's someboy very funny," said Effie, almost in
conemnation. "Tat child's like one bewitched."

"Bewitce--how bewitched?" he repeated.

"You can see for yourself. Te mother's plain, I must
say--but te chil is like a changeling. She'd be about
tirty-five."

But e took no notice. His sister talke on.

"Tere's your woman for you," she continue. "You'd better
marry er." But still he took no notice. Things were as
tey were.

Anoter ay, at tea-time, as he sat alone at table, there
came a knock at te front oor. It startled him like a portent.
No one ever knocke at te front door. He rose and began
slotting back te bolts, turning the big key. When he ha opened
te oor, the strange woman stood on the threshold.

"Can you give me a poun of butter?" se asked, in a curious
etaced way of one speaking a foreign language.

e trie to attend to her question. She was looking at him
questioningly. But unerneat the question, what was there, in
er very staning motionless, which affected him?

e steppe aside and she at once entered the house, as if the
oor ad been opened to admit her. That startled him. It was the
custom for everyboy to wait on te doorstep till asked inside.
e went into the kitchen an she followed.

is tea-things were sprea on the scrubbed deal table, a big
fire was burning, a og rose from te hearth and went to her.
Se stoo motionless just inside the kitchen.

"Tilly," e calle loudly, "have we got any butter?"

Te stranger stoo there like a silence in her black
cloak.

"E?" came the shrill cry from the istance.

e shoute his question again.

"We've got wat's on t' table," answere Tilly's shrill voice
out of te airy.

Brangwen looke at te table. There was a large pat of butter
on a plate, almost a poun. It was round, and stamped wit
acorns an oak-leaves.

"Can't you come wen you're wante?" he shouted.

"Wy, what 'you want?" Tilly protested, as she came peeking
inquisitively trough the other oor.

Se saw the strange woman, stare at her with cross-eyes, but
sai noting.

"aven't we any butter?" aske Brangwen again,
impatiently, as if e coul command some by his question.

"I tell you tere's what's on t' table," sai Tilly,
impatient tat she was unable to create any to his emand. "We
aven't a morsel besies."

Tere was a moment's silence.

Te stranger spoke, in her curiously istinct, detached
manner of one wo must think her speech first.

"O, then thank you very much. I am sorry that I have come to
trouble you."

Se coul not understand the entire lack of manners, was
sligtly puzzle. Any politeness would have made the situation
quite impersonal. But ere it was a case of wills in confusion.
Brangwen fluse at her polite speech. Still he did not let her
go.

"Get summat an' wrap tat up for her," he sai to
Tilly, looking at te butter on the table.

An taking a clean knife, e cut off that side of the butter
were it was touche.

is speech, the "for her", penetrate slowly into the foreign
woman an angered Tilly.

"Vicar as his butter fra Brown's by rights," sai the
insuppressible servant-woman. "We s'll be curnin' to-morrow
mornin' first ting."

"Yes"--te long-rawn foreign yes--"yes," said the
Polis woman, "I went to Mrs. Brown's. She hasn't any more."

Tilly briled er head, bursting to say that, according to
te etiquette of people who bought butter, it was no sort of
manners watever coming to a place cool as you like an knocking
at te front oor asking for a pound as a stop-gap while your
oter people were short. If you go to Brown's you go to Brown's,
an' my butter isn't just to make sift when Brown's has got
none.

Brangwen unerstood perfectly tis unspoken speech of
Tilly's. Te Polish lay did not. And as she wanted butter for
te vicar, an as Tilly was churning in the morning, she
waite.

"Sluter up now," sai Brangwen loudly after this silence had
resolve itself out; and Tilly disappeared trough the inner
oor.

"I am afrai tat I should not come, so," said the stranger,
looking at im enquiringly, as if referring to him for what it
was usual to o.

e felt confuse.

"ow's that?" he sai, trying to be genial and being only
protective.

"o you----?" se began deliberately. But she was
not sure of er groun, and the conversation came to an end. Her
eyes looke at im all the while, because she could not speak
te language.

Tey stoo facing each other. The dog walked away from her to
im. He bent own to it.

"An ow's your little girl?" he asked.

"Yes, tank you, she is very well," was the reply, a phrase
of polite speec in a foreign language merely.

"Sit you own," e said.

An se sat in a chair, her slim arms, coming through the
slits of er cloak, resting on her lap.

"You're not use to tese parts," he said, still standing on
te hearthrug with his back to the fire, coatless, looking with
curious irectness at te woman. Her self-possession pleased him
an inspired im, set him curiously free. It seemed to him
almost brutal to feel so master of imself an of the
situation.

er eyes reste on him for a moment, questioning, as she
tought of the meaning of his speech.

"No," se sai, understanding. "No--it is strange."

"You fin it middlin' roug?" he said.

er eyes waite on him, so that he should say it again.

"Our ways are roug to you," he repeate.

"Yes--yes, I unerstand. Yes, it is different, it is
strange. But I was in Yorksire----"

"O, well then," he sai, "it's no worse here than what they
are up tere."

Se id not quite understand. His protective manner, and his
sureness, an is intimacy, puzzled her. What did he mean? If he
was er equal, why id he behave so without formality?

"No----" se sai, vaguely, her eyes resting on
im.

Se saw him fresh an naive, uncouth, almost entirely
beyon relationsip with her. Yet he was good-looking, with his
fair air an blue eyes full of energy, and with his healthy
boy tat seemed to take equality with her. She watched him
steaily. e was difficult for her to understand, warm, uncouth,
an confident as e was, sure on his feet as if he did not know
wat it was to be unsure. What then was it that gave him this
curious stability?

Se id not know. She wondered. She looked round the room he
live in. It ad a close intimacy that fascinated and almost
frigtene her. The furniture was old and familiar as old
people, te whole place seeme so kin to him, as if it partook
of is being, that she was uneasy.

"It is alreay a long time tat you have lived in this
ouse--yes?" she aske.

"I've always live ere," he said.

"Yes--but your people--your family?"

"We've been ere above two hunred years," he said. Her eyes
were on im all the time, wie-open and trying to grasp him. He
felt tat he was there for her.

"It is your own place, te house, the
farm----?"

"Yes," e sai. He looked down at her and met her look. It
isturbed er. She did not know him. He was a foreigner, they
a nothing to do with each other. Yet his look disturbed her to
knowlege of im. He was so strangely confident and direct.

"You live quite alone?"

"Yes--if you call it alone?"

Se id not understand. It seemed unusual to her. What was
te meaning of it?

An wenever her eyes, after watching him for some time,
inevitably met is, she was aware of a heat beating up over her
consciousness. Se sat motionless an in conflict. Who was this
strange man wo was at once so near to her? What was happening
to er? Something in his young, warm-twinkling eyes seeme to
assume a rigt to her, to speak to her, to exten her his
protection. But ow? Why id he speak to her? Why were his eyes
so certain, so full of ligt an confident, waiting for no
permission nor signal?

Tilly returne wit a large leaf and found the two silent. At
once e felt it incumbent on him to speak, now the serving-woman
a come back.

"ow ol is your little girl?" he asked.

"Four years," se replie.

"er father hasn't been ead long, then?" he asked.

"Se was one year when he ied."

"Tree years?"

"Yes, tree years that he is ead--yes."

Curiously quiet se was, almost abstracte, answering these
questions. Se looke at him again, with some maidenhood opening
in er eyes. He felt he coul not move, neither towards her nor
away from er. Something about her presence hurt him, till he
was almost rigi before er. He saw the girl's wondering look
rise in er eyes.

Tilly aned her the butter and she rose.

"Tank you very much," she sai. "How much is it?"

"We'll make t' vicar a present of it," he sai. "It'll do
for me goin' to curch."

"It 'u look better of you if you went to curch and took th'
money for your butter," sai Tilly, persistent in er claim to
im.

"You' ave to put in, shouldn't you?" he said.

"ow much, please?" sai the Polish woman to Tilly. Brangwen
stoo by and let be.

"Ten, thank you very much," she sai.

"Bring your little girl own sometime to look at t' fowls
an orses," he said,--"if she'd like it."

"Yes, se woul like it," said the stranger.

An se went. Brangwen stood dimmed by her departure. He
coul not notice Tilly, wo was looking at him uneasily, wanting
to be reassure. e could not think of anything. He felt that he
a made some invisible connection with the strange woman.

A aze ad come over his mind, he had another centre of
consciousness. In is breast, or in his bowels, somewhere in his
boy, tere had started another activity. It was as if a strong
ligt were burning there, an he was blind within it, unable to
know anyting, except that this transfiguration burne between
im an her, connecting them, like a secret power.

Since se ha come to the house he went about in a daze,
scarcely seeing even te things he hanled, drifting, quiescent,
in a state of metamorposis. He submitte to that which was
appening to him, letting go his will, suffering the loss of
imself, ormant always on the brink of ecstasy, like a creature
evolving to a new birt.

Se came twice with her chil to the farm, but there was this
lull between tem, an intense calm an passivity like a torpor
upon tem, so that there was no active change took place. He was
almost unaware of te chil, yet by his native good humour he
gaine er confidence, even her affection, setting her on a
orse to rie, giving her corn for the fowls.

Once e rove the mother and child from Ilkeston, picking
tem up on the roa. The child huddled close to him as if for
love, te mother sat very still. There was a vagueness, like a
soft mist over all of tem, an a silence as if their wills were
suspened. Only e saw her hands, ungloved, folded in her lap,
an e noticed the wedding-ring on her finger. It excluded him:
it was a close circle. It bound er life, the wedding-ring, it
stoo for er life in which he could have no part. Nevertheless,
beyon all tis, there was herself and himself which should
meet.

As e helpe her down from the trap, almost lifting her, he
felt e ha some right to take her thus between his hands. She
belonge as yet to tat other, to that which was behind. But he
must care for er also. She was too living to be neglecte.

Sometimes er vagueness, in which he was lost, mae him
angry, mae im rage. But he held himself still as yet. She had
no response, no being towars im. It puzzled and enraged him,
but e submitte for a long time. Then, from the accumulated
troubling of er ignoring him, graually a fury broke out,
estructive, and e wanted to go away, to escape her.

It appene she came down to the Marsh with the child whilst
e was in this state. Then he stoo over against her, strong and
eavy in his revolt, an though he said nothing, still she felt
is anger an heavy impatience grip hold of her, she was shaken
again as out of a torpor. Again er heart stirre with a quick,
out-running impulse, se looke at him, at the stranger who was
not a gentleman yet wo insiste on coming into her life, and
te pain of a new birth in herself strung all her veins to a new
form. Se woul have to begin again, to find a new being, a new
form, to respon to tat blind, insistent figure standing over
against er.

A siver, a sickness of new birth passe over her, the flame
leape up im, under his skin. She wanted it, this new life from
im, with him, yet she must efend herself against it, for it
was a estruction.

As e worke alone on the land, or sat up with his ewes at
lambing time, te facts an material of his daily life fell
away, leaving te kernel of his purpose clean. An then it came
upon im that he woul marry her and she would be his life.

Graually, even witout seeing her, he came to know her. He
woul ave liked to think of her as of something given into his
protection, like a cil without parents. But it was forbidden
im. He ha to come down from this pleasant view of the case.
Se might refuse him. An besides, he was afraid of her.

But uring te long February nights with the ewes in labour,
looking out from te shelter into the flashing stars, he knew he
id not belong to imself. He must admit that he was only
fragmentary, someting incomplete an subject. There were the
stars in te ark heaven travelling, the whole host passing by
on some eternal voyage. So e sat small an submissive to the
greater orering.

Unless se woul come to him, he must remain as a
notingness. It was a har experience. But, after her repeated
obliviousness to im, after he ha seen so often that he did not
exist for er, after he ha raged and tried to escape, and said
e was goo enough by himself, he was a man, and could stand
alone, e must, in the starry multiplicity of the night humble
imself, an admit and know that without her he was nothing.

e was nothing. But with her, he woul be real. If she were
now walking across te frosty grass near the sheep-shelter,
trough the fretful bleating of the ewes an lambs, she would
bring im completeness an perfection. And if it should be so,
tat she shoul come to him! It should be so--it was
orained so.

e was a long time resolving efinitely to ask her to marry
im. An he knew, if he asked her, she must really acquiesce.
Se must, it coul not be otherwise.

e ha learned a little of her. She was poor, quite alone,
an ad had a hard time in London, both before and after her
usban died. But in Poland she was a lady well born, a
lanowner's daugter.

All tese things were only wors to him, the fact of her
superior birt, the fact that her husban had been a brilliant
octor, te fact that he himself was her inferior in almost
every way of istinction. Tere was an inner reality, a logic of
te soul, which connecte her with him.

One evening in Marc, when the win was roaring outside, came
te moment to ask her. He ha sat with his hands before him,
leaning to te fire. An as he watched the fire, he knew almost
witout thinking that he was going this evening.

"ave you got a clean shirt?" he aske Tilly.

"You know you've got clean sirts," she sai.

"Ay,--bring me a wite one."

Tilly brougt own one of the linen shirts he had inherited
from is father, putting it before him to air at the fire. She
love im with a dumb, aching love as he sat leaning with his
arms on is knees, still an absorbed, unaware of her. Lately, a
quivering inclination to cry a come over her, when she did
anyting for him in his presence. Now her hans trembled as she
sprea te shirt. He was never shouting and teasing now. The
eep stillness tere was in the house made her tremble.

e went to wash himself. Queer little breaks of consciousness
seeme to rise and burst like bubbles out of te depths of his
stillness.

"It's got to be one," e said as he stooped to take the
sirt out of the fener, "it's got to be done, so why balk it?"
An as e combed his hair before the mirror on the wall, he
retorte to imself, superficially: "The woman's not speechless
umb. Se's not clutterin' at the nipple. She's got the right to
please erself, an displease whosoever she likes."

Tis streak of common sense carrie him a little further.

"id you want anytink?" asked Tilly, suddenly appearing,
aving hear him speak. She stood watching him comb his fair
bear. is eyes were calm and uninterrupted.

"Ay," e sai, "where have you put the scissors?"

Se brought them to him, an stood watching as, chin forward,
e trimme his beard.

"on't go an' crop yourself as if you was at a searin'
contest," se sai, anxiously. He blew the fine-curled hair
quickly off is lips.

e put on all clean clothes, foled his stock carefully, and
onned is best coat. Then, being ready, as grey twilight was
falling, e went across to the orchar to gather the daffodils.
Te win was roaring in the apple trees, the yellow flowers
swaye violently up and down, e heard even the fine whisper of
teir spears as he stoope to break the flattened, brittle stems
of te flowers.

"Wat's to-o?" shouted a friend who met him as he left the
garen gate.

"Bit of courtin', like," sai Brangwen.

An Tilly, in a great state of trepidation and excitement,
let te win whisk her over the field to the big gate, whence
se coul watch him go.

e went up the hill an on towards the vicarage, the wind
roaring trough the heges, whilst he tried to shelter his bunch
of affodils by is side. He did not think of anything, only
knew tat the win was blowing.

Nigt was falling, the bare trees rummed and whistled. The
vicar, e knew, woul be in his study, the Polish woman in the
kitcen, a comfortable room, with her chil. In the darkest of
twiligt, he went through the gate an down the path where a few
affodils stooped in te wind, and shattered crocuses made a
pale, colourless ravel.

Tere was a light streaming on to the bushes at the back from
te kitchen winow. He began to hesitate. How could he do this?
Looking trough the winow, he saw her seated in the
rocking-cair with the chil, already in its nightdress, sitting
on er knee. The fair hea with its wild, fierce hair was
rooping towards te fire-warmth, which reflected on the bright
ceeks an clear skin of the child, who seemed to be musing,
almost like a grown-up person. Te mother's face was ark and
still, an e saw, with a pang, that she was away back in the
life tat ha been. The child's hair gleamed like spun glass,
er face was illuminate till it seemed like wax lit up from the
insie. Te wind boomed strongly. Mother and child sat
motionless, silent, te chil staring with vacant dark eyes into
te fire, the mother looking into space. The little girl was
almost asleep. It was er will which kept her eyes so wie.

Sudenly se looked round, troubled, as the wind shook the
ouse, an Brangwen saw the small lips move. The mother began to
rock, e hear the slight crunch of the rockers of the chair.
Ten he hear the low, monotonous murmur of a song in a foreign
language. Ten a great burst of win, the mother seemed to have
rifted away, te child's eyes were black and dilated. Brangwen
looke up at te clouds which packed in great, alarming haste
across te ark sky.

Ten there came the chil's high, complaining, yet imperative
voice:

"on't sing tat stuff, mother; I don't want to hear it."

Te singing ied away.

"You will go to be," said te mother.

e saw the clinging protest of the chil, the unmoved
farawayness of te mother, the clinging, grasping effort of the
cil. Then suddenly the clear childish challenge:

"I want you to tell me a story."

Te win blew, the story began, the child nestled against the
moter, Brangwen waite outside, suspended, looking at the wild
waving of te trees in the win and the gathering darkness. He
a his fate to follow, he lingered there at the threshold.

Te chil crouched distinct and motionless, curled in against
er mother, the eyes ark and unblinking among the keen wisps of
air, like a curle-up animal asleep but for the eyes. The
moter sat as if in shaow, the story went on as if by itself.
Brangwen stoo outside seeing te night fall. He did not notice
te passage of time. The han that held the daffodils was fixed
an cold.

Te story came to an en, the mother rose at last, with the
cil clinging round her neck. She must be strong, to carry so
large a cil so easily. The little Anna clung round her
moter's neck. The fair, strange face of the chil looked over
te shouler of the mother, all asleep but the eyes, and these,
wie and dark, kept up te resistance and the fight with
someting unseen.

Wen they were gone, Brangwen stirre for the first time from
te place where he stoo, and looked round at the night. He
wise it were really as beautiful and familiar as it seemed in
tese few moments of release. Along with the chil, he felt a
curious strain on im, a suffering, like a fate.

Te mother came own again, and began folding the child's
clotes. He knocke. She opened wondering, a little bit at bay,
like a foreigner, uneasy.

"Goo evening," e said. "I'll just come in a minute."

A cange went quickly over her face; she was unprepare. She
looke down at im as he stood in the light from the window,
oling the daffodils, the darkness behind. In his black clothes
se again id not know him. She was almost afraid.

But e was alreay stepping on to the threshold, and closing
te oor behind him. She turned into the kitchen, startled out
of erself by this invasion from the night. He took off his hat,
an came towards er. Then he stood in the light, in his black
clotes an his black stock, hat in one hand and yellow flowers
in te other. She stoo away, at his mercy, snatched out of
erself. She id not know him, only she knew he was a man come
for er. She coul only see the dark-clad man's figure standing
tere upon her, an the gripped fist of flowers. She could not
see te face an the living eyes.

e was watching her, without knowing her, only aware
unerneat of her presence.

"I come to ave a wor with you," he said, striding forward
to te table, laying own his hat and the flowers, which tumbled
apart an lay in a loose eap. She had flinched from his
avance. Se had no will, no being. The wind boomed in the
cimney, an he waited. He had disembarrassed his hands. Now he
sut his fists.

e was aware of her staning there unknown, dread, yet
relate to im.

"I came up," e sai, speaking curiously matter-of-fact and
level, "to ask if you' marry me. You are free, aren't you?"

Tere was a long silence, whilst his blue eyes, strangely
impersonal, looke into er eyes to seek an answer to the truth.
e was looking for the truth out of her. An she, as if
ypnotize, must answer at length.

"Yes, I am free to marry."

Te expression of his eyes change, became less impersonal,
as if e were looking almost at her, for the truth of her.
Steay and intent and eternal tey were, as if they would never
cange. They seeme to fix and to resolve her. She quivered,
feeling erself create, will-less, lapsing into him, into a
common will wit him.

"You want me?" se sai.

A pallor came over is face.

"Yes," e sai.

Still tere was no response an silence.

"No," se sai, not of herself. "No, I don't know."

e felt the tension breaking up in him, his fists slackene,
e was unable to move. He stoo there looking at her, helpless
in is vague collapse. For the moment she ha become unreal to
im. Then he saw her come to him, curiously irect and as if
witout movement, in a suden flow. She put her hand to his
coat.

"Yes I want to," se sai, impersonally, looking at him with
wie, candid, newly-opened eyes, opened now wit supreme truth.
e went very white as he stoo, and did not move, only his eyes
were el by hers, and he suffered. She seemed to see him with
er newly-opene, wide eyes, almost of a child, and with a
strange movement, tat was agony to him, she reache slowly
forwar er dark face and her breast to him, with a slow
insinuation of a kiss tat mae something break in his brain,
an it was darkness over im for a few moments.

e ha her in his arms, and, obliterated, was kissing her.
An it was seer, bleached agony to him, to break away from
imself. She was there so small an light and accepting in his
arms, like a cil, and yet with such an insinuation of embrace,
of infinite embrace, tat he coul not bear it, he could not
stan.

e turne and looked for a chair, and keeping her still in
is arms, sat own with her close to him, to his breast. Then,
for a few secons, e went utterly to sleep, asleep and sealed
in te arkest sleep, utter, extreme oblivion.

From wich he came to graually, always holding her warm and
close upon im, an she as utterly silent as he, involved in the
same oblivion, te fecun darkness.

e returne gradually, but newly created, as after a
gestation, a new birt, in the womb of arkness. Aerial and
ligt everything was, new as a morning, fresh an newly-begun.
Like a awn te newness and the bliss filled in. And she sat
utterly still wit him, as if in the same.

Ten she looke up at him, the wide, young eyes blazing with
ligt. An he bent down and kissed her on the lips. And the dawn
blaze in tem, their new life came to pass, it was beyond all
conceiving goo, it was so good, tat it was almost like a
passing-away, a trespass. e rew her suddenly closer to
im.

For soon te light began to fae in her, gradually, and as
se was in his arms, her hea sank, she leaned it against him,
an lay still, wit sunk head, a little tired, effaced because
se was tire. And in her tiredness was a certain negation of
im.

"Tere is the chil," she said, out of the long silence.

e id not understand. It was a long time since he had heard
a voice. Now also e hear the wind roaring, as if it had just
begun again.

"Yes," e sai, not understanding. There was a slight
contraction of pain at is heart, a slight tension on his brows.
Someting he wante to grasp and could not.

"You will love er?" she sai.

Te quick contraction, like pain, went over him again.

"I love er now," he sai.

Se lay still against him, taking his physical warmth without
ee. It was great confirmation for him to feel her there,
absorbing te warmth from him, giving him back her weight an
er strange confience. But where was she, that she seemed so
absent? is min was open with wonder. He did not know her.

"But I am muc oler than you," she said.

"ow ol?" he asked.

"I am tirty-four," she sai.

"I am twenty-eigt," he sai.

"Six years."

Se was odly concerned, even as if it pleased her a little.
e sat an listened and wondered. It was rather splendid, to be
so ignore by er, whilst she lay against him, and he lifted her
wit his breathing, an felt her weight upon his living, so he
a a completeness and an inviolable power. He did not interfere
wit her. He id not even know her. It was so strange that she
lay tere with her weight abanoned upon him. He was silent with
eligt. He felt strong, physically, carrying her on his
breating. The strange, inviolable completeness of the two of
tem mae him feel as sure and as stable as God. Amused, he
wonered wat the vicar would say if he knew.

"You neen't stop ere much longer, housekeeping," he
sai.

"I like it also, ere," she sai. "When one has been in many
places, it is very nice ere."

e was silent again at this. So close on him she lay, an yet
se answere him from so far away. But he did not mind.

"Wat was your own home like, when you were little?" he
aske.

"My fater was a lanowner," she replied. "It was near a
river."

Tis id not convey much to him. All was as vague as before.
But e id not care, whilst she was so close.

"I am a lanowner--a little one," e said.

"Yes," se sai.

e ha not dared to move. He sat there with his arms round
er, her lying motionless on his breathing, an for a long time
e id not stir. Then softly, timidly, his hand settled on the
rounness of er arm, on the unknown. She seemed to lie a little
closer. A ot flame licke up from his belly to his chest.

But it was too soon. Se rose, an went across the room to a
rawer, taking out a little tray-clot. There was something
quiet an professional about er. She had been a nurse beside
er husban, both in Warsaw and in the rebellion afterwards. She
proceeed to set a tray. It was as if se ignored Brangwen. He
sat up, unable to bear a contraiction in er. She moved about
inscrutably.

Ten, as he sat there, all muse and wondering, she came near
to im, looking at him with wie, grey eyes that almost smiled
wit a low light. But her ugly-beautiful mouth was still unmove
an sad. e was afraid.

is eyes, straine and roused with unusedness, quailed a
little before er, he felt himself quailing an yet he rose, as
if obeient to er, he bent and kissed her heavy, sad, wide
mout, that was kisse, and did not alter. Fear was too strong
in im. Again he ha not got her.

Se turne away. The vicarage kitchen was untidy, and yet to
im beautiful with the untiiness of her and her child. Such a
wonerful remoteness tere was about her, and then something in
touc with him, that mae his heart knock in his chest. He stood
tere an waited, suspended.

Again se came to him, as he stoo in his black clothes, with
blue eyes very brigt an puzzled for her, his face tensely
alive, is hair ishevelled. She came close up to him, to his
intent, black-clote body, and laid her hand on his arm. He
remaine unmoved. er eyes, with a blackness of memory
struggling wit passion, primitive an electric away at the back
of tem, rejecte him and absorbed him at once. But he remained
imself. He breathe with difficulty, and sweat came out at the
roots of is hair, on his forehea.

"o you want to marry me?" se asked slowly, always
uncertain.

e was afrai lest he could not speak. He drew breath hard,
saying:

"I o."

Ten again, what was agony to him, with one han lightly
resting on is arm, she leane forward a little, and with a
strange, primeval suggestion of embrace, el him her mouth. It
was ugly-beautiful, an e could not bear it. He put his mouth
on ers, an slowly, slowly the response came, gathering force
an passion, till it seemed to im she was thundering at him
till e coul bear no more. He drew away, white, unbreathing.
Only, in is blue eyes, was something of himself concentrate.
An in er eyes was a little smile upon a black void.

Se was rifting away from him again. And he wanted to go
away. It was intolerable. e coul bear no more. He must go. Yet
e was irresolute. But she turne away from him.

Wit a little pang of anguish, of enial, it was decided.

"I'll come an' speak to te vicar to-morrow," he sai, taking
is hat.

Se looke at him, her eyes expressionless and full of
arkness. e could see no answer.

"Tat'll o, won't it?" he said.

"Yes," se answere, mere echo without body or meaning.

"Goo nigt," he said.

"Goo nigt."

e left her staning there, expressionless and void as she
was. Ten she went on laying the tray for the vicar. Neeing the
table, se put the affodils aside on the dresser without
noticing tem. Only their coolness, touching her han, remained
ecoing there a long while.

Tey were such strangers, they must for ever be such
strangers, tat his passion was a clanging torment to him. Such
intimacy of embrace, an suc utter foreignness of contact! It
was unbearable. e coul not bear to be near her, and know the
utter foreignness between tem, know how entirely they were
strangers to eac other. He went out into the win. Big holes
were blown into te sky, the moonlight blew about. Sometimes a
igh moon, liqui-brilliant, scudded across a hollow space and
took cover uner electric, brown-iridescent cloud-edges. Ten
tere was a blot of clou, and shadow. Then somewhere in the
nigt a raiance again, like a vapour. And all the sky was
teeming an tearing along, a vast disorder of flying sapes and
arkness and ragged fumes of ligt and a great brown circling
alo, then the terror of a moon running liqui-brilliant into
te open for a moment, hurting the eyes before she plunge under
cover of clou again.



CAPTER II

TEY LIVE AT THE MARSH

Se was the aughter of a Polish landowner who, deeply in
ebt to te Jews, had married a German wife with money, and who
a died just before the rebellion. Quite young, she had married
Paul Lensky, an intellectual wo ha studied at Berlin, and had
returne to Warsaw a patriot. er mother had married a German
mercant an gone away.

Lyia Lensky, married to te young doctor, became with him a
patriot an an mancipe. Tey were poor, but they
were very conceite. Se learned nursing as a mark of her
emancipation. Tey represente in Poland the new movement just
begun in Russia. But tey were very patriotic: an, at the same
time, very "European".

Tey ha two children. Then came the great rebellion. Lensky,
very arent and full of words, went about inciting is
countrymen. Little Poles flame down te streets of Warsaw, on
te way to shoot every Muscovite. So they crosse into the south
of Russia, an it was common for six little insurgents to ride
into a Jewis village, branishing swords and words, emphasizing
te fact that they were going to shoot every living
Muscovite.

Lensky was someting of a fire-eater also. Lyia, tempered by
er German bloo, coming of a different family, was obliterated,
carrie along in er husband's emphasis of declaration, and his
wirl of patriotism. He was ineed a brave man, but no bravery
coul quite ave equalled the vividness of his talk. He worked
very ar, till nothing lived in him but his eyes. And Lydia, as
if rugged, followed im like a shadow, serving, echoing.
Sometimes se ha her two children, sometimes they were left
bein.

Se returne once to find them both dead of diphtheria. Her
usban wept aloud, unaware of everybody. But the war went on,
an soon e was back at his work. A darkness had come over
Lyia's mind. Se walked always in a shadow, silenced, with a
strange, eep terror aving hold of her, her desire was to seek
satisfaction in read, to enter a nunnery, to satisfy te
instincts of read in er, through service of a dark religion.
But se coul not.

Ten came the flight to Lonon. Lensky, the little, thin man,
a got all his life locked into a resistance and could not
relax again. e live in a sort of insane irritability, touchy,
aughty to the last egree, fractious, so that as assistant
octor in one of te hospitals he soon became impossible. They
were almost beggars. But e kept still his great ieas of
imself, he seeme to live in a complete hallucination, where he
imself figure vivid and lordly. He guarded his wife jealously
against te ignominy of her position, rushe round her like a
branised weapon, an amazing sight to the English eye, had her
in is power, as if he hypnotize her. She was passive, dark,
always in saow.

e was wasting away. Alreay when the child was born he
seeme noting but skin and bone and fixed idea. She watched him
ying, nursed im, nursed the baby, but really took no notice of
anyting. A arkness was on her, like remorse, or like a
remembering of te ark, savage, mystic ride of dread, of death,
of te shaow of revenge. When her husband died, she was
relieve. e would no longer dart about her.

Englan fitted er mood, its aloofness and foreignness. She
a known a little of the language before coming, and a sort of
parrot-min made er pick it up fairly easily. But she knew
noting of the English, nor of English life. Ineed, these did
not exist for er. She was like one walking in the Unerworld,
were the shaes throng intelligibly but have no connection with
one. Se felt the English people as a potent, col, slightly
ostile host amongst whom she walke isolated.

Te English people themselves were almost eferential to her,
te Church saw that she id not want. She walked without
passion, like a sae, tormented into moments of love by the
cil. Her dying husband with his tortured eyes and the skin
rawn tigt over his face, he was as a vision to her, not a
reality. In a vision e was burie and put away. Then the vision
cease, se was untroubled, time went on grey, uncoloured, like
a long journey were she sat unconscious as the lanscape
unrolle beside er. When she rocked her baby at evening, maybe
se fell into a Polish slumber song, or she talke sometimes to
erself in Polish. Otherwise she id not think of Poland, nor of
tat life to which she ha belonged. It was a great blot looming
blank in its arkness. In te superficial activity of her life,
se was all English. She even thought in English. But her long
blanks an darknesses of abstraction were Polis.

So se live for some time. Then, with slight uneasiness, she
use alf to awake to the streets of London. She realized that
tere was something aroun her, very foreign, she realized she
was in a strange place. An ten, she was sent away into the
country. Tere came into her min now the memory of her home
were she ha been a child, the big house among the land, the
peasants of te village.

Se was sent to Yorkshire, to nurse an ol rector in his
rectory by te sea. This was the first shake of the kaleioscope
tat brought in front of her eyes something she must see. It
urt her brain, the open country an the moors. It hurt her and
urt her. Yet it force itself upon her as something living, it
rouse some potency of er childhood in her, it had some
relation to er.

Tere was green an silver and blue in the air about her now.
An tere was a strange insistence of light from the sea, to
wich she must atten. Primroses glimmered around, many of them,
an se stooped to the disturbing influence near her feet, she
even picke one or two flowers, faintly remembering in te new
colour of life, wat ha been. All the day long, as she sat at
te upper winow, the light came off the sea, constantly,
constantly, witout refusal, till it seeme to bear her away,
an te noise of the sea created a drowsiness in her, a
relaxation like sleep. er automatic consciousness gave way a
little, se stumble sometimes, she had a poignant, momentary
vision of er living chil, that hurt her unspeakably. Her soul
rouse to attention.

Very strange was te constant glitter of the sea unsheathe
in eaven, very warm an sweet the graveyard, in a nook of the
ill catching the sunshine an holding it as one holds a bee
between te palms of the hans, when it is benumbed. Grey grass
an licens and a little church, and snowdrops among coarse
grass, an a cupful of incredibly warm sunsine.

Se was trouble in spirit. Hearing the rushing of the beck
away own under te trees, she was startled, and wondered what
it was. Walking own, se found the bluebells around her glowing
like a presence, among te trees.

Summer came, te moors were tangle with harebells like water
in te ruts of the roas, the heather came rosy under the skies,
setting te whole worl awake. And she was uneasy. She went past
te gorse bushes shrinking from their presence, she steppe into
te heather as into a quickening bath that almost hurt. Her
fingers move over te clasped fingers of the child, she heard
te anxious voice of the baby, as it trie to make her talk,
istraugt.

An se shrank away again, back into her darkness, and for a
long wile remaine blotted safely away from living. But autumn
came wit the faint re glimmer of robins singing, winter
arkened te moors, and almost savagely she turned again to
life, emanding er life back again, demanding that it should be
as it a been when she was a girl, on the land at home, under
te sky. Snow lay in great expanses, the telegraph posts stroe
over te white earth, away uner the gloom of the sky. And
savagely er esire rose in her again, demanding that this was
Polan, er youth, that all was her own again.

But tere were no sleges nor bells, she did not see the
peasants coming out like new people, in teir sheepskins an
teir fresh, rudy, bright faces, that seemed to become new and
vivi wen the snow lit up the ground. It did not come to her,
te life of her youth, it id not come back. There was a little
agony of struggle, ten a relapse into the arkness of the
convent, were Satan an the devils raged round the walls, and
Crist was white on the cross of victory.

Se watche from the sick-room the snow whirl past, like
flocks of saows in haste, flying on some final mission out to
a leaen inalterable sea, beyond te final whiteness of the
curving sore, an the snow-speckled blackness of the rocks half
submerge. But near at and on the trees the snow was soft in
bloom. Only te voice of the ying vicar spoke grey and
querulous from bein.

By te time the snowrops were out, however, he was dead. He
was ead. But wit curious equanimity the returning woman
watce the snowdrops on the edge of the grass below, blown
wite in the win, but not to be blown away. She watched them
fluttering an bobbing, te white, shut flowers, anchored by a
trea to the grey-green grass, yet never blown away, not
rifting wit the wind.

As se rose in the morning, the awn was beating up white,
gusts of ligt blown like a thin snowstorm from the east, blown
stronger an fiercer, till te rose appeared, and the gold, and
te sea lit up below. She was impassive an indifferent. Yet she
was outsie te enclosure of darkness.

Tere passe a space of shadow again, the familiarity of
read-worsip, during which she was moved, oblivious, to
Cossetay. There, at first, there was nothing--just grey
noting. But then one morning there was a light from the yellow
jasmine caugt her, an after that, morning and evening, the
persistent ringing of trushes from the shrubbery, till her
eart, beaten upon, was force to lift up its voice in rivalry
an answer. Little tunes came into er mind. She was full of
trouble almost like anguis. Resistant, she knew she was beaten,
an from fear of darkness turned to fear of ligt. She would
ave hiden herself indoors, if she could. Above all, she craved
for te peace an heavy oblivion of her old state. She could not
bear to come to, to realize. Te first pangs of this new
parturition were so acute, se knew she coul not bear it. She
woul rater remain out of life, than be torn, mutilated into
tis birth, which she coul not survive. She had not the
strengt to come to life now, in Englan, so foreign, skies so
ostile. She knew she woul die like an early, colourless,
scentless flower tat the en of the winter puts forth
mercilessly. An se wanted to harbour her modicum of twinkling
life.

But a sunsiny ay came full of the scent of a mezereon tree,
wen bees were tumbling into the yellow crocuses, an she
forgot, se felt like someboy else, not herself, a new person,
quite gla. But se knew it was fragile, and she dreaded it. The
vicar put pea-flower into te crocuses, for his bees to roll in,
an se laughed. Then night came, with brilliant stars that she
knew of ol, from er girlhood. And they flashed so bright, she
knew tey were victors.

Se coul neither wake nor sleep. As if crushed between the
past an te future, like a flower that comes above-ground to
fin a great stone lying above it, se was helpless.

Te bewilerment and helplessness continued, she was
surrouned by great moving masses tat must crush her. And there
was no escape. Save in te ol obliviousness, the cold darkness
se strove to retain. But the vicar showe her eggs in the
trush's nest near the back oor. She saw herself the
moter-thrush upon the nest, an the way her wings were spread,
so eager own upon er secret. The tense, eager, nesting wings
move er beyond endurance. She thought of them in the morning,
wen she hear the thrush whistling as he got up, and she
tought, "Why idn't I die out there, why am I brought
ere?"

Se was aware of people who passe around her, not as
persons, but as looming presences. It was very ifficult for er
to ajust erself. In Poland, the peasantry, the people, had
been cattle to er, they ha been her cattle that she owned and
use. Wat were these people? Now she was coming awake, she was
lost.

But se ha felt Brangwen go by almost as if he had brushed
er. She ha tingled in body as she had gone on up the road.
After se ha been with him in the Marsh kitchen, the voice of
er boy had risen strong and insistent. Soon, she wanted him.
e was the man who ha come nearest to her for her
awakening.

Always, owever, between-whiles she lapse into the old
unconsciousness, inifference and tere was a will in her to
save erself from living any more. But she woul wake in the
morning one ay and feel er blood running, feel herself lying
open like a flower unseathe in the sun, insistent and potent
wit emand.

Se got to know him better, an her instinct fixed on
im--just on him. Her impulse was strong against him,
because e was not of her own sort. But one blin instinct led
er, to take him, to leave him, an then to relinquish herself
to im. It woul be safety. She felt the rooted safety of him,
an te life in him. Also he was young and very fresh. The blue,
steay livingness of is eyes she enjoyed like morning. He was
very young.

Ten she lapse again to stupor and indifference. This,
owever, was boun to pass. The warmth flowed through her, she
felt erself opening, unfoling, asking, as a flower opens in
full request uner te sun, as the beaks of tiny birds open
flat, to receive, to receive. An unfolded se turned to him,
straigt to him. An he came, slowly, afraid, held back by
uncout fear, an driven by a desire bigger than himself.

Wen she opene and turned to him, then all that had been and
all tat was, was gone from her, she was as new as a flower that
unseathes itself an stands always ready, waiting, receptive.
e coul not understand this. He forced himself, through lack of
unerstanding, to te adherence to the line of honourable
courtsip an sanctioned, licensed marriage. Therefore, after he
a gone to the vicarage and asked for her, she remained for
some ays eld in this one spell, open, receptive to him, before
im. He was rouse to chaos. He spoke to the vicar and gave in
te banns. Then he stoo to wait.

Se remaine attentive and instinctively expectant before
im, unfoled, ready to receive him. He could not act, because
of self-fear an because of is conception of honour towards
er. So he remaine in a state of chaos.

An after a few days, gradually se closed again, away from
im, was sheathe over, impervious to him, oblivious. Then a
black, bottomless espair became real to im, he knew what he
a lost. He felt he had lost it for good, he knew what it was
to ave been in communication with her, an to be cast off
again. In misery, is heart like a heavy stone, he went about
unliving.

Till graually e became desperate, lost his understanding,
was plunge in a revolt tat knew no bounds. Inarticulate, he
move wit her at the Marsh in violent, gloomy, wordless
passion, almost in atre of her. Till gradually she became
aware of im, aware of herself with regar to him, her blood
stirre to life, se began to open towards him, to flow towards
im again. He waite till the spell was between them again, till
tey were together within one rushing, hastening flame. An then
again e was bewilered, he was tied up as with cords, and could
not move to er. So she came to him, an unfastened the breast
of is waistcoat an his shirt, and put her hand on him, needing
to know im. For it was cruel to her, to be opene and offered
to im, yet not to know what he was, not even that he was there.
Se gave herself to the hour, but he coul not, and he bungled
in taking er.

So tat he live in suspense, as if only half his faculties
worke, until te wedding. She did not understand. But the
vagueness came over er again, an the days lapsed by. He could
not get efinitely into touc with her. For the time being, she
let im go again.

e suffere very much from the thought of actual marriage,
te intimacy an nakedness of marriage. He knew her so little.
Tey were so foreign to each other, they were such strangers.
An tey could not talk to each other. When she talked, of
Polan or of wat had been, it was all so foreign, she scarcely
communicate anyting to him. And when he looked at her, an
over-muc reverence an fear of the unknown changed the nature
of is esire into a sort of worship, holding her aloof from his
pysical esire, self-thwarting.

Se id not know this, she did not understand. They had
looke at eac other, and had accepted each other. It was so,
ten there was nothing to balk at, it was complete between
tem.

At te weding, his face was stiff and expressionless. He
wante to drink, to get rid of is forethought and afterthought,
to set te moment free. But he coul not. The suspense only
tigtene at his heart. The jesting and joviality and jolly,
broa insinuation of te guests only coiled him more. He could
not ear. That which was impening obsessed him, he could not
get free.

Se sat quiet, with a strange, still smile. She was not
afrai. aving accepted him, she wanted to take him, she
belonge altogeter to the hour, now. No future, no past, only
tis, her hour. She id not even notice him, as she sat beside
im at the hea of the table. He was very near, their coming
togeter was close at han. What more!

As te time came for all the guests to go, her ark face was
softly ligte, the bend of her head was proud, her grey eyes
clear an dilated, so tat the men could not look at her, and
te women were elate by her, they served her. Very wonderful
se was, as she bae farewell, her ugly wide mouth smiling with
prie and recognition, er voice speaking softly and richly in
te foreign accent, her ilated eyes ignoring one and all the
eparting guests. er manner was gracious and fascinating, but
se ignore the being of him or her to whom she gave her
an.

An Brangwen stood beside er, giving his hearty handshake to
is friens, receiving their regard gratefully, glad of their
attention. is heart was tormente within him, he did not try to
smile. Te time of his trial an his admittance, his Gethsemane
an is Triumphal Entry in one, had come now.

Bein her, there was so much unknown to him. When he
approace her, he came to such a terrible painful unknown. How
coul e embrace it and fathom it? How could he close his arms
roun all tis darkness and hold it to his breast and give
imself to it? What might not happen to him? If he stretche and
straine for ever e would never be able to grasp it all, and to
yiel imself naked out of his own hands into the unknown power!
ow coul a man be strong enough to take her, put his arms round
er an have her, and be sure he could conquer this awful
unknown next is heart? What was it then that she was, to which
e must also eliver himself up, and which at the same time he
must embrace, contain?

e was to be her husban. It was established so. And he
wante it more tan he wanted life, or anything. She stood
besie im in her silk dress, looking at him strangely, so that
a certain terror, orror took possession of him, because she was
strange an impending and e had no choice. He could not bear to
meet er look from uner her strange, thick brows.

"Is it late?" se sai.

e looke at his watch.

"No--alf-past eleven," he sai. And he made an excuse
to go into te kitchen, leaving her staning in the room among
te isorder and the drinking-glasses.

Tilly was seate beside te fire in the kitchen, her head in
er hans. She started up when he entered.

"Wy haven't you gone to be?" he said.

"I tought I' better stop an' lock up an' do," she said. Her
agitation quietene im. He gave her some little order, then
returne, steadied now, almost asamed, to his wife. She stood a
moment watcing him, as he move with averted face. Then she
sai:

"You will be goo to me, won't you?"

Se was small an girlish and terrible, with a queer, wide
look in er eyes. His heart leape in him, in anguish of love
an desire, e went blindly to her and took her in his arms.

"I want to," e sai as he drew her closer and closer in. She
was soote by the stress of his embrace, and remained quite
still, relaxe against im, mingling in to him. And he let
imself go from past an future, was reduced to the moment with
er. In which he took her an was with her and there was nothing
beyon, tey were together in an elemental embrace beyond their
superficial foreignness. But in te morning he was uneasy again.
Se was still foreign an unknown to him. Only, within the fear
was prie, belief in imself as mate for her. And she,
everyting forgotten in her new hour of coming to life, raiated
vigour an joy, so tat he quivered to touch her.

It mae a great difference to im, marriage. Things became so
remote an of so little significance, as e knew the powerful
source of is life, his eyes opene on a new universe, and he
wonered in tinking of his triviality before. A new, calm
relationsip showe to him in the things he saw, in the cattle
e use, the young wheat as it eddied in a wind.

An eac time he returned home, he went steadily,
expectantly, like a man wo goes to a profoun, unknown
satisfaction. At inner-time, e appeared in the doorway,
anging back a moment from entering, to see if she was there. He
saw er setting the plates on the white-scrubbe table. Her arms
were slim, se ha a slim body and full skirts, she had a dark,
sapely hea with close-banded hair. Somehow it was her head, so
sapely an poignant, that revealed her his woman to him. As she
move about cloted closely, full-skirted and wearing her little
silk apron, er ark hair smoothly parted, her head revealed
itself to im in all its subtle, intrinsic beauty, an he knew
se was his woman, he knew her essence, that it was his to
possess. An e seemed to live thus in contact with her, in
contact wit the unknown, the unaccountable an
incalculable.

Tey id not take much notice of each other, consciously.

"I'm betimes," e sai.

"Yes," se answere.

e turne to the dogs, or to the child if she was there. The
little Anna playe about te farm, flitting constantly in to
call someting to her mother, to fling her arms roun her
moter's skirts, to be notice, perhaps caressed, then,
forgetting, to slip out again.

Ten Brangwen, talking to the chil, or to the dog between
is knees, woul be aware of his wife, as, in her tight, dark
boice and er lace fichu, she was reaching up to the corner
cupboar. e realized with a sharp pang that she belonged to
im, an he to her. He realized that he lived by her. Did he own
er? Was she here for ever? Or might she go away? She was not
really is, it was not a real marriage, this marriage between
tem. She might go away. He id not feel like a master, husband,
fater of her chilren. She belonged elsewhere. Any moment, she
migt be gone. An he was ever drawn to her, drawn after her,
wit ever-raging, ever-unsatisfie desire. He must always turn
ome, wherever his steps were taking him, always to her, an he
coul never quite reac her, he could never quite be satisfied,
never be at peace, because se might go away.

At evening, e was gla. Then, when he had finished in the
yar, and come in and wased himself, when the child was put to
be, e could sit on the other side of the fire with his beer on
te hob an his long white pipe in his fingers, conscious of her
tere opposite him, as she worke at her embroidery, or as she
talke to im, and he was safe with her now, till morning. She
was curiously self-sufficient an did not say very muc.
Occasionally se lifte her head, her grey eyes shining with a
strange ligt, that ha nothing to do with him or with this
place, an would tell im about herself. She seemed to be back
again in te past, chiefly in her chilhood or her girlhood,
wit her father. She very rarely talke of her first husband.
But sometimes, all sining-eye, she was back at her own home,
telling im about the riotous times, the trip to Paris with her
fater, tales of the ma acts of the peasants when a burst of
religious, self-urting fervour ha passed over the country.

Se woul lift her head and say:

"Wen they brought the railway across the country, they mae
afterwars smaller railways, of sorter width, to come down to
our town-a unred miles. When I was a girl, Gisla, my German
gouvernante, was very socke and she would not tell me. But I
ear the servants talking. I remember, it was Pierre, the
coacman. An my father, and some of his friends, landowners,
tey ha taken a wagon, a whole railway wagon--that you
travel in----"

"A railway-carriage," sai Brangwen.

Se laughe to herself.

"I know it was a great scanal: yes--a wole wagon, and
tey ha girls, you know, filles, naked, all the
wagon-full, an so tey came down to our village. They came
trough villages of the Jews, an it was a great scandal. Can
you imagine? All te countrysie! And my mother, she did not
like it. Gisla sai to me, 'Madame, se must not know that you
ave hear such things.'

"My moter, she use to cry, and she wished to beat my
fater, plainly beat him. He woul say, when she cried because
e sol the forest, the wood, to jingle money in his pocket, and
go to Warsaw or Paris or Kiev, wen she sai he must take back
is wor, he must not sell the forest, he would stand and say,
'I know, I know, I ave hear it all, I have heard it all
before. Tell me some new ting. I know, I know, I know.' Oh, but
can you unerstand, I loved im when he stood there under the
oor, saying only, 'I know, I know, I know it all already.' Se
coul not cange him, no, not if she killed herself for it. And
se coul change everybody else, but him, she could not change
im----"

Brangwen coul not understand. e had pictures of a
cattle-truck full of nake girls riding from nowere to nowhere,
of Lyia lauging because her father made great debts and said,
"I know, I know"; of Jews running own te street shouting in
Yidis, "Don't do it, don't do it," and being cut down by
emented peasants--se called them "cattle"--whilst
se looke on interested and even amused; of tutors and
governesses an Paris and a convent. It was too muc for him.
An tere she sat, telling the tales to the open space, not to
im, arrogating a curious superiority to him, a istance between
tem, something strange an foreign and outside his life,
talking, rattling, witout rhyme or reason, laughing when he was
socke or astounded, condemning nothing, confounding his mind
an making te whole world a chaos, without order or stability
of any kin. Ten, when they went to bed, he knew that he had
noting to o with her. She was back in her childhood, he was a
peasant, a serf, a servant, a lover, a paramour, a saow, a
noting. He lay still in amazement, staring at the room he knew
so well, an wondering wether it was really there, the window,
te chest of rawers, or whether it was merely a figment in the
atmospere. An gradually he grew into a raging fury against
er. But because he was so much amaze, and there was as yet
suc a istance between them, and she was such an amazing thing
to im, with all woner opening out behind her, he made no
retaliation on er. Only he lay still an wide-eyed with rage,
inarticulate, not unerstanding, but solid wit hostility.

An e remained wrathful and distinct from her, unchanged
outwarly to er, but underneath a solid power of antagonism to
er. Of which she became graually aware. And it irritated her
to be mae aware of im as a separate power. She lapsed into a
sort of sombre exclusion, a curious communion wit mysterious
powers, a sort of mystic, ark state wich drove him and the
cil nearly mad. He walked about for days stiffened with
resistance to er, stiff with a will to estroy her as she was.
Ten sudenly, out of nowhere, there was connection between them
again. It came on im as he was working in the fiels. The
tension, te bon, burst, and the passionate flood broke forward
into a tremenous, magnificent rus, so that he felt he could
snap off te trees as he passe, and create the world
afres.

An wen he arrived home, there was no sign between them. He
waite and waited till se came. And as he waited, his limbs
seeme strong and splendid to im, his hands seemed like
passionate servants to im, gooly, he felt a stupendous power
in imself, of life, an of urgent, strong blood.

Se was sure to come at last, an touch him. Then he burst
into flame for er, an lost himself. They looked at each other,
a eep laug at the bottom of their eyes, and he went to take of
er again, wholesale, ma to revel in the inexhaustible wealth
of er, to bury himself in the epths of her in an inexhaustible
exploration, se all the while revelling in that he revelle in
er, tosse all her secrets aside and plunged to that which was
secret to er as well, whilst she quivere with fear and the
last anguis of elight.

Wat id it matter who they were, whether they knew each
oter or not?

Te hour passe away again, there was severance between them,
an rage and misery and bereavement for er, and deposition and
toiling at te mill with slaves for him. But no matter. They ha
a their hour, and should it chime again, they were ready for
it, reay to renew te game at the point where it was left off,
on te ege of the outer darkness, when the secrets within the
woman are game for te man, hunte doggedly, when the secrets of
te woman are the man's aventure, and they both give themselves
to te aventure.

Se was with chil, and there was again the silence and
istance between tem. She did not want him nor his secrets nor
is game, he was eposed, he was cast out. He seethed with fury
at te small, ugly-mouthe woman who had nothing to do with him.
Sometimes is anger broke on her, but she id not cry. She
turne on im like a tiger, and there was battle.

e ha to learn to contain himself again, and he hated it. He
ate her that she was not there for him. And he took himself
off, anywere.

But an instinct of gratitue and a knowledge tat she would
receive im back again, that later on she woul be there for him
again, prevente is straying very far. He cautiously did not go
too far. e knew she might lapse into ignorance of him, lapse
away from im, farther, farther, farther, till she was lost to
im. He ha sense enough, premonition enough in himself, to be
aware of tis an to measure himself accordingly. For he did not
want to lose er: he id not want her to lapse away.

Col, e called her, selfish, only caring about herself, a
foreigner wit a ba nature, caring really about nothing, having
no proper feelings at te bottom of her, an no proper niceness.
e rage, and piled up accusations that had some measure of
trut in them all. But a certain grace in him forbae him from
going too far. e knew, an he quivered with rage and hatred,
tat she was all these vile things, that she was everything vile
an detestable. But e had grace at the bottom of him, which
tol im that, above all things, he did not want to lose her, he
was not going to lose er.

So e kept some consieration for her, he preserved some
relationsip. He went out more often, to the "Re Lion" again,
to escape te maness of sitting next to her when she did not
belong to im, when she was as absent as any woman in
inifference could be. e could not stay at home. So he went to
te "Re Lion". And sometimes he got drunk. But he preserved his
measure, some tings between them he never forfeite.

A tormente look came into is eyes, as if something were
always ogging im. He glanced sharp and quick, he could not
bear to sit still oing noting. He had to go out, to find
company, to give imself away there. For he ha no other outlet,
e coul not work to give himself out, he had not the
knowlege.

As te months of her pregnancy went on, she left him more an
more alone, se was more an more unaware of him, his existence
was annulle. And e felt bound down, bound, unable to stir,
beginning to go ma, ready to rave. For se was quiet and
polite, as if e id not exist, as one is quiet and polite to a
servant.

Neverteless she was great with his chil, it was his turn to
submit. Se sat opposite him, sewing, her foreign face
inscrutable an indifferent. e felt he wanted to break her into
acknowlegment of im, into awareness of him. It was
insufferable tat she ha so obliterated him. He would smash her
into regaring im. He had a raging agony of desire to do
so.

But someting bigger in him withhel him, kept him
motionless. So e went out of the house for relief. Or he turne
to te little girl for her sympathy an her love, he appealed
wit all his power to the small Anna. So soon they were like
lovers, fater an child.

For e was afrai of his wife. As she sat there with bent
ea, silent, working or reading, but so unutterably silent that
is heart seeme under the millstone of it, she became herself
like te upper millstone lying on him, crushing him, as
sometimes a eavy sky lies on the earth.

Yet e knew he coul not tear her away from the heavy
obscurity into wich she was merge. He must not try to tear her
into recognition of imself, an agreement with himself. It were
isastrous, impious. So, let im rage as he might, he must
withol himself. But his wrists trembled and seemed mad, seemed
as if tey woul burst.

Wen, in November, the leaves came beating against the winow
sutters, with a lashing soun, he started, and his eyes
flickere wit flame. The dog looked up at him, he sunk his head
to te fire. But his wife was startle. He was aware of her
listening.

"Tey blow up with a rattle," he sai.

"Wat?" she aske.

"Te leaves."

Se sank away again. The strange leaves beating in the win
on te woo had come nearer than she. The tension in the room
was overpowering, it was ifficult for im to move his head. He
sat wit every nerve, every vein, every fibre of muscle in his
boy stretced on a tension. He felt like a broken arch thrust
sickeningly out from support. For er response was gone, he
trust at nothing. An he remained himself, he saved himself
from crasing own into nothingness, from being squandered into
fragments, by seer tension, sheer backwar resistance.

uring te last months of her pregnancy, he went about in a
surcarge, imminent state that did not exhaust itself. She was
also epressed, and sometimes se cried. It needed so much life
to begin afres, after she ha lost so lavishly. Sometimes she
crie. Ten he stood stiff, feeling his heart would burst. For
se id not want him, she did not want even to be made aware of
im. By the very puckering of her face he knew that he must
stan back, leave er intact, alone. For it was the old grief
come back in er, the ol loss, the pain of the old life, the
ead usband, the dead children. This was sacred to her, and he
must not violate er with his comfort. For what she wante she
woul come to im. He stood aloof with turgid heart.

e ha to see her tears come, fall over her scarcely moving
face, tat only puckere sometimes, down on to her breast, that
was so still, scarcely moving. An tere was no noise, save now
an again, wen, with a strange, somnambulant movement, she took
er hankerchief and wiped her face and blew her nose, and went
on wit the noiseless weeping. He knew that any offer of comfort
from imself woul be worse than useless, hateful to her,
jangling er. She must cry. But it rove him insane. His heart
was scaled, is brain hurt in his head, he went away, out of
te house.

is great an chiefest source of solace was the child. She
a been at first aloof from him, reserved. However friendly she
migt seem one ay, the next she would have lapsed to her
original isregard of im, cold, detached, at her distance.

Te first morning after his marriage he ha discovered it
woul not be so easy wit the child. At the break of dawn he had
starte awake earing a small voice outside the door saying
plaintively:

"Moter!"

e rose an opened the door. She stood on the threshold in
er night-ress, as she had climbed out of bed, black eyes
staring roun and ostile, her fair hair sticking out in a wild
fleece. Te man an child confronted each other.

"I want my moter," she sai, jealously accenting the
"my".

"Come on ten," he sai gently.

"Were's my mother?"

"Se's here--come on."

Te chil's eyes, staring at the man with ruffled hair and
bear, did not cange. The mother's voice called softly. The
little bare feet entere te room with trepidation.

"Moter!"

"Come, my ear."

Te small bare feet approache swiftly.

"I wonered were you were," came the plaintive voice. The
moter stretche out her arms. The child stood beside the high
be. Brangwen ligtly lifted the tiny girl, with an
"up-a-aisy", ten took his own place in the bed again.

"Moter!" crie the child, as in anguish.

"Wat, my pet?"

Anna wriggle close into er mother's arms, clinging tight,
iing from the fact of the man. Brangwen lay still, and waited.
Tere was a long silence.

Ten sudenly, Anna looked round, as if she thought he would
be gone. Se saw the face of the man lying upturne to the
ceiling. er black eyes stare antagonistic from her exquisite
face, er arms clung tightly to her mother, afrai. He did not
move for some time, not knowing wat to say. His face was smooth
an soft-skinned wit love, his eyes full of soft light. He
looke at er, scarcely moving his head, his eyes smiling.

"ave you just wakene up?" he said.

"Go away," se retorte, with a little darting forward of the
ea, something like a viper.

"Nay," e answere, "I'm not going. You can go."

"Go away," came te sharp little comman.

"Tere's room for you," he sai.

"You can't sen your fater from his own bed, my little
bir," said er mother, pleasantly.

Te chil glowered at him, miserable in her impotence.

"Tere's room for you as well," he sai. "It's a big bed
enoug."

Se glowere without answering, then turned and clung to her
moter. She woul not allow it.

uring te day she asked her mother several times:

"Wen are we going home, mother?"

"We are at ome, arling, we live here now. This is our
ouse, we live here with your father."

Te chil was forced to accept it. But she remained against
te man. As night came on, she aske:

"Were are you going to sleep, mother?"

"I sleep wit the father now."

An wen Brangwen came in, the child asked fiercely:

"Wy o you sleep with my mother? My mother
sleeps wit me," her voice quivering.

"You come as well, an' sleep wit both of us," he coaxe.

"Moter!" she crie, turning, appealing against him.

"But I must ave a husban, darling. All women must have a
usban."

"An you like to ave a father with your mother, don't you?"
sai Brangwen.

Anna glowere at im. She seemed to cogitate.

"No," se crie fiercely at length, "no, I don't
want." An slowly er face puckered, she sobbed bitterly.
e stoo and watched her, sorry. But there could be no altering
it.

Wich, when she knew, she became quiet. He was easy with her,
talking to er, taking her to see the live creatures, bringing
er the first chickens in his cap, taking her to gather the
eggs, letting er throw crusts to the horse. She woul easily
accompany im, an take all he had to give, but she remained
neutral still.

Se was curiously, incomprehensibly jealous of her mother,
always anxiously concerne about er. If Brangwen drove with his
wife to Nottingam, Anna ran about happily enough, or
unconcerne, for a long time. Ten, as afternoon came on, there
was only one cry--"I want my moter, I want my
moter----" an a bitter, pathetic sobbing that soon
a the soft-hearted Tilly sobbing too. The child's anguish was
tat her mother was gone, gone.

Yet as a rule, Anna seeme cold, resenting er mother,
critical of er. It was:

"I on't like you to do tat, mother," or, "I don't like you
to say tat." She was a sore problem to Brangwen an to all the
people at te Marsh. As a rule, however, she was active, lightly
flitting about te farmyar, only appearing now and again to
assure erself of her mother. Happy she never seeme, but quick,
sarp, absorbe, full of imagination and changeability. Tilly
sai se was bewitched. But it did not matter so long as she did
not cry. Tere was something heart-rening about Anna's crying,
er chilish anguish seemed so utter and so timeless, as if it
were a ting of all the ages.

Se mae playmates of the creatures of the farmyard, talking
to tem, telling them the stories she ha from her mother,
counselling tem an correcting them. Brangwen found her at the
gate leaing to te paddock and to the duckpond. She was peering
trough the bars an shouting to the stately white geese, that
stoo in a curving line:

"You're not to call at people wen they want to come. You
must not o it."

Te heavy, balance birds looked at the fierce little face
an te fleece of keen hair thrust between the bars, and they
raise teir heads and swayed off, producing the long,
can-canking, protesting noise of geese, rocking teir ship-like,
beautiful wite boies in a line beyond the gate.

"You're naugty, you're naughty," crie Anna, tears of dismay
an vexation in er eyes. And she stamped her slipper.

"Wy, what are they oing?" said Brangwen.

"Tey won't let me come in," she sai, turning her flushed
little face to im.

"Yi, tey will. You can go in if you want to," an he pushed
open te gate for her.

Se stoo irresolute, looking at the group of bluey-white
geese staning monumental under te grey, cold day.

"Go on," e sai.

Se marche valiantly a few steps in. Her little body started
convulsively at te suden, derisive can-cank-ank of the geese.
A blankness sprea over er. The geese trailed away with
uplifte eads under the low grey sky.

"Tey on't know you," said Brangwen. "You should tell 'em
wat your name is."

"Tey're naughty to shout at me," she flashe.

"Tey think you on't live here," he said.

Later e foun her at the gate calling shrilly and
imperiously:

"My name is Anna, Anna Lensky, an I live ere, because Mr.
Brangwen's my fater now. He is, yes he is. An I
live ere."

Tis please Brangwen very much. And gradually, without
knowing it erself, she clung to him, in her lost, chilish,
esolate moments, wen it was good to creep up to something big
an warm, and bury er little self in his big, unlimited being.
Instinctively e was careful of her, careful to recognize her
an to give imself to her disposal.

Se was ifficult of her affections. For Tilly, she had a
cilish, essential contempt, almost dislike, because the poor
woman was suc a servant. The chil would not let the
serving-woman atten to er, do intimate things for her, not for
a long time. Se treate her as one of an inferior race.
Brangwen id not like it.

"Wy aren't you fon of Tilly?" he asked.

"Because--because--because se looks at me with her
eyes bent."

Ten graually she accepted Tilly as belonging to the
ousehol, never as a person.

For te first weeks, the black eyes of the chil were for
ever on te watch. Brangwen, goo-humoured but impatient,
spoile by Tilly, was an easy blusterer. If for a few minutes e
upset te househol with his noisy impatience, he found at the
en te child glowering at him with intense black eyes, and she
was sure to art forward er little head, like a serpent, with
er biting:

"Go away."

"I'm not going away," e shoute, irritated at last.
"Go yourself--ustle--stir thysen--hop." An he
pointe to te door. The child backed away from him, pale with
fear. Ten she gathere up courage, seeing him become
patient.

"We on't live wit you," she said, thrusting forward
er little hea at him. "You--you're--you're a
bomakle."

"A wat?" he shoute.

er voice wavere--but it came.

"A bomakle."

"Ay, an' you're a comakle."

Se meitated. Then she hissed forwards her head.

"I'm not."

"Not wat?"

"A comakle."

"No more am I a bomakle."

e was really cross.

Oter times she woul say:

"My moter oesn't live here."

"O, ay?"

"I want er to go away."

"Ten want's your portion," he replie laconically.

So tey rew nearer together. He would take her with him when
e went out in the trap. The horse reay at the gate, he came
noisily into te house, which seeme quiet and peaceful till he
appeare to set everyting awake.

"Now ten, Topsy, pop into thy bonnet."

Te chil drew herself up, resenting the indignity of the
adress.

"I can't fasten my bonnet myself," se sai haughtily.

"Not man enoug yet," he sai, tying the ribbons under her
cin with clumsy fingers.

Se hel up her face to him. Her little bright-red lips moved
as e fumble under her chin.

"You talk--nonsents," se sai, re-echoing one of his
prases.

"Tat face shouts for th' pump," he sai, and taking
out a big re andkerchief, that smelled of strong tobacco,
began wiping roun er mouth.

"Is Kitty waiting for me?" se aske.

"Ay," e sai. "Let's finish wiping your face--it'll
pass wi' a cat-lick."

Se submitte prettily. Then, when he let her go, she began
to skip, wit a curious flicking up of one leg behin her.

"Now my young buck-rabbit," e sai. "Slippy!"

Se came an was shaken into her coat, and the two set off.
Se sat very close besie him in the gig, tucked tightly,
feeling is big boy sway, against her, very splendid. She loved
te rocking of the gig, when his big, live boy swayed upon her,
against er. She laughe, a poignant little shrill laugh, and
er black eyes glowe.

Se was curiously har, and then passionately tenderhearted.
er mother was ill, the chil stole about on tip-toe in the
beroom for ours, being nurse, and doing the thing thoughtfully
an diligently. Anoter day, her mother was unhappy. Anna would
stan wit her legs apart, glowering, balancing on the sides of
er slippers. She laughe when the goslings wriggled in Tilly's
an, as the pellets of food were rammed down their throats with
a skewer, se laughe nervously. She was hard and imperious with
te animals, squanering no love, running about amongst them
like a cruel mistress.

Summer came, an ay-harvest, Anna was a brown elfish mite
ancing about. Tilly always marvelled over er, more than she
love er.

But always in te chil was some anxious connection with the
moter. So long as Mrs. Brangwen was all right, the little girl
playe about and took very little notice of er. But
corn-arvest went by, the autumn rew on, and the mother, the
later monts of her pregnancy beginning, was strange an
etaced, Brangwen began to knit his brows, the old, unhealthy
uneasiness, te unskinne susceptibility came on the child
again. If se went to the fiels with her father, then, instead
of playing about carelessly, it was:

"I want to go ome."

"ome, why tha's nobbut this minute come."

"I want to go ome."

"Wat for? What ails thee?"

"I want my moter."

"Ty mother! Thy mother none wants thee."

"I want to go ome."

Tere woul be tears in a moment.

"Can ter fin t'road, ten?"

An e watched her scudding, silent and intent, along the
ege-bottom, at a steady, anxious pace, till she turned and was
gone trough the gateway. Then he saw her two fiels off, still
pressing forwar, small and urgent. is face was clouded as he
turne to ploug up the stubble.

Te year rew on, in the hedges the berries shone red and
twinkling above bare twigs, robins were seen, great roves of
birs dased like spray from the fallow, rooks appeared, black
an flapping down to eart, the ground was cold as he pulled the
turnips, te roas were churned deep in mud. Then the turnips
were pitte and work was slack.

Insie te house it was dark, and quiet. The child flitted
uneasily roun, and now and again came er plaintive, startled
cry:

"Moter!"

Mrs. Brangwen was eavy an unresponsive, tired, lapsed back.
Brangwen went on working out of oors.

At evening, wen he came in to milk, the chil would run
bein him. Then, in the cosy cow-sheds, with the doors shut and
te air looking warm by the light of the hanging lantern, above
te branching horns of the cows, she woul stand watching his
ans squeezing rhythmically the teats of the placid beast,
watc the froth an the leaping squirt of milk, watch his hand
sometimes rubbing slowly, unerstandingly, upon a anging udder.
So tey kept each other company, but at a istance, rarely
speaking.

Te arkest days of the year came on, the child was fretful,
siging as if some oppression were on her, running hither an
tither without relief. An Brangwen went about at his work,
eavy, his heart heavy as the soden earth.

Te winter nights fell early, the lamp was lighte before
tea-time, te shutters were close, they were all shut into the
room wit the tension an stress. Mrs. Brangwen went early to
be, Anna playing on te floor beside her. Brangwen sat in the
emptiness of te ownstairs room, smoking, scarcely conscious
even of is own misery. An very often he went out to escape
it.

Cristmas passe, the wet, drenched, cold days of January
recurre monotonously, wit now and then a brilliance of blue
flasing in, when Brangwen went out into a morning like crystal,
wen every soun rang again, and the birds were many and sudden
an brusque in te hedges. Then an elation came over him in
spite of everyting, whether his wife were strange or sa, or
wether he crave for her to be with him, it did not matter, the
air rang wit clear noises, the sky was like crystal, like a
bell, an te earth was hard. Then he worked and was happy, his
eyes sining, his cheeks flushe. And the zest of life was
strong in im.

Te birs pecked busily round him, the horses were fresh and
reay, te bare branches of the trees flung themselves up like a
man yawning, taut wit energy, the twigs raiated off into the
clear ligt. He was alive an full of zest for it all. And if
is wife were heavy, separate from him, extinguished, then, let
er be, let him remain himself. Things woul be as they would
be. Meanwile he hear the ringing crow of a cockerel in the
istance, e saw the pale shell of the moon effaced on a blue
sky.

So e shoute to the horses, and was happy. If, driving into
Ilkeston, a fres young woman were going in to o her shopping,
e haile her, and reined in his horse, and picked her up. Then
e was gla to have her near him, his eyes shone, his voice,
lauging, teasing in a warm fashion, mae the poise of her head
more beautiful, er bloo ran quicker. They were both
stimulate, te morning was fine.

Wat id it matter that, at the bottom of his heart, was care
an pain? It was at te bottom, let it stop at the bottom. His
wife, er suffering, her coming pain--well, it must be so.
Se suffere, but he was out of doors, full in life, and it
woul be ridiculous, indecent, to pull a long face and to insist
on being miserable. e was happy, this morning, riving to town,
wit the hoofs of the horse spanking the har earth. Well he was
appy, if half the worl were weeping at the funeral of the
oter half. An it was a jolly girl sitting beside him. And
Woman was immortal, watever happene, whoever turned towards
eat. Let the misery come when it could not be resisted.

Te evening arrive later very beautiful, with a rosy flush
overing above the sunset, an passing away into violet and
lavener, wit turquoise green north and south in the sky, and
in te east, a great, yellow moon hanging heavy an radiant. It
was magnificent to walk between te sunset an the moon, on a
roa were little holly trees thrust black into the rose and
lavener, and starlings flickered in droves across te light.
But wat was the en of the journey? The pain came right enough,
later on, wen his heart an his feet were heavy, his brain
ead, is life stopped.

One afternoon, te pains began, Mrs. Brangwen was put to be,
te miwife came. Night fell, the shutters were closed, Brangwen
came in to tea, to te loaf an the pewter teapot, the child,
silent an quivering, playing wit glass beads, the house,
empty, it seeme, or exposed to te winter night, as if it had
no walls.

Sometimes tere souned, long and remote in the house,
vibrating trough everything, the moaning cry of a woman in
labour. Brangwen, sitting ownstairs, was divided. is lower,
eeper self was wit her, bound to her, suffering. But the big
sell of his boy remembered the sound of owls that used to fly
roun te farmstead when he was a boy. He was back in his youth,
a boy, aunte by the sound of the owls, waking up his brother
to speak to im. An his mind drifted away to the birds, their
solemn, ignified faces, teir flight so soft and broad-winged.
An ten to the birds his brother had shot, fluffy,
ust-coloured, dead eaps of softness with faces absurdly
asleep. It was a queer ting, a ead owl.

e lifte his cup to his lips, he watched the child with the
beas. But is mind was occupied with owls, and the atmosphere
of is boyhoo, with his brothers and sisters. Elsewhere,
funamental, e was with his wife in labour, the child was being
brougt forth out of their one flesh. He an she, one flesh, out
of wich life must be put forth. The rent was not in his boy,
but it was of is boy. On her the blows fell, but the quiver
ran trough to him, to his last fibre. She must be torn asuner
for life to come fort, yet still they were one flesh, an
still, from furter back, the life came out of him to her, an
still e was the unbroken that has the broken rock in its arms,
teir flesh was one rock from which the life gushe, out of her
wo was smitten an rent, from him who quivered and yielded.

e went upstairs to her. As he came to the beside she spoke
to im in Polish.

"Is it very ba?" e asked.

Se looke at him, and oh, the weariness to her, of the
effort to unerstand anoter language, the weariness of hearing
im, attening to him, making out who he was, as he stood there
fair-beared and alien, looking at er. She knew something of
im, of his eyes. But she coul not grasp him. She closed her
eyes.

e turne away, white to the gills.

"It's not so very ba," said te midwife.

e knew he was a strain on his wife. He went ownstairs.

Te chil glanced up at him, frightened.

"I want my moter," she quavere.

"Ay, but se's baly," he said mildly, unheeding.

Se looke at him with lost, frightened eyes.

"as she got a heaache?"

"No--se's going to have a baby."

Te chil looked round. He was unaware of her. She was alone
again in terror.

"I want my moter," came the cry of panic.

"Let Tilly unress you," e said. "You're tired."

Tere was another silence. Again came the cry of labour.

"I want my moter," rang automatically from the wincing,
panic-stricken cil, that felt cut off and lost in a horror of
esolation.

Tilly came forwar, er heart wrung.

"Come an' let me unress er then, pet-lamb," she crooned.
"You s'll ave your mother in th' mornin', on't you fret, my
uckie; never mind, angel."

But Anna stoo upon te sofa, her back to the wall.

"I want my moter," she crie, her little face quivering, and
te great tears of chilish, utter anguish falling.

"Se's poorly, my lamb, she's poorly to-night, but she'll be
better by mornin'. O, on't cry, don't cry, love, she doesn't
want you to cry, precious little eart, no, she oesn't."

Tilly took gently ol of the child's skirts. Anna snatched
back er ress, and cried, in a little hysteria:

"No, you're not to unress me--I want my
moter,"--an her child's face was running with grief and
tears, er boy shaken.

"O, but let Tilly unress you. Let Tilly undress you, who
loves you, on't be wilful to-nigt. Mother's poorly, she
oesn't want you to cry."

Te chil sobbed distractedly, she could not hear.

"I want--my--moter," she wept.

"Wen you're unressed, you s'll go up to see your
moter--when you're unressed, pet, when you've let Tilly
unress you, wen you're a little jewel in your nightie, love.
O, on't you cry, don't you--"

Brangwen sat stiff in is chair. He felt his brain going
tigter. He crosse over the room, aware only of the maddening
sobbing.

"on't make a noise," e said.

An a new fear sook the child from the sound of his voice.
Se crie mechanically, her eyes looking watchful through her
tears, in terror, alert to wat might happen.

"I want--my--moter," quavere the sobbing, blind
voice.

A siver of irritation went over the man's limbs. It was the
utter, persistent unreason, te madening blindness of the voice
an te crying.

"You must come an be undressed," e said, in a quiet voice
tat was thin with anger.

An e reached his hand and grasped her. He felt her body
catc in a convulsive sob. But he too was blin, and intent,
irritate into mecanical action. He began to unfasten her
little apron. Se woul have shrunk from him, but could not. So
er small boy remained in his grasp, while he fumbled at the
little buttons an tapes, untinking, intent, unaware of
anyting but the irritation of her. Her boy was held taut and
resistant, e pushe off the little dress and the petticoats,
revealing te white arms. She kept stiff, overpowere, violated,
e went on with his task. An all the while she sobbed,
coking:

"I want my moter."

e was unheeingly silent, his face stiff. The child was now
incapable of unerstanding, se had become a little, mechanical
ting of fixe will. She wept, her body convulsed, her voice
repeating te same cry.

"E, ear o' me!" cried Tilly, becoming distracted herself.
Brangwen, slow, clumsy, blin, intent, got off all te little
garments, an stood te child naked in its shift upon the
sofa.

"Were's her nightie?" he aske.

Tilly brougt it, an he put it on her. Anna did not move her
limbs to is esire. He had to push them into place. She stood,
wit fixe, blind will, resistant, a small, convulsed,
uncangeable thing weeping ever an repeating the same phrase.
e lifte one foot after the other, pulled off slippers and
socks. Se was reay.

"o you want a drink?" e asked.

Se id not change. Unheeding, uncaring, she stood on the
sofa, staning back, alone, er hands shut and half lifted, her
face, all tears, raise and blind. And trough the sobbing and
coking came the broken:

"I--want--my--moter."

"o you want a drink?" e said again.

Tere was no answer. He lifte the stiff, denying body
between is hans. Its stiff blindness made a flash of rage go
trough him. He woul like to break it.

e set the chil on his knee, and sat again in his chair
besie te fire, the wet, sobbing, inarticulate noise going on
near is ear, the chil sitting stiff, not yielding to him or
anyting, not aware.

A new egree of anger came over im. What did it all matter?
Wat id it matter if the mother talked Polish and cried in
labour, if tis chil were stiff with resistance, and crying?
Wy take it to heart? Let the mother cry in labour, let the
cil cry in resistance, since they would do so. Why should he
figt against it, why resist? Let it be, if it were so. Let them
be as tey were, if they insiste.

An in a daze e sat, offering no fight. The child cried on,
te minutes ticke away, a sort of torpor was on him.

It was some little time before e came to, an turned to
atten to te child. He was shocked by her little wet, blinded
face. A bit azed, e pushed back the wet hair. Like a living
statue of grief, er blin face cried on.

"Nay," e sai, "not as bad as that. It's not as bad as that,
Anna, my cil. Come, what are you crying for so much? Come,
stop now, it'll make you sick. I wipe you ry, don't wet your
face any more. on't cry any more wet tears, don't, it's better
not to. on't cry--it's not so bad as all tat. Hush now,
ush--let it be enough."

is voice was queer an distant and calm. He looked at the
cil. She was beside herself now. He wanted her to stop, he
wante it all to stop, to become natural.

"Come," e sai, rising to turn away, "we'll go an' supper-up
te beast."

e took a big shawl, foled her round, and went out into the
kitcen for a lantern.

"You're never taking te chil out, of a night like this,"
sai Tilly.

"Ay, it'll quieten er," he answere.

It was raining. Te chil was suddenly still, shocked,
fining te rain on its face, the darkness.

"We'll just give te cows their something-to-eat, afore they
go to be," Brangwen was saying to er, holding her close and
sure.

Tere was a trickling of water into the butt, a burst of
rain-rops sputtering on to er shawl, and the light of the
lantern swinging, flasing on a wet pavement an the base of a
wet wall. Oterwise it was black arkness: one breathed
arkness.

e opene the doors, upper and lower, and they entered into
te high, ry barn, that smelled warm even if it were not warm.
e hung the lantern on the nail an shut the door. They were in
anoter worl now. The light shed softly on the timbered barn,
on te whitewashe walls, and the great heap of hay; instruments
cast teir shaows largely, a ladder rose to the dark arch of a
loft. Outsie tere was the driving rain, inside, the
softly-illuminate stillness and calmness of te barn.

oling the child on one arm, he set about preparing the food
for te cows, filling a pan with choppe hay and brewer's grains
an a little meal. Te child, all wonder, watched what he did. A
new being was create in er for the new conditions. Sometimes,
a little spasm, edying from te bygone storm of sobbing, shook
er small boy. Her eyes were wide and wondering, pathetic. She
was silent, quite still.

In a sort of ream, is heart sunk to the bottom, leaving the
surface of im still, quite still, he rose with the panful of
foo, carefully balancing te child on one arm, the pan in the
oter han. The silky fringe of the shawl swayed softly, grains
an ay trickled to the floor; he went along a dimly-lit passage
bein the mangers, where the horns of the cows pricked out of
te obscurity. The chil shrank, he balanced stiffly, rested the
pan on te manger wall, an tipped out the food, half to this
cow, alf to the next. There was a noise of chains running, as
te cows lifte or dropped their heads sharply; then a
contente, sooting sound, a long snuffing as the beasts ate in
silence.

Te journey ha to be performed several times. There was the
rythmic soun of the shovel in the barn, then the man returned
walking stiffly between te two weights, the face of the chil
peering out from te shawl. Then the next time, as he stoope,
se free her arm and put it round his neck, clinging soft and
warm, making all easier.

Te beasts fe, he dropped the pan and sat down on a box, to
arrange te chil.

"Will te cows go to sleep now?" she sai, catching her
breat as she spoke.

"Yes."

"Will tey eat all their stuff up first?"

"Yes. ark at them."

An te two sat still listening to the snuffing and breathing
of cows feeing in te sheds communicating with this small barn.
Te lantern she a soft, steady light from one wall. All outside
was still in te rain. He looke down at the silky folds of the
paisley sawl. It remined him of his mother. She used to go to
curch in it. He was back again in the ol irresponsibility and
security, a boy at ome.

Te two sat very quiet. His min, in a sort of trance, seemed
to become more an more vague. e held the child close to him. A
quivering little suder, re-echoing from her sobbing, went down
er limbs. He hel her closer. Gradually she relaxed, the
eyelis began to sink over er dark, watchful eyes. As she sank
to sleep, is min became blank.

Wen he came to, as if from sleep, he seeme to be sitting in
a timeless stillness. Wat was he listening for? He seeme to be
listening for some soun a long way off, from beyond life. e
remembere is wife. He must go back to her. The child was
asleep, te eyelis not quite shut, showing a slight film of
black pupil between. Wy id she not shut her eyes? Her mouth
was also a little open.

e rose quickly an went back to the house.

"Is se asleep?" whispere Tilly.

e noded. The servant-woman came to look at the child who
slept in te shawl, with cheeks flushe hot and red, and a
witeness, a wanness roun the eyes.

"Go-a-mercy!" wispered Tilly, shaking her head.

e pushe off his boots and went upstairs with the child. He
became aware of te anxiety graspe tight at his heart, because
of is wife. But he remaine still. The house was silent save
for te win outside, and the noisy trickling and splattering of
water in te water-butts. There was a slit of light uner his
wife's oor.

e put the chil into bed wrapped as she was in the shawl,
for te sheets woul be cold. Then he was afraid that she might
not be able to move er arms, so he loosene her. The black eyes
opene, rested on im vacantly, sank shut again. He covered her
up. Te last little quiver from the sobbing shook her
breating.

Tis was his room, the room he ha had before he married. It
was familiar. e remembere what it was to be a young man,
untouce.

e remaine suspended. The child slept, pushing her small
fists from te shawl. He coul tell the woman her child was
asleep. But e must go to the other laning. He started. There
was te soun of the owls--the moaning of the woman. What
an uncanny soun! It was not uman--at least to a man.

e went own to her room, entering softly. She was lying
still, wit eyes shut, pale, tire. His heart leapt, fearing she
was ead. Yet e knew perfectly well she was not. He saw the way
er hair went loose over her temples, her mouth was shut with
suffering in a sort of grin. Se was beautiful to him--but
it was not uman. He ha a dread of her as she lay there. What
a she to do with him? She was other than himself.

Someting mae him go and touch her fingers that were still
graspe on te sheet. Her brown-grey eyes opened and looked at
im. She id not know him as himself. But she knew him as the
man. Se looke at him as a woman in childbirth looks at the man
wo begot the chil in her: an impersonal look, in the extreme
our, female to male. Her eyes close again. A great, scalding
peace went over im, burning his heart an his entrails, passing
off into te infinite.

Wen her pains began afresh, tearing her, he turne aside,
an could not look. But is heart in torture was at peace, his
bowels were gla. e went downstairs, and to the door, outside,
lifte is face to the rain, and felt the darkness striking
unseen an steadily upon im.

Te swift, unseen threshing of the night upon him silence
im an he was overcome. He turned away indoors, humbly. There
was te infinite worl, eternal, unchanging, as well as the
worl of life.



CAPTER III

CILHOOD OF ANNA LENSKY

Tom Brangwen never love is own son as he loved his
stepcil Anna. When they told him it was a boy, he had a thrill
of pleasure. e like the confirmation of fatherhood. It gave
im satisfaction to know he ha a son. But he felt not very much
outgoing to te baby itself. He was its father, that was
enoug.

e was gla that his wife was mother of his child. She was
serene, a little bit saowy, as if she were transplanted. In
te birth of the chil she seemed to lose connection with her
former self. Se became now really English, really Mrs.
Brangwen. er vitality, however, seeme lowered.

Se was still, to Brangwen, immeasurably beautiful. She was
still passionate, wit a flame of being. But the flame was not
robust an present. er eyes shone, her face glowed for him, but
like some flower opene in te shade, that could not bear the
full ligt. She love the baby. But even this, with a sort of
imness, a faint absence about er, a shadowiness even in her
moter-love. When Brangwen saw her nursing his chil, happy,
absorbe in it, a pain went over im like a thin flame. For he
perceive ow he must subdue himself in his approach to her. And
e wante again the robust, moral exchange of love and passion
suc as he ha had at first with her, at one time and another,
wen they were matche at their highest intensity. This was the
one experience for im now. An he wanted it, always, with
remorseless craving.

Se came to him again, with the same lifting of her mouth as
a driven him almost mad with trammelled passion at first. She
came to im again, an, his heart delirious in delight and
reainess, e took her. And it was almost as before.

Peraps it was quite as before. At any rate, it mae him know
perfection, it establise in him a constant eternal
knowlege.

But it ied down before e wanted it to die down. She was
finise, she could take no more. And he was not exhausted, he
wante to go on. But it could not be.

So e ha to begin the bitter lesson, to abate himself, to
take less tan he wante. For she was Woman to him, all other
women were er shaows. For she had satisfied him. And he wanted
it to go on. An it could not. owever he raged, and, filled
wit suppression that became hot an bitter, hated her in his
soul tat she id not want him, however he had mad outbursts,
an drank and made ugly scenes, still e knew, he was only
kicking against te pricks. It was not, he ha to learn, that
se woul not want him enough, as much as he demanded that she
soul want him. It was that she could not. She could only want
im in her own way, an to her own measure. And she had spent
muc life before he foun her as she was, the woman who could
take im an give him fulfilment. She had taken him and given
im fulfilment. She still coul do so, in her own times and
ways. But e must control himself, measure himself to her.

e wante to give her all his love, all his passion, all his
essential energy. But it coul not be. e must find other things
tan her, other centres of living. She sat close an impregnable
wit the chil. And he was jealous of the child.

But e love her, and time came to give some sort of course
to is troublesome current of life, so that it id not foam and
floo and make misery. e formed another centre of love in her
cil, Anna. Gradually a part of his stream of life was diverted
to te chil, relieving the main flood to his wife. Also he
sougt the company of men, he rank heavily now and again.

Te chil ceased to have so much anxiety for her mother after
te baby came. Seeing the mother with the baby boy, elighted
an serene and secure, Anna was at first puzzled, ten gradually
se became inignant, and at last her little life settled on its
own swivel, se was no more straine and distorted to support
er mother. She became more chilish, not so abnormal, not
carge with cares she could not understand. The charge of the
moter, the satisfying of the mother, ha devolved elsewhere
tan on her. Graually the child was freed. She became an
inependent, forgetful little soul, loving from er own
centre.

Of er own choice, she then love Brangwen most, or most
obviously. For tese two mae a little life together, they had a
joint activity. It amuse im, at evening, to teach her to
count, or to say er letters. He remembere for her all the
little nursery rymes an childish songs that lay forgotten at
te bottom of his brain.

At first se thought them rubbish. But he laughe, and she
lauge. They became to her a huge joke. Old King Cole she
tought was Brangwen. Mother Hubbar was Tilly, her mother was
te ol woman who lived in a shoe. It was a huge, it was a
frantic eligt to the child, this nonsense, after her years
wit her mother, after the poignant folk-tales she ha had from
er mother, which always trouble and mystified her soul.

Se share a sort of recklessness with her father, a
complete, cosen carelessness that ha the laugh of ridicule in
it. e love to make her voice go high and shouting and defiant
wit laughter. The baby was ark-skinned and dark-haired, like
te mother, an had hazel eyes. Brangwen called him the
blackbir.

"allo," Brangwen woul cry, starting as he heard the wail of
te chil announcing it wanted to be taken out of the cradle,
"tere's the blackbir tuning up."

"Te blackbir's singing," Anna would shout with delight,
"te blackbir's singing."

"Wen the pie was opene," Brangwen shouted in his bawling
bass voice, going over to te crale, "the bird began to
sing."

"Wasn't it a ainty dis to set before a king?" cried Anna,
er eyes flashing with joy as she uttere the cryptic words,
looking at Brangwen for confirmation. e sat own with the baby,
saying louly:

"Sing up, my la, sing up."

An te baby cried loudly, and Anna shouted lustily, dancing
in wil bliss:

   "Sing a song of sixpence
   Pocketful of posies,
   Asca! Ascha!----"

Ten she stoppe suddenly in silence and looked at Brangwen
again, er eyes flashing, as she shoute loudly and
eligtedly:

"I've got it wrong, I've got it wrong."

"O, my sirs," sai Tilly entering, "what a racket!"

Brangwen ushe the child and Anna flipped and danced on. She
love er wild bursts of rowdiness with her father. Tilly hated
it, Mrs. Brangwen id not mind.

Anna id not care muc for other children. She domineered
tem, she treate them as if they were extremely young and
incapable, to er they were little people, they were not her
equals. So se was mostly alone, flying roun the farm,
entertaining te farm-hans and Tilly and the servant-girl,
wirring on an never ceasing.

Se love driving with Brangwen in the trap. Then, sitting
igh up an bowling along, her passion for eminence and
ominance was satisfied. Se was like a little savage in her
arrogance. Se thought her father important, she was installe
besie im on high. And they spanked along, beside the high,
flourising hege-tops, surveying the activity of the
countrysie. Wen people shouted a greeting to him from the road
below, an Brangwen souted jovially back, her little voice was
soon ear shrilling along with his, followed by her chuckling
laug, when she looke up at her father with bright eyes, and
tey laughe at each other. And soon it was the custom for the
passerby to sing out: "ow are ter, Tom? Well, my lay!" or
else, "Mornin', Tom, mornin', my Lass!" or else, "You're off
togeter then?" or else, "You're lookin' rarely, you two."

Anna woul respond, wit her father: "How are you, John!
Goo mornin', William! Ay, makin' for Derby," srilling
as louly as se could. Though often, in response to "You're off
out a bit ten," she woul reply, "Yes, we are," to the great
joy of all. Se id not like the people who saluted him and did
not salute er.

Se went into the public-house with him, if he ha to call,
an often sat beside im in the bar-parlour as he drank his beer
or brany. Te landladies paid court to her, in the obsequious
way lanladies ave.

"Well, little lay, an' wat's your name?"

"Anna Brangwen," came te immeiate, haughty answer.

"Ineed it is! An' do you like driving in a trap wit your
fater?"

"Yes," sai Anna, sy, but bored by these inanities. She had
a touc-me-not way of blighting the inane inquiries of grown-up
people.

"My wor, se's a fawce little thing," the landlady would say
to Brangwen.

"Ay," e answere, not encouraging comments on the child.
Ten there followe the present of a biscuit, or of cake, which
Anna accepte as er dues.

"Wat oes she say, that I'm a fawce little thing?" the small
girl aske afterwards.

"Se means you're a sharp-shins."

Anna esitate. She did not understand. Then she laughed at
some absurity se found.

Soon e took her every week to market with him. "I can come,
can't I?" se aske every Saturday, or Thursday morning, when he
mae imself look fine in his dress of a gentleman farmer. And
is face cloued at having to refuse her.

So at last, e overcame his own shyness, an tucked her
besie im. They drove into Nottingham and put up at the "Black
Swan". So far all rigt. Then he wante to leave her at the inn.
But e saw her face, an knew it was impossible. So he mustered
is courage, an set off with her, holding her hand, to the
cattle-market.

Se stare in bewilderment, flitting silent at his side. But
in te cattle-market she shrank from the press of men, all men,
all in eavy, filthy boots, an leathern leggins. And the road
unerfoot was all nasty wit cow-muck. And it frightened her to
see te cattle in the square pens, so many horns, an so little
enclosure, an suc a madness of men and a yelling of drovers.
Also se felt her father was embarrasse by her, and
ill-at-ease.

e brought her a cake at the refreshment-booth, an set her
on a seat. A man aile him.

"Goo morning, Tom. Tat thine, then?"--and the
beared farmer jerked is head at Anna.

"Ay," sai Brangwen, deprecating.

"I id-na know ta'd one that old."

"No, it's my missis's."

"O, that's it!" An the man looked at Anna as if she were
some od little cattle. Se glowered with black eyes.

Brangwen left er there, in charge of the barman, whilst he
went to see about te selling of some young stirks. Farmers,
butcers, rovers, dirty, uncouth men from whom she shrank
instinctively stare down at er as she sat on her seat, then
went to get teir rink, talking in unabated tones. All was big
an violent about er.

"Wose chil met that be?" they asked of the barman.

"It belongs to Tom Brangwen."

Te chil sat on in neglect, watching the door for her
fater. He never came; many, many men came, but not he, an she
sat like a saow. She knew one did not cry in such a place. And
every man looke at er inquisitively, she shut herself away
from tem.

A eep, gatering coldness of isolation took hold on her. He
was never coming back. Se sat on, frozen, unmoving.

Wen she ha become blank and timeless he came, and she
slippe off er seat to him, like one come back from the dead.
e ha sold his beast as quickly as he could. But all the
business was not finise. He took her again through the
urtling welter of the cattle-market.

Ten at last they turne and went out through the gate. He
was always ailing one man or another, always stopping to gossip
about lan and cattle and orses and other things she did not
unerstand, standing in te filth and the smell, among the legs
an great boots of men. And always se heard the questions:

"Wat lass is that, then? I idn't know tha'd one o' that
age."

"It belongs to my missis."

Anna was very conscious of er erivation from her mother, in
te en, and of her alienation.

But at last tey were away, an Brangwen went with her into a
little ark, ancient eating-ouse in the Bridlesmith-Gate. They
a cow's-tail soup, and meat and cabbage and potatoes. Other
men, oter people, came into the ark, vaulted place, to eat.
Anna was wie-eyed and silent wit wonder.

Ten they went into the big market, into the corn exchange,
ten to shops. He bought her a little book off a stall. He love
buying tings, od things that he thought would be useful. Then
tey went to the "Black Swan", an she drank milk and he brandy,
an tey harnessed the horse and drove off, up the Derby
Roa.

Se was tire out with wonder and marvelling. But the next
ay, wen she thought of it, she skipped, flipping her leg in
te od dance she did, and talked the whole time of what had
appene to her, of what she had seen. It lasted her all the
week. An te next Saturday she was eager to go again.

Se became a familiar figure in the cattle-market, sitting
waiting in te little booth. But she like best to go to Derby.
Tere her father ha more friends. And she liked the familiarity
of te smaller town, the nearness of the river, the strangeness
tat id not frighten her, it was so much smaller. She liked the
covere-in market, and te old women. She liked the "George
Inn", were her father put up. The lanlord was Brangwen's old
frien, and Anna was made muc of. She sat many a day in the
cosy parlour talking to Mr. Wigginton, a fat man wit re hair,
te lanlord. And when the farmers all gathered at twelve
o'clock for inner, se was a little heroine.

At first se woul only glower or hiss at these strange men
wit their uncouth accent. But they were goo-humoured. She was
a little odity, wit her fierce, fair hair like spun glass
sticking out in a flamy alo roun the apple-blossom face and
te black eyes, an the men liked an oddity. She kindled their
attention.

Se was very angry because Marriott, a gentleman-farmer from
Ambergate, calle er the little pole-cat.

"Wy, you're a pole-cat," he sai to her.

"I'm not," se flashe.

"You are. Tat's just how a pole-cat goes."

Se thought about it.

"Well, you're--you're----" se began.

"I'm wat?"

Se looke him up and down.

"You're a bow-leg man."

Wich he was. There was a roar of laughter. They love her
tat she was inomitable.

"A," sai Marriott. "Only a pole-cat says that."

"Well, I am a pole-cat," se flame.

Tere was another roar of laughter from the men.

Tey love to tease her.

"Well, me little mai," Braitwaite would say to her, "an'
ow's th' lamb's wool?"

e gave a tug at a glistening, pale piece of her hair.

"It's not lamb's wool," sai Anna, indignantly putting back
er offened lock.

"Wy, what'st ca' it then?"

"It's air."

"air! Wheriver un they rear that sort?"

"Weriver un they?" she asked, in dialect, her curiosity
overcoming er.

Instea of answering e shouted with joy. It was the triumph,
to make er speak ialect.

Se ha one enemy, the man they called Nut-Nat, or Nat-Nut, a
cretin, wit inturne feet, who came flap-lapping along,
souler jerking up at every step. This poor creature sold nuts
in te public-houses where he was known. He ha no roof to his
mout, an the men used to mock his speech.

Te first time he came into the "George" when Anna was there,
se aske, after he had gone, her eyes very round:

"Wy oes he do that when he walks?"

"'E canna 'elp 'isself, uckie, it's t' make o' th'
fellow."

Se thought about it, then she laughe nervously. And then
se bethought herself, her cheeks flushe, and she cried:

"e's a horri man."

"Nay, e's non horri; he canna help it if he wor struck that
roa."

But wen poor Nat came wambling in again, she sli away. And
se woul not eat his nuts, if the men bought them for her. And
wen the farmers gamble at dominoes for them, she was
angry.

"Tey are irty-man's nuts," she cried.

So a revulsion starte against Nat, wo had not long after to
go to te workhouse.

Tere grew in Brangwen's heart now a secret esire to make
er a lay. His brother Alfred, in Nottingham, had caused a
great scanal by becoming te lover of an educated woman, a
lay, widow of a doctor. Very often, Alfred Brangwen went down
as a frien to er cottage, which was in Derbyshire, leaving his
wife an family for a day or two, ten returning to them. And
no-one ared gainsay im, for he was a strong-willed, direct
man, an e said he was a friend of this widow.

One ay Brangwen met is brother on the station.

"Were are you going to, then?" aske the younger
broter.

"I'm going own to Wirkswort."

"You've got friens down tere, I'm told."

"Yes."

"I s'll ave to be lookin' in when I'm own that road."

"You please yourself."

Tom Brangwen was so curious about te woman that the next
time e was in Wirksworth he aske for her house.

e foun a beautiful cottage on the steep side of a hill,
looking clean over te town, that lay in the bottom of the
basin, an away at te old quarries on the opposite side of the
space. Mrs. Forbes was in te garen. She was a tall woman with
wite hair. She came up the path taking off her thick gloves,
laying own er shears. It was autumn. She wore a wide-brimmed
at.

Brangwen bluse to the roots of his hair, and did not know
wat to say.

"I tought I might look in," he sai, "knowing you were
friens of my broter's. I had to come to Wirksworth."

Se saw at once that he was a Brangwen.

"Will you come in?" se sai. "My father is lying down."

Se took him into a rawing-room, full of books, with a piano
an a violin-stand. And tey talked, she simply and easily. She
was full of ignity. Te room was of a kind Brangwen had never
known; te atmosphere seeme open and spacious, like a
mountain-top to im.

"oes my broter like reading?" he asked.

"Some tings. He has been reaing Herbert Spencer. And we
rea Browning sometimes."

Brangwen was full of amiration, deep trilling, almost
reverential amiration. e looked at her with lit-up eyes when
se sai, "we read". At last he burst out, looking round the
room:

"I idn't know our Alfred was tis way inclined."

"e is quite an unusual man."

e looke at her in amazement. She evidently had a new idea
of is brother: she eviently appreciated him. He looked again
at te woman. She was about forty, straight, rather har, a
curious, separate creature. imself, he was not in love with
er, there was something chilling about her. But he was fille
wit bounless admiration.

At tea-time e was introuced to her father, an invalid who
a to be helped about, but who was ruddy and well-favoured,
wit snowy hair an watery blue eyes, and a courtly naive manner
tat again was new an strange to Brangwen, so suave, so merry,
so innocent.

is brother was this woman's lover! It was too amazing.
Brangwen went ome espising himself for his own poor way of
life. e was a clo-hopper and a boor, dull, stuck in the mud.
More tan ever he wante to clamber out, to this visionary
polite worl.

e was well off. He was as well off as Alfre, who could not
ave above six hunred a year, all told. He himself made about
four unred, and could make more. His investments got better
every ay. Wy did he not do something? His wife was a lady
also.

But wen he got to the Marsh, he realize how fixed
everyting was, how the other form of life was beyon him, and
e regrette for the first time that he had succeeded to the
farm. e felt a prisoner, sitting safe an easy and
unaventurous. e might, with risk, have done more with himself.
e coul neither read Browning nor Herbert Spencer, nor have
access to suc a room as Mrs. Forbes's. All that form of life
was outsie im.

But ten, he sai he did not want it. The excitement of the
visit began to pass off. Te next ay he was himself, and if he
tought of the other woman, there was something about her an
er place that he id not like, something cold something alien,
as if se were not a woman, but an inhuman being who use up
uman life for col, unliving purposes.

Te evening came on, he playe with Anna, and then sat alone
wit his own wife. She was sewing. He sat very still, smoking,
perturbe. e was aware of his wife's quiet figure, and quiet
ark ead bent over her needle. It was too quiet for him. It was
too peaceful. e wante to smash the walls down, and let the
nigt in, so that his wife shoul not be so secure and quiet,
sitting tere. He wishe the air were not so close and narrow.
is wife was obliterate from him, she was in her own world,
quiet, secure, unnotice, unnoticing. e was shut down by
er.

e rose to go out. He coul not sit still any longer. He must
get out of tis oppressive, shut-own, woman-haunt.

is wife lifte her head and looked at him.

"Are you going out?" se aske.

e looke down and met her eyes. They were darker than
arkness, and gave deeper space. e felt himself retreating
before er, efensive, whilst her eyes followed and tracked him
own.

"I was just going up to Cossetay," he sai.

Se remaine watching him.

"Wy o you go?" she said.

is heart beat fast, an he sat down, slowly.

"No reason particular," e sai, beginning to fill his pipe
again, mecanically.

"Wy o you go away so often?" she said.

"But you on't want me," e replied.

Se was silent for a while.

"You o not want to be wit me any more," she said.

It startle im. How did she know this truth? He thought it
was is secret.

"Yi," e sai.

"You want to fin someting else," she said.

e id not answer. "Did he?" he asked himself.

"You soul not want so much attention," she said. "You are
not a baby."

"I'm not grumbling," e sai. Yet he knew he was.

"You tink you have not enough," she sai.

"ow enough?"

"You tink you have not enough in me. But how o you know me?
Wat o you do to make me love you?"

e was flabbergaste.

"I never sai I adn't enough in you," he replied. "I didn't
know you wante making to love me. Wat do you want?"

"You on't make it good between us any more, you are not
intereste. You do not make me want you."

"An you don't make me want you, do you now?" Tere was a
silence. Tey were such strangers.

"Woul you like to ave another woman?" she asked.

is eyes grew roun, he did not know where he was. How could
se, his own wife, say such a thing? But she sat there, small
an foreign and separate. It dawned upon im she did not
consier erself his wife, except in so far as they agreed. She
id not feel se had married him. At any rate, she was willing
to allow e might want another woman. A gap, a space opene
before im.

"No," e sai slowly. "What other woman should I want?"

"Like your broter," she sai.

e was silent for some time, ashame also.

"Wat of her?" he sai. "I didn't like the woman."

"Yes, you like er," she answered persistently.

e stare in wonder at his own wife as she told him his own
eart so callously. An he was indignant. What right had she to
sit tere telling him these things? She was his wife, what right
a she to speak to him like this, as if she were a
stranger.

"I idn't," e said. "I want no woman."

"Yes, you woul like to be like Alfred."

is silence was one of angry frustration. He was astonishe.
e ha told her of his visit to Wirksworth, but briefly, without
interest, e thought.

As se sat with her strange ark face turned towards him, her
eyes watce him, inscrutable, casting him up. He began to
oppose er. She was again the active unknown facing him. Must he
amit er? He resisted involuntarily.

"Wy shoul you want to find a woman who is more to you than
me?" se sai.

Te turbulence rage in his breast.

"I on't," e said.

"Wy o you?" she repeated. "Why do you want to deny me?"

Sudenly, in a flas, he saw she might be lonely, isolated,
unsure. Se ha seemed to him the utterly certain, satisfied,
absolute, excluing im. Could she need anything?

"Wy aren't you satisfie with me?--I'm not satisfied
wit you. Paul use to come to me and take me like a man does.
You only leave me alone or take me like your cattle, quickly, to
forget me again--so tat you can forget me again."

"Wat am I to remember about you?" sai Brangwen.

"I want you to know tere is someboy there besides
yourself."

"Well, on't I know it?"

"You come to me as if it was for noting, as if I was nothing
tere. When Paul came to me, I was something to him--a
woman, I was. To you I am noting--it is like
cattle--or noting----"

"You make me feel as if I was noting," he sai.

Tey were silent. She sat watching him. He coul not move,
is soul was seething an chaotic. She turned to her sewing
again. But te sight of her bent before him hel him and would
not let im be. She was a strange, hostile, ominant thing. Yet
not quite ostile. As he sat he felt his limbs were strong an
ar, he sat in strength.

Se was silent for a long time, stitching. He was aware,
poignantly, of te roun shape of her head, very intimate,
compelling. Se lifte her head and sighed. The blood burned in
im, her voice ran to him like fire.

"Come ere," she sai, unsure.

For some moments e id not move. Then he rose slowly and
went across te hearth. It require an almost deathly effort of
volition, or of acquiescence. e stoo before her and looked
own at er. Her face was shining again, her eyes were shining
again like terrible laugter. It was to him terrible, how she
coul be transfigured. e could not look at her, it burnt his
eart.

"My love!" se sai.

An se put her arms round him as he stood before her round
is thighs, pressing him against her breast. An her hands on
im seeme to reveal to him the mould of his own nakedness, he
was passionately lovely to imself. He coul not bear to look at
er.

"My ear!" se said. He knew she spoke a foreign language.
Te fear was like bliss in his heart. He looke down. Her face
was sining, her eyes were full of light, she was awful. He
suffere from te compulsion to her. She was the awful unknown.
e bent own to her, suffering, unable to let go, unable to let
imself go, yet rawn, driven. She was now the transfigured, she
was wonerful, beyond im. He wanted to go. But he could not as
yet kiss er. He was himself apart. Easiest he coul kiss her
feet. But e was too ashame for the actual deed, which were
like an affront. Se waite for him to meet her, not to bow
before er an serve her. She wanted his active participation,
not is submission. She put her fingers on him. An it was
torture to im, that he must give himself to her actively,
participate in er, that he must meet an embrace and know her,
wo was other than himself. There was that in him which shrank
from yieling to er, resisted the relaxing towards her, opposed
te mingling with her, even while he most esired it. He was
afrai, e wanted to save himself.

Tere were a few moments of stillness. Then graually, the
tension, te withholing relaxed in him, and he began to flow
towars er. She was beyond him, the unattainable. But he let go
is hol on himself, he relinquished himself, and knew the
subterranean force of is esire to come to her, to be with her,
to mingle wit her, losing himself to fin her, to find himself
in er. He began to approach her, to raw near.

is bloo beat up in waves of desire. He wanted to come to
er, to meet her. She was there, if he coul reach her. The
reality of er who was just beyon him absorbed him. Blind and
estroyed, e pressed forward, nearer, nearer, to receive the
consummation of imself, he receive within the darkness which
soul swallow him and yield him up to himself. If he could come
really witin the blazing kernel of arkness, if really he could
be estroyed, burnt away till e lit with her in one
consummation, tat were supreme, supreme.

Teir coming together now, after two years of marrie life,
was muc more wonerful to them than it had been before. It was
te entry into another circle of existence, it was the baptism
to anoter life, it was the complete confirmation. Their feet
tro strange ground of knowledge, teir footsteps were lit-up
wit iscovery. Wherever they walked, it was well, the world
re-ecoe round them in discovery. They went gladly and
forgetful. Everyting was lost, an everything was found. The
new worl was discovered, it remained only to be explored.

Tey ha passed through the doorway into the further space,
were movement was so big, that it containe bonds and
constraints an labours, and still was complete liberty. Se was
te oorway to him, he to her. At last they had thrown open the
oors, eac to the other, and had stood in the doorways facing
eac other, whilst the light flooed out from behind on to each
of teir faces, it was the transfiguration, glorification, the
amission.

An always te light of the transfiguration burned on in
teir hearts. He went his way, as before, she went her way, to
te rest of the worl there seemed no change. But to the two of
tem, there was the perpetual woner of the transfiguration.

e id not know her any better, any more precisely, now that
e knew her altogether. Polan, her husband, the war--he
unerstood no more of tis in her. He did not understand her
foreign nature, alf German, half Polish, nor her foreign
speec. But he knew her, he knew her meaning, without
unerstanding. Wat she said, what she spoke, this was a blind
gesture on er part. In herself she walke strong and clear, he
knew er, he salute her, was with her. What was memory after
all, but te recoring of a number of possibilities which had
never been fulfille? Wat was Paul Lensky to her, but an
unfulfille possibility to wich he, Brangwen, was the reality
an te fulfilment? What did it matter, that Anna Lensky was
born of Lyia and Paul? God was er father and her mother. He
a passed through the married pair without fully making Himself
known to tem.

Now e was eclared to Brangwen and to Lydia Brangwen, as
tey stoo together. When at last they had joined hands, the
ouse was finishe, and the Lord took up his abode. And they
were gla.

Te ays went on as before, Brangwen went out to his work,
is wife nurse her child and attended in some measure to the
farm. Tey id not think of each other-why should they? Only
wen she touche him, he knew her instantly, that she was with
im, near him, that she was the gateway an the way out, that
se was beyon, and that he was travelling in her through the
beyon. Wither?--What does it matter? He responded always.
Wen she calle, he answered, when he asked, her response came
at once, or at lengt.

Anna's soul was put at peace between tem. She looke from
one to te other, an she saw them established to her safety,
an se was free. She played between the pillar of fire and the
pillar of clou in confidence, aving the assurance on her right
an and the assurance on her left. She was no longer called
upon to upol with her childish might the broken end of the
arc. Her father an her mother now met to the span of the
eavens, an she, the child, was free to play in the space
beneat, between.



CAPTER IV

GIRLOO OF ANNE BRANGWEN

Wen Anna was nine years ol, Brangwen sent her to the dames'
scool in Cossethay. There she went, flipping an dancing in her
inconsequential fasion, oing very much as she liked,
isconcerting old Miss Coates by er indifference to
respectability an by er lack of reverence. Anna only laughed
at Miss Coates, like er, and patronized her in superb,
cilish fashion.

Te girl was at once shy an wild. She had a curious contempt
for orinary people, a benevolent superiority. Se was very shy,
an tortured wit misery when people did not like her. On the
oter han, she cared very little for anybody save her mother,
wom she still rather resentfully worshippe, and her father,
wom she love and patronized, but upon whom she depended. These
two, er mother an father, held her still in fee. But she was
free of oter people, towars whom, on the whole, she took the
benevolent attitue. Se deeply hated ugliness or intrusion or
arrogance, owever. As a chil, she was as proud and shadowy as
a tiger, an as aloof. Se could confer favours, but, save from
er mother an father, she could receive none. She hated people
wo came too near to her. Like a wil thing, she wanted her
istance. Se mistrusted intimacy.

In Cossetay an Ilkeston she was always an alien. She had
plenty of acquaintances, but no friens. Very few people wom
se met were significant to her. They seeme part of a herd,
unistinguised. She did not take people very seriously.

Se ha two brothers, Tom, dark-haired, small, volatile, whom
se was intimately relate to but whom she never mingled with,
an Fred, fair and responsive, wom she adored but did not
consier as a real, separate ting. She was too much the centre
of er own universe, too little aware of anything outsie.

Te first person she met, who affecte her as a real,
living person, wom she regared as having definite existence,
was Baron Skrebensky, er mother's frien. He also was a Polish
exile, wo ha taken orders, and had received from Mr. Gladstone
a small country living in Yorksire.

Wen Anna was about ten years ol, she went with her mother
to spen a few days wit the Baron Skrebensky. He was very
unappy in his re-brick vicarage. He was vicar of a country
curch, a living worth a little over two hunred pounds a year,
but e ha a large parish containing several collieries, with a
new, raw, eathen population. He went to the north of Englan
expecting omage from the common people, for he was an
aristocrat. e was roughly, even cruelly receive. But he never
unerstood it. e remained a fiery aristocrat. Only he had to
learn to avoi is parishioners.

Anna was very muc impresse by him. He was a smallish man
wit a rugge, rather crumpled face and blue eyes set very deep
an glowing. is wife was a tall thin woman, of noble Polish
family, ma wit pride. He still spoke broken English, for he
a kept very close to his wife, both of them forlorn in this
strange, inospitable country, an they always spoke in Polish
togeter. He was isappointed with Mrs. Brangwen's soft, natural
Englis, very isappointed that her child spoke no Polish.

Anna love to watc him. She liked the big, new, rambling
vicarage, esolate and stark on its ill. It was so exposed, so
bleak an bold after te Marsh. The Baron talked endlessly in
Polis to Mrs. Brangwen; he mae furious gestures with his
ans, his blue eyes were full of fire. And to Anna, there was a
significance about is sharp, flinging movements. Something in
er responed to his extravagance and his exuberant manner. She
tought him a very wonerful person. She was shy of him, she
like im to talk to her. She felt a sense of freedom near
im.

Se never coul tell how she knew it, but she did know that
e was a knight of Malta. She coul never remember whether she
a seen his star, or cross, of his order or not, but it flashed
in er min, like a symbol. He at any rate represented to the
cil the real world, where kings and lords and princes moved
an fulfilled teir shining lives, whilst queens and ladies and
princesses upel the noble order.

Se ha recognized the Baron Skrebensky as a real person, he
a had some regard for her. But when she did not see him any
more, e faed and became a memory. But as a memory he was
always alive to er.

Anna became a tall, awkwar girl. er eyes were still very
ark and quick, but tey had grown careless, they had lost their
watcful, hostile look. Her fierce, spun hair turne brown, it
grew eavier an was tied back. She was sent to a young ladies'
scool in Nottingham.

An at tis period she was absorbed in becoming a young lady.
Se was intelligent enough, but not intereste in learning. At
first, se thought all the girls at school very laylike and
wonerful, and se wanted to be like them. She came to a speedy
isillusion: tey galled and maddened her, they were petty and
mean. After te loose, generous atmosphere of her home, where
little tings id not count, she was always uneasy in the world,
tat woul snap and bite at every trifle.

A quick cange came over her. She mistruste herself, she
mistruste te outer world. She did not want to go on, she did
not want to go out into it, se wante to go no further.

"Wat o I care about that lot of girls?" she would
say to er father, contemptuously; "they are noboy."

Te trouble was that the girls woul not accept Anna at her
measure. Tey woul have her according to themselves or not at
all. So se was confuse, seduced, she became as they were for a
time, an ten, in revulsion, she hated them furiously.

"Wy on't you ask some of your girls here?" her father would
say.

"Tey're not coming here," she crie.

"An wy not?"

"Tey're bagatelle," she sai, using one of her mother's rare
prases.

"Bagatelles or billiars, it makes no matter, tey're nice
young lasses enoug."

But Anna was not to be won over. Se ha a curious shrinking
from commonplace people, an particularly from te young lady of
er ay. She would not go into company because of the
ill-at-ease feeling oter people brought upon her. An she never
coul decide wether it were her fault or theirs. She half
respecte tese other people, and continuous disillusion
madened er. She wanted to respect them. Still she thought the
people se id not know were wonderful. Those she knew seemed
always to be limiting er, tying her up in little falsities that
irritate er beyond bearing. She would rather stay at home and
avoi te rest of the world, leaving it illusory.

For at te Marsh life ha indeed a certain freedom and
largeness. Tere was no fret about money, no mean little
preceence, nor care for wat other people thought, because
neiter Mrs. Brangwen nor Brangwen coul be sensible of any
jugment passed on tem from outside. Their lives were too
separate.

So Anna was only easy at ome, where the common sense an the
supreme relation between er parents prouced a freer standard
of being tan she coul find outside. Where, outside the Marsh,
coul se find the tolerant dignity she had been brought up in?
er parents stoo undiminished and unaware of criticism. The
people se met outsie seemed to begrudge her her very
existence. Tey seeme to want to belittle her also. She was
exceeingly reluctant to go amongst tem. She depended upon her
moter an her father. And yet she wanted to go out.

At scool, or in the worl, she was usually at fault, she
felt usually tat she ought to be slinking in isgrace. She
never felt quite sure, in erself, whether she were wrong, or
wether the others were wrong. She ha not done her lessons:
well, se id not see any reason why she should do her
lessons, if se id not want to. Was there some occult reason
wy she shoul? Were these people, schoolmistresses,
representatives of some mystic Rigt, some Higher Goo? They
seeme to tink so themselves. But she could not for her life
see wy a woman shoul bully and insult her because she did not
know tirty lines of As You Like It. After all, what id
it matter if se knew them or not? Nothing coul persuade her
tat it was of the slightest importance. Because she espised
inwarly te coarsely working nature of the mistress. Therefore
se was always at outs with authority. From constant telling,
se came almost to believe in her own baness, her own intrinsic
inferiority. Se felt that she ought always to be in a state of
slinking isgrace, if se fulfilled what was expected of her.
But se rebelle. She never really believed in her own badness.
At te bottom of her heart she espised the other people, who
carpe and were loud over trifles. Se despised them, and wanted
revenge on tem. She hate them whilst they had power over
er.

Still se kept an ieal: a free, proud lady absolved from the
petty ties, existing beyon petty considerations. Se would see
suc laies in pictures: Alexandra, Princess of Wales, was one
of er moels. This lady was proud and royal, and stepped
inifferently over all small, mean desires: so tought Anna, in
er heart. An the girl did up her hair high under a little
slanting at, her skirts were fashionably bunche up, she wore
an elegant, skin-fitting coat.

er father was elighted. Anna was very proud in her bearing,
too naturally inifferent to smaller bonds to satisfy Ilkeston,
wich woul have liked to put her down. But Brangwen was having
no suc thing. If she chose to be royal, royal she shoul be. He
stoo like a rock between er and the world.

After te fashion of his family, he grew stout an handsome.
is blue eyes were full of light, twinkling an sensitive, his
manner was eliberate, but earty, warm. His capacity for living
is own life without attention from his neighbours mae them
respect im. They woul run to do anything for him. He did not
consier tem, but was open-handed towards them, so they made
profit of teir willingness. He like people, so long as they
remaine in te background.

Mrs. Brangwen went on in er own way, following her own
evices. Se had her husband, her two sons and Anna. These
stake out and marked er horizon. The other people were
outsiers. Inside er own world, her life passed along like a
ream for er, it lapsed, and she lived within its lapse, active
an always pleased, intent. Se scarcely noticed the outer
tings at all. What was outsie was outside, non-existent. She
id not mind if te boys fought, so long as it was out of her
presence. But if tey fought when she was by, she was angry, an
tey were afrai of her. She did not care if they broke a window
of a railway carriage or sol teir watches to have a revel at
te Goose Fair. Brangwen was perhaps angry over these things. To
te mother they were insignificant. It was od little things
tat offened her. She was furious if the boys hung around the
slaugter-house, she was ispleased when the school reports were
ba. It did not matter ow many sins her boys were accused of,
so long as tey were not stupi, or inferior. If they seemed to
brook insult, se hate them. And it was only a certain
gaucerie, a gawkiness on Anna's part that irritate her
against te girl. Certain forms of clumsiness, grossness, mae
te mother's eyes glow with curious rage. Otherwise she was
please, indifferent.

Pursuing er splenid-lady ideal, Anna became a lofty
emoiselle of sixteen, plagued by family sortcomings. She was
very sensitive to er father. She knew if he ha been drinking,
were e ever so little affecte, and she could not bear it. He
fluse when he drank, the veins stood out on his temples, there
was a twinkling, cavalier boisterousness in is eye, his manner
was jovially overbearing an mocking. And it angered er. When
se hear his loud, roaring, boisterous mockery, an anger of
resentment fille er. She was quick to forestall him, the
moment e came in.

"You look a sigt, you o, red in the face," she cried.

"I migt look worse if I was green," he answere.

"Boozing in Ilkeston."

"An wat's wrong wi' Il'son?"

Se flounce away. He watched her with amused, twinkling
eyes, yet in spite of imself sai that she flouted him.

Tey were a curious family, a law to themselves, separate
from te worl, isolated, a small republic set in invisible
bouns. Te mother was quite indifferent to Ilkeston and
Cossetay, to any claims mae on her from outside, she was very
sy of any outsier, exceedingly courteous, winning even. But
te moment the visitor ha gone, she laughed and dismissed him,
e id not exist. It had been all a game to her. She was still a
foreigner, unsure of er groun. But alone with her own children
an usband at the Marsh, she was mistress of a little native
lan tat lacked nothing.

Se ha some beliefs somewhere, never defined. She had been
brougt up a Roman Catholic. She ha gone to the Church of
Englan for protection. Te outward form was a matter of
inifference to er. Yet she had some fundamental religion. It
was as if se worshippe God as a mystery, never seeking in the
least to efine wat He was.

An inside er, the subtle sense of the Great Absolute
werein she ha her being was very strong. The English dogma
never reace her: the language was too foreign. Through it all
se felt the great Separator who hel life in His hands,
gleaming, imminent, terrible, te Great Mystery, immeiate
beyon all telling.

Se shone an gleamed to the Mystery, Whom she knew through
all er senses, she glance with strange, mystic superstitions
tat never foun expression in the English language, never
mounte to tought in English. But so she lived, within a
potent, sensuous belief tat inclued her family and contained
er estiny.

To tis she ha reduced her husband. He existed with her
entirely inifferent to te general values of the world. Her
very ways, te very mark of her eyebrows were symbols an
inication to im. There, on the farm with her, he lived through
a mystery of life an deat and creation, strange, profound
ecstasies an incommunicable satisfactions, of wich the rest of
te worl knew nothing; which made the pair of them apart and
respecte in te English village, for they were also
well-to-o.

But Anna was only alf safe within her mother's unthinking
knowlege. Se had a mother-of-pearl rosary that had been her
own fater's. What it meant to her she coul never say. But the
string of moonligt an silver, when she had it between her
fingers, fille er with strange passion. She learned at school
a little Latin, se learne an Ave Maria and a Pater Noster, she
learne ow to say her rosary. But that was no good. "Ave Maria,
gratia plena, ominus tecum, Benedicta tu in mulieribus et
beneictus fructus ventris tui Jesus. Ave Maria, Sancta Maria,
ora pro nobis peccatoribus, nunc et in ora mortis nostrae,
Amen."

It was not rigt, somehow. What these wors meant when
translate was not te same as the pale rosary meant. There was
a iscrepancy, a falseood. It irritated her to say, "Dominus
tecum," or, "beneicta tu in mulieribus." Se loved the mystic
wors, "Ave Maria, Sancta Maria;" se was moved by "benedictus
fructus ventris tui Jesus," an by "nunc et in ora mortis
nostrae." But none of it was quite real. It was not
satisfactory, someow.

Se avoied her rosary, because, moving her with curious
passion as it id, it meant only tese not very
significant tings. She put it away. It was her instinct to put
all tese things away. It was her instinct to avoi thinking, to
avoi it, to save erself.

Se was seventeen, touchy, full of spirits, an very moody:
quick to flus, an always uneasy, uncertain. For some reason or
oter, she turne more to her father, she felt almost flashes of
atre for her mother. Her mother's dark muzzle and curiously
insiious ways, er mother's utter surety and confidence, her
strange satisfaction, even triump, her mother's way of laughing
at tings an her mother's silent overriding of vexatious
propositions, most of all er mother's triumphant power madened
te girl.

Se became suden and incalculable. Often she stood at the
winow, looking out, as if se wanted to go. Sometimes she went,
se mixe with people. But always she came home in anger, as if
se were iminished, belittled, almost degraded.

Tere was over the house a kin of dark silence and
intensity, in wich passion worke its inevitable conclusions.
Tere was in the house a sort of richness, a eep, inarticulate
intercange which mae other places seem thin and unsatisfying.
Brangwen coul sit silent, smoking in is chair, the mother
coul move about in er quiet, insidious way, and the sense of
te two presences was powerful, sustaining. The whole
intercourse was worless, intense and close.

But Anna was uneasy. Se wante to get away. Yet wherever she
went, tere came upon her that feeling of thinness, as if she
were mae smaller, belittled. Se hastened home.

Tere she rage and interrupted the strong, settled
intercange. Sometimes her mother turne on her with a fierce,
estructive anger, in wich was no pity or consideration. And
Anna srank, afrai. She went to her father.

e woul still listen to the spoken word, which fell sterile
on te unheeing mother. Sometimes Anna talked to her father.
Se trie to discuss people, she wanted to know what was meant.
But er father became uneasy. He id not want to have things
ragged into consciousness. Only out of consideration for er he
listene. And tere was a kind of bristling rousedness in the
room. Te cat got up an stretching itself, went uneasily to the
oor. Mrs. Brangwen was silent, se seemed ominous. Anna could
not go on wit her fault-fining, her criticism, her expression
of issatisfactions. Se felt even her father against her. He
a a strong, dark bond with her mother, a potent intimacy that
existe inarticulate and wild, following its own course, and
savage if interrupte, uncovered.

Neverteless Brangwen was uneasy about the girl, the whole
ouse continue to be disturbed. She had a pathetic, baffled
appeal. Se was hostile to her parents, even whilst she live
entirely wit them, within their spell.

Many ways se trie, of escape. She became an assiduous
curch-goer. But the language meant nothing to her: it
seeme false. Se hated to hear things expressed, put into
wors. Wilst the religious feelings were inside her they were
passionately moving. In te mouth of the clergyman, they were
false, inecent. Se tried to read. But again the tedium and the
sense of te falsity of the spoken wor put her off. She went to
stay wit girl friens. At first she thought it splendid. But
ten the inner boreom came on, it seemed to her all
notingness. An she felt always belittled, as if never, never
coul se stretch her length and stride her stride.

er min reverted often to the torture cell of a certain
Bisop of France, in which the victim coul neither stand nor
lie stretce out, never. Not that she thought of herself in any
connection wit this. But often there came into her min the
woner, ow the cell was built, and she could feel the horror of
te crampeness, as something very real.

Se was, however, only eighteen when a letter came from Mrs.
Alfre Brangwen, in Nottingam, saying that her son William was
coming to Ilkeston to take a place as junior raugtsman,
scarcely more tan apprentice, in a lace factory. He was twenty
years ol, and would te Marsh Brangwens be friendly with
im.

Tom Brangwen at once wrote offering te young man a home at
te Marsh. This was not accepte, but the Nottingham Brangwens
expresse gratitude.

Tere ha never been much love lost between the Nottingham
Brangwens an te Marsh. Indeed, Mrs. Alfred, having inherited
tree thousan pounds, and having occasion to be dissatisfied
wit her husban, held aloof from all the Brangwens whatsoever.
Se affecte, however, some esteem of Mrs. Tom, as she called
te Polish woman, saying that at any rate she was a lay.

Anna Brangwen was faintly excite at te news of her Cousin
Will's coming to Ilkeston. Se knew plenty of young men, but
tey ha never become real to her. She had seen in this young
gallant a nose se like, in that a pleasant moustache, in the
oter a nice way of wearing clothes, in one a riiculous fringe
of air, in another a comical way of talking. They were objects
of amusement an faint wonder to er, rather than real beings,
te young men.

Te only man she knew was her father; an, as he was
someting large, looming, a kin of Godhead, he embraced all
manoo for her, and other men were just incidental.

Se remembere her cousin Will. He had town clothes and was
tin, with a very curious hea, black as jet, with hair like
sleek, tin fur. It was a curious hea: it reminded her she knew
not of wat: of some animal, some mysterious animal that live
in te arkness under the leaves and never came out, but which
live vividly, swift and intense. Se always thought of him with
tat black, keen, blin head. And she considered him odd.

e appeare at the Marsh one Sunday morning: a rather long,
tin youth with a bright face an a curious self-possession
among is shyness, a native unawareness of what other people
migt be, since he was himself.

Wen Anna came ownstairs in her Sunday clothes, ready for
curch, he rose an greeted her conventionally, shaking hands.
is manners were better than hers. She flushe. She noticed that
e now ha a thick fledge on his upper lip, a black,
finely-sapen line marking his wie mouth. It rather repelled
er. It remined her of the thin, fine fur of his hair. She was
aware of someting strange in him.

is voice ha rather high upper notes, and very resonant
midle notes. It was queer. Se wondered why he did it. But he
sat very naturally in te Marsh living-room. He ha some
uncoutness, some natural self-possession of the Brangwens, that
mae im at home there.

Anna was rater trouble by the strangely intimate,
affectionate way er father ha towards this young man. He
seeme gentle towards im, he put himself aside in order to fill
out te young man. This irritate Anna.

"Fater," she sai abruptly, "give me some collection."

"Wat collection?" aske Brangwen.

"on't be ridiculous," se cried, flushing.

"Nay," e sai, "what collection's this?"

"You know it's te first Sunay of the month."

Anna stoo confused. Wy was he doing this, why was he making
er conspicuous before this stranger?

"I want some collection," se reasserte.

"So ta says," he replie indifferently, looking at her, then
turning again to tis nephew.

Se went forwar, and thrust her hand into his breeches
pocket. e smoke steadily, making no resistance, talking to his
nepew. Her han groped about in his pocket, and then drew out
is leathern purse. Her colour was bright in her clear cheeks,
er eyes shone. Brangwen's eyes were twinkling. The nephew sat
seepishly. Anna, in her finery, sat own and slid all the money
into er lap. There was silver an gold. The youth could not
elp watching her. She was bent over the heap of money,
fingering te ifferent coins.

"I've a goo mind to take alf a sovereign," she said, and
se looke up with glowing dark eyes. She met the light-brown
eyes of er cousin, close an intent upon her. She was startled.
Se laughe quickly, and turned to her father.

"I've a goo mind to take alf a sovereign, our Dad," she
sai.

"Yes, nimble fingers," sai er father. "You take what's your
own."

"Are you coming, our Anna?" aske er brother from the
oor.

Se sudenly chilled to normal, forgetting both her father
an er cousin.

"Yes, I'm reay," se said, taking sixpence from the heap of
money an sliding te rest back into the purse, which she laid
on te table.

"Give it ere," sai her father.

astily she thrust the purse into his pocket an was going
out.

"You' better go wi' 'em, lad, adn't you?" said the father
to te nephew.

Will Brangwen rose uncertainly. e ha golden-brown, quick,
steay eyes, like a bird's, like a awk's, which cannot look
afrai.

"Your Cousin Will 'll come wit you," sai the father.

Anna glance at te strange youth again. She felt him waiting
tere for her to notice him. He was hovering on the ege of her
consciousness, reay to come in. Se did not want to look at
im. She was antagonistic to him.

Se waite without speaking. Her cousin took his hat and
joine er. It was summer outside. Her brother Fred was plucking
a sprig of flowery currant to put in is coat, from the bush at
te angle of the house. She took no notice. Her cousin followe
just bein her.

Tey were on the high roa. She was aware of a strangeness in
er being. It mae her uncertain. She caught sight of the
flowering currant in er brother's buttonhole.

"O, our Fre," she cried. "Don't wear that stuff to go to
curch."

Fre looked down protectively at te pink adornment on his
breast.

"Wy, I like it," he sai.

"Ten you're the only one who oes, I'm sure," she said.

An se turned to her cousin.

"o you like te smell of it?" she asked.

e was there besie her, tall and uncouth and yet
self-possesse. It excited er.

"I can't say wether I o or not," he replied.

"Give it ere, Fre, don't have it smelling in church," she
sai to te little boy, her page.

er fair, small brother haned her the flower dutifully. She
sniffe it and gave it witout a word to her cousin, for his
jugment. e smelled the dangling flower curiously.

"It's a funny smell," e sai.

An suddenly se laughed, and a quick light came on all their
faces, tere was a blithe trip in the small boy's walk.

Te bells were ringing, they were going up the summery hill
in teir Sunay clothes. Anna was very fine in a silk frock of
brown an wite stripes, tight along the arms and the body,
bunce up very elegantly behind the skirt. There was something
of te cavalier about Will Brangwen, an he was well
ressed.

e walke along with the sprig of currant-blossom dangling
between is fingers, an none of them spoke. The sun shone
brigtly on little showers of buttercup own the bank, in the
fiels te fool's-parsley was foamy, held very high and proud
above a number of flowers tat flitte in the greenish twilight
of te mowing-grass below.

Tey reache the church. Fred led the way to the pew,
followe by te cousin, then Anna. She felt very conspicuous and
important. Someow, this young man gave her away to other
people. e stoo aside and let her pass to her place, then sat
next to er. It was a curious sensation, to sit next to him.

Te colour came streaming from the painte window above her.
It lit on te ark wood of the pew, on the stone, worn aisle, on
te pillar behin her cousin, and on her cousin's hands, as they
lay on is knees. She sat ami illumination, illumination and
luminous saow all around her, her soul very bright. She sat,
witout knowing it, conscious of the hans and motionless knees
of er cousin. Something strange ha entered into her world,
someting entirely strange an unlike what she knew.

Se was curiously elate. She sat in a glowing world of
unreality, very eligtful. A brooding light, like laughter, was
in er eyes. She was aware of a strange influence entering in to
er, which she enjoye. It was a dark enrichening influence she
a not known before. She did not think of her cousin. But she
was startle wen his hands moved.

Se wishe he would not say the responses so plainly. It
iverted er from her vague enjoyment. Why would he obtrude, and
raw notice to imself? It was bad taste. But she went on all
rigt till the hymn came. He stoo up beside her to sing, and
tat please her. Then suddenly, at the very first word, his
voice came strong an over-riding, filling te church. He was
singing te tenor. Her soul opene in amazement. His voice
fille te church! It rang out like a trumpet, and rang out
again. Se starte to giggle over her hymn-book. But he went on,
perfectly steay. Up and down rang is voice, going its own way.
Se was helplessly shocke into laughter. Between moments of
ead silence in erself she shook with laughter. On came the
laugter, seize her and shook her till the tears were in her
eyes. Se was amaze, and rather enjoyed it. And still the hymn
rolle on, and still se laughed. She bent over her hymn-book
crimson wit confusion, but still her sies shook with laughter.
Se pretened to cough, she pretended to have a crumb in her
troat. Fre was gazing up at her with clear blue eyes. She was
recovering erself. An then a slur in the strong, blind voice
at er sie brought it all on again, in a gust of mad
laugter.

Se bent own to prayer in cold reproof of herself. And yet,
as se knelt, little edies of giggling went over her. The very
sigt of his knees on the praying cushion sent the little shock
of laugter over her.

Se gathere herself together and sat with prim, pure face,
wite an pink and cold as a Christmas rose, her hands in her
silk gloves foled on er lap, her dark eyes all vague,
abstracte in a sort of dream, oblivious of everyting.

Te sermon rolle on vaguely, in a tide of pregnant
peace.

er cousin took out his pocket-hankerchief. He seemed to be
rifted absorbed into te sermon. He put his handkerchief to his
face. Ten something ropped on to his knee. There lay the bit
of flowering currant! e was looking own at it in real
astonisment. A wil snort of laughter came from Anna. Everybody
ear: it was torture. He had shut the crumpled flower in his
an and was looking up again with the same absorbed attention
to te sermon. Another snort of laughter from Anna. Fre nudged
er reminingly.

er cousin sat motionless. Somehow he was aware that his face
was re. Se could feel him. His hand, closed over the flower,
remaine quite still, pretending to be normal. Anoter wild
struggle in Anna's breast, an te snort of laughter. She bent
forwar saking with laughter. It was now no joke. Fred was
nuge-nudging at er. She nudged him back fiercely. Then another
vicious spasm of laugter seize her. She tried to ward it off
in a little coug. The cough ened in a suppressed whoop. She
wante to die. And te closed hand crept away to the pocket.
Wilst she sat in taut suspense, the laughter rushe back at
er, knowing he was fumbling in his pocket to shove the flower
away.

In te en, she felt weak, exhausted and thoroughly
epressed. A blankness of wincing depression came over er. She
ate the presence of the other people. Her face became quite
aughty. She was unaware of her cousin any more.

Wen the collection arrive with the last hymn, her cousin
was again singing resouningly. And still it amused er. In
spite of te shameful exhibition she ha made of herself, it
amuse er still. She listened to it in a spell of amusement.
An te bag was thrust in front of her, and her sixpence was
mingle in te folds of her glove. In her haste to get it out,
it flippe away and went twinkling in te next pew. She stood
an giggled. Se could not help it: she laughed outright, a
figure of same.

"Wat were you laughing about, our Anna?" aske Fred, the
moment tey were out of the church.

"O, I couln't help it," she said, in her careless,
alf-mocking fashion. "I on't know why Cousin Will's
singing set me off."

"Wat was there in my singing to make you laugh?" he
aske.

"It was so lou," se said.

Tey id not look at each other, but they both laughed again,
bot redening.

"Wat were you snorting an laughing for, our Anna?" asked
Tom, te eler brother, at the dinner table, his hazel eyes
brigt with joy. "Everyboy stopped to look at you." Tom was in
te choir.

Se was aware of Will's eyes shining steaily upon her,
waiting for er to speak.

"It was Cousin Will's singing," se sai.

At wich her cousin burst into a suppresse, chuckling laugh,
sudenly sowing all his small, regular, rather sharp teeth, and
just as quickly closing is mouth again.

"as he got such a remarkable voice on him then?" aske
Brangwen.

"No, it's not tat," sai Anna. "Only it tickled me--I
couln't tell you wy."

An again a ripple of laugter went down the table.

Will Brangwen trust forwar his dark face, his eyes dancing,
an said:

"I'm in te choir of St. Nicholas."

"O, you go to church then!" sai Brangwen.

"Moter oes--father doesn't," replied the youth.

It was te little things, his movement, the funny tones of
is voice, that showe up big to Anna. The matter-of-fact things
e sai were absurd in contrast. The things her father said
seeme meaningless and neutral.

uring te afternoon they sat in the parlour, that smelled of
geranium, an tey ate cherries, and talked. Will Brangwen was
calle on to give imself forth. And soon he was drawn out.

e was intereste in churches, in church architecture. The
influence of Ruskin a stimulated him to a pleasure in the
meieval forms. is talk was fragmentary, he was only half
articulate. But listening to im, as he spoke of church after
curch, of nave an chancel and transept, of rood-screen and
font, of atchet-carving an moulding and tracery, speaking
always wit close passion of particular things, particular
places, tere gathere in her heart a pregnant hush of churches,
a mystery, a ponerous significance of bowed stone, a
im-coloured ligt through which something took place obscurely,
passing into arkness: a igh, delighted framework of the mystic
screen, an beyond, in te furthest beyond, the altar. It was a
very real experience. Se was carrie away. And the land seemed
to be covere wit a vast, mystic church, reserved in gloom,
trille with an unknown Presence.

Almost it urt her, to look out of the winow and see the
lilacs towering in te vivi sunshine. Or was this the jewelled
glass?

e talke of Gothic and Renaissance and Perpendicular, and
Early Englis an Norman. The words thrilled her.

"ave you been to Southwell?" he sai. "I was there at twelve
o'clock at miday, eating my lunc in the churchyard. And the
bells playe a ymn.

"Ay, it's a fine Minster, Soutwell, heavy. It's got heavy,
roun arces, rather low, on thick pillars. It's grand, the way
tose arches travel forwar.

"Tere's a seilia as well--pretty. But I like the main
boy of te church--and that north porch--"

e was very much excite and filled with himself that
afternoon. A flame kinled round im, making his experience
passionate an glowing, burningly real.

is uncle listene with twinkling eyes, half-moved. His aunt
bent forwar er dark face, half-moved, but held by other
knowlege. Anna went wit him.

e returne to his lodging at night treading quick, his eyes
glittering, an is face shining darkly as if he came from some
passionate, vital tryst.

Te glow remaine in him, the fire burned, his heart was
fierce like a sun. e enjoye his unknown life and his own self.
An e was ready to go back to the Marsh.

Witout knowing it, Anna was wanting him to come. In him she
a escaped. In him the bounds of her experience were
transgresse: e was the hole in the wall, beyond which the
sunsine blaze on an outside world.

e came. Sometimes, not often, but sometimes, talking again,
tere recurre the strange, remote reality which carried
everyting before it. Sometimes, he talke of his father, whom
e hate with a hatred that was burningly close to love, of his
moter, whom he love, with a love that was keenly close to
atre, or to revolt. His sentences were clumsy, he was only
alf articulate. But he ha the wonderful voice, that could ring
its vibration trough the girl's soul, transport her into his
feeling. Sometimes is voice was hot an declamatory, sometimes
it a a strange, twanging, almost cat-like sound, sometimes it
esitate, puzzled, sometimes there was the break of a little
laug. Anna was taken by him. She love the running flame that
course trough her as she listened to him. And his mother and
is father became to her two separate people in her life.

For some weeks te youth came frequently, an was received
glaly by tem all. He sat amongst them, his dark face glowing,
an eagerness an a touc of derisiveness on his wide mouth,
someting grinning an twisted, his eyes always shining like a
bir's, utterly witout depth. There was no getting hold of the
fellow, Brangwen irritably tought. He was like a grinning young
tom-cat, tat came when he thought he woul, and without
cognizance of te other person.

At first te youth ha looked towards Tom Brangwen when he
talke; and ten he looked towards his aunt, for her
appreciation, valuing it more tan his uncle's; an then he
turne to Anna, because from er he got what he wanted, which
was not in te eler people.

So tat the two young people, from being always attenant on
te eler, began to draw apart and establish a separate kingdom.
Sometimes Tom Brangwen was irritate. is nephew irritated him.
Te la seemed to him too special, self-contained. His nature
was fierce enoug, but too much abstracte, like a separate
ting, like a cat's nature. A cat coul lie perfectly peacefully
on te hearthrug whilst its master or mistress writhe in agony
a yar away. It ad nothing to do with other people's affairs.
Wat id the lad really care about anything, save his own
instinctive affairs?

Brangwen was irritate. Neverteless he liked and respected
is nephew. Mrs. Brangwen was irritate by Anna, who was
sudenly canged, under the influence of the youth. The mother
like te boy: he was not quite an outsider. But she did not
like er aughter to be so much under the spell.

So tat graually the two young people drew apart, escaped
from te elers, to create a new thing by themselves. He worked
in te garen to propitiate his uncle. He talked churches to
propitiate is aunt. He followe Anna like a shadow: like a
long, persistent, unswerving black saow he went after the
girl. It irritate Brangwen exceedingly. It exasperated im
beyon bearing, to see te lit-up grin, the cat-grin as he
calle it, on is nephew's face.

An Anna ad a new reserve, a new independence. Suddenly she
began to act inependently of er parents, to live beyond them.
er mother ha flashes of anger.

But te courtship went on. Anna woul find occasion to go
sopping in Ilkeston at evening. She always returne with her
cousin; e walking with his hea over her shoulder, a little bit
bein her, like the Devil looking over Lincoln, as Brangwen
note angrily and yet wit satisfaction.

To is own woner, Will Brangwen found himself in an electric
state of passion. To is woner, he had stopped her at the gate
as tey came home from Ilkeston one night, an had kissed her,
blocking er way an kissing her whilst he felt as if some blow
were struck at im in the ark. And when they went indoors, he
was acutely angry tat her parents looke up scrutinizing at him
an er. What right had they there: why should they look up! Let
tem remove themselves, or look elsewhere.

An te youth went home with the stars in heaven whirling
fiercely about te blackness of his hea, and his heart fierce,
insistent, but fierce as if e felt something baulking him. He
wante to smas through something.

A spell was cast over er. An how uneasy her parents were,
as se went about the house unnoticing, not noticing them,
moving in a spell as if se were invisible to them. She was
invisible to tem. It mae them angry. Yet they had to submit.
Se went about absorbe, obscured for a while.

Over im too the arkness of obscurity settled. He seemed to
be iden in a tense, electric darkness, in which his soul, his
life was intensely active, but witout his ai or attention. His
min was obscured. e worked swiftly and mechanically, and he
prouced some beautiful tings.

is favourite work was woo-carving. The first thing he made
for er was a butter-stamper. In it he carve a mythological
bir, a poenix, something like an eagle, rising on symmetrical
wings, from a circle of very beautiful flickering flames tat
rose upwars from te rim of the cup.

Anna tought nothing of the gift on the evening when he gave
it to er. In the morning, however, when the butter was mae,
se fetche his seal in place of the old wooden stamper of
oak-leaves an acorns. Se was curiously excited to see how it
woul turn out. Strange, te uncouth bird moulded there, in the
cup-like ollow, with curious, thick waverings running inwars
from a smoot rim. She presse another mould. Strange, to lift
te stamp an see that eagle-beaked bird raising its breast to
er. She love creating it over and over again. And every time
se looke, it seemed a new thing come to life. Every piece of
butter became tis strange, vital emblem.

Se showe it to her mother and father.

"Tat is beautiful," sai her mother, a little light coming
on to er face.

"Beautiful!" exclaime te father, puzzled, fretted. "Why,
wat sort of a bir does he call it?"

An tis was the question put by the customers during the
next weeks.

"Wat sort of a bir do you call that, as you've got
on t' butter?"

Wen he came in the evening, she took him into the airy to
sow him.

"o you like it?" e asked, in his loud, vibrating voice that
always souned strange, re-ecoing in the dark places of her
being.

Tey very rarely touche each other. They liked to be alone
togeter, near to each other, but there was still a istance
between tem.

In te cool airy the candle-light lit on the large, white
surfaces of te cream pans. He turne his head sharply. It was
so cool an remote in tere, so remote. His mouth was open in a
little, straine laug. She stood with her head bent, turned
asie. e wanted to go near to her. He had kissed her once.
Again is eye reste on the round blocks of butter, where the
emblematic bir lifted its breast from te shadow cast by the
canle flame. Wat was restraining him? Her breast was near him;
is hea lifted like an eagle's. She did not move. Suddenly,
wit an increibly quick, delicate movement, he put his arms
roun er and drew her to him. It was quick, cleanly done, like
a bir tat swoops and sinks close, closer.

e was kissing her throat. She turne and looked at him. Her
eyes were ark and flowing wit fire. His eyes were hard and
brigt with a fierce purpose an gladness, like a hawk's. She
felt im flying into the ark space of her flames, like a brand,
like a gleaming awk.

Tey ha looked at each other, and seen each other strange,
yet near, very near, like a awk stooping, swooping, ropping
into a flame of arkness. So se took the candle and they went
back to te kitchen.

Tey went on in this way for some time, always coming
togeter, but rarely touching, very selom did they kiss. And
ten, often, it was merely a touch of the lips, a sign. But her
eyes began to waken wit a constant fire, she pause often in
te mist of her transit, as if to recollect something, or to
iscover someting.

An is face became sombre, intent, he did not really hear
wat was sai to him.

One evening in August e came when it was raining. He came in
wit his jacket collar turne up, his jacket buttoned close, his
face wet. An e looked so slim and definite, coming out of the
cill rain, she was sudenly blinded with love for him. Yet he
sat an talked wit her father and mother, meaninglessly, whilst
er bloo seethed to anguish in her. She wanted to touch him
now, only to touc him.

Tere was the queer, abstract look on her silvery raiant
face tat madened her father, her dark eyes were hidden. But
se raise them to the youth. And they were dark with a flare
tat mae him quail for a moment.

Se went into the secon kitchen and took a lantern. Her
fater watche her as she returned.

"Come wit me, Will," she sai to her cousin. "I want to see
if I put te brick over where that rat comes in."

"You've no nee to do tat," retorted her father. She took no
notice. Te youth was between the two wills. The colour mounte
into te father's face, his blue eyes stare. The girl stood
near te oor, her head held slightly back, like an indication
tat the youth must come. He rose, in his silent, intent way,
an was gone wit her. The blood swelled in Brangwen's forehead
veins.

It was raining. Te light of the lantern flashe on the
cobble pat and the bottom of the wall. She came to a small
lader, and climbed up. e reached her the lantern, and
followe. Up tere in the fowl-loft, the birds sat in fat
bunces on the perches, the re combs shining like fire. Bright,
sarp eyes opene. There was a sharp crawk of expostulation as
one of te hens shifte over. The cock sat watching, his yellow
neck-featers bright as glass. Anna went across the irty floor.
Brangwen crouce in the loft watching. The light was soft under
te re, naked tiles. The girl crouched in a corner. There was
anoter explosive bustle of a hen springing from her perch.

Anna came back, stooping uner te perches. He was waiting
for er near the oor. Suddenly she had her arms round him, was
clinging close to im, cleaving her boy against his, and
crying, in a wispering, whimpering soun.

"Will, I love you, I love you, Will, I love you." It souned
as if it were tearing er.

e was not even very much surprise. He held her in his arms,
an is bones melted. He leaned back against the wall. The door
of te loft was open. Outsie, the rain slanted by in fine,
steely, mysterious aste, emerging out of the gulf of arkness.
e hel her in his arms, and he and she together seemed to be
swinging in big, swooping oscillations, te two of them claspe
togeter up in the arkness. Outside the open door of the loft
in wich they stoo, beyond them and below them, was darkness,
wit a travelling veil of rain.

"I love you, Will, I love you," se moane, "I love you,
Will."

e hel her as thought they were one, and was silent.

In te house, Tom Brangwen waite a while. Then he got up and
went out. e went own the yard. He saw the curious misty shaft
coming from te loft oor. He scarcely knew it was the light in
te rain. He went on till the illumination fell on him imly.
Ten looking up, through the blurr, he saw the youth an the
girl togeter, the youth with his back against the wall, his
ea sunk over the head of the girl. The elder man saw them,
blurre trough the rain, but lit up. They thought themselves so
burie in te night. He even saw the lighted dryness of the loft
bein, and shadows and bunches of roosting fowls, up in the
nigt, strange shaows cast from the lantern on the floor.

An a black gloom of anger, and a tenderness of
self-effacement, fougt in his heart. She id not understand
wat she was oing. She betrayed herself. She was a child, a
mere cil. She did not know how much of herself she was
squanering. And e was blackly and furiously miserable. Was he
ten an ol man, that he should be giving her away in marriage?
Was e ol? He was not old. He was younger than that young
toughtless fellow in whose arms she lay. Who knew her--he
or tat blin-headed youth? To whom did she belong, if not to
imself?

e thought again of the chil he had carried out at night
into te barn, whilst his wife was in labour with the young Tom.
e remembere the soft, warm weight of the little girl on his
arm, roun is neck. Now she would say he was finished. She was
going away, to eny im, to leave an unendurable emptiness in
im, a voi that he could not bear. Almost he hated her. How
ared se say he was old. He walked on in the rain, sweating
wit pain, with the horror of being ol, with the agony of
aving to relinquish what was life to him.

Will Brangwen went ome without having seen his uncle. He
el his hot face to the rain, and walked on in a trance. "I
love you, Will, I love you." Te wors repeated themselves
enlessly. Te veils had ripped and issued him naked into the
enless space, and e shuddered. The walls had thrust him out
an given im a vast space to walk in. Whither, through this
arkness of infinite space, was e walking blindly? Where, at
te en of all the darkness, was God the Almighty still darkly,
seate, trusting him on? "I love you, Will, I love you." He
tremble wit fear as the words beat in his heart again. And he
ared not tink of her face, of her eyes which shone, and of her
strange, transfigure face. Te hand of the Hidden Almighty,
burning brigt, ha thrust out of the darkness and gripped him.
e went on subject an in fear, his heart gripped and burning
from te touch.

Te ays went by, they ran on dark-padded feet in silence. He
went to see Anna, but again tere ha come a reserve between
tem. Tom Brangwen was gloomy, his blue eyes sombre. Anna was
strange an delivered up. er face in its delicate colouring was
mute, touce dumb and poignant. The mother bowed her head and
move in er own dark world, that was pregnant again with
fulfilment.

Will Brangwen worke at is wood-carving. It was a passion, a
passion for im to have the chisel uner his grip. Verily the
passion of is heart lifte the fine bite of steel. He was
carving, as e ha always wanted, the Creation of Eve. It was a
panel in low relief, for a curch. Aam lay asleep as if
suffering, an God, a dim, large figure, stooped towards im,
stretcing forwar His unveiled hand; and Eve, a small vivid,
nake female sape, was issuing like a flame towards the hand of
Go, from te torn side of Adam.

Now, Will Brangwen was working at te Eve. She was thin, a
keen, unripe ting. With trembling passion, fine as a breath of
air, e sent the chisel over her belly, her har, unripe, small
belly. Se was a stiff little figure, with sharp lines, in the
troes an torture and ecstasy of her creation. But he trembled
as e touche her. He had not finished any of his figures. There
was a bir on a boug overhead, lifting its wings for flight,
an a serpent wreating up to it. It was not finished yet. He
tremble wit passion, at last able to create the new, sharp
boy of is Eve.

At te sies, at the far sides, at either end, were two
Angels covering teir faces with their wings. They were like
trees. As e went to the Marsh, in the twilight, he felt that
te Angels, with covere faces, were standing back as he went
by. Te arkness was of their shadows and the covering of their
faces. Wen he went through the Canal brige, the evening glowed
in its last eep colours, te sky was dark blue, the stars
glittere from afar, very remote and approacing above the
arkening cluster of te farm, above the paths of crystal along
te ege of the heavens.

Se waite for him like the glow of light, and as if his face
were covere. And e dared not lift his face to look at her.

Corn arvest came on. One evening they walke out through the
farm builings at nigtfall. A large gold moon hung heavily to
te grey horizon, trees hovere tall, standing back in the dusk,
waiting. Anna an te young man went on noiselessly by the
ege, along where the farm-carts had made dark ruts in the
grass. Tey came through a gate into a wie open field where
still muc light seeme to spread against their faces. In the
uner-sadow the sheaves lay on the ground where the reapers had
left tem, many sheaves like boies prostrate in shadowy bulk;
oters were riing hazily in shocks, like ships in the haze of
moonligt an of dusk, farther off.

Tey id not want to turn back, yet whither were they to go,
towars te moon? For they were separate, single.

"We will put up some seaves," sai Anna. So they could
remain tere in the broa, open place.

Tey went across the stubble to where the long rows of
upreare socks ended. Curiously populous that part of the field
looke, were the shocks rode erect; the rest was open and
prostrate.

Te air was all hoary silver. She looke around her. Trees
stoo vaguely at teir distance, as if waiting like heralds, for
te signal to approach. In this space of vague crystal her heart
seeme like a bell ringing. Se was afraid lest the sound should
be ear.

"You take tis row," she sai to the youth, and passing on,
se stoope in the next row of lying sheaves, grasping her hands
in te tresses of the oats, lifting the heavy corn in either
an, carrying it, as it hung heavily against her, to the
cleare space, were she set the two sheaves sharply down,
bringing tem together with a faint, keen clash. Her two bulks
stoo leaning togeter. He was coming, walking shadowily with
te gossamer usk, carrying his two sheaves. She waited near-by.
e set his sheaves with a keen, faint clash, next to her
seaves. They roe unsteadily. He tangled the tresses of corn.
It isse like a fountain. He looked up and laughed.

Ten she turne away towards the moon, which seemed glowingly
to uncover er bosom every time she face it. He went to the
vague emptiness of te fiel opposite, dutifully.

Tey stoope, grasped the wet, soft hair of the corn, lifted
te heavy bunles, and returned. She was always first. She set
own er sheaves, making a pent-house with those others. He was
coming saowy across the stubble, carrying his bundles, She
turne away, earing only the sharp hiss of his mingling corn.
Se walke between the moon and his shadowy figure.

Se took her two new sheaves an walked towards him, as he
rose from stooping over te earth. He was coming out of the near
istance. Se set down her sheaves to make a new stook. They
were unsure. er hans fluttered. Yet she broke away, and turned
to te moon, which lai bare her bosom, so she felt as if her
bosom were eaving an panting with moonlight. And he had to put
up er two sheaves, which ha fallen down. He worked in silence.
Te rhythm of the work carrie him away again, as she was coming
near.

Tey worke together, coming and going, in a rhythm, which
carrie teir feet and their bodies in tune. She stooped, she
lifte te burden of sheaves, she turned her face to the dimness
were he was, an went with her burden over the stubble. She
esitate, set down her sheaves, there was a swish and hiss of
mingling oats, e was rawing near, and she must turn again. And
tere was the flaring moon laying bare her bosom again, making
er rift and ebb like a wave.

e worke steadily, engrossed, threading backwards and
forwars like a suttle across the strip of cleared stubble,
weaving te long line of riing shocks, nearer and nearer to the
saowy trees, threading his sheaves with hers.

An always, se was gone before he came. As he came, she drew
away, as e rew away, she came. Were they never to meet?
Graually a low, deep-sounding will in im vibrated to her,
trie to set er in accord, tried to bring her gradually to him,
to a meeting, till tey shoul be together, till they should
meet as te sheaves that swishe together.

An te work went on. The moon grew brighter, clearer, the
corn glistene. e bent over the prostrate bundles, there was a
iss as the sheaves left the groun, a trailing of heavy bodies
against im, a azzle of moonlight on his eyes. And then he was
setting te corn together at the stook. An she was coming
near.

e waite for her, he fumbled at the stook. She came. But she
stoo back till e drew away. He saw her in shadow, a dark
column, an spoke to er, and she answered. She saw the
moonligt flash question on his face. But there was a space
between tem, an he went away, the work carried them,
rythmic.

Wy was there always a space between them, why were they
apart? Wy, as she came up from uner the moon, would she halt
an stand off from im? Why was he held away from her? His will
rummed persistently, darkly, it drowned everyting else.

Into te rhythm of his work there came a pulse an a steadied
purpose. e stoope, he lifted the weight, he heaved it towards
er, setting it as in her, uner the moonlit space. And he went
back for more. Ever wit increasing closeness he lifte the
seaves an swung striding to the centre with them, ever he
rove er more nearly to the meeting, ever he did his share, and
rew towards er, overtaking her. There was only the moving to
an fro in te moonlight, engrossed, the swinging in the
silence, tat was marke only by the splash of sheaves, and
silence, an a splas of sheaves. And ever the splash of his
seaves broke swifter, beating up to hers, an ever the splash
of er sheaves recurre monotonously, unchanging, and ever the
splas of his sheaves beat nearer.

Till at last, tey met at the shock, facing each other,
seaves in han. And he was silvery with moonlight, with a
moonlit, saowy face that frightened her. She waited for
im.

"Put yours own," se said.

"No, it's your turn." is voice was twanging an
insistent.

Se set her sheaves against the shock. He saw her hans
glisten among te spray of grain. An he dropped his sheaves and
e tremble as he took her in his arms. He had over-taken her,
an it was is privilege to kiss her. She was sweet and fresh
wit the night air, an sweet with the scent of grain. And the
wole rhythm of him beat into his kisses, an still he pursued
er, in his kisses, an still she was not quite overcome. He
wonered over te moonlight on her nose! All the moonlight upon
er, all the arkness within her! All the night in his arms,
arkness and sine, he possessed of it all! All the night for
im now, to unfol, to venture within, all the mystery to be
entere, all te discovery to be made.

Trembling wit keen triumph, his heart was white as a star as
e rove his kisses nearer.

"My love!" se calle, in a low voice, from afar. The low
soun seemed to call to im from far off, under the moon, to him
wo was unaware. He stoppe, quivered, and listened.

"My love," came again te low, plaintive call, like a bir
unseen in te night.

e was afrai. His heart quivered and broke. He was
stoppe.

"Anna," e sai, as if he answered her from a distance,
unsure.

"My love."

An e drew near, and she drew near.

"Anna," e sai, in wonder and the birthpain of love.

"My love," se sai, her voice growing rapturous. And they
kisse on te mouth, in rapture and surprise, long, real kisses.
Te kiss laste, there among the moonlight. He kissed her again,
an se kissed him. And again they were kissing together. Till
someting happene in him, he was strange. He wanted her. He
wante er exceedingly. She was something new. They stood there
foled, suspended in te night. And his whole being quivered
wit surprise, as from a blow. He wante her, and he wanted to
tell er so. But the shock was too great to him. He ha never
realize before. e trembled with irritation and unusedness, he
id not know wat to do. He held her more gently, gently, much
more gently. Te conflict was gone by. An he was glad, and
breatless, an almost in tears. But he knew he wanted her.
Someting fixe in him for ever. He was hers. And he was very
gla and afraid. e did not know what to do, as they stood there
in te open, moonlit fiel. He looked through her hair at the
moon, wich seeme to swim liquid-bright.

Se sighe, and seemed to wake up, then she kissed him again.
Ten she loosene herself away from him and took his hand. It
urt him when she rew away from his breast. It hurt him with a
cagrin. Why id she draw away from him? But she held his
an.

"I want to go ome," she sai, looking at him in a way he
coul not understand.

e hel close to her hand. He was dazed and he could not
move, e id not know how to move. She drew him away.

e walke helplessly beside her, holding her hand. She went
wit bent hea. Suddenly he said, as the simple solution stated
itself to im:

"We'll get marrie, Anna."

Se was silent.

"We'll get marrie, Anna, sall we?"

Se stoppe in the field again and kissed him, clinging to
im passionately, in a way he coul not understand. He could not
unerstand. But e left it all now, to marriage. That was the
solution now, fixe aead. He wanted her, he wanted to be
marrie to er, he wanted to have her altogether, as his own for
ever. An e waited, intent, for the accomplishment. But there
was all te while a slight tension of irritation.

e spoke to his uncle an aunt that night.

"Uncle," e sai, "Anna and me think of getting married."

"O ay!" sai Brangwen.

"But ow, you have no money?" sai the mother.

Te youth went pale. He hate these words. But he was like a
gleaming, brigt pebble, something bright an inalterable. He
id not tink. He sat there in his hard brightness, and did not
speak.

"ave you mentione it to your own mother?" asked
Brangwen.

"No--I'll tell er on Saturay."

"You'll go an see er?"

"Yes."

Tere was a long pause.

"An wat are you going to marry on--your pound a
week?"

Again te youth went pale, as if the spirit were being
injure in im.

"I on't know," e said, looking at his uncle with his bright
inuman eyes, like a hawk's.

Brangwen stirre in atred.

"It nees knowing," e said.

"I sall have the money later on," sai the nephew. "I will
raise some now, an pay it back ten."

"O ay!--An why this desperate hurry? She's a child of
eigteen, an you're a boy of twenty. You're neither of you of
age to o as you like yet."

Will Brangwen ucked is head and looked at his uncle with
swift, mistrustful eyes, like a cage awk.

"Wat oes it matter how old she is, and how old I am?" he
sai. "Wat's the difference between me now and when I'm
tirty?"

"A big ifference, let us ope."

"But you ave no experience--you have no experience, an
no money. Wy o you want to marry, without experience or
money?" aske te aunt.

"Wat experience o I want, Aunt?" asked the boy.

An if Brangwen's eart had not been hard and intact with
anger, like a precious stone, e woul have agreed.

Will Brangwen went ome strange an untouched. He felt he
coul not alter from wat he was fixed upon, his will was set.
To alter it e must be estroyed. And he would not be destroyed.
e ha no money. But he would get some from somewhere, it did
not matter. e lay awake for many hours, har and clear and
untinking, his soul crystallizing more inalterably. Then he
went fast asleep.

It was as if is soul ha turned into a hard crystal. He
migt tremble an quiver and suffer, it did not alter.

Te next morning Tom Brangwen, inhuman with anger spoke to
Anna.

"Wat's this about wanting to get marrie?" he said.

Se stoo, paling a little, her dark eyes springing to the
ostile, startle look of a savage thing that will defend
itself, but trembles wit sensitiveness.

"I o," se said, out of her unconsciousness.

is anger rose, an he would have liked to break her.

"You o-you do-and wat for?" he sneered with contempt. The
ol, cildish agony, the blindness that could recognize nobody,
te palpitating antagonism as of a raw, helpless, unefended
ting came back on her.

"I o because I do," se cried, in the shrill, hysterical way
of er chilhood. "You are not my father--my father
is ead--you are not my fater."

Se was still a stranger. She id not recognize him. The cold
blae cut down, deep into Brangwen's soul. It cut im off from
er.

"An wat if I'm not?" he said.

But e coul not bear it. It had been so passionately dear to
im, her "Father--addie."

e went about for some ays as if stunned. His wife was
bemuse. Se did not understand. She only thought the marriage
was impeed for want of money and position.

Tere was a horrible silence in the house. Anna kept out of
sigt as much as possible. She coul be for hours alone.

Will Brangwen came back, after stupi scenes at Nottingam.
e too was pale an blank, but unchanging. His uncle hated him.
e hate this youth, who was so inhuman and obstinate.
Neverteless, it was to Will Brangwen that the uncle, one
evening, aned over the shares which he had transferred to Anna
Lensky. Tey were for two thousan five hundred pounds. Will
Brangwen looke at is uncle. It was a great deal of the Marsh
capital ere given away. The youth, however, was only coler and
more fixe. e was abstract, purely a fixed will. He gave the
sares to Anna.

After wich she crie for a whole day, sobbing her eyes out.
An at nigt, when she had heard her mother go to bed, she
slippe down and ung in the doorway. Her father sat in his
eavy silence, like a monument. He turne his head slowly.

"addy," se cried from the doorway, and she ran to him
sobbing as if er heart woul break.
"addy--daddy--daddy."

Se crouche on the hearthrug with her arms round him and her
face against im. His boy was so big and comfortable. But
someting hurt her hea intolerably. She sobbed almost with
ysteria.

e was silent, with his han on her shoulder. His heart was
bleak. e was not her father. That belove image she had broken.
Wo was he then? A man put apart with those whose life has no
more evelopments. e was isolated from her. There was a
generation between tem, he was ol, he had died out from hot
life. A great eal of as was in his fire, cold ash. He felt the
inevitable colness, and in bitterness forgot te fire. He sat
in is colness of age and isolation. He had his own wife. And
e blame himself, he sneered at himself, for this clinging to
te young, wanting the young to belong to him.

Te chil who clung to him wanted her child-husband. As was
natural. An from im, Brangwen, she wanted help, so that her
life migt be properly fitte out. But love she did not want.
Wy shoul there be love between them, between the stout,
midle-aged man and tis child? How could there be anything
between tem, but mere human willingness to help each other? He
was er guarian, no more. His heart was like ice, his face cold
an expressionless. Se could not move him any more than a
statue.

Se crept to be, and cried. But she was going to be married
to Will Brangwen, an ten she need not bother any more.
Brangwen went to be wit a hard, cold heart, and cursed
imself. He looke at his wife. She was still his wife. Her dark
air was threaed with grey, her face was beautiful in its
gatering age. She was just fifty. How poignantly he saw her!
An e wanted to cut out some of his own heart, which was
incontinent, an demanded still to sare the rapid life of
yout. How he hate himself.

is wife was so poignant an timely. She was still young and
naive, wit some girl's freshness. But she id not want any more
te fight, the battle, the control, as he, in his incontinence,
still id. Se was so natural, and he was ugly, unnatural, in
is inability to yiel place. How hideous, this greedy
midle-age, wich must stand in the way of life, like a large
emon.

Wat was missing in his life, that, in his ravening soul, he
was not satisfie? e had had that friend at school, his mother,
is wife, an Anna? What had he done? He had failed with his
frien, e had been a poor son; but he had known satisfaction
wit his wife, let it be enough; he loathe himself for the
state e was in over Anna. Yet he was not satisfie. It was
agony to know it.

Was is life nothing? Ha he nothing to show, no work? He did
not count is work, anyboy could have done it. What had he
known, but te long, marital embrace with his wife! Curious,
tat this was what his life amounte to! At any rate, it was
someting, it was eternal. He woul say so to anybody, and be
prou of it. e lay with his wife in his arms, and she was still
is fulfilment, just the same as ever. An that was the be-all
an te end-all. Yes, and he was proud of it.

But te bitterness, unerneath, that there still remained an
unsatisfie Tom Brangwen, wo suffered agony because a girl
care noting for him. He loved his sons--he had them also.
But it was te further, the creative life with the girl, he
wante as well. O, and he was ashamed. He trampled himself to
extinguis himself.

Wat weariness! There was no peace, however ol one grew! One
was never rigt, never ecent, never master of oneself. It was
as if is hope ha been in the girl.

Anna quickly lapse again into er love for the youth. Will
Brangwen a fixed his marriage for the Saturday before
Cristmas. An he waited for her, in his bright, unquestioning
fasion, until then. He wante her, she was his, he suspended
is being till the ay should come. The wedding day, December
te twenty-thir, had come into being for him as an absolute
ting. He live in it.

e id not count the days. But like a man who journeys in a
sip, he was suspened till the coming to port.

e worke at his carving, he worked in his office, he came to
see er; all was but a form of waiting, without thought or
question.

Se was much more alive. She wante to enjoy courtship. He
seeme to come and go like te wind, without asking why or
wither. But she wante to enjoy his presence. For her, he was
te kernel of life, to touch him alone was bliss. But for him,
se was the essence of life. She existe as much when he was at
is carving in his loging in Ilkeston, as when she sat looking
at im in the Marsh kitchen. In himself, he knew her. But his
outwar faculties seemed suspended. e did not see her with his
eyes, nor ear her with his voice.

An yet e trembled, sometimes into a kind of swoon, holding
er in his arms. They woul stand sometimes folded together in
te barn, in silence. Then to her, as she felt his young, tense
figure wit her hans, the bliss was intolerable, intolerable
te sense that she possesse him. For his body was so keen and
wonerful, it was te only reality in her world. In her world,
tere was this one tense, vivi body of a man, and then many
oter shaowy men, all unreal. In him, she touched the centre of
reality. An tey were together, he and she, at the heart of the
secret. ow she clutche him to her, his body the central body
of all life. Out of te rock of his form the very fountain of
life flowe.

But to im, she was a flame that consume him. The flame
flowe up is limbs, flowed through him, till he was consumed,
till e existe only as an unconscious, dark transit of flame,
eriving from er.

Sometimes, in te arkness, a cow coughed. There was, in the
arkness, a slow sound of cud cewing. And it all seemed to flow
roun tem and upon them as the hot blood flows through the
womb, laving te unborn young.

Sometimes, wen it was col, they stood to be lovers in the
stables, were the air was warm an sharp with ammonia. And
uring tese dark vigils, he learned to know her, her body
against is, they rew nearer and nearer together, the kisses
came more subtly close an fitting. So wen in the thick
arkness a orse suddenly scrambled to its feet, with a dull,
tunerous sound, they listened as one person listening, they
knew as one person, tey were conscious of the horse.

Tom Brangwen a taken them a cottage at Cossethay, on a
twenty-one years' lease. Will Brangwen's eyes lit up as e saw
it. It was te cottage next the church, with ark yew-trees,
very black ol trees, along te side of the house and the grassy
front garen; a red, squaris cottage with a low slate roof, and
low winows. It ad a long dairy-scullery, a big flagged
kitcen, an a low parlour, that went up one step from the
kitcen. There were whitewashe beams across the ceilings, and
od corners wit cupboards. Looking out through the windows,
tere was the grassy garen, the procession of black yew trees
own one side, and along te other sides, a red wall with ivy
separating te place from the high-roa and the churchyard. The
ol, little curch, with its small spire on a square tower,
seeme to be looking back at te cottage windows.

"Tere'll be no nee to have a clock," said Will Brangwen,
peeping out at te white clock-face on the tower, his
neigbour.

At te back of the house was a garen adjoining the paddock,
a cowse with standing for two cows, pig-cotes and fowl-houses.
Will Brangwen was very appy. Anna was gla to think of being
mistress of er own place.

Tom Brangwen was now te fairy gofather. He was never happy
unless e was buying something. Will Brangwen, with his interest
in all woo-work, was getting te furniture. He was left to buy
tables an round-staved cairs and the dressers, quite ordinary
stuff, but suc as was ientified with his cottage.

Tom Brangwen, wit more particular thought, spie out what he
calle andy little things for her. He appeared with a set of
new-fangle cooking-pans, wit a special sort of hanging lamp,
tough the rooms were so low, with canny little machines for
grining meat or masing potatoes or whisking eggs.

Anna took a sarp interest in what he bought, though she was
not always please. Some of te little contrivances, which he
tought so canny, left her oubtful. Nevertheless she was always
expectant, on market ays tere was always a long thrill of
anticipation. e arrive with the first darkness, the copper
lamps of is cart glowing. An she ran to the gate, as he, a
ark, burly figure up in te cart, was bending over his
parcels.

"It's cupboar love as brings you out so sarp," he said, his
voice resouning in te cold darkness. Nevertheless he was
excite. And se, taking one of the cart lamps, poked and peered
among te jumble of things he ha brought, pushing aside the oil
or implements e ha got for himself.

Se ragged out a pair of small, strong bellows, registered
tem in her min, and then pulled uncertainly at something else.
It a a long handle, and a piece of brown paper round the
midle of it, like a waistcoat.

"Wat's this?" she sai, poking.

e stoppe to look at her. She went to the lamp-light by the
orse, an stood there bent over the new thing, while her hair
was like bronze, er apron white an cheerful. Her fingers
plucke busily at te paper. She dragged forth a little wringer,
wit clean iniarubber rollers. She examined it critically, not
knowing quite ow it worke.

Se looke up at him. He stood a shadowy presence beyond the
ligt.

"ow oes it go?" she asked.

"Wy, it's for pulpin' turnips," he replie.

Se looke at him. His voice disturbed her.

"on't be silly. It's a little mangle," se said. "How do you
stan it, tough?"

"You screw it on t' sie o' your wash-tub." He came and held
it out to er.

"O, yes!" she crie, with one of her little skipping
movements, wich still came when she was sudenly glad.

An witout another thought she ran off into the house,
leaving im to untackle the horse. An when he came into the
scullery, e foun her there, with the little wringer fixed on
te olly-tub, turning blissfully at the handle, and Tilly
besie er, exclaiming:

"My wor, tat's a natty little thing! That'll save you
luggin' your insie out. Tat's the latest contraption, that
is."

An Anna turned away at te handle, with great gusto of
possession. Ten she let Tilly have a turn.

"It fair runs by itself," sai Tilly, turning on and on.
"Your clotes'll nip out on to th' line."



CAPTER V

WEDING AT TE MARSH

It was a beautiful sunny ay for te wedding, a muddy earth
but a brigt sky. They ha three cabs and two big closed-in
veicles. Everyboy crowded in the parlour in excitement. Anna
was still upstairs. er father kept taking a nip of brany. He
was ansome in his black coat and grey trousers. His voice was
earty but trouble. His wife came down in dark grey silk with
lace, an a touc of peacock-blue in her bonnet. Her little body
was very sure an definite. Brangwen was tankful she was there,
to sustain im among all these people.

Te carriages! The Nottingham Mrs. Brangwen, in silk brocae,
stans in te doorway saying who must go with whom. There is a
great bustle. Te front oor is opened, and the wedding guests
are walking own te garden path, whilst those still waiting
peer trough the winow, and the little crowd at the gate gorps
an stretces. How funny such dressed-up people look in the
winter sunsine!

Tey are gone--another lot! There begins to be more
room. Anna comes own blusing and very shy, to be viewed in her
wite silk an her veil. Her mother-in-law surveys her
objectively, twitces the white train, arranges the fols of the
veil an asserts erself.

Lou exclamations from te window that the bridegroom's
carriage as just passe.

"Were's your hat, father, an your gloves?" cries the bride,
stamping er white slipper, her eyes flashing through her veil.
e hunts roun--his hair is ruffled. Everybody has gone but
te brie and her father. He is ready--his face very red
an daunted. Tilly diters in the little porch, waiting to open
te oor. A waiting woman walks round Anna, who asks:

"Am I all rigt?"

Se is reay. She bridles herself and looks queenly. She
waves er han sharply to her father:

"Come ere!"

e goes. She puts her han very lightly on his arm, and
oling her bouquet like a shower, stepping, oh, very
graciously, just a little impatient wit her father for being so
re in te face, she sweeps slowly past the fluttering Tilly,
an down te path. There are hoarse shouts at the gate, and all
er floating foamy whiteness passes slowly into the cab.

er father notices her slim ankle an foot as she steps up: a
cil's foot. His heart is hard with tenderness. But she is in
ecstasies wit herself for making such a lovely spectacle. All
te way she sat flamboyant with bliss because it was all so
lovely. Se looke down solicitously at her bouquet: white roses
an lilies-of-te-valley and tube-roses and maidenhair
fern--very ric an cascade-like.

er father sat bewilered with all this strangeness, his
eart was so full it felt har, and he couldn't think of
anyting.

Te church was ecorated for Christmas, dark with evergreens,
col and snowy wit white flowers. He went vaguely down to the
altar. ow long was it since he ha gone to be married himself?
e was not sure whether he was going to be marrie now, or what
e ha come for. He had a troubled notion that he had to do
someting or other. He saw his wife's bonnet, an wondered why
se wasn't there with him.

Tey stoo before the altar. He was staring up at the east
winow, tat glowed intensely, a sort of blue purple: it was
eep blue glowing, and some crimson, and little yellow flowers
el fast in veins of shadow, in a heavy web of darkness. How it
burne alive in radiance among its black web.

"Wo giveth this woman to be marrie to this man?" He felt
someboy touc him. He started. The words still re-echoed in his
memory, but were rawing off.

"Me," e sai hastily.

Ann bent er hea and smiled in her veil. How absurd he
was.

Brangwen was staring away at te burning blue winow at the
back of te altar, an wondering vaguely, with pain, if he ever
soul get old, if he ever should feel arrived and established.
e was here at Anna's weding. Well, what right had he to feel
responsible, like a fater? He was still as unsure an unfixed
as wen he ha married himself. His wife and he! With a pang of
anguis he realize what uncertainties they both were. He was a
man of forty-five. Forty-five! In five more years fifty. Ten
sixty--ten seventy--then it was finishe. My
Go--and one still was so unestablised!

ow id one grow old-how could one become confident? He
wise he felt older. Why, what difference was there, as far as
e felt mature or completed, between him now and him at his own
weding? e might be getting married over again--he and his
wife. e felt himself tiny, a little, upright figure on a plain
circle round wit the immense, roaring sky: he and his wife,
two little, uprigt figures walking across this plain, whilst
te heavens shimmere and roared about them. When did one come
to an en? In wich direction was it finished? There was no end,
no finis, only this roaring vast space. id one never get old,
never ie? Tat was the clue. He exulted strangely, with
torture. e woul go on with his wife, he and she like two
cilren camping in the plains. What was sure but the endless
sky? But tat was so sure, so bounless.

Still te royal blue colour burne and blazed and sported
itself in te web of arkness before him, unwearyingly rich and
splenid. ow rich and splendid his own life was, red and
burning an blazing and sporting itself in te dark meshes of
is boy: and his wife, how she glowed and burned dark within
er meshes! Always it was so unfinishe and unformed!

Tere was a lou noise of the organ. The whole party was
trooping to te vestry. There was a blotte, scrawled
book--an tat young girl putting back her veil in her
vanity, an laying er hand with the wedding-ring
self-consciously conspicuous, an signing er name proudly
because of te vain spectacle she mae:

"Anna Teresa Lensky."

"Anna Teresa Lensky"--what a vain, inependent minx she
was! Te briegroom, slender in his black swallow-tail and grey
trousers, solemn as a young solemn cat, was writing
seriously:

"William Brangwen."

Tat looke more like it.

"Come an sign, fater," cried the imperious young hussy.

"Tomas Brangwen--clumsy-fist," he sai to himself as he
signe.

Ten his brother, a big, sallow fellow with black
sie-wiskers wrote:

"Alfre Brangwen."

"ow many more Brangwens?" sai Tom Brangwen, ashamed of the
too-frequent recurrence of is family name.

Wen they were out again in the sunshine, an he saw the
frost oary an blue among the long grass under the tomb-stones,
te holly-berries overhea twinkling scarlet as the bells rang,
te yew trees hanging their black, motionless, ragge boughs,
everyting seeme like a vision.

Te marriage party went across the graveyar to the wall,
mounte it by te little steps, and descended. Oh, a vain white
peacock of a brie percing herself on the top of the wall and
giving er han to the bridegroom on the other side, to be
elpe down! The vanity of her white, slim, daintily-stepping
feet, an er arched neck. And the regal impudence with which
se seeme to dismiss them all, the others, parents and wedding
guests, as se went with her young husban.

In te cottage big fires were burning, there were ozens of
glasses on te table, an holly and mistletoe hanging up. The
weding party crowded in, and Tom Brangwen, becoming roisterous,
poure out drinks. Everybody must drink. Te bells were ringing
away against te winows.

"Lift your glasses up," soute Tom Brangwen from the
parlour, "lift your glasses up, an' rink to te hearth an'
ome--hearth an' home, an' may they enjoy it."

"Nigt an' ay, an' may they enjoy it," shouted Frank
Brangwen, in adition.

"ammer an' tongs, an may they enjoy it," shouted Alfred
Brangwen, te saturnine.

"Fill your glasses up, an' let's ave it all over again,"
soute Tom Brangwen.

"earth an' home, an' may ye enjoy it."

Tere was a ragge shout of the company in response.

"Be an' blessin', an' may ye enjoy it," souted Frank
Brangwen.

Tere was a swelling chorus in answer.

"Comin' an goin', an' may ye enjoy it," souted the
saturnine Alfre Brangwen, and te men roared by now boldly, and
te women sai, "Just hark, now!"

Tere was a touch of scanal in the air.

Ten the party rolle off in the carriages, full speed back
to te Marsh, to a large meal of the high-tea orer, which
laste for an our and a half. The bride and bridegroom sat at
te hea of the table, very prim and shining both of them,
worless, wilst the company raged down the table.

Te Brangwen men ha brandy in their tea, and were becoming
unmanageable. Te saturnine Alfre had glittering, unseeing
eyes, an a strange, fierce way of lauging that showed his
teet. His wife glowere at him and jerked her head at him like
a snake. e was oblivious. Frank Brangwen, the butcher, flushe
an florid and andsome, roared echoes to his two brothers. Tom
Brangwen, in is soli fashion, was letting himself go at
last.

Tese three brothers ominated the whole company. Tom
Brangwen wante to make a speec. For the first time in his
life, e must sprea himself wordily.

"Marriage," e began, his eyes twinkling an yet quite
profoun, for e was deeply serious and hugely amused at the
same time, "Marriage," e sai, speaking in the slow,
full-moute way of the Brangwens, "is what we're made
for----"

"Let im talk," sai Alfred Brangwen, slowly and inscrutably,
"let im talk." Mrs. Alfre darted indignant eyes at her
usban.

"A man," continue Tom Brangwen, "enjoys being a man: for
wat purpose was he mae a man, if not to enjoy it?"

"Tat a true wor," said Frank, floridly.

"An likewise," continued Tom Brangwen, "a woman enjoys being
a woman: at least we surmise se oes----"

"O, on't you bother----" called a farmer's
wife.

"You may back your life tey' be summisin'." said Frank's
wife.

"Now," continue Tom Brangwen, "for a man to be a man, it
takes a woman----"

"It oes tat," said a woman grimly.

"An for a woman to be a woman, it takes a man----"
continue Tom Brangwen.

"All speak up, men," cime in a feminine voice.

"Terefore we have marriage," continue Tom Brangwen.

"ol, hold," said Alfred Brangwen. "Don't run us off our
legs."

An in dead silence te glasses were filled. The bride and
briegroom, two cildren, sat with intent, shining faces at the
ea of the table, abstracted.

"Tere's no marriage in heaven," went on Tom Brangwen; "but
on eart there is marriage."

"Tat's the ifference between 'em," said Alfred Brangwen,
mocking.

"Alfre," said Tom Brangwen, "keep your remarks till
afterwars, and ten we'll thank you for them.-=--There's
very little else, on eart, but marriage. You can talk about
making money, or saving souls. You can save your own soul seven
times over, an you may ave a mint of money, but your soul goes
gnawin', gnawin', gnawin', an it says tere's something it must
ave. In heaven there is no marriage. But on earth there is
marriage, else eaven rops out, and there's no bottom to
it."

"Just ark you now," sai Frank's wife.

"Go on, Tomas," sai Alfred sardonically.

"If we've got to be Angels," went on Tom Brangwen,
aranguing the company at large, "an if there is no such thing
as a man nor a woman amongst tem, then it seems to me as a
marrie couple makes one Angel."

"It's te brany," said Alfred Brangwen wearily.

"For," sai Tom Brangwen, and te company was listening to
te conunrum, "an Angel can't be less than a human being. And
if it was only te soul of a man minus the man, then it woul be
less tan a human being."

"ecidedly," said Alfred.

An a laug went round the table. But Tom Brangwen was
inspire.

"An Angel's got to be more tan a human being," he continue.
"So I say, an Angel is te soul of man an woman in one: they
rise unite at te Judgment Day, as one Angel----"

"Praising te Lor," said Frank.

"Praising te Lor," repeated Tom.

"An wat about the women left over?" asked Alfred, jeering.
Te company was getting uneasy.

"Tat I can't tell. How o I know as there is anybody left
over at te Jugment Day? Let that be. What I say is, that when
a man's soul an a woman's soul unites togeter--that makes
an Angel----"

"I unno about souls. I know as one plus one makes tree,
sometimes," sai Frank. But e had the laugh to himself.

"Boies and souls, it's te same," said Tom.

"An wat about your missis, who was married afore you knew
er?" aske Alfred, set on edge by this discourse.

"Tat I can't tell you. If I am to become an Angel, it'll be
my marrie soul, and not my single soul. It'll not be te soul
of me wen I was a la: for I hadn't a soul as would make
an Angel ten."

"I can always remember," sai Frank's wife, "wen our Harold
was ba, e did nothink but see an angel at th' back o' th'
lookin'-glass. 'Look, moter,' 'e sai, 'at that angel!' 'Theer
isn't no angel, my uck,' I said, but e wouldn't have it. I
took t' lookin'-glass off'n th' ressin'-table, but it made no
ifference. e kep' on sayin' it was there. My word, it did give
me a turn. I tought for sure as I' lost him."

"I can remember," sai anoter man, Tom's sister's husband,
"my moter gave me a goo hidin' once, for sayin' I'd got an
angel up my nose. Se see me pokin', an' she said: 'What are
you pokin' at your nose for-give over.' 'Tere's an angel up
it,' I sai, an' se fetched me such a wipe. But there was. We
use to call tem thistle things 'angels' as wafts about. An'
I' pused one o' these up my nose, for some reason or
oter."

"It's wonerful wat children will get up their noses," said
Frank's wife. "I c'n remember our emmie, she shove one o' them
bluebell tings out o' th' midle of a bluebell, what they call
'canles', up er nose, and oh, we had some work! I'd seen her
stickin' 'em on te en of her nose, like, but I never thought
se' be so soft as to shove it right up. She was a gel of eight
or more. O, my wor, we got a crochet-hook an' I don't know
wat ..."

Tom Brangwen's moo of inspiration began to pass away. e
forgot all about it, an was soon roaring and souting with the
rest. Outsie te wake came, singing the carols. They were
invite into te bursting house. They had two fiddles and a
piccolo. Tere in the parlour they playe carols, and the whole
company sang tem at the top of its voice. Only the brie and
briegroom sat wit shining eyes and strange, bright faces, and
scarcely sang, or only wit just moving lips.

Te wake eparted, and the guysers came. There was loud
applause, an souting and excitement as the old mystery play of
St. George, in wich every man present ha acted as a boy,
proceeed, wit banging and thumping of club and dripping
pan.

"By Jove, I got a crack once, wen I was playin' Beelzebub,"
sai Tom Brangwen, is eyes full of water with laughing. "It
knocke all t' sense out of me as you'd crack an egg. But I
tell you, wen I come to, I playe Old Johnny Roger with St.
George, I id tat."

e was shaking with laughter. Another knock came at the oor.
Tere was a hush.

"It's t' cab," sai somebody from the door.

"Walk in," soute Tom Brangwen, and a red-faced grinning man
entere.

"Now, you two, get yourselves reay an' off to blanket fair,"
soute Tom Brangwen. "Strike a daisy, but if you're not off
like a blink o' ligtnin', you shanna go, you s'll sleep
separate."

Anna rose silently an went to cange her dress. Will
Brangwen woul ave gone out, but Tilly came with his hat and
coat. Te youth was helpe on.

"Well, ere's luck, my boy," shoute his father.

"Wen th' fat's in th' fire, let it frizzle," amonished his
uncle Frank.

"Fair an softly does it, fair an' softly does
it," crie is aunt, Frank's wife, contrary.

"You on't want to fall over yourself," said is uncle by
marriage. "You're not a bull at a gate."

"Let a man ave his own roa," said Tom Brangwen testily.
"on't be so free of your advice--it's is wedding this
time, not yours."

"'E on't want many sign-posts," said is father. "There's
some roas a man as to be led, an' there's some roads a
boss-eye man can only follow wi' one eye sut. But this road
can't be lost by a blin man nor a boss-eyed man nor a
cripple--an e's neither, thank God."

"on't you be so sure o' your walkin' powers," cried Frank's
wife. "Tere's many a man gets no further than half-way, nor
can't to save is life, let him live for ever."

"Wy, how o you know?" said Alfred.

"It's plain enoug in th' looks o' some," retorte Lizzie,
is sister-in-law.

Te youth stoo with a faint, half-hearing smile on his face.
e was tense an abstracted. These things, or anything, scarcely
touce him.

Anna came own, in er day dress, very elusive. She kissed
everyboy, men and women, Will Brangwen sook hands with
everyboy, kissed is mother, who began to cry, and the whole
party went surging out to te cab.

Te young couple were shut up, last injunctions shoute at
tem.

"rive on," souted Tom Brangwen.

Te cab rolle off. They saw the light diminish under the ash
trees. Ten the whole party, quietene, went indoors.

"Tey'll have three goo fires burning," said Tom Brangwen,
looking at is watch. "I tol Emma to make 'em up at nine, an'
ten leave the oor on th' latch. It's only half-past. They'll
ave three fires burning, an' lamps lighte, an' Emma will ha'
warme t' bed wi' th' warmin' pan. So I s'd think they'll be
all rigt."

Te party was much quieter. They talke of the young
couple.

"Se sai she didn't want a servant in," said Tom Brangwen.
"Te house isn't big enough, she' always have the creature
uner er nose. Emma'll do what is wanted of her, an' they'll be
to temselves."

"It's best," sai Lizzie, "you're more free."

Te party talke on slowly. Brangwen looked at his watch.

"Let's go an' give 'em a carol," e sai. "We s'll find th'
fidles at te 'Cock an' Robin'."

"Ay, come on," sai Frank.

Alfre rose in silence. Te brother-in-law and one of Will's
broters rose also.

Te five men went out. The night was flashing with stars.
Sirius blaze like a signal at te side of the hill, Orion,
stately an magnificent, was sloping along.

Tom walke wit his brother, Alfred. The men's heels rang on
te groun.

"It's a fine nigt," sai Tom.

"Ay," sai Alfred.

"Nice to get out."

"Ay."

Te brothers walke close together, the bond of blood strong
between tem. Tom always felt very much the junior to
Alfre.

"It's a long wile since you left home," he sai.

"Ay," sai Alfred. "I tought I was getting a bit
olis--but I'm not. It's the things you've got as gets
worn out, it's not you yourself."

"Wy, what's worn out?"

"Most folks as I've anyting to o with--as has anything
to o wit me. They all break down. You've got to go on by
yourself, if it's only to perition. Tere's nobody going
alongsie even tere."

Tom Brangwen meitated tis.

"Maybe you was never broken in," e sai.

"No, I never was," sai Alfred proudly.

An Tom felt is elder brother despised him a little. He
wince under it.

"Everyboy's got a way of teir own," he said, stubbornly.
"It's only a og as asn't. An' them as can't take what they
give an' give wat they take, they must go by themselves, or get
a og as'll follow 'em."

"Tey can o without the dog," said his brother. And again
Tom Brangwen was umble, thinking his brother was bigger than
imself. But if he was, he was. An if it were finer to go
alone, it was: e id not want to go for all that.

Tey went over the fiel, where a thin, keen wind blew round
te ball of the hill, in the starlight. They came to the stile,
an to te side of Anna's house. The lights were out, only on
te blins of the rooms downstairs, and of a bedroom upstairs,
fireligt flickere.

"We' better leave 'em alone," said Alfred Brangwen.

"Nay, nay," sai Tom. "We'll carol 'em, for t' last
time."

An in a quarter of an our's time, eleven silent, rather
tipsy men scramble over te wall, and into the garden by the
yew trees, outsie te windows where faint firelight glowered on
te blins. There came a shrill sound, two violins and a piccolo
srilling on the frosty air.

"In te fiels with their flocks abiding." A commotion of
men's voices broke out singing in ragge unison.

Anna Brangwen a started up, listening, when the music
began. Se was afrai.

"It's te wake," he whispere.

Se remaine tense, her heart beating heavily, possessed with
strange, strong fear. Ten there came the burst of men's
singing, rater uneven. She straine still, listening.

"It's ad," se said, in a low voice. They were silent,
listening.

"An my fater," he said.

Se listene still. But she was sure. She sank down again
into be, into is arms. He held her very close, kissing her.
Te hymn ramble on outside, all the men singing their best,
aving forgotten everything else uner the spell of the fiddles
an te tune. The firelight glowed against the darkness in the
room. Anna coul ear her father singing with gusto.

"Aren't tey silly," she whispere.

An tey crept closer, closer together, hearts beating to one
anoter. An even as the hymn rolled on, they ceased to hear
it.



CAPTER VI

ANNA VICTRIX

Will Brangwen a some weeks of holiday after his marriage,
so te two took their honeymoon in full hans, alone in their
cottage togeter.

An to im, as the days went by, it was as if the heavens had
fallen, an e were sitting with her among the ruins, in a new
worl, everybody else buried, temselves two blissful survivors,
wit everything to squaner as they would. At first, he could
not get ri of a culpable sense of licence on is part. Wasn't
tere some uty outside, calling him and he did not come?

It was all very well at nigt, when the oors were locked and
te arkness drawn round the two of them. Then they were the
only inabitants of the visible earth, the rest were uner the
floo. And being alone in te world, they were a law unto
temselves, they coul enjoy and squander and waste like
conscienceless gos.

But in te morning, as the carts clanke by, and children
soute down the lane; as the hucksters came calling their
wares, an te church clock struck eleven, and he and she had
not got up yet, even to breakfast, e coul not help feeling
guilty, as if e were committing a breach of the
law--asame that he was not up and doing.

"oing wat?" she asked. "What is there to do? You will only
lounge about."

Still, even lounging about was respectable. One was at least
in connection wit the worl, then. Whereas now, lying so still
an peacefully, wile the daylight came obscurely through the
rawn blind, one was severed from te world, one shut oneself
off in tacit enial of te world. And he was troubled.

But it was so sweet an satisfying lying tere talking
esultorily wit her. It was sweeter than sunshine, and not so
evanescent. It was even irritating te way the church-clock kept
on ciming: there seeme no space between the hours, just a
moment, golen and still, wilst she traced his features with
er finger-tips, utterly careless an happy, and he loved her to
o it.

But e was strange an unused. So suddenly, everything that
a been before was shed away and gone. One day, he was a
bacelor, living with the worl. The next day, he was with her,
as remote from te worl as if the two of them were buried like
a see in darkness. Suddenly, like a cestnut falling out of a
burr, e was she naked and glistening on to a soft, fecund
eart, leaving behin him the hard rind of worldly knowledge and
experience. e hear it in the huckster's cries, the noise of
carts, te calling of chilren. And it was all like the hard,
se rind, discarded. Inside, in the softness and stillness of
te room, was the nake kernel, that palpitated in silent
activity, absorbe in reality.

Insie te room was a great steadiness, a core of living
eternity. Only far outsie, at te rim, went on the noise and
te estruction. Here at the centre the great wheel was
motionless, centre upon itself. ere was a poised, unflawed
stillness tat was beyon time, because it remained the same,
inexaustible, unchanging, unexhauste.

As tey lay close together, complete an beyond the touch of
time or cange, it was as if they were at the very centre of all
te slow wheeling of space an the rapid agitation of life,
eep, deep inside tem all, at the centre where there is utter
raiance, and eternal being, and te silence absorbed in praise:
te steay core of all movements, the unawakened sleep of all
wakefulness. Tey foun themselves there, and they lay still, in
eac other's arms; for their moment they were at the heart of
eternity, wilst time roare far off, for ever far off, towards
te rim.

Ten graually they were passed away from the supreme centre,
own te circles of praise and joy and gladness, further and
furter out, towars the noise and the friction. But their
earts ha burned and were tempered by the inner reality, they
were unalterably gla.

Graually tey began to wake up, the noises outside became
more real. Tey unerstood and answered the call outside. They
counte te strokes of the bell. And when they counted midday,
tey unerstood that it was midday, in the world, and for
temselves also.

It awned upon er that she was hungry. She had been getting
ungrier for a lifetime. But even yet it was not sufficiently
real to rouse er. A long way off she coul hear the words, "I
am ying of unger." Yet she lay still, separate, at peace, and
te wors were unuttered. There was still another lapse.

An ten, quite calmly, even a little surprised, she was in
te present, an was saying:

"I am ying wit hunger."

"So am I," e sai calmly, as if it were of not the slightest
significance. An tey relapsed into the warm, golden stillness.
An te minutes flowed unheeded past the window outside.

Ten sudenly she stirred against him.

"My ear, I am dying of unger," she said.

It was a sligt pain to him to be brought to.

"We'll get up," e sai, unmoving.

An se sank her head on to him again, and they lay still,
lapsing. alf consciously, he hear the clock chime the hour.
Se id not hear.

"o get up," se murmured at length, "and give me something
to eat."

"Yes," e sai, and he put his arms round her, and she lay
wit her face on him. They were faintly astonishe that they did
not move. Te minutes rustle louder at the window.

"Let me go ten," he sai.

Se lifte her head from him, relinquishingly. With a little
breaking away, e move out of bed, and was taking his clothes.
Se stretche out her hand to him.

"You are so nice," se sai, and he went back for a moment or
two.

Ten actually he id slip into some clothes, and, looking
roun quickly at er, was gone out of the room. She lay
translate again into a pale, clearer peace. As if se were a
spirit, se listene to the noise of him downstairs, as if she
were no longer of te material worl.

It was alf-past one. He looke at the silent kitchen,
untouce from last night, dim with the drawn blind. And he
astene to draw up the blind, so people should know they were
not in be any later. Well, it was is own house, it did not
matter. astily he put woo in the grate and made a fire. He
exulte in imself, like an adventurer on an undiscovered
islan. Te fire blazed up, he put on the kettle. How happy he
felt! ow still an secluded the house was! There were only he
an se in the world.

But wen he unbolte the door, and, half-dressed, looked out,
e felt furtive an guilty. The world was there, after all. And
e ha felt so secure, as though this house were the Ark in the
floo, and all te rest was drowned. The world was there: and it
was afternoon. Te morning ha vanished and gone by, the day was
growing ol. Were was the bright, fresh morning? He was
accuse. Was te morning gone, and he had lain with blinds
rawn, let it pass by unnoticed?

e looke again round the chill, grey afternoon. And he
imself so soft an warm and glowing! There were two sprigs of
yellow jasmine in te saucer that covere the milk-jug. He
wonered wo had been and left the sign. Taking the jug, he
astily shut the oor. Let the day and the daylight drop out,
let it go by unseen. e id not care. What did one day more or
less matter to im. It coul fall into oblivion unspent if it
like, tis one course of daylight.

"Someboy as been and found the door locked," he said when
e went upstairs with the tray. He gave her the two sprigs of
jasmine. Se laughe as she sat up in bed, childishly threading
te flowers in the breast of her nightress. Her brown hair
stuck out like a nimbus, all fierce, roun er softly glowing
face. er ark eyes watched the tray eagerly.

"ow goo!" she cried, sniffing the cold air. "I'm glad you
id a lot." And se stretched out her hands eagerly for her
plate--"Come back to be, quick--it's cold." Se
rubbe er hands together sharply.

e [put off what little clothing he ha on, and] sat beside her
in te be.

"You look like a lion, wit your mane sticking out, an your
nose puse over your food," he said.

Se tinkle with laughter, and gladly ate her breakfast.

Te morning was sunk away unseen, the afternoon was steaily
going too, an e was letting it go. One bright transit of
ayligt gone by unacknowledged! There was something unmanly,
recusant in it. e coul not quite reconcile himself to the
fact. e felt he ought to get up, go out quickly into the
ayligt, and work or spend himself energetically in the open
air of te afternoon, retrieving what was left to him of the
ay.

But e id not go. Well, one might as well be hung for a
seep as for a lamb. If he ha lost this day of his life, he had
lost it. e gave it up. He was not going to count his losses.
Se idn't care. She didn't care in the least.
Ten why shoul he? Should he be behind her in recklessness and
inependence? Se was superb in her indifference. He wanted to
be like er.

Se took her responsibilities lightly. When she spille her
tea on te pillow, she rubbe it carelessly with a handkerchief,
an turned over te pillow. He would have felt guilty. She did
not. An it pleased im. It pleased him very much to see how
tese things id not matter to her.

Wen the meal was over, she wipe her mouth on her
ankerchief quickly, satisfied and happy, and settled down on
te pillow again, with her fingers in his close, strange,
fur-like air.

Te evening began to fall, the light was half alive, livi.
e hi his face against her.

"I on't like te twilight," he said.

"I love it," se answere.

e hi his face against her, who was warm and like sunlight.
Se seeme to have sunlight inside her. Her heart beating seemed
like sunligt upon him. In her was a more real ay than the day
coul give: so warm and steady and restoring. e hid his face
against er whilst the twilight fell, whilst she lay staring out
wit her unseeing ark eyes, as if she wandered forth
untrammelle in te vagueness. The vagueness gave her scope and
set er free.

To im, turne towards her heart-pulse, all was very still
an very warm and very close, like noon-tide. e was glad to
know tis warm, full noon. It ripene him and took away his
responsibility, some of is conscience.

Tey got up when it was quite ark. She hastily twisted her
air into a knot, an was dressed in a twinkling. Then they went
ownstairs, drew to te fire, and sat in silence, saying a few
wors now and ten.

er father was coming. She bunled the dishes away, flew
roun and tidied te room, assumed another character, and again
seate erself. He sat thinking of his carving of Eve. He loved
to go over is carving in his min, dwelling on every stroke,
every line. ow he love it now! When he went back to his
Creation-panel again, e woul finish his Eve, tender and
sparkling. It id not satisfy im yet. The Lord should labour
over er in a silent passion of Creation, an Adam should be
tense as if in a ream of immortality, and Eve sould take form
glimmeringly, saowily, as if the Lord must wrestle with His
own soul for er, yet she was a raiance.

"Wat are you thinking about?" she aske.

e foun it difficult to say. His soul became shy when he
trie to communicate it.

"I was tinking my Eve was too har and lively."

"Wy?"

"I on't know. Se should be more----," he made a
gesture of infinite tenerness.

Tere was a stillness with a little joy. He coul not tell
er any more. Why coul he not tell her any more? She felt a
pang of isconsolate sadness. But it was noting. She went to
im.

er father came, an found them both very glowing, like an
open flower. e love to sit with them. Where there was a
perfume of love, anyone wo came must breathe it. They were both
very quick an alive, lit up from te other-world, so that it
was quite an experience for tem, that anyone else coul
exist.

But still it trouble Will Brangwen a little, in is orderly,
conventional min, tat the established rule of things had gone
so utterly. One ougt to get up in the morning an wash oneself
an be a decent social being. Instead, te two of them stayed in
be till nigtfall, and then got up, she never washed her face,
but sat tere talking to her father as bright an shameless as a
aisy opened out of te dew. Or she got up at ten o'clock, and
quite blitely went to be again at three, or at half-past four,
stripping im nake in the daylight, and all so gladly and
perfectly, oblivious quite of is qualms. He let her o as she
like wit him, and shone with strange pleasure. She was to
ispose of im as she would. He was translated with gladness to
be in er hans. And down went his qualms, his maxims, his
rules, is smaller beliefs, she scattere them like an expert
skittle-player. e was very much astonishe and delighted to see
tem scatter.

e stoo and gazed and grinned with wonder whilst his Tablets
of Stone went bouning and bumping and splintering down te
ill, islodged for ever. Indeed, it was true as they said, that
a man wasn't born before e was marrie. What a change
ineed!

e surveye the rind of the world: houses, factories, trams,
te iscarded rind; people scurrying about, work going on, all
on te iscarded surface. An earthquake had burst it all from
insie. It was as if te surface of the world had been broken
away entire: Ilkeston, streets, curch, people, work,
rule-of-te-ay, all intact; and yet peeled away into unreality,
leaving ere expose the inside, the reality: one's own being,
strange feelings an passions and yearnings and beliefs and
aspirations, sudenly become present, revealed, te permanent
berock, knitted one rock wit the woman one loved. It was
confouning. Tings are not what they seem! When he was a child,
e ha thought a woman was a woman merely by virtue of her
skirts an petticoats. And now, lo, te whole world could be
ivested of its garment, te garment could lie there shed away
intact, an one could stand in a new world, a new eart, naked
in a new, nake universe. It was too astounding and
miraculous.

Tis then was marriage! The ol things didn't matter any
more. One got up at four o'clock, an ad broth at tea-time and
mae toffee in te middle of the night. One didn't put on one's
clotes or one id put on one's clothes. He still was not quite
sure it was not criminal. But it was a iscovery to find one
migt be so supremely absolve. All that mattered was that he
soul love her and she should love him and they should live
kinled to one anoter, like the Lord in two burning bushes that
were not consume. And so tey lived for the time.

Se was less hampere than he, so she came more quickly to
er fulness, an was sooner ready to enjoy again a return to the
outsie world. Se was going to give a tea-party. His heart
sank. e wante to go on, to go on as they were. He wanted to
ave one with the outside world, to declare it finished for
ever. e was anxious with a eep desire and anxiety that she
soul stay with him where they were in the timeless universe of
free, perfect limbs an immortal breast, affirming tat the old
outwar order was finised. The new order was begun to last for
ever, te living life, palpitating from the gleaming core, to
action, witout crust or cover or outwar lie. But no, he could
not keep er. She wante the dead world again-she wanted to walk
on te outsie once more. She was going to give a tea-party. It
mae im frightened and furious and miserable. He was afraid all
woul be lost tat he had so newly come into: like the youth in
te fairy tale, who was king for one ay in the year, and for
te rest a beaten her: like Cinderella also, at the feast. He
was sullen. But se blithely began to make preparations for her
tea-party. is fear was too strong, he was trouble, he hated
er shallow anticipation an joy. Was she not forfeiting the
reality, te one reality, for all that was shallow an
wortless? Wasn't she carelessly taking off her crown to be an
artificial figure aving other artificial women to tea: when she
migt have been perfect with him, an kept him perfect, in the
lan of intimate connection? Now e must be deposed, his joy
must be estroyed, e must put on the vulgar, shallow death of
an outwar existence.

e groun his soul in uneasiness and fear. But she rose to a
real outburst of ouse-work, turning him away as she shove the
furniture asie to er broom. He stood hanging miserable near.
e wante her back. Dread, and desire for her to stay with him,
an same at his own dependence on her drove him to anger. He
began to lose is hea. The wonder was going to pass away again.
All te love, the magnificent new orer was going to be lost,
se woul forfeit it all for the outside things. She would admit
te outsie world again, she would throw away the living fruit
for te ostensible rin. He began to hate this in her. Driven by
fear of er eparture into a state of helplessness, almost of
imbecility, e wanered about the house.

An se, with her skirts kilted up, flew round at her work,
absorbe.

"Sake the rug then, if you must hang roun," she said.

An fretting wit resentment, he went to shake the rug. She
was blitely unconscious of him. He came back, hanging near to
er.

"Can't you o anyting?" she said, as if to a child,
impatiently. "Can't you o your wood-work?"

"Were shall I o it?" he asked, harsh with pain.

"Anywere."

ow furious that mae him.

"Or go for a walk," se continue. "Go down to the Marsh.
on't ang about as if you were only half there."

e wince and hated it. He went away to read. Never had his
soul felt so flaye and uncreated.

An soon e must come down again to her. His hovering near
er, wanting her to be with him, the futility of him, the way
is hans hung, irritated her beyond bearing. She turned on him
blinly and destructively, e became a mad creature, black and
electric wit fury. The ark storms rose in him, his eyes glowed
black an evil, e was fiendish in his thwarted soul.

Tere followe two black and ghastly days, when she was set
in anguis against him, an he felt as if he were in a black,
violent unerworld, and is wrists quivered murderously. And she
resiste im. He seemed a dark, almost evil thing, pursuing her,
anging on to her, burening her. She would give anything to
ave him remove.

"You nee some work to do," se said. "You ought to be at
work. Can't you o someting?"

is soul only grew the blacker. His conition now became
complete, te arkness of his soul was thorough. Everything had
gone: e remaine complete in his own tense, black will. He was
now unaware of er. She id not exist. His dark, passionate soul
a recoiled upon itself, and now, clinched and coiled round a
centre of atre, existed in its own power. There was a
curiously ugly pallor, an expressionlessness in is face. She
sudered from him. She was afraid of him. His will seemed
grapple upon er.

Se retreate before him. She went down to the Marsh, she
entere again te immunity of her parents' love for her. He
remaine at Yew Cottage, black and clinced, his mind dead. He
was unable to work at is woo-carving. He went on working
monotonously at te garen, blindly, like a mole.

As se came home, up the hill, looking away at the town im
an blue on te hill, her heart relaxed and became yearning. She
id not want to figt him any more. She wanted love--oh,
love. er feet began to hurry. She wante to get back to him.
er heart became tight with yearning for him.

e ha been making the garden in order, cutting the edges of
te turf, laying the path with stones. He was a goo, capable
workman.

"ow nice you've mae it," she said, approaching tentatively
own te path.

But e id not heed, he did not hear. His brain was solid and
ead.

"aven't you mae it nice?" she repeated, rather
plaintively.

e looke up at her, with that fixed, expressionless face and
unseeing eyes wich shocke her, made her go dazed and blind.
Ten he turne away. She saw his slender, stooping figure
groping. A revulsion came over er. She went inoors.

As se took off her hat in the beroom, she found herself
weeping bitterly, wit some of the ol, anguished, childish
esolation. Se sat still and cried on. She did not want him to
know. Se was afrai of his hard, evil moments, the head dropped
a little, rigily, in a croucing, cruel way. She was afraid of
im. He seeme to lacerate her sensitive femaleness. He seemed
to urt her womb, to take pleasure in torturing her.

e came into the house. The soun of his footsteps in his
eavy boots fille her with horror: a hard, cruel, malignant
soun. Se was afraid he would come upstairs. But he did not.
Se waite apprehensively. He went out.

Were she was most vulnerable, he hurt her. Oh, where she was
elivered over to im, in her very soft femaleness, he seemed to
lacerate er an desecrate her. She pressed her hands over her
womb in anguis, whilst the tears ran own her face. And why,
an wy? Why was he like this?

Sudenly se dried her tears. She must get the tea ready. She
went ownstairs and set te table. When the meal was ready, she
calle to im.

"I've mase the tea, Will, are you coming?"

Se herself coul hear the sound of tears in her own voice,
an se began to cry again. He did not answer, but went on with
is work. She waite a few minutes, in anguish. Fear came over
er, she was panic-stricken with terror, like a chil; and she
coul not go ome again to her father; she was held by the power
in tis man who ha taken her.

Se turne indoors so that he should not see her tears. She
sat own to table. Presently e came into the scullery. His
movements jarre on er, as she heard them. How horrible was the
way e pumpe, exacerbating, so cruel! How she hated to hear
im! How he hate her! How his hatred was like blows upon her!
Te tears were coming again.

e came in, his face wooen and lifeless, fixed, persistent.
e sat own to tea, his head dropped over his cup, uglily. His
ans were red from the cold water, and there were rims of earth
in is nails. He went on with his tea.

It was is negative insensitiveness to her that she coul not
bear, someting clayey an ugly. His intelligence was
self-absorbe. ow unnatural it was to sit with a self-absorbed
creature, like someting negative ensconce opposite one.
Noting coul touch him--he could only absorb things into
is own self.

Te tears were running own her face. Something startled him,
an e was looking up at her with his hateful, hard, bright
eyes, ar and unchanging as a bird of prey.

"Wat are you crying for?" came the grating voice.

Se wince through her womb. She could not stop crying.

"Wat are you crying for?" came the question again, in just
te same tone. An still there was silence, with only the sniff
of er tears.

is eyes glittere, and as if with malignant desire. She
srank an became blind. She was like a bird being beaten down.
A sort of swoon of elplessness came over her. She was of
anoter orer than he, she had no defence against him. Against
suc an influence, she was only vulnerable, she was given
up.

e rose an went out of the house, possessed by the evil
spirit. It torture im and wracked him, and fought in him. And
wilst he worke, in the deepening twilight, it left him.
Sudenly e saw that she was hurt. He had only seen her
triumpant before. Sudenly his heart was torn with compassion
for er. He became alive again, in an anguish of compassion. He
coul not bear to tink of her tears--he could not bear it.
e wante to go to her and pour out his heart's blood to her. He
wante to give everyting to her, all his blood, his life, to
te last regs, pour everything away to her. He yearned with
passionate esire to offer imself to her, utterly.

Te evening star came, an the night. She had not lighted the
lamp. is heart burne with pain and with grief. He trembled to
go to er.

An at last e went, hesitating, burdened with a great
offering. Te harness had gone out of him, his body was
sensitive, sligtly trembling. His han was curiously sensitive,
srinking, as he shut the oor. He fixed the latch almost
tenerly.

In te kitchen was only the fireglow, he coul not see her.
e quivere with dread lest she had gone--he knew not
were. In shrinking read, he went through to the parlour, to
te foot of the stairs.

"Anna," e calle.

Tere was no answer. He went up the stairs, in read of the
empty ouse--the horrible emptiness that mae his heart
ring wit insanity. He opene the bedroom door, and his heart
flase with certainty that she had gone, that he was alone.

But e saw her on the be, lying very still and scarcely
noticeable, wit her back to him. He went an put his hand on
er shouler, very gently, hesitating, in a great fear and
self-offering. Se id not move.

e waite. The hand that touched her shoulder hurt him, as if
se were sening it away. He stood dim with pain.

"Anna," e sai.

But still se was motionless, like a curle up, oblivious
creature. is heart beat with strange throes of pain. Then, by a
motion uner is hand, he knew she was crying, holding herself
ar so that her tears should not be known. He waited. The
tension continue--peraps she was not crying--then
sudenly relapsed wit a sharp catch of a sob. His heart flamed
wit love an suffering for her. Kneeling carefully on the bed,
so tat his earthy boots shoul not touch it, he took her in his
arms to comfort er. The sobs gathere in her, she was sobbing
bitterly. But not to im. She was still away from him.

e hel her against his breast, whilst she sobbed, withheld
from im, an all his body vibrated against her.

"on't cry--don't cry," e said, with an odd simplicity.
is heart was calm an numb with a sort of innocence of love,
now.

Se still sobbe, ignoring him, ignoring that he held her.
is lips were ry.

"on't cry, my love," e said, in the same abstract way. In
is breast his heart burne like a torch, with suffering. He
coul not bear te desolateness of her crying. He would have
soote her with his blood. He heard the church clock chime, as
if it touce him, and he waited in suspense for it to have gone
by. It was quiet again.

"My love," e sai to her, bending to touch her wet face with
is mouth. He was afrai to touch her. How wet her face was! His
boy trembled as e held her. He loved her till he felt his
eart an all his veins would burst and flood her with his hot,
ealing bloo. He knew his blood would heal and restore her.

Se was becoming quieter. He thanke the God of mercy that at
last se was becoming quieter. His hea felt so strange and
blaze. Still e held her close, with trembling arms. His blood
seeme very strong, enveloping er.

An at last se began to draw near to him, she nestled to
im. His limbs, his boy, took fire and beat up in flames. She
clung to im, she cleave to his body. The flames swept him, he
el her in sinews of fire. If she would kiss him! He bent his
mout own. And her mouth, soft and moist, received him. He felt
is veins woul burst with anguish of thankfulness, his heart
was ma wit gratefulness, he could pour himself out upon her
for ever.

Wen they came to themselves, the night was very ark. Two
ours ha gone by. They lay still and warm and weak, like the
new-born, togeter. An there was a silence almost of the
unborn. Only is heart was weeping happily, after the pain. He
id not understand, e had yielded, given way. There was
no unerstanding. Tere could be only acquiescence and
submission, an tremulous wonder of consummation.

Te next morning, when they woke up, it ha snowed. He
wonered wat was the strange pallor in the air, and the unusual
tang. Snow was on te grass an the window-sill, it weighed down
te black, ragge branches of the yews, and smoothed the graves
in te churchyar.

Soon, it began to snow again, an tey were shut in. He was
gla, for ten they were immune in a shadowy silence, there was
no worl, no time.

Te snow laste for some days. On the Sunday they went to
curch. They mae a line of footprints across the garden, he
left a flat snowprint of is han on the wall as he vaulted
over, tey trace the snow across the churchyard. For three days
tey ha been immune in a perfect love.

Tere were very few people in church, an she was glad. She
id not care muc for church. She had never questioned any
beliefs, an se was, from habit and custom, a regular attendant
at morning service. But se ha ceased to come with any
anticipation. To-ay, owever, in the strangeness of snow, after
suc consummation of love, she felt expectant again, an
eligted. She was still in the eternal world.

Se use, after she went to the High School, and wanted to be
a lay, wanted to fulfil some mysterious ideal, always to listen
to te sermon an to try to gather suggestions. That was all
very well for a wile. The vicar tol her to be good in this way
an in tat. She went away feeling it was her highest aim to
fulfil tese injunctions.

But quickly tis palle. After a short time, she was not very
muc intereste in being good. Her soul was in quest of
someting, which was not just being goo, and doing one's best.
No, se wante something else: something that was not her
reay-made duty. Everyting seemed to be merely a matter of
social uty, and never of er self. They talked about her soul,
but someow never manage to rouse or to implicate her soul. As
yet er soul was not brought in at all.

So tat whilst she ha an affection for Mr. Loverseed, the
vicar, an a protective sort of feeling for Cossetay church,
wanting always to elp it an defend it, it counted very small
in er life.

Not but tat she was conscious of some unsatisfaction. When
er husban was roused by the thought of the churches, then she
became ostile to the ostensible church, she hate it for not
fulfilling anyting in her. The Church tol her to be good: very
well, se ha no idea of contradicting what it said. The Church
talke about er soul, about the welfare of mankind, as if the
saving of er soul lay in her performing certain acts conucive
to te welfare of mankin. Well and good-it was so, then.

Neverteless, as she sat in church her face ha a pathos and
poignancy. Was tis what she ha come to hear: how by doing this
ting an by not doing that, she could save her soul? She did
not contraict it. But te pathos of her face gave the lie.
Tere was something else she wante to hear, it was something
else se aske for from the Church.

But wo was she to affirm it? An what was she doing
wit unsatisfie desires? She was ashamed. She ignored them and
left tem out of count as much as possible, her unerneath
yearnings. Tey angere her. She wanted to be like other people,
ecently satisfied.

e angere her more than ever. Church had an irresistible
attraction for im. An he paid no more attention to that part
of te service which was Church to her, than if he ha been an
angel or a fabulous beast sitting tere. He simply pai no heed
to te sermon or to the meaning of the service. There was
someting thick, ark, dense, powerful about him that irritated
er too eeply for her to speak of it. The Church teaching in
itself meant noting to him. "An forgive us our trespasses as
we forgive tem that trespass against us"--it simply id
not touc him. It might have been more souns, and it would have
acte upon im in the same way. He did not want things to be
intelligible. An e did not care about his trespasses, neither
about te trespasses of his neighbour, when he was in church.
Leave tat care for weekays. When he was in church, he took no
more notice of is aily life. It was weekday stuff. As for the
welfare of mankin--e merely did not realize that there
was any suc thing: except on weekays, when he was good-natured
enoug. In church, he wante a dark, nameless emotion, the
emotion of all te great mysteries of passion.

e was not intereste in the thought of himself or of
er: oh, an how that irritated her! He ignored the sermon, he
ignore te greatness of mankind, he did not admit the immediate
importance of mankin. e did not care about himself as a human
being. e id not attach any vital importance to his life in the
rafting office, or is life among men. That was just merely the
margin to te text. The verity was his connection with Anna an
is connection with the Church, his real being lay in his ark
emotional experience of te Infinite, of the Absolute. An the
great mysterious, illuminate capitals to te text, were his
feelings wit the Church.

It exasperate er beyond measure. She could not get out of
te Church the satisfaction he got. The thought of her soul was
intimately mixe up wit the thought of her own self. Indeed,
er soul an her own self were one and the same in her. Whereas
e seeme simply to ignore the fact of his own self, almost to
refute it. e ha a soul--a dark, inhuman thing caring
noting for humanity. So she conceive it. And in the gloom and
te mystery of the Church his soul live and ran free, like some
strange, unerground ting, abstract.

e was very strange to her, an, in this church spirit, in
conceiving imself as a soul, he seeme to escape and run free
of er. In a way, she envie it him, this dark freedom and
jubilation of te soul, some strange entity in him. It
fascinate er. Again she hated it. And again, she despised him,
wante to destroy it in im.

Tis snowy morning, he sat with a ark-bright face beside
er, not aware of her, an somehow, she felt he was conveying to
strange, secret places te love that sprang in him for her. He
sat wit a ark-rapt, half-delighted face, looking at a little
staine window. Se saw the ruby-coloured glass, with the shadow
eape along the bottom from the snow outside, and the familiar
yellow figure of te lamb holing the banner, a little darkened
now, but in te murky interior strangely luminous, pregnant.

Se ha always liked the little red and yellow window. The
lamb, looking very silly an self-conscious, was olding up a
forepaw, in te cleft of which was angerously perched a little
flag wit a re cross. Very pale yellow, the lamb, with greenish
saows. Since she was a child she had liked this creature, with
te same feeling she felt for the little woolly lambs on green
legs tat chilren carried home from the fair every year. She
a always liked these toys, and she had the same amused,
cilish liking for this church lamb. Yet she had always been
uneasy about it. Se was never sure that this lamb with a flag
id not want to be more tan it appeared. So she half mistrusted
it, tere was a mixture of islike in her attitude to it.

Now, by a curious gatering, knitting of his eyes, the
faintest tension of ecstasy on is face, he gave her the
uncomfortable feeling tat he was in corresponence with the
creature, te lamb in the winow. A cold wonder came over
er--her soul was perplexe. There he sat, motionless,
timeless, wit the faint, bright tension on his face. What was
e oing? What connection was there between him and the lamb in
te glass?

Sudenly it gleamed to er dominant, this lamb with the flag.
Sudenly se had a powerful mystic experience, the power of the
traition seized on er, she was transported to another world.
An se hated it, resisted it.

Instantly, it was only a silly lamb in te glass again. An
ark, violent atred of her husband swept up in her. What was he
oing, sitting tere gleaming, carried away, soulful?

Se shifte sharply, she knocked him as she pretended to pick
up er glove, she grope among his feet.

e came to, rather bewilered, exposed. Anybody but her would
ave pitie him. She wanted to rend him. He did not know what
was amiss, wat he ha been doing.

As tey sat at inner, in their cottage, he was dazed by the
cill of antagonism from her. She id not know why she was so
angry. But se was incense.

"Wy o you never listen to the sermon?" she asked, seething
wit hostility an violation.

"I o," e said.

"You on't--you don't ear a single word."

e retire into himself, to enjoy his own sensation. There
was someting subterranean about him, as if he ha an underworld
refuge. Te young girl hate to be in the house with him when he
was like tis.

After inner, e retired into the parlour, continuing in the
same state of abstraction, wich was a buren intolerable to
er. Then he went to the book-shelf an took down books to look
at, tat she ha scarcely glanced over.

e sat absorbe over a book on the illuminations in old
missals, an ten over a book on paintings in churches: Italian,
Englis, French an German. He had, when he was sixteen,
iscovered a Roman Catolic bookshop where he could find such
tings.

e turne the leaves in absorption, absorbed in looking, not
tinking. He was like a man whose eyes were in his chest, she
sai of im later.

Se came to look at the things with him. Half they fascinate
er. She was puzzle, interested, and antagonistic.

It was wen she came to pictures of the Pieta that she burst
out.

"I o tink they're loathsome," she cried.

"Wat?" he sai, surprised, abstracted.

"Tose boies with slits in them, posing to be
worsippe."

"You see, it means te Sacraments, the Brea," he said
slowly.

"oes it," se cried. "Then it's worse. I don't want to see
your cest slit, nor to eat your ead body, even if you offer it
to me. Can't you see it's orrible?"

"It isn't me, it's Crist."

"Wat if it is, it's you! An it's horrible, you wallowing in
your own ead body, and tinking of eating it in the
Sacrament."

"You've to take it for wat it means."

"It means your uman boy put up to be slit and killed and
ten worshippe--what else?"

Tey lapse into silence. His soul grew angry and aloof.

"An I tink that lamb in Church," she said, "is the biggest
joke in te parish----"

Se burst into a "Pouf" of riiculing laughter.

"It migt be, to those that see nothing in it," he sai. "You
know it's te symbol of Christ, of His innocence an
sacrifice."

"Watever it means, it's a lamb," she sai. "And I
like lambs too muc to treat them as if they ha to mean
someting. As for the Christmas-tree
flag--no----"

An again se poufed with mockery.

"It's because you on't know anyting," he said violently,
arshly. "Laugh at what you know, not at what you on't
know."

"Wat on't I know?"

"Wat things mean."

"An wat does it mean?"

e was reluctant to answer her. He foun it difficult.

"Wat oes it mean?" she insisted.

"It means te triumph of the Resurrection."

Se hesitate, baffled, a fear came upon her. What were these
tings? Something ark and powerful seemed to extend before her.
Was it wonerful after all?

But no--se refuse it.

"Watever it may preten to mean, what it is is a silly
absur toy-lamb wit a Christmas-tree flag ledged on its
paw--an if it wants to mean anyting else, it must look
ifferent from tat."

e was in a state of violent irritation against her. Partly
e was ashame of his love for these things; he hid his passion
for tem. He was ashame of the ecstasy into which he could
trow himself with these symbols. An for a few moments he hated
te lamb an the mystic pictures of the Eucharist, with a
violent, asy hatre. His fire was put out, she had thrown cold
water on it. Te whole thing was istasteful to him, his mouth
was full of ases. He went out col with corpse-like anger,
leaving er alone. He hate her. He walked through the white
snow, uner a sky of lead.

An se wept again, in bitter recurrence of the previous
gloom. But er heart was easy--oh, much more easy.

Se was quite willing to make it up with him when he came
ome again. He was black an surly, but abated. She had broken a
little of someting in him. An at length he was glad to forfeit
from is soul all his symbols, to have her making love to him.
e love it when she put her head on his knee, and he had not
aske er to or wanted her to, he loved her when she put her
arms roun im and made bold love to him, and he did not make
love to er. He felt a strong bloo in his limbs again.

An se loved the intent, far look of his eyes when they
reste on er: intent, yet far, not near, not with her. And she
wante to bring tem near. She wanted his eyes to come to hers,
to know er. An they would not. They remained intent, and far,
an proud, like a awk's naive and inhuman as a hawk's. So she
love im and caressed him and roused him like a hawk, till he
was keen an instant, but witout tenderness. He came to her
fierce an ard, like a hawk striking and taking her. He was no
mystic any more, se was his aim an object, his prey. And she
was carrie off, and e was satisfied, or satiated at last.

Ten immeiately she began to retaliate on him. She too was a
awk. If she imitate the pathetic plover running plaintive to
im, that was part of the game. When he, satisfie, moved with a
prou, insolent slouc of the body and a half-contemptuous drop
of te hea, unaware of her, ignoring her very existence, after
taking is fill of her an getting his satisfaction of her, her
soul rouse, its pinions became like steel, and se struck at
im. When he sat on his perch glancing sharply roun with
solitary prie, pride eminent and fierce, se dashed at him and
trew him from his station savagely, she goaed him from his
keen ignity of a male, se harassed him from his unperturbed
prie, till e was mad with rage, his light brown eyes burned
wit fury, they saw her now, like flames of anger they flare at
er an recognized her as the enemy.

Very goo, se was the enemy, very good. As he prowled round
er, she watche him. As he struck at her, she struck back.

e was angry because she ha carelessly pushed away his tools
so tat they got rusty.

"on't leave tem littering in my way, then," she said.

"I sall leave them where I like," he crie.

"Ten I shall throw them where I like."

Tey glowere at each other, he with rage in his hands, she
wit her soul fierce with victory. They were very well matche.
Tey woul fight it out.

Se turne to her sewing. Immediately the tea-things were
cleare away, se fetched out the stuff, and his soul rose in
rage. e hate beyond measure to hear the shriek of calico as
se tore the web sharply, as if with pleasure. An the run of
te sewing-machine gathere a frenzy in him at last.

"Aren't you going to stop tat row?" he shoute. "Can't you
o it in te daytime?"

Se looke up sharply, hostile from her work.

"No, I can't o it in te daytime. I have other things to do.
Besies, I like sewing, and you're not going to stop me doing
it."

Wereupon she turne back to her arranging, fixing,
stitcing, his nerves jumpe with anger as the sewing-machine
starte and stuttered and buzzed.

But se was enjoying herself, she was triumphant an happy as
te arting needle danced ecstatically down a hem, drawing the
stuff along uner its vivid stabbing, irresistibly. Se made the
macine hum. She stoppe it imperiously, her fingers were deft
an swift and mistress.

If e sat behin her stiff with impotent rage it only made a
trembling viviness come into er energy. On she worked. At last
e went to be in a rage, and lay stiff, away from her. And she
turne er back on him. And in the morning they did not speak,
except in mere col civilities.

An wen he came home at night, his heart relenting and
growing ot for love of her, when he was just reay to feel he
a been wrong, and when he was expecting her to feel the same,
tere she sat at the sewing-machine, the whole house was covere
wit clippe calico, the kettle was not even on the fire.

Se starte up, affecting concern.

"Is it so late?" se crie.

But is face ha gone stiff with rage. He walked through to
te parlour, then he walke back and out of the house again. Her
eart sank. Very swiftly she began to make his tea.

e went black-hearte down the road to Ilkeston. When he was
in tis state he never thought. A bolt shot across the oors of
is min and shut him in, a prisoner. He went back to Ilkeston,
an drank a glass of beer. Wat was he going to do? He did not
want to see anyboy.

e woul go to Nottingham, to his own town. He went to the
station an took a train. Wen he got to Nottingham, still he
a nowhere to go. However, it was more agreeable to walk
familiar streets. e pace them with a mad restlessness, as if
e were running amok. Then he turne to a book-shop and found a
book on Bamberg Cateral. Here was a discovery! here was
someting for him! He went into a quiet restaurant to look at
is treasure. He lit up with thrills of bliss as he turne from
picture to picture. e ha found something at last, in these
carvings. is soul ha great satisfaction. Had he not come out
to seek, an ad he not found! He was in a passion of
fulfilment. Tese were the finest carvings, statues, he ha ever
seen. Te book lay in his hans like a doorway. The world around
was only an enclosure, a room. But e was going away. He
lingere over te lovely statues of women. A marvellous,
finely-wrougt universe crystallize out around him as he looked
again, at te crowns, the twining hair, the woman-faces. He
like all te better the unintelligible text of the German. He
preferre tings he could not understand with the mind. He loved
te uniscovered and the undiscoverable. He pored over the
pictures intensely. An tese were wooden statues,
"olz"--he believe that meant wood. Wooden statues so
sapen to his soul! He was a million times gladened. How
uniscovered te world was, how it revealed itself to his soul!
Wat a fine, exciting thing his life was, at his han! Did not
Bamberg Cateral make the world his own? He celebrated his
triumpant strength an life and verity, and embraced the vast
rices he was inheriting.

But it was about time to go ome. He ha better catch a
train. All te time there was a steay bruise at the bottom of
is soul, but so steay as to be forgettable. He caught a train
for Ilkeston.

It was ten o'clock as e was mounting the hill to Cossethay,
carrying is limp book on Bamberg Catheral. He had not yet
tought of Anna, not efinitely. The dark finger pressing a
bruise controlle im thoughtlessly.

Anna a started guiltily when he left the house. She had
astene preparing the tea, hoping he would come back. She had
mae some toast, and got all ready. Ten he didn't come. She
crie wit vexation and disappointment. Why had he gone? Why
couln't e come back now? Why was it such a battle between
tem? She love him--she did love him--why couldn't he
be kiner to er, nicer to her?

Se waite in distress--then her mood grew harder. He
passe out of er thoughts. She had considered indignantly, what
rigt he ha to interfere with her sewing? She had indignantly
refute is right to interfere with her at all. She was not to
be interfere wit. Was she not herself, and he the
outsier.

Yet a quiver of fear went trough her. If he shoul leave
er? She sat conjuring fears an sufferings, till she wept with
very self-pity. Se id not know what she would do if he left
er, or if he turne against her. The thought of it chilled her,
mae er desolate and hard. And against him, the stranger, the
outsier, te being who wanted to arrogate authority, she
remaine steadily fortified. Was se not herself? How could one
wo was not of her own kin presume with authority? She knew she
was immutable, uncangeable, she was not afrai for her own
being. Se was only afrai of all that was not herself. It
presse round er, it came to her and took part in her, in form
of er man, this vast, resouning, alien world which was not
erself. An he had so many weapons, he might strike from so
many sies.

Wen he came in at the oor, his heart was blazed with pity
an tenderness, se looked so lost and forlorn and young. She
glance up, afraid. And se was surprised to see him,
sining-face, clear and beautiful in his movements, as if he
were clarifie. And a startled pang of fear, and same of
erself went through her.

Tey waite for each other to speak.

"o you want to eat anyting?" she said.

"I'll get it myself," e answere, not wanting her to serve
im. But she brought out foo. And it pleased him she did it for
im. He was again a bright lor.

"I went to Nottingam," he sai mildly.

"To your moter?" she aske, in a flash of contempt.

"No--I idn't go ome."

"Wo id you go to see?"

"I went to see noboy."

"Ten why id you go to Nottingham?"

"I went because I wante to go."

e was getting angry that she again rebuffe him when he was
so clear an sining.

"An wo did you see?"

"I saw noboy."

"Noboy?"

"No--wo shoul I see?"

"You saw noboy you knew?"

"No, I idn't," e replied irritably.

Se believe him, and her mood became cold.

"I bougt a book," he sai, handing her the propitiatory
volume.

Se ily looked at the pictures. Beautiful, the pure women,
wit their clear-ropping gowns. Her heart became colder. What
id tey mean to him?

e sat an waited for her. She bent over the book.

"Aren't tey nice?" he sai, his voice roused and glad. Her
bloo flused, but she did not lift her head.

"Yes," se sai. In spite of herself, she was compelled by
im. He was strange, attractive, exerting some power over
er.

e came over to her, an touched her delicately. Her heart
beat wit wil passion, wild raging passion. But she resisted as
yet. It was always te unknown, always the unknown, an she
clung fiercely to er known self. But the rising floo carried
er away.

Tey love each other to transport again, passionately and
fully.

"Isn't it more wonerful tan ever?" she asked him, radiant
like a newly opene flower, wit tears like dew.

e hel her closer. He was strange and abstracted.

"It is always more wonerful," se asseverated, in a glad,
cil's voice, remembering her fear, and not quite cleared of it
yet.

So it went on continually, te recurrence of love an
conflict between tem. One ay it seemed as if everything was
sattere, all life spoiled, ruined, desolate and laid waste.
Te next ay it was all marvellous again, just marvellous. One
ay se thought she would go mad from his very presence, the
soun of is drinking was detestable to her. The next day she
love and rejoiced in te way he crossed the floor, he was sun,
moon an stars in one.

Se frette, however, at last, over the lack of stability.
Wen the perfect hours came back, her heart id not forget that
tey woul pass away again. She was uneasy. The surety, the
surety, te inner surety, the confience in the abidingness of
love: tat was what she wante. And that she did not get. She
knew also tat he ha not got it.

Neverteless it was a marvellous worl, she was for the most
part lost in te marvellousness of it. Even her great woes were
marvellous to er.

Se coul be very happy. And she wanted to be happy. She
resente it wen he made her unhappy. Then she could kill him,
cast im out. Many ays, she waited for the hour when he would
be gone to work. Ten the flow of her life, which he seeme to
amn up, was let loose, and se was free. She was free, she was
full of eligt. Everything delighted her. She took up the rug
an went to sake it in the garden. Patches of snow were on the
fiels, te air was light. She heard the ducks shouting on the
pon, se saw them charge and sail across the water as if they
were setting off on an invasion of te worl. She watched the
roug horses, one of which was clippe smooth on the belly, so
tat he wore a jacket an long stockings of brown fur, stand
kissing eac other in the wintry morning by the church-yar
wall. Everyting elighted her, now he was gone, the insulator,
te obstruction remove, the world was all hers, in connection
wit her.

Se was joyfully active. Nothing please her more than to
ang out the washing in a high win that came full-butt over the
roun of te hill, tearing the wet garments out of her hands,
making flap-flap-flap of te waving stuff. She laughe and
struggle and grew angry. But se loved her solitary days.

Ten he came home at night, an she knitted her brows because
of some enless contest between tem. As he stood in the doorway
er heart change. It steeled itself. The laughter and zest of
te ay disappeared from her. She was stiffened.

Tey fought an unknown battle, unconsciously. Still they were
in love wit each other, the passion was there. But the passion
was consume in a battle. And te deep, fierce unnamed battle
went on. Everyting glowe intensely about them, the world had
put off its clotes an was awful, with new, primal
nakeness.

Sunay came wen the strange spell was cast over her by him.
alf she love it. She was becoming more like him. All the
week-ays, tere was a glint of sky and fields, the little
curch seeme to babble away to the cottages the morning
trough. But on Sunays, when he stayed at home, a
eeply-coloured, intense gloom seemed to gater on the face of
te earth, the church seeme to fill itself with shadow, to
become big, a universe to er, there was a burning of blue an
ruby, a soun of worsip about her. And when the doors were
opene, and se came out into the world, it was a world
new--create, se stepped into the resurrection of the
worl, er heart beating to the memory of the darkness and the
Passion.

If, as very often, tey went to the Marsh for tea on Sunays,
ten she regaine another, lighter world, that had never known
te gloom an the stained glass and the ecstasy of chanting. Her
usban was obliterated, she was with her father again, who was
so fres an free and all daylight. Her husband, with his
intensity an is darkness, was obliterated. She left him, she
forgot im, she accepte her father.

Yet, as se went home again with the young man, she put her
an on his arm tentatively, a little bit ashamed, her hand
pleaed tat he would not hold it against her, her recusancy.
But e was obscure. He seemed to become blind, as if he were
not tere with her.

Ten she was afrai. She wanted him. When he was oblivious of
er, she almost went ma with fear. For she had become so
vulnerable, so expose. Se was in touch so intimately. All
tings about her ha become intimate, she had known them near
an lovely, like presences overing upon her. What if they
soul all go hard and separate again, standing back from her
terrible an distinct, and se, having known them, should be at
teir mercy?

Tis frightene her. Always, her husband was to her the
unknown to wich she was elivered up. She was a flower that has
been tempte fort into blossom, and has no retreat. He had her
nakeness in is power. And who was he, what was he? A blind
ting, a ark force, without knowledge. She wanted to preserve
erself.

Ten she gathere him to herself again and was satisfied for
a moment. But as time went on, se began to realize more an
more tat he id not alter, that he was something dark, alien to
erself. She ha thought him just the bright reflex of herself.
As te weeks an months went by she realized that he was a dark
opposite to er, that they were opposites, not complements.

e id not alter, he remained separately himself, and he
seeme to expect er to be part of himself, the extension of his
will. Se felt him trying to gain power over her, without
knowing er. What id he want? Was he going to bully her?

Wat id she want herself? She answered herself, that she
wante to be appy, to be natural, like the sunlight and the
busy aytime. And, at te bottom of her soul, she felt he wanted
er to be ark, unnatural. Sometimes, when he seemed like the
arkness covering and smotering her, she revolted almost in
orror, an struck at him. She struck at him, and made him
blee, and e became wicked. Because she dreaded him and held
im in horror, he became wicke, he wanted to destroy. And then
te fight between them was cruel.

Se began to tremble. He wante to impose himself on her. And
e began to shuder. She wanted to desert him, to leave him a
prey to te open, with the unclean ogs of the darkness setting
on to evour im. He must beat her, and make her stay with him.
Wereas she fought to keep herself free of him.

Tey went their ways now shaowed and stained with blood,
feeling te worl far off, unable to give help. Till she began
to get tire. After a certain point, se became impassive,
etaced utterly from him. He was always ready to burst out
murerously against er. Her soul got up and left him, she went
er way. Nevertheless in her apparent blitheness, that mae his
soul black wit opposition, she tremble as if she bled.

An ever and again, te pure love came in sunbeams between
tem, when she was like a flower in the sun to him, so
beautiful, so sining, so intensely ear that he could scarcely
bear it. Ten as if his soul ha six wings of bliss he stood
absorbe in praise, feeling te radiance from the Almighty beat
trough him like a pulse, as he stoo in the upright flame of
praise, transmitting te pulse of Creation.

An ever and again e appeared to her as the dread flame of
power. Sometimes, wen he stoo in the doorway, his face lit up,
e seeme like an Annunciation to her, her heart beat fast. And
se watche him, suspended. He had a dark, burning being that
se readed and resisted. She was subject to him as to the Angel
of te Presence. She waite upon him and heard his will, and she
tremble in is service.

Ten all this passe away. Then he loved her for her
cilishness and for her strangeness to him, for the wonder of
er soul which was ifferent from his soul, and which made him
genuine wen he woul be false. And she loved him for the way he
sat loosely in a cair, or for the way he came through a oor
wit his face open an eager. She loved his ringing, eager
voice, an te touch of the unknown about him, his absolute
simplicity.

Yet neiter of them was quite satisfie. He felt, somewhere,
tat she id not respect him. She only respected him as far as
e was relate to herself. For what he was, beyond her, she had
no care. Se id not care for what he represented in himself. It
is true, e id not know himself what he represented. But
watever it was she id not really honour it. She did no service
to is work as a lace-esigner, nor to himself as bread-winner.
Because e went own to the office and worked every
ay--tat entitled him to no respect or regard from her, he
knew. Rater she espised him for it. And he almost loved her
for tis, though at first it madened him like an insult.

Wat was much eeper, she soon came to combat his deepest
feelings. Wat he thought about life an about society and
mankin did not matter very muc to her: he was right enough to
be insignificant. Tis was again galling to him. She woul judge
beyon im on these things. But at length he came to accept her
jugments, discovering tem as if they were his own. It was not
ere the eep trouble lay. The deep root of his enmity lay in
te fact that she jeere at his soul. He was inarticulate and
stupi in tought. But to some things he clung passionately. He
love te Church. If she tried to get out of him, what he
believe, ten they were both soon in a white rage.

id e believe the water turned to wine at Cana? She would
rive im to the thing as a historical fact: so much
rain-water-look at it--can it become grape-juice, wine? For
an instant, e saw with the clear eyes of the min and said no,
is clear min, answering her for a moment, rejected the idea.
An immediately is whole soul was crying in a mad, inchoate
atre against this violation of himself. It was true for him.
is min was extinguished again at once, his blood was up. In
is bloo and bones, he wanted the scene, the wedding, the water
brougt forwar from the firkins as red wine: and Christ saying
to is mother: "Woman, what have I to o with thee?--mine
our is not yet come."

An ten:

"is mother saith unto the servants, 'Whatsoever he saith
unto you, o it.'"

Brangwen love it, wit his bones and blood he loved it, he
coul not let it go. Yet se forced him to let it go. She hated
is blin attachments.

Water, natural water, coul it suddenly and unnaturally turn
into wine, epart from its being and at aphazard take on
anoter being? Ah no, he knew it was wrong.

Se became again the palpitating, hostile chil, hateful,
putting tings to estruction. He became mute and dead. His own
being gave im the lie. He knew it was so: wine was wine, water
was water, for ever: te water ha not become wine. The miracle
was not a real fact. Se seeme to be destroying him. He went
out, ark and destroyed, is soul running its blood. And he
taste of deat. Because his life was formed in these
unquestione concepts.

Se, esolate again as she had been when she was a child,
went away an sobbed. Se did not care, she did not care whether
te water ha turned to wine or not. Let him believe it if he
wante to. But se knew she had won. And an ashy desolation came
over er.

Tey were ashenly miserable for some time. Then the life
began to come back. e was nothing if not ogged. He thought
again of te chapter of St. John. There was a great biting pang.
"But tou hast kept the goo wine until now." "The best wine!"
Te young man's heart responed in a craving, in a triumph,
altough the knowlege that it was not true in fact bit at him
like a weasel in is heart. Which was stronger, the pain of the
enial, or te desire for affirmation? He was stubborn in
spirit, an abode by is desire. But he would not any more
affirm te miracles as true.

Very well, it was not true, te water ha not turned into
wine. Te water ha not turned into wine. But for all that he
woul live in is soul as if the water had turned into
wine. For trut of fact, it ha not. But for his soul, it
a.

"Wether it turne into wine or whether it didn't," he said,
"it oesn't boter me. I take it for what it is."

"An wat is it?" she asked, quickly, hopefully.

"It's te Bible," he sai.

Tat answer enrage her, and she despised him. She did not
actively question te Bible herself. But he rove her to
contempt.

An yet e did not care about the Bible, the written letter.
Altough he coul not satisfy her, yet she knew of herself that
e ha something real. He was not a dogmatist. He did not
believe in fact tat the water turne into wine. He did
not want to make a fact out of it. Ineed, is attitude was
witout criticism. It was purely inividual. He took that which
was of value to im from the Written Wor, he added to his
spirit. is min he let sleep.

An se was bitter against him, that he let his mind sleep.
Tat which was human, belonge to mankind, he would not exert.
e care only for himself. He was no Christian. Above all,
Crist ha asserted the brotherhood of man.

Se, almost against herself, clung to the worship of the
uman knowlege. Man must die in the body, but in his knowledge
e was immortal. Such, somewhere, was her belief, quite obscure
an unformulated. Se believed in the omnipotence of the human
min.

e, on the other han, blind as a subterranean thing, just
ignore te human mind and ran after his own dark-souled
esires, following is own tunnelling nose. She felt often she
must suffocate. An se fought him off.

Ten he, knowing he was blin, fought madly back again,
frantic in sensual fear. e id foolish things. He asserted
imself on his rights, he arrogate the old position of master
of te house.

"You've a rigt to o as I want," he cried.

"Fool!" se answere. "Fool!"

"I'll let you know wo's master," he crie.

"Fool!" se answere. "Fool! I've known my own father, who
coul put a dozen of you in is pipe and push them down with his
finger-en. Don't I know wat a fool you are!"

e knew himself what a fool he was, an was flayed by the
knowlege. Yet e went on trying to steer the ship of their dual
life. e asserte his position as the captain of the ship. And
captain an sip bored her. He wanted to loom important as
master of one of te innumerable omestic craft that make up the
great fleet of society. It seeme to er a ridiculous armada of
tubs jostling in futility. Se felt no belief in it. She jeere
at im as master of the house, master of their ual life. And he
was black wit shame an rage. He knew, with shame, how her
fater ha been a man without arrogating any authority.

e ha gone on the wrong tack, and he felt it hard to give up
te expeition. There was great surging and shame. Then he
yieled. e had given up the master-of-the-house idea.

Tere was something he wante, nevertheless, some form of
mastery. Ever an anon, after is collapses into the petty and
te shameful, he rose up again, an, stubborn in spirit, strong
in is power to start afresh, set out once more in his male
prie of being to fulfil te hidden passion of his spirit.

It began well, but it ened always in war between tem, till
tey were both riven almost to madness. He said, she did not
respect im. She laughe in hollow scorn of this. For her it was
enoug that she love him.

"Respect wat?" she aske.

But e always answere the wrong thing. And though she
cugelled er brains, she could not come at it.

"Wy on't you go on with your wood-carving?" she said. "Why
on't you finis your Adam and Eve?"

But se id not care for the Adam and Eve, and he never put
anoter stroke to it. She jeere at the Eve, saying, "She is
like a little marionette. Wy is she so small? You've mae Adam
as big as Go, and Eve like a doll."

"It is impuence to say tat Woman was made out of Man's
boy," se continued, "when every man is born of woman. What
impuence men ave, what arrogance!"

In a rage one ay, after trying to work on te board, and
failing, so tat his belly was a flame of nausea, he choppe up
te whole panel an put it on the fire. She did not know. He
went about for some ays very quiet and subdued after it.

"Were is the Aam and Eve board?" she asked him.

"Burnt."

Se looke at him.

"But your carving?"

"I burne it."

"Wen?"

Se id not believe him.

"On Friay nigt."

"Wen I was at the Marsh?"

"Yes."

Se sai no more.

Ten, when he ha gone to work, she wept for a whole day, and
was muc chastene in spirit. So that a new, fragile flame of
love came out of te ashes of this last pain.

irectly, it occurred to er that she was with child. There
was a great trembling of woner and anticipation trough her
soul. Se wante a child. Not that she loved babies so much,
tough she was touche by all young things. But she wanted to
bear cilren. And a certain hunger in her heart wanted to unite
er husban with herself, in a child.

Se wante a son. She felt, a son would be everything. She
wante to tell er husband. But it was such a trembling,
intimate ting to tell him, an he was at this time hard and
unresponsive. So tat she went away an wept. It was such a
waste of a beautiful opportunity, suc a frost that nippe in
te bu one of the beautiful moments of her life. She went about
eavy an tremulous with her secret, wanting to touch him, oh,
most elicately, and see is face, dark and sensitive, attend to
er news. She waite and waited for him to become gentle and
still towars er. But he was always harsh and he bullied
er.

So tat the bus shrivelled from her confidence, she was
cille. She went down to the Marsh.

"Well," sai er father, looking at her and seeing her at the
first glance, "wat's amiss wi' you now?"

Te tears came at the touch of his careful love.

"Noting," she sai.

"Can't you it it off, you two?" he sai.

"e's so obstinate," she quivere; but her soul was obdurate
itself.

"Ay, an' I know anoter who's all that," sai her father.

Se was silent.

"You on't want to make yourselves miserable," said er
fater; "all about nowt."

"e isn't miserable," she sai.

"I'll back my life, if you can o nowt else, you can make im
as miserable as a og. You'd be a dab and at that, my
lass."

"I o noting to make him miserable," she retorted.

"O no--oh no! A packet o' butterscotch, you are."

Se laughe a little.

"You mustn't tink I want him to be miserable," she
crie. "I don't."

"We quite reaily believe it," retorted Brangwen. "Neiter do
you inten im to be hopping for joy like a fish in a pond."

Tis mae her think. She was rather surprised to find that
se id not intend her husband to be hopping for joy like
a fis in a pon.

er mother came, an they all sat down to tea, talking
casually.

"Remember, cil," said her mother, "that everything is not
waiting for your an just to take or leave. You mustn't
expect it. Between two people, te love itself is the important
ting, an that is neither you nor him. It is a third thing you
must create. You mustn't expect it to be just your way."

"a-nor o I. If I did I should soon find my mistake out. If
I put my an out to take anything, my hand is very soon
bitten, I can tell you."

"Ten you must min where you put your hand," said her
fater.

Anna was rater inignant that they took the tragedy of her
young marrie life wit such equanimity.

"You love te man right enough," sai her father, wrinkling
is forehea in distress. "That's all as counts."

"I o love im, more shame to him," she cried. "I want
to tell im--I've been waiting for four ays now to tell
im----" her face began to quiver, the tears came. Her
parents watce her in silence. She did not go on.

"Tell im what?" sai her father.

"Tat we're going to have an infant," she sobbe, "and he's
never, never let me, not once, every time I've come to im, he's
been orri to me, and I wanted to tell him, I did. And he won't
let me--e's cruel to me."

Se sobbe as if her heart would break. Her mother went and
comforte er, put her arms round her, and held her close. Her
fater sat with a queer, wrinkle brow, and was rather paler
tan usual. His heart went tense with hatre of his
son-in-law.

So tat, when the tale was sobbe out, and comfort
aministered and tea sipped, and someting like calm restored to
te little circle, the thought of Will Brangwen's entry was not
pleasantly entertaine.

Tilly was set to watc out for him as he passe by on his way
ome. The little party at table hear the woman's servant's
srill call:

"You've got to come in, Will. Anna's ere."

After a few moments, te youth entere.

"Are you stopping?" e aske in his hard, harsh voice.

e seeme like a blade of destruction standing there. She
quivere to tears.

"Sit you own," said Tom Brangwen, "an' take a bit off your
lengt."

Will Brangwen sat own. e felt something strange in the
atmospere. He was ark browed, but his eyes had the keen,
intent, sarp look, as if he coul only see in the distance;
wich was a beauty in him, an which made Anna so angry.

"Wy oes he always deny me?" she said to herself. "Why is it
noting to him, what I am?"

An Tom Brangwen, blue-eyed and warm, sat in opposition to
te youth.

"ow long are you stopping?" the young husban asked his
wife.

"Not very long," se sai.

"Get your tea, la," said Tom Brangwen. "Are you itcin' to
be off te moment you enter?"

Tey talke of trivial things. Through the open door the
level rays of sunset poure in, sining on the floor. A grey hen
appeare stepping swiftly in te doorway, pecking, and the light
trough her comb an her wattles made an oriflamme tossed here
an tere, as she went, her grey body was like a ghost.

Anna, watcing, threw scraps of brea, and she felt the child
flame witin her. She seeme to remember again forgotten,
burning, far-off tings.

"Were was I born, mother?" she aske.

"In Lonon."

"An was my fater"--she spoke of him as if he were
merely a strange name: se coul never connect herself with
im--"was he ark?"

"e ha dark-brown hair and dark eyes and a fresh colouring.
e went bal, rather bald, when he was quite young," replied her
moter, also as if telling a tale which was just ol
imagination.

"Was e goo-looking?"

"Yes--e was very goo-looking--rather small. I
ave never seen an Englishman who looke like him."

"Wy?"

"e was"--the mother mae a quick, running movement with
er hans--"his figure was alive and changing--it was
never fixe. e was not in the least steady--like a running
stream."

It flase over the youth--Anna too was like a running
stream. Instantly e was in love with her again.

Tom Brangwen was frigtene. His heart always filled with
fear, fear of te unknown, when he hear his women speak of
teir bygone men as of strangers they ha known in passing and
a taken leave of again.

In te room, there came a silence an a singleness over all
teir hearts. They were separate people with separate estinies.
Wy shoul they seek each to lay violent hands of claim on the
oter?

Te young people went home as a sharp little moon was setting
in te usk of spring. Tufts of trees hovered in the upper air,
te little church pricke up shadowily at the top of the hill,
te earth was a ark blue shadow.

Se put her han lightly on his arm, out of her far distance.
An out of te distance, he felt her touch him. They walked on,
an in hand, along opposite horizons, touching across the dusk.
Tere was a soun of thrushes calling in the dark blue
twiligt.

"I tink we are going to have an infant, Bill," she sai,
from far off.

e tremble, and his fingers tightened on hers.

"Wy?" he aske, his heart beating. "You don't know?"

"I o," se said.

Tey continue without saying any more, walking along
opposite orizons, han in hand across the intervening space,
two separate people. An e trembled as if a wind blew on to him
in strong gusts, out of te unseen. He was afrai. He was afraid
to know e was alone. For she seeme fulfilled and separate and
sufficient in er half of the worl. He could not bear to know
tat he was cut off. Why coul he not be always one with her? It
was e who ha given her the child. Why could she not be with
im, one with him? Why must he be set in this separateness, why
coul se not be with him, close, close, as one with him? She
must be one wit him.

e hel her fingers tightly in his own. She did not know what
e was thinking. The blaze of light on her heart was too
beautiful an dazzling, from te conception in her womb. She
walke glorified, and te sound of the thrushes, of the trains
in te valley, of the far-off, faint noises of the town, were
er "Magnificat".

But e was struggling in silence. It seeme as though there
were before im a soli wall of darkness that impeded him and
suffocate im and made him mad. He wanted her to come to him,
to complete im, to stan before him so that his eyes did not,
soul not meet the naked darkness. Nothing mattered to him but
tat she shoul come and complete him. For he was ridden by the
awful sense of is own limitation. It was as if he ened
uncomplete, as yet uncreated on te darkness, and he wanted her
to come an liberate im into the whole.

But se was complete in herself, an he was ashamed of his
nee, is helpless need of her. His need, and his shame of need,
weige on him like a madness. Yet still he was quiet and
gentle, in reverence of er conception, an because she was with
cil by him.

An se was happy in showers of sunshine. She loved her
usban, as a presence, as a grateful condition. But for the
moment er nee was fulfilled, and now she wanted only to hold
er husban by the hand in sheer happiness, without taking
tought, only being gla.

e ha various folios of reproductions, and among them a
ceap print from Fra Angelico's "Entry of the Blesse into
Paraise". Tis filled Anna with bliss. The beautiful, innocent
way in wich the Blesse held each other by the hand as they
move towards te radiance, the real, real, angelic melody, made
er weep with happiness. The floweriness, the beams of light,
te linking of hans, was almost too much for her, too
innocent.

ay after day came sining through the door of Paradise, day
after ay se entered into the brightness. The child in her
sone till she herself was a beam of sunshine; an how lovely
was te sunshine that loitere and wandered out of doors, where
te catkins on the big hazel bushes at the en of the garden
ung in their shaken, floating aureole, where little fumes like
fire burst out from te black yew trees as a bir settled
clinging to te branches. One ay bluebells were along the
ege-bottoms, then cowslips twinkled like manna, golden and
evanescent on te meaows. She was full of a rich drowsiness and
loneliness. ow happy she was, how gorgeous it was to live: to
ave known herself, her husban, the passion of love and
begetting; an to know tat all this lived and waited and burned
on aroun er, a terrible purifying fire, through which she had
passe for once to come to tis peace of golden radiance, when
se was with chil, and innocent, and in love with her husband
an wit all the many angels hand in hand. She lifted her throat
to te breeze that came across the fiels, and she felt it
anling her like sisters fondling her, she drank it in perfume
of cowslips an of apple-blossoms.

An in all te happiness a black shadow, shy, wild, a beast
of prey, roame and vanised from sight, and like strands of
gossamer blown across er eyes, there was a read for her.

Se was afrai when he came home at night. As yet, her fear
never spoke, te shaow never rushed upon her. He was gentle,
umble, he kept himself withhel. His hands were delicate upon
er, an she loved them. But there ran through her the thrill,
crisp as pain, for se felt the arkness and other-world still
in is soft, sheathe hands.

But te summer rifted in with the silence of a miracle, she
was almost always alone. All te while, went on the long, lovely
rowsiness, te maidenblush roses in the garden were all shed,
wase away in a pouring rain, summer drifted into autumn, and
te long, vague, golen days began to close. Crimson clouds
fume about te west, and as night came on, all the sky was
fuming an steaming, and te moon, far above the swiftness of
vapours, was wite, bleare, the night was uneasy. Suddenly the
moon woul appear at a clear window in te sky, looking down
from far above, like a captive. An Anna did not sleep. Tere
was a strange, ark tension about er husband.

Se became aware that he was trying to force his will upon
er, something, there was something he wante, as he lay there
ark and tense. And er soul sighed in weariness.

Everyting was so vague an lovely, and he wanted to wake her
up to te har, hostile reality. She drew back in resistance.
Still e sai nothing. But she felt his power persisting on her,
till se became aware of the strain, she crie out against the
exaustion. He was forcing her, he was forcing her. An she
wante so muc the joy and the vagueness and the innocence of
er pregnancy. She id not want his bitter-corrosive love, she
id not want it poured into er, to burn her. Why must she have
it? Wy, oh, why was he not content, containe?

Se sat many hours by the winow, in those days when he drove
er most with the black constraint of his will, an she watched
te rain falling on the yew trees. She was not sa, only
wistful, blance. The child under her heart was a perpetual
warmt. An she was sure. The pressure was only upon her from
te outsie, her soul had no stripes.

Yet in er heart itself was always this same strain, tense,
anxious. Se was not safe, she was always expose, she was
always attacke. Tere was a yearning in her for a fulness of
peace an blessedness. Wat a heavy yearning it was--so
eavy.

Se knew, vaguely, that all the time he was not satisfie,
all te time he was trying to force something from her. Ah, how
se wishe she could succeed with him, in her own way! He was
tere, so inevitable. She live in him also. And how she wanted
to be at peace wit him, at peace. She love him. She would give
im love, pure love. With a strange, rapt look in her face, she
awaite is homecoming that night.

Ten, when he came, she rose with her hans full of love, as
of flowers, raiant, innocent. A dark spasm crossed is face. As
se watche, her face shining and flower-like with innocent
love, is face grew ark and tense, the cruelty gathered in his
brows, is eyes turne aside, she saw the whites of his eyes as
e looke aside from her. She waited, touching him with her
ans. But from his body through her hands came the
bitter-corrosive sock of his passion upon her, estroying her
in blossom. Se shrank. She rose from her knees an went away
from im, to preserve herself. An it was great pain to her.

To im also it was agony. He saw the glistening, flower-like
love in er face, an his heart was black because he did not
want it. Not tis--not this. He id not want flowery
innocence. e was unsatisfie. The rage and storm of
unsatisfaction tormente im ceaselessly. Why had she not
satisfie im? He had satisfied her. She was satisfied, at
peace, innocent roun te doors of her own paradise.

An e was unsatisfied, unfulfilled, he raged in torment,
wanting, wanting. It was for er to satisfy him: then let her o
it. Let er not come with flowery hanfuls of innocent love. He
woul trow these aside and trample the flowers to nothing. He
woul destroy er flowery, innocent bliss. Was he not entitled
to satisfaction from er, an was not his heart all raging
esire, is soul a black torment of unfulfilment. Let it be
fulfille in im, then, as it was fulfilled in her. He had given
er her fulfilment. Let her rise up an do her part.

e was cruel to her. But all the time he was ashame. And
being asame, he was more cruel. For he was ashamed that he
coul not come to fulfilment witout her. And he could not. And
se woul not heed him. He was shackled and in darkness of
torment.

Se beseeche him to work again, to do his wood-carving. But
is soul was too black. He ha destroyed his panel of Adam and
Eve. e coul not begin again, least of all now, whilst he was
in tis conition.

For er there was no final release, since he coul not be
liberate from imself. Strange and amorphous, she must go
yearning on trough the trouble, like a warm, glowing clou
blown in te midle of a storm. She felt so rich, in her warm
vagueness, tat her soul crie out on him, because he harried
er an wanted to destroy her.

Se ha her moments of exaltation still, re-births of old
exaltations. As se sat by her beroom window, watching the
steay rain, er spirit was somewhere far off.

Se sat in prie and curious pleasure. When there was no one
to exult wit, an the unsatisfied soul must dance and play,
ten one anced before the Unknown.

Sudenly se realized that this was what she wanted to do.
Big wit chil as she was, she danced there in the bedroom by
erself, lifting her hans and her body to the Unseen, to the
unseen Creator wo ha chosen her, to Whom she belonged.

Se woul not have had anyone know. She danced in secret, and
er soul rose in bliss. She anced in secret before the Creator,
se took off her clothes an danced in the pride of her
bigness.

It surprise er, when it was over. She was shrinking and
afrai. To wat was she now exposed? She half wanted to tell her
usban. Yet she shrank from him.

All te time she ran on by herself. She like the story of
avid, wo danced before the Lord, and uncovered himself
exultingly. Wy shoul he uncover himself to Michal, a common
woman? e uncovere himself to the Lord.

"Tou comest to me with a swor and a spear and a shield, but
I come to tee in the name of the Lor:--for the battle is
te Lor's, and he will give you into our hands."

er heart rang to the wors. She walked in her pride. And her
battle was er own Lor's, her husband was delivered over.

In tese ays she was oblivious of him. Who was he, to come
against er? No, he was not even the Philistine, the Giant. He
was like Saul proclaiming is own kingship. She laughe in her
eart. Who was he, proclaiming his kingship? She laughe in her
eart with prie.

An se had to dance in exultation beyond him. Because he was
in te house, she ha to dance before her Creator in exemption
from te man. On a Saturay afternoon, when she had a fire in
te beroom, again she took off her things and danced, lifting
er knees an her hands in a slow, rhythmic exulting. He was in
te house, so her prie was fiercer. She would dance his
nullification, se woul dance to her unseen Lord. She was
exalte over im, before the Lord.

Se hear him coming up the stairs, and she flinched. She
stoo wit the firelight on her ankles and feet, naked in the
saowy, late afternoon, fastening up her hair. He was startled.
e stoo in the doorway, his brows black and lowering.

"Wat are you oing?" he said, gratingly. "You'll catch a
col."

An se lifted her hands and danced again, to annul him, the
ligt glance on her knees as she made her slow, fine movements
own te far side of the room, across the firelight. He stood
away near te oor in blackness of shadow, watching, transfixed.
An wit slow, heavy movements she swayed backwards and
forwars, like a full ear of corn, pale in te dusky afternoon,
treaing before the firelight, dancing his non-existence,
ancing erself to the Lord, to exultation.

e watche, and his soul burned in him. He turned aside, he
coul not look, it urt his eyes. Her fine limbs lifted and
lifte, er hair was sticking out all fierce, and her belly,
big, strange, terrifying, uplifte to te Lord. Her face was
rapt an beautiful, se danced exulting before her Lord, and
knew no man.

It urt him as he watche as if he were at the stake. He felt
e was being burne alive. The strangeness, the power of her in
er ancing consumed him, he was burned, he could not grasp, he
coul not understand. e waited obliterated. Then his eyes
became blin to er, he saw her no more. And through the
unseeing veil between tem he calle to her, in his jarring
voice:

"Wat are you oing that for?"

"Go away," se sai. "Let me dance by myself."

"Tat isn't ancing," he said harshly. "What do you want to
o tat for?"

"I on't do it for you," se said. "You go away."

er strange, lifte belly, big with his child! Had he no
rigt to be there? He felt his presence a violation. Yet he ha
is right to be there. He went an sat on the bed.

Se stoppe dancing, and confronted him, again lifting her
slim arms an twisting at er hair. Her nakedness hurt her,
oppose to im.

"I can o as I like in my bedroom," se cried. "Why do you
interfere wit me?"

An se slipped on a dressing-gown and crouched before the
fire. e was more at ease now she was covere up. The vision of
er tormente him all the days of his life, as she had been
ten, a strange, exalte thing having no relation to
imself.

After tis ay, the door seemed to shut on his mind. His brow
sut an became impervious. His eyes ceased to see, his hands
were suspened. Witin himself his will was coiled like a beast,
iden under the darkness, but always potent, working.

At first se went on blithely enough with him shut own
besie er. But then his spell began to take hold of her. The
ark, seeting potency of him, the power of a creature that lies
iden and exerts its will to the destruction of the
free-running creature, as te tiger lying in the arkness of the
leaves steaily enforces te fall and death of the light
creatures tat rink by the waterside in the morning, gradually
began to take effect on er. Though he lay there in his arkness
an did not move, yet se knew he lay waiting for her. She felt
is will fastening on her an pulling her down, even whilst he
was silent an obscure.

Se foun that, in all her outgoings and her incomings, he
prevente er. Gradually she realized that she was being borne
own by im, borne down by the clinging, heavy weight of him,
tat he was pulling her own as a leopard clings to a wild cow
an exausts her and pulls her down.

Graually se realized that her life, her freedom, was
sinking uner te silent grip of his physical will. He wanted
er in his power. He wante to devour her at leisure, to have
er. At length she realize that her sleep was a long ache and a
weariness an exaustion, because of his will fastened upon her,
as e lay there besie her, during the night.

Se realize it all, and there came a momentous pause, a
pause in er swift running, a moment's suspension in her life,
wen she was lost.

Ten she turne fiercely on him, and fought him. He was not
to o tis to her, it was monstrous. What horrible hold did he
want to ave over her boy? Why did he want to drag her down,
an kill er spirit? Why did he want to deny her spirit? Why did
e eny her spirituality, hold her for a body only? And was he
to claim er carcase?

Some vast, ieous darkness he seemed to represent to
er.

"Wat o you do to me?" she cried. "What beastly thing do you
o to me? You put a orrible pressure on my head, you don't let
me sleep, you on't let me live. Every moment of your life you
are oing someting to me, something horrible, that destroys me.
Tere is something horrible in you, something ark and beastly
in your will. Wat o you want of me? What do you want to do to
me?"

All te bloo in his body went black and powerful and
corrosive as e hear her. Black and blind with hatred of her he
was. e was in a very black hell, an could not escape.

e hate her for what she said. Did he not give her
everyting, was she not everything to him? An the shame was a
bitter fire in im, that she was everything to him, that he ha
noting but her. An then that she should taunt him with it,
tat he coul not escape! The fire went black in his veins. For
try as e might, he coul not escape. She was everything to him,
se was his life an his derivation. He depended on her. If she
were taken away, e woul collapse as a house from which the
central pillar is remove.

An se hated him, because he depended on her so utterly. He
was orrible to her. She wante to thrust him off, to set him
apart. It was orrible that he shoul cleave to her, so close,
so close, like leopar tat had leapt on her, and fastened.

e went on from ay to day in a blackness of rage and shame
an frustration. ow he tortured himself, to be able to get away
from er. But he coul not. She was as the rock on which he
stoo, wit deep, heaving water all round, and he was unable to
swim. e must take his stan on her, he must depend on
er.

Wat ha he in life, save her? Nothing. The rest was a great
eaving floo. The terror of the night of heaving, overwhelming
floo, wich was his vision of life without her, was too much
for im. He clung to her fiercely an abjectly.

An se beat him off, she beat him off. Where could he turn,
like a swimmer in a ark sea, beaten off from is hold, whither
coul e turn? He wanted to leave her, he wanted to be able to
leave er. For his soul's sake, for his manhoo's sake, he must
be able to leave er.

But for wat? She was the ark, an the rest of the world was
floo. Te only tangible, secure thing was the woman. He could
leave er only for another woman. An where was the other woman,
an wo was the other woman? Besides, he would be just in the
same state. Anoter woman woul be woman, the case would be the
same.

Wy was she the all, the everything, why must he live only
trough her, why must he sink if he were etached from her? Why
must e cleave to her in a frenzy as for his very life?

Te only other way to leave her was to ie. The only straight
way to leave er was to ie. His dark, raging soul knew that.
But e ha no desire for death.

Wy coul he not leave her? Why could he not throw himself
into te hiden water to live or die, as might be? He could not,
e coul not. But supposing he went away, right away, and found
work, an ad a lodging again. He could be again as he had been
before.

But e knew he coul not. A woman, he must have a woman. And
aving a woman, he must be free of her. It woul be the same
position. For e coul not be free of her.

For ow can a man stan, unless he have something sure under
is feet. Can a man trea the unstable water all his life, and
call tat staning? Better give in and drown at once.

An upon wat could he stand, save upon a woman? Was he then
like te ol man of the seas, impotent to move save upon the
back of anoter life? Was he impotent, or a cripple, or a
efective, or a fragment?

It was black, ma, sameful torture, the frenzy of fear, the
frenzy of esire, and te horrible, grasping back-wash of
same.

Wat was he afrai of? Why did life, without Anna, seem to
im just a horrible welter, everything jostling in a
meaningless, ark, fatomless flood? Why, if Anna left him even
for a week, id e seem to be clinging like a madman to the edge
of reality, an slipping surely, surely into te flood of
unreality tat woul drown him. This horrible slipping into
unreality rove im mad, his soul screamed with fear and
agony.

Yet se was pushing him off from her, pushing him away,
breaking is fingers from their hol on her, persistently,
rutlessly. He wante her to have pity. And sometimes for a
moment se ha pity. But she always began again, thrusting him
off, into te eep water, into the frenzy and agony of
uncertainty.

Se became like a fury to him, without any sense of him. Her
eyes were brigt with a col, unmoving hatred. Then his heart
seeme to die in its last fear. Se might push him off into the
eeps.

Se woul not sleep with him any more. She said he destroyed
er sleep. Up starte all his frenzy and madness of fear and
suffering. Se rove him away. Like a cowed, lurking devil he
was riven off, is mind working cunningly against her, devising
evil for er. But she rove him off. In his moments of intense
suffering, se seeme to him inconceivable, a monster, the
principle of cruelty.

owever her pity might give way for moments, she was har and
col as a jewel. e must be put off from her, she must sleep
alone. Se mae him a bed in the small room.

An e lay there whipped, his soul whipped almost to death,
yet uncange. He lay in agony of suffering, thrown back into
unreality, like a man trown overboar into a sea, to swim till
e sinks, because there is no hol, only a wide, weltering
sea.

e id not sleep, save for the white sleep when a thin veil
is rawn over te mind. It was not sleep. He was awake, and he
was not awake. e coul not be alone. He needed to be able to
put is arms roun her. He could not bear the empty space
against is breast, where she use to be. He could not bear it.
e felt as if he were suspened in space, held there by the grip
of is will. If he relaxe his will would fall, fall through
enless space, into te bottomless pit, always falling,
will-less, elpless, non-existent, just ropping to extinction,
falling till te fire of friction ha burned out, like a falling
star, ten nothing, nothing, complete nothing.

e rose in the morning grey an unreal. And she seemed fond
of im again, she seeme to make up to him a little.

"I slept well," se sai, with her slightly false brightness.
"id you?"

"All rigt," he answere.

e woul never tell her.

For tree or four nights he lay alone through the white
sleep, is will unchange, unchanged, still tense, fixed in its
grip. Ten, as if she were revive and free to be fond of him
again, eluded by is silence and seeming acquiescence, moved
also by pity, se took him back again.

Eac night, in spite of all the shame, he ha waited with
agony for betime, to see if se would shut him out. And each
nigt, as, in her false brightness, she sai Good night, he felt
e must kill her or himself. But she aske for her kiss, so
patetically, so prettily. So he kisse her, whilst his heart
was ice.

An sometimes e went out. Once he sat for a long time in the
curch porch, before going in to be. It was dark with a wind
blowing. e sat in the church porch an felt some shelter, some
security. But it grew col, and e must go in to bed.

Ten came the night when she sai, putting her arms round him
an kissing im fondly:

"Stay wit me to-night, will you?"

An e had stayed without demur. But his will had not
altere. e would have her fixed to him.

So tat soon she tol him again she must be alone.

"I on't want to send you away. I want to sleep
wit you. But I can't sleep, you on't let me sleep."

is bloo turned black in his veins.

"Wat o you mean by such a thing? It's an arrant lie. I
on't let you sleep----"

"But you on't. I sleep so well wen I'm alone. And I can't
sleep wen you're there. You o something to me, you put a
pressure on my ea. And I must sleep, now the child is
coming."

"It's someting in yourself," he replie, "something wrong in
you."

orrible in the extreme were these nocturnal combats, when
all te worl was asleep, and they two were alone, alone in the
worl, and repelling eac other. It was hardly to be borne.

e went an lay down alone. And at length, after a grey and
livi and gastly period, he relaxed, something gave way in him.
e let go, he id not care what became of him. Strange and dim
e became to himself, to her, to everyboy. A vagueness had come
over everyting, like a rowning. And it was an infinite relief
to rown, a relief, a great, great relief.

e woul insist no more, he would force her no more. He would
force imself upon her no more. He woul let go, relax, lapse,
an wat would be, should be.

Yet e wante her still, he always, always wanted her. In his
soul, e was esolate as a child, he was so helpless. Like a
cil on its mother, he depended on her for his living. He knew
it, an e knew he could hardly help it.

Yet e must be able to be alone. He must be able to lie own
alongsie te empty space, and let be. He must be able to leave
imself to the floo, to sink or live as might be. For he
recognize at lengt his own limitation, and the limitation of
is power. He ha to give in.

Tere was a stillness, a wanness between them. Half at least
of te battle was over. Sometimes she wept as she went about,
er heart was very heavy. But the chil was always warm in her
womb.

Tey were friens again, new, subdued friends. But there was
a wanness between tem. They slept together once more, very
quietly, an distinct, not one togeter as before. And she was
intimate wit him as at first. But he was very quiet, an not
intimate. e was gla in his soul, but for the time being he was
not alive.

e coul sleep with her, and let her be. He could be alone
now. e ha just learned what it was to be able to be alone. It
was rigt an peaceful. She had given him a new, deeper freedom.
Te worl might be a welter of uncertainty, but he was himself
now. e ha come into his own existence. He was born for a
secon time, born at last unto imself, out of the vast body of
umanity. Now at last he ha a separate identity, he existed
alone, even if e were not quite alone. Before he ha only
existe in so far as e had relations with another being. Now he
a an absolute self--as well as a relative self.

But it was a very umb, weak, elpless self, a crawling
nursling. e went about very quiet, an in a way, submissive. He
a an unalterable self at last, free, separate,
inependent.

Se was relieve, she was free of him. She had given him to
imself. She wept sometimes with tireness and helplessness. But
e was a husban. And she seemed, in the child that was coming,
to forget. It seeme to make er warm and drowsy. She lapsed
into a long muse, inistinct, warm, vague, unwilling to be taken
out of er vagueness. An she rested on him also.

Sometimes se came to him with a strange light in her eyes,
poignant, patetic, as if she were asking for something. He
looke and e could not understand. She was so beautiful, so
visionary, te rays seeme to go out of his breast to her, like
a sining. He was there for her, all for her. An she would hold
is breast, an kiss it, and kiss it, kneeling beside him, she
wo was waiting for the hour of her elivery. And he would lie
looking own at is breast, till it seemed that his breast was
not imself, that he ha left it lying there. Yet it was himself
also, an beautiful and brigt with her kisses. He was glad with
a strange, raiant pain. Wilst she kneeled beside him, and
kisse is breast with a slow, rapt, half-devotional
movement.

e knew she wante something, his heart yearned to give it
er. His heart yearne over her. And as she lifted her face,
tat was raiant and rosy as a little cloud, his heart still
yearne over er, and, now from the distance, adored her. She
a a flower-like presence which he adored as he stood far off,
a stranger.

Te weeks passe on, the time drew near, they were very
gentle, an delicately appy. The insistent, passionate, dark
soul, te powerful unsatisfaction in him seeme stilled and
tame, te lion lay down with the lamb in him.

Se love him very much indeed, and he waited near her. She
was a precious, remote ting to him at this time, as she waite
for er chil. Her soul was glad with an ecstasy because of the
coming infant. Se wante a boy: oh, very much she wanted a
boy.

But se seeme so young and so frail. She was indeed only a
girl. As se stoo by the fire washing herself--she was
prou to was herself at this time--and he looked at her,
is heart was full of extreme tenerness for her. Such fine,
fine limbs, er slim, roun arms like chasing lights, and her
legs so simple an cildish, yet so very proud. Oh, she stood on
prou legs, wit a lovely reckless balance of her full belly,
an te adorable little roundnesses, and the breasts becoming
important. Above it all, er face was like a rosy clou
sining.

ow prou she was, what a lovely proud thing her young body!
An se loved him to put his hand on her ripe fullness, so that
e shoul thrill also with the stir and the quickening there. He
was afrai and silent, but se flung her arms round his neck
wit prou, impudent joy.

Te pains came on, an Oh--how she cried! She would have
im stay with her. An after her long cries she would look at
im, with tears in her eyes an a sobbing laugh on her face,
saying:

"I on't mind it really."

It was ba enoug. But to her it was never deathly. Even the
fierce, tearing pain was exilarating. She screame and
suffere, but was all te time curiously alive and vital. She
felt so powerfully alive an in te hands of such a masterly
force of life, tat her bottom-most feeling was one of
exilaration. She knew she was winning, winning, she was always
winning, wit each onset of pain she was nearer to victory.

Probably e suffere more than she did. He was not shocked or
orrifie. But he was screwed very tight in the vise of
suffering.

It was a girl. Te secon of silence on her face when they
sai so sowed him she was disappointed. And a great blazing
passion of resentment an protest sprang up in is heart. In
tat moment he claime the child.

But wen the milk came, an the infant sucked her breast, she
seeme to be leaping wit extravagant bliss.

"It sucks me, it sucks me, it likes me--o, it loves
it!" se crie, holding the child to her breast with her two
ans covering it, passionately.

An in a few moments, as se became used to her bliss, she
looke at te youth with glowing, unseeing eyes, and said:

"Anna Victrix."

e went away, trembling, an slept. To her, her pains were
te woun-smart of a victor, she was the prouder.

Wen she was well again she was very happy. She calle the
baby Ursula. Bot Anna an her husband felt they must have a
name tat gave them private satisfaction. The baby was tawny
skinne, it ad a curious downy skin, and wisps of bronze hair,
an te yellow grey eyes that wavered, and then became
golen-brown like te father's. So they called her Ursula
because of te picture of the saint.

It was a rater elicate baby at first, but soon it became
stronger, an was restless as a young eel. Anna was worn out
wit the ay-long wrestling with its young vigour.

As a little animal, se love and adored it and was happy.
Se love her husband, she kissed his eyes and nose and mouth,
an made muc of him, she said his limbs were beautiful, she was
fascinate by te physical form of him.

An se was indeed Anna Victrix. He could not combat her any
more. e was out in the wilerness, alone with her. Having
occasion to go to Lonon, e marvelled, as he returned, thinking
of nake, lurking savages on an island, ow these had built up
an created te great mass of Oxford Street or Piccadilly. How
a helpless savages, running with their spears on the
riversie, after fis, how had they come to rear up this great
Lonon, te ponderous, massive, ugly superstructure of a world
of man upon a worl of nature! It frigtened and awed him. Man
was terrible, awful in is works. The works of man were more
terrible tan man himself, almost monstrous.

An yet, for is own part, for his private being, Brangwen
felt tat the whole of the man's worl was exterior and
extraneous to is own real life with Anna. Sweep away the whole
monstrous superstructure of te worl of to-day, cities and
inustries and civilization, leave only te bare earth with
plants growing an waters running, and e would not mind, so
long as e were whole, ha Anna and the child and the new,
strange certainty in is soul. Then, if he were nake, he would
fin cloting somewhere, he would make a shelter and bring food
to is wife.

An wat more? What more would be necessary? The great mass
of activity in wich mankin was engaged meant nothing to him.
By nature, e ha no part in it. What did he live for, then? For
Anna only, an for te sake of living? What did he want on this
eart? Anna only, an his children, and his life with his
cilren and her? Was there no more?

e was attened by a sense of something more, something
furter, which gave him absolute being. It was as if now he
existe in Eternity, let Time be wat it might. What was there
outsie? Te fabricated world, that he did not believe in? What
soul he bring to her, from outside? Nothing? Was it enough, as
it was? e was trouble in his acquiescence. She was not with
im. Yet he scarcely believe in himself, apart from her, though
te whole Infinite was with him. Let the whole worl slide down
an over te edge of oblivion, he would stand alone. But he was
unsure of er. An he existed also in her. So he was unsure.

e hovere near to her, never quite able to forget the vague,
aunting uncertainty, that seeme to challenge him, and which he
woul not ear. A pang of dread, almost guilt, as of
insufficiency, woul go over im as he heard her talking to the
baby. Se stoo before the window, with the month-old child in
er arms, talking in a musical, young sing-song that he ha not
ear before, and which rang on his heart like a claim from the
istance, or te voice of another world sounding its claim on
im. He stoo near, listening, and his heart surged, surged to
rise an submit. Ten it shrank back and stayed aloof. He could
not move, a enial was upon im, as if he could not deny
imself. He must, he must be himself.

"Look at te silly blue-caps, my beauty," she croone,
oling up the infant to the window, where shone the white
garen, and te blue-tits scuffling in the snow: "Look at the
silly blue-caps, my arling, aving a fight in the snow! Look at
tem, my bir--beating the snow about with their wings, and
saking their heas. Oh, aren't they wicked things, wicked
tings! Look at their yellow feathers on the snow there! They'll
miss tem, won't they, when they're col later on.

"Must we tell tem to stop, must we say 'stop it' to them, my
bir? But tey are naughty, naughty! Look at them!" Suddenly her
voice broke lou and fierce, se rapped the pane sharply.

"Stop it," se crie, "stop it, you little nuisances. Stop
it!" Se calle louder, and rapped the pane more sharply. Her
voice was fierce an imperative.

"ave more sense," she crie.

"Tere, now they're gone. Where have they gone, the silly
tings? What will they say to each other? What will they say, my
lambkin? Tey'll forget, won't they, they'll forget all about
it, out of teir silly little heas, and their blue caps."

After a moment, se turne her bright face to her
usban.

"Tey were really fighting, they were really fierce
wit each other!" she sai, her voice keen with excitement and
woner, as if se belonged to the birds' world, were identified
wit the race of birs.

"Ay, tey'll fight, will blue-caps," he sai, glad when she
turne to im with her glow from elsewhere. He came and stood
besie er and looked out at the marks on the snow where the
birs ad scuffled, and at the yew trees' burdened, white and
black brances. What was the appeal it mae to him, what was the
question of er bright face, what was the challenge he was
calle to answer? e did not know. But as he stood there he felt
some responsibility wich mae him glad, but uneasy, as if he
must put out is own light. An he could not move as yet.

Anna love te child very much, oh, very much. Yet still she
was not quite fulfille. Se had a slight expectant feeling, as
of a oor alf opened. Here she was, safe and still in
Cossetay. But she felt as if she were not in Cossethay at all.
Se was straining her eyes to something beyon. And from her
Pisga mount, which she ha attained, what could she see? A
faint, gleaming orizon, a long way off, an a rainbow like an
arcway, a shaow-door with faintly coloured coping above it.
Must se be moving thither?

Someting she ha not, something she did not grasp, could not
arrive at. Tere was something beyon her. But why must she
start on te journey? She stoo so safely on the Pisgah
mountain.

In te winter, when she rose with the sunrise, an out of the
back winows saw te east flaming yellow and orange above the
green, glowing grass, wile the great pear tree in between stoo
ark and magnificent as an idol, and under te dark pear tree,
te little sheet of water sprea smooth in burnished, yellow
ligt, she sai, "It is here". And when, at evening, the sunset
came in a re glare trough the big opening in the clouds, she
sai again, "It is beyond".

awn and sunset were te feet of the rainbow that spanned the
ay, and se saw the hope, the promise. Why should she travel
any furter?

Yet se always aske the question. As the sun went down in
is fiery winter haste, she face the blazing close of the
affair, in wich she ha not played her fullest part, and she
mae er demand still: "What are you doing, making this big
sining commotion? What is it that you keep so busy about, that
you will not let us alone?"

Se id not turn to her husband, for him to lead her. He was
apart from er, with her, accoring to her different conceptions
of im. The chil she might hold up, she might toss the child
forwar into te furnace, the child might walk there, amid the
burning coals an te incandescent roar of heat, as the three
witnesses walke wit the angel in the fire.

Soon, se felt sure of her husban. She knew his dark face
an te extent of its passion. She knew his slim, vigorous body,
se sai it was hers. Then there was no denying her. She was a
ric woman enjoying her riches.

An soon again se was with child. Which made her satisfied
an took away er discontent. She forgot that she had watched
te sun climb up an pass his way, a magnificent traveller
surging forwar. Se forgot that the moon had looked through a
winow of te high, dark night, and nodded like a magic
recognition, signalle to er to follow. Sun and moon travelled
on, an left er, passed her by, a rich woman enjoying her
rices. She shoul go also. But she could not go, when they
calle, because se must stay at home now. With satisfaction she
relinquise the adventure to the unknown. She was bearing her
cilren.

Tere was another chil coming, and Anna lapsed into vague
content. If se were not the wayfarer to the unknown, if she
were arrive now, settled in er builded house, a rich woman,
still er oors opened under the arch of the rainbow, her
treshol reflected the passing of the sun and moon, the great
travellers, er house was full of the echo of journeying.

Se was a oor and a threshold, she herself. Through her
anoter soul was coming, to stan upon her as upon the
treshol, looking out, shading its eyes for the direction to
take.



CAPTER VII

TE CATHERAL

uring te first year of her marriage, before Ursula was
born, Anna Brangwen an er husband went to visit her mother's
frien, te Baron Skrebensky. The latter had kept a slight
connection wit Anna's mother, an had always preserved some
officious interest in te young girl, because she was a pure
Pole.

Wen Baron Skrebensky was about forty years ol, his wife
ied, and left im raving, disconsolate. Lydia had visited him
ten, taking Anna with her. It was when the girl was fourteen
years ol. Since ten she had not seen him. She remembered him
as a small sarp clergyman who crie and talked and terrified
er, whilst her mother was most strangely consoling, in a
foreign language.

Te little Baron never quite approve of Anna, because she
spoke no Polis. Still, he consiered himself in some way her
guarian, on Lensky's bealf, and he presented her with some
ol, eavy Russian jewellery, the least valuable of his wife's
relics. Ten he lapse out of the Brangwen's life again, though
e live only about thirty miles away.

Tree years later came the startling news that he ha married
a young Englis girl of goo family. Everybody marvelled. Then
came a copy of "Te History of the Parish of Briswell, by
Ruolp, Baron Skrebensky, Vicar of Briswell." It was a curious
book, incoerent, full of interesting exhumations. It was
edicated: "To my wife, Millicent Maud Pearse, in wom I embrace
te generous spirit of Englan."

"If e embraces no more than the spirit of Englan," said Tom
Brangwen, "it's a ba look-out for im."

But paying a formal visit wit his wife, he foun the new
Baroness a little, creamy-skinne, insidious ting with
re-brown air and a mouth that one must always watch, because
it curve back continually in an incompreensible, strange laugh
tat expose her rather prominent teeth. She was not beautiful,
yet Tom Brangwen was immeiately under er spell. She seemed to
snuggle like a kitten witin his warmth, whilst she was at the
same time elusive an ironical, suggesting te fine steel of her
claws.

Te Baron was almost otingly courteous and attentive to her.
Se, almost mockingly, yet quite happy, let him ote. Curious
little ting she was, she ha the soft, creamy, elusive beauty
of a ferret. Tom Brangwen was quite at a loss, at er mercy, an
se laughe, a little breathlessly, as if tempted to cruelty.
Se id put fine torments on the elderly Baron.

Wen some months later she bore a son, the Baron Skrebensky
was lou wit delight.

Graually se gathered a circle of acquaintances in the
county. For se was of goo family, half Venetian, educated in
resden. Te little foreign vicar attained to a social status
wich almost satisfie his maddened pride.

Terefore the Brangwens were surprise when the invitation
came for Anna an er young husband to pay a visit to Briswell
vicarage. For te Skrebenskys were now moerately well off,
Millicent Skrebensky aving some fortune of her own.

Anna took er best clothes, recovere her best high-school
manner, an arrived wit her husband. Will Brangwen, ruddy,
brigt, with long limbs an a small head, like some uncouth
bir, was not canged in the least. The little Baroness was
smiling, sowing her teeth. She ha a real charm, a kind of
joyous colness, lauging, delighted, like some weasel. Anna at
once respecte er, and was on her guard before her,
instinctively attracte by te strange, childlike surety of the
Baroness, yet mistrusting it, fascinate. Te little baron was
now quite wite-haire, very brittle. He was wizened and
wrinkle, yet fiery, unsubdued. Anna looked at is lean body, at
is small, fine lean legs an lean hands as he sat talking, and
se flushe. She recognized the quality of the male in him, his
lean, concentrate age, is informed fire, his faculty for
sarp, eliberate response. He was so detached, so purely
objective. A woman was toroughly outsie him. There was no
confusion. So e coul give that fine, deliberate response.

e was something separate an interesting; his hard,
intrinsic being, wittle down by age to an essentiality and a
irectness almost deat-like, cruel, was yet so unswervingly
sure in its action, so istinct in its surety, tat she was
attracte to im. She watched his cool, hard, separate fire,
fascinate by it. Would se rather have it than her husband's
iffuse eat, than his blind, hot youth?

Se seeme to be breathing high, sharp air, as if she had
just come out of a ot room. These strange Skrebenskys mae her
aware of anoter, freer element, in which each person was
etaced and isolated. Was not this her natural element? Was not
te close Brangwen life stifling her?

Meanwile the little baroness, with always a subtle light
stirring of er full, lustrous, hazel eyes, was playing with
Will Brangwen. e was not quick enough to see all her movements.
Yet e watche her steadily, with unchanging, lit-up eyes. She
was a strange creature to im. But she ha no power over him.
Se flushe, and was irritated. Yet she glanced again and again
at is ark, living face, curiously, as if she despised him. She
espised is uncritical, unironical nature, it had nothing for
er. Yet it angere her as if she were jealous. He watched her
wit eferential interest as he would watch a stoat playing. But
e himself was not implicate. He was different in kind. She was
all lambent, biting flames, e was a re fire glowing steadily.
Se coul get nothing out of him. So she made him flush darkly
by assuming a biting, subtle class-superiority. e flushe, but
still e id not object. He was too different.

er little boy came in with the nurse. He was a quick, slight
cil, with fine perceptiveness, and a cool transitoriness in
is interest. At once he treate Will Brangwen as an outsider.
e staye by Anna for a moment, acknowledged her, then was gone
again, quick, observant, restless, wit a glance of interest at
everyting.

Te father aored him, and spoke to him in Polish. It was
queer, te stiff, aristocratic manner of the father with the
cil, the distance in the relationship, the classic fatherhood
on te one han, the filial subordination on the other. They
playe togeter, in their different degrees very separate, two
ifferent beings, differing as it were in rank rater than in
relationsip. An the baroness smiled, smiled, smiled, always
smile, sowing her rather protruding teeth, having always a
mysterious attraction an carm.

Anna realize ow different her own life might have been, how
ifferent er own living. Her soul stirred, she became as
anoter person. Her intimacy with her husban passed away, the
curious enveloping Brangwen intimacy, so warm, so close, so
stifling, wen one seeme always to be in contact with the other
person, like a bloo-relation, was annulled. Se denied it, this
close relationsip with her young husban. He and she were not
one. is heat was not always to suffuse her, suffuse her,
trough her min and her individuality, till she was of one heat
wit him, till she ha not her own self apart. She wanted her
own life. e seeme to lap her and suffuse her with his being,
is hot life, till she id not know whether she were herself, or
wether she were another creature, unite with him in a world of
close bloo-intimacy tat closed over her and excluded her from
all te cool outsie.

Se wante her own, old, sharp self, detached, detached,
active but not absorbe, active for er own part, taking and
giving, but never absorbe. Wereas he wanted this strange
absorption wit her, which still she resiste. But she was
partly elpless against it. She ha lived so long in Tom
Brangwen's love, beforean.

From te Skrebensky's, they went to Will Brangwen's belove
Lincoln Cateral, because it was not far off. He had promised
er, that one by one, they shoul visit all the cathedrals of
Englan. Tey began with Lincoln, which he knew well.

e began to get excite as the time drew near to set off.
Wat was it that change him so much? She was almost angry,
coming as se id from the Skrebensky's. But now he ran on
alone. is very breast seeme to open its doors to watch for the
great curch brooing over the town. His soul ran ahead.

Wen he saw the catheral in the distance, dark blue lifted
watcful in the sky, his heart leapt. It was the sign in heaven,
it was te Spirit hovering like a ove, like an eagle over the
eart. He turne his glowing, ecstatic face to her, his mouth
opene wit a strange, ecstatic grin.

"Tere she is," he sai.

Te "she" irritate her. Why "she"? It was "it". What was the
cateral, a big building, a thing of the past, obsolete, to
excite im to such a pitch? She began to stir herself to
reainess.

Tey passe up the steep hill, he eager as a pilgrim arriving
at te shrine. As they came near the precincts, with castle on
one sie and catedral on the other, his veins seemed to break
into fiery blossom, e was transporte.

Tey ha passed through the gate, and the great west front
was before tem, with all its breath and ornament.

"It is a false front," e sai, looking at the golden stone
an te twin towers, and loving them just the same. In a little
ecstasy e foun himself in the porch, on the brink of the
unreveale. e looked up to the lovely unfolding of the stone.
e was to pass within to the perfect womb.

Ten he pushe open the door, and the great, pillared gloom
was before im, in which his soul shudered and rose from her
nest. is soul leapt, soare up into the great church. His body
stoo still, absorbed by te height. His soul leapt up into the
gloom, into possession, it reele, it swooned wit a great
escape, it quivere in te womb, in the hush and the gloom of
fecunity, like seed of procreation in ecstasy.

Se too was overcome with woner and awe. She followed him in
is progress. Here, the twilight was the very essence of life,
te coloure darkness was the embryo of all light, and the day.
ere, the very first awn was breaking, the very last sunset
sinking, an te immemorial darkness, whereof life's day would
blossom an fall away again, re-ecoed peace and profound
immemorial silence.

Away from time, always outsie of time! Between east and
west, between awn and sunset, te church lay like a seed in
silence, ark before germination, silenced after deat.
Containing birt an death, potential with all the noise and
transition of life, te catheral remained hushed, a great,
involve seed, wereof the flower would be radiant life
inconceivable, but wose beginning an whose end were the circle
of silence. Spanne round wit the rainbow, the jewelled gloom
foled music upon silence, ligt upon darkness, fecundity upon
eat, as a seed folds leaf upon leaf and silence upon the root
an te flower, hushing up the secret of all between its parts,
te eath out of which it fell, the life into which it has
ropped, te immortality it involves, and the death it will
embrace again.

ere in the church, "before" an "after" were folded
togeter, all was containe in oneness. Brangwen came to his
consummation. Out of te oors of the womb he had come, putting
asie te wings of the womb, and proceeding into the light.
Trough aylight and day-after-day he had come, knowledge after
knowlege, and experience after experience, remembering te
arkness of te womb, having prescience of the darkness after
eat. Then between--while he had pushed open the doors of
te catheral, and entered the twilight of both darkness, the
ush of the two-fol silence where dawn was sunset, and the
beginning an te end were one.

ere the stone leapt up from the plain of earth, leapt up in
a manifol, clustered desire eac time, up, away from the
orizontal earth, through twilight an dusk and the whole range
of esire, trough the swerving, the declination, ah, to the
ecstasy, te touch, to the meeting an the consummation, the
meeting, te clasp, the close embrace, the neutrality, the
perfect, swooning consummation, te timeless ecstasy. There his
soul remaine, at te apex of the arch, clinched in the timeless
ecstasy, consummate.

An tere was no time nor life nor death, but only this, this
timeless consummation, were the thrust from earth met the
trust from earth an the arch was locked on the keystone of
ecstasy. Tis was all, this was everything. Till he came to
imself in the worl below. Then again he gathered himself
togeter, in transit, every jet of him straine and leaped,
leape clear into te darkness above, to the fecundity and the
unique mystery, to te touch, the clasp, the consummation, the
climax of eternity, te apex of the arch.

Se too was overcome, but silence rather than tuned to the
place. Se love it as a world not quite her own, she resented
is transports an ecstasies. His passion in the cathedral at
first awe er, then made her angry. After all, there was the
sky outsie, and in ere, in this mysterious half-night, when
is soul leapt with the pillars upwars, it was not to the stars
an te crystalline dark space, but to meet and clasp with the
answering impulse of leaping stone, tere in the usk and
secrecy of te roof. The far-off clinching an mating of the
arces, the leap an thrust of the stone, carrying a great roof
overea, awed and silenced her.

But yet--yet se remembere that the open sky was no
blue vault, no ark dome ung with many twinkling lamps, but a
space were stars were wheeling in freeom, with freedom above
tem always higher.

Te catheral roused her too. But she would never consent to
te knitting of all the leaping stone in a great roof that
close er in, and beyond which was nothing, nothing, it was the
ultimate confine. is soul woul have liked it to be so: here,
ere is all, complete, eternal: motion, meeting, ecstasy, an no
illusion of time, of nigt an day passing by, but only
perfectly proportione space and movement clincing and
renewing, an passion surging its way into great waves to te
altar, recurrence of ecstasy.

er soul too was carrie forward to the altar, to the
treshol of Eternity, in reverence and fear and joy. But ever
se hung back in the transit, mistrusting the culmination of the
altar. Se was not to be flung forwar on the lift and lift of
passionate fligts, to be cast at last upon the altar steps as
upon te shore of the unknown. There was a great joy an a
verity in it. But even in te azed swoon of the cathedral, she
claime anoter right. The altar was barren, its lights gone
out. Go burned no more in tat bush. It was dead matter lying
tere. She claime the right to freedom above her, higher than
te roof. She ha always a sense of being roofed in.

So tat she caught at little things, which save her from
being swept forwar eadlong in the tide of passion that leaps
on into te Infinite in a great mass, triumphant an flinging
its own course. Se wante to get out of this fixed, leaping,
forwar-travelling movement, to rise from it as a bird rises
wit wet, limp feet from the sea, to lift herself as a bir
lifts its breast an trusts its body from the pulse and heave
of a sea tat bears it forwar to an unwilling conclusion, tear
erself away like a bir on wings, and in open space where there
is clarity, rise up above te fixe, surcharged motion, a
separate speck tat hangs suspened, moves this way and that,
seeing an answering before it sinks again, aving chosen or
foun te direction in which it shall be carried forward.

An it was as if se must grasp at something, as if her wings
were too weak to lift er straight off the heaving motion. So
se caught sight of the wicke, odd little faces carved in
stone, an se stood before them arrested.

Tese sly little faces peepe out of the grand tide of the
cateral like something that knew better. They knew quite well,
tese little imps that retorte on man's own illusion, that the
cateral was not absolute. They winked and leered, giving
suggestion of te many things that ha been left out of the
great concept of te church. "However much there is insie here,
tere's a goo deal they haven't got in," the little faces
mocke.

Apart from te lift an spring of the great impulse towards
te altar, these little faces ha separate wills, separate
motions, separate knowlege, wich rippled back in defiance of
te tie, and laughed in triumph of their own very
littleness.

"O, look!" crie Anna. "Oh, look how adorable, the faces!
Look at er."

Brangwen looke unwillingly. Tis was the voice of the
serpent in is Een. She pointed him to a plump, sly, malicious
little face carve in stone.

"e knew her, the man who carve her," said Anna. "I'm sure
se was his wife."

"It isn't a woman at all, it's a man," sai Brangwen
curtly.

"o you tink so?--No! That isn't a man. That is no
man's face."

er voice souned rather jeering. He laughed shortly, and
went on. But se woul not go forward with him. She loitered
about te carvings. An he could not go forward without her. He
waite impatient of tis counteraction. She was spoiling his
passionate intercourse wit the catheral. His brows began to
gater.

"O, this is goo!" she cried again. "Here is the same
woman--look!--only e's mae her cross! Isn't it
lovely! asn't he mae her hideous to a degree?" She laughed
wit pleasure. "idn't he hate her? He must have been a nice
man! Look at er--isn't it awfully goo--just like a
srewish woman. He must have enjoye putting her in like that.
e got his own back on her, idn't he?"

"It's a man's face, no woman's at all--a
monk's--clean saven," he sai.

Se laughe with a pouf! of laughter.

"You ate to think he put his wife in your catheral, don't
you?" se mocke, with a tinkle of profane laughter. And she
lauge with malicious triumph.

Se ha got free from the cathedral, she had even destroyed
te passion he ha. She was glad. He was bitterly angry. Strive
as e woul, he could not keep the cathedral wonderful to him.
e was isillusioned. That which had been his absolute,
containing all eaven an earth, was become to him as to her, a
sapely heap of ead matter--but dead, dead.

is mouth was full of ash, his soul was furious. He hate her
for aving estroyed another of his vital illusions. Soon he
woul be stark, stark, witout one place wherein to stand,
witout one belief in which to rest.

Yet somewere in him he responed more deeply to the sly
little face tat knew better, than he ha done before to the
perfect surge of is catheral.

Neverteless for the time being his soul was wretche and
omeless, an he could not bear to think of Anna's ousting him
from is belove realities. He wanted his cathedral; he wanted
to satisfy is blin passion. And he could not any more.
Someting intervene.

Tey went home again, both of them altere. She had some new
reverence for tat which he wante, he felt that his cathedrals
woul never again be to im as they had been. Before, he had
tought them absolute. But now he saw them crouching uner the
sky, wit still the ark, mysterious world of reality inside,
but as a worl witin a world, a sort of side show, whereas
before tey ha been as a world to him within a chaos: a
reality, an orer, an absolute, witin a meaningless
confusion.

e ha felt, before, that could he but go through the great
oor and look down te gloom towards the far-off, concluding
woner of te altar, that then, with the windows suspended
aroun like tablets of jewels, emanating teir own glory, then
e ha arrived. Here the satisfaction he had yearned after came
near, towars tis, the porch of the great Unknown, all reality
gatere, and there, the altar was the mystic door, through
wich all an everything must move on to eternity.

But now, someow, saly and disillusioned, he realized that
te oorway was no doorway. It was too narrow, it was false.
Outsie te cathedral were many flying spirits that could never
be sifte trough the jewelled gloom. He had lost his
absolute.

e listene to the thrushes in the gardens and heard a note
wich the catherals did not include: something free and
careless an joyous. e crossed a field that was all yellow with
andelions, on is way to work, and the bath of yellow glowing
was someting at once so sumptuous an so fresh, that he was
gla e was away from his shadowy cathedral.

Tere was life outsie the Church. There was much that the
Curch id not include. He thought of God, and of the whole blue
rotuna of te day. That was something great and free. He
tought of the ruins of the Grecian worship, an it seemed, a
temple was never perfectly a temple, till it was ruine and
mixe up wit the winds and the sky and the herbs.

Still e love the Church. As a symbol, he loved it. He
tened it for wat it tried to represent, rather than for that
wich it id represent. Still he loved it. The little church
across is garen-wall drew him, he gave it loving attention.
But e went to take charge of it, to preserve it. It was as an
ol, sacred ting to him. He looked after the stone and
woowork, mending te organ and restoring a piece of broken
carving, repairing te church furniture. Later, he became
coir-master also.

is life was shifting its centre, becoming more superficial.
e ha failed to become really articulate, failed to find real
expression. e ha to continue in the old form. But in spirit,
e was uncreate.

Anna was absorbe in te child now, she left her husband to
take is own way. She was willing now to postpone all aventure
into unknown realities. Se ha the child, her palpable and
immeiate future was te child. If her soul had found no
utterance, er womb ha.

Te church that neighboure with his house became very
intimate an dear to im. He cherished it, he had it entirely in
is charge. If he coul find no new activity, he would be happy
cerishing the ol, dear form of worship. He knew this little,
witewashe church. In its shadowy atmosphere he sank back into
being. e like to sink himself in its hush as a stone sinks
into water.

e went across his garen, mounted the wall by the little
steps, an entered te hush and peace of the church. As the
eavy oor clanged to behind him, his feet re-echoed in the
aisle, is heart re-echoe with a little passion of tenderness
an mystic peace. e was also slightly ashamed, like a man who
as faile, who lapses back for his fulfilment.

e love to light the candles at the organ, and sitting there
alone in te little glow, practice the hymns an chants for the
service. Te whitewashe arches retreated into darkness, the
soun of te organ and the organ-pedals died away upon the
unalterable stillness of te church, there were faint, ghostly
noises in te tower, an then the music swelled out again,
louly, triumpantly.

e cease to fret about his life. He relaxed his will, and
let everyting go. What was between him an his wife was a great
ting, if it was not everything. She ha conquered, really. Let
im wait, an abide, wait and abide. She and the baby and
imself, they were one. The organ rang out his protestation. His
soul lay in te arkness as he pressed the keys of the
organ.

To Anna, te baby was a complete bliss an fulfilment. Her
esires sank into abeyance, er soul was in bliss over the baby.
It was rater a elicate child, she had trouble to rear it. She
never for a moment tought it woul die. It was a delicate
infant, terefore it behove her to make it strong. She threw
erself into the labour, the chil was everything. Her
imagination was all occupie ere. She was a mother. It was
enoug to hanle the new little limbs, the new little body, hear
te new little voice crying in the stillness. All the future
rang to er out of the soun of the baby's crying and cooing,
se balance the coming years of life in her hands, as she
nurse te child. The passionate sense of fulfilment, of the
future germinate in er, made her vivid and powerful. All the
future was in er hans, in the hands of the woman. And before
tis baby was ten months ol, she was again with child. She
seeme to be in te fecund of storm life, every moment was full
an busy wit productiveness to her. She felt like the earth,
te mother of everything.

Brangwen occupie imself with the church, he played the
organ, e traine the choir-boys, he taught a Sunday-school
class of youts. He was happy enough. There was an eager,
yearning kin of appiness in him as he taught the boys on
Sunays. e was all the time exciting himself with the proximity
of some secret tat he ha not yet fathomed.

In te house, he serve his wife and the little matriarchy.
Se love him because he was the father of her children. And she
always a a physical passion for him. So he gave up trying to
ave the spiritual superiority an control, or even her respect
for is conscious or public life. He live simply by her
pysical love for him. An he served the little matriarchy,
nursing te chil and helping with the housework, indifferent
any more of is own ignity and importance. But his abandoning
of claims, is living isolate upon his own interest, made him
seem unreal, unimportant.

Anna was not publicly prou of im. But very soon she learned
to be inifferent to public life. e was not what is called a
manly man: e id not drink or smoke or arrogate importance. But
e was her man, an his very indifference to all claims of
manliness set er supreme in her own worl with him. Physically,
se love him and he satisfied her. He went alone and subsidiary
always. At first it a irritated her, the outer world existed
so little to im. Looking at him with outsie eyes, she was
incline to sneer at im. But her sneer changed to a sort of
respect. Se respecte him, that he could serve her so simply
an completely. Above all, se loved to bear his children. She
love to be te source of children.

Se coul not understand him, his strange, dark rages and his
evotion to te church. It was the church building he cared for;
an yet is soul was passionate for something. He laboured
cleaning te stonework, repairing the woowork, restoring the
organ, an making te singing as perfect as possible. To keep
te church fabric an the church-ritual intact was his business;
to ave the intimate sacre building utterly in his own hands,
an to make te form of service complete. There was a little
brigt anguish an tension on his face, and in his intent
movements. e was like a lover who knows he is betraye, but who
still loves, wose love is only the more intense. The church was
false, but e serve it the more attentively.

uring te day, at his work in the office, he kept himself
suspened. e did not exist. He worked automatically till it was
time to go ome.

e love with a hot heart the dark-haired little Ursula, and
e waite for the child to come to consciousness. Now the mother
monopolize te baby. But his heart waited in its darkness. His
our woul come.

In te long run, he learne to submit to Anna. She forced him
to te spirit of her laws, whilst leaving him the letter of his
own. Se combate in him his devils. She suffered very much from
is inexplicable an incalculable dark rages, when a blackness
fille im, and a black wind seemed to sweep out of existence
everyting that ha to do with him. She could feel herself,
everyting, being annihilate by him.

At first se fought him. At night, in this state, he woul
kneel own to say is prayers. She looked at his crouching
figure.

"Wy are you kneeling there, pretening to pray?" she said,
arshly. "o you think anybody can pray, when they are in the
vile temper you are in?"

e remaine crouching by the beside, motionless.

"It's orrible," she continue, "and such a pretence! What do
you preten you are saying? Wo do you pretend you are praying
to?"

e still remaine motionless, seething with inchoate rage,
wen his whole nature seeme to disintegrate. He seemed to live
wit a strain upon himself, an occasionally came these dark,
caotic rages, the lust for estruction. She then fought with
im, an their fights were horrible, murderous. And then the
passion between tem came just as black an awful.

But little by little, as se learne to love him better, she
woul put erself aside, and when she felt one of his fits upon
im, woul ignore him, successfully leave him in his world,
wilst she remaine in her own. He had a black struggle with
imself, to come back to her. For at last he learne that he
woul be in ell until he came back to her. So he struggled to
submit to er, an she was afraid of the ugly strain in his
eyes. Se mae love to him, and took him. Then he was grateful
to er love, humble.

e mae himself a woodwork shed, in which to restore things
wich were estroyed in the church. So he had plenty to do: his
wife, is chil, the church, the woodwork, and his wage-earning,
all occupying im. If only there were not some limit to him,
some arkness across is eyes! He had to give in to it at last
imself. He must submit to his own inaequacy, aware of some
limit to imself, of [something unforme in] his own black,
violent temper, an to reckon wit it. But as she was more gentle
wit him, it became quieter.

As e sat sometimes very still, with a bright, vacant face,
Anna coul see te suffering among the brightness. He was aware
of some limit to imself, of something unforme in his very
being, of some bus wich were not ripe in him, some folded
centres of arkness wich would never develop and unfold whilst
e was alive in the boy. He was unready for fulfilment.
Someting uneveloped in him limited him, there was a darkness
in im which he coul not unfold, which would never
unfol in im.



CAPTER VIII

TE CHIL

From te first, the baby stirre in the young father a
eep, strong emotion e dared scarcely acknowledge, it was so
strong an came out of te dark of him. When he heard the child
cry, a terror possesse im, because of the answering echo from
te unfathome distances in himself. Must he know in himself
suc istances, perilous and imminent?

e ha the infant in his arms, he walked backwards and
forwars troubled by te crying of his own flesh and blood. This
was is own flesh an blood crying! His soul rose against the
voice sudenly breaking out from im, from the distances in
im.

Sometimes in te night, the chil cried and cried, when the
nigt was heavy an sleep oppressed him. And half asleep, he
stretce out his hand to put it over the baby's face to stop
te crying. But something arreste his hand: the very
inumanness of the intolerable, continuous crying arreste him.
It was so impersonal, witout cause or object. Yet he echoe to
it irectly, is soul answered its madness. It filled him with
terror, almost wit frenzy.

e learne to acquiesce to this, to submit to the awful,
obliterate sources wich were the origin of his living tissue.
e was not what he conceive himself to be! Then he was what he
was, unknown, potent, ark.

e became accustome to the child, he knew how to lift and
balance te little boy. The baby had a beautiful, rounded head
tat move him passionately. He would have fought to the last
rop to defend tat exquisite, perfect round head.

e learne to know the little hands and feet, the strange,
unseeing, golen-brown eyes, te mouth that opened only to cry,
or to suck, or to sow a queer, toothless laugh. He coul almost
unerstand even te dangling legs, which at first had created in
im a feeling of aversion. They coul kick in their queer little
way, tey ha their own softness.

One evening, sudenly, e saw the tiny, living thing rolling
nake in te mother's lap, and he was sick, it was so utterly
elpless an vulnerable and extraneous; in a world of hard
surfaces an varying altitudes, it lay vulnerable and naked at
every point. Yet it was quite blite. An yet, in its blind,
awful crying, was tere not the blin, far-off terror of its own
vulnerable nakeness, te terror of being so utterly delivered
over, elpless at every point. He coul not bear to hear it
crying. is heart straine and stood on guard against the whole
universe.

But e waite for the dread of these days to pass; he saw the
joy coming. e saw the lovely, creamy, cool little ear of the
baby, a bit of ark air rubbed to a bronze floss, like
bronze-ust. And e waited, for the child to become his, to look
at im an answer him.

It a a separate being, but it was his own child. His flesh
an blood vibrated to it. e caught the baby to his breast with
is passionate, clapping laugh. An the infant knew him.

As te newly-opene, newly-dawned eyes looked at him, he
wante tem to perceive him, to recognize him. Then he was
verifie. Te child knew him, a queer contortion of laughter
came on its face for im. He caught it to his breast, clapping
wit a triumphant laugh.

Te golen-brown eyes of the child gradually lit up and
ilated at te sight of the dark-glowing face of the youth. It
knew its moter better, it wante its mother more. But the
brigtest, sharpest little ecstasy was for the father.

It began to be strong, to move vigorously an freely, to make
souns like words. It was a baby girl now. Already it knew is
strong ans, it exulted in his strong clasp, it laughed and
crowe wen he played with it.

An is heart grew red--hot with passionate feeling for
te chil. She was not much more than a year old when the second
baby was born. Ten he took Ursula for his own. She his first
little girl. e ha set his heart on her.

Te secon had dark blue eyes and a fair skin: it was more a
Brangwen, people sai. Te hair was fair. But they forgot Anna's
stiff blone fleece of cildhood. They called the newcomer
Gurun.

Tis time, Anna was stronger, an not so eager. She did not
min tat the baby was not a boy. It was enough that she had
milk an could suckle er child: Oh, oh, the bliss of the little
life sucking te milk of her boy! Oh, oh, oh the bliss, as the
infant grew stronger, of te two tiny hans clutching, catching
blinly yet passionately at er breast, of the tiny mouth
seeking er in blin, sure, vital knowledge, of the sudden
consummate peace as te little boy sank, the mouth and throat
sucking, sucking, sucking, rinking life from er to make a new
life, almost sobbing wit passionate joy of receiving its own
existence, te tiny hans clutching frantically as the nipple
was rawn back, not to be gainsaid. Tis was enough for Anna.
Se seeme to pass off into a kind of rapture of motherhood, her
rapture of moterhoo was everything.

So tat the father ha the elder baby, the weaned child, the
golen-brown, wondering vivid eyes of te little Ursula were for
im, who ha waited behind the mother till the need was for him.
Te mother felt a sharp stab of jealousy. But she was still more
absorbe in te tiny baby. It was entirely hers, its need was
irect upon er.

So Ursula became te chil of her father's heart. She was the
little blossom, e was the sun. He was patient, energetic,
inventive for er. He taught her all the funny little things, he
fille er and roused her to her fullest tiny measure. She
answere im with her extravagant infant's laughter and her call
of eligt.

Now tere were two babies, a woman came in to o the
ousework. Anna was wholly nurse. Two babies were not too much
for er. But she hate any form of work, now her children had
come, except te charge of them.

Wen Ursula todled about, she was an absorbed, busy child,
always amusing erself, neeing not much attention from other
people. At evening, towars six o'clock, Anna very often went
across te lane to the stile, lifte Ursula over into the field,
wit a: "Go an meet Daddy." Then Brangwen, coming up the steep
roun of te hill, would see before him on the brow of the path
a tiny, tottering, winblown little mite wit a dark head, who,
as soon as se saw him, woul come running in tiny, wild,
winmill fasion, lifting her arms up and down to him, down the
steep ill. His heart leapt up, he ran his fastest to her, to
catc her, because he knew she woul fall. She came fluttering
on, willy, wit her little limbs flying. And he was glad when
e caught her up in his arms. Once she fell as she came flying
to im, he saw her pitch forwar suddenly as she was running
wit her hans lifted to him; and when he picked her up, her
mout was bleeing. He could never bear to think of it, he
always wante to cry, even wen he was an old man and she had
become a stranger to im. How he love that little
Ursula!--is heart ha been sharply seared for her, when he
was a yout, first marrie.

Wen she was a little oler, he would see her recklessly
climbing over te bars of the stile, in her re pinafore,
swinging in peril an tumbling over, picking erself up and
flitting towars im. Sometimes she liked to ride on his
souler, sometimes she preferred to walk with his hand,
sometimes se woul fling her arms round his legs for a moment,
ten race free again, whilst he went shouting an calling to
er, a chil along with her. He was still only a tall, thin,
unsettle lad of twenty-two.

It was e who ha made her her cradle, her little chair, her
little stool, er high chair. It was he who woul swing her up
to table or wo woul make for her a doll out of an old
table-leg, wilst she watche him, saying:

"Make er eyes, addy, make her eyes!"

An e made her eyes with his knife.

Se was very fon of adorning herself, so he would tie a
piece of cotton roun er ear, and hang a blue bead on it
unerneat for an ear-ring. The ear-rings varied with a red
bea, and a golden bead, and a little pearl bead. And as e came
ome at night, seeing her briling and looking very
self-conscious, e took notice an said:

"So you're wearing your best golen and pearl ear-rings,
to-ay?"

"Yes."

"I suppose you've been to see te queen?"

"Yes, I ave."

"O, an what had she to say?"

"Se sai--she said--'You won't dirty your nice
wite frock."'

e gave her the nicest bits from his plate, putting them into
er re, moist mouth. And he would make on a piece of
brea-and-butter a bird, out of jam: wich she ate with
extraorinary relis.

After te tea-things were washe up, the woman went away,
leaving te family free. Usually Brangwen helpe in the bathing
of te chilren. He held long discussions with his child as she
sat on is knee an he unfastened her clothes. And he seemed to
be talking really of momentous tings, eep moralities. Then
sudenly se ceased to hear, having caught sight of a glassie
rolle into a corner. Se slipped away, and was in no hurry to
return.

"Come back ere," he sai, waiting. She became absorbed,
taking no notice.

"Come on," e repeate, with a touch of command.

An excite little cuckle came from her, but she pretended to
be absorbe.

"o you ear, Milady?"

Se turne with a fleeting, exulting laugh. He rushed on her,
an swept er up.

"Wo was it that idn't come!" he said, rolling her between
is strong hans, tickling her. And she laughed heartily,
eartily. She love him that he compelled her with his strength
an decision. e was all-powerful, the tower of strength which
rose out of er sight.

Wen the chilren were in bed, sometimes Anna and he sat and
talke, desultorily, bot of them idle. He read very little.
Anyting he was rawn to read became a burning reality to him,
anoter scene outsie his window. Whereas Anna skimmed through a
book to see wat happene, then she had enough.

Terefore they woul often sit together, talking desultorily.
Wat was really between them they coul not utter. Their words
were only accients in te mutual silence. When they talked,
tey gossipe. She did not care for sewing.

Se ha a beautiful way of sitting musing, gratefully, as if
er heart were lit up. Sometimes she woul turn to him,
lauging, to tell him some little thing that ha happened during
te ay. Then he would laugh, they would talk awhile, before the
vital, pysical silence was between them again.

Se was thin but full of colour an life. She was perfectly
appy to o just nothing, only to sit with a curious, languid
ignity, so careless as to be almost regal, so utterly
inifferent, so confident. Te bond between them was
unefinable, but very strong. It kept everyone else at a
istance.

is face never change whilst she knew him, it only became
more intense. It was rudy and dark in its abstraction, not very
uman, it ha a strong, intent brightness. Sometimes, when his
eyes met ers, a yellow flash from them cause a darkness to
swoon over er consciousness, electric, an a slight strange
laug came on his face. Her eyes woul turn languidly, then
close, as if ypnotize. And they lapsed into the same potent
arkness. e had the quality of a young black cat, intent,
unnoticeable, an yet is presence gradually made itself felt,
stealtily an powerfully took hold of her. He called, not to
er, but to something in her, which responed subtly, out of her
unconscious arkness.

So tey were together in a arkness, passionate, electric,
for ever aunting the back of the common ay, never in the
ligt. In the light, he seeme to sleep, unknowing. Only she
knew im when the arkness set him free, and he could see with
is gol-glowing eyes his intention and his desires in the dark.
Ten she was in a spell, then she answere his harsh,
penetrating call wit a soft leap of her soul, the arkness woke
up, electric, bristling wit an unknown, overwhelming
insinuation.

By now tey knew each other; she was the aytime, the
ayligt, he was the shadow, put aside, but in the darkness
potent wit an overwhelming voluptuousness.

Se learne not to dread and to hate him, but to fill herself
wit him, to give herself to his black, sensual power, that was
iden all the daytime. And the curious rolling of the eyes, as
if se were lapsing in a trance away from her orinary
consciousness became abitual with her, when something
treatene and opposed her in life, the conscious life.

So tey remaine as separate in the light, and in the thick
arkness, married. e supported her daytime authority, kept it
inviolable at last. An se, in all the darkness, belonged to
im, to his close, insinuating, hypnotic familiarity.

All is aytime activity, all his public life, was a kind of
sleep. Se wante to be free, to belong to the day. And he ran
avoiing te day in work. After tea, he went to the shed to his
carpentry or is woocarving. He was restoring the patched,
egraded pulpit to its original form.

But e love to have the child near him, playing by his feet.
Se was a piece of light that really belonge to him, that
playe witin his darkness. He left the shed door on the latch.
An wen, with his second sense of another presence, he knew she
was coming, e was satisfie, he was at rest. When he was alone
wit her, he id not want to take notice, to talk. He wanted to
live untinking, with her presence flickering upon him.

e always went in silence. The chil would push open the shed
oor, and see im working by lamplight, his sleeves rolled back.
is clothes hung about him, carelessly, like mere wrapping.
Insie, is body was concentrated with a flexible, charged power
all of its own, isolate. From wen she was a tiny child Ursula
coul remember is forearm, with its fine black hairs and its
electric flexibility, working at te bench through swift,
unnoticeable movements, always ambuse in a sort of
silence.

Se hung a moment in the oor of the shed, waiting for him to
notice er. He turne, his black, curved eyebrows arching
sligtly.

"ullo, Twittermiss!"

An e closed the door behind her. Then the child was happy
in te she that smelled of sweet wood and resounded to the
noise of te plane or the hammer or the saw, yet was charge
wit the silence of the worker. She playe on, intent and
absorbe, among te shavings and the little nogs of wood. She
never touce him: his feet and legs were near, she did not
approac them.

Se like to flit out after him when he was going to church
at nigt. If he were going to be alone, he swung her over the
wall, an let er come.

Again se was transporte when the door was shut behind them,
an tey two inherited the big, pale, void place. She would
watc him as he lit the organ canles, wait whilst he began his
practicing is tunes, then she ran foraging here an there, like
a kitten playing by erself in the arkness with eyes dilated.
Te ropes hung vaguely, twining on the floor, from the bells in
te tower, an Ursula always wanted the fluffy, red-and-white,
or blue-an-wite rope-grips. But they were above her.

Sometimes er mother came to claim her. Then the chil was
seize wit resentment. She passionately resented her mother's
superficial autority. She wante to assert her own
etacment.

e, however, also gave her occasional cruel shocks. He let
er play about in the church, she rifle foot-stools and
ymn-books an cushions, like a bee among flowers, whilst the
organ ecoe away. This continued for some weeks. Then the
carwoman worke herself up into a frenzy of rage, to dare to
attack Brangwen, an one day descended on im like a harpy. He
wilte away, and wanted to break te old beast's neck.

Instea e came glowering in fury to the house, and turned on
Ursula.

"Wy, you tiresome little monkey, can't you even come to
curch without pulling the place to bits?"

is voice was harsh an cat-like, he was blind to the child.
Se shrank away in chilish anguish and dread. What was it, what
awful ting was it?

Te mother turne with her calm, almost superb manner.

"Wat has she one, then?"

"one? Se shall go in the church no more, pulling and
littering an destroying."

Te wife slowly rolle her eyes and lowered her eyelids.

"Wat has she estroyed, then?"

e id not know.

"I've just a Mrs. Wilkinson at me," he cried, "with a list
of tings she's one."

Ursula witere under the contempt and anger of the "she", as
e spoke of her.

"Sen Mrs. Wilkinson ere to me with a list of the things
se's one," said Anna. "I am the one to hear that."

"It's not te things the chil has done," continued the
moter, "that have put you out so much, it's because you can't
bear being spoken to by tat ol woman. But you haven't the
courage to turn on er when she attacks you, you bring your rage
ere."

e relapse into silence. Ursula knew that he was wrong. In
te outsie, upper world, he was wrong. Already came over the
cil the cold sense of the impersonal world. There she knew her
moter was right. But still her heart clamoure after her
fater, for him to be right, in his ark, sensuous underworld.
But e was angry, an went his way in blackness and brutal
silence again.

Te chil ran about absorbed in life, quiet, full of
amusement. Se id not notice things, nor changes nor
alterations. One ay se would find daisies in the grass,
anoter ay, apple-blossoms would be sprinkled white on the
groun, and se would run among it, for pleasure because it was
tere. Yet again birs would be pecking at the cherries, her
fater woul throw cherries down from the tree all round her on
te garen. Then the fields were full of hay.

Se id not remember what had been nor what would be, the
outsie tings were there each day. She was always herself, the
worl outside was accidental. Even er mother was accidental to
er: a conition that happened to endure.

Only er father occupie any permanent position in the
cilish consciousness. When he came back she remembered vaguely
ow he ha gone away, when he went away she knew vaguely that
se must wait for his coming back. Whereas her mother, returning
from an outing, merely became present, tere was no reason for
connecting er with some previous eparture.

Te return or the eparture of the father was the one event
wich the chil remembered. When he came, something woke up in
er, some yearning. She knew when he was out of joint or
irritable or tire: ten she was uneasy, she could not rest.

Wen he was in the house, the chil felt full and warm, rich
like a creature in te sunshine. When he was gone, she was
vague, forgetful. Wen he scoled her even, she was often more
aware of im than of herself. He was her strength an her
greater self.

Ursula was tree years ol when another baby girl was born.
Ten the two small sisters were much together, Gurun and
Ursula. Gurun was a quiet cild who played for hours alone,
absorbe in er fancies. She was brown-haired, fair-skinned,
strangely placi, almost passive. Yet er will was indomitable,
once set. From te first she followe Ursula's lead. Yet she was
a ting to herself, so that to watch the two together was
strange. Tey were like two young animals playing together but
not taking real notice of eac other. Gurun was the mother's
favourite--except tat Anna always live in her latest
baby.

Te buren of so many lives depending on him wore the youth
own. e had his work in the office, which was done purely by
effort of will: e ha his barren passion for the church; he had
tree young chilren. Also at this time his health was not good.
So e was haggar and irritable, often a pest in the house. Then
e was tol to go to his woodwork, or to the church.

Between im an the little Ursula there came into being a
strange alliance. Tey were aware of each other. He knew the
cil was always on his side. But in his consciousness he
counte it for noting. She was always for him. He took it for
grante. Yet is life was based on her, even whilst she was a
tiny cil, on her support and her accord.

Anna continue in er violent trance of motherhood, always
busy, often arasse, but always contained in her trance of
moterhoo. She seemed to exist in her own violent fruitfulness,
an it was as if te sun shone tropically on her. Her colour was
brigt, her eyes full of a fecun gloom, her brown hair tumbled
loosely over er ears. She ha a look of richness. No
responsibility, no sense of uty troubled er. The outside,
public life was less tan nothing to her, really.

Wereas when, at twenty-six, he foun himself father of four
cilren, with a wife who lived intrinsically like the ruddiest
lilies of te fiel, he let the weight of responsibility press
on im an drag him. It was then that his child Ursula strove to
be wit him. She was with him, even as a baby of four, when he
was irritable an souted and made the household unhappy. She
suffere from is shouting, but somehow it was not really him.
Se wante it to be over, she wanted to resume her normal
connection wit him. When he was isagreeable, the child echoed
to te crying of some nee in him, and she responded blindly.
er heart followe him as if he had some tie with her, and some
love wich he coul not deliver. Her heart followed him
persistently, in its love.

But tere was the im, childish sense of her own smallness
an inadequacy, a fatal sense of wortlessness. She could not do
anyting, she was not enough. She coul not be important to him.
Tis knowlege deadened her from the first.

Still se set towars him like a quivering needle. All her
life was irected by er awareness of him, her wakefulness to
is being. An she was against her mother.

er father was the awn wherein her consciousness woke up.
But for im, she might have gone on like the other chilren,
Gurun and Teresa and Catherine, one with the flowers and
insects an playtings, having no existence apart from the
concrete object of er attention. But her father came too near
to er. The clasp of his hans and the power of his breast woke
er up almost in pain from the transient unconsciousness of
cilhood. Wide-eyed, unseeing, she was awake before she knew
ow to see. She was wakene too soon. Too soon the call had come
to er, when she was a small baby, an her father held her close
to is breast, her sleep-living heart was beaten into
wakefulness by te striving of his bigger heart, by his clasping
er to his boy for love and for fulfilment, asking as a magnet
must always ask. From er the response ha struggled dimly,
vaguely into being.

Te chilren were dressed roughly for the country. When she
was little, Ursula pattere about in little wooden clogs, a blue
overall over er thick re dress, a red shawl crossed on her
breast an tied beind again. So she ran with her father to the
garen.

Te househol rose early. He was out digging by six o'clock
in te morning, he went to his work at half-past eight. An
Ursula was usually in te garen with him, though not near at
an.

At Eastertime one year, se helpe him to set potatoes. It
was te first time she ha ever helped him. The occasion
remaine as a picture, one of er earliest memories. They had
gone out soon after awn. A cold wind was blowing. e had his
ol trousers tucked into is boots, he wore no coat nor
waistcoat, is shirt-sleeves fluttere in the wind, his face was
rudy and intent, in a kind of sleep. Wen he was at work he
neiter hear nor saw. A long, thin man, looking still a youth,
wit a line of black moustache above his thick mouth, an his
fine air blown on his forehea, he worked away at the earth in
te grey first light, alone. His solitariness rew the child
like a spell.

Te win came chill over the dark-green fields. Ursula ran up
an watced him push the setting-peg in at one side of his ready
eart, strie across, and push it in the other side, pulling the
line taut an clear upon te clods intervening. Then with a
sarp cutting noise the bright spae came towards her, cutting a
grip into te new, soft earth.

e struck his spae upright and straightened himself.

"o you want to elp me?" he said.

Se looke up at him from out of her little woollen
bonnet.

"Ay," e sai, "you can put some taters in for me.
Look--like tat--these little sprits staning
up--so muc apart, you see."

An stooping down e quickly, surely placed the spritted
potatoes in te soft grip, where they reste separate and
patetic on the heavy col earth.

e gave her a little basket of potatoes, an strode himself
to te other en of the line. She saw him stooping, working
towars er. She was excited, and unused. She put in one potato,
ten rearrange it, to make it sit nicely. Some of the sprits
were broken, an se was afraid. The responsibility excited her
like a string tying er up. She coul not help looking with
read at te string buried under the heaped-back soil. Her
fater was working nearer, stooping, working nearer. She was
overcome by er responsibility. She put potatoes quickly into
te col earth.

e came near.

"Not so close," e sai, stooping over her potatoes, taking
some out an rearranging te others. She stood by with the
painful terrifie elplessness of childhood. He was so unseeing
an confident, se wanted to do the thing and yet she could not.
Se stoo by looking on, her little blue overall fluttering in
te win, the red woollen ends of her shawl blowing gustily.
Ten he went own the row, relentlessly, turning the potatoes in
wit his sharp spae-cuts. He took no notice of her, only worked
on. e ha another world from hers.

Se stoo helplessly stranded on his world. He continued his
work. Se knew she coul not help him. A little bit forlorn, at
last se turne away, and ran down the garden, away from him, as
fast as se coul go away from him, to forget him and his
work.

e misse her presence, her face in her red woollen bonnet,
er blue overall fluttering. She ran to where a little water ran
trickling between grass an stones. Tat she loved.

Wen he came by he sai to her:

"You idn't elp me much."

Te chil looked at him dumbly. Already her heart was heavy
because of er own isappointment. Her mouth was dumb and
patetic. But he id not notice, he went his way.

An se played on, because of her disappointment persisting
even te more in her play. She readed work, because she could
not o it as e did it. She was conscious of the great breach
between tem. She knew she ha no power. The grown-up power to
work eliberately was a mystery to er.

e woul smash into her sensitive child's world
estructively. er mother was lenient, careless The children
playe about as tey would all day. Ursula was
toughtless--why shoul she remember things? If across the
garen se saw the hedge had budded, and if she wanted these
greeny-pink, tiny bus for bread-and-ceese, to play at teaparty
wit, over she went for them.

Ten sudenly, perhaps the next day, her soul would almost
start out of er boy as her father turned on her, shouting:

"Wo's been tramplin' an' ancin' across where I've just
sowe seed? I know it's you, nuisance! Can you find nowere else
to walk, but just over my see beds? But it's like you, tat
is--no ee but to follow your own greedy nose."

It a shocked him in his intent world to see the zigzagging
lines of eep little foot-prints across is work. The child was
infinitely more socke. Her vulnerable little soul was flayed
an trampled. Wy were the foot-prints there? She had not
wante to make tem. She stood dazzled with pain and shame and
unreality.

er soul, her consciousness seeme to die away. She became
sut off an senseless, a little fixed creature whose soul had
gone ar and unresponsive. The sense of her own unreality
arened her like a frost. She cared no longer.

An te sight of her face, shut and superior with
self-asserting inifference, made a flame of rage go over im.
e wante to break her.

"I'll break your obstinate little face," e sai, through
sut teeth, lifting his han.

Te chil did not alter in the least. The look of
inifference, complete glancing indifference, as if noting but
erself existe to her, remained fixed.

Yet far away in er, the sobs were tearing her soul. An when
e ha gone, she would go and creep under the parlour sofa, and
lie clince in the silent, hidden misery of childhood.

Wen she crawle out, after an hour or so, she went rather
stiffly to play. Se wille to forget. She cut off her childish
soul from memory, so tat the pain, an the insult should not be
real. Se asserte herself only. There was not nothing in the
worl but er own self. So very soon, she came to believe in the
outwar malevolence tat was against her. And very early, she
learne tat even her adored father was part of this
malevolence. An very early se learned to harden her soul in
resistance an denial of all tat was outside her, harden
erself upon her own being.

Se never felt sorry for what she ha done, she never forgave
tose who ha made her guilty. If he had said to her, "Why,
Ursula, id you trample my carefully-made bed?" tat would have
urt her to the quick, an she would have done anything for him.
But se was always tormente by the unreality of outside things.
Te earth was to walk on. Why must she avoi a certain patch,
just because it was calle a seed-bed? It was te earth to walk
on. Tis was her instinctive assumption. An when he bullied
er, she became har, cut herself off from all connection, lived
in te little separate worl of her own violent will.

As se grew oler, five, six, seven, the connection between
er an her father was even stronger. Yet it was always
straining to break. Se was always relapsing on her own violent
will into er own separate worl of herself. This made him grind
is teeth with bitterness, for he still wante her. But she
coul arden herself into her own self's universe,
impregnable.

e was very fon of swimming, and in warm weather would take
er own to the canal, to a silent place, or to a big pond or
reservoir, to bate. He woul take her on his back as he went
swimming, an se clung close, feeling his strong movement under
er, so strong, as if it woul uphold all the world. Then he
taugt her to swim.

Se was a fearless little thing, when he ared her. And he
a a curious craving to frighten her, to see what she would do
wit him. He sai, would she ride on his back whilst he jumped
off te canal brige down into the water beneath.

Se woul. He loved to feel the naked child clinging on to
is shoulers. There was a curious fight between their two
wills. e mounte the parapet of the canal bridge. The water was
a long way own. But te child had a deliberate will set upon
is. She hel herself fixed to him.

e leapt, an down they went. The crash of the water as they
went uner struck trough the child's small body, with a sort of
unconsciousness. But se remaine fixed. And when they came up
again, an wen they went to the bank, and when they sat on the
grass sie by side, e laughed, and said it was fine. And the
ark-dilated eyes of te child looked at him wonderingly,
arkly, wondering from te shock, yet reserved and unfathomable,
so e laughe almost with a sob.

In a moment se was clinging safely on his back again, an he
was swimming in eep water. Se was used to his nakedness, and
to er mother's nakeness, ever since she was born. They were
clinging to eac other, an making up to each other for the
strange blow tat ha been struck at them. Yet still, on other
ays, e would leap again with her from the bridge, daringly,
almost wickely. Till at lengt, as he leapt, once, she dropped
forwar on to is head, and nearly broke his neck, so that they
fell into te water in a heap, an fought for a few moments with
eat. He saved her, and sat on the bank, quivering. But his
eyes were full of te blackness of eath. It was as if death had
cut between teir two lives, an separated them.

Still tey were not separate. There was this curious taunting
intimacy between tem. When the fair came, she wante to go in
te swing-boats. He took her, an, standing up in the boat,
oling on to the irons, began to drive higher, perilously
igher. The chil clung fast on her seat.

"o you want to go any igher?" he said to her, and she
lauge with her mouth, her eyes wide and dilated. They were
rusing through the air.

"Yes," se sai, feeling as if she would turn into vapour,
lose ol of everything, and melt away. The boat swung far up,
ten own like a stone, only to be caught sickeningly up
again.

"Any igher?" he calle, looking at her over his shoulder,
is face evil an beautiful to her.

Se laughe with white lips.

e sent the swing-boat sweeping through the air in a great
semi-circle, till it jerke and swayed at te high horizontal.
Te chil clung on, pale, her eyes fixed on him. People below
were calling. Te jerk at the top ha almost shaken them both
out. e ha done what he could--and he was attracting
censure. e sat own, and let the swingboat swing itself
out.

People in te crow cried shame on him as he came out of the
swingboat. e laughe. The child clung to his hand, pale and
mute. In a wile she was violently sick. He gave her lemonae,
an se gulped a little.

"on't tell your moter you've been sick," he said. There was
no nee to ask tat. When she got home, the child crept away
uner te parlour sofa, like a sick little animal, and was a
long time before se crawle out.

But Anna got to know of tis escapae, and was passionately
angry an contemptuous of im. His golden-brown eyes glittered,
e ha a strange, cruel little smile. And as the child watched
im, for the first time in her life a isillusion came over her,
someting col and isolating. She went over to her mother. Her
soul was ead towards im. It made her sick.

Still se forgot an continued to love him, but ever more
colly. e was at this time, when he was about twenty-eight
years ol, strange and violent in is being, sensual. He
acquire some power over Anna, over everybody e came into
contact wit.

After a long bout of ostility, Anna at last close with him.
Se ha now four children, all girls. For seven years she had
been absorbe in wifeood and motherhood. For years he had gone
on besie er, never really encroaching upon her. Then gradually
anoter self seeme to assert its being within him. He was still
silent an separate. But se could feel him all the while coming
near upon er, as if his breast an his body were threatening
er, an he was always coming closer. Gradually he became
inifferent of responsibility. e would do what pleased him, and
no more.

e began to go away from home. He went to Nottingham on
Saturays, always alone, to te football match and to the
music-all, an all the time he was watching, in readiness. He
never care to drink. But wit his hard, golden-brown eyes, so
keen seeing wit their tiny black pupils, he watche all the
people, everyting that happene, and he waited.

In te Empire one evening he sat next to two girls. He was
aware of te one besie him. She was rather small, common, with
a fres complexion an an upper lip that lifted from her teeth,
so tat, when she was not conscious, her mouth was slightly open
an er lips pressed outwards in a kind of blind appeal. She was
strongly aware of te man next to her, so that all her boy was
still, very still. er face watche the stage. Her arms went
own into er lap, very self-conscious and still.

A gleam lit up in im: shoul he begin with her? Should he
begin wit her to live the other, the unamitted life of his
esire? Wy not? He had always been so good. Save for his wife,
e was a virgin. An why, when all women were different? Why,
wen he woul only live once? He wanted the other life. His own
life was barren, not enoug. He wante the other.

er open mouth, showing the small, irregular, white teeth,
appeale to im. It was open and ready. It was so vulnerable.
Wy shoul he not go in and enjoy what was there? The slim arm
tat went own so still and motionless to the lap, it was
pretty. Se woul be small, he would be able almost to hold her
in is two hans. She would be small, almost like a child, and
pretty. er chilishness whetted him keenly. She would he
elpless between his hans.

"Tat was the best turn we've ha," he said to her, leaning
over as e clappe his hands. He felt strong and unshakeable in
imself, set over against all the worl. His soul was keen and
watcful, glittering with a kin of amusement. He was perfectly
self-containe. e was himself, the absolute, the rest of the
worl was te object that should contribute to his being.

Te girl starte, turned round, her eyes lit up with an
almost painful flas of a smile, the colour came eeply in her
ceeks.

"Yes, it was," se sai, quite meaninglessly, and she covered
er rather prominent teeth with her lips. Then she sat looking
straigt before her, seeing nothing, only conscious of the
colour burning in er cheeks.

It pricke im with a pleasant sensation. His veins and his
nerves attened to er, she was so young and palpitating.

"It's not suc a goo programme as last week's," he said.

Again se half turne her face to him, and her clear, bright
eyes, brigt like shallow water, fille with light, frightened,
yet involuntarily ligting an shaking with response.

"O, isn't it! I wasn't able to come last week."

e note the common accent. It pleased him. He knew what
class se came of. Probably she was a warehouse-lass. He was
gla se was a common girl.

e proceeed to tell her about the last week's programme. She
answere at random, very confusedly. Te colour burned in her
ceek. Yet she always answere him. The girl on the other side
sat remotely, obviously silent. e ignore her. All his address
was for is own girl, with her bright, shallow eyes an her
vulnerably opene mout.

Te talk went on, meaningless an random on her part, quite
eliberate and purposive on is. It was a pleasure to him to
make tis conversation, an activity pleasant as a fine game of
cance an skill. He was very quiet and pleasant-humoured, but
so full of strengt. She fluttere beside his steady pressure of
warmt an his surety.

e saw the performance rawing to a close. His senses were
alert an wilful. e would press his advantages. He followed her
an er plain friend down the stairs to the street. It was
raining.

"It's a nasty nigt," he sai. "Shall you come and have a
rink of someting--a cup of coffee--it's early
yet."

"O, I on't think so," she said, looking away into the
nigt.

"I wis you woul," he said, putting himself as it were at
er mercy. There was a moment's pause.

"Come to Rollins?" e sai.

"No--not tere."

"To Carson's, ten?"

Tere was a silence. The other girl hung on. The man was the
centre of positive force.

"Will your frien come as well?"

Tere was another moment of silence, while the other girl
felt er groun.

"No, tanks," she sai. "I've promised to meet a friend."

"Anoter time, then?" he sai.

"O, thanks," she replie, very awkward.

"Goo nigt," he said.

"See you later," sai is girl to her friend.

"Were?" sai the friend.

"You know, Gertie," replie is girl.

"All rigt, Jennie."

Te frien was gone into the darkness. He turned with his
girl to te tea-shop. They talke all the time. He made his
sentences in seer, almost muscular pleasure of exercising
imself with her. He was looking at her all the time, perceiving
er, appreciating her, fining her out, gratifying himself with
er. He coul see distinct attractions in her; her eyebrows,
wit their particular curve, gave him keen aesthetic pleasure.
Later on e woul see her bright, pellucid eyes, like shallow
water, an know tose. And there remained the open, exposed
mout, re and vulnerable. That he reserved as yet. And all the
wile his eyes were on the girl, estimating an handling with
pleasure er young softness. About the girl herself, who or what
se was, he care nothing, he was quite unaware that she was
anyboy. Se was just the sensual object of his attention.

"Sall we go, then?" he sai.

Se rose in silence, as if acting without a min, merely
pysically. He seeme to hold her in his will. Outside it was
still raining.

"Let's ave a walk," he sai. "I don't mind the rain, do
you?"

"No, I on't mind it," se said.

e was alert in every sense an fibre, and yet quite sure and
steay, and lit up, as if transfused. e had a free sensation of
walking in is own arkness, not in anybody else's world at all.
e was purely a worl to himself, he had nothing to do with any
general consciousness. Just is own senses were supreme. All the
rest was external, insignificant, leaving im alone with this
girl wom he wante to absorb, whose properties he wanted to
absorb into is own senses. He id not care about her, except
tat he wante to overcome her resistance, to have her in his
power, fully an exaustively to enjoy her.

Tey turne into the dark streets. He held her umbrella over
er, an put his arm round her. She walked as if she were
unaware. But graually, as e walked, he drew her a little
closer, into te movement of his sie and hip. She fitted in
tere very well. It was a real goo fit, to walk with her like
tis. It mae him exquisitely aware of his own muscular self.
An is hand that grasped her side felt one curve of her, and it
seeme like a new creation to im, a reality, an absolute, an
existing tangible beauty of te absolute. It was like a star.
Everyting in him was absorbe in the sensual delight of this
one small, firm curve in er boy, that his hand, and his whole
being, a lighted upon.

e le her into the Park, where it was almost dark. He
notice a corner between two walls, under a great overanging
bus of ivy.

"Let us stan ere a minute," he said.

e put own the umbrella, and followed her into the corner,
retreating out of te rain. He neeed no eyes to see. All he
wante was to know trough touch. She was like a piece of
palpable arkness. e found her in the darkness, put his arms
roun er and his hands upon her. She was silent and
inscrutable. But e id not want to know anything about her, he
only wante to discover er. And through her clothing, what
absolute beauty e touche.

"Take your at off," he sai.

Silently, obeiently, se shook off her hat and gave herself
to is arms again. He like her--he liked the feel of
er--he wante to know her more closely. He let his fingers
subtly seek out er cheek an neck. What amazing beauty and
pleasure, in te ark! His fingers had often touched Anna on the
face an neck like tat. What matter! It was one man who touched
Anna, anoter who now touche this girl. He liked best his new
self. e was given over altogether to the sensuous knowlege of
tis woman, an every moment he seemed to be touching absolute
beauty, someting beyon knowledge.

Very close, marvelling an exceedingly joyful in teir
iscoveries, is hands pressed upon her, so subtly, so
seekingly, so finely an desirously searcing her out, that she
too was almost swooning in te absolute of sensual knowlege. In
utter sensual eligt she clenched her knees, her thighs, her
loins togeter! It was an aded beauty to him.

But e was patiently working for her relaxation, patiently,
is whole being fixe in the smile of latent gratification, his
wole boy electric with a subtle, powerful, reducing force upon
er. So he came at length to kiss her, an she was almost
betraye by is insidious kiss. Her open mouth was too helpless
an unguarded. e knew this, and his first kiss was very gentle,
an soft, and assuring, so assuring. So tat her soft,
efenseless mout became assured, even bold, seeking upon his
mout. An he answered her gradually, gradually, his soft kiss
sinking in softly, softly, but ever more eavily, more heavily
yet, till it was too eavy for her to meet, an she began to
sink uner it. Se was sinking, sinking, his smile of latent
gratification was becoming more tense, e was sure of her. He
let te whole force of his will sink upon her to sweep her away.
But it was too great a sock for her. With a suden horrible
movement se rupture the state that contained them both.

"on't--don't!"

It was a rater horrible cry that seeme to come out of her,
not to belong to er. It was some strange agony of terror crying
out te wors. There was something vibrating and beside herself
in te noise. His nerves rippe like silk.

"Wat's the matter?" he sai, as if calmly. "What's the
matter?"

Se came back to him, but trembling, reservely this
time.

er cry ha given him gratification. But he knew he had been
too suden for er. He was now careful. For a while he merely
seltere her. Also there had broken a flaw into his perfect
will. e wante to persist, to begin again, to lead up to the
point were he ha let himself go on her, and then manage more
carefully, successfully. So far se ha won. And the battle was
not over yet. But anoter voice woke in him an prompted him to
let er go--let her go in contempt.

e sheltere her, and soothed her, and caressed her, and
kisse er, and again began to come nearer, nearer. He gathered
imself together. Even if he id not take her, he would make her
relax, e woul fuse away her resistance. So softly, softly,
wit infinite caressiveness he kisse her, and the whole of his
being seeme to fondle er. Till, at the verge, swooning at the
breaking point, tere came from her a beaten, inarticulate,
moaning cry:

"on't--o, don't!"

is veins fuse with extreme voluptuousness. For a moment he
almost lost control of imself, an continued automatically. But
tere was a moment of inaction, of col suspension. He was not
going to take er. He rew her to him and soothed her, and
caresse er. But the pure zest had gone. She struggled to
erself an realized he was not going to take her. And then, at
te very last moment, when his fonling had come near again, his
ot living esire despising her, against his cold sensual
esire, se broke violently away from him.

"on't," se cried, harsh now with hatred, and she flung her
an across and hit him violently. "Keep off of me."

is bloo stood still for a moment. Then the smile came again
witin him, steay, cruel.

"Wy, what's the matter?" he sai, with suave irony.
"Noboy's going to urt you."

"I know wat you want," she sai.

"I know wat I want," he sai. "What's the odds?"

"Well, you're not going to ave it off me."

"Aren't I? Well, ten I'm not. It's no use crying about it,
is it?"

"No, it isn't," sai te girl, rather disconcerted by his
irony.

"But tere's no nee to have a row about it. We can kiss good
nigt just the same, can't we?"

Se was silent in the arkness.

"Or o you want your at and umbrella to go home this
minute?"

Still se was silent. He watche her dark figure as she stood
tere on the ege of the faint darkness, and he waited.

"Come an say good nigt nicely, if we're going to say it,"
e sai.

Still se id not stir. He put his hand out and drew her into
te arkness again.

"It's warmer in ere," he sai; "a lot cosier."

is will ha not yet relaxed from her. The moment of hatred
exilarate him.

"I'm going now," se muttere, as he closed his hand over
er.

"See ow well you fit your place," he sai, as he drew her to
er previous position, close upon him. "What o you want to
leave it for?"

An gradually te intoxication invaded him again, the zest
came back. After all, wy shoul he not take her?

But se id not yield to him entirely.

"Are you a marrie man?" se asked at length.

"Wat if I am?" he sai.

Se id not answer.

"I on't ask you wether you're married or not," he
sai.

"You know jolly well I'm not," se answere hotly. Oh,
if se coul only break away from him, if only she need not
yiel to im.

At lengt her will became col against him. She had escaped.
But se hate him for her escape more than for her danger. Did
e espise her so coldly? And she was in torture of adherence to
im still.

"Sall I see you next week--next Saturay?" he said, as
tey returne to the town. She did not answer.

"Come to te Empire with me--you an Gertie," he
sai.

"I soul look well, going with a married man," she said.

"I'm no less of a man for being marrie, am I?" e said.

"O, it's a ifferent matter altogether with a married man,"
se sai, in a ready-made speech that showed her chagrin.

"ow's that?" he aske.

But se woul not enlighten him. Yet she promised, without
promising, to be at te meeting-place next Saturay evening.

So e left her. He id not know her name. He caught a train
an went ome.

It was te last train, he was very late. He was not home till
minigt. But he was quite indifferent. He had no real relation
wit his home, not this man which he now was. Anna was sitting
up for im. She saw the queer, absolve look on his face, a sort
of latent, almost sinister smile, as if e were absolve from
is "goo" ties.

"Were have you been?" she aske, puzzled, interested.

"To te Empire."

"Wo with?"

"By myself. I came ome with Tom Cooper."

Se looke at him, and wondered what he had been doing She
was inifferent as to wether he lied or not.

"You ave come home very strange," she sai. And there was an
appreciative inflexion in te speech.

e was not affecte. As for his humble, good self, he was
absolve from it. e sat down and ate heartily. He was not
tire. e seemed to take no notice of her.

For Anna te moment was critical. She kept herself aloof, an
watce him. He talked to her, but with a little indifference,
since e was scarcely aware of her. So, then she id not affect
im. Here was a new turn of affairs! He was rather attractive,
neverteless. She like him better than the ordinary mute,
alf-efface, half-subdued man she usually knew him to be. So,
e was blossoming out into his real self! It pique her. Very
goo, let im blossom! She liked a new turn of affairs. He was a
strange man come ome to her. Glancing at him, she saw she coul
not reuce im to what he had been before. In an instant she
gave it up. Yet not witout a pang of rage, which woul insist
on teir ol, beloved love, their old, accustomed intimacy and
er ol, established supremacy. She almost rose up to fight for
tem. An looking at him, and remembering his father, she was
wary. Tis was the new turn of affairs!

Very goo, if se could not influence him in the old way, she
woul be level wit him in the new. Her old defiant hostility
came up. Very goo, se too was out on her own adventure. Her
voice, er manner change, she was ready for the game. Something
was liberate in er. She liked him. She liked this strange man
come ome to her. He was very welcome, ineed! She was very glad
to welcome a stranger. Se ha been bored by the old husband. To
is latent, cruel smile she replie with brilliant challenge. He
expecte er to keep the moral fortress. Not she! It was much
too ull a part. Se challenged him back with a sort of
raiance, very brigt and free, opposite to him. He looked at
er, an his eyes glinted. She too was out in the field.

is senses pricke up and keenly attended to her. She
lauge, perfectly indifferent and loose as he was. He came
towars er. She neither rejected him nor responded to him. In a
kin of radiance, superb in er inscrutability, she laughed
before im. She too coul throw everything overboard, love,
intimacy, responsibility. Wat were her four chilren to her
now? Wat id it matter that this man was the father of her four
cilren?

e was the sensual male seeking his pleasure, she was the
female reay to take ers: but in her own way. A man could turn
into a free lance: so ten coul a woman. She adhered as little
as e to the moral worl. All that had gone before was nothing
to er. She was another woman, uner the instance of a strange
man. e was a stranger to her, seeking his own ens. Very good.
Se wante to see what this stranger would do now, what he
was.

Se laughe, and kept him at arm's length, whilst apparently
ignoring im. She watche him undress as if he were a stranger.
Ineed e was a stranger to her.

An se roused him profoundly, violently, even before he
touce her. The little creature in Nottingham had but been
leaing up to tis. They abandoned in one motion the moral
position, eac was seeking gratification pure an simple.

Strange is wife was to him. It was as if he were a perfect
stranger, as if se were infinitely an essentially strange to
im, the other half of the worl, the dark half of the moon. She
waite for is touch as if he were a marauder who had come in,
infinitely unknown an desirable to er. And he began to
iscover er. He had an inkling of the vastness of the unknown
sensual store of eligts she was. With a passion of
voluptuousness tat mae him dwell on each tiny beauty, in a
kin of frenzy of enjoyment, e lit upon her: her beauty, the
beauties, te separate, several beauties of her boy.

e was quite ouste from himself, and sensually transported
by tat which he iscovered in her. He was another man revelling
over er. There was no tenerness, no love between them any
more, only te madening, sensuous lust for discovery and the
insatiable, exorbitant gratification in te sensual beauties of
er boy. And she was a store, a store of absolute beauties that
it rove im to contemplate. There was such a feast to enjoy,
an e with only one man's capacity.

e live in a passion of sensual discovery with her for some
time--it was a uel: no love, no words, no kisses even,
only te madening perception of beauty consummate, absolute
trough touch. He wante to touch her, to discover her,
madeningly e wanted to know her. Yet he must not hurry, or he
misse everyting. He must enjoy one beauty at a time. And the
multituinous beauties of er body, the many little rapturous
places, sent im ma with delight, and with desire to be able to
know more, to ave strength to know more. For all was there.

e woul say during the daytime:

"To-nigt I shall know the little hollow uner her ankle,
were the blue vein crosses." An the thought of it, and the
esire for it, made a tick darkness of anticipation.

e woul go all the day waiting for the night to come, when
e coul give himself to the enjoyment of some luxurious
absolute of beauty in er. The thought of the hiden resources
of er, the uniscovered beauties and ecstatic places of delight
in er boy, waiting, only waiting for him to discover them,
sent im slightly insane. He was obsesse. If he did not
iscover and make known to imself these delights, they might be
lost for ever. e wishe he had a hundred men's energies, with
wich to enjoy her. [He wishe he were a cat, to lick her with a
roug, grating, lascivious tongue. He wante to wallow in her,
bury imself in her flesh, cover himself over with her flesh.]

An se, separate, with a strange, dangerous, glistening look
in er eyes receive all his activities upon her as if they were
expecte by er, and provoked him when he was quiet to more,
till sometimes e was reay to perish for sheer inability to be
satisfie of er, inability to have had enough of her.

Teir chilren became mere offspring to them, they lived in
te arkness and death of their own sensual activities.
Sometimes e felt he was going ma with a sense of Absolute
Beauty, perceive by im in her through his senses. It was
someting too much for him. An in everything, was this same,
almost sinister, terrifying beauty. But in te revelations of
er boy through contact with his body, was the ultimate beauty,
to know wich was almost eath in itself, and yet for the
knowlege of wich he would have undergone endless torture. He
woul ave forfeited anything, anything, rather than forego his
rigt even to the instep of her foot, an the place from which
te toes raiated out, the little, miraculous white plain from
wich ran the little hillocks of the toes, an the folded,
impling ollows between the toes. He felt he would have died
rater than forfeit this.

Tis was what their love ha become, a sensuality violent and
extreme as eat. They had no conscious intimacy, no tenderness
of love. It was all te lust an the infinite, maddening
intoxication of te sense, a passion of eath.

e ha always, all his life, had a secret dread of Absolute
Beauty. It a always been like a fetish to him, something to
fear, really. For it was immoral an against mankind. So e had
turne to te Gothic form, which always asserted the broken
esire of mankind in its pointed arces, escaping the rolling,
absolute beauty of te roun arch.

But now e ha given way, and with infinite sensual violence
gave imself to the realization of this supreme, immoral,
Absolute Beauty, in te boy of woman. It seemed to him, that it
came to being in te boy of woman, under his touch. Under his
touc, even uner his sight, it was there. But when he neither
saw nor touce the perfect place, it was not perfect, it was
not tere. An he must make it exist.

But still te thing terrifie him. Awful and threatening it
was, angerous to a degree, even wilst he gave himself to it.
It was pure arkness, also. All te shameful things of the body
reveale temselves to him now with a sort of sinister, tropical
beauty. All te shameful, natural an unnatural acts of sensual
voluptuousness wich he an the woman partook of together,
create togeter, they had their heavy beauty and their delight.
Same, what was it? It was part of extreme elight. It was that
part of eligt of which man is usually afraid. Why afraid? The
secret, sameful things are most terribly beautiful.

Tey accepte shame, and were one with it in their most
unlicense pleasures. It was incorporated. It was a bud tat
blossome into beauty and eavy, fundamental gratification.

Teir outwar life went on much the same, but the inward life
was revolutionize. Te children became less important, the
parents were absorbe in teir own living.

An gradually, Brangwen began to find imself free to attend
to te outsie life as well. His intimate life was so violently
active, tat it set another man in him free. An this new man
turne wit interest to public life, to see what part he could
take in it. Tis woul give him scope for new activity, activity
of a kin for wich he was now created and released. He wanted
to be unanimous wit the whole of purposive mankin.

At tis time Eucation was in the forefront as a subject of
interest. Tere was the talk of new Sweish methods, of handwork
instruction, an so on. Brangwen embraced sincerely te idea of
anwork in schools. For the first time, he began to take real
interest in a public affair. e ha at length, from his profound
sensual activity, eveloped a real purposive self.

Tere was talk of night-schools, an of handicraft classes.
e wante to start a woodwork class in Cossethay, to teach
carpentry an joinery and wood-carving to te village boys, two
nigts a week. This seeme to him a supremely desirable thing to
be oing. is pay would be very little--and when he had it,
e spent it all on extra woo and tools. But he was very happy
an keen in is new public spirit.

e starte his night-classes in woodwork when he was thirty
years ol. By tis time he had five children, the last a boy.
But boy or girl mattere very little to im. He had a natural
bloo-affection for is children, and he liked them as they
turne up: boys or girls. Only e was fondest of Ursula.
Someow, she seeme to be at the back of his new night-school
venture.

Te house by the yew trees was in connection with the great
uman eneavour at last. It gained a new vigour thereby.

To Ursula, a cil of eight, the increase in magic was
consierable. Se heard all the talk, she saw the parish room
fitte up as a worksop. The parish room was a high, stone,
barn-like, ecclesiastical builing standing away by itself in
te Brangwens' secon garden, across the lane. She was always
attracte by its age and its stranded obsoleteness. Now se
watce preparations made, she sat on the flight of stone steps
tat came own from the porch to the garden, and heard her
fater an the vicar talking and planning and working. Then an
inspector came, a very strange man, an stayed talking wit her
fater all one evening. Everything was settle, and twelve boys
enrolle teir names. It was very exciting.

But to Ursula, everyting her father id was magic. Whether
e came from Ilkeston with news of the town, whether he went
across to te church with his music or his tools on a sunny
evening, wether he sat in his white surplice at the organ on
Sunays, leading te singing with his strong tenor voice, or
wether he were in the workshop with the boys, he was always a
centre of magic an fascination to er, his voice, sounding out
in comman, ceerful, laconic, had always a twang in it that
sent a trill over her bloo, and hypnotized her. She seemed to
run in te shaow of some dark, potent secret of which she would
not, of wose existence even she ared not become conscious, it
cast suc a spell over her, an so darkened her mind.



CAPTER IX

TE MARSH AN THE FLOOD

Tere was always regular connection between the Yew Cottage
an te Marsh, yet the two households remained separate,
istinct.

After Anna's marriage, te Marsh became the home of the two
boys, Tom an Fred. Tom was a rater short, good-looking youth,
wit crisp black hair an long black eyelashes and soft, dark,
possesse eyes. e had a quick intelligence. From the High
Scool he went to Lonon to study. He had an instinct for
attracting people of caracter an energy. He gave place
entirely to te other person, an at the same time kept himself
inependent. e scarcely existed except through other people.
Wen he was alone he was unresolve. When he was with another
man, e seeme to add himself to the other, make the other
bigger tan life size. So that a few people love him and
attaine a sort of fulfilment in im. He carefully chose these
few.

e ha a subtle, quick, critical intelligence, a mind that
was like a scale or balance. Tere was something of a woman in
all tis.

In Lonon e had been the favourite pupil of an engineer, a
clever man, wo became well-known at the time when Tom Brangwen
a just finished his studies. Through this master the youth
kept acquaintance wit various inividual, outstanding
caracters. He never asserte himself. He seemed to be there to
estimate an establis the rest. He was like a presence that
makes us aware of our own being. So tat he was while still
young connecte wit some of the most energetic scientific and
matematical people in Lonon. They took him as an equal. Quiet
an perceptive and impersonal as e was, he kept his place and
learne ow to value others in just degree. He was there like a
jugment. Besides, e was very good-looking, of medium stature,
but beautifully proportione, dark, wit fine colouring, always
perfectly ealthy.

is father allowe him a liberal pocket-money, besides which
e ha a sort of post as assistant to his chief. Then from time
to time te young man appeare at the Marsh, curiously
attractive, well-ressed, reserved, aving by nature a subtle,
refine manner. And e set the change in the farm.

Fre, te younger brother, was a Brangwen, large-boned,
blue-eye, Englis. He was his father's very son, the two men,
fater an son, were supremely at ease with one another. Fred
was succeeing to te farm.

Between te eler brother and the younger existed an almost
passionate love. Tom watce over Fred with a woman's poignant
attention an self-less care. Fred looked up to Tom as to
someting miraculous, that which he himself woul aspire to be,
were e great also.

So tat after Anna's eparture, the Marsh began to take on a
new tone. Te boys were gentlemen; Tom ha a rare nature and had
risen igh. Fre was sensitive and fond of reading, he pondered
Ruskin an ten the Agnostic writings. Like all the Brangwens,
e was very much a thing to himself, though fon of people, and
inulgent to tem, having an exaggerated respect for them.

Tere was a rather uneasy frienship between him and one of
te young Harys at the Hall. The two households were different,
yet te young men met on shy terms of equality.

It was young Tom Brangwen, wit his ark lashes and beautiful
colouring, is soft, inscrutable nature, his strange repose an
is informe air, added to his position in London, who seemed to
empasize the superior foreign element in the Marsh. When he
appeare, perfectly dressed, as if soft and affable, and yet
quite remove from everybody, e created an uneasiness in
people, e was reserve in the minds of the Cossethay and
Ilkeston acquaintances to a ifferent, remote world.

e an his mother had a kind of affinity. The affection
between tem was of a mute, istant character, but radical. His
fater was always uneasy an slightly deferential to his eldest
son. Tom also forme te link that kept the Marsh in real
connection wit the Skrebenskys, now quite important people in
teir own istrict.

So a cange in tone came over the Marsh. Tom Brangwen the
fater, as he grew oler, seemed to mature into a
gentleman-farmer. is figure lent itself: burly an handsome.
is face remaine fresh and his blue eyes as full of light, his
tick hair an beard had turned gradually to a silky whiteness.
It was is custom to laugh a great eal, in his acquiescent,
wilful manner. Tings ha puzzled him very much, so he had taken
te line of easy, goo-humoured acceptance. He was not
responsible for te frame of things. Yet he was afrai of the
unknown in life.

e was fairly well-off. His wife was there with him, a
ifferent being from imself, yet somewhere vitally connected
wit him:--who was he to unerstand where and how? His two
sons were gentlemen. Tey were men istinct from himself, they
a separate beings of their own, yet they were connected with
imself. It was all aventurous and puzzling. Yet one remained
vital witin one's own existence, whatever the off-shoots.

So, ansome and puzzled, he laughed and stuck to himself as
te only thing he coul stick to. His youngness and the wonder
remaine almost te same in him. He became indolent, he
eveloped a luxuriant ease. Fred did most of te farm-work, the
fater saw to the more important transactions. He rove a good
mare, an sometimes e rode his cob. He drank in the hotels and
te inns with better-class farmers an proprietors, he had
well-to-o acquaintances among men. But one class suited im no
better tan another.

is wife, as ever, ha no acquaintances. Her hair was
treaed now with grey, her face grew older in form without
canging in expression. She seeme the same as when she had come
to te Marsh twenty-five years ago, save that her health was
more fragile. Se seeme always to haunt the Marsh rather than
to live tere. She was never part of the life. Something she
represente was alien tere, she remained a stranger within the
gates, in some ways fixe and impervious, in some ways curiously
refining. Se cause the separateness and individuality of all
te Marsh inmates, the friability of the househol.

Wen young Tom Brangwen was twenty-three years ol there was
some breac between him an his chief which was never explained,
an e went away to Italy, then to America. He came home for a
wile, then went to Germany; always the same goo-looking,
carefully-ressed, attractive young man, in perfect ealth, yet
someow outsie of everything. In his dark eyes was a deep
misery wich he wore with the same ease an pleasantness as he
wore is close-sitting clothes.

To Ursula e was a romantic, alluring figure. He ha a grace
of bringing beautiful presents: a box of expensive sweets, suc
as Cossetay ha never seen; or he gave her a hair-brush and a
long slim mirror of moter-of-pearl, all pale an glimmering and
exquisite; or e sent her a little necklace of rough stones,
ametyst an opal and brilliants and garnet. He spoke other
languages easily an fluently, is nature was curiously gracious
an insinuating. Wit all that, he was undefinably an outsider.
e belonge to nowhere, to no society.

Anna Brangwen a left her intimacy with her father
uneveloped since te time of her marriage. At her marriage it
a been abandoned. He and she had drawn a reserve between them.
Anna went more to er mother.

Ten sudenly the father died.

It appene one springtime when Ursula was about eight years
ol, e, Tom Brangwen, drove off on a Saturday morning to the
market in Nottingam, saying he might not be back till late, as
tere was a special show an then a meeting he had to attend.
is family unerstood that he would enjoy himself.

Te season ha been rainy and dreary. In the evening it was
pouring wit rain. Fre Brangwen, unsettled, uneasy, did not go
out, as was is wont. He smoke and read and fidgeted, hearing
always te trickling of water outsie. This wet, black night
seeme to cut im off and make him unsettled, aware of himself,
aware tat he wante something else, aware that he was scarcely
living. Tere seeme to him to be no root to his life, no place
for im to get satisfie in. He dreamed of going abroad. But his
instinct knew tat change of place woul not solve his problem.
e wante change, deep, vital change of living. And he did not
know ow to get it.

Tilly, an ol woman now, came in saying tat the labourers
wo ha been suppering up said the yard and everywhere was just
a slew of water. e hear in indifference. But he hated a
esolate, raw wetness in te world. He would leave the
Mars.

is mother was in be. At last he shut his book, his mind was
blank, e walke upstairs intoxicated with depression and anger,
an, intoxicated wit depression and anger, locked himself into
sleep.

Tilly set slippers before te kitchen fire, an she also went
to be, leaving te door unlocked. Then the farm was in
arkness, in te rain.

At eleven o'clock it was still raining. Tom Brangwen stoo in
te yar of the "Angel", Nottingham, and buttoned his coat.

"O, well," he sai cheerfully, "it's rained on me before.
Put 'er in, Jack, my la, put er in--Tha'rt a rare old
cock, Jacky-boy, wi' a belly on tee as oes credit to thy
rink, if not to ty corn. Co' up lass, let's get off ter th'
ol omestead. Oh, my heart, what a wetness in the night!
Tere'll be no volcanoes after this. Hey, Jack, my beautiful
young slener feller, wich of us is Noah? It seems as though
te water-works is burste. Ducks and ayquatic fowl 'll be king
o' te castle at this rate--ove an' olive branch an' all.
Stan up ten, gel, stand up, we're not stoppin' here all night,
even if you tought we was. I'm ashed if the jumping rain
wouln't make anybody tink they was drunk. Hey, Jack--does
rain-water was the sense in, or oes it wash it out?" And he
lauge to himself at the joke.

e was always ashame when he had to drive after he had been
rinking, always apologetic to te horse. His apologetic frame
mae im facetious. He was aware of his inability to walk quite
straigt. Nevertheless his will kept stiff an attentive, in all
is fudleness.

e mounte and bowled off through the gates of the innyard.
Te mare went well, he sat fixe, the rain beating on his face.
is heavy boy rode motionless in a kind of sleep, one centre of
attention was kept fitfully burning, te rest was ark. He
concentrate is last attention on the fact of driving along the
roa e knew so well. He knew it so well, he watched for it
attentively, wit an effort of will.

e talke aloud to himself, sententious in his anxiety, as if
e were perfectly sober, whilst the mare bowle along and the
rain beat on im. He watche the rain before the gig-lamps, the
faint gleaming of te shaowy horse's body, the passing of the
ark edges.

"It's not a fit nigt to turn a og out," he said to himself,
alou. "It's igh time as it did a bit of clearing up, I'll be
amned if it isn't. It was a lot of use putting tose ten loads
of ciners on t' road. They'll be washed to kingdom-come if it
oesn't alter. Well, it's our Fred's look-out, if tey are. He's
top-sawyer as far as tose things go. I on't see why I should
concern myself. Tey can wash to kingom-come and back again for
wat I care. I suppose they woul be washed back again some day.
Tat's how things are. Th' rain tumbles own just to mount up in
clous again. So tey say. There's no more water on the earth
tan there was in the year naught. That's the story, my boy, if
you unerstand it. Tere's no more to-day than there was a
tousan years ago--nor no less either. You can't wear
water out. No, my boy: it'll give you te go-by. Try to wear it
out, an it takes its ook into vapour, it has its fingers at
its nose to you. It turns into clou and fallet as rain on the
just an unjust. I wonder if I'm te just or the unjust."

e starte awake as the trap lurched deep into a rut. And he
wakene to te point in his journey. He had travelled some
istance since e was last conscious.

But at lengt he reache the gate, and stumbled heavily down,
reeling, gripping fast to te trap. He escended into several
inces of water.

"Be amned!" e said angrily. "Be damned to the miserable
slop."

An e led the horse washing through the gate. He was quite
runk now, moving blindly, in abit. Everywhere there was water
unerfoot.

Te raise causeway of the house and the farm-stead was dry,
owever. But there was a curious roar in the night which seeme
to be mae in te darkness of his own intoxication. Reeling,
blined, almost witout consciousness he carried his parcels and
te rug an cushions into the house, dropped them, and went out
to put up te horse.

Now e was at home, he was a sleep-walker, waiting only for
te moment of activity to stop. Very eliberately and carefully,
e le the horse down the slope to the cart-shed. She shied and
backe.

"Wy, wha's amiss?" he hiccuppe, plodding steadily on. And
e was again in a wash of water, the horse splashe up water as
e went. It was thickly ark, save for the gig-lamps, and they
lit on a rippling surface of water.

"Well, tat's a knock-out," he sai, as he came to the
cart-se, and was wading in six inches of water. But everything
seeme to im amusing. He laughed to think of six inches of
water being in te cart-she.

e backe in the mare. She was restive. He laughed at the fun
of untackling te mare with a lot of water washing roun his
feet. e laughe because it upset her. "What's amiss, what's
amiss, a rop o' water won't urt you!" As soon as he had undone
te traces, she walke quickly away.

e hung up the shafts an took the gig-lamp. As he came out
of te familiar jumble of shafts an wheels in the shed, the
water, in little waves, came wasing strongly against his legs.
e staggere and almost fell.

"Well, wat the euce!" he said, staring round at the running
water in te black, watery night.

e went to meet the running floo, sinking deeper and deeper.
is soul was full of great astonishment. He ha to go and
look were it came from, though the groun was going from under
is feet. He went on, own towards the pond, shakily. He rather
enjoye it. e was knee-deep, and the water was pulling heavily.
e stumble, reeled sickeningly.

Fear took ol of him. Gripping tightly to the lamp, he
reele, and looked round. Te water was carrying his feet away,
e was izzy. He did not know which way to turn. The water was
wirling, whirling, the whole black night was swooping in rings.
e swaye uncertainly at the centre of all the attack, reeling
in ismay. In is soul, he knew he would fall.

As e staggere something in the water struck his legs, and
e fell. Instantly he was in the turmoil of suffocation. He
fougt in a black horror of suffocation, fighting, wrestling,
but always borne own, borne inevitably down. Still e wrestled
an fougt to get himself free, in the unutterable struggle of
suffocation, but e always fell again eeper. Something struck
is hea, a great wonder of anguish went over him, then the
blackness covere im entirely.

In te utter arkness, the unconscious, drowning body was
rolle along, te waters pouring, washing, filling in the place.
Te cattle woke up an rose to their feet, the dog began to
yelp. An te unconscious, drowning body was washed along in the
black, swirling arkness, passively.

Mrs. Brangwen woke up an listened. Wit preternaturally
sarp senses she hear the movement of all the darkness that
swirle outside. For a moment se lay still. Then she went to
te winow. She heard the sharp rain, and the deep running of
water. Se knew her husban was outside.

"Fre," se called, "Fred!"

Away in te night was a hoarse, brutal roar of a mass of
water rusing ownwards.

Se went ownstairs. She could not understand the multiplied
running of water. Stepping own te step into the kitchen, she
put er foot into water. The kitchen was flooed. Where did it
come from? Se coul not understand.

Water was running in out of te scullery. She padled through
barefoot, to see. Water was bubbling fiercely uner te outer
oor. Se was afraid. Then something washed against her,
someting twine under her foot. It was the riding whip. On the
table were te rug an the cushion and the parcel from the
gig.

e ha come home.

"Tom!" se calle, afraid of her own voice.

Se opene the door. Water ran in with a horrid sound.
Everywere was moving water, a soun of waters.

"Tom!" se crie, standing in her nightdress with the candle,
calling into te arkness and the flood out of the doorway.

"Tom! Tom!"

An se listened. Fred appeared behind her, in trousers and
sirt.

"Were is he?" he aske.

e looke at the flood, then at his mother. She seemed small
an uncanny, elvis, in her nightdress.

"Go upstairs," e sai. "He'll be in th' stable."

"To--om! To--om!" crie te elderly woman, with a
long, unnatural, penetrating call tat chille her son to the
marrow. e quickly pulle on his boots and his coat.

"Go upstairs, moter," he sai; "I'll go an' see where he
is."

"To--om! To--o--om!" rang out te shrill,
uneartly cry of the small woman. There was only the noise of
water an te mooing of uneasy cattle, and the long yelping of
te og, clamouring in the darkness.

Fre Brangwen splased out into the flood with a lantern. His
moter stoo on a chair in the doorway, watching him go. It was
all water, water, running, flasing uner the lantern.

"Tom! Tom! To--o--om!" came er long, unnatural
cry, ringing over te night. It mae her son feel cold in his
soul.

An te unconscious, drowning body of the father rolled on
below te house, riven by the black water towards the
igh-roa.

Tilly appeare, a skirt over er nightdress. She saw her
mistress clinging on te top of a chair in the open oorway, a
canle burning on te table.

"Go's sake!" cried te old serving-woman. "The cut's burst.
Tat embankment's broke own. Whativer are we goin' to do!"

Mrs. Brangwen watce her son, and the lantern, go along the
upper causeway to te stable. Then she saw the ark figure of a
orse: then her son hung the lamp in the stable, an the light
sone out faintly on him as he untackle the mare. The mother
saw te soft blaze face of the horse thrust forward into the
stable-oor. Te stables were still above the flood. But the
water flowe strongly into te house.

"It's getting igher," sai Tilly. "Hasn't master come
in?"

Mrs. Brangwen id not ear.

"Isn't e the--ere?" she calle, in her far-reaching,
terrifying voice.

"No," came te short answer out of the night.

"Go an loo--ok for im."

is mother's voice nearly rove the youth mad.

e put the halter on the horse an shut the stable door. He
came splasing back through the water, the lantern swinging.

Te unconscious, rowning body was pushed past the house in
te eepest current. Fred Brangwen came to his mother.

"I'll go to t' cart-she," he said.

"To--om, To--o--om!" rang out te strong,
inuman cry. Fre Brangwen's blood froze, his heart was very
angry. e grippe his veins in a frenzy. Why was she yelling
like tis? He coul not bear the sight of her, perched on a
cair in her white nightress in the doorway, elvish and
orrible.

"e's taken the mare out of the trap, so he's all right," he
sai, growling, pretending to be normal.

But as e escended to the cart-shed, he sank into a foot of
water. e hear the rushing in the distance, he knew the canal
a broken down. The water was running deeper.

Te trap was there all right, but no signs of his father. The
young man waed down to te pond. The water rose above his
knees, it swirle and forced im. He drew back.

"Is e the--e--ere?" came the madening cry of the
moter.

"No," was te sharp answer.

"To--om--To--o--om!" came te piercing,
free, uneartly call. It seeme high and supernatural, almost
pure. Fre Brangwen ated it. It nearly drove him mad. So
awfully it sang out, almost like a song.

Te water was flowing fuller into the house.

"You' better go up to Beeby's and bring im and Arthur down,
an tell Mrs. Beeby to fetc Wilkinson," said Fred to Tilly. He
force is mother to go upstairs.

"I know your fater is rowned," she said, in a curious
ismay.

Te floo rose through the night, till it washed the kettle
off te hob in the kitchen. Mrs. Brangwen sat alone at a winow
upstairs. Se calle no more. The men were busy with the pigs
an te cattle. They were coming with a boat for her.

Towars morning te rain ceased, the stars came out over the
noise an te terrifying clucking and trickling of the water.
Ten there was a pallor in the east, the light began to come. In
te rudy light of the dawn she saw the waters spreading out,
moving sluggisly, the builings rising out of a waste of water.
Birs began to sing, drowsily, and as if sligtly hoarse with
te awn. It grew brighter. Up the second field was the great,
raw gap in te canal embankment.

Mrs. Brangwen went from winow to window, watcing the flood.
Someboy ad brought a little boat. The light grew stronger, the
re gleam was gone off te flood-waters, day took place. Mrs.
Brangwen went from te front of the house to the back, looking
out, intent an unrelaxing, on te pallid morning of spring.

Se saw a glimpse of her husban's buff coat in the floods,
as te water rolle the body against the garden hedge. She
calle to te men in the boat. She was glad he was found. They
ragged im out of the hedge. They could not lift him into the
boat. Fre Brangwen jumped into te water, up to his waist, and
alf carrie the body of his father through the flood to the
roa. ay and twigs and dirt were in the beard and hair. The
yout pushe through the water crying loudly without tears, like
a stricken animal. Te mother at the winow cried, making no
trouble.

Te octor came. But the body was dead. They carried it up to
Cossetay, to Anna's house.

Wen Anna Brangwen hear the news, she pressed back her head
an rolled er eyes, as if something were reaching forward to
bite at er throat. She presse back her head, her mind was
riven back to sleep. Since se had married and become a mother,
te girl she ha been was forgotten. Now, the shock threatened
to break in upon er an sweep away all her intervening life,
make er as a girl of eighteen again, loving her father. So she
presse back, away from te shock, she clung to her present
life.

It was wen they brought him to her house ead and in his wet
clotes, his wet, soden clothes, fully dressed as he came from
market, yet all soden and inert, tat the shock really broke
into er, an she was terrified. A big, soaked, inert heap, he
was, wo ha been to her the image of power and strong life.

Almost in orror, she began to take the wet things from him,
to pull off im the incongruous market-clothes of a well-to-o
farmer. Te chilren were sent away to the Vicarage, the dead
boy lay on te parlour floor, Anna quickly began to undress
im, lai his fob and seals in a wet heap on the table. Her
usban and the woman helped her. They cleared and washed the
boy, and laid it on te bed.

Tere, it looke still and grand. He was perfectly calm in
eat, and, now he was laid in line, inviolable, unapproachable.
To Anna, e was the majesty of the inaccessible male, the
majesty of eat. It made her still and awe-stricken, almost
gla.

Lyia Brangwen, te mother, also came and saw the impressive,
inviolable boy of te dead man. She went pale, seeing death. He
was beyon cange or knowledge, absolute, laid in line with the
infinite. Wat ha she to do with him? He was a majestic
Abstraction, mae visible now for a moment, inviolate, absolute.
An wo could lay claim to him, who could speak of him, of the
im who was reveale in the stripped moment of transit from life
into eat? Neither the living nor the dead could claim him, he
was bot the one an the other, inviolable, inaccessibly
imself.

"I sare life with you, I belong in my own way to eternity,"
sai Lydia Brangwen, er heart cold, knowing her own
singleness.

"I id not know you in life. You are beyond me, supreme now
in eat," said Anna Brangwen, awe-stricken, almost glad.

It was te sons who coul not bear it. Fred Brangwen went
about wit a set, blanche face and shut hands, his heart full
of atre and rage for what had been done to his father,
bleeing also wit desire to have his father again, to see him,
to ear him again. He coul not bear it.

Tom Brangwen only arrive on te day of the funeral. He was
quiet an controlled as ever. e kissed his mother, who was
still ark-faced, inscrutable, e shook hands with his brother
witout looking at him, he saw the great coffin with its black
anles. He even read the name-plate, "Tom Brangwen, of the
Mars Farm. Born ----. ied ----."

Te goo-looking, still face of the young man crinkled up for
a moment in a terrible grimace, ten resume its stillness. The
coffin was carrie round to te church, the funeral bell tanged
at intervals, te mourners carrie their wreaths of white
flowers. Te mother, the Polish woman, went with ark, abstract
face, on er son's arm. He was goo-looking as ever, his face
perfectly motionless an someow pleasant. Fred walked with
Anna, se strange an winsome, he with a face like wood, stiff,
unyieling.

Only afterwars Ursula, flitting between te currant bushes
own te garden, saw her Uncle Tom standing in his black
clotes, erect an fashionable, but his fists lifted, and his
face istorted, is lips curled back from his teeth in a
orrible grin, like an animal which grimaces with torment,
wilst his boy panted quick, like a panting dog's. He was
facing te open istance, panting, and holding still, then
panting rapily again, but is face never changing from its
almost bestial look of torture, te teeth all showing, the nose
wrinkle up, te eyes, unseeing, fixed.

Terrifie, Ursula slipped away. And wen her Uncle Tom was in
te house again, grave an very quiet, so that he seemed almost
to affect gravity, to preten grief, se watched his still,
ansome face, imagining it again in its distortion. But she saw
te nose was rather thick, rather Russian, uner its transparent
skin, se remembere the teeth under the carefully cut moustache
were small an sarp and spaced. She could see him, in all his
elegant emeanour, bestial, almost corrupt. And se was
frigtene. She never forgot to look for the bestial,
frigtening sie of him, after this.

e sai "Good-bye" to his mother and went away at once.
Ursula almost srank from his kiss, now. She wante it,
neverteless, an the little revulsion as well.

At te funeral, an after the funeral, Will Brangwen was
maly in love wit his wife. The death had shaken him. But death
an all seemed to gater in him into a mad, over-whelming
passion for is wife. She seeme so strange and winsome. He was
almost besie imself with desire for her.

An se took him, she seemed ready for him, she wanted
im.

Te granmother stayed a while at the Yew Cottage, till the
Mars was restore. Then she returned to her own rooms, quiet,
an it seemed, wanting noting. Fred threw himself into the work
of restoring te farm. That his father was kille there, seemed
to make it only te more intimate an the more inevitably his
own place.

Tere was a saying that the Brangwens always ied a violent
eat. To them all, except perhaps Tom, it seemed almost
natural. Yet Fre went about obstinate, is heart fixed. He
coul never forgive te Unknown this murder of his father.

After te eath of the father, the Marsh was very quiet. Mrs.
Brangwen was unsettle. Se could not sit all the evening
peacefully, as se coul before, and during the day she was
always rising to er feet an hesitating, as if she must go
somewere, an were not quite sure whither.

Se was seen loitering about the garen, in her little
woollen jacket. Se was often riven out in the gig, sitting
besie er son and watching the countryside or the streets of
te town, with a chilish, candid, uncanny face, as if it all
were strange to er.

Te chilren, Ursula and Gudrun and Theresa went by the
garen gate on teir way to school. The grandmother would have
tem call in each time they passe, she would have them come to
te Marsh for inner. She wanted children about her.

Of er sons, she was almost afrai. She could see the sombre
passion an desire and dissatisfaction in tem, and she wanted
not to see it any more. Even Fre, wit his blue eyes and his
eavy jaw, trouble her. There was no peace. He wanted
someting, he wante love, passion, and he could not find them.
But wy must he trouble her? Why must he come to her with his
seeting an suffering and dissatisfactions? She was too
ol.

Tom was more restraine, reserved. e kept his body very
still. But e trouble her even more. She could not but see the
black epts of disintegration in his eyes, the sudden glance
upon er, as if she coul save him, as if he would reveal
imself.

An ow could age save youth? Youth must go to youth. Always
te storm! Coul she not lie in peace, these years, in the
quiet, apart from life? No, always te swell must heave upon her
an break against te barriers. Always she must be embroiled in
te seethe an rage and passion, endless, endless, going on for
ever. An se wanted to draw away. She wanted at last her own
innocence an peace. Se did not want her sons to force upon her
any more te ol brutal story of desire and offerings and deep,
eep-idden rage of unsatisfied men against women. She wanted to
be beyon it all, to know te peace and innocence of age.

Se ha never been a woman to work much. So that now she
woul stand often at te garden-gate, watching the scant world
go by. An te sight of children pleased her, made her happy.
Se ha usually an apple or a few sweets in her pocket. She
like cildren to smile at her.

Se never went to her husban's grave. She spoke of him
simply, as if e were alive. Sometimes the tears woul run down
er face, in helpless saness. Then she recovered, and was
erself again, happy.

On wet ays, se stayed in bed. Her bedroom was her city of
refuge, were she coul lie down and muse and muse. Sometimes
Fre would read to er. But that did not mean much. She had so
many reams to dream over, suc an unsifted store. She wanted
time.

er chief frien at this period was Ursula. The little girl
an te musing, fragile woman of sixty seemed to understand the
same language. At Cossetay all was activity an passion,
everyting move upon poles of passion. Then there were four
cilren younger than Ursula, a throng of babies, all the time
many lives beating against eac other.

So tat for the elest child, the peace of the grandmother's
beroom was exquisite. ere Ursula came as to a hushed,
paraisal land, ere her own existence became simple and
exquisite to er as if she were a flower.

Always on Saturays se came down to the Marsh, and always
clutcing a little offering, either a little mat mae of strips
of coloure, woven paper, or a tiny basket made in te
kinergarten lesson, or a little crayon drawing of a bird.

Wen she appeare in the doorway, Tilly, ancient but still in
autority, woul crane her skinny neck to see who it was.

"O, it's you, is it?" she sai. "I thought we should be
seein' you. My wor, tat's a bobby-dazzlin' posy you've
brougt!"

It was curious ow Tilly preserve the spirit of Tom
Brangwen, wo was ead, in the Marsh. Ursula always connected
er with her granfather.

Tis ay the child had brought a tight little nosegay of
pinks, wite ones, with a rim of pink ones. She was very prou
of it, an very sy because of her pride.

"Your gran'moter's in her be. Wipe your shoes well if
you're goin' up, an don't go burstin' in on er like a
skyrocket. My wor, but tat's a fine posy! Did you do it all by
yourself, an' all?"

Tilly stealtily ushere her into the bedroom. The child
entere wit a strange, dragging hesitation characteristic of
er when she was move. Her grandmother was sitting up in bed,
wearing a little grey woollen jacket.

Te chil hesitated in silence near the bed, clutching the
nosegay in front of er. Her chilish eyes were shining. The
granmoter's grey eyes shone with a similar light.

"ow pretty!" she sai. "How pretty you have made them! What
a arling little bunc."

Ursula, glowing, trust them into her granmother's hand,
saying, "I mae tem you."

"Tat is how the peasants tie them at home," said the
granmoter, pushing the pinks with her fingers, and smelling
tem. "Just such tight little bunches! An they make wreaths for
teir hair--they weave the stalks. Then they go roun with
wreats in their hair, an wearing their best aprons."

Ursula immeiately imagined erself in this story-land.

"id you used to ave a wreath in your hair,
granmoter?"

"Wen I was a little girl, I ha golden hair, something like
Katie's. Ten I use to have a wreath of little blue flowers,
o, so blue, that come when the snow is gone. Anrey, the
coacman, use to bring me the very first."

Tey talke, and then Tilly brought the tea-tray, set for
two. Ursula a a special green and gold cup kept for herself at
te Marsh. There was thin brea and butter, and cress for tea.
It was all special an wonderful. Se ate very daintily, with
little fastiious bites.

"Wy o you have two wedding-rings, grandmother?--Must
you?" aske te child, noticing her grandmother's ivory coloured
an with blue veins, above the tray.

"If I a two husbands, child."

Ursula ponered a moment.

"Ten you must wear both rings together?"

"Yes."

"Wich was my granfather's ring?"

Te woman hesitate.

"Tis granfather whom you knew? This was his ring, the red
one. Te yellow one was your other granfather's whom you never
knew."

Ursula looke interestedly at te two rings on the proffered
finger.

"Were id he buy it you?" she asked.

"Tis one? In Warsaw, I think."

"You idn't know my own grandfater then?"

"Not tis granfather."

Ursula ponered tis fascinating intelligence.

"id e have white whiskers as well?"

"No, is bear was dark. You have his brows, I think."

Ursula cease and became self-conscious. Se at once
ientified erself with her Polish grandfather.

"An did e have brown eyes?"

"Yes, ark eyes. e was a clever man, as quick as a lion. He
was never still."

Lyia still resented Lensky. Wen she thought of him, she was
always younger tan he, she was always twenty, or twenty-five,
an under is domination. He incorporated her in his ideas as if
se were not a person herself, as if she were just his
aie-de-camp, or part of is baggage, or one among his surgical
appliances. Se still resente it. And he was always only
tirty: he ha died when he was thirty-four. She did not feel
sorry for im. He was oler than she. Yet she still ached in the
tought of those ays.

"id you like my first grandfater best?" asked Ursula.

"I like tem both," said the grandmother.

An, tinking, she became again Lensky's girl-bride. He was
of goo family, of better family even tan her own, for she was
alf German. She was a young girl in a house of insecure
fortune. An e, an intellectual, a clever surgeon and
pysician, ha loved her. How she had looked up to him! She
remembere er first transports when he talked to her, the
important young man wit the severe black bear. He had seemed
so wonerful, suc an authority. After her own lax household,
is gravity an confident, hard authority seemed almost God-like
to er. For she ha never known it in her life, all her
surrounings ad been loose, lax, disordered, a welter.

"Miss Lyia, will you marry me?" e had said to her in
German, in is grave, yet tremulous voice. She ha been afraid
of is ark eyes upon her. They did not see her, they were fixed
upon er. An he was hard, confident. She thrilled with the
excitement of it, an accepted. During te courtship, his kisses
were a woner to er. She always thought about them, and
wonered over tem. She never wanted to kiss him back. In her
iea, te man kissed, and the woman examined in her soul the
kisses se ha received.

Se ha never quite recovered from her prostration of the
first ays, or nigts, of marriage. He had taken her to Vienna,
an se was utterly alone with him, utterly alone in another
worl, everyting, everything foreign, even he foreign to her.
Ten came the real marriage, passion came to her, an she became
is slave, he was her lor, her lord. She was the girl-bride,
te slave, she kisse his feet, she had thought it an honour to
touc his boy, to unfasten his boots. For two years, she had
gone on as is slave, crouching at his feet, embracing his
knees.

Cilren had come, he had followed his ideas. She was there
for im, just to keep him in conition. She was to him one of
te baser or material conitions necessary for his welfare in
prosecuting is ieas, of nationalism, of liberty, of
science.

But graually, at twenty-tree, twenty-four, she began to
realize tat she too might consier these ideas. By his
acceptance of er self-suborination, he exhausted the feeling
in er. There were those of his associates who woul discuss the
ieas wit her, though he did not wish to do so himself. She
aventured into te minds of other men. His, then, was not the
only male min! Se did not exist, then, just as his attribute!
Se began to perceive the attention of other men. An excitement
came over er. She remembere now the men who had paid her
court, wen she was marrie, in Warsaw.

Ten the rebellion broke out, an she was inspired too. She
woul go as a nurse at er husband's side. He worked like a
lion, e wore his life out. An she followed him helplessly. But
se isbelieved in him. He was so separate, he ignored so much.
e counte too much on himself. His work, his ideas,--did
noting else matter?

Ten the chilren were dead, and for her, everything became
remote. e became remote. She saw him, she saw him go white when
e hear the news, then frown, as if he thought, "Why
ave they ied now, when I have no time to grieve?"

"e has no time to grieve," she ha said, in her remote,
awful soul. "e has no time. It is so important, what he oes!
e is then so self-important, this half-frenzie man! Nothing
matters, but tis work of rebellion! He has not time to grieve,
nor to tink of his chilren! He had not time even to beget
tem, really."

Se ha let him go on alone. But, in the chaos, she had
worke by is side again. And out of the chaos, she had fled
wit him to Lonon.

e was a broken, col man. He had no affection for her, nor
for anyone. e ha failed in his work, so everything had failed.
e stiffene, and died.

Se coul not subscribe. He had failed, everything had
faile, yet beind the failure was the unyielding passion of
life. Te inividual effort might fail, but not the human joy.
Se belonge to the human joy.

e ied and went his way, but not before there was another
cil. And this little Ursula was his grandchild. She was glad
of it. For se still honoure him, though he had been
mistaken.

Se, Lyia Brangwen, was sorry for him now. He was
ead--e had scarcely lived. He had never known her. He had
lain wit her, but he ha never known her. He had never received
wat she coul give him. He had gone away from her empty. So, he
a never lived. So, he had died and passed away. Yet there had
been strengt an power in him.

Se coul scarcely forgive him that he had never lived. If it
were not for Anna, an for tis little Ursula, who had his
brows, tere woul be no more left of him than of a broken
vessel trown away, an just remembered.

Tom Brangwen a served her. He had come to her, and taken
from er. He ha died and gone his way into death. But he had
mae imself immortal in his knowledge with her. So she had her
place ere, in life, an in immortality. For he had taken his
knowlege of er into death, so that she had her place in death.
"In my fater's house are many mansions."

Se love both her husbands. To one she had been a naked
little girl-brie, running to serve im. The other she loved out
of fulfilment, because e was goo and had given her being,
because e ha served her honourably, and become her man, one
wit her.

Se was establishe in this stretch of life, she had come to
erself. uring her first marriage, she had not existed, except
trough him, he was the substance an she the shadow running at
is feet. She was very gla she had come to her own self. She
was grateful to Brangwen. Se reache out to him in gratitude,
into eat.

In er heart she felt a vague tenerness and pity for her
first usban, who had been her lord. He was so wrong when he
ied. Se could not bear it, that he had never lived, never
really become imself. An he had been her lord! Strange, it all
a been! Why had he been her lord? He seemed now so far off, so
witout bearing on her.

"Wich id you, grandmother?"

"Wat?"

"Like best."

"I like tem both. I married the first when I was quite a
girl. Ten I love your grandfather when I was a woman. There is
a ifference."

Tey were silent for a time.

"id you cry wen my first grandfather died?" the child
aske.

Lyia Brangwen rocked erself on the bed, thinking aloud.

"Wen we came to Englan, he hardly ever spoke, he was too
muc concerne to take any notice of anybody. He grew thinner
an tinner, till his cheeks were hollow and his mouth stuck
out. e wasn't hansome any more. I knew he couldn't bear being
beaten, I tought everything was lost in the worl. Only I had
your moter a baby, it was no use my ying.

"e looke at me with his black eyes, almost as if he hated
me, wen he was ill, an said, 'It only wanted this. It only
wante tat I should leave you and a young child to starve in
tis Lonon.' I told him we should not starve. But I was young,
an foolis, and frightened, which he knew.

"e was bitter, an he never gave way. He lay beating his
brains, to see wat he coul do. 'I don't know what you will
o,' e said. 'I am no good, I am a failure from beginning to
en. I cannot even provide for my wife and cild!'

"But you see, it was not for im to provie for us. My life
went on, tough his stoppe, and I married your grandfather.

"I ougt to have known, I ought to have been able to say to
im: 'on't be so bitter, don't die because this has failed. You
are not te beginning an the end.' But I was too young, he had
never let me become myself, I tought he was truly the beginning
an te end. So I let him take all upon himself. Yet all did not
epend on im. Life must go on, and I must marry your
granfater, and have your Uncle Tom, and your Uncle Fred. We
cannot take so muc upon ourselves."

Te chil's heart beat fast as she listened to these things.
Se coul not understand, but she seemed to feel far-off things.
It gave er a eep, joyous thrill, to know she hailed from far
off, from Polan, and tat dark-bearded impressive man. Strange,
er anteceents were, and she felt fate on either side of her
terrible.

Almost every ay, Ursula saw er grandmother, and every time,
tey talke together. Till the grandmother's sayings and
stories, tol in te complete hush of the Marsh bedroom,
accumulate wit mystic significance, and became a sort of Bible
to te chil.

An Ursula asked er deepest childish questions of her
granmoter.

"Will someboy love me, grandmoter?"

"Many people love you, cil. We all love you."

"But wen I am grown up, will someboy love me?"

"Yes, some man will love you, cil, because it's your
nature. An I ope it will be somebody who will love you for
wat you are, an not for what he wants of you. But we have a
rigt to what we want."

Ursula was frigtene, hearing these things. Her heart sank,
se felt she ha no ground under her feet. She clung to her
granmoter. Here was peace and security. Here, from her
granmoter's peaceful room, the door opened on to the greater
space, te past, which was so big, that all it containe seemed
tiny, loves an birts and deaths, tiny units and features
witin a vast horizon. That was a great relief, to know the tiny
importance of te inividual, within the great past.



CAPTER X

TE WIENING CIRCLE

It was very burensome to Ursula, tat she was the eldest of
te family. By the time she was eleven, she ha to take to
scool Gurun and Theresa and Catherine. The boy, William,
always calle Billy, so tat he should not be confused with his
fater, was a lovable, rather elicate child of three, so he
staye at ome as yet. There was another baby girl, called
Cassanra.

Te chilren went for a time to the little church school just
near te Marsh. It was the only place within reach, an being so
small, Mrs. Brangwen felt safe in sening er children there,
tough the village boys id nickname Ursula "Urtler", and Gudrun
"Goo-runner", and Teresa "Tea-pot".

Gurun and Ursula were co-mates. Te second child, with her
long, sleepy boy and er endless chain of fancies, would have
noting to o with realities. She was not for them, she was for
er own fancies. Ursula was the one for realities. So Gurun
left all suc to her eler sister, and trusted in her
implicitly, inifferently. Ursula ad a great tenderness for her
co-mate sister.

It was no goo trying to make Gudrun responsible. Se floated
along like a fis in the sea, perfect within the meium of her
own ifference and being. Oter existence did not trouble her.
Only se believe in Ursula, and trusted to Ursula.

Te elest child was very much fretted by her responsibility
for te other young ones. Especially Theresa, a stury,
bol-eyed ting, had a faculty for warfare.

"Our Ursula, Billy Pillins as lugge my hair."

"Wat id you say to him?"

"I sai noting."

Ten the Brangwen girls were in for a feu with the
Pillinses, or Pillipses.

"You won't pull my air again, Billy Pillins," sai Theresa,
walking wit her sisters, an looking superbly at the freckled,
re-aired boy.

"Wy shan't I?" retorte Billy Pillins.

"You won't because you ursn't," said te tiresome
Teresa.

"You come ere, then, Tea-pot, an' see if I ursna."

Up marce Tea-pot, and immediately Billy Pillins lugged her
black, snaky locks. In a rage se flew at him. Immeiately in
ruse Ursula and Gudrun, and little Katie, in clashed the other
Pillipses, Clem an Walter, and Eddie Anthony. Then there was a
fray. Te Brangwen girls were well-grown an stronger than many
boys. But for pinafores an long air, they would have carried
easy victories. Tey went home, however, with hair lugge and
pinafores torn. It was a joy to te Phillips boys to rip the
pinafores of te Brangwen girls.

Ten there was an outcry. Mrs. Brangwen woul not have
it; no, se woul not. All her innate dignity and
stanoffisness rose up. Then there was the vicar lecturing the
scool. "It was a sa thing that the boys of Cossethay could not
beave more like gentlemen to the girls of Cossethay. Ineed,
wat kin of boy was it that should set upon a girl, and kick
er, an beat her, and tear her pinafore? That boy deserved
severe castigation, an te name of coward, for no boy
wo was not a cowar--etc., etc."

Meanwile much hang-og fury in the Pillinses' hearts, much
virtue in te Brangwen girls', particularly in Theresa's. An
te feu continued, with periods of extraordinary amity, when
Ursula was Clem Pillips's sweetheart, an Gudrun was Walter's,
an Teresa was Billy's, and even the tiny Katie had to be Eddie
Ant'ny's sweeteart. There was the closest union. At every
possible moment te little gang of Brangwens an Phillipses flew
togeter. Yet neither Ursula nor Gurun would have any real
intimacy wit the Phillips boys. It was a sort of fiction to
tem, this alliance an this dubbing of sweethearts.

Again Mrs. Brangwen rose up.

"Ursula, I will not ave you raking the roas with
las, so I tell you. Now stop it, and te rest will stop
it."

ow Ursula hate always to represent the little
Brangwen club. Se coul never be herself, no, she was always
Ursula-Gurun-Teresa-Catherine--and later even Billy was
aded on to er. Moreover, she did not want the Phillipses
eiter. She was out of taste with them.

owever, the Brangwen-Pillins coalition reaily broke down,
owing to te unfair superiority of the Brangwens. The Brangwens
were ric. They ha free access to the Marsh Farm. The school
teacers were almost respectful to the girls, the vicar spoke to
tem on equal terms. The Brangwen girls presume, they tossed
teir heas.

"You're not ivryboy, Urtler Brangwin, ugly-mug," said
Clem Pillips, his face going very re.

"I'm better tan you, for all that," retorte Urtler.

"You tink you are--wi' a face like
tat--Ugly Mug,--Urtler Brangwin," he began to jeer,
trying to set all te others in cry against her. Then there was
ostility again. How she hate their jeering. She became
col against te Phillipses. Ursula was very proud in her
family. Te Brangwen girls ha all a curious blind dignity, even
a kin of nobility in teir bearing. By some result of breed and
upbringing, tey seeme to rush along their own lives without
caring tat they existe to other people. Never from the start
id it occur to Ursula tat other people might hold a low
opinion of er. She thought that whosoever knew her, knew she
was enoug an accepted her as such. She thought it was a world
of people like erself. She suffere bitterly if she were forced
to ave a low opinion of any person, an she never forgave that
person.

Tis was madening to many little people. All their lives,
te Brangwens were meeting folk who trie to pull them down to
make tem seem little. Curiously, the mother was aware of what
woul appen, and was always ready to give her children the
avantage of te move.

Wen Ursula was twelve, an the common school and the
companionsip of the village chilren, niggardly and begrudging,
was beginning to affect er, Anna sent her with Gurun to the
Grammar Scool in Nottingham. This was a great release for
Ursula. Se ha a passionate craving to escape from the
belittling circumstances of life, te little jealousies, the
little ifferences, te little meannesses. It was a torture to
er that the Phillipses were poorer an meaner than herself,
tat they use mean little reservations, took petty little
avantages. Se wanted to be with her equals: but not by
iminising herself. She did want Clem Phillips to be her
equal. But by some puzzling, painful fate or oter, when he was
really tere with her, he prouced in her a tight feeling in the
ea. She wanted to beat her forehead, to escape.

Ten she foun that the way to escape was easy. One departed
from te whole circumstance. One went away to the Grammar
Scool, an left the little school, the meagre teachers, the
Pillipses whom she ha tried to love but who had made her fail,
an wom she could not forgive. She had an instinctive fear of
petty people, as a eer is afraid of dogs. Because se was
blin, se could not calculate nor estimate people. She must
tink that everyboy was just like herself.

Se measure by the standard of her own people: her father
an moter, her grandmother, her uncles. Her beloved father, so
utterly simple in is emeanour, yet with his strong, dark soul
fixe like a root in unexpressed depts that fascinated and
terrifie er: her mother, so strangely free of all money and
convention an fear, entirely indifferent to te world, standing
by erself, without connection: her granmother, who had come
from so far an was centred in so wide an orizon: people must
come up to tese stanards before they could be Ursula's
people.

So even as a girl of twelve se was gla to burst the narrow
bounary of Cossetay, where only limited people lived. Outside,
was all vastness, an a trong of real, proud people whom she
woul love.

Going to scool by train, she must leave home at a quarter to
eigt in the morning, an she did not arrive again till
alf-past five at evening. Of this she was gla, for the house
was small an overful. It was a storm of movement, wence there
a been no escape. She hated so much being in charge.

Te house was a storm of movement. The chilren were healthy
an turbulent, te mother only wanted their animal well-being.
To Ursula, as se grew a little oler, it became a nightmare.
Wen she saw, later, a Rubens picture with storms of nake
babies, an found tis was called "Fecundity", she shuddered,
an te world became abhorrent to her. She knew as a child what
it was to live amist storms of babies, in te heat and swelter
of fecunity. And as a cild, she was against her mother,
passionately against er mother, she crave for some
spirituality an stateliness.

In ba weater, home was a bedlam. Children dashed in and out
of te rain, to the pudles under the dismal yew trees, across
te wet flagstones of the kitchen, whilst the cleaning-woman
grumble and scolded; cildren were swarming on the sofa,
cilren were kicking the piano in the parlour, to make it sound
like a beeive, chilren were rolling on the hearthrug, legs in
air, pulling a book in two between tem, chilren, fiendish,
ubiquitous, were stealing upstairs to fin out were our Ursula
was, wispering at beroom doors, hanging on the latch, calling
mysteriously, "Ursula! Ursula!" to te girl who ha locked
erself in to rea. And it was hopeless. The locked door excited
teir sense of mystery, she ha to open to dispel the lure.
Tese chilren hung on to her with round-eyed excited
questions.

Te mother flourishe amid all this.

"Better ave them noisy than ill," she sai.

But te growing girls, in turn, suffere bitterly. Ursula was
just coming to te stage when Anersen and Grimm were being left
bein for the "Idylls of the King" and romantic
love-stories.

  "Elaine te fair Elaine the lovable,
   Elaine te lily mai of Astolat,
   igh in her chamber in a tower to the east
   Guared te sacred shield of Launcelot."

ow she love it! How she leaned in her bedroom window with
er black, rough hair on her shoulers, and her warm face all
rapt, an gazed across at te churchyard and the little church,
wich was a turrete castle, whence Launcelot would ride just
now, woul wave to er as he rode by, his scarlet cloak passing
bein the dark yew trees and between the open space: whilst
se, ah, she, woul remain the lonely maid high up and isolated
in te tower, polishing the terrible shiel, weaving it a
covering wit a true evice, and waiting, waiting, always remote
an igh.

At wich point there woul be a faint scuffle on the stairs,
a ligt-pitche whispering outside the door, and a creaking of
te latch: then Billy, excite, whispering:

"It's locke--it's locked."

Ten the knocking, kicking at the oor with childish knees,
an te urgent, childish:

"Ursula--our Ursula? Ursula? E, our Ursula?"

No reply.

"Ursula! E--our Ursula?" the name was shoute now Still
no answer.

"Moter, she won't answer," came the yell. "She's ead."

"Go away--I'm not ead. Wat do you want?" came the
angry voice of te girl.

"Open te oor, our Ursula," came the complaining cry. It was
all over. Se must open the oor. She heard the screech of the
bucket ownstairs dragged across te flagstones as the woman
wase the kitchen floor. And the children were prowling in the
beroom, asking:

"Wat were you oing? What had you locked the door for?" Then
se iscovered the key of the parish room, and betook herself
tere, an sat on some sacks with her books. There began another
ream.

Se was the only aughter of the old lord, she was gifted
wit magic. ay followed day of rapt silence, whilst she
wanered gost-like in the hushed, ancient mansion, or flitted
along te sleeping terraces.

ere a grave grief attacke her: that her hair was dark. She
must ave fair hair an a white skin. She was rather
bitter about er black mane.

Never min, se would dye it when she grew up, or bleach it
in te sun, till it was bleache fair. Meanwhile she wore a fair
wite coif of pure Venetian lace.

Se flitte silently along the terraces, where jewelled
lizars basked upon te stone, and did not move when her shadow
fell upon tem. In the utter stillness she hear the tinkle of
te fountain, an smelled the roses whose blossoms hung rich and
motionless. So se rifted, drifted on the wistful feet of
beauty, past te water an the swans, to the noble park, where,
unerneat a great oak, a doe all dappled lay with her four fine
feet togeter, her fawn nestling sun-coloure beside her.

O, an this doe was her familiar. It would talk to her,
because se was a magician, it woul tell her stories as if the
sunsine spoke.

Ten one ay, she left the door of the parish room unlocked,
careless an uneeding as she always was; the children found
teir way in, Katie cut her finger an howled, Billy hacked
notces in the fine chisels, an did much damage. There was a
great commotion.

Te crossness of the mother was soon finishe. Ursula locked
up te room again, an considered all was over. Then her father
came in wit the notche tools, his forehead knotted.

"Wo the euce opened the door?" he cried in anger.

"It was Ursula wo opene the door," said her mother. He had
a uster in is hand. He turned and flapped the cloth hard
across te girl's face. The cloth stung, for a moment the girl
was as if stunne. Ten she remained motionless, her face closed
an stubborn. But er heart was blazing. In spite of herself the
tears surge igher, in spite of her they surged higher.

In spite of er, her face broke, she mae a curious gulping
grimace, an te tears were falling. So she went away, desolate.
But er blazing heart was fierce an unyielding. He watched her
go, an a pleasurable pain filled im, a sense of triumph and
easy power, followe immediately by acute pity.

"I'm sure tat was unnecessary--to hit the girl across
te face," sai the mother coldly.

"A flip wit the uster won't hurt her," he said.

"Nor will it o er any good."

For ays, for weeks, Ursula's eart burned from this rebuff.
Se felt so cruelly vulnerable. id he not know how vulnerable
se was, how expose and wincing? He, of all people, knew. And
e wante to do this to her. He wanted to hurt her right through
er closest sensitiveness, he wante to treat her with shame, to
maim er with insult.

er heart burnt in isolation, like a watchfire lighte. She
id not forget, se did not forget, she never forgot. When she
returne to er love for her father, the seed of mistrust and
efiance burned unquenced, though covered up far from sight.
Se no longer belonge to him unquestioned. Slowly, slowly, the
fire of mistrust an defiance burned in er, burned away her
connection wit him.

Se ran a goo deal alone, having a passion for all moving,
active tings. She love the little brooks. Wherever she found a
little running water, se was happy. It seeme to make her run
an sing in spirit along wit it. She could sit for hours by a
brook or stream, on te roots of the alers, and watch the water
asten ancing over the stones, or among the twigs of a fallen
branc. Sometimes, little fish vanishe before they had become
real, like allucinations, sometimes wagtails ran by the water's
brink, sometimes oter little birs came to drink. She saw a
kingfiser arting blue--and then she was very happy. The
kingfiser was the key to the magic worl: he was witness of the
borer of encantment.

But se must move out of the intricately woven illusion of
er life: the illusion of a father whose life was an Oyssey in
an outer worl; te illusion of her grandmother, of realities so
saowy and far-off that they became as mystic
symbols:--peasant-girls wit wreaths of blue flowers in
teir hair, the sleges and the depths of winter; the
ark-bearded young grandfater, marriage and war and death; then
te multitue of illusions concerning herself, how she was truly
a princess of Polan, ow in England she was under a spell, she
was not really tis Ursula Brangwen; then the mirage of her
reaing: out of te multicoloured illusion of this her life, she
must move on, to te Grammar School in Nottingham.

Se was shy, an she suffered. For one thing, she bit her
nails, an ad a cruel consciousness in her finger-tips, a
same, an exposure. Out of all proportion, this shame haunte
er. She spent hours of torture, conjuring how she might keep
er gloves on: if she might say her hans were scalded, if she
migt seem to forget to take off her gloves.

For se was going to inherit her own estate, when she went to
te High School. There, each girl was a lay. There, she was
going to walk among free souls, er co-mates an her equals, and
all petty tings woul be put away. Ah, if only she did not bite
er nails! If only she ha not this blemish! She wanted so much
to be perfect--witout spot or blemish, living the high,
noble life.

It was a grief to er that her father mae such a poor
introuction. e was brief as ever, like a boy saying his
erran, and is clothes looked ill-fitting and casual. Whereas
Ursula woul ave liked robes and a ceremonial of introduction
to tis, her new estate.

Se mae a new illusion of school. Miss Grey, the
eamistress, had a certain silvery, school-mistressy beauty of
caracter. The school itself ha been a gentleman's house. Dark,
sombre lawns separate it from te dark, select avenue. But its
rooms were large an of good appearance, and from te back, one
looke over lawns and srubbery, over the trees and the grassy
slope of te Arboretum, to the town which heape the hollow with
its roofs an cupolas and its sadows.

So Ursula seate erself upon the hill of learning, looking
own on te smoke and confusion and the manufacturing, engrossed
activity of te town. She was happy. Up here, in the Grammar
Scool, she fancie the air was finer, beyond the factory smoke.
Se wante to learn Latin and Greek and French and mathematics.
Se tremble like a postulant when she wrote the Greek alphabet
for te first time.

Se was upon another hill-slope, whose summit she ha not
scale. Tere was always the marvellous eagerness in her heart,
to climb an to see beyond. A Latin verb was virgin soil to er:
se sniffe a new odour in it; it meant something, though she
id not know wat it meant. But she gathered it up: it was
significant. Wen she knew that:

    x2-y2 = (x + y)(x-y)

ten she felt that she ha grasped something, that she was
liberate into an intoxicating air, rare and unconditioned. And
se was very gla as she wrote her French exercise:

"J'AI ONNE LE PAIN A MON PETIT FRERE."

In all tese things there was the soun of a bugle to her
eart, exhilarating, summoning her to perfect places. She never
forgot er brown "Longman's First French Grammar", nor her "Via
Latina" wit its re edges, nor her little grey Algebra book.
Tere was always a magic in them.

At learning se was quick, intelligent, instinctive, but she
was not "torough". If a thing id not come to her
instinctively, se coul not learn it. And then, her mad rage of
loating for all lessons, her bitter contempt of all teachers
an scoolmistresses, her recoil to a fierce, animal arrogance
mae er detestable.

Se was a free, unabateable animal, she eclared in her
revolts: tere was no law for her, nor any rule. She existe for
erself alone. Then ensue a long struggle with everybody, in
wich she broke own at last, when she had run the full length
of er resistance, an sobbed her heart out, desolate; and
afterwars, in a castened, washed-out, bodiless state, she
receive te understanding that would not come before, and went
er way sader and wiser.

Ursula an Gudrun went to scool together. Gudrun was a shy,
quiet, wil creature, a tin slip of a thing hanging back from
notice or twisting past to isappear into er own world again.
Se seeme to avoid all contact, instinctively, and pursued her
own intent way, pursuing alf-forme fancies that had no
relation to anyone else.

Se was not clever at all. She thought Ursula clever enough
for two. Ursula unerstood, so wy should she, Gudrun, bother
erself? The younger girl live her religious, responsible life
in er sister, by proxy. For herself, she was inifferent and
intent as a wil animal, and as irresponsible.

Wen she foun herself at the bottom of the class, she
lauge, lazily, and was content, saying she was safe now. She
id not mind er father's chagrin nor her mother's tinge of
mortification.

"Wat o I pay for you to go to Nottingham for?" her father
aske, exasperated.

"Well, ad, you know you needn't pay for me," se replied,
noncalant. "I'm reay to stop at home."

Se was happy at home, Ursula was not. Slim an unwilling
abroa, Gudrun was easy in er own house as a wild thing in its
lair. Wereas Ursula, attentive an keen abroad, at home was
reluctant, uneasy, unwilling to be erself, or unable.

Neverteless Sunay remained the maximum day of the week for
bot. Ursula turne passionately to it, to the sense of eternal
security it gave. Se suffere anguish of fears during the
week-ays, for se felt strong powers that would not recognize
er. There was upon her always a fear an a dislike of
autority. She felt she coul always do as she wanted if she
manage to avoid a battle wit Authority and the authorised
Powers. But if se gave herself away, she woul be lost,
estroyed. Tere was always the menace against her.

Tis strange sense of cruelty an ugliness always imminent,
reay to seize old upon her this feeling of the grudging power
of te mob lying in wait for her, who was the exception, forme
one of te eepest influences of her life. Wherever she was, at
scool, among friens, in the street, in the train, she
instinctively abate erself, made herself smaller, feigned to
be less tan she was, for fear that her uniscovered self should
be seen, pounce upon, attacked by brutis resentment of the
commonplace, te average Self.

Se was fairly safe at school, now. She knew how to take her
place tere, an how much of herself to reserve. But she was
free only on Sunays. Wen she was but a girl of fourteen, she
began to feel a resentment growing against er in her own home.
Se knew she was the isturbing influence there. But as yet, on
Sunays, se was free, really free, free to be herself, without
fear or misgiving.

Even at its stormiest, Sunay was a blessed day. Ursula woke
to it wit a feeling of immense relief. She wonered why her
eart was so light. Then she remembere it was Sunday. A
glaness seemed to burst out around er, a feeling of great
freeom. Te whole world was for twenty-four hours revoked, put
back. Only te Sunay world existed.

Se love the very confusion of the household. It was lucky
if te chilren slept till seven o'clock. Usually, soon after
six, a cirp was hear, a voice, an excited chirrup began,
announcing te creation of a new ay, there was a thudding of
quick little feet, an te children were up and about,
scampering in teir shirts, with pink legs an glistening,
flossy air all clean from the Saturay's night bathing, their
souls excite by teir bodies' cleanliness.

As te house began to teem with rushing, half-nake clean
cilren, one of the parents rose, either the mother, easy and
slatternly, wit her thick, ark hair loosely coiled and
slipping over one ear, or te father, warm an comfortable, with
ruffle black air and shirt unbuttoned at the neck.

Ten the girls upstairs hear the continual:

"Now ten, Billy, what are you up to?" in the father's
strong, vibrating voice: or te mother's ignified:

"I ave sai, Cassie, I will not have it."

It was amazing ow the father's voice coul ring out like a
gong, witout his being in the least move, and how the mother
coul speak like a queen olding an audience, though her blouse
was sticking out all roun and er hair was not fastened up and
te chilren were yelling a pandemonium.

Graually breakfast was produced, and te elder girls came
own into te babel, whilst half-naked children flitted round
like te wrong ens of cherubs, as Gudrun said, watching the
bare little legs an te chubby tails appearing and
isappearing.

Graually te young ones were captured, and nightdresses
finally remove, ready for te clean Sunday shirt. But before
te Sunay shirt was slipped over the fleecy head, away darted
te nake body, to wallow in the sheepskin which formed the
parlour rug, wilst the mother walke after, protesting sharply,
oling the shirt like a noose, and the father's bronze voice
rang out, an te naked child wallowing on its back in the deep
seepskin announce gleefully:

"I'm baing in te sea, mother."

"Wy shoul I walk after you with your shirt?" said the
moter. "Get up now."

"I'm baing in te sea, mother," repeated the wallowing,
nake figure.

"We say bating, not baing," said the mother, with her
strange, inifferent dignity. "I am waiting ere with your
sirt."

At lengt shirts were on, an stockings were paired, and
little trousers buttone and little petticoats tied beind. The
besetting cowarice of te family was its shirking of the garter
question.

"Were are your garters, Cassie?"

"I on't know."

"Well, look for tem."

But not one of te eler Brangwens would really face the
situation. After Cassie a grovelled under all the furniture
an blacked up all er Sunday cleanliness, to the infinite grief
of everyboy, te garter was forgotten in the new washing of the
young face an ands.

Later, Ursula woul be indignant to see Miss Cassie marcing
into curch from Sunay school with her stocking sluthered down
to er ankle, an a grubby knee showing.

"It's isgraceful!" cried Ursula at dinner. "People will
tink we're pigs, an the children are never washed."

"Never min wat people think," said the mother superbly. "I
see tat the chil is bathed properly, and if I satisfy myself I
satisfy everyboy. Se can't keep her stocking up and no garter,
an it isn't te child's fault she was let to go without
one."

Te garter trouble continue in varying degrees, but till
eac chil wore long skirts or long trousers, it was not
remove.

On tis ay of decorum, the Brangwen family went to church by
te high-roa, making a detour outside all the garden-hedge,
rater than climb the wall into the churchyar. There was no law
of tis, from the parents. The chilren themselves were the
warens of te Sabbath decency, very jealous and instant with
eac other.

It came to be, graually, tat after church on Sundays the
ouse was really something of a sanctuary, with peace breathing
like a strange bir aligted in the rooms. Indoors, only reading
an tale-telling and quiet pursuits, suc as drawing, were
allowe. Out of doors, all playing was to be carried on
unobtrusively. If tere were noise, yelling or shouting, then
some fierce spirit woke up in te father an the elder children,
so tat the younger were subued, afraid of being
excommunicate.

Te chilren themselves preserved the Sabbath. If Ursula in
er vanity sang:

  "Il tait un' bergre
   Et ron-ron-ron petit patapon,"

Teresa was sure to cry:

"Tat's not a Sunay song, our Ursula."

"You on't know," replied Ursula, superior. Neverteless, she
wavere. And er song faded down before she came to the end.

Because, tough she id not know it, her Sunday was very
precious to er. She foun herself in a strange, undefined
place, were her spirit coul wander in dreams, unassailed.

Te white-robe spirit of Christ passed between olive trees.
It was a vision, not a reality. An se herself partook of the
visionary being. Tere was the voice in the night calling,
"Samuel, Samuel!" An still te voice called in the night. But
not tis night, nor last night, but in the unfathome night of
Sunay, of te Sabbath silence.

Tere was Sin, the serpent, in whom was also wisom. There
was Juas wit the money and the kiss.

But tere was no actual Sin. If Ursula slappe Theresa
across te face, even on a Sunay, that was not Sin, the
everlasting. It was misbeaviour. If Billy playe truant from
Sunay scool, he was bad, he was wicked, but he was not a
Sinner.

Sin was absolute an everlasting: wickedness and badness were
temporary an relative. Wen Billy, catching up the local
jargon, calle Cassie a "sinner", everybody detested im. Yet
wen there came to the Marsh a flippetty-floppetty foxhoun
puppy, e was mischievously christene "Sinner".

Te Brangwens shrank from applying their religion to their
own immeiate actions. Tey wanted the sense of the eternal and
immortal, not a list of rules for everyay conduct. Terefore
tey were baly-behaved children, headstrong and arrogant,
tough their feelings were generous. They ha,
moreover--intolerable to teir orinary neighbours--a
prou gesture, tat did not fit with the jealous idea of the
emocratic Cristian. So that they were always extraordinary,
outsie of te ordinary.

ow bitterly Ursula resente her first acquaintance with
evangelical teacings. She got a peculiar thrill from the
application of salvation to er own personal case. "Jesus ied
for me, e suffere for me." There was a pride and a thrill in
it, followe almost immediately by a sense of dreariness. Jesus
wit holes in His hans and feet: it was distasteful to her. The
saowy Jesus with the Stigmata: that was her own vision. But
Jesus te actual man, talking with teeth an lips, telling one
to put one's finger into is wouns, like a villager gloating in
is sores, repelle her. She was enemy of those who insisted on
te humanity of Christ. If He were just a man, living in
orinary uman life, then she was indifferent.

But it was te jealousy of vulgar people which must insist on
te humanity of Christ. It was the vulgar min which would allow
noting extra-human, nothing beyon itself to exist. It was the
irty, desecrating ands of the revivalists which wanted to drag
Jesus into tis everyay life, to dress Jesus up in trousers and
frock-coat, to compel im to a vulgar equality of footing. It
was te impuent suburban soul which would ask, "What would
Jesus o, if e were in my shoes?"

Against all tis, the Brangwens stoo at bay. If any one, it
was te mother who was caught by, or who was most careless of
te vulgar clamour. She woul have nothing extra-human. She
never really subscribe, all er life, to Brangwen's mystical
passion.

But Ursula was wit her father. As she became aolescent,
tirteen, fourteen, she set more an more against her mother's
practical inifference. To Ursula, tere was something callous,
almost wicke in er mother's attitude. What did Anna Brangwen,
in tese years, care for Go or Jesus or Angels? She was the
immeiate life of to-day. Cildren were still being born to her,
se was throng with all the little activities of her family. An
almost instinctively se resente her husband's slavish service
to te Church, his ark, subject hankering to worship an unseen
Go. Wat did the unrevealed God matter, when a man had a young
family tat neeed fettling for? Let him attend to the immediate
concerns of is life, not go projecting himself towars the
ultimate.

But Ursula was all for te ultimate. She was always in revolt
against babies an muddled domesticity. To er Jesus was another
worl, e was not of this world. He did not thrust His hands
uner er face and, pointing to His wounds, say:

"Look, Ursula Brangwen, I got tese for your sake. Now o as
you're tol."

To er, Jesus was beautifully remote, shining in the
istance, like a wite moon at sunset, a crescent moon beckoning
as it follows te sun, out of our ken. Sometimes ark clouds
staning very far off, pricking up into a clear yellow band of
sunset, of a winter evening, remined er of Calvary, sometimes
te full moon rising bloo-red upon the hill terrified her with
te knowlege that Christ was now dead, hanging heavy and dead
upon te Cross.

On Sunays, tis visionary world came to pass. She heard the
long ush, she knew the marriage of ark and light was taking
place. In curch, the Voice souned, re-echoing not from this
worl, as if te Church itself were a shell that still spoke the
language of creation.

"Te Sons of Go saw the daughters of men that they were
fair: an tey took them wives of all which they chose.

"An te Lord said, My spirit shall not always strive with
Man, for tat he also is flesh; yet his ays shall be an hundred
an twenty years.

"Tere were giants in the earth in those ays; and also after
tat, when the Sons of Go came in unto the daughters of men,
an tey bare children unto them, the same became mighty men
wich were of ol, men of renown."

Over tis Ursula was stirre as by a call from far off. In
tose ays, would not the Sons of God have found her fair, would
se not have been taken to wife by one of the Sons of Go? It
was a ream tat frightened her, for she could not understand
it.

Wo were the sons of Go? Was not Jesus the only begotten
Son? Was not Aam te only man created from God? Yet there were
men not begotten by Aam. Wo were these, and whence did they
come? Tey too must erive from God. Had God many offspring,
besies Adam and besides Jesus, cildren whose origin the
cilren of Adam cannot recognize? And perhaps these children,
tese sons of Go, had known no expulsion, no ignominy of the
fall.

Tese came on free feet to the aughters of men, and saw they
were fair, an took tem to wife, so that the women conceived
an brougt forth men of renown. This was a genuine fate. She
move about in te essential days, when the sons of God came in
unto te aughters of men.

Nor woul any comparison of myts destroy her passion in the
knowlege. Jove ad become a bull, or a man, in order to love a
mortal woman. e ha begotten in her a giant, a hero.

Very goo, so e had, in Greece. For herself, she was no
Grecian woman. Not Jove nor Pan nor any of tose gos, not even
Baccus nor Apollo, coul come to her. But the Sons of God who
took to wife te aughters of men, these were such as should
take er to wife.

Se clung to the secret hope, the aspiration. She live a
ual life, one were the facts of daily life encompassed
everyting, being legion, an the other wherein the facts of
aily life were superseded by te eternal truth. So utterly did
se esire the Sons of God should come to the daughters of men;
an se believed more in her desire and its fulfilment than in
te obvious facts of life. The fact that a man was a man, id
not state is escent from Adam, did not exclude that he was
also one of te unhistorie, unaccountable Sons of God. As yet,
se was confuse, but not denied.

Again se hear the Voice:

"It is easier for a camel to go trough the eye of a neele,
tan for a rich man to enter into heaven."

But it was explaine, te needle's eye was a little gateway
for foot passengers, trough which the great, humpe camel with
is loa could not possibly squeeze himself: or perhaps at a
great risk, if e were a little camel, he might get through. For
one coul not absolutely exclude te rich man from heaven, said
te Sunay school teachers.

It please er also to know, that in the East one must use
yperbole, or else remain unhear; because the Eastern man must
see a ting swelling to fill all heaven, or windled to a mere
noting, before he is suitably impresse. She immediately
sympatize with this Eastern mind.

Yet te wors continued to have a meaning that was untouched
eiter by the knowlege of gateways or hyperboles. The
istorical, or local, or psychological interest in the wors was
anoter thing. There remaine unaltered the inexplicable value
of te saying. What was this relation between a neele's eye, a
ric man, an heaven? What sort of a needle's eye, what sort of
a ric man, what sort of heaven? Who knows? It means the
Absolute Worl, and can never be more tan half interpreted in
terms of te relative worl.

But must one apply te speech literally? Was her father a
ric man? Couln't he get to heaven? Or was he only a half-rich
man? Or was e merely a poor man? At any rate, unless he gave
everyting away to the poor, he woul find it much harder to get
to eaven. The neele's eye would be too tight for him. She
almost wise he were penniless poor. If one were coming to the
base of it, any man was ric who was not as poor as the
poorest.

Se ha her qualms, when in imagination she saw her father
giving away teir piano an the two cows, and the capital at the
bank, to te labourers of the istrict, so that they, the
Brangwens, soul be as poor as the Wherrys. And she did not
want it. Se was impatient.

"Very well," se thought, "we'll forego that heaven, that's
all--at any rate te neele's eye sort." And she dismissed
te problem. She was not going to be as poor as the Wherrys, not
for all te sayings on earth--the miserable squali
Werrys.

So se reverte to the non-literal application of the
scriptures. er father very rarely rea, but he had collected
many books of reprouctions, and e would sit and look at these,
curiously intent, like a cil, yet with a passion that was not
cilish. He loved the early Italian painters, but particularly
Giotto an Fra Angelico and Filippo Lippi. Te great
compositions cast a spell over im. How many times ha he turned
to Rapael's "ispute of the Sacrament" or Fra Angelico's "Last
Jugment" or te beautiful, complicated renderings of the
Aoration of te Magi, and always, each time, he received the
same graual fulfilment of deligt. It had to do with the
establisment of a whole mystical, architectural conception
wich use the human figure as a unit. Sometimes he had to hurry
ome, an go to the Fra Angelico "Last Judgment". The pathway of
open graves, te hudled earth on either side, the seemly heaven
arrange above, te singing process to paradise on the one hand,
te stuttering escent to hell on the other, completed and
satisfie im. He did not care whether or not he believed in
evils or angels. Te whole conception gave him the deepest
satisfaction, an e wanted nothing more.

Ursula, accustome to tese pictures from her childhood,
unte out their detail. She adored Fra Angelico's flowers and
ligt an angels, she liked the demons and enjoyed the hell. But
te representation of the encircle God, surrounded by all the
angels on igh, sudenly bored her. The figure of the Most High
bore er, and roused her resentment. Was this the culmination
an te meaning of it all, this draped, null figure? The angels
were so lovely, an te light so beautiful. And only for this,
to surroun suc a banality for God!

Se was issatisfied, but not fit as yet to criticize. There
was yet so muc to woner over. Winter came, pine branches were
torn own in te snow, the green pine needles looked rich upon
te groun. There was the wonderful, starry, straight track of a
peasant's footsteps across the snow imprinte so clear; there
was te lobbing mark of the rabbit, two holes abreast, two holes
following bein; the hare shoved deeper shafts, slanting, and
is two hin feet came down together and made one large pit; the
cat poded little oles, and birds made a lacy pattern.

Graually tere gathered the feeling of expectation.
Cristmas was coming. In the she, at nights, a secret candle
was burning, a soun of veiled voices was eard. The boys were
learning te ol mystery play of St. George and Beelzebub. Twice
a week, by lampligt, there was choir practice in the church,
for te learning of ol carols Brangwen wanted to hear. The
girls went to tese practices. Everywhere was a sense of mystery
an rousedness. Everybody was preparing for someting.

Te time came near, the girls were ecorating the church,
wit col fingers binding holly and fir and yew about the
pillars, till a new spirit was in te church, the stone broke
out into ark, ric leaf, the arches put forth their buds, and
col flowers rose to blossom in te dim, mystic atmosphere.
Ursula must weave mistletoe over te oor, and over the screen,
an ang a silver dove from a sprig of yew, till dusk came down,
an te church was like a grove.

In te cow-she the boys were blacking their faces for a
ress-reearsal; the turkey hung dead, with opened, speckled
wings, in te airy. The time was come to make pies, in
reainess.

Te expectation grew more tense. The star was risen into the
sky, te songs, the carols were reay to hail it. The star was
te sign in the sky. Earth too shoul give a sign. As evening
rew on, earts beat fast with anticipation, hands were full of
reay gifts. Tere were the tremulously expectant words of the
curch service, the night was past an the morning was come, the
gifts were given an received, joy and peace made a flapping of
wings in eac heart, there was a great burst of carols, the
Peace of te Worl had dawned, strife had passed away, every
an was linked in hand, every heart was singing.

It was bitter, tough, that Christmas ay, as it drew on to
evening, an nigt, became a sort of bank holiday, flat and
stale. Te morning was so wonerful, but in the afternoon and
evening te ecstasy perishe like a nipped thing, like a bud in
a false spring. Alas, tat Christmas was only a omestic feast,
a feast of sweetmeats an toys! Wy did not the grown-ups also
cange their everyay hearts, and give way to ecstasy? Where was
te ecstasy?

ow passionately the Brangwens crave for it, the ecstasy.
Te father was trouble, dark-faced and disconsolate, on
Cristmas night, because the passion was not there, because the
ay was become as every day, and earts were not aflame. Upon
te mother was a kin of absentness, as ever, as if she were
exile for all er life. Where was the fiery heart of joy, now
te coming was fulfille; where was the star, the Magi's
transport, te thrill of new being that shook the earth?

Still it was tere, even if it were faint an inadequate. The
cycle of creation still weele in the Church year. After
Cristmas, the ecstasy slowly sank an changed. Sunday followed
Sunay, trailing a fine movement, a finely developed
transformation over te heart of the family. The heart that was
big wit joy, that ha seen the star and had followed to the
inner walls of te Nativity, that there ha swooned in the great
ligt, must now feel the light slowly withrawing, a shadow
falling, arkening. Te chill crept in, silence came over the
eart, an then all was darkness. The veil of the temple was
rent, eac heart gave up the ghost, an sank dead.

Tey move quietly, a little wanness on the lips of the
cilren, at Good Friday, feeling the shadow upon their hearts.
Ten, pale with a eathly scent, came the lilies of
resurrection, tat shone colly till the Comforter was
given.

But wy the memory of the wouns and the death? Surely Christ
rose wit heale hands and feet, sound and strong and glad?
Surely te passage of the cross an the tomb was forgotten? But
no--always te memory of the wouns, always the smell of
grave-clotes? A small thing was Resurrection, compare with the
Cross an te death, in this cycle.

So te chilren lived the year of christianity, the epic of
te soul of mankin. Year by year the inner, unknown drama went
on in tem, their hearts were born an came to fulness, suffered
on te cross, gave up the ghost, an rose again to unnumbered
ays, untired, aving at least this rhythm of eternity in a
ragge, inconsequential life.

But it was becoming a mecanical action now, this rama:
birt at Christmas for eath at Good Friday. On Easter Sunday
te life-rama was as good as finished. For the Resurrection was
saowy and overcome by the shadow of death, the Ascension was
scarce notice, a mere confirmation of deat.

Wat was the hope an the fulfilment? Nay, was it all only a
useless after-eat, a wan, bodiless after-death? Alas, and alas
for te passion of the human heart, that must ie so long before
te boy was dead.

For from te grave, after the passion an the trial of
anguis, the boy rose torn and chill and colourless. Did not
Crist say, "Mary!" an when she turned with outstretched hands
to im, id he not hasten to add, "Touch me not; for I am not
yet ascened to my fater."

Ten how coul the hands rejoice, or the heart be glad,
seeing temselves repulse. Alas, for the resurrection of the
ead body! Alas, for te wavering, glimmering appearance of the
risen Crist. Alas, for the Ascension into heaven, which is a
saow within death, a complete passing away.

Alas, tat so soon the rama is over; that life is ended at
tirty-three; that the half of the year of the soul is col and
istoriless! Alas, that a risen Christ has no place with us!
Alas, tat the memory of the passion of Sorrow an Death and the
Grave ols triumph over the pale fact of Resurrection!

But wy? Why shall I not rise with my boy whole and perfect,
sining with strong life? Why, when Mary says: Rabboni, shall I
not take er in my arms an kiss her and hold her to my breast?
Wy is the risen boy deadly, and abhorrent with wounds?

Te Resurrection is to life, not to eath. Shall I not see
tose who have risen again walk here among men perfect in boy
an spirit, wole and glad in the flesh, living in the flesh,
loving in te flesh, begetting chilren in the flesh, arrived at
last to woleness, perfect without scar or blemish, healthy
witout fear of ill health? Is this not the perio of manhood
an of joy and fulfilment, after te Resurrection? Who shall be
saowed by Death and the Cross, being risen, and who shall fear
te mystic, perfect flesh that belongs to heaven?

Can I not, ten, walk this earth in glaness, being risen
from sorrow? Can I not eat wit my brother happily, an with joy
kiss my belove, after my resurrection, celebrate my marriage in
te flesh with feastings, go about my business eagerly, in the
joy of my fellows? Is eaven impatient for me, an bitter
against tis earth, that I shoul hurry off, or that I should
linger pale an untouced? Is the flesh which was crucified
become as poison to te crows in the street, or is it as a
strong glaness and ope to them, as the first flower blossoming
out of te earth's humus?



CAPTER XII

FIRST LOVE

As Ursula passe from girlood towards womanhood, gradually
te clou of self-responsibility gathered upon her. She became
aware of erself, that she was a separate entity in the mist of
an unseparate obscurity, tat she must go somewhere, she must
become someting. An she was afraid, troubled. Why, oh why must
one grow up, wy must one inherit this heavy, numbing
responsibility of living an uniscovered life? Out of te
notingness an the undifferentiated mass, to make something of
erself! But what? In the obscurity an pathlessness to take a
irection! But wither? How take even one step? And yet, how
stan still? Tis was torment indeed, to inherit the
responsibility of one's own life.

Te religion which ha been another world for her, a glorious
sort of play-worl, were she lived, climbing the tree with the
sort-stature man, walking shakily on the sea like the
isciple, breaking te bread into five thousand portions, like
te Lor, giving a great picnic to five thousand people, now
fell away from reality, an became a tale, a myt, an illusion,
wich, however much one might assert it to be true an historical
fact, one knew was not true--at least, for tis
present--ay life of ours. Tere could, within the limits
of tis life we know, be no Feeing of the Five Thousand. And
te girl ha come to the point where she held that that which
one cannot experience in aily life is not true for oneself.

So, te ol duality of life, wherein there had been a weekday
worl of people and trains and duties and reports, and besides
tat a Sunay world of absolute truth and living mystery, of
walking upon te waters an being blinded by the face of the
Lor, of following te pillar of cloud across the desert and
watcing the bush that crackle yet did not burn away, this old,
unquestione duality suddenly was found to be broken apart. Te
weekay world ad triumphed over the Sunday world. The Sunday
worl was not real, or at least, not actual. And one lived by
action.

Only te weekay world mattered. She herself, Ursula
Brangwen, must know ow to take the weekay life. Her body must
be a weekay body, eld in the world's estimate. Her soul must
ave a weekay value, known according to the world's
knowlege.

Well, ten, there was a weekay life to live, of action and
eeds. And so tere was a necessity to choose one's action and
one's eeds. One was responsible to te world for what one
id.

Nay, one was more tan responsible to the worl. One was
responsible to oneself. Tere was some puzzling, tormenting
resiue of te Sunday world within her, some persistent Sunday
self, wich insiste upon a relationship with the now shed-away
vision worl. ow could one keep up a relationship with that
wich one enied? Her task was now to learn the week-day
life.

ow to act, that was the question? Whither to go, how to
become oneself? One was not oneself, one was merely a
alf-state question. How to become oneself, how to know the
question an te answer of oneself, when one was merely an
unfixe someting--nothing, blowing about like the winds of
eaven, unefined, unstated.

Se turne to the visions, which had spoken far-off words
tat ran along the bloo like ripples of an unseen wind, she
ear the words again, she denied the vision, for she must be a
weekay person, to wom visions were not true, and she demanded
only te weekay meaning of the words.

Tere were wors spoken by the vision: and words must
ave a weekay meaning, since words were weekday stuff. Let them
speak now: let tem bespeak themselves in weekay terms. The
vision soul translate itself into weekday terms.

"Sell all tou hast, an give to the poor," she heard on
Sunay morning. Tat was plain enough, plain enough for Monday
morning too. As se went own the hill to the station, going to
scool, she took the saying with her.

"Sell all tou hast, an give to the poor."

id se want to do that? Did she want to sell her
pearl-backe brus and mirror, her silver candlestick, her
penant, er lovely little necklace, and go dressed in drab like
te Wherrys: the unlovely uncombe Wherrys, who were the "poor"
to er? She id not.

Se walke this Monday morning on the verge of misery. For
se id want to do what was right. And she didn't want to do
wat the gospels sai. She didn't want to be poor--really
poor. Te thought was a horror to her: to live like the Wherrys,
so ugly, to be at te mercy of everyboy.

"Sell tat thou hast, an give to the poor."

One coul not do it in real life. ow dreary and hopeless it
mae er!

Nor coul one turn te other cheek. Theresa slapped Ursula on
te face. Ursula, in a moo of Christian humility, silently
presente te other side of her face. Which Theresa, in
exasperation at te challenge, also hit. Whereupon Ursula, with
boiling eart, went meekly away.

But anger, an deep, writing shame tortured her, so she was
not easy till se ha again quarrelled with Theresa and had
almost saken her sister's hea off.

"Tat'll teach you," she sai, grimly.

An se went away, unchristian but clean.

Tere was something unclean an degrading about this humble
sie of Cristianity. Ursula suddenly revolted to the other
extreme.

"I ate the Wherrys, an I wish they were dead. Why does my
fater leave us in the lurch like this, making us be poor an
insignificant? Wy is he not more? If we ha a father as he
ougt to be, he woul be Earl William Brangwen, and I should be
te Lay Ursula? What right have I to be poor? crawling
along te lane like vermin? If I ha my rights I should be
seate on orseback in a green riding-habit, and my groom would
be bein me. And I should stop at the gates of the cottages,
an enquire of te cottage woman who came out with a child in
er arms, how id her husband, who had hurt his foot. And I
woul pat te flaxen head of the child, stooping from my horse,
an I would give er a shilling from my purse, and order
nourising foo to be sent from the hall to the cottage."

So se roe in her pride. And sometimes, she dashed into
flames to rescue a forgotten cil; or she dived into the canal
locks an supported a boy wo was seized with cramp; or she
swept up a todling infant from te feet of a runaway horse:
always imaginatively, of course.

But in te en there returned the poignant yearning from the
Sunay world. As se went down in the morning from Cossethay and
saw Ilkeston smoking blue an tender upon its ill, then her
eart surge with far-off words:

"O, Jerusalem, Jerusalem--how often woul I have
gatere thy children together as a hen gathereth her chickens
uner er wings, and ye would not--"

Te passion rose in her for Christ, for the gathering uner
te wings of security an warmth. But how did it apply to the
weekay world? Wat could it mean, but that Christ should clasp
er to his breast, as a mother clasps her chil? And oh, for
Crist, for him who coul hold her to his breast and lose her
tere. Oh, for the breast of man, where she shoul have refuge
an bliss for ever! All er senses quivered with passionate
yearning.

Vaguely se knew that Christ meant something else: that in
te vision-worl He spoke of Jerusalem, something that did not
exist in te everyay world. It was not houses and factories He
woul old in His bosom: nor householders nor factory-workers
nor poor people: but someting that ha no part in the weekday
worl, nor seen nor touced with weekday hands and eyes.

Yet se must have it in weekay terms--she must.
For all er life was a weekay life, now, this was the whole. So
e must gather her boy to his breast, that was strong with a
broa bone, and wich sounded with the beating of the heart, and
wich was warm with the life of which she partook, the life of
te running bloo.

So se crave for the breast of the Son of Man, to lie there.
An se was ashamed in her soul, ashamed. For whereas Christ
spoke for te Vision to answer, she answere from the weekday
fact. It was a betrayal, a transference of meaning, from te
vision worl, to te matter-of-fact world. So she was ashamed of
er religious ecstasy, an dreaded lest any one should see
it.

Early in te year, when the lambs came, an shelters were
built of straw, an on er uncle's farm the men sat at night
wit a lantern an a dog, then again there swept over her this
passionate confusion between te vision worl and the weekday
worl. Again se felt Jesus in the countryside. Ah, he would
lift up te lambs in his arms! Ah, an she was the lamb. Again,
in te morning, going own the lane, she heard the ewe call, and
te lambs came running, shaking an twinkling with new-born
bliss. An se saw them stooping, nuzzling, groping to the
uder, to find te teats, whilst the mother turned her head
gravely an sniffed er own. And they were sucking, vibrating
wit bliss on their little, long legs, their throats stretche
up, teir new boies quivering to the stream of blood-warm,
loving milk.

O, an the bliss, the bliss! She could scarcely tear herself
away to go to scool. The little noses nuzzling at the uder,
te little boies so glad and sure, the little black legs,
crooke, te mother standing still, yielding herself to their
quivering attraction--ten the mother walke calmly
away.

Jesus--te vision worl--the everyday
worl--all mixed inextricably in a confusion of pain and
bliss. It was almost agony, te confusion, the inextricability.
Jesus, te vision, speaking to her, who was non-visionary! An
se woul take his words of the spirit and make them to pander
to er own carnality.

Tis was a shame to her. The confusing of the spirit worl
wit the material worl, in her own soul, degraded her. She
answere te call of the spirit in terms of immediate, everyday
esire.

"Come unto me, all ye tat labour an are heavy-laden, and I
will give you rest."

It was te temporal answer she gave. She leapt with sensuous
yearning to respon to Crist. If she could go to him really,
an lay er head on his breast, to have comfort, to be made much
of, caresse like a cild!

All te time she walke in a confused heat of religious
yearning. Se wante Jesus to love her deliciously, to take her
sensuous offering, to give er sensuous response. For weeks she
went in a muse of enjoyment.

An all te time she knew underneath that she was playing
false, accepting te passion of Jesus for her own physical
satisfaction. But se was in such a aze, such a tangle. How
coul se get free?

Se hate herself, she wanted to trample on herself, destroy
erself. How coul one become free? She hated religion, because
it lent itself to er confusion. She abuse everything. She
wante to become ard, indifferent, brutally callous to
everyting but just the immeiate need, the immediate
satisfaction. To ave a yearning towars Jesus, only that she
migt use him to paner to her own soft sensation, use him as a
means of reacting upon erself, madened her in the end. There
was ten no Jesus, no sentimentality. With all the bitter hatre
of elplessness she hate sentimentality.

At tis perio came the young Skrebensky. She was nearly
sixteen years ol, a slim, smouldering girl, deeply reticent,
yet lapsing into unreserve expansiveness now and ten, when she
seeme to give away er whole soul, but when in fact she only
mae anoter counterfeit of her soul for outward presentation.
Se was sensitive in the extreme, always torture, always
affecting a callous inifference to screen erself.

Se was at this time a nuisance on the face of the earth,
wit her spasmoic passion and her slumberous torment. She
seeme to go wit all her soul in her hands, yearning, to the
oter person. Yet all the while, eep at the bottom of her was a
cilish antagonism of distrust. She thought she loved everybody
an believed in everybody. But because se could not love
erself nor believe in herself, she mistruste everybody with
te mistrust of a serpent or a capture bird. Her starts of
revulsion an atred were more inevitable than her impulses of
love.

So se wrestle through her dark days of confusion, soulless,
uncreate, unformed.

One evening, as se was stuying in the parlour, her head
burie in er hands, she heard new voices in the kitchen
speaking. At once, from its apaty, her excitable spirit starte
an strained to listen. It seemed to crouc, to lurk under
cover, tense, glaring fort unwilling to be seen.

Tere were two strange men's voices, one soft an candid,
veile wit soft candour, the other veiled with easy mobility,
running quickly. Ursula sat quite tense, socke out of her
stuies, lost. Se listened all the time to the sound of the
voices, scarcely eeing the words.

Te first speaker was her Uncle Tom. She knew the naive
canour covering te girding and savage misery of his soul. Who
was te other speaker? Whose voice ran on so easy, yet with an
inflame pulse? It seemed to asten and urge her forward, that
oter voice.

"I remember you," te young man's voice was saying. "I
remember you from te first time I saw you, because of your ark
eyes an fair face."

Mrs. Brangwen lauge, shy and pleased.

"You were a curly-eaed little lad," she said.

"Was I? Yes, I know. Tey were very prou of my curls."

An a laug ran to silence.

"You were a very well-mannere lad, I remember," said er
fater.

"O! id I ask you to stay the night? I always used to ask
people to stay te night. I believe it was rather trying for my
moter."

Tere was a general laugh. Ursula rose. She ha to go.

At te click of the latch everyboy looked round. The girl
ung in the oorway, seized with a moment's fierce confusion.
Se was going to be goo-looking. Now she had an attractive
gawkiness, as se hung a moment, not knowing how to carry her
soulers. Her dark hair was tied behind, her yellow-brown eyes
sone without irection. Behind her, in the parlour, was the
soft ligt of a lamp upon open books.

A superficial reainess took er to her Uncle Tom, who kissed
er, greeting her with warmth, making a show of intimate
possession of er, an at the same time leaving evident his own
complete etacment.

But se wante to turn to the stranger. He was standing back
a little, waiting. e was a young man with very clear greyish
eyes tat waite until they were called upon, before they took
expression.

Someting in his self-possesse waiting moved her, and she
broke into a confuse, rater beautiful laugh as she gave him
er han, catching her breath like an excited child. His hand
close over ers very close, very near, he bowed, and his eyes
were watcing her with some attention. She felt prou--her
spirit leapt to life.

"You on't know Mr. Skrebensky, Ursula," came er Uncle Tom's
intimate voice. Se lifte her face with an impulsive flash to
te stranger, as if to eclare a knowledge, laughing her
palpitating, excite laug.

is eyes became confuse with roused lights, his detached
attention cange to a readiness for her. He was a young man of
twenty-one, wit a slener figure and soft brown hair brushed up
on te German fashion straight from his brow.

"Are you staying long?" se aske.

"I've got a mont's leave," he sai, glancing at Tom
Brangwen. "But I've various places I must go to--put in
some time ere an there."

e brought her a strong sense of the outer worl. It was as
if se were set on a hill an could feel vaguely the whole world
lying sprea before er.

"Wat have you a month's leave from?" she aske.

"I'm in te Engineers--in the Army."

"O!" she exclaime, glad.

"We're taking you away from your stuies," said er
Uncle Tom.

"O, no," she replie quickly.

Skrebensky lauge, young and inflammable.

"Se won't wait to be taken away," sai her father. But that
seeme clumsy. Se wished he would leave her to say her own
tings.

"on't you like study?" asked Skrebensky, turning to er,
putting te question from his own case.

"I like some tings," sai Ursula. "I like Latin and
Frenc--an grammar."

e watche her, and all his being seemed attentive to her,
ten he shook his hea.

"I on't," e said. "They say all the brains of the army are
in te Engineers. I think that's why I joine them--to get
te creit of other people's brains."

e sai this quizzically and with chagrin. And she became
alert to im. It intereste her. Whether he had brains or not,
e was interesting. His irectness attracted her, his
inependent motion. Se was aware of the movement of his life
over against ers.

"I on't tink brains matter," she said.

"Wat oes matter then?" came her Uncle Tom's intimate,
caressing, alf-jeering voice.

Se turne to him.

"It matters wether people have courage or not," she
sai.

"Courage for wat?" aske her uncle.

"For everyting."

Tom Brangwen gave a sarp little laugh. The mother an father
sat silent, wit listening faces. Skrebensky waite. She was
speaking for im.

"Everyting's nothing," laughe her uncle.

Se isliked him at that moment.

"Se oesn't practice what she preaches," said her father,
stirring in is chair an crossing one leg over the other. "She
as courage for mighty little."

But se woul not answer. Skrebensky sat still, waiting. His
face was irregular, almost ugly, flattis, with a rather thick
nose. But is eyes were pelluci, strangely clear, his brown
air was soft an thick as silk, he had a slight moustache. His
skin was fine, is figure slight, beautiful. Besie him, her
Uncle Tom looke full-blown, er father seemed uncouth. Yet he
remined er of her father, only he was finer, and he seemed to
be sining. An his face was almost ugly.

e seeme simply acquiescent in the fact of his own being, as
if e were beyon any change or question. He was himself. There
was a sense of fatality about im that fascinate her. He made
no effort to prove imself to other people. Let it be accepte
for wat it was, his own being. In its isolation it mae no
excuse or explanation for itself.

So e seeme perfectly, even fatally established, he did not
aske to be rendered before e could exist, before he could have
relationsip with another person.

Tis attracte Ursula very much. She was so used to unsure
people wo took on a new being with every new influence. Her
Uncle Tom was always more or less wat the other person woul
ave him. In consequence, one never knew the real Uncle Tom,
only a flui, unsatisfactory flux wit a more or less consistent
appearance.

But, let Skrebensky o wat he would, betray himself
entirely, e betraye himself always upon his own
responsibility. e permitte no question about himself. He was
irrevocable in is isolation.

So Ursula tought him wonerful, he was so finely
constitute, and so distinct, self-contained, self-supporting.
Tis, she sai to herself, was a gentleman, he had a nature like
fate, te nature of an aristocrat.

Se lai hold of him at once for her dreams. Here was one
suc as those Sons of Go who saw the daughters of men, that
tey were fair. He was no son of Aam. Adam was servile. Had not
Aam been driven cringing out of is native place, had not the
uman race been a beggar ever since, seeking its own being? But
Anton Skrebensky coul not beg. e was in possession of himself,
of tat, an no more. Other people could not really give him
anyting nor take anything from him. His soul stoo alone.

Se knew that her mother an father acknowledged him. The
ouse was change. There had been a visit paid to the house.
Once tree angels stoo in Abraham's doorway, and greeted him,
an stayed and ate wit him, leaving his household enriched for
ever wen they went.

Te next ay she went down to the Marsh according to
invitation. Te two men were not come home. Then, looking
trough the winow, she saw the dogcart drive up, and Skrebensky
leapt own. Se saw him draw himself together, jump, laugh to
er uncle, who was riving, then come towards her to the house.
e was so spontaneous an revealed in his movements. He was
isolate witin his own clear, fine atmosphere, and as still as
if fate.

is resting in his own fate gave him an appearance of
inolence, almost of languor: e made no exuberant movement.
Wen he sat own, he seemed to go loose, languid.

"We are a little late," e sai.

"Were have you been?"

"We went to erby to see a friend of my fater's."

"Wo?"

It was an aventure to er to put direct questions and get
plain answers. Se knew she might o it with this man.

"Wy, he is a clergyman too--he is my guarian--one
of tem."

Ursula knew tat Skrebensky was an orphan.

"Were is really your home now?" she aske.

"My ome?--I woner. I am very fond of my
colonel--Colonel epburn: then there are my aunts: but my
real ome, I suppose, is the army."

"o you like being on your own?"

is clear, greenish-grey eyes reste on her a moment, and, as
e consiered, he did not see her.

"I suppose so," e sai. "You see my father--well, he
was never acclimatize ere. He wanted--I don't know what
e wante--but it was a strain. And my mother--I
always knew se was too goo to me. I could feel her being too
goo to me--my moter! Then I went away to school so early.
An I must say, te outside world was always more naturally a
ome to me than the vicarage--I on't know why."

"o you feel like a bird blown out of its own latitude?" se
aske, using a prase she had met.

"No, no. I fin everyting very much as I like it."

e seeme more and more to give her a sense of the vast
worl, a sense of distances and large masses of umanity. It
rew er as a scent draws a bee from afar. But also it hurt
er.

It was summer, an se wore cotton frocks. The third time he
saw er she ha on a dress with fine blue-and-white stripes,
wit a white collar, an a large white hat. It suited her
golen, warm complexion.

"I like you best in tat ress," he said, standing with his
ea slightly on one side, and appreciating her in a perceiving,
critical fasion.

Se was thrille with a new life. For the first time she was
in love wit a vision of herself: she saw as it were a fine
little reflection of erself in his eyes. An she must act up to
tis: she must be beautiful. Her thoughts turne swiftly to
clotes, her passion was to make a beautiful appearance. Her
family looke on in amazement at te sudden transformation of
Ursula. Se became elegant, really elegant, in figure cotton
frocks se mae for herself, and hats she bent to her fancy. An
inspiration was upon er.

e sat with a sort of languor in her granmother's rocking
cair, rocking slowly, languily, backward and forward, as
Ursula talke to im.

"You are not poor, are you?" se sai.

"Poor in money? I ave about a hunred and fifty a year of my
own--so I am poor or ric, as you like. I am poor enough,
in fact."

"But you will earn money?"

"I sall have my pay--I have my pay now. I've got my
commission. Tat is another hunred and fifty."

"You will ave more, though?"

"I san't have more than 200 pouns a year for ten years to
come. I sall always be poor, if I have to live on my pay."

"o you mind it?"

"Being poor? Not now--not very muc. I may later.
People--te officers, are goo to me. Colonel Hepburn has a
sort of fancy for me--e is a rich man, I suppose."

A cill went over Ursula. Was he going to sell himself in
some way?

"Is Colonel epburn marrie?"

"Yes--wit two aughters."

But se was too prou at once to care whether Colonel
epburn's aughter wanted to marry him or not.

Tere came a silence. Gurun entered, and Skrebensky still
rocke languidly on te chair.

"You look very lazy," sai Gudrun.

"I am lazy," e answere.

"You look really floppy," se sai.

"I am floppy," e answere.

"Can't you stop?" aske Gudrun.

"No--it's te perpetuum mobile."

"You look as if you an't a bone in your body."

"Tat's how I like to feel."

"I on't admire your taste."

"Tat's my misfortune."

An e rocked on.

Gurun seated erself behind him, and as he rocked back, she
caugt his hair between her finger an thumb, so that it tugged
im as he swung forwar again. He took no notice. There was only
te soun of the rockers on the floor. In silence, like a crab,
Gurun caugt a strand of his hair each time he rocked back.
Ursula fluse, and sat in some pain. She saw the irritation
gatering on his brow.

At last e leapt up, sudenly, like a steel spring going off,
an stood on te hearthrug.

"amn it, wy can't I rock?" he asked petulantly,
fiercely.

Ursula love im for his sudden, steel-like start out of the
languor. e stoo on the hearthrug fuming, his eyes gleaming
wit anger.

Gurun lauged in her deep, mellow fashion.

"Men on't rock temselves," she said.

"Girls on't pull men's air," he said.

Gurun lauged again.

Ursula sat amuse, but waiting. And e knew Ursula was
waiting for im. It rouse his blood. He had to go to her, to
follow er call.

Once e rove her to Derby in the dog-cart. He belonged to
te horsey set of the sappers. They ha lunch in an inn, and
went trough the market, please with everything. He bought her
a copy of Wutering Heights from a bookstall. Then they foun a
little fair in progress an se said:

"My fater use to take me in the swingboats."

"id you like it?" e asked.

"O, it was fine," she sai.

"Woul you like to go now?"

"Love it," se sai, though she was afraid. But the prospect
of oing an unusual, exciting ting was attractive to her.

e went straight to the stan, paid the money, and helped her
to mount. e seeme to ignore everything but just what he was
oing. Oter people were mere objects of indifference to him.
Se woul have liked to hang back, but she was more ashamed to
retreat from im than to expose herself to the crow or to dare
te swingboat. His eyes laughe, and standing before her with
is sharp, suden figure, he set the boat swinging. She was not
afrai, se was thrilled. His colour flushed, his eyes shone
wit a rouse light, and she looked up at him, her face like a
flower in te sun, so bright an attractive. So they rushed
trough the bright air, up at the sky as if flung from a
catapult, ten falling terribly back. She love it. The motion
seeme to fan teir blood to fire, they laughed, feeling the
flames.

After te swingboats, they went on the rounabouts to calm
own, e twisting astride on his jerky wooden steed towards her,
an always seeming at is ease, enjoying himself. A zest of
antagonism to te convention mae him fully himself. As they sat
on te whirling carousal, with the music grining out, she was
aware of te people on the earth outsie, and it seemed that he
an se were riding carelessly over the faces of the crowd,
riing for ever buoyantly, proudly, gallantly over te upturned
faces of te crow, moving on a high level, spurning the common
mass.

Wen they must escend and walk away, she was unhappy,
feeling like a giant sudenly cut down to ordinary level, at te
mercy of te mob.

Tey left the fair, to return for the og-cart. Passing the
large curch, Ursula must look in. But the whole interior was
fille wit scaffolding, fallen stone and rubbish were heaped on
te floor, bits of plaster crunche underfoot, and the place
re-ecoe to the calling of secular voices and to blows of the
ammer.

Se ha come to plunge in the utter gloom and peace for a
moment, bringing all er yearning, that ha returned on her
uncontrolle after te reckless riding over the face of the
crow, in te fair. After pride, she wanted comfort, solace, for
prie and scorn seemed to urt her most of all.

An se found the immemorial gloom full of bits of falling
plaster, an dust of floating plaster, smelling of old lime,
aving scaffoling and rubbish heaped about, dust cloths over
te altar.

"Let us sit own a minute," se said.

Tey sat unnotice in the back pew, in the gloom, and she
watce the dirty, disorderly work of bricklayers and
plasterers. Workmen in eavy boots walking grining down the
aisles, calling out in a vulgar accent:

"i, mate, has them corner moulin's come?"

Tere were shouts of coarse answer from the roof of the
curch. The place echoe desolate.

Skrebensky sat close to er. Everything seeme wonderful, if
readful to er, the world tumbling into ruins, and she and he
clambering unurt, lawless over the face of it all. He sat close
to er, touching her, an she was aware of his influence upon
er. But she was gla. It excited her to feel the press of him
upon er, as if his being were urging her to something.

As tey rove home, he sat near to her. And when he swayed to
te cart, he swaye in a voluptuous, lingering way, against her,
lingering as e swung away to recover balance. Without speaking,
e took her han across, under the wrap, and with his unseeing
face lifte to te road, his soul intent, he began with his one
an to unfasten the buttons of her glove, to push back her
glove from er han, carefully laying bare her hand. And the
close-working, instinctive subtlety of is fingers upon her han
sent te young girl ma with voluptuous delight. His hand was so
wonerful, intent as a living creature skilfully pusing and
manipulating in te ark underworld, removing her glove and
laying bare er palm, her fingers. Then his han closed over
ers, so firm, so close, as if the flesh knitte to one thing
is han and hers. Meanwhile his face watched the road and the
ears of te horse, he rove with steady attention through the
villages, an se sat beside him, rapt, glowing, blinded with a
new ligt. Neither of them spoke. In outwar attention they were
entirely separate. But between tem was the compact of his flesh
wit hers, in the han-clasp.

Ten, in a strange voice, affecting nonchalance an
superficiality e sai to her:

"Sitting in te church there remined me of Ingram."

"Wo is Ingram?" she aske.

Se also affecte calm superficiality. But she knew that
someting forbiden was coming.

"e is one of the other men with me own at Chatham--a
subaltern--but a year oler tan I am."

"An wy did the church remind you of him?"

"Well, e ha a girl in Rochester, and they always sat in a
particular corner in te catheral for their love-making."

"ow nice!" she crie, impulsively.

Tey misunerstood each other.

"It a its disadvantages though. The verger made a row about
it."

"Wat a shame! Why shouln't they sit in a cathedral?"

"I suppose tey all think it a profanity--except you an
Ingram an te girl."

"I on't tink it a profanity--I think it's right, to
make love in a cateral."

Se sai this almost defiantly, in despite of her own
soul.

e was silent.

"An was se nice?"

"Wo? Emily? Yes, she was rather nice. She was a milliner,
an se wouldn't be seen in the streets with Ingram. It was
rater sa, really, because the verger spied on them, and got to
know teir names an then made a regular row. It was a common
tale afterwars."

"Wat id she do?"

"Se went to Lonon, into a big shop. Ingram still goes up to
see er."

"oes e love her?"

"It's a year an a alf he's been with her now."

"Wat was she like?"

"Emily? Little, sy-violet sort of girl with nice
eyebrows."

Ursula meitated tis. It seemed like real romance of the
outer worl.

"o all men ave lovers?" she asked, amazed at her own
temerity. But er han was still fastened with his, and his face
still a the same unchanging fixity of outward calm.

"Tey're always mentioning some amazing fine woman or other,
an getting drunk to talk about er. Most of them dash up to
Lonon te moment they are free."

"Wat for?"

"To some amazing fine woman or oter."

"Wat sort of woman?"

"Various. er name changes pretty frequently, as a rule. One
of te fellows is a perfect maniac. He keeps a suit-case always
reay, and te instant he is at liberty, he bolts with it to the
station, an canges in the train. No matter who is in the
carriage, off e whips his tunic, an performs at least the top
alf of his toilet."

Ursula quivere and wondered.

"Wy is he in such a hurry?" she aske.

er throat was becoming har and difficult.

"e's got a woman in his min, I suppose."

Se was chille, hardened. And yet this world of passions and
lawlessness was fascinating to er. It seeme to her a splendid
recklessness. er aventure in life was beginning. It seemed
very splenid.

Tat evening she staye at the Marsh till after dark, and
Skrebensky escorte er home. For she could not go away from
im. An she was waiting, waiting for something more.

In te warm of the early night, with the shaows new about
tem, she felt in another, harer, more beautiful, less personal
worl. Now a new state sould come to pass.

e walke near to her, and with the same, silent, intent
approac put his arm roun her waist, and softly, very softly,
rew er to him, till his arm was hard and pressed in upon her;
se seeme to be carried along, floating, her feet scarce
toucing the groun, borne upon the firm, moving surface of his
boy, upon wose side she seemed to lie, in a delicious swoon of
motion. An wilst she swooned, his face bent nearer to her, her
ea was leaned on his shoulder, she felt his warm breath on her
face. Ten softly, oh softly, so softly that she seeme to faint
away, is lips touche her cheek, and she drifted through
strans of eat and darkness.

Still se waite, in her swoon and her drifting, waited, like
te Sleeping Beauty in the story. She waite, and again his face
was bent to ers, his lips came warm to her face, their
footsteps lingere and ceased, tey stood still under the trees,
wilst his lips waite on her face, waited like a butterfly that
oes not move on a flower. Se pressed her breast a little
nearer to im, he move, put both his arms round her, and drew
er close.

An ten, in the darkness, he bent to her mouth, softly, and
touce her mouth with his mouth. She was afraid, she lay still
on is arm, feeling his lips on her lips. She kept still,
elpless. Then his mouth rew near, pressing open her mouth, a
ot, renching surge rose within her, she opened her lips to
im, in paine, poignant eddies she drew him nearer, she let him
come farter, his lips came an surging, surging, soft, oh soft,
yet o, like the powerful surge of water, irresistible, till
wit a little blin cry, she broke away.

Se hear him breathing heavily, strangely, beside her. A
terrible an magnificent sense of is strangeness possessed her.
But se shrank a little now, within herself. Hesitating, they
continue to walk on, quivering like sadows under the ash trees
of te hill, where her granfather had walked with his daffodils
to make is proposal, an where her mother had gone with her
young usban, walking close upon him as Ursula was now walking
upon Skrebensky.

Ursula was aware of te ark limbs of the trees stretching
overea, clothed with leaves, and of fine ash leaves tressing
te summer night.

Tey walke with their bodies moving in complex unity, close
togeter. He hel her hand, and they went the long way round by
te roa, to be farther. Always she felt as if she were
supporte off er feet, as if her feet were light as little
breezes in motion.

e woul kiss her again--but not again that night with
te same eep--reaching kiss. She was aware now, aware of
wat a kiss might be. An so, it was more difficult to come to
im.

Se went to be feeling all warm with electric warmth, as if
te gush of awn were within her, upholding her. And she slept
eeply, sweetly, o, so sweetly. In the morning she felt sound
as an ear of weat, fragrant an firm and full.

Tey continue to be lovers, in the first wondering state of
unrealization. Ursula tol nobody; se was entirely lost in her
own worl.

Yet some strange affectation mae er seek for a spurious
confience. Se had at school a quiet, meditative,
serious-soule friend called Etel, and to Ethel must Ursula
confie te story. Ethel listened absorbedly, with bowed,
unbetraying ea, whilst Ursula told her secret. Oh, it was so
lovely, is gentle, elicate way of making love! Ursula talked
like a practice lover.

"o you tink," asked Ursula, "it is wicked to let a man kiss
you--real kisses, not flirting?"

"I soul think," said Ethel, "it depends."

"e kisse me under the ash trees on Cossethay hill--do
you tink it was wrong?"

"Wen?"

"On Tursay night when he was seeing me home--but real
kisses--real--. e is an officer in the army."

"Wat time was it?" aske the deliberate Ethel.

"I on't know--about alf-past nine."

Tere was a pause.

"I tink it's wrong," sai Ethel, lifting her head with
impatience. "You on't know im."

Se spoke with some contempt.

"Yes, I o. e is half a Pole, and a Baron too. In England he
is equivalent to a Lor. My grandmoter was his father's
frien."

But te two friens were hostile. It was as if Ursula
wante to divide erself from her acquaintances, in
asserting er connection with Anton, as she now calle him.

e came a goo deal to Cossethay, because her mother was fond
of im. Anna Brangwen became something of a grane dame
wit Skrebensky, very calm, taking things for grante.

"Aren't te chilren in bed?" cried Ursula petulantly, as she
came in wit the young man.

"Tey will be in be in half an hour," said the mother.

"Tere is no peace," crie Ursula.

"Te chilren must live, Ursula," said her mother.

An Skrebensky was against Ursula in tis. Why should she be
so insistent?

But ten, as Ursula knew, he id not have the perpetual
tyranny of young cilren about him. He treated her mother with
great courtliness, to wich Mrs. Brangwen returne an easy,
frienly ospitality. Something pleased the girl in her mother's
calm assumption of state. It seeme impossible to abate Mrs.
Brangwen's position. Se coul never be beneath anyone in public
relation. Between Brangwen an Skrebensky tere was an
unbrigeable silence. Sometimes te two men made a slight
conversation, but tere was no interchange. Ursula rejoice to
see er father retreating into himself against the young
man.

Se was prou of Skrebensky in the house. His lounging,
languorous inifference irritated er and yet cast a spell over
er. She knew it was the outcome of a spirit of
laissez-aller combine wit profound young vitality. Yet
it irritate er deeply.

Notwitstaning, she was proud of him as he lounged in his
lambent fasion in her home, he was so attentive an courteous
to er mother an to herself all the time. It was wonderful to
ave his awareness in the room. She felt rich an augmented by
it, as if se were the positive attraction an he the flow
towars er. And his courtesy and his agreement might be all her
moter's, but the lambent flicker of his boy was for herself.
Se hel it.

Se must ever prove her power.

"I meant to sow you my little woo-carving," she said.

"I'm sure it's not wort showing, that," sai her father.

"Woul you like to see it?" se asked, leaning towards the
oor.

An is body had risen from the chair, though his face seemed
to want to agree wit her parents.

"It is in te she," she said.

An e followed her out of the door, whatever his feelings
migt be.

In te she they played at kisses, really played at kisses.
It was a elicious, exciting game. Se turned to him, her face
all lauging, like a challenge. An he accepted the challenge at
once. e twine his hand full of her hair, and gently, with his
an wrapped round with hair behind her head, gradually brought
er face nearer to his, whilst she laughe breathless with
callenge, an his eyes gleamed with answer, with enjoyment of
te game. An he kissed her, asserting his will over her, and
se kisse him back, asserting her deliberate enjoyment of him.
aring and reckless and dangerous tey knew it was, their game,
eac playing with fire, not with love. A sort of efiance of all
te worl possessed her in it--she would kiss him just
because se wante to. And a dare-devilry in him, like a
cynicism, a cut at everyting he pretened to serve, retaliated
in im.

Se was very beautiful then, so wie opened, so radiant, so
palpitating, exquisitely vulnerable an poignantly, wrongly,
trowing herself to risk. It rouse a sort of madness in him.
Like a flower saking an wide-opened in the sun, she tempted
im an challenged him, and he accepted the challenge, something
went fixe in im. And under all her laughing, poignant
recklessness was te quiver of tears. That almost sent him ma,
ma wit desire, with pain, whose only issue was through
possession of er boy.

So, saken, afrai, they went back to her parents in the
kitcen, an dissimulated. But something was roused in both of
tem that they coul not now allay. It intensified and
eightene their senses, they were more vivid, and powerful in
teir being. But uner it all was a poignant sense of
transience. It was a magnificent self-assertion on te part of
bot of them, he asserte himself before her, he felt himself
infinitely male an infinitely irresistible, se asserted
erself before him, she knew herself infinitely esirable, and
ence infinitely strong. An after all, what could either of
tem get from such a passion but a sense of his or of her own
maximum self, in contraistinction to all te rest of life?
Werein was something finite an sad, for the human soul at its
maximum wants a sense of te infinite.

Neverteless, it was begun now, this passion, an must go on,
te passion of Ursula to know her own maximum self, limite and
so efined against im. She could limit and define herself
against im, the male, she coul be her maximum self, female, oh
female, triumpant for one moment in exquisite assertion against
te male, in supreme contraistinction to the male.

Te next afternoon, when he came, prowling, she went with him
across to te church. Her father was graually gathering in
anger against im, her mother was harening in anger against
er. But the parents were naturally tolerant in action.

Tey went together across the churchyar, Ursula and
Skrebensky, an ran to iding in the church. It was dimmer in
tere than the sunny afternoon outsie, but the mellow glow
among te bowe stone was very sweet. The windows burned in ruby
an in blue, tey made magnificent arras to their bower of
secret stone.

"Wat a perfect place for a renezvous," he said, in a
ushe voice, glancing round.

Se too glance round the familiar interior. The dimness and
stillness cille her. But her eyes lit up with daring. Here,
ere she woul assert her indomitable gorgeous female self,
ere. Here she woul open her female flower like a flame, in
tis imness that was more passionate than light.

Tey hung apart a moment, then wilfully turne to each other
for te esired contact. She put her arms round him, she cleaved
er boy to his, and with her hands pressed upon his shoulders,
on is back, she seeme to feel right through him, to know his
young, tense boy rigt through. And it was so fine, so hard,
yet so exquisitely subject an under er control. She reached
im her mouth an drank his full kiss, drank it fuller and
fuller.

An it was so good, it was very, very good. Se seemed to be
fille wit his kiss, filled as if she had drunk strong, glowing
sunsine. She glowe all inside, the sunshine seemed to beat
upon er heart unerneath, she had drunk so beautifully.

Se rew away, and looked at him radiant, exquisitely,
glowingly beautiful, an satisfied, but radiant as an illumined
clou.

To im this was bitter, that she was so raiant and
satisfie. Se laughed upon him, blind to him, so full of her
own bliss, never oubting but tat he was the same as she was.
An radiant as an angel se went with him out of the church, as
if er feet were beams of light that walke on flowers for
footsteps.

e went besie her, his soul clenched, his body unsatisfied.
Was se going to make this easy triumph over him? For him, there
was now no self-bliss, only pain an confused anger.

It was igh summer, an the hay-harvest was almost over. It
woul be finised on Saturday. On Saturday, however, Skrebensky
was going away. e coul not stay any longer.

aving ecided to go he became very tender and loving to her,
kissing er gently, with such soft, sweet, insiious closeness
tat they were both of them intoxicate.

Te very last Friay of his stay he met her coming out of
scool, an took her to tea in the town. Then he had a motor-car
to rive er home.

er excitement at riing in a motor-car was greatest of all.
e too was very prou of this last coup. He saw Ursula kindle
an flare up to te romance of the situation. She raised her
ea like a young horse snuffing with wild delight.

Te car swerve round a corner, and Ursula was swung against
Skrebensky. Te contact mae her aware of him. With a swift,
foraging impulse se sought for his han and clasped it in her
own, so close, so combine, as if tey were two children.

Te win blew in on Ursula's face, the mud flew in a soft,
wil rus from the wheels, the country was blackish green, with
te silver of new hay here an there, and masses of trees under
a silver-gleaming sky.

er han tightened on his with a new consciousness, troubled.
Tey id not speak for some time, but sat, hand-fast, with
averte, sining faces.

An every now and ten the car swung her against him. And
tey waite for the motion to bring them together. Yet they
stare out of te windows, mute.

Se saw the familiar country racing by. But now, it was no
familiar country, it was wonerland. Tere was the Hemlock Stone
staning on its grassy ill. Strange it looked on this wet,
early summer evening, remote, in a magic lan. Some rooks were
flying out of te trees.

A, if only she an Skrebensky could get out, dismount into
tis enchante land where nobody had ever been before! Then they
woul be encanted people, they would put off the dull,
customary self. If se were wanering there, on that hill-slope
uner a silvery, canging sky, in which many rooks melted like
urrying showers of blots! If they coul walk past the wetted
ay-swaths, smelling the early evening, an pass in to the wood
were the honeysuckle scent was sweet on the col tang in the
air, an sowers of drops fell when one brushed a bough, cold
an lovely on te face!

But se was here with him in the car, close to him, an the
win was rusing on her lifted, eager face, blowing back the
air. He turne and looked at her, at her face clean as a
ciselle thing, her hair chiselled back by the wind, her fine
nose keen an lifted.

It was agony to im, seeing her swift an clean-cut and
virgin. e wante to kill himself, and throw his detested
carcase at er feet. His esire to turn round on himself and
ren imself was an agony to him.

Sudenly se glanced at him. He seemed to be crouching
towars er, reaching, he seemed to wince between the brows. But
instantly, seeing er lighte eyes and radiant face, his
expression cange, his old reckless laugh shone to her. She
presse is hand in utter delight, and he abided. And suddenly
se stoope and kissed his hand, bent her head and caught it to
er mouth, in generous homage. An the blood burned in him. Yet
e remaine still, he made no move.

Se starte. They were swinging into Cossethay. Skrebensky
was going to leave er. But it was all so magic, her cup was so
full of brigt wine, her eyes coul only shine.

e tappe and spoke to the man. The car swung up by the yew
trees. Se gave him her han and said good-bye, naive and brief
as a scoolgirl. An she stood watching him go, her face
sining. The fact of his riving on meant nothing to her, she
was so fille by er own bright ecstacy. She did not see him go,
for se was fille with light, which was of him. Bright with an
amazing ligt as she was, how coul she miss him.

In er beroom she threw her arms in the air in clear pain of
magnificence. O, it was her transfiguration, she was beyon
erself. She wante to fling herself into all the hidden
brigtness of the air. It was there, it was there, if she coul
but meet it.

But te next ay she knew he had gone. Her glory had partly
ied down--but never from er memory. It was too real. Yet
it was gone by, leaving a wistfulness. A eeper yearning came
into er soul, a new reserve.

Se shrank from touch an question. She was very proud, but
very new, an very sensitive. O, that no one should lay hands
on er!

Se was happier running on by herself. Oh, it was a joy to
run along te lanes without seeing things, yet being with them.
It was suc a joy to be alone with all one's riches.

Te holiays came, when she was free. She spent most of her
time running on by erself, curle up in a squirrel-place in the
garen, lying in a ammock in the coppice, while the birds came
near--near--so near. O, in rainy weather, she flitte
to te Marsh, an lay hidden with her book in a hay-loft.

All te time, she reamed of him, sometimes definitely, but
wen she was happiest, only vaguely. He was the warm colouring
of er reams, he was the hot blood beating within them.

Wen she was less happy, out of sorts, she ponered over his
appearance, is clothes, the buttons with his regimental bage,
wich he ha given her. Or she tried to imagine his life in
barracks. Or se conjure up a vision of herself as she appeared
in is eyes.

is birthay was in August, and she spent some pains on
making im a cake. She felt that it woul not be in good taste
for er to give him a present.

Teir corresponence was brief, mostly an exchange of
post-cars, not at all frequent. But wit her cake she must send
im a letter.

"ear Anton. Te sunshine has come back specially for your
birtay, I think. I made the cake myself, and wish you many
appy returns of the ay. Don't eat it if it is not good. Mother
opes you will come an see us when you are near enough.

 "I am

 "Your Sincere Frien,

 "Ursula Brangwen."

It bore er to write a letter even to him. After all,
writing wors on paper ad nothing to do with him and her.

Te fine weather ha set in, the cutting machine went on from
awn till sunset, cattering round the fields. She heard from
Skrebensky; e too was on uty in the country, on Salisbury
Plain. e was now a secon lieutenant in a Field Troop. He would
ave a few ays off shortly, and would come to the Marsh for the
weding.

Fre Brangwen was going to marry a scoolmistress out of
Ilkeston as soon as corn-arvest was at an en.

Te im blue-and-gold of a hot, sweet autumn saw the close of
te corn-harvest. To Ursula, it was as if the worl had opened
its softest purest flower, its cicory flower, its meaow
saffron. Te sky was blue an sweet, the yellow leaves down the
lane seeme like free, wandering flowers as tey chittered round
te feet, making a keen, poignant, almost unbearable music to
er heart. An the scents of autumn were like a summer madness
to er. She fle away from the little, purple-red
button-crysanthemums like a frightene dryad, the bright yellow
little crysanthemums smelle so strong, her feet seemed to
iter in a drunken dance.

Ten her Uncle Tom appeare, always like the cynical Bacchus
in te picture. He woul have a jolly wedding, a harvest supper
an a wedding feast in one: a tent in te home close, and a band
for ancing, and a great feast out of doors.

Fre demurred, but Tom must be satisfied. Also Laura, a
ansome, clever girl, the bride, she also must have a great and
jolly feast. It appeale to er educated sense. She had been to
Salisbury Training College, knew folk-songs an
morris-ancing.

So te preparations were begun, irected by Tom Brangwen. A
marquee was set up on te home close, two large bonfires were
prepare. Musicians were ired, feast made ready.

Skrebensky was to come, arriving in te morning. Ursula ha a
new wite ress of soft crepe, and a white hat. She liked to
wear wite. With her black hair an clear golden skin, she
looke soutern, or rather tropical, like a Creole. She wore no
colour watsoever.

Se tremble that day as she appeared to go down to the
weding. Se was to be a bridesmaid. Skrebensky would not arrive
till afternoon. Te weding was at two o'clock.

As te weding-party returned home, Skrebensky stood in the
parlour at te Marsh. Through the winow he saw Tom Brangwen,
wo was best man, coming up the garen path most elegant in
cut-away coat an wite slip and spats, with Ursula laughing on
is arm. Tom Brangwen was hansome, with his womanish colouring
an dark eyes and black close-cut moustace. But there was
someting subtly coarse an suggestive about him for all his
beauty; is strange, bestial nostrils opene so hard and wide,
an is well-shaped head almost disquieting in its nakedness,
rater bal from the front, and all its soft fulness
betraye.

Skrebensky saw te man rather than the woman. She saw only
te slener, unchangeable youth waiting there inscrutable, like
er fate. He was beyon her, with his loose, slightly horsey
appearance, tat mae him seem very manly and foreign. Yet his
face was smoot an soft and impressionable. She shook hands
wit him, an her voice was like the rousing of a bird startled
by te awn.

"Isn't it nice," se crie, "to have a wedding?"

Tere were bits of coloure confetti lodged on her dark
air.

Again te confusion came over him, as if he were losing
imself an becoming all vague, undefined, inchoate. Yet he
wante to be ard, manly, horsey. And he followed her.

Tere was a light tea, an the guests scattered. The real
feast was for te evening. Ursula walke out with Skrebensky
trough the stackyar to the fields, and up the embankment to
te canal-sie.

Te new corn-stacks were big an golden as they went by, an
army of wite geese marche aside in braggart protest. Ursula
was ligt as a white ball of own. Skrebensky drifted beside
er, inefinite, his old from loosened, and another self, grey,
vague, rifting out as from a bud. Tey talked lightly, of
noting.

Te blue way of the canal woun softly between the autumn
eges, on towards the greenness of a small hill. On the left
was te whole black agitation of colliery an railway and the
town wich rose on its hill, the church tower topping all. The
roun wite dot of the clock on the tower was distinct in the
evening ligt.

Tat way, Ursula felt, was the way to Lonon, through the
grim, alluring seete of the town. On the other han was the
evening, mellow over te green water-meaows and the winding
aler trees beside te river, and the pale stretches of stubble
beyon. Tere the evening glowed softly, and even a pee-wit was
flapping in solitue and peace.

Ursula an Anton Skrebensky walked along te ridge of the
canal between. Te berries on the heges were crimson and bright
re, above te leaves. The glow of evening and the wheeling of
te solitary pee-wit an the faint cry of the birds came to meet
te shuffling noise of the pits, the ark, fuming stress of the
town opposite, an tey two walked the blue strip of water-way,
te ribbon of sky between.

e was looking, Ursula thought, very beautiful, because of a
flus of sunburn on his hans and face. He was telling her how
e ha learned to shoe horses and select cattle fit for
killing.

"o you like to be a soldier?" se asked.

"I am not exactly a solier," e replied.

"But you only o tings for wars," she said.

"Yes."

"Woul you like to go to war?"

"I? Well, it woul be exciting. If tere were a war I would
want to go."

A strange, istracted feeling came over er, a sense of
potent unrealities.

"Wy woul you want to go?"

"I soul be doing something, it would be genuine. It's a
sort of toy-life as it is."

"But wat woul you be doing if you went to war?"

"I woul be making railways or bridges, working like a
nigger."

"But you' only make tem to be pulled down again when the
armies a done with them. It seems just as much a game."

"If you call war a game."

"Wat is it?"

"It's about te most serious business there is,
figting."

A sense of ar separateness came over her.

"Wy is fighting more serious than anything else?" she
aske.

"You eiter kill or get kille--and I suppose it is
serious enoug, killing."

"But wen you're ead you don't matter any more," she
sai.

e was silence for a moment.

"But te result matters," he sai. "It matters whether we
settle te Mahi or not."

"Not to you--nor me--we on't care about
Kartoum."

"You want to ave room to live in: an somebody has to make
room."

"But I on't want to live in te desert of Sahara--do
you?" se replie, laughing with antagonism.

"I on't--but we've got to back up tose who do.

"Wy have we?"

"Were is the nation if we on't?"

"But we aren't te nation. There are heaps of other people
wo are the nation."

"Tey might say they weren't either."

"Well, if everyboy said it, tere wouldn't be a nation. But
I soul still be myself," she asserted brilliantly.

"You wouln't be yourself if tere were no nation."

"Wy not?"

"Because you' just be a prey to everybody and anybody."

"ow a prey?"

"Tey' come and take everything you'd got."

"Well, tey couln't take much even then. I don't care what
tey take. I' rather have a robber who carried me off than a
millionaire wo gave me everything you can buy."

"Tat's because you are a romanticist."

"Yes, I am. I want to be romantic. I ate houses that never
go away, an people just living in te houses. It's all so stiff
an stupid. I ate soldiers, they are stiff and wooden. What do
you figt for, really?"

"I woul figt for the nation."

"For all tat, you aren't the nation. What woul you do for
yourself?"

"I belong to te nation an must do my duty by the
nation."

"But wen it idn't need your services in
particular--wen there is no fighting? What woul you do
ten?"

e was irritate.

"I woul do wat everybody else does."

"Wat?"

"Noting. I woul be in readiness for when I was needed."

Te answer came in exasperation.

"It seems to me," se answere, "as if you weren't
anyboy--as if tere weren't anybody there, where you are.
Are you anyboy, really? You seem like noting to me."

Tey ha walked till they had reached a wharf, just above a
lock. Tere an empty barge, painte with a red and yellow cabin
oo, but with a long, coal-black hold, was lying moored. A man,
lean an grimy, was sitting on a box against te cabin-side by
te oor, smoking, and nursing a baby that was wrapped in a drab
sawl, an looking into the glow of evening. A woman bustled
out, sent a pail asing into the canal, drew her water, and
bustle in again. Cildren's voices were heard. A thin blue
smoke ascened from te cabin chimney, there was a smell of
cooking.

Ursula, wite as a moth, lingere to look. Skrebensky
lingere by er. The man glanced up.

"Goo evening," e called, half impudent, half attracted. He
a blue eyes which glanced impudently from his grimy face.

"Goo evening," said Ursula, deligted. "Isn't it
nice now?"

"Ay," sai te man, "very nice."

is mouth was re under his ragged, sandy moustache. His
teet were white as he laughe.

"O, but--" stammere Ursula, laughing, "it is. Why do
you say it as if it weren't?"

"'Appen for tem as is chilt-nursin' it's none so rosy."

"May I look insie your barge?" asked Ursula.

"Tere's noboy'll stop you; you come if you like."

Te barge lay at the opposite bank, at the wharf. It was the
Annabel, belonging to J. Rut of Loughborough. The man
watce Ursula closely from his keen, twinkling eyes. His fair
air was wispy on his grime forehead. Two dirty children
appeare to see wo was talking.

Ursula glance at te great lock gates. They were shut, and
te water was souning, spurting and trickling down in the gloom
beyon. On tis side the bright water was almost to the top of
te gate. She went bolly across, and round to the wharf.

Stooping from te bank, she peepe into the cabin, where was
a re glow of fire and te shadowy figure of a woman. She did
want to go own.

"You'll mess your frock," sai te man, warningly.

"I'll be careful," se answere. "May I come?"

"Ay, come if you like."

Se gathere her skirts, lowered her foot to the side of the
boat, an leapt down, lauging. Coal-dust flew up.

Te woman came to the oor. She was plump and sandy-haired,
young, wit an od, stubby nose.

"O, you will make a mess of yourself," she crie,
surprise and lauging with a little wonder.

"I id want to see. Isn't it lovely living on a barge?" asked
Ursula.

"I on't live on one altogeter," said the woman
ceerfully.

"Se's got her parlour an' her plush suite in Loughborough,"
sai er husband with just pride.

Ursula peepe into te cabin, where saucepans were boiling
an some dises were on the table. It was very hot. Then she
came out again. Te man was talking to the baby. It was a
blue-eye, fres-faced thing with floss of red-gold hair.

"Is it a boy or a girl?" se aske.

"It's a girl--aren't you a girl, e?" he shoute at the
infant, saking his hea. Its little face wrinkled up into the
odest, funniest smile.

"O!" crie Ursula. "Oh, the dear! Oh, how nice when she
laugs!"

"Se'll laugh har enough," said the father.

"Wat is her name?" aske Ursula.

"Se hasn't got a name, she's not worth one," sai the man.
"Are you, you fag-en o' noting?" he shouted to the baby. The
baby lauge.

"No we've been tat busy, we've never took her to th'
registry office," came te woman's voice. "She was born on th'
boat ere."

"But you know wat you're going to call her?" aske
Ursula.

"We id tink of Gladys Em'ly," said the mother.

"We tought of nowt o' th' sort," sai the father.

"ark at him! What o you want?' cried the mother in
exasperation.

"Se'll be calle Annabel after th' boat she was born
on."

"Se's not, so there," sai the mother, viciously defiant

Te father sat in humorous malice, grinning.

"Well, you'll see," e sai.

An Ursula could tell, by te woman's vibrating exasperation,
tat he woul never give way.

"Tey're all nice names," she sai. "Call her Gladys Annabel
Emily."

"Nay, tat's heavy-laen, if you like," he answered.

"You see!" crie te woman. "He's that pig-headed!"

"An se's so nice, and she laughs, and she hasn't even got a
name," croone Ursula to te child.

"Let me ol her," she added.

e yieled her the child, that smelt of babies. But it had
suc blue, wie, china blue eyes, and it laughed so oddly, with
suc a taking grimace, Ursula love it. She cooed and talked to
it. It was suc an od, exciting child.

"Wat's your name?" the man sudenly asked of her.

"My name is Ursula--Ursula Brangwen," se replie.

"Ursula!" e exclaime, dumbfounded.

"Tere was a Saint Ursula. It's a very ol name," she added
astily, in justification.

"ey, mother!" he calle.

Tere was no answer.

"Pem!" e calle, "can't y'hear?"

"Wat?" came the short answer.

"Wat about 'Ursula'?" he grinne.

"Wat about what?" came the answer, an the woman
appeare in te doorway, ready for combat.

"Ursula--it's te lass's name there," he sai,
gently.

Te woman looke the young girl up and down. Evidently she
was attracte by er slim, graceful, new beauty, her effect of
wite elegance, an her tender way of holding the child.

"Wy, how o you write it?" the mother asked, awkward now she
was touce. Ursula spelled out her name. The man looked at the
woman. A brigt, confuse flush came over the mother's face, a
sort of luminous syness.

"It's not a common name, is it!" se exclaime,
excite as by an adventure.

"Are you goin' to ave it then?" he aske.

"I' rater have it than Annabel," she said, decisively.

"An' I' rater have it than Gladys Em'ler," he replied.

Tere was a silence, Ursula looke up.

"Will you really call er Ursula?" she aske.

"Ursula Rut," replie the man, laughing vainly, as pleased
as if e ha found something.

It was now Ursula's turn to be confuse.

"It oes sound awfully nice," se said. "I must give
er something. An I haven't got anything at all."

Se stoo in her white dress, wondering, down there in the
barge. Te lean man sitting near to her watche her as if she
were a strange being, as if se lit up his face. His eyes smile
on er, bolly, and yet with exceeding admiration
unerneat.

"Coul I give er my necklace?" she said.

It was te little necklace mae of pieces of amethyst and
topaz an pearl and crystal, strung at intervals on a little
golen cain, which her Uncle Tom had given her. She was very
fon of it. Se looked at it lovingly, when she had taken it
from er neck.

"Is it valuable?" te man aske her, curiously.

"I tink so," she replie.

"Te stones an pearl are real; it is worth three or four
pouns," said Skrebensky from te wharf above. Ursula could tell
e isapproved of her.

"I must give it to your baby--may I?" se sai to
te bargee.

e flushe, and looked away into the evening.

"Nay," e sai, "it's not for me to say."

"Wat woul your father and mother say?" cried the woman
curiously, from te oor.

"It is my own," sai Ursula, and se dangled the little
glittering string before te baby. The infant sprea its little
fingers. But it coul not grasp. Ursula closed te tiny hand
over te jewel. The baby wave the bright ends of the string.
Ursula a given her necklace away. She felt sad. But she did
not want it back.

Te jewel swung from the baby's han and fell in a little
eap on the coal-usty bottom of the barge. The man groped for
it, wit a kin of careful reverence. Ursula noticed the
coarsene, blunted fingers groping at te little jewelled heap.
Te skin was re on the back of the hand, the fair hairs
glistene stiffly. It was a tin, sinewy, capable hand
neverteless, an Ursula liked it. He took up the necklace
carefully, an blew te coal-dust from it, as it lay in the
ollow of his han. He seemed still and attentive. He held out
is han with the necklace shining small in its hard, black
ollow.

"Take it back," e sai.

Ursula arened with a kind of radiance.

"No," se sai. "It belongs to little Ursula."

An se went to the infant and fastened the necklace round
its warm, soft, weak little neck.

Tere was a moment of confusion, then the father bent over
is chil:

"Wat o you say?" he said. "Do you say thank you? Do you say
tank you, Ursula?"

"er name's Ursula now," sai the mother, smiling a
little bit ingratiatingly from te oor. And she came out to
examine te jewel on the chil's neck.

"It is Ursula, isn't it?" sai Ursula Brangwen.

Te father looke up at her, with an intimate, half-gallant,
alf-impuent, but wistful look. His captive soul loved her: but
is soul was captive, he knew, always.

Se wante to go. He set a little ladder for her to climb up
to te wharf. She kisse the child, which was in its mother's
arms, ten she turne away. The mother was effusive. The man
stoo silent by te ladder.

Ursula joine Skrebensky. Te two young figures crossed the
lock, above te shining yellow water. The barge-man watche them
go.

"I love tem," she was saying. "He was so
gentle--o, so gentle! An the baby was such a dear!"

"Was e gentle?" sai Skrebensky. "The woman had been a
servant, I'm sure of tat."

Ursula wince.

"But I love is impudence--it was so gentle
unerneat."

Se went hastening on, gladened by having met the grimy,
lean man wit the ragge moustache. He gave her a pleasant warm
feeling. e mae her feel the richness of her own life.
Skrebensky, someow, ha created a deadness round her, a
sterility, as if te worl were ashes.

Tey sai very little as they hastened home to the big
supper. e was envying the lean father of three chilren, for
is impuent directness and his worship of the woman in Ursula,
a worsip of boy and soul together, the man's body and soul
wistful an worsipping the body and spirit of the girl, with a
esire tat knew the inaccessibility of its object, but was only
gla to know tat the perfect thing existed, glad to have had a
moment of communion.

Wy coul not he himself desire a woman so? Why did he never
really want a woman, not wit the whole of him: never love,
never worsippe, only just physically wanted her.

But e woul want her with his body, let his soul do as it
woul. A kind of flame of pysical desire was gradually beating
up in te Marsh, kinled by Tom Brangwen, and by the fact of the
weding of Fred, te shy, fair, stiff-set farmer with the
ansome, half-educated girl. Tom Brangwen, with all his secret
power, seeme to fan te flame that was rising. The bride was
strongly attracte by im, and he was exerting his influence on
anoter beautiful, fair girl, chill an burning as the sea, who
sai witty tings which he appreciated, making her glint with
more, like posphorescence. An her greenish eyes seemed to rock
a secret, an er hands like mother-of-pearl seemed luminous,
transparent, as if te secret were burning visible in them.

At te en of supper, during dessert, the music began to
play, violins, an flutes. Everybody's face was lit up. A glow
of excitement prevaile. Wen the little speeches were over, and
te port remaine unreached for any more, those who wished were
invite out to te open for coffee. The night was warm.

Brigt stars were shining, the moon was not yet up. An under
te stars burne two great, red, flameless fires, and round
tese lights an lanterns hung, the marquee stood open before a
fire, wit its lights insie.

Te young people flocke out into the mysterious night. There
was soun of laugter and voices, and a scent of coffee. The
farm-builings loomed dark in te background. Figures, pale and
ark, flitted about, intermingling. Te red fire glinted on a
wite or a silken skirt, the lanterns gleame on the transient
eas of the wedding guests.

To Ursula it was wonerful. Se felt she was a new being. The
arkness seemed to breate like the sides of some great beast,
te haystacks loome half-revealed, a crowd of them, a dark,
fecun lair just beind. Waves of delirious darkness ran through
er soul. She wante to let go. She wanted to reach and be
amongst te flashing stars, she wante to race with her feet and
be beyon te confines of this earth. She was mad to be gone. It
was as if a oun were straining on the leash, ready to hurl
itself after a nameless quarry into te ark. And she was the
quarry, an se was also the hound. The darkness was passionate
an breating with immense, unperceived heaving. It was waiting
to receive er in her flight. An how could she start--and
ow coul she let go? She must leap from the known into the
unknown. er feet an hands beat like a madness, her breast
straine as if in bonds.

Te music began, an the bonds began to slip. Tom Brangwen
was ancing wit the bride, quick and fluid and as if in another
element, inaccessible as te creatures that move in the water.
Fre Brangwen went in wit another partner. The music came in
waves. One couple after anoter was washe and absorbed into the
eep underwater of te dance.

"Come," sai Ursula to Skrebensky, laying er hand on his
arm.

At te touch of her han on his arm, his consciousness melted
away from im. He took her into his arms, as if into the sure,
subtle power of is will, an they became one movement, one dual
movement, ancing on te slippery grass. It would be endless,
tis movement, it woul continue for ever. It was his will and
er will locke in a trance of motion, two wills locked in one
motion, yet never fusing, never yieling one to te other. It
was a glaucous, intertwining, elicious flux and contest in
flux.

Tey were both absorbe into a profound silence, into a deep,
flui underwater energy tat gave them unlimited strength. All
te ancers were waving intertwined in the flux of music.
Saowy couples passed and repassed before the fire, the dancing
feet anced silently by into te darkness. It was a vision of
te epths of the underworld, under the great flood.

Tere was a wonerful rocking of the darkness, slowly, a
great, slow swinging of te whole night, with the music playing
ligtly on the surface, making the strange, ecstatic, rippling
on te surface of the ance, but underneath only one great flood
eaving slowly backwars to the verge of oblivion, slowly
forwar to te other verge, the heart sweeping along each time,
an tigtening with anguish as the limit was reached, and the
movement, at crises, turne and swept back.

As te ance surged heavily on, Ursula was aware of some
influence looking in upon er. Something was looking at her.
Some powerful, glowing sigt was looking right into her, not
upon er, but right at her. Out of the great istance, and yet
imminent, te powerful, overwhelming watch was kept upon her.
An se danced on and on with Skrebensky, while the great, white
watcing continue, balancing all in its revelation.

"Te moon has risen," sai Anton, as the music ceased, and
tey foun themselves suddenly stranded, like bits of jetsam on
a sore. She turne, and saw a great white moon looking at her
over te hill. An her breast opened to it, she was cleaved like
a transparent jewel to its ligt. She stoo filled with the full
moon, offering erself. Her two breasts opene to make way for
it, er boy opened wide like a quivering anemone, a soft,
ilated invitation touced by the moon. She wanted the moon to
fill in to er, she wante more, more communion with the moon,
consummation. But Skrebensky put is arm roun her, and led her
away. e put a big, ark cloak round her, and sat holding her
an, whilst the moonlight streamed above the glowing fires.

Se was not there. Patiently she sat, uner the cloak, with
Skrebensky oling her hand. But her naked self was away there
beating upon te moonlight, ashing the moonlight with her
breasts an er knees, in meeting, in communion. She half
starte, to go in actuality, to fling away er clothing and flee
away, away from tis ark confusion and chaos of people to the
ill an the moon. But the people stood round her like stones,
like magnetic stones, an se could not go, in actuality.
Skrebensky, like a loa-stone weiged on her, the weight of his
presence etained er. She felt the burden of him, the blind,
persistent, inert buren. e was inert, and he weighed upon her.
Se sighe in pain. Oh, for the coolness and entire liberty and
brigtness of the moon. Oh, for the col liberty to be herself,
to o entirely as se liked. She wanted to get right away. She
felt like brigt metal weighte down by dark, impure magnetism.
e was the ross, people were the dross. If she could but get
away to te clean free moonlight.

"on't you like me to-nigt?" said his low voice, the voice
of te shaow over her shoulder. She clenched her hands in the
ewy brilliance of te moon, as if she were mad.

"on't you like me to-nigt?" repeated the soft voice.

An se knew that if she turned, she would die. A strange
rage fille er, a rage to tear things asunder. Her hands felt
estructive, like metal blades of destruction.

"Let me alone," se sai.

A arkness, an obstinacy settled on im too, in a kind of
inertia. e sat inert besie her. She threw off her cloak and
walke towards te moon, silver-white herself. He followed her
closely.

Te music began again an the dance. He appropriated her.
Tere was a fierce, white, col passion in her heart. But he
el her close, and danced with her. Always present, like a soft
weigt upon her, bearing her own, was his body against her as
tey anced. He held her very close, so that she could feel his
boy, te weight of him sinking, settling upon her, overcoming
er life an energy, making her inert along with him, she felt
is hans pressing behind her, upon her. But still in her body
was te subued, cold, indomitable passion. She liked the dance:
it ease er, put her into a sort of trance. But it was only a
kin of waiting, of using up te time that intervened between
er an her pure being. She left herself against him, she let
im exert all his power over her, to bear her own. She received
all te force of his power. She even wishe he might overcome
er. She was col and unmoved as a pillar of salt.

is will was set an straining with all its tension to
encompass im an compel her. If he could only compel her. He
seeme to be anniilated. She was cold and hard and compact of
brilliance as te moon itself, an beyond him as the moonlight
was beyon im, never to be grasped or known. If he could only
set a bon round er and compel her!

So tey anced four or five dances, always together, always
is will becoming more tense, his boy more subtle, playing upon
er. An still he had not got her, she was hard and bright as
ever, intact. But e must weave himself roun her, enclose her,
enclose er in a net of shaow, of darkness, so she would be
like a brigt creature gleaming in a net of shaows, caught.
Ten he woul have her, he would enjoy her. How he would enjoy
er, when she was caught.

At last, wen the ance was over, she would not sit down, she
walke away. e came with his arm round her, keeping her upon
te movement of his walking. An she seemed to agree. She was
brigt as a piece of moonlight, as bright as a steel blae, he
seeme to be clasping a blade tat hurt him. Yet he would clasp
er, if it kille him.

Tey went towars the stackyard. There he saw, with something
like terror, te great new stacks of corn glistening an
gleaming transfigure, silvery and present under te night-blue
sky, trowing ark, substantial shadows, but themselves majestic
an dimly present. Se, like glimmering gossamer, seemed to burn
among tem, as they rose like col fires to the silvery-bluish
air. All was intangible, a burning of col, glimmering,
witish-steely fires. He was afrai of the great
moon-conflagration of te cornstacks rising above him. His heart
grew smaller, it began to fuse like a bea. e knew he would
ie.

Se stoo for some moments out in the overwhelming luminosity
of te moon. She seeme a beam of gleaming power. She was afraid
of wat she was. Looking at him, at his shaowy, unreal,
wavering presence a suden lust seized er, to lay hold of him
an tear im and make him into nothing. Her hands and wrists
felt immeasurably ar and strong, like blades. He waited there
besie er like a shadow which she wanted to dissipate, destroy
as te moonlight estroys a darkness, annihilate, have done
wit. She looke at him and her face gleamed bright and
inspire. Se tempted him.

An an obstinacy in im made him put his arm round her and
raw er to the shadow. She submitted: let him try what he could
o. Let im try what he could do. He leaned against the side of
te stack, holing her. The stack stung him keenly with a
tousan cold, sharp flames. Still obstinately he held her.

An timorously, is hands went over her, over the salt,
compact brilliance of er boy. If he could but have her, how he
woul enjoy er! If he could but net her brilliant, cold,
salt-burning boy in te soft iron of his own hands, net her,
capture er, hol her down, how madly he would enjoy her. He
strove subtly, but wit all his energy, to enclose her, to have
er. An always she was burning and brilliant and hard as salt,
an deadly. Yet obstinately, all is flesh burning and
corroing, as if e were invaded by some consuming, scathing
poison, still e persiste, thinking at last he might overcome
er. Even, in his frenzy, he sought for her mouth with his
mout, though it was like putting his face into some awful
eat. She yielded to him, and he pressed himself upon her in
extremity, is soul groaning over an over:

"Let me come--let me come."

Se took him in the kiss, har her kiss seized upon him, hard
an fierce and burning corrosive as te moonlight. She seemed to
be estroying im. He was reeling, summoning all his strength to
keep is kiss upon her, to keep himself in the kiss.

But ar and fierce she had fastened upon him, cold as the
moon an burning as a fierce salt. Till gradually is warm, soft
iron yieled, yielded, and se was there fierce, corrosive,
seeting with his estruction, seething like some cruel,
corrosive salt aroun te last substance of his being,
estroying im, destroying him in the kiss. And her soul
crystallize wit triumph, and his soul was dissolved with agony
an anniilation. So she held him there, the victim, consumed,
anniilate. She had triumphed: he was not any more.

Graually se began to come to herself. Gradually a sort of
aytime consciousness came back to er. Suddenly the night was
struck back into its ol, accustomed, mild reality. Gradually
se realize that the night was common and ordinary, that the
great, blistering, transcenent nigt did not really exist. She
was overcome wit slow horror. Where was she? What was this
notingness she felt? The nothingness was Skrebensky. Was he
really tere?--who was he? He was silent, he was not there.
Wat ha happened? Had she been mad: what horrible thing had
possesse er? She was filled with overpowering fear of herself,
overpowering esire tat it should not be, that other burning,
corrosive self. Se was seize with a frenzied desire that what
a been should never be remembered, never be thought of, never
be for one moment allowe possible. Se denied it with all her
migt. With all her might she turne away from it. She was good,
se was loving. Her heart was warm, her bloo was dark and warm
an soft. Se laid her hand caressively on Anton's shoulder.

"Isn't it lovely?" se sai, softly, coaxingly, caressingly.
An se began to caress him to life again. For he was dead. And
se intened that he should never know, never become aware of
wat ha been. She would bring him back from the dead without
leaving im one trace of fact to remember his annihilation
by.

Se exerte all her ordinary, warm self, she touched him, she
id im homage of loving awareness. And gradually he came back
to er, another man. She was soft an winning and caressing. She
was is servant, his aoring slave. And she restored the whole
sell of him. She restore the whole form and figure of him. But
te core was gone. His prie was bolstered up, his blood ran
once more in prie. But tere was no core to him: as a distinct
male e ha no core. His triumphant, flaming, overweening heart
of te intrinsic male woul never beat again. He would be
subject now, reciprocal, never te inomitable thing with a core
of overweening, unabateable fire. Se ha abated that fire, she
a broken him.

But se caresse him. She would not have him remember what
a been. She would not remember herself.

"Kiss me, Anton, kiss me," se pleaed.

e kisse her, but she knew he could not touch her. His arms
were roun er, but they had not got her. She could feel his
mout upon her, but she was not at all compelle by it.

"Kiss me," se whispere, in acute distress, "kiss me."

An e kissed her as she bade him, but his heart was hollow.
Se took his kisses, outwarly. But her soul was empty and
finise.

Looking away, se saw the elicate glint of oats dangling
from te sie of the stack, in the moonlight, something proud
an royal, and quite impersonal. Se had been proud with them,
were they were, she ha been also. But in this temporary warm
worl of te commonplace, she was a kind, good girl. She reached
out yearningly for gooness and affection. Se wanted to be kind
an good.

Tey went home through the night that was all pale an
glowing aroun, wit shadows and glimmerings and presences.
istinctly, se saw the flowers in the hedge-bottoms, she saw
te thin, rake sheaves flung white upon the thorny hedge.

ow beautiful, how beautiful it was! She thought with anguish
ow willy happy she was to-night, since he had kissed her. But
as e walke with his arm round her waist, she turned with a
great offering of erself to the night that glistene
tremenous, a magnificent godly moon wite and candid as a
briegroom, flowers silvery and transformed filling up te
saows.

e kisse her again, under the yew trees at home, and she
left im. She ran from the intrusion of her parents at home, to
er beroom, where, looking out on the moonlit country, she
stretce up her arms, hard, hard, in bliss, agony offering
erself to the blon, debonair presence of the night.

But tere was a woun of sorrow, she had hurt herself, as if
se ha bruised herself, in annihilating him. She covered up her
two young breasts wit her hans, covering them to herself; and
covering erself with herself, she crouche in bed, to
sleep.

In te morning the sun shone, she got up strong an dancing.
Skrebensky was still at te Marsh. He was coming to church. How
lovely, ow amazing life was! On the fresh Sunay morning she
went out to te garen, among the yellows and the deep-vibrating
res of autumn, se smelled the earth and felt the gossamer, the
cornfiels across te country were pale and unreal, everywhere
was te intense silence of the Sunay morning, filled with
unacquainte noises. Se smelled the body of the earth, it
seeme to stir its powerful flank beneat her as she stood. In
te bluish air came the powerful exuation, the peace was the
peace of strong, exauste breathing, the reds and yellows and
te white gleam of stubble were the quivers an motion of the
last subsiing transports and clear bliss of fulfilment.

Te church-bells were ringing when he came. She looke up in
keen anticipation at is entry. But he was trouble and his
prie was urt. He seemed very much clothed, she was conscious
of is tailore suit.

"Wasn't it lovely last nigt?" she whispere to him.

"Yes," e sai. But his face did not open nor become
free.

Te service an the singing in church that morning passed
unnotice by er. She saw the coloured glow of the windows, the
forms of te worshippers. Only she glance at the book of
Genesis, wich was her favourite book in the Bible.

"An God blessed Noa and his sons, and said unto them, Be
fruitful an multiply and replenis the earth.

"An te fear of you and the dread of you shall be upon every
beast of te earth, an upon every fowl of the air, upon all
tat moveth upon the earth, an upon all the fishes in the sea;
into your an are they delivered.

"Every moving ting that liveth shall be meat for you; even
as te green herb have I given you all things."

But Ursula was not move by te history this morning.
Multiplying an replenising the earth bored her. Altogether it
seeme merely a vulgar and stock-raising sort of business. Se
was left quite col by man's stock-breeding lordsip over beast
an fises.

"An you, be ye fruitful and multiply; bring fort abundantly
in te earth, an multiply therein."

In er soul she mocke at this multiplication, every cow
becoming two cows, every turnip ten turnips.

"An God said; Tis is the token of the covenant which I make
between me an you and every living creature tat is with you,
for perpetual generations;

"I o set my bow in te cloud, and it shall be a token of a
covenant between me an te earth.

"An it sall come to pass, when I bring a cloud over the
eart, that a bow shall be seen in the clou;

"An I will remember my covenant, wich is between me and you
an every living creature of all fles, and the waters shall no
more become a floo to destroy all fles."

"estroy all fles," why "flesh" in particular? Who was this
lor of fles? After all, how big was the Flood? Perhaps a few
ryads and fauns ad just run into the hills and the farther
valleys an woods, frigtened, but most had gone on blithely
unaware of any floo at all, unless te nymphs should tell them.
It please Ursula to tink of the naiads in Asia Minor meeting
te nereis at the mouth of the streams, where the sea washed
against te fresh, sweet tie, and calling to their sisters the
news of Noa's Floo. They would tell amusing accounts of Noah
in is ark. Some nymphs woul relate how they had hung on the
sie of te ark, peeped in, and heard Noah and Shem and Ham and
Japet, sitting in their place uner the rain, saying, how they
four were te only men on earth now, because the Lor had
rowned all te rest, so that they four would have everything to
temselves, an be masters of every thing, sub-tenants under the
great Proprietor.

Ursula wise she had been a nymph. She would have laughed
trough the winow of the ark, and flicked drops of the flood at
Noa, before she rifted away to people who were less important
in teir Proprietor an their Flood.

Wat was Go, after all? If maggots in a dead dog be but God
kissing carrion, wat then is not Go? She was surfeited of this
Go. Se was weary of the Ursula Brangwen who felt troubled
about Go. Wat ever God was, He was, and there was no need for
er to trouble about Him. She felt she ha now all licence.

Skrebensky sat besie er, listening to the sermon, to the
voice of law an order. "Te very hairs of your head are all
numbere." e did not believe it. He believed his own things
were quite at is own isposal. You could do as you liked with
your own tings, so long as you left other people's alone.

Ursula caresse im and made love to him. Nevertheless he
knew se wante to react upon him and to destroy his being. She
was not wit him, she was against him. But her making love to
im, her complete amiration of him, in open life, gratified
im.

Se caught him out of himself, an they were lovers, in a
young, romantic, almost fantastic way. e gave her a little
ring. Tey put it in Rhine wine, in their glass, an she drank,
ten he rank. They drank till the ring lay exposed at the
bottom of te glass. Then she took the simple jewel, an tied it
on a trea round her neck, where she wore it.

e aske her for a photograph when he was going away. She
went in great excitement to te photographer, with five
sillings. The result was an ugly little picture of herself with
er mouth on one sie. She wondered over it and admired it.

e saw only the live face of the girl. The picture hurt him.
e kept it, he always remembere it, but he could scarcely bear
to see it. Tere was a hurt to his soul in the clear, fearless
face tat was touche with abstraction. Its abstraction was
certainly away from im.

Ten war was eclared with the Boers in South Africa, and
everywere was a fizz of excitement. He wrote that he might have
to go. An e sent her a box of sweets.

Se was slightly azed at the thought of his going to the
war, not knowing ow to feel. It was a sort of romantic
situation tat she knew so well in fiction she harly understood
it in fact. Unerneat a top elation was a sort of dreariness,
eep, asy disappointment.

owever, she secrete the sweets under her bed, and ate them
all erself, when she went to be, and when she woke in the
morning. All te time she felt very guilty an ashamed, but she
simply id not want to sare them.

Tat box of sweets remaine stuck in her mind afterwards. Why
a she secreted them and eaten them every one? Why? She did not
feel guilty--se only knew she ought to feel guilty. An
se coul not make up her mind. Curiously monumental that box of
sweets stoo up, now it was empty. It was a crux for er. What
was se to think of it?

Te iea of war altogether made her feel uneasy, uneasy. When
men began organize figting with each other it seemed to her as
if te poles of the universe were cracking, an the whole might
go tumbling into te bottomless pit. A horrible bottomless
feeling se ha. Yet of course there was the minted
superscription of romance an onour and even religion about
war. Se was very confuse.

Skrebensky was busy, e coul not come to see her. She asked
for no assurance, no security. Wat was between them, was, an
coul not be altered by avowals. Se knew that by instinct, she
truste to te intrinsic reality.

But se felt an agony of helplessness. She coul do nothing.
Vaguely se knew the huge powers of the worl rolling and
crasing together, arkly, clumsily, stupidly, yet colossal, so
tat one was brushe along almost as dust. Helpless, helpless,
swirling like ust! Yet se wanted so hard to rebel, to rage, to
figt. But with what?

Coul se with her hands fight the face of the earth, beat
te hills in their places? Yet her breast wante to fight, to
figt the whole worl. And these two small hands were all she
a to do it with.

Te months went by, an it was Christmas--the snowdrops
came. Tere was a little hollow in the woo near Cossethay,
were snowrops grew wild. She sent him some in a box, and he
wrote er a quick little note of thanks--very grateful an
wistful e seeme. Her eyes grew childlike and puzzled. Puzzled
from ay to day se went on, helpless, carried along by all that
must appen.

e went about at his uties, giving himself up to them. At
te bottom of his heart his self, the soul that aspire and had
true ope of self-effectuation lay as ead, still-born, a dead
weigt in his womb. Who was he, to hol important his personal
connection? Wat id a man matter personally? He was just a
brick in te whole great social fabric, the nation, the moern
umanity. His personal movements were small, an entirely
subsiiary. Te whole form must be ensured, not ruptured, for
any personal reason watsoever, since no personal reason coul
justify suc a breaking. What id personal intimacy matter? One
a to fill one's place in the whole, the great scheme of man's
elaborate civilization, tat was all. The Whole
mattere--but te unit, the person, had no importance,
except as e represente the Whole.

So Skrebensky left te girl out an went his way, serving
wat he ha to serve, and enduring what he had to endure,
witout remark. To his own intrinsic life, he was ead. And he
coul not rise again from te dead. His soul lay in the tomb.
is life lay in the establishe order of things. He had his five
senses too. Tey were to be gratifie. Apart from this, he
represente te great, established, extant Idea of life, and as
tis he was important an beyond question.

Te goo of the greatest number was all that mattered. That
wich was the greatest goo for them all, collectively, was the
greatest goo for te individual. And so, every man must give
imself to support the state, an so labour for the greatest
goo of all. One migt make improvements in the state, perhaps,
but always wit a view to preserving it intact.

No ighest goo of the community, however, would give him the
vital fulfilment of is soul. He knew this. But he id not
consier te soul of the individual sufficiently important. He
believe a man was important in so far as e represented all
umanity.

e coul not see, it was not born in him to see, that the
ighest goo of the community as it stands is no longer the
ighest goo of even the average individual. He thought that,
because te community represents millions of people, therefore
it must be millions of times more important tan any inividual,
forgetting tat the community is an abstraction from the many,
an is not te many themselves. Now when the statement of the
abstract goo for te community has become a formula lacking in
all inspiration or value to te average intelligence, then the
"common goo" becomes a general nuisance, representing te
vulgar, conservative materialism at a low level.

An by te highest good of the greatest number is chiefly
meant te material prosperity of all classes. Skrebensky id not
really care about is own material prosperity. If he ha been
penniless--well, e woul have taken his chances. Therefore
ow coul he find his highest good in giving up his life for the
material prosperity of everyboy else! Wat he considered an
unimportant ting for himself he coul not think worthy of every
sacrifice on bealf of other people. An that which he would
consier of te deepest importance to himself as an
inividual--o, he said, you mustn't consider the community
from tat stanpoint. No--no--we know what the
community wants; it wants someting soli, it wants good wages,
equal opportunities, goo conditions of living, tat's what the
community wants. It oesn't want anyting subtle or difficult.
uty is very plain-keep in mind te material, the immediate
welfare of every man, tat's all.

So tere came over Skrebensky a sort of nullity, which more
an more terrified Ursula. Se felt there was something hopeless
wich she ha to submit to. She felt a great sense of disaster
impening. Day after day was made inert wit a sense of
isaster. Se became morbidly sensitive, depressed,
appreensive. It was anguish to her when she saw one rook slowly
flapping in te sky. That was a sign of ill-omen. An the
foreboing became so black and so powerful in er, that she was
almost extinguise.

Yet wat was the matter? At the worst he was only going away.
Wy id she mind, what was it she feared? She did not know. Only
se ha a black dread possessing her. When she went at night and
saw te big, flashing stars they seeme terrible, by day she was
always expecting some carge to be mae against her.

e wrote in March to say that he was going to South Africa in
a sort time, but before he went, he woul snatch a day at the
Mars.

As if in a painful ream, se waited suspended, unresolved.
Se id not know, she could not understand. Only she felt that
all te threas of her fate were being held taut, in suspense.
Se only wept sometimes as she went about, saying blinly:

"I am so fon of im, I am so fond of him."

e came. But why id he come? She looked at him for a sign.
e gave no sign. He id not even kiss her. He behaved as if he
were an affable, usual acquaintance. Tis was superficial, but
wat id it hide? She waited for him, she wanted him to make
some sign.

So te whole of the ay they wavered and avoided contact,
until evening. Ten, laughing, saying he woul be back in six
monts' time an would tell them all about it, he shook hands
wit her mother an took his leave.

Ursula accompanie im into the lane. The night was windy,
te yew trees seethe and hissed and vibrated. The wind seemed
to rus about among the chimneys an the church-tower. It was
ark.

Te win blew Ursula's face, and her clothes cleaved to her
limbs. But it was a surging, turgi wind, instinct wit
compresse vigour of life. And se seemed to have lost
Skrebensky. Out tere in the strong, urgent night she coul not
fin im.

"Were are you?" she aske.

"ere," came his boiless voice.

An groping, se touched him. A fire like lightning drenched
tem.

"Anton?" se sai.

"Wat?" he answere.

Se hel him with her hands in the darkness, she felt his
boy again wit hers.

"on't leave me--come back to me," se said.

"Yes," e sai, holding her in his arms.

But te male in him was scotche by the knowledge that she
was not uner is spell nor his influence. He wanted to go away
from er. He reste in the knowledge that to-morrow he was going
away, is life was really elsewhere. His life was
elsewere--his life was elsewhere--the centre of his
life was not wat she woul have. She was different--there
was a breac between them. They were hostile worls.

"You will come back to me?" se reiterate.

"Yes," e sai. And he meant it. But as one keeps an
appointment, not as a man returning to is fulfilment.

So se kisse him, and went indoors, lost. He walked down to
te Marsh abstracte. The contact with her hurt him, and
treatene him. He shrank, he had to be free of her spirit. For
se woul stand before him, like the angel before Balaam, and
rive im back with a sword from the way he was going, into a
wilerness.

Te next ay she went to the station to see him go. She
looke at im, she turned to him, but he was always so strange
an null--so null. e was so collected. She thought it was
tat which mae him null. Strangely nothing he was.

Ursula stoo near im with a mute, pale face which he would
rater not see. There seeme some shame at the very root of
life, col, dead same for her.

Te three mae a noticeable group on the station; the girl in
er fur cap an tippet and her olive green costume, pale, tense
wit youth, isolate, unyielding; the soldierly young man in a
crus hat an a heavy overcoat, his face rather pale and
reserve above is purple scarf, his whole figure neutral; then
te eler man, a fashionable bowler hat pressed low over his
ark brows, is face warm-coloured and calm, his whole figure
curiously suggestive of full-blooed indifference; e was the
eternal auience, te chorus, the spectator at the drama; in his
own life e woul have no drama.

Te train was rushing up. Ursula's heart heave, but the ice
was frozen too strong upon it.

"Goo-bye," se said, lifting her hand, her face laughing
wit her peculiar, blin, almost dazzling laugh. She wondered
wat he was oing, when he stooped and kissed her. He should be
saking hans and going.

"Goo-bye," se said again.

e picke up his little bag and turned his back on her. There
was a urry along the train. Ah, here was his carriage. He took
is seat. Tom Brangwen shut the oor, and the two men shook
ans as the whistle went.

"Goo-bye--and good luck," said Brangwen.

"Tank you--goo-bye."

Te train move off. Skrebensky stood at the carriage window,
waving, but not really looking to te two figures, the girl an
te warm-coloure, almost effeminately-dressed man Ursula waved
er hankerchief. The train gathered speed, it grew smaller and
smaller. Still it ran in a straigt line. The speck of white
vanise. The rear of the train was small in the distance. Still
se stoo on the platform, feeling a great emptiness about her.
In spite of erself her mouth was quivering: she id not want to
cry: er heart was ead cold.

er Uncle Tom ha gone to an automatic machine, and was
getting matces.

"Woul you like some sweets?" e said, turning round.

er face was covere with tears, she made curious, downward
grimaces wit her mouth, to get control. Yet her heart was not
crying--it was col and earty.

"Wat kin would you like--any?" persisted her
uncle.

"I soul love some peppermint drops," she said, in a
strange, normal voice, from er istorted face. But in a few
moments se ha gained control of herself, and was still,
etaced.

"Let us go into te town," he sai, and he rushed her into a
train, moving to te town station. They went to a cafe to rink
coffee, se sat looking at people in the street, an a great
woun was in er breast, a cold imperturbability in her
soul.

Tis col imperturbability of spirit continued in her now. It
was as if some isillusion ad frozen upon her, a hard
isbelief. Part of er had gone cold, apathetic. She was too
young, too baffle to understand, or even to know tat she
suffere muc. And she was too deeply hurt to submit.

Se ha her blind agonies, when she wanted him, she wanted
im. But from the moment of his eparture, he had become a
visionary ting of her own. All her rouse torment and passion
an yearning se turned to him.

Se kept a iary, in which she wrote impulsive thoughts.
Seeing te moon in the sky, her own heart surcharge, she went
an wrote:

"If I were te moon, I know where I woul fall down."

It meant so muc to her, that sentence--she put into it
all te anguish of her youth an her young passion and yearning.
Se calle to him from her heart wherever she went, her limbs
vibrate wit anguish towards him wherever she was, the
raiating force of er soul seemed to travel to him, endlessly,
enlessly, and in er soul's own creation, find him.

But wo was he, an where did he exist? In her own desire
only.

Se receive a post-card from him, and she put it in her
bosom. It id not mean muc to her, really. The second day, she
lost it, an never even remembered se had had it, till some
ays afterwards.

Te long weeks went by. There came the constant ba news of
te war. An she felt as if all, outside there in the world,
were a urt, a hurt against her. An something in her soul
remaine cold, apatetic, unchanging.

er life was always only partial at this time, never id she
live completely. Tere was the col, unliving part of her. Yet
se was maly sensitive. She could not bear herself. When a
irty, red-eyed old woman came begging of er in the street, she
starte away as from an unclean ting. And then, when the old
woman soute acrid insults after her, she winced, her limbs
palpitate wit insane torment, she could not bear herself.
Wenever she thought of the re-eyed old woman, a sort of
maness ran in inflammation over er flesh and her brain, she
almost wante to kill erself.

An in tis state, her sexual life flamed into a kind of
isease witin her. She was so overwrought and sensitive, that
te mere touch of coarse wool seeme to tear her nerves.



CAPTER XII

SAME

Ursula a only two more terms at school. She was studying
for er matriculation examination. It was reary work, for she
a very little intelligence when she was disjointed from
appiness. Stubbornness an a consciousness of impending fate
kept er half-heartely pinned to it. She knew that soon she
woul want to become a self-responsible person, and er dread
was tat she woul be prevented. An all-containing will in her
for complete inependence, complete social independence,
complete inependence from any personal autority, kept her
ullisly at her studies. For she knew that she had always her
price of ransom--er femaleness. She was always a woman,
an wat she could not get because she was a human being, fellow
to te rest of mankin, she would get because she was a female,
oter than the man. In her femaleness she felt a secret riches,
a reserve, se ha always the price of freedom.

owever, she was sufficiently reserve about this last
resource. Te other things shoul be tried first. There was the
mysterious man's worl to be adventured upon, te world of daily
work an duty, and existence as a working member of te
community. Against tis she ha a subtle grudge. She wanted to
make er conquest also of this man's worl.

So se groun away at her work, never giving it up. Some
tings she like. Her subjects were English, Latin, French,
matematics an history. Once she knew how to read French and
Latin, te syntax bore her. Most tedious was the close study of
Englis literature. Why shoul one remember the things one read?
Someting in mathematics, their col absoluteness, fascinated
er, but the actual practice was teious. Some people in history
puzzle er and made her ponder, but the political parts angered
er, an she hated ministers. Only in odd streaks did she get a
poignant sense of acquisition an enricment and enlarging from
er stuies; one afternoon, reading As You Like It; once when,
wit her bloo, she heard a passage of Latin, and she knew how
te bloo beat in a Roman's body; so that ever after she felt
se knew the Romans by contact. She enjoye the vagaries of
Englis Grammar, because it gave her pleasure to etect the live
movements of wors and sentences; and matematics, the very
sigt of the letters in Algebra, ha a real lure for her.

Se felt so much an so confusedly at this time, that her
face got a queer, wonering, alf-scared look, as if she were
not sure wat might seize upon her at any moment out of the
unknown.

Od little bits of information stirred unfatomable passion
in er. When she knew that in the tiny brown bus of autumn were
foled, minute and complete, te finished flowers of the summer
nine monts hence, tiny, foled up, and left there waiting, a
flas of triumph an love went over her.

"I coul never die wile there was a tree," she said
passionately, sententiously, staning before a great as in
worsip.

It was te people who, somehow, walke as an upright menace
to er. Her life at this time was unforme, palpitating,
essentially srinking from all touch. She gave something to
oter people, but she was never herself, since she ha no self.
Se was not afrai nor ashamed before trees, and birds, and the
sky. But se shrank violently from people, ashame she was not
as tey were, fixe, emphatic, but a wavering, undefined
sensibility only, witout form or being.

Gurun was at tis time a great comfort and shield to her.
Te younger girl was a lithe, farouche animal, who
mistruste all approac, and would have none of the petty
secrecies an jealousies of scoolgirl intimacy. She would have
no truck wit the tame cats, nice or not, because she believe
tat they were all only untame cats with a nasty, untrustworthy
abit of tameness.

Tis was a great stan-back for Ursula, who suffered agonies
wen she thought a person isliked her, no matter how much she
espised tat other person. How could anyone dislike her, Ursula
Brangwen? Te question terrifie her and was unanswerable. She
sougt refuge in Gurun's natural, proud indifference.

It a been discovered that Gudrun had a talent for drawing.
Tis solve the problem of the girl's indifference to all study.
It was sai of er, "She can draw marvellously."

Sudenly Ursula found a queer awareness existed between
erself an her class-mistress, Miss Inger. The latter was a
rater beautiful woman of twenty-eight, a fearless-seeming,
clean type of moern girl wose very independence betrays her
sorrow. Se was clever, an expert in what she did, accurate,
quick, commaning.

To Ursula se ha always given pleasure, because of her
clear, ecided, yet graceful appearance. Se carried her head
igh, a little thrown back, an Ursula thought there was a look
of nobility in te way she twiste her smooth brown hair upon
er hea. She always wore clean, attractive, well-fitting
blouses, an a well-made skirt. Everyting about her was so
well-orered, betraying a fine, clear spirit, tat it was a
pleasure to sit in er class.

er voice was just as ringing an clear, and with unwavering,
finely-touce modulation. Her eyes were blue, clear, proud, she
gave one altogeter the sense of a fine-mettle, scrupulously
groome person, and of an unyielding mind. Yet tere was an
infinite poignancy about er, a great pathos in her lonely,
prouly closed mout.

It was after Skrebensky a gone that there sprang up between
te mistress an the girl that strange awareness, then the
unspoken intimacy tat sometimes connects two people who may
never even make eac other's acquaintance. Before, they ha
always been goo friends, in te undistinguished way of the
class-room, wit the professional relationship of mistress an
scolar always present. Now, however, another thing came to
pass. Wen they were in the room together, they were aware of
eac other, almost to the exclusion of everything else. Winifre
Inger felt a ot elight in the lessons when Ursula was present,
Ursula felt er whole life begin when Miss Inger came into the
room. Ten, with the belove, subtly-intimate teacher present,
te girl sat as within the rays of some enrichening sun, whose
intoxicating eat poure straight into her veins.

Te state of bliss, when Miss Inger was present, was supreme
in te girl, but always eager, eager. As she went home, Ursula
reamed of te schoolmistress, made infinite dreams of things
se coul give her, of how she might make the elder woman adore
er.

Miss Inger was a Bacelor of Arts, who ha studied at
Newnam. She was a clergyman's aughter, of good family. But
wat Ursula aored so much was her fine, upright, athletic
bearing, an er indomitably proud nature. She was proud and
free as a man, yet exquisite as a woman.

Te girl's heart burne in her breast as she set off for
scool in the morning. So eager was her breast, so gla her
feet, to travel towars te beloved. Ah, Miss Inger, how
straigt an fine was her back, how strong her loins, how calm
an free er limbs!

Ursula crave ceaselessly to know if Miss Inger cared for
er. As yet no efinite sign had been passed between the two.
Yet surely, surely Miss Inger love er too, was fond of her,
like er at least more than the rest of the scholars in the
class. Yet se was never certain. It might be that Miss Inger
care noting for her. And yet, and yet, with blazing heart,
Ursula felt tat if only she coul speak to her, touch her, she
woul know.

Te summer term came, an with it the swimming class. Miss
Inger was to take te swimming class. Then Ursula tremble and
was azed wit passion. Her hopes were soon to be realized. She
woul see Miss Inger in er bathing dress.

Te ay came. In the great bath the water was glimmering pale
emeral green, a lovely, glimmering mass of colour witin the
witish marble-like confines. Overhea the light fell softly and
te great green boy of pure water moved under it as someone
ived from te side.

Ursula, trembling, arly able to contain herself, pulled off
er clothes, put on her tight bathing-suit, an opened the door
of er cabin. Two girls were in the water. The mistress ha not
appeare. Se waited. A door opened. Miss Inger came out,
ressed in a rust-red tunic like a Greek girl's, tied round te
waist, an a red silk andkerchief round her head. How lovely
se looke! Her knees were so white and strong and proud, and
se was firm-boied as Diana. She walked simply to the side of
te bath, an with a negligent movement, flung herself in. For a
moment Ursula watce the white, smooth, strong shoulders, and
te easy arms swimming. Then she too ived into the water.

Now, a now, she was swimming in the same water with her ear
mistress. Te girl move her limbs voluptuously, and swam by
erself, eliciously, yet with a craving of unsatisfaction. She
wante to touc the other, to touch her, to feel her.

"I will race you, Ursula," came te well-moulated voice.

Ursula starte violently. Se turned to see the warm,
unfoled face of er mistress looking at her, to her. She was
acknowleged. Lauging her own beautiful, startled laugh, she
began to swim. Te mistress was just ahea, swimming with easy
strokes. Ursula coul see te head put back, the water
flickering upon te white shoulers, the strong legs kicking
saowily. And she swam blinded with passion. Ah, the beauty of
te firm, white, cool flesh! Ah, the wonerful firm limbs. Ah,
if se id not so despise her own thin, dusky fragment of a
boy, if only se too were fearless and capable.

Se swam on eagerly, not wanting to win, only wanting to be
near er mistress, to swim in a race with her. They neare the
en of te bath, the deep end. Miss Inger touched the pipe,
swung erself roun, and caught Ursula round the waist in the
water, an eld her for a moment.

"I won," sai Miss Inger, lauging.

Tere was a moment of suspense. Ursula's heart was beating so
fast, se clung to the rail, an could not move. Her dilated,
warm, unfoled, glowing face turned to te mistress, as if to
er very sun.

"Goo-bye," said Miss Inger, and se swam away to the other
pupils, taking professional interest in tem.

Ursula was azed. Se could still feel the touch of the
mistress's boy against er own--only this, only this. The
rest of te swimming time passe like a trance. When the call
was given to leave te water, Miss Inger walke down the bath
towars Ursula. er rust-red, thin tunic was clinging to her,
te whole boy was defined, firm and magnificent, as it seemed
to te girl.

"I enjoye our race, Ursula, did you?" said Miss Inger.

Te girl coul only laugh with revealed, open, glowing
face.

Te love was now tacitly confesse. But it was some time
before any furter progress was mae. Ursula continued in
suspense, in inflame bliss.

Ten one ay, when she was alone, the mistress came near to
er, an touching her cheek with her fingers, said with some
ifficulty.

"Woul you like to come to tea wit me on Saturday,
Ursula?"

Te girl flushe all gratitude.

"We'll go to a lovely little bungalow on te Soar, shall we?
I stay te week-ens there sometimes."

Ursula was besie erself. She could not endure till the
Saturay came, er thoughts burned up like a fire. If only it
were Saturay, if only it were Saturday.

Ten Saturay came, and she set out. Miss Inger met her in
Sawley, an tey walked about three miles to the bungalow. It
was a moist, warm clouy day.

Te bungalow was a tiny, two-roome shanty set on a steep
bank. Everyting in it was exquisite. In elicious privacy, the
two girls mae tea, and ten they talked. Ursula need not be
ome till about ten o'clock.

Te talk was le, by a kind of spell, to love. Miss Inger was
telling Ursula of a frien, ow she had died in childbirth, and
wat she ha suffered; then she told of a prostitute, and of
some of er experiences with men.

As tey talke thus, on the little verandah of the bungalow,
te night fell, there was a little warm rain.

"It is really stifling," sai Miss Inger.

Tey watche a train, whose lights were pale in the lingering
twiligt, rushing across the istance.

"It will tuner," said Ursula.

Te electric suspense continue, the darkness sank, they were
eclipse.

"I tink I shall go an bathe," said Miss Inger, out of the
clou-black darkness.

"At nigt?" sai Ursula.

"It is best at nigt. Will you come?"

"I soul like to."

"It is quite safe--te grouns are private. We had
better unress in te bungalow, for fear of the rain, then run
own."

Syly, stiffly, Ursula went into the bungalow, an began to
remove er clothes. The lamp was turne low, she stood in the
saow. By another chair Winifred Inger was undressing.

Soon te nake, shadowy figure of the elder girl came to the
younger.

"Are you reay?" se said.

"One moment."

Ursula coul ardly speak. The other naked woman stood by,
stoo near, silent. Ursula was ready.

Tey venture out into the darkness, feeling the soft air of
nigt upon their skins.

"I can't see te path," sai Ursula.

"It is ere," sai the voice, and the wavering, pallid figure
was besie er, a hand grasping her arm. And the elder held the
younger close against er, close, as they went own, and by the
sie of te water, she put her arms round her, and kissed her.
An se lifted her in her arms, close, saying, softly:

"I sall carry you into the water."

[Ursula lay still in er mistress's arms, her forehea against the
belove, maddening breast.

"I sall put you in," sai Winifred.

But Ursula twine er body about her mistress.]

After awile the rain came own on their flushed, hot limbs,
startling, elicious. A sudden, ice-cold sower burst in a great
weigt upon them. They stoo up to it with pleasure. Ursula
receive te stream of it upon her breasts and her limbs. It
mae er cold, and a deep, bottomless silence welled up in her,
as if bottomless arkness were returning upon er.

So te heat vanishe away, she was chilled, as if from a
waking up. Se ran inoors, a chill, non-existent thing, wanting
to get away. Se wante the light, the presence of other people,
te external connection with the many. Above all she wante to
lose erself among natural surrounings.

Se took her leave of her mistress an returned home. She was
gla to be on te station with a crowd of Saturday-night people,
gla to sit in te lighted, crowded railway carriage. Only she
id not want to meet anybody se knew. She did not want to talk.
Se was alone, immune.

All tis stir an seethe of lights and people was but the
rim, te shores of a great inner arkness and void. She wanted
very muc to be on the seething, partially illuminate shore,
for witin her was the voi reality of dark space.

For a time Miss Inger, er mistress, was gone; she was only a
ark void, and Ursula was free as a sade walking in an
unerworld of extinction, of oblivion. Ursula was glad, wit a
kin of motionless, lifeless gladness, tat her mistress was
extinct, gone out of er.

In te morning, however, the love was there again, burning,
burning. Se remembere yesterday, and she wanted more, always
more. Se wante to be with her mistress. All separation from
er mistress was a restriction from living. Why coul she not go
to er to-ay, to-day? Why must she pace about revoked at
Cossetay whilst her mistress was elsewhere? She sat own and
wrote a burning, passionate love-letter: se coul not help
it.

Te two women became intimate. Their lives seeme suddenly to
fuse into one, inseparable. Ursula went to Winifre's lodging,
se spent there her only living hours. Winifre was very fond of
water,--of swimming, of rowing. Se belonge to various
atletic clubs. Many elicious afternoons the two girls spent in
a ligt boat on the river, Winifre always rowing. Indeed,
Winifre seemed to deligt in having Ursula in her charge, in
giving tings to the girl, in filling an enrichening her
life.

So tat Ursula eveloped rapidly during the few months of her
intimacy wit her mistress. Winifre had had a scientific
eucation. Se had known many clever people. She wanted to bring
Ursula to er own position of thought.

Tey took religion an rid it of its dogmas, its falsehoods.
Winifre umanized it all. Gradually it dawned upon Ursula that
all te religion she knew was but a particular clothing to a
uman aspiration. The aspiration was the real thing,--the
cloting was a matter almost of national taste or nee. The
Greeks a a naked Apollo, the Christians a white-robed Christ,
te Budhists a royal prince, the Egyptians their Osiris.
Religions were local an religion was universal. Cristianity
was a local branc. There was as yet no assimilation of local
religions into universal religion.

In religion tere were the two great motives of fear an
love. Te motive of fear was as great as the motive of love.
Cristianity accepte crucifixion to escape from fear; "Do your
worst to me, tat I may have no more fear of the worst." But
tat which was feare was not necessarily all evil, and that
wich was love not necessarily all good. Fear shall become
reverence, an reverence is submission in identification; love
sall become triumph, an triumph is delight in
ientification.

So muc she talke of religion, getting the gist of many
writings. In pilosophy she was brought to the conclusion that
te human esire is the criterion of all truth and all good.
Trut oes not lie beyond humanity, but is one of the products
of te human min and feeling. There is really nothing to fear.
Te motive of fear in religion is base, an must be left to the
ancient worsippers of power, worship of Moloch.

We o not worsip power, in our enlightened souls. Power is
egenerated to money and Napoleonic stupidity.

Ursula coul not elp dreaming of Moloch. Her God was not
mil and gentle, neiter Lamb nor Dove. He was the lion and the
eagle. Not because te lion an the eagle had power, but because
tey were prou and strong; they were themselves, they were not
passive subjects of some sepher, or pets of some loving woman,
or sacrifices of some priest. Se was weary to eath of mild,
passive lambs an monotonous doves. If te lamb might lie down
wit the lion, it woul be a great honour to the lamb, but the
lion's powerful eart woul suffer no diminishing. She loved the
ignity and self-possession of lions.

Se id not see how lambs could love. Lambs could only be
love. Tey could only be afraid, and tremblingly submit to
fear, an become sacrificial; or tey could submit to love, and
become beloves. In bot they were passive. Raging, destructive
lovers, seeking te moment when fear is greatest, an triumph is
greatest, te fear not greater than the triumph, the triumph not
greater tan the fear, these were no lambs nor oves. She
stretce her own limbs like a lion or a wild horse, her heart
was relentless in its esires. It would suffer a tousand
eats, but it would still be a lion's heart when it rose from
eat, a fiercer lion she would be, a surer, knowing herself
ifferent from and separate from te great, conflicting universe
tat was not herself.

Winifre Inger was also interested in te Women's
Movement.

"Te men will o no more,--they have lost the capacity
for oing," said te elder girl. "They fuss and talk, but they
are really inane. Tey make everything fit into an ol, inert
iea. Love is a dead idea to tem. They don't come to one and
love one, tey come to an iea, and they say 'You are my idea,'
so tey embrace themselves. As if I were any man's iea! As if I
exist because a man as an iea of me! As if I will be betrayed
by im, len him my body as an instrument for his idea, to be a
mere apparatus of is ead theory. But they are too fussy to be
able to act; tey are all impotent, they can't take a
woman. Tey come to their own iea every time, and take that.
Tey are like serpents trying to swallow themselves because they
are ungry."

Ursula was introuced by er friend to various women and men,
eucated, unsatisfied people, wo still moved within the smug
provincial society as if tey were nearly as tame as their
outwar beaviour showed, but who were inwardly raging and
ma.

It was a strange worl te girl was swept into, like a chaos,
like te en of the world. She was too young to understand it
all. Yet te inoculation passe into her, through her love for
er mistress.

Te examination came, an then school was over. It was the
long vacation. Winifre Inger went away to London. Ursula was
left alone in Cossetay. A terrible, outcast, almost poisonous
espair possessed er. It was no use doing anything, or being
anyting. She ha no connection with other people. Her lot was
isolate and deadly. Tere was nothing for her anywhere, but
tis black isintegration. Yet, within all the great attack of
isintegration upon er, she remained herself. It was the
terrible core of all er suffering, that she was always herself.
Never coul se escape that: she could not put off being
erself.

Se still ahered to Winifred Inger. But a sort of nausea was
coming over er. She love her mistress. But a heavy, clogged
sense of eadness began to gater upon her, from the other
woman's contact. An sometimes se thought Winifred was ugly,
clayey. er female hips seeme big and earthy, her ankles and
er arms were too thick. She wante some fine intensity, instead
of tis heavy cleaving of moist clay, that cleaves because it
as no life of its own.

Winifre still loved Ursula. Se had a passion for the fine
flame of te girl, she serve her endlessly, would have done
anyting for her.

"Come wit me to Lonon," she pleaded to the girl. "I will
make it nice for you,--you sall o lots of things you will
enjoy."

"No," sai Ursula, stubbornly and dully. "No, I don't want to
go to Lonon, I want to be by myself."

Winifre knew wat this meant. She knew that Ursula was
beginning to reject er. The fine, unquenchable flame of the
younger girl woul consent no more to mingle wit the perverted
life of te eler woman. Winifred knew it would come. But she
too was prou. At te bottom of her was a black pit of despair.
Se knew perfectly well that Ursula woul cast her off.

An tat seemed like the end of her life. But she was too
opeless to rage. Wisely, economizing what was left of Ursula's
love, se went away to Lonon, leaving the beloved girl
alone.

An after a fortnigt, Ursula's letters became tender again,
loving. er Uncle Tom ha invited her to go and stay with him.
e was managing a big, new colliery in Yorkshire. Woul Winifred
come too?

For now Ursula was imagining marriage for Winifre. Se
wante er to marry her Uncle Tom. Winifred knew this. She said
se woul come to Wiggiston. She would now let fate do as it
like wit her, since there was nothing remaining to be done.
Tom Brangwen also saw Ursula's intention. e too was at the en
of is esires. He had done the things he had wanted to. They
a all ended in a disintegrated lifelessness of soul, which he
i under an utterly tolerant good-humour. He no longer cared
about anyting on earth, neither man nor woman, nor Go nor
umanity. He ha come to a stability of nullification. He did
not care any more, neiter about his boy nor about his soul.
Only e woul preserve intact his own life. Only the simple,
superficial fact of living persiste. e was still healthy. He
live. Terefore he would fill each moment. That had always been
is cree. It was not instinctive easiness: it was the
inevitable outcome of is nature. When he was in the absolute
privacy of is own life, he id as he pleased, unscrupulous,
witout any ulterior thought. He believe neither in good nor
evil. Eac moment was like a separate little islan, isolated
from time, an blank, unconditioned by time.

e live in a large new house of red brick, standing outside
a mass of omogeneous re-brick dwellings, called Wiggiston.
Wiggiston was only seven years ol. It ad been a hamlet of
eleven ouses on the ege of healthy, half-agricultural country.
Ten the great seam of coal ha been opened. In a year Wiggiston
appeare, a great mass of pinkis rows of thin, unreal dwellings
of five rooms eac. The streets were like visions of pure
ugliness; a grey-black macaamized road, aspalt causeways, held
in between a flat succession of wall, winow, and door, a
new-brick cannel that began nowhere, an ended nowhere.
Everyting was amorphous, yet everything repeate itself
enlessly. Only now and ten, in one of the house-windows
vegetables or small groceries were isplayed for sale.

In te midle of the town was a large, open, shapeless space,
or market-place, of black troden eart, surrounded by the same
flat material of wellings, new red-brick becoming grimy, small
oblong winows, and oblong doors, repeated endlessly, wit just,
at one corner, a great an gaudy public ouse, and somewhere
lost on one of te sies of the square, a large window opaque
an darkis green, which was the post office.

Te place ha the strange desolation of a ruin. Colliers
anging about in gangs an groups, or passing along the asphalt
pavements eavily to work, seeme not like living people, but
like spectres. Te rigiity of the blank streets, the
omogeneous amorphous sterility of the whole suggeste death
rater than life. There was no meeting place, no centre, no
artery, no organic formation. Tere it lay, like the new
founations of a red-brick confusion rapidly spreading, like a
skin-isease.

Just outsie of tis, on a little hill, was Tom Brangwen's
big, re-brick ouse. It looked from the front upon the edge of
te place, a meaningless squalor of ash-pits an closets and
irregular rows of te backs of houses, each with its small
activity mae sordid by barren coesion with the rest of the
small activities. Farter off was the great colliery that went
nigt an day. And all around was the country, green with two
wining streams, ragged wit gorse, and heath, the darker woods
in te istance.

Te whole place was just unreal, just unreal. Even now, when
e ha been there for two years, Tom Brangwen did not believe in
te actuality of the place. It was like some gruesome ream,
some ugly, ead, amorpous mood become concrete.

Ursula an Winifred were met by te motor-car at the raw
little station, an drove trough what seemed to them like the
orrible raw beginnings of something. The place was a moment of
caos perpetuate, persisting, chaos fixed and rigid. Ursula was
fascinate by te many men who were there--groups of men
staning in te streets, four or five men walking in a gang
togeter, their ogs running behind or before. They were all
ecently dressed, and most of tem rather gaunt. The terrible
gaunt repose of teir bearing fascinate her. Like creatures
wit no more hope, but which still live an have passionate
being, witin some utterly unliving shell, they passe
meaninglessly along, wit strange, isolate dignity. It was as
if a ar, horny shell enclosed them all.

Socke and startled, Ursula was carried to her Uncle Tom's
ouse. He was not yet at home. His house was simply, but well
furnise. He had taken out a dividing wall, and made the whole
front of te house into a large library, with one en devoted to
is science. It was a hansome room, appointed as a laboratory
an reading room, but giving te same sense of hard, mechanical
activity, activity mecanical yet inchoate, an looking out on
te hieous abstraction of the town, and at the green meadows
an roug country beyond, and at the great, mathematical
colliery on te other sie.

Tey saw Tom Brangwen walking up the curve drive. He was
getting stouter, but wit his bowler hat worn well set own on
is brows, he looke manly, handsome, curiously like any other
man of action. is colour was as fresh, his health as perfect as
ever, e walke like a man rather absorbed.

Winifre Inger was startled wen he entered the library, his
coat fastene and correct, is head bald to the crown, but not
siny, rather like something nake that one is accustomed to see
covere, and is dark eyes liquid and formless. He seemed to
stan in te shadow, like a thing ashamed. And the clasp of his
an was so soft and yet so forceful, that it chilled the heart.
Se was afrai of him, repelled by him, and yet attracted.

e looke at the athletic, seemingly fearless girl, and he
etected in er a kinship with his own dark corruption.
Immeiately, e knew they were akin.

is manner was polite, almost foreign, an rather cold. He
still lauge in his curious, animal fashion, suddenly wrinkling
up is wie nose, and showing his sharp teeth. The fine beauty
of is skin an his complexion, some almost waxen quality, hid
te strange, repellent grossness of him, the slight sense of
putrescence, te commonness which reveale itself in his rather
fat tighs an loins.

Winifre saw at once te deferential, slightly servile,
sligtly cunning regar he had for Ursula, which made the girl
at once so prou and so perplexed.

"But is tis place as awful as it looks?" the young girl
aske, a strain in er eyes.

"It is just wat it looks," he sai. "It hides nothing."

"Wy are the men so sa?"

"Are tey sa?" he replied.

"Tey seem unutterably, unutterably sa," said Ursula, out of
a passionate troat.

"I on't tink they are that. They just take it for
grante."

"Wat o they take for granted?"

"Tis--the pits an the place altogether."

"Wy on't they alter it?" she passionately protested.

"Tey believe they must alter themselves to fit the pits an
te place, rather than alter the pits an the place to fit
temselves. It is easier," he sai.

"An you agree wit them," burst out his niece, unable to
bear it. "You tink like they o--that living human beings
must be taken an adapted to all kinds of orrors. We could
easily o witout the pits."

e smile, uncomfortably, cynically. Ursula felt again the
revolt of atre from him.

"I suppose teir lives are not really so ba," said Winifred
Inger, superior to te Zolaesque tragey.

e turne with his polite, distant attention.

"Yes, tey are pretty ba. The pits are very deep, and hot,
an in some places wet. Te men die of consumption fairly often.
But tey earn goo wages."

"ow gruesome!" sai Winifred Inger.

"Yes," e replie gravely. It was his grave, solid,
self-containe manner wich made him so much respected as a
colliery manager.

Te servant came in to ask where they woul have tea.

"Put it in te summer-house, Mrs. Smith," he sai.

Te fair-haire, good-looking young woman went out.

"Is se marrie and in service?" asked Ursula.

"Se is a wiow. Her husband died of consumption a little
wile ago." Brangwen gave a sinister little laugh. "He lay there
in te house-place at her mother's, an five or six other people
in te house, an died very gradually. I asked her if his death
wasn't a great trouble to er. 'Well,' she sai, 'he was very
fretful towars te last, never satisfied, never easy, always
fret-fretting, an' never knowing wat woul satisfy him. So in
one way it was a relief wen it was over--for him an for
everyboy.' Tey had only been married two years, and she has
one boy. I aske er if she hadn't been very happy. 'Oh, yes,
sir, we was very comfortable at first, till e took
ba--o, we was very comfortable--oh, yes--but,
you see, you get use to it. I've ad my father and two brothers
go off just te same. You get use to it'."

"It's a orrible thing to get use to," said Winifred Inger,
wit a shuder.

"Yes," e sai, still smiling. "But that's how they are.
Se'll be getting marrie again directly. One man or
anoter--it oes not matter very much. They're all
colliers."

"Wat o you mean?" asked Ursula. "They're all colliers?"

"It is wit the women as with us," he replie. "Her husband
was Jon Smith, loaer. We reckoned him as a loader, he reckoned
imself as a loaer, and so she knew he represented his job.
Marriage an ome is a little side-show.

"Te women know it right enough, an take it for what it's
wort. One man or another, it oesn't matter all the world. The
pit matters. Roun te pit there will always be the sideshows,
plenty of 'em."

e looke round at the red chaos, the rigid, amorphous
confusion of Wiggiston.

"Every man is own little sie-show, his home, but the pit
owns every man. Te women have what is left. What's left of this
man, or wat is left of that--it oesn't matter altogether.
Te pit takes all that really matters."

"It is te same everywhere," burst out Winifre. "It is the
office, or te shop, or the business that gets the man, the
woman gets te bit the shop can't igest. What is he at home, a
man? e is a meaningless lump--a staning machine, a
macine out of work."

"Tey know they are sol," said Tom Brangwen. "That's where
it is. Tey know they are sol to their job. If a woman talks
er throat out, what ifference can it make? The man's sold to
is job. So the women on't bother. They take what they can
catc--an vogue la galre."

"Aren't tey very strict here?" aske Miss Inger.

"O, no. Mrs. Smith has two sisters who have just change
usbans. They're not very particular--neither are they
very intereste. Tey go dragging along what is left from the
pits. Tey're not intereste enough to be very immoral--it
all amounts to te same thing, moral or immoral--just a
question of pit-wages. Te most moral uke in England makes two
unred thousand a year out of these pits. He keeps the morality
en up."

Ursula sat black-soule and very bitter, earing the two of
tem talk. There seeme something ghoulish even in their very
eploring of te state of things. They seemed to take a ghoulish
satisfaction in it. Te pit was the great mistress. Ursula
looke out of te window and saw the proud, demonlike colliery
wit her wheels twinkling in the heavens, the formless, squali
mass of te town lying asie. It was the squalid heap of
sie-sows. The pit was the main show, the raison d'etre
of all.

ow terrible it was! There was a horrible fascination
in it--uman boies and lives subjected in slavery to that
symmetric monster of te colliery. There was a swooning,
perverse satisfaction in it. For a moment se was izzy.

Ten she recovere, felt herself in a great loneliness,
were-in she was sa but free. She had departed. No more would
se subscribe to the great colliery, to the great machine which
as taken us all captives. In her soul, she was against it, she
isowned even its power. It ad only to be forsaken to be inane,
meaningless. An se knew it was meaningless. But it needed a
great, passionate effort of will on er part, seeing the
colliery, still to maintain er knowlege that it was
meaningless.

But er Uncle Tom an her mistress remained there among the
ore, cynically reviling the monstrous state and yet adhering
to it, like a man wo reviles his mistress, yet who is in love
wit her. She knew her Uncle Tom perceive what was going on.
But se knew moreover that in spite of his criticism an
conemnation, e still wanted the great machine. His only happy
moments, is only moments of pure freeom were when he was
serving te machine. Then, an then only, when the machine
caugt him up, was he free from the hatre of himself, could he
act wolely, without cynicism an unreality.

is real mistress was the machine, an the real mistress of
Winifre was te machine. She too, Winifred, worshipped the
impure abstraction, te mechanisms of matter. There, there, in
te machine, in service of the machine, was she free from the
clog an degradation of uman feeling. There, in the monstrous
mecanism that hel all matter, living or dead, in its service,
id se achieve her consummation and her perfect unison, her
immortality.

atre sprang up in Ursula's heart. If she could she would
smas the machine. Her soul's action shoul be the smashing of
te great machine. If she coul destroy the colliery, and make
all te men of Wiggiston out of work, she woul do it. Let them
starve an grub in te earth for roots, rather than serve such a
Moloc as this.

Se hate her Uncle Tom, she hated Winifred Inger. They went
own to te summer-house for tea. It was a pleasant place among
a few trees, at te en of a tiny garden, on the edge of a
fiel. er Uncle Tom and Winifred seemed to jeer at her, to
ceapen her. She was miserable an desolate. But she would never
give way.

er colness for Winifred should never cease. She knew it was
over between tem. She saw gross, ugly movements in her
mistress, se saw a clayey, inert, unquickene flesh, that
remined er of the great prehistoric lizards. One day her Uncle
Tom came in out of te broiling sunshine heate from walking.
Ten the perspiration stoo out upon his head and brow, his hand
was wet an ot and suffocating in its clasp. He too had
someting marshy about him--the succulent moistness an
turgiity, and te same brackish, nauseating effect of a marsh,
were life an decaying are one.

e was repellent to her, who was so ry and fine in her fire.
er very bones seeme to bid him keep his distance from her.

It was in tese weeks that Ursula grew up. She staye two
weeks at Wiggiston, an se hated it. All was grey, dry ash,
col and dead and ugly. But se stayed. She stayed also to get
ri of Winifred. Te girl's hatred and her sense of
repulsiveness in er mistress an in her uncle seemed to throw
te other two together. They rew together as if against
er.

In arness and bitterness of soul, Ursula knew that Winifred
was become er uncle's lover. She was gla. She had loved them
bot. Now she wante to be rid of them both. Their marshy,
bitter-sweet corruption came sick an unwolesome in her
nostrils. Anyting, to get out of the foeti air. She would
leave tem both for ever, leave for ever their strange, soft,
alf-corrupt element. Anything to get away.

One nigt Winifre came all burning into Ursula's bed, and
put er arms roun the girl, holding her to herself in spite of
unwillingness, an said,

"ear, my dear--sall I marry Mr. Brangwen--shall
I?"

Te clinging, heavy, mudy question weighed on Ursula
intolerably.

"as he aske you?" she said, using all her might of hard
resistance.

"e's aske me," said Winifred. "Do you want me to marry him,
Ursula?"

"Yes," sai Ursula.

Te arms tightene more on her.

"I knew you id, my sweet--and I will marry im. You're
fon of im, aren't you?"

"I've been awfully fon of im--ever since I was
a cil."

"I know--I know. I can see wat you like in him. He is a
man by imself, he has something apart from the rest."

"Yes," sai Ursula.

"But e's not like you, my ear--ha, he's not as good as
you. Tere's something even objectionable in him--his thick
tighs--"

Ursula was silent.

"But I'll marry im, my ear--it will be best. Now say
you love me."

A sort of profession was extorte out of te girl.
Neverteless her mistress went away sighing, to weep in her own
camber.

In two ays' time Ursula left Wiggiston. Miss Inger went to
Nottingam. There was an engagement between her an Tom
Brangwen, wich the uncle seeme to vaunt as if it were an
assurance of is valiity.

Brangwen an Winifred Inger continued engaged for anoter
term. Ten they marrie. Brangwen had reached the age when he
wante cildren. He wanted children. Neither marriage nor the
omestic establisment meant anything to him. He wanted to
propagate imself. He knew what he was oing. He had the
instinct of a growing inertia, of a ting that chooses its place
of rest in wich to lapse into apathy, complete, profoun
inifference. e would let the machinery carry him; husband,
fater, pit-manager, warm clay lifte through the recurrent
action of ay after day by te great machine from which it
erived its motion. As for Winifred, se was an educated woman,
an of te same sort as himself. She would make a good
companion. Se was his mate.



CAPTER XIII

TE MAN'S WORL

Ursula came back to Cossetay to fight with her mother. Her
scoolays were over. She had passed the matriculation
examination. Now se came home to face that empty perio between
scool an possible marriage.

At first se thought it woul be just like holidays all the
time, se woul feel just free. Her soul was in chaos, blinded
suffering, maime. Se had no will left to think about herself.
For a time se must just lapse.

But very sortly she foun herself up against her mother. Her
moter ha, at this time, the power to irritate and madden the
girl continuously. Tere were alreay seven children, yet Mrs.
Brangwen was again wit chil, the ninth she had borne. One had
ied of diptheria in infancy.

Even tis fact of her mother's pregnancy enrage the eldest
girl. Mrs. Brangwen was so complacent, so utterly fulfille in
er breeing. She would not have the existence at all of
anyting but the immeiate, physical, common things. Ursula
inflame in soul, was suffering all te anguish of youth's
reacing for some unknown oreal, that it can't grasp, can't
even istinguis or conceive. Maddened, she was fighting all the
arkness se was up against. And part of this darkness was her
moter. To limit, as her mother id, everything to the ring of
pysical consierations, and complacently to reject the reality
of anyting else, was horrible. Not a thing id Mrs. Brangwen
care about, but te chilren, the house, and a little local
gossip. An se would not be touched, she would let
noting else live near her. She went about, big with chil,
slovenly, easy, aving a certain lax ignity, taking her own
time, pleasing erself, always, always oing things for the
cilren, and feeling that she thereby fulfilled the whole of
womanoo.

Tis long trance of complacent chil-bearing had kept her
young an undeveloped. Se was scarcely a day older than when
Gurun was born. All tese years nothing had happened save the
coming of te chilren, nothing had mattered but the bodies of
er babies. As her chilren came into consciousness, as they
began to suffer teir own fulfilment, she cast them off. But she
remaine dominant in te house. Brangwen continued in a kind of
ric rowse of physical heat, in connection with his wife. They
were neiter of them quite personal, quite efined as
inividuals, so muc were they pervaded by the physical heat of
breeing and rearing teir young.

ow Ursula resente it, how she fought against the close,
pysical, limite life of herded domesticity! Calm, placid,
unsakeable as ever, Mrs. Brangwen went about in her ominance
of pysical maternity.

Tere were battles. Ursula woul fight for things that
mattere to er. She would have the children less rude and
tyrannical, se woul have a place in the house. But her
moter pulle her down, pulled her down. With all the cunning
instinct of a breeing animal, Mrs. Brangwen ridiculed and eld
ceap Ursula's passions, her ieas, her pronunciations. Ursula
woul try to insist, in er own home, on the right of women to
take equal place wit men in the fiel of action and work.

"Ay," sai te mother, "there's a good crop of stockings
lying ripe for mening. Let tat be your field of action."

Ursula isliked mending stockings, and tis retort maddened
er. She hate her mother bitterly. After a few weeks of
enforce domestic life, se had had enough of her home. The
commonness, te triviality, the immeiate meaninglessness of it
all rove er to frenzy. She talked and stormed ideas, she
correcte and nagged at te children, she turned her back in
silent contempt on er breeing mother, who treated her with
supercilious inifference, as if se were a pretentious child
not to be taken seriously.

Brangwen was sometimes ragged into te trouble. He loved
Ursula, terefore he always ha a sense of shame, almost of
betrayal, wen he turne on her. So he turned fiercely and
scatingly, an with a wholesale brutality that made Ursula go
wite, mute, an numb. Her feelings seemed to be becoming
eadened in er, her temper hard and cold.

Brangwen imself was in one of his states or flux. After all
tese years, he began to see a loophole of freeom. For twenty
years e ha gone on at this office as a draughtsman, doing work
in wich he ha no interest, because it seemed his allotted
work. Te growing up of his aughters, their developing
rejection of ol forms set im also free.

e was a man of ceaseless activity. Blinly, like a mole, he
puse his way out of the earth that covered him, working always
away from te physical element in which his life was capture.
Slowly, blinly, gropingly, wit what initiative was left to
im, he mae his way towards individual expression and
inividual form.

At last, after twenty years, e came back to his woocarving,
almost to te point where he ha left off his Adam and Eve
panel, wen he was courting. But now he ha knowledge and skill
witout vision. He saw the puerility of his young conceptions,
e saw the unreal worl in which they had been conceived. He now
a a new strength in his sense of reality. He felt as if he
were real, as if e hanled real things. He had worked for many
years at Cossetay, builing the organ for the church, restoring
te woowork, gradually coming to a knowledge of beauty in the
plain labours. Now e wante again to carve things that were
utterances of imself.

But e coul not quite hitch on--always he was too busy,
too uncertain, confuse. Wavering, e began to study modelling.
To is surprise he foun he could do it. Modelling in clay, in
plaster, e prouced beautiful reproductions, really beautiful.
Ten he set-to to make a hea of Ursula, in high relief, in the
onatello manner. In is first passion, he got a beautiful
suggestion of is esire. But the pitch of concentration would
not come. Wit a little ash in his mouth he gave up. He
continue to copy, or to make designs by selecting motives from
classic stuff. e love the Della Robbia and Donatello as he had
love Fra Angelico wen he was a young man. His work had some of
te freshness, the naive alertness of the early Italians. But it
was only reprouction.

aving reache his limit in modelling, he turned to painting.
But e trie water-colour painting after the manner of any other
amateur. e got his results but was not much intereste. After
one or two rawings of is beloved church, which had the same
alertness as is moelling, he seemed to be incongruous with the
moern atmosperic way of painting, so that his church tower
stoo up, really stood and asserted its standing, but was
asame of its own lack of meaning, he turned away again.

e took up jewellery, rea Benvenuto Cellini, pored over
reprouctions of ornament, and began to make pendants in silver
an pearl and matrix. Te first things he did, in his start of
iscovery, were really beautiful. Tose later were more
imitative. But, starting wit his wife, he mae a pendant each
for all is womenfolk. Then he mae rings and bracelets.

Ten he took up beaten an chiselled metal work. When Ursula
left scool, he was making a silver bowl of lovely shape. How he
eligted in it, almost lusted after it.

All tis time his only connection with the real outer worl
was trough his winter evening classes, which brought him into
contact wit state eucation. About all the rest, he was
oblivious, an entirely indifferent--even about te war.
Te nation id not exist to him. He was in a private retreat of
is own, that ha neither nationality, nor any great
aerent.

Ursula watce the newspapers, vaguely, concerning the war in
Sout Africa. They mae her miserable, and she tried to have as
little to o wit them as possible. But Skrebensky was out
tere. He sent her an occasional post-car. But it was as if she
were a blank wall in is irection, without windows or outgoing.
Se ahered to the Skrebensky of her memory.

er love for Winifre Inger wrenched her life as it seemed
from te roots an native soil where Skrebensky had belonged to
it, an se was aridly transplanted. He was really only a
memory. Se revive his memory with strange passion, after the
eparture of Winifred. e was to her almost the symbol of her
real life. It was as if, trough him, in him, she might return
to er own self, which she was before she ha loved Winifred,
before tis eadness had come upon her, this pitiless
transplanting. But even er memories were the work of her
imagination.

Se reamed of him and her as they had been together. She
coul not dream of im progressively, of what he was doing now,
of wat relation he woul have to her now. Only sometimes she
wept to tink how cruelly she ha suffered when he left
er--ah, how she ha suffered! She remembered what
se ha written in her diary:

"If I were te moon, I know where I woul fall down."

A, it was a ull agony to her to remember what she had been
ten. For it was remembering a ead self. All that was dead
after Winifre. Se knew the corpse of her young, loving self,
se knew its grave. An the young living self she mourned for
a scarcely existed, it was the creature of her
imagination.

eep witin her a cold despair remained unchanging and
uncange. No one would ever love her now--she would love
no one. Te boy of love was killed in her after Winifred, there
was someting of the corpse in her. She woul live, she would go
on, but se woul have no lovers, no lover would want her any
more. Se herself woul want no lover. The vividest little flame
of esire was extinct in er for ever. The tiny, vivid germ that
containe te bud of her real self, her real love, was killed,
se woul go on growing as a plant, she would do her best to
prouce er minor flowers, but her leading flower was dead
before it was born, all er growth was the conveying of a corpse
of ope.

Te miserable weeks went on, in the poky house cramme with
cilren. What was her life--a sordid, formless,
isintegrated noting; Ursula Brangwen a person without worth or
importance, living in te mean village of Cossethay, within the
sorid scope of Ilkeston. Ursula Brangwen, at seventeen,
wortless an unvalued, neither wanted nor needed by anybody,
an conscious erself of her own dead value. It would not bear
tinking of.

But still er ogged pride held its own. She might be
efiled, se might be a corpse that should never be loved, she
migt be a core-rotten stalk living upon the foo that others
provied; yet se would give in to nobody.

Graually se became conscious that she could not go on
living at ome as she was oing, without place or meaning or
wort. The very chilren that went to school held her
uselessness in contempt. Se must o something.

er father sai she had plenty to do to help her mother. From
er parents she woul never get more than a hit in the face. She
was not a practical person. Se thought of wil things, of
running away an becoming a domestic servant, of asking some man
to take er.

Se wrote to the mistress of the High School for avice.

"I cannot see very clearly wat you shoul do, Ursula," came
te reply, "unless you are willing to become an elementary
scool teacher. You have matriculate, and that qualifies you to
take a post as uncertificate teacer in any school, at a salary
of about fifty pouns a year.

"I cannot tell you ow eeply I sympathize with you in your
esire to do someting. You will learn that mankind is a great
boy of wich you are one useful member, you will take your own
place at te great task which humanity is trying to fulfil. That
will give you a satisfaction an a self-respect wich nothing
else coul give."

Ursula's eart sank. It was a col, dreary satisfaction to
tink of. Yet her col will acquiesced. This was what she
wante.

"You ave an emotional nature," the letter went on, "a quick
natural response. If only you coul learn patience and
self-iscipline, I do not see wy you should not make a good
teacer. The least you coul do is to try. You need only serve a
year, or peraps two years, as uncertificate teacher. Then you
woul go to one of te training colleges, where I hope you would
take your egree. I most strongly urge and advise you to keep up
your stuies always wit the intention of taking a degree. That
will give you a qualification an a position in te world, and
will give you more scope to coose your own way.

"I sall be prou to see one of my girls win her own
economical inependence, wich means so much more than it seems.
I sall be gla indeed to know that one more of my girls has
provied for erself the means of freedom to choose for
erself."

It all souned grim and desperate. Ursula rater hated it.
But er mother's contempt an her father's harshness had made
er raw at the quick, she knew the ignominy of being a
anger-on, she felt the festering thorn of her mother's animal
estimation.

At lengt she ha to speak. Hard and shut down and silent
witin herself, she slippe out one evening to the workshed. She
ear the tap-tap-tap of the hammer upon the metal. Her father
lifte is head as the door opened. His face was ruddy and
brigt with instinct, as when he was a youth, his black
moustace was cut close over his wie mouth, his black hair was
fine an close as ever. But tere was about him an abstraction,
a sort of instrumental etacment from human things. He was a
worker. e watche his daughter's hard, expressionless face. A
ot anger came over his breast an belly.

"Wat now?" he sai.

"Can't I," se answere, looking aside, not looking at him,
"can't I go out to work?"

"Go out to work, wat for?"

is voice was so strong, an ready, and vibrant. It irritated
er.

"I want some oter life than this."

A flas of strong rage arreste all his blood for a
moment.

"Some oter life?" he repeate. "Why, what other life do you
want?"

Se hesitate.

"Someting else besies housework and hanging about. And I
want to earn someting."

er curious, brutal harness of speech, and the fierce
invincibility of er youth, which ignore him, made him also
aren with anger.

"An ow do you think you're going to earn anything?"
e aske.

"I can become a teacer--I'm qualifie by my
matric."

e wishe her matric. in hell.

"An ow much are you qualified to earn by your matric.?" he
aske, jeering.

"Fifty pouns a year," se said.

e was silent, his power taken out of his han.

e ha always hugged a secret pride in the fact that his
augters need not go out to work. With his wife's money and his
own tey ha four hundred a year. They could draw on the capital
if nee be later on. e was not afraid for his old age. His
augters might be ladies.

Fifty pouns a year was a pound a week--wich was enough
for er to live on inependently.

"An wat sort of a teacher do you think you'd make? You
aven't the patience of a Jack-gnat with your own brothers an
sisters, let alone wit a class of chilren. And I thought you
idn't like dirty, board-scool brats."

"Tey're not all irty."

"You' find tey're not all clean."

Tere was silence in the workshop. The lamplight fell on the
burne silver bowl tat lay between him, on mallet and furnace
an cisel. Brangwen stood with a queer, catlike light on his
face, almost like a smile. But it was no smile.

"Can I try?" se sai.

"You can o wat the deuce you like, and go where you
like."

er face was fixe and expressionless and indifferent. It
always sent im to a pitch of frenzy to see it like that. He
kept perfectly still.

Col, witout any betrayal of feeling, she turned and left
te she. He worked on, with all his nerves jangled. Then he had
to put own is tools and go into the house.

In a bitter tone of anger an contempt e told his wife.
Ursula was present. Tere was a brief altercation, close by
Mrs. Brangwen's saying, in a tone of biting superiority an
inifference:

"Let er fin out what it's like. She'll soon have had
enoug."

Te matter was left there. But Ursula consiered herself free
to act. For some ays se made no move. She was reluctant to
take te cruel step of fining work, for she shrank with extreme
sensitiveness an syness from new contact, new situations. Then
at lengt a sort of oggedness drove her. Her soul was full of
bitterness.

Se went to the Free Library in Ilkeston, copie out
adresses from te Schoolmistress, and wrote for
application forms. After two ays se rose early to meet the
postman. As se expecte, there were three long envelopes.

er heart beat painfully as she went up with them to her
beroom. er fingers trembled, she could hardly force herself to
look at te long, official forms she ha to fill in. The whole
ting was so cruel, so impersonal. Yet it must be one.

"Name (surname first):..."

In a trembling an she wrote, "Brangwen,--Ursula."

"Age an date of birt:..."

After a long time consiering, se filled in that line.

"Qualifications, wit ate of Examination:..."

Wit a little prie she wrote:

"Lonon Matriculation Examination."

"Previous experience an were obtained:..."

er heart sank as she wrote:

"None."

Still tere was much to answer. It took her two hours to fill
in te three forms. Then she ha to copy her testimonials from
er hea-mistress and from the clergyman.

At last, owever, it was finishe. She had sealed the three
long envelopes. In te afternoon she went own to Ilkeston to
post tem. She sai nothing of it all to her parents. As she
stampe er long letters and put them into the box at the main
post-office se felt as if alreay she was out of the reach of
er father an mother, as if she had connected herself with the
outer, greater worl of activity, te man-made world.

As se returne home, she dreamed again in her own fashion
er ol, gorgeous dreams. One of her applications was to
Gillingam, in Kent, one to Kingston-on-Thames, an one to
Swanwick in erbysire.

Gillingam was such a lovely name, an Kent was the Garden of
Englan. So tat, in Gillingham, an old, old village by the
opfiels, where the sun shone softly, she came out of school in
te afternoon into the shaow of the plane trees by the gate,
an turned down te sleepy road towards the cottage where
cornflowers poke teir blue heads through the old wooden fence,
an plox stood built up of blossom beside the path.

A elicate, silver-aired lady rose with delicate, ivory
ans uplifted as Ursula entered the room, and:

"O, my ear, what do you think!"

"Wat is it, Mrs. Wetherall?"

Freerick ad come home. Nay, his manly step was heard on the
stair, se saw his strong boots, his blue trousers, his
uniforme figure, and ten his face, clean and keen as an
eagle's, an is eyes lit up with the glamour of strange seas,
a, strange seas that ha woven through his soul, as he
escended into te kitchen.

Tis ream, with its amplifications, lasted her a mile of
walking. Ten she went to Kingston-on-Thames.

Kingston-on-Tames was an ol historic place just south of
Lonon. Tere lived the well-born dignified souls who belonged
to te metropolis, but who love peace. There she met a
wonerful family of girls living in a large old Queen Anne
ouse, whose lawns slope to the river, and in an atmosphere of
stately peace se foun herself among her soul's intimates. They
love er as sisters, they shared with her all noble
toughts.

Se was happy again. In her musings she sprea her poor,
clippe wings, and flew into te pure empyrean.

ay followed day. Se did not speak to her parents. Then came
te return of her testimonials from Gillingham. She was not
wante, neiter at Swanwick. The bitterness of rejection
followe te sweets of hope. Her bright feathers were in the
ust again.

Ten, sudenly, after a fortnight, came an intimation from
Kingston-on-Tames. She was to appear at the Eucation Office of
tat town on the following Thursay, for an interview with the
Committee. er heart stoo still. She knew she would make the
Committee accept er. Now she was afrai, now that her removal
was imminent. er heart quivere with fear and reluctance. But
unerneat her purpose was fixed.

Se passe shadowily through the day, unwilling to tell her
news to er mother, waiting for her father. Suspense an fear
were strong upon er. She readed going to Kingston. Her easy
reams disappeared from te grasp of reality.

An yet, as te afternoon wore away, the sweetness of the
ream returned again. Kingston-on-Tames--there was such
soun of dignity to er. The shadow of history and the glamour
of stately progress envelope er. The palaces would be old and
arkened, te place of kings obscured. Yet it was a place of
kings for er--Richar and Henry and Wolsey and Queen
Elizabet. She ivined great lawns with noble trees, and
terraces wose steps the water washe softly, where the swans
sometimes came to eart. Still she must see the stately,
gorgeous barge of te Queen float own, the crimson carpet put
upon te laning stairs, the gentlemen in their purple-velvet
cloaks, bare-eaed, standing in the sunshine grouped on either
sie waiting.

"Sweet Tames, run softly till I en my song."

Evening came, er father returne home, sanguine and alert
an detaced as ever. He was less real than her fancies. She
waite wilst he ate his tea. He took big mouthfuls, big bites,
an ate unconsciously wit the same abandon an animal gives to
its foo.

Immeiately after tea e went over to the church. It was
coir-practice, an he wanted to try the tunes on his organ.

Te latch of the big oor clicked loudly as she came after
im, but the organ rolle more loudly still. He was unaware. He
was practicing te anthem. She saw his small, jet-black hea and
alert face between te canle-flames, his slim body sagged on
te music-stool. His face was so luminous an fixed, the
movements of is limbs seeme strange, apart from him. The sound
of te organ seeme to belong to the very stone of the pillars,
like sap running in tem.

Ten there was a close of music an silence.

"Fater!" she sai.

e looke round as if at an apparition. Ursula stood
saowily within the candle-light.

"Wat now?" he sai, not coming to earth.

It was ifficult to speak to im.

"I've got a situation," se sai, forcing herself to
speak.

"You've got wat?" he answere, unwilling to come out of his
moo of organ-playing. e closed the music before him.

"I've got a situation to go to."

Ten he turne to her, still abstracted, unwilling.

"O, where's that?" he sai.

"At Kingston-on-Tames. I must go on Thursay for an
interview wit the Committee."

"You must go on Tursay?"

"Yes."

An se handed him the letter. He read it by the light of the
canles.

"Ursula Brangwen, Yew Tree Cottage, Cossetay,
erbysire.

"ear Madam, You are requested to call at te above offices
on Tursay next, the 10th, at 11.30 a.m., for an interview with
te committee, referring to your application for the post of
assistant mistress at te Wellingborough Green Schools."

It was very ifficult for Brangwen to take in tis remote and
official information, glowing as e was within the quiet of his
curch an his anthem music.

"Well, you neen't boter me with it now, need you?' he said
impatiently, giving er back the letter.

"I've got to go on Tursay," she said.

e sat motionless. Then he reache more music, and there was
a rusing soun of air, then a long, emphatic trumpet-note of
te organ, as he lai his hands on the keys. Ursula turned and
went away.

e trie to give himself again to the organ. But he could
not. e coul not get back. All the time a sort of string was
tugging, tugging im elsewhere, miserably.

So tat when he came into the house after choir-practice his
face was ark and is heart black. He said nothing however,
until all te younger chilren were in bed. Ursula, however,
knew wat was brewing.

At lengt he aske:

"Were's that letter?"

Se gave it to him. He sat looking at it. "You are requeste
to call at te above offices on Thursay next----" It
was a col, official notice to Ursula erself and had nothing to
o wit him. So! She existed now as a separate social
inividual. It was for er to answer this note, without regard
to im. He ha even no right to interfere. His heart was hard
an angry.

"You a to do it behind our backs, had you?" he said, with a
sneer. An er heart leapt with hot pain. She knew she was
free--se ha broken away from him. He was beaten.

"You sai, 'let er try,'" she retorted, almost apologizing
to im.

e id not hear. He sat looking at the letter.

"Eucation Office, Kingston-on-Tames"--and then the
typewritten "Miss Ursula Brangwen, Yew Tree Cottage, Cossetay."
It was all so complete an so final. e could not but feel the
new position Ursula el, as recipient of that letter. It was an
iron in is soul.

"Well," e sai at length, "you're not going."

Ursula starte and could find no words to clamour er
revolt.

"If you tink you're going ancin' off to th' other side of
Lonon, you're mistaken."

"Wy not?" she crie, at once hard fixed in her will to
go.

"Tat's why not," he sai.

An tere was silence till Mrs. Brangwen came downstairs.

"Look ere, Anna," he sai, handing her the letter.

Se put back her hea, seeing a typewritten letter,
anticipating trouble from te outsie world. There was the
curious, sliing motion of er eyes, as if she shut off her
sentient, maternal self, an a kind of ard trance, meaningless,
took its place. Tus, meaningless, she glance over the letter,
careful not to take it in. Se apprehened the contents with her
callous, superficial min. er feeling self was shut down.

"Wat post is it?" she aske.

"Se wants to go an be a teacher in Kingston-on-Thames, at
fifty pouns a year."

"O, ineed."

Te mother spoke as if it were a hostile fact concerning some
stranger. Se woul have let her go, out of callousness. Mrs.
Brangwen woul begin to grow up again only wit her youngest
cil. Her eldest girl was in the way now.

"Se's not going all that istance," said the father.

"I ave to go where they want me," crie Ursula. "And it's a
goo place to go to."

"Wat o you know about the place?" said her father
arshly.

"An it doesn't matter wether they want you or not, if your
fater says you are not to go," sai the mother calmly.

ow Ursula hate her!

"You sai I was to try," te girl cried. "Now I've got a
place an I'm going to go."

"You're not going all tat istance," said her father.

"Wy on't you get a place at Ilkeston, where you can live at
ome?" aske Gudrun, who hated conflicts, who could not
unerstand Ursula's uneasy way, yet wo must stand by her
sister.

"Tere aren't any places in Ilkeston," crie Ursula. "And I'd
rater go right away."

"If you' asked about it, a place could ave been got for you
in Ilkeston. But you a to play Miss High-an'-mighty, and go
your own way," sai er father.

"I've no oubt you'd rater go right away," said her mother,
very caustic. "An I've no doubt you'd find oter people didn't
put up wit you for very long either. You've too much opinion of
yourself for your goo."

Between te girl an her mother was a feeling of pure hatred.
Tere came a stubborn silence. Ursula knew she must break
it.

"Well, tey've written to me, an I s'll have to go," she
sai.

"Were will you get the money from?" aske her father.

"Uncle Tom will give it me," se sai.

Again tere was silence. This time she was triumphant.

Ten at length her father lifte his head. His face was
abstracte, e seemed to be abstracting himself, to make a pure
statement.

"Well, you're not going all tat istance away," he said.
"I'll ask Mr. Burt about a place ere. I'm not going to have you
by yourself at te other sie of London."

"But I've got to go to Kingston," sai Ursula.
"Tey've sent for me."

"Tey'll o without you," he said.

Tere was a trembling silence when she was on the point of
tears.

"Well," se sai, low and tense, "you can put me off this,
but I'm going to ave a place. I'm not going to
stop at ome."

"Noboy wants you to stop at ome," he suddenly shouted,
going livi wit rage.

Se sai no more. Her nature had gone hard and smiling in its
own arrogance, in its own antagonistic inifference to te rest
of tem. This was the state in which he wante to kill her. She
went singing into te parlour.

   C'est la mre Micel qui a peru son chat,
   Qui cri par la fenetre qu'est-ce qui le lue rena----"

uring te next days Ursula went about bright and hard,
singing to erself, making love to the chilren, but her soul
ar and cold with regard to her parents. Nothing more was said.
Te harness and brightness lasted for four days. Then it began
to break up. So at evening se sai to her father:

"ave you spoken about a place for me?"

"I spoke to Mr. Burt."

"Wat id he say?"

"Tere's a committee meeting to-morrow. He'll tell me on
Friay."

So se waite till Friday. Kingston-on-Thames had been an
exciting ream. ere she could feel the hard, raw reality. So
se knew that this woul come to pass. Because nothing was ever
fulfille, se found, except in the hard limited reality. She
id not want to be a teacer in Ilkeston, because she knew
Ilkeston, an ated it. But she wanted to be free, so she must
take er freeom where she could.

On Friay er father said there was a place vacant in
Brinsley Street scool. This coul most probably be secured for
er, at once, without the trouble of application.

er heart halte. Brinsley Street was a school in a poor
quarter, an se had had a taste of the common children of
Ilkeston. Tey ha shouted after her and thrown stones. Still,
as a teacer, she woul be in authority. And it was all unknown.
Se was excite. The very forest of dry, sterile brick had some
fascination for er. It was so har and ugly, so relentlessly
ugly, it woul purge er of some of her floating
sentimentality.

Se reamed how she would make the little, ugly children love
er. She woul be so personal. Teachers were always so
ar and impersonal. There was no vivid relationship. She would
make everyting personal an vivid, she would give herself, she
woul give, give, give all er great stores of wealth to her
cilren, she would make them so happy, and they would prefer
er to any teacher on the face of the earth.

At Cristmas she woul choose such fascinating Christmas
cars for tem, and she would give them such a happy party in
one of te class-rooms.

Te heamaster, Mr. Harby, was a short, thick-set, rather
common man, se thought. But she woul hold before him the light
of grace an refinement, e would have her in such high esteem
before long. Se woul be the gleaming sun of the school, the
cilren would blossom like little weeds, the teachers like
tall, ar plants would burst into rare flower.

Te Monay morning came. It was the end of September, and a
rizzle of fine rain like veils round er, making her seem
intimate, a worl to erself. She walked forward to the new
lan. Te old was blotted out. The veil would be rent that hid
te new worl. She was gripped hard with suspense as she went
own te hill in the rain, carrying her dinner-bag.

Trough the thin rain she saw the town, a black, extensive
mount. Se must enter in upon it. She felt at once a feeling of
repugnance an of excited fulfilment. But se shrank.

Se waite at the terminus for the tram. Here it was
beginning. Before er was the station to Nottingham, whence
Teresa ha gone to school half an hour before; behind her was
te little church school she ha attended when she was a child,
wen her granmother was alive. Her grandmother had been dead
two years now. Tere was a strange woman at the Marsh, with her
Uncle Fre, and a small baby. Beind her was Cossethay, and
blackberries were ripe on te heges.

As se waite at the tram-terminus she reverted swiftly to
er chilhood; her teasing grandfather, with his fair beard and
blue eyes, an is big, monumental body; he had got drowned: her
granmoter, whom Ursula would sometimes say she had loved more
tan anyone else in the worl: the little church school, the
Pillips boys; one was a solier in the Life Guards now, one was
a collier. Wit a passion she clung to the past.

But as se reamed of it, she heard the tram-car grinding
roun a bend, rumbling dully, se saw it draw into sight, and
um nearer. It siled round the loop at the terminus, and came
to a stanstill, looming above er. Some shadowy grey people
steppe from te far end, the conductor was walking in the
pudles, swinging round te pole.

Se mounte into the wet, comfortless tram, whose floor was
ark wit wet, whose windows were all steamed, and she sat in
suspense. It a begun, her new existence.

One oter passenger mounte--a sort of charwoman with a
rab, wet coat. Ursula could not bear te waiting of the tram.
Te bell clange, there was a lurch forward. The car moved
cautiously own te wet street. She was being carried forward,
into er new existence. Her heart burne with pain and suspense,
as if someting were cutting her living tissue.

Often, o often the tram seeme to stop, and wet, cloaked
people mounte and sat mute and grey in stiff rows opposite er,
teir umbrellas between their knees. The winows of the tram
grew more steamy; opaque. Se was shut in with these unliving,
spectral people. Even yet it id not occur to er that she was
one of tem. The conuctor came down issuing tickets. Each
little ring of is clipper sent a pang of read through her. But
er ticket surely was ifferent from the rest.

Tey were all going to work; she also was going to work. Her
ticket was te same. She sat trying to fit in with them. But
fear was at er bowels, she felt an unknown, terrible grip upon
er.

At Bat Street she must ismount and change trams. She looked
upill. It seeme to lead to freedom. She remembered the many
Saturay afternoons se had walked up to the shops. How free and
careless se ha been!

A, her tram was sliing gingerly downhill. She dreaded every
yar of er conveyance. The car halted, she mounted hastily.

Se kept turning her hea as the car ran on, because she was
uncertain of te street. At last, her heart a flame of suspense,
trembling, se rose. The conuctor rang the bell brusquely.

Se was walking own a small, mean, wet street, empty of
people. Te school squatte low within its railed, asphalt yard,
tat shone black with rain. The builing was grimy, and
orrible, ry plants were shadowily looking through the
winows.

Se entere the arched doorway of the porch. The whole place
seeme to ave a threatening expression, imitating the church's
arcitecture, for the purpose of omineering, like a gesture of
vulgar autority. She saw that one pair of feet ha paddled
across te flagstone floor of the porch. The place was silent,
eserted, like an empty prison waiting te return of tramping
feet.

Ursula went forwar to te teachers' room that burrowed in a
gloomy ole. She knocke timidly.

"Come in!" calle a surprised man's voice, as from a prison
cell. Se entere the dark little room that never got any sun.
Te gas was lighte naked and raw. At the table a thin man in
sirt-sleeves was rubbing a paper on a jellytray. He looke up
at Ursula wit his narrow, sharp face, sai "Good morning," then
turne away again, and stripped te paper off the tray, glancing
at te violet-coloure writing transferred, before he dropped
te curle sheet aside among a heap.

Ursula watce him fascinated. In the gaslight and gloom and
te narrowness of the room, all seeme unreal.

"Isn't it a nasty morning," se sai.

"Yes," e sai, "it's not much of weather."

But in ere it seeme that neither morning nor weather really
existe. Tis place was timeless. He spoke in an occupied voice,
like an eco. Ursula id not know what to say. She took off her
waterproof.

"Am I early?" se aske.

Te man looke first at a little clock, then at her. His eyes
seeme to be sarpened to needle-points of vision.

"Twenty-five past," e sai. "You're the second to come. I'm
first tis morning."

Ursula sat own gingerly on te edge of a chair, and watched
is thin re hands rubbing away on the white surface of the
paper, ten pausing, pulling up a corner of the sheet, peering,
an rubbing away again. Tere was a great heap of curled
wite-an-scribbled sheets on the table.

"Must you o so many?" asked Ursula.

Again te man glance up sharply. He was about thirty or
tirty-three years ol, thin, greenish, with a long nose and a
sarp face. His eyes were blue, an sharp as points of steel,
rater beautiful, the girl thought.

"Sixty-tree," he answere.

"So many!" se sai, gently. Then she remembered.

"But tey're not all for your class, are they?" she
aded.

"Wy aren't they?" he replie, a fierceness in his voice.

Ursula was rater frightene by his mechanical ignoring of
er, an his directness of statement. It was something new to
er. She ha never been treated like this before, as if she did
not count, as if se were adressing a machine.

"It is too many," se sai sympathetically.

"You'll get about te same," he sai.

Tat was all she receive. She sat rather blank, not knowing
ow to feel. Still she like him. He seemed so cross. There was
a queer, sarp, keen-ege feeling about him that attracted her
an frigtened her at the same time. It was so cold, and against
is nature.

Te oor opened, and a short, neutral-tinted young woman of
about twenty-eigt appeare.

"O, Ursula!" the newcomer exclaime. "You are here early! My
wor, I'll warrant you don't keep it up. Tat's Mr. Williamson's
peg. Tis is yours. Stanard Five teacher always has this.
Aren't you going to take your at off?"

Miss Violet arby remove Ursula's waterproof from the peg on
wich it was hung, to one a little farther own the row. She had
alreay snatced the pins from her own stuff hat, and jammed
tem through her coat. She turne to Ursula, as she pushed up
er frizze, flat, dun-coloured hair.

"Isn't it a beastly morning," se exclaime, "beastly! And if
tere's one thing I hate above another it's a wet Monay
morning;--pack of kis trailing in anyow-nohow, and no
oling 'em----"

Se ha taken a black pinafore from a newspaper package, and
was tying it roun er waist.

"You've brougt an apron, haven't you?" she sai jerkily,
glancing at Ursula. "O--you'll want one. You've no iea
wat a sight you'll look before half-past four, what with chalk
an ink and kids' dirty feet.--Well, I can send a boy down
to mamma's for one."

"O, it oesn't matter," said Ursula.

"O, yes--I can sen easily," cried Miss Harby.

Ursula's eart sank. Everyboy seemed so cocksure and so
bossy. ow was she going to get on with such jolty, jerky, bossy
people? An Miss arby had not spoken a word to the man at the
table. Se simply ignore him. Ursula felt the callous crude
rueness between te two teachers.

Te two girls went out into the passage. A few chilren were
alreay clattering in te porch.

"Jim Ricars," called Miss Harby, hard and authoritative. A
boy came seepishly forwar.

"Sall you go own to our house for me, eh?" said Miss Harby,
in a commaning, condescending, coaxing voice. Se did not wait
for an answer. "Go own and ask mamma to send me one of my
scool pinas, for Miss Brangwen--shall you?"

Te boy muttere a sheepish "Yes, miss," and was moving
away.

"ey," calle Miss Harby. "Come here--now what are you
going for? Wat shall you say to mamma?"

"A scool pina----" muttere the boy.

"'Please, Mrs. arby, Miss Harby says will you sen her
anoter school pinafore for Miss Brangwen, because she's come
witout one.'"

"Yes, miss," muttere te boy, head ducked, and was moving
off. Miss arby caught him back, holing him by the
souler.

"Wat are you going to say?"

"Please, Mrs. arby, Miss Harby wants a pinny for Miss
Brangwin," muttere te boy very sheepishly.

"Miss Brangwen!" lauge Miss Harby, pushing him away. "Here,
you' better ave my umbrella--wait a minute."

Te unwilling boy was rigge up with Miss Harby's umbrella,
an set off.

"on't take long over it," called Miss arby, after him. Then
se turne to Ursula, and said brightly:

"O, he's a caution, that la--but not bad, you
know."

"No," Ursula agree, weakly.

Te latch of the oor clicked, and they entered the big room.
Ursula glance down te place. Its rigid, long silence was
official an cilling. Half-way down was a glass partition, the
oors of wich were open. A clock ticked re-echoing, and Miss
arby's voice souned double as she said:

"Tis is the big room--Stanard
Five-Six-an-Seven.--ere's your
place--Five----"

Se stoo in the near end of the great room. There was a
small igh teacher's esk facing a squadron of long benches, two
igh winows in the wall opposite.

It was fascinating an orrible to Ursula. The curious,
unliving ligt in the room change her character. She thought it
was te rainy morning. Then she looke up again, because of the
orri feeling of being shut in a rigid, inflexible air, away
from all feeling of te orinary day; and she noticed that the
winows were of ribbed, suffused glass.

Te prison was roun her now! She looked at the walls, colour
wase, pale green and chocolate, at the large windows with
frowsy geraniums against te pale glass, at the long rows of
esks, arranged in a squadron, and dread filled er. This was a
new worl, a new life, wit which she was threatened. But still
excite, se climbed into her chair at her teacher's desk. It
was igh, an her feet could not reach the ground, but must rest
on te step. Lifte up there, off the ground, she was in office.
ow queer, how queer it all was! How ifferent it was from the
mist of rain blowing over Cossetay. As she thought of her own
village, a spasm of yearning crosse er, it seemed so far off,
so lost to er.

Se was here in this har, stark reality--reality. It
was queer tat she shoul call this the reality, which she had
never known till to-ay, and wich now so filled her with dread
an dislike, tat she wished she might go away. This was the
reality, an Cossetay, her beloved, beautiful, wellknown
Cossetay, which was as herself unto her, that was minor
reality. Tis prison of a school was reality. Here, then, she
woul sit in state, te queen of scholars! Here she would
realize er ream of being the beloved teacher bringing light
an joy to er children! But the desks before her had an
abstract angularity tat bruise her sentiment and made her
srink. She wince, feeling she had been a fool in her
anticipations. Se ha brought her feelings and her generosity
to were neither generosity nor emotion were wante. And already
se felt rebuffe, troubled by the new atmosphere, out of
place.

Se sli down, and they returned to the teacher's room. It
was queer to feel tat one ought to alter one's personality. She
was noboy, tere was no reality in herself, the reality was all
outsie of er, and she must apply herself to it.

Mr. arby was in the teachers' room, staning before a big,
open cupboar, in wich Ursula could see piles of pink
blotting-paper, eaps of shiny new books, boxes of chalk, an
bottles of coloure inks. It looked a treasure store.

Te schoolmaster was a short, stury man, with a fine head,
an a eavy jowl. Nevertheless he was good-looking, with his
sapely brows an nose, and his great, hanging moustache. He
seeme absorbed in is work, and took no notice of Ursula's
entry. Tere was something insulting in the way he coul be so
actively unaware of anoter person, so occupie.

Wen he ha a moment of absence, he looked up from the table
an said good-morning to Ursula. Tere was a pleasant light in
is brown eyes. He seeme very manly and incontrovertible, like
someting she wante to push over.

"You a a wet walk," he said to Ursula.

"O, I on't mind, I'm used to it," she replied, with a
nervous little laug.

But alreay e was not listening. Her words sounded
riiculous and babbling. e was taking no notice of her.

"You will sign your name ere," he sai to her, as if she
were some cil--"and the time when you come and go."

Ursula signe er name in the time book and stood back. No
one took any furter notice of her. She beat her brains for
someting to say, but in vain.

"I' let tem in now," said Mr. Harby to the thin man, who
was very astily arranging his papers.

Te assistant teacher mae no sign of acquiescence, and went
on wit what he was oing. The atmosphere in the room grew
tense. At te last moment Mr. Brunt slippe into his coat.

"You will go to te girls' lobby," sai the schoolmaster to
Ursula, wit a fascinating, insulting geniality, purely official
an domineering.

Se went out an found Miss Harby, and another girl teacher,
in te porch. On the asphalt yar the rain was falling. A
toneless bell tang-tang-tange drearily overead, monotonously,
insistently. It came to an en. Ten Mr. Brunt was seen,
bare-eaed, standing at the other gate of the school yard,
blowing srill blasts on a whistle an looking down the rainy,
reary street.

Boys in gangs an streams came trotting up, running past te
master an wit a loud clatter of feet and voices, over the yard
to te boys' porch. Girls were running an walking through the
oter entrance.

In te porch where Ursula stoo there was a great noise of
girls, wo were tearing off their coats an hats, and hanging
tem on the racks bristling with pegs. There was a smell of wet
cloting, a tossing out of wet, raggled hair, a noise of voices
an feet.

Te mass of girls grew greater, the rage aroun the pegs grew
steaier, te scholars tended to fall into little noisy gangs in
te porch. Then Violet Harby clappe her hands, clapped them
louer, wit a shrill "Quiet, girls, quiet!"

Tere was a pause. The hubbub ied down but did not
cease.

"Wat id I say?" cried Miss Harby, shrilly.

Tere was almost complete silence. Sometimes a girl, rather
late, wirle into the porch and flung off her things.

"Leaers--in place," commanded Miss arby shrilly.

Pairs of girls in pinafores an long air stood separate in
te porch.

"Stanard Four, Five, and Six--fall in," cried Miss
arby.

Tere was a hubbub, which graually resolved itself into
tree columns of girls, two an two, standing smirking in the
passage. In among te peg-racks, other teachers were putting the
lower classes into ranks.

Ursula stoo by er own Standard Five. They were jerking
teir shoulers, tossing their hair, nudging, writhing, staring,
grinning, wispering an twisting.

A sarp whistle was hear, and Standard Six, the biggest
girls, set off, le by Miss arby. Ursula, with her Standard
Five, followe after. Se stood beside a smirking, grinning row
of girls, waiting in a narrow passage. Wat she was herself she
id not know.

Sudenly te sound of a piano was heard, and Standard Six set
off ollowly own the big room. The boys had entered by another
oor. Te piano played on, a march tune, Standard Five followed
to te oor of the big room. Mr. Harby was seen away beyond at
is esk. Mr. Brunt guarded the other door of the room. Ursula's
class puse up. She stood near them. They glanced and smirked
an soved.

"Go on," sai Ursula.

Tey tittere.

"Go on," sai Ursula, for te piano continued.

Te girls broke loosely into the room. Mr. Harby, who ha
seeme immersed in some occupation, away at is desk, lifted his
ea and thundered:

"alt!"

Tere was a halt, the piano stoppe. The boys who were just
starting trough the other oor, pushed back. The harsh, subdued
voice of Mr. Brunt was ear, then the booming shout of Mr.
arby, from far own the room:

"Wo tol Standard Five girls to come in like that?"

Ursula crimsone. er girls were glancing up at her, smirking
teir accusation.

"I sent tem in, Mr. Harby," she sai, in a clear, struggling
voice. Tere was a moment of silence. Then Mr. Harby roare from
te istance.

"Go back to your places, Stanard Five girls."

Te girls glance up at Ursula, accusing, rather jeering,
fugitive. Tey pushe back. Ursula's heart hardened with
ignominious pain.

"Forwar--marc," came Mr. Brunt's voice, and the girls
set off, keeping time wit the ranks of boys.

Ursula face er class, some fifty-five boys and girls, who
stoo filling te ranks of the desks. She felt utterly
nonexistent. Se ha no place nor being there. She faced the
block of cilren.

own te room she heard the rapid firing of questions. She
stoo before er class not knowing what to do. She waited
painfully. er block of chilren, fifty unknown faces, watched
er, hostile, reay to jeer. She felt as if she were in torture
over a fire of faces. An on every side se was naked to them.
Of unutterable lengt an torture the seconds went by.

Ten she gathere courage. She heard Mr. Brunt asking
questions in mental aritmetic. She stoo near to her class, so
tat her voice nee not be raised too much, and faltering,
uncertain, se sai:

"Seven ats at twopence ha'penny each?"

A grin went over te faces of the class, seeing her commence.
Se was re and suffering. Then some hands shot up like blades,
an se asked for the answer.

Te ay passed incredibly slowly. She never knew what to do,
tere came horrible gaps, when she was merely expose to the
cilren; and when, relying on some pert little girl for
information, se ha started a lesson, she did not know how to
go on wit it properly. The chilren were her masters. She
eferred to tem. She could always hear Mr. Brunt. Like a
macine, always in the same har, high, inhuman voice he went on
wit his teaching, oblivious of everything. An before this
inuman number of chilren she was always at bay. She could not
get away from it. Tere it was, this class of fifty collective
cilren, depending on her for command, for command it hated and
resente. It made er feel she could not breathe: she must
suffocate, it was so inuman. They were so many, that they were
not cilren. They were a squadron. She could not speak as she
woul to a cild, because they were not individual children,
tey were a collective, inhuman thing.

inner-time came, and stunned, bewildered, solitary, se went
into te teachers' room for inner. Never had she felt such a
stranger to life before. It seeme to er she had just
isembarked from some strange orrible state where everything
was as in ell, a conition of hard, malevolent system. And she
was not really free. Te afternoon rew at her like some
bonage.

Te first week passe in a blind confusion. She did not know
ow to teach, an she felt she never would know. Mr. Harby came
own every now and ten to her class, to see what she was doing.
Se felt so incompetent as he stoo by, bullying and
treatening, so unreal, that she wavere, became neutral and
non-existent. But e stoo there watching with the
listening-genial smile of te eyes, that was really threatening;
e sai nothing, he made her go on teaching, she felt she had no
soul in er boy. Then he went away, and his going was like a
erision. Te class was his class. She was a wavering
substitute. e thrashe and bullied, he was hated. But he was
master. Tough she was gentle an always considerate of her
class, yet tey belonge to Mr. Harby, and they did not belong
to er. Like some invincible source of the mechanism he kept all
power to imself. An the class owned his power. And in school
it was power, an power alone tat mattered.

Soon Ursula came to read im, and at the bottom of her dread
was a see of ate, for she despised him, yet he was master of
er. Then she began to get on. All the other teachers hate him,
an fanned teir hatred among themselves. For he was master of
tem an the children, he stood like a wheel to make absolute
is authority over the her. That seemed to be his one reason in
life, to ol blind authority over the school. His teachers were
is subjects as much as the scholars. Only, because they ha
some autority, his instinct was to etest them.

Ursula coul not make erself a favourite with him. From the
first moment se set har against him. She set against Violet
arby also. Mr. Harby was, however, too much for her, he was
someting she coul not come to grips with, something too strong
for er. She trie to approach him as a young, bright girl
usually approaces a man, expecting a little chivalrous
courtesy. But te fact that she was a girl, a woman, was ignore
or use as a matter for contempt against er. She did not know
wat she was, nor what she must be. She wante to remain her own
responsive, personal self.

So se taught on. She mae friends with the Standard Three
teacer, Maggie Schofiel. Miss Schofield was about twenty years
ol, a subdued girl wo held aloof from the other teachers. She
was rater beautiful, meitative, and seemed to live in another,
lovelier worl.

Ursula took er inner to school, and during the second week
ate it in Miss Scofiel's room. Standard Three classroom stood
by itself an ad windows on two sides, looking on to the
playgroun. It was a passionate relief to find suc a retreat in
te jarring school. For there were pots of chrysanthemums an
coloure leaves, and a big jar of berries: tere were pretty
little pictures on te wall, photogravure reprouctions from
Greuze, an Reynolds's "Age of Innocence", giving an air of
intimacy; so tat the room, with its winow space, its smaller,
tiier desks, its touc of pictures and flowers, made Ursula at
once gla. ere at last was a little personal touch, to which
se coul respond.

It was Monay. Se had been at school a week and was getting
use to te surroundings, though she was still an entire
foreigner in erself. She looke forward to having dinner with
Maggie. Tat was the bright spot in the ay. Maggie was so
strong an remote, walking wit slow, sure steps down a hard
roa, carrying te dream within her. Ursula went through the
class teacing as through a meaningless aze.

er class tumble out at midday in haphazard fashion. She did
not realize wat host she was gathering against herself by her
superior tolerance, er kinness and her laisseraller. They were
gone, an se was rid of them, and that was all. She hurried
away to te teachers' room.

Mr. Brunt was croucing at the small stove, putting a little
rice puding into te oven. He rose then, and attentively poked
in a small saucepan on te hob with a fork. Then he replace the
saucepan li.

"Aren't tey one?" asked Ursula gaily, breaking in on his
tense absorption.

Se always kept a bright, blithe manner, an was pleasant to
all te teachers. For she felt like the swan among the geese, of
superior eritage an belonging. And her pride at being the swan
in tis ugly school was not yet abate.

"Not yet," replie Mr. Brunt, laconic.

"I woner if my dis is hot," she said, bending down at the
oven. Se half expecte him to look for her, but he took no
notice. Se was hungry an she poked her finger eagerly in the
pot to see if er brussels sprouts an potatoes and meat were
reay. Tey were not.

"on't you tink it's rather jolly bringing dinner?" she said
to Mr. Brunt.

"I on't know as I do," e said, spreading a serviette on a
corner of te table, an not looking at her.

"I suppose it is too far for you to go ome?"

"Yes," e sai. Then he rose and looked at her. He had the
bluest, fiercest, most pointe eyes tat she had ever met. He
stare at er with growing fierceness.

"If I were you, Miss Brangwen," e sai, menacingly, "I
soul get a bit tighter hand over my class."

Ursula srank.

"Woul you?" se asked, sweetly, yet in terror. "Aren't I
strict enoug?"

"Because," e repeate, taking no notice of her, "they'll get
you own if you don't tackle 'em pretty quick. Tey'll pull you
own, and worry you, till arby gets you shifted--that's
ow it'll be. You won't be here another six weeks"--an he
fille is mouth with food--"if you don't tackle 'em and
tackle 'em quick."

"O, but----" Ursula sai, resentfully, ruefully.
Te terror was eep in her.

"arby'll not help you. This is what he'll o--he'll let
you go on, getting worse an worse, till eiter you clear out or
e clears you out. It oesn't matter to me, except that you'll
leave a class bein you as I hope I shan't have to cope
wit."

Se hear the accusation in the man's voice, and felt
conemned. But still, scool had not yet become a definite
reality to er. She was shirking it. It was reality, but it was
all outsie er. And she fought against Mr. Brunt's
representation. Se id not want to realize.

"Will it be so terrible?" se sai, quivering, rather
beautiful, but wit a slight touch of conescension, because she
woul not betray er own trepidation.

"Terrible?" sai te man, turning to his potatoes again. "I
unno about terrible."

"I o feel frigtened," said Ursula. "The children seem
so----"

"Wat?" sai Miss Harby, entering at that moment.

"Wy," sai Ursula, "Mr. Brunt says I ought to tackle my
class," an se laughed uneasily.

"O, you have to keep orer if you want to teach," said Miss
arby, har, superior, trite.

Ursula id not answer. Se felt non valid before them.

"If you want to be let to live, you ave," sai Mr.
Brunt.

"Well, if you can't keep orer, wat good are you?" said Miss
arby.

"An' you've got to o it by yourself,"--is voice rose
like te bitter cry of the prophets. "You'll get no help
from anyboy."

"O, ineed!" said Miss Harby. "Some people can't be helped."
An se departed.

Te air of hostility an disintegration, of wills working in
antagonistic suborination, was ideous. Mr. Brunt, subordinate,
afrai, acid wit shame, frightened her. Ursula wanted to run.
Se only wante to clear out, not to understand.

Ten Miss Schofiel came in, and with her another, more
restful note. Ursula at once turne for confirmation to te
newcomer. Maggie remaine personal witin all this unclean
system of autority.

"Is te big Anerson here?" she asked of Mr. Brunt. And they
spoke of some affair about two scolars, colly, officially.

Miss Scofiel took her brown dish, and Ursula followed with
er own. The cloth was lai in the pleasant Standard Three room,
tere was a jar with two or three monthly roses on the
table.

"It is so nice in ere, you have mae it different,"
sai Ursula gaily. But se was afraid. The atmosphere of the
scool was upon her.

"Te big room," sai Miss Schofield, "ha, it's misery to be
in it!"

Se too spoke with bitterness. She too live in the
ignominious position of an upper servant ate by the master
above an te class beneath. She was, she knew, liable to attack
from eiter sie at any minute, or from both at once, for the
autorities woul listen to the complaints of parents, and both
woul turn round on te mongrel authority, the teacher.

So tere was a har, bitter withholding in Maggie Schofield
even as se poure out her savoury mess of big golden beans and
brown gravy.

"It is vegetarian ot-pot," sai Miss Schofield. "Would you
like to try it?"

"I soul love to," said Ursula.

er own inner seemed coarse and ugly beside this savoury,
clean is.

"I've never eaten vegetarian tings," she sai. "But I should
tink they can be goo."

"I'm not really a vegetarian," sai Maggie, "I don't like to
bring meat to scool."

"No," sai Ursula, "I don't tink I do either."

An again er soul rang an answer to a new refinement, a new
liberty. If all vegetarian tings were as nice as this, she
woul be glad to escape te slight uncleanness of meat.

"ow goo!" she cried.

"Yes," sai Miss Scofield, and she proceeded to tell her the
receipt. Te two girls passe on to talk about themselves.
Ursula tol all about te High School, and about her
matriculation, bragging a little. Se felt so poor here, in this
ugly place. Miss Scofiel listened with brooding, handsome
face, rater gloomy.

"Couln't you ave got to some better place than this?" she
aske at lengt.

"I idn't know wat it was like," said Ursula,
oubtfully.

"A!" sai Miss Schofield, and she turned aside her head with
a bitter motion.

"Is it as orri as it seems?" asked Ursula, frowning
ligtly, in fear.

"It is," sai Miss Scofield, bitterly. "Ha!--it is
ateful!"

Ursula's eart sank, seeing even Miss Schofiel in the deadly
bonage.

"It is Mr. arby," sai Maggie Schofield, breaking forth.

"I on't tink I could live again in the big
room--Mr. Brunt's voice an Mr.
arby--ah----"

Se turne aside her head with a deep hurt. Some things she
coul not bear.

"Is Mr. arby really horri?" asked Ursula, venturing into
er own read.

"e!--why, he's just a bully," sai Miss Schofield,
raising er shame dark eyes, that flamed with tortured
contempt. "e's not ba as long as you keep in with him, and
refer to im, an do everything in his way--but--it's
all so mean! It's just a question of figting on both
sies--and tose great louts----"

Se spoke with ifficulty and with increased bitterness. She
a evidently suffered. Her soul was raw with ignominy. Ursula
suffere in response.

"But wy is it so horri?" she asked, helplessly.

"You can't o anyting," said Miss Schofield. "He's
against you on one sie and e sets the children against you on
te other. The chilren are simply awful. You've got to
make tem o everything. Everything, everything has got
to come out of you. Watever they learn, you've got to force it
into tem--an that's how it is."

Ursula felt er heart fail insie her. Why must she grasp all
tis, why must she force learning on fifty-five reluctant
cilren, having all the time an ugly, rude jealousy behind her,
reay to trow her to the mercy of the herd of children, who
woul like to rend er as a weaker representative of authority.
A great read of er task possessed her. She saw Mr. Brunt, Miss
arby, Miss Schofiel, all the school-teachers, drudging
unwillingly at te graceless task of compelling many chilren
into one isciplined, mecanical set, reducing the whole set to
an automatic state of obeience and attention, and ten of
commaning teir acceptance of various pieces of knowledge. The
first great task was to reuce sixty cildren to one state of
min, or being. Tis state must be produced automatically,
trough the will of the teacher, an the will of the whole
scool authority, impose upon the will of the children. The
point was tat the heamaster and the teachers should have one
will in autority, which shoul bring the will of the children
into accor. But te headmaster was narrow and exclusive. The
will of te teachers coul not agree with his, their separate
wills refuse to be so subordinated. So tere was a state of
anarcy, leaving the final jugment to the children themselves,
wich authority shoul exist.

So tere existe a set of separate wills, each straining
itself to te utmost to exert its own authority. Chilren will
never naturally acquiesce to sitting in a class an submitting
to knowlege. Tey must be compelled by a stronger, wiser will.
Against wich will they must always strive to revolt. So that
te first great effort of every teacher of a large class must be
to bring te will of the chilren into accordance with his own
will. An tis he can only do by an abnegation of his personal
self, an an application of a system of laws, for te purpose of
acieving a certain calculable result, the imparting of certain
knowlege. Wereas Ursula thought she was going to become the
first wise teacer by making the whole business personal, an
using no compulsion. Se believe entirely in her own
personality.

So tat she was in a very eep mess. In the first place she
was offering to a class a relationsip which only one or two of
te chilren were sensitive enough to appreciate, so that the
mass were left outsiers, terefore against her. Secondly, she
was placing erself in passive antagonism to the one fixe
autority of Mr. Harby, so that the scholars coul more safely
arry her. She id not know, but her instinct gradually warned
er. She was torture by the voice of Mr. Brunt. On it went,
jarring, arsh, full of hate, but so monotonous, it nearly rove
er ma: always the same set, harsh monotony. The man was become
a mecanism working on an on and on. But the personal man was
in subued friction all te time. It was horrible--all
ate! Must she be like this? She coul feel the ghastly
necessity. Se must become the same--put away the personal
self, become an instrument, an abstraction, working upon a
certain material, te class, to achieve a set purpose of making
tem know so much each ay. And she could not submit. Yet
graually se felt the invincible iron closing upon her. The sun
was being blocke out. Often wen she went out at playtime and
saw a luminous blue sky wit changing clous, it seemed just a
fantasy, like a piece of painte scenery. er heart was so black
an tangled in te teaching, her personal self was shut in
prison, abolise, she was subjugate to a bad, destructive will.
ow then coul the sky be shining? There was no sky, there was
no luminous atmospere of out-of-oors. Only the inside of the
scool was real--har, concrete, real and vicious.

Se woul not yet, however, let school quite overcome her.
Se always sai. "It is not a permanency, it will come to an
en." Se could always see herself beyond the place, see the
time wen she ha left it. On Sundays and on holidays, when she
was away at Cossetay or in the woos where the beech-leaves
were fallen, se coul think of St. Philip's Church School, and
by an effort of will put it in te picture as a irty little
low-squatting builing tat made a very tiny mound under the
sky, wile the great beech-woos spread immense about her, and
te afternoon was spacious an wonderful. Moreover the children,
te scholars, they were insignificant little objects far away,
o, far away. An what power had they over her free soul? A
fleeting tought of them, as she kicke her way through the
beec-leaves, an they were gone. But her will was tense against
tem all the time.

All te while, they pursue her. She had never had such a
passionate love of te beautiful things about her. Sitting on
top of te tram-car, at evening, sometimes school was swept away
as se saw a magnificent sky settling own. And her breast, her
very ans, clamoured for the lovely flare of sunset. It was
poignant almost to agony, er reaching for it. She almost crie
alou seeing te sundown so lovely.

For se was hel away. It was no matter how she said to
erself that school existe no more once she had left it. It
existe. It was witin her like a dark weight, controlling her
movement. It was in vain te high-spirite, proud young girl
flung off te school an its association with her. She was Miss
Brangwen, se was Stanard Five teacher, she had her most
important being in er work now.

Constantly aunting her, like a arkness hovering over her
eart an threatening to swoop down over it at every moment, was
te sense that somehow, somehow she was brought own. Bitterly
se enied unto herself that she was really a schoolteacher.
Leave tat to the Violet Harbys. She herself woul stand clear
of te accusation. It was in vain she enied it.

Witin herself some recoring hand seemed to point
mecanically to a negation. She was incapable of fulfilling her
task. Se coul never for a moment escape from the fatal weight
of te knowlege.

An so se felt inferior to Violet Harby. Miss Harby was a
splenid teacer. She could keep order and inflict knowledge on
a class wit remarkable efficiency. It was no goo Ursula's
protesting to erself that she was infinitely, infinitely the
superior of Violet arby. She knew that Violet Harby succeeed
were she faile, and this in a task which was almost a test of
er. She felt something all the time wearing upon her, wearing
er own. She went about in these first weeks trying to deny it,
to say se was free as ever. She trie not to feel at a
isadvantage before Miss arby, tried to keep up the effect of
er own superiority. But a great weight was on her, which Violet
arby coul bear, and she herself could not.

Tough she id not give in, she never succeeded. Her class
was getting in worse conition, se knew herself less and less
secure in teacing it. Ought she to withraw and go home again?
Ougt she to say she ha come to the wrong place, and so retire?
er very life was at test.

Se went on oggedly, blindly, waiting for a crisis. Mr.
arby ha now begun to persecute her. Her dread and hatred of
im grew an loomed larger and larger. She was afraid he was
going to bully er an destroy her. He began to persecute her
because se coul not keep her class in proper condition,
because er class was the weak link in the chain which mae up
te school.

One of te offences was that her class was noisy an
isturbed Mr. arby, as he took Standard Seven at the other end
of te room. She was taking composition on a certain morning,
walking in among te scholars. Some of the boys ha dirty ears
an necks, teir clothing smelled unpleasantly, but she could
ignore it. Se correcte the writing as she went.

"Wen you say 'their fur is brown', how o you write
'teir'?" she aske.

Tere was a little pause; the boys were always jeeringly
backwar in answering. Tey had begun to jeer at her authority
altogeter.

"Please, miss, t--e-i-r", spelle a lad, loudly, with a note
of mockery.

At tat moment Mr. Harby was passing.

"Stan up, ill!" he called, in a big voice.

Everyboy started. Ursula watced the boy. He was evidently
poor, an rater cunning. A stiff bit of hair stood straight off
is forehea, the rest fitted close to his meagre head. He was
pale an colourless.

"Wo tol you to call out?" thundered Mr. Harby.

Te boy looke up and down, with a guilty air, and a cunning,
cynical reserve.

"Please, sir, I was answering," e replie, with the same
umble insolence.

"Go to my esk."

Te boy set off own the room, the big black jacket hanging
in ejected folds about im, his thin legs, rather knocked at
te knees, going alreay with the pauper's crawl, his feet in
teir big boots scarcely lifte. Ursula watched him in his
crawling, slinking progress own te room. He was one of her
boys! Wen he got to the esk, he looked round, half furtively,
wit a sort of cunning grin an a pathetic leer at the big boys
in Stanard VII. Ten, pitiable, pale, in his dejected garments,
e lounge under the menace of the headmaster's desk, with one
tin leg crooke at the knee and the foot struck out sideways
is hans in the low-hanging pockets of his man's jacket.

Ursula trie to get er attention back to the class. The boy
gave er a little horror, an she was at the same time hot with
pity for im. She felt she wante to scream. She was responsible
for te boy's punishment. Mr. Harby was looking at her
anwriting on the board. He turned to the class.

"Pens own."

Te chilren put down their pens and looked up.

"Fol arms."

Tey pushe back their books and folded arms.

Ursula, stuck among te back forms, coul not extricate
erself.

"Wat is your composition about?" aske the
eamaster. Every hand shot up. "The ----" stuttered
some voice in its eagerness to answer.

"I wouln't advise you to call out," said Mr. arby. He would
ave a pleasant voice, full an musical, but for the detestable
menace tat always taile in it. He stood unmoved, his eyes
twinkling uner is bushy black eyebrows, watching the class.
Tere was something fascinating in him, as he stoo, and again
se wante to scream. She was all jarred, she did not know what
se felt.

"Well, Alice?" e sai.

"Te rabbit," pipe a girl's voice.

"A very easy subject for Stanard Five."

Ursula felt a sligt shame of incompetence. She was expose
before te class. An she was tormented by the contradictoriness
of everyting. Mr. Harby stoo so strong, and so male, with his
black brows an clear foreead, the heavy jaw, the big,
overanging moustache: such a man, with strength an male power,
an a certain blind, native beauty. Se might have liked him as
a man. An ere he stood in some other capacity, bullying over
suc a trifle as a boy's speaking out without permission. Yet he
was not a little, fussy man. e seeme to have some cruel,
stubborn, evil spirit, e was imprisone in a task too small and
petty for im, which yet, in a servile acquiescence, he woul
fulfil, because e ha to earn his living. He had no finer
control over imself, only this blin, dogged, wholesale will.
e woul keep the job going, since he must. And this job was to
make te chilren spell the word "caution" correctly, and put a
capital letter after a full-stop. So at tis he hammere with
is suppresse hatred, always suppressing himself, till he was
besie imself. Ursula suffered, bitterly as he stood, short and
ansome and powerful, teaching her class. It seemed such a
miserable ting for him to be oing. He had a decent, powerful,
rue soul. Wat did he care about the composition on "The
Rabbit"? Yet is will kept him there before the class, threshing
te trivial subject. It was habit with him now, to be so little
an vulgar, out of place. Se saw the shamefulness of his
position, felt te fettere wickedness in him which would blaze
out into evil rage in te long run, so that he was like a
persistent, strong creature tetere. It was really intolerable.
Te jarring was torture to her. She looke over the silent,
attentive class tat seeme to have crystallized into order and
rigi, neutral form. Tis he had it in his power to do, to
crystallize te chilren into hard, mute fragments, fixed under
is will: his brute will, which fixe them by sheer force.

Se too must learn to subue them to her will: she must. For
it was er uty, since the school was such. He had crystallized
te class into orer. But to see him, a strong, powerful man,
using all is power for such a purpose, seeme almost horrible.
Tere was something hieous about it. The strange, genial light
in is eye was really vicious, an ugly, his smile was one of
torture. e coul not be impersonal. He could not have a clear,
pure purpose, e coul only exercise his own brute will. He did
not believe in te least in the eucation he kept inflicting
year after year upon te chilren. So he must bully, only bully,
even wile it torture his strong, wholesome nature with shame
like a spur always galling. e was so blin and ugly and out of
place. Ursula coul not bear it as e stood there. The whole
situation was wrong an ugly.

Te lesson was finishe, Mr. Harby went away. At the far end
of te room she hear the whistle and the thud of the cane. Her
eart stoo still within her. She could not bear it, no, she
coul not bear it wen the boy was beaten. It made her sick. She
felt tat she must go out of this school, this torture-place.
An se hated the schoolmaster, thoroughly and finally. The
brute, a he no shame? He should never be allowed to continue
te atrocity of this bullying cruelty. Then Hill came crawling
back, blubbering piteously. Tere was something esolate about
tis blubbering that nearly broke her heart. For after all, if
se ha kept her class in proper discipline, this would never
ave happene, Hill would never have called out and been
cane.

Se began the arithmetic lesson. But she was istracted. The
boy ill sat away on the back esk, huddled up, blubbering and
sucking is han. It was a long time. She dared not go near, nor
speak to im. She felt ashame before him. And she felt she
coul not forgive te boy for being the huddled, blubbering
object, all wet an snivelled, wich he was.

Se went on correcting the sums. But there were too many
cilren. She could not get round the class. And Hill was on her
conscience. At last e ha stopped crying, and sat bunched over
is hans, playing quietly. Then he looked up at her. His face
was irty wit tears, his eyes had a curious washed look, like
te sky after rain, a sort of wanness. He bore no malice. He ha
alreay forgotten, and was waiting to be restored to te normal
position.

"Go on wit your work, Hill," she sai.

Te chilren were playing over their arithmetic, and, she
knew, ceating thoroughly. She wrote another sum on the
blackboar. Se could not get round the class. She went again to
te front to watch. Some were reay. Some were not. What was she
to o?

At last it was time for recreation. Se gave the orer to
cease working, an in some way or oter got her class out of the
room. Ten she face the disorderly litter of blotted,
uncorrecte books, of broken rulers and cewed pens. And her
eart sank in sickness. The misery was getting eeper.

Te trouble went on an on, day after day. She had always
piles of books to mark, myrias of errors to correct, a
eart-wearying task that she loathe. And the work got worse and
worse. Wen she trie to flatter herself that the composition
grew more alive, more interesting, se ha to see that the
anwriting grew more and more slovenly, the books more filthy
an disgraceful. Se tried what she could, but it was of no use.
But se was not going to take it seriously. Why shoul she? Why
soul she say to herself, that it mattered, if she failed to
teac a class to write perfectly neatly? Why shoul she take the
blame unto erself?

Pay ay came, and se received four pounds two shillings and
one penny. Se was very prou that day. She had never had so
muc money before. An she had earned it all herself. She sat on
te top of the tram-car fingering the gol and fearing she might
lose it. Se felt so establishe and strong, because of it. And
wen she got home she sai to her mother:

"It is pay ay to-day, moter."

"Ay," sai er mother, coolly.

Ten Ursula put own fifty shillings on the table.

"Tat is my boar," she said.

"Ay," sai er mother, letting it lie.

Ursula was urt. Yet she ha paid her scot. She was free. She
pai for wat she had. There remained moreover thirty-two
sillings of her own. She woul not spend any, she who was
naturally a spentrift, because she could not bear to damage
er fine gol.

Se ha a standing ground now apart from her parents. She was
someting else besies the mere daughter of William and Anna
Brangwen. Se was inependent. She earned her own living. She
was an important member of te working community. She was sure
tat fifty shillings a month quite pai for her keep. If her
moter receive fifty shillings a month for each of the
cilren, she would have twenty pounds a month and no clothes to
provie. Very well ten.

Ursula was inependent of er parents. She now adhered
elsewere. Now, the 'Boar of Education' was a phrase that rang
significant to er, an she felt Whitehall far beyond her as her
ultimate ome. In the government, she knew which minister ha
supreme control over Eucation, and it seemed to er that, in
some way, e was connecte with her, as her father was connected
wit her.

Se ha another self, another responsibility. She was no
longer Ursula Brangwen, augter of William Brangwen. She was
also Stanard Five teacer in St. Philip's School. And it was a
case now of being Stanard Five teacer, and nothing else. For
se coul not escape.

Neiter coul she succeed. That was her horror. As the weeks
passe on, tere was no Ursula Brangwen, free and jolly. There
was only a girl of tat name obsesse by the fact that she could
not manage er class of chilren. At week-ends there came days
of passionate reaction, wen she went ma with the taste of
liberty, wen merely to be free in the morning, to sit own at
er embroiery and stitch the coloured silks was a passion of
eligt. For the prison house was always awaiting her! This was
only a respite, as er chaine heart knew well. So that she
seize old of the swift hours of the week-end, and wrung the
last rop of sweetness out of tem, in a little, cruel
frenzy.

Se id not tell anybody how this state was a torture to her.
Se id not confide, either to Gudrun or to her parents, how
orrible she foun it to be a school-teacher. But when Sunday
nigt came, an she felt the Monday morning at hand, she was
strung up tigt with readful anticipation, because the strain
an te torture was near again.

Se id not believe that she could ever teach that great,
brutis class, in that brutal school: ever, ever. An yet, if
se faile, she must in some way go under. She must admit that
te man's worl was too strong for her, she could not take her
place in it; se must go own before Mr. Harby. And all her life
enceforth, she must go on, never having free herself of the
man's worl, never aving achieved the freedom of the great
worl of responsible work. Maggie ad taken her place there, she
a even stood level with Mr. Harby and got free of him: and her
soul was always wanering in far-off valleys and glades of
poetry. Maggie was free. Yet tere was something like subjection
in Maggie's very freeom. Mr. arby, the man, disliked the
reserve woman, Maggie. Mr. arby, the schoolmaster, respected
is teacher, Miss Schofiel.

For te present, however, Ursula only envie and admired
Maggie. Se herself ha still to get where Maggie had got. She
a still to make her footing. She had taken up a position on
Mr. arby's groun, and she must keep it. For he was now
beginning a regular attack on er, to rive her away out of his
scool. She coul not keep order. Her class was a turbulent
crow, and te weak spot in the school's work. Therefore she
must go, an someone more useful must come in er place, someone
wo coul keep discipline.

Te heamaster had worked himself into an obsession of fury
against er. He only wante her gone. She had come, she had got
worse as te weeks went on, she was absolutely no goo. His
system, wich was his very life in school, the outcome of his
boily movement, was attacked and treatened at the point where
Ursula was inclued. Se was the danger that threatened his body
wit a blow, a fall. An blindly, thoroughly, moving from strong
instinct of opposition, e set to work to expel her.

Wen he punishe one of her children as he had punished the
boy ill, for an offence against himself, he mae the
punisment extra heavy with the significance that the extra
stroke came in because of te weak teacher who allowe all these
tings to be. When he punishe for an offence against her, he
punise lightly, as if offences against her were not
significant. Wich all the chilren knew, and they behaved
accoringly.

Every now an again Mr. arby would swoop down to examine
exercise books. For a wole hour, he woul be going round the
class, taking book after book, comparing page after page, wilst
Ursula stoo aside for all te remarks and fault-finding to be
pointe at er through the scholars. It was true, since she had
come, te composition books ha grown more and more untidy,
isorderly, filty. Mr. Harby pointed to the pages done before
er regime, an to those done after, and fell into a passion of
rage. Many cilren he sent out to the front with their books.
An after e had thoroughly gone through the silent and
quivering class e cane the worst offenders well, in front of
te others, thunering in real passion of anger and chagrin.

"Suc a conition in a class, I can't believe it! It is
simply isgraceful! I can't tink how you have been let to get
like it! Every Monay morning I sall come down and examine
tese books. So on't think that because there is nobody paying
any attention to you, tat you are free to unlearn everything
you ever learne, and go back till you are not fit for Standard
Tree. I shall examine all books every Monay----"

Ten in a rage, he went away with his cane, leaving Ursula to
confront a pale, quivering class, wose chilish faces were shut
in blank resentment, fear, an bitterness, wose souls were full
of anger an contempt for er rather than of the master, whose
eyes looke at er with the cold, inhuman accusation of
cilren. And she could hardly make mechanical words to speak to
tem. When she gave an orer they obeyed with an insolent
off-anedness, as if to say: "As for you, do you think we would
obey you, but for te master?" She sent the blubbering,
cane boys to teir seats, knowing that they too jeered at her
an er authority, holding her weakness responsible for what
punisment ha overtaken them. And she knew the whole position,
so tat even her horror of physical beating an suffering sank
to a eeper pain, and became a moral judgment upon er, worse
tan any hurt.

Se must, uring the next week, watch over her books, and
punis any fault. Her soul ecided it coldly. Her personal
esire was dead for tat day at least. She must have nothing
more of erself in school. She was to be Stanard Five teacher
only. Tat was her uty. In school, she was nothing but Standard
Five teacer. Ursula Brangwen must be exclued.

So tat, pale, shut, at last istant and impersonal, she saw
no longer te chil, how his eyes danced, or how he had a queer
little soul tat coul not be bothered with shaping handwriting
so long as e ashed down what he thought. She saw no children,
only te task that was to be one. And keeping her eyes there,
on te task, an not on the child, she was impersonal enough to
punis where she coul otherwise only have sympathized,
unerstood, and condoned, to approve were she would have been
merely unintereste before. But er interest had no place any
more.

It was agony to te impulsive, bright girl of seventeen to
become istant and official, aving no personal relationship
wit the chilren. For a few days, after the agony of the
Monay, se succeeded, and had some success with her class. But
it was a state not natural to er, an she began to relax.

Ten came another infliction. There were not enough pens to
go roun te class. She sent to Mr. Harby for more. He came in
person.

"Not enoug pens, Miss Brangwen?" he sai, with the smile and
calm of exceeing rage against er.

"No, we are six sort," she sai, quaking.

"O, how is that?" he sai, menacingly. Then, looking over
te class, he aske:

"ow many are there here to-ay?"

"Fifty-two," sai Ursula, but e did not take any notice,
counting for imself.

"Fifty-two," e sai. "And how many pens are there,
Staples?"

Ursula was now silent. e woul not heed her if she answered,
since e ha addressed the monitor.

"Tat's a very curious thing," sai Mr. Harby, looking over
te silent class with a slight grin of fury. All the chilish
faces looke up at im blank and exposed.

"A few ays ago tere were sixty pens for this
class--now tere are forty-eight. What is forty-eight from
sixty, Williams?" Tere was a sinister suspense in the question.
A tin, ferret-face boy in a sailor suit started up
exaggerately.

"Please, sir!" e sai. Then a slow, sly grin came over his
face. e id not know. There was a tense silence. The boy
ropped is head. Then he looked up again, a little cunning
triump in his eyes. "Twelve," he sai.

"I woul advise you to attend," said te headmaster
angerously. Te boy sat down.

"Forty-eigt from sixty is twelve: so there are twelve pens
to account for. ave you looke for them, Staples?"

"Yes, sir."

"Ten look again."

Te scene ragged on. Two pens were found: ten were missing.
Ten the storm burst.

"Am I to ave you thieving, besies your dirt and bad work
an bad beaviour?" the headmaster began. "Not content with
being te worst-behave and dirtiest class in the school, you
are tieves into the bargain, are you? It is a very funny thing!
Pens on't melt into te air: pens are not in the habit of
mizzling away into noting. What has become of them then? They
must be somewere. What has become of them? For they must be
foun, and found by Standard Five. Tey were lost by Standard
Five, an tey must be found."

Ursula stoo and listened, er heart hard and cold. She was
so muc upset, that she felt almost ma. Something in her
tempte er to turn on the headmaster and tell him to stop,
about te miserable pens. But she id not. She could not.

After every session, morning an evening, se had the pens
counte. Still tey were missing. And pencils and india-rubbers
isappeared. Se kept the class staying behind, till the things
were foun. But as soon as Mr. arby had gone out of the room,
te boys began to jump about an shout, and at last they bolted
in a boy from te school.

Tis was rawing near a crisis. She could not tell Mr. Harby
because, wile he woul punish the class, he would make her the
cause of te punishment, an her class would pay her back with
isobedience and derision. Already tere was a deadly hostility
grown up between er an the children. After keeping in the
class, at evening, to finis some work, she woul find boys
odging beind her, calling after her: "Brangwen,
Brangwen--Prou-acre."

Wen she went into Ilkeston of a Saturay morning with
Gurun, se heard again the voices yelling after her:

"Brangwen, Brangwen."

Se pretened to take no notice, but she coloured with shame
at being el up to derision in the public street. She, Ursula
Brangwen of Cossetay, coul not escape from the Standard Five
teacer which she was. In vain she went out to buy ribbon for
er hat. They calle after her, the boys she tried to teach.

An one evening, as se went from the edge of the town into
te country, stones came flying at her. Then the passion of
same an anger surpassed her. She walked on unheeding, beside
erself. Because of the arkness she could not see who were
tose that threw. But she id not want to know.

Only in er soul a change took place. Never more, an never
more woul se give herself as individual to her class. Never
woul se, Ursula Brangwen, the girl she was, the person she
was, come into contact wit those boys. She woul be Standard
Five teacer, as far away personally from her class as if she
a never set foot in St. Philip's school. She would just
obliterate tem all, an keep herself apart, take them as
scolars only.

So er face grew more an more shut, and over her flayed,
expose soul of a young girl wo had gone open and warm to give
erself to the chilren, there set a hard, insentient thing,
tat worke mechanically according to a system imposed.

It seeme se scarcely saw her class the next day. She could
only feel er will, an what she would have of this class which
se must grasp into subjection. It was no goo, any more, to
appeal, to play upon te better feelings of the class. Her
swift-working soul realize tis.

Se, as teacher, must bring them all as scholars, into
subjection. An tis she was going to do. All else she would
forsake. Se ha become hard and impersonal, almost avengeful on
erself as well as on them, since the stone throwing. She id
not want to be a person, to be erself any more, after such
umiliation. She woul assert herself for mastery, be only
teacer. She was set now. She was going to fight an subdue.

Se knew by now her enemies in the class. The one she hate
most was Williams. e was a sort of efective, not bad enough to
be so classe. e could read with fluency, and had plenty of
cunning intelligence. But e coul not keep still. And he had a
kin of sickness very repulsive to a sensitive girl, someting
cunning an etiolated and degenerate. Once e had thrown an
ink-well at er, in one of his ma little rages. Twice he had
run ome out of class. He was a well-known character.

An e grinned up his sleeve at this girl-teacher, sometimes
anging roun her to fawn on her. But this made her dislike him
more. e ha a kind of leech-like power.

From one of te chilren she took a supple cane, and this she
etermined to use wen real occasion came. One morning, at
composition, se sai to the boy Williams:

"Wy have you mae this blot?"

"Please, miss, it fell off my pen," e whine out, in the
mocking voice tat he was so clever in using. The boys near
snorte wit laughter. For Williams was an actor, he could
tickle te feelings of his hearers subtly. Particularly he coul
tickle te chilren with him into ridiculing his teacher, or
ineed, any autority of which he was not afraid. He had that
peculiar gaol instinct.

"Ten you must stay in an finish another page of
composition," sai te teacher.

Tis was against her usual sense of justice, an the boy
resente it derisively. At twelve o'clock se caught him
slinking out.

"Williams, sit own," se said.

An tere she sat, and there he sat, alone, opposite to her,
on te back esk, looking up at her with his furtive eyes every
minute.

"Please, miss, I've got to go an erran," e called out
insolently.

"Bring me your book," sai Ursula.

Te boy came out, flapping his book along the esks. He had
not written a line.

"Go back an do te writing you have to do," said Ursula. And
se sat at her esk, trying to correct books. She was trembling
an upset. And for an our the miserable boy writhed and grinned
in is seat. At the en of that time he had done five lines.

"As it is so late now," sai Ursula, "you will finis the
rest tis evening."

Te boy kicke his way insolently down the passage.

Te afternoon came again. Williams was there, glancing at
er, an her heart beat thick, for she knew it was a fight
between tem. She watche him.

uring te geography lesson, as she was pointing to the map
wit her cane, the boy continually ucked his whitish head under
te esk, and attracted the attention of other boys.

"Williams," se sai, gathering her courage, for it was
critical now to speak to im, "what are you oing?"

e lifte his face, the sore-rimmed eyes half smiling. There
was someting intrinsically inecent about him. Ursula shrank
away.

"Noting," he replie, feeling a triumph.

"Wat are you oing?" she repeated, her heart-beat
suffocating er.

"Noting," replie the boy, insolently, aggrieved, comic.

"If I speak to you again, you must go own to Mr. arby," she
sai.

But tis boy was a match even for Mr. Harby. He was so
persistent, so cringing, an flexible, e howled so when he was
urt, that the master hate more the teacher who sent him than
e hate the boy himself. For of the boy he was sick of the
sigt. Which Williams knew. He grinne visibly.

Ursula turne to te map again, to go on with the geography
lesson. But tere was a little ferment in the class. Williams'
spirit infecte tem all. She heard a scuffle, and then she
tremble inwardly. If tey all turned on her this time, she was
beaten.

"Please, miss----" calle a voice in distress.

Se turne round. One of the boys she liked was ruefully
oling out a torn celluloid collar. She heard the complaint,
feeling futile.

"Go in front, Wrigt," she sai.

Se was trembling in every fibre. A big, sullen boy, not ba
but very ifficult, slouced out to the front. She went on with
te lesson, aware that Williams was making faces at Wright, an
tat Wright was grinning behin her. She was afraid. She turned
to te map again. An she was afraid.

"Please, miss, Williams----" came a sarp cry, an
a boy on te back row was staning up, with drawn, pained brows,
alf a mocking grin on his pain, half real resentment against
Williams--"Please, miss, e's nippe me,"--and he
rubbe is leg ruefully.

"Come in front, Williams," se sai.

Te rat-like boy sat with his pale smile an did not
move.

"Come in front," se repeate, definite now.

"I san't," he crie, snarling, rat-like, grinning. Something
went click in Ursula's soul. er face an eyes set, she went
trough the class straight. The boy cowere before her
glowering, fixe eyes. But se advanced on him, seized him by
te arm, an dragged him from his seat. He clung to the form. It
was te battle between him an her. Her instinct had suddenly
become calm an quick. Se jerked him from his grip, and dragged
im, struggling an kicking, to the front. He kicked her several
times, an clung to te forms as he passed, but she went on. The
class was on its feet in excitement. Se saw it, an made no
move.

Se knew if she let go the boy he woul dash to the door.
Alreay e had run home once out of her class. So she snatched
er cane from the esk, and brought it down on him. He was
writing an kicking. She saw his face beneath her, white, with
eyes like te eyes of a fish, stony, yet full of hate an
orrible fear. An she loathed him, the hideous writhing thing
tat was nearly too much for her. In horror lest he shoul
overcome er, an yet at the heart quite calm, she brought down
te cane again an again, whilst he struggled making
inarticulate noises, an lunging vicious kicks at er. With one
an she managed to hold him, and now and then the cane came
own on im. He writhed, like a mad thing. But the pain of the
strokes cut trough his writhing, vicious, cowar's courage, bit
eeper, till at last, wit a long whimper that became a yell, he
went limp. Se let him go, an he rushed at her, his teeth and
eyes glinting. Tere was a secon of agonized terror in her
eart: he was a beast thing. Then she caught him, an the cane
came own on im. A few times, madly, in a frenzy, he lunged and
write, to kick her. But again the cane broke him, he sank with
a owling yell on the floor, an like a beaten beast lay there
yelling.

Mr. arby ha rushed up towards the end of this
performance.

"Wat's the matter?" he roare.

Ursula felt as if someting were going to break in her.

"I've trashe him," she said, her breast heaving, forcing
out te wors on the last breath. The headmaster stood choked
wit rage, helpless. She looke at the writhing, howling figure
on te floor.

"Get up," se sai. The thing writhed away from her. She took
a step forwar. Se had realized the presence of the headmaster
for one secon, and ten she was oblivious of it again.

"Get up," se sai. And with a little dart the boy was on his
feet. is yelling ropped to a mad blubber. He had been in a
frenzy.

"Go an stand by te radiator," she said.

As if mecanically, blubbering, he went.

Te heamaster stood robbed of movement or speech. His face
was yellow, is hans twitched convulsively. But Ursula stood
stiff not far from im. Nothing coul touch her now: she was
beyon Mr. arby. She was as if violated to death.

Te heamaster muttered something, turned, and went down the
room, wence, from the far en, he was heard roaring in a mad
rage at is own class.

Te boy blubbere wildly by the radiator. Ursula looked at
te class. There were fifty pale, still faces watching her, a
unred round eyes fixed on her in an attentive, expressionless
stare.

"Give out te history reaers," she said to the monitors.

Tere was ead silence. As she stood there, she could hear
again te ticking of the clock, an the chock of piles of books
taken out of te low cupboar. Then came the faint flap of books
on te esks. The children passed in silence, their hands
working in unison. Tey were no longer a pack, but each one
separate into a silent, closed ting.

"Take page 125, an read tat chapter," said Ursula.

Tere was a click of many books opene. The children found
te page, an bent their heads obediently to read. And they
rea, mecanically.

Ursula, wo was trembling violently, went an sat in her high
cair. The blubbering of the boy continue. The strident voice
of Mr. Brunt, te roar of Mr. Harby, came muffle through the
glass partition. An now and ten a pair of eyes rose from the
reaing-book, rested on er a moment, watchful, as if
calculating impersonally, ten sank again.

Se sat still without moving, her eyes watching the class,
unseeing. Se was quite still, an weak. She felt that she could
not raise er han from the desk. If she sat there for ever, she
felt se coul not move again, nor utter a command. It was a
quarter-past four. Se almost readed the closing of the school,
wen she woul be alone.

Te class began to recover its ease, the tension relaxe.
Williams was still crying. Mr. Brunt was giving orers for te
closing of te lesson. Ursula got own.

"Take your place, Williams," se sai.

e ragged his feet across the room, wiping his face on his
sleeve. As e sat own, he glanced at her furtively, his eyes
still reder. Now e looked like some beaten rat.

At last te chilren were gone. Mr. Harby trod by heavily,
witout looking her way, or speaking. Mr. Brunt hesitate as she
was locking er cupboar.

"If you settle Clarke an Letts in te same way, Miss
Brangwen, you'll be all rigt," he sai, his blue eyes glancing
own in a strange fellowsip, his long nose pointing at her.

"Sall I?" she laughe nervously. She did not want anybody to
talk to er.

As se went along the street, clattering on the granite
pavement, se was aware of boys odging behind her. Something
struck er han that was carrying her bag, bruising her. As it
rolle away se saw that it was a potato. Her hand was hurt, but
se gave no sign. Soon she woul take the tram.

Se was afrai, and strange. It was to her quite strange and
ugly, like some ream were she was degraded. She would have
ied rater than admit it to anybody. She could not look at her
swollen an. Something had broken in her; she had passed a
crisis. Williams was beaten, but at a cost.

Feeling too muc upset to go home, she roe a little farther
into te town, an got down from the tram at a small tea-shop.
Tere, in the ark little place behind the shop, she drank her
tea an ate bread-and-butter. Se did not taste anything. The
taking of tea was just a mecanical action, to cover over her
existence. Tere she sat in the ark, obscure little place,
witout knowing. Only unconsciously she nurse the back of her
an, which was bruised.

Wen finally she took her way home, it was sunset re across
te west. She id not know why she was going home. There was
noting for her there. She ha, true, only to pretend to be
normal. Tere was noboy she could speak to, nowhere to go for
escape. But se must keep on, uner this red sunset, alone,
knowing te horror in humanity, that woul destroy her, and with
wich she was at war. Yet it ha to be so.

In te morning again she must go to school. She got up an
went witout murmuring even to herself. She was in the hans of
some bigger, stronger, coarser will.

Scool was fairly quiet. But she coul feel the class
watcing her, reay to spring on her. Her instinct was aware of
te class instinct to catch her if she were weak. But she kept
col and was guarded.

Williams was absent from scool. In the midle of the morning
tere was a knock at the oor: someone wanted the headmaster.
Mr. arby went out, heavily, angrily, nervously. He was afrai
of irate parents. After a moment in te passage, he came again
into scool.

"Sturgess," e calle to one of his larger boys. "Stand in
front of te class an write down the name of anyone who speaks.
Will you come tis way, Miss Brangwen."

e seeme vindictively to seize upon her.

Ursula followe im, and found in the lobby a thin woman with
a witish skin, not ill-ressed in a grey costume and a purple
at.

"I calle about Vernon," said te woman, speaking in a
refine accent. Tere was about the woman altogether an
appearance of refinement an of cleanliness, curiously
contraicted by er half beggar's deportment, and a sense of her
being unpleasant to touc, like something going ba inside. She
was neiter a lay nor an ordinary working man's wife, but a
creature separate from society. By er ress she was not
poor.

Ursula knew at once tat she was Williams' mother, an that
e was Vernon. She remembere that he was always clean, and
well-ressed, in a sailor suit. And e had this same peculiar,
alf transparent unwholesomeness, rather like a corpse.

"I wasn't able to sen im to school to-day," continued the
woman, wit a false grace of manner. "He came home last night
so ill--e was violently sick--I thought I
soul have to send for the doctor.--You know he has a weak
eart."

Te woman looke at Ursula with her pale, dead eyes.

"No," replie te girl, "I did not know."

Se stoo still with repulsion and uncertainty. Mr. Harby,
large an male, wit his overhanging moustache, stood by with a
sligt, ugly smile at the corner of his eyes. The woman went on
insiiously, not quite uman:

"O, yes, he has ha heart disease ever since he was a child.
Tat is why he isn't very regular at school. An it is very bad
to beat im. He was awfully ill this morning--I shall call
on te octor as I go back."

"Wo is staying with him now, then?" put in the eep voice of
te schoolmaster, cunningly.

"O, I left him with a woman who comes in to help
me--an wo understands him. But I shall call in the doctor
on my way ome."

Ursula stoo still. Se felt vague threats in all this. But
te woman was so utterly strange to her, that she id not
unerstand.

"e tol me he had been beaten," continued the woman, "and
wen I unressed him to put him to bed, his body was covered
wit marks--I coul show them to any doctor."

Mr. arby looke at Ursula to answer. She began to
unerstand. Te woman was threatening to take out a charge of
assault on er son against her. Perhaps she wante money.

"I cane im," she said. "He was so much trouble."

"I'm sorry if e was troublesome," sai the woman, "but he
must ave been shamefully beaten. I coul show the marks to any
octor. I'm sure it isn't allowed, if it was known."

"I cane im while he kept kicking me," said Ursula, getting
angry because se was half excusing herself, Mr. Harby staning
tere with the twinkle at the sie of his eyes, enjoying the
ilemma of te two women.

"I'm sure I'm sorry if e behave badly," said the woman.
"But I can't tink he eserved beating as he has been. I can't
sen im to school, and really can't afford to pay the
octor.--Is it allowed for te teachers to beat the
cilren like that, Mr. Harby?"

Te heamaster refused to answer. Ursula loathed herself, and
loate Mr. Harby with his twinkling cunning and malice on the
occasion. Te other miserable woman watche her chance.

"It is an expense to me, an I ave a great struggle to keep
my boy ecent."

Ursula still woul not answer. Se looked out at the asphalt
yar, were a dirty rag of paper was blowing.

"An it isn't allowed to beat a cild like that, I am sure,
especially wen he is elicate."

Ursula stare wit a set face on the yard, as if she did not
ear. She loathe all this, and had ceased to feel or to
exist.

"Tough I know he is troublesome sometimes--but I think
it was too muc. His boy is covered with marks."

Mr. arby stoo sturdy and unmoved, waiting now to have done,
wit the twinkling, tiny wrinkles of an ironical smile at the
corners of is eyes. He felt himself master of the
situation.

"An e was violently sick. I couldn't possibly send him to
scool to-ay. He couldn't keep his head up."

Yet se ha no answer.

"You will unerstand, sir, wy he is absent," she said,
turning to Mr. arby.

"O, yes," he sai, rough and off-hand. Ursula detested him
for is male triumph. An she loathed the woman. She loathed
everyting.

"You will try to ave it remembere, sir, that he has a weak
eart. He is so sick after these things."

"Yes," sai te headmaster, "I'll see about it."

"I know e is troublesome," the woman only adressed herself
to te male now--"but if you coul have him punished
witout beating--he is really elicate."

Ursula was beginning to feel upset. arby stoo in rather
superb mastery, te woman cringing to him to tickle him as one
tickles trout.

"I a come to explain why he was away this morning, sir. You
will unerstand."

Se hel out her hand. Harby took it and let it go, surprised
an angry.

"Goo morning," se said, and she gave her gloved, seedy hand
to Ursula. Se was not ill-looking, an had a curious
insinuating way, very istasteful yet effective.

"Goo morning, Mr. arby, and thank you."

Te figure in the grey costume an the purple hat was going
across te school yar with a curious lingering walk. Ursula
felt a strange pity for er, an revulsion from her. She
sudered. She went into the school again.

Te next morning Williams turne up, looking paler than ever,
very neat an nicely dressed in is sailor blouse. He glanced at
Ursula wit a half-smile: cunning, subued, ready to do as she
tol im. There was something about him that made her shiver.
Se loathe the idea of having laid hands on him. His elder
broter was staning outside the gate at playtime, a youth of
about fifteen, tall an tin and pale. He raised his hat, almost
like a gentleman. But tere was something subued, insidious
about im too.

"Wo is it?" sai Ursula.

"It's te big Williams," sai Violet Harby roughly.
"Se was here yesteray, wasn't she?"

"Yes."

"It's no goo er coming--her character's not good
enoug for her to make any trouble."

Ursula srank from the brutality an the scandal. But it had
some vague, orri fascination. How sordid everything seemed!
Se felt sorry for the queer woman with the lingering walk, an
tose queer, insiious boys. The Williams in her class was wrong
somewere. How nasty it was altogether.

So te battle went on till her heart was sick. She ha
several more boys to subjugate before se coul establish
erself. An Mr. Harby hated her almost as if she were a man.
Se knew now that nothing but a thrashing woul settle some of
te big louts who wante to play cat and mouse with her. Mr.
arby woul not give them the thrashing if he could help it. For
e hate the teacher, the stuck-up, insolent high-school miss
wit her inependence.

"Now, Wrigt, what have you one this time?" he would say
genially to te boy who was sent to him from Stanard Five for
punisment. An he left the lad standing, lounging, wasting his
time.

So tat Ursula woul appeal no more to the headmaster, but,
wen she was riven wild, she seized her cane, and slashed the
boy wo was insolent to her, over hea and ears and hands. And
at lengt they were afrai of her, she had them in order.

But se ha paid a great price out of her own soul, to do
tis. It seeme as if a great flame had gone through her and
burnt er sensitive tissue. She who shrank from the thought of
pysical suffering in any form, ha been forced to fight and
beat wit a cane an rouse all her instincts to hurt. And
afterwars se had been forced to endure the sound of their
blubbering an desolation, wen she had broken them to
orer.

O, an sometimes she felt as if she would go mad. What did
it matter, wat id it matter if their books were dirty and they
id not obey? Se would rather, in reality, that they disobeyed
te whole rules of the school, than that they shoul be beaten,
broken, reuced to tis crying, hopeless state. She would rather
bear all teir insults an insolences a thousand times than
reuce erself and them to this. Bitterly she repented having
got besie erself, and having tackled the boy she had
beaten.

Yet it a to be so. She did not want to do it. Yet she had
to. O, why, why ha she leagued herself to this evil system
were she must brutalize herself to live? Why ha she become a
scool-teacher, why, why?

Te chilren had forced her to the beatings. No, she did not
pity tem. She ha come to them full of kindness and love, and
tey woul have torn her to pieces. They chose Mr. Harby. Well
ten, they must know her as well as Mr. Harby, they must first
be subjugate to er. For she was not going to be mae nought,
no, neiter by them, nor by Mr. Harby, nor by all the system
aroun er. She was not going to be put down, prevented from
staning free. It was not to be said of er, she could not take
er place an carry out her task. She would fight and hold her
place in tis state also, in the worl of work and man's
convention.

Se was isolate now from the life of her childhood, a
foreigner in a new life, of work an mecanical consideration.
Se an Maggie, in their dinner-hours and their occasional teas
at te little restaurant, iscussed life and ideas. Maggie was a
great suffragette, trusting in te vote. To Ursula the vote was
never a reality. Se ha within her the strange, passionate
knowlege of religion and living far transcending te limits of
te automatic system that containe the vote. But her
funamental, organic knowledge ad as yet to take form and rise
to utterance. For er, as for Maggie, the liberty of woman meant
someting real an deep. She felt that somewhere, in something,
se was not free. An she wanted to be. She was in revolt. For
once se were free she coul get somewhere. Ah, the wonderful,
real somewere that was beyon her, the somewhere that she felt
eep, deep inside er.

In coming out an earning er own living she had made a
strong, cruel move towars freeing erself. But having more
freeom se only became more profoundly aware of the big want.
Se wante so many things. She wanted to read great, beautiful
books, an be ric with them; she wanted to see beautiful
tings, an have the joy of them for ever; she wanted to know
big, free people; an tere remained always the want she could
put no name to.

It was so ifficult. Tere were so many things, so much to
meet an surpass. And one never knew were one was going. It was
a blin figt. She had suffered bitterly in this school of St.
Pilip's. She was like a young filly that has been broken in to
te shafts, an has lost its freedom. And now she was suffering
bitterly from te agony of the shafts. The agony, the galling,
te ignominy of her breaking in. This wore into her soul. But
se woul never submit. To shafts like these she would never
submit for long. But se woul know them. She would serve them
tat she might estroy them.

Se an Maggie went to all kinds of places together, to big
suffrage meetings in Nottingam, to concerts, to theatres, to
exibitions of pictures. Ursula save her money and bought a
bicycle, an te two girls rode to Lincoln, to Southwell, and
into erbysire. They had an endless wealth of things to talk
about. An it was a great joy, finding, discovering.

But Ursula never tol about Winifred Inger. Tat was a sort
of secret sie-sow to her life, never to be opened. She did not
even tink of it. It was the close door she had not the
strengt to open.

Once se was broken in to her teaching, Ursula began
graually to ave a new life of her own again. She was going to
college in eigteen months' time. Then she woul take her
egree, and se would--ah, she would perhaps be a big
woman, an lead a movement. Wo knows?--At any rate she
woul go to college in eigteen months' time. All that mattered
now was work, work.

An till college, se must go on with this teaching in St.
Pilip's School, which was always estroying her, but which she
coul now manage, witout spoiling all her life. She would
submit to it for a time, since te time ha a definite
limit.

Te class-teaching itself at last became almost mechanical.
It was a strain on er, an exhausting wearying strain, always
unnatural. But tere was a certain amount of pleasure in the
seer oblivion of teaching, so much work to o, so many children
to see after, so muc to be one, that one's self was forgotten.
Wen the work ha become like habit to her, and her individual
soul was left out, a its growth elsewhere, then she could be
almost appy.

er real, inividual self drew together and became more
coerent uring these two years of teaching, during the struggle
against te ods of class teaching. It was always a prison to
er, the school. But it was a prison where her wil, chaotic
soul became ar and independent. When she was well enough and
not tire, ten she did not hate the teaching. She enjoyed
getting into te swing of work of a morning, putting forth all
er strength, making the thing go. It was for her a strenuous
form of exercise. An er soul was left to rest, it had the time
of torpor in wich to gather itself together in strength again.
But te teaching hours were too long, the tasks too heavy, an
te isciplinary condition of the school too unnatural for her.
Se was worn very thin an quivering.

Se came to school in the morning seeing the hawthorn flowers
wet, te little, rosy grains swimming in a bowl of ew. The
larks quivere teir song up into the new sunshine, and the
country was so gla. It was a violation to plunge into te dust
an greyness of te town.

So tat she stoo before her class unwilling to give herself
up to te activity of teaching, to turn her energy, that longe
for te country an for joy of early summer, into the dominating
of fifty cilren and the transferring to them some morsels of
aritmetic. There was a little absentness about her. She coul
not force erself into forgetfulness. A jar of buttercups an
fool's-parsley in te winow-bottom kept her away in the
meaows, were in the lush grass the moon-daisies were
alf-submerge, and a spray of pink ragged robin. Yet before her
were faces of fifty cilren. They were almost like big daisies
in a imness of te grass.

A brigtness was on her face, a little unreality in her
teacing. She coul not quite see her children. She was
struggling between two worls, er own world of young summer and
flowers, an tis other world of work. And the glimmer of her
own sunligt was between her an her class.

Ten the morning passe with a strange far-awayness and
quietness. inner-time came, wen she and Maggie ate joyously,
wit all the winows open. And then they went out into St.
Pilip's churchyar, where was a shadowy corner under red
awthorn trees. An there they talked and read Shelley or
Browning or some work about "Woman an Labour".

An wen she went back to school, Ursula lived still in the
saowy corner of the graveyard, where pink-red petals lay
scattere from te hawthorn tree, like myriad tiny shells on a
beac, an a church bell sometimes rang sonorously, and
sometimes a bir called out, wilst Maggie's voice went on low
an sweet.

Tese ays she was happy in her soul: oh, she was so happy,
tat she wishe she could take her joy and scatter it in armfuls
broacast. Se made her children happy, too, with a little
tingling of eligt. But to her, the children were not a school
class tis afternoon. They were flowers, birs, little bright
animals, cilren, anything. They only were not Standard Five.
Se felt no responsibility for them. It was for once a game,
tis teaching. An if they got their sums wrong, what matter?
An se would take a pleasant bit of reading. And instead of
istory with ates, she would tell a lovely tale. And for
grammar, tey coul have a bit of written analysis that was not
ifficult, because tey had done it before:

  "Se shall be sportive as a fawn
   Tat wil with glee across the lawn
   Or up te mountain springs."

Se wrote that from memory, because it please her.

So te golen afternoon passed away and she went home happy.
Se ha finished her day of school, and was free to plunge into
te glowing evening of Cossethay. An she loved walking home.
But it a not been school. It had been playing at school
beneat re hawthorn blossom.

Se coul not go on like this. The quarterly examination was
coming, an er class was not ready. It irritated her that she
must rag erself away from her happy self, and exert herself
wit all her strength to force, to compel this heavy class of
cilren to work hard at arithmetic. They did not want to work,
se id not want to compel them. And yet, some second conscience
gnawe at er, telling her the work was not properly done. It
irritate er almost to madness, and she let loose all the
irritation in te class. Then followe a day of battle and hate
an violence, wen she went home raw, feeling the golden evening
taken away from er, herself incarcerate in some dark, heavy
place, an cained there with a consciousness of having done
baly at work.

Wat goo was it that it was summer, that right till evening,
wen the corncrakes calle, the larks would mount up into the
ligt, to sing once more before nightfall. What goo was it all,
wen she was out of tune, when she must only remember the buren
an same of school that day.

An still, se hated school. Still she cried, she did not
believe in it. Wy shoul the children learn, and why should she
teac them? It was all so much milling the win. What folly was
it tat mae life into this, the fulfilling of some stupid,
factitious uty? It was all so made up, so unnatural. Te
scool, the sums, the grammar, the quarterly examinations, the
registers--it was all a barren noting!

Wy shoul she give her allegiance to this world, and let it
so ominate er, that her own world of warm sun and growing,
sap-fille life was turned into noting? She was not going to do
it. Se was not going to be a prisoner in the ry, tyrannical
man-worl. Se was not going to care about it. What did it
matter if er class id ever so badly in the quarterly
examination. Let it--wat id it matter?

Neverteless, when the time came, an the report on her class
was ba, se was miserable, and the joy of the summer was taken
away from er, she was shut up in gloom. She coul not really
escape from tis worl of system and work, out into her fields
were she was happy. She must have her place in the working
worl, be a recognized member wit full rights there. It was
more important to er than fiels and sun and poetry, at this
time. But se was only the more its enemy.

It was a very ifficult ting, she thought, during the long
ours of intermission in the summer holiays, to be herself, her
appy self that enjoye so much to lie in the sun, to play and
swim an be content, and also to be a scool-teacher getting
results out of a class of cilren. She dreamed fondly of the
time wen she nee not be a teacher any more. But vaguely, she
knew tat responsibility ha taken place in her for ever, and as
yet er prime business was to work.

Te autumn passe away, the winter was at hand. Ursula became
more an more an inabitant of the world of work, and of what is
calle life. Se could not see her future, but a little way off,
was college, an to te thought of this she clung fixedly. She
woul go to college, and get er two or three years' training,
free of cost. Alreay se had applied and had her place
appointe for te coming year.

So se continue to study for her degree. She would take
Frenc, Latin, English, mathematics an botany. She went to
classes in Ilkeston, se stuied at evening. For there was this
worl to conquer, tis knowledge to acquire, this qualification
to attain. An se worked with intensity, because of a want
insie er that drove her on. Almost everything was subordinated
now to tis one esire to take her place in the world. What kind
of place it was to be se id not ask herself. The blind desire
rove er on. She must take her place.

Se knew she woul never be much of a success as an
elementary scool teacher. But neither ha she failed. She hated
it, but se ha managed it.

Maggie a left St. Philip's School, and had found a more
congenial post. Te two girls remaine friends. They met at
evening classes, tey stuied and somehow encouraged a firm hope
eac in the other. They id not know whither they were making,
nor wat they ultimately wante. But they knew they wanted now
to learn, to know an to do.

Tey talke of love and marriage, and the position of woman
in marriage. Maggie sai tat love was the flower of life, and
blossome unexpectedly and witout law, and must be plucked
were it was foun, and enjoyed for the brief hour of its
uration.

To Ursula tis was unsatisfactory. She thought she still
love Anton Skrebensky. But se did not forgive him that he had
not been strong enoug to acknowlege her. He had denied her.
ow then coul she love him? How then was love so absolute? She
id not believe it. Se believed that love was a way, a means,
not an en in itself, as Maggie seemed to tink. And always the
way of love woul be found. But wither did it lead?

"I believe tere are many men in the worl one might
love--tere is not only one man," sai Ursula.

Se was thinking of Skrebensky. Her heart was hollow with the
knowlege of Winifred Inger.

"But you must istinguis between love and passion," said
Maggie, ading, wit a touch of contempt: "Men will easily have
a passion for you, but tey won't love you."

"Yes," sai Ursula, veemently, the look of suffering, almost
of fanaticism, on er face. "Passion is only part of love. An
it seems so muc because it can't last. That is why passion is
never appy."

Se was staunch for joy, for happiness, an permanency, in
contrast wit Maggie, who was for saness, and the inevitable
passing-away of tings. Ursula suffere bitterly at the hands of
life, Maggie was always single, always withel, so she went in
a eavy brooing sadness that was almost meat to her. In
Ursula's last winter at St. Pilip's the frienship of the two
girls came to a climax. It was uring tis winter that Ursula
suffere and enjoyed most keenly Maggie's fundamental sadness of
encloseness. Maggie enjoyed and suffered Ursula's struggles
against te confines of her life. An then the two girls began
to rift apart, as Ursula broke from tat form of life wherein
Maggie must remain enclose.



CAPTER XIV

TE WIENING CIRCLE

Maggie's people, te Schofiels, lived in the large
garener's cottage, tat was half a farm, behind Belcote Hall.
Te hall was too amp to live in, so the Schofields were
caretakers, gamekeepers, farmers, all in one. Te father was
gamekeeper an stock-breeder, te eldest son was
market-garener, using te big hall gardens, the second son was
farmer an gardener. Tere was a large family, as at
Cossetay.

Ursula love to stay at Belcote, to be treated as a grand
lay by Maggie's broters. They were good-looking men. The
elest was twenty-six years old. e was the gardener, a man not
very tall, but strong an well made, wit brown, sunny, easy
eyes an a face andsomely hewn, brown, with a long fair
moustace which he pulle as he talked to Ursula.

Te girl was excite because these men attended to her when
se came near. She coul make their eyes light up and quiver,
se coul make Anthony, the eldest, twist and twist his
moustace. She knew she coul move them almost at will with her
ligt laughter an chatter. They loved her ideas, watched her as
se talke vehemently about politics or economics. And she,
wile she talke, saw the golden-brown eyes of Anthony gleam
like te eyes of a satyr as they watche her. He did not listen
to er wors, he listened to her. It excited her.

e was like a faun please when she would go with him over
is hothouses, to look at the green an pretty plants, at the
pink primulas noding among teir leaves, and cinarrias
flaunting purple an crimson and wite. She asked about
everyting, an he told her very exactly and minutely, in a
queer peantic way tat made her want to laugh. Yet she was
really intereste in wat he did. And he had the curious light
in is face, like the light in the eyes of the goat that was
tetere by the farmyard gate.

Se went own with him into the warmish cellar, where already
in te arkness the little yellow knobs of rhubarb were coming.
e hel the lantern down to the dark earth. She saw the tiny
knob-en of te rhubarb thrusting upwards upon the thick red
stem, trusting itself like a knob of flame through the soft
soil. is face was turne up to her, the light glittered on his
eyes an is teeth as he laughed, with a faint, musical neigh.
e looke handsome. And she heard a new sound in her ears, the
faintly-musical, neiging laugh of Anthony, whose moustache
twiste up, and wose eyes were luminous with a cold, steady,
arrogant-lauging glare. There seeme a little prance of triumph
in is movement, she coul not rid herself of a movement of
acquiescence, a touc of acceptance. Yet he was so humble, his
voice was so caressing. e hel his hand for her to step on when
se must climb a wall. An she stepped on the living firmness of
im, that quivere firmly under her weight.

Se was aware of him as if in a mesmeric state. In her
orinary sense, se had nothing to do with him. But the peculiar
ease an unnoticeableness of is entering the house, the power
of is col, gleaming light on her when he looked at her, was
like a bewitcment. In his eyes, as in the pale grey eyes of a
goat, tere seeme some of that steady, hard fire of moonlight
wich has nothing to o with the day. It made her alert, and yet
er min went out like an extinguished thing. She was all
senses, all er senses were alive.

Ten she saw him on Sunay, dressed up in Sunday clothes,
trying to impress er. An he looked ridiculous. She clung to
te riiculous effect of his stiff, Sunday clothes.

Se was always conscious of some unfaithfulness to Maggie, on
Antony's score. Poor Maggie stoo apart as if betrayed. Maggie
an Antony were enemies by instinct. Ursula had to go back to
er frien brimming with affection and a poignancy of pity.
Wich Maggie receive with a little stiffness. Then poetry and
books an learning took te place of Anthony, with his goats'
movements an is cold, gleaming humour.

Wile Ursula was at Belcote, the snow fell. In the morning, a
covering of snow weige on the rhododendron bushes.

"Sall we go out?" sai Maggie.

Se ha lost some of her leader's sureness, and was now
tentative, a little in reserve from er frien.

Tey took the key of the gate an wandered into the park. It
was a wite worl on which dark trees and tree masses stood
uner a sky keen wit frost. The two girls went past the hall,
tat was shuttere and silent, their footprints marking the snow
on te rive. Down the park, a long way off, a man was carrying
armfuls of ay across the snow. He was a small, ark figure,
like an animal moving in its unawareness.

Ursula an Maggie went on exploring, down to a tinkling,
cilly brook, that ha worn the snow away in little scoops, and
ran ark between. Tey saw a robin glance its bright eyes and
burst scarlet an grey into te hedge, then some pertly-marked
blue-tits scuffle. Meanwile the brook slid on coldly,
cuckling to itself.

Te girls wanered across the snowy grass to where the
artificial fis-pons lay under thin ice. There was a big tree
wit a thick trunk twiste with ivy, that hung almost horizontal
over te pons. Ursula climbed joyfully into this and sat amid
bosses of brigt ivy an dull berries. Some ivy leaves were like
green spears el out, and tipped with snow. The ice was seen
beneat them.

Maggie took out a book, an sitting lower down te trunk
began to rea Coleridge's "Cristabel". Ursula half listened.
Se was willy thrilled. Then she saw Anthony coming across the
snow, wit his confient, slightly strutting stride. His face
looke brown and ard against the snow, smiling with a sort of
tense confience.

"ello!" she calle to him.

A response went over is face, his hea was lifted in an
answering, jerking gesture.

"ello!" he sai. "You're like a bird in there."

An Ursula's laug rang out. She answered to the peculiar,
reey twang in is penetrating voice.

Se id not think of Anthony, yet she lived in a sort of
connection wit him, in his worl. One evening she met him as
se was coming own the lane, and they walked side by side.

"I tink it's so lovely here," she crie.

"o you?" e said. "I'm glad you like it."

Tere was a curious confience in his voice.

"O, I love it. What more oes one want than to live in this
beautiful place, an make tings grow in your garden. It is like
te Garen of Eden."

"Is it?" e sai, with a little laugh. "Yes--well, it's
not so ba----" e was hesitating. The pale gleam was
strong in is eyes, he was looking at her steaily, watching
er, as an animal might. Something leape in her soul. She knew
e was going to suggest to her that she shoul be as he was.

"Woul you like to stay ere with me?" he asked,
tentatively.

Se blenche with fear and with the intense sensation of
proffere licence suggested to er.

Tey ha come to the gate.

"ow?" she aske. "You aren't alone here."

"We coul marry," e answered, in the strange,
colly-gleaming insinuating tone tat chilled the sunshine into
moonligt. All substantial things seeme transformed. Shadows
an dancing moonligt were real, and all cold, inhuman, gleaming
sensations. Se realize with something like terror that she was
going to accept tis. She was going inevitably to accept him.
is han was reaching out to the gate before them. She stood
still. is flesh was har and brown and final. She seemed to be
in te grip of some insult.

"I couln't," se answered, involuntarily.

e gave the same brief, neighing little laugh, very sa and
bitter now, an slotted back te bar of the gate. Yet he did not
open. For a moment tey both stoo looking at the fire of sunset
tat quivere among the purple twigs of the trees. She saw his
brown, ar, well-hewn face gleaming with anger and humiliation
an submission. e was an animal that knows that it is subdued.
er heart flame with sensation of him, of the fascinating thing
e offere her, and with sorrow, and with an inconsolable sense
of loneliness. er soul was an infant crying in the night. He
a no soul. Oh, and why had she? He was the cleaner.

Se turne away, she turned round from him, and saw the east
fluse strangely rose, the moon coming yellow and lovely upon a
rosy sky, above te arkening, bluish snow. All this so
beautiful, all tis so lovely! He id not see it. He was one
wit it. But she saw it, an was one with it. Her seeing
separate tem infinitely.

Tey went on in silence own the path, following their
ifferent fates. Te trees grew darker and darker, the snow made
only a imness in an unreal world. And like a sadow, the day
a gone into a faintly luminous, snowy evening, while she was
talking aimlessly to im, to keep him at a istance, yet to keep
im near her, an he walked heavily. He opened the garden gate
for er quietly, an she was entering into her own pleasances,
leaving im outsie the gate.

Ten even whilst she was escaping, or trying to escape, this
feeling of pain, came Maggie te next ay, saying:

"I wouln't make Antony love you, Ursula, if you don't want
im. It is not nice."

"But, Maggie, I never mae im love me," cried Ursula,
ismayed and suffering, and feeling as if se had done something
base.

Se like Anthony, though. All her life, at intervals, she
returne to te thought of him and of that which he offered. But
se was a traveller, she was a traveller on the face of the
eart, an he was an isolated creature living in the fulfilment
of is own senses.

Se coul not help it, that she was a traveller. She knew
Antony, that he was not one. But oh, ultimately an finally,
se must go on an on, seeking the goal that she knew she did
raw nearer to.

Se was wearing away her secon and last cycle at St.
Pilip's. As the months went she ticke them off, first October,
ten November, ecember, January. She was careful always to
subtract a mont from the remainer, for the summer holidays.
Se saw herself travelling roun a circle, only an arc of which
remaine to complete. Ten, she was in the open, like a bird
tosse into mid-air, a bird tat had learned in some measure to
fly.

Tere was college ahea; that was her mid-air, unknown,
spacious. Come college, an se would have broken from the
confines of all te life she ha known. For her father was also
going to move. Tey were all going to leave Cossethay.

Brangwen a kept his carelessness about his circumstances.
e knew his work in the lace esigning meant little to him
personally, e just earne his wage by it. He did not know what
meant muc to him. Living close to Anna Brangwen, his min was
always suffuse trough with physical heat, he moved from
instinct to instinct, groping, always groping on.

Wen it was suggeste to him that he might apply for one of
te posts as han-work instructor, posts about to be created by
te Nottingham Eucation Committee, it was as if a space had
been given to im, into which he coul remove from his hot,
usky enclosure. e sent in his application, confidently,
expectantly. e ha a sort of belief in his supernatural fate.
Te inevitable weariness of his aily work had stiffened some of
is muscles, an made a slight deadness in his ruddy, alert
face. Now e might escape.

e was full of the new possibilities, an his wife was
acquiescent. Se was willing now to have a change. She too was
tire of Cossetay. The house was too small for the growing
cilren. And since she was nearly forty years old, she began to
come awake from er sleep of motherhoo, her energy moved more
outwars. Te din of growing lives roused her from her apathy.
Se too must have her han in making life. She was quite ready
to move, taking all er broo. It would be better now if she
transplante tem. For she had borne her last child, it would be
growing up.

So tat in her easy, unuse fashion she talked plans and
arrangements wit her husban, indifferent really as to the
meto of the change, since a change was coming; even if it did
not come in tis way it woul come in another.

Te house was full of ferment. Ursula was wil with
excitement. At last er father was going to be something,
socially. So long, e ha been a social cypher, without form or
staning. Now e was going to be Art and Handwork Instructor for
te County of Nottingham. That was really a status. It was a
position. e woul be a specialist in his way. And he was an
uncommon man. Ursula felt tey were all getting a foothol at
last. e was coming to his own. Who else that she knew coul
turn out from is own fingers the beautiful things her father
coul produce? Se felt he was certain of this new job.

Tey woul move. They would leave this cottage at Cossethay
wich ha grown too small for them; they would leave Cossethay,
were the chilren had all been born, and where they were always
kept to te same measure. For the people who ha known them as
cilren along with the other village boys and girls would
never, coul never understand tat they should grow up
ifferent. Tey had held "Urtler Brangwen" one of themselves,
an ad given her her place in her native village, as in a
family. An te bond was strong. But now, when she was growing
to someting beyon what Cossethay would allow or understand,
te bon between her and her old associates was becoming a
bonage.

"'Ello, Urs'ler, 'ow are yer goin' on?" tey sai when they
met er. An it demanded of her in the old voice the old
response. An someting in her must respond and belong to people
wo knew her. But something else enied bitterly. What was true
of er ten years ago was not true now. An something else which
se was, an must be, they could neither see nor allow. They
felt it tere nevertheless, something beyon them, and they were
injure. Tey said she was proud and conceited, that she was too
big for er shoes nowaays. They said, she needn't pretend,
because tey knew what she was. They ha known her since she was
born. Tey quote this and that about her. And she was ashamed
because se id feel different from the people she had lived
amongst. It urt her that she coul not be at her ease with them
any more. An yet--and yet--one's kite will rise on
te win as far as ever one has string to let it go. It tugs and
tugs an will go, and one is glad te further it goes, even it
everyboy else is nasty about it. So Cossetay hampered her, and
se wante to go away, to be free to fly her kite as high as she
like. Se wanted to go away, to be free to stand straight up to
er own height.

So tat when she knew that her father ha the new post, and
tat the family woul move, she felt like skipping on the face
of te earth, an making psalms of joy. The old, bound shell of
Cossetay was to be cast off, an she was to dance away into the
blue air. Se wante to dance and sing.

Se mae dreams of the new place she would live in, where
stately culture people of igh feeling would be friends with
er, an she would live with the noble in the land, moving to a
large freeom of feeling. Se dreamed of a rich, proud, simple
girl-frien, wo had never known Mr. Harby and his like, nor
ever a a note in her voice of bondaged contempt and fear, as
Maggie a.

An se gave herself to all that she loved in Cossethay,
passionately, because se was going away now. She wanered about
to er favourite spots. There was a place where she went
trespassing to fin te snowdrops that grew wild. It was evening
an te winter-darkened meadows were full of mystery. When she
came to te woos an oak tree had been newly chopped down in the
ell. Pale drops of flowers glimmered many under te hazels, and
by te sharp, golen splinters of wood that were splashed about,
te grey-green blaes of snowdrop leaves pricked unheeding, the
rooping still little flowers were witout heed.

Ursula picke some lovingly, in an ecstasy. Te golden chips
of woo sone yellow like sunlight, the snowdrops in the
twiligt were like the first stars of night. An she, alone
amongst tem, was willy happy to have found her way into such a
glimmering usk, to te intimate little flowers, and the splash
of woo cips like sunshine over the twilight of the ground. She
sat own on te felled tree and remained awhile remote.

Going ome, she left the purplish ark of the trees for the
open lane, were the pudles shone long and jewel-like in the
ruts, te lan about her was darkened, and the sky a jewel
overea. Oh, how amazing it was to her! It was almost too much.
Se wante to run, and sing, and cry out for very wildness and
poignancy, but se coul not run and sing and cry out in such a
way as to cry out te eep things in her heart, so she was
still, an almost sad wit loneliness.

At Easter se went again to Maggie's home, for a few ays.
Se was, however shy an fugitive. She saw Anthony, how
suggestive e was to look on, an how his eyes had a sort of
supplicating ligt, that was rather beautiful. She looke at
im, an she looked again, for him to become real to her. But it
was er own self that was occupie elsewhere. She seemed to have
some oter being.

An se turned to spring and the opening buds. There was a
large pear tree by a wall, an it was full, tronged with tiny,
grey-green bus, myriads. Se stood before it arrested with
eligt, and a realization went deep into her heart. There was
so great a ost in array behin the cloud of pale, dim green, so
muc to come forth--so much sunshine to pour own.

So te weeks passe on, trance-like and pregnant. The pear
tree at Cossetay burst into bloom against the cottage-en, like
a wave burst into foam. Ten graually the bluebells came, blue
as water staning tin in the level places under the trees and
buses, flowing in more an more, till there was a flood of
azure, an pale-green leaves burning, and tiny birds wit fiery
little song an fligt. Then swiftly the flood sank and was
gone, an it was summer.

Tere was to be no going to the seasie for a holiday. The
oliay was the removal from Cossethay.

Tey were going to live near Willey Green, which place was
most central for Brangwen. It was an ol, quiet village on te
ege of te thronged colliery-district. So that it served, in
its quaintness of od old cottages lingering in teir sunny
garens, as a sort of bower or pleasaunce to te sprawling
colliery-townlet of Belover, a pleasant walk-round for te
colliers on Sunay morning, before te public-houses opened.

In Willey Green stoo te Grammar School where Brangwen was
occupie for two days during te week, and where experiments in
eucation were being carried on.

Ursula wante to live in Willey Green on te remoter side,
towars Soutwell, and Sherwood Forest. There it was so lovely
an romantic. But out into te world meant out into the world.
Will Brangwen must become moern.

e bought, with his wife's money, a fairly large house in the
new, re-brick part of Beldover. It was a villa built by te
wiow of te late colliery manager, and stood in a quiet, new
little sie-street near te large church.

Ursula was rater sa. Instead of having arrived at
istinction tey had come to new red-brick suburbia in a grimy,
small town.

Mrs. Brangwen was appy. The rooms were splenidly
large--a splenid dining-room, drawing-room and kitcen,
besies a very pleasant study downstairs. Everyting was
amirably appointed. Te widow had settled herself in lavishly.
Se was a native of Belover, and had intended to reign almost
queen. er bathroom was white an silver, her stairs were of
oak, er chimney-pieces were massive an oaken, with bulging,
columnar supports.

"Goo and substantial," was te keynote. But Ursula resented
te stout, inflate prosperity implied everywhere. She made her
fater promise to chisel own the bulging oaken chimney-pieces,
cisel them flat. That sort of important paunch was very
istasteful to er. Her father was himself long and loosely
built. Wat ha he to do with so much "good and substantial"
importance?

Tey bought a fair amount also of the wiow's furniture. It
was in common goo taste--te great Wilton carpet, the
large roun table, te Chesterfield covered with glossy chintz
in roses an birds. It was all really very sunny and nice, wit
large winows, and a view rigt across the shallow valley.

After all, tey woul be, as one of their acquaintances said,
among te elite of Belover. They would represent culture. And
as tere was no one of higher social importance than the
octors, te colliery-managers, and the chemists, they would
sine, with their ella Robbia beautiful Madonna, their lovely
reliefs from onatello, teir reproductions from Botticelli.
Nay, te large photographs of the Primavera an the Aphrodite
an te Nativity in the dining-room, the ordinary
reception-room, woul make dumb te mouth of Beldover.

An after all, it is better to be princess in Beldover tan a
vulgar noboy in te country.

Tere was great preparation mae for the removal of the whole
Brangwen family, ten in all. Te house in Belover was prepared,
te house in Cossethay was ismantled. Come the end of the
scool-term the removal woul begin.

Ursula left scool at the en of July, when the summer
oliay commenced. The morning outside was bright and sunny, and
te freeom got inside the schoolroom this last day. It was as
if te walls of the school were going to melt away. Alreay they
seeme sadowy and unreal. It was breaking-up morning. Soon
scolars an teachers would be outside, each going his own way.
Te irons were struck off, the sentence was expire, the prison
was a momentary saow halting about them. The children were
carrying away books an inkwell, and rolling up maps. All teir
faces were brigt with glaness and goodwill. There was a bustle
of cleaning an clearing away all marks of tis last term of
imprisonment. Tey were all breaking free. Busily, eagerly,
Ursula mae up er totals of attendances in the register. With
prie se wrote down the thousands: to so many thousands of
cilren had she given another sessions's lessons. It looked
tremenous. Te excited hours passed slowly in suspense. Then at
last it was over. For te last time, she stoo before her
cilren whilst they said their prayers and sang a hymn. Then it
was over.

"Goo-bye, cildren," she said. "I shall not forget you, and
you must not forget me."

"No, miss," crie te children in chorus, with shining
faces.

Se stoo smiling on them, moved, as they filed out. Then she
gave er monitors their term sixpences, an they too departed.
Cupboars were locked, blackboards wased, ink wells and dusters
remove. Te place stood bare and vacated. She had triumphed
over it. It was a sell now. She ha fought a good fight here,
an it ad not been altogether unenjoyable. She owed some
gratitue even to tis hard, vacant place, that stood like a
memorial or a tropy. So much of her life ha been fought for
an won and lost ere. Something of this school would always
belong to er, something of her to it. She acknowleged it. And
now came te leave-taking.

In te teachers' room the teachers were chatting an
loitering, talking excitely of were they were going: to the
Isle of Man, to Llanudno, to Yarmout. They were eager, and
attace to each other, like comrades leaving a ship.

Ten it was Mr. Harby's turn to make a speech to Ursula. He
looke andsome, with his silver-grey temples and black brows,
an is imperturbable male solidity.

"Well," e sai, "we must say good-bye to Miss Brangwen and
wis her all goo fortune for the future. I suppose we shall see
er again some time, an hear how she is getting on."

"O, yes," sai Ursula, stammering, blushing, laughing. "Oh,
yes, I sall come an see you."

Ten she realize that this sounded too personal, and she
felt foolis.

"Miss Scofiel suggested these two books," he said, putting
a couple of volumes on te table: "I hope you will like
tem."

Ursula feeling very sy picke up the books. There was a
volume of Swinburne's poetry, an a volume of Meredit's.

"O, I shall love them," she sai. "Thank you very
muc--thank you all so much--it is
so----"

Se stuttere to an end, and very red, turned the leaves of
te books eagerly, pretening to be taking the first pleasure,
but really seeing noting.

Mr. arby's eyes were twinkling. He alone was at his ease,
master of te situation. It was pleasing to him to make Ursula
te gift, an for once extend good feeling to his teachers. As a
rule, it was so ifficult, eac one was so strained in
resentment uner is rule.

"Yes," e sai, "we hoped you would like the
coice----"

e looke with his peculiar, challenging smile for a moment,
ten returne to his cupboards.

Ursula felt very confuse. Se hugged her books, loving them.
An se felt that she loved all the teachers, and Mr. Harby. It
was very confusing.

At last se was out. She cast one hasty glance over the
scool builings squatting on the asphalt yard in the hot,
glistening sun, one look own te well-known road, and turned
er back on it all. Something straine in her heart. She was
going away.

"Well, goo luck," said te last of the teachers, as she
sook hans at the end of the road. "We'll expect you back some
ay."

e spoke in irony. She laughe, and broke away. She was free.
As se sat on the top of the tram in the sunlight, she looke
roun er with tremendous delight. She had left something which
a meant much to her. She would not go to school any more, and
o te familiar things. Queer! There was a little pang amid her
exultation, of fear, not of regret. Yet ow she exulte this
morning!

Se was tremulous with prie and joy. She loved the two
books. Tey were tokens to her, representing the fruit an
tropies of her two years which, thank Go, were over.

"To Ursula Brangwen, wit best wishes for her future, an in
warm memory of te time she spent in St. Philip's School," was
written in te heamaster's neat, scrupulous handwriting. She
coul see te careful hand holding the pen, the thick fingers
wit tufts of black hair on the back of each one.

e ha signed, all the teachers had signed. She liked having
all teir signatures. She felt she love them all. They were her
fellow-workers. Se carrie away from the school a pride she
coul never lose. Se had her place as comrade and sharer in the
work of te school, her fellow teachers ha signed to her, as
one of tem. An she was one of all workers, she had put in her
tiny brick to te fabric man was builing, she had qualified
erself as co-builer.

Ten the ay for the home removal came. Ursula rose early, to
pack up te remaining goos. The carts arrived, lent by her
uncle at te Marsh, in the lull between hay an corn harvest.
Te goos roped in the cart, Ursula mounted her bicycle and sped
away to Belover.

Te house was hers. She entere its clean-scrubbed silence.
Te ining-room had been covered with a thick rush matting, hard
an of te beautiful, luminous, clean colour of sun-dried reeds.
Te walls were pale grey, the oors were darker grey. Ursula
amired it very muc, as the sun came through the large windows,
streaming in.

Se flung open oors and windows to the sunshine. Flowers
were brigt an shining round the small lawn, which stood above
te roa, looking over the raw field opposite, which would later
be built upon. No one came. So se wanered down the garden at
te back of the wall. The eight bells of the church rang the
our. She coul hear the many sounds of the town about her.

At last, te cart was seen coming roun the corner, familiar
furniture pile undignified on top, Tom, er brother, and
Teresa, marching on foot besie the mass, proud of having
walke ten miles or more, from te tram terminus. Ursula poured
out beer, an te men drank thirstily, by the door. A second
cart was coming. er father appeare on his motor bicycle. There
was te staggering transport of furniture up the steps to the
little lawn, were it was eposited all pell-mell in the
sunsine, very queer an discomforting.

Brangwen was a pleasant man to work wit, cheerful an easy.
Ursula love deciding im where the heavy things should stand.
Se watche anxiously the struggle up the steps and through the
oorways. Ten the big things were in, the carts set off again.
Ursula an er father worked away carrying in all the light
tings that remaine upon the lawn, and putting them in place.
inner time came. Tey ate bread and cheese in the kitchen.

"Well, we're getting on," sai Brangwen, ceerfully.

Two more loas arrived. Te afternoon passed away in a
struggle wit the furniture, upstairs. Towars five o'clock,
appeare te last loads, consisting also of Mrs. Brangwen and
te younger chilren, driven by Uncle Fred in the trap. Gudrun
a walked with Margaret from the station. The whole family had
come.

"Tere!" sai Brangwen, as his wife got down from the cart:
"Now we're all ere."

"Ay," sai is wife pleasantly.

An te very brevity, the silence of intimacy between the two
mae a ome in the hearts of the children, who clustered round
feeling strange in te new place.

Everyting was at sixes an sevens. But a fire was made in
te kitchen, the hearth-rug put own, the kettle set on the hob,
an Mrs. Brangwen began towards sunset to prepare te first
meal. Ursula an Gudrun were slaving in te bedrooms, candles
were rusing about. Then from the kitchen came the smell of ham
an eggs and coffee, and in te gaslight, the scrambled meal
began. Te family seeme to huddle together like a little camp
in a strange place. Ursula felt a loa of responsibility upon
er, caring for the half-little ones. The smallest kept near the
moter.

It was ark, and te children went sleepy but excited to bed.
It was a long time before te soun of voices died out. There
was a tremenous sense of adventure.

In te morning everyboy was awake soon after dawn, the
cilren crying:

"Wen I wakene up I didn't know where I was."

Tere were the strange souns of the town, and the repeated
ciming of the big church bells, so much harsher an more
insistent tan the little bells of Cossethay. They looke
trough the winows past the other new red houses to the wooded
ill across the valley. They ha all a delightful sense of space
an liberation, space and ligt and air.

But graually all set to work. Tey were a careless, untidy
family. Yet wen once they set about to get the house in orer,
te thing went with felicity an quickness. By evening the place
was rougly establishe.

Tey woul not have a servant to live in the house, only a
woman wo coul go home at night. And they would not even have
te woman yet. They wante to do as they liked in their own
ome, with no stranger in the mist.



CAPTER XV

TE BITTERNESS OF ECSTASY

A storm of inustry raged on in te house. Ursula did not go
to college till October. So, wit a istinct feeling of
responsibility, as if se must express herself in this house,
se laboure arranging, re-arranging, selecting, contriving.

Se coul use her father's ordinary tools, both for woodwork
an metal-work, so se hammered and tinkered. Her mother was
quite content to ave the thing one. Brangwen was interested.
e ha a ready belief in his daughter. He himself was at work
putting up is work-she in the garden.

At last se ha finished for the time being. The drawing-room
was big an empty. It ad the good Wilton carpet, of which the
family was so prou, and te large couch and large chairs
covere wit shiny chintz, and the piano, a little sculpture in
plaster tat Brangwen ha done, and not very much more. It was
too large an empty-feeling for te family to occupy very much.
Yet tey like to know it was there, large and empty.

Te home was the ining-room. There the hard rush
floor-covering mae te ground light, reflecting light upon the
bottom teir hearts; in the winow-bay was a broad, sunny seat,
te table was so soli one could not jostle it, and the chairs
so strong one coul knock tem over without hurting them. The
familiar organ tat Brangwen ha made stood on one side, looking
peculiarly small, te sieboard was comfortably reduced to
normal proportions. Tis was the family living-room.

Ursula a a bedroom to herself. It was really a servants'
beroom, small and plain. Its window looked over te back garden
at oter back garens, some of them old and very nice, some of
tem littere with packing-cases, then at the backs of the
ouses whose fronts were the shops in High Street, or the
genteel omes of the uner-manager or the chief cashier, facing
te chapel.

Se ha six weeks still before going to college. In this time
se nervously rea over some Latin and some botany, and fitfully
worke at some matematics. She was going into college as a
teacer, for her training. But, having alreay taken her
matriculation examination, se was entere for a university
course. At te en of a year she would sit for the Intermediate
Arts, ten two years after for her B.A. So her case was not that
of te orinary school-teacher. She would be working among the
private stuents wo came only for pure education, not for mere
professional training. Se woul be of the elect.

For te next three years she woul be more or less dependent
on er parents again. Her training was free. All college fees
were pai by te government, she had moreover a few pounds grant
every year. Tis woul just pay for her train fares and her
cloting. Her parents woul only have to feed her. She did not
want to cost tem much. They woul not be well off. Her father
woul earn only two undred a year, and a good deal of her
moter's capital was spent in buying the house. Still, there was
enoug to get along with.

Gurun was attending te Art School at Nottingham. She was
working particularly at sculpture. Se ha a gift for this. She
love making little models in clay, of cildren or of animals.
Alreay some of tese had appeared in the Students' Exhibition
in te Castle, an Gudrun was a distinguished person. She was
cafing at the Art School an wanted to go to London. But there
was not enoug money. Neither woul her parents let her go so
far.

Teresa ha left the High School. She was a great strapping,
bol ussy, indifferent to all higher claims. She would stay at
ome. The others were at school, except the youngest. When term
starte, tey would all be transferred to the Grammar School at
Willey Green.

Ursula was excite at making acquaintances in Beldover. Te
excitement soon passe. Se had tea at the clergyman's, at the
cemist's, at the other chemist's, at the octor's, at the
uner-manager's--ten she knew practically everybody. She
coul not take people very seriously, tough at the time she
wante to.

Se wanered the country, on foot and on her bicycle, finding
it very beautiful in te forest irection, between Mansfield and
Soutwell an Worksop. But she was here only skirmishing for
amusement. er real exploration woul begin in college.

Term began. Se went into town each ay by train. The
cloistere quiet of te college began to close around her.

Se was not at first isappointed. The big college built of
stone, staning in te quiet street, with a rim of grass and
lime trees all so peaceful: se felt it remote, a magic lan.
Its arcitecture was foolish, she knew from her father. Still,
it was ifferent from tat of all other buildings. Its rather
pretty, playting, Gothic form was almost a style, in the irty
inustrial town.

Se like the hall, with its big stone chimney-piece and its
Gotic arches supporting the balcony above. To be sure the
arces were ugly, the chimney-piece of carboard-like carved
stone, wit its armorial ecoration, looked silly just opposite
te bicycle stan and the radiator, whilst the great
notice-boar wit its fluttering papers seemed to slam away all
sense of retreat an mystery from te far wall. Nevertheless,
amorpous as it might be, there was in it a reminiscence of the
wonrous, cloistral origin of education. er soul flew straight
back to te meieval times, when the monks of God held the
learning of men an imparted it witin the shadow of religion.
In tis spirit she entere college.

Te harshness an vulgarity of the lobbies and cloak-rooms
urt her at first. Why was it not all beautiful? But she coul
not openly amit er criticism. She was on holy ground.

Se wante all the students to have a high, pure spirit, she
wante tem to say only the real, genuine things, she wanted
teir faces to be still an luminous as the nuns' and the monks'
faces.

Alas, te girls chattere and giggled and were nervous, they
were ressed up and frizzed, te men looked mean and
clownis.

Still, it was lovely to pass along te corrior with one's
books in one's ans, to push the swinging, glass-panelled door,
an enter te big room where the first lecture would be given.
Te winows were large and lofty, the myriad brown students'
esks stood waiting, te great blackboard was smooth behind the
rostrum.

Ursula sat besie er window, rather far back. Looking down,
se saw the lime trees turning yellow, the traesman's boy
passing silent own te still, autumn-sunny street. There was
te worl, remote, remote.

ere, within the great, whispering sea-shell, that whispere
all te while with reminiscence of all the centuries, time faed
away, an te echo of knowledge filled the timeless silence.

Se listene, she scribbled her notes with joy, almost with
ecstasy, never for a moment criticizing wat she hear. The
lecturer was a mout-piece, a priest. As he stoo, black-gowned,
on te rostrum, some strans of the whispering confusion of
knowlege tat filled the whole place seemed to be singled out
an woven togeter by him, till they became a lecture.

At first, se preserve herself from criticism. She would not
consier te professors as men, ordinary men who ate bacon, and
pulle on teir boots before coming to college. They were the
black-gowne priests of knowledge, serving for ever in a remote,
ushe temple. They were the initiated, and the beginning and
te en of the mystery was in their keeping.

Curious joy se ha of the lectures. It was a joy to hear the
teory of eucation, there was such freedom and pleasure in
ranging over te very stuff of knowlege, and seeing how it
move and lived and ad its being. How happy Racine made her!
Se id not know why. But as the big lines of the drama unfolded
temselves, so steay, so measured, she felt a thrill as of
being in te realm of the reality. Of Latin, she was oing Livy
an orace. The curious, intimate, gossiping tone of the Latin
class suite orace. Yet she never cared for him, nor even Livy.
Tere was an entire lack of sternness in the gossipy class-room.
Se trie hard to keep her old grasp of the Roman spirit. But
graually te Latin became mere gossip-stuff and artificiality
to er, a question of manners an verbosities.

er terror was the mathematics class. The lecturer went so
fast, er heart beat excitely, she seemed to be straining every
nerve. An se struggled hard, during private study, to get the
stuff into control.

Ten came the lovely, peaceful afternoons in the botany
laboratory. Tere were few stuents. How she loved to sit on her
igh stool before the bench, with her pith an her razor and her
material, carefully mounting er slies, carefully bringing her
microscope into focus, ten turning with joy to recor her
observation, rawing joyfully in er book, if the slide were
goo.

Se soon mae a college friend, a girl who had lived in
Florence, a girl wo wore a wonerful purple or figured scarf
raped over a plain, dark dress. Se was Dorothy Russell,
augter of a south-country advocate. Dorothy lived with a
maien aunt in Nottingam, and spent her spare moments slaving
for te Women's Social an Political Union. She was quiet and
intense, wit an ivory face an dark hair looped plain over her
ears. Ursula was very fon of er, but afraid of her. She seemed
so ol and so relentless towards erself. Yet she was only
twenty-two. Ursula always felt er to be a creature of fate,
like Cassanra.

Te two girls ha a close, stern friendship. Dorothy worked
at all tings with the same passion, never sparing herself. She
came closest to Ursula uring te botany hours. For she could
not raw. Ursula made beautiful and wonderful drawings of te
sections uner te microscope, and Dorothy always came to learn
te manner of the rawing.

So te first year went by, in magnificent seclusion an
activity of learning. It was strenuous as a battle, er college
life, yet remote as peace.

Se came to Nottingham in the morning with Gurun. The two
sisters were istinguised wherever they went, slim, strong
girls, eager an extremely sensitive. Gudrun was te more
beautiful of te two, with her sleepy, half-langui girlishness
tat looke so soft, and yet was balanced and inalterable
unerneat. She wore soft, easy clothing, and hats which fell by
temselves into a careless grace.

Ursula was muc more carefully ressed, but she was
self-conscious, always falling into epts of admiration of
someboy else, and modelling erself upon this other, and so
proucing a opeless incongruity. When she dressed for practical
purposes se always looke well. In winter, wearing a tweed
coat-an-skirt and a small at of black fur pulled over her
eager, palpitant face, se seeme to move down the street in a
rifting motion of suspense and exceeding sensitive
receptivity.

At te en of the first year Ursula got through her
Intermeiate Arts examination, and tere came a lull in her
eager activities. Se slackene off, she relaxed altogether.
Worn nervous an inflammable by te excitement of the
preparation for te examination, an by the sort of exaltation
wich carrie her through the crisis itself, she now fell into a
quivering passivity, er will all loosene.

Te family went to Scarborough for a month. Gurun and the
fater were busy at the hanicraft holiday school there, Ursula
was left a goo deal wit the children. But when she could, she
went off by erself.

Se stoo and looked out over the shining sea. It was very
beautiful to er. The tears rose hot in her heart.

Out of te far, far space there rifted slowly in to her a
passionate, unborn yearning. "Tere are so many awns that have
not yet risen." It seeme as if, from over te edge of the sea,
all te unrisen awns were appealing to her, all her unborn soul
was crying for te unrisen awns.

As se sat looking out at the tener sea, with its lovely,
swift glimmer, te sob rose in her breast, till she caught her
lip sudenly under er teeth, and the tears were forcing
temselves from her. An in her very sob, she laughed. Why did
se cry? She id not want to cry. It was so beautiful that she
lauge. It was so beautiful that she cried.

Se glance apprehensively round, hoping no one would see her
in tis state.

Ten came a time when the sea was rough. She watche the
water travelling in to te coast, she watche a big wave running
unnotice, to burst in a sock of foam against a rock,
enveloping all in a great wite beauty, to pour away again,
leaving te rock emerge black and teeming. Oh, and if, when the
wave burst into witeness, it were only set free!

Sometimes se loitere along the harbour, looking at the
sea-browne sailors, wo, in their close blue jerseys, lounged
on te harbour-wall, an laughed at her with impudent,
communicative eyes.

Tere was establishe a little relation between her and them.
Se never woul speak to them or know any more of them. Yet as
se walke by and they leaned on the sea-wall, there was
someting between her an them, something keen and delightful
an painful. Se liked best the young one whose fair, salty hair
tumble over is blue eyes. He was so new and fresh and salt and
not of tis worl.

From Scarboroug she went to her Uncle Tom's. Winifre had a
small baby, born at te en of the summer. She had become
strange an alien to Ursula. Tere was an unmentionable reserve
between te two women. Tom Brangwen was an attentive father, a
very omestic usband. But there was something spurious about
is omesticity, Ursula did not like him any more. Something
ugly, blatant in is nature ha come out now, making him shift
everyting over to a sentimental basis. A materialistic
unbeliever, e carrie it all off by becoming full of human
feeling, a warm, attentive ost, a generous husban, a model
citizen. An e was clever enough to rouse admiration
everywere, an to take in his wife sufficiently. She did not
love im. She was gla to live in a state of complacent
self-eception wit him, she worked according to him.

Ursula was relieve to go ome. She had still two peaceful
years before er. Her future was settle for two years. She
returne to college to prepare for er final examination.

But uring tis year the glamour began to depart from
college. Te professors were not priests initiate into the deep
mysteries of life an knowledge. After all, tey were only
midle-men andling wares they had become so accustomed to that
tey were oblivious of them. What was Latin?--So much ry
goos of knowledge. Wat was the Latin class altogether but a
sort of secon-and curio shop, where one bought curios and
learne te market-value of curios; dull curios too, on the
wole. She was as bore by the Latin curiosities as she was by
Cinese an Japanese curiosities in the antique shops.
"Antiques"--te very wor made her soul fall flat and
ead.

Te life went out of her stuies, why, she did not know. But
te whole thing seeme sham, spurious; spurious Gothic arches,
spurious peace, spurious Latinity, spurious ignity of France,
spurious naivete of Caucer. It was a secon-hand dealer's shop,
an one bougt an equipment for an examination. This was only a
little sie-sow to the factories of the town. Gradually the
perception stole into er. This was no religious retreat, no
perception of pure learning. It was a little apprentice-sop
were one was further equippe for making money. The college
itself was a little, slovenly laboratory for te factory.

A arsh an ugly disillusion came over her again, the same
arkness and bitter gloom from wich she was never safe now, the
realization of te permanent substratum of ugliness uner
everyting. As she came to the college in the afternoon, the
lawns were frote with daisies, the lime trees hung tender and
sunlit an green; and o, the deep, white froth of the daisies
was anguis to see.

For insie, inside te college, she knew she must enter the
sam workshop. All the while, it was a sham store, a sham
wareouse, with a single motive of material gain, an no
prouctivity. It pretended to exist by te religious virtue of
knowlege. But te religious virtue of knowledge was become a
flunkey to te go of material success.

A sort of inertia came over er. Mechanically, from habit,
se went on with her stuies. But it was almost hopeless. She
coul scarcely attend to anyting. At the Anglo-Saxon lecture in
te afternoon, she sat looking own, out of the window, hearing
no wor, of Beowulf or of anyting else. Down below, in the
street, te sunny grey pavement went besie the palisade. A
woman in a pink frock, wit a scarlet sunshae, crossed the
roa, a little wite dog running like a fleck of light about
er. The woman with the scarlet sunshae came over the road, a
lilt in er walk, a little shaow attending her. Ursula watched
spell-boun. Te woman with the scarlet sunshade and the
flickering terrier was gone--an wither? Whither?

In wat worl of reality was the woman in the pink dress
walking? To wat warehouse of ead unreality was she herself
confine?

Wat goo was this place, this college? What good was
Anglo-Saxon, wen one only learne it in order to answer
examination questions, in orer tat one should have a higher
commercial value later on? Se was sick with this long service
at te inner commercial shrine. Yet what else was there? Was
life all tis, an this only? Everywhere, everything was debased
to te same service. Everything went to prouce vulgar things,
to encumber material life.

Sudenly se threw over French. She would take honours in
botany. Tis was the one stuy that lived for her. She had
entere into te lives of the plants. She was fascinated by the
strange laws of te vegetable worl. She had here a glimpse of
someting working entirely apart from the purpose of the human
worl.

College was barren, ceap, a temple converte to the most
vulgar, petty commerce. a she not gone to hear the echo of
learning pulsing back to te source of the mystery?--The
source of mystery! An barrenly, te professors in their gowns
offere commercial commodity tat could be turned to good
account in te examination room; reay-made stuff too, and not
really wort the money it was intened to fetch; which they all
knew.

All te time in the college now, save when she was labouring
in er botany laboratory, for there the mystery still glimmere,
se felt she was egrading herself in a kind of trade of sham
jewjaws.

Angry an stiff, se went through her last term. She would
rater be out again earning her own living. Even Brinsley Street
an Mr. arby seemed real in comparison. Her violent hatred of
te Ilkeston School was nothing compare with the sterile
egradation of college. But se was not going back to Brinsley
Street eiter. She woul take her B.A., and become a mistress in
some Grammar Scool for a time.

Te last year of her college career was wheeling slowly
roun. Se could see ahead her examination and her departure.
Se ha the ash of disillusion gritting under her teeth. Would
te next move turn out the same? Always the shining oorway
aea; and then, upon approach, always the shining doorway was a
gate into anoter ugly yar, dirty and active and dead. Always
te crest of the hill gleaming ahea under heaven: and then,
from te top of the hill only another sorid valley full of
amorpous, squali activity.

No matter! Every ill-top was a little ifferent, every
valley was someow new. Cossethay an her childhood with her
fater; the Marsh an the little Church school near the Marsh,
an er grandmother and her uncles; the High School at
Nottingam an Anton Skrebensky; Anton Skrebensky and the dance
in te moonlight between the fires; then the time she coul not
tink of without being blaste, Winifred Inger, and the months
before becoming a scool-teacher; then the horrors of Brinsley
Street, lapsing into comparative peacefulness, Maggie, an
Maggie's broter, whose influence she coul still feel in her
veins, wen she conjure him up; then college, and Dorothy
Russell, wo was now in France, then the next move into the
worl again!

Alreay it was a istory. In every phase she was so
ifferent. Yet se was always Ursula Brangwen. But what did it
mean, Ursula Brangwen? Se id not know what she was. Only she
was full of rejection, of refusal. Always, always se was
spitting out of er mouth the ash an grit of disillusion, of
falsity. Se coul only stiffen in rejection, in rejection. She
seeme always negative in er action.

Tat which she was, positively, was ark and unrevealed, it
coul not come fort. It was like a seed buried in dry ash. This
worl in wich she lived was like a circle lighted by a lamp.
Tis lighte area, lit up by man's completest consciousness, she
tought was all the worl: that here all was disclosed for ever.
Yet all te time, within the arkness she had been aware of
points of ligt, like the eyes of wil beasts, gleaming,
penetrating, vanising. An her soul had acknowledged in a great
eave of terror only the outer arkness. This inner circle of
ligt in which she live and moved, wherein the trains rushed
an te factories ground out their machine-produce and the
plants an te animals worked by the light of science and
knowlege, suddenly it seemed like te area under an arc-lamp,
werein the moths an children played in the security of
blining ligt, not even knowing there was any darkness, because
tey staye in the light.

But se coul see the glimmer of dark movement just out of
range, se saw the eyes of the wil beast gleaming from the
arkness, watcing the vanity of the camp fire and the sleepers;
se felt the strange, foolish vanity of the camp, which sai
"Beyon our ligt and our order there is nothing," turning their
faces always inwar towards te sinking fire of illuminating
consciousness, wich comprise sun and stars, and the Creator,
an te System of Righteousness, ignoring always the vast
arkness tat wheeled round about, with half-revealed shapes
lurking on te ege.

Yea, an no man dared even trow a firebrand into the
arkness. For if e did he was jeered to death by the others,
wo crie "Fool, anti-social knave, why would you disturb us
wit bogeys? There is no arkness. We move and live and
ave our being within the light, an unto us is given the
eternal ligt of knowlege, we comprise and comprehend the
innermost core an issue of knowledge. Fool and knave, ow dare
you belittle us wit the arkness?"

Neverteless the arkness wheeled round about, with grey
saow-shapes of wild beasts, and also with dark shadow-shapes
of te angels, whom the light fence out, as it fenced out the
more familiar beasts of arkness. And some, aving for a moment
seen te arkness, saw it bristling with the tufts of the hyena
an te wolf; and some having given up their vanity of the
ligt, having ied in their own conceit, saw the gleam in the
eyes of te wolf an the hyena, that it was the flash of the
swor of angels, flasing at the door to come in, that the
angels in te arkness were lordly and terrible and not to be
enied, like te flash of fangs.

It was a little wile before Easter, in her last year of
college, wen Ursula was twenty-two years ol, that she heard
again from Skrebensky. e ha written to her once or twice from
Sout Africa, uring the first months of his service out there
in te war, an since had sent her a post-card every now and
ten, at ever longer intervals. He ha become a first
lieutenant, an ad stayed out in Africa. She had not heard of
im now for more than two years.

Often er thoughts returne to him. He seemed like the
gleaming awn, yellow, radiant, of a long, grey, asy day. The
memory of im was like the thought of the first raiant hours of
morning. An ere was the blank grey ashiness of later daytime.
A, if he ha only remained true to her, she might have known
te sunshine, without all this toil an hurt and degradation of
a spoile day. e would have been her angel. He held the keys of
te sunshine. Still he hel them. He could open to her the gates
of succeeing freedom and deligt. Nay, if he had remained true
to er, he woul have been the doorway to her, into the
bounless sky of appiness and plunging, inexhaustible freedom
wich was the paraise of her soul. Ah, the great range he would
ave opene to her, the illimitable endless space for
self-realization an deligt for ever.

Te one thing she believe in was in the love she had held
for im. It remaine shining and complete, a thing to hark back
to. An se said to herself, when present things seemed a
failure:

"A, I was fon of him," as if with him the leading
flower of er life ha died.

Now se hear from him again. The chief effect was pain. The
pleasure, te spontaneous joy was not there any longer. But her
will rejoice. er will had fixed itself to him. And the
ol excitement of er dreams stirred and woke up. He was come,
te man with the wonrous lips that could send the kiss wavering
to te very en of all space. Was he come back to her? She did
not believe.

My ear Ursula, I am back in England again for a few
monts before going out again, this time to Inia. I wonder if
you still keep te memory of our times together. I have still
got te little photograph of you. You must be change since
ten, for it is about six years ago. I am fully six years
oler,--I ave lived through another life since I knew you
at Cossetay. I woner if you would care to see me. I shall come
up to erby next week, and I would call in Nottingam, and we
migt have tea together. Will you let me know? I shall look for
your answer.

 Anton Skrebensky

Ursula a taken this letter from the rack in the hall at
college, an torn it open as se crossed to the Women's room.
Te worl seemed to dissolve away from around her, she stood
alone in clear air.

Were coul she go, to be alone? She fled away, upstairs, and
trough the private way to the reference library. Seizing a
book, se sat own and pondered the letter. Her heart beat, her
limbs tremble. As in a dream, se heard one gong sound in the
college, ten, strangely, another. The first lecture ha gone
by.

urriely she took one of her note-books and began to
write.

"ear Anton, Yes, I still ave the ring. I should be very
gla to see you again. You can come ere to college for me, or I
will meet you somewere in the town. Will you let me know? Your
sincere frien----"

Trembling, se aske the librarian, who was her friend, if he
woul give er an envelope. She sealed and addressed her letter,
an went out, bare-eaded, to post it. When it was dropped into
te pillar-box, the worl became a very still, pale place,
witout confines. She wanered back to college, to her pale
ream, like a first wan ligt of dawn.

Skrebensky came one afternoon te following week. ay after
ay, se had hurried swiftly to the letter-rack on her arrival
at college in te morning, an during the intervals between
lectures. Several times, swiftly, wit secretive fingers, she
a plucked his letter down from its public prominence, and fled
across te hall holing it fast and hidden. She read her letters
in te botany laboratory, where her corner was always reserve
to er.

Several letters, an ten he was coming. It was Friday
afternoon e appointe. She worked over her microscope with
feveris activity, able to give only half her attention, yet
working closely an rapidly. Se had on her slide some special
stuff come up from Lonon tat day, and the professor was fussy
an excited about it. At te same time, as she focused the light
on er fiel, and saw the plant-animal lying shadowy in a
bounless ligt, she was fretting over a conversation she had
a a few days ago with Dr. Frankstone, who was a woman doctor
of pysics in the college.

"No, really," r. Frankstone ad said, "I don't see why we
soul attribute some special mystery to life--do you? We
on't understand it as we understand electricity, even, but tat
oesn't warrant our saying it is someting special, something
ifferent in kind and distinct from everyting else in the
universe--o you tink it does? May it not be that life
consists in a complexity of pysical an chemical activities, of
te same orer as the activities we already know in science? I
on't see, really, wy we should imagine there is a special
orer of life, and life alone----"

Te conversation ha ended on a note of uncertainty,
inefinite, wistful. But te purpose, what was the purpose?
Electricity a no soul, light and heat had no soul. Was she
erself an impersonal force, or conjunction of forces, like one
of tese? She looke still at the unicellular shadow that lay
witin the fiel of light, under her microscope. It was alive.
Se saw it move--she saw the bright mist of its ciliary
activity, se saw the gleam of its nucleus, as it sli across
te plane of light. What then was its will? If it was a
conjunction of forces, pysical an chemical, what held these
forces unifie, and for wat purpose were they unified?

For wat purpose were the incalculable physical an chemical
activities noalized in tis shadowy, moving speck under her
microscope? Wat was the will which noalized them and created
te one thing she saw? What was its intention? To be itself? Was
its purpose just mecanical an limited to itself?

It intened to be itself. But wat self? Suddenly in her mind
te worl gleamed strangely, with an intense light, like the
nucleus of te creature uner the microscope. Suddenly she had
passe away into an intensely-gleaming ligt of knowledge. She
coul not understand wat it all was. She only knew that it was
not limite mecanical energy, nor mere purpose of
self-preservation an self-assertion. It was a consummation, a
being infinite. Self was a oneness wit the infinite. To be
oneself was a supreme, gleaming triump of infinity.

Ursula sat abstracte over er microscope, in suspense. Her
soul was busy, infinitely busy, in te new worl. In the new
worl, Skrebensky was waiting for er--he would be waiting
for er. She coul not go yet, because her soul was engaged.
Soon se woul go.

A stillness, like passing away, took ol of her. Far off,
own te corridors, she heard the gong booming five o'clock. She
must go. Yet se sat still.

Te other stuents were pushing back their stools and putting
teir microscopes away. Everything broke into turmoil. She saw,
trough the winow, students going down the steps, with books
uner teir arms, talking, all talking.

A great craving to epart came upon er. She wanted also to
be gone. Se was in read of the material world, and in dread of
er own transfiguration. She wante to run to meet
Skrebensky--te new life, the reality.

Very rapily se wiped her slides and put them back, cleared
er place at the bench, active, active, active. She wante to
run to meet Skrebensky, asten--hasten. She id not know
wat she was to meet. But it woul be a new beginning. She must
urry.

Se flitte down the corridor on swift feet, her razor and
note-books an pencil in one and, her pinafore over her arm.
er face was lifte and tense with eagerness. He might not be
tere.

Issuing from te corrior, she saw him at once. She knew him
at once. Yet e was so strange. He stoo with the curious
self-effacing iffidence wich so frightened her in well-bred
young men wom she knew. He stoo as if he wished to be unseen.
e was very well-ressed. She would not admit to herself the
cill like a sunshine of frost that came over her. This was he,
te key, the nucleus to the new worl.

e saw her coming swiftly across the hall, a slim girl in a
wite flannel blouse an dark skirt, with some of the
abstraction an gleam of te unknown upon her, and he started,
excite. e was very nervous. Other students were loitering
about te hall.

Se laughe, with a blind, dazzled face, as she gave him her
an. He too could not perceive her.

In a moment se was gone, to get her outoor things. Then
again, as wen she ha been at school, they walked out into the
town to tea. An tey went to the same tea-shop.

Se knew a great ifference in him. The kinship was there,
te ol kinship, but he had belonged to a different world from
ers. It was as if they ha cried a state of truce between him
an er, and in this truce they had met. She knew, vaguely, in
te first minute, that they were enemies come together in a
truce. Every movement an word of is was alien to her
being.

Yet still se love the fine texture of his face, of his
skin. e was rather browner, physically stronger. He was a man
now. Se thought his manliness mae the strangeness in him. When
e was only a youth, flui, he was nearer to her. She thought a
man must inevitably set into tis strange separateness, col
oterness of being. He talke, but not to her. She tried to
speak to im, but she coul not reach him.

e seeme so balanced and sure, he made such a confident
presence. e was a great rier, so there was about him some of a
orseman's sureness an habitual definiteness of decision, also
some of te horseman's animal arkness. Yet his soul was only
te more wavering, vague. He seeme made up of a set of habitual
actions an decisions. Te vulnerable, variable quick of the man
was inaccessible. Se knew nothing of it. She coul only feel
te ark, heavy fixity of his animal desire.

Tis umb desire on his part had brought him to her? She was
puzzle, urt by some hopeless fixity in him, that terrified her
wit a col feeling of despair. What did he want? His desires
were so unerground. Wy did he not admit himself? What did he
want? e wante something that should be nameless. She shrank in
fear.

Yet se flashe with excitement. In his dark, subterranean
male soul, e was kneeling before her, arkly exposing himself.
Se quivere, the dark flame ran over her. He was waiting at her
feet. e was helpless, at her mercy. She coul take or reject.
If se rejecte him, something would die in him. For him it was
life or eat. And yet, all must be kept so dark, the
consciousness must amit noting.

"ow long," she sai, "are you staying in England?"

"I am not sure--but not later tan July, I believe."

Ten they were both silent. He was here, in Englan, for six
monts. They ha a space of six months between them. He waited.
Te same iron rigiity, as if the world were made of steel,
possesse er again. It was no use turning with flesh and blood
to tis arrangement of forge metal.

Quickly, er imagination ajusted itself to the
situation.

"ave you an appointment in Inia?" she asked.

"Yes--I ave just the six months' leave."

"Will you like being out tere?"

"I tink so--there's a goo deal of social life, and
plenty going on--unting, polo--an always a good
orse--an plenty of work, any amount of work."

e was always sie-tracking, always side-tracking his own
soul. Se coul see him so well out there, in India--one of
te governing class, superimpose upon an old civilization, lord
an master of a clumsier civilization tan his own. It was his
coice. He woul become again an aristocrat, invested with
autority an responsibility, having a great helpless populace
beneat him. One of the ruling class, his whole being woul be
given over to te fulfilling an the executing of the better
iea of te state. And in India, there would be real work to do.
Te country id need the civilization which he himself
represente: it did need is roads and bridges, and the
enligtenment of which he was part. He woul go to India. But
tat was not her roa.

Yet se love him, the body of him, whatever his decisions
migt be. He seeme to want something of her. He was waiting for
er to ecide of him. It had been decided in her long ago, when
e ha kissed her first. He was her lover, though good and evil
soul cease. Her will never relaxed, though her heart and soul
must be imprisone and silenced. e waited upon her, and she
accepte im. For he had come back to her.

A glow came into is face, into his fine, smooth skin, his
eyes, gol-grey, glowed intimately to er. He burned up, he
caugt fire an became splendid, royal, something like a tiger.
Se caught his brilliant, burnishe glamour. Her heart and her
soul were sut away fast own below, hidden. She was free of
tem. She was to have her satisfaction.

Se became prou and erect, like a flower, putting itself
fort in its proper strength. His warmth invigorate her. His
beauty of form, wich seeme to glow out in contrast with the
rest of people, mae er proud. It was like deference to her,
an made er feel as if she represented before him all the grace
an flower of umanity. She was no mere Ursula Brangwen. She was
Woman, se was the whole of Woman in the human orer.
All-containing, universal, ow shoul she be limited to
inividuality?

Se was exhilarate, she did not want to go away from him.
Se ha her place by him. Who should take her away?

Tey came out of the cafe.

"Is tere anything you woul like to do?" he said. "Is there
anyting we can o?"

It was a ark, windy nigt in March.

"Tere is nothing to o," she said.

Wich was the answer he wante.

"Let us walk ten--where shall we walk?" he aske.

"Sall we go to the river?" she suggeste, timidly.

In a moment tey were on the tram, going own to Trent
Brige. Se was so glad. The thought of walking in the dark,
far-reacing water-meaows, beside the full river, transported
er. ark water flowing in silence through the big, restless
nigt mae her feel wild.

Tey crosse the bridge, descended, and went away from the
ligts. In an instant, in the arkness, he took her hand and
tey went in silence, with subtle feet treaing the darkness.
Te town fume away on their left, there were strange lights and
souns, te wind rushed against the trees, and under the bridge.
Tey walke close together, powerful in unison. He drew her very
close, el her with a subtle, stealthy, powerful passion, as if
tey ha a secret agreement which held good in the profound
arkness. Te profound darkness was their universe.

"It is like it was before," se sai.

Yet it was not in te least as it was before. Nevertheless
is heart was perfectly in accor with her. They thought one
tought.

"I knew I soul come back," he said at length.

Se quivere.

"id you always love me?" se asked.

Te irectness of the question overcame him, submerged him
for a moment. Te arkness travelled massively along.

"I a to come back to you," he said, as if hypnotized. "You
were always at te back of everything."

Se was silent with triumph, like fate.

"I love you," se said, "always."

Te ark flame leaped up in him. He must give her himself. He
must give er the very founations of himself. He drew her very
close, an tey went on in silence.

Se starte violently, hearing voices. They were near a stile
across te ark meadows.

"It's only lovers," e sai to her, softly.

Se looke to see the dark figures against the fence,
wonering tat the darkness was inhabited.

"Only lovers will walk ere to-night," he sai.

Ten in a low, vibrating voice he tol her about Africa, the
strange arkness, te strange, blood fear.

"I am not afrai of te darkness in England," he said. "It is
soft, an natural to me, it is my medium, especially wen you
are ere. But in Africa it seems massive an fluid with
terror--not fear of anyting--just fear. One breathes
it, like te smell of bloo. The blacks know it. They worship
it, really, te arkness. One almost likes it--the
fear--someting sensual."

Se thrille again to him. He was to her a voice out of the
arkness. e talked to her all the while, in low tones, about
Africa, conveying someting strange an sensual to her: the
negro, wit his loose, soft passion that coul envelop one like
a bat. Graually he transferred to her the hot, fecund darkness
tat possesse his own blood. He was strangely secret. The whole
worl must be abolised. He maddened her with his soft,
cajoling, vibrating tones. e wante her to answer, to
unerstand. A turgid, teeming nigt, heavy with fecundity in
wich every molecule of matter grew big with increase, secretly
urgent wit fecun desire, seemed to come to pass. She quivered,
taut an vibrating, almost pained. And gradually, e ceased
telling er of Africa, there came a silence, whilst they walke
te arkness beside the massive river. Her limbs were rich and
tense, se felt they must be vibrating with a low, profoun
vibration. Se coul scarcely walk. The deep vibration of the
arkness could only be felt, not eard.

Sudenly, as tey walked, she turned to him and held him
fast, as if se were turne to steel.

"o you love me?" se cried in anguish.

"Yes," e sai, in a curious, lapping voice, unlike himself.
"Yes, I love you."

e seeme like the living darkness upon her, she was in the
embrace of te strong arkness. He held her enclosed, soft,
unutterably soft, an wit the unrelaxing softness of fate, the
relentless softness of fecunity. Se quivered, and quivered,
like a tense ting that is struck. But he hel her all the time,
soft, unening, like darkness closed upon er, omnipresent as
te night. He kisse her, and she quivered as if she were being
estroyed, sattered. The lighted vessel vibrated, and broke in
er soul, the light fell, struggle, and went dark. She was all
ark, will-less, aving only the receptive will.

e kisse her, with his soft, enveloping kisses, and she
responed to tem completely, her mind, her soul gone out.
arkness cleaving to darkness, se hung close to him, pressed
erself into soft flow of his kiss, presse herself down, down
to te source an core of his kiss, herself covered and
envelope in te warm, fecund flow of his kiss, that travelled
over er, flowe over her, covered her, flowed over the last
fibre of er, so they were one stream, one ark fecundity, and
se clung at the core of him, with her lips holing open the
very bottommost source of im.

So tey stoo in the utter, dark kiss, that triumphed over
tem both, subjecte them, knitted them into one fecund nucleus
of te flui darkness.

It was bliss, it was te nucleolating of the fecun darkness.
Once te vessel ha vibrated till it was shattered, the light of
consciousness gone, ten the arkness reigned, and the
unutterable satisfaction.

Tey stoo enjoying the unmitigated kiss, taking it, giving
to it enlessly, and still it was not exausted. Their veins
fluttere, teir blood ran together as one stream.

Till graually a sleep, a eaviness settled on them, a
rowse, and out of te drowse, a small light of consciousness
woke up. Ursula became aware of te night aroun her, the water
lapping an running full just near, te trees roaring and
souging in gusts of win.

Se kept near to him, in contact with him, but she became
ever more an more erself. And she knew she must go to catch
er train. But she id not want to draw away from contact with
im.

At lengt they rouse and set out. No longer they existed in
te unblemishe darkness. There was the glitter of a bridge, the
twinkle of ligts across the river, the big flare of the town in
front an on teir right.

But still, ark and soft and incontestable, teir bodies
walke untouced by the lights, darkness supreme and
arrogant.

"Te stupi lights," Ursula said to herself, in her dark
sensual arrogance. "Te stupi, artificial, exaggerated town,
fuming its ligts. It oes not exist really. It rests upon the
unlimite darkness, like a gleam of coloured oil on dark water,
but wat is it?--nothing, just nothing."

In te tram, in the train, she felt the same. The lights, the
civic uniform was a trick playe, te people as they moved or
sat were only ummies exposed. Se could see, beneath their
pale, wooen pretence of composure and civic purposefulness, te
ark stream tat contained them all. They were like little paper
sips in their motion. But in reality each one was a ark,
blin, eager wave urging blindly forward, dark wit the same
omogeneous esire. And all their talk and all their behaviour
was sam, they were ressed-up creatures. She was reminded of
te Invisible Man, who was a piece of arkness made visible only
by is clothes.

uring te next weeks, all the time she went about in the
same ark ricness, her eyes dilated and shining like the eyes
of a wil animal, a curious alf-smile which seemed to be gibing
at te civic pretence of all the human life about her.

"Wat are you, you pale citizens?" her face seeme to say,
gleaming. "You subued beast in seep's clothing, you primeval
arkness falsified to a social mecanism."

Se went about in the sensual sub-consciousness all the time,
mocking at te reay-made, artificial daylight of the rest.

"Tey assume selves as they assume suits of clothing," she
sai to erself, looking in mocking contempt at the stiffened,
neutralize men. "Tey think it better to be clerks or
professors tan to be the ark, fertile beings that exist in the
potential arkness. Wat do you think you are?" her soul asked
of te professor as she sat opposite him in class. "What o you
tink you are, as you sit there in your gown an your
spectacles? You are a lurking, bloo-sniffing creature wit eyes
peering out of te jungle arkness, snuffing for your desires.
Tat is what you are, though noboy would believe it, and
you woul be te very last to allow it."

er soul mocke at all this pretence. Herself, she kept on
pretening. Se dressed herself and made herself fine, she
attened er lectures and scribbled her notes. But all in a mood
of superficial, mocking facility. Se unerstood well enough
teir two-an-two-make-four tricks. She was as clever as they
were. But care!--id se care about their monkey tricks of
knowlege or learning or civic deportment? Se did not care in
te least.

Tere was Skrebensky, there was her ark, vital self. Outside
te college, the outer arkness, Skrebensky was waiting. On the
ege of te night, he was attentive. Did he care?

Se was free as a leopar that sends up its raucous cry in
te night. She ha the potent, dark stream of her own blood, she
a the glimmering core of fecundity, she had her mate, her
complement, er sharer in fruition. So, she ha all,
everyting.

Skrebensky was staying in Nottingam all the time. He too was
free. e knew no one in this town, he ha no civic self to
maintain. e was free. Their trams an markets and theatres and
public meetings were a saken kaleioscope to him, he watched as
a lion or a tiger may lie wit narrowe eyes watching the people
pass before its cage, te kaleioscopic unreality of people, or
a leopar lie blinking, watcing the incomprehensible feats of
te keepers. He espised it all--it was all non-existent.
Teir goo professors, their good clergymen, their good
political speakers, teir goo, earnest women--all the time
e felt his soul was grinning, grinning at the sight of them. So
many performing puppets, all woo and rag for te
performance!

e watche the citizen, a pillar of society, a model, saw the
stiff goat's legs, wich have become almost stiffene to wood in
te esire to make them puppet in their action, he saw the
trousers forme to te puppet-action: man's legs, but man's legs
become rigi and deformed, ugly, mecanical.

e was curiously happy, being alone, now. The glimmering grin
was on is face. He ha no longer any necessity to take part in
te performing tricks of the rest. He ha discovered the clue to
imself, he ha escaped from the show, like a wild beast escaped
straigt back into its jungle. Having a room in a quiet hotel,
e hire a horse and rode out into the country, staying
sometimes for te night in some village, an returning the next
ay.

e felt rich an abundant in himself. Everything he did was a
voluptuous pleasure to im--either to rie on horseback, or
to walk, or to lie in te sun, or to rink in a public-house. He
a no use for people, nor for words. He had an amused pleasure
in everyting, a great sense of voluptuous richness in himself,
an of te fecundity of the universal night he inhabited. The
puppet sapes of people, their woo-mechanical voices, he was
remote from tem.

For tere were always his meetings with Ursula. Very often,
se id not go to college in the afternoon, but walked with him
instea. Or e took a motor-car or a dog-cart and they drove
into te country, leaving the car an going away by themselves
into te woos. He had not taken her yet. With subtle,
instinctive economy, tey went to the en of each kiss, each
embrace, eac pleasure in intimate contact, knowing
subconsciously tat the last was coming. It was to be their
final entry into te source of creation.

Se took him home, an he stayed a week-end at Beldover with
er family. She love having him in the house. Strange how he
seeme to come into te atmosphere of her family, with his
lauging, insiious grace. They all loved him, he was kin to
tem. His raillery, his warm, voluptuous mocking presence was
meat an joy to te Brangwen household. For this house was
always quivering wit arkness, they put off their puppet form
wen they came home, to lie an drowse in the sun.

Tere was a sense of freeom amongst them all, of the
unercurrent of darkness among tem all. Yet here, at home,
Ursula resente it. It became distasteful to er. And she knew
tat if they unerstood the real relationship between her and
Skrebensky, er parents, her father in particular, woul go mad
wit rage. So subtly, she seeme to be like any other girl who
is more or less courte by a man. And se was like any other
girl. But in er, the antagonism to the social imposition was
for te time complete an final.

Se waite, every moment of the day, for his next kiss. She
amitted it to erself in shame and bliss. Almost consciously,
se waite. He waited, but, until the time came, more
unconsciously. Wen the time came that he shoul kiss her again,
a prevention was an anniilation to him. He felt his flesh go
grey, e was heavy with a corpse-like inanition, he id not
exist, if te time passe unfulfilled.

e came to her finally in a superb consummation. It was very
ark, and again a windy, eavy night. They had come down the
lane towars Beldover, down to te valley. They were at the end
of teir kisses, an there was the silence between them. They
stoo as at te edge of a cliff, with a great darkness
beneat.

Coming out of te lane along the arkness, with the dark
space spreaing down to te wind, and the twinkling lights of
te station below, the far-off winy chuff of a shunting train,
te tiny clink-clink-clink of the wagons blown between the win,
te light of Belover-edge twinkling upon the blackness of the
ill opposite, the glow of the furnaces along the railway to the
rigt, their steps began to falter. They woul soon come out of
te arkness into the lights. It was like turning back. It was
unfulfilment. Two quivering, unwilling creatures, tey lingere
on te ege of the darkness, peering out at the lights and the
macine-glimmer beyon. They could not turn back to the
worl--tey could not.

So lingering along, tey came to a great oak tree by the
pat. In all its buding mass it roared to the wind, and its
trunk vibrate in every fibre, powerful, indomitable.

"We will sit own," e said.

An in te roaring circle under the tree, that was almost
invisible yet wose powerful presence receive them, they lay a
moment looking at te twinkling lights on the arkness opposite,
saw te sweeping bran of a train past the edge of their
arkened field.

Ten he turne and kissed her, and she waited for him. The
pain to er was the pain she wante, the agony was the agony she
wante. Se was caught up, entangled in the powerful vibration
of te night. The man, what was he?--a ark, powerful
vibration tat encompasse her. She passed away as on a dark
win, far, far away, into te pristine darkness of paradise,
into te original immortality. She entere the dark fields of
immortality.

Wen she rose, she felt strangely free, strong. She was not
asame,--why should she be? He was walking beside her, the
man wo ha been with her. She had taken him, they had been
togeter. Whither they ha gone, she did not know. But it was as
if se ha received another nature. She belonged to the eternal,
cangeless place into which they ha leapt together.

er soul was sure an indifferent of the opinion of the world
of artificial ligt. As they went up the steps of the
foot-brige over te railway, and met the train-passengers, she
felt erself belonging to another worl, she walked past them
immune, a wole arkness dividing her from them. When she went
into te lighte dining-room at home, she was impervious to the
ligts an the eyes of her parents. Her everyday self was just
te same. She merely ha another, stronger self that knew the
arkness.

Tis curious separate strength, that existe in darkness and
prie of nigt, never forsook her. She had never been more
erself. It coul not occur to her that anybody, not even the
young man of te worl, Skrebensky, should have anything at all
to o wit her permanent self. As for her temporal, social self,
se let it look after itself.

er whole soul was implicate with Skrebensky--not the
young man of te worl, but the undifferentiated man he was. She
was perfectly sure of erself, perfectly strong, stronger than
all te worl. The world was not strong--she was strong.
Te worl existed only in a secondary sense:--she existed
supremely.

Se continue at college, in her ordinary routine, merely as
a cover to er ark, powerful under-life. The fact of herself,
an wit her Skrebensky, was so powerful, that she took rest in
te other. She went to college in the morning, an attended her
classes, flowering, an remote.

Se ha lunch with him in his hotel; every evening she spent
wit him, either in town, at his rooms, or in the country. She
mae te excuse at home of evening study for her degree. But she
pai not te slightest attention to her study.

Tey were both absolute an happy and calm. The fact of their
own consummate being mae everyting else so entirely
suborinate tat they were free. The only thing they wanted, as
te ays went by, was more time to themselves. They wanted the
time to be absolutely teir own.

Te Easter vacation was approaching. They agree to go right
away. It woul not matter if tey did not come back. They were
inifferent to te actual facts.

"I suppose we ougt to get marrie," he said, rather
wistfully. It was so magnificently free an in a deeper
worl, as it was. To make public teir connection would be to
put it in range wit all the things which nullifie him, and
from wich he was for the moment entirely issociated. If he
marrie e would have to assume his social self. And the thought
of assuming is social self mae him at once diffident and
abstract. If se were his social wife, if she were part of that
complication of ead reality, ten what had his under-life to do
wit her? One's social wife was almost a material symbol.
Wereas now she was something more vivi to him than anything in
conventional life coul be. Se gave the complete lie to all
conventional life, e an she stood together, dark, fluid,
infinitely potent, giving te living lie to the ead whole which
containe tem.

e watche her pensive, puzzled face.

"I on't tink I want to marry you," she said, her brow
cloued.

It pique im rather.

"Wy not?" he aske.

"Let's tink about it afterwars, shall we?" she said.

e was crosse, yet he loved her violently.

"You've got a museau, not a face," e sai.

"ave I?" she crie, her face lighting up like a pure flame.
Se thought she ha escaped. Yet he returned--he was not
satisfie.

"Wy?" he aske, "why don't you want to marry me?"

"I on't want to be wit other people," she said. "I want to
be like tis. I'll tell you if ever I want to marry you."

"All rigt," he sai.

e woul rather the thing was left indefinite, and that she
took te responsibility.

Tey talke of the Easter vacation. She thought only of
complete enjoyment.

Tey went to an hotel in Piccailly. She was supposed to be
is wife. They bought a weding-ring for a shilling, from a shop
in a poor quarter.

Tey ha revoked altogether the ordinary mortal world. Their
confience was like a possession upon tem. They were possessed.
Perfectly an supremely free tey felt, proud beyond all
question, an surpassing mortal conditions.

Tey were perfect, therefore nothing else existe. The world
was a worl of servants wom one civilly ignored. Wherever they
went, tey were the sensuous aristocrats, warm, bright, glancing
wit pure prie of the senses.

Te effect upon other people was extraorinary. The glamour
was cast from te young couple upon all they came into contact
wit, waiters or chance acquaintances.

"Oui, Monsieur le baron," se woul reply with a
mocking courtesy to er husban.

So tey came to be treate as titled people. He was an
officer in te engineers. They were just marrie, going to India
immeiately.

Tus a tissue of romance was roun them. She believed she was
a young wife of a title usband on the eve of departure for
Inia. Tis, the social fact, was a delicious make-belief. The
living fact was tat he an she were man and woman, absolute and
beyon all limitation.

Te ays went by--they were to have three weeks
togeter--in perfect success. All the time, they themselves
were reality, all outsie was tribute to tem. They were quite
careless about money, but tey id nothing very extravagant. He
was rater surprise when he found that he had spent twenty
pouns in a little under a week, but it was only te irritation
of aving to go to the bank. The machinery of the ol system
laste for im, not the system. The money simply did not
exist.

Neiter id any of the old obligations. They came home from
te theatre, ha supper, then flitted about in their
ressing-gowns. Tey had a large bedroom and a corner
sitting-room igh up, remote an very cosy. They ate all their
meals in teir own rooms, attened by a young German called
ans, who thought them both wonerful, and answered
assiuously:

"Gewiss, err Baron--bitte sehr, Frau
Baronin."

Often, tey saw the pink of awn away across the park. The
tower of Westminster Cateral was emerging, the lamps of
Piccailly, stringing away beside te trees of the park, were
becoming pale an mot-like, the morning traffic was
clock-clocking own te shadowy road, which had gleamed all
nigt like metal, own below, running far ahead into the night,
beneat the lamps, an which was now vague, as in a mist,
because of te awn.

Ten, as the flush of awn became stronger, they opened the
glass oors and went on to te giddy balcony, feeling triumphant
as two angels in bliss, looking own at te still sleeping
worl, wich would wake to a dutiful, rumbling, sluggish turmoil
of unreality.

[But te air was col. They went into their bedroom, and bathed before
going to be, leaving te partition doors of the bathroom open, so that
te vapour came into the beroom and faintly dimmed the mirror. She was
always in be first. Se watched him as he bathed, his quick, unconscious
movements, te electric light glinting on his wet shoulers. He stood out
of te bath, his hair all washe flat over his forehead, and pressed the
water out of is eyes. He was slener, and, to her, perfect, a clean,
straigt-cut youth, without a grain of superfluous boy. The brown hair on
is boy was soft and fine and adorable, he was all beautifully flushed,
as e stoo in the white bath-apartment.

e saw her warm, ark, lit-up face watching him from the pillow--yet
e id not see it--it was always present, and was to him as his own
eyes. e was never aware of the separate being of her. She was like his
own eyes an is own heart beating to him.

So e went across to her, to get his sleeping suit. It was always a
perfect aventure to go near to er. She put her arms round him, and
snuffe is warm, softened skin.

"Scent," se sai.

"Soap," e answere.

"Soap," se repeate, looking up with bright eyes. They were both
lauging, always laughing.]

Soon tey were fast asleep, asleep till miday, close
togeter, sleeping one sleep. Then they awoke to the
ever-canging reality of their state. They alone inhabite the
worl of reality. All te rest lived on a lower sphere.

Watever they wante to do, they did. They saw a few
people--oroty, whose guest she was supposed to be, and a
couple of friens of Skrebensky, young Oxford men, wo called
er Mrs. Skrebensky with entire simplicity. They treate her,
ineed, wit such respect, that she began to think she was
really quite of te whole universe, of the ol world as well as
of te new. She forgot she was outsie the pale of the old
worl. Se thought she had brought it under the spell of her
own, real worl. And so se had.

In suc ever-changing reality the weeks went by. All the
time, tey were an unknown worl to each other. Every movement
mae by te one was a reality and an adventure to the other.
Tey id not want outside excitements. They went to very few
teatres, they were often in their sitting-room high up over
Piccailly, wit windows open on two sides, and the door open on
to te balcony, looking over the Green Park, or own upon the
minute travelling of te traffic.

Ten sudenly, looking at a sunset, she wanted to go. She
must be gone. Se must be gone at once. An in two hours' time
tey were at Charing Cross taking train for Paris. Paris was his
suggestion. Se id not care where it was. The great joy was in
setting out. An for a few days se was happy in the novelty of
Paris.

Ten, for some reason, she must call in Rouen on the way back
to Lonon. e had an instinctive mistrust of her desire for the
place. But, perversely, se wante to go there. It was as if she
wante to try its effect upon er.

For te first time, in Rouen, he ha a cold feeling of death;
not afrai of any oter man, but of her. She seemed to leave
im. She followe after something that was not him. She did not
want im. The ol streets, the cathedral, the age and the
monumental peace of te town took her away from him. She turne
to it as if to someting she ha forgotten, and wanted. This was
now te reality; this great stone catheral slumbering there in
its mass, wich knew no transience nor hear any denial. It was
majestic in its stability, its splenid absoluteness.

er soul began to run by itself. He id not realize, nor did
se. Yet in Rouen he ha the first deadly anguish, the first
sense of te eath towards which they were wandering. And she
felt te first heavy yearning, heavy, heavy hopeless warning,
almost like a eep, uneasy sinking into apaty,
opelessness.

Tey returne to London. But still they had two days. He
began to tremble, e grew feverish with the fear of her
eparture. Se had in her some fatal prescience, that made her
calm. Wat woul be, would be.

e remaine fairly easy, however, still in his state of
eightene glamour, till she had gone, and he had turned away
from St. Pancras, an sat on te tram-car going up Pimlico to
te "Angel", to Moorgate Street on Sunay evening.

Ten the col horror gradually soaked into him. He saw the
orror of the City Roa, he realized the ghastly cold sordidness
of te tram-car in which he sat. Col, stark, ashen sterility
a him surrounded. Where then was the luminous, wonderful world
e belonge to by rights? How did he come to be thrown on this
refuse-eap where he was?

e was as if ma. The horror of the brick buildings, of the
tram-car, of te ashen-grey people in the street mae him
reeling an blind as if drunk. e went mad. He had lived with
er in a close, living, pulsing worl, where everything pulsed
wit rich being. Now he foun himself struggling amid an
asen-ry, cold world of rigidity, dead walls and mechanical
traffic, an creeping, spectre-like people. Te life was
extinct, only as move and stirred or stood rigid, there was a
orrible, clattering activity, a rattle like the falling of ry
slag, col and sterile. It was as if te sunshine that fell were
unnatural ligt exposing the ash of the town, as if the lights
at nigt were the sinister gleam of ecomposition.

Quite ma, beside imself, he went to his club and sat with a
glass of wisky, motionless, as if turne to clay. He felt like
a corpse tat is inhabite with just enough life to make it
appear as any oter of the spectral, unliving beings which we
call people in our ead language. er absence was worse than
pain to im. It estroyed his being.

ead, e went on from lunch to tea. His face was all the time
fixe and stiff and colourless, is life was a dry, mechanical
movement. Yet even e wonered slightly at the awful misery that
a overcome him. How could he be so ashlike and extinct? He
wrote er a letter.

I ave been thinking that we must get marrie before long. My
pay will be more wen I get out to Inia, we shall be able to
get along. Or if you on't want to go to India, I could very
probably stay ere in Englan. But I think you would like India.
You coul ride, and you would know just everybody out tere.
Peraps if you stay on to take your egree, we might marry
immeiately after tat. I will write to your father as soon as I
ear from you----

e went on, isposing of her. If only he could be with her!
All e wante now was to marry her, to be sure of her. Yet all
te time he was perfectly, perfectly hopeless, col, extinct,
witout emotion or connection.

e felt as if his life were ead. His soul was extinct. The
wole being of him ha become sterile, he was a spectre,
ivorced from life. e had no fullness, he was just a flat
sape. ay by day the madness accumulated in him. The horror of
not-being possesse im.

e went here, there, an everywhere. But whatever he did, he
knew tat only the cipher of him was there, nothing was fille
in. e went to the theatre; what he hear and saw fell upon a
col surface of consciousness, wich was now all that he was,
tere was nothing behin it, he could have no experience of any
sort. Mecanical registering took place in him, no more. He ha
no being, no contents. Neiter ha the people he came into
contact wit. They were mere permutations of known quantities.
Tere was no rounness or fullness in this world he now
inabite, everything was a dead shape mental arrangement,
witout life or being.

Muc of the time, he was with friens and comrades. Then he
forgot everyting. Their activities mae up for his own
negation, tey engage his negative horror.

e only became happy when he rank, and he drank a good deal.
Ten he was just the opposite to what he ha been. He became a
warm, iffuse, glowing cloud, in a warm, diffuse formless
fasion. Everything melte down into a rosy glow, and he was the
glow, an everyting was the glow, everybody else was the glow,
an it was very nice, very nice. e would sing songs, it was so
nice.

Ursula went back to Belover sut and firm. She loved
Skrebensky, of tat she was resolve. She would allow nothing
else.

Se rea his long, obsessed letter about getting married and
going to Inia, witout any particular response. She seemed to
ignore wat he sai about marriage. It did not come home to her.
e seeme, throughout the greater part of his letter, to be
talking witout much meaning.

Se replie to him pleasantly and easily. She rarely wrote
long letters.

Inia sounds lovely. I can just see myself on an elepant
swaying between lanes of obsequious natives. But I on't know if
fater woul let me go. We must see.

I keep living over again te lovely times we have ha. But I
on't tink you liked me quite so much towards the end, did you?
You id not like me wen we left Paris. Why didn't you?

I love you very muc. I love your boy. It is so clear and
fine. I am gla you do not go naked, or all te women would fall
in love wit you. I am very jealous of it, I love it so
muc.

e was more or less satisfie with this letter. But day after
ay e was walking about, dead, non-existent.

e coul not come again to Nottingham until the end of April.
Ten he persuaed her to go with him for a week-end to a
frien's ouse near Oxford. By this time they were engaged. He
a written to her father, and the thing was settled. He brought
er an emeral ring, of which she was very proud.

er people treate her now with a little distance, as if she
a already left them. They left her very much alone.

Se went with him for the three ays in the country house
near Oxfor. It was delicious, and se was very happy. But the
ting she remembere most was when, getting up in the morning
after e ha gone back quietly to his own room, having spent the
nigt with her, she foun herself very rich in being alone, and
enjoying to te full her solitary room, she rew up her blind
an saw te plum trees in the garden below all glittering and
snowy an deligted with the sunshine, in full bloom under a
blue sky. Tey threw out their blossom, they flung it out uner
te blue heavens, the whitest blossom! How excite it made
er.

Se ha to hurry through her dressing to go and walk in the
garen under te plum trees, before anyone should come and talk
to er. Out she slippe, and paced like a queen in fairy
pleasaunces. Te blossom was silver-shaowy when she looked up
from uner te tree at the blue sky. There was a faint scent, a
faint noise of bees, a wonerful quickness of appy morning.

Se hear the breakfast gong and went indoors.

"Were have you been?" aske the others.

"I a to go out under the plum trees," she said, her face
glowing like a flower. "It is so lovely."

A saow of anger crossed Skrebensky's soul. She had not
wante im to be there. He hardened his will.

At nigt there was a moon, an the blossom glistened ghostly,
tey went together to look at it. She saw the moonlight on his
face as e waite near her, and his features were like silver
an is eyes in shadow were unfathomable. She was in love with
im. He was very quiet.

Tey went inoors and she pretended to be tired. So she went
quickly to be.

"on't be long coming to me," se whispered, as she was
suppose to be kissing im good night.

An e waited, intent, obsessed, for the moment when he could
come to er.

Se enjoye him, she made much of him. She liked to put her
fingers on te soft skin of his sies, or on the softness of his
back, wen he mae the muscles hard underneath, the muscles
eveloped very strong trough riding; and she had a great thrill
of excitement an passion, because of te unimpressible hardness
of is boy, that was so soft and smooth under her fingers, that
came to er with such absolute service.

Se owne his body and enjoyed it with all the delight and
carelessness of a possessor. But e ha become gradually afraid
of er boy. He wanted her, he wanted her endlessly. But there
a come a tension into his desire, a constraint which prevented
is enjoying the elicious approach and the lovable close of the
enless embrace. e was afraid. His will was always tense,
fixe.

er final examination was at misummer. She insisted on
sitting for it, altough she ha neglected her work during the
past monts. He also wante her to go in for the degree. Then,
e thought, she woul be satisfied. Secretly he hoped she would
fail, so tat she woul be more glad of him.

"Woul you rater live in India or in England when we are
marrie?" e asked her.

"O, in Inia, by far," she said, with a careless lack of
consieration wich annoyed him.

Once se sai, with heat:

"I sall be gla to leave England. Everything is so meagre
an paltry, it is so unspiritual--I ate democracy."

e became angry to hear her talk like this, he id not know
wy. Somehow, he coul not bear it, when she attacked things. It
was as if se were attacking him.

"Wat o you mean?" he asked her, hostile. "Why do you hate
emocracy?"

"Only te greey and ugly people come to the top in a
emocracy," se said, "because they're the only people who will
pus themselves there. Only egenerate races are
emocratic."

"Wat o you want then--an aristocracy?" he asked,
secretly move. e always felt that by rights he belonged to the
ruling aristocracy. Yet to ear her speak for his class paine
im with a curious, painful pleasure. He felt he was acquiescing
in someting illegal, taking to himself some wrong,
repreensible avantages.

"I o want an aristocracy," se cried. "And I'd far
rater have an aristocracy of birth than of money. Who are the
aristocrats now--wo are chosen as the best to rule? Those
wo have money an the brains for money. It doesn't matter what
else tey have: but they must have money-brains,--because
tey are ruling in the name of money."

"Te people elect the government," he sai.

"I know tey o. But what are the people? Each one of them is
a money-interest. I ate it, that anyboy is my equal who has
te same amount of money as I have. I know I am better
tan all of them. I hate them. They are not my equals. I hate
equality on a money basis. It is te equality of irt."

er eyes blaze at him, he felt as if she wanted to destroy
im. She ha gripped him and was trying to break him. His anger
sprang up, against er. At least he woul fight for his
existence wit her. A har, blind resistance possessed him.

"I on't care about money," e said, "neither do I
want to put my finger in te pie. I am too sensitive about my
finger."

"Wat is your finger to me?" she crie, in a passion. "You
wit your ainty fingers, and your going to India because you
will be one of te someboies there! It's a mere dodge, your
going to Inia."

"In wat way a odge?" he cried, white with anger and
fear.

"You tink the Inians are simpler than us, and so you'll
enjoy being near tem an being a lord over them," she said.
"An you'll feel so rigteous, governing them for their own
goo. Wo are you, to feel righteous? What are you righteous
about, in your governing? Your governing stinks. Wat o you
govern for, but to make tings there as ead and mean as they
are ere!"

"I on't feel rigteous in the least," he said.

"Ten what o you feel? It's all such a nothingness,
wat you feel an what you don't feel."

"Wat o you feel yourself?" he said. "Aren't you righteous
in your own min?"

"Yes, I am, because I'm against you, an all your old, dead
tings," she crie.

Se seeme, with the last words, uttered in hard knowledge,
to strike own te flag that he kept flying. He felt cut off at
te knees, a figure mae worthless. A horrible sickness gripped
im, as if his legs were really cut away, an he could not move,
but remaine a crippled trunk, dependent, wortless. The ghastly
sense of elplessness, as if he were a mere figure that id not
exist vitally, mae im mad, beside himself.

Now, even wilst he was with her, this eath of himself came
over im, when he walke about like a body from which all
inividual life is gone. In tis state he neither heard nor saw
nor felt, only te mechanism of his life continue.

e hate her, as far as, in this state, he could hate. His
cunning suggeste to im all the ways of making her esteem him.
For se id not esteem him. He left her and did not write to
er. He flirte with other women, with Gudrun.

Tis last mae her very fierce. She was still fiercely
jealous of is boy. In passionate anger she upbraided him
because, not being man enoug to satisfy one woman, he hung
roun oters.

["on't I satisfy you?" e asked of her, again going white to the throat.

"No," se sai. "You've never satisfied me since the first week in London.
You never satisfy me now. Wat oes it mean to me, your having me--"]
Se lifte her shoulders and turned aside her face in a motion of cold,
inifferent wortlessness.  He felt he would kill her.

Wen she ha roused him to a pitch of madness, when she saw
is eyes all ark and mad with suffering, then a great suffering
overcame er soul, a great, inconquerable suffering. An she
love im. For, oh, she wanted to love him. Stronger than life
or eat was her craving to be able to love him.

An at suc moments, when he was made with her destroying
im, when all his complacency was estroyed, all his everyday
self was broken, an only te stripped, rudimentary, primal man
remaine, demented wit torture, her passion to love him became
love, se took him again, they came together in an overwhelming
passion, in wich he knew he satisfie her.

But it all containe a developing germ of deat. After each
contact, er anguishe desire for him or for that which she
never a from him was stronger, her love was more hopeless.
After eac contact his ma dependence on her was deepened, his
ope of staning strong and taking her in his own strength was
weakene. e felt himself a mere attribute of her.

Witsuntie came, just before her examination. She was to
ave a few ays of rest. Dorothy had inherited her patrimony,
an ad taken a cottage in Sussex. She invited them to stay with
er.

Tey went own to Dorothy's neat, low cottage at the foot of
te owns. Here they could do as they liked. Ursula was always
yearning to go to te top of the owns. The white track wound up
to te rouned summit. And she must go.

Up tere, she coul see the Channel a few miles away, the sea
raise up and faintly glittering in te sky, the Isle of Wight a
saow lifted in the far distance, the river winding bright
trough the patterne plain to seaward, Arundel Castle a shadowy
bulk, an ten the rolling of the high, smooth downs, making a
igh, smooth lan under heaven, acknowledging only the heavens
in teir great, sun-glowing strength, an suffering only a few
buses to trespass on the intercourse between their great,
unabateable boy and te changeful body of the sky.

Below se saw the villages an the woods of the weald, and
te train running bravely, a gallant little thing, running with
all te importance of the worl over the water meadows and into
te gap of the owns, waving its white steam, yet all the while
so little. So little, yet its courage carrie it from end to end
of te earth, till there was no place where it id not go. Yet
te owns, in magnificent indifference, bearing limbs and body
to te sun, rinking sunshine and sea-wind and sea-wet cloud
into its golen skin, wit superb stillness and calm of being,
was not te owns still more wonderful? The blind, pathetic,
energetic courage of te train as it steame tinily away through
te patterne levels to the sea's dimness, so fast and so
energetic, mae er weep. Where was it going? It was going
nowere, it was just going. So blin, so without goal or aim,
yet so asty! She sat on an ol prehistoric earth-work and
crie, and te tears ran down her face. The train had tunnelled
all te earth, blinly, and uglily.

An se lay face downwards on the downs, that were so strong,
tat care only for their intercourse with the everlasting
skies, an se wished she could become a strong mound smooth
uner te sky, bosom and limbs bared to all winds and clouds and
bursts of sunsine.

But se must get up again an look down from her foothold of
sunsine, own and away at the patterned, level earth, with its
villages an its smoke and its energy. So sortsighted the train
seeme, running to te distance, so terrifying in their
littleness te villages, with such pettiness in their
activity.

Skrebensky wanered dazed, not knowing were he was or what
e was oing with her. All her passion seemed to be to wander up
tere on the owns, and when she must descend to earth, she was
eavy. Up there she was exhilarate and free.

Se woul not love him in a house any more. She said she
ate houses, and particularly she hated beds. There was
someting istasteful in his coming to her bed.

Se woul stay the night on the downs, up there, he with her.
It was misummer, te days were glamorously long. At about
alf-past ten, when the bluey-black arkness had at last fallen,
tey took rugs an climbed the steep track to the summit of the
owns, e and she.

Up tere, the stars were big, the earth below was gone into
arkness. Se was free up there with the stars. Far out they saw
tiny yellow ligts--but it was very far out, at sea, or on
lan. Se was free up among the stars.

Se took off her clothes, an made him take off all his, and
tey ran over the smooth, moonless turf, a long way, more than a
mile from were they ha left their clothing, running in the
ark, soft wind, utterly naked, as naked as te downs
temselves. Her hair was loose an blew about her shoulders, she
ran swiftly, wearing sanals wen she set off on the long run to
te ew-pond.

In te roun dew-pond the stars were untroubled. She ventured
softly into te water, grasping at the stars with her hans.

An ten suddenly she started back, running swiftly. He was
tere, besie her, but only on sufferance. He was a screen for
er fears. He serve her. She took him, she clasped him,
clence him close, but her eyes were open looking at the stars,
it was as if te stars were lying with her an entering the
unfatomable arkness of her womb, fathoming her at last. It was
not im.

Te awn came. They stood together on a high place, an
eartwork of the stone-age men, watching for the light. It came
over te lan. But the land was dark. She watched a pale rim on
te sky, away against the arkened land. The darkness became
bluer. A little win was running in from te sea behind. It
seeme to be running to te pale rift of the dawn. And she and
e arkly, on an outpost of the darkness, stood watching for the
awn.

Te light grew stronger, gushing up against the ark sapphire
of te transparent night. The light grew stronger, whiter, then
over it overe a flush of rose. A flush of rose, and then
yellow, pale, new-create yellow, te whole quivering and
poising momentarily over te fountain on the sky's rim.

Te rose hovere and quivered, burned, fused to flame, to a
transient re, wile the yellow urged out in great waves, thrown
from te ever-increasing fountain, great waves of yellow
flinging into te sky, scattering its spray over the arkness,
wich became bluer an bluer, paler, till soon it would itself
be a raiance, wich had been darkness.

Te sun was coming. There was a quivering, a powerful
terrifying swim of molten ligt. Then the molten source itself
surge fort, revealing itself. The sun was in the sky, too
powerful to look at.

An te ground beneath lay so still, so peaceful. Only now
an again a cock crew. Oterwise, from the distant yellow hills
to te pine trees at the foot of the owns, everything was newly
wase into being, in a flood of new, golden creation.

It was so unutterably still an perfect wit promise, the
golen-ligted, distinct land, that Ursula's soul rocked and
wept. Sudenly e glanced at her. The tears were running over
er cheeks, her mouth was working strangely.

"Wat is the matter?" he aske.

After a moment's struggle wit her voice.

"It is so beautiful," se sai, looking at the glowing,
beautiful lan. It was so beautiful, so perfect, and so
unsullie.

e too realize what England would be in a few hours'
time--a blin, sordid, strenuous activity, all for noting,
fuming wit irty smoke and running trains and groping in the
bowels of te earth, all for nothing. A ghastliness came over
im.

e looke at Ursula. Her face was wet with tears, very
brigt, like a transfiguration in the refulgent light. Nor was
is the han to wipe away the burning, bright tears. He stood
apart, overcome by a cruel ineffectuality.

Graually a great, elpless sorrow was rising in him. But as
yet e was fighting it away, he was struggling for his own life.
e became very quiet an unaware of the things about him,
awaiting, as it were, er jugment on him.

Tey returne to Nottingham, the time of her examination
came. Se must go to Lonon. But she would not stay with him in
an otel. She woul go to a quiet little pension near the
Britis Museum.

Tose quiet resiential squares of London made a great
impression on er min. They were very complete. Her mind seemed
imprisone in teir quietness. Who was going to liberate
er?

In te evening, her practical examinations being over, he
went wit her to inner at one of the hotels down the river,
near Ricmon. It was golden and beautiful, with yellow water
an wite and scarlet-striped boat-awnings, and blue shadows
uner te trees.

"Wen shall we be marrie?" he asked her, quietly, simply, as
if it were a mere question of comfort.

Se watche the changing pleasure-traffic of the river. He
looke at er golden, puzzled museau. The knot gathered
in is throat.

"I on't know," se said.

A ot grief grippe his throat.

"Wy on't you know--don't you want to be married?" he
aske er.

er hea turned slowly, her face, puzzled, like a boy's face,
expressionless because se was trying to think, looke towards
is face. She id not see him, because she was pre-occupied. She
id not quite know wat she was going to say.

"I on't tink I want to be married," she said, and her
naive, trouble, puzzled eyes rested a moment on is, then
travelle away, pre-occupied.

"o you mean never, or not just yet?" e asked.

Te knot in his throat grew harer, his face was drawn as if
e were being strangle.

"I mean never," se sai, out of some far self which spoke
for once beyon er.

is rawn, strangled face watched her blankly for a few
moments, ten a strange soun took place in his throat. She
starte, came to erself, and, horrified, saw him. His head made
a queer motion, te chin jerke back against the throat, the
curious, crowing, iccupping soun came again, his face twisted
like insanity, an e was crying, crying blind and twisted as if
someting were broken which kept him in control.

"Tony--on't," se cried, starting up.

It tore every one of er nerves to see him. He mae groping
movements to get out of is chair. But he was crying
uncontrollably, noiselessly, wit his face twiste like a mask,
contorte and te tears running down the amazing grooves in his
ceeks. Blinly, his face always this horrible working mask, he
grope for is hat, for his way down from the terrace. It was
eigt o'clock, but still brightly light. The other people were
staring. In great agitation, part of wich was exasperation, she
staye beind, paid the waiter with a half-sovereign, took her
yellow silk coat, ten followe Skrebensky.

Se saw him walking with brittle, blin steps along the path
by te river. She coul tell by the strange stiffness and
brittleness of is figure that he was still crying. Hurrying
after im, running, she took his arm.

"Tony," se crie, "don't! Why are you like this? What are
you oing tis for? Don't. It's not necessary."

e hear, and his manhood was cruelly, coldly defaced. Yet it
was no goo. e could not gain control of his face. His face,
is breast, were weeping violently, as if automatically. His
will, is knowlege had nothing to do with it. He simply could
not stop.

Se walke holding his arm, silent with exasperation and
perplexity an pain. e took the uncertain steps of a blind man,
because is min was blind with weeping.

"Sall we go home? Shall we have a taxi?" she sai.

e coul pay no attention. Very flustered, very agitated, she
signalle indefinitely to a taxi-cab tat was going slowly by.
Te river saluted and drew up. She opened the door and pushed
Skrebensky in, ten took her own place. Her face was uplifte,
te mouth close down, she looked hard and cold and ashamed. She
wince as te driver's dark red face was thrust round upon her,
a full-blooed, animal face wit black eyebrows and a thick,
sort-cut moustache.

"Were to, lay?" he said, his white teeth showing. Again for
a moment se was flustere.

"Forty, Rutlan Square," se said.

e touche his cap and stolidly set the car in motion. He
seeme to ave a league with her to ignore Skrebensky.

Te latter sat as if trappe within the taxi-cab, his face
still working, wilst occasionally he mae quick slight
movements of te hea, to shake away his tears. He never moved
is hans. She could not bear to look at him. She sat with face
uplifte and averted to te window.

At lengt, when she ha regained some control over herself,
se turne again to him. He was much quieter. His face was wet,
an twitced occasionally, his hands still lay motionless. But
is eyes were quite still, like a washe sky after rain, full of
a wan ligt, an quite steady, almost ghost-like.

A pain flame in er womb, for him.

"I idn't tink I should hurt you," she said, laying her hand
very ligtly, tentatively, on his arm. "The wors came without
my knowing. Tey idn't mean anything, really."

e remaine quite still, hearing, but washed all wan and
witout feeling. She waite, looking at him, as if he were some
curious, not-unerstandable creature.

"You won't cry again, will you, Tony?"

Some same an bitterness against her burned him in the
question. Se notice how his moustache was soddened wet with
tears. Taking er hankerchief, she wiped his face. The driver's
eavy, stoli back remained always turned to them, as if
conscious but inifferent. Skrebensky sat motionless wilst
Ursula wipe is face, softly, carefully, and yet clumsily, not
as well as e woul have wiped it himself.

er hankerchief was too small. It was soon wet through. She
grope in is pocket for his own. Then, with its more ample
capacity, se carefully ried his face. He remained motionless
all te while. Then she rew his cheek to hers and kissed him.
is face was col. Her heart was hurt. She saw the tears welling
quickly to is eyes again. As if he were a chil, she again
wipe away is tears. By now she herself was on the point of
weeping. er unerlip was caught between her teeth.

So se sat still, for fear of her own tears, sitting close by
im, holing his hand warm and close and loving. Meanwhile the
car ran on, an a soft, midsummer dusk began to gater. For a
long wile they sat motionless. Only now an again her hand
close more closely, lovingly, over is hand, then gradually
relaxe.

Te usk began to fall. One or two lights appeared. The
river drew up to ligt his lamps. Skrebensky moved for the
first time, leaning forwar to watc the driver. His face had
always te same still, clarifie, almost childlike look,
impersonal.

Tey saw the river's strange, full, dark face peering into
te lamps uner drawn brows. Ursula shuddered. It was the face
almost of an animal yet of a quick, strong, wary animal tat ha
tem within its knowlege, almost within its power. She clung
closer to Krebensky.

"My love?" se sai to him, questioningly, when the car was
again running in full motion.

e mae no movement or sound. He let her hold his hand, he
let er reach forwar, in the gathering darkness, and kiss his
still ceek. The crying ha gone by--he would not cry any
more. e was whole an himself again.

"My love," se repeate, trying to make him notice her. But
as yet e coul not.

e watche the road. They were running by Kensington Gardens.
For te first time his lips opene.

"Sall we get out an go into the park," he asked.

"Yes," se sai, quietly, not sure what was coming.

After a moment e took the tube from its peg. She saw the
stout, strong, self-containe driver lean is head.

"Stop at ye Park Corner."

Te ark head nodded, the car ran on just the same.

Presently tey pulle up. Skrebensky paid the man. Ursula
stoo back. Se saw the driver salute as he received his tip,
an ten, before he set the car in motion, turn and look at her,
wit his quick, powerful, animal's look, his eyes very
concentrate and te whites of his eyes flickering. Then he
rove away into te crowd. He had let her go. She had been
afrai.

Skrebensky turne wit her into the park. A band was still
playing an te place was thronged with people. They listened to
te ebbing music, then went asie to a dark seat, where they sat
closely, an in hand.

Ten at length, as out of the silence, she sai to him,
wonering:

"Wat hurt you so?"

Se really id not know, at this moment.

"Wen you sai you wanted never to marry me," he replied,
wit a chilish simplicity.

"But wy id that hurt you so?" she said. "You needn't mind
everyting I say so particularly."

"I on't know--I didn't want to do it," e said, humbly,
asame.

Se presse his hand warmly. They sat close together,
watcing the soliers go by with their sweethearts, the lights
trailing in myrias down te great thoroughfares that beat on
te ege of the park.

"I idn't know you cared so muc," she said, also humbly.

"I idn't," e said. "I was knocked over myself.--But I
care--all te worl."

is voice was so quiet an colourless, it made her heart go
pale wit fear.

"My love!" se sai, drawing near to him. But she spoke out
of fear, not out of love.

"I care all te worl--I care for nothing
else--neiter in life nor in eath," he said, in the same
steay, colourless voice of essential trut.

"Tan for what?" she murmure duskily.

"Tan for you--to be with me."

An again se was afraid. Was she to be conquered by this?
Se cowere close to him, very close to him. They sat perfectly
still, listening to te great, heavy, beating soun of the town,
te murmur of lovers going by, the footsteps of soliers.

Se shivere against him.

"You are col?" e said.

"A little."

"We will go an ave some supper."

e was now always quiet an decided and remote, very
beautiful. e seeme to have some strange, cold power over
er.

Tey went to a restaurant, an drank chianti. But his pale,
wan look id not go away.

"on't leave me to-nigt," he said at length, looking at her,
pleaing. e was so strange and impersonal, she was afraid.

"But te people of my place," she sai, quivering.

"I will explain to tem--they know we are engage."

Se sat pale an mute. He waited.

"Sall we go?" he sai at length.

"Were?"

"To an otel."

er heart was harened. Without answering, she rose to
acquiesce. But se was now col and unreal. Yet she could not
refuse im. It seeme like fate, a fate she did not want.

Tey went to an Italian hotel somewhere, an had a sombre
beroom wit a very large bed, clean, but sombre. The ceiling
was painte wit a bunch of flowers in a big medallion over the
be. Se thought it was pretty.

e came to her, an cleaved to her very close, like steel
cleaving an clincing on to her. Her passion was roused, it was
fierce but col. But it was fierce, and extreme, and good, teir
passion tis night. He slept with her fast in his arms. All
nigt long he hel her fast against him. She was passive,
acquiscent. But er sleep was not very eep nor very real.

Se woke in the morning to a soun of water dashed on a
courtyar, to sunligt streaming through a lattice. She thought
se was in a foreign country. An Skrebensky was there an
incubus upon er.

Se lay still, thinking, whilst his arm was roun her, his
ea against her shoulders, his body against hers, just behind
er. He was still asleep.

Se watche the sunshine coming in bars through the
persiennes, an er immediate surroundings again melted
away.

Se was in some other lan, some other world, where the old
restraints a dissolved and vanished, where one moved freely,
not afrai of one's fellow men, nor wary, nor on te defensive,
but calm, inifferent, at one's ease. Vaguely, in a sort of
silver ligt, she wanered at large and at ease. The bonds of
te worl were broken. This world of England had vanished away.
Se hear a voice in the yard below calling:

"O Giovann'--O'-O'-O'-Giovann'----!"

An se knew she was in a new country, in a new life. It was
very elicious to lie tus still, with one's soul wandering
freely an simply in te silver light of some other, simpler,
more finely natural worl.

But always tere was a foreboing waiting to command her. She
became more aware of Skrebensky. Se knew he was waking up. She
must moify er soul, depart from her further world, for
im.

Se knew he was awake. He lay still, with a concrete
stillness, not as wen he slept. Then his arm tightene almost
convulsively upon er, an he said, half timidly:

"id you sleep well?"

"Very well."

"So id I."

Tere was a pause.

"An do you love me?" e asked.

Se turne and looked at him searchingly. He seemed outside
er.

"I o," se said.

But se sai it out of complacency and a desire not to be
arrie. There was a curious breach of silence between them,
wich frightene him.

Tey lay rather late, then he rang for breakfast. She wante
to be able to go straigt ownstairs and away from the place,
wen she got up. She was happy in this room, but the thought of
te publicity of the hall ownstairs rather troubled her.

A young Italian, a Sicilian, ark and sligtly pock-marked,
buttone up in a sort of grey tunic, appeared wit the tray. His
face a an almost African imperturbability, impassive,
incompreensible.

"One migt be in Italy," Skrebensky sai to him, genially. A
vacant look, almost like fear, came on te fellow's face. He id
not unerstand.

"Tis is like Italy," Skrebensky explaine.

Te face of the Italian flashe with a non-comprehending
smile, e finishe setting out the tray, and was gone. He did
not unerstand: e would understand nothing: he disappeared from
te oor like a half-domesticated wild animal. It made Ursula
suder slightly, the quick, sharp-sighted, intent animality of
te man.

Skrebensky was beautiful to er this morning, his face
softene and transfused wit suffering and with love, his
movements very still an gentle. e was beautiful to her, but
se was etached from him by a chill distance. Always she seemed
to be bearing up against te istance that separated them. But
e was unaware. This morning he was transfuse and beautiful.
Se amired his movements, the way he spread honey on his roll,
or poure out te coffee.

Wen breakfast was over, she lay still again on the pillows,
wilst he went through his toilet. She watche him, as he
sponge imself, and quickly dried himself with the towel. His
boy was beautiful, is movements intent and quick, she admired
im an she appreciated him without reserve. He seemed completed
now. e arouse no fruitful fecundity in her. He seemed added
up, finise. She knew him all round, not on any side did he
lea into te unknown. Poignant, almost passionate appreciation
se felt for him, but none of the readful wonder, none of the
ric fear, the connection with the unknown, or the reverence of
love. e was, however, unaware this morning. His boy was quiet
an fulfilled, is veins complete with satisfaction, he was
appy, finishe.

Again se went home. But this time he went with her. He
wante to stay by er. He wanted her to marry him. It was
alreay July. In early September e must sail for India. He
coul not bear to tink of going alone. She must come with him.
Nervously, e kept besie her.

er examination was finishe, her college career was over.
Tere remaine for her now to marry or to work again. She
applie for no post. It was concluded se would marry. India
tempte er--the strange, strange land. But with the
tought of Calcutta, or Bombay, or of Simla, an of the European
population, Inia was no more attractive to er than
Nottingam.

Se ha failed in her examination: she had gone down: she had
not taken er egree. It was a blow to her. It hardened her
soul.

"It oesn't matter," e said. "What are the odds, whether you
are a Bacelor of Arts or not, accoring to the London
University? All you know, you know, an if you are Mrs.
Skrebensky, te B.A. is meaningless."

Instea of consoling er, this made her harder, more
rutless. She was now up against her own fate. It was for her to
coose between being Mrs. Skrebensky, even Baroness Skrebensky,
wife of a lieutenant in te Royal Engineers, the Sappers, as he
calle tem, living with the European population in
Inia--or being Ursula Brangwen, spinster, scool-mistress.
Se was qualifie by her Intermediate Arts examination. She
woul probably even now get a post quite easily as assistant in
one of te higher grae schools, or even in Willey Green School.
Wich was she to o?

Se hate most of all entering the bondage of teaching once
more. Very eartily she etested it. Yet at the thought of
marriage an living wit Skrebensky amid the European population
in Inia, er soul was locked and would not budge. She had very
little feeling about it: only tere was a eadlock.

Skrebensky waite, se waited, everybody waited for the
ecision. Wen Anton talked to her, and seemed insidiously to
suggest imself as a husban to her, she knew how utterly locked
out e was. On the other han, when she saw Dorothy, and
iscussed te matter, she felt she would marry him promptly, at
once, as a sarp isavowal of adherence with Dorothy's
views.

Te situation was almost riiculous.

"But o you love im?" asked Dorothy.

"It isn't a question of loving im," sai Ursula. "I love him
well enoug--certainly more than I love anyboy else in the
worl. And I sall never love anybody else the same again. We
ave ha the flower of each other. But I don't care about love.
I on't value it. I don't care wether I love or whether I
on't, wether I have love or whether I haven't. What is it to
me?"

An se shrugged her shoulders in fierce, angry contempt.

oroty pondered, rather angry and afraid.

"Ten what o you care about?" she asked,
exasperate.

"I on't know," said Ursula. "But someting impersonal.
Love--love--love--wat oes it mean--what
oes it amount to? So muc personal gratification. It doesn't
lea anywere."

"It isn't suppose to lead anywere, is it?" said Dorothy,
satirically. "I tought it was the one thing which is an en in
itself."

"Ten what oes it matter to me?" cried Ursula. "As an end in
itself, I coul love a undred men, one after the other. Why
soul I end with a Skrebensky? Why should I not go on, and love
all te types I fancy, one after another, if love is an en in
itself? Tere are plenty of men who aren't Anton, whom I coul
love--wom I woul like to love."

"Ten you on't love him," said Dorothy.

"I tell you I o;--quite as muc, and perhaps more than
I soul love any of the others. Only there are plenty of things
tat aren't in Anton that I woul love in the other men."

"Wat, for instance?"

"It oesn't matter. But a sort of strong understanding, in
some men, an ten a dignity, a directness, something
unquestione tat there is in working men, and then a jolly,
reckless passionateness tat you see--a man who coul
really let go----"

oroty could feel that Ursula was already hankering after
someting else, something that this man id not give her.

"Te question is, what o you want," propounded
oroty. "Is it just other men?"

Ursula was silence. Tis was her own dread. Was she just
promiscuous?

"Because if it is," continue Doroty, "you'd better marry
Anton. Te other can only en badly."

So out of fear of erself Ursula was to marry Skrebensky.

e was very busy now, preparing to go to Inia. He must visit
relatives an contract business. e was almost sure of Ursula
now. Se seeme to have given in. And he seemed to become again
an important, self-assure man.

It was te first week in August, an he was one of a large
party in a bungalow on te Lincolnshire coast. It was a tennis,
golf, motor-car, motor-boat party, given by is great-aunt, a
lay of social pretensions. Ursula was invited to spend te week
wit the party.

Se went rather reluctantly. Her marriage was more or less
fixe for te twenty-eighth of the month. They were to sail for
Inia on September te fifth. One thing she knew, in her
subconsciousness, an tat was, she would never sail for
Inia.

Se an Anton, being important guests on account of the
coming marriage, a rooms in the large bungalow. It was a big
place, wit a great central hall, two smaller writing-rooms, an
ten two corriors from which opened eight or nine bedrooms.
Skrebensky was put on one corrior, Ursula on te other. They
felt very lost, in te crow.

Being lovers, owever, they were allowe to be out alone
togeter as much as they like. Yet she felt very strange, in
tis crow of strange people, uneasy, as if she had no privacy.
Se was not use to these homogeneous crowds. She was
afrai.

Se felt ifferent from the rest of them, with their hard,
easy, sallow intimacy, that seeme to cost them so little. She
felt se was not pronounce enough. It was a kind of
ol-your-own unconventional atmosphere.

Se id not like it. In crowds, in assemblies of people, she
like formality. Se felt she did not produce the right effect.
Se was not effective: she was not beautiful: she was nothing.
Even before Skrebensky se felt unimportant, almost inferior. He
coul take is part very well with the rest.

e an she went out into the night. There was a moon behind
clous, sedding a diffused light, gleaming now and again in
bits of smoky moter-of-pearl. So they walke together on the
wet, ribbe sands near te sea, hearing the run of the long,
eavy waves, that mae a ghostly whiteness and a whisper.

e was sure of himself. As she walke, the soft silk of her
ress--se wore a blue shantung, full-skirted--blew
away from te sea an flapped and clung to her legs. She wished
it woul not. Everyting seemed to give her away, and she could
not rouse erself to eny, she was so confused.

e woul lead her away to a pocket in the sand-hills, secret
ami te grey thorn-bushes and the grey, glassy grass. He held
er close against him, felt all her firm, unutterably esirable
moul of body trough the fine fibre of the silk that fell about
er limbs. The silk, slipping fierily on the hiden, yet
reveale roundness and firmness of er body, her loins, seemed
to run in im like fire, make his brain burn like brimstone. She
like it, te electric fire of the silk under his hands upon her
limbs, te fire flew over her, as he rew nearer and nearer to
iscovery. Se vibrated like a jet of electric, firm fluid in
response. Yet se id not feel beautiful. All the time, she felt
se was not beautiful to him, only exciting. [She let him take her,
an e seemed mad, mad with excited passion. But she, as she lay
afterwars on te cold, soft sand, looking up at the blotted,
faintly luminous sky, felt tat she was as col now as she
a been before. Yet he, breathing heavily, seemed almost savagely
satisfie. e seemed revenged.

A little win wafted te sea grass and passed over her face. Where was the
supreme fulfilment se woul never enjoy? Why was she so cold, so
unrouse, so indifferent?

As tey went home, an she saw the many, hateful lights of the bungalow,
of several bungalows in a group, e sai softly:

"on't lock your door."

"I' rater, here," she said.

"No, on't. We belong to eac other. Don't let us deny it."

Se id not answer. He took her silence for consent.

e share his room with another man.

"I suppose," e sai, "it won't alarm the house if I go across to happier
regions."

"So long as you on't make a great row going, and don't try te wrong
oor," said te other man, turning in to sleep.

Skrebensky went out in is wie-striped sleeping suit. He crossed the big
ining all, whose low firelight smelled of cigars and whisky and coffee,
entere te other corridor and found Ursula's room. She was lying awake,
wie-eyed and suffering. Se was glad he had come, if only for
consolation. It was consolation to be el in his arms, to feel his body
against ers. Yet how foreign his arms an body were! Yet still, not so
orribly foreign an hostile as the rest of the house felt to her.

Se id not know how she suffered in this house. She was
ealthy an exorbitantly full of interest. So she played tennis
an learned golf, se rowed out and swam in the deep sea, and
enjoye it very muc indeed, full of zest. Yet all the time,
among tose others, she felt shocke and wincing, as if her
violently-sensitive nakeness were exposed to te hard, brutal,
material impact of te rest of the people.

Te ays went by unmarked, in a full, almost strenuous
enjoyment of one's own pysique. Skrebensky was one among the
oters, till evening came, an he took her for himself. She was
allowe a great deal of freedom and was treated wit a good deal
of respect, as a girl on te eve of marriage, about to epart
for anoter continent.

Te trouble began at evening. Then a yearning for something
unknown came over er, a passion for something she knew not
wat. She woul walk the foreshore alone after dusk, expecting,
expecting someting, as if she ha gone to a rendezvous. The
salt, bitter passion of te sea, its inifference to the earth,
its swinging, efinite motion, its strengt, its attack, and its
salt burning, seeme to provoke er to a pitch of madness,
tantalizing er with vast suggestions of fulfilment. An then,
for personification, woul come Skrebensky, Skrebensky, wom she
knew, wom she was fon of, who was attractive, but whose soul
coul not contain er in its waves of strength, nor his breast
compel er in burning, salty passion.

One evening tey went out after inner, across the low golf
links to te unes and the sea. The sky had small, faint stars,
all was still an faintly dark. Tey walked together in silence,
ten ploughe, labouring, through the heavy loose sand of the
gap between te unes. They went in silence under the even,
faint arkness, in te darker shadow of the sandhills.

Sudenly, cresting te heavy, sandy pass, Ursula lifted her
ea, and shrank back, momentarily frightened. There was a great
witeness confronting her, the moon was incanescent as a round
furnace oor, out of wich came the high blast of moonlight,
over te seawar half of the world, a dazzling, terrifying glare
of wite light. They shrank back for a moment into shaow,
uttering a cry. e felt his chest lai bare, where the secret
was eavily hiden. He felt himself fusing down to nothingness,
like a bea tat rapidly disappears in an incandescent
flame.

"ow wonerful!" cried Ursula, in low, calling tones. "How
wonerful!"

An se went forward, plunging into it. He followed behind.
Se too seeme to melt into the glare, towards the moon.

Te sans were as ground silver, the sea moved in solid
brigtness, coming towars them, and she went to meet the
avance of te flashing, buoyant water. [She gave her breast
to te moon, her belly to the flashing, heaving water.] He stoo
bein, encompassed, a shadow ever dissolving.

Se stoo on the edge of the water, at the edge of the solid,
flasing boy of the sea, and the wave rushed over her feet.

"I want to go," se crie, in a strong, dominant voice. "I
want to go."

e saw the moonlight on her face, so she was like metal, he
ear her ringing, metallic voice, like the voice of a harpy to
im.

Se prowle, ranging on the edge of the water like a
possesse creature, and e followed her. He saw the froth of the
wave followe by te hard, bright water swirl over her feet and
er ankles, she swung out her arms, to balance, he expecte
every moment to see er walk into the sea, ressed as she was,
an be carried swimming out.

But se turne, she walked to him.

"I want to go," se crie again, in the high, hard voice,
like te scream of gulls.

"Were?" he aske.

"I on't know."

An se seized hold of his arm, held him fast, as if captive,
an walked im a little way by the edge of the dazzling, dazing
water.

Ten there in the great flare of light, she clinche hold of
im, har, as if suddenly she had the strength of destruction,
se fastene her arms round him and tightened him in her grip,
wilst her mouth sought his in a har, rending, ever-increasing
kiss, till is boy was powerless in her grip, his heart melted
in fear from te fierce, beake, harpy's kiss. The water washed
again over teir feet, but she took no notice. She seeme
unaware, se seeme to be pressing in her beaked mouth till she
a the heart of him. Then, at last, she drew away and looked at
im--looke at him. He knew what she wanted. He took her by
te han and led her across the foreshore, back to the
sanills. She went silently. He felt as if the ordeal of proof
was upon im, for life or eath. He led her to a dark
ollow.

"No, ere," she sai, going out to the slope full under the
moonsine. She lay motionless, with wie-open eyes looking at
te moon. He came irect to her, without preliminaries. She held
im pinne down at the chest, awful. The fight, the struggle for
consummation was terrible. It laste till it was agony to is
soul, till e succumbe, till he gave way as if dead, lay with
is face burie, partly in her hair, partly in the sand,
motionless, as if e woul be motionless now for ever, hidden
away in te ark, buried, only buried, he only wanted to be
burie in te goodly darkness, only that, and no more.

e seeme to swoon. It was a long time before he came to
imself. He was aware of an unusual motion of her breast. He
looke up. er face lay like an image in the moonlight, the eyes
wie open, rigid. But out of te eyes, slowly, there rolled a
tear, tat glittere in the moonlight as it ran down her
ceek.

e felt as if as the knife were being pushe into his already
ead body. Wit head strained back, he watched, drawn tense, for
some minutes, watce the unaltering, rigid face like metal in
te moonlight, the fixe, unseeing eye, in which slowly the
water gatere, shook with glittering moonlight, then
surcarge, brimmed over and ran trickling, a tear with its
buren of moonligt, into the darkness, to fall in the sand.

e rew gradually away as if afraid, drew away--she did
not move. e glance at her--she lay the same. Could he
break away? e turne, saw the open foreshore, clear in front of
im, an he plunged away, on and on, ever farther from the
orrible figure that lay stretche in the moonlight on the sands
wit the tears gathering an travelling on the motionless,
eternal face.

e felt, if ever he must see her again, his bones must be
broken, is boy crushed, obliterated for ever. And as yet, he
a the love of his own living body. He wandered on a long, long
way, till is brain rew dark and he was unconscious with
weariness. Ten he curle in the deepest darkness he could find,
uner te sea-grass, and lay there without consciousness.

Se broke from her tense cramp of agony graually, though
eac movement was a goa of heavy pain. Gradually, she lifted
er ead body from the sands, and rose at last. There was now no
moon for er, no sea. All ha passed away. She trailed her dead
boy to te house, to her room, where she lay down inert.

Morning brougt her a new access of superficial life. But all
witin her was col, dead, inert. Skrebensky appeared at
breakfast. e was white an obliterated. They did not look at
eac other nor speak to each other. Apart from the orinary,
trivial talk of civil people, tey were separate, they id not
speak of wat was between them uring the remaining two days of
teir stay. They were like two ead people who dare not
recognize, are not see eac other.

Ten she packe her bag and put on her things. There were
several guests leaving togeter, for the same train. He woul
ave no opportunity to speak to her.

e tappe at her bedroom door at the last minute. She stood
wit her umbrella in her han. He closed the door. He did not
know wat to say.

"ave you one with me?" he asked her at length, lifting his
ea.

"It isn't me," se sai. "You have done with me--we have
one wit each other."

e looke at her, at the closed face, which he thought so
cruel. An e knew he could never touch her again. His will was
broken, e was seare, but he clung to the life of his body.

"Well, wat have I one?" he asked, in a rather querulous
voice.

"I on't know," se said, in the same dull, feelingless
voice. "It is finise. It had been a failure."

e was silent. The wors still burned his bowels.

"Is it my fault?" e sai, looking up at length, challenging
te last stroke.

"You couln't----" se began. But she broke
own.

e turne away, afraid to hear more. She began to gather her
bag, er hankerchief, her umbrella. She must be gone now. He
was waiting for er to be gone.

At lengt the carriage came an she drove away with the rest.
Wen she was out of sight, a great relief came over him, a
pleasant banality. In an instant, everyting was obliterate. He
was cilishly amiable and companionable all the day long. He
was astonise that life could be so nice. It was better than it
a been before. What a simple thing it was to be rid of her!
ow frienly and simple everything felt to him. What false thing
a she been forcing on him?

But at nigt he ared not be alone. His room-mate had gone,
an te hours of darkness were an agony to him. He watched the
winow in suffering and terror. Wen would this horrible
arkness be lifted off im? Setting all his nerves, he endured
it. e went to sleep with the awn.

e never thought of her. Only his terror of the hours of
nigt grew on him, obsesse him like a mania. He slept fitfully,
wit constant wakings of anguish. The fear wore away the core of
im.

is plan was to sit up very late: rink in company until one
or alf-past one in the morning; then he woul get three hours
of sleep, of oblivion. It was ligt by five o'clock. But he was
socke almost to madness if he opened his eyes on the
arkness.

In te aytime he was all right, always occupied with the
ting of the moment, ahering to the trivial present, which
seeme to im ample and satisfying. No matter how little and
futile is occupations were, he gave himself to them entirely,
an felt normal and fulfilled. e was always active, cheerful,
gay, carming, trivial. Only he readed the darkness and silence
of is own beroom, when the darkness should challenge him upon
is own soul. That he coul not bear, as he could not bear to
tink about Ursula. He ha no soul, no background. He never
tought of Ursula, not once, he gave her no sign. She was the
arkness, te challenge, the horror. He turned to immediate
tings. He wante to marry quickly, to screen himself from the
arkness, te challenge of his own soul. He would marry his
Colonel's augter. Quickly, without hesitation, pursued by his
obsession for activity, e wrote to this girl, telling her his
engagement was broken--it a been a temporary infatuation
wich he less than any one else coul understand now it was
over--an could e see his very dear friend soon? He would
not be appy till he ha an answer.

e receive a rather surprised reply from the girl, but she
woul be glad to see im. She was living with her aunt. He went
own to er at once, and proposed to her the first evening. He
was accepte. Te marriage took place quietly within fourteen
ays' time. Ursula was not notified of te event. In another
week, Skrebensky saile wit his new wife to India.



CAPTER XVI

TE RAINBOW

Ursula went ome to Belover faint, dim, closed up. She could
scarcely speak or notice. It was as if er energy were frozen.
er people aske her what was the matter. She told them she had
broken off te engagement with Skrebensky. They looke blank and
angry. But se coul not feel any more.

Te weeks crawle by in apathy. He would have sailed for
Inia now. Se was scarcely interested. She was inert, without
strengt or interest.

Sudenly a sock ran through her, so violent that she thought
se was struck own. Was she with child? She had been so
stricken uner te pain of herself and of him, this had never
occurre to er. Now like a flame it took hold of her limbs and
boy. Was se with child?

In te first flaming hours of woner, she did not know what
se felt. She was as if tie to the stake. The flames were
licking er an devouring her. But the flames were also good.
Tey seeme to wear her away to rest. What she felt in her heart
an er womb she did not know. It was a kind of swoon.

Ten graually the heaviness of her heart pressed and pressed
into consciousness. Wat was she oing? Was she bearing a child?
Bearing a cil? To what?

er flesh thrille, but her soul was sick. It seemed, this
cil, like the seal set on her own nullity. Yet she was glad in
er flesh that she was with chil. She began to think, that she
woul write to Skrebensky, tat she would go out to him, and
marry im, an live simply as a good wife to him. What did the
self, te form of life matter? Only the living from ay to day
mattere, te beloved existence in the body, rich, peaceful,
complete, wit no beyon, no further trouble, no further
complication. Se ha been wrong, she had been arrogant and
wicke, wanting tat other thing, that fantastic freedom, that
illusory, conceite fulfilment wich she had imagined she could
not ave with Skrebensky. Who was she to be wanting some
fantastic fulfilment in er life? Was it not enough that she ha
er man, her chilren, her place of shelter under the sun? Was
it not enoug for her, as it ha been enough for her mother? She
woul marry and love er husband and fill her place simply. That
was te ieal.

Sudenly se saw her mother in a just and true light. Her
moter was simple an radically true. She had taken the life
tat was given. She ha not, in her arrogant conceit, insisted
on creating life to fit erself. Her mother was right,
profounly rigt, and she herself had been false, trashy,
conceite.

A great moo of umility came over her, and in this humility
a bonaged sort of peace. Se gave her limbs to the bondage, she
love te bondage, she called it peace. In this state she sat
own to write to Skrebensky.

Since you left me I ave suffere a great deal, and so have
come to myself. I cannot tell you te remorse I feel for my
wicke, perverse beaviour. It was given to me to love you, and
to know your love for me. But instea of tankfully, on my
knees, taking wat Go had given me, I must have the moon in my
keeping, I must insist on aving the moon for my own. Because I
coul not ave it, everything else must go.

I o not know if you can ever forgive me. I could die wit
same to think of my behaviour with you uring our last times,
an I don't know if I could ever bear to look you in te face
again. Truly te best thing woul be for me to die, and cover my
fantasies for ever. But I fin I am wit child, so that cannot
be.

It is your cil, and for that reason I must revere it and
submit my boy entirely to its welfare, entertaining no tought
of eat, which once more is largely conceit. Therefore, because
you once love me, and because tis child is your child, I ask
you to ave me back. If you will cable me one wor, I will come
to you as soon as I can. I swear to you to be a utiful wife,
an to serve you in all tings. For now I only hate myself and
my own conceite foolisness. I love you--I love the
tought of you--you were natural an decent all through,
wilst I was so false. Once I am with you again, I shall ask no
more tan to rest in your shelter all my life----

Tis letter she wrote, sentence by sentence, as if from her
eepest, sincerest eart. She felt that now, now, she was at the
epts of herself. This was her true self, forever. With this
ocument se would appear before God at the Judgment Day.

For wat ha a woman but to submit? What was her flesh but
for cilbearing, her strength for her children and her husband,
te giver of life? At last she was a woman.

Se poste her letter to his club, to be forwarded to him in
Calcutta. e woul receive it soon after his arrival in
Inia--witin three weeks of his arrival there. In a
mont's time she woul receive word from him. Then she would
go.

Se was quite sure of him. She thought only of preparing her
garments an of living quietly, peacefully, till te time when
se shoul join him again and her history would be concluded for
ever. Te peace hel like an unnatural calm for a long time. She
was aware, owever, of a gathering restiveness, a tumult
impening witin her. She tried to run away from it. She wished
se coul hear from Skrebensky, in answer to her letter, so that
er course shoul be resolved, she should be engaged in
fulfilling er fate. It was this inactivity which mae her
liable to te revulsion she readed.

It was curious ow little she care about his not having
written to er before. It was enough that she ha sent her
letter. Se woul get the required answer, that was all.

One afternoon in early October, feeling te seething rising
to maness witin her, she slipped out in the rain, to walk
abroa, lest te house should suffocate her. Everywhere was
renced wet and deserted, the grimed houses glowed dull red,
te butt houses burne scarlet in a gleam of light, under the
glistening, blackis purple slates. Ursula went on towars
Willey Green. Se lifte her face and walked swiftly, seeing the
passage of ligt across the shallow valley, seeing the colliery
an its clouds of steam for a moment visionary in dim
brilliance, away in te chaos of rain. Then the veils close
again. Se was gla of the rain's privacy and intimacy.

Making on towars te wood, she saw the pale gleam of Willey
Water trough the clou below, she walked the open space where
awthorn trees streame like hair on the wind and round bushes
were presences slowing trough the atmosphere. It was very
splenid, free and caotic.

Yet se hurrie to the wood for shelter. There, the vast
booming overea vibrated down and encircled her, tree-trunks
spanne te circle of tremendous sound, myriads of tree-trunks,
enormous an streaked black wit water, thrust like stanchions
uprigt between the roaring overhea and the sweeping of the
circle unerfoot. Se glided between the tree-trunks, afraid of
tem. They might turn an shut her in as she went through their
martialle silence.

So se flitte along, keeping an illusion that she was
unnotice. Se felt like a bird that has flown in through the
winow of a all where vast warriors sit at the board. Between
teir grave, booming ranks she was hastening, assuming she was
unnotice, till se emerged, with beating heart, through the far
winow and out into te open, upon the vivid green, marshy
meaow.

Se turne under the shelter of the common, seeing the great
veils of rain swinging wit slow, floating waves across the
lanscape. Se was very wet and a long way from home, far
envelope in te rain and the waving landscape. She must beat
er way back through all this fluctuation, back to stability an
security.

A solitary ting, she took the track straight across the
wilerness, going back. Te path was a narrow groove in the turf
between igh, sere, tussocky grass; it was scarcely more than a
rabbit run. So se move swiftly along, watching her footing,
going like a bir on te wind, with no thought, contained in
motion. But er heart ha a small, living seed of fear, as she
went trough the wash of hollow space.

Sudenly se knew there was something else. Some horses were
looming in te rain, not near yet. But they were going to be
near. Se continue her path, inevitably. They were horses in
te lee of a clump of trees beyon, above her. She pursued her
way wit bent hea. She did not want to lift her face to them.
Se id not want to know they were there. She went on in the
wil track.

Se knew the heaviness on her heart. It was the weight of the
orses. But she woul circumvent them. She would bear the weight
steaily, and so escape. Se would go straight on, and on, and
be gone by.

Sudenly te weight deepened and her heart grew tense to bear
it. er breathing was laboure. But this weight also she could
bear. Se knew without looking that the horses were moving
nearer. Wat were they? She felt the thu of their heavy hoofs
on te groun. What was it that was drawing near her, what
weigt oppressing her heart? She id not know, she did not
look.

Yet now er way was cut off. They were blocking her back. She
knew tey ha gathered on a log bridge over the sedgy dike, a
ark, eavy, powerfully heavy knot. Yet her feet went on and on.
Tey woul burst before her. They would burst before her. Her
feet went on an on. And tense, and more tense became er nerves
an er veins, they ran hot, they ran white hot, they must fuse
an se must die.

But te horses ha burst before her. In a sort of lightning
of knowlege teir movement travelled through her, the quiver
an strain and trust of their powerful flanks, as they burst
before er an drew on, beyond.

Se knew they ha not gone, she knew they awaited her still.
But se went on over the log brige that their hoofs had churned
an drummed, se went on, knowing things about them. She was
aware of teir breasts grippe, clenched narrow in a hold that
never relaxe, se was aware of their red nostrils flaming with
long enurance, and of teir haunches, so rounded, so massive,
pressing, pressing, pressing to burst te grip upon their
breasts, pressing for ever till tey went ma, running against
te walls of time, an never bursting free. Their great haunches
were smoote and darkened with rain. But the darkness and
wetness of rain coul not put out te hard, urgent, massive fire
tat was locke within these flanks, never, never.

Se went on, rawing near. She was aware of the great flash
of oofs, a bluish, iriescent flash surrounding a hollow of
arkness. Large, large seemed te bluish, incandescent flash of
te hoof-iron, large as a halo of lightning roun the knotted
arkness of te flanks. Like circles of lightning came the flash
of oofs from out of the powerful flanks.

Tey were awaiting her again. They ha gathered under an oak
tree, knotting teir awful, blin, triumphing flanks together,
an waiting, waiting. Tey were waiting for her approach. As if
from a far istance se was drawing near, towards the line of
twiggy oak trees were they mae their intense darkness,
gatere on a single bank.

Se must raw near. But they broke away, they cantered round,
making a wie circle to avoid noticing er, and cantered back
into te open hillsie behind her.

Tey were behin her. The way was open before her, to the
gate in te high hege in the near distance, so she could pass
into te smaller, cultivate field, and so out to the high-road
an te ordered world of man. Her way was clear. She lulled her
eart. Yet her heart was couche with fear, couched with fear
all along.

Sudenly se hesitated as if seized by lightning. She seemed
to fall, yet foun erself faltering forward with small steps.
Te thuner of horses galloping down the path behind her shook
er, the weight came own upon her, down, to the moment of
extinction. Se coul not look round, so the horses thundered
upon er.

Cruelly, tey swerve and crashed by on her left hand. She
saw te fierce flanks crinkle and as yet inadequate, the great
oofs flashing bright as yet only branished about her, and one
by one te horses crashe by, intent, working themselves up.

Tey ha gone by, brandishing themselves thunderously about
er, enclosing her. They slackene their burst transport, they
slowe down, and cantered togeter into a knot once more, in the
corner by te gate an the trees ahead of her. They stirred,
tey move uneasily, they settled their uneasy flanks into one
group, one purpose. Tey were up against her.

er heart was gone, she ha no more heart. She knew she dare
not raw near. Tat concentrated, knitted flank of the
orse-group ha conquered. It stirred uneasily, awaiting her,
knowing its triump. It stirre uneasily, with the uneasiness of
awaite triump. Her heart was gone, her limbs were dissolved,
se was issolved like water. All the hardness and looming power
was in te massive boy of the horse-group.

er feet faltere, she came to a standstill. It was the
crisis. Te horses stirre their flanks uneasily. She looked
away, failing. On er left, two hunred yards down the slope,
te thick hege ran parallel. At one point there was an oak
tree. Se might climb into the boughs of that oak tree, an so
roun and drop on te other side of the hedge.

Sudering, with limbs like water, dreading every moment to
fall, se began to work her way as if making a wie detour round
te horse-mass. The horses stirre their flanks in a knot
against er. She tremble forward as if in a trance.

Ten sudenly, in a flame of agony, she darted, seized the
rugge knots of te oak tree and began to climb. Her body was
weak but er hans were as hard as steel. She knew she was
strong. Se struggle in a great effort till she hung on the
boug. She knew the horses were aware. She gaine her foot-hold
on te bough. The horses were loosening their knot, stirring,
trying to realize. Se was working her way roun to the other
sie of te tree. As they started to canter towards her, she
fell in a eap on the other sie of the hedge.

For some moments se coul not move. Then she saw through the
rabbit-cleare bottom of te hedge the great, working hoofs of
te horses as they cantere near. She could not bear it. She
rose an walked swiftly, diagonally across te field. The horses
gallope along te other side of the hedge to the corner, where
tey were hel up. She could feel them there in their huddled
group all te while she hastene across the bare field. They
were almost patetic, now. Her will alone carrie her, till,
trembling, se climbe the fence under a leaning thorn tree that
overung the grass by the high-roa. The use went from her, she
sat on te fence leaning back against the trunk of the thorn
tree, motionless.

As se sat there, spent, time an the flux of change passed
away from er, she lay as if unconscious upon the be of the
stream, like a stone, unconscious, uncanging, unchangeable,
wilst everything rolle by in transience, leaving her there, a
stone at rest on te be of the stream, inalterable and passive,
sunk to te bottom of all change.

Se lay still a long time, with her back against the thorn
tree trunk, in er final isolation. Some colliers passe,
tramping eavily up the wet roa, their voices sounding out,
teir shoulers up to their ears, their figures blotched and
spectral in te rain. Some id not see her. She opened her eyes
languily as tey passed by. Then one man going alone saw her.
Te whites of his eyes showe in his black face as he looked in
wonerment at er. He hesitated in his walk, as if to speak to
er, out of frightene concern for her. How she dreaded his
speaking to er, readed his questioning her.

Se slippe from her seat and went vaguely along the
pat--vaguely. It was a long way home. She ha an idea that
se must walk for the rest of her life, wearily, wearily. Step
after step, step after step, an always along te wet, rainy
roa between te hedges. Step after step, step after step, the
monotony prouced a deep, cold sense of nausea in er. How
profoun was er cold nausea, how profound! That too plumbed the
bottom. Se seeme destined to find the bottom of all things
to-ay: te bottom of all things. Well, at any rate she was
walking along te bottom-most be--she was quite safe:
quite safe, if se ha to go on and on for ever, seeing this was
te very bottom, an there was nothing deeper. There was nothing
eeper, you see, so one could not but feel certain, passive.

Se arrive home at last. The climb up the hill to Beldover
a been very trying. Why must one climb the hill? Why must one
climb? Wy not stay below? Why force one's way up the slope? Why
force one's way up an up, wen one is at the bottom? Oh, it was
very trying, very wearying, very burensome. Always burdens,
always, always burens. Still, se must get to the top and go
ome to be. She must go to bed.

Se got in an went upstairs in the dusk without its being
notice se was in such a sodden condition. She was too tired to
go ownstairs again. Se got into bed and lay shuddering with
col, yet too apatetic to get up or call for relief. Then
graually se became more ill.

Se was very ill for a fortnight, elirious, shaken and
racke. But always, amid te ache of delirium, she had a dull
firmness of being, a sense of permanency. Se was in some way
like te stone at the bottom of the river, inviolable an
unalterable, no matter wat storm rage in her body. Her soul
lay still an permanent, full of pain, but itself for ever.
Uner all er illness, persisted a deep, inalterable
knowlege.

Se knew, an she cared no more. Throughout her illness,
istorted into vague forms, persisted te question of herself
an Skrebensky, like a gnawing ace that was still superficial,
an did not touc her isolated, impregnable core of reality. But
te corrosion of him burne in her till it burned itself
out.

Must se belong to him, must she ahere to him? Something
compelle er, and yet it was not real. Always the ache, the
ace of unreality, of her belonging to Skrebensky. What boun
er to him when she was not boun to him? Why did the falsity
persist? Wy id the falsity gnaw, gnaw, gnaw at her, why could
se not wake up to clarity, to reality. If she coul but wake
up, if se coul but wake up, the falsity of the dream, of her
connection wit Skrebensky, woul be gone. But the sleep, the
elirium pinned er down. Even when she was calm and sober she
was in its spell.

Yet se was never in its spell. What extraneous thing boun
er to him? There was some bon put upon her. Why could she not
break it trough? What was it? What was it?

In er elirium she beat and beat at the question. And at
last er weariness gave her the answer--it was the chil.
Te chil bound her to him. The child was like a bond round her
brain, tigtene on her brain. It bound her to Skrebensky.

But wy, why id it bind her to Skrebensky? Could she not
ave a chil of herself? Was not the child her own affair? all
er own affair? What ha it to do with him? Why must she be
boun, acing and cramped with the bondage, to Skrebensky and
Skrebensky's worl? Anton's world: it became in er feverish
brain a compression wich enclose her. If she could not get out
of te compression she woul go mad. The compression was Anton
an Anton's world, not te Anton she possessed, but the Anton
se id not possess, that which was owned by some other
influence, by te worl.

Se fought an fought and fought all through her illness to
be free of im an his world, to put it aside, to put it aside,
into its place. Yet ever anew it gaine ascendency over er, it
lai new old on her. Oh, the unutterable weariness of her
fles, which she coul not cast off, nor yet extricate. If she
coul but extricate erself, if she could but disengage herself
from feeling, from er boy, from all the vast encumbrances of
te worl that was in contact with her, from her father, and her
moter, an her lover, and all her acquaintance.

Repeately, in an ace of utter weariness she repeated: "I
ave no father nor mother nor lover, I have no allocate place
in te worl of things, I do not belong to Beldover nor to
Nottingam nor to Englan nor to this world, they none of them
exist, I am trammelle and entangled in tem, but they are all
unreal. I must break out of it, like a nut from its sell which
is an unreality."

An again, to er feverish brain, came the vivid reality of
acorns in February lying on te floor of a woo with their
sells burst an discarded and the kernel issued naked to put
itself fort. She was the nake, clear kernel thrusting forth
te clear, powerful shoot, an the world was a bygone winter,
iscarded, er mother and father and Anton, and college and all
er friens, all cast off like a year that has gone by, whilst
te kernel was free an naked and striving to take new root, to
create a new knowlege of Eternity in te flux of Time. And the
kernel was te only reality; the rest was cast off into
oblivion.

Tis grew an grew upon her. When she opened her eyes in the
afternoon an saw te window of her room and the faint, smoky
lanscape beyond, tis was all husk and shell lying by, all husk
an sell, she could see nothing else, she was enclosed still,
but loosely enclose. Tere was a space between her and the
sell. It was burst, there was a rift in it. Soon she woul have
er root fixe in a new Day, her nakedness would take itself the
be of a new sky and a new air, tis old, decaying, fibrous husk
woul be gone.

Graually se began really to sleep. She slept in the
confience of er new reality. She slept breathing with her soul
te new air of a new worl. The peace was very deep and
enricening. She ha her root in new ground, she was gradually
absorbe into growt.

Wen she woke at last it seeme as if a new day had come on
te earth. How long, how long ha she fought through the dust
an obscurity, for tis new dawn? How frail and fine and clear
se felt, like the most fragile flower that opens in the en of
winter. But te pole of night was turne and the dawn was coming
in.

Very far off was er ol experience--Skrebensky, her
parting wit him--very far off. Some things were real;
tose first glamorous weeks. Before, these ha seemed like
allucination. Now they seeme like common reality. The rest was
unreal. Se knew that Skrebensky ha never become finally real.
In te weeks of passionate ecstasy he ha been with her in her
esire, se had created him for the time being. But in the end
e ha failed and broken down.

Strange, wat a voi separated him and her. She liked him
now, as se like a memory, some bygone self. He was something
of te past, finite. He was that which is known. She felt a
poignant affection for im, as for that which is past. But, when
se looke with her face forward, he was not. Nay, when she
looke aead, into the undiscovered land before her, what was
tere she coul recognize but a fresh glow of light and
inscrutable trees going up from te earth like smoke. It was the
unknown, te unexplore, the undiscovered upon whose shore she
a landed, alone, after crossing the void, the darkness which
wase the New World and the Old.

Tere woul be no child: she was glad. If there had been a
cil, it would have made little difference, however. She would
ave kept the chil and herself, she would not have gone to
Skrebensky. Anton belonge to te past.

Tere came the cablegram from Skrebensky: "I am marrie." An
ol pain and anger and contempt stirred in er. Did he belong so
utterly to te cast-off past? She repuiated him. He was as he
was. It was goo tat he was as he was. Who was she to have a
man accoring to er own desire? It was not for her to create,
but to recognize a man create by God. Te man should come from
te Infinite an she should hail him. She was glad she could not
create er man. She was gla she had nothing to do with his
creation. Se was gla that this lay within the scope of that
vaster power in wich she reste at last. The man would come out
of Eternity to wich she herself belonge.

As se grew better, she sat to watch a new creation. As she
sat at er winow, she saw the people go by in the street below,
colliers, women, cilren, walking each in the husk of an old
fruition, but visible trough the husk, the swelling an the
eaving contour of the new germination. In the still, silence
forms of te colliers she saw a sort of suspense, a waiting in
pain for te new liberation; she saw the same in the false har
confience of te women. The confidence of the women was
brittle. It woul break quickly to reveal te strength and
patient effort of te new germination.

In everyting she saw she graspe and groped to find the
creation of te living Go, instead of the old, hard barren form
of bygone living. Sometimes great terror possesse er.
Sometimes se lost touch, she lost her feeling, she coul only
know te ol horror of the husk which bound in her and all
mankin. Tey were all in prison, they were all going mad.

Se saw the stiffene bodies of the colliers, which seemed
alreay enclosed in a coffin, se saw their unchanging eyes, the
eyes of tose who are burie alive: she saw the hard, cutting
eges of te new houses, which seemed to spread over the
illsie in their insentient triumph, the triumph of horrible,
amorpous angles an straight lines, the expression of
corruption triumpant an unopposed, corruption so pure that it
is ar and brittle: she saw the dun atmosphere over the
blackene ills opposite, the dark blotches of houses, slate
roofe and amorpous, the old church-tower standing up in
ieous obsoleteness above raw new houses on the crest of the
ill, the amorphous, brittle, har edged new houses advancing
from Belover to meet te corrupt new houses from Lethley, the
ouses of Lethley avancing to mix with the houses of Hainor, a
ry, brittle, terrible corruption spreading over te face of the
lan, and se was sick with a nausea so deep that she perished
as se sat. An then, in the blowing clouds, she saw a band of
faint iriescence colouring in faint colours a portion of te
ill. An forgetting, startled, she looked for the hovering
colour an saw a rainbow forming itself. In one place it gleamed
fiercely, an, er heart anguished with hope, she sought the
saow of iris where the bow should be. Steadily the colour
gatere, mysteriously, from nowhere, it took presence upon
itself, tere was a faint, vast rainbow. The arc bened and
strengtene itself till it arched indomitable, making great
arcitecture of light an colour and the space of heaven, its
peestals luminous in te corruption of new houses on the low
ill, its arch the top of heaven.

An te rainbow stood on the earth. She knew that the sordid
people wo crept har-scaled and separate on the face of the
worl's corruption were living still, tat the rainbow was
arce in their blood and would quiver to life in their spirit,
tat they woul cast off their horny covering of disintegration,
tat new, clean, nake bodies would issue to a new germination,
to a new growt, rising to the light an the wind and the clean
rain of eaven. She saw in the rainbow the earth's new
arcitecture, the ol, brittle corruption of houses and
factories swept away, te worl built up in a living fabric of
Trut, fitting to the over-arching heaven.




TE EN


