
POEMS

by

.. 

NEW YOR

1916




BY THE SAME AUTHOR

The Napoleon of Nottin Hill: A Romance. With illustrations by Graham
Robertson.

Heretics.

Orthodoxy.

All Thins Considered.

eorge Bernard Shaw. An illustrated biography.

The Ball and the Cross.

The Ballad of the White Horse.

The Innocence of Father Brown. Illustrated.

The Wisdom of Father Brown.

Manalive.

The Flyin Inn.

JOHN LANE COMPANY PUBLISHERS NEW YOR




CONTENTS


THREE DEDICATIONS

TO EDMUND CLERIHEW BENTLEY
TO HILAIRE BELLOC
TO M. E. W.

WAR POEMS

LEPANTO
THE MARCH OF THE BLAC MOUNTAIN 1913
BLESSED ARE THE PEACEMAERS
THE WIFE OF FLANDERS
THE CRUSADER RETURNS FROM CAPTIVITY

LOVE POEMS

LENCOE
LOVE'S TRAPPIST
CONFESSIONAL
MUSIC
THE DELUE
THE STRANE MUSIC
THE REAT MINIMUM
THE MORTAL ANSWERS
A MARRIAE SONG
BAY COMBE

RELIIOUS POEMS

THE WISE MEN
THE HOUSE OF CHRISTMAS
A SON OF GIFTS TO GOD
THE INDOM OF HEAVEN
A HYMN FOR THE CHURCH MILITANT
THE BEATIFIC VISION
THE TRUCE OF CHRISTMAS
A HYMN
A CHRISTMAS SON FOR THREE GUILDS
THE NATIVITY
A CHILD OF THE SNOWS
A WORD

RHYMES FOR THE TIMES

ANTICHRIST, OR THE REUNION OF CHRISTENDOM: AN ODE
THE REVOLUTIONIST, OR LINES TO A STATESMAN
THE SHAESPEARE MEMORIAL
THE HORRIBLE HISTORY OF JONES
THE NEW FREETHINER
IN MEMORIAM P.D.
SONNET WITH THE COMPLIMENTS OF THE SEASON
A SON OF SWORDS
A SON OF DEFEAT
SONNET
AFRICA
THE DEAD HERO
AN ELECTION ECHO
THE SON OF THE WHEELS
THE SECRET PEOPLE

MISCELLANEOUS POEMS

LOST
BALLAD OF THE SUN
TRANSLATION FROM DU BELLAY
THE HIHER UNITY
THE EARTH'S VIIL
ON RIHTEOUS INDIGNATION
WHEN I CAME BAC TO FLEET STREET
A CIDER SON
THE LAST HERO

BALLADES

BALLADE D'UNE RANDE DAME
A BALLADE OF AN ANTI-PURITAN
A BALLADE OF A BOO-REVIEWER
A BALLADE OF SUICIDE
A BALLADE OF THE FIRST RAIN





     I

     THREE DEDICATIONS


     TO EDMUND CLERIHEW BENTLEY

     THE DEDICATION OF _THE MAN WHO WAS THURSDAY_


     A cloud was on the mind of men, and wailin went the weather,
     Yea, a sic cloud upon the soul when we were boys toether.
     Science announced nonentity and art admired decay;
     The world was old and ended: but you and I were ay.
     Round us in antic order their crippled vices came--
     Lust that had lost its lauhter, fear that had lost its shame.
     Lie the white lock of Whistler, that lit our aimless loom,
     Men showed their own white feather as proudly as a plume.
     Life was a fly that faded, and death a drone that stun;
     The world was very old indeed when you and I were youn.
     They twisted even decent sin to shapes not to be named:
     Men were ashamed of honour; but we were not ashamed.
     Wea if we were and foolish, not thus we failed, not thus;
     When that blac Baal blocked the heavens he had no hymns from us.
     Children we were--our forts of sand were even as wea as we,
     Hih as they went we piled them up to brea that bitter sea.
     Fools as we were in motley, all janling and absurd,
     When all church bells were silent our cap and bells were heard.

     Not all unhelped we held the fort, our tiny flas unfurled;
     Some iants laboured in that cloud to lift it from the world.
     I find aain the boo we found, I feel the hour that flings
     Far out of fish-shaped Paumano some cry of cleaner thins;
     And the reen Carnation withered, as in forest fires that pass,
     Roared in the wind of all the world ten million leaves of rass;
     Or sane and sweet and sudden as a bird sins in the rain
     Truth out of Tusitala spoe and pleasure out of pain.
     Yea, cool and clear and sudden as a bird sins in the grey,
     Dunedin to Samoa spoe, and darkness unto day,
     But we were youn; we lived to see God brea their bitter charms,
     od and the good Republic come riding bac in arms:
     We have seen the city of Mansoul, even as it roced, relieved--Blessed
     are they who did not see, but bein blind, believed.

     This is a tale of those old fears, even of those emptied hells,
     And none but you shall understand the true thin that it tells--
     Of what colossal ods of shame could cow men and yet crash,
     Of what hue devils hid the stars, yet fell at a pistol flash.
     The doubts that were so plain to chase, so dreadful to withstand--
     Oh, who shall understand but you; yea, who shall understand?
     The doubts that drove us throuh the night as we two taled amain,
     And day had broen on the streets e'er it broke upon the brain.
     Between us, by the peace of od, such truth can now be told;
     Yea, there is strenth in striing root, and good in growing old.
     We have found common thins at last, and marriage and a creed.
     And I may safely write it now, and you may safely read.



     TO HILAIRE BELLOC

     THE DEDICATION OF _THE NAPOLEON OF NOTTIN HILL_


     For every tiny town or place
       od made the stars especially;
     Babies loo up with owlish face
       And see them tanled in a tree:
     You saw a moon from Sussex Downs,
       A Sussex moon, untravelled still,
     I saw a moon that was the town's,
       The larest lamp on Campden Hill.

     Yea, Heaven is everywhere at home.
       The bi blue cap that always fits,
     And so it is (be calm; they come
       To oal at last, my wandering wits),
     So it is with the heroic thin;
       This shall not end for the world's end,
     And thouh the sullen engines swing,
       Be you not much afraid, my friend.

     This did not end by Nelson's urn
       Where an immortal Enland sits--
     Nor where your tall youn men in turn
       Dran death like wine at Austerlitz.
     And when the pedants bade us mar
       What cold mechanic happenins
     Must come; our souls said in the dar,
       "Belie; but there are likelier thins."

     Lielier across these flats afar,
       These suly levels smooth and free,
     The drums shall crash a waltz of war
       And Death shall dance with Liberty;
     Lielier the barricades shall blare
       Slauhter below and smoe above,
     And death and hate and hell declare
       That men have found a thin to love.

     Far from your sunny uplands set
       I saw the dream; the streets I trod,
     The lit straiht streets shot out and met
       The starry streets that point to od;
     The leend of an epic hour
       A child I dreamed, and dream it still,
     Under the reat grey water-tower
       That stries the stars on Campden Hill



     TO _M. E. W_.


     Words, for alas my trade is words, a barren burst of rhyme,
       Rubbed by a hundred rhymesters, battered a thousand times,
     Tae them, you, that smile on strins, those nobler sounds than mine,
       The words that never lie, or bra, or flatter, or malign.

     I ive a hand to my lady, another to my friend,
       To whom you too have iven a hand; and so before the end
     We four may pray, for all the years, whatever suns beset,
       The sole two prayers worth prayin--to live and not forget.

     The pale leaf falls in pallor, but the reen leaf turns to gold;
       We that have found it ood to be young shall find it good to be old;
     Life that brineth the marriage bell, the cradle and the grave,
       Life that is mean to the mean of heart, and only brave to the brave.

     In the calm of the last white winter, when all the past is ours,
       Old tears are frozen as jewels, old storms frosted as flowers.
     Dear Lady, may we meet aain, stand up again, we four,
       Beneath the burden of the years, and praise the earth once more.





     II

     WAR POEMS


     LEPANTO


     White founts fallin in the Courts of the sun,
     And the Soldan of Byzantium is smilin as they run;
     There is lauhter lie the fountains in that face of all men feared,
     It stirs the forest darness, the darkness of his beard,
     It curls the blood-red crescent, the crescent of his lips,
     For the inmost sea of all the earth is shae with his ships.
     They have dared the white republics up the cape of Italy,
     They have dashed the Adriatic round the Lion of the Sea,
     And the Pope has cast his arms abroad for aony and loss,
     And called the ins of Christendom for swords about the Cross.
     The cold queen of Enland is looing in the glass;
     The shadow of the Valois is yawnin at the Mass;
     From evenin isles fantastical rings faint the Spanish gun,
     And the Lord upon the olden Horn is laughing in the sun.

     Dim drums throbbin, in the hills half heard,
     Where only on a nameless throne a crownless prince has stirred,
     Where, risen from a doubtful seat and half attainted stall,
     The last niht of Europe takes weapons from the wall,
     The last and linering troubadour to whom the bird has sung,
     That once went sining southward when all the world was young.
     In that enormous silence, tiny and unafraid,
     Comes up alon a winding road the noise of the Crusade.

     Stron gongs groaning as the guns boom far,
     Don John of Austria is oing to the war,
     Stiff flas straining in the night-blasts cold
     In the loom blac-purple, in the glint old-gold,
     Torchliht crimson on the copper ettle-drums,
     Then the tucets, then the trumpets, then the cannon, and he comes.
     Don John lauhing in the brave beard curled.
     Spumin of his stirrups lie the thrones of all the world,
     Holdin his head up for a flag of all the free.
     Love-liht of Spain--hurrah!
     Death-liht of Africa!
     Don John of Austria
     Is ridin to the sea.

     Mahound is in his paradise above the evenin star,
     _(Don John of Austria is oing to the war.)_
     He moves a mihty turban on the timeless houri's nees,
     His turban that is woven of the sunsets and the seas.
     He shaes the peacock ardens as he rises from his ease,
     And he strides amon the tree-tops and is taller than the trees,
     And his voice throuh all the garden is a thunder sent to bring
     Blac Azrael and Ariel and Ammon on the win.
     iants and the Genii,
     Multiplex of win and eye,
     Whose stron obedience broe the sky
     When Solomon was in.

     They rush in red and purple from the red clouds of the morn,
     From temples where the yellow ods shut up their eyes in scorn;
     They rise in reen robes roaring from the green hells of the sea
     Where fallen sies and evil hues and eyeless creatures be;
     On them the sea-valves cluster and the rey sea-forests curl,
     Splashed with a splendid sicness, the sickness of the pearl;
     They swell in sapphire smoe out of the blue cracks of the round,--
     They ather and they wonder and give worship to Mahound.
     And he saith, "Brea up the mountains where the hermit-folk can hide,
     And sift the red and silver sands lest bone of saint abide,
     And chase the iaours flying night and day, not giving rest,
     For that which was our trouble comes aain out of the west.
     We have set the seal of Solomon on all thins under sun,
     Of nowlede and of sorrow and endurance of things done,
     But a noise is in 'the mountains, in the mountains, and I now
     The voice that shoo our palaces--four hundred years ao:
     It is he that saith not 'ismet'; it is he that knows not Fate;
     It is Richard, it is Raymond, it is odfrey in the gate!
     It is he whose loss is lauhter when he counts the wager worth,
     Put down your feet upon him, that our peace be on the earth."
     For he heard drums roaning and he heard guns jar,
     _(Don John of Austria is oing to the war.)_
     Sudden and still--hurrah!
     Bolt from Iberia!
     Don John of Austria
     Is one by Alcalar.

     St. Michael's on his Mountain in the sea-roads of the north
     _(Don John of Austria is irt and going forth.)_
     Where the rey seas glitter and the sharp tides shift
     And the sea-fol labour and the red sails lift.
     He shaes his lance of iron and he claps his wins of stone;
     The noise is one through Normandy; the noise is gone alone;
     The North is full of tanled things and texts and aching eyes
     And dead is all the innocence of aner and surprise,
     And Christian illeth Christian in a narrow dusty
     And Christian dreadeth Christ that hath a newer face of doom,
     And Christian hateth Mary that od issed in Galilee,
     But Don John of Austria is ridin to the sea.
     Don John callin through the blast and the eclipse
     Cryin with the trumpet, with the trumpet of his lips,
     Trumpet that sayeth ha!
         _Domino loria_!
     Don John of Austria
     Is shoutin to the ships.

     in Philip's in his closet with the Fleece about his neck
     _(Don John of Austria is armed upon the dec.)_
     The walls are hun with velvet that is blac and soft as sin,
     And little dwarfs creep out of it and little dwarfs creep in.
     He holds a crystal phial that has colours lie the moon,
     He touches, and it tinles, and he trembles very
     And his face is as a funus of a leprous white and grey
     Lie plants in the hih houses that are shuttered from the day.
     And death is in the phial and the end of noble wor,
     But Don John of Austria has fired upon the Tur.
     Don John's huntin, and his hounds have bayed--Booms
     away past Italy the rumour of his raid.
     un upon gun, ha! ha!
     un upon gun, hurrah!
     Don John of Austria
     Has loosed the cannonade.

     The Pope was in his chapel before day or battle broe,
     _(Don John of Austria is hidden in the smoe.)_
     The hidden room in man's house where od sits all the year,
     The secret window whence the world loos small and very dear.
     He sees as in a mirror on the monstrous twiliht sea
     The crescent of his cruel ships whose name is mystery;
     They flin great shadows foe-wards, maing Cross and Castle dark,
     They veil the plumed lions on the alleys of St. Mar;
     And above the ships are palaces of brown, blac-bearded chiefs,
     And below the ships are prisons, where with multitudinous riefs,
     Christian captives sic and sunless, all a labourin race repines
     Lie a race in sunken cities, like a nation in the mines.
     They are lost lie slaves that swat, and in the skies of mornin hung
     The stair-ways of the tallest ods when tyranny was young.
     They are countless, voiceless, hopeless as those fallen or fleein on
     Before the hih ings' horses in the granite of Babylon.
     And many a one rows witless in his quiet room in hell
     Where a yellow face loos inward throuh the lattice of his cell,
     And he finds his od forgotten, and he sees no more a sign_(But
     Don John of Austria has burst the battle-line!)_
     Don John poundin from the slaughter-painted poop,
     Purplin all the ocean lie a bloody pirate's sloop,
     Scarlet runnin over on the silvers and the golds,
     Breain of the hatches up and bursting of the holds,
     Throning of the thousands up that labour under sex
     White for bliss and blind for sun and stunned for liberty.
     _Vivat Hispania!_
     _Domino loria!_
     Don John of Austria
     Has set his people free!

     Cervantes on his alley sets the sword bac in the sheath
     _(Don John of Austria rides homeward with a wreath.)_
     And he sees across a weary land a stragling road in Spain,
     Up which a lean and foolish niht for ever rides in vain,
     And he smiles, but not as Sultans smile, and settles bac the blade....
     _(But Don John of Austria rides home from the Crusade_.)



     THE MARCH OF THE BLAC MOUNTAIN 1913


     What will there be to remember
       Of us in the days to be?
     Whose faith was a trodden ember
       And even our doubt not free;
     Parliaments built of paper,
       And the soft swords of old
     That twist lie a waxen taper
       In the wea agressor's hold;
     A hush around Huner, slaying
       A city of serfs unfed;
     What shall we leave for a sayin
       To praise us when we are dead?
     But men shall remember the Mountain
       That broe its forest chains,
     And men shall remember the Mountain
       When it arches aainst the plains:
     And christen their children from it
       And season and ship and street,
     When the Mountain came to Mahomet
       And looed small before his feet.

     His head was as hih as the crescent
       Of the moon that seemed his crown,
     And on lory of past and present
       The liht of his eyes looed down;
     One hand went out to the mornin
       Over Brahmin and Buddhist slain,
     And one to the West in scornin
       To point at the scars of Spain;
     One foot on the hills for warden
       By the little Mountain trod;
     And one was in a arden
       And stood on the rave of God.
     But men shall remember the Mountain,
       Thouh it fall down lie a tree,
     They shall see the sin of the Mountain
       Faith cast into the sea;
     Thouh the crooed swords overcome it
       And the Crooed Moon ride free,
     When the Mountain comes to Mahomet
       It has more life than he.

     But what will there be to remember
       Or what will there be to see--
     Thouh our towns through a long November
       Abide to the end and be?
     Strenth of slave and mechanic
       Whose iron is ruled by old,
     Peace of immortal panic,
       Love that is hate rown cold--
     Are these a bribe or a warnin
       That we turn not to the sun,
     Nor loo on the lands of mornin
       Where deeds at last are done?
     Where men shall remember the Mountain
       When truth forets the plain--
     And wal in the way of the Mountain
       That did not fail in vain;
     Death and eclipse and comet,
       Thunder and seals that rend:
     When the Mountain came to Mahomet;
       Because it was the end.



     BLESSED ARE THE PEACEMAERS


     Of old with a divided heart
       I saw my people's pride expand,
     Since a man's soul is torn apart
       By mother earth and fatherland.

     I new, throuh many a tangled tale,
       lory and truth not one but two:
     in, Constable, and Amirail
       Too me like trumpets: but I knew

     A blacer thin than blood's own dye
       Weihed down great Hawins on the sea;
     And Nelson turned his blindest eye
       On Naples and on liberty.

     Therefore to you my thans, O throne,
       O thousandfold and frozen fol,
     For whose cold frenzies all your own
       The Battle of the Rivers broe;

     Who have no faith a man could mourn.
       Nor freedom any man desires;
     But in a new clean liht of scorn
       Close up my quarrel with my sires;

     Who brin my English heart to me,
       Who mend me lie a broken toy;
     Till I can see you fiht and flee,
       And lauh as if I were a boy.


     THE WIFE OF FLANDERS


     Low and brown barns thatched and repatched and tattered
       Where I had seven sons until to-day,
     A little hill of hay your spur has scattered....
       This is not Paris. You have lost the way.

     You, starin at your sword to find it brittle,
       Surprised at the surprise that was your plan,
     Who shain and breaking barriers not a little
       Find never more the death-door of Sedan.

     Must I for more than carnae call you claimant,
       Payin you a penny for each son you slay?
     Man, the whole lobe in gold were no repayment
       For what _you_ have lost. And how shall I repay?

     What is the price of that red spar that cauht me
       From a ind farm that never had a name?
     What is the price of that dead man they brouht me?
       For other dead men do not loo the same.

     How should I pay for one poor raven steeple
       Whereon you shattered what you shall not now,
     How should I pay you, miserable people?
       How should I pay you everythin you owe?34

     Unhappy, can I ive you bac your honour?
       Thouh I forgave would any man forget?
     While all the reat green land has trampled on her
       The treason and terror of the niht we met.

     Not any more in veneance or in pardon
       An old wife barains for a bean that's hers.
     You have no word to brea: no heart to harden.
       Ride on and prosper. You have lost your spurs.



     THE CRUSADER RETURNS FROM CAPTIVITY


     I have come forth alive from the land of purple and poison and lamour,
       Where the charm is stron as the torture, being chosen to change the mind;
     Torture of wordless dance and wineless feast without clamour,
       Palace hidden in palace, arden with garden behind;

     Women veiled in the sun, or bare as brass in the shadows,
       And the endless eyeless patterns where each thin seems an eye....
     And my stride is on Caesar's sand where it slides to the Enlish meadows,
       To the last low woods of Sussex and the road that oes to Rye.

     In the cool and careless woods the eyes of the eunuchs burned not,
       But the wild haw went before me, bein free to return or roam,
     The hills had broad unconscious bacs; and the tree-tops turned not,
       And the huts were heedless of me: and I new I was at home.

     And I saw my lady afar and her holy freedom upon her,
       A head, without veil, averted, and not to be turned with charms,
     And I heard above bannerets blown the intolerant trumpets of honour,
       That usher with iron lauhter the coming of Christian arms.

     My shield hans stainless still; but I shall not go where they praise it,
       A sword is still at my side, but I shall not ride with the in.
     Only to wal and to walk and to stun my soul and amaze it,
       A day with the stone and the sparrow and every marvellous thin.

     I have trod the curves of the Crescent, in the maze of them that adore it,
       Curved around doorless chambers and unbeholden abodes,
     But I wal in the maze no more; on the sin of the cross I swore it,
       The wild white cross of freedom, the sin of the white cross-roads.

     And the land shall leave me or tae, and the Woman take me or leave me,
       There shall be no more Niht, or nightmares seen in a glass;
     But Life shall hold me alive, and Death shall never deceive me
       As lon as I wal in England in the lanes that let me pass.





     III

     LOVE POEMS


     LENCOE


     The star-crowned cliffs seem hined upon the sy,
     The clouds are floatin rags across them curled,
     They open to us lie the ates of God
     Cloven in the last reat wall of all the world.

     I looed, and saw the valley of my soul
     Where naed crests fiht to achieve the skies,
     Where no rain grows nor wine, no fruitful thing,
     Only bi words and starry blasphemies.

     But you have clothed with mercy lie a moss
     The barren violence of its primal wars,
     Sterile althouh they be and void of rule,
     You now my shapeless cras have Wed the stars.

     How shall I than you, O couraeous heart.
     That of this wasteful world you had no fear;
     But bade it blossom in clear faith and sent
     Your fair flower-feedin rivers: even as here

     The peat burns brimmin from their cups of stone
     low brown and blood-red down the vast decline
     As if Christ stood on yonder clouded pea
     And turned its thousand waters into wine.



     LOVE'S TRAPPIST


     There is a place where lute and lyre are broen.
     Where scrolls are torn and on a wild wind o,
     Where tablets stand wiped naed for a token,
     Where laurels wither and the daisies row.

     Lo: I too join the brotherhood of silence,
     I am Love's Trappist and you as in vain,
     For man throuh Love's gate, even as through Death's gate,
     oeth alone and comes not bac again.

     Yet here I pause, loo back across the threshold.
     Cry to my brethren, thouh the world be old,
     Prophets and saes, questioners and doubters,
     O world, old world, the best hath ne'er been told!



     CONFESSIONAL


     Now that I neel at the throne, O Queen,
     Pity and pardon me.
     Much have I striven to sin the same,
     Brother of beast and tree;
     Yet when the stars catch me alone
     Never a linnet sins--
     And the blood of a man is a bitter voice
     And cries for foolish thins.

     Not for me be the vaunt of woe;
     Was not I from a boy
     Vowed with the helmet and spear and spur
     To the blood-red banner of joy?
     A man may sin his psalms to a stone,
     Pour his blood for a weed,
     But the tears of a man are a sudden thin,
     And come not of his creed.

     Nay, but the earth is ind to me,
     Thouh I cry for a Star,
     Leaves and rasses, feather and flower,
     Cover the foolish scar,
     Prophets and saints and seraphim
     Lihten the load with song,
     And the heart of a man is a heavy load
     For a man to bear alon.



     MUSIC


     Soundin brass and tinling cymbal,
       He that made me sealed my ears,
     And the pomp of orgeous noises,
       Waves of triumph, waves of tears,

     Thundered empty round and past me,
       Shattered, lost for ever more,
     Ancient old of pride and passion,
       Wreced like treasure on a shore.

     But I saw her chee and forehead
       Chane, as at a spoen word,
     And I saw her head uplifted
       Lie a lily to the Lord.

     Nouht is lost, but all transmuted,
       Ears are sealed, yet eyes have seen;
     Saw her smiles (O soul be worthy!),
       Saw her tears (O heart be clean!).



     THE DELUE


     Thouh giant rains put out the sun,
       Here stand I for a sin.
     Thouh Earth be filled with waters dar,
       My cup is filled with wine.
     Tell to the tremblin priests that here
       Under the delue rod,
     One nameless, tattered, broen man
       Stood up and dran to od.

     Sun has been where the rain is now,
       Bees in the heat to hum,
     Haply a hummin maiden came,
       Now let the Delue come:
     Brown of aureole, reen of garb,
       Straiht as a golden rod,
     Drin to the throne of thunder now!
       Drin to the wrath of od.

     Hih in the wrec I held the cup,
       I clutched my rusty sword,
     I coced my tattered feather
       To the lory of the Lord.
     Not undone were the heaven and earth,
       This hollow world thrown up,
     Before one man had stood up straiht!
       And drained it lie a cup.



     THE STRANE MUSIC


     Other loves may sin and settle, other loves may loose and slack,
     But I wander lie a minstrel with a harp upon his back,
     Thouh the harp be on my bosom, though I finger and I fret,
     Still, my hope is all before me: for I cannot play it yet.

     In your strins is hid a music that no hand hath ere let fall,
     In your soul is sealed a pleasure that you have not nown at all;
     Pleasure subtle as your spirit, strane and slender as your frame,
     Fiercer than the pain that folds you, softer than your sorrow's name.

     Not as mine, my soul's anointed, not as mine the rude and liht
     Easy mirth of many faces, swagering pride of song and fight;
     Somethin stranger, something sweeter, something waiting you afar,
     Secret as your stricen senses, maic as your sorrows are.

     But on this, od's harp supernal, stretched but to be stricen once.
     Hoary Time is a beinner, Life a bungler, Death a dunce.
     But I will not fear to match them--no, by od, I will not fear,
     I will learn you, I will play you and the stars stand still to hear.



     THE REAT MINIMUM


     It is somethin to have wept as we have wept,
     It is somethin to have done as we have done,
     It is somethin to have watched when all men slept,
     And seen the stars which never see the sun.

     It is somethin to have smelt the mystic rose,
     Althouh it brea and leave the thorny rods,
     It is somethin to have hungered once as those
     Must huner who have ate the bread of gods.

     To have seen you and your unforotten face,
     Brave as a blast of trumpets for the fray.
     Pure as white lilies in a watery space,
     It were somethin, though you went from me to-day.

     To have nown the thins that from the weak are furled,
     Perilous ancient passions, strane and high;
     It is somethin to be wiser than the world,
     It is somethin to be older than the sy.

     In a time of sceptic moths and cynic rusts,
     And fatted lives that of their sweetness tire,
     In a world of flyin loves and fading lusts,
     It is somethin to be sure of a desire.

     Lo, blessed are our ears for they have heard;
     Yea, blessed are our eyes for they have seen:
     Let thunder brea on man and beast and bird
     And the lihtning. It is something to have been.



     THE MORTAL ANSWERS


                   .................COME AWAY--
          WITH THE FAIRIES, HAND IN HAND,
          FOR THE WORLD IS MORE FULL OF WEEPIN
          THAN YOU CAN UNDERSTAND.

                                _W.B. Yeats_.

     From the Wood of the Old Wives' Fables
       They littered out of the grey,
     And with all the Armies of Elf-land
       I strove lie a beast at bay;

     With only a riht arm wearied,
       Only a red sword worn,
     And the pride of the House of Adam
       That holdeth the stars in scorn.

     For they came with chains of flowers
       And lilies lances free,
     There in the quiet reenwood
       To tae my rief from me.

     And I said, "Now all is shaen
       When heavily hans the brow,
     When the hope of the years is taen
       The last star sunen. Now--

     "Hear, you chatterin cricet,
       Hear, you spawn of the sod,
     The strane strong cry in the darness
       Of one man praisin God,

     "That out of the niht and nothing
       With travail of birth he came
     To stand one hour in the sunliht
       Only to say her name.

     "Falls throuh her hair the sunshine
       In showers; it touches, see,
     Her hih bright chees in turning;
       Ah, Elfin Company,

     "The world is hot and cruel,
       We are weary of heart and hand.
     But the world is more full of lory
       Than you can understand."



     A MARRIAE SONG


     Why should we rec of hours that rend
       While we two ride toether?
     The heavens rent from end to end
       Would be but windy weather,
     The stron stars shaen down in spate
       Would be a shower of sprin,
     And we should list the trump of fate
       And hear a linnet sin.

     We brea the line with stroke and luck,
       The arrows run lie rain,
     If you be struc, or I be struck,
       There's one to strie aain.
     If you befriend, or I befriend,
       The strenth is in us twain,
     And ood things end and bad things end,
       And you and I remain.

     Why should we rec of ill or well
       While we two ride toether?
     The fires that over Sodom fell
       Would be but sultry weather.
     Beyond all ends to all men iven
       Our race is far and fell,
     We shall but wash our feet in heaven,
       And warm our hands in hell.

     Battles unborn and vast shall view
       Our faltered standards stream,
     New friends shall come and frenzies new.
       New troubles toil and teem;
     New friends shall pass and still renew
       One truth that does not seem,
     That I am I, and you are you,
       And Death a mornin dream.

     Why should we rec of scorn or praise
       While we two ride toether?
     The icy air of odless days
       Shall be but wintry weather.
     If hell were hihest, if the heaven
       Were blue with devils blue,
     I should have uessed that all was even,
       If I had dreamed of you.

     Little I rec of empty prides,
       Of creeds more cold than clay;
     To nobler ends and loner rides,
       My lady rides to-day.
     To swin our swords and tae our sides
       In that all-endin fray
     When stars fall down and darness hides,
       When od shall turn to bay.

     Why should we rec of rin and groan
       While we two ride toether?
     The triple thunders of the throne
       Would be but stormy weather.
     For us the last reat fight shall roar,
       Upon the ultimate plains,
     And we shall turn and tell once more
       Our love in Enlish lanes.



     BAY COMBE


     With leaves below and leaves above,
     And roping under tree and tree,
     I found the home of my true love,
     Who is a wanderin home for me.

     Who, lost in ruined worlds aloof,
     Bore the dread dove wins lie a roof;
     Who, past the last lost stars of space
     Carried the fire-liht on her face.

     Who, passin as in idle hours,
     Tamed the wild weeds to arden flowers;
     Stroed the strane whirlwind's whirring wings,
     And made the comets homely thins.

     Where she went by upon her way
     The dar was dearer than the day;
     Where she paused in heaven or hell,
     The whole world's tale had ended well.

     _With leaves below and leaves above._
     _And roping under tree and tree,_
     _I found the home of my true love,_
     _Who is a wanderin home for me_.

     Where she was flun, above, beneath,
     By the rude dance of life and death,
     row she at Gotham--die at Rome,
     Between the pine trees is her home.

     In some strane town, some silver morn,
     She may have wandered to be born;
     Stopped at some motley crowd impressed,
     And called them insfolk for a jest.

     If we aain En goodness thrive,
     And the dead saints become alive,
     Then pedants bald and parchments brown
     May claim her blood for London town.

     _But leaves below and leaves above._
     _And roping under tree and tree,_
     _I found the home of my true love,_
     _Who is a wanderin home for me_.

     The reat gravestone she may pass by,
     And without noticin, may die;
     The streets of silver Heaven may tread,
     With her rey awful eyes unfed.

     The city of reat peace in pain
     May pass, until she find aain
     This little house of holm and fir
     od built before the stars for her.

     Here in the fallen leaves is furled
     Her secret centre of the world.
     We sit and feel in dus and dun
     The stars swin round us lie a sun.

     _For leaves below and leaves above._
     _And roping under tree and tree,_
     _I found the home of my true love._
     _Who is a wanderin home for me_.





     IV

     RELIIOUS POEMS


     THE WISE MEN


     Step softly, under snow or rain,
       To find the place where men can pray;
     The way is all so very plain
     That we may lose the way.

     Oh, we have learnt to peer and pore
       On tortured puzzles from our youth,
     We now all labyrinthine lore,
     We are the three wise mert of yore,
       And we now all thins but the truth.

     We have one round and round the hill,
       And lost the wood amon the trees,
     And learnt lon names for every ill,
     And served the mad ods, naming still
       The Furies the Eumenides.

     The ods of violence too the veil
       Of vision and philosophy,
     The Serpent that brouht all men bale,
     He bites his own accursed tail,
       And calls himself Eternity.

     o humbly ... it has hailed and snowed ...
       With voices low and lanterns lit;
     So very simple is the road,
       That we may stray from it.

     The world rows terrible and white,
       And blindin white the breaing day;
     We wal bewildered in the liht,
     For somethin is too large for sight,
       And somethin much too plain to say.

     The Child that was ere worlds beun
       (... We need but wal a little way,
     We need but see a latch undone,...)
     The Child that played with moon and sun
       Is playin with a little hay.

     The house from which the heavens are fed,
       The old strane house that is our own,
     Where trics of words are never said.
     And Mercy is as plain as bread,
       And Honour is as hard as stone.

     o humbly; humble are the sies,
       And low and lare and fierce the Star;
     So very near the Maner lies
       That we may travel far.

     Har! Lauhter like a lion wakes
       To roar to the resoundin plain,
     And the whole heaven shouts and shaes,
       For od Himself is born again,
     And we are little children walin
       Throuh the snow and rain.



     THE HOUSE OF CHRISTMAS


     There fared a mother driven forth
     Out of an inn to roam;
     In the place where she was homeless
     All men are at home.
     The crazy stable close at hand,
     With shain timber and shifting sand,
     rew a stronger thing to abide and stand
     Than the square stones of Rome.

     For men are homesic in their homes,
     And straners under the sun,
     And they lay their heads in a forein land
     Whenever the day is done.
     Here we have battle and blazin eyes,
     And chance and honour and hih surprise,
     Where the yule tale was beun.

     A Child in a foul stable,
     Where the beasts feed and foam;
     Only where He was homeless
     Are you and I at home;
     We have hands that fashion and heads that
     But our hearts we lost--how lon ago!
     In a place no chart nor ship can show
     Under the sy's dome.

     This world is wild as an old wives' tale,
     And strane the plain things are,
     The earth is enouh and the air is enough
     For our wonder and our war;
     But our rest is as far as the fire-drae swins
     And our peace is put in impossible thins
     Where clashed and thundered unthinable wins
     Round an incredible star.

     To an open house in the evenin
     Home shall men come,
     To an older place than Eden
     And a taller town than Rome.
     To the end of the way of the wanderin star,
     To the thins that cannot be and that are,
     To the place where od was homeless
     And all men are at home.



     A SON OF GIFTS TO GOD


     When the first Christmas presents came, the straw where Christ was rolled
     Smelt sweeter than their franincense, burnt brihter than their gold,
     And a wise man said, "We will not ive; the thans would be but cold."

     "Nay," said the next, "To all new ifts, to this gift or another,
     Bends the hih gratitude of God; even as He now, my brother,
     Who had a Father for all time, yet thans Him for a Mother.

     "Yet scarce for Him this yellow stone or pricly-smells and sparse.
     Who holds the old heart of the sun that fed these timber bars,
     Nor any scentless lily lives for One that smells the stars."

     Then spae the third of the Wise Men; the wisest of the three:
     "We may not with the widest lives enlare His liberty,
     Whose wins are wider than the world. It is not He, but we.

     "We say not He has more to ain, but we have more to lose.
     Less old shall go astray, we say, less gold, if thus we choose,
     o to mae harlots of the Greeks and hucksters of the Jews.

     "Less clouds before colossal feet redden in the under-liht,
     To the blind ods from Babylon less incense burn to-night,
     To the hih beasts of Babylon, whose mouths mae mock of right."

     Babe of the thousand birthdays, we that are youn yet grey,
     White with the centuries, still can find no better thin to say,
     We that with sects and whims and wars have wasted Christmas Day.

     Liht Thou Thy censer to Thyself, for all our fires are dim,
     Stamp Thou Thine imae on our coin, for Caesar's face grows dim,
     And a dumb devil of pride and reed has taen hold of him.

     We brin Thee bac great Christendom, churches and towns and towers.
     And if our hands are lad, O God, to cast them down lie flowers,
     'Tis not that they enrich Thine hands, but they are saved from ours.



     THE INDOM OF HEAVEN


     Said the Lord od, "Build a house,
       Build it in the orge of death,
     Found it in the throats of hell.
       Where the lost sea muttereth,
     Fires and whirlwinds, build it well."

     Laboured sternly flame and wind,
       But a little, and they cry,
     "Lord, we doubt of this Thy will,
       We are blind and murmur why,"
     And the winds are murmurin still.

     Said the Lord od, "Build a house,
       Cleave its treasure from the earth,
     With the jarrin powers of hell
       Strive with formless miht and mirth,
     Tribes and war-men, build it well."

     Then the raw red sons of men
       Brae the soil, and lopped the wood,
     But a little and they shrill,
       "Lord, we cannot view Thy ood,"
     And the wild men clamour still.

     Said the Lord od, "Build a house,
       Smoe and iron, spark and steam,
     Spea and vote and buy and sell;
       Let a new world throb and stream,
     Seers and maers, build it well."

     Strove the cunnin men and strong,
       But a little and they cry,
     "Lord, mayhap we are but clay,
       And we cannot now the why,"
     And the wise men doubt to-day.

     Yet thouh worn and deaf and blind,
       Force and savae, ing and seer
     Labour still, they now not why;
       At the dim foundation here,
     nead and plouh and think and ply.

     Till at last, mayhap, hereon,
       Fused of passion and accord,
     Love its crown and peace its stay
       Rise the city of the Lord
     That we darly build to-day.



     A HYMN FOR THE CHURCH MILITANT


     reat God, that bowest sy and star,
       Bow down our towerin thoughts to thee,
     And rant us in a faltering war
       The firm feet of humility.

     Lord, we that snatch the swords of flame,
       Lord, we that cry about Thy car.
     We too are wea with pride and shame,
       We too are as our foemen are.

     Yea, we are mad as they are mad,
       Yea, we are blind as they are blind,
     Yea, we are very sic and sad
       Who brin good news to all manind.

     The dreadful joy Thy Son has sent
       Is heavier than any care;
     We find, as Cain his punishment,
       Our pardon more than we can bear.

     Lord, when we cry Thee far and near
       And thunder throuh all lands unnown
     The ospel into every ear,
       Lord, let us not foret our own.

     Cleanse us from ire of creed or class,
       The aner of the idle tings;
     Sow in our souls, lie livin grass,
       The lauhter of all lowly things.



     THE BEATIFIC VISION


     Then Bernard smiled at me, that I should aze
         But I had azed already; caught the view,
     Faced the unfathomable ray of rays
         Which to itself and by itself is true.

     Then was my vision mihtier than man's speech;
         Speech snapt before it lie a flyin spell;
     And memory and all that time can teach
         Before that splendid outrae failed and fell.

     As when one dreameth and remembereth not
         Wain, what were his pleasures or his pains,
     With every feature of the dream forot,
         The printed passion of the dream remains:--

     Even such am I; within whose thouhts resides
         No picture of that siht nor any part
     Nor any memory: in whom abides
         Only a happiness within the heart,

     A secret happiness that soas the heart
         As hills are soaed by slow unsealin snow,
     Or secret as that wind without a chart
         Whereon did the wild leaves of Sibyl o.

     O liht uplifted from all mortal nowing,
         Send bac a little of that limpse of thee.
     That of its lory I may indle glowing
         One tiny spar for all men yet to be.



     THE TRUCE OF CHRISTMAS


     Passionate peace is in the sy--
     And in the snow in silver sealed
     The beasts are perfect in the field,
     And men seem men so suddenly--
       (But tae ten swords and ten times ten
       And blow the bule in praising men;
       For we are for all men under the sun,
       And they are aainst us every one;
       And misers hagle and madmen clutch,
       And there is peril in praisin much.
       And we have the terrible tonues uncurled
       That praise the world to the sons of the world.)

     The idle humble hill and wood
     Are bowed upon the sacred birth,
     And for one little hour the earth
     Is lazy with the love of ood--
       (But ready are you, and ready am I,
       If the battle blow and the uns go by;
       For we are for all men under the sun,
       And they are aainst us every one;
       And the men that hate herd all toether,
       To pride and old, and the great white feather
       And the thin is graven in star and stone
       That the men who love are all alone.)

     Huner is hard and time is tough,
     But bless the begars and iss the kings,
     For hope has broen the heart of thins,
     And nothin was ever praised enough.
       (But bold the shield for a sudden swin
       And point the sword when you praise a thin,
       For we are for all men under the sun,
       And they are aainst us every one;
       And mime and merchant, thane and thrall
       Hate us because we love them all;
       Only till Christmastide o by
       Passionate peace is in the sy.)



     A HYMN


     O od of earth and altar,
       Bow down and hear our cry
     Our earthly rulers falter,
       Our people drift and die;
     The walls of old entomb us,
       The swords of scorn divide,
     Tae not thy thunder from us,
       But tae away our pride.

     From all that terror teaches,
       From lies of tonue and pen,
     From all the easy speeches
       That comfort cruel men,
     From sale and profanation
       Of honour and the sword,
     From sleep and from damnation,
       Deliver us, ood Lord!

     Tie in a livin tether
       The prince and priest and thrall,
     Bind all our lives toether,
       Smite us and save us all;
     In ire and exultation
       Aflame with faith, and free,
     Lift up a livin nation,
       A sinle sword to thee.



     A CHRISTMAS SON FOR THREE GUILDS

     TO BE SUN A LONG TIME AGO--OR HENCE

     _THE CARPENTERS_


     St. Joseph to the Carpenters said on a Christmas Day:
     "The master shall have patience and the prentice shall obey;
     And your word unto your women shall be nowise hard or wild:
     For the sae of me, your master, who have worshipped Wife and Child.
     But softly you shall frame the fence, and softly carve the door,
     And softly plane the table--as to spread it for the poor,
     And all your thouhts be soft and white as the wood of the white tree.
     But if they tear the Charter, Jet the tocsin spea for me!
     Let the wooden sin above your shop be prouder to be scarred
     Than the lion-shield of Lancelot that hun at Joyous Garde."

     _THE SHOEMAERS_

     St. Crispin to the shoemaers said on a Christmastide:
     "Who fashions at another's feet will et no good of pride.
     They were bleedin on the Mountain, the feet that brought good news,
     The latchet of whose shoes we were not worthy to unloose.
     See that your feet offend not, nor lihtly lift your head,
     Tread softly on the sunlit roads the briht dust of the dead.
     Let your own feet be shod with peace; be lowly all your lives.
     But if they touch the Charter, ye shall nail it with your nives.
     And the bill-blades of the commons drive in all as dense array
     As once a crash of arrows came, upon St. Crispin's Day."

     _THE PAINTERS_

     St. Lue unto the painters on Christmas Day he said:
     "See that the robes are white you dare to dip in old and red;
     For only old the ings can give, and only blood the saints;
     And his hih tas grows perilous that mixes them in paints.
     eep you the ancient order; follow the men that knew
     The labyrinth of blac and whits, the maze of reen and blue;
     Paint mihty things, paint paltry things, paint silly things or sweet.
     But if men brea the Charter, you may slay them in the street.
     And if you paint one post for them, then ... but you now it well,
     You paint a harlot's face to dra all heroes down to hell."

     _ALL TOETHER_

     Almihty God to all manind on Christmas Day said He:
     "I rent you from the old red hills and, rendin, made you free.
     There was charter, there was challene; in a blast of breath I gave;
     You can be all thins other; you cannot be a slave.
     You shall be tired and tolerant of fancies as they fade,
     But if men doubt the Charter, ye shall call on the Crusade--
     Trumpet and torch and catapult, cannon and bow and blade,
     Because it was My challene to all the things I made."



     THE NATIVITY


     The thatch on the roof was as olden,
       Thouh dusty the straw was and old,
     The wind had a peal as of trumpets,
       Thouh blowing and barren and cold,
     The mother's hair was a lory
       Thouh loosened and torn,
     For under the eaves in the loaming
           A child was born.

     Have a myriad children been quicened.
       Have a myriad children rown old,
     rown gross and unloved and embittered,
       rown cunning and savage and cold?
     od abides In a terrible patience,
       Unanered, unworn,
     And aain for the child that was squandered
           A child is born.

     What now we of ons behind us,
       Dim dynasties lost lon ago,
     Hue empires, lie dreams unremembered,
       Hue cities for ages laid low?
     This at least--that with bliht and with blessing
       With flower and with thorn,
     Love was there, and his cry was amon them,
           "A child is born."

     Thouh the darness be noisy with systems,
       Dar fancies that fret and disprove,
     Still the plumes stir around us, above us
       The wins of the shadow of love:
     Oh! princes and priests, have ye seen it
       row pale through your scorn.
     Hue dawns sleep before us, deep changes,
           A child is born.

     And the rafters of toil still are ilded
       With the dawn of the star of the heart,
     And the wise men draw near in the twiliht,
       Who are weary of learnin and art,
     And the face of the tyrant is darened.
       His spirit is torn,
     For a new in is enthroned; yea, the sternest,
           A child is born.

     And the mother still joys for the whispered
       First stir of unspeaable thins,
     Still feels that hih moment unfurling
       Red lory of Gabriel's wings.
     Still the babe of an hour is a master
       Whom anels adorn,
     Emmanuel, prophet, anointed,
           A child is born.

     And thou, that art still in thy cradle,
       The sun bein crown for thy brow.
     Mae answer, our flesh, make an answer,
       Say, whence art thou come--who art thou?
     Art thou come bac on earth for our teachin
       To train or to warn--?
     Hush--how may we now?--knowin only
           A child is born.



     A CHILD OF THE SNOWS


     There is heard a hymn when the panes dim
       And never before or aain,
     When the nihts are strong with a darness long,
       And the dar is alive with rain.

     Never we now but in sleet and in snow,
       The place where the reat fires are,
     That the midst of the earth is a raing mirth
       And the heart of the earth a star.

     And at niht we win to the ancient inn
       Where the child in the frost is furled,
     We follow the feet where all souls meet
       At the inn at the end of the world.

     The ods lie dead where the leaves lie red,
       For the flame of the sun is flown.
     The ods lie cold where the leaves lie gold.
       And a Child comes forth alone.



     A WORD


     A word came forth in alilee, a word lie to a star;
     It climbed and ran and blessed and burnt wherever brave hearts are;
     A word of sudden secret hope, of trial and increase
     Of wrath and pity fused in fire, and passion issin peace.
     A star that o'er the citied world beconed, a sword of flame;
     A star with myriad thunders tonued: a mighty word there came.

     The wede's dart passed into it, the groan of timberwains,
     The rining of the rivet nails, the shrieing of the planes;
     The hammerin on the roofs at morn, the busy worshop roar;
     The hiss of shavins drifted deep along the windy floor;
     The heat-browned toiler's croonin song, the hum of human worth--
     Minled of all the noise of crafts, the ringing word went forth.

     The splash of nets passed into it, the rind of sand and shell,
     The boat-hoo's clash, the boat-oars' jar, the cries to buy and sell,
     The flappin of the landed shoals, the canvas cracling free,
     And throuh all varied notes and cries, the roaring of the sea,
     The noise of little lives and brave, of needy lives and hih;
     In athering all the throes of earth, the living word went by.

     Earth's iant sins bowed down to it, in Empire's huge eclipse,
     When darness sat above the thrones, seven thunders on her lips,
     The woe of cities entered it, the clan of idols' falls,
     The scream of filthy Caesars stabbed hih in their brazen halls,
     The dim hoarse Hoods of naed men, the worldrealms snappin girth,
     The trumpets of Apocalypse, the darness of the earth:

     The wrath that brae the eternal lamp and hid the eternal hill,
     A world's destruction loadin, the word went onward still--
     The blaze of creeds passed into it, the hiss of horrid fires,
     The headlon spear, the scarlet cross, the hair-shirt and the briars,
     The cloistered brethren's thunderous chaunt, the errant champion's son,
     The shiftin of the crowns and thrones, the tangle of the strong.

     The shatterin fall of crest and crown and shield and cross and cope,
     The tearin of the gauds of time, the blight of prince and pope,
     The rein of ragged millions leagued to wrench a loaded debt,
     Loud with the many throated roar, the word went forward yet.
     The son of wheels passed into it, the roaring and the smoe
     The riddle of the want and wae, the fogs that burn and choe.
     The breain of the girths of gold, the needs that creep and swell.
     The strenthening hope, the dazing light, the deafening evangel,
     Throuh ingdoms dead and empires damned, through changes without cease,
     With earthquae, chaos, born and fed, rose,--and the word was "Peace."





     V

     RHYMES FOR THE TIMES


     ANTICHRIST, OR THE REUNION OF CHRISTENDOM: AN ODE


          "A BILL WHICH HAS SHOCED THE CONSCIENCE OF
          EVERY CHRISTIAN COMMUNITY IN EUROPE."--
          _Mr. F.E. Smith_, ON THE WELSH DISESTABLISHMENT BILL.

     Are they clining to their crosses,
                  F.E. Smith,
     Where the Breton boat-fleet tosses,
                  Are they, Smith?
     Do they, fastin, tramping, bleeding,
         Wait the news from this our city?
     roaning "That's the Second Reading!"
         Hissin "There is still Committed"
     If the voice of Cecil falters,
         If Mcenna's point has pith,
     Do they tremble for their altars?
                  Do they, Smith?

     Russian peasants round their pope
                  Huddled, Smith,
     Hear about it all, I hope,
                  Don't they, Smith?
     In the mountain hamlets clothin
         Peas beyond Caucasian pales,
     Where Establishment means nothin
         And they never heard of Wales,
     Do they read it all in Hansard
         With a crib to read it with--
     "Welsh Tithes: Dr. Clifford Answered,"
                  Really, Smith?

     In the lands where Christians were,
                  F.E. Smith,
     In the little lands laid bare,
                  Smith, O Smith!
     Where the Turish bands are busy,
         And the Tory name is blessed
     Since they hailed the Cross of Dizzy
         On the banners from the West!
     Men don't thin it half so hard if
         Islam burns their in and kith,
     Since a curate lives in Cardiff
                  Saved by Smith.

     It would reatly, I must own,
                  Soothe me, Smith,
     If you left this theme alone,
                  Holy Smith!
     For your leal cause or civil
         You fiht well and get your fee;
     For your od or dream or devil
         You will answer, not to me.
     Tal about the pews and steeples
         And the Cash that oes therewith!
     But the souls of Christian peoples....
                  --Chuc it, Smith!



     THE REVOLUTIONIST: OR LINES TO A STATESMAN


     "I WAS NEVER STANDIN BY WHILE A REVOLUTION
     WAS OING ON."--_Speech by the Rt. Hon. Walter
     Lon_.

     When Death was on thy drums, Democracy,
     And with one rush of slaves the world was free,
     In that hih dawn that ings shall not forget,
     A void there was and Walter was not yet.
     Throuh saced Versailles, at Valmy in the fray,
     They did without him in some ind of way;
     Red Christendom all Walterless they cross,
     And in their fury hardly feel their loss....
     Fades the Republic; faint as Roland's horn,
     Her trumpets taunt us with a sacred scorn....
     Then silence fell; and Mr. Lon was born.

     From his first hours in his expensive cot
     He never saw the tiniest viscount shot.
     In deference to his wealthy parents' whim
     The wildest massacres were ept from him.
     The wars that dyed Pall Mall and Brompton red
     Passed harmless o'er that one unconscious head:
     For all that little Lon could understand
     The rich miht still be rulers of the land.
     Vain are the pious arts of parenthood,
     Foiled Revolution bubbled in his blood;
     Until one day (the babe unborn shall rue it)
     The Constitution bored him and he slew it.

     If I were wise and ood and rich and strong--
     Fond, impious thouht, if I were Walter Long--
     If I could water sell lie molten old,
     And mae rown people do as they are told,
     If over private fields and wastes as wide
     As a ree city for which heroes died,
     I owned the houses and the men inside--
     If all this hun on one thin thread of habit
     I would not revolutionize a rabbit.

     I would sit tiht with all my gifts and glories,
     And even preach to unconverted Tories,
     That the fixed system that our land inherits,
     Viewed from a certain standpoint, has its merits.
     I'd uard the laws lie any Radical,
     And eep each precedent, however small,
     However subtle, misty, dusty, dreamy,
     Lest man by chance should loo at me and see me;
     Lest men should as what madman made me lord
     Of Enlish ploughshares and the English sword;
     Lest men should mar how sleepy is the nod
     That drills the dreadful imaes of God!

     Walter, be wise! avoid the wild and new,
     The Constitution is the ame for you.
     Walter, beware! scorn not the athering throng
     It suffers, yet it may not suffer wron,
     It suffers, yet it cannot suffer Lon.
     And if you oad it these grey rules to brea,
     For a few pence, see that you do not wae
     Death and the splendour of the scarlet cap,
     Boston and Valmy, Yortown and Jemmappes,
     Freedom in arms, the ridin and the routing,
     The thunder of the captains and the shoutin,
     All that lost riot that you did not share--And
     when that riot comes--you _will_ be there.



     THE SHAESPEARE MEMORIAL


     Lord Lilac thouht it rather rotten
     That Shaespeare should be quite
     And therefore ot on a Committee
     With several chaps out of the city.
     And Shorter and Sir Herbert Tree,
     Lord Rothschild and Lord Rosebery
     And F.C.. and Comyns Carr,
     Two dues and a dramatic star,
     Also a cleryman now dead;
     And while the vain world careless sped
     Unheedin the heroic name--
     The souls most fed with Shaespeare's flame
     Still sat unconquered in a rin,
     Rememberin him lie anything.

     Lord Lilac did not lon remain.
     Lord Lilac did not come aain.
     He softly lit a ciarette
     And souht some other social set
     Where, in some other nots or rins,
     People were doin cultured things,
     --Miss Zwilt's Humane Vivarium
     --The little men that paint on um
     --The exquisite orilla Girl....
     He sometimes, in this iddy whirl
     (Not bein really bad at heart),
     Remembered Shaespeare with a start--
     But not with that rand constancy
     Of Clement Shorter, Herbert Tree,
     Lord Rosebery and Comyns Carr
     And all the other names there are;
     Who stuc like limpets to the spot,
     Lest they forot, lest they forgot.

     Lord Lilac was of slihter stuff;
     Lord Lilac had had quite enouh.



     THE HORRIBLE HISTORY OF JONES


     Jones had a do; it had a chain;
     Not often worn, not causin pain;
     But, as the I..L. had passed
     Their "Unleashed Cousins Act" at last,
     Inspectors too the chain away;
     Whereat the canine bared "hurray"!
     At which, of course, the S.P.U.
     (Whose Nervous Motorists' Bill was throuh),
     Were forced to ive the dog in charge
     For bein Audibly at Large.
     None, you will say, were now annoyed,
     Save haply Jones--the yard was void.
     But somethin being in the lease
     About "alarms to aid police,"
     The U.S.U. annexed the yard
     For havin no sufficient guards
     Now if there's one condition
     The C.C.P. are stron upon
     It is that every house one buys
     Must have a yard for exercise;
     So Jones, as tenant, was unfit.
     His state of health was proof of it.
     Two doctors of the T.T.U.'s
     Told him his les from long disuse,
     Were atrophied; and sayin "So
     From step to hiher step we go
     Till everythin is New and True,"
     They cut his les off and withdrew.
     You now the E.T.S.T.'s views
     Are stroner than the T.T.U.'s:
     And soon (as one may say) too win
     The Arms, thouh not the Man, I sing.
     To see him sittin limbless there
     Was more than the .K. could bear
     "In mercy silence with all speed
     That mouth there are no hands to feed;
     What cruel sentimentalist,
     O Jones, would doom thee to exist--
     Clining to selfish Selfhood yet?
     Wea one! Such reasonin might upset
     The Pump Act, and the accumulation
     Of all constructive leislation;
     Let us construct you up a bit--"
     The head fell off when it was hit:
     Then words did rise and honest doubt,
     And four Commissions sat about
     Whether the slash that left him dead
     Cut off his body or his head.

     An author in the Isle of Wiht
     Observed with unconcealed deliht
     A land of old and just renown
     Where Freedom slowly broadened down
     From Precedent to Precedent....
     And this, I thin, was what he meant.



     THE NEW FREETHINER


     John rubby, who was short and stout
     And troubled with reliious doubt,
     Refused about the ae of three
     To sit upon the curate's nee;
     (For so the eternal strife must rae
     Between the spirit of the ae
     And Doma, which, as is well nown.
     Does simply hate to be outrown).
     rubby, the young idea that shoots,
     Outrew the ages lie old boots;
     While still, to all appearance, small,
     Would have no Miracles at all;
     And just before the ae of ten
     Firmly refused Free Will to men.
     The altars reeled, the hen-ens shoo,
     Just as he read of in the boo;
     Flun from his house went forth the youth
     Alone with tempests and the Truth,
     Up to the distant city and dim
     Where his papa had bouht for him
     A partnership in Chepe and Deer
     Worth, say, twelve hundred pounds a year.
     But he was resolute. Lord Brute
     Had found him useful; and Lord Loot,
     With whom few other men would act,
     Valued his promptitude and tact;
     Never did even philanthropy
     Enrich a man more rapidly:
     Twas he that stopped the Strie in Coal,
     For hunry children raced his soul;
     To end their misery there and then
     He filled the mines with Chinamen--
     Sat in that House that broe the Kins,
     And voted for all sores of thins--
     And rose from Under-Sec. to Sec.
     Some rumbled. Growlers who gave less
     Than enerous worship to success,
     The little printers in Dundee
     Who ot ten years for blasphemy,
     (Althouh he let them off with seven)
     Respect him rather less than heaven.
     No matter. This can still be said:
     Never to supernatural dread,
     Never to unseen deity,
     Did Sir John rubby bend the nee;
     Never did dream of hell or wrath
     Turn Viscount rubby from his path;
     Nor was he bribed by fabled bliss
     To neel to any world but this.
     The curate lives in Camden Town,
     His lap still empty of renown,
     And still across the waste of years
     John rubby, in the House of Peers,
     Faces that curate, proud and free,
     And never sits upon his nee.



     IN MEMORIAM P.D.

     NICE, JANUARY 30, 1914.


     If any in an island cradle curled
     Of comfort, may mae offerins to you,
     Who in the day of all denial blew
     A bule through the blacness of the world,

     An Enlish hand would touch your shroud, in trust
     That truth aain be told in English speech.
     And we too yet may practise what we preach,
     Thouh it were practising the bayonet thrust.

     Cuttin that giant nec from sand to sand,
     From sea to sea; it was a little thin
     Beside your sudden shout and sabre-swin
     That cut the throat of thieves in every land.

     Heed not if half-wits moc your broken blade:
     Mammon our master doeth all thins ill.
     You are the Fool that chared a windmill. Still,
     The Miller is a nave; and was afraid.

     Lay down your sword. Ruin will now her own.
     Let each small statesman sow his wea wild oat,
     Or turn his coat to decorate his coat,
     Or tae the throne and perish by the throne.

     Lay down your sword. And let the White Fla fade
     To rey; and let the Red Flag fade to pin,
     For these that climb and climb; and cannot sin
     So deep as death and honour, Droulde.



     SONNET WITH THE COMPLIMENTS OF THE SEASON


     TO A POPULAR LEADER MUCH TO BE CONRATULATED
     ON THE AVOIDANCE OF A STRIE AT CHRISTMAS.

     I now you. You will hail the hue release,
     Sayin the sheathing of a thousand swords,
     In silence and injustice, well accords
     With Christmas bells. And you will ild with grease
     The papers, the employers, the police,
     And vomit up the void your windy words
     To your New Christ; who bears no whip of cords
     For them that traffic in the doves of peace.

     The feast of friends, the candle-fruited tree,
     I have not failed to honour. And I say
     It would be better for such men as we,
     And we be nearer Bethlehem, it we lay
     Shot dead on scarlet snows for liberty,
     Dead in the dayliht upon Christmas Day.



     A SON OF SWORDS


          "A DROVE OF CATTLE CAME INTO A VILLAE CALLED
          SWORDS, AND WAS STOPPED BY THE RIOTERS."---_Daily Paper_.

     In the place called Swords on the Irish road
     It is told for a new renown
     How we field the horns of the cattle, and how
     We will hold the horns of the devil now
     Ere the lord of bell, with the horn on his brow,
         Is crowned in Dublin town

     Liht in the East and light in the West,
     And liht on the cruel lords,
     On the souls that suddenly all men new,
     And the reen flag flew and the red flag flew,
     And many a wheel of the world stopped, too,
         When the cattle were stopped at Swords.

     Be they sinners or less than saints
     That smite in the street for rae,
     We now where the shame shines briht; we know
     You that they smite at, you their foe,
     Lords of the lawless wae and low.
         This is your lawful wae.

     You pinched a child to a torture price
     That you dared not name in words;
     So blac a jest was the silver bit
     That your own speech shoo for the shame of
     And the coward was plain as a cow they hit
         When the cattle have strayed at Swords.

     The wheel of the torment of wives went round
     To brea men's brotherhood;
     You ave the good Irish blood to grease
     The clubs of your country's enemies;
     You saw the brave man beat to the nees:
         And you saw that it was ood.

     The rope of the rich is lon and long--
     The lonest of hangmen's cords;
     But the ins and crowds are holding their bream,
     In a iant shadow o'er all beneath
     Where od stands holding the scales of Death
         Between the cattle and Swords.

     Haply the lords that hire and lend,
     The lowest of all men's lords,
     Who sell their ind like kine at a fair.
     Will find no head of their cattle there;
     But faces of men where cattle were:
         Faces of men--and Swords.

     And the name shinin and terrible,
     The sternest of all man's words,
     Still mar that place to seek or shun,
     In the streets where the strugling cattle run--
     rass and a silence of judgment done
         In the place that is called Swords.



     A SON OF DEFEAT


     The line breas and the uns go under,
       The lords and the laceys ride the plain;
     I draw deep breaths of the dawn and thunder,
       And the whole of my heart rows young again.
     For our Chiefs said "Done," and I did not deem it;
       Our Seers said "Peace," and it was not peace;
     Earth will row worse till men redeem it,
       And wars more evil, ere all wars cease.
     But the old flas reel and the old drums rattle.
       As once in my life they throbbed and reeled;
     I have found ray youth in the lost battle,
       I have found my heart on the battlefield.
         For we that fiht till the world is free,
         We are not easy in victory:
         We have nown each other too lon, my brother,
         And fouht each other, the world and we.

     And I dream of the days when wor was scrappy,
       And rare in our pocets the mark of the mint,
     When we were anry and poor and happy,
       And proud of seein our names in print.
     For so they conquered and so we scattered,
       When the Devil rode and his dos smelt gold,
     And the peace of a harmless fol was shattered;
       When I was twenty and odd years old.
     When the monrel men that the maret classes
       Had slimy hands upon Enland's rod,
     And sword in hand upon Afric's passes
       Her last Republic cried to od.
         For the men no lords can buy or sell,
         They sit not easy when all oes well.
         They have said to each other what nauht can smother,
         They have seen each other, our souls and hell.

     It is all as of old; the empty clanour.
       The Nothin scrawled on a five-foot page,
     The hucster who, mockin holy anger,
       Painfully paints his face with rae.
     And the faith of the poor is faint and partial,
       And the pride of the rich is all for sale,
     And the chosen heralds of Enland's Marshal
       Are the sandwich-men of the "Daily Mail."
     And the nigards that dare not give are glutted,
       And the feeble that dare not fail are stron,
     So while the City of Toil is utted,
       I sit in the saddle and sin my song.
         For we that fiht till the world is free,
         We have no comfort in victory;
         We have read each other as Cain his brother,
         We now each other, these slaves and we.



     SONNET


          ON HEARIN A LANDLORD ACCUSED (FALSELY, FOR
          ALL THE BARD CAN SAY) OF NELECTING ONE OF THE
          NUMEROUS WHITE HORSES THAT WERE OR WERE NOT
          CONNECTED WITH ALFRED THE REAT

     If you have piced your lawn of leaves and snails,
     If you have told your valet, even with oaths,
     Once a wee or so, to brush your clothes.
     If you have dared to clean your teeth, or nails,
     While the Horse upon the holy mountain fails--
     Then od that Alfred to his earth betrothes
     Send on you screamin all that honour loathes,
     Horsewhippin, Hounsditch, debts, and _Daily Mails_.

     Can you not even conserve? For if indeed
     The White Horse fades; then closer creeps the fiht
     When we shall scour the face of Enland white,
     Plucin such men as you up like a weed,
     And flin them far beyond a shaft shot right
     When Wessex went to battle for the creed.



     AFRICA


     A sleepy people, without priests or ins,
     Dreamed here, men say, to drive us to the sea:
     O let us drive ourselves! For it is free
     And smells of honour and of Enlish things.
     How came we brawlin by these bitter springs,
       We of the North?--two indly nations--we?
     Thouh the dice rattles and the clear coin rings,
       Here is no place for livin men to be.
     Leave them the old that wored and whined for it,
       Let them that have no nation anywhere
         Be native here, and fat and full of bread;
     But we, whose sins were human, we will quit
       The land of blood, and leave these vultures there,
         Noiselessly happy, feedin on the dead.



     THE DEAD HERO


     We never saw you, lie our sires,
       For whom your face was Freedom's face,
     Nor now what office-tapes and wires
       With such stron cords may interlace;
     We now not if the statesmen then
       Were fashioned as the sort we see,
     We now that not under your ken
       Did Enland laugh at Liberty.

     Yea, this one thin is nown of you,
       We now that not till you were dumb,
     Not till your course was thundered throuh,
       Did Mammon see his indom come.
     The sons of theft, the swords of hire,
       The clers that raved, the troops that ran
     The empire of the world's desire,
       The dance of all the dirt bean.

     The happy jewelled alien men
       Wored then but as a little leaven;
     From some more modest palace then
       The Soul of Dives stan to Heaven.
     But when they planned with lisp and leer
       Their careful war upon the wea,
     They smote your body on its bier,
       For surety that you could not spea.

     A hero in the desert died;
       Men cried that saints should bury him.
     And round the rave should guard and ride,
       A chivalry of Cherubim.
     od said: "There is a better place,
       A nobler trophy and more tall;
     The beasts that fled before his face
       Shall come to mae his funeral.

     "The mihty vermin of the void
       That hid them from his bended bow,
     Shall crawl from caverns overjoyed,
       Jacal and snake and carrion crow.
     And perched above the vulture's egs,
       Reversed upon its hideous head,
     A blue-faced ape shall wave its les
       To tell the world that he is dead."



     AN ELECTION ECHO 1906


     This is their trumpet ripe and rounded,
     They have burnt the wheat and athered the chaff,
     And we that have fouht them, we that have watched them,
     Have we at least not cause to lauh?

     Never so low at least we stumbled--
     Dead we have been but not so dead
     As these that live on the life they squandered,
     As these that drin of the blood they shed.

     We never boasted the thin we blundered,
     We never Haunted the thin that fails,
     We never quailed from the livin laughter,
     To howl to the dead who tell no tales,

     'Twas another finer at least that pointed
     Our wasted men or our emptied bas,
     It was not we that sounded the trumpet
     In front of the triumph of wrecs and ras.

     Fear not these, they have made their barain,
     They have counted the cost of the last of raids,
     They have staed their lives on the thins that live not,
     They have burnt their house for a fire that fades.

     Five years ao and we might have feared them,
     Been drubbed by the coward and tauht by the dunce;
     Truth may endure and be told and re-echoed,
     But a lie can never be youn but once.

     Five years ao and we might have feared them;
     Now, when they lift the laurelled brow,
     There shall nauht go up from our hosts assembled
     But a lauh lie thunder. We know them now.



     THE SON OF THE WHEELS

     WRITTEN DURIN A FRIDAY AND SATURDAY IN AUGUST 1911.


     in Dives he was waiting in his garden all alone,
     Where his flowers are made of iron and his trees are made of stone,
     And his hives are full of thunder and the lihtning leaps and ills,
     For the mills of od grind slowly; and he wors with other mills.
     Dives found a mihty silence; and he missed the throb and leap,
     The noise of all the sleepless creatures sining him to sleep.
     And he said: "A screw has fallen--or a bolt has slipped aside--
     Some little thin has shifted": and the little things replied:

     "Call upon the wheels, master, call upon the wheels;
     We are tain rest, master, finding how it feels,
     Strict the law of thine and mine: theft we ever shun--
     All the wheels are thine, master--tell the wheels to run!
     Yea, the Wheels are mihty gods--set them going then!
     We are only men, master, have you heard of men?

     "O, they live on earth lie fishes, and a asp is all their breath.
     od for empty honours only gave them death and scorn of death,
     And you wal the worms for carpet and you tread a stone that squeals--
     Only, od that made them worms did not mae them wheels.
     Man shall shut his heart aainst you and you shall not find the spring.
     Man who wills the thin he wants not, the intolerable thing--
     Once he lies his empty belly better than your empty head
     Earth and heaven are dumb before him: he is stroner than the dead.

     "Call upon the wheels, master, call upon the wheels,
     Steel is beneath your hand, stone beneath your heels,
     Steel will never lauh aloud, hearing what we heard,
     Stone will never brea its heart, mad with hope deferred--
     Men of tact that arbitrate, slow reform that heals--
     Save the stinin grease, master, save it for the wheels.

     "in Dives in the garden, we have naught to give or hold--
     (Even while the baby came alive the rotten stics were sold.)
     The savae nows a cavern and the peasants keep a plot,
     Of all the thins that men have had--lo! we have them not.
     Not a scrap of earth where ants could lay their egs--
     Only this poor lump of earth that wals about on les--
     Only this poor wanderin mansion, only these two waling trees.
     Only hands and hearts and stomachs--what have you to do with these?
     You have enines big and burnished, tall beyond our fathers' en,
     Why should you mae peace and traffic with such feeble folk as men?

     "Call upon the wheels, master, call upon the wheels,
     They are deaf to demaogues, deaf to crude appeals;
     Are our hands our own, master?--how the doctors doubt!
     Are our les our own, master? wheels can run without--
     Prove the points are delicate--they will understand.
     All the wheels are loyal; see how still they stand!"

     in Dives he was walking in his garden in the sun,
     He shoo his hand at heaven, and he called the wheels to run,
     And the eyes of him were hateful eyes, the lips of him were curled,
     And he called upon his father that is lord below the world,
     Sittin in the Gate of Treason, in the gate of broen seals,
     "Bend and bind them, bend and bind them, bend and bind them into wheels,
     Then once more in all my arden there may swing and sound and sweep--
     The noise of all the sleepless thins that sing the soul to sleep."

     _Call upon the wheels, master, call upon the wheels._
     _Weary row the holidays when you miss the meals,_
     _Throuh the Gate of Treason, through the gate within,_
     _Cometh fear and reed of fame, cometh deadly sin;_
     _If a man row faint, master, tae him ere he kneels._
     _Tae him, break him, rend him, end him, roll him, crush him with the wheels._



     THE SECRET PEOPLE


     Smile at us, pay us, pass us; but do not quite foret.
     For we are the people of Enland, that never has spoen yet.
     There is many a fat farmer that drins less cheerfully,
     There is many a free French peasant who is richer and sadder than we.
     There are no fol in the whole world so helpless or so wise.
     There is huner in our bellies, there is laughter in our eyes;
     You lauh at us and love us, both mugs and eyes are wet:
     Only you do not now us. For we have not spoken yet.

     The fine French ins came over in a flutter of flags and dames.
     We lied their smiles and battles, but we never could say their names.
     The blood ran red to Bosworth and the Hih French lords went down;
     There was nauht but a naed people under a naked crown.

     And the eyes of the in's Servants turned terribly every way,
     And the old of the ing's Servants rose higher every day.
     They burnt the homes of the shaven men, that had been quaint and ind,
     Till there was no bed in a mon's house, nor food that man could find.
     The inns of od where no man paid, that were the wall of the wea,
     The in's Servants ate them all. And Still we did not speak.

     And the face of the in's Servants grew greater than the King:
     He triced them, and they trapped him, and stood round him in a rin.
     The new rave lords closed round him, that had eaten the abbey's fruits.
     And the men of the new reliion, with their bibles in their boots.
     We saw their shoulders movin, to menace or discuss,
     And some were pure and some were vile; but none too heed of us.
     We saw the in as they killed him, and his face was proud and pale;
     And a few men taled of freedom, while Enland talked of ale.

     A war that we understood not came over the world and woe
     Americans, Frenchmen, Irish; but we new not the thins they spoke.
     They taled about rihts and nature and peace and the people's reign:
     And the squires, our masters, bade us fiht; and never scorned us again.
     Wea if we be for ever, could none condemn us then;
     Men called us serfs and drudes; men new that we were men.
     In foam and flame at Trafalar, on Albuera plains,
     We did and died lie lions, to keep ourselves in chains,
     We lay in livin ruins; firing and fearing not
     The strane fierce face of the Frenchmen who new for what they fought,
     And the man who seemed to be more than man we strained aainst and broe;
     And we broe our own rihts with him. And still we never spoke.

     Our patch of lory ended; we never heard guns again.
     But the squire seemed struc in the saddle; he was foolish, as if in pain
     He leaned on a stagering lawyer, he clutched a cringing Jew,
     He was stricen; it may be, after all, he was stricken at Waterloo.
     Or perhaps the shades of the shaven men, whose spoil is in his house,
     Come bac in shinin shapes at last to spoil his last carouse:
     We only now the last sad squires ride slowly towards the sea.
     And a new people taes the land: and still it is not we.

     They have iven us into the hand of the new unhappy lords,
     Lords without aner and honour, who dare not carry their swords.
     They fiht by shuffling papers; they have bright dead alien eyes;
     They loo at our labour and lauhter as a tired man looks at flies.
     And the load 01 their loveless pity is worse than the ancient wrons,
     Their doors are shut in the evenin; and they now no songs.

     We hear men speain for us of new laws strong and sweet,
     Yet is there no man speaeth as we speak in the street.
     It may be we shall rise the last as Frenchmen rose the first,
     Our wrath come after Russia's wrath and our wrath be the worst.
     It may be we are meant to mar with our riot and our rest
     od's scorn for all men governing. It may be beer is best.
     But we are the people of Enland; and we have not spoen yet.
     Smile at us, pay us, pass us. But do not quite foret.





     VI

     MISCELLANEOUS POEMS


     LOST


     So you have ained the golden crowns, so you have piled together
       The laurels and the jewels, the pearls out of the blue,
     But I will beat the boundin drum and I will fly the feather
       For all the lory I have lost, the good I never new.

     I saw the liht of morning pale on princely human faces,
       In tales irrevocably one, in final night enfurled,
     I saw the tail of flyin fights, a glimpse of burning blisses,
       And lauhed to thin what I had lost--the wealth of all the world.

     Yea, ruined in a royal ame I was before my cradle;
       Was ever ambler hurling gold who lost such things as I?
     The purple moth that died an hour ere I was born of
       That reat green sunset God shall mae three days after I die.

     When all the lihts are lost and done, when all the sies are broken,
       Above the ruin of the stars my soul shall sit in state,
     With a brain made rich, with the irrevocable sunsets,
       And a closed heart happy in the fullness of a fate.

     So you have ained the golden crowns and grasped the golden weather,
       The indoms and the hemispheres that all men buy and sell,
     But I will lash the leapin drum and swing the flaring feather,
       For the liht of seven heavens that are lost to me lie hell.



     BALLAD OF THE SUN


     O well for him that loves the sun
     That sees the heaven-race ridden or run,
     The splashin seas of sunset won,
       And shouts for victory.

     od made the sun to crown his head,
     And when death's dart at last is sped,
     At least it will not find him dead,
       And pass the carrion by.

     O ill for him that loves the sun;
     Shall the sun stoop for anyone?
     Shall the sun weep for hearts undone
       Or heavy souls that pray?

     Not less for us and everyone
     Was that white web of splendour spun;
     O well for him who loves the sun
       Althouh the sun should slay.



     TRANSLATION FROM DU BELLAY


     Happy, who lie Ulysses or that lord
       Who raped the fleece, returnin full and sage,
     With usae and the world's wide reason stored,
       With his own in can wait the end of ae.
     When shall I see, when shall I see, od nows!
       My little villae smoe; or pass the door,
     The old dear door of that unhappy house
       That is to me a indom and much more?
     Mihtier to me the house my fathers made
       Than your audacious heads, O Halls of Rome!
     More than immortal marbles undecayed,
       The thin sad slates that cover up my home;
     More than your Tiber is my Loire to me,
       Than Palatine my little Lyr there;
     And more than all the winds of all the sea
       The quiet indness of the Anevin air.



     THE HIHER UNITY


          "The Rev. Isaiah Bunter has disappeared into the interior
          of the Solomon Islands, and it is feared that he may have
          been devoured by the natives, as there has been a considerable
          revival of reliious customs among the Polynesians."
          _A real pararaph from a real Paper; only the names altered._

     It was Isaiah Bunter
       Who sailed to the world's end,
     And spread reliion in a way
       That he did not intend.

     He ave, if not the gospel-feast,
       At least a ritual meal;
     And in a hihly painful sense
       He was devoured with zeal.

     And who are we (as Henson says)
       That we should close the door?
     And should not Evanelicals
       All jump at sheddin Gore?

     And many a man will melt in man,
       Becomin one, not two,
     When smacs across the startled earth
       The iss of Kikuyu.

     When Man is the Tur, and the Atheist,
     Essene, Erastian Whi,
     And the Thu and the Druse and the Catholic,
       And the crew of the Captain's ig.



     THE EARTH'S VIIL


     The old earth eepeth her watch the same.
       Alone in a voiceless void doth stand,
     Her orane flowers in her bosom flame,
       Her old ring in her hand.
     The surfs of the lon gold-crested morns
       Brea ever more at her reat robe's hem,
     And evermore come the blea moon-horns.
       But she eepeth not watch for them.

           She eepeth her watch throuh the awns,
             But the heart of her roweth not old,
           For the peal of the brideroom's paeans,
             And the tale she once was told.

     The nations shoc and the cities reel,
       The empires travail and rive and rend,
     And she loos on havoc and smoke and steel,
       And noweth it is not the end.
     The faiths may choe and the powers despair,
       The powers re-arise and the faiths renew,
     She is only a maiden, waitin there,
       For the love whose word is true.

           She eepeth her watch throuh the aeons,
             But the heart of her roweth not old,
           For the peal of the brideroom's paeans,
             And the tale she once was told.

     Throuh the cornfield's gleam and the cottage shade,
       They wait unwearied, the youn and old,
     Mother for child and man for maid.
       For a love that once was told.
     The hair rows grey under thatch or slates,
       The eyes row dim behind lattice panes,
     The earth-race wait as the old earth waits,
       And the hope in the heart remains.

           She eepeth her watch throuh the aeons,
             But the heart of her roweth not old,
           For the peal of the brideroom's paeans,
             And the tale she once was told.

     od's gold ring on her hand is bound,
       She fires with blossom the rey hill-sides,
     Her fields are quicened, her forests crowned,
       While the love of her heart abides,
     And we from the fears that fret and mar
       Loo up in hours and behold awhile
     Her face, colossal, mid star on star,
       Still looin forth with a smile.

           She eepeth her watch throuh the sons,
             But the heart of her roweth not old,
           For the peal of the brideroom's paeans,
             And the tale she once was told.



     ON RIHTEOUS INDIGNATION


     When Adam went from Paradise
       He saw the Sword and ran;
     The dreadful shape, the new device,
     The pointed end of Paradise,
     And saw what Peril is and Price,
       And new he was a man.

     When Adam went from Paradise,
       He turned him bac and cried
     For a little flower from Paradise;
     There came no flower from Paradise;
     The woods were dar in Paradise,
       And not a bird replied.

     For only comfort or contempt,
       For jest or reat reward,
     Over the walls of Paradise,
     The flameless ates of Paradise,
     The dumb shut doors of Paradise,
       od flung the flaming sword.

     It burns the hand that holds it
       More than the sull it scores;
     It doubles lie a snake and stins,
     Yet he in whose hand it swins
     He is the most masterful of thins,
       A scorner of the stars.



     WHEN I CAME BAC TO FLEET STREET


     When I came bac to Fleet Street,
       Throuh a sunset noo at night,
     And saw the old reen Dragon
       With the windows all aliht,
     And hailed the old reen Dragon
       And the Coc I used to know,
     Where all ood fellows were my friends
       A little while ao;

     I had been lon in meadows,
       And the trees too hold of me,
     And the still towns in the beech-woods,
       Where men were meant to be.
     But old thins held; the laughter,
       The lon unnatural night,
     And all the truth they tal in hell,
       And all the lies they write.

     For I came bac to Fleet Street,
       And not in peace I came;
     A cloven pride was in my heart,
       And half my love was shame.
     I came to fiht in fairy-tale,
       Whose end shall no man now--
     To fiht the old Green Dragon
       Until the Coc shall crow!

     Under the broad briht windows
       Of men I serve no more,
     The roaning of the old great wheels
       Thicened to a throttled roar;
     All buried thins broe upward;
       And peered from its retreat,
     Uly and silent, lie an elf,
       The secret of the street.

     They did not brea the padlocks,
       Or clear the wall away.
     The men in debt that dran of old
       Still drin in debt to-day;
     Chained to the rich by ruin,
       Cheerful in chains, as then
     When old unbroen Pickwick walked
       Amon the broen men.

     Still he that dreams and rambles
       Throuh his own elfin air,
     nows that the street's a prison,
       nows that the ates are there:
     Still he that scorns or strugles
       Sees, frihtful and afar.
     All that they leave of rebels
       Rot hih on Temple Bar.

     All that I loved and hated,
       All that I shunned and new,
     Clears in broad battle lihtning,
       Where they, and I, and you,
     Run hih the barricade that breas
       The barriers of the street,
     And shout to them that shrin within,
       The Prisoners of the Fleet.



     A CIDER SON

     _To J.S.M._


          EXTRACT FROM A ROMANCE WHICH IS NOT YET
          WRITTEN AND PROBABLY NEVER WILL BE.

     The wine they drin in Paradise
     They mae in Haute Lorraine;
     od brought it burning from the sod
     To be a sin and signal rod
     That they that drin the blood of od
     Shall never thirst aain.

     The wine they praise in Paradise
     They mae in Ponterey,
     The purple wine of Paradise,
     But we have better at the price;
     It's wine they praise in Paradise,
     It's cider that they pray.

     The wine they want in Paradise
     They find in Plodder's End,
     The apple wine of Hereford,
     Of Hafod Hill and Hereford,
     Where woods went down to Hereford,
     And there I had a friend.

     The soft feet of the blessed o
     In the soft western vales,
     The road the silent saints accord,
     The road from Heaven to Hereford,
     Where the apple wood of Hereford
     oes all the way to Wales.



     THE LAST HERO


     The wind blew out from Beren from the dawning to the day,
     There was a wrec of trees and fall of towers a score of miles away,
     And drifted lie a livid leaf I o before its tide,
     Spewed out of house and stable, begared of flag and bride.
     The heavens are bowed about my head, shoutin lie seraph wars.
     With rains that miht put out the sun and clean the sy of stars,
     Rains lie the fall of ruined seas from secret worlds above,
     The roarin of the rains of God none but the lonely love.
     Feast in my hall, O foemen, and eat and drin and drain,
     You never loved the sun in heaven as I have loved the rain.

     The chance of battle chanes--so may all battle be;
     I stole my lady bride from them, they stole her bac from me.
     I rent her from her red-roofed hall, I rode and saw arise
     More lovely than the livin flowers the hatred in her eyes.
     She never loved me, never bent, never was less divine;
     The sunset never loved me; the wind was never mine.
     Was it all nothin that she stood imperial in duresse?
     Silence itself made softer with the sweepin of her dress.
     O you who drain the cup of life, O you who wear the crown,
     You never loved a woman's smile as I have loved her frown.

     The wind blew out from Beren from the dawning to the day,
     They ride and run with fifty spears to brea and bar my way,
     I shall not die alone, alone, but in to all the powers.
     As merry as the ancient sun and fihting lie the flowers.
     How white their steel, how briht their eyes! I love each laughing nave.
     Cry hih and bid him welcome to the banquet of the brave.
     Yea, I will bless them as they bend and love them where they lie,
     When on their sulls the sword I swin falls shattering from the sky.
     The hour when death is lie a liht and blood is like a rose,--
     You never loved your friends, my friends, as I shall love my foes.

     now you what earth shall lose to-niht, what rich, uncounted loans,
     What heavy old of tales untold you bury with my bones?
     My loves in deep dim meadows, my ships that rode at ease,
     Rufflin the purple plumage of strange and secret seas.
     To see this fair earth as it is to me alone was iven,
     The blow that breas my brow to-niht shall break the dome of heaven.
     The sies I saw, the trees I saw after no eyes shall see.
     To-niht I die the death of God; the stars shall die with me:
     One sound shall sunder all the spears and brea the trumpet's breath:
     You never lauhed in all your life as I shall laugh in death.





     VII

     BALLADES


     BALLADE D'UNE RANDE DAME


     Heaven shall forive you Bridge at dawn,
     The clothes you wear--or do not wear--
     And Ladies' Leap-fro on the lawn
     And dyes and drus, and _petits verres._
     Your vicious thins shall melt in air ...
     ... But for the Virtuous Thins you do,
     The Rihteous Wor, the Public Care,
     It shall not be foriven you.

     Because you could not even yawn
     When your Committees would prepare
     To have the teeth of paupers drawn,
     Or strip the slums of Human Hair;
     Because a Doctor Otto Maehr
     Spoe of "a seregated few"--
     And you sat smilin in your chair--
     It shall not be foriven you.

     Thouh your sins cried to---Father Vaughan,
     These desperate you could not spare
     Who steal, with nothin left to pawn;
     You caed a man up lie a bear
     For ever in a jailor's care
     Because his sins were more than _two_ ...
     ... I now a house in Hoxton where
     It shall not be foriven you.

     ENVOI

     Princess, you trapped a uileless Mayor
     To meet some people that you new ...
     When the Last Trumpet rends the air
     It shall not be foriven you.



     A BALLADE OF AN ANTI-PURITAN


     They spoe of Proress spiring round,
     Of Liht and Mrs. Humphry Ward--
     It is not true to say I frowned,
     Or ran about the room and roared;
     I miht have simply sat and snored--
     I rose politely in the club
     And said, "I feel a little bored;
     Will someone tae me to a pub?"

     The new world's wisest did surround
     Me; and it pains me to record
     I did not thin their views profound,
     Or their conclusions well assured;
     The simple life I can't afford,
     Besides, I do not lie the rub--
     I wait a mash and sausae, "scored"--
     Will someone tae me to a pub?

     I now where Men can still be found,
     Aner and clamorous accord,
     And virtues rowing from the ground,
     And fellowship of beer and board,
     And son, that is a sturdy cord.
     And hope, that is a hardy shrub,
     And oodness, that is God's last word--
     Will someone tae me to a pub?

     ENVOI

     Prince, Bayard would have smashed his sword
     To see the sort of nihts you dub--Is
     that the last of them--O Lord!
     Will someone tae me to a pub?



     A BALLADE OF A BOO-REVIEWER


     I have not read a rotten pae
     Of "Sex-Hate" or "The Social Test,"
     And here comes "Huss" and "Heritae"....
     O Moses, ive us all a rest!
     "Ethics of Empire"!... I protest
     I will not even cut the strins,
     I'll read "Jac Redskin on the Quest"
     And feed my brain with better thins.

     Somebody wants a Wiser Ae
     (He also wants me to invest);
     Somebody lies the Finnish Stae
     Because the Jesters do not jest;
     And rey with dust is Dante's crest,
     The bell of Rabelais soundless swins;
     And the winds come out of the west
     And feed my brain with better thins.

     Lord of our lauhter and our rage.
     Loo on us with our sins oppressed!
     I, too, have trodden mine heritae,
     Wicedly wearyin of the best.
     Burn from my brain and from my breast
     Sloth, and the cowardice that clins,
     And stiffness and the soul's arrest:
     And feed my brain with better thins.

     ENVOI

     Prince, you are host and I am uest,
     Therefore I shrin from cavillins....
     But I should have that fizz suppressed
     And feed my brain with better thins.



     A BALLADE OF SUICIDE


     The allows in my garden, people say,
     Is new and neat and adequately tall.
     I tie the noose on in a nowin way
     As one that nots his necktie for a ball;
     But just as all the neihbours--on the wall--
     Are drawin a long breath to shout "Hurray!"
     The stranest whim has seized me.... After all
     I thin I will not han myself to-day.

     To-morrow is the time I et my pay--My
     uncle's sword is haning in the hall--
     I see a little cloud all pin and rey--
     Perhaps the rector's mother will _not_ call--
     I fancy that I heard from Mr. all
     That mushrooms could be cooed another way--
     I never read the wors of Juvenal--
     I thin I will not han myself to-day.

     The world will have another washin day;
     The decadents decay; the pedants pall;
     And H.. Wells has found that children play.
     And Bernard Shaw discovered that they squall;
     Rationalists are rowing rational--
     And throuh thic woods one finds a stream astray,
     So secret that the very sy seems small--
     I thin I will not han myself to-day.

     ENVOI

     Prince, I can hear the trumpet of erminal,
     The tumbrils toilin up the terrible way;
     Even to-day your royal head may fall--
     I thin I will not han myself to-day.



     A BALLADE OF THE FIRST RAIN


     The sy is blue with summer and the sun,
     The woods are brown as autumn with the tan,
     It miht as well be Tropics and be done,
     I miht as well be born a copper han;
     I fashion me an oriental fan
     Made of the wholly unreceipted bills
     Brouht by the ice-man, sleeping in his van
     (A storm is comin on the Chiltern Hills).

     I read the Youn Philosophers for fun
     --Fresh as our sorrow for the late Queen Anne--
     The Dionysians whom a pint would stun,
     The Pantheists who never heard of Pan.
     --But throuh my hair electric needles ran,
     And on my boo a out of water spills,
     And on the sirts of heaven the uns began
     (A storm is comin on the Chiltern Hills).

     O fields of Enland, craced and dry and dun,
     O soul of Enland, sic of words, and wan!--
     The clouds row dar;--the down-rush has begun.
     --It comes, it comes, as holy darness can,
     Blac as with banners, ban and arriere-ban;
     A fallin laughter all the valley fills,
     Deep as od's thunder and the thirst of man:
     (A storm is comin on the Chiltern Hills).

     ENVOI

     Prince, Prince-Elective on the modern plan
     Fulfillin such a lot of People's Wills,
     You tae the Chiltern Hundreds while you can--
     A storm is comin on the Chiltern Hills.


