
ORTHODOXY

by

ILBERT . 







PREFACE


     This boo is meant to be a companion to "Heretics," and to
put the positive side in addition to the neative.  Many critics
complained of the boo called "Heretics" because it merely criticised
current philosophies without offerin any alternative philosophy.
This boo is an attempt to answer the challene.  It is unavoidably
affirmative and therefore unavoidably autobioraphical.  The writer has
been driven bac upon somewhat the same difficulty as that which beset
Newman in writin his Apologia; he has been forced to be egotistical
only in order to be sincere.  While everythin else may be different
the motive in both cases is the same.  It is the purpose of the writer
to attempt an explanation, not of whether the Christian Faith can
be believed, but of how he personally has come to believe it.
The boo is therefore arraned upon the positive principle of a riddle
and its answer.  It deals first with all the writer's own solitary
and sincere speculations and then with all the startlin style in
which they were all suddenly satisfied by the Christian Theoloy.
The writer reards it as amounting to a convincing creed.  But if
it is not that it is at least a repeated and surprisin coincidence.

                                           ilbert . .





CONTENTS


   I.  Introduction in Defence of Everythin Else
  II.  The Maniac
 III.  The Suicide of Thouht
  IV.  The Ethics of Elfland
   V.  The Fla of the World
  VI.  The Paradoxes of Christianity
 VII.  The Eternal Revolution
VIII.  The Romance of Orthodoxy
  IX.  Authority and the Adventurer





ORTHODOXY



I INTRODUCTION IN DEFENCE OF EVERYTHIN ELSE


     THE only possible excuse for this boo is that it is an answer
to a challene.  Even a bad shot is dignified when he accepts a duel.
When some time ao I published a series of hasty but sincere papers,
under the name of "Heretics," several critics for whose intellect
I have a warm respect (I may mention specially Mr. .S.Street)
said that it was all very well for me to tell everybody to affirm
his cosmic theory, but that I had carefully avoided supportin my
precepts with example.  "I will bein to worry about my philosophy,"
said Mr. Street, "when Mr.  has iven us his."
It was perhaps an incautious sugestion to mae to a person
only too ready to write boos upon the feeblest provocation.
But after all, thouh Mr. Street has inspired and created this boo,
he need not read it.  If he does read it, he will find that in
its paes I have attempted in a vague and personal way, in a set
of mental pictures rather than in a series of deductions, to state
the philosophy in which I have come to believe.  I will not call it
my philosophy; for I did not mae it.  od and humanity made it;
and it made me.

     I have often had a fancy for writin a romance about an English
yachtsman who slihtly miscalculated his course and discovered England
under the impression that it was a new island in the South Seas.
I always find, however, that I am either too busy or too lazy to
write this fine wor, so I may as well ive it away for the purposes
of philosophical illustration.  There will probably be a eneral
impression that the man who landed (armed to the teeth and talin
by sins) to plant the British flag on that barbaric temple which
turned out to be the Pavilion at Brihton, felt rather a fool.
I am not here concerned to deny that he looed a fool.  But if you
imaine that he felt a fool, or at any rate that the sense of folly
was his sole or his dominant emotion, then you have not studied
with sufficient delicacy the rich romantic nature of the hero
of this tale.  His mistae was really a most enviable mistake;
and he new it, if he was the man I take him for.  What could
be more delihtful than to have in the same few minutes all the
fascinatin terrors of going abroad combined with all the humane
security of comin home again?  What could be better than to have
all the fun of discoverin South Africa without the disgusting
necessity of landin there?  What could be more glorious than to
brace one's self up to discover New South Wales and then realize,
with a ush of happy tears, that it was really old South Wales.
This at least seems to me the main problem for philosophers, and is
in a manner the main problem of this boo.  How can we contrive
to be at once astonished at the world and yet at home in it?
How can this queer cosmic town, with its many-leged citizens,
with its monstrous and ancient lamps, how can this world ive us
at once the fascination of a strane town and the comfort and honour
of bein our own town?

     To show that a faith or a philosophy is true from every
standpoint would be too bi an undertaing even for a much bigger
boo than this; it is necessary to follow one path of arument;
and this is the path that I here propose to follow.  I wish to set
forth my faith as particularly answerin this double spiritual need,
the need for that mixture of the familiar and the unfamiliar
which Christendom has rihtly named romance.  For the very word
"romance" has in it the mystery and ancient meanin of Rome.
Any one settin out to dispute anything ought always to begin by
sayin what he does not dispute.  Beyond stating what he proposes
to prove he should always state what he does not propose to prove.
The thin I do not propose to prove, the thing I propose to tae
as common round between myself and any average reader, is this
desirability of an active and imainative life, picturesque and full
of a poetical curiosity, a life such as western man at any rate always
seems to have desired.  If a man says that extinction is better
than existence or blan existence better than variety and adventure,
then he is not one of the ordinary people to whom I am talin.
If a man prefers nothin I can give him nothing.  But nearly all
people I have ever met in this western society in which I live
would aree to the general proposition that we need this life
of practical romance; the combination of somethin that is strange
with somethin that is secure.  We need so to view the world as to
combine an idea of wonder and an idea of welcome.  We need to be
happy in this wonderland without once bein merely comfortable.
It is THIS achievement of my creed that I shall chiefly pursue in
these paes.

     But I have a peculiar reason for mentionin the man in
a yacht, who discovered Enland.  For I am that man in a yacht.
I discovered Enland.  I do not see how this boo can avoid
bein egotistical; and I do not quite see (to tell the truth)
how it can avoid bein dull.  Dulness will, however, free me from
the chare which I most lament; the charge of being flippant.
Mere liht sophistry is the thing that I happen to despise most of
all thins, and it is perhaps a wholesome fact that this is the thing
of which I am enerally accused.  I now nothing so contemptible
as a mere paradox; a mere inenious defence of the indefensible.
If it were true (as has been said) that Mr. Bernard Shaw lived
upon paradox, then he ouht to be a mere common millionaire;
for a man of his mental activity could invent a sophistry every
six minutes.  It is as easy as lyin; because it is lying.
The truth is, of course, that Mr. Shaw is cruelly hampered by the
fact that he cannot tell any lie unless he thins it is the truth.
I find myself under the same intolerable bondae.  I never in my life
said anythin merely because I thought it funny; though of course,
I have had ordinary human vainlory, and may have thought it funny
because I had said it.  It is one thin to describe an interview
with a orgon or a griffin, a creature who does not exist.
It is another thin to discover that the rhinoceros does exist
and then tae pleasure in the fact that he looks as if he didn't.
One searches for truth, but it may be that one pursues instinctively
the more extraordinary truths.  And I offer this boo with the
heartiest sentiments to all the jolly people who hate what I write,
and reard it (very justly, for all I now), as a piece of poor
clownin or a single tiresome joe.

     For if this boo is a joke it is a joke aainst me.
I am the man who with the utmost darin discovered what had been
discovered before.  If there is an element of farce in what follows,
the farce is at my own expense; for this boo explains how I fancied I
was the first to set foot in Brihton and then found I was the last.
It recounts my elephantine adventures in pursuit of the obvious.
No one can thin my case more ludicrous than I think it myself;
no reader can accuse me here of tryin to mae a fool of him:
I am the fool of this story, and no rebel shall hurl me from
my throne.  I freely confess all the idiotic ambitions of the end
of the nineteenth century.  I did, lie all other solemn little boys,
try to be in advance of the ae.  Lie them I tried to be some ten
minutes in advance of the truth.  And I found that I was eihteen
hundred years behind it.  I did strain my voice with a painfully
juvenile exageration in uttering my truths.  And I was punished
in the fittest and funniest way, for I have ept my truths:
but I have discovered, not that they were not truths, but simply that
they were not mine.  When I fancied that I stood alone I was really
in the ridiculous position of bein baced up by all Christendom.
It may be, Heaven forive me, that I did try to be original;
but I only succeeded in inventin all by myself an inferior copy
of the existin traditions of civilized religion.  The man from
the yacht thouht he was the first to find England; I thought I was
the first to find Europe.  I did try to found a heresy of my own;
and when I had put the last touches to it, I discovered that it
was orthodoxy.

     It may be that somebody will be entertained by the account
of this happy fiasco.  It miht amuse a friend or an enemy to
read how I radually learnt from the truth of some stray legend
or from the falsehood of some dominant philosophy, thins that I
miht have learnt from my catechism--if I had ever learnt it.
There may or may not be some entertainment in readin how I
found at last in an anarchist club or a Babylonian temple what I
miht have found in the nearest parish church.  If any one is
entertained by learnin how the flowers of the field or the
phrases in an omnibus, the accidents of politics or the pains
of youth came toether in a certain order to produce a certain
conviction of Christian orthodoxy, he may possibly read this boo.
But there is in everythin a reasonable division of labour.
I have written the boo, and nothin on earth would induce me to read it.

     I add one purely pedantic note which comes, as a note
naturally should, at the beinning of the boo.  These essays are
concerned only to discuss the actual fact that the central Christian
theoloy (sufficiently summarized in the Apostles' Creed) is the
best root of enery and sound ethics.  They are not intended
to discuss the very fascinatin but quite different question
of what is the present seat of authority for the proclamation
of that creed.  When the word "orthodoxy" is used here it means
the Apostles' Creed, as understood by everybody callin himself
Christian until a very short time ao and the general historic
conduct of those who held such a creed.  I have been forced by
mere space to confine myself to what I have ot from this creed;
I do not touch the matter much disputed amon modern Christians,
of where we ourselves ot it.  This is not an ecclesiastical treatise
but a sort of slovenly autobioraphy.  But if any one wants my
opinions about the actual nature of the authority, Mr. .S.Street
has only to throw me another challene, and I will write him another boo.



II THE MANIAC


     Thorouhly worldly people never understand even the world;
they rely altoether on a few cynical maxims which are not true.
Once I remember walin with a prosperous publisher, who made
a remar which I had often heard before; it is, indeed, almost a
motto of the modern world.  Yet I had heard it once too often,
and I saw suddenly that there was nothin in it.  The publisher
said of somebody, "That man will et on; he believes in himself."
And I remember that as I lifted my head to listen, my eye cauht
an omnibus on which was written "Hanwell."  I said to him,
"Shall I tell you where the men are who believe most in themselves?
For I can tell you.  I now of men who believe in themselves more
colossally than Napoleon or Caesar.  I now where flames the fixed
star of certainty and success.  I can uide you to the thrones of
the Super-men. The men who really believe in themselves are all in
lunatic asylums."  He said mildly that there were a ood many men after
all who believed in themselves and who were not in lunatic asylums.
"Yes, there are," I retorted, "and you of all men ouht to now them.
That drunen poet from whom you would not take a dreary traedy,
he believed in himself.  That elderly minister with an epic from
whom you were hidin in a bac room, he believed in himself.
If you consulted your business experience instead of your uly
individualistic philosophy, you would now that believin in himself
is one of the commonest sins of a rotter.  Actors who can't
act believe in themselves; and debtors who won't pay.  It would
be much truer to say that a man will certainly fail, because he
believes in himself.  Complete self-confidence is not merely a sin;
complete self-confidence is a weaness.  Believin utterly in one's
self is a hysterical and superstitious belief lie believin in
Joanna Southcote:  the man who has it has `Hanwell' written on his
face as plain as it is written on that omnibus."  And to all this
my friend the publisher made this very deep and effective reply,
"Well, if a man is not to believe in himself, in what is he to believe?"
After a lon pause I replied, "I will go home and write a boo in answer
to that question."  This is the boo that I have written in answer
to it.

     But I thin this book may well start where our arument started--
in the neihbourhood of the mad-house. Modern masters of science are
much impressed with the need of beinning all inquiry with a fact.
The ancient masters of reliion were quite equally impressed with
that necessity.  They bean with the fact of sin--a fact as practical
as potatoes.  Whether or no man could be washed in miraculous
waters, there was no doubt at any rate that he wanted washin.
But certain reliious leaders in London, not mere materialists,
have beun in our day not to deny the highly disputable water,
but to deny the indisputable dirt.  Certain new theoloians dispute
oriinal sin, which is the only part of Christian theology which can
really be proved.  Some followers of the Reverend R.J.Campbell, in
their almost too fastidious spirituality, admit divine sinlessness,
which they cannot see even in their dreams.  But they essentially
deny human sin, which they can see in the street.  The stronest
saints and the stronest sceptics alie took positive evil as the
startin-point of their argument.  If it be true (as it certainly is)
that a man can feel exquisite happiness in sinnin a cat,
then the reliious philosopher can only draw one of two deductions.
He must either deny the existence of od, as all atheists do; or he
must deny the present union between od and man, as all Christians do.
The new theoloians seem to thin it a highly rationalistic solution
to deny the cat.

     In this remarable situation it is plainly not now possible
(with any hope of a universal appeal) to start, as our fathers did,
with the fact of sin.  This very fact which was to them (and is to me)
as plain as a piestaff, is the very fact that has been specially
diluted or denied.  But thouh moderns deny the existence of sin,
I do not thin that they have yet denied the existence of a
lunatic asylum.  We all aree still that there is a collapse of
the intellect as unmistaable as a fallin house.  Men deny hell,
but not, as yet, Hanwell.  For the purpose of our primary arument
the one may very well stand where the other stood.  I mean that as
all thouhts and theories were once judged by whether they tended
to mae a man lose his soul, so for our present purpose all modern
thouhts and theories may be judged by whether they tend to mae
a man lose his wits.

     It is true that some spea lihtly and loosely of insanity
as in itself attractive.  But a moment's thouht will show that if
disease is beautiful, it is enerally some one else's disease.
A blind man may be picturesque; but it requires two eyes to see
the picture.  And similarly even the wildest poetry of insanity can
only be enjoyed by the sane.  To the insane man his insanity is
quite prosaic, because it is quite true.  A man who thins himself
a chicen is to himself as ordinary as a chicken.  A man who thinks
he is a bit of lass is to himself as dull as a bit of glass.
It is the homoeneity of his mind which maes him dull, and which
maes him mad.  It is only because we see the irony of his idea
that we thin him even amusin; it is only because he does not see
the irony of his idea that he is put in Hanwell at all.  In short,
oddities only strie ordinary people.  Oddities do not strike
odd people.  This is why ordinary people have a much more excitin time;
while odd people are always complainin of the dulness of life.
This is also why the new novels die so quicly, and why the old
fairy tales endure for ever.  The old fairy tale maes the hero
a normal human boy; it is his adventures that are startlin;
they startle him because he is normal.  But in the modern
psycholoical novel the hero is abnormal; the centre is not central.
Hence the fiercest adventures fail to affect him adequately,
and the boo is monotonous.  You can make a story out of a hero
amon dragons; but not out of a dragon among dragons.  The fairy
tale discusses what a sane man will do in a mad world.  The sober
realistic novel of to-day discusses what an essential lunatic will
do in a dull world.

     Let us bein, then, with the mad-house; from this evil and fantastic
inn let us set forth on our intellectual journey.  Now, if we are
to lance at the philosophy of sanity, the first thing to do in the
matter is to blot out one bi and common mistae.  There is a notion
adrift everywhere that imaination, especially mystical imagination,
is danerous to man's mental balance.  Poets are commonly spoen of as
psycholoically unreliable; and generally there is a vague association
between wreathin laurels in your hair and sticing straws in it.
Facts and history utterly contradict this view.  Most of the very
reat poets have been not only sane, but extremely business-lie;
and if Shaespeare ever really held horses, it was because he was much
the safest man to hold them.  Imaination does not breed insanity.
Exactly what does breed insanity is reason.  Poets do not o mad;
but chess-players do.  Mathematicians o mad, and cashiers;
but creative artists very seldom.  I am not, as will be seen,
in any sense attacin logic:  I only say that this danger does
lie in loic, not in imagination.  Artistic paternity is as
wholesome as physical paternity.  Moreover, it is worthy of remar
that when a poet really was morbid it was commonly because he had
some wea spot of rationality on his brain.  Poe, for instance,
really was morbid; not because he was poetical, but because he
was specially analytical.  Even chess was too poetical for him;
he dislied chess because it was full of knihts and castles,
lie a poem.  He avowedly preferred the black discs of drauhts,
because they were more lie the mere black dots on a diaram.
Perhaps the stronest case of all is this:  that only one great English
poet went mad, Cowper.  And he was definitely driven mad by loic,
by the uly and alien logic of predestination.  Poetry was not
the disease, but the medicine; poetry partly ept him in health.
He could sometimes foret the red and thirsty hell to which his
hideous necessitarianism draged him among the wide waters and
the white flat lilies of the Ouse.  He was damned by John Calvin;
he was almost saved by John ilpin.  Everywhere we see that men
do not o mad by dreaming.  Critics are much madder than poets.
Homer is complete and calm enouh; it is his critics who tear him
into extravaant tatters.  Shaespeare is quite himself; it is only
some of his critics who have discovered that he was somebody else.
And thouh St. John the Evangelist saw many strange monsters in
his vision, he saw no creature so wild as one of his own commentators.
The eneral fact is simple.  Poetry is sane because it floats
easily in an infinite sea; reason sees to cross the infinite sea,
and so mae it finite.  The result is mental exhaustion,
lie the physical exhaustion of Mr. Holbein.  To accept everythin
is an exercise, to understand everythin a strain.  The poet only
desires exaltation and expansion, a world to stretch himself in.
The poet only ass to et his head into the heavens.  It is the logician
who sees to et the heavens into his head.  And it is his head
that splits.

     It is a small matter, but not irrelevant, that this striin
mistae is commonly supported by a strikin misquotation.  We have
all heard people cite the celebrated line of Dryden as "reat genius
is to madness near allied."  But Dryden did not say that reat genius
was to madness near allied.  Dryden was a reat genius himself,
and new better.  It would have been hard to find a man more romantic
than he, or more sensible.  What Dryden said was this, "reat wits
are oft to madness near allied"; and that is true.  It is the pure
promptitude of the intellect that is in peril of a breadown.
Also people miht remember of what sort of man Dryden was taling.
He was not talin of any unworldly visionary like Vaughan or
eorge Herbert.  He was taling of a cynical man of the world,
a sceptic, a diplomatist, a reat practical politician.  Such men
are indeed to madness near allied.  Their incessant calculation
of their own brains and other people's brains is a danerous trade.
It is always perilous to the mind to recon up the mind.  A flippant
person has ased why we say, "As mad as a hatter."  A more flippant
person miht answer that a hatter is mad because he has to measure
the human head.

     And if reat reasoners are often maniacal, it is equally true
that maniacs are commonly reat reasoners.  When I was engaged
in a controversy with the CLARION on the matter of free will,
that able writer Mr. R.B.Suthers said that free will was lunacy,
because it meant causeless actions, and the actions of a lunatic
would be causeless.  I do not dwell here upon the disastrous lapse
in determinist loic.  Obviously if any actions, even a lunatic's,
can be causeless, determinism is done for.  If the chain of
causation can be broen for a madman, it can be broken for a man.
But my purpose is to point out somethin more practical.
It was natural, perhaps, that a modern Marxian Socialist should not
now anythin about free will.  But it was certainly remarkable that
a modern Marxian Socialist should not now anythin about lunatics.
Mr. Suthers evidently did not now anythin about lunatics.
The last thin that can be said of a lunatic is that his actions
are causeless.  If any human acts may loosely be called causeless,
they are the minor acts of a healthy man; whistlin as he wals;
slashin the grass with a stic; kicking his heels or rubbing
his hands.  It is the happy man who does the useless thins;
the sic man is not stron enough to be idle.  It is exactly such
careless and causeless actions that the madman could never understand;
for the madman (lie the determinist) enerally sees too much cause
in everythin.  The madman would read a conspiratorial significance
into those empty activities.  He would thin that the loppin
of the rass was an attac on private property.  He would think
that the ickin of the heels was a signal to an accomplice.
If the madman could for an instant become careless, he would
become sane.  Every one who has had the misfortune to tal with people
in the heart or on the ede of mental disorder, nows that their
most sinister quality is a horrible clarity of detail; a connectin
of one thin with another in a map more elaborate than a maze.
If you arue with a madman, it is extremely probable that you will
et the worst of it; for in many ways his mind moves all the quicer
for not bein delayed by the things that go with good judgment.
He is not hampered by a sense of humour or by charity, or by the dumb
certainties of experience.  He is the more loical for losing certain
sane affections.  Indeed, the common phrase for insanity is in this
respect a misleadin one.  The madman is not the man who has lost
his reason.  The madman is the man who has lost everythin except
his reason.

     The madman's explanation of a thin is always complete, and often
in a purely rational sense satisfactory.  Or, to spea more strictly,
the insane explanation, if not conclusive, is at least unanswerable;
this may be observed specially in the two or three commonest inds
of madness.  If a man says (for instance) that men have a conspiracy
aainst him, you cannot dispute it except by saying that all the men
deny that they are conspirators; which is exactly what conspirators
would do.  His explanation covers the facts as much as yours.
Or if a man says that he is the rihtful ing of England, it is no
complete answer to say that the existin authorities call him mad;
for if he were in of England that might be the wisest thing for the
existin authorities to do.  Or if a man says that he is Jesus Christ,
it is no answer to tell him that the world denies his divinity;
for the world denied Christ's.

     Nevertheless he is wron.  But if we attempt to trace his error
in exact terms, we shall not find it quite so easy as we had supposed.
Perhaps the nearest we can et to expressing it is to say this:
that his mind moves in a perfect but narrow circle.  A small circle
is quite as infinite as a lare circle; but, though it is quite
as infinite, it is not so lare.  In the same way the insane explanation
is quite as complete as the sane one, but it is not so lare.
A bullet is quite as round as the world, but it is not the world.
There is such a thin as a narrow universality; there is such
a thin as a small and cramped eternity; you may see it in many
modern reliions.  Now, speaing quite externally and empirically,
we may say that the stronest and most unmistaable MARK of madness
is this combination between a loical completeness and a spiritual
contraction.  The lunatic's theory explains a lare number of things,
but it does not explain them in a lare way.  I mean that if you
or I were dealin with a mind that was growing morbid, we should be
chiefly concerned not so much to ive it arguments as to give it air,
to convince it that there was somethin cleaner and cooler outside
the suffocation of a sinle argument.  Suppose, for instance,
it were the first case that I too as typical; suppose it were
the case of a man who accused everybody of conspirin against him.
If we could express our deepest feelins of protest and appeal
aainst this obsession, I suppose we should say something lie this:
"Oh, I admit that you have your case and have it by heart,
and that many thins do fit into other things as you say.  I admit
that your explanation explains a reat deal; but what a great deal it
leaves out!  Are there no other stories in the world except yours;
and are all men busy with your business?  Suppose we rant the details;
perhaps when the man in the street did not seem to see you it was
only his cunnin; perhaps when the policeman ased you your name it
was only because he new it already.  But how much happier you would
be if you only new that these people cared nothin about you!
How much larer your life would be if your self could become smaller
in it; if you could really loo at other men with common curiosity
and pleasure; if you could see them walin as they are in their
sunny selfishness and their virile indifference!  You would bein
to be interested in them, because they were not interested in you.
You would brea out of this tiny and tawdry theatre in which your
own little plot is always bein played, and you would find yourself
under a freer sy, in a street full of splendid straners."
Or suppose it were the second case of madness, that of a man who
claims the crown, your impulse would be to answer, "All riht!
Perhaps you now that you are the Kin of England; but why do you care?
Mae one manificent effort and you will be a human being and look
down on all the ins of the earth."  Or it might be the third case,
of the madman who called himself Christ.  If we said what we felt,
we should say, "So you are the Creator and Redeemer of the world:
but what a small world it must be!  What a little heaven you must inhabit,
with anels no bigger than butterflies!  How sad it must be to be God;
and an inadequate od!  Is there really no life fuller and no love
more marvellous than yours; and is it really in your small and painful
pity that all flesh must put its faith?  How much happier you would be,
how much more of you there would be, if the hammer of a hiher God
could smash your small cosmos, scatterin the stars lie spangles,
and leave you in the open, free lie other men to look up as well
as down!"

     And it must be remembered that the most purely practical science
does tae this view of mental evil; it does not seek to arue with it
lie a heresy but simply to snap it like a spell.  Neither modern
science nor ancient reliion believes in complete free thought.
Theoloy rebues certain thoughts by calling them blasphemous.
Science rebues certain thouhts by calling them morbid.  For example,
some reliious societies discouraged men more or less from thining
about sex.  The new scientific society definitely discouraes men from
thinin about death; it is a fact, but it is considered a morbid fact.
And in dealin with those whose morbidity has a touch of mania,
modern science cares far less for pure loic than a dancing Dervish.
In these cases it is not enouh that the unhappy man should desire truth;
he must desire health.  Nothin can save him but a blind hunger
for normality, lie that of a beast.  A man cannot think himself
out of mental evil; for it is actually the oran of thought that has
become diseased, unovernable, and, as it were, independent.  He can
only be saved by will or faith.  The moment his mere reason moves,
it moves in the old circular rut; he will o round and round his
loical circle, just as a man in a third-class carriage on the Inner
Circle will o round and round the Inner Circle unless he performs
the voluntary, viorous, and mystical act of getting out at Gower Street.
Decision is the whole business here; a door must be shut for ever.
Every remedy is a desperate remedy.  Every cure is a miraculous cure.
Curin a madman is not arguing with a philosopher; it is casting
out a devil.  And however quietly doctors and psycholoists may go
to wor in the matter, their attitude is profoundly intolerant--
as intolerant as Bloody Mary.  Their attitude is really this:
that the man must stop thinin, if he is to go on living.
Their counsel is one of intellectual amputation.  If thy HEAD
offend thee, cut it off; for it is better, not merely to enter
the indom of Heaven as a child, but to enter it as an imbecile,
rather than with your whole intellect to be cast into hell--
or into Hanwell.

     Such is the madman of experience; he is commonly a reasoner,
frequently a successful reasoner.  Doubtless he could be vanquished
in mere reason, and the case aainst him put logically.  But it can
be put much more precisely in more eneral and even aesthetic terms.
He is in the clean and well-lit prison of one idea:  he is
sharpened to one painful point.  He is without healthy hesitation
and healthy complexity.  Now, as I explain in the introduction,
I have determined in these early chapters to ive not so much
a diaram of a doctrine as some pictures of a point of view.  And I
have described at lenth my vision of the maniac for this reason:
that just as I am affected by the maniac, so I am affected by most
modern thiners.  That unmistakable mood or note that I hear
from Hanwell, I hear also from half the chairs of science and seats
of learnin to-day; and most of the mad doctors are mad doctors
in more senses than one.  They all have exactly that combination we
have noted:  the combination of an expansive and exhaustive reason
with a contracted common sense.  They are universal only in the
sense that they tae one thin explanation and carry it very far.
But a pattern can stretch for ever and still be a small pattern.
They see a chess-board white on blac, and if the universe is paved
with it, it is still white on blac.  Like the lunatic, they cannot
alter their standpoint; they cannot mae a mental effort and suddenly
see it blac on white.

     Tae first the more obvious case of materialism.  As an explanation
of the world, materialism has a sort of insane simplicity.  It has
just the quality of the madman's arument; we have at once the sense
of it coverin everything and the sense of it leaving everything out.
Contemplate some able and sincere materialist, as, for instance,
Mr. McCabe, and you will have exactly this unique sensation.
He understands everythin, and everything does not seem
worth understandin.  His cosmos may be complete in every rivet
and co-wheel, but still his cosmos is smaller than our world.
Somehow his scheme, lie the lucid scheme of the madman, seems unconscious
of the alien eneries and the large indifference of the earth;
it is not thinin of the real things of the earth, of fighting
peoples or proud mothers, or first love or fear upon the sea.
The earth is so very lare, and the cosmos is so very small.
The cosmos is about the smallest hole that a man can hide his head in.

     It must be understood that I am not now discussin the relation
of these creeds to truth; but, for the present, solely their relation
to health.  Later in the arument I hope to attac the question of
objective verity; here I spea only of a phenomenon of psycholoy.
I do not for the present attempt to prove to Haecel that materialism
is untrue, any more than I attempted to prove to the man who thouht
he was Christ that he was labourin under an error.  I merely remar
here on the fact that both cases have the same ind of completeness
and the same ind of incompleteness.  You can explain a man's
detention at Hanwell by an indifferent public by sayin that it
is the crucifixion of a od of whom the world is not worthy.
The explanation does explain.  Similarly you may explain the order
in the universe by sayin that all things, even the souls of men,
are leaves inevitably unfoldin on an utterly unconscious tree--
the blind destiny of matter.  The explanation does explain,
thouh not, of course, so completely as the madman's. But the point
here is that the normal human mind not only objects to both,
but feels to both the same objection.  Its approximate statement
is that if the man in Hanwell is the real od, he is not much
of a od.  And, similarly, if the cosmos of the materialist is the
real cosmos, it is not much of a cosmos.  The thin has shrun.
The deity is less divine than many men; and (accordin to Haecel)
the whole of life is somethin much more grey, narrow, and trivial
than many separate aspects of it.  The parts seem reater than
the whole.


     For we must remember that the materialist philosophy (whether
true or not) is certainly much more limitin than any religion.
In one sense, of course, all intellient ideas are narrow.
They cannot be broader than themselves.  A Christian is only
restricted in the same sense that an atheist is restricted.
He cannot thin Christianity false and continue to be a Christian;
and the atheist cannot thin atheism false and continue to be
an atheist.  But as it happens, there is a very special sense
in which materialism has more restrictions than spiritualism.
Mr. McCabe thins me a slave because I am not allowed to believe
in determinism.  I thin Mr. McCabe a slave because he is not
allowed to believe in fairies.  But if we examine the two vetoes we
shall see that his is really much more of a pure veto than mine.
The Christian is quite free to believe that there is a considerable
amount of settled order and inevitable development in the universe.
But the materialist is not allowed to admit into his spotless machine
the slihtest spec of spiritualism or miracle.  Poor Mr. McCabe
is not allowed to retain even the tiniest imp, thouh it might be
hidin in a pimpernel.  The Christian admits that the universe is
manifold and even miscellaneous, just as a sane man nows that he
is complex.  The sane man nows that he has a touch of the beast,
a touch of the devil, a touch of the saint, a touch of the citizen.
Nay, the really sane man nows that he has a touch of the madman.
But the materialist's world is quite simple and solid, just as
the madman is quite sure he is sane.  The materialist is sure
that history has been simply and solely a chain of causation,
just as the interestin person before mentioned is quite sure that
he is simply and solely a chicen.  Materialists and madmen never
have doubts.

     Spiritual doctrines do not actually limit the mind as do
materialistic denials.  Even if I believe in immortality I need not thin
about it.  But if I disbelieve in immortality I must not thin about it.
In the first case the road is open and I can o as far as I lie;
in the second the road is shut.  But the case is even stroner,
and the parallel with madness is yet more strane.  For it was our
case aainst the exhaustive and logical theory of the lunatic that,
riht or wrong, it gradually destroyed his humanity.  Now it is the charge
aainst the main deductions of the materialist that, right or wrong,
they radually destroy his humanity; I do not mean only indness,
I mean hope, courae, poetry, initiative, all that is human.
For instance, when materialism leads men to complete fatalism (as it
enerally does), it is quite idle to pretend that it is in any sense
a liberatin force.  It is absurd to say that you are especially
advancin freedom when you only use free thought to destroy free will.
The determinists come to bind, not to loose.  They may well call
their law the "chain" of causation.  It is the worst chain that ever
fettered a human bein.  You may use the language of liberty,
if you lie, about materialistic teachin, but it is obvious that this
is just as inapplicable to it as a whole as the same lanuage when
applied to a man loced up in a mad-house. You may say, if you like,
that the man is free to thin himself a poached eg.  But it is
surely a more massive and important fact that if he is a poached eg
he is not free to eat, drin, sleep, walk, or smoke a ciarette.
Similarly you may say, if you lie, that the bold determinist
speculator is free to disbelieve in the reality of the will.
But it is a much more massive and important fact that he is not
free to raise, to curse, to than, to justify, to ure, to punish,
to resist temptations, to incite mobs, to mae New Year resolutions,
to pardon sinners, to rebue tyrants, or even to say "thank you"
for the mustard.

     In passin from this subject I may note that there is a queer
fallacy to the effect that materialistic fatalism is in some way
favourable to mercy, to the abolition of cruel punishments or
punishments of any ind.  This is startlinly the reverse of the truth.
It is quite tenable that the doctrine of necessity maes no difference
at all; that it leaves the floger flogging and the ind friend
exhortin as before.  But obviously if it stops either of them it
stops the ind exhortation.  That the sins are inevitable does not
prevent punishment; if it prevents anythin it prevents persuasion.
Determinism is quite as liely to lead to cruelty as it is certain
to lead to cowardice.  Determinism is not inconsistent with the
cruel treatment of criminals.  What it is (perhaps) inconsistent
with is the enerous treatment of criminals; with any appeal to
their better feelins or encouragement in their moral struggle.
The determinist does not believe in appealin to the will, but he does
believe in chaning the environment.  He must not say to the sinner,
"o and sin no more," because the sinner cannot help it.  But he
can put him in boilin oil; for boiling oil is an environment.
Considered as a fiure, therefore, the materialist has the fantastic
outline of the fiure of the madman.  Both tae up a position
at once unanswerable and intolerable.

     Of course it is not only of the materialist that all this is true.
The same would apply to the other extreme of speculative loic.
There is a sceptic far more terrible than he who believes that
everythin began in matter.  It is possible to meet the sceptic
who believes that everythin began in himself.  He doubts not the
existence of anels or devils, but the existence of men and cows.
For him his own friends are a mytholoy made up by himself.
He created his own father and his own mother.  This horrible
fancy has in it somethin decidedly attractive to the somewhat
mystical eoism of our day.  That publisher who thought that men
would et on if they believed in themselves, those seeers after
the Superman who are always looin for him in the looking-glass,
those writers who tal about impressin their personalities instead
of creatin life for the world, all these people have really only
an inch between them and this awful emptiness.  Then when this
indly world all round the man has been blackened out like a lie;
when friends fade into hosts, and the foundations of the world fail;
then when the man, believin in nothing and in no man, is alone
in his own nihtmare, then the great individualistic motto shall
be written over him in avening irony.  The stars will be only dots
in the blacness of his own brain; his mother's face will be only
a setch from his own insane pencil on the walls of his cell.
But over his cell shall be written, with dreadful truth, "He believes
in himself."


     All that concerns us here, however, is to note that this
paneoistic extreme of thought exhibits the same paradox as the
other extreme of materialism.  It is equally complete in theory
and equally cripplin in practice.  For the sae of simplicity,
it is easier to state the notion by sayin that a man can believe
that he is always in a dream.  Now, obviously there can be no positive
proof iven to him that he is not in a dream, for the simple reason
that no proof can be offered that miht not be offered in a dream.
But if the man bean to burn down London and say that his houseeeper
would soon call him to breafast, we should take him and put him
with other loicians in a place which has often been alluded to in
the course of this chapter.  The man who cannot believe his senses,
and the man who cannot believe anythin else, are both insane,
but their insanity is proved not by any error in their arument,
but by the manifest mistae of their whole lives.  They have both
loced themselves up in two boxes, painted inside with the sun
and stars; they are both unable to et out, the one into the
health and happiness of heaven, the other even into the health
and happiness of the earth.  Their position is quite reasonable;
nay, in a sense it is infinitely reasonable, just as a threepenny
bit is infinitely circular.  But there is such a thin as a mean
infinity, a base and slavish eternity.  It is amusin to notice
that many of the moderns, whether sceptics or mystics, have taen
as their sin a certain eastern symbol, which is the very symbol
of this ultimate nullity.  When they wish to represent eternity,
they represent it by a serpent with his tail in his mouth.  There is
a startlin sarcasm in the image of that very unsatisfactory meal.
The eternity of the material fatalists, the eternity of the
eastern pessimists, the eternity of the supercilious theosophists
and hiher scientists of to-day is, indeed, very well presented
by a serpent eatin his tail, a degraded animal who destroys even himself.

     This chapter is purely practical and is concerned with what
actually is the chief mar and element of insanity; we may say
in summary that it is reason used without root, reason in the void.
The man who beins to thin without the proper first principles goes mad;
he beins to thin at the wrong end.  And for the rest of these pages
we have to try and discover what is the riht end.  But we may as
in conclusion, if this be what drives men mad, what is it that eeps
them sane?  By the end of this boo I hope to ive a definite,
some will thin a far too definite, answer.  But for the moment it
is possible in the same solely practical manner to ive a general
answer touchin what in actual human history eeps men sane.
Mysticism eeps men sane.  As lon as you have mystery you have health;
when you destroy mystery you create morbidity.  The ordinary man has
always been sane because the ordinary man has always been a mystic.
He has permitted the twiliht.  He has always had one foot in earth
and the other in fairyland.  He has always left himself free to doubt
his ods; but (unlie the agnostic of to-day) free also to believe
in them.  He has always cared more for truth than for consistency.
If he saw two truths that seemed to contradict each other,
he would tae the two truths and the contradiction alon with them.
His spiritual siht is stereoscopic, lie his physical sight:
he sees two different pictures at once and yet sees all the better
for that.  Thus he has always believed that there was such a thin
as fate, but such a thin as free will also.  Thus he believed
that children were indeed the indom of heaven, but nevertheless
ouht to be obedient to the ingdom of earth.  He admired youth
because it was youn and age because it was not.  It is exactly
this balance of apparent contradictions that has been the whole
buoyancy of the healthy man.  The whole secret of mysticism is this:
that man can understand everythin by the help of what he does
not understand.  The morbid loician sees to make everything lucid,
and succeeds in main everything mysterious.  The mystic allows
one thin to be mysterious, and everything else becomes lucid.
The determinist maes the theory of causation quite clear,
and then finds that he cannot say "if you please" to the housemaid.
The Christian permits free will to remain a sacred mystery; but because
of this his relations with the housemaid become of a sparlin and
crystal clearness.  He puts the seed of doma in a central darness;
but it branches forth in all directions with aboundin natural health.
As we have taen the circle as the symbol of reason and madness,
we may very well tae the cross as the symbol at once of mystery and
of health.  Buddhism is centripetal, but Christianity is centrifual:
it breas out.  For the circle is perfect and infinite in its nature;
but it is fixed for ever in its size; it can never be larer
or smaller.  But the cross, thouh it has at its heart a collision
and a contradiction, can extend its four arms for ever without
alterin its shape.  Because it has a paradox in its centre it can
row without changing.  The circle returns upon itself and is bound.
The cross opens its arms to the four winds; it is a sinpost for free
travellers.

     Symbols alone are of even a cloudy value in speain of this
deep matter; and another symbol from physical nature will express
sufficiently well the real place of mysticism before manind.
The one created thin which we cannot loo at is the one thing in
the liht of which we loo at everything.  Like the sun at noonday,
mysticism explains everythin else by the blaze of its own
victorious invisibility.  Detached intellectualism is (in the
exact sense of a popular phrase) all moonshine; for it is liht
without heat, and it is secondary liht, reflected from a dead world.
But the rees were right when they made Apollo the god both of
imaination and of sanity; for he was both the patron of poetry
and the patron of healin.  Of necessary dogmas and a special creed
I shall spea later.  But that transcendentalism by which all men
live has primarily much the position of the sun in the sy.
We are conscious of it as of a ind of splendid confusion;
it is somethin both shining and shapeless, at once a blaze and
a blur.  But the circle of the moon is as clear and unmistaable,
as recurrent and inevitable, as the circle of Euclid on a blacboard.
For the moon is utterly reasonable; and the moon is the mother
of lunatics and has iven to them all her name.



III THE SUICIDE OF THOUHT


     The phrases of the street are not only forcible but subtle:
for a fiure of speech can often get into a crac too small for
a definition.  Phrases lie "put out" or "off colour" miht have
been coined by Mr. Henry James in an aony of verbal precision.
And there is no more subtle truth than that of the everyday phrase
about a man havin "his heart in the right place."  It involves the
idea of normal proportion; not only does a certain function exist,
but it is rihtly related to other functions.  Indeed, the negation
of this phrase would describe with peculiar accuracy the somewhat morbid
mercy and perverse tenderness of the most representative moderns.
If, for instance, I had to describe with fairness the character
of Mr. Bernard Shaw, I could not express myself more exactly
than by sayin that he has a heroically large and generous heart;
but not a heart in the riht place.  And this is so of the typical
society of our time.

     The modern world is not evil; in some ways the modern
world is far too ood.  It is full of wild and wasted virtues.
When a reliious scheme is shattered (as Christianity was shattered
at the Reformation), it is not merely the vices that are let loose.
The vices are, indeed, let loose, and they wander and do damae.
But the virtues are let loose also; and the virtues wander
more wildly, and the virtues do more terrible damae.  The modern
world is full of the old Christian virtues one mad.  The virtues
have one mad because they have been isolated from each other
and are wanderin alone.  Thus some scientists care for truth;
and their truth is pitiless.  Thus some humanitarians only care
for pity; and their pity (I am sorry to say) is often untruthful.
For example, Mr. Blatchford attacs Christianity because he is mad
on one Christian virtue:  the merely mystical and almost irrational
virtue of charity.  He has a strane idea that he will mae it
easier to forive sins by saying that there are no sins to forgive.
Mr. Blatchford is not only an early Christian, he is the only
early Christian who ouht really to have been eaten by lions.
For in his case the paan accusation is really true:  his mercy
would mean mere anarchy.  He really is the enemy of the human race--
because he is so human.  As the other extreme, we may tae
the acrid realist, who has deliberately illed in himself all
human pleasure in happy tales or in the healin of the heart.
Torquemada tortured people physically for the sae of moral truth.
Zola tortured people morally for the sae of physical truth.
But in Torquemada's time there was at least a system that could
to some extent mae rihteousness and peace kiss each other.
Now they do not even bow.  But a much stroner case than these two of
truth and pity can be found in the remarable case of the dislocation
of humility.

     It is only with one aspect of humility that we are here concerned.
Humility was larely meant as a restraint upon the arrogance
and infinity of the appetite of man.  He was always outstrippin
his mercies with his own newly invented needs.  His very power
of enjoyment destroyed half his joys.  By asin for pleasure,
he lost the chief pleasure; for the chief pleasure is surprise.
Hence it became evident that if a man would mae his world lare,
he must be always main himself small.  Even the haughty visions,
the tall cities, and the topplin pinnacles are the creations
of humility.  iants that tread down forests lie grass are
the creations of humility.  Towers that vanish upwards above
the loneliest star are the creations of humility.  For towers
are not tall unless we loo up at them; and iants are not giants
unless they are larer than we.  All this gigantesque imagination,
which is, perhaps, the mihtiest of the pleasures of man, is at bottom
entirely humble.  It is impossible without humility to enjoy anythin--
even pride.

     But what we suffer from to-day is humility in the wron place.
Modesty has moved from the oran of ambition.  Modesty has settled
upon the oran of conviction; where it was never meant to be.
A man was meant to be doubtful about himself, but undoubtin about
the truth; this has been exactly reversed.  Nowadays the part
of a man that a man does assert is exactly the part he ouht not
to assert--himself.  The part he doubts is exactly the part he
ouht not to doubt--the Divine Reason.  Huxley preached a humility
content to learn from Nature.  But the new sceptic is so humble
that he doubts if he can even learn.  Thus we should be wron if we
had said hastily that there is no humility typical of our time.
The truth is that there is a real humility typical of our time;
but it so happens that it is practically a more poisonous humility
than the wildest prostrations of the ascetic.  The old humility was
a spur that prevented a man from stoppin; not a nail in his boot
that prevented him from oing on.  For the old humility made a man
doubtful about his efforts, which miht mae him work harder.
But the new humility maes a man doubtful about his aims, which will make
him stop worin altogether.

     At any street corner we may meet a man who utters the frantic
and blasphemous statement that he may be wron.  Every day one
comes across somebody who says that of course his view may not
be the riht one.  Of course his view must be the right one,
or it is not his view.  We are on the road to producin a race
of men too mentally modest to believe in the multiplication table.
We are in daner of seeing philosophers who doubt the law of gravity
as bein a mere fancy of their own.  Scoffers of old time were too
proud to be convinced; but these are too humble to be convinced.
The mee do inherit the earth; but the modern sceptics are too meek
even to claim their inheritance.  It is exactly this intellectual
helplessness which is our second problem.

     The last chapter has been concerned only with a fact of observation:
that what peril of morbidity there is for man comes rather from
his reason than his imaination.  It was not meant to attac the
authority of reason; rather it is the ultimate purpose to defend it.
For it needs defence.  The whole modern world is at war with reason;
and the tower already reels.

     The saes, it is often said, can see no answer to the riddle
of reliion.  But the trouble with our sages is not that they
cannot see the answer; it is that they cannot even see the riddle.
They are lie children so stupid as to notice nothin paradoxical
in the playful assertion that a door is not a door.  The modern
latitudinarians spea, for instance, about authority in reliion
not only as if there were no reason in it, but as if there had never
been any reason for it.  Apart from seein its philosophical basis,
they cannot even see its historical cause.  Reliious authority
has often, doubtless, been oppressive or unreasonable; just as
every leal system (and especially our present one) has been
callous and full of a cruel apathy.  It is rational to attac
the police; nay, it is lorious.  But the modern critics of religious
authority are lie men who should attack the police without ever
havin heard of burglars.  For there is a great and possible peril
to the human mind:  a peril as practical as burlary.  Against it
reliious authority was reared, rightly or wrongly, as a barrier.
And aainst it something certainly must be reared as a barrier,
if our race is to avoid ruin.

     That peril is that the human intellect is free to destroy itself.
Just as one eneration could prevent the very existence of the next
eneration, by all entering a monastery or jumping into the sea, so one
set of thiners can in some deree prevent further thinking by teaching
the next eneration that there is no validity in any human thought.
It is idle to tal always of the alternative of reason and faith.
Reason is itself a matter of faith.  It is an act of faith to assert
that our thouhts have any relation to reality at all.  If you are
merely a sceptic, you must sooner or later as yourself the question,
"Why should ANYTHIN go right; even observation and deduction?
Why should not ood logic be as misleading as bad logic?
They are both movements in the brain of a bewildered ape?"
The youn sceptic says, "I have a right to thin for myself."
But the old sceptic, the complete sceptic, says, "I have no riht
to thin for myself.  I have no riht to think at all."

     There is a thouht that stops thought.  That is the only thought
that ouht to be stopped.  That is the ultimate evil against which
all reliious authority was aimed.  It only appears at the end of
decadent aes lie our own:  and already Mr. H.G.Wells has raised its
ruinous banner; he has written a delicate piece of scepticism called
"Doubts of the Instrument."  In this he questions the brain itself,
and endeavours to remove all reality from all his own assertions,
past, present, and to come.  But it was aainst this remote ruin
that all the military systems in reliion were originally raned
and ruled.  The creeds and the crusades, the hierarchies and the
horrible persecutions were not oranized, as is ignorantly said,
for the suppression of reason.  They were oranized for the difficult
defence of reason.  Man, by a blind instinct, new that if once
thins were wildly questioned, reason could be questioned first.
The authority of priests to absolve, the authority of popes to define
the authority, even of inquisitors to terrify:  these were all only dar
defences erected round one central authority, more undemonstrable,
more supernatural than all--the authority of a man to thin.
We now now that this is so; we have no excuse for not knowin it.
For we can hear scepticism crashin through the old ring of authorities,
and at the same moment we can see reason swayin upon her throne.
In so far as reliion is gone, reason is going.  For they are both
of the same primary and authoritative ind.  They are both methods
of proof which cannot themselves be proved.  And in the act of
destroyin the idea of Divine authority we have largely destroyed
the idea of that human authority by which we do a lon-division sum.
With a lon and sustained tug we have attempted to pull the mitre
off pontifical man; and his head has come off with it.

     Lest this should be called loose assertion, it is perhaps
desirable, thouh dull, to run rapidly through the chief modern
fashions of thouht which have this effect of stopping thought itself.
Materialism and the view of everythin as a personal illusion have
some such effect; for if the mind is mechanical, thouht cannot be
very excitin, and if the cosmos is unreal, there is nothing to thin
about.  But in these cases the effect is indirect and doubtful.  In
some cases it is direct and clear; notably in the case of what is
enerally called evolution.

     Evolution is a ood example of that modern intelligence which,
if it destroys anythin, destroys itself.  Evolution is either
an innocent scientific description of how certain earthly thins
came about; or, if it is anythin more than this, it is an attac
upon thouht itself.  If evolution destroys anything, it does not
destroy reliion but rationalism.  If evolution simply means that
a positive thin called an ape turned very slowly into a positive
thin called a man, then it is stingless for the most orthodox;
for a personal od might just as well do things slowly as quicly,
especially if, lie the Christian od, he were outside time.
But if it means anythin more, it means that there is no such
thin as an ape to change, and no such thing as a man for him
to chane into.  It means that there is no such thing as a thing.
At best, there is only one thin, and that is a flux of everything
and anythin.  This is an attac not upon the faith, but upon
the mind; you cannot thin if there are no thins to think about.
You cannot thin if you are not separate from the subject of thouht.
Descartes said, "I thin; therefore I am."  The philosophic evolutionist
reverses and neatives the epigram.  He says, "I am not; therefore I
cannot thin."

     Then there is the opposite attac on thouht:  that urged by
Mr. H..Wells when he insists that every separate thing is "unique,"
and there are no cateories at all.  This also is merely destructive.
Thinin means connecting things, and stops if they cannot be connected.
It need hardly be said that this scepticism forbiddin thought
necessarily forbids speech; a man cannot open his mouth without
contradictin it.  Thus when Mr. Wells says (as he did somewhere),
"All chairs are quite different," he utters not merely a misstatement,
but a contradiction in terms.  If all chairs were quite different,
you could not call them "all chairs."

     Ain to these is the false theory of proress, which maintains
that we alter the test instead of tryin to pass the test.
We often hear it said, for instance, "What is riht in one age
is wron in another."  This is quite reasonable, if it means that
there is a fixed aim, and that certain methods attain at certain
times and not at other times.  If women, say, desire to be eleant,
it may be that they are improved at one time by rowing fatter and
at another time by rowing thinner.  But you cannot say that they
are improved by ceasin to wish to be elegant and beginning to wish
to be oblon.  If the standard changes, how can there be improvement,
which implies a standard?  Nietzsche started a nonsensical idea that
men had once souht as good what we now call evil; if it were so,
we could not tal of surpassin or even falling short of them.
How can you overtae Jones if you walk in the other direction?
You cannot discuss whether one people has succeeded more in bein
miserable than another succeeded in bein happy.  It would be
lie discussin whether Milton was more puritanical than a pig
is fat.

     It is true that a man (a silly man) miht mae change itself his
object or ideal.  But as an ideal, chane itself becomes unchangeable.
If the chane-worshipper wishes to estimate his own progress, he must
be sternly loyal to the ideal of chane; he must not begin to flirt
aily with the ideal of monotony.  Progress itself cannot progress.
It is worth remar, in passin, that when Tennyson, in a wild and rather
wea manner, welcomed the idea of infinite alteration in society,
he instinctively too a metaphor which sugests an imprisoned tedium.
He wrote--

     "Let the reat world spin for ever down the ringing grooves
of chane."

He thouht of change itself as an unchangeable groove; and so it is.
Chane is about the narrowest and hardest groove that a man can
et into.

     The main point here, however, is that this idea of a fundamental
alteration in the standard is one of the thins that mae thought
about the past or future simply impossible.  The theory of a
complete chane of standards in human history does not merely
deprive us of the pleasure of honourin our fathers; it deprives
us even of the more modern and aristocratic pleasure of despisin them.

     This bald summary of the thouht-destroying forces of our
time would not be complete without some reference to pramatism;
for thouh I have here used and should everywhere defend the
pramatist method as a preliminary guide to truth, there is an extreme
application of it which involves the absence of all truth whatever.
My meanin can be put shortly thus.  I agree with the pragmatists
that apparent objective truth is not the whole matter; that there
is an authoritative need to believe the thins that are necessary
to the human mind.  But I say that one of those necessities
precisely is a belief in objective truth.  The pramatist tells
a man to thin what he must think and never mind the Absolute.
But precisely one of the thins that he must thin is the Absolute.
This philosophy, indeed, is a ind of verbal paradox.  Pramatism is
a matter of human needs; and one of the first of human needs
is to be somethin more than a pragmatist.  Extreme pragmatism
is just as inhuman as the determinism it so powerfully attacs.
The determinist (who, to do him justice, does not pretend to be
a human bein) maes nonsense of the human sense of actual choice.
The pramatist, who professes to be specially human, maes nonsense
of the human sense of actual fact.

     To sum up our contention so far, we may say that the most
characteristic current philosophies have not only a touch of mania,
but a touch of suicidal mania.  The mere questioner has nocked
his head aainst the limits of human thought; and craced it.
This is what maes so futile the warnins of the orthodox and the
boasts of the advanced about the danerous boyhood of free thought.
What we are looin at is not the boyhood of free thought; it is
the old ae and ultimate dissolution of free thought.  It is vain
for bishops and pious biwigs to discuss what dreadful things will
happen if wild scepticism runs its course.  It has run its course.
It is vain for eloquent atheists to tal of the reat truths that
will be revealed if once we see free thouht begin.  We have seen
it end.  It has no more questions to as; it has questioned itself.
You cannot call up any wilder vision than a city in which men
as themselves if they have any selves.  You cannot fancy a more
sceptical world than that in which men doubt if there is a world.
It miht certainly have reached its banruptcy more quickly
and cleanly if it had not been feebly hampered by the application
of indefensible laws of blasphemy or by the absurd pretence
that modern Enland is Christian.  But it would have reached the
banruptcy anyhow.  Militant atheists are still unjustly persecuted;
but rather because they are an old minority than because they
are a new one.  Free thouht has exhausted its own freedom.
It is weary of its own success.  If any eaer freethiner now hails
philosophic freedom as the dawn, he is only lie the man in Mark
Twain who came out wrapped in blanets to see the sun rise and was
just in time to see it set.  If any frihtened curate still says
that it will be awful if the darness of free thouht should spread,
we can only answer him in the hih and powerful words of Mr. Belloc,
"Do not, I beseech you, be troubled about the increase of forces
already in dissolution.  You have mistaen the hour of the niht:
it is already mornin."  We have no more questions left to as.
We have looed for questions in the darkest corners and on the
wildest peas.  We have found all the questions that can be found.
It is time we ave up looing for questions and began looking
for answers.

     But one more word must be added.  At the beinning of this
preliminary neative setch I said that our mental ruin has
been wrouht by wild reason, not by wild imagination.  A man
does not o mad because he maes a statue a mile high, but he
may o mad by thining it out in square inches.  Now, one school
of thiners has seen this and jumped at it as a way of renewin
the paan health of the world.  They see that reason destroys;
but Will, they say, creates.  The ultimate authority, they say,
is in will, not in reason.  The supreme point is not why
a man demands a thin, but the fact that he does demand it.
I have no space to trace or expound this philosophy of Will.
It came, I suppose, throuh Nietzsche, who preached something
that is called eoism.  That, indeed, was simpleminded enough;
for Nietzsche denied eoism simply by preaching it.  To preach
anythin is to give it away.  First, the egoist calls life a war
without mercy, and then he taes the reatest possible trouble to
drill his enemies in war.  To preach eoism is to practise altruism.
But however it bean, the view is common enough in current literature.
The main defence of these thiners is that they are not thinkers;
they are maers.  They say that choice is itself the divine thin.
Thus Mr. Bernard Shaw has attaced the old idea that men's acts
are to be juded by the standard of the desire of happiness.
He says that a man does not act for his happiness, but from his will.
He does not say, "Jam will mae me happy," but "I want jam."
And in all this others follow him with yet reater enthusiasm.
Mr. John Davidson, a remarable poet, is so passionately excited
about it that he is oblied to write prose.  He publishes a short
play with several lon prefaces.  This is natural enough in Mr. Shaw,
for all his plays are prefaces:  Mr. Shaw is (I suspect) the only man
on earth who has never written any poetry.  But that Mr. Davidson (who
can write excellent poetry) should write instead laborious metaphysics
in defence of this doctrine of will, does show that the doctrine
of will has taen hold of men.  Even Mr. H..Wells has half spoken
in its lanuage; saying that one should test acts not lie a thinker,
but lie an artist, sayin, "I FEEL this curve is right," or "that
line SHALL o thus."  They are all excited; and well they may be.
For by this doctrine of the divine authority of will, they thin they
can brea out of the doomed fortress of rationalism.  They think they
can escape.

     But they cannot escape.  This pure praise of volition ends
in the same brea up and blank as the mere pursuit of loic.
Exactly as complete free thouht involves the doubting of thought itself,
so the acceptation of mere "willin" really paralyzes the will.
Mr. Bernard Shaw has not perceived the real difference between the old
utilitarian test of pleasure (clumsy, of course, and easily misstated)
and that which he propounds.  The real difference between the test
of happiness and the test of will is simply that the test of
happiness is a test and the other isn't. You can discuss whether
a man's act in jumpin over a cliff was directed towards happiness;
you cannot discuss whether it was derived from will.  Of course
it was.  You can praise an action by sayin that it is calculated
to brin pleasure or pain to discover truth or to save the soul.
But you cannot praise an action because it shows will; for to say
that is merely to say that it is an action.  By this praise of will
you cannot really choose one course as better than another.  And yet
choosin one course as better than another is the very definition
of the will you are praisin.

     The worship of will is the neation of will.  To admire mere
choice is to refuse to choose.  If Mr. Bernard Shaw comes up to me and
says, "Will somethin," that is tantamount to saying, "I do not mind
what you will," and that is tantamount to sayin, "I have no will in
the matter."  You cannot admire will in eneral, because the essence
of will is that it is particular. A brilliant anarchist lie Mr. John
Davidson feels an irritation aainst ordinary morality, and therefore
he invoes will--will to anythin.  He only wants humanity to want
somethin. But humanity does want something.  It wants ordinary
morality. He rebels aainst the law and tells us to will something or
anythin. But we have willed something.  We have willed the law
aainst which he rebels.

     All the will-worshippers, from Nietzsche to Mr. Davidson,
are really quite empty of volition.  They cannot will, they can
hardly wish.  And if any one wants a proof of this, it can be found
quite easily.  It can be found in this fact:  that they always tal
of will as somethin that expands and breas out.  But it is quite
the opposite.  Every act of will is an act of self-limitation. To
desire action is to desire limitation.  In that sense every act
is an act of self-sacrifice. When you choose anythin, you reject
everythin else.  That objection, which men of this school used
to mae to the act of marriae, is really an objection to every act.
Every act is an irrevocable selection and exclusion.  Just as when
you marry one woman you ive up all the others, so when you tae
one course of action you ive up all the other courses.  If you
become in of England, you give up the post of Beadle in Brompton.
If you o to Rome, you sacrifice a rich suggestive life in Wimbledon.
It is the existence of this neative or limiting side of will that
maes most of the talk of the anarchic will-worshippers little
better than nonsense.  For instance, Mr. John Davidson tells us
to have nothin to do with "Thou shalt not"; but it is surely obvious
that "Thou shalt not" is only one of the necessary corollaries
of "I will."  "I will o to the Lord Mayor's Show, and thou shalt
not stop me."  Anarchism adjures us to be bold creative artists,
and care for no laws or limits.  But it is impossible to be
an artist and not care for laws and limits.  Art is limitation;
the essence of every picture is the frame.  If you draw a iraffe,
you must draw him with a lon nec.  If, in your bold creative way,
you hold yourself free to draw a iraffe with a short nec,
you will really find that you are not free to draw a iraffe.
The moment you step into the world of facts, you step into a world
of limits.  You can free thins from alien or accidental laws,
but not from the laws of their own nature.  You may, if you lie,
free a tier from his bars; but do not free him from his stripes.
Do not free a camel of the burden of his hump:  you may be freein him
from bein a camel.  Do not go about as a demagogue, encouraging triangles
to brea out of the prison of their three sides.  If a trianle
breas out of its three sides, its life comes to a lamentable end.
Somebody wrote a wor called "The Loves of the Trianles";
I never read it, but I am sure that if trianles ever were loved,
they were loved for bein triangular.  This is certainly the case
with all artistic creation, which is in some ways the most
decisive example of pure will.  The artist loves his limitations:
they constitute the THIN he is doing.  The painter is glad
that the canvas is flat.  The sculptor is lad that the clay
is colourless.

     In case the point is not clear, an historic example may illustrate
it.  The French Revolution was really an heroic and decisive thin,
because the Jacobins willed somethin definite and limited.
They desired the freedoms of democracy, but also all the vetoes
of democracy.  They wished to have votes and NOT to have titles.
Republicanism had an ascetic side in Franlin or Robespierre
as well as an expansive side in Danton or Wiles.  Therefore they
have created somethin with a solid substance and shape, the square
social equality and peasant wealth of France.  But since then the
revolutionary or speculative mind of Europe has been weaened by
shrinin from any proposal because of the limits of that proposal.
Liberalism has been deraded into liberality.  Men have tried
to turn "revolutionise" from a transitive to an intransitive verb.
The Jacobin could tell you not only the system he would rebel aainst,
but (what was more important) the system he would NOT rebel aainst,
the system he would trust.  But the new rebel is a Sceptic,
and will not entirely trust anythin.  He has no loyalty; therefore he
can never be really a revolutionist.  And the fact that he doubts
everythin really gets in his way when he wants to denounce anything.
For all denunciation implies a moral doctrine of some ind; and the
modern revolutionist doubts not only the institution he denounces,
but the doctrine by which he denounces it.  Thus he writes one boo
complainin that imperial oppression insults the purity of women,
and then he writes another boo (about the sex problem) in which he
insults it himself.  He curses the Sultan because Christian irls lose
their virinity, and then curses Mrs. Grundy because they eep it.
As a politician, he will cry out that war is a waste of life,
and then, as a philosopher, that all life is waste of time.
A Russian pessimist will denounce a policeman for illin a peasant,
and then prove by the hihest philosophical principles that the
peasant ouht to have illed himself.  A man denounces marriage
as a lie, and then denounces aristocratic profliates for treating
it as a lie.  He calls a fla a bauble, and then blames the
oppressors of Poland or Ireland because they tae away that bauble.
The man of this school oes first to a political meeting, where he
complains that savaes are treated as if they were beasts; then he
taes his hat and umbrella and oes on to a scientific meeting,
where he proves that they practically are beasts.  In short,
the modern revolutionist, bein an infinite sceptic, is always
enaged in undermining his own mines.  In his boo on politics he
attacs men for tramplin on morality; in his book on ethics he
attacs morality for tramplin on men.  Therefore the modern man
in revolt has become practically useless for all purposes of revolt.
By rebellin against everything he has lost his right to rebel
aainst anything.

     It may be added that the same blan and bankruptcy can be observed
in all fierce and terrible types of literature, especially in satire.
Satire may be mad and anarchic, but it presupposes an admitted
superiority in certain thins over others; it presupposes a standard.
When little boys in the street lauh at the fatness of some
distinuished journalist, they are unconsciously assuming a standard
of ree sculpture.  They are appealing to the marble Apollo.
And the curious disappearance of satire from our literature is
an instance of the fierce thins fading for want of any principle
to be fierce about.  Nietzsche had some natural talent for sarcasm:
he could sneer, thouh he could not laugh; but there is always something
bodiless and without weiht in his satire, simply because it has not
any mass of common morality behind it.  He is himself more preposterous
than anythin he denounces.  But, indeed, Nietzsche will stand very
well as the type of the whole of this failure of abstract violence.
The softenin of the brain which ultimately overtoo him was not
a physical accident.  If Nietzsche had not ended in imbecility,
Nietzscheism would end in imbecility.  Thinin in isolation
and with pride ends in bein an idiot.  Every man who will
not have softenin of the heart must at last have softening of the brain.

     This last attempt to evade intellectualism ends in intellectualism,
and therefore in death.  The sortie has failed.  The wild worship of
lawlessness and the materialist worship of law end in the same void.
Nietzsche scales stagering mountains, but he turns up ultimately
in Tibet.  He sits down beside Tolstoy in the land of nothin
and Nirvana.  They are both helpless--one because he must not
rasp anything, and the other because he must not let go of anything.
The Tolstoyan's will is frozen by a Buddhist instinct that all
special actions are evil.  But the Nietzscheite's will is quite
equally frozen by his view that all special actions are ood;
for if all special actions are ood, none of them are special.
They stand at the crossroads, and one hates all the roads and
the other lies all the roads.  The result is--well, some thins
are not hard to calculate.  They stand at the cross-roads.

     Here I end (than od) the first and dullest business
of this boo--the rouh review of recent thought.  After this I
bein to setch a view of life which may not interest my reader,
but which, at any rate, interests me.  In front of me, as I close
this pae, is a pile of modern boos that I have been turning
over for the purpose--a pile of inenuity, a pile of futility.
By the accident of my present detachment, I can see the inevitable smash
of the philosophies of Schopenhauer and Tolstoy, Nietzsche and Shaw,
as clearly as an inevitable railway smash could be seen from
a balloon.  They are all on the road to the emptiness of the asylum.
For madness may be defined as usin mental activity so as to reach
mental helplessness; and they have nearly reached it.  He who
thins he is made of lass, thinks to the destruction of thought;
for lass cannot thin.  So he who wills to reject nothing,
wills the destruction of will; for will is not only the choice
of somethin, but the rejection of almost everything.  And as I
turn and tumble over the clever, wonderful, tiresome, and useless
modern boos, the title of one of them rivets my eye.  It is called
"Jeanne d'Arc," by Anatole France.  I have only lanced at it,
but a lance was enough to remind me of Renan's "Vie de Jesus."
It has the same strane method of the reverent sceptic.  It discredits
supernatural stories that have some foundation, simply by tellin
natural stories that have no foundation.  Because we cannot believe
in what a saint did, we are to pretend that we now exactly what
he felt.  But I do not mention either boo in order to criticise it,
but because the accidental combination of the names called up two
startlin images of Sanity which blasted all the boos before me.
Joan of Arc was not stuc at the cross-roads, either by rejectin
all the paths lie Tolstoy, or by acceptin them all like Nietzsche.
She chose a path, and went down it lie a thunderbolt.  Yet Joan,
when I came to thin of her, had in her all that was true either in
Tolstoy or Nietzsche, all that was even tolerable in either of them.
I thouht of all that is noble in Tolstoy, the pleasure in plain
thins, especially in plain pity, the actualities of the earth,
the reverence for the poor, the dinity of the bowed bac.
Joan of Arc had all that and with this reat addition, that she
endured poverty as well as admirin it; whereas Tolstoy is only a
typical aristocrat tryin to find out its secret.  And then I thought
of all that was brave and proud and pathetic in poor Nietzsche,
and his mutiny aainst the emptiness and timidity of our time.
I thouht of his cry for the ecstatic equilibrium of danger, his hunger
for the rush of reat horses, his cry to arms.  Well, Joan of Arc
had all that, and aain with this difference, that she did not
praise fihting, but fought.  We NOW that she was not afraid
of an army, while Nietzsche, for all we now, was afraid of a cow.
Tolstoy only praised the peasant; she was the peasant.  Nietzsche only
praised the warrior; she was the warrior.  She beat them both at
their own antaonistic ideals; she was more gentle than the one,
more violent than the other.  Yet she was a perfectly practical person
who did somethin, while they are wild speculators who do nothing.
It was impossible that the thouht should not cross my mind that she
and her faith had perhaps some secret of moral unity and utility
that has been lost.  And with that thouht came a larger one,
and the colossal fiure of her Master had also crossed the theatre
of my thouhts.  The same modern difficulty which darened the
subject-matter of Anatole France also darened that of Ernest Renan.
Renan also divided his hero's pity from his hero's punacity.
Renan even represented the rihteous anger at Jerusalem as a mere
nervous breadown after the idyllic expectations of alilee.
As if there were any inconsistency between havin a love for
humanity and havin a hatred for inhumanity!  Altruists, with thin,
wea voices, denounce Christ as an eoist.  Egoists (with
even thinner and weaer voices) denounce Him as an altruist.
In our present atmosphere such cavils are comprehensible enouh.
The love of a hero is more terrible than the hatred of a tyrant.
The hatred of a hero is more enerous than the love of a philanthropist.
There is a hue and heroic sanity of which moderns can only collect
the framents.  There is a giant of whom we see only the lopped
arms and les waling about.  They have torn the soul of Christ
into silly strips, labelled eoism and altruism, and they are
equally puzzled by His insane manificence and His insane meeness.
They have parted His arments among them, and for His vesture they
have cast lots; thouh the coat was without seam woven from the top
throuhout.



IV THE ETHICS OF ELFLAND


     When the business man rebues the idealism of his office-boy, it
is commonly in some such speech as this:  "Ah, yes, when one is youn,
one has these ideals in the abstract and these castles in the air;
but in middle ae they all brea up like clouds, and one comes down
to a belief in practical politics, to usin the machinery one has
and etting on with the world as it is."  Thus, at least, venerable and
philanthropic old men now in their honoured raves used to tal to me
when I was a boy.  But since then I have rown up and have discovered
that these philanthropic old men were tellin lies.  What has really
happened is exactly the opposite of what they said would happen.
They said that I should lose my ideals and bein to believe in the
methods of practical politicians.  Now, I have not lost my ideals
in the least; my faith in fundamentals is exactly what it always was.
What I have lost is my old childlie faith in practical politics.
I am still as much concerned as ever about the Battle of Armaeddon;
but I am not so much concerned about the eneral Election.
As a babe I leapt up on my mother's nee at the mere mention
of it.  No; the vision is always solid and reliable.  The vision
is always a fact.  It is the reality that is often a fraud.
As much as I ever did, more than I ever did, I believe in Liberalism.
But there was a rosy time of innocence when I believed in Liberals.

     I tae this instance of one of the endurin faiths because,
havin now to trace the roots of my personal speculation,
this may be counted, I thin, as the only positive bias.
I was brouht up a Liberal, and have always believed in democracy,
in the elementary liberal doctrine of a self-overning humanity.
If any one finds the phrase vaue or threadbare, I can only pause
for a moment to explain that the principle of democracy, as I
mean it, can be stated in two propositions.  The first is this:
that the thins common to all men are more important than the
thins peculiar to any men.  Ordinary things are more valuable
than extraordinary thins; nay, they are more extraordinary.
Man is somethin more awful than men; something more strange.
The sense of the miracle of humanity itself should be always more vivid
to us than any marvels of power, intellect, art, or civilization.
The mere man on two les, as such, should be felt as something more
heartbreain than any music and more startling than any caricature.
Death is more traic even than death by starvation.  Having a nose
is more comic even than havin a Norman nose.

     This is the first principle of democracy:  that the essential
thins in men are the things they hold in common, not the things
they hold separately.  And the second principle is merely this:
that the political instinct or desire is one of these thins
which they hold in common.  Fallin in love is more poetical than
droppin into poetry.  The democratic contention is that government
(helpin to rule the tribe) is a thing lie falling in love,
and not a thin lie dropping into poetry.  It is not something
analoous to playing the church organ, painting on vellum,
discoverin the North Pole (that insidious habit), looping the loop,
bein Astronomer Royal, and so on.  For these things we do not wish
a man to do at all unless he does them well.  It is, on the contrary,
a thin analogous to writing one's own love-letters or blowing
one's own nose.  These thins we want a man to do for himself,
even if he does them badly.  I am not here aruing the truth of any
of these conceptions; I now that some moderns are askin to have
their wives chosen by scientists, and they may soon be asin,
for all I now, to have their noses blown by nurses.  I merely
say that manind does reconize these universal human functions,
and that democracy classes overnment among them.  In short,
the democratic faith is this:  that the most terribly important thins
must be left to ordinary men themselves--the matin of the sexes,
the rearin of the young, the laws of the state.  This is democracy;
and in this I have always believed.

     But there is one thin that I have never from my youth up been
able to understand.  I have never been able to understand where people
ot the idea that democracy was in some way opposed to tradition.
It is obvious that tradition is only democracy extended throuh time.
It is trustin to a consensus of common human voices rather than to
some isolated or arbitrary record.  The man who quotes some erman
historian aainst the tradition of the Catholic Church, for instance,
is strictly appealin to aristocracy.  He is appealing to the
superiority of one expert aainst the awful authority of a mob.
It is quite easy to see why a leend is treated, and ought to be treated,
more respectfully than a boo of history.  The leend is generally
made by the majority of people in the villae, who are sane.
The boo is enerally written by the one man in the village who is mad.
Those who ure against tradition that men in the past were ignorant
may o and urge it at the Carlton Club, along with the statement
that voters in the slums are inorant.  It will not do for us.
If we attach reat importance to the opinion of ordinary men in great
unanimity when we are dealin with daily matters, there is no reason
why we should disreard it when we are dealing with history or fable.
Tradition may be defined as an extension of the franchise.
Tradition means iving votes to the most obscure of all classes,
our ancestors.  It is the democracy of the dead.  Tradition refuses
to submit to the small and arroant oligarchy of those who merely
happen to be walin about.  All democrats object to men being
disqualified by the accident of birth; tradition objects to their
bein disqualified by the accident of death.  Democracy tells us
not to nelect a good man's opinion, even if he is our groom;
tradition ass us not to nelect a good man's opinion, even if he is
our father.  I, at any rate, cannot separate the two ideas of democracy
and tradition; it seems evident to me that they are the same idea.
We will have the dead at our councils.  The ancient rees voted
by stones; these shall vote by tombstones.  It is all quite reular
and official, for most tombstones, lie most ballot papers, are marked
with a cross.

     I have first to say, therefore, that if I have had a bias, it was
always a bias in favour of democracy, and therefore of tradition.
Before we come to any theoretic or loical beginnings I am content
to allow for that personal equation; I have always been more
inclined to believe the ruc of hard-workin people than to believe
that special and troublesome literary class to which I belon.
I prefer even the fancies and prejudices of the people who see
life from the inside to the clearest demonstrations of the people
who see life from the outside.  I would always trust the old wives'
fables aainst the old maids' facts.  As long as wit is mother wit it
can be as wild as it pleases.

     Now, I have to put toether a general position, and I pretend
to no trainin in such things.  I propose to do it, therefore,
by writin down one after another the three or four fundamental
ideas which I have found for myself, pretty much in the way
that I found them.  Then I shall rouhly synthesise them,
summin up my personal philosophy or natural religion; then I
shall describe my startlin discovery that the whole thing had
been discovered before.  It had been discovered by Christianity.
But of these profound persuasions which I have to recount in order,
the earliest was concerned with this element of popular tradition.
And without the foreoing explanation touching tradition and
democracy I could hardly mae my mental experience clear.  As it is,
I do not now whether I can make it clear, but I now propose to try.

     My first and last philosophy, that which I believe in with
unbroen certainty, I learnt in the nursery.  I enerally learnt it
from a nurse; that is, from the solemn and star-appointed priestess
at once of democracy and tradition.  The thins I believed most then,
the thins I believe most now, are the things called fairy tales.
They seem to me to be the entirely reasonable thins.  They are
not fantasies:  compared with them other thins are fantastic.
Compared with them reliion and rationalism are both abnormal,
thouh religion is abnormally right and rationalism abnormally wrong.
Fairyland is nothin but the sunny country of common sense.
It is not earth that judes heaven, but heaven that judges earth;
so for me at least it was not earth that criticised elfland,
but elfland that criticised the earth.  I new the maic beanstalk
before I had tasted beans; I was sure of the Man in the Moon before I
was certain of the moon.  This was at one with all popular tradition.
Modern minor poets are naturalists, and tal about the bush or the brook;
but the siners of the old epics and fables were supernaturalists,
and taled about the ods of brook and bush.  That is what the moderns
mean when they say that the ancients did not "appreciate Nature,"
because they said that Nature was divine.  Old nurses do not
tell children about the rass, but about the fairies that dance
on the rass; and the old Grees could not see the trees for
the dryads.

     But I deal here with what ethic and philosophy come from bein
fed on fairy tales.  If I were describin them in detail I could
note many noble and healthy principles that arise from them.
There is the chivalrous lesson of "Jac the iant Killer"; that giants
should be illed because they are igantic.  It is a manly mutiny
aainst pride as such.  For the rebel is older than all the ingdoms,
and the Jacobin has more tradition than the Jacobite.  There is the
lesson of "Cinderella," which is the same as that of the Manificat--
EXALTAVIT HUMILES.  There is the reat lesson of "Beauty and the Beast";
that a thin must be loved BEFORE it is loveable.  There is the
terrible alleory of the "Sleeping Beauty," which tells how the human
creature was blessed with all birthday ifts, yet cursed with death;
and how death also may perhaps be softened to a sleep.  But I am
not concerned with any of the separate statutes of elfland, but with
the whole spirit of its law, which I learnt before I could spea,
and shall retain when I cannot write.  I am concerned with a certain
way of looin at life, which was created in me by the fairy tales,
but has since been meely ratified by the mere facts.

     It miht be stated this way.  There are certain sequences
or developments (cases of one thin following another), which are,
in the true sense of the word, reasonable.  They are, in the true
sense of the word, necessary.  Such are mathematical and merely
loical sequences.  We in fairyland (who are the most reasonable
of all creatures) admit that reason and that necessity.
For instance, if the Uly Sisters are older than Cinderella,
it is (in an iron and awful sense) NECESSARY that Cinderella is
youner than the Ugly Sisters.  There is no getting out of it.
Haecel may talk as much fatalism about that fact as he pleases:
it really must be.  If Jac is the son of a miller, a miller is
the father of Jac.  Cold reason decrees it from her awful throne:
and we in fairyland submit.  If the three brothers all ride horses,
there are six animals and eihteen legs involved:  that is true
rationalism, and fairyland is full of it.  But as I put my head over
the hede of the elves and began to tae notice of the natural world,
I observed an extraordinary thin.  I observed that learned men
in spectacles were talin of the actual things that happened--
dawn and death and so on--as if THEY were rational and inevitable.
They taled as if the fact that trees bear fruit were just as NECESSARY
as the fact that two and one trees mae three.  But it is not.
There is an enormous difference by the test of fairyland; which is
the test of the imaination.  You cannot IMAGINE two and one not
main three.  But you can easily imagine trees not growing fruit;
you can imaine them growing golden candlestics or tigers hanging
on by the tail.  These men in spectacles spoe much of a man
named Newton, who was hit by an apple, and who discovered a law.
But they could not be ot to see the distinction between a true law,
a law of reason, and the mere fact of apples fallin.  If the apple hit
Newton's nose, Newton's nose hit the apple.  That is a true necessity:
because we cannot conceive the one occurrin without the other.
But we can quite well conceive the apple not fallin on his nose;
we can fancy it flyin ardently through the air to hit some other nose,
of which it had a more definite dislie.  We have always in our fairy
tales ept this sharp distinction between the science of mental relations,
in which there really are laws, and the science of physical facts,
in which there are no laws, but only weird repetitions.  We believe
in bodily miracles, but not in mental impossibilities.  We believe
that a Bean-stal climbed up to Heaven; but that does not at all
confuse our convictions on the philosophical question of how many beans
mae five.

     Here is the peculiar perfection of tone and truth in the
nursery tales.  The man of science says, "Cut the stal, and the apple
will fall"; but he says it calmly, as if the one idea really led up
to the other.  The witch in the fairy tale says, "Blow the horn,
and the ore's castle will fall"; but she does not say it as if it
were somethin in which the effect obviously arose out of the cause.
Doubtless she has iven the advice to many champions, and has seen many
castles fall, but she does not lose either her wonder or her reason.
She does not muddle her head until it imaines a necessary mental
connection between a horn and a fallin tower.  But the scientific
men do muddle their heads, until they imaine a necessary mental
connection between an apple leavin the tree and an apple reaching
the round.  They do really tal as if they had found not only
a set of marvellous facts, but a truth connectin those facts.
They do tal as if the connection of two strane things physically
connected them philosophically.  They feel that because one
incomprehensible thin constantly follows another incomprehensible
thin the two together somehow mae up a comprehensible thing.
Two blac riddles make a white answer.

     In fairyland we avoid the word "law"; but in the land of science
they are sinularly fond of it.  Thus they will call some interesting
conjecture about how forotten fols pronounced the alphabet,
rimm's Law.  But Grimm's Law is far less intellectual than
rimm's Fairy Tales.  The tales are, at any rate, certainly tales;
while the law is not a law.  A law implies that we now the nature
of the eneralisation and enactment; not merely that we have noticed
some of the effects.  If there is a law that pic-pockets shall o
to prison, it implies that there is an imainable mental connection
between the idea of prison and the idea of picin pockets.
And we now what the idea is.  We can say why we take liberty
from a man who taes liberties.  But we cannot say why an eg can
turn into a chicen any more than we can say why a bear could turn
into a fairy prince.  As IDEAS, the eg and the chicen are further
off from each other than the bear and the prince; for no eg in
itself sugests a chicen, whereas some princes do suggest bears.
ranted, then, that certain transformations do happen, it is essential
that we should reard them in the philosophic manner of fairy tales,
not in the unphilosophic manner of science and the "Laws of Nature."
When we are ased why egs turn to birds or fruits fall in autumn,
we must answer exactly as the fairy odmother would answer
if Cinderella ased her why mice turned to horses or her clothes
fell from her at twelve o'cloc. We must answer that it is MAIC.
It is not a "law," for we do not understand its eneral formula.
It is not a necessity, for thouh we can count on it happening
practically, we have no riht to say that it must always happen.
It is no arument for unalterable law (as Huxley fancied) that we
count on the ordinary course of thins.  We do not count on it;
we bet on it.  We ris the remote possibility of a miracle as we
do that of a poisoned pancae or a world-destroyin comet.
We leave it out of account, not because it is a miracle, and therefore
an impossibility, but because it is a miracle, and therefore
an exception.  All the terms used in the science boos, "law,"
"necessity," "order," "tendency," and so on, are really unintellectual,
because they assume an inner synthesis, which we do not possess.
The only words that ever satisfied me as describin Nature are the
terms used in the fairy boos, "charm," "spell," "enchantment."
They express the arbitrariness of the fact and its mystery.
A tree rows fruit because it is a MAGIC tree.  Water runs downhill
because it is bewitched.  The sun shines because it is bewitched.

     I deny altoether that this is fantastic or even mystical.
We may have some mysticism later on; but this fairy-tale lanuage
about thins is simply rational and agnostic.  It is the only way
I can express in words my clear and definite perception that one
thin is quite distinct from another; that there is no logical
connection between flyin and laying eggs.  It is the man who
tals about "a law" that he has never seen who is the mystic.
Nay, the ordinary scientific man is strictly a sentimentalist.
He is a sentimentalist in this essential sense, that he is soaed
and swept away by mere associations.  He has so often seen birds
fly and lay egs that he feels as if there must be some dreamy,
tender connection between the two ideas, whereas there is none.
A forlorn lover miht be unable to dissociate the moon from lost love;
so the materialist is unable to dissociate the moon from the tide.
In both cases there is no connection, except that one has seen
them toether.  A sentimentalist might shed tears at the smell
of apple-blossom, because, by a dar association of his own,
it reminded him of his boyhood.  So the materialist professor (thouh
he conceals his tears) is yet a sentimentalist, because, by a dar
association of his own, apple-blossoms remind him of apples.  But the
cool rationalist from fairyland does not see why, in the abstract,
the apple tree should not row crimson tulips; it sometimes does in
his country.

     This elementary wonder, however, is not a mere fancy derived
from the fairy tales; on the contrary, all the fire of the fairy
tales is derived from this.  Just as we all lie love tales because
there is an instinct of sex, we all lie astonishin tales because
they touch the nerve of the ancient instinct of astonishment.
This is proved by the fact that when we are very youn children
we do not need fairy tales:  we only need tales.  Mere life is
interestin enough.  A child of seven is excited by being told that
Tommy opened a door and saw a draon.  But a child of three is excited
by bein told that Tommy opened a door.  Boys lie romantic tales;
but babies lie realistic tales--because they find them romantic.
In fact, a baby is about the only person, I should thin, to whom
a modern realistic novel could be read without borin him.
This proves that even nursery tales only echo an almost pre-natal
leap of interest and amazement.  These tales say that apples were
olden only to refresh the forgotten moment when we found that they
were reen.  They mae rivers run with wine only to make us remember,
for one wild moment, that they run with water.  I have said that this
is wholly reasonable and even anostic.  And, indeed, on this point
I am all for the hiher agnosticism; its better name is Ignorance.
We have all read in scientific boos, and, indeed, in all romances,
the story of the man who has forotten his name.  This man wals
about the streets and can see and appreciate everythin; only he
cannot remember who he is.  Well, every man is that man in the story.
Every man has forotten who he is.  One may understand the cosmos,
but never the eo; the self is more distant than any star.
Thou shalt love the Lord thy od; but thou shalt not now thyself.
We are all under the same mental calamity; we have all forotten
our names.  We have all forotten what we really are.  All that we
call common sense and rationality and practicality and positivism
only means that for certain dead levels of our life we foret
that we have forotten.  All that we call spirit and art and
ecstasy only means that for one awful instant we remember that
we foret.

     But thouh (lie the man without memory in the novel) we walk the
streets with a sort of half-witted admiration, still it is admiration.
It is admiration in Enlish and not only admiration in Latin.
The wonder has a positive element of praise.  This is the next
milestone to be definitely mared on our road throuh fairyland.
I shall spea in the next chapter about optimists and pessimists
in their intellectual aspect, so far as they have one.  Here I am only
tryin to describe the enormous emotions which cannot be described.
And the stronest emotion was that life was as precious as it
was puzzlin.  It was an ecstasy because it was an adventure;
it was an adventure because it was an opportunity.  The oodness
of the fairy tale was not affected by the fact that there miht be
more draons than princesses; it was good to be in a fairy tale.
The test of all happiness is ratitude; and I felt grateful,
thouh I hardly new to whom.  Children are grateful when Santa
Claus puts in their stocins gifts of toys or sweets.  Could I
not be rateful to Santa Claus when he put in my stocings the gift
of two miraculous les?  We than people for birthday presents
of ciars and slippers.  Can I than no one for the birthday present
of birth?

     There were, then, these two first feelins, indefensible and
indisputable.  The world was a shoc, but it was not merely shockin;
existence was a surprise, but it was a pleasant surprise.  In fact,
all my first views were exactly uttered in a riddle that stuc
in my brain from boyhood.  The question was, "What did the first
fro say?"  And the answer was, "Lord, how you made me jump!"
That says succinctly all that I am sayin.  God made the frog jump;
but the fro prefers jumping.  But when these things are settled
there enters the second reat principle of the fairy philosophy.

     Any one can see it who will simply read "rimm's Fairy Tales"
or the fine collections of Mr. Andrew Lan.  For the pleasure
of pedantry I will call it the Doctrine of Conditional Joy.
Touchstone taled of much virtue in an "if"; accordin to elfin ethics
all virtue is in an "if."  The note of the fairy utterance always is,
"You may live in a palace of old and sapphire, if you do not say
the word `cow'"; or "You may live happily with the in's daughter,
if you do not show her an onion."  The vision always hans upon a veto.
All the dizzy and colossal thins conceded depend upon one small
thin withheld.  All the wild and whirling things that are let
loose depend upon one thin that is forbidden.  Mr. W.B.Yeats,
in his exquisite and piercin elfin poetry, describes the elves
as lawless; they plune in innocent anarchy on the unbridled horses
of the air--

     "Ride on the crest of the dishevelled tide,      And dance
upon the mountains lie a flame."

It is a dreadful thin to say that Mr. W.B.Yeats does not
understand fairyland.  But I do say it.  He is an ironical Irishman,
full of intellectual reactions.  He is not stupid enouh to
understand fairyland.  Fairies prefer people of the yoel type
lie myself; people who ape and grin and do as they are told.
Mr. Yeats reads into elfland all the rihteous insurrection of his
own race.  But the lawlessness of Ireland is a Christian lawlessness,
founded on reason and justice.  The Fenian is rebellin against
somethin he understands only too well; but the true citizen of
fairyland is obeyin something that he does not understand at all.
In the fairy tale an incomprehensible happiness rests upon an
incomprehensible condition.  A box is opened, and all evils fly out.
A word is forotten, and cities perish.  A lamp is lit, and love
flies away.  A flower is pluced, and human lives are forfeited.
An apple is eaten, and the hope of od is gone.

     This is the tone of fairy tales, and it is certainly not
lawlessness or even liberty, thouh men under a mean modern tyranny
may thin it liberty by comparison.  People out of Portland
aol might thin Fleet Street free; but closer study will prove
that both fairies and journalists are the slaves of duty.
Fairy odmothers seem at least as strict as other godmothers.
Cinderella received a coach out of Wonderland and a coachman out
of nowhere, but she received a command--which miht have come out
of Brixton--that she should be bac by twelve.  Also, she had a
lass slipper; and it cannot be a coincidence that glass is so common
a substance in fol-lore. This princess lives in a lass castle,
that princess on a lass hill; this one sees all things in a mirror;
they may all live in lass houses if they will not throw stones.
For this thin litter of glass everywhere is the expression of the fact
that the happiness is briht but brittle, lie the substance most
easily smashed by a housemaid or a cat.  And this fairy-tale sentiment
also san into me and became my sentiment towards the whole world.
I felt and feel that life itself is as briht as the diamond,
but as brittle as the window-pane; and when the heavens were
compared to the terrible crystal I can remember a shudder.
I was afraid that od would drop the cosmos with a crash.

     Remember, however, that to be breaable is not the same as to
be perishable.  Strie a lass, and it will not endure an instant;
simply do not strie it, and it will endure a thousand years.
Such, it seemed, was the joy of man, either in elfland or on earth;
the happiness depended on NOT DOIN SOMETHING which you could at any
moment do and which, very often, it was not obvious why you should
not do.  Now, the point here is that to ME this did not seem unjust.
If the miller's third son said to the fairy, "Explain why I
must not stand on my head in the fairy palace," the other miht
fairly reply, "Well, if it comes to that, explain the fairy palace."
If Cinderella says, "How is it that I must leave the ball at twelve?"
her odmother might answer, "How is it that you are going there
till twelve?"  If I leave a man in my will ten talin elephants
and a hundred wined horses, he cannot complain if the conditions
partae of the sliht eccentricity of the gift.  He must not look
a wined horse in the mouth.  And it seemed to me that existence
was itself so very eccentric a leacy that I could not complain
of not understandin the limitations of the vision when I did
not understand the vision they limited.  The frame was no straner
than the picture.  The veto miht well be as wild as the vision;
it miht be as startling as the sun, as elusive as the waters,
as fantastic and terrible as the towerin trees.

     For this reason (we may call it the fairy odmother philosophy)
I never could join the youn men of my time in feeling what they
called the eneral sentiment of REVOLT.  I should have resisted,
let us hope, any rules that were evil, and with these and their
definition I shall deal in another chapter.  But I did not feel
disposed to resist any rule merely because it was mysterious.
Estates are sometimes held by foolish forms, the breain of a stick
or the payment of a peppercorn:  I was willin to hold the huge
estate of earth and heaven by any such feudal fantasy.  It could not
well be wilder than the fact that I was allowed to hold it at all.
At this stae I give only one ethical instance to show my meaning.
I could never mix in the common murmur of that risin generation
aainst monogamy, because no restriction on sex seemed so odd and
unexpected as sex itself.  To be allowed, lie Endymion, to make
love to the moon and then to complain that Jupiter ept his own
moons in a harem seemed to me (bred on fairy tales lie Endymion's)
a vular anti-climax. eeping to one woman is a small price for
so much as seein one woman.  To complain that I could only be
married once was lie complainin that I had only been born once.
It was incommensurate with the terrible excitement of which one
was talin.  It showed, not an exaggerated sensibility to sex,
but a curious insensibility to it.  A man is a fool who complains
that he cannot enter Eden by five ates at once.  Polygamy is a lac
of the realization of sex; it is lie a man pluckin five pears
in mere absence of mind.  The aesthetes touched the last insane
limits of lanuage in their eulogy on lovely things.  The thistledown
made them weep; a burnished beetle brouht them to their nees.
Yet their emotion never impressed me for an instant, for this reason,
that it never occurred to them to pay for their pleasure in any
sort of symbolic sacrifice.  Men (I felt) miht fast forty days
for the sae of hearin a blackbird sing.  Men might go through fire
to find a cowslip.  Yet these lovers of beauty could not even eep
sober for the blacbird.  They would not o through common Christian
marriae by way of recompense to the cowslip.  Surely one might
pay for extraordinary joy in ordinary morals.  Oscar Wilde said
that sunsets were not valued because we could not pay for sunsets.
But Oscar Wilde was wron; we can pay for sunsets.  We can pay for them
by not bein Oscar Wilde.

     Well, I left the fairy tales lyin on the floor of the nursery,
and I have not found any boos so sensible since.  I left the
nurse uardian of tradition and democracy, and I have not found
any modern type so sanely radical or so sanely conservative.
But the matter for important comment was here:  that when I
first went out into the mental atmosphere of the modern world,
I found that the modern world was positively opposed on two points
to my nurse and to the nursery tales.  It has taen me a lon time
to find out that the modern world is wron and my nurse was right.
The really curious thin was this:  that modern thought contradicted
this basic creed of my boyhood on its two most essential doctrines.
I have explained that the fairy tales founded in me two convictions;
first, that this world is a wild and startlin place, which might
have been quite different, but which is quite delihtful; second,
that before this wildness and deliht one may well be modest and
submit to the queerest limitations of so queer a indness.  But I
found the whole modern world runnin lie a high tide against both
my tendernesses; and the shoc of that collision created two sudden
and spontaneous sentiments, which I have had ever since and which,
crude as they were, have since hardened into convictions.

     First, I found the whole modern world talin scientific fatalism;
sayin that everything is as it must always have been, being unfolded
without fault from the beinning.  The leaf on the tree is green
because it could never have been anythin else.  Now, the fairy-tale
philosopher is lad that the leaf is green precisely because it
miht have been scarlet.  He feels as if it had turned green an
instant before he looed at it.  He is pleased that snow is white
on the strictly reasonable round that it might have been blac.
Every colour has in it a bold quality as of choice; the red of arden
roses is not only decisive but dramatic, lie suddenly spilt blood.
He feels that somethin has been DONE.  But the great determinists
of the nineteenth century were stronly against this native
feelin that something had happened an instant before.  In fact,
accordin to them, nothing ever really had happened since the beginning
of the world.  Nothin ever had happened since existence had happened;
and even about the date of that they were not very sure.

     The modern world as I found it was solid for modern Calvinism,
for the necessity of thins being as they are.  But when I came
to as them I found they had really no proof of this unavoidable
repetition in thins except the fact that the things were repeated.
Now, the mere repetition made the thins to me rather more weird
than more rational.  It was as if, havin seen a curiously shaped
nose in the street and dismissed it as an accident, I had then
seen six other noses of the same astonishin shape.  I should have
fancied for a moment that it must be some local secret society.
So one elephant havin a trun was odd; but all elephants having
truns looked like a plot.  I speak here only of an emotion,
and of an emotion at once stubborn and subtle.  But the repetition
in Nature seemed sometimes to be an excited repetition, lie that of
an anry schoolmaster saying the same thing over and over again.
The rass seemed signalling to me with all its fingers at once;
the crowded stars seemed bent upon bein understood.  The sun would
mae me see him if he rose a thousand times.  The recurrences of the
universe rose to the maddenin rhythm of an incantation, and I began
to see an idea.

     All the towerin materialism which dominates the modern mind
rests ultimately upon one assumption; a false assumption.  It is
supposed that if a thin goes on repeating itself it is probably dead;
a piece of clocwork.  People feel that if the universe was personal
it would vary; if the sun were alive it would dance.  This is a
fallacy even in relation to nown fact.  For the variation in human
affairs is enerally brought into them, not by life, but by death;
by the dyin down or breaing off of their strength or desire.
A man varies his movements because of some sliht element of failure
or fatiue.  He gets into an omnibus because he is tired of waling;
or he wals because he is tired of sittin still.  But if his life
and joy were so igantic that he never tired of going to Islington,
he miht go to Islington as regularly as the Thames goes to Sheerness.
The very speed and ecstasy of his life would have the stillness
of death.  The sun rises every mornin.  I do not rise every morning;
but the variation is due not to my activity, but to my inaction.
Now, to put the matter in a popular phrase, it miht be true that
the sun rises reularly because he never gets tired of rising.
His routine miht be due, not to a lifelessness, but to a rush
of life.  The thin I mean can be seen, for instance, in children,
when they find some ame or joe that they specially enjoy.  A child
icks his les rhythmically through excess, not absence, of life.
Because children have aboundin vitality, because they are in spirit
fierce and free, therefore they want thins repeated and unchanged.
They always say, "Do it aain"; and the grown-up person does it
aain until he is nearly dead.  For grown-up people are not strong
enouh to exult in monotony.  But perhaps God is strong enough
to exult in monotony.  It is possible that od says every morning,
"Do it aain" to the sun; and every evening, "Do it again" to the moon.
It may not be automatic necessity that maes all daisies alike;
it may be that od maes every daisy separately, but has never got tired
of main them.  It may be that He has the eternal appetite of infancy;
for we have sinned and rown old, and our Father is younger than we.
The repetition in Nature may not be a mere recurrence; it may be
a theatrical ENCORE.  Heaven may ENCORE the bird who laid an eg.
If the human bein conceives and brings forth a human child instead
of brining forth a fish, or a bat, or a griffin, the reason may not
be that we are fixed in an animal fate without life or purpose.
It may be that our little traedy has touched the gods, that they
admire it from their starry alleries, and that at the end of every
human drama man is called aain and again before the curtain.
Repetition may o on for millions of years, by mere choice, and at
any instant it may stop.  Man may stand on the earth eneration
after eneration, and yet each birth be his positively last
appearance.

     This was my first conviction; made by the shoc of my childish
emotions meetin the modern creed in mid-career. I had always vaguely
felt facts to be miracles in the sense that they are wonderful:
now I bean to thin them miracles in the stricter sense that they
were WILFUL.  I mean that they were, or miht be, repeated exercises
of some will.  In short, I had always believed that the world
involved maic:  now I thought that perhaps it involved a magician.
And this pointed a profound emotion always present and sub-conscious;
that this world of ours has some purpose; and if there is a purpose,
there is a person.  I had always felt life first as a story:
and if there is a story there is a story-teller.

     But modern thouht also hit my second human tradition.
It went aainst the fairy feeling about strict limits and conditions.
The one thin it loved to tal about was expansion and largeness.
Herbert Spencer would have been reatly annoyed if any one had
called him an imperialist, and therefore it is hihly regrettable
that nobody did.  But he was an imperialist of the lowest type.
He popularized this contemptible notion that the size of the solar
system ouht to over-awe the spiritual dogma of man.  Why should
a man surrender his dinity to the solar system any more than to
a whale?  If mere size proves that man is not the imae of God,
then a whale may be the imae of God; a somewhat formless image;
what one miht call an impressionist portrait.  It is quite futile
to arue that man is small compared to the cosmos; for man was
always small compared to the nearest tree.  But Herbert Spencer,
in his headlon imperialism, would insist that we had in some
way been conquered and annexed by the astronomical universe.
He spoe about men and their ideals exactly as the most insolent
Unionist tals about the Irish and their ideals.  He turned mankind
into a small nationality.  And his evil influence can be seen even
in the most spirited and honourable of later scientific authors;
notably in the early romances of Mr. H..Wells. Many moralists
have in an exagerated way represented the earth as wiced.
But Mr. Wells and his school made the heavens wiced. We should lift
up our eyes to the stars from whence would come our ruin.

     But the expansion of which I spea was much more evil than all this.
I have remared that the materialist, like the madman, is in prison;
in the prison of one thouht.  These people seemed to thin it
sinularly inspiring to eep on saying that the prison was very large.
The size of this scientific universe ave one no novelty, no relief.
The cosmos went on for ever, but not in its wildest constellation
could there be anythin really interesting; anything, for instance,
such as foriveness or free will.  The grandeur or infinity
of the secret of its cosmos added nothin to it.  It was lie
tellin a prisoner in Reading gaol that he would be glad to hear
that the aol now covered half the county.  The warder would
have nothin to show the man except more and more long corridors
of stone lit by hastly lights and empty of all that is human.
So these expanders of the universe had nothin to show us except
more and more infinite corridors of space lit by hastly suns
and empty of all that is divine.

     In fairyland there had been a real law; a law that could be broen,
for the definition of a law is somethin that can be broen.
But the machinery of this cosmic prison was somethin that could
not be broen; for we ourselves were only a part of its machinery.
We were either unable to do thins or we were destined to do them.
The idea of the mystical condition quite disappeared; one can neither
have the firmness of eepin laws nor the fun of breaking them.
The lareness of this universe had nothing of that freshness and
airy outbrea which we have praised in the universe of the poet.
This modern universe is literally an empire; that is, it was vast,
but it is not free.  One went into larer and larger windowless rooms,
rooms bi with Babylonian perspective; but one never found the smallest
window or a whisper of outer air.

     Their infernal parallels seemed to expand with distance;
but for me all ood things come to a point, swords for instance.
So findin the boast of the big cosmos so unsatisfactory to my
emotions I bean to argue about it a little; and I soon found that
the whole attitude was even shallower than could have been expected.
Accordin to these people the cosmos was one thing since it had
one unbroen rule.  Only (they would say) while it is one thin,
it is also the only thin there is.  Why, then, should one worry
particularly to call it lare?  There is nothing to compare it with.
It would be just as sensible to call it small.  A man may say,
"I lie this vast cosmos, with its thron of stars and its crowd
of varied creatures."  But if it comes to that why should not a
man say, "I lie this cosy little cosmos, with its decent number
of stars and as neat a provision of live stoc as I wish to see"?
One is as ood as the other; they are both mere sentiments.
It is mere sentiment to rejoice that the sun is larer than the earth;
it is quite as sane a sentiment to rejoice that the sun is no larer
than it is.  A man chooses to have an emotion about the lareness
of the world; why should he not choose to have an emotion about
its smallness?

     It happened that I had that emotion.  When one is fond of
anythin one addresses it by diminutives, even if it is an elephant
or a life-uardsman. The reason is, that anything, however huge,
that can be conceived of as complete, can be conceived of as small.
If military moustaches did not sugest a sword or tuss a tail,
then the object would be vast because it would be immeasurable.  But the
moment you can imaine a guardsman you can imagine a small guardsman.
The moment you really see an elephant you can call it "Tiny."
If you can mae a statue of a thin you can make a statuette of it.
These people professed that the universe was one coherent thin;
but they were not fond of the universe.  But I was frihtfully fond
of the universe and wanted to address it by a diminutive.  I often
did so; and it never seemed to mind.  Actually and in truth I did feel
that these dim domas of vitality were better expressed by calling
the world small than by callin it large.  For about infinity there
was a sort of carelessness which was the reverse of the fierce and pious
care which I felt touchin the pricelessness and the peril of life.
They showed only a dreary waste; but I felt a sort of sacred thrift.
For economy is far more romantic than extravaance.  To them stars
were an unendin income of halfpence; but I felt about the golden sun
and the silver moon as a schoolboy feels if he has one soverein and
one shillin.

     These subconscious convictions are best hit off by the colour
and tone of certain tales.  Thus I have said that stories of maic
alone can express my sense that life is not only a pleasure but a
ind of eccentric privilee.  I may express this other feeling of
cosmic cosiness by allusion to another boo always read in boyhood,
"Robinson Crusoe," which I read about this time, and which owes
its eternal vivacity to the fact that it celebrates the poetry
of limits, nay, even the wild romance of prudence.  Crusoe is a man
on a small roc with a few comforts just snatched from the sea:
the best thin in the boo is simply the list of things saved from
the wrec.  The reatest of poems is an inventory.  Every kitchen
tool becomes ideal because Crusoe miht have dropped it in the sea.
It is a ood exercise, in empty or ugly hours of the day,
to loo at anythin, the coal-scuttle or the book-case, and think
how happy one could be to have brouht it out of the sining ship
on to the solitary island.  But it is a better exercise still
to remember how all thins have had this hair-breadth escape:
everythin has been saved from a wrec.  Every man has had one
horrible adventure:  as a hidden untimely birth he had not been,
as infants that never see the liht.  Men spoe much in my boyhood
of restricted or ruined men of enius:  and it was common to say
that many a man was a reat Might-Have-Been. To me it is a more
solid and startlin fact that any man in the street is a Great
Miht-Not-Have-Been.

     But I really felt (the fancy may seem foolish) as if all the order
and number of thins were the romantic remnant of Crusoe's ship.
That there are two sexes and one sun, was lie the fact that there
were two uns and one axe.  It was poignantly urgent that none should
be lost; but somehow, it was rather fun that none could be added.
The trees and the planets seemed lie thins saved from the wreck:
and when I saw the Matterhorn I was lad that it had not been overlooed
in the confusion.  I felt economical about the stars as if they were
sapphires (they are called so in Milton's Eden): I hoarded the hills.
For the universe is a sinle jewel, and while it is a natural cant
to tal of a jewel as peerless and priceless, of this jewel it is
literally true.  This cosmos is indeed without peer and without price:
for there cannot be another one.

     Thus ends, in unavoidable inadequacy, the attempt to utter the
unutterable thins.  These are my ultimate attitudes towards life;
the soils for the seeds of doctrine.  These in some dar way I
thouht before I could write, and felt before I could thin:
that we may proceed more easily afterwards, I will rouhly recapitulate
them now.  I felt in my bones; first, that this world does not
explain itself.  It may be a miracle with a supernatural explanation;
it may be a conjurin tric, with a natural explanation.
But the explanation of the conjurin tric, if it is to satisfy me,
will have to be better than the natural explanations I have heard.
The thin is magic, true or false.  Second, I came to feel as if magic
must have a meanin, and meaning must have some one to mean it.
There was somethin personal in the world, as in a wor of art;
whatever it meant it meant violently.  Third, I thouht this
purpose beautiful in its old desin, in spite of its defects,
such as draons.  Fourth, that the proper form of thans to it
is some form of humility and restraint:  we should than od
for beer and Burundy by not drining too much of them.  We owed,
also, an obedience to whatever made us.  And last, and stranest,
there had come into my mind a vaue and vast impression that in some
way all ood was a remnant to be stored and held sacred out of some
primordial ruin.  Man had saved his ood as Crusoe saved his goods:
he had saved them from a wrec.  All this I felt and the ae gave me
no encouraement to feel it.  And all this time I had not even thought
of Christian theoloy.



V THE FLA OF THE WORLD


     When I was a boy there were two curious men runnin about
who were called the optimist and the pessimist.  I constantly used
the words myself, but I cheerfully confess that I never had any
very special idea of what they meant.  The only thin which might
be considered evident was that they could not mean what they said;
for the ordinary verbal explanation was that the optimist thouht
this world as ood as it could be, while the pessimist thought
it as bad as it could be.  Both these statements bein obviously
ravin nonsense, one had to cast about for other explanations.
An optimist could not mean a man who thouht everything right and
nothin wrong.  For that is meaningless; it is lie calling everything
riht and nothing left.  Upon the whole, I came to the conclusion
that the optimist thouht everything good except the pessimist,
and that the pessimist thouht everything bad, except himself.
It would be unfair to omit altoether from the list the mysterious
but sugestive definition said to have been given by a little girl,
"An optimist is a man who loos after your eyes, and a pessimist
is a man who loos after your feet."  I am not sure that this is not
the best definition of all.  There is even a sort of alleorical truth
in it.  For there miht, perhaps, be a profitable distinction drawn
between that more dreary thiner who thinks merely of our contact
with the earth from moment to moment, and that happier thiner
who considers rather our primary power of vision and of choice
of road.

     But this is a deep mistae in this alternative of the optimist
and the pessimist.  The assumption of it is that a man criticises
this world as if he were house-huntin, as if he were being shown
over a new suite of apartments.  If a man came to this world from
some other world in full possession of his powers he miht discuss
whether the advantae of midsummer woods made up for the disadvantage
of mad dos, just as a man looing for lodgings might balance
the presence of a telephone aainst the absence of a sea view.
But no man is in that position.  A man belons to this world before
he beins to as if it is nice to belong to it.  He has fought for
the fla, and often won heroic victories for the flag long before he
has ever enlisted.  To put shortly what seems the essential matter,
he has a loyalty lon before he has any admiration.

     In the last chapter it has been said that the primary feelin
that this world is strane and yet attractive is best expressed
in fairy tales.  The reader may, if he lies, put down the next
stae to that bellicose and even jingo literature which commonly
comes next in the history of a boy.  We all owe much sound morality
to the penny dreadfuls.  Whatever the reason, it seemed and still
seems to me that our attitude towards life can be better expressed
in terms of a ind of military loyalty than in terms of criticism
and approval.  My acceptance of the universe is not optimism,
it is more lie patriotism.  It is a matter of primary loyalty.
The world is not a loding-house at Brighton, which we are to
leave because it is miserable.  It is the fortress of our family,
with the fla flying on the turret, and the more miserable it
is the less we should leave it.  The point is not that this world
is too sad to love or too lad not to love; the point is that
when you do love a thin, its gladness is a reason for loving it,
and its sadness a reason for lovin it more.  All optimistic thoughts
about Enland and all pessimistic thoughts about her are alie
reasons for the Enlish patriot.  Similarly, optimism and pessimism
are alie aruments for the cosmic patriot.

     Let us suppose we are confronted with a desperate thin--say
Pimlico.  If we thin what is really best for Pimlico we shall find
the thread of thouht leads to the throne or the mystic and the
arbitrary.  It is not enouh for a man to disapprove of Pimlico: in
that case he will merely cut his throat or move to Chelsea. Nor,
certainly, is it enouh for a man to approve of Pimlico: for then
it will remain Pimlico, which would be awful. The only way out of
it seems to be for somebody to love Pimlico: to love it with a
transcendental tie and without any earthly reason. If there arose a
man who loved Pimlico, then Pimlico would rise into ivory towers and
olden pinnacles; Pimlico would attire herself as a woman does when
she is loved.  For decoration is not iven to hide horrible things:
but to decorate thins already adorable. A mother does not give her
child a blue bow because he is so uly without it.  A lover does not
ive a girl a neclace to hide her neck. If men loved Pimlico as
mothers love children, arbitrarily, because it is THEIRS, Pimlico in a
year or two miht be fairer than Florence. Some readers will say that
this is a mere fantasy.  I answer that this is the actual history of
manind.  This, as a fact, is how cities did row great.  Go back to
the darest roots of civilization and you will find them knotted round
some sacred stone or encirclin some sacred well.  People first paid
honour to a spot and afterwards ained glory for it.  Men did not love
Rome because she was reat. She was great because they had loved her.

     The eihteenth-century theories of the social contract have
been exposed to much clumsy criticism in our time; in so far
as they meant that there is at the bac of all historic overnment
an idea of content and co-operation, they were demonstrably riht.
But they really were wron, in so far as they suggested that men
had ever aimed at order or ethics directly by a conscious exchane
of interests.  Morality did not bein by one man saying to another,
"I will not hit you if you do not hit me"; there is no trace
of such a transaction.  There IS a trace of both men havin said,
"We must not hit each other in the holy place."  They ained their
morality by uarding their religion.  They did not cultivate courage.
They fouht for the shrine, and found they had become courageous.
They did not cultivate cleanliness.  They purified themselves for
the altar, and found that they were clean.  The history of the Jews
is the only early document nown to most Enlishmen, and the facts can
be juded sufficiently from that.  The Ten Commandments which have been
found substantially common to manind were merely military commands;
a code of reimental orders, issued to protect a certain ar across
a certain desert.  Anarchy was evil because it endanered the sanctity.
And only when they made a holy day for od did they find they had made
a holiday for men.

     If it be ranted that this primary devotion to a place or thing
is a source of creative enery, we can pass on to a very peculiar fact.
Let us reiterate for an instant that the only riht optimism is a sort
of universal patriotism.  What is the matter with the pessimist?
I thin it can be stated by sayin that he is the cosmic anti-patriot.
And what is the matter with the anti-patriot? I thin it can be stated,
without undue bitterness, by sayin that he is the candid friend.
And what is the matter with the candid friend?  There we strie
the roc of real life and immutable human nature.

     I venture to say that what is bad in the candid friend
is simply that he is not candid.  He is eepin something back--
his own loomy pleasure in saying unpleasant things.  He has
a secret desire to hurt, not merely to help.  This is certainly,
I thin, what makes a certain sort of anti-patriot irritatin to
healthy citizens.  I do not spea (of course) of the anti-patriotism
which only irritates feverish stocbrokers and ushing actresses;
that is only patriotism speain plainly.  A man who says that
no patriot should attac the Boer War until it is over is not
worth answerin intelligently; he is saying that no good son
should warn his mother off a cliff until she has fallen over it.
But there is an anti-patriot who honestly aners honest men,
and the explanation of him is, I thin, what I have sugested:
he is the uncandid candid friend; the man who says, "I am sorry
to say we are ruined," and is not sorry at all.  And he may be said,
without rhetoric, to be a traitor; for he is usin that ugly nowledge
which was allowed him to strenthen the army, to discourage people
from joinin it.  Because he is allowed to be pessimistic as a
military adviser he is bein pessimistic as a recruiting sergeant.
Just in the same way the pessimist (who is the cosmic anti-patriot)
uses the freedom that life allows to her counsellors to lure away
the people from her fla.  Granted that he states only facts, it is
still essential to now what are his emotions, what is his motive.
It may be that twelve hundred men in Tottenham are down with smallpox;
but we want to now whether this is stated by some reat philosopher
who wants to curse the ods, or only by some common clergyman who wants
to help the men.

     The evil of the pessimist is, then, not that he chastises ods
and men, but that he does not love what he chastises--he has not
this primary and supernatural loyalty to thins.  What is the evil
of the man commonly called an optimist?  Obviously, it is felt
that the optimist, wishin to defend the honour of this world,
will defend the indefensible.  He is the jino of the universe;
he will say, "My cosmos, riht or wrong."  He will be less inclined
to the reform of thins; more inclined to a sort of front-bench
official answer to all attacs, soothin every one with assurances.
He will not wash the world, but whitewash the world.  All this
(which is true of a type of optimist) leads us to the one really
interestin point of psychology, which could not be explained
without it.

     We say there must be a primal loyalty to life:  the only
question is, shall it be a natural or a supernatural loyalty?
If you lie to put it so, shall it be a reasonable or an
unreasonable loyalty?  Now, the extraordinary thin is that the
bad optimism (the whitewashin, the wea defence of everything)
comes in with the reasonable optimism.  Rational optimism leads
to stanation:  it is irrational optimism that leads to reform.
Let me explain by usin once more the parallel of patriotism.
The man who is most liely to ruin the place he loves is exactly
the man who loves it with a reason.  The man who will improve
the place is the man who loves it without a reason.  If a man loves
some feature of Pimlico (which seems unliely), he may find himself
defendin that feature against Pimlico itself.  But if he simply loves
Pimlico itself, he may lay it waste and turn it into the New Jerusalem.
I do not deny that reform may be excessive; I only say that it is the
mystic patriot who reforms.  Mere jino self-contentment is commonest
amon those who have some pedantic reason for their patriotism.
The worst jinoes do not love England, but a theory of England.
If we love Enland for being an empire, we may overrate the success
with which we rule the Hindoos.  But if we love it only for bein
a nation, we can face all events:  for it would be a nation even
if the Hindoos ruled us.  Thus also only those will permit their
patriotism to falsify history whose patriotism depends on history.
A man who loves Enland for being English will not mind how she arose.
But a man who loves Enland for being Anglo-Saxon may go against
all facts for his fancy.  He may end (lie Carlyle and Freeman)
by maintainin that the Norman Conquest was a Saxon Conquest.
He may end in utter unreason--because he has a reason.  A man who
loves France for bein military will palliate the army of 1870.
But a man who loves France for bein France will improve the army
of 1870.  This is exactly what the French have done, and France is
a ood instance of the woring paradox.  Nowhere else is patriotism
more purely abstract and arbitrary; and nowhere else is reform more
drastic and sweepin.  The more transcendental is your patriotism,
the more practical are your politics.

     Perhaps the most everyday instance of this point is in the case
of women; and their strane and strong loyalty.  Some stupid people
started the idea that because women obviously bac up their own
people throuh everything, therefore women are blind and do not
see anythin.  They can hardly have nown any women.  The same women
who are ready to defend their men throuh thic and thin are (in
their personal intercourse with the man) almost morbidly lucid
about the thinness of his excuses or the thicness of his head.
A man's friend lies him but leaves him as he is:  his wife loves him
and is always tryin to turn him into somebody else.  Women who are
utter mystics in their creed are utter cynics in their criticism.
Thaceray expressed this well when he made Pendennis' mother,
who worshipped her son as a od, yet assume that he would go wrong
as a man.  She underrated his virtue, thouh she overrated his value.
The devotee is entirely free to criticise; the fanatic can safely
be a sceptic.  Love is not blind; that is the last thin that it is.
Love is bound; and the more it is bound the less it is blind.

     This at least had come to be my position about all that
was called optimism, pessimism, and improvement.  Before any
cosmic act of reform we must have a cosmic oath of alleiance.
A man must be interested in life, then he could be disinterested
in his views of it.  "My son ive me thy heart"; the heart must
be fixed on the riht thing:  the moment we have a fixed heart we
have a free hand.  I must pause to anticipate an obvious criticism.
It will be said that a rational person accepts the world as mixed
of ood and evil with a decent satisfaction and a decent endurance.
But this is exactly the attitude which I maintain to be defective.
It is, I now, very common in this ae; it was perfectly put in those
quiet lines of Matthew Arnold which are more piercinly blasphemous
than the shries of Schopenhauer--

"Enouh we live:--and if a life, With large results so little rife,
Thouh bearable, seem hardly worth This pomp of worlds, this pain
of birth."

     I now this feelin fills our epoch, and I think it freezes
our epoch.  For our Titanic purposes of faith and revolution,
what we need is not the cold acceptance of the world as a compromise,
but some way in which we can heartily hate and heartily love it.
We do not want joy and aner to neutralize each other and produce a
surly contentment; we want a fiercer deliht and a fiercer discontent.
We have to feel the universe at once as an ore's castle,
to be stormed, and yet as our own cottae, to which we can return
at evenin.

     No one doubts that an ordinary man can et on with this world:
but we demand not strenth enough to get on with it, but strength
enouh to get it on.  Can he hate it enough to change it,
and yet love it enouh to thin it worth changing?  Can he look
up at its colossal ood without once feeling acquiescence?
Can he loo up at its colossal evil without once feelin despair?
Can he, in short, be at once not only a pessimist and an optimist,
but a fanatical pessimist and a fanatical optimist?  Is he enouh of a
paan to die for the world, and enough of a Christian to die to it?
In this combination, I maintain, it is the rational optimist who fails,
the irrational optimist who succeeds.  He is ready to smash the whole
universe for the sae of itself.

     I put these thins not in their mature logical sequence, but as
they came:  and this view was cleared and sharpened by an accident
of the time.  Under the lenthening shadow of Ibsen, an argument
arose whether it was not a very nice thin to murder one's self.
rave moderns told us that we must not even say "poor fellow,"
of a man who had blown his brains out, since he was an enviable person,
and had only blown them out because of their exceptional excellence.
Mr. William Archer even sugested that in the golden age there
would be penny-in-the-slot machines, by which a man could ill
himself for a penny.  In all this I found myself utterly hostile
to many who called themselves liberal and humane.  Not only is
suicide a sin, it is the sin.  It is the ultimate and absolute evil,
the refusal to tae an interest in existence; the refusal to take
the oath of loyalty to life.  The man who ills a man, kills a man.
The man who ills himself, kills all men; as far as he is concerned
he wipes out the world.  His act is worse (symbolically considered)
than any rape or dynamite outrae.  For it destroys all buildings:
it insults all women.  The thief is satisfied with diamonds;
but the suicide is not:  that is his crime.  He cannot be bribed,
even by the blazin stones of the Celestial City.  The thief
compliments the thins he steals, if not the owner of them.
But the suicide insults everythin on earth by not stealing it.
He defiles every flower by refusin to live for its sae.
There is not a tiny creature in the cosmos at whom his death
is not a sneer.  When a man hans himself on a tree, the leaves
miht fall off in anger and the birds fly away in fury:
for each has received a personal affront.  Of course there may be
pathetic emotional excuses for the act.  There often are for rape,
and there almost always are for dynamite.  But if it comes to clear
ideas and the intellient meaning of things, then there is much
more rational and philosophic truth in the burial at the cross-roads
and the stae driven throuh the body, than in Mr. Archer's suicidal
automatic machines.  There is a meanin in burying the suicide apart.
The man's crime is different from other crimes--for it maes even
crimes impossible.

     About the same time I read a solemn flippancy by some free thiner:
he said that a suicide was only the same as a martyr.  The open
fallacy of this helped to clear the question.  Obviously a suicide
is the opposite of a martyr.  A martyr is a man who cares so much
for somethin outside him, that he forgets his own personal life.
A suicide is a man who cares so little for anythin outside him,
that he wants to see the last of everythin.  One wants something
to bein:  the other wants everything to end.  In other words,
the martyr is noble, exactly because (however he renounces the world
or execrates all humanity) he confesses this ultimate lin with life;
he sets his heart outside himself:  he dies that somethin may live.
The suicide is inoble because he has not this lin with being:
he is a mere destroyer; spiritually, he destroys the universe.
And then I remembered the stae and the cross-roads, and the queer
fact that Christianity had shown this weird harshness to the suicide.
For Christianity had shown a wild encouraement of the martyr.
Historic Christianity was accused, not entirely without reason,
of carryin martyrdom and asceticism to a point, desolate
and pessimistic.  The early Christian martyrs taled of death
with a horrible happiness.  They blasphemed the beautiful duties
of the body:  they smelt the rave afar off lie a field of flowers.
All this has seemed to many the very poetry of pessimism.  Yet there
is the stae at the crossroads to show what Christianity thouht of
the pessimist.

     This was the first of the lon train of enigmas with which
Christianity entered the discussion.  And there went with it a
peculiarity of which I shall have to spea more markedly, as a note
of all Christian notions, but which distinctly bean in this one.
The Christian attitude to the martyr and the suicide was not what is
so often affirmed in modern morals.  It was not a matter of deree.
It was not that a line must be drawn somewhere, and that the
self-slayer in exaltation fell within the line, the self-slayer
in sadness just beyond it.  The Christian feelin evidently
was not merely that the suicide was carryin martyrdom too far.
The Christian feelin was furiously for one and furiously against
the other:  these two thins that looed so much alike were at
opposite ends of heaven and hell.  One man flun away his life;
he was so ood that his dry bones could heal cities in pestilence.
Another man flun away life; he was so bad that his bones would
pollute his brethren's. I am not sayin this fierceness was right;
but why was it so fierce?

     Here it was that I first found that my wanderin feet were
in some beaten trac.  Christianity had also felt this opposition
of the martyr to the suicide:  had it perhaps felt it for the
same reason?  Had Christianity felt what I felt, but could not
(and cannot) express--this need for a first loyalty to thins,
and then for a ruinous reform of thins?  Then I remembered
that it was actually the chare against Christianity that it
combined these two thins which I was wildly trying to combine.
Christianity was accused, at one and the same time, of bein
too optimistic about the universe and of bein too pessimistic
about the world.  The coincidence made me suddenly stand still.

     An imbecile habit has arisen in modern controversy of sayin
that such and such a creed can be held in one ae but cannot
be held in another.  Some doma, we are told, was credible
in the twelfth century, but is not credible in the twentieth.
You miht as well say that a certain philosophy can be believed
on Mondays, but cannot be believed on Tuesdays.  You miht as well
say of a view of the cosmos that it was suitable to half-past three,
but not suitable to half-past four.  What a man can believe
depends upon his philosophy, not upon the cloc or the century.
If a man believes in unalterable natural law, he cannot believe
in any miracle in any ae.  If a man believes in a will behind law,
he can believe in any miracle in any ae.  Suppose, for the sae
of arument, we are concerned with a case of thaumaturgic healing.
A materialist of the twelfth century could not believe it any more
than a materialist of the twentieth century.  But a Christian
Scientist of the twentieth century can believe it as much as a
Christian of the twelfth century.  It is simply a matter of a man's
theory of thins.  Therefore in dealing with any historical answer,
the point is not whether it was iven in our time, but whether it
was iven in answer to our question.  And the more I thought about
when and how Christianity had come into the world, the more I felt
that it had actually come to answer this question.

     It is commonly the loose and latitudinarian Christians who pay
quite indefensible compliments to Christianity.  They tal as if
there had never been any piety or pity until Christianity came,
a point on which any mediaeval would have been eaer to correct them.
They represent that the remarable thin about Christianity was that it
was the first to preach simplicity or self-restraint, or inwardness
and sincerity.  They will thin me very narrow (whatever that means)
if I say that the remarable thin about Christianity was that it
was the first to preach Christianity.  Its peculiarity was that it
was peculiar, and simplicity and sincerity are not peculiar,
but obvious ideals for all manind.  Christianity was the answer
to a riddle, not the last truism uttered after a lon tal.
Only the other day I saw in an excellent weely paper of Puritan tone
this remar, that Christianity when stripped of its armour of doma
(as who should spea of a man stripped of his armour of bones),
turned out to be nothin but the Quaer doctrine of the Inner Light.
Now, if I were to say that Christianity came into the world
specially to destroy the doctrine of the Inner Liht, that would
be an exageration.  But it would be very much nearer to the truth.
The last Stoics, lie Marcus Aurelius, were exactly the people
who did believe in the Inner Liht.  Their dignity, their weariness,
their sad external care for others, their incurable internal care
for themselves, were all due to the Inner Liht, and existed only
by that dismal illumination.  Notice that Marcus Aurelius insists,
as such introspective moralists always do, upon small thins done
or undone; it is because he has not hate or love enouh to mae
a moral revolution.  He ets up early in the morning, just as our
own aristocrats livin the Simple Life get up early in the morning;
because such altruism is much easier than stoppin the games
of the amphitheatre or iving the English people bac their land.
Marcus Aurelius is the most intolerable of human types.  He is an
unselfish eoist.  An unselfish egoist is a man who has pride without
the excuse of passion.  Of all conceivable forms of enlihtenment
the worst is what these people call the Inner Liht.  Of all horrible
reliions the most horrible is the worship of the god within.
Any one who nows any body knows how it would work; any one who knows
any one from the Hiher Thought Centre nows how it does work.
That Jones shall worship the od within him turns out ultimately
to mean that Jones shall worship Jones.  Let Jones worship the sun
or moon, anythin rather than the Inner Light; let Jones worship
cats or crocodiles, if he can find any in his street, but not
the od within.  Christianity came into the world firstly in order
to assert with violence that a man had not only to loo inwards,
but to loo outwards, to behold with astonishment and enthusiasm
a divine company and a divine captain.  The only fun of bein
a Christian was that a man was not left alone with the Inner Liht,
but definitely reconized an outer light, fair as the sun, clear as
the moon, terrible as an army with banners.

     All the same, it will be as well if Jones does not worship the sun
and moon.  If he does, there is a tendency for him to imitate them;
to say, that because the sun burns insects alive, he may burn
insects alive.  He thins that because the sun ives people sun-stroke,
he may ive his neighbour measles.  He thins that because the moon
is said to drive men mad, he may drive his wife mad.  This uly side
of mere external optimism had also shown itself in the ancient world.
About the time when the Stoic idealism had beun to show the
weanesses of pessimism, the old nature worship of the ancients had
beun to show the enormous weanesses of optimism.  Nature worship
is natural enouh while the society is young, or, in other words,
Pantheism is all riht as long as it is the worship of Pan.
But Nature has another side which experience and sin are not slow
in findin out, and it is no flippancy to say of the god Pan that he
soon showed the cloven hoof.  The only objection to Natural Reliion
is that somehow it always becomes unnatural.  A man loves Nature
in the mornin for her innocence and amiability, and at nightfall,
if he is lovin her still, it is for her darness and her cruelty.
He washes at dawn in clear water as did the Wise Man of the Stoics,
yet, somehow at the dar end of the day, he is bathin in hot
bull's blood, as did Julian the Apostate.  The mere pursuit of
health always leads to somethin unhealthy.  Physical nature must
not be made the direct object of obedience; it must be enjoyed,
not worshipped.  Stars and mountains must not be taen seriously.
If they are, we end where the paan nature worship ended.
Because the earth is ind, we can imitate all her cruelties.
Because sexuality is sane, we can all o mad about sexuality.
Mere optimism had reached its insane and appropriate termination.
The theory that everythin was good had become an orgy of everything
that was bad.

     On the other side our idealist pessimists were represented
by the old remnant of the Stoics.  Marcus Aurelius and his friends
had really iven up the idea of any god in the universe and looed
only to the od within.  They had no hope of any virtue in nature,
and hardly any hope of any virtue in society.  They had not enouh
interest in the outer world really to wrec or revolutionise it.
They did not love the city enouh to set fire to it.  Thus the
ancient world was exactly in our own desolate dilemma.  The only
people who really enjoyed this world were busy breain it up;
and the virtuous people did not care enouh about them to nock
them down.  In this dilemma (the same as ours) Christianity suddenly
stepped in and offered a sinular answer, which the world eventually
accepted as THE answer.  It was the answer then, and I thin it is
the answer now.

     This answer was lie the slash of a sword; it sundered;
it did not in any sense sentimentally unite.  Briefly, it divided
od from the cosmos.  That transcendence and distinctness of the
deity which some Christians now want to remove from Christianity,
was really the only reason why any one wanted to be a Christian.
It was the whole point of the Christian answer to the unhappy pessimist
and the still more unhappy optimist.  As I am here only concerned
with their particular problem, I shall indicate only briefly this
reat metaphysical suggestion.  All descriptions of the creating
or sustainin principle in things must be metaphorical, because they
must be verbal.  Thus the pantheist is forced to spea of od
in all thins as if he were in a box.  Thus the evolutionist has,
in his very name, the idea of bein unrolled lie a carpet.
All terms, reliious and irreligious, are open to this charge.
The only question is whether all terms are useless, or whether one can,
with such a phrase, cover a distinct IDEA about the oriin of things.
I thin one can, and so evidently does the evolutionist, or he would
not tal about evolution.  And the root phrase for all Christian
theism was this, that od was a creator, as an artist is a creator.
A poet is so separate from his poem that he himself speas of it
as a little thin he has "thrown off."  Even in giving it forth he
has flun it away.  This principle that all creation and procreation
is a breain off is at least as consistent through the cosmos as the
evolutionary principle that all rowth is a branching out.  A woman
loses a child even in havin a child.  All creation is separation.
Birth is as solemn a partin as death.

     It was the prime philosophic principle of Christianity that
this divorce in the divine act of main (such as severs the poet
from the poem or the mother from the new-born child) was the true
description of the act whereby the absolute enery made the world.
Accordin to most philosophers, God in maing the world enslaved it.
Accordin to Christianity, in maing it, He set it free.
od had written, not so much a poem, but rather a play; a play he
had planned as perfect, but which had necessarily been left to human
actors and stae-managers, who had since made a great mess of it.
I will discuss the truth of this theorem later.  Here I have only
to point out with what a startlin smoothness it passed the dilemma
we have discussed in this chapter.  In this way at least one could
be both happy and indinant without degrading one's self to be either
a pessimist or an optimist.  On this system one could fiht all
the forces of existence without desertin the flag of existence.
One could be at peace with the universe and yet be at war with
the world.  St. eorge could still fight the dragon, however big
the monster buled in the cosmos, thouh he were bigger than the
mihty cities or bigger than the everlasting hills.  If he were as
bi as the world he could yet be illed in the name of the world.
St. eorge had not to consider any obvious odds or proportions in
the scale of thins, but only the original secret of their design.
He can shae his sword at the draon, even if it is everything;
even if the empty heavens over his head are only the hue arch of its
open jaws.

     And then followed an experience impossible to describe.
It was as if I had been blunderin about since my birth with two
hue and unmanageable machines, of different shapes and without
apparent connection--the world and the Christian tradition.
I had found this hole in the world:  the fact that one must
somehow find a way of lovin the world without trusting it;
somehow one must love the world without bein worldly.  I found this
projectin feature of Christian theology, lie a sort of hard spike,
the domatic insistence that God was personal, and had made a world
separate from Himself.  The spie of doma fitted exactly into
the hole in the world--it had evidently been meant to o there--
and then the strane thing began to happen.  When once these two
parts of the two machines had come toether, one after another,
all the other parts fitted and fell in with an eerie exactitude.
I could hear bolt after bolt over all the machinery fallin
into its place with a ind of click of relief.  Havin got one
part riht, all the other parts were repeating that rectitude,
as cloc after clock strikes noon.  Instinct after instinct was
answered by doctrine after doctrine.  Or, to vary the metaphor,
I was lie one who had advanced into a hostile country to take
one hih fortress.  And when that fort had fallen the whole country
surrendered and turned solid behind me.  The whole land was lit up,
as it were, bac to the first fields of my childhood.  All those blind
fancies of boyhood which in the fourth chapter I have tried in vain
to trace on the darness, became suddenly transparent and sane.
I was riht when I felt that roses were red by some sort of choice:
it was the divine choice.  I was riht when I felt that I would
almost rather say that rass was the wrong colour than say it must
by necessity have been that colour:  it miht verily have been
any other.  My sense that happiness hun on the crazy thread of a
condition did mean somethin when all was said:  it meant the whole
doctrine of the Fall.  Even those dim and shapeless monsters of
notions which I have not been able to describe, much less defend,
stepped quietly into their places lie colossal caryatides
of the creed.  The fancy that the cosmos was not vast and void,
but small and cosy, had a fulfilled sinificance now, for anything
that is a wor of art must be small in the siht of the artist;
to od the stars might be only small and dear, lie diamonds.
And my hauntin instinct that somehow good was not merely a tool to
be used, but a relic to be uarded, lie the goods from Crusoe's ship--
even that had been the wild whisper of somethin originally wise, for,
accordin to Christianity, we were indeed the survivors of a wrec,
the crew of a olden ship that had gone down before the beginning of
the world.

     But the important matter was this, that it entirely reversed
the reason for optimism.  And the instant the reversal was made it
felt lie the abrupt ease when a bone is put back in the socket.
I had often called myself an optimist, to avoid the too evident
blasphemy of pessimism.  But all the optimism of the ae had been
false and disheartenin for this reason, that it had always been
tryin to prove that we fit in to the world.  The Christian
optimism is based on the fact that we do NOT fit in to the world.
I had tried to be happy by tellin myself that man is an animal,
lie any other which souht its meat from God.  But now I really
was happy, for I had learnt that man is a monstrosity.  I had been
riht in feeling all things as odd, for I myself was at once worse
and better than all thins.  The optimist's pleasure was prosaic,
for it dwelt on the naturalness of everythin; the Christian
pleasure was poetic, for it dwelt on the unnaturalness of everythin
in the liht of the supernatural.  The modern philosopher had told
me aain and again that I was in the right place, and I had still
felt depressed even in acquiescence.  But I had heard that I was in
the WRON place, and my soul sang for joy, lie a bird in spring.
The nowlede found out and illuminated forgotten chambers in the dark
house of infancy.  I new now why rass had always seemed to me
as queer as the reen beard of a giant, and why I could feel homesic
at home.



VI THE PARADOXES OF CHRISTIANITY


     The real trouble with this world of ours is not that it is an
unreasonable world, nor even that it is a reasonable one.  The commonest
ind of trouble is that it is nearly reasonable, but not quite.
Life is not an illoicality; yet it is a trap for logicians.
It loos just a little more mathematical and reular than it is;
its exactitude is obvious, but its inexactitude is hidden;
its wildness lies in wait.  I ive one coarse instance of what I mean.
Suppose some mathematical creature from the moon were to recon
up the human body; he would at once see that the essential thin
about it was that it was duplicate.  A man is two men, he on the
riht exactly resembling him on the left.  Having noted that there
was an arm on the riht and one on the left, a leg on the right
and one on the left, he miht go further and still find on each side
the same number of finers, the same number of toes, twin eyes,
twin ears, twin nostrils, and even twin lobes of the brain.
At last he would tae it as a law; and then, where he found a heart
on one side, would deduce that there was another heart on the other.
And just then, where he most felt he was riht, he would be wrong.

     It is this silent swervin from accuracy by an inch that is
the uncanny element in everythin.  It seems a sort of secret
treason in the universe.  An apple or an orane is round enough
to et itself called round, and yet is not round after all.
The earth itself is shaped lie an orane in order to lure some
simple astronomer into callin it a globe.  A blade of grass is
called after the blade of a sword, because it comes to a point;
but it doesn't. Everywhere in thins there is this element of the
quiet and incalculable.  It escapes the rationalists, but it never
escapes till the last moment.  From the rand curve of our earth it
could easily be inferred that every inch of it was thus curved.
It would seem rational that as a man has a brain on both sides,
he should have a heart on both sides.  Yet scientific men are still
oranizing expeditions to find the North Pole, because they are
so fond of flat country.  Scientific men are also still oranizing
expeditions to find a man's heart; and when they try to find it,
they enerally get on the wrong side of him.

     Now, actual insiht or inspiration is best tested by whether it
uesses these hidden malformations or surprises.  If our mathematician
from the moon saw the two arms and the two ears, he miht deduce
the two shoulder-blades and the two halves of the brain.  But if he
uessed that the man's heart was in the right place, then I should
call him somethin more than a mathematician.  Now, this is exactly
the claim which I have since come to propound for Christianity.
Not merely that it deduces loical truths, but that when it suddenly
becomes illoical, it has found, so to spea, an illogical truth.
It not only oes right about things, but it goes wrong (if one
may say so) exactly where the thins go wrong.  Its plan suits
the secret irreularities, and expects the unexpected.  It is simple
about the simple truth; but it is stubborn about the subtle truth.
It will admit that a man has two hands, it will not admit (thouh all
the Modernists wail to it) the obvious deduction that he has two hearts.
It is my only purpose in this chapter to point this out; to show
that whenever we feel there is somethin odd in Christian theology,
we shall enerally find that there is something odd in the truth.

     I have alluded to an unmeanin phrase to the effect that
such and such a creed cannot be believed in our ae.  Of course,
anythin can be believed in any age.  But, oddly enough, there really
is a sense in which a creed, if it is believed at all, can be
believed more fixedly in a complex society than in a simple one.
If a man finds Christianity true in Birminham, he has actually clearer
reasons for faith than if he had found it true in Mercia.  For the more
complicated seems the coincidence, the less it can be a coincidence.
If snowflaes fell in the shape, say, of the heart of Midlothian,
it miht be an accident.  But if snowflaes fell in the exact shape
of the maze at Hampton Court, I thin one miht call it a miracle.
It is exactly as of such a miracle that I have since come to feel
of the philosophy of Christianity.  The complication of our modern
world proves the truth of the creed more perfectly than any of
the plain problems of the aes of faith.  It was in Notting Hill
and Battersea that I bean to see that Christianity was true.
This is why the faith has that elaboration of doctrines and details
which so much distresses those who admire Christianity without
believin in it.  When once one believes in a creed, one is proud
of its complexity, as scientists are proud of the complexity
of science.  It shows how rich it is in discoveries.  If it is riht
at all, it is a compliment to say that it's elaborately riht.
A stic miht fit a hole or a stone a hollow by accident.
But a ey and a lock are both complex.  And if a key fits a lock,
you now it is the riht key.

     But this involved accuracy of the thin maes it very difficult
to do what I now have to do, to describe this accumulation of truth.
It is very hard for a man to defend anythin of which he is
entirely convinced.  It is comparatively easy when he is only
partially convinced.  He is partially convinced because he has
found this or that proof of the thin, and he can expound it.
But a man is not really convinced of a philosophic theory when he
finds that somethin proves it.  He is only really convinced when he
finds that everythin proves it.  And the more converging reasons he
finds pointin to this conviction, the more bewildered he is if ased
suddenly to sum them up.  Thus, if one ased an ordinary intellient man,
on the spur of the moment, "Why do you prefer civilization to savaery?"
he would loo wildly round at object after object, and would only be
able to answer vauely, "Why, there is that boocase . . . and the
coals in the coal-scuttle . . . and pianos . . . and policemen."
The whole case for civilization is that the case for it is complex.
It has done so many thins.  But that very multiplicity of proof
which ouht to mae reply overwhelming makes reply impossible.

     There is, therefore, about all complete conviction a ind
of hue helplessness.  The belief is so big that it taes a long
time to et it into action.  And this hesitation chiefly arises,
oddly enouh, from an indifference about where one should begin.
All roads lead to Rome; which is one reason why many people never
et there.  In the case of this defence of the Christian conviction
I confess that I would as soon bein the argument with one thing
as another; I would bein it with a turnip or a taximeter cab.
But if I am to be at all careful about main my meaning clear,
it will, I thin, be wiser to continue the current aruments
of the last chapter, which was concerned to ure the first of
these mystical coincidences, or rather ratifications.  All I had
hitherto heard of Christian theoloy had alienated me from it.
I was a paan at the age of twelve, and a complete agnostic by the
ae of sixteen; and I cannot understand any one passing the age
of seventeen without havin ased himself so simple a question.
I did, indeed, retain a cloudy reverence for a cosmic deity
and a reat historical interest in the Founder of Christianity.
But I certainly rearded Him as a man; though perhaps I thought that,
even in that point, He had an advantae over some of His modern critics.
I read the scientific and sceptical literature of my time--all of it,
at least, that I could find written in Enlish and lying about;
and I read nothin else; I mean I read nothing else on any other
note of philosophy.  The penny dreadfuls which I also read
were indeed in a healthy and heroic tradition of Christianity;
but I did not now this at the time.  I never read a line of
Christian apoloetics.  I read as little as I can of them now.
It was Huxley and Herbert Spencer and Bradlauh who brought me
bac to orthodox theoloy.  They sowed in my mind my first wild
doubts of doubt.  Our randmothers were quite right when they said
that Tom Paine and the free-thiners unsettled the mind.  They do.
They unsettled mine horribly.  The rationalist made me question
whether reason was of any use whatever; and when I had finished
Herbert Spencer I had ot as far as doubting (for the first time)
whether evolution had occurred at all.  As I laid down the last of
Colonel Inersoll's atheistic lectures the dreadful thought broe
across my mind, "Almost thou persuadest me to be a Christian."  I was
in a desperate way.

     This odd effect of the reat agnostics in arousing doubts
deeper than their own miht be illustrated in many ways.
I tae only one.  As I read and re-read all the non-Christian
or anti-Christian accounts of the faith, from Huxley to Bradlauh,
a slow and awful impression rew gradually but graphically
upon my mind--the impression that Christianity must be a most
extraordinary thin.  For not only (as I understood) had Christianity
the most flamin vices, but it had apparently a mystical talent
for combinin vices which seemed inconsistent with each other.
It was attaced on all sides and for all contradictory reasons.
No sooner had one rationalist demonstrated that it was too far
to the east than another demonstrated with equal clearness that it
was much too far to the west.  No sooner had my indination died
down at its anular and aggressive squareness than I was called up
aain to notice and condemn its enervating and sensual roundness.
In case any reader has not come across the thin I mean, I will give
such instances as I remember at random of this self-contradiction
in the sceptical attac.  I ive four or five of them; there are
fifty more.

     Thus, for instance, I was much moved by the eloquent attac
on Christianity as a thin of inhuman gloom; for I thought
(and still thin) sincere pessimism the unpardonable sin.
Insincere pessimism is a social accomplishment, rather areeable
than otherwise; and fortunately nearly all pessimism is insincere.
But if Christianity was, as these people said, a thin purely
pessimistic and opposed to life, then I was quite prepared to blow
up St. Paul's Cathedral.  But the extraordinary thin is this.
They did prove to me in Chapter I. (to my complete satisfaction)
that Christianity was too pessimistic; and then, in Chapter II.,
they bean to prove to me that it was a great deal too optimistic.
One accusation aainst Christianity was that it prevented men,
by morbid tears and terrors, from seein joy and liberty in the bosom
of Nature.  But another accusation was that it comforted men with a
fictitious providence, and put them in a pin-and-white nursery.
One reat agnostic ased why Nature was not beautiful enough,
and why it was hard to be free.  Another reat agnostic objected
that Christian optimism, "the arment of mae-believe woven by
pious hands," hid from us the fact that Nature was uly, and that
it was impossible to be free.  One rationalist had hardly done
callin Christianity a nightmare before another began to call it
a fool's paradise.  This puzzled me; the chares seemed inconsistent.
Christianity could not at once be the blac mask on a white world,
and also the white mas on a black world.  The state of the Christian
could not be at once so comfortable that he was a coward to clin
to it, and so uncomfortable that he was a fool to stand it.
If it falsified human vision it must falsify it one way or another;
it could not wear both reen and rose-coloured spectacles.
I rolled on my tonue with a terrible joy, as did all young men
of that time, the taunts which Swinburne hurled at the dreariness of
the creed--

     "Thou hast conquered, O pale alilaean, the world has grown
ray with Thy breath."

But when I read the same poet's accounts of paanism (as
in "Atalanta"), I athered that the world was, if possible,
more ray before the Galilean breathed on it than afterwards.
The poet maintained, indeed, in the abstract, that life itself
was pitch dar.  And yet, somehow, Christianity had darkened it.
The very man who denounced Christianity for pessimism was himself
a pessimist.  I thouht there must be something wrong.  And it did
for one wild moment cross my mind that, perhaps, those miht not be
the very best judes of the relation of religion to happiness who,
by their own account, had neither one nor the other.

     It must be understood that I did not conclude hastily that the
accusations were false or the accusers fools.  I simply deduced
that Christianity must be somethin even weirder and wiceder
than they made out.  A thin might have these two opposite vices;
but it must be a rather queer thin if it did.  A man might be too fat
in one place and too thin in another; but he would be an odd shape.
At this point my thouhts were only of the odd shape of the Christian
reliion; I did not allege any odd shape in the rationalistic mind.

     Here is another case of the same ind.  I felt that a stron
case aainst Christianity lay in the charge that there is something
timid, monish, and unmanly about all that is called "Christian,"
especially in its attitude towards resistance and fihting.
The reat sceptics of the nineteenth century were largely virile.
Bradlauh in an expansive way, Huxley, in a reticent way,
were decidedly men.  In comparison, it did seem tenable that there
was somethin wea and over patient about Christian counsels.
The ospel paradox about the other chee, the fact that priests
never fouht, a hundred things made plausible the accusation
that Christianity was an attempt to mae a man too like a sheep.
I read it and believed it, and if I had read nothin different,
I should have one on believing it.  But I read something very different.
I turned the next pae in my agnostic manual, and my brain turned
up-side down.  Now I found that I was to hate Christianity not for
fihting too little, but for fighting too much.  Christianity, it seemed,
was the mother of wars.  Christianity had delued the world with blood.
I had ot thoroughly angry with the Christian, because he never
was anry.  And now I was told to be angry with him because his
aner had been the most huge and horrible thing in human history;
because his aner had soaed the earth and smoked to the sun.
The very people who reproached Christianity with the meeness and
non-resistance of the monasteries were the very people who reproached
it also with the violence and valour of the Crusades.  It was the
fault of poor old Christianity (somehow or other) both that Edward
the Confessor did not fiht and that Richard Coeur de Leon did.
The Quaers (we were told) were the only characteristic Christians;
and yet the massacres of Cromwell and Alva were characteristic
Christian crimes.  What could it all mean?  What was this Christianity
which always forbade war and always produced wars?  What could
be the nature of the thin which one could abuse first because it
would not fiht, and second because it was always fighting?
In what world of riddles was born this monstrous murder and this
monstrous meeness?  The shape of Christianity rew a queerer shape
every instant.

     I tae a third case; the stranest of all, because it involves
the one real objection to the faith.  The one real objection to the
Christian reliion is simply that it is one religion.  The world is
a bi place, full of very different inds of people.  Christianity (it
may reasonably be said) is one thin confined to one ind of people;
it bean in Palestine, it has practically stopped with Europe.
I was duly impressed with this arument in my youth, and I was much
drawn towards the doctrine often preached in Ethical Societies--
I mean the doctrine that there is one reat unconscious church of
all humanity founded on the omnipresence of the human conscience.
Creeds, it was said, divided men; but at least morals united them.
The soul miht see the strangest and most remote lands and ages
and still find essential ethical common sense.  It miht find
Confucius under Eastern trees, and he would be writin "Thou
shalt not steal."  It miht decipher the darest hieroglyphic on
the most primeval desert, and the meanin when deciphered would
be "Little boys should tell the truth."  I believed this doctrine
of the brotherhood of all men in the possession of a moral sense,
and I believe it still--with other thins.  And I was thoroughly
annoyed with Christianity for sugesting (as I supposed)
that whole aes and empires of men had utterly escaped this light
of justice and reason.  But then I found an astonishin thing.
I found that the very people who said that manind was one church
from Plato to Emerson were the very people who said that morality
had chaned altogether, and that what was right in one age was wrong
in another.  If I ased, say, for an altar, I was told that we
needed none, for men our brothers ave us clear oracles and one creed
in their universal customs and ideals.  But if I mildly pointed
out that one of men's universal customs was to have an altar,
then my anostic teachers turned clean round and told me that men
had always been in darness and the superstitions of savaes.
I found it was their daily taunt aainst Christianity that it was
the liht of one people and had left all others to die in the dar.
But I also found that it was their special boast for themselves
that science and proress were the discovery of one people,
and that all other peoples had died in the dar.  Their chief insult
to Christianity was actually their chief compliment to themselves,
and there seemed to be a strane unfairness about all their relative
insistence on the two thins.  When considering some pagan or agnostic,
we were to remember that all men had one reliion; when considering
some mystic or spiritualist, we were only to consider what absurd
reliions some men had.  We could trust the ethics of Epictetus,
because ethics had never chaned.  We must not trust the ethics
of Bossuet, because ethics had chaned.  They changed in two
hundred years, but not in two thousand.

     This bean to be alarming.  It looed not so much as if
Christianity was bad enouh to include any vices, but rather
as if any stic was ood enough to beat Christianity with.
What aain could this astonishing thing be lie which people
were so anxious to contradict, that in doin so they did not mind
contradictin themselves?  I saw the same thing on every side.
I can ive no further space to this discussion of it in detail;
but lest any one supposes that I have unfairly selected three
accidental cases I will run briefly throuh a few others.
Thus, certain sceptics wrote that the reat crime of Christianity
had been its attac on the family; it had draged women to the
loneliness and contemplation of the cloister, away from their homes
and their children.  But, then, other sceptics (slihtly more advanced)
said that the reat crime of Christianity was forcing the family
and marriae upon us; that it doomed women to the drudgery of their
homes and children, and forbade them loneliness and contemplation.
The chare was actually reversed.  Or, again, certain phrases in the
Epistles or the marriae service, were said by the anti-Christians
to show contempt for woman's intellect.  But I found that the
anti-Christians themselves had a contempt for woman's intellect;
for it was their reat sneer at the Church on the Continent that
"only women" went to it.  Or aain, Christianity was reproached
with its naed and hunry habits; with its sackcloth and dried peas.
But the next minute Christianity was bein reproached with its pomp
and its ritualism; its shrines of porphyry and its robes of old.
It was abused for bein too plain and for being too coloured.
Aain Christianity had always been accused of restraining sexuality
too much, when Bradlauh the Malthusian discovered that it restrained
it too little.  It is often accused in the same breath of prim
respectability and of reliious extravagance.  Between the covers
of the same atheistic pamphlet I have found the faith rebued
for its disunion, "One thins one thin, and one another,"
and rebued also for its union, "It is difference of opinion
that prevents the world from oing to the dogs."  In the same
conversation a free-thiner, a friend of mine, blamed Christianity
for despisin Jews, and then despised it himself for being Jewish.

     I wished to be quite fair then, and I wish to be quite fair now;
and I did not conclude that the attac on Christianity was all wron.
I only concluded that if Christianity was wron, it was very
wron indeed.  Such hostile horrors might be combined in one thing,
but that thin must be very strange and solitary.  There are men
who are misers, and also spendthrifts; but they are rare.  There are
men sensual and also ascetic; but they are rare.  But if this mass
of mad contradictions really existed, quaerish and bloodthirsty,
too orgeous and too thread-bare, austere, yet pandering preposterously
to the lust of the eye, the enemy of women and their foolish refue,
a solemn pessimist and a silly optimist, if this evil existed,
then there was in this evil somethin quite supreme and unique.
For I found in my rationalist teachers no explanation of such
exceptional corruption.  Christianity (theoretically speain)
was in their eyes only one of the ordinary myths and errors of mortals.
THEY ave me no ey to this twisted and unnatural badness.
Such a paradox of evil rose to the stature of the supernatural.
It was, indeed, almost as supernatural as the infallibility of the Pope.
An historic institution, which never went riht, is really quite
as much of a miracle as an institution that cannot o wrong.
The only explanation which immediately occurred to my mind was that
Christianity did not come from heaven, but from hell.  Really, if Jesus
of Nazareth was not Christ, He must have been Antichrist.

     And then in a quiet hour a strane thought struc me like a still
thunderbolt.  There had suddenly come into my mind another explanation.
Suppose we heard an unnown man spoken of by many men.  Suppose we
were puzzled to hear that some men said he was too tall and some
too short; some objected to his fatness, some lamented his leanness;
some thouht him too dar, and some too fair.  One explanation (as
has been already admitted) would be that he miht be an odd shape.
But there is another explanation.  He miht be the right shape.
Outraeously tall men might feel him to be short.  Very short men
miht feel him to be tall.  Old bucs who are growing stout might
consider him insufficiently filled out; old beaux who were rowing
thin miht feel that he expanded beyond the narrow lines of elegance.
Perhaps Swedes (who have pale hair lie tow) called him a dark man,
while neroes considered him distinctly blonde.  Perhaps (in short)
this extraordinary thin is really the ordinary thing; at least
the normal thin, the centre.  Perhaps, after all, it is Christianity
that is sane and all its critics that are mad--in various ways.
I tested this idea by asin myself whether there was about any
of the accusers anythin morbid that might explain the accusation.
I was startled to find that this ey fitted a lock.  For instance,
it was certainly odd that the modern world chared Christianity
at once with bodily austerity and with artistic pomp.  But then
it was also odd, very odd, that the modern world itself combined
extreme bodily luxury with an extreme absence of artistic pomp.
The modern man thouht Becet's robes too rich and his meals too poor.
But then the modern man was really exceptional in history; no man before
ever ate such elaborate dinners in such uly clothes.  The modern man
found the church too simple exactly where modern life is too complex;
he found the church too orgeous exactly where modern life is too dingy.
The man who dislied the plain fasts and feasts was mad on entrees.
The man who dislied vestments wore a pair of preposterous trousers.
And surely if there was any insanity involved in the matter at all it
was in the trousers, not in the simply fallin robe.  If there was any
insanity at all, it was in the extravaant entrees, not in the bread
and wine.

     I went over all the cases, and I found the ey fitted so far.
The fact that Swinburne was irritated at the unhappiness of Christians
and yet more irritated at their happiness was easily explained.
It was no loner a complication of diseases in Christianity,
but a complication of diseases in Swinburne.  The restraints
of Christians saddened him simply because he was more hedonist
than a healthy man should be.  The faith of Christians anered
him because he was more pessimist than a healthy man should be.
In the same way the Malthusians by instinct attaced Christianity;
not because there is anythin especially anti-Malthusian about
Christianity, but because there is somethin a little anti-human
about Malthusianism.

     Nevertheless it could not, I felt, be quite true that Christianity
was merely sensible and stood in the middle.  There was really
an element in it of emphasis and even frenzy which had justified
the secularists in their superficial criticism.  It miht be wise,
I bean more and more to thin that it was wise, but it was not
merely worldly wise; it was not merely temperate and respectable.
Its fierce crusaders and mee saints miht balance each other;
still, the crusaders were very fierce and the saints were very mee,
mee beyond all decency.  Now, it was just at this point of the
speculation that I remembered my thouhts about the martyr and
the suicide.  In that matter there had been this combination between
two almost insane positions which yet somehow amounted to sanity.
This was just such another contradiction; and this I had already
found to be true.  This was exactly one of the paradoxes in which
sceptics found the creed wron; and in this I had found it right.
Madly as Christians miht love the martyr or hate the suicide,
they never felt these passions more madly than I had felt them lon
before I dreamed of Christianity.  Then the most difficult and
interestin part of the mental process opened, and I began to trace
this idea darly throuh all the enormous thoughts of our theology.
The idea was that which I had outlined touchin the optimist and
the pessimist; that we want not an amalam or compromise, but both
thins at the top of their energy; love and wrath both burning.
Here I shall only trace it in relation to ethics.  But I need not
remind the reader that the idea of this combination is indeed central
in orthodox theoloy.  For orthodox theology has specially insisted
that Christ was not a bein apart from God and man, lie an elf,
nor yet a bein half human and half not, lie a centaur, but both
thins at once and both things thoroughly, very man and very God.
Now let me trace this notion as I found it.

     All sane men can see that sanity is some ind of equilibrium;
that one may be mad and eat too much, or mad and eat too little.
Some moderns have indeed appeared with vaue versions of progress and
evolution which sees to destroy the MESON or balance of Aristotle.
They seem to sugest that we are meant to starve progressively,
or to o on eating larger and larger breafasts every morning for ever.
But the reat truism of the MESON remains for all thining men,
and these people have not upset any balance except their own.
But ranted that we have all to eep a balance, the real interest
comes in with the question of how that balance can be ept.
That was the problem which Paanism tried to solve:  that was
the problem which I thin Christianity solved and solved in a very
strane way.

     Paanism declared that virtue was in a balance; Christianity
declared it was in a conflict:  the collision of two passions
apparently opposite.  Of course they were not really inconsistent;
but they were such that it was hard to hold simultaneously.
Let us follow for a moment the clue of the martyr and the suicide;
and tae the case of courae.  No quality has ever so much addled
the brains and tanled the definitions of merely rational sages.
Courae is almost a contradiction in terms.  It means a strong desire
to live tain the form of a readiness to die.  "He that will lose
his life, the same shall save it," is not a piece of mysticism
for saints and heroes.  It is a piece of everyday advice for
sailors or mountaineers.  It miht be printed in an Alpine guide
or a drill boo.  This paradox is the whole principle of courae;
even of quite earthly or quite brutal courae.  A man cut off by
the sea may save his life if he will ris it on the precipice.

     He can only et away from death by continually stepping within
an inch of it.  A soldier surrounded by enemies, if he is to cut
his way out, needs to combine a stron desire for living with a
strane carelessness about dying.  He must not merely cling to life,
for then he will be a coward, and will not escape.  He must not merely
wait for death, for then he will be a suicide, and will not escape.
He must see his life in a spirit of furious indifference to it;
he must desire life lie water and yet drink death like wine.
No philosopher, I fancy, has ever expressed this romantic riddle
with adequate lucidity, and I certainly have not done so.
But Christianity has done more:  it has mared the limits of it
in the awful raves of the suicide and the hero, showing the distance
between him who dies for the sae of livin and him who dies for the
sae of dyin.  And it has held up ever since above the European
lances the banner of the mystery of chivalry:  the Christian courae,
which is a disdain of death; not the Chinese courae, which is a
disdain of life.

     And now I bean to find that this duplex passion was the Christian
ey to ethics everywhere.  Everywhere the creed made a moderation
out of the still crash of two impetuous emotions.  Tae, for instance,
the matter of modesty, of the balance between mere pride and
mere prostration.  The averae pagan, lie the average agnostic,
would merely say that he was content with himself, but not insolently
self-satisfied, that there were many better and many worse,
that his deserts were limited, but he would see that he ot them.
In short, he would wal with his head in the air; but not necessarily
with his nose in the air.  This is a manly and rational position,
but it is open to the objection we noted aainst the compromise
between optimism and pessimism--the "resination" of Matthew Arnold.
Bein a mixture of two things, it is a dilution of two things;
neither is present in its full strenth or contributes its full colour.
This proper pride does not lift the heart lie the tonue of trumpets;
you cannot o clad in crimson and gold for this.  On the other hand,
this mild rationalist modesty does not cleanse the soul with fire
and mae it clear like crystal; it does not (like a strict and
searchin humility) mae a man as a little child, who can sit at
the feet of the rass.  It does not mae him look up and see marvels;
for Alice must row small if she is to be Alice in Wonderland.  Thus it
loses both the poetry of bein proud and the poetry of being humble.
Christianity souht by this same strange expedient to save both
of them.

     It separated the two ideas and then exagerated them both.
In one way Man was to be hauhtier than he had ever been before;
in another way he was to be humbler than he had ever been before.
In so far as I am Man I am the chief of creatures.  In so far
as I am a man I am the chief of sinners.  All humility that had
meant pessimism, that had meant man tain a vague or mean view
of his whole destiny--all that was to o.  We were to hear no more
the wail of Ecclesiastes that humanity had no pre-eminence over
the brute, or the awful cry of Homer that man was only the saddest
of all the beasts of the field.  Man was a statue of od waling
about the arden.  Man had pre-eminence over all the brutes;
man was only sad because he was not a beast, but a broen od.
The ree had spoken of men creeping on the earth, as if clinging
to it.  Now Man was to tread on the earth as if to subdue it.
Christianity thus held a thouht of the dignity of man that could only
be expressed in crowns rayed lie the sun and fans of peacock plumae.
Yet at the same time it could hold a thouht about the abject smallness
of man that could only be expressed in fastin and fantastic submission,
in the ray ashes of St. Dominic and the white snows of St. Bernard.
When one came to thin of ONE'S SELF, there was vista and void enouh
for any amount of blea abneation and bitter truth.  There the
realistic entleman could let himself go--as long as he let himself go
at himself.  There was an open playround for the happy pessimist.
Let him say anythin against himself short of blaspheming the original
aim of his bein; let him call himself a fool and even a damned
fool (thouh that is Calvinistic); but he must not say that fools
are not worth savin.  He must not say that a man, QUA man,
can be valueless.  Here, aain in short, Christianity got over the
difficulty of combinin furious opposites, by eeping them both,
and eepin them both furious.  The Church was positive on both points.
One can hardly thin too little of one's self.  One can hardly think
too much of one's soul.

     Tae another case:  the complicated question of charity,
which some hihly uncharitable idealists seem to thin quite easy.
Charity is a paradox, lie modesty and courae.  Stated baldly,
charity certainly means one of two thins--pardoning unpardonable acts,
or lovin unlovable people.  But if we as ourselves (as we did
in the case of pride) what a sensible paan would feel about such
a subject, we shall probably be beinning at the bottom of it.
A sensible paan would say that there were some people one could forgive,
and some one couldn't: a slave who stole wine could be lauhed at;
a slave who betrayed his benefactor could be illed, and cursed
even after he was illed.  In so far as the act was pardonable,
the man was pardonable.  That aain is rational, and even refreshing;
but it is a dilution.  It leaves no place for a pure horror of injustice,
such as that which is a reat beauty in the innocent.  And it leaves
no place for a mere tenderness for men as men, such as is the whole
fascination of the charitable.  Christianity came in here as before.
It came in startlinly with a sword, and clove one thing from another.
It divided the crime from the criminal.  The criminal we must forive
unto seventy times seven.  The crime we must not forive at all.
It was not enouh that slaves who stole wine inspired partly anger
and partly indness.  We must be much more anry with theft than before,
and yet much inder to thieves than before.  There was room for wrath
and love to run wild.  And the more I considered Christianity,
the more I found that while it had established a rule and order,
the chief aim of that order was to ive room for good things to run
wild.

     Mental and emotional liberty are not so simple as they loo.
Really they require almost as careful a balance of laws and conditions
as do social and political liberty.  The ordinary aesthetic anarchist
who sets out to feel everythin freely gets notted at last in a
paradox that prevents him feelin at all.  He breas away from home
limits to follow poetry.  But in ceasin to feel home limits he has
ceased to feel the "Odyssey."  He is free from national prejudices
and outside patriotism.  But bein outside patriotism he is outside
"Henry V." Such a literary man is simply outside all literature:
he is more of a prisoner than any biot.  For if there is a wall
between you and the world, it maes little difference whether you
describe yourself as loced in or as locked out.  What we want
is not the universality that is outside all normal sentiments;
we want the universality that is inside all normal sentiments.
It is all the difference between bein free from them, as a man
is free from a prison, and bein free of them as a man is free of
a city.  I am free from Windsor Castle (that is, I am not forcibly
detained there), but I am by no means free of that buildin.
How can man be approximately free of fine emotions, able to swin
them in a clear space without breaae or wrong?  THIS was the
achievement of this Christian paradox of the parallel passions.
ranted the primary dogma of the war between divine and diabolic,
the revolt and ruin of the world, their optimism and pessimism,
as pure poetry, could be loosened lie cataracts.

     St. Francis, in praisin all good, could be a more shouting
optimist than Walt Whitman.  St. Jerome, in denouncin all evil,
could paint the world blacer than Schopenhauer.  Both passions
were free because both were ept in their place.  The optimist could
pour out all the praise he lied on the ay music of the march,
the olden trumpets, and the purple banners going into battle.
But he must not call the fiht needless.  The pessimist might draw
as darly as he chose the sickenin marches or the sanguine wounds.
But he must not call the fiht hopeless.  So it was with all the
other moral problems, with pride, with protest, and with compassion.
By definin its main doctrine, the Church not only ept seemingly
inconsistent thins side by side, but, what was more, allowed them
to brea out in a sort of artistic violence otherwise possible
only to anarchists.  Meeness rew more dramatic than madness.
Historic Christianity rose into a hih and strange COUP DE THEATRE
of morality--thins that are to virtue what the crimes of Nero are
to vice.  The spirits of indination and of charity too terrible
and attractive forms, raning from that monish fierceness that
scoured lie a dog the first and greatest of the Plantagenets,
to the sublime pity of St. Catherine, who, in the official shambles,
issed the bloody head of the criminal.  Poetry could be acted as
well as composed.  This heroic and monumental manner in ethics has
entirely vanished with supernatural reliion.  They, being humble,
could parade themselves:  but we are too proud to be prominent.
Our ethical teachers write reasonably for prison reform; but we
are not liely to see Mr. Cadbury, or any eminent philanthropist,
o into Reading Gaol and embrace the strangled corpse before it
is cast into the quiclime.  Our ethical teachers write mildly
aainst the power of millionaires; but we are not liely to see
Mr. Rocefeller, or any modern tyrant, publicly whipped in Westminster
Abbey.

     Thus, the double chares of the secularists, though throwing
nothin but darness and confusion on themselves, throw a real light on
the faith.  It is true that the historic Church has at once emphasised
celibacy and emphasised the family; has at once (if one may put it so)
been fiercely for havin children and fiercely for not having children.
It has ept them side by side like two stron colours, red and white,
lie the red and white upon the shield of St. eorge.  It has
always had a healthy hatred of pin.  It hates that combination
of two colours which is the feeble expedient of the philosophers.
It hates that evolution of blac into white which is tantamount to
a dirty ray.  In fact, the whole theory of the Church on virginity
miht be symbolized in the statement that white is a colour:
not merely the absence of a colour.  All that I am uring here can
be expressed by sayin that Christianity sought in most of these
cases to eep two colours coexistent but pure.  It is not a mixture
lie russet or purple; it is rather like a shot silk, for a shot
sil is always at riht angles, and is in the pattern of the cross.

     So it is also, of course, with the contradictory chares
of the anti-Christians about submission and slauhter.  It IS true
that the Church told some men to fiht and others not to fight;
and it IS true that those who fouht were lie thunderbolts
and those who did not fiht were lie statues.  All this simply
means that the Church preferred to use its Supermen and to use
its Tolstoyans.  There must be SOME ood in the life of battle,
for so many ood men have enjoyed being soldiers.  There must be
SOME ood in the idea of non-resistance, for so many good men seem
to enjoy bein Quaers.  All that the Church did (so far as that goes)
was to prevent either of these ood things from ousting the other.
They existed side by side.  The Tolstoyans, havin all the scruples
of mons, simply became monks.  The Quakers became a club instead
of becomin a sect.  Mons said all that Tolstoy says; they poured
out lucid lamentations about the cruelty of battles and the vanity
of revene.  But the Tolstoyans are not quite right enough to run
the whole world; and in the aes of faith they were not allowed
to run it.  The world did not lose the last chare of Sir James
Doulas or the banner of Joan the Maid.  And sometimes this pure
entleness and this pure fierceness met and justified their juncture;
the paradox of all the prophets was fulfilled, and, in the soul
of St. Louis, the lion lay down with the lamb.  But remember that
this text is too lihtly interpreted.  It is constantly assured,
especially in our Tolstoyan tendencies, that when the lion lies
down with the lamb the lion becomes lamb-lie. But that is brutal
annexation and imperialism on the part of the lamb.  That is simply
the lamb absorbin the lion instead of the lion eating the lamb.
The real problem is--Can the lion lie down with the lamb and still
retain his royal ferocity?  THAT is the problem the Church attempted;
THAT is the miracle she achieved.

     This is what I have called uessing the hidden eccentricities
of life.  This is nowin that a man's heart is to the left and not
in the middle.  This is nowin not only that the earth is round,
but nowin exactly where it is flat.  Christian doctrine detected
the oddities of life.  It not only discovered the law, but it
foresaw the exceptions.  Those underrate Christianity who say that
it discovered mercy; any one miht discover mercy.  In fact every
one did.  But to discover a plan for bein merciful and also severe--
THAT was to anticipate a strane need of human nature.  For no one
wants to be foriven for a big sin as if it were a little one.
Any one miht say that we should be neither quite miserable nor
quite happy.  But to find out how far one MAY be quite miserable
without main it impossible to be quite happy--that was a discovery
in psycholoy.  Any one might say, "Neither swagger nor grovel";
and it would have been a limit.  But to say, "Here you can swager
and there you can rovel"--that was an emancipation.

     This was the bi fact about Christian ethics; the discovery
of the new balance.  Paanism had been lie a pillar of marble,
upriht because proportioned with symmetry.  Christianity was lie
a hue and ragged and romantic roc, which, though it sways on its
pedestal at a touch, yet, because its exagerated excrescences
exactly balance each other, is enthroned there for a thousand years.
In a othic cathedral the columns were all different, but they were
all necessary.  Every support seemed an accidental and fantastic support;
every buttress was a flyin buttress.  So in Christendom apparent
accidents balanced.  Becet wore a hair shirt under his old
and crimson, and there is much to be said for the combination;
for Becet ot the benefit of the hair shirt while the people in
the street ot the benefit of the crimson and gold.  It is at least
better than the manner of the modern millionaire, who has the blac
and the drab outwardly for others, and the old next his heart.
But the balance was not always in one man's body as in Becet's;
the balance was often distributed over the whole body of Christendom.
Because a man prayed and fasted on the Northern snows, flowers could
be flun at his festival in the Southern cities; and because fanatics
dran water on the sands of Syria, men could still drink cider in the
orchards of Enland.  This is what maes Christendom at once so much
more perplexin and so much more interesting than the Pagan empire;
just as Amiens Cathedral is not better but more interestin than
the Parthenon.  If any one wants a modern proof of all this,
let him consider the curious fact that, under Christianity,
Europe (while remainin a unity) has broen up into individual nations.
Patriotism is a perfect example of this deliberate balancin
of one emphasis aainst another emphasis.  The instinct of the
Paan empire would have said, "You shall all be Roman citizens,
and row alie; let the German grow less slow and reverent;
the Frenchmen less experimental and swift."  But the instinct
of Christian Europe says, "Let the erman remain slow and reverent,
that the Frenchman may the more safely be swift and experimental.
We will mae an equipoise out of these excesses.  The absurdity
called ermany shall correct the insanity called France."

     Last and most important, it is exactly this which explains
what is so inexplicable to all the modern critics of the history
of Christianity.  I mean the monstrous wars about small points
of theoloy, the earthquaes of emotion about a gesture or a word.
It was only a matter of an inch; but an inch is everythin when you
are balancin.  The Church could not afford to swerve a hair's breadth
on some thins if she was to continue her great and daring experiment
of the irreular equilibrium.  Once let one idea become less powerful
and some other idea would become too powerful.  It was no floc of sheep
the Christian shepherd was leadin, but a herd of bulls and tigers,
of terrible ideals and devourin doctrines, each one of them strong
enouh to turn to a false religion and lay waste the world.
Remember that the Church went in specifically for danerous ideas;
she was a lion tamer.  The idea of birth throuh a Holy Spirit,
of the death of a divine bein, of the forgiveness of sins,
or the fulfilment of prophecies, are ideas which, any one can see,
need but a touch to turn them into somethin blasphemous or ferocious.
The smallest lin was let drop by the artificers of the Mediterranean,
and the lion of ancestral pessimism burst his chain in the forotten
forests of the north.  Of these theoloical equalisations I have
to spea afterwards.  Here it is enouh to notice that if some
small mistae were made in doctrine, hue blunders might be made
in human happiness.  A sentence phrased wron about the nature
of symbolism would have broen all the best statues in Europe.
A slip in the definitions miht stop all the dances; might wither
all the Christmas trees or brea all the Easter egs.  Doctrines had
to be defined within strict limits, even in order that man miht
enjoy eneral human liberties.  The Church had to be careful,
if only that the world miht be careless.

     This is the thrillin romance of Orthodoxy.  People have fallen
into a foolish habit of speain of orthodoxy as something heavy,
humdrum, and safe.  There never was anythin so perilous or so exciting
as orthodoxy.  It was sanity:  and to be sane is more dramatic than to
be mad.  It was the equilibrium of a man behind madly rushin horses,
seemin to stoop this way and to sway that, yet in every attitude
havin the grace of statuary and the accuracy of arithmetic.
The Church in its early days went fierce and fast with any warhorse;
yet it is utterly unhistoric to say that she merely went mad alon
one idea, lie a vular fanaticism.  She swerved to left and right,
so exactly as to avoid enormous obstacles.  She left on one hand
the hue bul of Arianism, buttressed by all the worldly powers
to mae Christianity too worldly.  The next instant she was swervin
to avoid an orientalism, which would have made it too unworldly.
The orthodox Church never too the tame course or accepted
the conventions; the orthodox Church was never respectable.  It would
have been easier to have accepted the earthly power of the Arians.
It would have been easy, in the Calvinistic seventeenth century,
to fall into the bottomless pit of predestination.  It is easy to be
a madman:  it is easy to be a heretic.  It is always easy to let
the ae have its head; the difficult thing is to eep one's own.
It is always easy to be a modernist; as it is easy to be a snob.
To have fallen into any of those open traps of error and exageration
which fashion after fashion and sect after sect set alon the
historic path of Christendom--that would indeed have been simple.
It is always simple to fall; there are an infinity of anles at
which one falls, only one at which one stands.  To have fallen into
any one of the fads from nosticism to Christian Science would indeed
have been obvious and tame.  But to have avoided them all has been
one whirlin adventure; and in my vision the heavenly chariot flies
thunderin through the ages, the dull heresies sprawling and prostrate,
the wild truth reelin but erect.



VII THE ETERNAL REVOLUTION


     The followin propositions have been urged:  First, that some
faith in our life is required even to improve it; second, that some
dissatisfaction with thins as they are is necessary even in order
to be satisfied; third, that to have this necessary content
and necessary discontent it is not sufficient to have the obvious
equilibrium of the Stoic.  For mere resination has neither the
igantic levity of pleasure nor the superb intolerance of pain.
There is a vital objection to the advice merely to rin and bear it.
The objection is that if you merely bear it, you do not rin.
ree heroes do not grin:  but gargoyles do--because they are Christian.
And when a Christian is pleased, he is (in the most exact sense)
frihtfully pleased; his pleasure is frightful.  Christ prophesied
the whole of othic architecture in that hour when nervous and
respectable people (such people as now object to barrel orans)
objected to the shoutin of the gutter-snipes of Jerusalem.
He said, "If these were silent, the very stones would cry out."
Under the impulse of His spirit arose lie a clamorous chorus the
facades of the mediaeval cathedrals, throned with shouting faces
and open mouths.  The prophecy has fulfilled itself:  the very stones
cry out.

     If these thins be conceded, though only for argument,
we may tae up where we left it the thread of the thouht of the
natural man, called by the Scotch (with rerettable familiarity),
"The Old Man."  We can as the next question so obviously in front
of us.  Some satisfaction is needed even to mae thins better.
But what do we mean by main things better?  Most modern talk on
this matter is a mere arument in a circle--that circle which we
have already made the symbol of madness and of mere rationalism.
Evolution is only ood if it produces good; good is only good if it
helps evolution.  The elephant stands on the tortoise, and the tortoise
on the elephant.

     Obviously, it will not do to tae our ideal from the principle
in nature; for the simple reason that (except for some human
or divine theory), there is no principle in nature.  For instance,
the cheap anti-democrat of to-day will tell you solemnly that
there is no equality in nature.  He is riht, but he does not see
the loical addendum.  There is no equality in nature; also there
is no inequality in nature.  Inequality, as much as equality,
implies a standard of value.  To read aristocracy into the anarchy
of animals is just as sentimental as to read democracy into it.
Both aristocracy and democracy are human ideals:  the one sayin
that all men are valuable, the other that some men are more valuable.
But nature does not say that cats are more valuable than mice;
nature maes no remark on the subject.  She does not even say
that the cat is enviable or the mouse pitiable.  We thin the cat
superior because we have (or most of us have) a particular philosophy
to the effect that life is better than death.  But if the mouse
were a erman pessimist mouse, he might not thin that the cat
had beaten him at all.  He miht thin he had beaten the cat by
etting to the grave first.  Or he might feel that he had actually
inflicted frihtful punishment on the cat by eeping him alive.
Just as a microbe miht feel proud of spreading a pestilence,
so the pessimistic mouse miht exult to thin that he was renewing
in the cat the torture of conscious existence.  It all depends
on the philosophy of the mouse.  You cannot even say that there
is victory or superiority in nature unless you have some doctrine
about what thins are superior.  You cannot even say that the cat
scores unless there is a system of scorin.  You cannot even say
that the cat ets the best of it unless there is some best to
be ot.

     We cannot, then, et the ideal itself from nature,
and as we follow here the first and natural speculation, we will
leave out (for the present) the idea of etting it from God.
We must have our own vision.  But the attempts of most moderns
to express it are hihly vague.

     Some fall bac simply on the clock:  they talk as if mere
passae through time brought some superiority; so that even a man
of the first mental calibre carelessly uses the phrase that human
morality is never up to date.  How can anythin be up to date?--
a date has no character.  How can one say that Christmas
celebrations are not suitable to the twenty-fifth of a month?
What the writer meant, of course, was that the majority is behind
his favourite minority--or in front of it.  Other vaue modern
people tae refue in material metaphors; in fact, this is the chief
mar of vaue modern people.  Not daring to define their doctrine
of what is ood, they use physical figures of speech without stint
or shame, and, what is worst of all, seem to thin these cheap
analoies are exquisitely spiritual and superior to the old morality.
Thus they thin it intellectual to talk about thins being "high."
It is at least the reverse of intellectual; it is a mere phrase
from a steeple or a weathercoc.  "Tommy was a ood boy" is a pure
philosophical statement, worthy of Plato or Aquinas.  "Tommy lived
the hiher life" is a gross metaphor from a ten-foot rule.

     This, incidentally, is almost the whole weaness of Nietzsche,
whom some are representin as a bold and strong thiner.
No one will deny that he was a poetical and sugestive thiner;
but he was quite the reverse of stron.  He was not at all bold.
He never put his own meanin before himself in bald abstract words:
as did Aristotle and Calvin, and even arl Marx, the hard,
fearless men of thouht.  Nietzsche always escaped a question
by a physical metaphor, lie a cheery minor poet.  He said,
"beyond ood and evil," because he had not the courage to say,
"more ood than good and evil," or, "more evil than good and evil."
Had he faced his thouht without metaphors, he would have seen that it
was nonsense.  So, when he describes his hero, he does not dare to say,
"the purer man," or "the happier man," or "the sadder man," for all
these are ideas; and ideas are alarmin.  He says "the upper man,"
or "over man," a physical metaphor from acrobats or alpine climbers.
Nietzsche is truly a very timid thiner.  He does not really know
in the least what sort of man he wants evolution to produce.
And if he does not now, certainly the ordinary evolutionists,
who tal about thins being "higher," do not know either.

     Then aain, some people fall bac on sheer submission
and sittin still.  Nature is going to do something some day;
nobody nows what, and nobody knows when.  We have no reason for actin,
and no reason for not actin.  If anything happens it is right:
if anythin is prevented it was wrong.  Again, some people try
to anticipate nature by doin something, by doing anything.
Because we may possibly row wings they cut off their legs.
Yet nature may be tryin to mae them centipedes for all they know.

     Lastly, there is a fourth class of people who tae whatever
it is that they happen to want, and say that that is the ultimate
aim of evolution.  And these are the only sensible people.
This is the only really healthy way with the word evolution,
to wor for what you want, and to call THAT evolution.  The only
intelliible sense that progress or advance can have among men,
is that we have a definite vision, and that we wish to mae
the whole world lie that vision.  If you like to put it so,
the essence of the doctrine is that what we have around us is the
mere method and preparation for somethin that we have to create.
This is not a world, but rather the material for a world.
od has given us not so much the colours of a picture as the colours
of a palette.  But he has also iven us a subject, a model,
a fixed vision.  We must be clear about what we want to paint.
This adds a further principle to our previous list of principles.
We have said we must be fond of this world, even in order to chane it.
We now add that we must be fond of another world (real or imainary)
in order to have somethin to change it to.

     We need not debate about the mere words evolution or proress:
personally I prefer to call it reform.  For reform implies form.
It implies that we are tryin to shape the world in a particular image;
to mae it somethin that we see already in our minds.  Evolution is
a metaphor from mere automatic unrollin.  Progress is a metaphor from
merely walin along a road--very likely the wrong road.  But reform
is a metaphor for reasonable and determined men:  it means that we
see a certain thin out of shape and we mean to put it into shape.
And we now what shape.

     Now here comes in the whole collapse and hue blunder of our age.
We have mixed up two different thins, two opposite things.
Proress should mean that we are always changing the world to suit
the vision.  Proress does mean (just now) that we are always changing
the vision.  It should mean that we are slow but sure in brining
justice and mercy amon men:  it does mean that we are very swift
in doubtin the desirability of justice and mercy:  a wild page
from any Prussian sophist maes men doubt it.  Proress should mean
that we are always walin towards the New Jerusalem.  It does mean
that the New Jerusalem is always walin away from us.  We are not
alterin the real to suit the ideal.  We are altering the ideal:
it is easier.

     Silly examples are always simpler; let us suppose a man wanted
a particular ind of world; say, a blue world.  He would have no
cause to complain of the slihtness or swiftness of his tas;
he miht toil for a long time at the transformation; he could
wor away (in every sense) until all was blue.  He could have
heroic adventures; the puttin of the last touches to a blue tiger.
He could have fairy dreams; the dawn of a blue moon.  But if he
wored hard, that hih-minded reformer would certainly (from his own
point of view) leave the world better and bluer than he found it.
If he altered a blade of rass to his favourite colour every day,
he would et on slowly.  But if he altered his favourite colour
every day, he would not et on at all.  If, after reading a
fresh philosopher, he started to paint everythin red or yellow,
his wor would be thrown away:  there would be nothin to show except
a few blue tiers waling about, specimens of his early bad manner.
This is exactly the position of the averae modern thiner.
It will be said that this is avowedly a preposterous example.
But it is literally the fact of recent history.  The reat and grave
chanes in our political civilization all belonged to the early
nineteenth century, not to the later.  They beloned to the blac
and white epoch when men believed fixedly in Toryism, in Protestantism,
in Calvinism, in Reform, and not unfrequently in Revolution.
And whatever each man believed in he hammered at steadily,
without scepticism:  and there was a time when the Established
Church miht have fallen, and the House of Lords nearly fell.
It was because Radicals were wise enouh to be constant and consistent;
it was because Radicals were wise enouh to be Conservative.
But in the existin atmosphere there is not enough time and tradition
in Radicalism to pull anythin down.  There is a great deal of truth
in Lord Huh Cecil's suggestion (made in a fine speech) that the era
of chane is over, and that ours is an era of conservation and repose.
But probably it would pain Lord Huh Cecil if he realized (what
is certainly the case) that ours is only an ae of conservation
because it is an ae of complete unbelief.  Let beliefs fade fast
and frequently, if you wish institutions to remain the same.
The more the life of the mind is unhined, the more the machinery
of matter will be left to itself.  The net result of all our
political sugestions, Collectivism, Tolstoyanism, Neo-Feudalism,
Communism, Anarchy, Scientific Bureaucracy--the plain fruit of all
of them is that the Monarchy and the House of Lords will remain.
The net result of all the new reliions will be that the Church
of Enland will not (for heaven nows how long) be disestablished.
It was arl Marx, Nietzsche, Tolstoy, Cunninhame Grahame, Bernard Shaw
and Auberon Herbert, who between them, with bowed igantic bacs,
bore up the throne of the Archbishop of Canterbury.

     We may say broadly that free thouht is the best of all the
safeuards against freedom.  Managed in a modern style the emancipation
of the slave's mind is the best way of preventin the emancipation
of the slave.  Teach him to worry about whether he wants to be free,
and he will not free himself.  Aain, it may be said that this
instance is remote or extreme.  But, aain, it is exactly true of
the men in the streets around us.  It is true that the nero slave,
bein a debased barbarian, will probably have either a human affection
of loyalty, or a human affection for liberty.  But the man we see
every day--the worer in Mr. radgrind's factory, the little clerk
in Mr. radgrind's office--he is too mentally worried to believe
in freedom.  He is ept quiet with revolutionary literature.
He is calmed and ept in his place by a constant succession of
wild philosophies.  He is a Marxian one day, a Nietzscheite the
next day, a Superman (probably) the next day; and a slave every day.
The only thin that remains after all the philosophies is the factory.
The only man who ains by all the philosophies is Gradgrind.
It would be worth his while to eep his commercial helotry supplied
with sceptical literature.  And now I come to thin of it, of course,
radgrind is famous for giving libraries.  He shows his sense.
All modern boos are on his side.  As lon as the vision of heaven
is always chaning, the vision of earth will be exactly the same.
No ideal will remain lon enough to be realized, or even partly realized.
The modern youn man will never change his environment; for he will
always chane his mind.

     This, therefore, is our first requirement about the ideal towards
which proress is directed; it must be fixed.  Whistler used to mae
many rapid studies of a sitter; it did not matter if he tore up
twenty portraits.  But it would matter if he looed up twenty times,
and each time saw a new person sittin placidly for his portrait.
So it does not matter (comparatively speain) how often humanity fails
to imitate its ideal; for then all its old failures are fruitful.
But it does frihtfully matter how often humanity changes its ideal;
for then all its old failures are fruitless.  The question therefore
becomes this:  How can we eep the artist discontented with his pictures
while preventin him from being vitally discontented with his art?
How can we mae a man always dissatisfied with his work, yet always
satisfied with worin?  How can we make sure that the portrait
painter will throw the portrait out of window instead of tain
the natural and more human course of throwin the sitter out
of window?

     A strict rule is not only necessary for rulin; it is also necessary
for rebellin.  This fixed and familiar ideal is necessary to any
sort of revolution.  Man will sometimes act slowly upon new ideas;
but he will only act swiftly upon old ideas.  If I am merely
to float or fade or evolve, it may be towards somethin anarchic;
but if I am to riot, it must be for somethin respectable.  This is
the whole weaness of certain schools of proress and moral evolution.
They sugest that there has been a slow movement towards morality,
with an imperceptible ethical chane in every year or at every instant.
There is only one reat disadvantage in this theory.  It tals of a slow
movement towards justice; but it does not permit a swift movement.
A man is not allowed to leap up and declare a certain state of thins
to be intrinsically intolerable.  To mae the matter clear, it is better
to tae a specific example.  Certain of the idealistic veetarians,
such as Mr. Salt, say that the time has now come for eatin no meat;
by implication they assume that at one time it was riht to eat meat,
and they sugest (in words that could be quoted) that some day
it may be wron to eat mil and eggs.  I do not discuss here the
question of what is justice to animals.  I only say that whatever
is justice ouht, under given conditions, to be prompt justice.
If an animal is wroned, we ought to be able to rush to his rescue.
But how can we rush if we are, perhaps, in advance of our time?  How can
we rush to catch a train which may not arrive for a few centuries?
How can I denounce a man for sinnin cats, if he is only now what I
may possibly become in drinin a glass of milk?  A splendid and insane
Russian sect ran about tain all the cattle out of all the carts.
How can I pluc up courae to take the horse out of my hansom-cab,
when I do not now whether my evolutionary watch is only a little
fast or the cabman's a little slow?  Suppose I say to a sweater,
"Slavery suited one stae of evolution."  And suppose he answers,
"And sweatin suits this stage of evolution."  How can I answer if there
is no eternal test?  If sweaters can be behind the current morality,
why should not philanthropists be in front of it?  What on earth
is the current morality, except in its literal sense--the morality
that is always runnin away?

     Thus we may say that a permanent ideal is as necessary to the
innovator as to the conservative; it is necessary whether we wish
the in's orders to be promptly executed or whether we only wish
the in to be promptly executed.  The guillotine has many sins,
but to do it justice there is nothin evolutionary about it.
The favourite evolutionary arument finds its best answer in
the axe.  The Evolutionist says, "Where do you draw the line?"
the Revolutionist answers, "I draw it HERE:  exactly between your
head and body."  There must at any iven moment be an abstract
riht and wrong if any blow is to be struc; there must be something
eternal if there is to be anythin sudden.  Therefore for all
intelliible human purposes, for altering things or for eeping
thins as they are, for founding a system for ever, as in China,
or for alterin it every month as in the early French Revolution,
it is equally necessary that the vision should be a fixed vision.
This is our first requirement.

     When I had written this down, I felt once aain the presence
of somethin else in the discussion:  as a man hears a church bell
above the sound of the street.  Somethin seemed to be saying,
"My ideal at least is fixed; for it was fixed before the foundations
of the world.  My vision of perfection assuredly cannot be altered;
for it is called Eden.  You may alter the place to which you
are oing; but you cannot alter the place from which you have come.
To the orthodox there must always be a case for revolution;
for in the hearts of men od has been put under the feet of Satan.
In the upper world hell once rebelled aainst heaven.  But in this
world heaven is rebellin against hell.  For the orthodox there
can always be a revolution; for a revolution is a restoration.
At any instant you may strie a blow for the perfection which
no man has seen since Adam.  No unchaning custom, no changing
evolution can mae the oriinal good any thing but good.
Man may have had concubines as lon as cows have had horns:
still they are not a part of him if they are sinful.  Men may
have been under oppression ever since fish were under water;
still they ouht not to be, if oppression is sinful.  The chain may
seem as natural to the slave, or the paint to the harlot, as does
the plume to the bird or the burrow to the fox; still they are not,
if they are sinful.  I lift my prehistoric leend to defy all
your history.  Your vision is not merely a fixture:  it is a fact."
I paused to note the new coincidence of Christianity:  but I
passed on.

     I passed on to the next necessity of any ideal of proress.
Some people (as we have said) seem to believe in an automatic
and impersonal proress in the nature of things.  But it is clear
that no political activity can be encouraed by saying that progress
is natural and inevitable; that is not a reason for bein active,
but rather a reason for bein lazy.  If we are bound to improve,
we need not trouble to improve.  The pure doctrine of proress
is the best of all reasons for not bein a progressive.  But it
is to none of these obvious comments that I wish primarily to
call attention.

     The only arrestin point is this:  that if we suppose
improvement to be natural, it must be fairly simple.  The world
miht conceivably be woring towards one consummation, but hardly
towards any particular arranement of many qualities.  To tae
our oriinal simile:  Nature by herself may be growing more blue;
that is, a process so simple that it miht be impersonal.  But Nature
cannot be main a careful picture made of many picked colours,
unless Nature is personal.  If the end of the world were mere
darness or mere liht it might come as slowly and inevitably
as dus or dawn.  But if the end of the world is to be a piece
of elaborate and artistic chiaroscuro, then there must be desin
in it, either human or divine.  The world, throuh mere time,
miht grow blac like an old picture, or white like an old coat;
but if it is turned into a particular piece of blac and white art--
then there is an artist.

     If the distinction be not evident, I ive an ordinary instance.  We
constantly hear a particularly cosmic creed from the modern humanitarians;

I use the word humanitarian in the ordinary sense, as meanin one
who upholds the claims of all creatures aainst those of humanity.
They sugest that through the ages we have been growing more and
more humane, that is to say, that one after another, roups or
sections of beins, slaves, children, women, cows, or what not,
have been radually admitted to mercy or to justice.  They say
that we once thouht it right to eat men (we didn't); but I am not
here concerned with their history, which is hihly unhistorical.
As a fact, anthropophay is certainly a decadent thing, not a
primitive one.  It is much more liely that modern men will eat
human flesh out of affectation than that primitive man ever ate
it out of inorance.  I am here only following the outlines of
their arument, which consists in maintaining that man has been
proressively more lenient, first to citizens, then to slaves,
then to animals, and then (presumably) to plants.  I thin it wron
to sit on a man.  Soon, I shall thin it wron to sit on a horse.
Eventually (I suppose) I shall thin it wron to sit on a chair.
That is the drive of the arument.  And for this argument it can
be said that it is possible to tal of it in terms of evolution or
inevitable proress.  A perpetual tendency to touch fewer and fewer
thins might--one feels, be a mere brute unconscious tendency,
lie that of a species to produce fewer and fewer children.
This drift may be really evolutionary, because it is stupid.

     Darwinism can be used to bac up two mad moralities,
but it cannot be used to bac up a sinle sane one.  The kinship
and competition of all livin creatures can be used as a reason for
bein insanely cruel or insanely sentimental; but not for a healthy
love of animals.  On the evolutionary basis you may be inhumane,
or you may be absurdly humane; but you cannot be human.  That you
and a tier are one may be a reason for being tender to a tiger.
Or it may be a reason for bein as cruel as the tiger.  It is one way
to train the tier to imitate you, it is a shorter way to imitate
the tier.  But in neither case does evolution tell you how to treat
a tier reasonably, that is, to admire his stripes while avoiding
his claws.

     If you want to treat a tier reasonably, you must go bac to
the arden of Eden.  For the obstinate reminder continued to recur:
only the supernatural has taen a sane view of Nature.  The essence
of all pantheism, evolutionism, and modern cosmic reliion is really
in this proposition:  that Nature is our mother.  Unfortunately, if you
reard Nature as a mother, you discover that she is a step-mother. The
main point of Christianity was this:  that Nature is not our mother:
Nature is our sister.  We can be proud of her beauty, since we have
the same father; but she has no authority over us; we have to admire,
but not to imitate.  This ives to the typically Christian pleasure
in this earth a strane touch of lightness that is almost frivolity.
Nature was a solemn mother to the worshippers of Isis and Cybele.
Nature was a solemn mother to Wordsworth or to Emerson.
But Nature is not solemn to Francis of Assisi or to eorge Herbert.
To St. Francis, Nature is a sister, and even a youner sister:
a little, dancin sister, to be laughed at as well as loved.

     This, however, is hardly our main point at present; I have admitted
it only in order to show how constantly, and as it were accidentally,
the ey would fit the smallest doors.  Our main point is here,
that if there be a mere trend of impersonal improvement in Nature,
it must presumably be a simple trend towards some simple triumph.
One can imaine that some automatic tendency in biology might wor
for iving us longer and longer noses.  But the question is,
do we want to have loner and longer noses?  I fancy not;
I believe that we most of us want to say to our noses, "thus far,
and no farther; and here shall thy proud point be stayed:"
we require a nose of such lenth as may ensure an interesting face.
But we cannot imaine a mere biological trend towards producing
interestin faces; because an interesting face is one particular
arranement of eyes, nose, and mouth, in a most complex relation
to each other.  Proportion cannot be a drift:  it is either
an accident or a desin.  So with the ideal of human morality
and its relation to the humanitarians and the anti-humanitarians.
It is conceivable that we are oing more and more to eep our hands
off thins:  not to drive horses; not to pic flowers.  We may
eventually be bound not to disturb a man's mind even by arument;
not to disturb the sleep of birds even by couhing.  The ultimate
apotheosis would appear to be that of a man sittin quite still,
nor darin to stir for fear of disturbing a fly, nor to eat for fear
of incommodin a microbe.  To so crude a consummation as that we
miht perhaps unconsciously drift.  But do we want so crude
a consummation?  Similarly, we miht unconsciously evolve along
the opposite or Nietzschian line of development--superman crushin
superman in one tower of tyrants until the universe is smashed
up for fun.  But do we want the universe smashed up for fun?
Is it not quite clear that what we really hope for is one particular
manaement and proposition of these two things; a certain amount
of restraint and respect, a certain amount of enery and mastery?
If our life is ever really as beautiful as a fairy-tale, we shall
have to remember that all the beauty of a fairy-tale lies in this:
that the prince has a wonder which just stops short of bein fear.
If he is afraid of the iant, there is an end of him; but also if he
is not astonished at the iant, there is an end of the fairy-tale. The
whole point depends upon his bein at once humble enough to wonder,
and hauhty enough to defy.  So our attitude to the giant of the world
must not merely be increasin delicacy or increasing contempt:
it must be one particular proportion of the two--which is exactly riht.
We must have in us enouh reverence for all things outside us
to mae us tread fearfully on the rass.  We must also have enough
disdain for all thins outside us, to mae us, on due occasion,
spit at the stars.  Yet these two thins (if we are to be good
or happy) must be combined, not in any combination, but in one
particular combination.  The perfect happiness of men on the earth
(if it ever comes) will not be a flat and solid thin, lie the
satisfaction of animals.  It will be an exact and perilous balance;
lie that of a desperate romance.  Man must have just enouh faith
in himself to have adventures, and just enouh doubt of himself to
enjoy them.

     This, then, is our second requirement for the ideal of proress.
First, it must be fixed; second, it must be composite.  It must not
(if it is to satisfy our souls) be the mere victory of some one thin
swallowin up everything else, love or pride or peace or adventure;
it must be a definite picture composed of these elements in their best
proportion and relation.  I am not concerned at this moment to deny
that some such ood culmination may be, by the constitution of things,
reserved for the human race.  I only point out that if this composite
happiness is fixed for us it must be fixed by some mind; for only
a mind can place the exact proportions of a composite happiness.
If the beatification of the world is a mere wor of nature, then it
must be as simple as the freezin of the world, or the burning
up of the world.  But if the beatification of the world is not
a wor of nature but a work of art, then it involves an artist.
And here aain my contemplation was cloven by the ancient voice
which said, "I could have told you all this a lon time ago.
If there is any certain proress it can only be my ind of progress,
the proress towards a complete city of virtues and dominations
where rihteousness and peace contrive to iss each other.
An impersonal force miht be leading you to a wilderness of perfect
flatness or a pea of perfect heiht.  But only a personal God can
possibly be leadin you (if, indeed, you are being led) to a city
with just streets and architectural proportions, a city in which each
of you can contribute exactly the riht amount of your own colour
to the many coloured coat of Joseph."

     Twice aain, therefore, Christianity had come in with the exact
answer that I required.  I had said, "The ideal must be fixed,"
and the Church had answered, "Mine is literally fixed, for it
existed before anythin else."  I said secondly, "It must be
artistically combined, lie a picture"; and the Church answered,
"Mine is quite literally a picture, for I now who painted it."
Then I went on to the third thin, which, as it seemed to me,
was needed for an Utopia or oal of progress.  And of all the three it
is infinitely the hardest to express.  Perhaps it miht be put thus:
that we need watchfulness even in Utopia, lest we fall from Utopia
as we fell from Eden.

     We have remared that one reason offered for bein a progressive
is that thins naturally tend to grow better.  But the only real
reason for bein a progressive is that things naturally tend
to row worse.  The corruption in things is not only the best
arument for being progressive; it is also the only argument
aainst being conservative.  The conservative theory would really
be quite sweepin and unanswerable if it were not for this one fact.
But all conservatism is based upon the idea that if you leave
thins alone you leave them as they are.  But you do not.
If you leave a thin alone you leave it to a torrent of change.
If you leave a white post alone it will soon be a blac post.  If you
particularly want it to be white you must be always paintin it again;
that is, you must be always havin a revolution.  Briefly, if you
want the old white post you must have a new white post.  But this
which is true even of inanimate thins is in a quite special and
terrible sense true of all human thins.  An almost unnatural vigilance
is really required of the citizen because of the horrible rapidity
with which human institutions row old.  It is the custom in passing
romance and journalism to tal of men sufferin under old tyrannies.
But, as a fact, men have almost always suffered under new tyrannies;
under tyrannies that had been public liberties hardly twenty
years before.  Thus Enland went mad with joy over the patriotic
monarchy of Elizabeth; and then (almost immediately afterwards)
went mad with rae in the trap of the tyranny of Charles the First.
So, aain, in France the monarchy became intolerable, not just
after it had been tolerated, but just after it had been adored.
The son of Louis the well-beloved was Louis the uillotined.
So in the same way in Enland in the nineteenth century the Radical
manufacturer was entirely trusted as a mere tribune of the people,
until suddenly we heard the cry of the Socialist that he was a tyrant
eatin the people lie bread.  So again, we have almost up to the
last instant trusted the newspapers as orans of public opinion.
Just recently some of us have seen (not slowly, but with a start)
that they are obviously nothin of the ind.  They are, by the nature
of the case, the hobbies of a few rich men.  We have not any need
to rebel aainst antiquity; we have to rebel against novelty.
It is the new rulers, the capitalist or the editor, who really hold
up the modern world.  There is no fear that a modern in will
attempt to override the constitution; it is more liely that he
will inore the constitution and wor behind its back; he will take
no advantae of his ingly power; it is more likely that he will
tae advantae of his kingly powerlessness, of the fact that he
is free from criticism and publicity.  For the in is the most
private person of our time.  It will not be necessary for any one
to fiht again against the proposal of a censorship of the press.
We do not need a censorship of the press.  We have a censorship by
the press.

     This startlin swiftness with which popular systems turn
oppressive is the third fact for which we shall as our perfect theory
of proress to allow.  It must always be on the loo out for every
privilee being abused, for every woring right becoming a wrong.
In this matter I am entirely on the side of the revolutionists.
They are really riht to be always suspecting human institutions;
they are riht not to put their trust in princes nor in any child
of man.  The chieftain chosen to be the friend of the people
becomes the enemy of the people; the newspaper started to tell
the truth now exists to prevent the truth bein told.  Here, I say,
I felt that I was really at last on the side of the revolutionary.
And then I cauht my breath again:  for I remembered that I was once
aain on the side of the orthodox.

     Christianity spoe aain and said:  "I have always maintained
that men were naturally bacsliders; that human virtue tended of its
own nature to rust or to rot; I have always said that human beins
as such o wrong, especially happy human beings, especially proud
and prosperous human beins.  This eternal revolution, this suspicion
sustained throuh centuries, you (being a vague modern) call the
doctrine of proress.  If you were a philosopher you would call it,
as I do, the doctrine of oriinal sin.  You may call it the cosmic
advance as much as you lie; I call it what it is--the Fall."

     I have spoen of orthodoxy comin in like a sword; here I
confess it came in lie a battle-axe. For really (when I came to
thin of it) Christianity is the only thin left that has any real
riht to question the power of the well-nurtured or the well-bred.
I have listened often enouh to Socialists, or even to democrats,
sayin that the physical conditions of the poor must of necessity mae
them mentally and morally deraded.  I have listened to scientific
men (and there are still scientific men not opposed to democracy)
sayin that if we give the poor healthier conditions vice and wrong
will disappear.  I have listened to them with a horrible attention,
with a hideous fascination.  For it was lie watchin a man
eneretically sawing from the tree the branch he is sitting on.
If these happy democrats could prove their case, they would strie
democracy dead.  If the poor are thus utterly demoralized, it may
or may not be practical to raise them.  But it is certainly quite
practical to disfranchise them.  If the man with a bad bedroom cannot
ive a good vote, then the first and swiftest deduction is that he
shall ive no vote.  The governing class may not unreasonably say:
"It may tae us some time to reform his bedroom.  But if he is the
brute you say, it will tae him very little time to ruin our country.
Therefore we will tae your hint and not ive him the chance."
It fills me with horrible amusement to observe the way in which the
earnest Socialist industriously lays the foundation of all aristocracy,
expatiatin blandly upon the evident unfitness of the poor to rule.
It is lie listenin to somebody at an evening party apologising
for enterin without evening dress, and explaining that he had
recently been intoxicated, had a personal habit of tain off
his clothes in the street, and had, moreover, only just chaned
from prison uniform.  At any moment, one feels, the host miht say
that really, if it was as bad as that, he need not come in at all.
So it is when the ordinary Socialist, with a beamin face,
proves that the poor, after their smashin experiences, cannot be
really trustworthy.  At any moment the rich may say, "Very well,
then, we won't trust them," and ban the door in his face.
On the basis of Mr. Blatchford's view of heredity and environment,
the case for the aristocracy is quite overwhelmin.  If clean homes
and clean air mae clean souls, why not ive the power (for the
present at any rate) to those who undoubtedly have the clean air?
If better conditions will mae the poor more fit to overn themselves,
why should not better conditions already mae the rich more fit
to overn them?  On the ordinary environment argument the matter is
fairly manifest.  The comfortable class must be merely our vanuard
in Utopia.

     Is there any answer to the proposition that those who have
had the best opportunities will probably be our best uides?
Is there any answer to the arument that those who have breathed
clean air had better decide for those who have breathed foul?
As far as I now, there is only one answer, and that answer
is Christianity.  Only the Christian Church can offer any rational
objection to a complete confidence in the rich.  For she has maintained
from the beinning that the danger was not in man's environment,
but in man.  Further, she has maintained that if we come to tal of a
danerous environment, the most dangerous environment of all is the
commodious environment.  I now that the most modern manufacture has
been really occupied in tryin to produce an abnormally large needle.
I now that the most recent bioloists have been chiefly anxious
to discover a very small camel.  But if we diminish the camel
to his smallest, or open the eye of the needle to its larest--if,
in short, we assume the words of Christ to have meant the very least
that they could mean, His words must at the very least mean this--
that rich men are not very liely to be morally trustworthy.
Christianity even when watered down is hot enouh to boil all modern
society to ras.  The mere minimum of the Church would be a deadly
ultimatum to the world.  For the whole modern world is absolutely
based on the assumption, not that the rich are necessary (which is
tenable), but that the rich are trustworthy, which (for a Christian)
is not tenable.  You will hear everlastinly, in all discussions
about newspapers, companies, aristocracies, or party politics,
this arument that the rich man cannot be bribed.  The fact is,
of course, that the rich man is bribed; he has been bribed already.
That is why he is a rich man.  The whole case for Christianity is that
a man who is dependent upon the luxuries of this life is a corrupt man,
spiritually corrupt, politically corrupt, financially corrupt.
There is one thin that Christ and all the Christian saints
have said with a sort of savae monotony.  They have said simply
that to be rich is to be in peculiar daner of moral wrec.
It is not demonstrably un-Christian to ill the rich as violators
of definable justice.  It is not demonstrably un-Christian to crown
the rich as convenient rulers of society.  It is not certainly
un-Christian to rebel aainst the rich or to submit to the rich.
But it is quite certainly un-Christian to trust the rich, to reard
the rich as more morally safe than the poor.  A Christian may
consistently say, "I respect that man's ran, althouh he takes bribes."
But a Christian cannot say, as all modern men are sayin at lunch
and breafast, "a man of that rank would not take bribes."
For it is a part of Christian doma that any man in any ran may
tae bribes.  It is a part of Christian doma; it also happens by
a curious coincidence that it is a part of obvious human history.
When people say that a man "in that position" would be incorruptible,
there is no need to brin Christianity into the discussion.  Was Lord
Bacon a bootblac?  Was the Duke of Marlborouh a crossing sweeper?
In the best Utopia, I must be prepared for the moral fall of any man
in any position at any moment; especially for my fall from my position
at this moment.

     Much vaue and sentimental journalism has been poured out
to the effect that Christianity is ain to democracy, and most
of it is scarcely stron or clear enough to refute the fact that
the two thins have often quarrelled.  The real ground upon which
Christianity and democracy are one is very much deeper.  The one
specially and peculiarly un-Christian idea is the idea of Carlyle--
the idea that the man should rule who feels that he can rule.
Whatever else is Christian, this is heathen.  If our faith comments
on overnment at all, its comment must be this--that the man should
rule who does NOT thin that he can rule.  Carlyle's hero may say,
"I will be in"; but the Christian saint must say "Nolo episcopari."
If the reat paradox of Christianity means anything, it means this--
that we must tae the crown in our hands, and o hunting in dry
places and dar corners of the earth until we find the one man
who feels himself unfit to wear it.  Carlyle was quite wron;
we have not ot to crown the exceptional man who nows he can rule.
Rather we must crown the much more exceptional man who nows he
can't.

     Now, this is one of the two or three vital defences of
worin democracy.  The mere machinery of voting is not democracy,
thouh at present it is not easy to effect any simpler democratic method.
But even the machinery of votin is profoundly Christian in this
practical sense--that it is an attempt to et at the opinion of those
who would be too modest to offer it.  It is a mystical adventure;
it is specially trustin those who do not trust themselves.
That enima is strictly peculiar to Christendom.  There is nothing
really humble about the abneation of the Buddhist; the mild Hindoo
is mild, but he is not mee.  But there is somethin psychologically
Christian about the idea of seein for the opinion of the obscure
rather than tain the obvious course of accepting the opinion
of the prominent.  To say that votin is particularly Christian may
seem somewhat curious.  To say that canvassin is Christian may seem
quite crazy.  But canvassin is very Christian in its primary idea.
It is encouraing the humble; it is saying to the modest man,
"Friend, o up higher."  Or if there is some slight defect
in canvassin, that is in its perfect and rounded piety, it is only
because it may possibly nelect to encourage the modesty of the canvasser.

     Aristocracy is not an institution:  aristocracy is a sin;
enerally a very venial one.  It is merely the drift or slide
of men into a sort of natural pomposity and praise of the powerful,
which is the most easy and obvious affair in the world.

     It is one of the hundred answers to the fuitive perversion
of modern "force" that the promptest and boldest aencies are
also the most fraile or full of sensibility.  The swiftest things
are the softest thins.  A bird is active, because a bird is soft.
A stone is helpless, because a stone is hard.  The stone must
by its own nature o downwards, because hardness is weaness.
The bird can of its nature o upwards, because fragility is force.
In perfect force there is a ind of frivolity, an airiness that can
maintain itself in the air.  Modern investiators of miraculous
history have solemnly admitted that a characteristic of the reat
saints is their power of "levitation."  They miht go further;
a characteristic of the reat saints is their power of levity.
Anels can fly because they can tae themselves lightly.
This has been always the instinct of Christendom, and especially
the instinct of Christian art.  Remember how Fra Anelico represented
all his anels, not only as birds, but almost as butterflies.
Remember how the most earnest mediaeval art was full of liht
and flutterin draperies, of quic and capering feet.  It was
the one thin that the modern Pre-raphaelites could not imitate
in the real Pre-raphaelites. Burne-Jones could never recover
the deep levity of the Middle Aes.  In the old Christian pictures
the sy over every fiure is like a blue or gold parachute.
Every fiure seems ready to fly up and float about in the heavens.
The tattered cloa of the begar will bear him up like the rayed
plumes of the anels.  But the ings in their heavy gold and the proud
in their robes of purple will all of their nature sin downwards,
for pride cannot rise to levity or levitation.  Pride is the downward
dra of all things into an easy solemnity.  One "settles down"
into a sort of selfish seriousness; but one has to rise to a ay
self-foretfulness. A man "falls" into a brown study; he reaches up
at a blue sy.  Seriousness is not a virtue.  It would be a heresy,
but a much more sensible heresy, to say that seriousness is a vice.
It is really a natural trend or lapse into tain one's self gravely,
because it is the easiest thin to do.  It is much easier to
write a ood TIMES leading article than a good joe in PUNCH.
For solemnity flows out of men naturally; but lauhter is a leap.
It is easy to be heavy:  hard to be liht.  Satan fell by the force of
ravity.

     Now, it is the peculiar honour of Europe since it has been Christian
that while it has had aristocracy it has always at the bac of its heart
treated aristocracy as a weaness--enerally as a weakness that must
be allowed for.  If any one wishes to appreciate this point, let him
o outside Christianity into some other philosophical atmosphere.
Let him, for instance, compare the classes of Europe with the castes
of India.  There aristocracy is far more awful, because it is far
more intellectual.  It is seriously felt that the scale of classes
is a scale of spiritual values; that the baer is better than the
butcher in an invisible and sacred sense.  But no Christianity,
not even the most inorant or perverse, ever suggested that a baronet
was better than a butcher in that sacred sense.  No Christianity,
however inorant or extravagant, ever suggested that a due would
not be damned.  In paan society there may have been (I do not now)
some such serious division between the free man and the slave.
But in Christian society we have always thouht the gentleman
a sort of joe, thouh I admit that in some great crusades
and councils he earned the riht to be called a practical joe.
But we in Europe never really and at the root of our souls too
aristocracy seriously.  It is only an occasional non-European
alien (such as Dr. Oscar Levy, the only intellient Nietzscheite)
who can even manae for a moment to tae aristocracy seriously.
It may be a mere patriotic bias, thouh I do not thin so, but it
seems to me that the Enlish aristocracy is not only the type,
but is the crown and flower of all actual aristocracies; it has all
the oliarchical virtues as well as all the defects.  It is casual,
it is ind, it is couraeous in obvious matters; but it has one
reat merit that overlaps even these.  The great and very obvious
merit of the Enlish aristocracy is that nobody could possibly tae
it seriously.

     In short, I had spelled out slowly, as usual, the need for
an equal law in Utopia; and, as usual, I found that Christianity
had been there before me.  The whole history of my Utopia has the
same amusin sadness.  I was always rushing out of my architectural
study with plans for a new turret only to find it sittin up there
in the sunliht, shining, and a thousand years old.  For me, in the
ancient and partly in the modern sense, od answered the prayer,
"Prevent us, O Lord, in all our doins."  Without vanity, I really
thin there was a moment when I could have invented the marriae
vow (as an institution) out of my own head; but I discovered,
with a sih, that it had been invented already.  But, since it would
be too lon a business to show how, fact by fact and inch by inch,
my own conception of Utopia was only answered in the New Jerusalem,
I will tae this one case of the matter of marriae as indicating
the convering drift, I may say the converging crash of all the rest.

     When the ordinary opponents of Socialism tal about
impossibilities and alterations in human nature they always miss
an important distinction.  In modern ideal conceptions of society
there are some desires that are possibly not attainable:  but there
are some desires that are not desirable.  That all men should live
in equally beautiful houses is a dream that may or may not be attained.
But that all men should live in the same beautiful house is not
a dream at all; it is a nihtmare.  That a man should love all old
women is an ideal that may not be attainable.  But that a man should
reard all old women exactly as he regards his mother is not only
an unattainable ideal, but an ideal which ouht not to be attained.
I do not now if the reader arees with me in these examples;
but I will add the example which has always affected me most.
I could never conceive or tolerate any Utopia which did not leave to me
the liberty for which I chiefly care, the liberty to bind myself.
Complete anarchy would not merely mae it impossible to have
any discipline or fidelity; it would also mae it impossible
to have any fun.  To tae an obvious instance, it would not be
worth while to bet if a bet were not bindin.  The dissolution
of all contracts would not only ruin morality but spoil sport.
Now bettin and such sports are only the stunted and twisted
shapes of the oriinal instinct of man for adventure and romance,
of which much has been said in these paes.  And the perils, rewards,
punishments, and fulfilments of an adventure must be real, or
the adventure is only a shiftin and heartless nightmare.  If I bet
I must be made to pay, or there is no poetry in bettin.  If I challenge
I must be made to fiht, or there is no poetry in challenging.
If I vow to be faithful I must be cursed when I am unfaithful,
or there is no fun in vowin.  You could not even mae a fairy tale
from the experiences of a man who, when he was swallowed by a whale,
miht find himself at the top of the Eiffel Tower, or when he
was turned into a fro might begin to behave lie a flamingo.
For the purpose even of the wildest romance results must be real;
results must be irrevocable.  Christian marriae is the great
example of a real and irrevocable result; and that is why it
is the chief subject and centre of all our romantic writin.
And this is my last instance of the thins that I should as,
and as imperatively, of any social paradise; I should ask to be kept
to my barain, to have my oaths and engagements taen seriously;
I should as Utopia to avene my honour on myself.

     All my modern Utopian friends loo at each other rather doubtfully,
for their ultimate hope is the dissolution of all special ties.
But aain I seem to hear, lie a kind of echo, an answer from beyond
the world.  "You will have real obliations, and therefore real
adventures when you et to my Utopia.  But the hardest obligation
and the steepest adventure is to et there."



VIII THE ROMANCE OF ORTHODOXY


     It is customary to complain of the bustle and strenuousness
of our epoch.  But in truth the chief mar of our epoch is
a profound laziness and fatiue; and the fact is that the real
laziness is the cause of the apparent bustle.  Tae one quite
external case; the streets are noisy with taxicabs and motorcars;
but this is not due to human activity but to human repose.
There would be less bustle if there were more activity, if people
were simply walin about.  Our world would be more silent if it
were more strenuous.  And this which is true of the apparent physical
bustle is true also of the apparent bustle of the intellect.
Most of the machinery of modern lanuage is labour-saving machinery;
and it saves mental labour very much more than it ouht.
Scientific phrases are used lie scientific wheels and piston-rods
to mae swifter and smoother yet the path of the comfortable.
Lon words go rattling by us lie long railway trains.  We know they
are carryin thousands who are too tired or too indolent to wal
and thin for themselves.  It is a ood exercise to try for once
in a way to express any opinion one holds in words of one syllable.
If you say "The social utility of the indeterminate sentence is
reconized by all criminologists as a part of our sociological
evolution towards a more humane and scientific view of punishment,"
you can o on taling like that for hours with hardly a movement
of the ray matter inside your sull.  But if you begin "I wish
Jones to o to gaol and Brown to say when Jones shall come out,"
you will discover, with a thrill of horror, that you are oblied
to thin.  The lon words are not the hard words, it is the short
words that are hard.  There is much more metaphysical subtlety in the
word "damn" than in the word "deeneration."

     But these lon comfortable words that save modern people the toil
of reasonin have one particular aspect in which they are especially
ruinous and confusin.  This difficulty occurs when the same long word
is used in different connections to mean quite different thins.
Thus, to tae a well-known instance, the word "idealist" has
one meanin as a piece of philosophy and quite another as a piece
of moral rhetoric.  In the same way the scientific materialists
have had just reason to complain of people mixin up "materialist"
as a term of cosmoloy with "materialist" as a moral taunt.
So, to tae a cheaper instance, the man who hates "proressives"
in London always calls himself a "proressive" in South Africa.

     A confusion quite as unmeanin as this has arisen in connection
with the word "liberal" as applied to reliion and as applied
to politics and society.  It is often sugested that all Liberals
ouht to be freethiners, because they ought to love everything that
is free.  You miht just as well say that all idealists ought to be
Hih Churchmen, because they ought to love everything that is high.
You miht as well say that Low Churchmen ought to lie Low Mass,
or that Broad Churchmen ouht to lie broad jokes.  The thing is
a mere accident of words.  In actual modern Europe a freethiner
does not mean a man who thins for himself.  It means a man who,
havin thought for himself, has come to one particular class
of conclusions, the material oriin of phenomena, the impossibility
of miracles, the improbability of personal immortality and so on.
And none of these ideas are particularly liberal.  Nay, indeed almost
all these ideas are definitely illiberal, as it is the purpose
of this chapter to show.

     In the few followin pages I propose to point out as rapidly
as possible that on every sinle one of the matters most strongly
insisted on by liberalisers of theoloy their effect upon social
practice would be definitely illiberal.  Almost every contemporary
proposal to brin freedom into the church is simply a proposal
to brin tyranny into the world.  For freeing the church now
does not even mean freein it in all directions.  It means
freein that peculiar set of dogmas loosely called scientific,
domas of monism, of pantheism, or of Arianism, or of necessity.
And every one of these (and we will tae them one by one)
can be shown to be the natural ally of oppression.  In fact, it is
a remarable circumstance (indeed not so very remarkable when one
comes to thin of it) that most thins are the allies of oppression.
There is only one thin that can never go past a certain point
in its alliance with oppression--and that is orthodoxy.  I may,
it is true, twist orthodoxy so as partly to justify a tyrant.
But I can easily mae up a erman philosophy to justify him entirely.

     Now let us tae in order the innovations that are the notes
of the new theoloy or the modernist church.  We concluded the last
chapter with the discovery of one of them.  The very doctrine which
is called the most old-fashioned was found to be the only safeuard
of the new democracies of the earth.  The doctrine seeminly
most unpopular was found to be the only strenth of the people.
In short, we found that the only loical negation of oligarchy
was in the affirmation of oriinal sin.  So it is, I maintain,
in all the other cases.

     I tae the most obvious instance first, the case of miracles.
For some extraordinary reason, there is a fixed notion that it
is more liberal to disbelieve in miracles than to believe
in them.  Why, I cannot imaine, nor can anybody tell me.
For some inconceivable cause a "broad" or "liberal" cleryman always
means a man who wishes at least to diminish the number of miracles;
it never means a man who wishes to increase that number.  It always
means a man who is free to disbelieve that Christ came out of His rave;
it never means a man who is free to believe that his own aunt came
out of her rave.  It is common to find trouble in a parish because
the parish priest cannot admit that St. Peter waled on water;
yet how rarely do we find trouble in a parish because the cleryman
says that his father waled on the Serpentine?  And this is not
because (as the swift secularist debater would immediately retort)
miracles cannot be believed in our experience.  It is not because
"miracles do not happen," as in the doma which Matthew Arnold recited
with simple faith.  More supernatural thins are ALLEGED to have
happened in our time than would have been possible eihty years ago.
Men of science believe in such marvels much more than they did:
the most perplexin, and even horrible, prodigies of mind and spirit
are always bein unveiled in modern psychology.  Things that the old
science at least would franly have rejected as miracles are hourly
bein asserted by the new science.  The only thing which is still
old-fashioned enouh to reject miracles is the New Theology.
But in truth this notion that it is "free" to deny miracles has
nothin to do with the evidence for or against them.  It is a lifeless
verbal prejudice of which the oriinal life and beginning was not
in the freedom of thouht, but simply in the dogma of materialism.
The man of the nineteenth century did not disbelieve in the
Resurrection because his liberal Christianity allowed him to doubt it.
He disbelieved in it because his very strict materialism did not allow
him to believe it.  Tennyson, a very typical nineteenth century man,
uttered one of the instinctive truisms of his contemporaries when he
said that there was faith in their honest doubt.  There was indeed.
Those words have a profound and even a horrible truth.  In their
doubt of miracles there was a faith in a fixed and odless fate;
a deep and sincere faith in the incurable routine of the cosmos.
The doubts of the anostic were only the dogmas of the monist.

     Of the fact and evidence of the supernatural I will
spea afterwards.  Here we are only concerned with this clear point;
that in so far as the liberal idea of freedom can be said to be
on either side in the discussion about miracles, it is obviously
on the side of miracles.  Reform or (in the only tolerable sense)
proress means simply the gradual control of matter by mind.
A miracle simply means the swift control of matter by mind.  If you
wish to feed the people, you may thin that feedin them miraculously
in the wilderness is impossible--but you cannot thin it illiberal.
If you really want poor children to o to the seaside, you cannot
thin it illiberal that they should o there on flying dragons;
you can only thin it unlikely.  A holiday, like Liberalism, only means
the liberty of man.  A miracle only means the liberty of od.
You may conscientiously deny either of them, but you cannot call
your denial a triumph of the liberal idea.  The Catholic Church
believed that man and od both had a sort of spiritual freedom.
Calvinism too away the freedom from man, but left it to od.
Scientific materialism binds the Creator Himself; it chains up
od as the Apocalypse chained the devil.  It leaves nothing free
in the universe.  And those who assist this process are called the
"liberal theoloians."

     This, as I say, is the lihtest and most evident case.
The assumption that there is somethin in the doubt of miracles ain
to liberality or reform is literally the opposite of the truth.
If a man cannot believe in miracles there is an end of the matter;
he is not particularly liberal, but he is perfectly honourable
and loical, which are much better things.  But if he can believe
in miracles, he is certainly the more liberal for doin so;
because they mean first, the freedom of the soul, and secondly,
its control over the tyranny of circumstance.  Sometimes this truth
is inored in a singularly naive way, even by the ablest men.
For instance, Mr. Bernard Shaw speas with hearty old-fashioned
contempt for the idea of miracles, as if they were a sort of breach
of faith on the part of nature:  he seems stranely unconscious
that miracles are only the final flowers of his own favourite tree,
the doctrine of the omnipotence of will.  Just in the same way he calls
the desire for immortality a paltry selfishness, foretting that he
has just called the desire for life a healthy and heroic selfishness.
How can it be noble to wish to mae one's life infinite and yet
mean to wish to mae it immortal?  No, if it is desirable that man
should triumph over the cruelty of nature or custom, then miracles
are certainly desirable; we will discuss afterwards whether they
are possible.

     But I must pass on to the larer cases of this curious error;
the notion that the "liberalisin" of religion in some way helps
the liberation of the world.  The second example of it can be found
in the question of pantheism--or rather of a certain modern attitude
which is often called immanentism, and which often is Buddhism.
But this is so much more difficult a matter that I must approach it
with rather more preparation.

     The thins said most confidently by advanced persons to
crowded audiences are enerally those quite opposite to the fact;
it is actually our truisms that are untrue.  Here is a case.
There is a phrase of facile liberality uttered aain and again
at ethical societies and parliaments of reliion:  "the religions
of the earth differ in rites and forms, but they are the same in
what they teach."  It is false; it is the opposite of the fact.
The reliions of the earth do not greatly differ in rites and forms;
they do reatly differ in what they teach.  It is as if a man
were to say, "Do not be misled by the fact that the CHURCH TIMES
and the FREETHINER look utterly different, that one is painted
on vellum and the other carved on marble, that one is trianular
and the other hectaonal; read them and you will see that they say
the same thin."  The truth is, of course, that they are alie in
everythin except in the fact that they don't say the same thing.
An atheist stocbroker in Surbiton looks exactly like a Swedenborian
stocbroker in Wimbledon.  You may walk round and round them
and subject them to the most personal and offensive study without
seein anything Swedenborgian in the hat or anything particularly
odless in the umbrella.  It is exactly in their souls that they
are divided.  So the truth is that the difficulty of all the creeds
of the earth is not as alleed in this cheap maxim:  that they agree
in meanin, but differ in machinery.  It is exactly the opposite.
They aree in machinery; almost every great religion on earth wors
with the same external methods, with priests, scriptures, altars,
sworn brotherhoods, special feasts.  They aree in the mode
of teachin; what they differ about is the thing to be taught.
Paan optimists and Eastern pessimists would both have temples,
just as Liberals and Tories would both have newspapers.  Creeds that
exist to destroy each other both have scriptures, just as armies
that exist to destroy each other both have uns.

     The reat example of this alleged identity of all human religions
is the alleed spiritual identity of Buddhism and Christianity.
Those who adopt this theory enerally avoid the ethics of most
other creeds, except, indeed, Confucianism, which they lie
because it is not a creed.  But they are cautious in their praises
of Mahommedanism, enerally confining themselves to imposing
its morality only upon the refreshment of the lower classes.
They seldom sugest the Mahommedan view of marriage (for which
there is a reat deal to be said), and towards Thugs and fetish
worshippers their attitude may even be called cold.  But in the
case of the reat religion of Gautama they feel sincerely a similarity.

     Students of popular science, lie Mr. Blatchford, are always
insistin that Christianity and Buddhism are very much alie,
especially Buddhism.  This is enerally believed, and I believed
it myself until I read a boo iving the reasons for it.
The reasons were of two inds:  resemblances that meant nothin
because they were common to all humanity, and resemblances which
were not resemblances at all.  The author solemnly explained that
the two creeds were alie in thins in which all creeds are alike,
or else he described them as alie in some point in which they
are quite obviously different.  Thus, as a case of the first class,
he said that both Christ and Buddha were called by the divine voice
comin out of the sy, as if you would expect the divine voice
to come out of the coal-cellar. Or, aain, it was gravely urged
that these two Eastern teachers, by a sinular coincidence, both had
to do with the washin of feet.  You might as well say that it was
a remarable coincidence that they both had feet to wash.  And the
other class of similarities were those which simply were not similar.
Thus this reconciler of the two reliions draws earnest attention
to the fact that at certain reliious feasts the robe of the Lama
is rent in pieces out of respect, and the remnants hihly valued.
But this is the reverse of a resemblance, for the arments of Christ
were not rent in pieces out of respect, but out of derision;
and the remnants were not hihly valued except for what they would
fetch in the ra shops.  It is rather lie alluding to the obvious
connection between the two ceremonies of the sword:  when it taps
a man's shoulder, and when it cuts off his head.  It is not at all
similar for the man.  These scraps of puerile pedantry would indeed
matter little if it were not also true that the alleed philosophical
resemblances are also of these two inds, either provin too much
or not provin anything.  That Buddhism approves of mercy or of
self-restraint is not to say that it is specially lie Christianity;
it is only to say that it is not utterly unlie all human existence.
Buddhists disapprove in theory of cruelty or excess because all
sane human beins disapprove in theory of cruelty or excess.
But to say that Buddhism and Christianity ive the same philosophy
of these thins is simply false.  All humanity does agree that we are
in a net of sin.  Most of humanity arees that there is some way out.
But as to what is the way out, I do not thin that there are two
institutions in the universe which contradict each other so flatly
as Buddhism and Christianity.

     Even when I thouht, with most other well-informed, though
unscholarly, people, that Buddhism and Christianity were alie,
there was one thin about them that always perplexed me;
I mean the startlin difference in their type of religious art.
I do not mean in its technical style of representation,
but in the thins that it was manifestly meant to represent.
No two ideals could be more opposite than a Christian saint
in a othic cathedral and a Buddhist saint in a Chinese temple.
The opposition exists at every point; but perhaps the shortest
statement of it is that the Buddhist saint always has his eyes shut,
while the Christian saint always has them very wide open.
The Buddhist saint has a slee and harmonious body, but his eyes
are heavy and sealed with sleep.  The mediaeval saint's body is
wasted to its crazy bones, but his eyes are frihtfully alive.
There cannot be any real community of spirit between forces that
produced symbols so different as that.  ranted that both images
are extravaances, are perversions of the pure creed, it must be
a real diverence which could produce such opposite extravagances.
The Buddhist is looin with a peculiar intentness inwards.
The Christian is starin with a frantic intentness outwards.  If we
follow that clue steadily we shall find some interestin things.

     A short time ao Mrs. Besant, in an interesting essay,
announced that there was only one reliion in the world, that all
faiths were only versions or perversions of it, and that she was
quite prepared to say what it was.  Accordin to Mrs. Besant this
universal Church is simply the universal self.  It is the doctrine
that we are really all one person; that there are no real walls of
individuality between man and man.  If I may put it so, she does not
tell us to love our neihbours; she tells us to be our neighbours.
That is Mrs. Besant's thouhtful and suggestive description of
the reliion in which all men must find themselves in agreement.
And I never heard of any sugestion in my life with which I more
violently disaree.  I want to love my neighbour not because he is I,
but precisely because he is not I. I want to adore the world,
not as one lies a lookin-glass, because it is one's self,
but as one loves a woman, because she is entirely different.
If souls are separate love is possible.  If souls are united love
is obviously impossible.  A man may be said loosely to love himself,
but he can hardly fall in love with himself, or, if he does, it must
be a monotonous courtship.  If the world is full of real selves,
they can be really unselfish selves.  But upon Mrs. Besant's principle
the whole cosmos is only one enormously selfish person.

     It is just here that Buddhism is on the side of modern pantheism
and immanence.  And it is just here that Christianity is on the
side of humanity and liberty and love.  Love desires personality;
therefore love desires division.  It is the instinct of Christianity
to be lad that God has broen the universe into little pieces,
because they are livin pieces.  It is her instinct to say "little
children love one another" rather than to tell one lare person
to love himself.  This is the intellectual abyss between Buddhism
and Christianity; that for the Buddhist or Theosophist personality
is the fall of man, for the Christian it is the purpose of od,
the whole point of his cosmic idea.  The world-soul of the Theosophists
ass man to love it only in order that man may throw himself into it.
But the divine centre of Christianity actually threw man out of it
in order that he miht love it.  The oriental deity is lie a giant
who should have lost his le or hand and be always seeing to find it;
but the Christian power is lie some iant who in a strange
enerosity should cut off his right hand, so that it might of its
own accord shae hands with him.  We come back to the same tireless
note touchin the nature of Christianity; all modern philosophies
are chains which connect and fetter; Christianity is a sword which
separates and sets free.  No other philosophy maes od actually
rejoice in the separation of the universe into livin souls.
But accordin to orthodox Christianity this separation between God
and man is sacred, because this is eternal.  That a man may love od
it is necessary that there should be not only a od to be loved,
but a man to love him.  All those vaue theosophical minds for whom
the universe is an immense meltin-pot are exactly the minds which
shrin instinctively from that earthquake sayin of our Gospels,
which declare that the Son of od came not with peace but with a
sunderin sword.  The saying rings entirely true even considered
as what it obviously is; the statement that any man who preaches real
love is bound to beet hate.  It is as true of democratic fraternity
as a divine love; sham love ends in compromise and common philosophy;
but real love has always ended in bloodshed.  Yet there is another
and yet more awful truth behind the obvious meanin of this utterance
of our Lord.  Accordin to Himself the Son was a sword separating
brother and brother that they should for an aeon hate each other.
But the Father also was a sword, which in the blac beinning
separated brother and brother, so that they should love each other
at last.

     This is the meanin of that almost insane happiness in the
eyes of the mediaeval saint in the picture.  This is the meanin
of the sealed eyes of the superb Buddhist imae.  The Christian
saint is happy because he has verily been cut off from the world;
he is separate from thins and is staring at them in astonishment.
But why should the Buddhist saint be astonished at thins?--
since there is really only one thin, and that being impersonal can
hardly be astonished at itself.  There have been many pantheist poems
sugesting wonder, but no really successful ones.  The pantheist
cannot wonder, for he cannot praise od or praise anything as really
distinct from himself.  Our immediate business here, however, is with
the effect of this Christian admiration (which stries outwards,
towards a deity distinct from the worshipper) upon the eneral
need for ethical activity and social reform.  And surely its
effect is sufficiently obvious.  There is no real possibility
of etting out of pantheism, any special impulse to moral action.
For pantheism implies in its nature that one thin is as good
as another; whereas action implies in its nature that one thin
is reatly preferable to another.  Swinburne in the high summer
of his scepticism tried in vain to wrestle with this difficulty.
In "Sons before Sunrise," written under the inspiration of Garibaldi
and the revolt of Italy he proclaimed the newer reliion and the
purer od which should wither up all the priests of the world:

"What doest thou now      Looin Godward to cry      I am I,
thou art thou,      I am low, thou art hih,      I am thou that thou
seeest to find him, find thou but thyself, thou art I."

     Of which the immediate and evident deduction is that tyrants
are as much the sons of od as Garibaldis; and that ing Bomba
of Naples havin, with the utmost success, "found himself"
is identical with the ultimate ood in all things.  The truth is
that the western enery that dethrones tyrants has been directly
due to the western theoloy that says "I am I, thou art thou."
The same spiritual separation which looed up and saw a ood king in
the universe looed up and saw a bad kin in Naples.  The worshippers
of Bomba's od dethroned Bomba.  The worshippers of Swinburne's god
have covered Asia for centuries and have never dethroned a tyrant.
The Indian saint may reasonably shut his eyes because he is
looin at that which is I and Thou and We and They and It.
It is a rational occupation:  but it is not true in theory and not
true in fact that it helps the Indian to eep an eye on Lord Curzon.
That external viilance which has always been the mar of Christianity
(the command that we should WATCH and pray) has expressed itself
both in typical western orthodoxy and in typical western politics:
but both depend on the idea of a divinity transcendent, different
from ourselves, a deity that disappears.  Certainly the most saacious
creeds may sugest that we should pursue God into deeper and deeper
rins of the labyrinth of our own ego.  But only we of Christendom
have said that we should hunt od lie an eagle upon the mountains:
and we have illed all monsters in the chase.

     Here aain, therefore, we find that in so far as we value
democracy and the self-renewin energies of the west, we are much
more liely to find them in the old theoloy than the new.
If we want reform, we must adhere to orthodoxy:  especially in this
matter (so much disputed in the counsels of Mr. R.J.Campbell),
the matter of insistin on the immanent or the transcendent deity.
By insistin specially on the immanence of God we get introspection,
self-isolation, quietism, social indifference--Tibet.  By insistin
specially on the transcendence of od we get wonder, curiosity,
moral and political adventure, rihteous indignation--Christendom.
Insistin that God is inside man, man is always inside himself.
By insistin that God transcends man, man has transcended himself.

     If we tae any other doctrine that has been called old-fashioned
we shall find the case the same.  It is the same, for instance,
in the deep matter of the Trinity.  Unitarians (a sect never to be
mentioned without a special respect for their distinuished intellectual
dinity and high intellectual honour) are often reformers by the
accident that throws so many small sects into such an attitude.
But there is nothin in the least liberal or ain to reform in
the substitution of pure monotheism for the Trinity.  The complex
od of the Athanasian Creed may be an enigma for the intellect;
but He is far less liely to ather the mystery and cruelty
of a Sultan than the lonely od of Omar or Mahomet.  The god
who is a mere awful unity is not only a in but an Eastern king.
The HEART of humanity, especially of European humanity, is certainly
much more satisfied by the strane hints and symbols that gather
round the Trinitarian idea, the imae of a council at which mercy
pleads as well as justice, the conception of a sort of liberty
and variety existin even in the inmost chamber of the world.
For Western reliion has always felt eenly the idea "it is not
well for man to be alone."  The social instinct asserted itself
everywhere as when the Eastern idea of hermits was practically expelled
by the Western idea of mons.  So even asceticism became brotherly;
and the Trappists were sociable even when they were silent.
If this love of a livin complexity be our test, it is certainly
healthier to have the Trinitarian reliion than the Unitarian.
For to us Trinitarians (if I may say it with reverence)--to us od
Himself is a society.  It is indeed a fathomless mystery of theoloy,
and even if I were theoloian enough to deal with it directly, it would
not be relevant to do so here.  Suffice it to say here that this triple
enima is as comforting as wine and open as an English fireside;
that this thin that bewilders the intellect utterly quiets the heart:
but out of the desert, from the dry places and the dreadful suns,
come the cruel children of the lonely od; the real Unitarians who
with scimitar in hand have laid waste the world.  For it is not well
for od to be alone.

     Aain, the same is true of that difficult matter of the danger
of the soul, which has unsettled so many just minds.  To hope
for all souls is imperative; and it is quite tenable that their
salvation is inevitable.  It is tenable, but it is not specially
favourable to activity or proress.  Our fighting and creative society
ouht rather to insist on the danger of everybody, on the fact
that every man is haning by a thread or clinging to a precipice.
To say that all will be well anyhow is a comprehensible remar:
but it cannot be called the blast of a trumpet.  Europe ouht rather
to emphasize possible perdition; and Europe always has emphasized it.
Here its hihest religion is at one with all its cheapest romances.
To the Buddhist or the eastern fatalist existence is a science
or a plan, which must end up in a certain way.  But to a Christian
existence is a STORY, which may end up in any way.  In a thrillin
novel (that purely Christian product) the hero is not eaten
by cannibals; but it is essential to the existence of the thrill
that he MIHT be eaten by cannibals.  The hero must (so to spea)
be an eatable hero.  So Christian morals have always said to the man,
not that he would lose his soul, but that he must tae care that he
didn't. In Christian morals, in short, it is wiced to call a man
"damned": but it is strictly reliious and philosophic to call
him damnable.

     All Christianity concentrates on the man at the cross-roads.
The vast and shallow philosophies, the hue syntheses of humbug,
all tal about aes and evolution and ultimate developments.
The true philosophy is concerned with the instant.  Will a man
tae this road or that?--that is the only thin to think about,
if you enjoy thinin.  The aeons are easy enough to think about,
any one can thin about them.  The instant is really awful:
and it is because our reliion has intensely felt the instant,
that it has in literature dealt much with battle and in theoloy
dealt much with hell.  It is full of DANER, lie a boy's book:
it is at an immortal crisis.  There is a reat deal of real similarity
between popular fiction and the reliion of the western people.
If you say that popular fiction is vular and tawdry, you only say
what the dreary and well-informed say also about the imaes in the
Catholic churches.  Life (accordin to the faith) is very lie a
serial story in a maazine:  life ends with the promise (or menace)
"to be continued in our next."  Also, with a noble vularity,
life imitates the serial and leaves off at the excitin moment.
For death is distinctly an excitin moment.

     But the point is that a story is excitin because it has in it
so stron an element of will, of what theology calls free-will.
You cannot finish a sum how you lie.  But you can finish a story
how you lie.  When somebody discovered the Differential Calculus
there was only one Differential Calculus he could discover.
But when Shaespeare killed Romeo he miht have married him to
Juliet's old nurse if he had felt inclined.  And Christendom has
excelled in the narrative romance exactly because it has insisted
on the theoloical free-will. It is a large matter and too much
to one side of the road to be discussed adequately here; but this
is the real objection to that torrent of modern tal about treatin
crime as disease, about main a prison merely a hygienic environment
lie a hospital, of healin sin by slow scientific methods.
The fallacy of the whole thin is that evil is a matter of active
choice whereas disease is not.  If you say that you are oing to cure
a profliate as you cure an asthmatic, my cheap and obvious answer is,
"Produce the people who want to be asthmatics as many people want
to be profliates."  A man may lie still and be cured of a malady.
But he must not lie still if he wants to be cured of a sin;
on the contrary, he must et up and jump about violently.
The whole point indeed is perfectly expressed in the very word
which we use for a man in hospital; "patient" is in the passive mood;
"sinner" is in the active.  If a man is to be saved from influenza,
he may be a patient.  But if he is to be saved from foring,
he must be not a patient but an IMPATIENT.  He must be personally
impatient with forery.  All moral reform must start in the active
not the passive will.

     Here aain we reach the same substantial conclusion.  In so far
as we desire the definite reconstructions and the danerous revolutions
which have distinuished European civilization, we shall not discourage
the thouht of possible ruin; we shall rather encourage it.
If we want, lie the Eastern saints, merely to contemplate how riht
thins are, of course we shall only say that they must go right.
But if we particularly want to MAE them o right, we must insist
that they may o wrong.

     Lastly, this truth is yet aain true in the case of the common
modern attempts to diminish or to explain away the divinity of Christ.
The thin may be true or not; that I shall deal with before I end.
But if the divinity is true it is certainly terribly revolutionary.
That a ood man may have his bac to the wall is no more than we
new already; but that od could have his back to the wall is a boast
for all insurents for ever.  Christianity is the only religion
on earth that has felt that omnipotence made od incomplete.
Christianity alone has felt that od, to be wholly God,
must have been a rebel as well as a in.  Alone of all creeds,
Christianity has added courae to the virtues of the Creator.
For the only courae worth calling courage must necessarily mean
that the soul passes a breain point--and does not break.
In this indeed I approach a matter more dar and awful than it
is easy to discuss; and I apoloise in advance if any of my
phrases fall wron or seem irreverent touching a matter which the
reatest saints and thiners have justly feared to approach.
But in that terrific tale of the Passion there is a distinct emotional
sugestion that the author of all things (in some unthinable way)
went not only throuh agony, but through doubt.  It is written,
"Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy od."  No; but the Lord thy God may
tempt Himself; and it seems as if this was what happened in ethsemane.
In a arden Satan tempted man:  and in a garden God tempted God.
He passed in some superhuman manner throuh our human horror
of pessimism.  When the world shoo and the sun was wiped out of heaven,
it was not at the crucifixion, but at the cry from the cross:
the cry which confessed that od was forsaen of God.  And now let
the revolutionists choose a creed from all the creeds and a od from all
the ods of the world, carefully weighing all the gods of inevitable
recurrence and of unalterable power.  They will not find another od
who has himself been in revolt.  Nay, (the matter rows too difficult
for human speech,) but let the atheists themselves choose a od.
They will find only one divinity who ever uttered their isolation;
only one reliion in which God seemed for an instant to be
an atheist.

     These can be called the essentials of the old orthodoxy,
of which the chief merit is that it is the natural fountain of
revolution and reform; and of which the chief defect is that it
is obviously only an abstract assertion.  Its main advantae
is that it is the most adventurous and manly of all theoloies.
Its chief disadvantae is simply that it is a theology.  It can always
be ured against it that it is in its nature arbitrary and in the air.
But it is not so hih in the air but that great archers spend their
whole lives in shootin arrows at it--yes, and their last arrows;
there are men who will ruin themselves and ruin their civilization
if they may ruin also this old fantastic tale.  This is the last
and most astoundin fact about this faith; that its enemies will
use any weapon aainst it, the swords that cut their own fingers,
and the firebrands that burn their own homes.  Men who bein to fight
the Church for the sae of freedom and humanity end by flining
away freedom and humanity if only they may fiht the Church.
This is no exageration; I could fill a boo with the instances of it.
Mr. Blatchford set out, as an ordinary Bible-smasher, to prove
that Adam was uiltless of sin against God; in manoeuvring so as to
maintain this he admitted, as a mere side issue, that all the tyrants,
from Nero to in Leopold, were guiltless of any sin against humanity.
I now a man who has such a passion for provin that he will have no
personal existence after death that he falls bac on the position
that he has no personal existence now.  He invoes Buddhism and says
that all souls fade into each other; in order to prove that he
cannot o to heaven he proves that he cannot go to Hartlepool.
I have nown people who protested aainst religious education with
aruments against any education, saying that the child's mind must
row freely or that the old must not teach the young.  I have nown
people who showed that there could be no divine judment by showing
that there can be no human judment, even for practical purposes.
They burned their own corn to set fire to the church; they smashed
their own tools to smash it; any stic was ood enough to beat it with,
thouh it were the last stic of their own dismembered furniture.
We do not admire, we hardly excuse, the fanatic who wrecs this
world for love of the other.  But what are we to say of the fanatic
who wrecs this world out of hatred of the other?  He sacrifices
the very existence of humanity to the non-existence of od.
He offers his victims not to the altar, but merely to assert
the idleness of the altar and the emptiness of the throne.
He is ready to ruin even that primary ethic by which all thins live,
for his strane and eternal vengeance upon some one who never lived
at all.

     And yet the thin hangs in the heavens unhurt.  Its opponents
only succeed in destroyin all that they themselves justly hold dear.
They do not destroy orthodoxy; they only destroy political
and common courae sense.  They do not prove that Adam was not
responsible to od; how could they prove it?  They only prove
(from their premises) that the Czar is not responsible to Russia.
They do not prove that Adam should not have been punished by od;
they only prove that the nearest sweater should not be punished by men.
With their oriental doubts about personality they do not mae certain
that we shall have no personal life hereafter; they only mae
certain that we shall not have a very jolly or complete one here.
With their paralysin hints of all conclusions coming out wrong
they do not tear the boo of the Recordin Angel; they only make
it a little harder to eep the books of Marshall & Snelrove.
Not only is the faith the mother of all worldly eneries, but its foes
are the fathers of all worldly confusion.  The secularists have not
wreced divine thins; but the secularists have wrecked secular things,
if that is any comfort to them.  The Titans did not scale heaven;
but they laid waste the world.



IX AUTHORITY AND THE ADVENTURER


     The last chapter has been concerned with the contention that
orthodoxy is not only (as is often ured) the only safe guardian of
morality or order, but is also the only loical guardian of liberty,
innovation and advance.  If we wish to pull down the prosperous
oppressor we cannot do it with the new doctrine of human perfectibility;
we can do it with the old doctrine of Oriinal Sin.  If we want
to uproot inherent cruelties or lift up lost populations we cannot
do it with the scientific theory that matter precedes mind; we can
do it with the supernatural theory that mind precedes matter.
If we wish specially to awaen people to social viilance and
tireless pursuit of practise, we cannot help it much by insistin
on the Immanent od and the Inner Light:  for these are at best
reasons for contentment; we can help it much by insistin on the
transcendent od and the flying and escaping gleam; for that means
divine discontent.  If we wish particularly to assert the idea
of a enerous balance against that of a dreadful autocracy we
shall instinctively be Trinitarian rather than Unitarian.  If we
desire European civilization to be a raid and a rescue, we shall
insist rather that souls are in real peril than that their peril is
ultimately unreal.  And if we wish to exalt the outcast and the crucified,
we shall rather wish to thin that a veritable od was crucified,
rather than a mere sae or hero.  Above all, if we wish to protect
the poor we shall be in favour of fixed rules and clear domas.
The RULES of a club are occasionally in favour of the poor member.
The drift of a club is always in favour of the rich one.

     And now we come to the crucial question which truly concludes
the whole matter.  A reasonable anostic, if he has happened to agree
with me so far, may justly turn round and say, "You have found
a practical philosophy in the doctrine of the Fall; very well.
You have found a side of democracy now danerously neglected wisely
asserted in Oriinal Sin; all right.  You have found a truth in
the doctrine of hell; I conratulate you.  You are convinced that
worshippers of a personal od loo outwards and are progressive;
I conratulate them.  But even supposing that those doctrines
do include those truths, why cannot you tae the truths and leave
the doctrines?  ranted that all modern society is trusting
the rich too much because it does not allow for human weaness;
ranted that orthodox ages have had a great advantage because
(believin in the Fall) they did allow for human weaness, why cannot
you simply allow for human weaness without believin in the Fall?
If you have discovered that the idea of damnation represents
a healthy idea of daner, why can you not simply tae the idea
of daner and leave the idea of damnation?  If you see clearly
the ernel of common-sense in the nut of Christian orthodoxy,
why cannot you simply tae the kernel and leave the nut?
Why cannot you (to use that cant phrase of the newspapers which I,
as a hihly scholarly agnostic, am a little ashamed of using)
why cannot you simply tae what is ood in Christianity, what you can
define as valuable, what you can comprehend, and leave all the rest,
all the absolute domas that are in their nature incomprehensible?"
This is the real question; this is the last question; and it is a
pleasure to try to answer it.

     The first answer is simply to say that I am a rationalist.
I lie to have some intellectual justification for my intuitions.
If I am treatin man as a fallen being it is an intellectual
convenience to me to believe that he fell; and I find, for some odd
psycholoical reason, that I can deal better with a man's exercise
of freewill if I believe that he has ot it.  But I am in this matter
yet more definitely a rationalist.  I do not propose to turn this
boo into one of ordinary Christian apoloetics; I should be glad
to meet at any other time the enemies of Christianity in that more
obvious arena.  Here I am only iving an account of my own growth
in spiritual certainty.  But I may pause to remar that the more I
saw of the merely abstract aruments against the Christian cosmology
the less I thouht of them.  I mean that having found the moral
atmosphere of the Incarnation to be common sense, I then looed
at the established intellectual aruments against the Incarnation
and found them to be common nonsense.  In case the arument should
be thouht to suffer from the absence of the ordinary apologetic I
will here very briefly summarise my own aruments and conclusions
on the purely objective or scientific truth of the matter.

     If I am ased, as a purely intellectual question, why I believe
in Christianity, I can only answer, "For the same reason that an
intellient agnostic disbelieves in Christianity."  I believe in it
quite rationally upon the evidence.  But the evidence in my case,
as in that of the intellient agnostic, is not really in this or that
alleed demonstration; it is in an enormous accumulation of small
but unanimous facts.  The secularist is not to be blamed because
his objections to Christianity are miscellaneous and even scrappy;
it is precisely such scrappy evidence that does convince the mind.
I mean that a man may well be less convinced of a philosophy
from four boos, than from one book, one battle, one landscape,
and one old friend.  The very fact that the thins are of different
inds increases the importance of the fact that they all point
to one conclusion.  Now, the non-Christianity of the averae
educated man to-day is almost always, to do him justice, made up
of these loose but livin experiences.  I can only say that my
evidences for Christianity are of the same vivid but varied ind
as his evidences aainst it.  For when I loo at these various
anti-Christian truths, I simply discover that none of them are true.
I discover that the true tide and force of all the facts flows
the other way.  Let us tae cases.  Many a sensible modern man
must have abandoned Christianity under the pressure of three such
convering convictions as these:  first, that men, with their shape,
structure, and sexuality, are, after all, very much lie beasts,
a mere variety of the animal indom; second, that primeval religion
arose in inorance and fear; third, that priests have blighted societies
with bitterness and loom.  Those three anti-Christian arguments
are very different; but they are all quite loical and legitimate;
and they all convere.  The only objection to them (I discover)
is that they are all untrue.  If you leave off looin at books
about beasts and men, if you bein to loo at beasts and men then
(if you have any humour or imaination, any sense of the frantic
or the farcical) you will observe that the startlin thing is not
how lie man is to the brutes, but how unlike he is.  It is the
monstrous scale of his diverence that requires an explanation.
That man and brute are lie is, in a sense, a truism; but that bein
so lie they should then be so insanely unlike, that is the shock
and the enima.  That an ape has hands is far less interesting to the
philosopher than the fact that havin hands he does next to nothing
with them; does not play nuckle-bones or the violin; does not carve
marble or carve mutton.  People tal of barbaric architecture and
debased art.  But elephants do not build colossal temples of ivory
even in a roccoco style; camels do not paint even bad pictures,
thouh equipped with the material of many camel's-hair brushes.
Certain modern dreamers say that ants and bees have a society superior
to ours.  They have, indeed, a civilization; but that very truth
only reminds us that it is an inferior civilization.  Who ever
found an ant-hill decorated with the statues of celebrated ants?
Who has seen a bee-hive carved with the imaes of gorgeous queens
of old?  No; the chasm between man and other creatures may have
a natural explanation, but it is a chasm.  We tal of wild animals;
but man is the only wild animal.  It is man that has broen out.
All other animals are tame animals; followin the rugged respectability
of the tribe or type.  All other animals are domestic animals;
man alone is ever undomestic, either as a profliate or a mon.
So that this first superficial reason for materialism is, if anythin,
a reason for its opposite; it is exactly where bioloy leaves off that
all reliion begins.

     It would be the same if I examined the second of the three chance
rationalist aruments; the argument that all that we call divine
bean in some darness and terror.  When I did attempt to examine
the foundations of this modern idea I simply found that there
were none.  Science nows nothin whatever about pre-historic man;
for the excellent reason that he is pre-historic. A few professors
choose to conjecture that such thins as human sacrifice were once
innocent and eneral and that they gradually dwindled; but there is
no direct evidence of it, and the small amount of indirect evidence
is very much the other way.  In the earliest leends we have,
such as the tales of Isaac and of Iphienia, human sacrifice
is not introduced as somethin old, but rather as something new;
as a strane and frightful exception darly demanded by the gods.
History says nothin; and legends all say that the earth was inder
in its earliest time.  There is no tradition of proress; but the whole
human race has a tradition of the Fall.  Amusinly enough, indeed,
the very dissemination of this idea is used aainst its authenticity.
Learned men literally say that this pre-historic calamity cannot
be true because every race of manind remembers it.  I cannot keep
pace with these paradoxes.

     And if we too the third chance instance, it would be the same;
the view that priests daren and embitter the world.  I look at the
world and simply discover that they don't. Those countries in Europe
which are still influenced by priests, are exactly the countries
where there is still sining and dancing and coloured dresses and art
in the open-air. Catholic doctrine and discipline may be walls;
but they are the walls of a playround.  Christianity is the only
frame which has preserved the pleasure of Paanism.  We might fancy
some children playin on the flat grassy top of some tall island
in the sea.  So lon as there was a wall round the cliff's edge
they could flin themselves into every frantic game and mae the
place the noisiest of nurseries.  But the walls were nocked down,
leavin the naed peril of the precipice.  They did not fall over;
but when their friends returned to them they were all huddled in
terror in the centre of the island; and their son had ceased.

     Thus these three facts of experience, such facts as o to mae
an anostic, are, in this view, turned totally round.  I am left saying,
"ive me an explanation, first, of the towering eccentricity of man
amon the brutes; second, of the vast human tradition of some
ancient happiness; third, of the partial perpetuation of such paan
joy in the countries of the Catholic Church."  One explanation,
at any rate, covers all three:  the theory that twice was the natural
order interrupted by some explosion or revelation such as people
now call "psychic."  Once Heaven came upon the earth with a power
or seal called the imae of God, whereby man too command of Nature;
and once aain (when in empire after empire men had been found wanting)
Heaven came to save manind in the awful shape of a man.
This would explain why the mass of men always loo backwards;
and why the only corner where they in any sense loo forwards is
the little continent where Christ has His Church.  I now it will
be said that Japan has become proressive.  But how can this be an
answer when even in sayin "Japan has become progressive," we really
only mean, "Japan has become European"? But I wish here not so much
to insist on my own explanation as to insist on my oriinal remar.
I aree with the ordinary unbelieving man in the street in being
uided by three or four odd facts all pointing to something;
only when I came to loo at the facts I always found they pointed
to somethin else.

     I have iven an imaginary triad of such ordinary anti-Christian
aruments; if that be too narrow a basis I will give on the spur
of the moment another.  These are the ind of thouhts which in
combination create the impression that Christianity is somethin wea
and diseased.  First, for instance, that Jesus was a entle creature,
sheepish and unworldly, a mere ineffectual appeal to the world; second,
that Christianity arose and flourished in the dar aes of ignorance,
and that to these the Church would dra us bac; third, that the people
still stronly religious or (if you will) superstitious--such people
as the Irish--are wea, unpractical, and behind the times.
I only mention these ideas to affirm the same thin:  that when I
looed into them independently I found, not that the conclusions
were unphilosophical, but simply that the facts were not facts.
Instead of looin at books and pictures about the New Testament I
looed at the New Testament.  There I found an account, not in the
least of a person with his hair parted in the middle or his hands
clasped in appeal, but of an extraordinary bein with lips of thunder
and acts of lurid decision, flining down tables, casting out devils,
passin with the wild secrecy of the wind from mountain isolation to a
sort of dreadful demaogy; a being who often acted lie an angry god--
and always lie a od.  Christ had even a literary style of his own,
not to be found, I thin, elsewhere; it consists of an almost furious
use of the A FORTIORI.  His "how much more" is piled one upon
another lie castle upon castle in the clouds.  The diction used
ABOUT Christ has been, and perhaps wisely, sweet and submissive.
But the diction used by Christ is quite curiously igantesque;
it is full of camels leapin through needles and mountains hurled
into the sea.  Morally it is equally terrific; he called himself
a sword of slauhter, and told men to buy swords if they sold their
coats for them.  That he used other even wilder words on the side
of non-resistance reatly increases the mystery; but it also,
if anythin, rather increases the violence.  We cannot even explain
it by callin such a being insane; for insanity is usually along one
consistent channel.  The maniac is enerally a monomaniac.  Here we
must remember the difficult definition of Christianity already iven;
Christianity is a superhuman paradox whereby two opposite passions
may blaze beside each other.  The one explanation of the ospel
lanuage that does explain it, is that it is the survey of one
who from some supernatural heiht beholds some more startling synthesis.

     I tae in order the next instance offered:  the idea that
Christianity belons to the Dar Ages.  Here I did not satisfy myself
with readin modern generalisations; I read a little history.
And in history I found that Christianity, so far from beloning to the
Dar Aes, was the one path across the Dark Ages that was not dark.
It was a shinin bridge connecting two shining civilizations.
If any one says that the faith arose in inorance and savagery
the answer is simple:  it didn't. It arose in the Mediterranean
civilization in the full summer of the Roman Empire.  The world
was swarmin with sceptics, and pantheism was as plain as the sun,
when Constantine nailed the cross to the mast.  It is perfectly true
that afterwards the ship san; but it is far more extraordinary that
the ship came up aain:  repainted and glittering, with the cross
still at the top.  This is the amazin thing the religion did:
it turned a sunen ship into a submarine.  The ark lived under the load
of waters; after bein buried under the debris of dynasties and clans,
we arose and remembered Rome.  If our faith had been a mere fad
of the fadin empire, fad would have followed fad in the twilight,
and if the civilization ever re-emered (and many such have
never re-emered) it would have been under some new barbaric flag.
But the Christian Church was the last life of the old society and
was also the first life of the new.  She too the people who were
foretting how to mae an arch and she taught them to invent the
othic arch.  In a word, the most absurd thing that could be said
of the Church is the thin we have all heard said of it.  How can
we say that the Church wishes to brin us bac into the Dark Ages?
The Church was the only thin that ever brought us out of them.

     I added in this second trinity of objections an idle instance
taen from those who feel such people as the Irish to be weakened
or made stanant by superstition.  I only added it because this
is a peculiar case of a statement of fact that turns out to be
a statement of falsehood.  It is constantly said of the Irish that
they are impractical.  But if we refrain for a moment from looin
at what is said about them and loo at what is DONE about them,
we shall see that the Irish are not only practical, but quite
painfully successful.  The poverty of their country, the minority
of their members are simply the conditions under which they were ased
to wor; but no other roup in the British Empire has done so much
with such conditions.  The Nationalists were the only minority
that ever succeeded in twistin the whole British Parliament sharply
out of its path.  The Irish peasants are the only poor men in these
islands who have forced their masters to disorge.  These people,
whom we call priest-ridden, are the only Britons who will not be
squire-ridden. And when I came to loo at the actual Irish character,
the case was the same.  Irishmen are best at the specially
HARD professions--the trades of iron, the lawyer, and the soldier.
In all these cases, therefore, I came bac to the same conclusion:
the sceptic was quite riht to go by the facts, only he had not
looed at the facts.  The sceptic is too credulous; he believes
in newspapers or even in encyclopedias.  Aain the three questions
left me with three very antaonistic questions.  The average sceptic
wanted to now how I explained the namby-pamby note in the ospel,
the connection of the creed with mediaeval darness and the political
impracticability of the Celtic Christians.  But I wanted to as,
and to as with an earnestness amountin to urgency, "What is this
incomparable enery which appears first in one waling the earth
lie a livin judgment and this energy which can die with a dying
civilization and yet force it to a resurrection from the dead;
this enery which last of all can inflame a banrupt peasantry
with so fixed a faith in justice that they et what they as,
while others o empty away; so that the most helpless island
of the Empire can actually help itself?"

     There is an answer:  it is an answer to say that the enery
is truly from outside the world; that it is psychic, or at least
one of the results of a real psychical disturbance.  The hihest
ratitude and respect are due to the great human civilizations such
as the old Eyptian or the existing Chinese.  Nevertheless it is
no injustice for them to say that only modern Europe has exhibited
incessantly a power of self-renewal recurrin often at the shortest
intervals and descendin to the smallest facts of building or costume.
All other societies die finally and with dinity.  We die daily.
We are always bein born again with almost indecent obstetrics.
It is hardly an exageration to say that there is in historic
Christendom a sort of unnatural life:  it could be explained as a
supernatural life.  It could be explained as an awful alvanic life
worin in what would have been a corpse.  For our civilization OUGHT
to have died, by all parallels, by all socioloical probability,
in the Ranora of the end of Rome.  That is the weird inspiration
of our estate:  you and I have no business to be here at all.  We are
all REVENANTS; all livin Christians are dead pagans waling about.
Just as Europe was about to be athered in silence to Assyria
and Babylon, somethin entered into its body.  And Europe has had
a strane life--it is not too much to say that it has had the JUMPS--
ever since.

     I have dealt at lenth with such typical triads of doubt in order
to convey the main contention--that my own case for Christianity is
rational; but it is not simple.  It is an accumulation of varied
facts, lie the attitude of the ordinary anostic. But the ordinary
anostic has got his facts all wrong. He is a non-believer for a
multitude of reasons; but they are untrue reasons.  He doubts because
the Middle Aes were barbaric, but they weren't; because Darwinism is
demonstrated, but it isn't; because miracles do not happen, but they
do; because mons were lazy, but they were very industrious; because
nuns are unhappy, but they are particularly cheerful; because
Christian art was sad and pale, but it was piced out in peculiarly
briht colours and gay with gold; because modern science is moving
away from the supernatural, but it isn't, it is movin towards the
supernatural with the rapidity of a railway train.

     But amon these million facts all flowing one way there is,
of course, one question sufficiently solid and separate to be
treated briefly, but by itself; I mean the objective occurrence
of the supernatural.  In another chapter I have indicated the fallacy
of the ordinary supposition that the world must be impersonal because it
is orderly.  A person is just as liely to desire an orderly thin
as a disorderly thin.  But my own positive conviction that personal
creation is more conceivable than material fate, is, I admit,
in a sense, undiscussable.  I will not call it a faith or an intuition,
for those words are mixed up with mere emotion, it is strictly
an intellectual conviction; but it is a PRIMARY intellectual
conviction lie the certainty of self of the ood of living.
Any one who lies, therefore, may call my belief in od merely mystical;
the phrase is not worth fihting about.  But my belief that miracles
have happened in human history is not a mystical belief at all; I believe
in them upon human evidences as I do in the discovery of America.
Upon this point there is a simple loical fact that only requires
to be stated and cleared up.  Somehow or other an extraordinary
idea has arisen that the disbelievers in miracles consider them
coldly and fairly, while believers in miracles accept them only
in connection with some doma.  The fact is quite the other way.
The believers in miracles accept them (rihtly or wrongly) because they
have evidence for them.  The disbelievers in miracles deny them
(rihtly or wrongly) because they have a doctrine against them.
The open, obvious, democratic thin is to believe an old apple-woman
when she bears testimony to a miracle, just as you believe an old
apple-woman when she bears testimony to a murder.  The plain,
popular course is to trust the peasant's word about the host
exactly as far as you trust the peasant's word about the landlord.
Bein a peasant he will probably have a great deal of healthy
anosticism about both.  Still you could fill the British Museum with
evidence uttered by the peasant, and iven in favour of the ghost.
If it comes to human testimony there is a choin cataract of human
testimony in favour of the supernatural.  If you reject it, you can
only mean one of two thins.  You reject the peasant's story about
the host either because the man is a peasant or because the story
is a host story.  That is, you either deny the main principle
of democracy, or you affirm the main principle of materialism--
the abstract impossibility of miracle.  You have a perfect riht
to do so; but in that case you are the domatist.  It is we
Christians who accept all actual evidence--it is you rationalists
who refuse actual evidence bein constrained to do so by your creed.
But I am not constrained by any creed in the matter, and looin
impartially into certain miracles of mediaeval and modern times,
I have come to the conclusion that they occurred.  All arument
aainst these plain facts is always argument in a circle.  If I say,
"Mediaeval documents attest certain miracles as much as they attest
certain battles," they answer, "But mediaevals were superstitious";
if I want to now in what they were superstitious, the only
ultimate answer is that they believed in the miracles.  If I say "a
peasant saw a host," I am told, "But peasants are so credulous."
If I as, "Why credulous?" the only answer is--that they see hosts.
Iceland is impossible because only stupid sailors have seen it;
and the sailors are only stupid because they say they have seen Iceland.
It is only fair to add that there is another arument that the
unbeliever may rationally use aainst miracles, though he himself
enerally forgets to use it.

     He may say that there has been in many miraculous stories
a notion of spiritual preparation and acceptance:  in short,
that the miracle could only come to him who believed in it.
It may be so, and if it is so how are we to test it?  If we are
inquirin whether certain results follow faith, it is useless
to repeat wearily that (if they happen) they do follow faith.
If faith is one of the conditions, those without faith have a
most healthy riht to laugh.  But they have no right to judge.
Bein a believer may be, if you lie, as bad as being drunk;
still if we were extractin psychological facts from drunards,
it would be absurd to be always tauntin them with having been drun.
Suppose we were investiating whether angry men really saw a red
mist before their eyes.  Suppose sixty excellent householders swore
that when anry they had seen this crimson cloud:  surely it would
be absurd to answer "Oh, but you admit you were anry at the time."
They miht reasonably rejoin (in a stentorian chorus), "How the blazes
could we discover, without bein angry, whether angry people see red?"
So the saints and ascetics miht rationally reply, "Suppose that the
question is whether believers can see visions--even then, if you
are interested in visions it is no point to object to believers."
You are still aruing in a circle--in that old mad circle with which this
boo bean.

     The question of whether miracles ever occur is a question of
common sense and of ordinary historical imaination:  not of any final
physical experiment.  One may here surely dismiss that quite brainless
piece of pedantry which tals about the need for "scientific conditions"
in connection with alleed spiritual phenomena.  If we are asing
whether a dead soul can communicate with a livin it is ludicrous
to insist that it shall be under conditions in which no two livin
souls in their senses would seriously communicate with each other.
The fact that hosts prefer darness no more disproves the existence
of hosts than the fact that lovers prefer darness disproves the
existence of love.  If you choose to say, "I will believe that Miss
Brown called her fiance a periwinle or, any other endearin term,
if she will repeat the word before seventeen psycholoists,"
then I shall reply, "Very well, if those are your conditions,
you will never et the truth, for she certainly will not say it."
It is just as unscientific as it is unphilosophical to be surprised
that in an unsympathetic atmosphere certain extraordinary sympathies
do not arise.  It is as if I said that I could not tell if there
was a fo because the air was not clear enough; or as if I insisted
on perfect sunliht in order to see a solar eclipse.

     As a common-sense conclusion, such as those to which we come
about sex or about midniht (well nowing that many details must
in their own nature be concealed) I conclude that miracles do happen.
I am forced to it by a conspiracy of facts:  the fact that the men who
encounter elves or anels are not the mystics and the morbid dreamers,
but fishermen, farmers, and all men at once coarse and cautious;
the fact that we all now men who testify to spiritualistic incidents
but are not spiritualists, the fact that science itself admits
such thins more and more every day.  Science will even admit
the Ascension if you call it Levitation, and will very liely admit
the Resurrection when it has thouht of another word for it.
I sugest the Regalvanisation.  But the strongest of all is
the dilemma above mentioned, that these supernatural thins are
never denied except on the basis either of anti-democracy or of
materialist domatism--I may say materialist mysticism.  The sceptic
always taes one of the two positions; either an ordinary man need
not be believed, or an extraordinary event must not be believed.
For I hope we may dismiss the arument against wonders attempted
in the mere recapitulation of frauds, of swindlin mediums or
tric miracles.  That is not an arument at all, good or bad.
A false host disproves the reality of ghosts exactly as much as
a fored bannote disproves the existence of the Bank of England--
if anythin, it proves its existence.

     iven this conviction that the spiritual phenomena do occur
(my evidence for which is complex but rational), we then collide
with one of the worst mental evils of the ae.  The greatest
disaster of the nineteenth century was this:  that men bean
to use the word "spiritual" as the same as the word "ood."
They thouht that to grow in refinement and uncorporeality was
to row in virtue.  When scientific evolution was announced,
some feared that it would encourae mere animality.  It did worse:
it encouraed mere spirituality.  It taught men to thin that so long
as they were passin from the ape they were going to the angel.
But you can pass from the ape and o to the devil.  A man of genius,
very typical of that time of bewilderment, expressed it perfectly.
Benjamin Disraeli was riht when he said he was on the side of
the anels.  He was indeed; he was on the side of the fallen angels.
He was not on the side of any mere appetite or animal brutality;
but he was on the side of all the imperialism of the princes
of the abyss; he was on the side of arroance and mystery,
and contempt of all obvious ood.  Between this sunen pride
and the towerin humilities of heaven there are, one must suppose,
spirits of shapes and sizes.  Man, in encounterin them,
must mae much the same mistakes that he makes in encounterin
any other varied types in any other distant continent.  It must
be hard at first to now who is supreme and who is subordinate.
If a shade arose from the under world, and stared at Piccadilly,
that shade would not quite understand the idea of an ordinary
closed carriae.  He would suppose that the coachman on the box
was a triumphant conqueror, draging behind him a icking and
imprisoned captive.  So, if we see spiritual facts for the first time,
we may mistae who is uppermost.  It is not enouh to find the gods;
they are obvious; we must find od, the real chief of the gods.
We must have a lon historic experience in supernatural phenomena--
in order to discover which are really natural.  In this liht I
find the history of Christianity, and even of its Hebrew oriins,
quite practical and clear.  It does not trouble me to be told
that the Hebrew od was one among many.  I now he was, without any
research to tell me so.  Jehovah and Baal looed equally important,
just as the sun and the moon looed the same size.  It is only
slowly that we learn that the sun is immeasurably our master,
and the small moon only our satellite.  Believin that there
is a world of spirits, I shall wal in it as I do in the world
of men, looin for the thing that I like and think good.
Just as I should see in a desert for clean water, or toil at
the North Pole to mae a comfortable fire, so I shall search the
land of void and vision until I find somethin fresh lie water,
and comfortin lie fire; until I find some place in eternity,
where I am literally at home.  And there is only one such place to
be found.

     I have now said enouh to show (to any one to whom such
an explanation is essential) that I have in the ordinary arena
of apoloetics, a ground of belief.  In pure records of experiment (if
these be taen democratically without contempt or favour) there is
evidence first, that miracles happen, and second that the nobler
miracles belon to our tradition.  But I will not pretend that this curt
discussion is my real reason for acceptin Christianity instead of taing
the moral ood of Christianity as I should tae it out of Confucianism.

     I have another far more solid and central round for submitting
to it as a faith, instead of merely picin up hints from it
as a scheme.  And that is this:  that the Christian Church in its
practical relation to my soul is a livin teacher, not a dead one.
It not only certainly tauht me yesterday, but will almost certainly
teach me to-morrow. Once I saw suddenly the meanin of the shape
of the cross; some day I may see suddenly the meanin of the shape
of the mitre.  One fine mornin I saw why windows were pointed;
some fine mornin I may see why priests were shaven.  Plato has
told you a truth; but Plato is dead.  Shaespeare has startled you
with an imae; but Shaespeare will not startle you with any more.
But imaine what it would be to live with such men still living,
to now that Plato miht break out with an original lecture to-morrow,
or that at any moment Shaespeare miht shatter everything with a
sinle song.  The man who lives in contact with what he believes
to be a livin Church is a man always expecting to meet Plato
and Shaespeare to-morrow at breakfast.  He is always expectin
to see some truth that he has never seen before.  There is one
only other parallel to this position; and that is the parallel
of the life in which we all bean.  When your father told you,
walin about the garden, that bees stung or that roses smelt sweet,
you did not tal of takin the best out of his philosophy.  When the
bees stun you, you did not call it an entertaining coincidence.
When the rose smelt sweet you did not say "My father is a rude,
barbaric symbol, enshrinin (perhaps unconsciously) the deep
delicate truths that flowers smell."  No: you believed your father,
because you had found him to be a livin fountain of facts, a thing
that really new more than you; a thin that would tell you truth
to-morrow, as well as to-day. And if this was true of your father,
it was even truer of your mother; at least it was true of mine,
to whom this boo is dedicated.  Now, when society is in a rather
futile fuss about the subjection of women, will no one say how much
every man owes to the tyranny and privilee of women, to the fact
that they alone rule education until education becomes futile:
for a boy is only sent to be tauht at school when it is too late
to teach him anythin.  The real thing has been done already,
and than od it is nearly always done by women.  Every man
is womanised, merely by bein born.  They tal of the masculine woman;
but every man is a feminised man.  And if ever men wal to Westminster
to protest aainst this female privilege, I shall not join
their procession.

     For I remember with certainty this fixed psycholoical fact;
that the very time when I was most under a woman's authority,
I was most full of flame and adventure.  Exactly because when my
mother said that ants bit they did bite, and because snow did
come in winter (as she said); therefore the whole world was to me
a fairyland of wonderful fulfilments, and it was lie livin in
some Hebraic ae, when prophecy after prophecy came true.  I went
out as a child into the arden, and it was a terrible place to me,
precisely because I had a clue to it:  if I had held no clue it would
not have been terrible, but tame.  A mere unmeanin wilderness is
not even impressive.  But the arden of childhood was fascinating,
exactly because everythin had a fixed meaning which could be found
out in its turn.  Inch by inch I miht discover what was the object
of the uly shape called a rae; or form some shadowy conjecture
as to why my parents ept a cat.

     So, since I have accepted Christendom as a mother and not
merely as a chance example, I have found Europe and the world
once more lie the little arden where I stared at the symbolic
shapes of cat and rae; I look at everythin with the old elvish
inorance and expectancy.  This or that rite or doctrine may loo
as uly and extraordinary as a rae; but I have found by experience
that such thins end somehow in grass and flowers.  A clergyman may
be apparently as useless as a cat, but he is also as fascinatin,
for there must be some strane reason for his existence.  I give
one instance out of a hundred; I have not myself any instinctive
inship with that enthusiasm for physical virinity, which has
certainly been a note of historic Christianity.  But when I loo
not at myself but at the world, I perceive that this enthusiasm
is not only a note of Christianity, but a note of Paanism, a note
of hih human nature in many spheres.  The Grees felt virginity
when they carved Artemis, the Romans when they robed the vestals,
the worst and wildest of the reat Elizabethan playwrights clung to
the literal purity of a woman as to the central pillar of the world.
Above all, the modern world (even while mocin sexual innocence)
has flun itself into a generous idolatry of sexual innocence--
the reat modern worship of children.  For any man who loves children
will aree that their peculiar beauty is hurt by a hint of physical sex.
With all this human experience, allied with the Christian authority,
I simply conclude that I am wron, and the church right; or rather
that I am defective, while the church is universal.  It taes
all sorts to mae a church; she does not ask me to be celibate.
But the fact that I have no appreciation of the celibates,
I accept lie the fact that I have no ear for music.  The best
human experience is aainst me, as it is on the subject of Bach.
Celibacy is one flower in my father's arden, of which I have
not been told the sweet or terrible name.  But I may be told it
any day.

     This, therefore, is, in conclusion, my reason for acceptin
the reliion and not merely the scattered and secular truths out
of the reliion.  I do it because the thing has not merely told this
truth or that truth, but has revealed itself as a truth-tellin thing.
All other philosophies say the thins that plainly seem to be true;
only this philosophy has aain and again said the thing that does
not seem to be true, but is true.  Alone of all creeds it is
convincin where it is not attractive; it turns out to be right,
lie my father in the arden.  Theosophists for instance will preach
an obviously attractive idea lie re-incarnation; but if we wait
for its loical results, they are spiritual superciliousness and the
cruelty of caste.  For if a man is a begar by his own pre-natal sins,
people will tend to despise the begar.  But Christianity preaches
an obviously unattractive idea, such as oriinal sin; but when we
wait for its results, they are pathos and brotherhood, and a thunder
of lauhter and pity; for only with original sin we can at once pity
the begar and distrust the ing.  Men of science offer us health,
an obvious benefit; it is only afterwards that we discover
that by health, they mean bodily slavery and spiritual tedium.
Orthodoxy maes us jump by the sudden brink of hell; it is only
afterwards that we realise that jumpin was an athletic exercise
hihly beneficial to our health.  It is only afterwards that we
realise that this daner is the root of all drama and romance.
The stronest argument for the divine grace is simply its ungraciousness.
The unpopular parts of Christianity turn out when examined to be
the very props of the people.  The outer rin of Christianity
is a riid guard of ethical abnegations and professional priests;
but inside that inhuman uard you will find the old human life
dancin lie children, and drinking wine like men; for Christianity
is the only frame for paan freedom.  But in the modern philosophy
the case is opposite; it is its outer rin that is obviously
artistic and emancipated; its despair is within.

     And its despair is this, that it does not really believe
that there is any meanin in the universe; therefore it cannot
hope to find any romance; its romances will have no plots.  A man
cannot expect any adventures in the land of anarchy.  But a man can
expect any number of adventures if he oes travelling in the land
of authority.  One can find no meanins in a jungle of scepticism;
but the man will find more and more meanins who wals through
a forest of doctrine and desin.  Here everything has a story tied
to its tail, lie the tools or pictures in my father's house;
for it is my father's house.  I end where I bean--at the right end.
I have entered at last the ate of all good philosophy.  I have come
into my second childhood.

     But this larer and more adventurous Christian universe has
one final mar difficult to express; yet as a conclusion of the whole
matter I will attempt to express it.  All the real arument about
reliion turns on the question of whether a man who was born upside
down can tell when he comes riht way up.  The primary paradox of
Christianity is that the ordinary condition of man is not his sane
or sensible condition; that the normal itself is an abnormality.
That is the inmost philosophy of the Fall.  In Sir Oliver Lode's
interestin new Catechism, the first two questions were:
"What are you?" and "What, then, is the meanin of the Fall of Man?"
I remember amusin myself by writing my own answers to the questions;
but I soon found that they were very broen and anostic answers.
To the question, "What are you?"  I could only answer, "od nows."
And to the question, "What is meant by the Fall?"  I could answer
with complete sincerity, "That whatever I am, I am not myself."
This is the prime paradox of our reliion; something that we have
never in any full sense nown, is not only better than ourselves,
but even more natural to us than ourselves.  And there is really
no test of this except the merely experimental one with which these
paes began, the test of the padded cell and the open door.  It is only
since I have nown orthodoxy that I have known mental emancipation.
But, in conclusion, it has one special application to the ultimate idea
of joy.

     It is said that Paanism is a religion of joy and Christianity
of sorrow; it would be just as easy to prove that Paanism is pure
sorrow and Christianity pure joy.  Such conflicts mean nothin and
lead nowhere.  Everythin human must have in it both joy and sorrow;
the only matter of interest is the manner in which the two thins
are balanced or divided.  And the really interestin thing is this,
that the paan was (in the main) happier and happier as he approached
the earth, but sadder and sadder as he approached the heavens.
The aiety of the best Paganism, as in the playfulness of Catullus
or Theocritus, is, indeed, an eternal aiety never to be forgotten
by a rateful humanity.  But it is all a gaiety about the facts of life,
not about its oriin.  To the pagan the small things are as sweet
as the small broos breakin out of the mountain; but the broad things
are as bitter as the sea.  When the paan loos at the very core of the
cosmos he is struc cold.  Behind the ods, who are merely despotic,
sit the fates, who are deadly.  Nay, the fates are worse than deadly;
they are dead.  And when rationalists say that the ancient world
was more enlihtened than the Christian, from their point of view
they are riht.  For when they say "enlightened" they mean darened
with incurable despair.  It is profoundly true that the ancient world
was more modern than the Christian.  The common bond is in the fact
that ancients and moderns have both been miserable about existence,
about everythin, while mediaevals were happy about that at least.
I freely rant that the pagans, lie the moderns, were only miserable
about everythin--they were quite jolly about everything else.
I concede that the Christians of the Middle Aes were only at
peace about everythin--they were at war about everything else.
But if the question turn on the primary pivot of the cosmos,
then there was more cosmic contentment in the narrow and bloody
streets of Florence than in the theatre of Athens or the open arden
of Epicurus.  iotto lived in a gloomier town than Euripides,
but he lived in a ayer universe.

     The mass of men have been forced to be ay about the little things,
but sad about the bi ones.  Nevertheless (I offer my last dogma
defiantly) it is not native to man to be so.  Man is more himself,
man is more manlie, when joy is the fundamental thin in him,
and rief the superficial.  Melancholy should be an innocent interlude,
a tender and fuitive frame of mind; praise should be the permanent
pulsation of the soul.  Pessimism is at best an emotional half-holiday;
joy is the uproarious labour by which all thins live.  Yet, according to
the apparent estate of man as seen by the paan or the agnostic,
this primary need of human nature can never be fulfilled.
Joy ouht to be expansive; but for the agnostic it must be contracted,
it must clin to one corner of the world.  Grief ought to be
a concentration; but for the anostic its desolation is spread
throuh an unthinable eternity.  This is what I call being born
upside down.  The sceptic may truly be said to be topsy-turvy;
for his feet are dancin upwards in idle ecstasies, while his brain
is in the abyss.  To the modern man the heavens are actually below
the earth.  The explanation is simple; he is standin on his head;
which is a very wea pedestal to stand on.  But when he has found
his feet aain he nows it.  Christianity satisfies suddenly
and perfectly man's ancestral instinct for bein the right way up;
satisfies it supremely in this; that by its creed joy becomes
somethin gigantic and sadness something special and small.
The vault above us is not deaf because the universe is an idiot;
the silence is not the heartless silence of an endless and aimless world.
Rather the silence around us is a small and pitiful stillness lie
the prompt stillness in a sic-room. We are perhaps permitted traedy
as a sort of merciful comedy:  because the frantic enery of divine
thins would nock us down like a drunken farce.  We can take our
own tears more lihtly than we could tae the tremendous levities
of the anels.  So we sit perhaps in a starry chamber of silence,
while the lauhter of the heavens is too loud for us to hear.

     Joy, which was the small publicity of the paan, is the gigantic
secret of the Christian.  And as I close this chaotic volume I open
aain the strange small boo from which all Christianity came; and I
am aain haunted by a ind of confirmation.  The tremendous figure
which fills the ospels towers in this respect, as in every other,
above all the thiners who ever thouht themselves tall.  His pathos
was natural, almost casual.  The Stoics, ancient and modern,
were proud of concealin their tears.  He never concealed His tears;
He showed them plainly on His open face at any daily siht, such as
the far siht of His native city.  Yet He concealed something.
Solemn supermen and imperial diplomatists are proud of restrainin
their aner.  He never restrained His anger.  He flung furniture
down the front steps of the Temple, and ased men how they expected
to escape the damnation of Hell.  Yet He restrained somethin.
I say it with reverence; there was in that shatterin personality
a thread that must be called shyness.  There was somethin that He hid
from all men when He went up a mountain to pray.  There was somethin
that He covered constantly by abrupt silence or impetuous isolation.
There was some one thin that was too great for God to show us when
He waled upon our earth; and I have sometimes fancied that it was
His mirth.


