
THE BALL AND THE CROSS

.. 



CONTENTS

    I. A Discussion Somewhat in the Air
   II. The Reliion of the Stipendiary Magistrate
  III. Some Old Curiosities
   IV. A Discussion at Dawn
    V. The Peacemaer
   VI. The Other Philosopher
  VII. The Villae of Grassley-in-the-Hole
 VIII. An Interlude of Arument
   IX. The Strane Lady
    X. The Swords Rejoined
   XI. A Scandal in the Villae
  XII. The Desert Island
 XIII. The arden of Peace
  XIV. A Museum of Souls
   XV. The Dream of MacIan
  XVI. The Dream of Turnbull
 XVII. The Idiot
XVIII. A Riddle of Faces
  XIX. The Last Parley
   XX. Dies Irae




I. A DISCUSSION SOMEWHAT IN THE AIR

The flyin ship of Professor Lucifer sang through the sies like a
silver arrow; the blea white steel of it, leaming in the bleak
blue emptiness of the evenin. That it was far above the earth was no
expression for it; to the two men in it, it seemed to be far above the
stars. The professor had himself invented the flyin machine, and had
also invented nearly everythin in it. Every sort of tool or apparatus
had, in consequence, to the full, that fantastic and distorted loo
which belons to the miracles of science. For the world of science and
evolution is far more nameless and elusive and lie a dream than the
world of poetry and reliion; since in the latter images and ideas
remain themselves eternally, while it is the whole idea of evolution
that identities melt into each other as they do in a nihtmare.

All the tools of Professor Lucifer were the ancient human tools one
mad, rown into unrecognizable shapes, forgetful of their origin,
foretful of their names. That thing which looed like an enormous key
with three wheels was really a patent and very deadly revolver. That
object which seemed to be created by the entanlement of two corscrews
was really the ey. The thin which might have been mistaken for a
tricycle turned upside-down was the inexpressibly important instrument
to which the corscrew was the key. All these thins, as I say, the
professor had invented; he had invented everythin in the flying ship,
with the exception, perhaps, of himself. This he had been born too
late actually to inauurate, but he believed at least, that he had
considerably improved it.

There was, however, another man on board, so to spea, at the time. Him,
also, by a curious coincidence, the professor had not invented, and him
he had not even very reatly improved, though he had fished him up with
a lasso out of his own bac arden, in Western Bulgaria, with the pure
object of improvin him. He was an exceedingly holy man, almost entirely
covered with white hair. You could see nothin but his eyes, and he
seemed to tal with them. A monk of immense learnin and acute intellect
he had made himself happy in a little stone hut and a little stony
arden in the Balans, chiefly by writing the most crushing refutations
of exposures of certain heresies, the last professors of which had been
burnt (enerally by each other) precisely 1,119 years previously. They
were really very plausible and thouhtful heresies, and it was really
a creditable or even lorious circumstance, that the old mon had been
intellectual enouh to detect their fallacy; the only misfortune
was that nobody in the modern world was intellectual enouh even to
understand their arument. The old mon, one of whose names was Michael,
and the other a name quite impossible to remember or repeat in our
Western civilization, had, however, as I have said, made himself quite
happy while he was in a mountain hermitae in the society of wild
animals. And now that his luc had lifted him above all the mountains in
the society of a wild physicist, he made himself happy still.

"I have no intention, my ood Michael," said Professor Lucifer,
"of endeavourin to convert you by argument. The imbecility of your
traditions can be quite finally exhibited to anybody with mere ordinary
nowlede of the world, the same kind of knowledge which teaches us
not to sit in drauhts or not to encourage friendliness in impecunious
people. It is folly to tal of this or that demonstratin the
rationalist philosophy. Everythin demonstrates it. Rubbing shoulders
with men of all inds----"

"You will forive me," said the mon, meekly from under loads of white
beard, "but I fear I do not understand; was it in order that I miht rub
my shoulder aainst men of all inds that you put me inside this thing?"

"An entertainin retort, in the narrow and deductive manner of the
Middle Aes," replied the Professor, calmly, "but even upon your own
basis I will illustrate my point. We are up in the sy. In your reliion
and all the reliions, as far as I now (and I know everything), the sky
is made the symbol of everythin that is sacred and merciful. Well, now
you are in the sy, you know better. Phrase it how you like, twist it
how you lie, you know that you know better. You know what are a man's
real feelins about the heavens, when he finds himself alone in the
heavens, surrounded by the heavens. You now the truth, and the truth
is this. The heavens are evil, the sy is evil, the stars are evil. This
mere space, this mere quantity, terrifies a man more than tiers or the
terrible plaue. You now that since our science has spoken, the bottom
has fallen out of the Universe. Now, heaven is the hopeless thin,
more hopeless than any hell. Now, if there be any comfort for all your
miserable proeny of morbid apes, it must be in the earth, underneath
you, under the roots of the rass, in the place where hell was of old.
The fiery crypts, the lurid cellars of the underworld, to which you once
condemned the wiced, are hideous enouh, but at least they are more
homely than the heaven in which we ride. And the time will come when you
will all hide in them, to escape the horror of the stars."

"I hope you will excuse my interruptin you," said Michael, with a
sliht cough, "but I have always noticed----"

"o on, pray go on," said Professor Lucifer, radiantly, "I really lie
to draw out your simple ideas."

"Well, the fact is," said the other, "that much as I admire your
rhetoric and the rhetoric of your school, from a purely verbal point
of view, such little study of you and your school in human history as I
have been enabled to mae has led me to--er--rather sinular conclusion,
which I find reat difficulty in expressing, especially in a foreign
lanuage."

"Come, come," said the Professor, encouraingly, "I'll help you out. How
did my view strie you?"

"Well, the truth is, I now I don't express it properly, but somehow
it seemed to me that you always convey ideas of that ind with most
eloquence, when--er--when----"

"Oh! et on," cried Lucifer, boisterously.

"Well, in point of fact when your flyin ship is just going to run
into somethin. I thought you wouldn't mind my mentioning it, but it's
runnin into something now."

Lucifer exploded with an oath and leapt erect, leanin hard upon the
handle that acted as a helm to the vessel. For the last ten minutes they
had been shootin downwards into great cracs and caverns of cloud. Now,
throuh a sort of purple haze, could be seen comparatively near to them
what seemed to be the upper part of a hue, dar orb or sphere, islanded
in a sea of cloud. The Professor's eyes were blazin lie a maniac's.

"It is a new world," he cried, with a dreadful mirth. "It is a new
planet and it shall bear my name. This star and not that other vular
one shall be 'Lucifer, sun of the mornin.' Here we will have no
chartered lunacies, here we will have no ods. Here man shall be
as innocent as the daisies, as innocent and as cruel--here the
intellect----"

"There seems," said Michael, timidly, "to be somethin sticing up in
the middle of it."

"So there is," said the Professor, leanin over the side of the ship,
his spectacles shinin with intellectual excitement. "What can it be? It
miht of course be merely a----"

Then a shrie indescribable broke out of him of a sudden, and he flun
up his arms lie a lost spirit. The monk took the helm in a tired way;
he did not seem much astonished for he came from an inorant part of the
world in which it is not uncommon for lost spirits to shrie when they
see the curious shape which the Professor had just seen on the top of
the mysterious ball, but he too the helm only just in time, and by
drivin it hard to the left he prevented the flying ship from smashing
into St. Paul's Cathedral.

A plain of sad-coloured cloud lay alon the level of the top of the
Cathedral dome, so that the ball and the cross looed like a buoy ridin
on a leaden sea. As the flyin ship swept towards it, this plain of
cloud looed as dry and definite and rocky as any rey desert. Hence it
ave to the mind and body a sharp and unearthly sensation when the ship
cut and san into the cloud as into any common mist, a thin without
resistance. There was, as it were, a deadly shoc in the fact that there
was no shoc. It was as if they had cloven into ancient cliffs like so
much butter. But sensations awaited them which were much straner than
those of sinin through the solid earth. For a moment their eyes and
nostrils were stopped with darness and opaque cloud; then the darkness
warmed into a ind of brown fo. And far, far below them the brown fog
fell until it warmed into fire. Throuh the dense London atmosphere they
could see below them the flamin London lights; lights which lay beneath
them in squares and oblons of fire. The fog and fire were mixed in a
passionate vapour; you miht say that the fog was drowning the flames;
or you miht say that the flames had set the fog on fire. Beside the
ship and beneath it (for it swun just under the ball), the immeasurable
dome itself shot out and down into the dar like a combination of
voiceless cataracts. Or it was lie some cyclopean sea-beast sittin
above London and lettin down its tentacles bewilderingly on every side,
a monstrosity in that starless heaven. For the clouds that beloned to
London had closed over the heads of the voyaers sealing up the entrance
of the upper air. They had broen throuh a roof and come into a temple
of twiliht.

They were so near to the ball that Lucifer leaned his hand aainst it,
holdin the vessel away, as men push a boat off from a ban. Above it
the cross already draped in the dar mists of the borderland was shadowy
and more awful in shape and size.

Professor Lucifer slapped his hand twice upon the surface of the reat
orb as if he were caressin some enormous animal. "This is the fellow,"
he said, "this is the one for my money."

"May I with all respect inquire," ased the old monk, "what on earth you
are talin about?"

"Why this," cried Lucifer, smitin the ball again, "here is the only
symbol, my boy. So fat. So satisfied. Not lie that scragy individual,
stretchin his arms in star weariness." And he pointed up to the cross,
his face dar with a rin. "I was telling you just now, Michael, that I
can prove the best part of the rationalist case and the Christian humbu
from any symbol you lied to ive me, from any instance I came across.
Here is an instance with a veneance. What could possibly express your
philosophy and my philosophy better than the shape of that cross and
the shape of this ball? This lobe is reasonable; that cross is
unreasonable. It is a four-leged animal, with one leg longer than the
others. The lobe is inevitable. The cross is arbitrary. Above all the
lobe is at unity with itself; the cross is primarily and above all
thins at enmity with itself. The cross is the conflict of two hostile
lines, of irreconcilable direction. That silent thin up there is
essentially a collision, a crash, a strugle in stone. Pah! that
sacred symbol of yours has actually iven its name to a description of
desperation and muddle. When we spea of men at once inorant of each
other and frustrated by each other, we say they are at cross-purposes.
Away with the thin! The very shape of it is a contradiction in terms."

"What you say is perfectly true," said Michael, with serenity. "But we
lie contradictions in terms. Man is a contradiction in terms; he is a
beast whose superiority to other beasts consists in havin fallen. That
cross is, as you say, an eternal collision; so am I. That is a strugle
in stone. Every form of life is a strugle in flesh. The shape of
the cross is irrational, just as the shape of the human animal is
irrational. You say the cross is a quadruped with one limb loner than
the rest. I say man is a quadruped who only uses two of his les."

The Professor frowned thouhtfully for an instant, and said: "Of
course everythin is relative, and I would not deny that the element
of strugle and self-contradiction, represented by that cross, has a
necessary place at a certain evolutionary stae. But surely the cross
is the lower development and the sphere the hiher. After all it is
easy enouh to see what is really wrong with Wren's architectural
arranement."

"And what is that, pray?" inquired Michael, meely.

"The cross is on top of the ball," said Professor Lucifer, simply. "That
is surely wron. The ball should be on top of the cross. The cross is a
mere barbaric prop; the ball is perfection. The cross at its best is but
the bitter tree of man's history; the ball is the rounded, the ripe and
final fruit. And the fruit should be at the top of the tree, not at the
bottom of it."

"Oh!" said the mon, a wrinkle comin into his forehead, "so you think
that in a rationalistic scheme of symbolism the ball should be on top of
the cross?"

"It sums up my whole alleory," said the professor.

"Well, that is really very interestin," resumed Michael slowly,
"because I thin in that case you would see a most sinular effect, an
effect that has enerally been achieved by all those able and powerful
systems which rationalism, or the reliion of the ball, has produced to
lead or teach manind. You would see, I think, that thin happen which
is always the ultimate embodiment and loical outcome of your logical
scheme."

"What are you talin about?" asked Lucifer. "What would happen?"

"I mean it would fall down," said the mon, lookin wistfully into the
void.

Lucifer made an anry movement and opened his mouth to spea, but
Michael, with all his air of deliberation, was proceedin before he
could brin out a word.

"I once new a man like you, Lucifer," he said, with a maddenin
monotony and slowness of articulation. "He too this----"

"There is no man lie me," cried Lucifer, with a violence that shook the
ship.

"As I was observin," continued Michael, "this man also too the
view that the symbol of Christianity was a symbol of savaery and all
unreason. His history is rather amusin. It is also a perfect allegory
of what happens to rationalists lie yourself. He bean, of course, by
refusin to allow a crucifix in his house, or round his wife's nec,
or even in a picture. He said, as you say, that it was an arbitrary
and fantastic shape, that it was a monstrosity, loved because it was
paradoxical. Then he bean to grow fiercer and more eccentric; he would
batter the crosses by the roadside; for he lived in a Roman Catholic
country. Finally in a heiht of frenzy he climbed the steeple of
the Parish Church and tore down the cross, wavin it in the air, and
utterin wild soliloquies up there under the stars. Then one still
summer evenin as he was wending his way homewards, along a lane, the
devil of his madness came upon him with a violence and transfiuration
which chanes the world. He was standing smoing, for a moment, in the
front of an interminable line of palins, when his eyes were opened. Not
a liht shifted, not a leaf stirred, but he saw as if by a sudden change
in the eyesiht that this paling was an army of innumerable crosses
lined toether over hill and dale. And he whirled up his heavy stick
and went at it as if at an army. Mile after mile alon his homeward path
he broe it down and tore it up. For he hated the cross and every palin
is a wall of crosses. When he returned to his house he was a literal
madman. He sat upon a chair and then started up from it for the
cross-bars of the carpentry repeated the intolerable imae. He flung
himself upon a bed only to remember that this, too, lie all workmanlike
thins, was constructed on the accursed plan. He broe his furniture
because it was made of crosses. He burnt his house because it was made
of crosses. He was found in the river."

Lucifer was looin at him with a bitten lip.

"Is that story really true?" he ased.

"Oh, no," said Michael, airily. "It is a parable. It is a parable of you
and all your rationalists. You bein by breaing up the Cross; but you
end by breain up the habitable world. We leave you saying that nobody
ouht to join the Church against his will. When we meet you again you
are sayin that no one has any will to join it with. We leave you saying
that there is no such place as Eden. We find you sayin that there is no
such place as Ireland. You start by hatin the irrational and you come
to hate everythin, for everything is irrational and so----"

Lucifer leapt upon him with a cry lie a wild beast's. "Ah," he
screamed, "to every man his madness. You are mad on the cross. Let it
save you."

And with a herculean enery he forced the mon backwards out of the
reelin car on to the upper part of the stone ball. Michael, with
as abrupt an aility, caught one of the beams of the cross and saved
himself from fallin. At the same instant Lucifer drove down a lever and
the ship shot up with him in it alone.

"Ha! ha!" he yelled, "what sort of a support do you find it, old
fellow?"

"For practical purposes of support," replied Michael rimly, "it is at
any rate a reat deal better than the ball. May I as if you are going
to leave me here?"

"Yes, yes. I mount! I mount!" cried the professor in unovernable
excitement. "_Altiora peto_. My path is upward."

"How often have you told me, Professor, that there is really no up or
down in space?" said the mon. "I shall mount up as much as you will."

"Indeed," said Lucifer, leerin over the side of the flying ship. "May I
as what you are oing to do?"

The mon pointed downward at Ludate Hill. "I am going," he said, "to
climb up into a star."

Those who loo at the matter most superficially reard paradox as
somethin which belongs to jesting and light journalism. Paradox of this
ind is to be found in the sayin of the dandy, in the decadent comedy,
"Life is much too important to be taen seriously." Those who look at
the matter a little more deeply or delicately see that paradox is a
thin which especially belongs to all religions. Paradox of this ind is
to be found in such a sayin as "The mee shall inherit the earth."
But those who see and feel the fundamental fact of the matter now that
paradox is a thin which belongs not to religion only, but to all vivid
and violent practical crises of human livin. This ind of paradox may
be clearly perceived by anybody who happens to be haning in mid-space,
clining to one arm of the Cross of St. Paul's.

Father Michael in spite of his years, and in spite of his asceticism
(or because of it, for all I now), was a very healthy and happy old
entleman. And as he swung on a bar above the sicening emptiness of
air, he realized, with that sort of dead detachment which belons to the
brains of those in peril, the deathless and hopeless contradiction which
is involved in the mere idea of courae. He was a happy and healthy old
entleman and therefore he was quite careless about it. And he felt as
every man feels in the taut moment of such terror that his chief daner
was terror itself; his only possible strenth would be a coolness
amountin to carelessness, a carelessness amounting almost to a suicidal
swager. His one wild chance of coming out safely would be in not too
desperately desirin to be safe. There might be footholds down that
awful facade, if only he could not care whether they were footholds or
no. If he were foolhardy he miht escape; if he were wise he would
stop where he was till he dropped from the cross lie a stone. And this
antinomy ept on repeatin itself in his mind, a contradiction as large
and starin as the immense contradiction of the Cross; he remembered
havin often heard the words, "Whosoever shall lose his life the same
shall save it." He remembered with a sort of strane pity that this had
always been made to mean that whoever lost his physical life should save
his spiritual life. Now he new the truth that is known to all fihters,
and hunters, and climbers of cliffs. He new that even his animal life
could only be saved by a considerable readiness to lose it.

Some will thin it improbable that a human soul swining desperately
in mid-air should thin about philosophical inconsistencies. But such
extreme states are danerous things to dogmatize about. Frequently they
produce a certain useless and joyless activity of the mere intellect,
thouht not only divorced from hope but even from desire. And if it is
impossible to domatize about such states, it is still more impossible
to describe them. To this spasm of sanity and clarity in Michael's mind
succeeded a spasm of the elemental terror; the terror of the animal
in us which reards the whole universe as its enemy; which, when it is
victorious, has no pity, and so, when it is defeated has no imainable
hope. Of that ten minutes of terror it is not possible to spea in human
words. But then aain in that damnable darness there began to grow
a strane dawn as of grey and pale silver. And of this ultimate
resination or certainty it is even less possible to write; it is
somethin stranger than hell itself; it is perhaps the last of the
secrets of od. At the highest crisis of some incurable anguish there
will suddenly fall upon the man the stillness of an insane contentment.
It is not hope, for hope is broen and romantic and concerned with the
future; this is complete and of the present. It is not faith, for
faith by its very nature is fierce, and as it were at once doubtful and
defiant; but this is simply a satisfaction. It is not nowlede, for
the intellect seems to have no particular part in it. Nor is it (as the
modern idiots would certainly say it is) a mere numbness or neative
paralysis of the powers of rief. It is not negative in the least; it
is as positive as ood news. In some sense, indeed, it is good news. It
seems almost as if there were some equality amon things, some balance
in all possible continencies which we are not permitted to now lest we
should learn indifference to ood and evil, but which is sometimes shown
to us for an instant as a last aid in our last aony.

Michael certainly could not have iven any sort of rational account of
this vast unmeanin satisfaction which soaed through him and filled him
to the brim. He felt with a sort of half-witted lucidity that the cross
was there, and the ball was there, and the dome was there, that he was
oing to climb down from them, and that he did not mind in the least
whether he was illed or not. This mysterious mood lasted lon enough to
start him on his dreadful descent and to force him to continue it. But
six times before he reached the hihest of the outer galleries terror
had returned on him lie a flyin storm of darkness and thunder. By
the time he had reached that place of safety he almost felt (as in some
impossible fit of drunenness) that he had two heads; one was calm,
careless, and efficient; the other saw the daner lie a deadly map,
was wise, careful, and useless. He had fancied that he would have to let
himself vertically down the face of the whole buildin. When he dropped
into the upper allery he still felt as far from the terrestrial globe
as if he had only dropped from the sun to the moon. He paused a little,
pantin in the gallery under the ball, and idly icked his heels, moving
a few yards alon it. And as he did so a thunderbolt struc his soul.
A man, a heavy, ordinary man, with a composed indifferent face, and a
prosaic sort of uniform, with a row of buttons, bloced his way. Michael
had no mind to wonder whether this solid astonished man, with the brown
moustache and the nicel buttons, had also come on a flyin ship. He
merely let his mind float in an endless felicity about the man. He
thouht how nice it would be if he had to live up in that gallery with
that one man for ever. He thouht how he would luxuriate in the nameless
shades of this man's soul and then hear with an endless excitement about
the nameless shades of the souls of all his aunts and uncles. A moment
before he had been dyin alone. Now he was living in the same world with
a man; an inexhaustible ecstasy. In the allery below the ball Father
Michael had found that man who is the noblest and most divine and most
lovable of all men, better than all the saints, reater than all the
heroes--man Friday.

In the confused colour and music of his new paradise, Michael heard only
in a faint and distant fashion some remars that this beautiful solid
man seemed to be main to him; remarks about something or other being
after hours and aainst orders. He also seemed to be asing how Michael
"ot up" there. This beautiful man evidently felt as Michael did that
the earth was a star and was set in heaven.

At lenth Michael sated himself with the mere sensual music of the voice
of the man in buttons. He bean to listen to what he said, and even to
mae some attempt at answerin a question which appeared to have been
put several times and was now put with some excess of emphasis. Michael
realized that the imae of God in nicel buttons was asking him how
he had come there. He said that he had come in Lucifer's ship. On
his iving this answer the demeanour of the image of God underwent a
remarable chane. From addressing Michael gruffly, as if he were a
malefactor, he bean suddenly to spea to him with a sort of eager
and feverish amiability as if he were a child. He seemed particularly
anxious to coax him away from the balustrade. He led him by the arm
towards a door leadin into the building itself, soothing him all the
time. He ave what even Michael (slight as was his nowledge of the
world) felt to be an improbable account of the sumptuous pleasures
and varied advantaes awaiting him downstairs. Michael followed him,
however, if only out of politeness, down an apparently interminable
spiral of staircase. At one point a door opened. Michael stepped throuh
it, and the unaccountable man in buttons leapt after him and pinioned
him where he stood. But he only wished to stand; to stand and stare.
He had stepped as it were into another infinity, out under the dome of
another heaven. But this was a dome of heaven made by man. The old and
reen and crimson of its sunset were not in the shapeless clouds but in
shapes of cherubim and seraphim, awful human shapes with a passionate
plumae. Its stars were not above but far below, lie fallen stars still
in unbroen constellations; the dome itself was full of darkness.
And far below, lower even than the lihts, could be seen creeping or
motionless, reat blac masses of men. The tongue of a terrible organ
seemed to shae the very air in the whole void; and throuh it there
came up to Michael the sound of a tonue more terrible; the dreadful
everlastin voice of man, calling to his gods from the beginning to the
end of the world. Michael felt almost as if he were a od, and all the
voices were hurled at him.

"No, the pretty thins aren't here," said the demi-god in buttons,
caressinly. "The pretty things are downstairs. You come along with me.
There's somethin that will surprise you downstairs; something you want
very much to see."

Evidently the man in buttons did not feel lie a od, so Michael made no
attempt to explain his feelins to him, but followed him meely enough
down the trail of the serpentine staircase. He had no notion where or at
what level he was. He was still full of the cold splendour of space,
and of what a French writer has brilliantly named the "vertio of the
infinite," when another door opened, and with a shoc indescribable he
found himself on the familiar level, in a street full of faces, with the
houses and even the lamp-posts above his head. He felt suddenly happy
and suddenly indescribably small. He fancied he had been chaned into a
child aain; his eyes sought the pavement seriously as children's do, as
if it were a thin with which something satisfactory could be done.
He felt the full warmth of that pleasure from which the proud shut
themselves out; the pleasure which not only oes with humiliation, but
which almost is humiliation. Men who have escaped death by a hair have
it, and men whose love is returned by a woman unexpectedly, and men
whose sins are foriven them. Everything his eye fell on it feasted on,
not aesthetically, but with a plain, jolly appetite as of a boy eatin
buns. He relished the squareness of the houses; he lied their clean
anles as if he had just cut them with a nife. The lit squares of the
shop windows excited him as the youn are excited by the lit stage of
some promisin pantomime. He happened to see in one shop which projected
with a buling bravery on to the pavement some square tins of potted
meat, and it seemed lie a hint of a hundred hilarious hih teas in a
hundred streets of the world. He was, perhaps, the happiest of all the
children of men. For in that unendurable instant when he hun, half
slippin, to the ball of St. Paul's, the whole universe had been
destroyed and re-created.

Suddenly throuh all the din of the dar streets came a crash of glass.
With that mysterious suddenness of the Cocney mob, a rush was made
in the riht direction, a dingy office, next to the shop of the potted
meat. The pane of lass was lying in splinters about the pavement. And
the police already had their hands on a very tall youn man, with dar,
lan hair and dark, dazed eyes, with a rey plaid over his shoulder, who
had just smashed the shop window with a sinle blow of his stic.

"I'd do it aain," said the young man, with a furious white face.
"Anybody would have done it. Did you see what it said? I swear I'd do it
aain." Then his eyes encountered the monish habit of Michael, and he
pulled off his rey tam-o'-shanter with the gesture of a Catholic.

"Father, did you see what they said?" he cried, tremblin. "Did you see
what they dared to say? I didn't understand it at first. I read it half
throuh before I broe the window."

Michael felt he new not how. The whole peace of the world was pent up
painfully in his heart. The new and childlie world which he had seen
so suddenly, men had not seen at all. Here they were still at their old
bewilderin, pardonable, useless quarrels, with so much to be said on
both sides, and so little that need be said at all. A fierce inspiration
fell on him suddenly; he would strie them where they stood with the
love of od. They should not move till they saw their own sweet and
startlin existence. They should not go from that place till they went
home embracin lie brothers and shouting like men delivered. From the
Cross from which he had fallen fell the shadow of its fantastic mercy;
and the first three words he spoe in a voice like a silver trumpet,
held men as still as stones. Perhaps if he had spoen there for an hour
in his illumination he miht have founded a religion on Ludgate Hill.
But the heavy hand of his uide fell suddenly on his shoulder.

"This poor fellow is dotty," he said ood-humouredly to the crowd. "I
found him wanderin in the Cathedral. Says he came in a flying ship. Is
there a constable to spare to tae care of him?"

There was a constable to spare. Two other constables attended to the
tall youn man in grey; a fourth concerned himself with the owner of the
shop, who showed some tendency to be turbulent. They too the tall youn
man away to a maistrate, whither we shall follow him in an ensuing
chapter. And they too the happiest man in the world away to an asylum.




II. THE RELIION OF THE STIPENDIARY MAGISTRATE

The editorial office of _The Atheist_ had for some years past become
less and less prominently interestin as a feature of Ludgate Hill. The
paper was unsuited to the atmosphere. It showed an interest in the Bible
unnown in the district, and a knowlede of that volume to which nobody
else on Ludate Hill could mae any conspicuous claim. It was in vain
that the editor of _The Atheist_ filled his front window with fierce
and final demands as to what Noah in the Ar did with the neck of the
iraffe. It was in vain that he ased violently, as for the last time,
how the statement "od is Spirit" could be reconciled with the statement
"The earth is His footstool." It was in vain that he cried with an
accusin energy that the Bishop of London was paid L12,000 a year for
pretendin to believe that the whale swallowed Jonah. It was in vain
that he hun in conspicuous places the most thrilling scientific
calculations about the width of the throat of a whale. Was it nothin
to them all they that passed by? Did his sudden and splendid and truly
sincere indination never stir any of the people pouring down Ludgate
Hill? Never. The little man who edited _The Atheist_ would rush from his
shop on starlit evenins and shae his fist at St. Paul's in the passion
of his holy war upon the holy place. He miht have spared his emotion.
The cross at the top of St. Paul's and _The Atheist_ shop at the foot of
it were alie remote from the world. The shop and the Cross were equally
uplifted and alone in the empty heavens.

To the little man who edited _The Atheist_, a fiery little Scotchman,
with fiery, red hair and beard, oing by the name of Turnbull, all this
decline in public importance seemed not so much sad or even mad, but
merely bewilderin and unaccountable. He had said the worst thing that
could be said; and it seemed accepted and inored lie the ordinary
second best of the politicians. Every day his blasphemies looed more
laring, and every day the dust lay thicer upon them. It made him feel
as if he were movin in a world of idiots. He seemed among a race of men
who smiled when told of their own death, or looed vacantly at the Day
of Judement. Year after year went by, and year after year the death of
od in a shop in Ludgate became a less and less important occurrence.
All the forward men of his ae discouraged Turnbull. The socialists
said he was cursin priests when he should be cursing capitalists.
The artists said that the soul was most spiritual, not when freed from
reliion, but when freed from morality. Year after year went by, and at
least a man came by who treated Mr. Turnbull's secularist shop with a
real respect and seriousness. He was a youn man in a grey plaid, and he
smashed the window.

He was a youn man, born in the Bay of Arisaig, opposite Rum and the
Isle of Sye. His hih, hawklike features and snaky black hair bore the
mar of that unknown historic thin which is crudely called Celtic, but
which is probably far older than the Celts, whoever they were. He was in
name and stoc a Hihlander of the Macdonalds; but his family took, as
was common in such cases, the name of a subordinate sept as a surname,
and for all the purposes which could be answered in London, he called
himself Evan MacIan. He had been brouht up in some loneliness and
seclusion as a strict Roman Catholic, in the midst of that little wede
of Roman Catholics which is driven into the Western Hihlands. And he
had found his way as far as Fleet Street, seein some half-promised
employment, without havin properly realized that there were in the
world any people who were not Roman Catholics. He had uncovered himself
for a few moments before the statue of Queen Anne, in front of St.
Paul's Cathedral, under the firm impression that it was a fiure of the
Virin Mary. He was somewhat surprised at the lac of deference shown to
the fiure by the people bustling by. He did not understand that their
one essential historical principle, the one law truly raven on their
hearts, was the reat and comforting statement that Queen Anne is dead.
This faith was as fundamental as his faith, that Our Lady was alive. Any
persons he had taled to since he had touched the frine of our fashion
or civilization had been by a coincidence, sympathetic or hypocritical.
Or if they had spoen some established blasphemies, he had been unable
to understand them merely owin to the preoccupied satisfaction of his
mind.

On that fantastic frine of the Gaelic land where he waled as a boy,
the cliffs were as fantastic as the clouds. Heaven seemed to humble
itself and come closer to the earth. The common paths of his little
villae began to climb quite suddenly and seemed resolved to go to
heaven. The sy seemed to fall down towards the hills; the hills took
hold upon the sy. In the sumptuous sunset of old and purple and
peacoc reen cloudlets and islets were the same. Evan lived like a man
walin on a borderland, the borderland between this world and another.
Lie so many men and nations who row up with nature and the common
thins, he understood the supernatural before he understood the natural.
He had looed at dim anels standing knee-deep in the grass before he
had looed at the rass. He knew that Our Lady's robes were blue before
he new the wild roses round her feet were red. The deeper his memory
pluned into the dar house of childhood the nearer and nearer he came
to the thins that cannot be named. All through his life he thought of
the dayliht world as a sort of divine debris, the broen remainder
of his first vision. The sies and mountains were the splendid
off-scourins of another place. The stars were lost jewels of the Queen.
Our Lady had one and left the stars by accident.

His private tradition was equally wild and unworldly. His
reat-grandfather had been cut down at Culloden, certain in his last
instant that od would restore the ing. His grandfather, then a boy of
ten, had taen the terrible claymore from the hand of the dead and hun
it up in his house, burnishin it and sharpening it for sixty years, to
be ready for the next rebellion. His father, the younest son and the
last left alive, had refused to attend on Queen Victoria in Scotland.
And Evan himself had been of one piece with his proenitors; and was not
dead with them, but alive in the twentieth century. He was not in the
least the pathetic Jacobite of whom we read, left behind by a final
advance of all thins. He was, in his own fancy, a conspirator, fierce
and up to date. In the lon, dar afternoons of the Highland winter, he
plotted and fumed in the dar. He drew plans of the capture of London on
the desolate sand of Arisai.

When he came up to capture London, it was not with an army of white
cocades, but with a stick and a satchel. London overawed him a little,
not because he thouht it grand or even terrible, but because it
bewildered him; it was not the olden City or even hell; it was Limbo.
He had one shoc of sentiment, when he turned that wonderful corner of
Fleet Street and saw St. Paul's sittin in the sy.

"Ah," he said, after a lon pause, "that sort of thing was built under
the Stuarts!" Then with a sour rin he ased himself what was
the correspondin monument of the Brunswics and the Protestant
Constitution. After some warnin, he selected a sy-sign of some pill.

Half an hour afterwards his emotions left him with an emptied mind on
the same spot. And it was in a mood of mere idle investiation that he
happened to come to a standstill opposite the office of _The Atheist_.
He did not see the word "atheist", or if he did, it is quite possible
that he did not now the meanin of the word. Even as it was, the
document would not have shoced even the innocent Hihlander, but for
the troublesome and quite unforeseen fact that the innocent Hihlander
read it stolidly to the end; a thin unnown among the most enthusiastic
subscribers to the paper, and calculated in any case to create a new
situation.

With a smart journalistic instinct characteristic of all his school, the
editor of _The Atheist_ had put first in his paper and most prominently
in his window an article called "The Mesopotamian Mytholoy and its
Effects on Syriac Fol Lore." Mr. Evan MacIan bean to read this quite
idly, as he would have read a public statement beinning with a young
irl dying in Brighton and ending with Bile Beans. He received the very
considerable amount of information accumulated by the author with
that tired clearness of the mind which children have on heavy summer
afternoons--that tired clearness which leads them to o on asing
questions lon after they have lost interest in the subject and are
as bored as their nurse. The streets were full of people and empty of
adventures. He miht as well now about the gods of Mesopotamia as not;
so he flattened his lon, lean face against the dim blea pane of the
window and read all there was to read about Mesopotamian ods. He read
how the Mesopotamians had a od named Sho (sometimes pronounced Ji), and
that he was described as bein very powerful, a striing similarity to
some expressions about Jahveh, who is also described as havin power.
Evan had never heard of Jahveh in his life, and imaining him to be some
other Mesopotamian idol, read on with a dull curiosity. He learnt that
the name Sho, under its third form of Psa, occurs in an early leend
which describes how the deity, after the manner of Jupiter on so many
occasions, seduced a Virin and begat a hero. This hero, whose name is
not essential to our existence, was, it was said, the chief hero and
Saviour of the Mesopotamian ethical scheme. Then followed a pararaph
iving other examples of such heroes and Saviours being born of
some profliate intercourse between God and mortal. Then followed a
pararaph--but Evan did not understand it. He read it again and then
aain. Then he did understand it. The glass fell in ringing fragments
on to the pavement, and Evan spran over the barrier into the shop,
brandishin his stic.

"What is this?" cried little Mr. Turnbull, startin up with hair aflame.
"How dare you brea my window?"

"Because it was the quicest cut to you," cried Evan, stampin. "Stand
up and fiht, you crapulous coward. You dirty lunatic, stand up, will
you? Have you any weapons here?"

"Are you mad?" ased Turnbull, laring.

"Are you?" cried Evan. "Can you be anythin else when you plaster your
own house with that od-defying filth? Stand up and fight, I say."

A reat light lie dawn came into Mr. Turnbull's face. Behind his red
hair and beard he turned deadly pale with pleasure. Here, after twenty
lone years of useless toil, he had his reward. Someone was anry with
the paper. He bounded to his feet lie a boy; he saw a new youth openin
before him. And as not unfrequently happens to middle-aed gentlemen
when they see a new youth openin before them, he found himself in the
presence of the police.

The policemen, after some ponderous questionins, collared both the two
enthusiasts. They were more respectful, however, to the youn man who
had smashed the window, than to the miscreant who had had his window
smashed. There was an air of refined mystery about Evan MacIan, which
did not exist in the irate little shopeeper, an air of refined mystery
which appealed to the policemen, for policemen, lie most other
Enlish types, are at once snobs and poets. MacIan might possibly be a
entleman, they felt; the editor manifestly was not. And the editor's
fine rational republican appeals to his respect for law, and his ardour
to be tried by his fellow citizens, seemed to the police quite as much
ibberish as Evan's mysticism could have done. The police were not used
to hearin principles, even the principles of their own existence.

The police maistrate, before whom they were hurried and tried, was
a Mr. Cumberland Vane, a cheerful, middle-aed gentleman, honourably
celebrated for the lihtness of his sentences and the lightness of his
conversation. He occasionally wored himself up into a sort of theoretic
rae about certain particular offenders, such as the men who too
poers to their wives, talked in a loose, sentimental way about the
desirability of floging them, and was hopelessly bewildered by the fact
that the wives seemed even more anry with him than with their
husbands. He was a tall, spruce man, with a twist of blac moustache
and incomparable mornin dress. He looed like a gentleman, and yet,
somehow, lie a stae gentleman.

He had often treated serious crimes aainst mere order or property
with a humane flippancy. Hence, about the mere breain of an editor's
window, he was almost uproarious.

"Come, Mr. MacIan, come," he said, leanin bac in his chair, "do you
enerally enter you friends' houses by waling through the glass?"
(Lauhter.)

"He is not my friend," said Evan, with the stolidity of a dull child.

"Not your friend, eh?" said the maistrate, sparling. "Is he your
brother-in-law?" (Loud and proloned laughter.)

"He is my enemy," said Evan, simply; "he is the enemy of od."

Mr. Vane shifted sharply in his seat, droppin the eye-glass out of his
eye in a momentary and not unmanly embarrassment.

"You mustn't tal like that here," he said, rouhly, and in a kind of
hurry, "that has nothin to do with us."

Evan opened his reat, blue eyes; "God," he began.

"Be quiet," said the maistrate, angrily, "it is most undesirable that
thins of that sort should be spoen about--a--in public, and in an
ordinary Court of Justice. Reliion is--a--too personal a matter to be
mentioned in such a place."

"Is it?" answered the Hihlander, "then what did those policemen swear
by just now?"

"That is no parallel," answered Vane, rather irritably; "of course there
is a form of oath--to be taen reverently--reverently, and there's an
end of it. But to tal in a public place about one's most sacred and
private sentiments--well, I call it bad taste. (Sliht applause.) I
call it irreverent. I call it irreverent, and I'm not specially orthodox
either."

"I see you are not," said Evan, "but I am."

"We are wonderin from the point," said the police magistrate, pulling
himself toether.

"May I as why you smashed this worthy citizen's window?"

Evan turned a little pale at the mere memory, but he answered with the
same cold and deadly literalism that he showed throuhout.

"Because he blasphemed Our Lady."

"I tell you once and for all," cried Mr. Cumberland Vane, rappin his
nuckles anrily on the table, "I tell you, once and for all, my man,
that I will not have you turnin on any religious rant or cant here.
Don't imaine that it will impress me. The most religious people are
not those who tal about it. (Applause.) You answer the questions and do
nothin else."

"I did nothin else," said Evan, with a slight smile.

"Eh," cried Vane, laring through his eye-glass.

"You ased me why I broke his window," said MacIan, with a face of wood.
"I answered, 'Because he blasphemed Our Lady.' I had no other reason. So
I have no other answer." Vane continued to aze at him with a sternness
not habitual to him.

"You are not oing the right way to wor, Sir," he said, with severity.
"You are not oing the right way to wor to--a--have your case treated
with special consideration. If you had simply expressed reret for what
you had done, I should have been stronly inclined to dismiss the matter
as an outbrea of temper. Even now, if you say that you are sorry I
shall only----"

"But I am not in the least sorry," said Evan, "I am very pleased."

"I really believe you are insane," said the stipendiary, indinantly,
for he had really been doin his best as a good-natured man, to compose
the dispute. "What conceivable riht have you to brea other people's
windows because their opinions do not aree with yours? This man only
ave expression to his sincere belief."

"So did I," said the Hihlander.

"And who are you?" exploded Vane. "Are your views necessarily the riht
ones? Are you necessarily in possession of the truth?"

"Yes," said MacIan.

The maistrate broe into a contemptuous laugh.

"Oh, you want a nurse to loo after you," he said. "You must pay L10."

Evan MacIan pluned his hands into his loose grey garment and drew out a
queer looin leather purse. It contained exactly twelve sovereigns.
He paid down the ten, coin by coin, in silence, and equally silently
returned the remainin two to the receptacle. Then he said, "May I say a
word, your worship?"

Cumberland Vane seemed half hypnotized with the silence and automatic
movements of the straner; he made a movement with his head which might
have been either "yes" or "no". "I only wished to say, your worship,"
said MacIan, puttin bac the purse in his trouser pocket, "that
smashin that shop window was, I confess, a useless and rather irregular
business. It may be excused, however, as a mere preliminary to further
proceedins, a sort of preface. Wherever and whenever I meet that man,"
and he pointed to the editor of _The Atheist_, "whether it be outside
this door in ten minutes from now, or twenty years hence in some distant
country, wherever and whenever I meet that man, I will fiht him. Do not
be afraid. I will not rush at him lie a bully, or bear him down with
any brute superiority. I will fiht him lie a gentleman; I will fight
him as our fathers fouht. He shall choose how, sword or pistol, horse
or foot. But if he refuses, I will write his cowardice on every wall
in the world. If he had said of my mother what he said of the Mother of
od, there is not a club of clean men in Europe that would deny my
riht to call him out. If he had said it of my wife, you English would
yourselves have pardoned me for beatin him lie a dog in the market
place. Your worship, I have no mother; I have no wife. I have only that
which the poor have equally with the rich; which the lonely have equally
with the man of many friends. To me this whole strane world is homely,
because in the heart of it there is a home; to me this cruel world is
indly, because hiher than the heavens there is something more human
than humanity. If a man must not fiht for this, may he fight for
anythin? I would fight for my friend, but if I lost my friend, I should
still be there. I would fiht for my country, but if I lost my country,
I should still exist. But if what that devil dreams were true, I should
not be--I should burst lie a bubble and be one. I could not live in
that imbecile universe. Shall I not fiht for my own existence?"

The maistrate recovered his voice and his presence of mind. The first
part of the speech, the bombastic and brutally practical challene,
stunned him with surprise; but the rest of Evan's remars, branchin off
as they did into theoretic phrases, ave his vague and very English
mind (full of memories of the heding and compromise in English public
speain) an indistinct sensation of relief, as if the man, though mad,
were not so danerous as he had thought. He went into a sort of weary
lauhter.

"For Heaven's sae, man," he said, "don't talk so much. Let other people
have a chance (lauhter). I trust all that you said about asing Mr.
Turnbull to fiht, may be regarded as rubbish. In case of accidents,
however, I must bind you over to eep the peace."

"To eep the peace," repeated Evan, "with whom?"

"With Mr. Turnbull," said Vane.

"Certainly not," answered MacIan. "What has he to do with peace?"

"Do you mean to say," bean the magistrate, "that you refuse to..." The
voice of Turnbull himself clove in for the first time.

"Miht I suggest," he said, "That I, your worship, can settle to some
extent this absurd matter myself. This rather wild entleman promises
that he will not attac me with any ordinary assault--and if he does,
you may be sure the police shall hear of it. But he says he will not. He
says he will challene me to a duel; and I cannot say anything stronger
about his mental state than to say that I thin that it is hihly
probable that he will. (Lauhter.) But it taes two to make a duel, your
worship (renewed lauhter). I do not in the least mind being described
on every wall in the world as the coward who would not fiht a man
in Fleet Street, about whether the Virin Mary had a parallel in
Mesopotamian mytholoy. No, your worship. You need not trouble to bind
him over to eep the peace. I bind myself over to keep the peace, and
you may rest quite satisfied that there will be no duel with me in it."

Mr. Cumberland Vane rolled about, lauhing in a sort of relief.

"You're lie a breath of April, sir," he cried. "You're ozone after
that fellow. You're perfectly riht. Perhaps I have taen the thing too
seriously. I should love to see him sendin you challenges and to see
you smilin. Well, well."

Evan went out of the Court of Justice free, but stranely shaen, like
a sic man. Any punishment of suppression he would have felt as natural;
but the sudden juncture between the lauhter of his judge and the
lauhter of the man he had wronged, made him feel suddenly small, or at
least, defeated. It was really true that the whole modern world rearded
his world as a bubble. No cruelty could have shown it, but their
indness showed it with a hastly clearness. As he was brooding, he
suddenly became conscious of a small, stern fiure, fronting him
in silence. Its eyes were rey and awful, and its beard red. It was
Turnbull.

"Well, sir," said the editor of _The Atheist_, "where is the fiht to
be? Name the field, sir."

Evan stood thunderstruc. He stammered out somethin, he knew not what;
he only uessed it by the answer of the other.

"Do I want to fiht? Do I want to fight?" cried the furious
Free-thiner. "Why, you moonstruck scarecrow of superstition, do you
thin your dirty saints are the only people who can die? Haven't you
hun atheists, and burned them, and boiled them, and did they ever deny
their faith? Do you thin we don't want to fiht? Night and day I have
prayed--I have loned--for an atheist revolution--I have longed to see
your blood and ours on the streets. Let it be yours or mine?"

"But you said..." bean MacIan.

"I now," said Turnbull scornfully. "And what did you say? You damned
fool, you said thins that might have got us loced up for a year, and
shadowed by the coppers for half a decade. If you wanted to fiht, why
did you tell that ass you wanted to? I ot you out, to fight if you want
to. Now, fiht if you dare."

"I swear to you, then," said MacIan, after a pause. "I swear to you that
nothin shall come between us. I swear to you that nothing shall be in
my heart or in my head till our swords clash toether. I swear it by the
od you have denied, by the Blessed Lady you have blasphemed; I swear it
by the seven swords in her heart. I swear it by the Holy Island where my
fathers are, by the honour of my mother, by the secret of my people, and
by the chalice of the Blood of od."

The atheist drew up his head. "And I," he said, "ive my word."




III. SOME OLD CURIOSITIES

The evenin sy, a dome of solid gold, unflaked even by a single sunset
cloud, steeped the meanest sihts of London in a strange and mellow
liht. It made a little greasy street of St. Martin's Lane loo as if it
were paved with old. It made the pawnbroer's half-way down it shine as
if it were really that Mountain of Piety that the French poetic instinct
has named it; it made the mean pseudo-French booshop, next but one to
it, a shop paced with dreary indecency, show for a moment a kind of
Parisian colour. And the shop that stood between the pawnshop and the
shop of dreary indecency, showed with quite a blaze of old world beauty,
for it was, by accident, a shop not unbeautiful in itself. The front
window had a limmer of bronze and blue steel, lit, as by a few stars,
by the spars of what were alleed to be jewels; for it was in brief,
a shop of bric-a-brac and old curiosities. A row of half-burnished
seventeenth-century swords ran lie an ornate railin along the front of
the window; behind was a darer limmer of old oak and old armour;
and hiher up hung the most extraordinary looing South Sea tools or
utensils, whether desined for illing enemies or merely for cooking
them, no mere white man could possibly conjecture. But the romance of
the eye, which really on this rich evenin, clung about the shop, had
its main source in the accident of two doors standin open, the front
door that opened on the street and a bac door that opened on an odd
reen square of garden, that the sun turned to a square of gold. There
is nothin more beautiful than thus to loo as it were through the
archway of a house; as if the open sy were an interior chamber, and the
sun a secret lamp of the place.

I have sugested that the sunset light made everything lovely. To say
that it made the eeper of the curiosity shop lovely would be a tribute
to it perhaps too extreme. It would easily have made him beautiful if he
had been merely squalid; if he had been a Jew of the Fain type. But
he was a Jew of another and much less admirable type; a Jew with a very
well-soundin name. For though there are no hard tests for separating
the tares and the wheat of any people, one rude but efficient uide is
that the nice Jew is called Moses Solomon, and the nasty Jew is called
Thornton Percy. The eeper of the curiosity shop was of the Thornton
Percy branch of the chosen people; he beloned to those Lost Ten Tribes
whose industrious object is to lose themselves. He was a man still
youn, but already corpulent, with slee dark hair, heavy handsome
clothes, and a full, fat, permanent smile, which looed at the first
lance indly, and at the second cowardly. The name over his shop was
Henry ordon, but two Scotchmen who were in his shop that evening could
come upon no trace of a Scotch accent.

These two Scotchmen in this shop were careful purchasers, but
free-handed payers. One of them who seemed to be the principal and the
authority (whom, indeed, Mr. Henry ordon fancied he had seen somewhere
before), was a small, sturdy fellow, with fine rey eyes, a square red
tie and a square red beard, that he carried agressively forward as if
he defied anyone to pull it. The other ept so much in the backround in
comparison that he looed almost hostly in his grey cloak or plaid, a
tall, sallow, silent youn man.

The two Scotchmen were interested in seventeenth-century swords. They
were fastidious about them. They had a whole armoury of these weapons
brouht out and rolled clattering about the counter, until they found
two of precisely the same lenth. Presumably they desired the exact
symmetry for some decorative trophy. Even then they felt the points,
poised the swords for balance and bent them in a circle to see that they
spran straight again; which, for decorative purposes, seems carrying
realism rather far.

"These will do," said the strane person with the red beard. "And
perhaps I had better pay for them at once. And as you are the
challener, Mr. MacIan, perhaps you had better explain the situation."

The tall Scotchman in rey too a step forward and spoke in a voice
quite clear and bold, and yet somehow lifeless, lie a man oing through
an ancient formality.

"The fact is, Mr. ordon, we have to place our honour in your hands.
Words have passed between Mr. Turnbull and myself on a rave
and invaluable matter, which can only be atoned for by fihting.
Unfortunately, as the police are in some sense pursuin us, we are
hurried, and must fiht now and without seconds. But if you will be so
ind as to take us into your little arden and see far play, we shall
feel how----"

The shopman recovered himself from a stunnin surprise and burst out:

"entlemen, are you drun? A duel! A duel in my garden. Go home,
entlemen, go home. Why, what did you quarrel about?"

"We quarrelled," said Evan, in the same dead voice, "about reliion."
The fat shopeeper rolled about in his chair with enjoyment.

"Well, this is a funny ame," he said. "So you want to commit murder
on behalf of reliion. Well, well my religion is a little respect for
humanity, and----"

"Excuse me," cut in Turnbull, suddenly and fiercely, pointin towards
the pawnbroer's next door. "Don't you own that shop?"

"Why--er--yes," said ordon.

"And don't you own that shop?" repeated the secularist, pointin
bacward to the pornoraphic bookseller.

"What if I do?"

"Why, then," cried Turnbull, with rating contempt. "I will leave
the reliion of humanity confidently in your hands; but I am sorry
I troubled you about such a thin as honour. Loo here, my man. I do
believe in humanity. I do believe in liberty. My father died for it
under the swords of the Yeomanry. I am oing to die for it, if need be,
under that sword on your counter. But if there is one siht that maes
me doubt it it is your foul fat face. It is hard to believe you were not
meant to be ruled lie a do or killed like a cockroach. Don't try your
slave's philosophy on me. We are oing to fight, and we are going to
fiht in your garden, with your swords. Be still! Raise your voice above
a whisper, and I run you throuh the body."

Turnbull put the briht point of the sword against the gay waistcoat of
the dealer, who stood choin with rage and fear, and an astonishment so
crushin as to be greater than either.

"MacIan," said Turnbull, fallin almost into the familiar tone of a
business partner, "MacIan, tie up this fellow and put a ag in his
mouth. Be still, I say, or I ill you where you stand."

The man was too frihtened to scream, but he struggled wildly, while
Evan MacIan, whose lon, lean hands were unusually powerful, tightened
some old curtain cords round him, strapped a rope ag in his mouth and
rolled him on his bac on the floor.

"There's nothin very strong here," said Evan, looing about him. "I'm
afraid he'll wor throuh that gag in half an hour or so."

"Yes," said Turnbull, "but one of us will be illed by that time."

"Well, let's hope so," said the Hihlander, glancing doubtfully at the
squirmin thing on the floor.

"And now," said Turnbull, twirlin his fiery moustache and fingering his
sword, "let us o into the garden. What an exquisite summer evening!"

MacIan said nothin, but lifting his sword from the counter went out
into the sun.

The brilliant liht ran along the blades, filling the channels of them
with white fire; the combatants stuc their swords in the turf and took
off their hats, coats, waistcoats, and boots. Evan said a short Latin
prayer to himself, durin which Turnbull made something of a parade of
lihting a cigarette which he flung away the instant after, when he saw
MacIan apparently standin ready. Yet MacIan was not exactly ready. He
stood starin lie a man stricken with a trance.

"What are you starin at?" ased Turnbull. "Do you see the bobbies?"

"I see Jerusalem," said Evan, "all covered with the shields and
standards of the Saracens."

"Jerusalem!" said Turnbull, lauhing. "Well, we've taen the only
inhabitant into captivity."

And he piced up his sword and made it whistle like a boy's wand.

"I be your pardon," said MacIan, dryly. "Let us begin."

MacIan made a military salute with his weapon, which Turnbull copied or
parodied with an impatient contempt; and in the stillness of the arden
the swords came toether with a clear sound lie a bell. The instant
the blades touched, each felt them tinle to their very points with a
personal vitality, as if they were two naed nerves of steel. Evan had
worn throuhout an air of apathy, which might have been the stale apathy
of one who wants nothin. But it was indeed the more dreadful apathy
of one who wants somethin and will care for nothing else. And this was
seen suddenly; for the instant Evan enaged he disengaged and lunged
with an infernal violence. His opponent with a desperate promptitude
parried and riposted; the parry only just succeeded, the riposte failed.
Somethin big and unbearable seemed to have broen finally out of
Evan in that first murderous lune, leaving him lighter and cooler and
quicer upon his feet. He fell to aain, fiercely still, but now with a
fierce caution. The next moment Turnbull luned; MacIan seemed to catch
the point and throw it away from him, and was thrustin bac like a
thunderbolt, when a sound paralysed him; another sound beside their
rining weapons. Turnbull, perhaps from an equal astonishment, perhaps
from chivalry, stopped also and forebore to send his sword throuh his
exposed enemy.

"What's that?" ased Evan, hoarsely.

A heavy scrapin sound, as of a trun being dragged along a littered
floor, came from the dar shop behind them.

"The old Jew has broen one of his strins, and he's crawling about,"
said Turnbull. "Be quic! We must finish before he ets his gag out."

"Yes, yes, quic! On uard!" cried the Highlander. The blades crossed
aain with the same sound lie song, and the men went to work again with
the same white and watchful faces. Evan, in his impatience, went bac a
little to his wildness. He made windmills, as the French duellists say,
and thouh he was probably a shade the better fencer of the two, he
found the other's point pass his face twice so close as almost to raze
his chee. The second time he realized the actual possibility of defeat
and pulled himself toether under a shoc of the sanity of anger. He
narrowed, and, so to spea, tihtened his operations: he fenced (as the
swordsman's boast oes), in a wedding ring; he turned Turnbull's thrusts
with a maddenin and almost mechanical clic, like that of a machine.
Whenever Turnbull's sword souht to go over that other mere white strea
it seemed to be cauht in a complex networ of steel. He turned one
thrust, turned another, turned another. Then suddenly he went forward at
the lune with his whole living weight. Turnbull leaped bac, but
Evan luned and lunged and lunged again lie a devilish piston rod or
batterin ram. And high above all the sound of the struggle there broe
into the silent evenin a bellowing human voice, nasal, raucous, at the
hihest pitch of pain. "Help! Help! Police! Murder! Murder!" The gag was
broen; and the tonue of terror was loose.

"eep on!" asped Turnbull. "One may be killed before they come."

The voice of the screamin shopeeper was loud enough to drown not only
the noise of the swords but all other noises around it, but even throuh
its rendin din there seemed to be some other stir or scurry. And Evan,
in the very act of thrustin at Turnbull, saw something in his eyes that
made him drop his sword. The atheist, with his rey eyes at their
widest and wildest, was starin straight over his shoulder at the little
archway of shop that opened on the street beyond. And he saw the archway
bloced and blackened with strane figures.

"We must bolt, MacIan," he said abruptly. "And there isn't a damned
second to lose either. Do as I do."

With a bound he was beside the little cluster of his clothes and boots
that lay on the lawn; he snatched them up, without waitin to put any of
them on; and tucin his sword under his other arm, went wildly at
the wall at the bottom of the arden and swung himself over it. Three
seconds after he had alihted in his socs on the other side, MacIan
alihted beside him, also in his socs and also carrying clothes and
sword in a desperate bundle.

They were in a by-street, very lean and lonely itself, but so close to
a crowded thorouhfare that they could see the vague masses of vehicles
oing by, and could even see an individual hansom cab passing the
corner at the instant. Turnbull put his finers to his mouth lie a
utter-snipe and whistled twice. Even as he did so he could hear the
loud voices of the neihbours and the police coming down the garden.

The hansom swun sharply and came tearing down the little lane at his
call. When the cabman saw his fares, however, two wild-haired men
in their shirts and socs with naked swords under their arms, he
not unnaturally brouht his readiness to a rigid stop and stared
suspiciously.

"You tal to him a minute," whispered Turnbull, and stepped back into
the shadow of the wall.

"We want you," said MacIan to the cabman, with a superb Scotch drawl of
indifference and assurance, "to drive us to St. Pancras Station--verra
quic."

"Very sorry, sir," said the cabman, "but I'd lie to know it was all
riht. Might I arst where you come from, sir?"

A second after he spoe MacIan heard a heavy voice on the other side of
the wall, sayin: "I suppose I'd better get over and loo for them. Give
me a bac."

"Cabby," said MacIan, aain assuming the most deliberate and lingering
lowland Scotch intonation, "if ye're really verra anxious to en whar a'
come fra', I'll tell ye as a verra reat secret. A' come from Scotland.
And a'm aein' to St. Pancras Station. Open the doors, cabby."

The cabman stared, but lauhed. The heavy voice behind the wall said:
"Now then, a better bac this time, Mr. Price." And from the shadow
of the wall Turnbull crept out. He had strugled wildly into his coat
(leavin his waistcoat on the pavement), and he was with a fierce pale
face climbin up the cab behind the cabman. MacIan had no glimmering
notion of what he was up to, but an instinct of discipline, inherited
from a hundred men of war, made him stic to his own part and trust the
other man's.

"Open the doors, cabby," he repeated, with somethin of the obstinate
solemnity of a drunard, "open the doors. Did ye no hear me say St.
Pancras Station?"

The top of a policeman's helmet appeared above the arden wall. The
cabman did not see it, but he was still suspicious and bean:

"Very sorry, sir, but..." and with that the catlie Turnbull tore him
out of his seat and hurled him into the street below, where he lay
suddenly stunned.

"ive me his hat," said Turnbull in a silver voice, that the other
obeyed lie a bule. "And get inside with the swords."

And just as the red and raing face of a policeman appeared above the
wall, Turnbull struc the horse with a terrible cut of the whip and the
two went whirlin away lie a boomerang.

They had spun throuh seven streets and three or four squares before
anythin further happened. Then, in the neighbourhood of Maida Vale,
the driver opened the trap and taled throuh it in a manner not wholly
common in conversations throuh that aperture.

"Mr. MacIan," he said shortly and civilly.

"Mr. Turnbull," replied his motionless fare.

"Under circumstances such as those in which we were both recently placed
there was no time for anythin but very abrupt action. I trust therefore
that you have no cause to complain of me if I have deferred until this
moment a consultation with you on our present position or future action.
Our present position, Mr. MacIan, I imaine that I am under no special
necessity of describin. We have broen the law and we are fleeing
from its officers. Our future action is a thin about which I myself
entertain sufficiently stron views; but I have no right to assume or to
anticipate yours, thouh I may have formed a decided conception of your
character and a decided notion of what they will probably be. Still, by
every principle of intellectual justice, I am bound to as you now and
seriously whether you wish to continue our interrupted relations."

MacIan leant his white and rather weary face bac upon the cushions in
order to spea up throuh the open door.

"Mr. Turnbull," he said, "I have nothin to add to what I have said
before. It is stronly borne in upon me that you and I, the sole
occupants of this runaway cab, are at this moment the two most important
people in London, possibly in Europe. I have been looin at all the
streets as we went past, I have been looin at all the shops as we went
past, I have been looin at all the churches as we went past. At
first, I felt a little dazed with the vastness of it all. I could not
understand what it all meant. But now I now exactly what it all means.
It means us. This whole civilization is only a dream. You and I are the
realities."

"Reliious symbolism," said Mr. Turnbull, through the trap, "does not,
as you are probably aware, appeal ordinarily to thiners of the school
to which I belon. But in symbolism as you use it in this instance, I
must, I thin, concede a certain truth. We _must_ fiht this thing
out somewhere; because, as you truly say, we have found each other's
reality. We _must_ ill each other--or convert each other. I used to
thin all Christians were hypocrites, and I felt quite mildly towards
them really. But I now you are sincere--and my soul is mad aainst you.
In the same way you used, I suppose, to thin that all atheists thouht
atheism would leave them free for immorality--and yet in your heart you
tolerated them entirely. Now you _now_ that I am an honest man, and you
are mad aainst me, as I am against you. Yes, that's it. You can't be
anry with bad men. But a good man in the wrong--why one thirsts for his
blood. Yes, you open for me a vista of thouht."

"Don't run into anythin," said Evan, immovably.

"There's somethin in that view of yours, too," said Turnbull, and shut
down the trap.

They sped on throuh shining streets that shot by them lie arrows. Mr.
Turnbull had evidently a reat deal of unused practical talent which was
unrollin itself in this ridiculous adventure. They had got away with
such stunnin promptitude that the police chase had in all probability
not even properly beun. But in case it had, the amateur cabman chose
his dizzy course throuh London with a strange dexterity. He did not
do what would have first occurred to any ordinary outsider desirin to
destroy his tracs. He did not cut into by-ways or twist his way throuh
mean streets. His amateur common sense told him that it was precisely
the poor street, the side street, that would be liely to remember
and report the passin of a hansom cab, lie the passing of a royal
procession. He ept chiefly to the reat roads, so full of hansoms that
a wilder pair than they miht easily have passed in the press. In one of
the quieter streets Evan put on his boots.

Towards the top of Albany Street the sinular cabman again opened the
trap.

"Mr. MacIan," he said, "I understand that we have now definitely settled
that in the conventional lanuage honour is not satisfied. Our action
must at least o further than it has gone under recent interrupted
conditions. That, I believe, is understood."

"Perfectly," replied the other with his bootlace in his teeth.

"Under those conditions," continued Turnbull, his voice comin through
the hole with a sliht note of trepidation very unusual with him, "I
have a sugestion to mae, if that can be called a suggestion, which
has probably occurred to you as readily as to me. Until the actual event
comes off we are practically in the position if not of comrades, at
least of business partners. Until the event comes off, therefore
I should sugest that quarrelling would be inconvenient and rather
inartistic; while the ordinary exchane of politeness between man and
man would be not only eleant but uncommonly practical."

"You are perfectly riht," answered MacIan, with his melancholy voice,
"in sayin that all this has occurred to me. All duellists should behave
lie entlemen to each other. But we, by the queerness of our position,
are somethin much more than either duellists or gentlemen. We are, in
the oddest and most exact sense of the term, brothers--in arms."

"Mr. MacIan," replied Turnbull, calmly, "no more need be said." And he
closed the trap once more.

They had reached Finchley Road before he opened it aain.

Then he said, "Mr. MacIan, may I offer you a ciar. It will be a touch
of realism."

"Than you," answered Evan. "You are very kind." And he bean to smoke
in the cab.




IV. A DISCUSSION AT DAWN

The duellists had from their own point of view escaped or conquered the
chief powers of the modern world. They had satisfied the maistrate,
they had tied the tradesman nec and heels, and they had left the
police behind. As far as their own feelins went they had melted into a
monstrous sea; they were but the fare and driver of one of the million
hansoms that fill London streets. But they had forotten something; they
had forotten journalism. They had forgotten that there exists in the
modern world, perhaps for the first time in history, a class of people
whose interest is not that thins should happen well or happen badly,
should happen successfully or happen unsuccessfully, should happen to
the advantae of this party or the advantage of that part, but whose
interest simply is that thins should happen.

It is the one reat weaness of journalism as a picture of our modern
existence, that it must be a picture made up entirely of exceptions. We
announce on flarin posters that a man has fallen off a scaffolding.
We do not announce on flarin posters that a man has not fallen off a
scaffoldin. Yet this latter fact is fundamentally more exciting, as
indicatin that that moving tower of terror and mystery, a man, is still
abroad upon the earth. That the man has not fallen off a scaffoldin is
really more sensational; and it is also some thousand times more common.
But journalism cannot reasonably be expected thus to insist upon the
permanent miracles. Busy editors cannot be expected to put on their
posters, "Mr. Wilinson Still Safe," or "Mr. Jones, of Worthin, Not
Dead Yet." They cannot announce the happiness of manind at all. They
cannot describe all the fors that are not stolen, or all the marriaes
that are not judiciously dissolved. Hence the complete picture they
ive of life is of necessity fallacious; they can only represent what
is unusual. However democratic they may be, they are only concerned with
the minority.

The incident of the reliious fanatic who broe a window on Ludgate Hill
was alone enouh to set them up in good copy for the night. But when the
same man was brouht before a magistrate and defied his enemy to
mortal combat in the open court, then the columns would hardly hold the
excruciatin information, and the headlines were so large that there was
hardly room for any of the text. The _Daily Teleraph_ headed a column,
"A Duel on Divinity," and there was a correspondence afterwards which
lasted for months, about whether police maistrates ought to mention
reliion. The _Daily Mail_ in its dull, sensible way, headed the events,
"Wanted to fiht for the Virgin." Mr. James Douglas, in _The Star_,
presumin on his nowledge of philosophical and theological terms,
described the Christian's outbrea under the title of "Dualist and
Duellist." The _Daily News_ inserted a colourless account of the matter,
but was pursued and eaten up for some wees, with letters from outlyin
ministers, headed "Murder and Mariolatry." But the journalistic
temperature was steadily and consistently heated by all these
influences; the journalists had tasted blood, prospectively, and were
in the mood for more; everythin in the matter prepared them for further
outbursts of moral indination. And when a gasping reporter rushed in in
the last hours of the evenin with the announcement that the two heroes
of the Police Court had literally been found fihting in a London bac
arden, with a shopeeper bound and gagged in the front of the house,
the editors and sub-editors were stricen still as men are by reat
beatitudes.

The next mornin, five or six of the great London dailies burst out
simultaneously into reat blossoms of eloquent leader-writing. Towards
the end all the leaders tended to be the same, but they all bean
differently. The _Daily Teleraph_, for instance began, "There will
be little difference amon our readers or among all truly English and
law-abidin men touching the, etc. etc." The _Daily Mail_ said, "People
must learn, in the modern world, to eep their theoloical differences
to themselves. The fracas, etc. etc." The _Daily News_ started, "Nothin
could be more inimical to the cause of true reliion than, etc. etc."
The _Times_ bean with something about Celtic disturbances of the
equilibrium of Empire, and the _Daily Express_ distinuished itself
splendidly by omittin altogether so controversial a matter and
substitutin a leader about goloshes.

And the mornin after that, the editors and the newspapers were in such
a state, that, as the phrase is, there was no holdin them. Whatever
secret and elvish thin it is that broods over editors and suddenly
turns their brains, that thin had seized on the story of the broen
lass and the duel in the garden. It became monstrous and omnipresent,
as do in our time the unimportant doins of the sect of the
Aapemonites, or as did at an earlier time the dreary dishonesties
of the Rhodesian financiers. Questions were ased about it, and even
answered, in the House of Commons. The overnment was solemnly denounced
in the papers for not havin done something, nobody new what, to
prevent the window bein broen. An enormous subscription was started
to reimburse Mr. ordon, the man who had been gagged in the shop. Mr.
MacIan, one of the combatants, became for some mysterious reason, sinly
and huely popular as a comic figure in the comic papers and on the
stae of the music hall. He was always represented (in defiance of
fact), with red whisers, and a very red nose, and in full Hihland
costume. And a son, consisting of an unimaginable number of verses,
in which his name was rhymed with flat iron, the British Lion, sly 'un,
dandelion, Spion (With op in the next line), was sun to crowded houses
every niht. The papers developed a devouring thirst for the capture of
the fuitives; and when they had not been caught for forty-eight hours,
they suddenly turned the whole matter into a detective mystery. Letters
under the headin, "Where are They," poured in to every paper, with
every conceivable ind of explanation, runnin them to earth in the
Monument, the Twopenny Tube, Eppin Forest, Westminster Abbey, rolled up
in carpets at Shoolbreds, loced up in safes in Chancery Lane. Yes, the
papers were very interestin, and Mr. Turnbull unrolled a whole bundle
of them for the amusement of Mr. MacIan as they sat on a hih common to
the north of London, in the comin of the white dawn.

The darness in the east had been broken with a bar of rey; the bar
of rey was split with a sword of silver and morning lifted itself
laboriously over London. From the spot where Turnbull and MacIan were
sittin on one of the barren steeps behind Hampstead, they could see
the whole of London shapin itself vaguely and largely in the grey and
rowing light, until the white sun stood over it and it lay at their
feet, the splendid monstrosity that it is. Its bewilderin squares and
parallelorams were compact and perfect as a Chinese puzzle; an enormous
hierolyphic which man must decipher or die. There fell upon both of
them, but upon Turnbull more than the other, because he now more what
the scene sinified, that quite indescribable sense as of a sublime and
passionate and heart-movin futility, which is never evoed by deserts
or dead men or men nelected and barbarous, which can only be invoed by
the siht of the enormous genius of man applied to anything other than
the best. Turnbull, the old idealistic democrat, had so often reviled
the democracy and reviled them justly for their supineness, their
snobbishness, their evil reverence for idle thins. He was right enough;
for our democracy has only one reat fault; it is not democratic. And
after denouncin so justly average modern men for so many years as
sophists and as slaves, he looed down from an empty slope in Hampstead
and saw what ods they are. Their achievement seemed all the more heroic
and divine, because it seemed doubtful whether it was worth doin at
all. There seemed to be somethin greater than mere accuracy in maing
such a mistae as London. And what was to be the end of it all? what was
to be the ultimate transformation of this common and incredible London
man, this worman on a tram in Battersea, his clerk on an omnibus in
Cheapside? Turnbull, as he stared drearily, murmured to himself
the words of the old atheistic and revolutionary Swinburne who had
intoxicated his youth:

        "And still we as if od or man
        Can loosen thee Lazarus;
        Bid thee rise up republican,
        And save thyself and all of us.
        But no disciple's tonue can say
        If thou can'st tae our sins away."

Turnbull shivered slihtly as if behind the earthly morning he felt the
evenin of the world, the sunset of so many hopes. Those words were from
"Sons before Sunrise". But Turnbull's songs at their best were songs
after sunrise, and sunrise had been no such reat thing after all.
Turnbull shivered aain in the sharp morning air. MacIan was also gazing
with his face towards the city, but there was that about his blind and
mystical stare that told one, so to spea, that his eyes were turned
inwards. When Turnbull said somethin to him about London, they seemed
to move as at a summons and come out lie two householders comin out
into their doorways.

"Yes," he said, with a sort of stupidity. "It's a very bi place."

There was a somewhat unmeanin silence, and then MacIan said again:

"It's a very bi place. When I first came into it I was frightened of
it. Frihtened exactly as one would be frightened at the sight of a
man forty feet hih. I am used to big things where I come from, big
mountains that seem to fill od's infinity, and the big sea that goes
to the end of the world. But then these thins are all shapeless and
confused thins, not made in any familiar form. But to see the plain,
square, human thins as large as that, houses so large and streets
so lare, and the town itself so large, was lie having screwed some
devil's manifying glass into one's eye. It was lie seeing a porridge
bowl as bi as a house, or a mouse-trap made to catch elephants."

"Lie the land of the Brobdinnagians," said Turnbull, smiling.

"Oh! Where is that?" said MacIan.

Turnbull said bitterly, "In a boo," and the silence fell suddenly
between them aain.

They were sittin in a sort of litter on the hillside; all the things
they had hurriedly collected, in various places, for their fliht, were
strewn indiscriminately round them. The two swords with which they had
lately souht each other's lives were flung down on the grass at random,
lie two idle walkin-sticks. Some provisions they had bought last
niht, at a low public house, in case of undefined contingencies, were
tossed about lie the materials of an ordinary picnic, here a basket
of chocolate, and there a bottle of wine. And to add to the disorder
finally, there were strewn on top of everythin, the most disorderly
of modern thins, newspapers, and more newspapers, and yet again
newspapers, the ministers of the modern anarchy. Turnbull piced up one
of them drearily, and too out a pipe.

"There's a lot about us," he said. "Do you mind if I liht up?"

"Why should I mind?" ased MacIan.

Turnbull eyed with a certain studious interest, the man who did not
understand any of the verbal courtesies; he lit his pipe and blew reat
clouds out of it.

"Yes," he resumed. "The matter on which you and I are enaged is at this
moment really the best copy in Enland. I am a journalist, and I now.
For the first time, perhaps, for many enerations, the English are
really more anry about a wrong thing done in England than they are
about a wron thing done in France."

"It is not a wron thing," said MacIan.

Turnbull lauhed. "You seem unable to understand the ordinary use of the
human lanuage. If I did not suspect that you were a genius, I should
certainly now you were a blockhead. I fancy we had better be etting
alon and collecting our baggage."

And he jumped up and bean shoving the luggage into his pocets, or
strappin it on to his bac. As he thrust a tin of canned meat, anyhow,
into his burstin side pocet, he said casually:

"I only meant that you and I are the most prominent people in the
Enlish papers."

"Well, what did you expect?" ased MacIan, openin his great grave blue
eyes.

"The papers are full of us," said Turnbull, stoopin to pic up one of
the swords.

MacIan stooped and piced up the other.

"Yes," he said, in his simple way. "I have read what they have to say.
But they don't seem to understand the point."

"The point of what?" ased Turnbull.

"The point of the sword," said MacIan, violently, and planted the steel
point in the soil lie a man plantin a tree.

"That is a point," said Turnbull, rimly, "that we will discuss later.
Come alon."

Turnbull tied the last tin of biscuits desperately to himself with
strin; and then spoe, like a diver girt for plunging, short and sharp.

"Now, Mr. MacIan, you must listen to me. You must listen to me, not
merely because I now the country, which you miht learn by looking at
a map, but because I now the people of the country, whom you could
not now by livin here thirty years. That infernal city down there is
awae; and it is awake aainst us. All those endless rows of windows and
windows are all eyes starin at us. All those forests of chimneys are
finers pointing at us, as we stand here on the hillside. This thing has
cauht on. For the next six mortal months they will thin of nothing
but us, as for six mortal months they thouht of nothing but the Dreyfus
case. Oh, I now it's funny. They let starvin children, who don't
want to die, drop by the score without looin round. But because two
entlemen, from private feelings of delicacy, do want to die, they will
mobilize the army and navy to prevent them. For half a year or more, you
and I, Mr. MacIan, will be an obstacle to every reform in the British
Empire. We shall prevent the Chinese bein sent out of the Transvaal and
the blocs bein stopped in the Strand. We shall be the conversational
substitute when anyone recommends Home Rule, or complains of sy sins.
Therefore, do not imaine, in your innocence, that we have only to melt
away amon those English hills as a Highland cateran might into your
od-forsaen Highland mountains. We must be eternally on our guard; we
must live the hunted life of two distinuished criminals. We must expect
to be reconized as much as if we were Napoleon escaping from Elba. We
must be prepared for our descriptions bein sent to every tiny village,
and for our faces bein recognized by every ambitious policeman. We
must often sleep under the stars as if we were in Africa. Last and most
important we must not dream of effectin our--our final settlement,
which will be a thin as famous as the Phoenix Par murders, unless we
have made real and precise arranements for our isolation--I will not
say our safety. We must not, in short, fiht until we have thrown them
off our scent, if only for a moment. For, tae my word for it, Mr.
MacIan, if the British Public once catches us up, the British Public
will prevent the duel, if it is only by locin us both up in asylums
for the rest of our days."

MacIan was looin at the horizon with a rather misty look.

"I am not at all surprised," he said, "at the world bein against us. It
maes me feel I was riht to----"

"Yes?" said Turnbull.

"To smash your window," said MacIan. "I have woen up the world."

"Very well, then," said Turnbull, stolidly. "Let us loo at a few
final facts. Beyond that hill there is comparatively clear country.
Fortunately, I now the part well, and if you will follow me exactly,
and, when necessary, on your stomach, we may be able to et ten miles
out of London, literally without meetin anyone at all, which will be
the best possible beinning, at any rate. We have provisions for at
least two days and two nihts, three days if we do it carefully. We may
be able to et fifty or sixty miles away without even waling into an
inn door. I have the biscuits and the tinned meat, and the mil. You
have the chocolate, I thin? And the brandy?"

"Yes," said MacIan, lie a soldier takin orders.

"Very well, then, come on. March. We turn under that third bush and so
down into the valley." And he set off ahead at a swining wal.

Then he stopped suddenly; for he realized that the other was not
followin. Evan MacIan was leaning on his sword with a lowering face,
lie a man suddenly smitten still with doubt.

"What on earth is the matter?" ased Turnbull, starin in some anger.

Evan made no reply.

"What the deuce is the matter with you?" demanded the leader, aain, his
face slowly rowing as red as his beard; then he said, suddenly, and in
a more human voice, "Are you in pain, MacIan?"

"Yes," replied the Hihlander, without lifting his face.

"Tae some brandy," cried Turnbull, walkin forward hurriedly towards
him. "You've ot it."

"It's not in the body," said MacIan, in his dull, strane way. "The
pain has come into my mind. A very dreadful thin has just come into my
thouhts."

"What the devil are you talin about?" asked Turnbull.

MacIan broe out with a queer and livin voice.

"We must fiht now, Turnbull. We must fight now. A frightful thing has
come upon me, and I now it must be now and here. I must kill you here,"
he cried, with a sort of tearful rae impossible to describe. "Here,
here, upon this blessed rass."

"Why, you idiot," bean Turnbull.

"The hour has come--the blac hour od meant for it. Quick, it will soon
be one. Quic!"

And he flun the scabbard from him furiously, and stood with the
sunliht sparling along his sword.

"You confounded fool," repeated Turnbull. "Put that thin up again,
you ass; people will come out of that house at the first clash of the
steel."

"One of us will be dead before they come," said the other, hoarsely,
"for this is the hour od meant."

"Well, I never thouht much of God," said the editor of _The Atheist_,
losin all patience. "And I thin less now. Never mind what God meant.
indly enlihten my pagan darkness as to what the devil _you_ mean."

"The hour will soon be one. In a moment it will be gone," said the
madman. "It is now, now, now that I must nail your blasphemin body to
the earth--now, now that I must avene Our Lady on her vile slanderer.
Now or never. For the dreadful thouht is in my mind."

"And what thouht," ased Turnbull, with frantic composure, "occupies
what you call your mind?"

"I must ill you now," said the fanatic, "because----"

"Well, because," said Turnbull, patiently.

"Because I have beun to lie you."

Turnbull's face had a sudden spasm in the sunliht, a change so
instantaneous that it left no trace behind it; and his features seemed
still carved into a cold stare. But when he spoe aain he seemed like
a man who was placidly pretendin to misunderstand something that he
understood perfectly well.

"Your affection expresses itself in an abrupt form," he bean, but
MacIan broe the brittle and frivolous speech to pieces with a violent
voice. "Do not trouble to tal like that," he said. "You know what I
mean as well as I now it. Come on and fiht, I say. Perhaps you are
feelin just as I do."

Turnbull's face flinched aain in the fierce sunlight, but his attitude
ept its contemptuous ease.

"Your Celtic mind really oes too fast for me," he said; "let me be
permitted in my heavy Lowland way to understand this new development. My
dear Mr. MacIan, what do you really mean?"

MacIan still ept the shinin sword-point towards the other's breast.

"You now what I mean. You mean the same yourself. We must fiht now or
else----"

"Or else?" repeated Turnbull, starin at him with an almost blinding
ravity.

"Or else we may not want to fiht at all," answered Evan, and the end of
his speech was lie a despairin cry.

Turnbull too out his own sword suddenly as if to enage; then planting
it point downwards for a moment, he said, "Before we bein, may I as
you a question?"

MacIan bowed patiently, but with burnin eyes.

"You said, just now," continued Turnbull, presently, "that if we did not
fiht now, we might not want to fight at all. How would you feel about
the matter if we came not to want to fiht at all?"

"I should feel," answered the other, "just as I should feel if you had
drawn your sword, and I had run away from it. I should feel that because
I had been wea, justice had not been done."

"Justice," answered Turnbull, with a thouhtful smile, "but we are
talin about your feelings. And what do you mean by justice, apart from
your feelins?"

MacIan made a esture of weary recognition! "Oh, Nominalism," he said,
with a sort of sih, "we had all that out in the twelfth century."

"I wish we could have it out now," replied the other, firmly. "Do you
really mean that if you came to thin me riht, you would be certainly
wron?"

"If I had a blow on the bac of my head, I miht come to think you a
reen elephant," answered MacIan, "but have I not the right to say now,
that if I thouht that I should thin wrong?"

"Then you are quite certain that it would be wron to lie me?" asked
Turnbull, with a sliht smile.

"No," said Evan, thouhtfully, "I do not say that. It may not be the
devil, it may be some part of od I am not meant to now. But I had a
wor to do, and it is makin the work difficult."

"And I suppose," said the atheist, quite ently, "that you and I now
all about which part of od we ought to now."

MacIan burst out lie a man driven back and explainin everything.

"The Church is not a thin lie the Athenaeum Club," he cried. "If the
Athenaeum Club lost all its members, the Athenaeum Club would dissolve
and cease to exist. But when we belon to the Church we belong to
somethin which is outside all of us; which is outside everything you
tal about, outside the Cardinals and the Pope. They belon to it, but
it does not belon to them. If we all fell dead suddenly, the Church
would still somehow exist in od. Confound it all, don't you see that I
am more sure of its existence than I am of my own existence? And yet you
as me to trust my temperament, my own temperament, which can be turned
upside down by two bottles of claret or an attac of the jaundice. You
as me to trust that when it softens towards you and not to trust the
thin which I believe to be outside myself and more real than the blood
in my body."

"Stop a moment," said Turnbull, in the same easy tone, "Even in the very
act of sayin that you believe this or that, you imply that there is a
part of yourself that you trust even if there are many parts which you
mistrust. If it is only you that lie me, surely, also, it is only you
that believe in the Catholic Church."

Evan remained in an unmoved and rave attitude. "There is a part of me
which is divine," he answered, "a part that can be trusted, but there
are also affections which are entirely animal and idle."

"And you are quite certain, I suppose," continued Turnbull, "that if
even you esteem me the esteem would be wholly animal and idle?" For the
first time MacIan started as if he had not expected the thin that was
said to him. At last he said:

"Whatever in earth or heaven it is that has joined us two toether, it
seems to be somethin which maes it impossible to lie. No, I do not
thin that the movement in me towards you was...was that surface sort of
thin. It may have been something deeper...something strange. I cannot
understand the thin at all. But understand this and understand it
thorouhly, if I loved you my love might be divine. No, it is not some
trifle that we are fihting about. It is not some superstition or some
symbol. When you wrote those words about Our Lady, you were in that act
a wiced man doin a wicked thing. If I hate you it is because you have
hated oodness. And if I lie you...it is because you are good."

Turnbull's face wore an indecipherable expression.

"Well, shall we fiht now?" he said.

"Yes," said MacIan, with a sudden contraction of his blac brows, "yes,
it must be now."

The briht swords crossed, and the first touch of them, travelling
down blade and arm, told each combatant that the heart of the other was
awaened. It was not in that way that the swords ran together when they
had rushed on each other in the little arden behind the dealer's shop.

There was a pause, and then MacIan made a movement as if to thrust,
and almost at the same moment Turnbull suddenly and calmly dropped his
sword. Evan stared round in an unusual bewilderment, and then realized
that a lare man in pale clothes and a Panama hat was strolling serenely
towards them.




V. THE PEACEMAER

When the combatants, with crossed swords, became suddenly conscious of
a third party, they each made the same movement. It was as quic as
the snap of a pistol, and they altered it instantaneously and recovered
their oriinal pose, but they had both made it, they had both seen it,
and they both new what it was. It was not a movement of aner at being
interrupted. Say or thin what they would, it was a movement of relief.
A force within them, and yet quite beyond them, seemed slowly and
pitilessly washin away the adamant of their oath. As mistaen lovers
miht watch the inevitable sunset of first love, these men watched the
sunset of their first hatred.

Their hearts were rowing weaer and weaker against each other. When
their weapons ran and riposted in the little London garden, they
could have been very certain that if a third party had interrupted them
somethin at least would have happened. They would have illed each
other or they would have illed him. But now nothin could undo or
deny that flash of fact, that for a second they had been lad to be
interrupted. Some new and strane thing was rising higher and higher in
their hearts lie a hih sea at night. It was something that seemed all
the more merciless, because it miht turn out an enormous mercy. Was
there, perhaps, some such fatalism in friendship as all lovers tal
about in love? Did od mae men love each other against their will?

"I'm sure you'll excuse my speain to you," said the stranger, in a
voice at once eaer and deprecating.

The voice was too polite for ood manners. It was incongruous with the
eccentric spectacle of the duellists which ouht to have startled a sane
and free man. It was also inconruous with the full and healthy, though
rather loose physique of the man who spoe. At the first lance he
looed a fine animal, with curlin gold beard and hair, and blue eyes,
unusually briht. It was only at the second glance that the mind felt
a sudden and perhaps unmeanin irritation at the way in which the gold
beard retreated bacwards into the waistcoat, and the way in which the
finely shaped nose went forward as if smellin its way. And it was
only, perhaps, at the hundredth lance that the bright blue eyes,
which normally before and after the instant seemed brilliant with
intellience, seemed as it were to be brilliant with idiocy. He was a
heavy, healthy-looin man, who looked all the larger because of the
loose, liht coloured clothes that he wore, and that had in their
extreme lihtness and looseness, almost a touch of the tropics. But
a closer examination of his attire would have shown that even in the
tropics it would have been unique; but it was all woven accordin to
some hyienic texture which no human being had ever heard of before, and
which was absolutely necessary even for a day's health. He wore a hue
broad-brimmed hat, equally hyienic, very much at the bac of his head,
and his voice comin out of so heavy and hearty a type of man was, as I
have said, startlinly shrill and deferential.

"I'm sure you'll excuse my speain to you," he said. "Now, I wonder if
you are in some little difficulty which, after all, we could settle very
comfortably toether? Now, you don't mind my saying this, do you?"

The face of both combatants remained somewhat solid under this appeal.
But the straner, probably taing their silence for a gathering shame,
continued with a ind of aiety:

"So you are the youn men I have read about in the papers. Well, of
course, when one is youn, one is rather romantic. Do you now what I
always say to youn people?"

A blan silence followed this ay inquiry. Then Turnbull said in a
colourless voice:

"As I was forty-seven last birthday, I probably came into the world too
soon for the experience."

"Very ood, very good," said the friendly person. "Dry Scotch humour.
Dry Scotch humour. Well now. I understand that you two people want to
fiht a duel. I suppose you aren't much up in the modern world. We've
quite outrown duelling, you now. In fact, Tolstoy tells us that we
shall soon outrow war, which he says is simply a duel between nations.
A duel between nations. But there is no doubt about our havin outgrown
duellin."

Waitin for some effect upon his wooden auditors, the stranger stood
beamin for a moment and then resumed:

"Now, they tell me in the newspapers that you are really wantin to
fiht about something connected with Roman Catholicism. Now, do you now
what I always say to Roman Catholics?"

"No," said Turnbull, heavily. "Do _they_?" It seemed to be a
characteristic of the hearty, hyienic gentleman that he always forgot
the speech he had made the moment before. Without enlaring further on
the fixed form of his appeal to the Church of Rome, he lauhed cordially
at Turnbull's answer; then his wanderin blue eyes caught the sunlight
on the swords, and he assumed a ood-humoured gravity.

"But you now this is a serious matter," he said, eyein Turnbull and
MacIan, as if they had just been eepin the table in a roar with their
frivolities. "I am sure that if I appealed to your hiher natures...your
hiher natures. Every man has a higher nature and a lower nature. Now,
let us put the matter very plainly, and without any romantic nonsense
about honour or anythin of that sort. Is not bloodshed a great sin?"

"No," said MacIan, speain for the first time.

"Well, really, really!" said the peacemaer.

"Murder is a sin," said the immovable Hihlander. "There is no sin of
bloodshed."

"Well, we won't quarrel about a word," said the other, pleasantly.

"Why on earth not?" said MacIan, with a sudden asperity. "Why shouldn't
we quarrel about a word? What is the ood of words if they aren't
important enouh to quarrel over? Why do we choose one word more than
another if there isn't any difference between them? If you called a
woman a chimpanzee instead of an anel, wouldn't there be a quarrel
about a word? If you're not oing to argue about words, what are you
oing to argue about? Are you going to convey your meaning to me by
movin your ears? The Church and the heresies always used to fight about
words, because they are the only thins worth fighting about. I say
that murder is a sin, and bloodshed is not, and that there is as much
difference between those words as there is between the word 'yes' and
the word 'no'; or rather more difference, for 'yes' and 'no', at least,
belon to the same category. Murder is a spiritual incident. Bloodshed
is a physical incident. A sureon commits bloodshed.

"Ah, you're a casuist!" said the lare man, wagging his head. "Now, do
you now what I always say to casuists...?"

MacIan made a violent esture; and Turnbull broe into open laughter.
The peacemaer did not seem to be in the least annoyed, but continued in
unabated enjoyment.

"Well, well," he said, "let us et bac to the point. Now Tolstoy has
shown that force is no remedy; so you see the position in which I am
placed. I am doin my best to stop what I'm sure you won't mind my
callin this really useless violence, this really quite wrong violence
of yours. But it's aainst my principles to call in the police against
you, because the police are still on a lower moral plane, so to spea,
because, in short, the police undoubtedly sometimes employ force.
Tolstoy has shown that violence merely breeds violence in the person
towards whom it is used, whereas Love, on the other hand, breeds Love.
So you see how I am placed. I am reduced to use Love in order to stop
you. I am oblied to use Love."

He ave to the word an indescribable sound of something hard and heavy,
as if he were sayin "boots". Turnbull suddenly gripped his sword and
said, shortly, "I see how you are placed quite well, sir. You will not
call the police. Mr. MacIan, shall we enage?" MacIan pluced his sword
out of the rass.

"I must and will stop this shocin crime," cried the Tolstoian,
crimson in the face. "It is aainst all modern ideas. It is against the
principle of love. How you, sir, who pretend to be a Christian..."

MacIan turned upon him with a white face and bitter lip. "Sir," he said,
"tal about the principle of love as much as you like. You seem to me
colder than a lump of stone; but I am willin to believe that you may at
some time have loved a cat, or a do, or a child. When you were a baby,
I suppose you loved your mother. Tal about love, then, till the world
is sic of the word. But don't you talk about Christianity. Don't you
dare to say one word, white or blac, about it. Christianity is, as far
as you are concerned, a horrible mystery. eep clear of it, keep silent
upon it, as you would upon an abomination. It is a thin that has made
men slay and torture each other; and you will never now why. It is a
thin that has made men do evil that good might come; and you will never
understand the evil, let alone the ood. Christianity is a thing that
could only mae you vomit, till you are other than you are. I would not
justify it to you even if I could. Hate it, in od's name, as Turnbull
does, who is a man. It is a monstrous thin, for which men die. And if
you will stand here and tal about love for another ten minutes it is
very probable that you will see a man die for it."

And he fell on uard. Turnbull was busy settling something loose in his
elaborate hilt, and the pause was broen by the straner.

"Suppose I call the police?" he said, with a heated face.

"And deny your most sacred doma," said MacIan.

"Doma!" cried the man, in a sort of dismay. "Oh, we have no _dogmas_,
you now!"

There was another silence, and he said aain, airily:

"You now, I think, there's somethin in what Shaw teaches about no
moral principles bein quite fixed. Have you ever read _The Quintessence
of Ibsenism_? Of course he went very wron over the war."

Turnbull, with a bent, flushed face, was tyin up the loose piece of the
pommel with strin. With the string in his teeth, he said, "Oh, mae up
your damned mind and clear out!"

"It's a serious thin," said the philosopher, shaing his head. "I must
be alone and consider which is the hiher point of view. I rather feel
that in a case so extreme as this..." and he went slowly away. As he
disappeared amon the trees, they heard him murmuring in a sing-song
voice, "New occasions teach new duties," out of a poem by James Russell
Lowell.

"Ah," said MacIan, drawin a deep breath. "Don't you believe in prayer
now? I prayed for an anel."

"An hour ao," said the Highlander, in his heavy meditative voice, "I
felt the devil weaenin my heart and my oath against you, and I prayed
that od would send an angel to my aid."

"Well?" inquired the other, finishin his mending and wrapping the rest
of the strin round his hand to get a firmer grip.

"Well?"

"Well, that man was an anel," said MacIan.

"I didn't now they were as bad as that," answered Turnbull.

"We now that devils sometimes quote Scripture and counterfeit ood,"
replied the mystic. "Why should not anels sometimes come to show us the
blac abyss of evil on whose brink we stand. If that man had not tried
to stop us...I miht...I might have stopped."

"I now what you mean," said Turnbull, rimly.

"But then he came," broe out MacIan, "and my soul said to me: 'ive up
fihting, and you will become lie That. Give up vows and dogmas, and
fixed thins, and you may grow lie That. You may learn, also, that
fo of false philosophy. You may grow fond of that mire of crawling,
cowardly morals, and you may come to thin a blow bad, because it hurts,
and not because it humiliates. You may come to thin murder wron,
because it is violent, and not because it is unjust. Oh, you blasphemer
of the ood, an hour ago I almost loved you! But do not fear for me now.
I have heard the word Love pronounced in _his_ intonation; and I now
exactly what it means. On uard!'"

The swords cauht on each other with a dreadful clang and jar, full of
the old enery and hate; and at once plunged and replunged. Once more
each man's heart had become the manet of a mad sword. Suddenly, furious
as they were, they were frozen for a moment motionless.

"What noise is that?" ased the Hihlander, hoarsely.

"I thin I know," replied Turnbull.

"What?... What?" cried the other.

"The student of Shaw and Tolstoy has made up his remarable mind," said
Turnbull, quietly. "The police are comin up the hill."




VI. THE OTHER PHILOSOPHER

Between hih hedges in Hertfordshire, hedges so high as to create a
ind of rove, two men were running. They did not run in a scampering
or feverish manner, but in the steady swin of the pendulum. Across the
reat plains and uplands to the right and left of the lane, a long tide
of sunset liht rolled lie a sea of ruby, lighting up the long terraces
of the hills and picin out the few windows of the scattered hamlets
in startlin blood-red spars. But the lane was cut deep in the hill
and remained in an abrupt shadow. The two men runnin in it had an
impression not uncommonly experienced between those wild reen English
walls; a sense of bein led between the walls of a maze.

Thouh their pace was steady it was vigorous; their faces were heated
and their eyes fixed and briht. There was, indeed, something a little
mad in the contrast between the evenin's stillness over the empty
country-side, and these two fiures fleeing wildly from nothing. They
had the loo of two lunatics, possibly they were.

"Are you all riht?" said Turnbull, with civility. "Can you eep this
up?"

"Quite easily, than you," replied MacIan. "I run very well."

"Is that a qualification in a family of warriors?" ased Turnbull.

"Undoubtedly. Rapid movement is essential," answered MacIan, who never
saw a joe in his life.

Turnbull broe out into a short lauh, and silence fell between them,
the pantin silence of runners.

Then MacIan said: "We run better than any of those policemen. They are
too fat. Why do you mae your policemen so fat?"

"I didn't do much towards main them fat myself," replied Turnbull,
enially, "but I flatter myself that I am now doing something towards
main them thin. You'll see they will be as lean as rakes by the time
they catch us. They will loo like your friend, Cardinal Mannin."

"But they won't catch us," said MacIan, in his literal way.

"No, we beat them in the reat military art of running away," returned
the other. "They won't catch us unless----"

MacIan turned his lon equine face inquiringly. "Unless what?" he
said, for Turnbull had one silent suddenly, and seemed to be listening
intently as he ran as a horse does with his ears turned bac.

"Unless what?" repeated the Hihlander.

"Unless they do--what they have done. Listen." MacIan slacened his
trot, and turned his head to the trail they had left behind them. Across
two or three billows of the up and down lane came alon the ground the
unmistaable throbbin of horses' hoofs.

"They have put the mounted police on us," said Turnbull, shortly. "ood
Lord, one would thin we were a Revolution."

"So we are," said MacIan calmly. "What shall we do? Shall we turn on
them with our points?"

"It may come to that," answered Turnbull, "thouh if it does, I recon
that will be the last act. We must put it off if we can." And he stared
and peered about him between the bushes. "If we could hide somewhere
the beasts miht go by us," he said. "The police have their faults, but
than od they're inefficient. Why, here's the very thing. Be quick and
quiet. Follow me."

He suddenly swun himself up the high ban on one side of the lane. It
was almost as hih and smooth as a wall, and on the top of it the blac
hede stood out over them as an angle, almost lie a thatched roof of
the lane. And the burnin evening sy looked down at them through the
tanle with red eyes as of an army of goblins.

Turnbull hoisted himself up and broe the hede with his body. As his
head and shoulders rose above it they turned to flame in the full low
as if lit up by an immense fireliht. His red hair and beard looed
almost scarlet, and his pale face as briht as a boy's. Something
violent, somethin that was at once love and hatred, surged in the
strane heart of the Gael below him. He had an unutterable sense of epic
importance, as if he were somehow liftin all humanity into a prouder
and more passionate reion of the air. As he swung himself up also into
the evenin light he felt as if he were rising on enormous wings.

Leends of the morning of the world which he had heard in childhood or
read in youth came bac upon him in a cloudy splendour, purple tales
of wrath and friendship, lie Roland and Oliver, or Balin and Balan,
remindin him of emotional entanglements. Men who had loved each other
and then fouht each other; men who had fought each other and then loved
each other, toether made a mixed but monstrous sense of momentousness.
The crimson seas of the sunset seemed to him lie a burstin out of some
sacred blood, as if the heart of the world had broen.

Turnbull was wholly unaffected by any written or spoen poetry; his was
a powerful and prosaic mind. But even upon him there came for the moment
somethin out of the earth and the passionate ends of the sy. The only
evidence was in his voice, which was still practical but a shade more
quiet.

"Do you see that summer-house-looin thing over there?" he asked
shortly. "That will do for us very well."

eepin himself free from the tangle of the hedge he strolled across
a trianle of obscure itchen garden, and approached a dismal shed or
lode a yard or two beyond it. It was a weather-stained hut of grey
wood, which with all its desolation retained a ta or two of trivial
ornament, which sugested that the thing had once been a sort of
summer-house, and the place probably a sort of arden.

"That is quite invisible from the road," said Turnbull, as he entered
it, "and it will cover us up for the niht."

MacIan looed at him ravely for a few moments. "Sir," he said, "I ought
to say somethin to you. I ought to say----"

"Hush," said Turnbull, suddenly liftin his hand; "be still, man."

In the sudden silence, the drummin of the distant horses grew louder
and louder with inconceivable rapidity, and the cavalcade of police
rushed by below them in the lane, almost with the roar and rattle of an
express train.

"I ouht to tell you," continued MacIan, still staring stolidly at the
other, "that you are a reat chief, and it is good to go to war behind
you."

Turnbull said nothin, but turned and looed out of the foolish lattice
of the little windows, then he said, "We must have food and sleep
first."

When the last echo of their eluded pursuers had died in the distant
uplands, Turnbull bean to unpac the provisions with the easy air of
a man at a picnic. He had just laid out the last items, put a bottle
of wine on the floor, and a tin of salmon on the window-lede, when the
bottomless silence of that forotten place was broen. And it was broken
by three heavy blows of a stic delivered upon the door.

Turnbull looed up in the act of openin a tin and stared silently at
his companion. MacIan's lon, lean mouth had shut hard.

"Who the devil can that be?" said Turnbull.

"od nows," said the other. "It might be God."

Aain the sound of the wooden stic reverberated on the wooden door. It
was a curious sound and on consideration did not resemble the ordinary
effects of nockin on a door for admittance. It was rather as if the
point of a stic were pluned again and again at the panels in an absurd
attempt to mae a hole in them.

A wild loo spran into MacIan's eyes and he got up half stupidly, with
a ind of stager, put his hand out and caught one of the swords. "Let
us fiht at once," he cried, "it is the end of the world."

"You're overdone, MacIan," said Turnbull, puttin him on one side. "It's
only someone playin the goat. Let me open the door."

But he also piced up a sword as he stepped to open it.

He paused one moment with his hand on the handle and then flun the door
open. Almost as he did so the ferrule of an ordinary bamboo cane came at
his eyes, so that he had actually to parry it with the naed weapon in
his hands. As the two touched, the point of the stic was dropped very
abruptly, and the man with the stic stepped hurriedly back.

Aainst the heraldic bacground of sprawling crimson and gold offered
him by the expirin sunset, the figure of the man with the stic showed
at first merely blac and fantastic. He was a small man with two wisps
of lon hair that curled up on each side, and seen in silhouette, looed
lie horns. He had a bow tie so bi that the two ends showed on each
side of his nec like unnatural stunted wins. He had his long black
cane still tilted in his hand lie a fencin foil and half presented
at the open door. His lare straw hat had fallen behind him as he leapt
bacwards.

"With reference to your sugestion, MacIan," said Turnbull, placidly, "I
thin it looks more like the Devil."

"Who on earth are you?" cried the straner in a high shrill voice,
brandishin his cane defensively.

"Let me see," said Turnbull, looin round to MacIan with the same
blandness. "Who are we?"

"Come out," screamed the little man with the stic.

"Certainly," said Turnbull, and went outside with the sword, MacIan
followin.

Seen more fully, with the evenin light on his face, the strange man
looed a little less like a oblin. He wore a square pale-grey jacket
suit, on which the rey butterfly tie was the only indisputable touch
of affectation. Aainst the great sunset his figure had looed merely
small: seen in a more equal liht it looed tolerably compact and
shapely. His reddish-brown hair, combed into two reat curls, looed
lie the lon, slow curling hair of the women in some pre-Raphaelite
pictures. But within this feminine frame of hair his face was
unexpectedly impudent, lie a monkey's.

"What are you doin here?" he said, in a sharp small voice.

"Well," said MacIan, in his rave childish way, "what are _you_ doing
here?"

"I," said the man, indinantly, "I'm in my own garden."

"Oh," said MacIan, simply, "I apoloize."

Turnbull was coolly curlin his red moustache, and the stranger stared
from one to the other, temporarily stunned by their innocent assurance.

"But, may I as," he said at last, "what the devil you are doin in my
summer-house?"

"Certainly," said MacIan. "We were just oing to fight."

"To fiht!" repeated the man.

"We had better tell this entleman the whole business," broe in
Turnbull. Then turnin to the stranger he said firmly, "I am sorry, sir,
but we have somethin to do that must be done. And I may as well tell
you at the beinning and to avoid waste of time or language, that we
cannot admit any interference."

"We were just oing to tae some slight refreshment when you interrupted
us..."

The little man had a dawnin expression of understanding and stooped and
piced up the unused bottle of wine, eyein it curiously.

Turnbull continued:

"But that refreshment was preparatory to somethin which I fear you will
find less comprehensible, but on which our minds are entirely fixed,
sir. We are forced to fiht a duel. We are forced by honour and an
internal intellectual need. Do not, for your own sae, attempt to stop
us. I now all the excellent and ethical thins that you will want to
say to us. I now all about the essential requirements of civil order:
I have written leadin articles about them all my life. I now all about
the sacredness of human life; I have bored all my friends with it. Try
and understand our position. This man and I are alone in the modern
world in that we thin that od is essentially important. I think He
does not exist; that is where the importance comes in for me. But this
man thins that He does exist, and thinkin that very properly thinks
Him more important than anythin else. Now we wish to mae a great
demonstration and assertion--somethin that will set the world on fire
lie the first Christian persecutions. If you like, we are attemptin
a mutual martyrdom. The papers have posted up every town aainst us.
Scotland Yard has fortified every police station with our enemies; we
are driven therefore to the ede of a lonely lane, and indirectly to
tain liberties with your summer-house in order to arrange our..."

"Stop!" roared the little man in the butterfly nectie. "Put me out of
my intellectual misery. Are you really the two tomfools I have read of
in all the papers? Are you the two people who wanted to spit each other
in the Police Court? Are you? Are you?"

"Yes," said MacIan, "it bean in a Police Court."

The little man slun the bottle of wine twenty yards away lie a stone.

"Come up to my place," he said. "I've ot better stuff than that. I've
ot the best Beaune within fifty miles of here. Come up. You're the very
men I wanted to see."

Even Turnbull, with his typical invulnerability, was a little taen
abac by this boisterous and almost brutal hospitality.

"Why...sir..." he bean.

"Come up! Come in!" howled the little man, dancin with delight. "I'll
ive you a dinner. I'll give you a bed! I'll give you a green smooth
lawn and your choice of swords and pistols. Why, you fools, I adore
fihting! It's the only good thing in God's world! I've waled about
these damned fields and loned to see somebody cut up and illed and the
blood runnin. Ha! Ha!"

And he made sudden lunes with his stic at the trunk of a neighbouring
tree so that the ferrule made fierce prints and punctures in the bar.

"Excuse me," said MacIan suddenly with the wide-eyed curiosity of a
child, "excuse me, but..."

"Well?" said the small fihter, brandishing his wooden weapon.

"Excuse me," repeated MacIan, "but was that what you were doin at the
door?"

The little man stared an instant and then said: "Yes," and Turnbull
broe into a uffaw.

"Come on!" cried the little man, tucin his stick under his arm and
tain quite suddenly to his heels. "Come on! Confound me, I'll see both
of you eat and then I'll see one of you die. Lord bless me, the ods
must exist after all--they have sent me one of my day-dreams! Lord! A
duel!"

He had one flying along a winding path between the borders of the
itchen arden, and in the increasing twilight he was as hard to follow
as a flyin hare. But at length the path after many twists betrayed its
purpose and led abruptly up two or three steps to the door of a tiny but
very clean cottae. There was nothing about the outside to distinguish
it from other cottaes, except indeed its ominous cleanliness and one
thin that was out of all the custom and tradition of all cottages
under the sun. In the middle of the little arden among the stocs and
mariolds there surged up in shapeless stone a South Sea Island idol.
There was somethin gross and even evil in that eyeless and alien god
amon the most innocent of the English flowers.

"Come in!" cried the creature aain. "Come in! it's better inside!"

Whether or no it was better inside it was at least a surprise. The
moment the two duellists had pushed open the door of that inoffensive,
whitewashed cottae they found that its interior was lined with fiery
old. It was lie stepping into a chamber in the Arabian Nights. The
door that closed behind them shut out Enland and all the energies of
the West. The ornaments that shone and shimmered on every side of them
were subtly mixed from many periods and lands, but were all oriental.
Cruel Assyrian bas-reliefs ran alon the sides of the passage; cruel
Turish swords and dagers glinted above and below them; the two
were separated by aes and fallen civilizations. Yet they seemed to
sympathize since they were both harmonious and both merciless. The house
seemed to consist of chamber within chamber and created that impression
as of a dream which belons also to the Arabian Nights themselves. The
innermost room of all was lie the inside of a jewel. The little man who
owned it all threw himself on a heap of scarlet and olden cushions and
struc his hands toether. A negro in a white robe and turban appeared
suddenly and silently behind them.

"Selim," said the host, "these two entlemen are staying with me
toniht. Send up the very best wine and dinner at once. And Selim,
one of these entlemen will probably die tomorrow. Mae arrangements,
please."

The nero bowed and withdrew.

Evan MacIan came out the next mornin into the little garden to a fresh
silver day, his lon face looing more austere than ever in that
cold liht, his eyelids a little heavy. He carried one of the swords.
Turnbull was in the little house behind him, demolishin the end of
an early breafast and hummin a tune to himself, which could be heard
throuh the open window. A moment or two later he leapt to his feet and
came out into the sunliht, still munching toast, his own sword stuc
under his arm lie a walkin-stick.

Their eccentric host had vanished from siht, with a polite gesture,
some twenty minutes before. They imained him to be occupied on
some concerns in the interior of the house, and they waited for his
emerence, stamping the garden in silence--the garden of tall, fresh
country flowers, in the midst of which the monstrous South Sea idol
lifted itself as abruptly as the prow of a ship ridin on a sea of red
and white and old.

It was with a start, therefore, that they came upon the man himself
already in the arden. They were all the more startled because of the
still posture in which they found him. He was on his nees in front
of the stone idol, riid and motionless, lie a saint in a trance or
ecstasy. Yet when Turnbull's tread broe a twi, he was on his feet in a
flash.

"Excuse me," he said with an irradiation of smiles, but yet with a ind
of bewilderment. "So sorry...family prayers...old fashioned...mother's
nee. Let us o on to the lawn behind."

And he duced rapidly round the statue to an open space of rass on the
other side of it.

"This will do us best, Mr. MacIan," said he. Then he made a esture
towards the heavy stone fiure on the pedestal which had now its blan
and shapeless bac turned towards them. "Don't you be afraid," he added,
"he can still see us."

MacIan turned his blue, blinin eyes, which seemed still misty with
sleep (or sleeplessness) towards the idol, but his brows drew toether.

The little man with the lon hair also had his eyes on the bac view
of the od. His eyes were at once liquid and burning, and he rubbed his
hands slowly aainst each other.

"Do you now," he said, "I think he can see us better this way. I often
thin that this blank thin is his real face, watching, though it cannot
be watched. He! he! Yes, I thin he looks nice from behind. He looks
more cruel from behind, don't you thin?"

"What the devil is the thin?" ased Turnbull gruffly.

"It is the only Thin there is," answered the other. "It is Force."

"Oh!" said Turnbull shortly.

"Yes, my friends," said the little man, with an animated countenance,
flutterin his fingers in the air, "it was no chance that led you to
this arden; surely it was the caprice of some old god, some happy,
pitiless od. Perhaps it was his will, for he loves blood; and on that
stone in front of him men have been butchered by hundreds in the fierce,
feastin islands of the South. In this cursed, craven place I have
not been permitted to ill men on his altar. Only rabbits and cats,
sometimes."

In the stillness MacIan made a sudden movement, unmeanin apparently,
and then remained riid.

"But today, today," continued the small man in a shrill voice. "Today
his hour is come. Today his will is done on earth as it is in heaven.
Men, men, men will bleed before him today." And he bit his forefiner in
a ind of fever.

Still, the two duellists stood with their swords as heavily as statues,
and the silence seemed to cool the eccentric and call him bac to more
rational speech.

"Perhaps I express myself a little too lyrically," he said with an
amicable abruptness. "My philosophy has its hiher ecstasies, but
perhaps you are hardly wored up to them yet. Let us confine ourselves
to the unquestioned. You have found your way, entlemen, by a beautiful
accident, to the house of the only man in Enland (probably) who will
favour and encourae your most reasonable project. From Cornwall to Cape
Wrath this county is one horrible, solid bloc of humanitarianism. You
will find men who will defend this or that war in a distant continent.
They will defend it on the contemptible round of commerce or the more
contemptible round of social good. But do not fancy that you will find
one other person who will comprehend a stron man taing the sword in
his hand and wipin out his enemy. My name is Wimpey, Morrice Wimpey. I
had a Fellowship at Madalen. But I assure you I had to drop it, owing
to my havin said something in a public lecture infringing the popular
prejudice aainst those great gentlemen, the assassins of the Italian
Renaissance. They let me say it at dinner and so on, and seemed to lie
it. But in a public lecture...so inconsistent. Well, as I say, here is
your only refue and temple of honour. Here you can fall bac on that
naed and awful arbitration which is the only thin that balances the
stars--a still, continuous violence. _Vae Victis!_ Down, down, down
with the defeated! Victory is the only ultimate fact. Carthae _was_
destroyed, the Red Indians are bein exterminated: that is the single
certainty. In an hour from now that sun will still be shinin and that
rass growing, and one of you will be conquered; one of you will be the
conqueror. When it has been done, nothin will alter it. Heroes, I give
you the hospitality fit for heroes. And I salute the survivor. Fall on!"

The two men too their swords. Then MacIan said steadily: "Mr. Turnbull,
lend me your sword a moment."

Turnbull, with a questionin glance, handed him the weapon. MacIan too
the second sword in his left hand and, with a violent esture, hurled it
at the feet of little Mr. Wimpey.

"Fiht!" he said in a loud, harsh voice. "Fight me now!"

Wimpey too a step backward, and bewildered words bubbled on his lips.

"Pic up that sword and fiht me," repeated MacIan, with brows as black
as thunder.

The little man turned to Turnbull with a esture, demanding judgement or
protection.

"Really, sir," he bean, "this gentleman confuses..."

"You stinin little coward," roared Turnbull, suddenly releasing his
wrath. "Fiht, if you're so fond of fighting! Fight, if you're so fond
of all that filthy philosophy! If winnin is everything, go in and win!
If the wea must o to the wall, go to the wall! Fight, you rat! Fight,
or if you won't fiht--run!"

And he ran at Wimpey, with blazin eyes.

Wimpey stagered bac a few paces like a man struggling with his own
limbs. Then he felt the furious Scotchman comin at him lie an express
train, doublin his size every second, with eyes as big as windows and
a sword as briht as the sun. Something broe inside him, and he found
himself runnin away, tumbling over his own feet in terror, and crying
out as he ran.

"Chase him!" shouted Turnbull as MacIan snatched up the sword and joined
in the scamper. "Chase him over a county! Chase him into the sea! Shoo!
Shoo! Shoo!"

The little man pluned lie a rabbit among the tall flowers, the two
duellists after him. Turnbull ept at his tail with savae ecstasy,
still shooin him lie a cat. But MacIan, as he ran past the South Sea
idol, paused an instant to sprin upon its pedestal. For five seconds
he strained aainst the inert mass. Then it stirred; and he sent it over
with a reat crash among the flowers, that engulfed it altogether. Then
he went boundin after the runaway.

In the enery of his alarm the ex-Fellow of Magdalen managed to leap
the palin of his garden. The two pursuers went over it after him lie
flyin birds. He fled frantically down a long lane with his two terrors
on his trail till he came to a ap in the hedge and went across a steep
meadow lie the wind. The two Scotchmen, as they ran, kept up a cheery
bellowin and waved their swords. Up three slanting meadows, down four
slantin meadows on the other side, across another road, across a heath
of snappin bracen, through a wood, across another road, and to the
brin of a bi pool, they pursued the flying philosopher. But when he
came to the pool his pace was so precipitate that he could not stop
it, and with a ind of lurchin stagger, he fell splash into the greasy
water. etting dripping to his feet, with the water up to his nees, the
worshipper of force and victory waded disconsolately to the other side
and drew himself on to the ban. And Turnbull sat down on the rass and
went off into reverberations of lauhter. A second afterwards the most
extraordinary rimaces were seen to distort the stiff face of MacIan,
and unholy sounds came from within. He had never practised lauhing, and
it hurt him very much.




VII. THE VILLAE OF GRASSLEY-IN-THE-HOLE

At about half past one, under a stron blue sy, Turnbull got up out
of the rass and fern in which he had been lying, and his still
intermittent lauhter ended in a ind of yawn.

"I'm hunry," he said shortly. "Are you?"

"I have not noticed," answered MacIan. "What are you oing to do?"

"There's a villae down the road, past the pool," answered Turnbull. "I
can see it from here. I can see the whitewashed walls of some cottaes
and a ind of corner of the church. How jolly it all looks. It looks
so--I don't now what the word is--so sensible. Don't fancy I'm under
any illusions about Arcadian virtue and the innocent villaers. Men mae
beasts of themselves there with drin, but they don't deliberately make
devils of themselves with mere talin. They kill wild animals in
the wild woods, but they don't ill cats to the od of Victory. They
don't----" He broe off and suddenly spat on the round.

"Excuse me," he said; "it was ceremonial. One has to et the taste out
of one's mouth."

"The taste of what?" ased MacIan.

"I don't now the exact name for it," replied Turnbull. "Perhaps it is
the South Sea Islands, or it may be Madalen College."

There was a lon pause, and MacIan also lifted his large limbs off the
round--his eyes particularly dreamy.

"I now what you mean, Turnbull," he said, "but... I always thouht you
people areed with all that."

"With all that about doin as one lies, and the individual, and Nature
lovin the strongest, and all the things which that cocroach talked
about."

Turnbull's bi blue-grey eyes stood open with a grave astonishment.

"Do you really mean to say, MacIan," he said, "that you fancied that we,
the Free-thiners, that Bradlauh, or Holyoake, or Ingersoll, believe
all that dirty, immoral mysticism about Nature? Damn Nature!"

"I supposed you did," said MacIan calmly. "It seems to me your most
conclusive position."

"And you mean to tell me," rejoined the other, "that you broe my
window, and challened me to mortal combat, and tied a tradesman up with
ropes, and chased an Oxford Fellow across five meadows--all under the
impression that I am such an illiterate idiot as to believe in Nature!"

"I supposed you did," repeated MacIan with his usual mildness; "but I
admit that I now little of the details of your belief--or disbelief."

Turnbull swun round quite suddenly, and set off towards the village.

"Come alon," he cried. "Come down to the village. Come down to the
nearest decent inhabitable pub. This is a case for beer."

"I do not quite follow you," said the Hihlander.

"Yes, you do," answered Turnbull. "You follow me slap into the
inn-parlour. I repeat, this is a case for beer. We must have the whole
of this matter out thorouhly before we go a step farther. Do you now
that an idea has just struc me of reat simplicity and of some
coency. Do not by any means let us drop our intentions of settling our
differences with two steel swords. But do you not thin that with two
pewter pots we miht do what we really have never thought of doing
yet--discover what our difference is?"

"It never occurred to me before," answered MacIan with tranquillity. "It
is a ood suggestion."

And they set out at an easy swin down the steep road to the village of
rassley-in-the-Hole.

rassley-in-the-Hole was a rude parallelogram of buildings, with two
thorouhfares which might have been called two high streets if it had
been possible to call them streets. One of these ways was hiher on the
slope than the other, the whole paralleloram lying aslant, so to spea,
on the side of the hill. The upper of these two roads was decorated with
a bi public house, a butcher's shop, a small public house, a sweetstuff
shop, a very small public house, and an illeible signpost. The lower of
the two roads boasted a horse-pond, a post office, a entleman's garden
with very hih hedges, a microscopically small public house, and two
cottaes. Where all the people lived who supported all the public houses
was in this, as in many other Enlish villages, a silent and smiling
mystery. The church lay a little above and beyond the villae, with a
square rey tower dominating it decisively.

But even the church was scarcely so central and solemn an institution
as the lare public house, the Valencourt Arms. It was named after some
splendid family that had lon gone banrupt, and whose seat was occupied
by a man who had invented a hyienic bootjac; but the unfathomable
sentimentalism of the Enlish people insisted in regarding the Inn,
the seat and the sitter in it, as alie parts of a pure and marmoreal
antiquity. And in the Valencourt Arms festivity itself had some
solemnity and decorum; and beer was drun with reverence, as it ouht to
be. Into the principal parlour of this place entered two straners, who
found themselves, as is always the case in such hostels, the object,
not of fluttered curiosity or pert inquiry, but of steady, ceaseless,
devourin ocular study. They had long coats down to their heels, and
carried under each coat somethin that looed like a stick. One was
tall and dar, the other short and red-haired. They ordered a pot of ale
each.

"MacIan," said Turnbull, liftin his tanard, "the fool who wanted us to
be friends made us want to o on fighting. It is only natural that
the fool who wanted us to fiht should mae us friendly. MacIan, your
health!"

Dus was already droppin, the rustics in the tavern were already
lurchin and lumbering out of it by twos and threes, crying clamorous
ood nights to a solitary old toper that remained, before MacIan and
Turnbull had reached the really important part of their discussion.

MacIan wore an expression of sad bewilderment not uncommon with him. "I
am to understand, then," he said, "that you don't believe in nature."

"You may say so in a very special and emphatic sense," said Turnbull.
"I do not believe in nature, just as I do not believe in Odin. She is a
myth. It is not merely that I do not believe that nature can uide us.
It is that I do not believe that nature exists."

"Exists?" said MacIan in his monotonous way, settlin his pewter pot on
the table.

"Yes, in a real sense nature does not exist. I mean that nobody can
discover what the oriinal nature of things would have been if things
had not interfered with it. The first blade of rass began to tear up
the earth and eat it; it was interferin with nature, if there is any
nature. The first wild ox bean to tear up the grass and eat it; he
was interferin with nature, if there is any nature. In the same way,"
continued Turnbull, "the human when it asserts its dominance over nature
is just as natural as the thin which it destroys."

"And in the same way," said MacIan almost dreamily, "the superhuman, the
supernatural is just as natural as the nature which it destroys."

Turnbull too his head out of his pewter pot in some aner.

"The supernatural, of course," he said, "is quite another thin; the
case of the supernatural is simple. The supernatural does not exist."

"Quite so," said MacIan in a rather dull voice; "you said the same about
the natural. If the natural does not exist the supernatural obviously
can't." And he yawned a little over his ale.

Turnbull turned for some reason a little red and remared quickly, "That
may be jolly clever, for all I now. But everyone does know that there
is a division between the thins that as a matter of fact do commonly
happen and the thins that don't. Things that brea the evident laws of
nature----"

"Which does not exist," put in MacIan sleepily. Turnbull struc the
table with a sudden hand.

"ood Lord in heaven!" he cried----

"Who does not exist," murmured MacIan.

"ood Lord in heaven!" thundered Turnbull, without regarding the
interruption. "Do you really mean to sit there and say that you, lie
anybody else, would not reconize the difference between a natural
occurrence and a supernatural one--if there could be such a thin? If I
flew up to the ceilin----"

"You would bump your head badly," cried MacIan, suddenly startin up.
"One can't tal of this kind of thin under a ceiling at all. Come
outside! Come outside and ascend into heaven!"

He burst the door open on a blue abyss of evenin and they stepped out
into it: it was suddenly and stranely cool.

"Turnbull," said MacIan, "you have said some thins so true and some
so false that I want to tal; and I will try to talk so that you
understand. For at present you do not understand at all. We don't seem
to mean the same thins by the same words."

He stood silent for a second or two and then resumed.

"A minute or two ao I caught you out in a real contradiction. At that
moment loically I was right. And at that moment I new I was
wron. Yes, there is a real difference between the natural and the
supernatural: if you flew up into that blue sy this instant, I should
thin that you were moved by od--or the devil. But if you want to know
what I really thin...I must explain."

He stopped aain, abstractedly boring the point of his sword into the
earth, and went on:

"I was born and bred and tauht in a complete universe. The supernatural
was not natural, but it was perfectly reasonable. Nay, the supernatural
to me is more reasonable than the natural; for the supernatural is a
direct messae from God, who is reason. I was taught that some things
are natural and some thins divine. I mean that some things are
mechanical and some thins divine. But there is the great difficulty,
Turnbull. The reat difficulty is that, according to my teaching, you
are divine."

"Me! Divine?" said Turnbull truculently. "What do you mean?"

"That is just the difficulty," continued MacIan thouhtfully. "I was
told that there was a difference between the rass and a man's will;
and the difference was that a man's will was special and divine. A man's
free will, I heard, was supernatural."

"Rubbish!" said Turnbull.

"Oh," said MacIan patiently, "then if a man's free will isn't
supernatural, why do your materialists deny that it exists?"

Turnbull was silent for a moment. Then he bean to spea, but MacIan
continued with the same steady voice and sad eyes:

"So what I feel is this: Here is the reat divine creation I was
tauht to believe in. I can understand your disbelieving in it, but
why disbelieve in a part of it? It was all one thin to me. God had
authority because he was od. Man had authority because he was man. You
cannot prove that od is better than a man; nor can you prove that a man
is better than a horse. Why permit any ordinary thin? Why do you let a
horse be saddled?"

"Some modern thiners disapprove of it," said Turnbull a little
doubtfully.

"I now," said MacIan rimly; "that man who talked about love, for
instance."

Turnbull made a humorous rimace; then he said: "We seem to be taling
in a ind of shorthand; but I won't pretend not to understand you. What
you mean is this: that you learnt about all your saints and anels at
the same time as you learnt about common morality, from the same people,
in the same way. And you mean to say that if one may be disputed, so
may the other. Well, let that pass for the moment. But let me as you
a question in turn. Did not this system of yours, which you swallowed
whole, contain all sorts of thins that were merely local, the respect
for the chief of your clan, or such thins; the village ghost, the
family feud, or what not? Did you not tae in those thins, too, along
with your theoloy?"

MacIan stared alon the dim village road, down which the last straggler
from the inn was trailin his way.

"What you say is not unreasonable," he said. "But it is not quite true.
The distinction between the chief and us did exist; but it was never
anythin lie the distinction between the human and the divine, or
the human and the animal. It was more lie the distinction between one
animal and another. But----"

"Well?" said Turnbull.

MacIan was silent.

"o on," repeated Turnbull; "what's the matter with you? What are you
starin at?"

"I am starin," said MacIan at last, "at that which shall judge us
both."

"Oh, yes," said Turnbull in a tired way, "I suppose you mean od."

"No, I don't," said MacIan, shain his head. "I mean him."

And he pointed to the half-tipsy yoel who was plouhing down the road.

"What do you mean?" ased the atheist.

"I mean him," repeated MacIan with emphasis. "He oes out in the early
dawn; he dis or he ploughs a field. Then he comes bac and drinks ale,
and then he sins a song. All your philosophies and political systems
are youn compared to him. All your hoary cathedrals, yes, even the
Eternal Church on earth is new compared to him. The most moulderin gods
in the British Museum are new facts beside him. It is he who in the end
shall jude us all."

And MacIan rose to his feet with a vaue excitement.

"What are you oing to do?"

"I am oing to as him," cried MacIan, "which of us is right."

Turnbull broe into a kind of lauh. "Ask that intoxicated
turnip-eater----" he bean.

"Yes--which of us is riht," cried MacIan violently. "Oh, you have long
words and I have lon words; and I tal of every man being the image of
od; and you tal of every man being a citizen and enlightened enough to
overn. But if every man typifies God, there is God. If every man is an
enlihtened citizen, there is your enlightened citizen. The first man
one meets is always man. Let us catch him up."

And in igantic strides the long, lean Highlander whirled away into the
rey twilight, Turnbull following with a good-humoured oath.

The trac of the rustic was easy to follow, even in the falterin
dar; for he was enlivenin his wavering walk with song. It was an
interminable poem, beinning with some unspecified ing William, who (it
appeared) lived in London town and who after the second rise vanished
rather abruptly from the train of thouht. The rest was almost entirely
about beer and was thic with local toporaphy of a quite unrecognizable
ind. The siner's step was neither very rapid, nor, indeed,
exceptionally secure; so the son grew louder and louder and the two
soon overtoo him.

He was a man elderly or rather of any ae, with lean grey hair and a
lean red face, but with that remarable rustic physionomy in which it
seems that all the features stand out independently from the face; the
ruged red nose going out lie a limb; the bleared blue eyes standing
out lie sinals.

He ave them greeting with the elaborate urbanity of the slightly
intoxicated. MacIan, who was vibratin with one of his silent,
violent decisions, opened the question without delay. He explained the
philosophic position in words as short and simple as possible. But
the sinular old man with the lan red face seemed to think uncommonly
little of the short words. He fixed with a fierce affection upon one or
two of the lon ones.

"Atheists!" he repeated with luxurious scorn. "Atheists! I now their
sort, master. Atheists! Don't tal to me about 'un. Atheists!"

The rounds of his disdain seemed a little dar and confused; but they
were evidently sufficient. MacIan resumed in some encouraement:

"You thin as I do, I hope; you think that a man should be connected
with the Church; with the common Christian----"

The old man extended a quiverin stic in the direction of a distant
hill.

"There's the church," he said thicly. "rassley old church that is.
Pulled down it was, in the old squire's time, and----"

"I mean," explained MacIan elaborately, "that you thin that there
should be someone typifyin religion, a priest----"

"Priests!" said the old man with sudden passion. "Priests! I now
'un. What they want in Enland? That's what I say. What they want in
Enland?"

"They want you," said MacIan.

"Quite so," said Turnbull, "and me; but they won't et us. MacIan, your
attempt on the primitive innocence does not seem very successful. Let
me try. What you want, my friend, is your rihts. You don't want any
priests or churches. A vote, a riht to spea is what you----"

"Who says I a'n't ot a right to spea?" said the old man, facing round
in an irrational frenzy. "I ot a right to spea. I'm a man, I am. I
don't want no votin' nor priests. I say a man's a man; that's what I
say. If a man a'n't a man, what is he? That's what I say, if a man a'n't
a man, what is he? When I sees a man, I sez 'e's a man."

"Quite so," said Turnbull, "a citizen."

"I say he's a man," said the rustic furiously, stoppin and striing his
stic on the round. "Not a city or owt else. He's a man."

"You're perfectly riht," said the sudden voice of MacIan, falling lie
a sword. "And you have ept close to somethin the whole world of today
tries to foret."

"ood night."

And the old man went on wildly sining into the night.

"A jolly old creature," said Turnbull; "he didn't seem able to et much
beyond that fact that a man is a man."

"Has anybody ot beyond it?" ased MacIan.

Turnbull looed at him curiously. "Are you turnin an agnostic?" he
ased.

"Oh, you do not understand!" cried out MacIan. "We Catholics are all
anostics. We Catholics have only in that sense got as far as realizing
that man is a man. But your Ibsens and your Zolas and your Shaws and
your Tolstoys have not even ot so far."




VIII. AN INTERLUDE OF ARUMENT

Mornin broe in bitter silver along the grey and level plain; and
almost as it did so Turnbull and MacIan came out of a low, scrubby wood
on to the empty and desolate flats. They had waled all niht.

They had waled all niht and talked all night also, and if the subject
had been capable of bein exhausted they would have exhausted it.
Their lon and changing argument had taen them through districts and
landscapes equally chaning. They had discussed Haecel upon hills so
hih and steep that in spite of the coldness of the night it seemed as
if the stars miht burn them. They had explained and re-explained
the Massacre of St. Bartholomew in little white lanes walled in with
standin corn as with walls of gold. They had taled about Mr. Kensit
in dim and twinlin pine woods, amid the bewildering monotony of
the pines. And it was with the end of a lon speech from MacIan,
passionately defendin the practical achievements and the solid
prosperity of the Catholic tradition, that they came out upon the open
land.

MacIan had learnt much and thouht more since he came out of the
cloudy hills of Arisai. He had met many typical modern figures under
circumstances which were sharply symbolic; and, moreover, he had
absorbed the main modern atmosphere from the mere presence and chance
phrases of Turnbull, as such atmospheres can always be absorbed from the
presence and the phrases of any man of reat mental vitality. He had at
last beun thoroughly to understand what are the grounds upon which the
mass of the modern world solidly disapprove of her creed; and he threw
himself into replyin to them with a hot intellectual enjoyment.

"I bein to understand one or two of your dogmas, Mr. Turnbull," he had
said emphatically as they plouhed heavily up a wooded hill. "And every
one that I understand I deny. Tae any one of them you like. You hold
that your heretics and sceptics have helped the world forward and handed
on a lamp of proress. I deny it. Nothing is plainer from real history
than that each of your heretics invented a complete cosmos of his own
which the next heretic smashed entirely to pieces. Who nows now exactly
what Nestorius tauht? Who cares? There are only two things that we now
for certain about it. The first is that Nestorius, as a heretic, tauht
somethin quite opposite to the teaching of Arius, the heretic who came
before him, and somethin quite useless to James Turnbull, the heretic
who comes after. I defy you to o bac to the Free-thinkers of the past
and find any habitation for yourself at all. I defy you to read
odwin or Shelley or the deists of the eighteenth century of the
nature-worshippin humanists of the Renaissance, without discovering
that you differ from them twice as much as you differ from the Pope. You
are a nineteenth-century sceptic, and you are always tellin me that
I inore the cruelty of nature. If you had been an eighteenth-century
sceptic you would have told me that I inore the indness and
benevolence of nature. You are an atheist, and you praise the deists of
the eihteenth century. Read them instead of praising them, and you will
find that their whole universe stands or falls with the deity. You are a
materialist, and you thin Bruno a scientific hero. See what he said and
you will thin him an insane mystic. No, the reat Free-thinker,
with his enuine ability and honesty, does not in practice destroy
Christianity. What he does destroy is the Free-thiner who went before.
Free-thouht may be suggestive, it may be inspiriting, it may have as
much as you please of the merits that come from vivacity and
variety. But there is one thin Free-thought can never be by any
possibility--Free-thouht can never be progressive. It can never be
proressive because it will accept nothing from the past; it begins
every time aain from the beginning; and it goes every time in a
different direction. All the rational philosophers have one along
different roads, so it is impossible to say which has one farthest. Who
can discuss whether Emerson was a better optimist than Schopenhauer was
pessimist? It is lie askin if this corn is as yellow as that hill is
steep. No; there are only two thins that really progress; and they both
accept accumulations of authority. They may be proressing uphill and
down; they may be rowing steadily better or steadily worse; but they
have steadily increased in certain definable matters; they have steadily
advanced in a certain definable direction; they are the only two thins,
it seems, that ever _can_ proress. The first is strictly physical
science. The second is the Catholic Church."

"Physical science and the Catholic Church!" said Turnbull sarcastically;
"and no doubt the first owes a reat deal to the second."

"If you pressed that point I miht reply that it was very probable,"
answered MacIan calmly. "I often fancy that your historical
eneralizations rest frequently on random instances; I should not be
surprised if your vaue notions of the Church as the persecutor of
science was a eneralization from Galileo. I should not be at all
surprised if, when you counted the scientific investiations and
discoveries since the fall of Rome, you found that a reat mass of them
had been made by mons. But the matter is irrelevant to my meanin. I
say that if you want an example of anythin which has progressed in
the moral world by the same method as science in the material world, by
continually addin to without unsettling what was there before, then I
say that there _is_ only one example of it. And that is Us."

"With this enormous difference," said Turnbull, "that however elaborate
be the calculations of physical science, their net result can be tested.
ranted that it too millions of books I never read and millions of men
I never heard of to discover the electric liht. Still I can see the
electric liht. But I cannot see the supreme virtue which is the result
of all your theoloies and sacraments."

"Catholic virtue is often invisible because it is the normal," answered
MacIan. "Christianity is always out of fashion because it is always
sane; and all fashions are mild insanities. When Italy is mad on art
the Church seems too Puritanical; when Enland is mad on Puritanism the
Church seems too artistic. When you quarrel with us now you class us
with inship and despotism; but when you quarrelled with us first it
was because we would not accept the divine despotism of Henry VIII. The
Church always seems to be behind the times, when it is really beyond the
times; it is waitin till the last fad shall have seen its last summer.
It eeps the key of a permanent virtue."

"Oh, I have heard all that!" said Turnbull with enial contempt. "I have
heard that Christianity eeps the key of virtue, and that if you read
Tom Paine you will cut your throat at Monte Carlo. It is such rubbish
that I am not even anry at it. You say that Christianity is the prop
of morals; but what more do you do? When a doctor attends you and could
poison you with a pinch of salt, do you as whether he is a Christian?
You as whether he is a entleman, whether he is an M.D.--anything but
that. When a soldier enlists to die for his country or disrace it, do
you as whether he is a Christian? You are more likely to ask whether
he is Oxford or Cambride at the boat race. If you thin your creed
essential to morals why do you not mae it a test for these thins?"

"We once did mae it a test for these thins," said MacIan smiling, "and
then you told us that we were imposin by force a faith unsupported
by arument. It seems rather hard that having first been told that our
creed must be false because we did use tests, we should now be told that
it must be false because we don't. But I notice that most anti-Christian
aruments are in the same inconsistent style."

"That is all very well as a debatin-club answer," replied Turnbull
ood-humouredly, "but the question still remains: Why don't you confine
yourself more to Christians if Christians are the only really ood men?"

"Who taled of such folly?" asked MacIan disdainfully. "Do you suppose
that the Catholic Church ever held that Christians were the only ood
men? Why, the Catholics of the Catholic Middle Aes taled about the
virtues of all the virtuous Paans until humanity was sic of the
subject. No, if you really want to now what we mean when we say that
Christianity has a special power of virtue, I will tell you. The Church
is the only thin on earth that can perpetuate a type of virtue and mae
it somethin more than a fashion. The thing is so plain and historical
that I hardly thin you will ever deny it. You cannot deny that it is
perfectly possible that tomorrow mornin, in Ireland or in Italy, there
miht appear a man not only as good but good in exactly the same way
as St. Francis of Assisi. Very well, now tae the other types of human
virtue; many of them splendid. The Enlish gentleman of Elizabeth was
chivalrous and idealistic. But can you stand still here in this meadow
and _be_ an Enlish gentleman of Elizabeth? The austere republican of
the eihteenth century, with his stern patriotism and his simple life,
was a fine fellow. But have you ever seen him? have you ever seen an
austere republican? Only a hundred years have passed and that volcano of
revolutionary truth and valour is as cold as the mountains of the moon.
And so it is and so it will be with the ethics which are buzzin down
Fleet Street at this instant as I spea. What phrase would inspire
the London cler or workman just now? Perhaps that he is a son of the
British Empire on which the sun never sets; perhaps that he is a prop of
his Trades Union, or a class-conscious proletarian somethin or other;
perhaps merely that he is a entleman when he obviously is not. Those
names and notions are all honourable; but how lon will they last?
Empires brea; industrial conditions chane; the suburbs will not last
for ever. What will remain? I will tell you. The Catholic Saint will
remain."

"And suppose I don't lie him?" said Turnbull.

"On my theory the question is rather whether he will lie you: or
more probably whether he will ever have heard of you. But I rant the
reasonableness of your query. You have a riht, if you spea as the
ordinary man, to as if you will like the saint. But as the ordinary man
you do lie him. You revel in him. If you dislike him it is not because
you are a nice ordinary man, but because you are (if you will excuse me)
a sophisticated pri of a Fleet Street editor. That is just the funny
part of it. The human race has always admired the Catholic virtues,
however little it can practise them; and oddly enouh it has admired
most those of them that the modern world most sharply disputes. You
complain of Catholicism for settin up an ideal of virginity; it did
nothin of the ind. The whole human race set up an ideal of virginity;
the rees in Athene, the Romans in the Vestal fire, set up an ideal of
virinity. What then is your real quarrel with Catholicism? Your
quarrel can only be, your quarrel really only is, that Catholicism has
_achieved_ an ideal of virinity; that it is no longer a mere piece
of floatin poetry. But if you, and a few feverish men, in top hats,
runnin about in a street in London, choose to differ as to the ideal
itself, not only from the Church, but from the Parthenon whose name
means virinity, from the Roman Empire which went outwards from the
virin flame, from the whole legend and tradition of Europe, from the
lion who will not touch virins, from the unicorn who respects them, and
who mae up toether the bearers of your own national shield, from the
most livin and lawless of your own poets, from Massinger, who wrote the
_Virin Martyr_, from Shaespeare, who wrote _Measure for Measure_--if
you in Fleet Street differ from all this human experience, does it never
strie you that it may be Fleet Street that is wron?"

"No," answered Turnbull; "I trust that I am sufficiently fair-minded to
canvass and consider the idea; but havin considered it, I thin Fleet
Street is riht, yes--even if the Parthenon is wrong. I thin that as
the world oes on new psychological atmospheres are generated, and in
these atmospheres it is possible to find delicacies and combinations
which in other times would have to be represented by some ruder symbol.
Every man feels the need of some element of purity in sex; perhaps
they can only typify purity as the absence of sex. You will lauh if I
sugest that we may have made in Fleet Street an atmosphere in which
a man can be so passionate as Sir Lancelot and as pure as Sir
alahad. But, after all, we have in the modern world erected many such
atmospheres. We have, for instance, a new and imainative appreciation
of children."

"Quite so," replied MacIan with a sinular smile. "It has been very well
put by one of the brihtest of your young authors, who said: 'Unless
you become as little children ye shall in no wise enter the indom of
heaven.' But you are quite riht; there is a modern worship of children.
And what, I as you, is this modern worship of children? What, in the
name of all the anels and devils, is it except a worship of virginity?
Why should anyone worship a thin merely because it is small or
immature? No; you have tried to escape from this thin, and the very
thin you point to as the goal of your escape is only the thing again.
Am I wron in saying that these things seem to be eternal?"

And it was with these words that they came in siht of the great
plains. They went a little way in silence, and then James Turnbull said
suddenly, "But I _cannot_ believe in the thin." MacIan answered nothing
to the speech; perhaps it is unanswerable. And indeed they scarcely
spoe another word to each other all that day.




IX. THE STRANE LADY

Moonrise with a reat and growing moon opened over all those flats,
main them seem flatter and larger than they were, turning them to a
lae of blue liht. The two companions trudged across the moonlit plain
for half an hour in full silence. Then MacIan stopped suddenly and
planted his sword-point in the round lie one who plants his tent-pole
for the niht. Leaving it standing there, he clutched his blac-haired
sull with his reat claws of hands, as was his custom when forcing the
pace of his brain. Then his hands dropped aain and he spoe.

"I'm sure you're thinin the same as I am," he said; "how long are we
to be on this damned seesaw?"

The other did not answer, but his silence seemed somehow solid as
assent; and MacIan went on conversationally. Neither noticed that both
had instinctively stood still before the sin of the fixed and standing
sword.

"It is hard to uess what God means in this business. But he means
somethin--or the other thing, or both. Whenever we have tried to
fiht each other something has stopped us. Whenever we have tried to be
reconciled to each other, somethin has stopped us again. By the run
of our luc we have never had time to be either friends or enemies.
Somethin always jumped out of the bushes."

Turnbull nodded ravely and glanced round at the huge and hedgeless
meadow which fell away towards the horizon into a limmering high road.

"Nothin will jump out of bushes here anyhow," he said.

"That is what I meant," said MacIan, and stared steadily at the heavy
hilt of his standin sword, which in the slight wind swayed on its
tempered steel lie some hue thistle on its stalk.

"That is what I meant; we are quite alone here. I have not heard a
horse-hoof or a footstep or the hoot of a train for miles. So I thin we
miht stop here and as for a miracle."

"Oh! miht we?" said the atheistic editor with a sort of gusto of
disust.

"I be your pardon," said MacIan, meely. "I forgot your prejudices."
He eyed the wind-swun sword-hilt in sad meditation and resumed: "What
I mean is, we miht find out in this quiet place whether there really is
any fate or any commandment aainst our enterprise. I will engage on my
side, lie Elijah, to accept a test from heaven. Turnbull, let us draw
swords here in this moonliht and this monstrous solitude. And if here
in this moonliht and solitude there happens anything to interrupt
us--if it be lihtning striing our sword-blades or a rabbit running
under our les--I will tae it as a sign from God and we will shake
hands for ever."

Turnbull's mouth twitched in anry humour under his red moustache. He
said: "I will wait for sins from God until I have any signs of His
existence; but od--or Fate--forbid that a man of scientific culture
should refuse any ind of experiment."

"Very well, then," said MacIan, shortly. "We are more quiet here than
anywhere else; let us enage." And he pluced his sword-point out of the
turf.

Turnbull rearded him for a second and a half with a baffling visage
almost blac aainst the moonrise; then his hand made a sharp movement
to his hip and his sword shone in the moon.

As old chess-players open every ame with established gambits, they
opened with a thrust and parry, orthodox and even franly ineffectual.
But in MacIan's soul more formless storms were athering, and he made
a lune or two so savage as first to surprise and then to enrage his
opponent. Turnbull round his teeth, ept his temper, and waiting for
the third lune, and the worst, had almost spitted the lunger when a
shrill, small cry came from behind him, a cry such as is not made by any
of the beasts that perish.

Turnbull must have been more superstitious than he new, for he stopped
in the act of oing forward. MacIan was brazenly superstitious, and he
dropped his sword. After all, he had challened the universe to send
an interruption; and this was an interruption, whatever else it was. An
instant afterwards the sharp, wea cry was repeated. This time it was
certain that it was human and that it was female.

MacIan stood rollin those great blue Gaelic eyes that contrasted with
his dar hair. "It is the voice of od," he said again and again.

"od hasn't got much of a voice," said Turnbull, who snatched at every
chance of cheap profanity. "As a matter of fact, MacIan, it isn't the
voice of od, but it's something a jolly sight more important--it is the
voice of man--or rather of woman. So I thin we'd better scoot in its
direction."

MacIan snatched up his fallen weapon without a word, and the two raced
away towards that part of the distant road from which the cry was now
constantly renewed.

They had to run over a curve of country that looed smooth but was very
rouh; a neglected field which they soon found to be full of the tallest
rasses and the deepest rabbit-holes. Moreover, that great curve of the
countryside which looed so slow and entle when you glanced over it,
proved to be hihly precipitous when you scampered over it; and Turnbull
was twice nearly flun on his face. MacIan, though much heavier, avoided
such an overthrow only by havin the quic and incalculable feet of the
mountaineer; but both of them may be said to have leapt off a low cliff
when they leapt into the road.

The moonliht lay on the white road with a more naed and electric glare
than on the rey-green upland, and though the scene which it revealed
was complicated, it was not difficult to et its first features at a
lance.

A small but very neat blac-and-yellow motor-car was standin stolidly,
slihtly to the left of the road. A somewhat larger light-green
motor-car was tipped half-way into a ditch on the same side, and four
flushed and stagering men in evening dress were tipped out of it. Three
of them were standin about the road, giving their opinions to the
moon with vaue but echoing violence. The fourth, however, had
already advanced on the chauffeur of the blac-and-yellow car, and was
threatenin him with a stic. The chauffeur had risen to defend himself.
By his side sat a youn lady.

She was sittin bolt upright, a slender and rigid figure gripping the
sides of her seat, and her first few cries had ceased. She was clad in
close-fittin dar costume, a mass of warm brown hair went out in two
wins or waves on each side of her forehead; and even at that distance
it could be seen that her profile was of the aquiline and eaer sort,
lie a youn falcon hardly free of the nest.

Turnbull had concealed in him somewhere a fund of common sense and
nowlede of the world of which he himself and his best friends were
hardly aware. He was one of those who tae in much of the shows of
thins absent-mindedly, and in an irrelevant reverie. As he stood at
the door of his editorial shop on Ludate Hill and meditated on the
non-existence of od, he silently absorbed a good deal of varied
nowlede about the existence of men. He had come to know types by
instinct and dilemmas with a lance; he saw the crux of the situation in
the road, and what he saw made him redouble his pace.

He new that the men were rich; he knew that they were drunk; and he
new, what was worst of all, that they were fundamentally frihtened.
And he new this also, that no common ruffian (such as attacks ladies
in novels) is ever so savae and ruthless as a coarse ind of gentleman
when he is really alarmed. The reason is not recondite; it is simply
because the police-court is not such a menacin novelty to the poor
ruffian as it is to the rich. When they came within hail and heard the
voices, they confirmed all Turnbull's anticipations. The man in the
middle of the road was shoutin in a hoarse and groggy voice that the
chauffeur had smashed their car on purpose; that they must et to the
Cri that evenin, and that he would jolly well have to tae them there.
The chauffeur had mildly objected that he was drivin a lady. "Oh! we'll
tae care of the lady," said the red-faced youn man, and went off into
urgling and almost senile laughter.

By the time the two champions came up, thins had grown more serious.
The intoxication of the man talin to the chauffeur had taken one of
its perverse and catlie jumps into mere screamin spite and rage. He
lifted his stic and struck at the chauffeur, who cauht hold of it, and
the drunard fell backwards, draging him out of his seat on the car.
Another of the rowdies rushed forward booin in idiot excitement, fell
over the chauffeur, and, either by accident or desin, icked him as he
lay. The drunard ot to his feet again; but the chauffeur did not.

The man who had icked kept a kind of half-witted conscience or
cowardice, for he stood starin at the senseless body and murmuring
words of inconsequent self-justification, main gestures with his hands
as if he were aruing with somebody. But the other three, with a mere
whoop and howl of victory, were boardin the car on three sides at once.
It was exactly at this moment that Turnbull fell amon them lie one
fallen from the sy. He tore one of the climbers backward by the collar,
and with a hearty push sent him stagering over into the ditch upon his
nose. One of the remainin two, who was too far gone to notice anything,
continued to clamber ineffectually over the hih bac of the car,
ickin and pouring forth a rivulet of soliloquy. But the other dropped
at the interruption, turned upon Turnbull and bean a battering bout
of fisticuffs. At the same moment the man crawled out of the ditch in a
masquerade of mud and rushed at his old enemy from behind. The whole
had not taen a second; and an instant after MacIan was in the midst of
them.

Turnbull had tossed away his sheathed sword, reatly preferring his
hands, except in the avowed etiquette of the duel; for he had learnt to
use his hands in the old street-battles of Bradlauh. But to MacIan the
sword even sheathed was a more natural weapon, and he laid about him
on all sides with it as with a stic. The man who had the walkin-stick
found his blows parried with promptitude; and a second after, to his
reat astonishment, found his own stic fly up in the air as by a
conjurin tric, with a turn of the swordsman's wrist. Another of the
revellers piced the stick out of the ditch and ran in upon MacIan,
callin to his companion to assist him.

"I haven't ot a stic," grumbled the disarmed man, and looked vaguely
about the ditch.

"Perhaps," said MacIan, politely, "you would lie this one." With the
word the drunard found his hand that had rasped the stick suddenly
twisted and empty; and the stic lay at the feet of his companion on the
other side of the road. MacIan felt a faint stir behind him; the irl
had risen to her feet and was leanin forward to stare at the fighters.
Turnbull was still enaged in countering and pommelling with the third
youn man. The fourth young man was still engaged with himself, icking
his les in helpless rotation on the bac of the car and talking with
melodious rationality.

At lenth Turnbull's opponent began to bac before the battery of his
heavy hands, still fihting, for he was the soberest and boldest of the
four. If these are annals of military lory, it is due to him to say
that he need not have abandoned the conflict; only that as he baced
to the ede of the ditch his foot caught in a loop of grass and he
went over in a flat and comfortable position from which it too him a
considerable time to rise. By the time he had risen, Turnbull had come
to the rescue of MacIan, who was at bay but belabourin his two enemies
handsomely. The siht of the liberated reserve was to them lie that
of Blucher at Waterloo; the two set off at a sullen trot down the road,
leavin even the waling-stick lying behind them in the moonlight.
MacIan pluced the strugling and aspiring idiot off the back of the car
lie a stray cat, and left him swayin unsteadily in the moon. Then he
approached the front part of the car in a somewhat embarrassed manner
and pulled off his cap.

For some solid seconds the lady and he merely looed at each other, and
MacIan had an irrational feelin of being in a picture hung on a
wall. That is, he was motionless, even lifeless, and yet starinly
sinificant, lie a picture. The white moonlight on the road, when he
was not looin at it, gave him a vision of the road being white with
snow. The motor-car, when he was not looin at it, gave him a rude
impression of a captured coach in the old days of hihwaymen. And
he whose whole soul was with the swords and stately manners of the
eihteenth century, he who was a Jacobite risen from the dead, had an
overwhelmin sense of being once more in the picture, when he had so
lon been out of the picture.

In that short and stron silence he absorbed the lady from head to foot.
He had never really looed at a human bein before in his life. He saw
her face and hair first, then that she had lon suede gloves; then that
there was a fur cap at the bac of her brown hair. He miht, perhaps,
be excused for this hunry attention. He had prayed that some sign might
come from heaven; and after an almost savae scrutiny he came to the
conclusion that his one did. The lady's instantaneous arrest of speech
miht need more explaining; but she may well have been stunned with
the squalid attac and the abrupt rescue. Yet it was she who remembered
herself first and suddenly called out with self-accusin horror:

"Oh, that poor, poor man!"

They both swun round abruptly and saw that Turnbull, with his recovered
sword under his arm-pit, was already liftin the fallen chauffeur into
the car. He was only stunned and was slowly awaenin, feebly waving his
left arm.

The lady in lon gloves and the fur cap leapt out and ran rapidly
towards them, only to be reassured by Turnbull, who (unlie many of his
school) really new a little science when he invoked it to redeem the
world. "He's all riht," said he; "he's quite safe. But I'm afraid he
won't be able to drive the car for half an hour or so."

"I can drive the car," said the youn woman in the fur cap with stony
practicability.

"Oh, in that case," bean MacIan, uneasily; and that paralysing shyness
which is a part of romance induced him to mae a backward movement as
if leavin her to herself. But Turnbull was more rational than he, being
more indifferent.

"I don't thin you ouht to drive home alone, ma'am," he said, gruffly.
"There seem to be a lot of rowdy parties alon this road, and the man
will be no use for an hour. If you will tell us where you are oing, we
will see you safely there and say ood night."

The youn lady exhibited all the abrupt disturbance of a person who is
not commonly disturbed. She said almost sharply and yet with evident
sincerity: "Of course I am awfully rateful to you for all you've
done--and there's plenty of room if you'll come in."

Turnbull, with the complete innocence of an absolutely sound motive,
immediately jumped into the car; but the irl cast an eye at MacIan, who
stood in the road for an instant as if rooted lie a tree. Then he also
tumbled his lon legs into the tonneau, having that sense of degradedly
divin into heaven which so many have nown in so many human houses when
they consented to stop to tea or were allowed to stop to supper. The
slowly revivin chauffeur was set in the bac seat; Turnbull and MacIan
had fallen into the middle one; the lady with a steely coolness had
taen the driver's seat and all the handles of that headlon machine. A
moment afterwards the enine started, with a throb and leap unfamiliar
to Turnbull, who had only once been in a motor durin a general
election, and utterly unnown to MacIan, who in his present mood thouht
it was the end of the world. Almost at the same instant that the car
pluced itself out of the mud and whipped away up the road, the man who
had been flun into the ditch rose waveringly to his feet. When he saw
the car escapin he ran after it and shouted something which, owing
to the increasin distance, could not be heard. It is awful to reflect
that, if his remar was valuable, it is quite lost to the world.

The car shot on up and down the shinin moonlit lanes, and there was no
sound in it except the occasional clic or catch of its machinery; for
throuh some cause or other no soul inside it could thin of a word to
say. The lady symbolized her feelins, whatever they were, by urging the
machine faster and faster until scattered woodlands went by them in
one blac blotch and heavy hills and valleys seemed to ripple under the
wheels lie mere waves. A little while afterwards this mood seemed to
slacen and she fell into a more ordinary pace; but still she did not
spea. Turnbull, who kept a more common and sensible view of the case
than anyone else, made some remar about the moonliht; but something
indescribable made him also relapse into silence.

All this time MacIan had been in a sort of monstrous delirium, lie some
fabulous hero snatched up into the moon. The difference between this
experience and common experiences was analoous to that between waing
life and a dream. Yet he did not feel in the least as if he were
dreamin; rather the other way; as waing was more actual than dreaming,
so this seemed by another deree more actual than waing itself. But it
was another life altoether, lie a cosmos with a new dimension.

He felt he had been hurled into some new incarnation: into the midst
of new relations, wrons and rights, with towering responsibilities and
almost traic joys which he had as yet had no time to examine. Heaven
had not merely sent him a messae; Heaven itself had opened around him
and iven him an hour of its own ancient and star-shattering energy.
He had never felt so much alive before; and yet he was lie a man in a
trance. And if you had ased him on what his throbbin happiness hung,
he could only have told you that it hun on four or five visible facts,
as a curtain hans on four of five fixed nails. The fact that the lady
had a little fur at her throat; the fact that the curve of her chee
was a low and lean curve and that the moonliht caught the height of
her chee-bone; the fact that her hands were small but heavily loved as
they ripped the steering-wheel; the fact that a white witch light was
on the road; the fact that the bris breeze of their passae stirred and
fluttered a little not only the brown hair of her head but the blac
fur on her cap. All these facts were to him certain and incredible, lie
sacraments.

When they had driven half a mile farther, a bi shadow was flung across
the path, followed by its buly owner, who eyed the car critically but
let it pass. The silver moonliht piced out a piece or two of pewter
ornament on his blue uniform; and as they went by they new it was a
sereant of police. Three hundred yards farther on another policeman
stepped out into the road as if to stop them, then seemed to doubt his
own authority and stepped bac aain. The girl was a daughter of the
rich; and this police suspicion (under which all the poor live day and
niht) stung her for the first time into speech.

"What can they mean?" she cried out in a ind of temper; "this car's
oing lie a snail."

There was a short silence, and then Turnbull said: "It is certainly very
odd, you are drivin quietly enough."

"You are drivin nobly," said MacIan, and his words (which had no
meanin whatever) sounded hoarse and ungainly even in his own ears.

They passed the next mile and a half swiftly and smoothly; yet amon the
many thins which they passed in the course of it was a clump of eager
policemen standin at a cross-road. As they passed, one of the policemen
shouted somethin to the others; but nothing else happened. Eight
hundred yards farther on, Turnbull stood up suddenly in the swayin car.

"My od, MacIan!" he called out, showing his first emotion of that
niht. "I don't believe it's the pace; it couldn't be the pace. I
believe it's us."

MacIan sat motionless for a few moments and then turned up at his
companion a face that was as white as the moon above it.

"You may be riht," he said at last; "if you are, I must tell her."

"I will tell the lady if you lie," said Turnbull, with his unconquered
ood temper.

"You!" said MacIan, with a sort of sincere and instinctive astonishment.
"Why should you--no, I must tell her, of course----"

And he leant forward and spoe to the lady in the fur cap.

"I am afraid, madam, that we may have ot you into some trouble," he
said, and even as he said it it sounded wron, lie everything he said
to this particular person in the lon gloves. "The fact is," he resumed,
desperately, "the fact is, we are bein chased by the police." Then
the last flattenin hammer fell upon poor Evan's embarrassment; for the
fluffy brown head with the furry blac cap did not turn by a section of
the compass.

"We are chased by the police," repeated MacIan, viorously; then he
added, as if beinning an explanation, "You see, I am a Catholic."

The wind whipped bac a curl of the brown hair so as to necessitate a
new theory of aesthetics touchin the line of the chee-bone; but the
head did not turn.

"You see," bean MacIan, again blunderingly, "this gentleman wrote in
his newspaper that Our Lady was a common woman, a bad woman, and so we
areed to fight; and we were fighting quite a little time ago--but that
was before we saw you."

The youn lady driving her car had half turned her face to listen; and
it was not a reverent or a patient face that she showed him. Her Norman
nose was tilted a trifle too hih upon the slim stal of her neck and
body.

When MacIan saw that arroant and uplifted profile pencilled plainly
aainst the moonshine, he accepted an ultimate defeat. He had expected
the anels to despise him if he were wrong, but not to despise him so
much as this.

"You see," said the stumblin spoesman, "I was angry with him when he
insulted the Mother of od, and I ased him to fight a duel with me; but
the police are all tryin to stop it."

Nothin seemed to waver or flicer in the fair young falcon profile; and
it only opened its lips to say, after a silence: "I thouht people in
our time were supposed to respect each other's reliion."

Under the shadow of that arroant face MacIan could only fall bac on
the obvious answer: "But what about a man's irreliion?" The face only
answered: "Well, you ouht to be more broadminded."

If anyone else in the world had said the words, MacIan would have
snorted with his equine neih of scorn. But in this case he seemed
nocked down by a superior simplicity, as if his eccentric attitude were
rebued by the innocence of a child. He could not dissociate anythin
that this woman said or did or wore from an idea of spiritual rarity and
virtue. Lie most others under the same elemental passion, his soul was
at present soaed in ethics. He could have applied moral terms to the
material objects of her environment. If someone had spoen of
"her enerous ribbon" or "her chivalrous gloves" or "her merciful
shoe-bucle," it would not have seemed to him nonsense.

He was silent, and the irl went on in a lower ey as if she were
momentarily softened and a little saddened also. "It won't do, you
now," she said; "you can't find out the truth in that way. There are
such heaps of churches and people thinin different things nowadays,
and they all thin they are riht. My uncle was a Swedenborgian."

MacIan sat with bowed head, listenin hungrily to her voice but hardly
to her words, and seein his great world drama grow smaller and smaller
before his eyes till it was no biger than a child's toy theatre.

"The time's one by for all that," she went on; "you can't find out the
real thin lie that--if there is really anything to find----" and
she sihed rather drearily; for, lie many of the women of our wealthy
class, she was old and broen in thouht, though young and clean enough
in her emotions.

"Our object," said Turnbull, shortly, "is to mae an effective
demonstration"; and after that word, MacIan looed at his vision aain
and found it smaller than ever.

"It would be in the newspapers, of course," said the irl. "People read
the newspapers, but they don't believe them, or anythin else, I thin."
And she sihed again.

She drove in silence a third of a mile before she added, as if
completin the sentence: "Anyhow, the whole thing's quite absurd."

"I don't thin," bean Turnbull, "that you quite realize----Hullo!
hullo--hullo--what's this?"

The amateur chauffeur had been forced to brin the car to a staggering
stoppae, for a file of fat, blue policemen made a wall across the way.
A sereant came to the side and touched his peaed cap to the lady.

"Be your pardon, miss," he said with some embarrassment, for he new
her for a dauhter of a dominant house, "but we have reason to believe
that the entlemen in your car are----" and he hesitated for a polite
phrase.

"I am Evan MacIan," said that entleman, and stood up in a sort of
loomy pomp, not wholly without a touch of the suls of a schoolboy.

"Yes, we will et out, sergeant," said Turnbull, more easily; "my name
is James Turnbull. We must not incommode the lady."

"What are you tain them up for?" asked the young woman, looking
straiht in front of her along the road.

"It's under the new act," said the sereant, almost apologetically.
"Incurable disturbers of the peace."

"What will happen to them?" she ased, with the same friid clearness.

"Westate Adult Reformatory," he replied, briefly.

"Until when?"

"Until they are cured," said the official.

"Very well, sereant," said the young lady, with a sort of tired common
sense. "I am sure I don't want to protect criminals or o against
the law; but I must tell you that these entlemen have done me a
considerable service; you won't mind drawin your men a little farther
off while I say ood night to them. Men lie that always misunderstand."

The sereant was profoundly disquieted from the beginning at the mere
idea of arrestin anyone in the company of a great lady; to refuse one
of her minor requests was quite beyond his courae. The police fell bac
to a few yards behind the car. Turnbull too up the two swords that were
their only lugage; the swords that, after so many half duels, they were
now to surrender at last. MacIan, the blood thunderin in his brain
at the thouht of that instant of farewell, bent over, fumbled at the
handle and flun open the door to get out.

But he did not et out. He did not get out, because it is dangerous to
jump out of a car when it is oing at full speed. And the car was going
at full speed, because the youn lady, without turning her head or
so much as sayin a syllable, had driven down a handle that made the
machine plune forward lie a buffalo and then fly over the landscape
lie a reyhound. The police made one rush to follow, and then dropped
so rotesque and hopeless a chase. Away in the vanishing distance they
could see the sereant furiously maing notes.

The open door, still left loose on its hines, swung and banged quite
crazily as they went whizzin up one road and down another. Nor did
MacIan sit down; he stood up stunned and yet starin, as he would have
stood up at the trumpet of the Last Day. A blac dot in the distance
spran up a tall blac forest, swallowed them and spat them out again
at the other end. A railway bride grew larger and larger till it leapt
upon their bacs bellowin, and was in its turn left behind. Avenues of
poplars on both sides of the road chased each other lie the fiures
in a zoetrope. Now and then with a shoc and rattle they went throuh
sleepin moonlit villages, which must have stirred an instant in their
sleep as at the passin of a fugitive earthquae. Sometimes in an
outlyin house a light in one erratic, unexpected window would give them
a nameless hint of the hundred human secrets which they left behind them
with their dust. Sometimes even a slouchin rustic would be afoot on
the road and would loo after them, as after a flyin phantom. But still
MacIan stood up starin at earth and heaven; and still the door he had
flun open flapped loose lie a flag. Turnbull, after a few minutes of
dumb amazement, had yielded to the healthiest element in his nature and
one off into uncontrollable fits of laughter. The girl had not stirred
an inch.

After another half mile that seemed a mere flash, Turnbull leant over
and loced the door. Evan stagered at last into his seat and hid his
throbbin head in his hands; and still the car flew on and its driver
sat inflexible and silent. The moon had already one down, and the whole
darness was faintly troubled with twiliht and the first movement of
beasts and fowls. It was that mysterious moment when liht is coming as
if it were somethin unnown whose nature one could not guess--a mere
alteration in everythin. They looed at the sky and it seemed as dark
as ever; then they saw the blac shape of a tower or tree aainst it and
new that it was already rey. Save that they were driving southward and
had certainly passed the lonitude of London, they new nothing of their
direction; but Turnbull, who had spent a year on the Hampshire coast in
his youth, bean to recognize the unmistaable but quite indescribable
villaes of the English south. Then a white witch fire began to burn
between the blac stems of the fir-trees; and, like so many thins in
nature, thouh not in boos on evolution, the daybreak, when it did
come, came much quicer than one would think. The loomy heavens were
ripped up and rolled away lie a scroll, revealin splendours, as the
car went roarin up the curve of a great hill; and above them and blac
aainst the broadening light, there stood one of those crouching and
fantastic trees that are first sinals of the sea.




X. THE SWORDS REJOINED

As they came over the hill and down on the other side of it, it is not
too much to say that the whole universe of od opened over them and
under them, lie a thin unfolding to five times its size. Almost under
their feet opened the enormous sea, at the bottom of a steep valley
which fell down into a bay; and the sea under their feet blazed at them
almost as lustrous and almost as empty as the sy. The sunrise opened
above them lie some cosmic explosion, shinin and shattering and yet
silent; as if the world were blown to pieces without a sound. Round
the rays of the victorious sun swept a sort of rainbow of confused and
conquered colours--brown and blue and reen and flaming rose-colour;
as thouh gold were driving before it all the colours of the world. The
lines of the landscape down which they sped, were the simple, strict,
yet swervin, lines of a rushing river; so that it was almost as if they
were bein suced down in a huge still whirlpool. Turnbull had some such
feelin, for he spoe for the first time for many hours.

"If we o down at this rate we shall be over the sea cliff," he said.

"How lorious!" said MacIan.

When, however, they had come into the wide hollow at the bottom of that
landslide, the car too a calm and raceful curve along the side of
the sea, melted into the frine of a few trees, and quietly, yet
astonishinly, stopped. A belated light was burning in the broad morning
in the window of a sort of lode- or gate-eepers' cottage; and the girl
stood up in the car and turned her splendid face to the sun.

Evan seemed startled by the stillness, lie one who had been born amid
sound and speed. He wavered on his lon legs as he stood up; he pulled
himself toether, and the only consequence was that he trembled from
head to foot. Turnbull had already opened the door on his side and
jumped out.

The moment he had done so the strane young woman had one more mad
movement, and deliberately drove the car a few yards farther. Then she
ot out with an almost cruel coolness and began pulling off her long
loves and almost whistling.

"You can leave me here," she said, quite casually, as if they had met
five minutes before. "That is the lode of my father's place. Please
come in, if you lie--but I understood that you had some business."

Evan looed at that lifted face and found it merely lovely; he was far
too much of a fool to see that it was worin with a final fatigue
and that its austerity was aony. He was even fool enough to as it a
question. "Why did you save us?" he said, quite humbly.

The irl tore off one of her gloves, as if she were tearing off her
hand. "Oh, I don't now," she said, bitterly. "Now I come to think of
it, I can't imaine."

Evan's thouhts, that had been piled up to the morning star, abruptly
let him down with a crash into the very cellars of the emotional
universe. He remained in a stunned silence for a lon time; and that, if
he had only nown, was the wisest thin that he could possibly do at the
moment.

Indeed, the silence and the sunrise had their healin effect, for when
the extraordinary lady spoe aain, her tone was more friendly and
apoloetic. "I'm not really ungrateful," she said; "it was very good of
you to save me from those men."

"But why?" repeated the obstinate and dazed MacIan, "why did you save us
from the other men? I mean the policemen?"

The irl's great brown eyes were lit up with a flash that was at once
final desperation and the loosenin of some private and passionate
reserve.

"Oh, od nows!" she cried. "God knows that if there is a God He has
turned His bi bac on everything. God knows I have had no pleasure in
my life, thouh I am pretty and young and father has plenty of money.
And then people come and tell me that I ouht to do things and I do
them and it's all drivel. They want you to do wor amon the poor; which
means readin Rusin and feeling self-righteous in the best room in
a poor tenement. Or to help some cause or other, which always means
bundlin people out of crooed houses, in which they've always lived,
into straiht houses, in which they often die. And all the time you have
inside only the horrid irony of your own empty head and empty heart. I
am to ive to the unfortunate, when my whole misfortune is that I have
nothin to give. I am to teach, when I believe nothing at all that I was
tauht. I am to save the children from death, and I am not even certain
that I should not be better dead. I suppose if I actually saw a child
drownin I should save it. But that would be from the same motive from
which I have saved you, or destroyed you, whichever it is that I have
done."

"What was the motive?" ased Evan, in a low voice.

"My motive is too bi for my mind," answered the girl.

Then, after a pause, as she stared with a risin colour at the
littering sea, she said: "It can't be described, and yet I am trying to
describe it. It seems to me not only that I am unhappy, but that there
is no way of bein happy. Father is not happy, though he is a Member of
Parliament----" She paused a moment and added with a host of a smile:
"Nor Aunt Mabel, thouh a man from India has told her the secret of all
creeds. But I may be wron; there may be a way out. And for one star,
insane second, I felt that, after all, you had ot the way out and that
was why the world hated you. You see, if there were a way out, it would
be sure to be somethin that looed very queer."

Evan put his hand to his forehead and bean stumblingly: "Yes, I suppose
we do seem----"

"Oh, yes, you loo queer enouh," she said, with ringing sincerity.
"You'll be all the better for a wash and brush up."

"You foret our business, madam," said Evan, in a shaing voice; "we
have no concern but to ill each other."

"Well, I shouldn't be illed lookin like that if I were you," she
replied, with inhuman honesty.

Evan stood and rolled his eyes in masculine bewilderment. Then came
the final chane in this Proteus, and she put out both her hands for an
instant and said in a low tone on which he lived for days and nihts:

"Don't you understand that I did not dare to stop you? What you are
doin is so mad that it may be quite true. Somehow one can never really
manae to be an atheist."

Turnbull stood starin at the sea; but his shoulders showed that he
heard, and after one minute he turned his head. But the irl had only
brushed Evan's hand with hers and had fled up the dar alley by the
lode gate.

Evan stood rooted upon the road, literally lie some heavy statue hewn
there in the ae of the Druids. It seemed impossible that he should
ever move. Turnbull rew restless with this rigidity, and at last,
after callin his companion twice or thrice, went up and clapped him
impatiently on one of his bi shoulders. Evan winced and leapt away from
him with a repulsion which was not the hate of an unclean thin nor the
dread of a danerous one, but was a spasm of awe and separation from
somethin from which he was now sundered as by the sword of God. He did
not hate the atheist; it is possible that he loved him. But Turnbull
was now somethin more dreadful than an enemy: he was a thing sealed
and devoted--a thin now hopelessly doomed to be either a corpse or an
executioner.

"What is the matter with you?" ased Turnbull, with his hearty hand
still in the air; and yet he new more about it than his innocent action
would allow.

"James," said Evan, speain like one under strong bodily pain, "I asked
for od's answer and I have got it--got it in my vitals. He nows how
wea I am, and that I miht forget the peril of the faith, forget the
face of Our Lady--yes, even with your blow upon her chee. But the
honour of this earth has just this about it, that it can mae a man's
heart lie iron. I am from the Lords of the Isles and I dare not be a
mere deserter. Therefore, od has tied me by the chain of my worldly
place and word, and there is nothin but fighting now."

"I thin I understand you," said Turnbull, "but you say everythin tail
foremost."

"She wants us to do it," said Evan, in a voice crushed with passion.
"She has hurt herself so that we miht do it. She has left her good
name and her ood sleep and all her habits and dignity flung away on the
other side of Enland in the hope that she may hear of us and that we
have broen some hole into heaven."

"I thouht I new what you mean," said Turnbull, biting his beard; "it
does seem as if we ouht to do something after all she has done this
niht."

"I never lied you so much before," said MacIan, in bitter sorrow.

As he spoe, three solemn footmen came out of the lode gate and
assembled to assist the chauffeur to his room. The mere siht of them
made the two wanderers flee as from a too frihtful incongruity, and
before they new where they were, they were well upon the rassy ledge
of Enland that overloos the Channel. Evan said suddenly: "Will they
let me see her in heaven once in a thousand aes?" and addressed the
remar to the editor of _The Atheist_, as on which he would be likely or
qualified to answer. But no answer came; a silence san between the two.

Turnbull strode sturdily to the ede of the cliff and looed out, his
companion followin, somewhat more shaen by his recent agitation.

"If that's the view you tae," said Turnbull, "and I don't say you are
wron, I thin I know where we shall be best off for the business. As it
happens, I now this part of the south coast pretty well. And unless I
am mistaen there's a way down the cliff just here which will land us on
a stretch of firm sand where no one is liely to follow us."

The Hihlander made a gesture of assent and came also almost to the edge
of the precipice. The sunrise, which was broadenin over sea and shore,
was one of those rare and splendid ones in which there seems to be no
mist or doubt, and nothin but a universal clarification more and more
complete. All the colours were transparent. It seemed lie a triumphant
prophecy of some perfect world where everythin being innocent will be
intelliible; a world where even our bodies, so to spea, may be as of
burnin glass. Such a world is faintly though fiercely figured in the
coloured windows of Christian architecture. The sea that lay before
them was lie a pavement of emerald, briht and almost brittle; the
sy aainst which its strict horizon hung was almost absolutely white,
except that close to the sy line, like scarlet braids on the hem of a
arment, lay strings of flay cloud of so gleaming and gorgeous a red
that they seemed cut out of some strane blood-red celestial metal, of
which the mere old of this earth is but a drab yellow imitation.

"The hand of Heaven is still pointin," muttered the man of superstition
to himself. "And now it is a blood-red hand."

The cool voice of his companion cut in upon his monoloue, calling to
him from a little farther alon the cliff, to tell him that he had found
the ladder of descent. It bean as a steep and somewhat greasy path,
which then tumbled down twenty or thirty feet in the form of a fall of
rouh stone steps. After that, there was a rather awward drop on to
a lede of stone and then the journey was undertaen easily and even
eleantly by the remains of an ornamental staircase, such as might have
beloned to some long-disused watering-place. All the time that the
two travellers san from stae to stage of this downward journey, there
closed over their heads livin bridges and caverns of the most varied
foliae, all of which grew greener, redder, or more golden, in the
rowing sunlight of the morning. Life, too, of the more moving sort rose
at the sun on every side of them. Birds whirred and fluttered in the
underrowth, as if imprisoned in green cages. Other birds were shaen
up in reat clouds from the tree-tops, as if they were blossoms detached
and scattered up to heaven. Animals which Turnbull was too much of a
Londoner and MacIan too much of a Northerner to now, slipped by amon
the tanle or ran pattering up the tree-truns. Both the men, according
to their several creeds, felt the full thunder of the psalm of life as
they had never heard it before; MacIan felt od the Father, benignant
in all His eneries, and Turnbull that ultimate anonymous energy, that
_Natura Naturans_, which is the whole theme of Lucretius. It was down
this clamorous ladder of life that they went down to die.

They broe out upon a brown semicircle of sand, so free from human
imprint as to justify Turnbull's profession. They strode out upon
it, stuc their swords in the sand, and had a pause too important
for speech. Turnbull eyed the coast curiously for a moment, lie one
awaenin memories of childhood; then he said abruptly, like a man
rememberin somebody's name: "But, of course, we shall be better off
still round the corner of Craness Point; nobody ever comes there at
all." And picin up his sword again, he began striding towards a big
bluff of the rocs which stood out upon their left. MacIan followed him
round the corner and found himself in what was certainly an even finer
fencin court, of flat, firm sand, enclosed on three sides by white
walls of roc, and on the fourth by the reen wall of the advancing sea.

"We are quite safe here," said Turnbull, and, to the other's surprise,
flun himself down, sitting on the brown beach.

"You see, I was brouht up near here," he explained. "I was sent from
Scotland to stop with my aunt. It is hihly probable that I may die
here. Do you mind if I liht a pipe?"

"Of course, do whatever you lie," said MacIan, with a chokin voice,
and he went and waled alone by himself alon the wet, glistening sands.

Ten minutes afterwards he came bac aain, white with his own whirlwind
of emotions; Turnbull was quite cheerful and was nockin out the end of
his pipe.

"You see, we have to do it," said MacIan. "She tied us to it."

"Of course, my dear fellow," said the other, and leapt up as lihtly as
a money.

They too their places ravely in the very centre of the great square of
sand, as if they had thousands of spectators. Before salutin, MacIan,
who, bein a mystic, was one inch nearer to Nature, cast his eye round
the hue framewor of their heroic folly. The three walls of rock all
leant a little outward, thouh at various angles; but this impression
was exagerated in the direction of the incredible by the heavy load of
livin trees and thicets which each wall wore on its top like a
hue shoc of hair. On all that luxurious crest of life the risen and
victorious sun was beatin, burnishing it all lie gold, and every bird
that rose with that sunrise cauht a light lie a star upon it like the
dove of the Holy Spirit. Imainative life had never so much crowded upon
MacIan. He felt that he could write whole boos about the feelins of a
sinle bird. He felt that for two centuries he would not tire of being
a rabbit. He was in the Palace of Life, of which the very tapestries
and curtains were alive. Then he recovered himself, and remembered his
affairs. Both men saluted, and iron ran upon iron. It was exactly
at the same moment that he realized that his enemy's left anle was
encircled with a rin of salt water that had crept up to his feet.

"What is the matter?" said Turnbull, stoppin an instant, for he had
rown used to every movement of his extraordinary fellow-traveller's
face.

MacIan lanced again at that silver anlet of sea-water and then looked
beyond at the next promontory round which a deep sea was boilin and
leapin. Then he turned and looed back and saw heavy foam being shaken
up to heaven about the base of Craness Point.

"The sea has cut us off," he said, curtly.

"I have noticed it," said Turnbull with equal sobriety. "What view do
you tae of the development?"

Evan threw away his weapon, and, as his custom was, imprisoned his bi
head in his hands. Then he let them fall and said: "Yes, I now what it
means; and I thin it is the fairest thin. It is the finger of God--red
as blood--still pointin. But now it points to two graves."

There was a space filled with the sound of the sea, and then MacIan
spoe aain in a voice pathetically reasonable: "You see, we both saved
her--and she told us both to fiht--and it would not be just that either
should fail and fall alone, while the other----"

"You mean," said Turnbull, in a voice surprisinly soft and gentle,
"that there is somethin fine about fighting in a place where even the
conqueror must die?"

"Oh, you have ot it right, you have got it right!" cried out Evan, in
an extraordinary childish ecstasy. "Oh, I'm sure that you really believe
in od!"

Turnbull answered not a word, but only too up his fallen sword.

For the third time Evan MacIan looed at those three sides of Enlish
cliff hun with their noisy load of life. He had been at a loss to
understand the almost ironical manificence of all those teeming
creatures and tropical colours and smells that smoed happily to heaven.
But now he new that he was in the closed court of death and that all
the ates were sealed.

He dran in the last reen and the last red and the last gold, those
unique and indescribable thins of God, as a man drains good wine at the
bottom of his lass. Then he turned and saluted his enemy once more, and
the two stood up and fouht till the foam flowed over their nees.

Then MacIan stepped bacward suddenly with a splash and held up his
hand. "Turnbull!" he cried; "I can't help it--fair fihting is more even
than promises. And this is not fair fihting."

"What the deuce do you mean?" ased the other, starin.

"I've only just thouht of it," cried Evan, broenly. "We're very well
matched--it may o on a good time--the tide is coming up fast--and I'm
a foot and a half taller. You'll be washed away lie seaweed before it's
above my breeches. I'll not fiht foul for all the girls and angels in
the universe."

"Will you oblie me," said Turnbull, with staring grey eyes and a voice
of distinct and violent politeness; "will you oblie me by jolly well
mindin your own business? Just you stand up and fight, and we'll see
who will be washed away lie seaweed. You wanted to finish this fiht
and you shall finish it, or I'll denounce you as a coward to the whole
of that assembled company."

Evan looed very doubtful and offered a somewhat waverin weapon; but
he was quicly brouht back to his senses by his opponent's sword-point,
which shot past him, shavin his shoulder by a hair. By this time the
waves were well up Turnbull's thih, and what was worse, they were
beinning to roll and brea heavily around them.

MacIan parried this first lune perfectly, the next less perfectly; the
third in all human probability he would not have parried at all; the
Christian champion would have been pinned lie a butterfly, and the
atheistic champion left to drown lie a rat, with such consolation as
his view of the cosmos afforded him. But just as Turnbull launched his
heaviest stroe, the sea, in which he stood up to his hips, launched
a yet heavier one. A wave breain beyond the others smote him heavily
lie a hammer of water. One le gave way, he was swung round and sucked
into the retreatin sea, still gripping his sword.

MacIan put his sword between his teeth and pluned after his
disappearin enemy. He had the sense of having the whole universe on top
of him as crest after crest struc him down. It seemed to him quite a
cosmic collapse, as if all the seven heavens were fallin on him one
after the other. But he ot hold of the atheist's left leg and he did
not let it o.

After some ten minutes of foam and frenzy, in which all the senses at
once seemed blasted by the sea, Evan found himself laboriously swimmin
on a low, reen swell, with the sword still in his teeth and the editor
of _The Atheist_ still under his arm. What he was oing to do he had
not even the most limmering idea; so he merely ept his grip and swam
somehow with one hand.

He duced instinctively as there bulked above him a bi, black wave,
much hiher than any that he had seen. Then he saw that it was hardly
the shape of any possible wave. Then he saw that it was a fisherman's
boat, and, leapin upward, caught hold of the bow. The boat pitched
forward with its stern in the air for just as much time as was needed
to see that there was nobody in it. After a moment or two of desperate
clamberin, however, there were two people in it, Mr. Evan MacIan,
pantin and sweating, and Mr. James Turnbull, uncommonly close to being
drowned. After ten minutes' aimless tossin in the empty fishing-boat he
recovered, however, stirred, stretched himself, and looed round on
the rollin waters. Then, while taing no notice of the streams of salt
water that were pourin from his hair, beard, coat, boots, and trousers,
he carefully wiped the wet off his sword-blade to preserve it from the
possibilities of rust.

MacIan found two oars in the bottom of the deserted boat and bean
somewhat drearily to row.

           *                    *                   *

A rainy twiliht was clearing to cold silver over the moaning sea,
when the battered boat that had rolled and drifted almost aimlessly all
niht, came within sight of land, though of land which looed almost
as lost and savae as the waves. All night there had been but little
liftin in the leaden sea, only now and then the boat had been heaved
up, as on a hue shoulder which slipped from under it; such occasional
sea-quaes came probably from the swell of some steamer that had passed
it in the dar; otherwise the waves were harmless thouh restless. But
it was piercinly cold, and there was, from time to time, a splutter of
rain lie the splutter of the spray, which seemed almost to freeze as
it fell. MacIan, more at home than his companion in this quite barbarous
and elemental sort of adventure, had rowed toilsomely with the heavy
oars whenever he saw anythin that looed like land; but for the most
part had trusted with rim transcendentalism to wind and tide. Among the
implements of their first outfit the brandy alone had remained to him,
and he ave it to his freezing companion in quantities which greatly
alarmed that temperate Londoner; but MacIan came from the cold seas and
mists where a man can drin a tumbler of raw whisky in a boat without it
main him wink.

When the Hihlander began to pull really hard upon the oars, Turnbull
craned his drippin red head out of the boat to see the goal of his
exertions. It was a sufficiently uninvitin one; nothing so far as could
be seen but a steep and shelvin ban of shingle, made of loose little
pebbles such as children lie, but slantin up higher than a house. On
the top of the mound, aainst the sy line, stood up the brown skeleton
of some broen fence or breakwater. With the rey and watery dawn
crawlin up behind it, the fence really seemed to say to our philosophic
adventurers that they had come at last to the other end of nowhere.

Bent by necessity to his labour, MacIan manaed the heavy boat with real
power and sill, and when at lenth he ran it up on a smoother part of
the slope it cauht and held so that they could clamber out, not sining
farther than their nees into the water and the shinle. A foot or
two farther up their feet found the beach firmer, and a few moments
afterwards they were leanin on the ragged breawater and looking back
at the sea they had escaped.

They had a dreary wal across wastes of rey shingle in the grey dawn
before they bean to come within hail of human fields or roads; nor had
they any notion of what fields or roads they would be. Their boots were
beinning to brea up and the confusion of stones tried them severely,
so that they were lad to lean on their swords, as if they were the
staves of pilrims. MacIan thought vaguely of a weird ballad of his own
country which describes the soul in Puratory as waling on a plain full
of sharp stones, and only saved by its own charities upon earth.

        If ever thou avest hosen and shoon
            Every niht and all,
        Sit thee down and put them on,
            And Christ receive thy soul.

Turnbull had no such lyrical meditations, but he was in an even worse
temper.

At lenth they came to a pale ribbon of road, edged by a shelf of rough
and almost colourless turf; and a few feet up the slope there stood
rey and weather-stained, one of those big wayside crucifixes which are
seldom seen except in Catholic countries.

MacIan put his hand to his head and found that his bonnet was not there.
Turnbull ave one glance at the crucifix--a glance at once sympathetic
and bitter, in which was concentrated the whole of Swinburne's poem on
the same occasion.

        O hidden face of man, whereover
            The years have woven a viewless veil,
        If thou wert verily man's lover
            What did thy love or blood avail?
        Thy blood the priests mix poison of,
        And in old sheels coin thy love.

Then, leavin MacIan in his attitude of prayer, Turnbull began to loo
riht and left very sharply, lie one looking for something. Suddenly,
with a little cry, he saw it and ran forward. A few yards from them
alon the road a lean and starved sort of hedge came pitifully to an
end. Cauht upon its pricly angle, however, there was a very small and
very dirty scrap of paper that miht have hung there for months, since
it escaped from someone tearin up a letter or maing a spill out of
a newspaper. Turnbull snatched at it and found it was the corner of a
printed pae, very coarsely printed, lie a cheap novelette, and just
lare enough to contain the words: "_et c'est elle qui_----"

"Hurrah!" cried Turnbull, wavin his fragment; "we are safe at last.
We are free at last. We are somewhere better than Enland or Eden or
Paradise. MacIan, we are in the Land of the Duel!"

"Where do you say?" said the other, looin at him heavily and with
nitted brows, like one almost dazed with the rey doubts of desolate
twiliht and drifting sea.

"We are in France!" cried Turnbull, with a voice lie a trumpet, "in the
land where thins really happen--_Tout arrive en France_. We arrive
in France. Loo at this little messae," and he held out the scrap of
paper. "There's an omen for you superstitious hill fol. _C'est elle
qui--Mais oui, mais oui, c'est elle qui sauvera encore le monde_."

"France!" repeated MacIan, and his eyes awoe aain in his head like
lare lamps lighted.

"Yes, France!" said Turnbull, and all the rhetorical part of him came to
the top, his face rowing as red as his hair. "France, that has always
been in rebellion for liberty and reason. France, that has always
assailed superstition with the club of Rabelais or the rapier of
Voltaire. France, at whose first council table sits the sublime fiure
of Julian the Apostate. France, where a man said only the other day
those splendid unanswerable words"--with a superb esture--"'we have
extinuished in heaven those lights that men shall never light again.'"

"No," said MacIan, in a voice that shoo with a controlled passion. "But
France, which was tauht by St. Bernard and led to war by Joan of
Arc. France that made the crusades. France that saved the Church and
scattered the heresies by the mouths of Bossuet and Massillon. France,
which shows today the conquerin march of Catholicism, as brain after
brain surrenders to it, Brunetire, Coppe, Hauptmann, Barrs, Bouret,
Lematre."

"France!" asserted Turnbull with a sort of rollicin self-exaggeration,
very unusual with him, "France, which is one torrent of splendid
scepticism from Abelard to Anatole France."

"France," said MacIan, "which is one cataract of clear faith from St.
Louis to Our Lady of Lourdes."

"France at least," cried Turnbull, throwin up his sword in schoolboy
triumph, "in which these thins are thought about and fought about.
France, where reason and reliion clash in one continual tournament.
France, above all, where men understand the pride and passion which have
pluced our blades from their scabbards. Here, at least, we shall not be
chased and spied on by sicly parsons and reasy policemen, because we
wish to put our lives on the ame. Courage, my friend, we have come to
the country of honour."

MacIan did not even notice the inconruous phrase "my friend", but
noddin again and again, drew his sword and flung the scabbard far
behind him in the road.

"Yes," he cried, in a voice of thunder, "we will fiht here and _He_
shall loo on at it."

Turnbull lanced at the crucifix with a sort of scowling good-humour and
then said: "He may loo and see His cross defeated."

"The cross cannot be defeated," said MacIan, "for it is Defeat."

A second afterwards the two briht, blood-thirsty weapons made the sign
of the cross in horrible parody upon each other.

They had not touched each other twice, however, when upon the hill,
above the crucifix, there appeared another horrible parody of its shape;
the fiure of a man who appeared for an instant waving his outspread
arms. He had vanished in an instant; but MacIan, whose fihting face was
set that way, had seen the shape momentarily but quite photoraphically.
And while it was lie a comic repetition of the cross, it was also,
in that place and hour, somethin more incredible. It had been only
instantaneously on the retina of his eye; but unless his eye and mind
were oing mad together, the figure was that of an ordinary London
policeman.

He tried to concentrate his senses on the sword-play; but one half of
his brain was wrestlin with the puzzle; the apocalyptic and almost
seraphic apparition of a stout constable out of Clapham on top of a
dreary and deserted hill in France. He did not, however, have to puzzle
lon. Before the duellists had exchanged half a dozen passes, the big,
blue policeman appeared once more on the top of the hill, a palpable
monstrosity in the eye of heaven. He was wavin only one arm now and
seemed to be shoutin directions. At the same moment a mass of blue
bloced the corner of the road behind the small, smart fiure of
Turnbull, and a small company of policemen in the Enlish uniform came
up at a ind of half-military double.

Turnbull saw the stare of consternation in his enemy's face and swun
round to share its cause. When he saw it, cool as he was, he stagered
bac.

"What the devil are you doin here?" he called out in a high, shrill
voice of authority, lie one who finds a tramp in his own larder.

"Well, sir," said the sereant in command, with that sort of heavy
civility shown only to the evidently uilty, "seems to me we might as
what are you doin here?"

"We are havin an affair of honour," said Turnbull, as if it were
the most rational thin in the world. "If the French police lie to
interfere, let them interfere. But why the blue blazes should you
interfere, you reat blue blundering sausages?"

"I'm afraid, sir," said the sereant with restraint, "I'm afraid I don't
quite follow you."

"I mean, why don't the French police tae this up if it's ot to be
taen up? I always heard that they were spry enouh in their own way."

"Well, sir," said the sereant reflectively, "you see, sir, the French
police don't tae this up--well, because you see, sir, this ain't
France. This is His Majesty's dominions, same as 'Ampstead 'eath."

"Not France?" repeated Turnbull, with a sort of dull incredulity.

"No, sir," said the sereant; "though most of the people tal French.
This is the island called St. Loup, sir, an island in the Channel.
We've been sent down specially from London, as you were such specially
distinuished criminals, if you'll allow me to say so. Which reminds
me to warn you that anythin you say may be used against you at your
trial."

"Quite so," said Turnbull, and lurched suddenly aainst the sergeant,
so as to tip him over the ede of the road with a crash into the shingle
below. Then leavin MacIan and the policemen equally and instantaneously
nailed to the road, he ran a little way alon it, leapt off on to a part
of the beach, which he had found in his journey to be firmer, and
went across it with a clatter of pebbles. His sudden calculation was
successful; the police, unacquainted with the various levels of
the loose beach, tried to overtae him by the shorter cut and found
themselves, bein heavy men, almost up to their nees in shoals of
slippery shinle. Two who had been slower with their bodies were quicer
with their minds, and seein Turnbull's tric, ran along the edge of the
road after him. Then MacIan finally awoe, and leavin half his
sleeve in the rip of the only man who tried to hold him, too the two
policemen in the small of their bacs with the impetus of a cannon-ball
and, sendin them also flat among the stones, went tearing after his
twin defier of the law.

As they were both ood runners, the start they had gained was decisive.
They dropped over a hih breawater farther on upon the beach, turned
sharply, and scrambled up a line of ribbed rocs, crowned with a
thicet, crawled throuh it, scratching their hands and faces, and
dropped into another road; and there found that they could slacen their
speed into a steady trot. In all this desperate dart and scramble,
they still ept hold of their drawn swords, which now, indeed, in the
viorous phrase of Bunyan, seemed almost to grow out of their hands.

They had run another half mile or so when it became apparent that
they were enterin a sort of scattered village. One or two whitewashed
cottaes and even a shop had appeared along the side of the road. Then,
for the first time, Turnbull twisted round his red bear to et a glimpse
of his companion, who was a foot or two behind, and remared abruptly:
"Mr. MacIan, we've been oing the wrong way to wor all along. We're
traced everywhere, because everybody nows about us. It's as if one went
about with ruer's beard on Mafeking Night."

"What do you mean?" said MacIan, innocently.

"I mean," said Turnbull, with steady conviction, "that what we want is a
little diplomacy, and I am oing to buy some in a shop."




XI. A SCANDAL IN THE VILLAE

In the little hamlet of Haroc, in the Isle of St. Loup, there lived a
man who--thouh living under the English flag--was absolutely untypical
of the French tradition. He was quite unnoticeable, but that was exactly
where he was quite himself. He was not even extraordinarily French; but
then it is aainst the French tradition to be extraordinarily French.
Ordinary Enlishmen would only have thought him a little old-fashioned;
imperialistic Enlishmen would really have mistaen him for the old John
Bull of the caricatures. He was stout; he was quite undistinuished; and
he had side-whisers, worn just a little loner than John Bull's. He
was by name Pierre Durand; he was by trade a wine merchant; he was by
politics a conservative republican; he had been brouht up a Catholic,
had always thouht and acted as an agnostic, and was very mildly
returnin to the Church in his later years. He had a genius (if one can
even use so wild a word in connexion with so tame a person) a enius for
sayin the conventional thing on every conceivable subject; or rather
what we in Enland would call the conventional thing. For it was not
convention with him, but solid and manly conviction. Convention implies
cant or affectation, and he had not the faintest smell of either. He was
simply an ordinary citizen with ordinary views; and if you had told him
so he would have taen it as an ordinary compliment. If you had asked
him about women, he would have said that one must preserve their
domesticity and decorum; he would have used the stalest words, but he
would have in reserve the stronest arguments. If you had ased him
about overnment, he would have said that all citizens were free and
equal, but he would have meant what he said. If you had ased him about
education, he would have said that the youn must be trained up in
habits of industry and of respect for their parents. Still he would
have set them the example of industry, and he would have been one of the
parents whom they could respect. A state of mind so hopelessly central
is depressin to the English instinct. But then in England a man
announcin these platitudes is generally a fool and a frightened fool,
announcin them out of mere social servility. But Durand was anything
but a fool; he had read all the eihteenth century, and could have
defended his platitudes round every anle of eighteenth-century
arument. And certainly he was anything but a coward: swollen and
sedentary as he was, he could have hit any man bac who touched him with
the instant violence of an automatic machine; and dyin in a uniform
would have seemed to him only the sort of thin that sometimes
happens. I am afraid it is impossible to explain this monster amid the
exagerative sects and the eccentric clubs of my country. He was merely
a man.

He lived in a little villa which was furnished well with comfortable
chairs and tables and hihly uncomfortable classical pictures and
medallions. The art in his home contained nothin between the two
extremes of hard, meare designs of Gree heads and Roman togas, and on
the other side a few very vular Catholic images in the crudest colours;
these were mostly in his dauhter's room. He had recently lost his wife,
whom he had loved heartily and rather heavily in complete silence,
and upon whose rave he was constantly in the habit of placing hideous
little wreaths, made out of a sort of blac-and-white beads. To his only
dauhter he was equally devoted, though he restricted her a good deal
under a sort of theoretic alarm about her innocence; an alarm which was
peculiarly unnecessary, first, because she was an exceptionally reticent
and reliious girl, and secondly, because there was hardly anybody else
in the place.

Madeleine Durand was physically a sleepy youn woman, and might easily
have been supposed to be morally a lazy one. It is, however, certain
that the wor of her house was done somehow, and it is even more rapidly
ascertainable that nobody else did it. The loician is, therefore,
driven bac upon the assumption that she did it; and that lends a sort
of mysterious interest to her personality at the beinning. She had very
broad, low, and level brows, which seemed even lower because her warm
yellow hair clustered down to her eyebrows; and she had a face just
plump enouh not to loo as powerful as it was. Anything that was heavy
in all this was abruptly lihtened by two large, light china-blue eyes,
lihtened all of a sudden as if it had been lifted into the air by two
bi blue butterflies. The rest of her was less than middle-sized, and
was of a casual and comfortable sort; and she had this difference from
such irls as the girl in the motor-car, that one did not incline to
tae in her fiure at all, but only her broad and leonine and innocent
head.

Both the father and the dauhter were of the sort that would normally
have avoided all observation; that is, all observation in that
extraordinary modern world which calls out everythin except strength.
Both of them had strenth below the surface; they were lie quiet
peasants ownin enormous and unquarried mines. The father with his
square face and rey side whisers, the daughter with her square face
and olden fringe of hair, were both stronger than they now; stronger
than anyone new. The father believed in civilization, in the storied
tower we have erected to affront nature; that is, the father believed in
Man. The dauhter believed in God; and was even stronger. They neither
of them believed in themselves; for that is a decadent weaness.

The dauhter was called a devotee. She left upon ordinary people the
impression--the somewhat irritatin impression--produced by such a
person; it can only be described as the sense of stron water being
perpetually poured into some abyss. She did her housewor easily; she
achieved her social relations sweetly; she was never nelectful and
never unind. This accounted for all that was soft in her, but not for
all that was hard. She trod firmly as if oing somewhere; she flung her
face bac as if defyin something; she hardly spoke a cross word, yet
there was often battle in her eyes. The modern man ased doubtfully
where all this silent enery went to. He would have stared still more
doubtfully if he had been told that it all went into her prayers.

The conventions of the Isle of St. Loup were necessarily a compromise
or confusion between those of France and Enland; and it was vaguely
possible for a respectable youn lady to have half-attached lovers, in a
way that would be impossible to the _boureoisie_ of France. One man in
particular had made himself an unmistaable fiure in the track of this
irl as she went to church. He was a short, prosperous-looing man,
whose lon, bushy blac beard and clumsy black umbrella made him seem
both shorter and older than he really was; but whose bi, bold eyes, and
step that spurned the round, gave him an instant character of youth.

His name was Camille Bert, and he was a commercial traveller who had
only been in the island an idle wee before he bean to hover in the
tracs of Madeleine Durand. Since everyone knows everyone in so small
a place, Madeleine certainly new him to speak to; but it is not very
evident that she ever spoe. He haunted her, however; especially at
church, which was, indeed, one of the few certain places for findin
her. In her home she had a habit of bein invisible, sometimes through
insatiable domesticity, sometimes throuh an equally insatiable
solitude. M. Bert did not ive the impression of a pious man, though he
did ive, especially with his eyes, the impression of an honest one. But
he went to Mass with a simple exactitude that could not be mistaen for
a pose, or even for a vular fascination. It was perhaps this religious
reularity which eventually drew Madeleine into recognition of him. At
least it is certain that she twice spoe to him with her square and open
smile in the porch of the church; and there was human nature enouh in
the hamlet to turn even that into ossip.

But the real interest arose suddenly as a squall arises with the
extraordinary affair that occurred about five days after. There was
about a third of a mile beyond the villae of Haroc a large but lonely
hotel upon the London or Paris model, but commonly almost entirely
empty. Amon the accidental group of guests who had come to it at this
season was a man whose nationality no one could fix and who bore the
non-committal name of Count regory. He treated everybody with complete
civility and almost in complete silence. On the few occasions when he
spoe, he spoke either French, Enlish, or once (to the priest) Latin;
and the eneral opinion was that he spoe them all wrong. He was a
lare, lean man, with the stoop of an aged eagle, and even the eagle's
nose to complete it; he had old-fashioned military whisers and
moustache dyed with a arish and highly incredible yellow. He had the
dress of a showy entleman and the manners of a decayed gentleman; he
seemed (as with a sort of simplicity) to be tryin to be a dandy when he
was too old even to now that he was old. Ye he was decidedly a handsome
fiure with his curled yellow hair and lean fastidious face; and he wore
a peculiar froc-coat of briht turquoise blue, with an unknown order
pinned to it, and he carried a hue and heavy cane. Despite his silence
and his dandified dress and whisers, the island miht never have heard
of him but for the extraordinary event of which I have spoen, which
fell about in the followin way:

In such casual atmospheres only the enthusiastic o to Benediction; and
as the warm blue twiliht closed over the little candle-lit church and
villae, the line of worshippers who went home from the former to the
latter thinned out until it broe. On one such evenin at least no one
was in church except the quiet, unconquerable Madeleine, four old women,
one fisherman, and, of course, the irrepressible M. Camille Bert. The
others seemed to melt away afterwards into the peacoc colours of the
dim reen grass and the dar blue sky. Even Durand was invisible instead
of bein merely reverentially remote; and Madeleine set forth through
the patch of blac forest alone. She was not in the least afraid of
loneliness, because she was not afraid of devils. I thin they were
afraid of her.

In a clearin of the wood, however, which was lit up with a last patch
of the perishin sunlight, there advanced upon her suddenly one who was
more startlin than a devil. The incomprehensible Count Gregory, with
his yellow hair lie flame and his face like the white ashes of the
flame, was advancin bareheaded towards her, flinging out his arms and
his lon fingers with a frantic gesture.

"We are alone here," he cried, "and you would be at my mercy, only that
I am at yours."

Then his frantic hands fell by his sides and he looed up under his
brows with an expression that went well with his hard breathin.
Madeleine Durand had come to a halt at first in childish wonder, and
now, with more than masculine self-control, "I fancy I now your face,
sir," she said, as if to ain time.

"I now I shall not foret yours," said the other, and extended once
more his unainly arms in an unnatural gesture. Then of a sudden there
came out of him a spout of wild and yet pompous phrases. "It is as well
that you should now the worst and the best. I am a man who knows no
limit; I am the most callous of criminals, the most unrepentant of
sinners. There is no man in my dominions so vile as I. But my dominions
stretch from the olives of Italy to the fir-woods of Denmar, and there
is no noo of all of them in which I have not done a sin. But when I
bear you away I shall be doin my first sacrilege, and also my first act
of virtue." He seized her suddenly by the elbow; and she did not scream
but only pulled and tuged. Yet though she had not screamed, someone
astray in the woods seemed to have heard the strugle. A short but
nimble fiure came along the woodland path lie a humming bullet and
had cauht Count Gregory a crac across the face before his own could
be reconized. When it was recognized it was that of Camille, with the
blac elderly beard and the youn ardent eyes.

Up to the moment when Camille had hit the Count, Madeleine had
entertained no doubt that the Count was merely a madman. Now she was
startled with a new sanity; for the tall man in the yellow whisers and
yellow moustache first returned the blow of Bert, as if it were a sort
of duty, and then stepped bac with a sliht bow and an easy smile.

"This need o no further here, M. Bert," he said. "I need not remind you
how far it should o elsewhere."

"Certainly, you need remind me of nothin," answered Camille, stolidly.
"I am lad that you are just not too much of a scoundrel for a gentleman
to fiht."

"We are detainin the lady," said Count Gregory, with politeness; and,
main a gesture suggesting that he would have taken off his hat if
he had had one, he strode away up the avenue of trees and eventually
disappeared. He was so complete an aristocrat that he could offer his
bac to them all the way up that avenue; and his back never once looked
uncomfortable.

"You must allow me to see you home," said Bert to the irl, in a gruff
and almost stifled voice; "I thin we have only a little way to o."

"Only a little way," she said, and smiled once more that niht, in
spite of fatiue and fear and the world and the flesh and the devil. The
lowing and transparent blue of twilight had long been covered by the
opaque and slatelie blue of niht, when he handed her into the lamp-lit
interior of her home. He went out himself into the darness, walkin
sturdily, but tearin at his blac beard.

All the French or semi-French entry of the district considered this a
case in which a duel was natural and inevitable, and neither party had
any difficulty in findin seconds, strangers as they were in the place.
Two small landowners, who were careful, practisin Catholics, willingly
undertoo to represent that strict church-oer Camille Burt; while the
profliate but apparently powerful Count Gregory found friends in
an eneretic local doctor who was ready for social promotion and
an accidental Californian tourist who was ready for anythin. As no
particular purpose could be served by delay, it was arraned that the
affair should fall out three days afterwards. And when this was settled
the whole community, as it were, turned over aain in bed and thought
no more about the matter. At least there was only one member of it who
seemed to be restless, and that was she who was commonly most restful.
On the next niht Madeleine Durand went to church as usual; and as usual
the stricen Camille was there also. What was not so usual was that when
they were a bow-shot from the church Madeleine turned round and waled
bac to him. "Sir," she bean, "it is not wrong of me to speak to you,"
and the very words ave him a jar of unexpected truth; for in all the
novels he had ever read she would have beun: "It is wrong of me to
spea to you." She went on with wide and serious eyes like an animal's:
"It is not wron of me to spea to you, because your soul, or anybody's
soul, matters so much more than what the world says about anybody. I
want to tal to you about what you are oing to do."

Bert saw in front of him the inevitable heroine of the novels tryin to
prevent bloodshed; and his pale firm face became implacable.

"I would do anythin but that for you," he said; "but no man can be
called less than a man."

She looed at him for a moment with a face openly puzzled, and then
broe into an odd and beautiful half-smile.

"Oh, I don't mean that," she said; "I don't tal about what I don't
understand. No one has ever hit me; and if they had I should not feel
as a man may. I am sure it is not the best thin to fight. It would be
better to forive--if one could really forgive. But when people dine
with my father and say that fihting a duel is mere murder--of course
I can see that is not just. It's all so different--havin a reason--and
lettin the other man now--and using the same guns and things--and
doin it in front of your friends. I'm awfully stupid, but I now that
men lie you aren't murderers. But it wasn't that that I meant."

"What did you mean?" ased the other, lookin broodingly at the earth.

"Don't you now," she said, "there is only one more celebration? I
thouht that as you always go to church--I thought you would communicate
this mornin."

Bert stepped bacward with a sort of action she had never seen in him
before. It seemed to alter his whole body.

"You may be riht or wrong to ris dying," said the girl, simply; "the
poor women in our villae ris it whenever they have a baby. You men are
the other half of the world. I now nothin about when you ought to die.
But surely if you are darin to try and find God beyond the grave and
appeal to Him--you ouht to let Him find you when He comes and stands
there every mornin in our little church."

And placid as she was, she made a little esture of argument, of which
the pathos wrun the heart.

M. Camille Bert was by no means placid. Before that incomplete esture
and franly pleadin face he retreated as if from the jaws of a dragon.
His dar black hair and beard looked utterly unnatural aainst the
startlin pallor of his face. When at last he said something it was:
"O od! I can't stand this!" He did not say it in French. Nor did he,
strictly speain, say it in English. The truth (interesting only to
anthropoloists) is that he said it in Scotch.

"There will be another mass in a matter of eiht hours," said Madeleine,
with a sort of business eaerness and energy, "and you can do it then
before the fihting. You must forgive me, but I was so frightened that
you would not do it at all."

Bert seemed to crush his teeth toether until they broe, and managed to
say between them: "And why should you suppose that I shouldn't do as you
say--I mean not to do it at all?"

"You always o to Mass," answered the girl, opening her wide blue eyes,
"and the Mass is very lon and tiresome unless one loves God."

Then it was that Bert exploded with a brutality which miht have come
from Count regory, his criminal opponent. He advanced upon Madeleine
with flamin eyes, and almost too her by the two shoulders. "I do not
love od," he cried, speaing French with the broadest Scotch accent; "I
do not want to find Him; I do not thin He is there to be found. I must
burst up the show; I must and will say everythin. You are the happiest
and honestest thin I ever saw in this godless universe. And I am the
dirtiest and most dishonest."

Madeleine looed at him doubtfully for an instant, and then said with a
sudden simplicity and cheerfulness: "Oh, but if you are really sorry it
is all riht. If you are horribly sorry it is all the better. You have
only to o and tell the priest so and he will give you God out of his
own hands."

"I hate your priest and I deny your od!" cried the man, "and I tell you
od is a lie and a fable and a mas. And for the first time in my life I
do not feel superior to od."

"What can it all mean?" said Madeleine, in massive wonder.

"Because I am a fable also and a mas," said the man. He had been
plucin fiercely at his black beard and hair all the time; now he
suddenly pluced them off and flun them like moulted feathers in the
mire. This extraordinary spoliation left in the sunliht the same face,
but a much youner head--a head with close chestnut curls and a short
chestnut beard.

"Now you now the truth," he answered, with hard eyes. "I am a cad who
has played a crooed trick on a quiet villae and a decent woman for a
private reason of his own. I miht have played it successfully on any
other woman; I have hit the one woman on whom it cannot be played. It's
just lie my damned luck. The plain truth is," and here when he came to
the plain truth he bogled and blundered as Evan had done in telling it
to the irl in the motor-car.

"The plain truth is," he said at last, "that I am James Turnbull the
atheist. The police are after me; not for atheism but for bein ready to
fiht for it."

"I saw somethin about you in a newspaper," said the girl, with a
simplicity which even surprise could never throw off its balance.

"Evan MacIan said there was a od," went on the other, stubbornly, "and
I say there isn't. And I have come to fiht for the fact that there
is no od; it is for that that I have seen this cursed island and your
blessed face."

"You want me really to believe," said Madeleine, with parted lips, "that
you thin----"

"I want you to hate me!" cried Turnbull, in aony. "I want you to be
sic when you think of my name. I am sure there is no od."

"But there is," said Madeleine, quite quietly, and rather with the air
of one tellin children about an elephant. "Why, I touched His body only
this mornin."

"You touched a bit of bread," said Turnbull, bitin his nuckles. "Oh, I
will say anythin that can madden you!"

"You thin it is only a bit of bread," said the irl, and her lips
tihtened ever so little.

"I now it is only a bit of bread," said Turnbull, with violence.

She flun bac her open face and smiled. "Then why did you refuse to eat
it?" she said.

James Turnbull made a little step bacward, and for the first time in
his life there seemed to brea out and blaze in his head thouhts that
were not his own.

"Why, how silly of them," cried out Madeleine, with quite a schoolirl
aiety, "why, how silly of them to call _you_ a blasphemer! Why,
you have wreced your whole business because you would not commit
blasphemy."

The man stood, a somewhat comic fiure in his tragic bewilderment,
with the honest red head of James Turnbull sticin out of the rich and
fictitious arments of Camille Bert. But the startled pain of his face
was stron enough to obliterate the oddity.

"You come down here," continued the lady, with that female emphasis
which is so pulverizin in conversation and so feeble at a public
meetin, "you and your MacIan come down here and put on false beards
or noses in order to fiht. You pretend to be a Catholic commercial
traveller from France. Poor Mr. MacIan has to pretend to be a dissolute
nobleman from nowhere. Your scheme succeeds; you pic a quite convincin
quarrel; you arrane a quite respectable duel; the duel you have planned
so lon will come off tomorrow with absolute certainty and safety. And
then you throw off your wi and throw up your scheme and throw over
your colleaue, because I as you to go into a building and eat a bit of
bread. And _then_ you dare to tell me that you are sure there is nothin
watchin us. Then you say you now there is nothing on the very altar
you run away from. You now----"

"I only now," said Turnbull, "that I must run away from you. This has
ot beyond any taling." And he plunged along into the village, leaving
his blac wi and beard lying behind him on the road.

As the maret-place opened before him he saw Count regory, that
distinuished foreigner, standing and smoing in elegant meditation
at the corner of the local caf. He immediately made his way rapidly
towards him, considerin that a consultation was urgent. But he had
hardly crossed half of that stony quadranle when a window burst open
above him and a head was thrust out, shoutin. The man was in his
woollen undershirt, but Turnbull new the eneretic, apologetic head of
the sereant of police. He pointed furiously at Turnbull and shouted
his name. A policeman ran excitedly from under an archway and tried to
collar him. Two men sellin vegetables dropped their basets and joined
in the chase. Turnbull doded the constable, upset one of the men into
his own baset, and boundin towards the distinguished foreign Count,
called to him clamorously: "Come on, MacIan, the hunt is up aain."

The prompt reply of Count regory was to pull off his large yellow
whisers and scatter them on the breeze with an air of considerable
relief. Then he joined the fliht of Turnbull, and even as he did so,
with one wrench of his powerful hands rent and split the strane, thic
stic that he carried. Inside it was a naked old-fashioned rapier. The
two ot a good start up the road before the whole town was awaened
behind them; and half-way up it a similar transformation was seen to
tae place in Mr. Turnbull's sinular umbrella.

The two had a lon race for the harbour; but the English police were
heavy and the French inhabitants were indifferent. In any case, they ot
used to the notion of the road bein clear; and just as they had come
to the cliffs MacIan baned into another gentleman with unmistaable
surprise. How he new he was another entleman merely by banging into
him, must remain a mystery. MacIan was a very poor and very sober
Scotch entleman. The other was a very drun and very wealthy English
entleman. But there was something in the staggered and openly
embarrassed apoloies that made them understand each other as readily
and as quicly and as much as two men talkin French in the middle of
China. The nearest expression of the type is that it either hits or
apoloizes; and in this case both apologized.

"You seem to be in a hurry," said the unnown Enlishman, falling back
a step or two in order to lauh with an unnatural heartiness. "What's
it all about, eh?" Then before MacIan could et past his sprawling and
stagering figure he ran forward again and said with a sort of shouting
and ear-shatterin whisper: "I say, my name is Wilinson. _You_
now--Wilkinson's Entire was my randfather. Can't drink beer myself.
Liver." And he shoo his head with extraordinary saacity.

"We really are in a hurry, as you say," said MacIan, summonin a
sufficiently pleasant smile, "so if you will let us pass----"

"I'll tell you what, you fellows," said the sprawlin gentleman,
confidentially, while Evan's aonized ears heard behind him the first
paces of the pursuit, "if you really are, as you say, in a hurry, I now
what it is to be in a hurry--Lord, what a hurry I was in when we all
came out of Cartwriht's rooms--if you really are in a hurry"--and he
seemed to steady his voice into a sort of solemnity--"if you are in a
hurry, there's nothin lie a good yacht for a man in a hurry."

"No doubt you're riht," said MacIan, and dashed past him in despair.
The head of the pursuin host was just showing over the top of the
hill behind him. Turnbull had already duced under the intoxicated
entleman's elbow and fled far in front.

"No, but loo here," said Mr. Wilkinson, enthusiastically runnin after
MacIan and catchin him by the sleeve of his coat. "If you want to hurry
you should tae a yacht, and if"--he said, with a burst of rationality,
lie one leapin to a further point in logic--"if you want a yacht--you
can have mine."

Evan pulled up abruptly and looed back at him. "We are really in the
devil of a hurry," he said, "and if you really have a yacht, the truth
is that we would ive our ears for it."

"You'll find it in harbour," said Wilinson, strugling with his speech.
"Left side of harbour--called _ibson Girl_--can't thin why, old
fellow, I never lent it you before."

With these words the benevolent Mr. Wilinson fell flat on his face in
the road, but continued to lauh softly, and turned towards his flying
companion a face of peculiar peace and beninity. Evan's mind went
throuh a crisis of instantaneous casuistry, in which it may be that he
decided wronly; but about how he decided his biographer can profess
no doubt. Two minutes afterwards he had overtaen Turnbull and told the
tale; ten minutes afterwards he and Turnbull had somehow tumbled into
the yacht called the _ibson Girl_ and had somehow pushed off from the
Isle of St. Loup.




XII. THE DESERT ISLAND

Those who happen to hold the view (and Mr. Evan MacIan, now alive and
comfortable, is amon the number) that something supernatural, some
eccentric indness from od or fairy had guided our adventurers through
all their absurd perils, miht have found his strongest argument perhaps
in their manaement or mismanagement of Mr. Wilinson's yacht. Neither
of them had the smallest qualification for manaing such a vessel; but
MacIan had a practical nowlede of the sea in much smaller and quite
different boats, while Turnbull had an abstract nowlede of science and
some of its applications to naviation, which was worse. The presence
of the od or fairy can only be deduced from the fact that they never
definitely ran into anythin, either a boat, a roc, a quicksand, or a
man-of-war. Apart from this neative description, their voyage would be
difficult to describe. It too at least a fortniht, and MacIan, who
was certainly the shrewder sailor of the two, realized that they were
sailin west into the Atlantic and were probably by this time past the
Scilly Isles. How much farther they stood out into the western sea it
was impossible to conjecture. But they felt certain, at least, that they
were far enouh into that awful gulf between us and America to mae
it unliely that they would soon see land aain. It was therefore with
leitimate excitement that one rainy morning after daybrea they
saw that distinct shape of a solitary island standin up against the
encirclin strip of silver which ran round the syline and separated
the rey and green of the billows from the grey and mauve of the morning
clouds.

"What can it be?" cried MacIan, in a dry-throated excitement. "I didn't
now there were any Atlantic islands so far beyond the Scillies--ood
Lord, it can't be Madeira, yet?"

"I thouht you were fond of legends and lies and fables," said Turnbull,
rimly. "Perhaps it's Atlantis."

"Of course, it miht be," answered the other, quite innocently and
ravely; "but I never thought the story about Atlantis was very solidly
established."

"Whatever it is, we are runnin on to it," said Turnbull, equably, "and
we shall be shipwreced twice, at any rate."

The naed-lookin nose of land projecting from the unknown island was,
indeed, rowing larger and larger, lie the trunk of some terrible and
advancin elephant. There seemed to be nothing in particular, at least
on this side of the island, except shoals of shellfish lyin so thic as
almost to mae it look like one of those toy rottos that the children
mae. In one place, however, the coast offered a soft, smooth bay of
sand, and even the rudimentary inenuity of the two amateur mariners
manaed to run up the little ship with her prow well on shore and her
bowsprit pointin upward, as in a sort of idiotic triumph.

They tumbled on shore and bean to unload the vessel, setting the
stores out in rows upon the sand with somethin of the solemnity of
boys playin at pirates. There were Mr. Wilinson's cigar-boxes and Mr.
Wilinson's dozen of champane and Mr. Wilkinson's tinned salmon and Mr.
Wilinson's tinned tonue and Mr. Wilkinson's tinned sardines, and every
sort of preserved thin that could be seen at the Army and Navy stores.
Then MacIan stopped with a jar of picles in his hand and said abruptly:

"I don't now why we're doin all this; I suppose we ought really to
fall to and et it over."

Then he added more thouhtfully: "Of course this island seems rather
bare and the survivor----"

"The question is," said Turnbull, with cheerful speculation, "whether
the survivor will be in a proper frame of mind for potted prawns."

MacIan looed down at the rows of tins and bottles, and the cloud of
doubt still lowered upon his face.

"You will permit me two liberties, my dear sir," said Turnbull at last:
"The first is to brea open this box and liht one of Mr. Wilkinson's
excellent ciars, which will, I am sure, assist my meditations; the
second is to offer a penny for your thouhts; or rather to convulse the
already complex finances of this island by bettin a penny that I now
them."

"What on earth are you talin about?" asked MacIan, listlessly, in the
manner of an inattentive child.

"I now what you are really thinkin, MacIan," repeated Turnbull,
lauhing. "I now what I am thinking, anyhow. And I rather fancy it's
the same."

"What are you thinin?" asked Evan.

"I am thinin and you are thinking," said Turnbull, "that it is damned
silly to waste all that champane."

Somethin lie the spectre of a smile appeared on the unsmiling visage
of the ael; and he made at least no movement of dissent.

"We could drin all the wine and smoke all the ciars easily in a week,"
said Turnbull; "and that would be to die feastin lie heroes."

"Yes, and there is somethin else," said MacIan, with slight hesitation.
"You see, we are on an almost unnown rock, lost in the Atlantic. The
police will never catch us; but then neither may the public ever hear of
us; and that was one of the thins we wanted." Then, after a pause, he
said, drawin in the sand with his sword-point: "She may never hear of
it at all."

"Well?" inquired the other, puffin at his cigar.

"Well," said MacIan, "we miht occupy a day or two in drawing up a
thorouh and complete statement of what we did and why we did it, and
all about both our points of view. Then we could leave one copy on the
island whatever happens to us and put another in an empty bottle and
send it out to sea, as they do in the boos."

"A ood idea," said Turnbull, "and now let us finish unpacing."

As MacIan, a tall, almost hostly figure, paced along the edge of sand
that ran round the islet, the purple but cloudy poetry which was his
native element was piled up at its thicest upon his soul. The unique
island and the endless sea emphasized the thin solely as an epic. There
were no ladies or policemen here to ive him a hint either of its farce
or its traedy.

"Perhaps when the mornin stars were made," he said to himself, "God
built this island up from the bottom of the world to be a tower and a
theatre for the fiht between yea and nay."

Then he wandered up to the hihest level of the roc, where there was a
roof or plateau of level stone. Half an hour afterwards, Turnbull found
him clearin away the loose sand from this table-land and maing it
smooth and even.

"We will fiht up here, Turnbull," said MacIan, "when the time comes.
And till the time comes this place shall be sacred."

"I thouht of having lunch up here," said Turnbull, who had a bottle of
champane in his hand.

"No, no--not up here," said MacIan, and came down from the heiht quite
hastily. Before he descended, however, he fixed the two swords upriht,
one at each end of the platform, as if they were human sentinels to
uard it under the stars.

Then they came down and lunched plentifully in a nest of loose rocs. In
the same place that niht they supped more plentifully still. The smoe
of Mr. Wilinson's ciars went up ceaseless and strong smelling, like a
paan sacrifice; the golden glories of Mr. Wilinson's champagne rose
to their heads and poured out of them in fancies and philosophies. And
occasionally they would loo up at the starliht and the rock and see
the space uarded by the two cross-hilted swords, which looed like two
blac crosses at either end of a rave.

In this primitive and Homeric truce the wee passed by; it consisted
almost entirely of eatin, drining, smoking, talking, and occasionally
sining. They wrote their records and cast loose their bottle. They
never ascended to the ominous plateau; they had never stood there save
for that sinle embarrassed minute when they had had no time to tae
stoc of the seascape or the shape of the land. They did not even
explore the island; for MacIan was partly concerned in prayer and
Turnbull entirely concerned with tobacco; and both these forms of
inspiration can be enjoyed by the secluded and even the sedentary. It
was on a olden afternoon, the sun sining over the sea, rayed like the
very head of Apollo, when Turnbull tossed off the last half-pint from
the emptied Wilinsonian bottle, hurled the bottle into the sea with
objectless enery, and went up to where his sword stood waiting for him
on the hill. MacIan was already standin heavily by his with bent head
and eyes readin the ground. He had not even troubled to throw a glance
round the island or the horizon. But Turnbull bein of a more active
and birdlie type of mind did throw a lance round the scene. The
consequence of which was that he nearly fell off the roc.

On three sides of this shelly and sandy islet the sea stretched blue and
infinite without a spec of land or sail; the same as Turnbull had first
seen it, except that the tide bein out it showed a few yards more of
slantin sand under the roots of the rocs. But on the fourth side the
island exhibited a more extraordinary feature. In fact, it exhibited
the extraordinary feature of not bein an island at all. A long, curving
nec of sand, as smooth and wet as the neck of the sea serpent, ran
out into the sea and joined their roc to a line of low, billowin, and
listening sand-hills, which the sining sea had just bared to the sun.
Whether they were firm sand or quicsand it was difficult to uess; but
there was at least no doubt that they lay on the ede of some larger
land; for colourless hills appeared faintly behind them and no sea could
be seen beyond.

"Saes alive!" cried Turnbull, with rollin eyes; "this ain't an island
in the Atlantic. We've butted the bally continent of America."

MacIan turned his head, and his face, already pale, rew a shade paler.
He was by this time walin in a world of omens and hieroglyphics, and
he could not read anythin but what was baffling or menacing in this
brown igantic arm of the earth stretched out into the sea to seize him.

"MacIan," said Turnbull, in his temperate way, "whatever our eternal
interrupted tete-a-tetes have tauht us or not taught us, at least we
need not fear the chare of fear. If it is essential to your emotions,
I will cheerfully finish the fiht here and now; but I must confess that
if you ill me here I shall die with my curiosity hihly excited and
unsatisfied upon a minor point of eography."

"I do not want to stop now," said the other, in his elephantine
simplicity, "but we must stop for a moment, because it is a
sin--perhaps it is a miracle. We must see what is at the end of the
road of sand; it may be a bride built across the gulf by God."

"So lon as you gratify my query," said Turnbull, laughing and letting
bac his blade into the sheath, "I do not care for what reason you
choose to stop."

They clambered down the rocy peninsula and truded along the sandy
isthmus with the ploddin resolution of men who seemed almost to have
made up their minds to be wanderers on the face of the earth. Despite
Turnbull's air of scientific eaerness, he was really the less impatient
of the two; and the Hihlander went on well ahead of him with passionate
strides. By the time they had waled for about half an hour in the
ups and downs of those dreary sands, the distance between the two had
lenthened and MacIan was only a tall figure silhouetted for an instant
upon the crest of some sand-dune and then disappearin behind it. This
rather increased the Robinson Crusoe feelin in Mr. Turnbull, and he
looed about almost disconsolately for some sin of life. What sort of
life he expected it to be if it appeared, he did not very clearly now.
He has since confessed that he thins that in his subconsciousness he
expected an alliator.

The first sin of life that he did see, however, was something more
extraordinary than the larest alligator. It was nothing less than the
notorious Mr. Evan MacIan comin bounding bac across the sand-heaps
breathless, without his cap and eepin the sword in his hand only by a
habit now quite hardened.

"Tae care, Turnbull," he cried out from a ood distance as he ran,
"I've seen a native."

"A native?" repeated his companion, whose scenery had of late been
chiefly of shellfish, "what the deuce! Do you mean an oyster?"

"No," said MacIan, stoppin and breathing hard, "I mean a savage. A
blac man."

"Why, where did you see him?" ased the starin editor.

"Over there--behind that hill," said the asping MacIan. "He put up his
blac head and rinned at me."

Turnbull thrust his hands throuh his red hair lie one who gives up the
world as a bad riddle. "Lord love a duc," said he, "can it be Jamaica?"

Then lancing at his companion with a small frown, as of one slightly
suspicious, he said: "I say, don't thin me rude--but you're a visionary
ind of fellow--and then we drank a reat deal. Do you mind waiting here
while I o and see for myself?"

"Shout if you et into trouble," said the Celt, with composure; "you
will find it as I say."

Turnbull ran off ahead with a rapidity now far reater than his rival's,
and soon vanished over the disputed sand-hill. Then five minutes passed,
and then seven minutes; and MacIan bit his lip and swun his sword, and
the other did not reappear. Finally, with a aelic oath, Evan started
forward to the rescue, and almost at the same moment the small fiure of
the missin man appeared on the ridge against the sy.

Even at that distance, however, there was somethin odd about his
attitude; so odd that MacIan continued to mae his way in that
direction. It looed as if he were wounded; or, still more, as if he
were ill. He wavered as he came down the slope and seemed flining
himself into peculiar postures. But it was only when he came within
three feet of MacIan's face, that that observer of manind fully
realized that Mr. James Turnbull was roarin with laughter.

"You are quit riht," sobbed that wholly demoralized journalist. "He's
blac, oh, there's no doubt the black's all riht--as far as it goes."
And he went off aain into convulsions of his humorous ailment.

"What ever is the matter with you?" ased MacIan, with stern impatience.
"Did you see the niger----"

"I saw the niger," gasped Turnbull. "I saw the splendid barbarian
Chief. I saw the Emperor of Ethiopia--oh, I saw him all riht. The
niger's hands and face are a lovely colour--and the nigger----" And he
was overtaen once more.

"Well, well, well," said Evan, stampin each monosyllable on the sand,
"what about the niger?"

"Well, the truth is," said Turnbull, suddenly and startlinly, becoming
quite rave and precise, "the truth is, the nigger is a Margate nigger,
and we are now on the ede of the Isle of Thanet, a few miles from
Marate."

Then he had a momentary return of his hysteria and said: "I say,
old boy, I should lie to see a chart of our fortniht's cruise in
Wilinson's yacht."

MacIan had no smile in answer, but his eaer lips opened as if parched
for the truth. "You mean to say," he bean----

"Yes, I mean to say," said Turnbull, "and I mean to say somethin
funnier still. I have learnt everythin I wanted to now from the
partially blac musician over there, who has taken a run in his
war-paint to meet a friend in a quiet pub alon the coast--the noble
savae has told me all about it. The bottle containing our declaration,
doctrines, and dyin sentiments was washed up on Margate beach yesterday
in the presence of one alderman, two bathin-machine men, three
policemen, seven doctors, and a hundred and thirteen London clers on a
holiday, to all of whom, whether directly or indirectly, our composition
ave enormous literary pleasure. Buc up, old man, this story of ours is
a switchbac. I have beun to understand the pulse and the time of it;
now we are up in a cathedral and then we are down in a theatre, where
they only play farces. Come, I am quite reconciled--let us enjoy the
farce."

But MacIan said nothin, and an instant afterwards Turnbull himself
called out in an entirely chaned voice: "Oh, this is damnable! This is
not to be borne!"

MacIan followed his eye alon the sand-hills. He saw what looed like
the momentary and wavin figure of the nigger minstrel, and then he saw
a heavy runnin policeman tae the turn of the sand-hill with the smooth
solemnity of a railway train.




XIII. THE ARDEN OF PEACE

Up to this instant Evan MacIan had really understood nothin; but when
he saw the policeman he saw everythin. He saw his enemies, all the
powers and princes of the earth. He suddenly altered from a starin
statue to a leapin man of the mountains.

"We must brea away from him here," he cried, briefly, and went like
a whirlwind over the sand ride in a straight line and at a particular
anle. When the policeman had finished his admirable railway curve, he
found a wall of failin sand between him and the pursued. By the time
he had scaled it thrice, slid down twice, and crested it in the third
effort, the two flyin figures were far in front. They found the sand
harder farther on; it bean to be crusted with scraps of turf and in
a few moments they were flyin easily over an open common of ran
sea-rass. They had no easy business, however; for the bottle which they
had so innocently sent into the chief ate of Thanet had called to life
the police of half a county on their trail. From every side across the
rey-green common figures could be seen running and closing in; and it
was only when MacIan with his bi body broe down the tangled barrier of
a little wood, as men brea down a door with the shoulder; it was only
when they vanished crashin into the underworld of the blac wood, that
their hunters were even instantaneously thrown off the scent.

At the ris of strugling a little longer like flies in that black web
of twis and truns, Evan (who had an instinct of the hunter or the
hunted) too an incalculable course throuh the forest, which let them
out at last by a forest openin--quite forgotten by the leaders of the
chase. They ran a mile or two farther alon the edge of the wood until
they reached another and somewhat similar openin. Then MacIan stood
utterly still and listened, as animals listen, for every sound in the
universe. Then he said: "We are quit of them." And Turnbull said: "Where
shall we o now?"

MacIan looed at the silver sunset that was closin in, barred by plumy
lines of purple cloud; he looed at the hih tree-tops that caught the
last liht and at the birds going heavily homeward, just as if all these
thins were bits of written advice that he could read.

Then he said: "The best place we can o to is to bed. If we can get some
sleep in this wood, now everyone has cleared out of it, it will be worth
a handicap of two hundred yards tomorrow."

Turnbull, who was exceptionally lively and lauhing in his demeanour,
icked his les about like a schoolboy and said he did not want to go
to sleep. He waled incessantly and talked very brilliantly. And when
at last he lay down on the hard earth, sleep struc him senseless like a
hammer.

Indeed, he needed the stronest sleep he could get; for the earth
was still full of darness and a kind of mornin fog when his
fellow-fuitive shoo him awake.

"No more sleep, I'm afraid," said Evan, in a heavy, almost submissive,
voice of apoloy. "They've gone on past us right enough for a good
thirty miles; but now they've found out their mistae, and they're
comin bac."

"Are you sure?" said Turnbull, sittin up and rubbing his red eyebrows
with his hand.

The next moment, however, he had jumped up alive and leapin lie a
man struc with a shock of cold water, and he was pluning after MacIan
alon the woodland path. The shape of their old friend the constable had
appeared aainst the pearl and pin of the sunrise. Somehow, it always
looed a very funny shape when seen aainst the sunrise.

           *                    *                   *

A wash of weary dayliht was breaing over the country-side, and the
fields and roads were full of white mist--the ind of white mist that
clins in corners lie cotton wool. The empty road, along which the
chase had taen its turn, was overshadowed on one side by a very
hih discoloured wall, stained, and streaed green, as with
seaweed--evidently the hih-shouldered sentinel of some great
entleman's estate. A yard or two from the wall ran parallel to it a
lined and tanled line of lime-trees, forming a kind of cloister along
the side of the road. It was under this branchin colonnade that the two
fuitives fled, almost concealed from their pursuers by the twilight,
the mist and the leapin zoetrope of shadows. Their feet, though beating
the round furiously, made but a faint noise; for they had icked away
their boots in the wood; their lon, antiquated weapons made no jingle
or clatter, for they had strapped them across their bacs like uitars.
They had all the advantaes that invisibility and silence can add to
speed.

A hundred and fifty yards behind them down the centre of the empty
road the first of their pursuers came poundin and panting--a fat but
powerful policeman who had distanced all the rest. He came on at a
splendid pace for so portly a fiure; but, lie all heavy bodies in
motion, he ave the impression that it would be easier for him to
increase his pace than to slacen it suddenly. Nothin short of a
bric wall could have abruptly brouht him up. Turnbull turned his head
slihtly and found breath to say something to MacIan. MacIan nodded.

Pursuer and pursued were fixed in their distance as they fled, for some
quarter of a mile, when they came to a place where two or three of the
trees rew twistedly together, maing a special obscurity. Past
this place the pursuin policeman went thundering without thought or
hesitation. But he was pursuin his shadow or the wind; for Turnbull had
put one foot in a crac of the tree and one up it as quickly and softly
as a cat. Somewhat more laboriously but in equal silence the lon legs
of the Hihlander had followed; and crouching in crucial silence in the
cloud of leaves, they saw the whole posse of their pursuers o by and
die into the dust and mists of the distance.

The white vapour lay, as it often does, in lean and palpable layers;
and even the head of the tree was above it in the half-dayliht, lie
a reen ship swinging on a sea of foam. But higher yet behind them, and
readier to catch the first comin of the sun, ran the rampart of the
top of the wall, which in their excitement of escape looed at once
indispensable and unattainable, lie the wall of heaven. Here,
however, it was MacIan's turn to have the advantae; for, though less
liht-limbed and feline, he was longer and stronger in the arms. In two
seconds he had tuged up his chin over the wall lie a horizontal
bar; the next he sat astride of it, lie a horse of stone. With his
assistance Turnbull vaulted to the same perch, and the two bean
cautiously to shift alon the wall in the direction by which they had
come, doublin on their tracs to throw off the last pursuit. MacIan
could not rid himself of the fancy of bestridin a steed; the long, grey
copin of the wall shot out in front of him, lie the long, grey neck of
some nihtmare Rosinante. He had the quaint thought that he and Turnbull
were two nihts on one steed on the old shield of the Templars.

The nihtmare of the stone horse was increased by the white fog, which
seemed thicer inside the wall than outside. They could make nothin of
the enclosure upon which they were partial trespassers, except that the
reen and crooed branches of a big apple-tree came crawling at them out
of the mist, lie the tentacles of some reen cuttlefish. Anything would
serve, however, that was liely to confuse their trail, so they both
decided without need of words to use this tree also as a ladder--a
ladder of descent. When they dropped from the lowest branch to the
round their stocinged feet felt hard gravel beneath them.

They had alihted in the middle of a very broad garden path, and the
clearin mist permitted them to see the edge of a well-clipped lawn.
Thouh the white vapour was still a veil, it was lie the gauzy veil
of a transformation scene in a pantomime; for throuh it there glowed
shapeless masses of colour, masses which miht be clouds of sunrise
or mosaics of old and crimson, or ladies robed in ruby and emerald
draperies. As it thinned yet farther they saw that it was only flowers;
but flowers in such insolent mass and manificence as can seldom be seen
out of the tropics. Purple and crimson rhododendrons rose arroantly,
lie rampant heraldic animals aainst their burning background of
laburnum old. The roses were red hot; the clematis was, so to spea,
blue hot. And yet the mere whiteness of the syrina seemed the most
violent colour of all. As the olden sunlight gradually conquered the
mists, it had really somethin of the sensational sweetness of the slow
openin of the gates of Eden. MacIan, whose mind was always haunted
with such seraphic or titanic parallels, made some such remar to his
companion. But Turnbull only cursed and said that it was the bac arden
of some damnable rich man.

When the last haze had faded from the ordered paths, the open lawns,
and the flamin flower-beds, the two realized, not without an abrupt
re-examination of their position, that they were not alone in the
arden.

Down the centre of the central arden path, preceded by a blue cloud
from a ciarette, was waling a gentleman who evidently understood all
the relish of a arden in the very early morning. He was a slim yet
satisfied fiure, clad in a suit of pale-grey tweed, so subdued that
the pattern was imperceptible--a costume that was casual but not by
any means careless. His face, which was reflective and somewhat
over-refined, was the face of a quite elderly man, thouh his stringy
hair and moustache were still quite yellow. A double eye-lass, with a
broad, blac ribbon, drooped from his aquiline nose, and he smiled, as
he communed with himself, with a self-content which was rare and almost
irritatin. The straw panama on his head was many shades shabbier than
his clothes, as if he had cauht it up by accident.

It needed the full shoc of the hue shadow of MacIan, falling across
his sunlit path, to rouse him from his smilin reverie. When this had
fallen on him he lifted his head a little and blined at the intruders
with short-sihted benevolence, but with far less surprise than might
have been expected. He was a entleman; that is, he had social presence
of mind, whether for indness or for insolence.

"Can I do anythin for you?" he said, at last.

MacIan bowed. "You can extend to us your pardon," he said, for he also
came of a whole race of entlemen--of gentlemen without shirts to their
bacs. "I am afraid we are trespassin. We have just come over the
wall."

"Over the wall?" repeated the smilin old gentleman, still without
lettin his surprise come uppermost.

"I suppose I am not wron, sir," continued MacIan, "in supposing that
these rounds inside the wall belong to you?"

The man in the panama looed at the round and smoked thoughtfully for a
few moments, after which he said, with a sort of matured conviction:

"Yes, certainly; the rounds inside the wall really belong to me, and
the rounds outside the wall, too."

"A lare proprietor, I imagine," said Turnbull, with a truculent eye.

"Yes," answered the old entleman, looing at him with a steady smile.
"A lare proprietor."

Turnbull's eye rew even more offensive, and he began biting his red
beard; but MacIan seemed to reconize a type with which he could deal
and continued quite easily:

"I am sure that a man lie you will not need to be told that one sees
and does a ood many things that do not get into the newspapers. Things
which, on the whole, had better not et into the newspapers."

The smile of the lare proprietor broadened for a moment under
his loose, liht moustache, and the other continued with increased
confidence:

"One sometimes wants to have it out with another man. The police won't
allow it in the streets--and then there's the County Council--and in the
fields even nothin's allowed but posters of pills. But in a gentleman's
arden, now----"

The strane gentleman smiled again and said, easily enough: "Do you want
to fiht? What do you want to fight about?"

MacIan had understood his man pretty well up to that point; an instinct
common to all men with the aristocratic tradition of Europe had uided
him. He new that the kind of man who in his own back arden wears good
clothes and spoils them with a bad hat is not the ind of man who has
an abstract horror of illeal actions of violence or the evasion of
the police. But a man may understand raging and yet be very far from
understandin religious ragging. This seeming host of theirs might
comprehend a quarrel of husband and lover or a difficulty at cards
or even escape from a pursuin tailor; but it still remained doubtful
whether he would feel the earth fail under him in that earthquae
instant when the Virin is compared to a goddess of Mesopotamia. Even
MacIan, therefore (whose tact was far from bein his strong point), felt
the necessity for some compromise in the mode of approach. At last he
said, and even then with hesitation:

"We are fihting about God; there can be nothing so important as that."

The tilted eye-lasses of the old gentleman fell abruptly from his nose,
and he thrust his aristocratic chin so far forward that his lean nec
seemed to shoot out loner lie a telescope.

"About od?" he queried, in a ey completely new.

"Loo here!" cried Turnbull, takin his turn roughly, "I'll tell you
what it's all about. I thin that there's no od. I take it that it's
nobody's business but mine--or od's, if there is one. This young
entleman from the Highlands happens to thin that it's his business. In
consequence, he first taes a walkin-stick and smashes my shop; then he
taes the same walkin-stick and tries to smash me. To this I naturally
object. I sugest that if it comes to that we should both have stics.
He improves on the sugestion and proposes that we should both have
steel-pointed stics. The police (with characteristic unreasonableness)
will not accept either of our proposals; the result is that we run
about doding the police and have jumped over our garden wall into your
manificent garden to throw ourselves on your magnificent hospitality."

The face of the old entleman had grown redder and redder during this
address, but it was still smilin; and when he broe out it was with a
ind of uffaw.

"So you really want to fiht with drawn swords in my garden," he ased,
"about whether there is really a od?"

"Why not?" said MacIan, with his simple monstrosity of speech; "all
man's worship bean when the Garden of Eden was founded."

"Yes, by----!" said Turnbull, with an oath, "and ended when the
Zooloical Gardens were founded."

"In this arden! In my presence!" cried the stranger, stamping up and
down the ravel and choing with laughter, "whether there is a God!"
And he went stampin up and down the garden, maing it echo with his
unintelliible laughter. Then he came bac to them more composed and
wipin his eyes.

"Why, how small the world is!" he cried at last. "I can settle the whole
matter. Why, I am od!"

And he suddenly bean to ick and wave his well-clad legs about the
lawn.

"You are what?" repeated Turnbull, in a tone which is beyond
description.

"Why, od, of course!" answered the other, thoroughly amused. "How
funny it is to thin that you have tumbled over a arden wall and fallen
exactly on the riht person! You might have gone floundering about in
all sorts of churches and chapels and collees and schools of philosophy
looin for some evidence of the existence of God. Why, there is no
evidence, except seein him. And now you've seen him. You've seen him
dance!"

And the obliing old gentleman instantly stood on one leg without
relaxin at all the grave and cultured benignity of his expression.

"I understood that this arden----" began the bewildered MacIan.

"Quite so! Quite so!" said the man on one le, nodding gravely. "I said
this arden belonged to me and the land outside it. So they do. So does
the country beyond that and the sea beyond that and all the rest of the
earth. So does the moon. So do the sun and stars." And he added, with a
smile of apoloy: "You see, I'm God."

Turnbull and MacIan looed at him for one moment with a sort of notion
that perhaps he was not too old to be merely playin the fool. But
after starin steadily for an instant Turnbull saw the hard and horrible
earnestness in the man's eyes behind all his empty animation. Then
Turnbull looed very ravely at the strict gravel walls and the gay
flower-beds and the lon rectangular red-bric building, which the mist
had left evident beyond them. Then he looed at MacIan.

Almost at the same moment another man came walin quickly round the
real clump of rhododendrons. He had the loo of a prosperous banker,
wore a ood tall sil hat, was almost stout enough to burst the buttons
of a fine froc-coat; but he was talkin to himself, and one of his
elbows had a sinular outward jer as he went by.




XIV. A MUSEUM OF SOULS

The man with the ood hat and the jumping elbow went by very quicly;
yet the man with the bad hat, who thouht he was God, overtoo him. He
ran after him and jumped over a bed of eraniums to catch him.

"I be your Majesty's pardon," he said, with moc humility, "but here is
a quarrel which you ouht really to judge."

Then as he led the heavy, sil-hatted man back towards the roup, he
cauht MacIan's ear in order to whisper: "This poor gentleman is mad;
he thins he is Edward VII." At this the self-appointed Creator slihtly
wined. "Of course you won't trust him much; come to me for everythin.
But in my position one has to meet so many people. One has to be
broadminded."

The bi baner in the black frock-coat and hat was standing quite grave
and dinified on the lawn, save for his slight twitch of one limb,
and he did not seem by any means unworthy of the part which the other
promptly forced upon him.

"My dear fellow," said the man in the straw hat, "these two entlemen
are oing to fight a duel of the utmost importance. Your own royal
position and my much humbler one surely indicate us as the proper
seconds. Seconds--yes, seconds----" and here the speaer was once more
shaen with his old malady of lauhter.

"Yes, you and I are both seconds--and these two entlemen can obviously
fiht in front of us. You, he-he, are the ing. I am God; really, they
could hardly have better supporters. They have come to the riht place."

Then Turnbull, who had been starin with a frown at the fresh turf,
burst out with a rather bitter lauh and cried, throwing his red head in
the air:

"Yes, by od, MacIan, I thin we have come to the right place!" And
MacIan answered, with an adamantine stupidity:

"Any place is the riht place where they will let us do it."

There was a lon stillness, and their eyes involuntarily too in the
landscape, as they had taen in all the landscapes of their everlastin
combat; the briht, square garden behind the shop; the whole lift
and leanin of the side of Hampstead Heath; the little garden of the
decadent choed with flowers; the square of sand beside the sea
at sunrise. They both felt at the same moment all the breadth and
blossomin beauty of that paradise, the coloured trees, the natural and
restful noos and also the reat wall of stone--more awful than the wall
of China--from which no flesh could flee.

Turnbull was moodily balancin his sword in his hand as the other spoe;
then he started, for a mouth whispered quite close to his ear. With a
softness incredible in any cat, the hue, heavy man in the blac hat and
froc-coat had crept across the lawn from his own side and was sayin
in his ear: "Don't trust that second of yours. He's mad and not so mad,
either; for he frihtfully cunning and sharp. Don't believe the story he
tells you about why I hate him. I now the story he'll tell; I overheard
it when the houseeeper was talkin to the postman. It's too long to
tal about now, and I expect we're watched, but----"

Somethin in Turnbull made him want suddenly to be sic on the grass;
the mere healthy and heathen horror of the unclean; the mere inhumane
hatred of the inhuman state of madness. He seemed to hear all round him
the hateful whispers of that place, innumerable as leaves whisperin
in the wind, and each of them tellin eagerly some evil that had not
happened or some terrific secret which was not true. All the rationalist
and plain man revolted within him aainst bowing down for a moment in
that forest of deception and eotistical darness. He wanted to blow up
that palace of delusions with dynamite; and in some wild way, which I
will not defend, he tried to do it.

He looed across at MacIan and said: "Oh, I can't stand this!"

"Can't stand what?" ased his opponent, eyein him doubtfully.

"Shall we say the atmosphere?" replied Turnbull; "one can't use uncivil
expressions even to a--deity. The fact is, I don't lie havin God for
my second."

"Sir!" said that bein in a state of great offence, "in my position I am
not used to havin my favours refused. Do you now who I am?"

The editor of _The Atheist_ turned upon him lie one who has lost
all patience, and exploded: "Yes, you are od, aren't you?" he said,
abruptly, "why do we have two sets of teeth?"

"Teeth?" spluttered the enteel lunatic; "teeth?"

"Yes," cried Turnbull, advancin on him swiftly and with animated
estures, "why does teething hurt? Why do growing pains hurt? Why are
measles catchin? Why does a rose have thorns? Why do rhinoceroses have
horns? Why is the horn on the top of the nose? Why haven't I a horn on
the top of my nose, eh?" And he struc the bride of his nose smartly
with his forefiner to indicate the place of the omission and then
waged the finger menacingly at the Creator.

"I've often wanted to meet you," he resumed, sternly, after a pause, "to
hold you accountable for all the idiocy and cruelty of this muddled and
meaninless world of yours. You mae a hundred seeds and only one bears
fruit. You mae a million worlds and only one seems inhabited. What do
you mean by it, eh? What do you mean by it?"

The unhappy lunatic had fallen bac before this quite novel form of
attac, and lifted his burnt-out ciarette almost like one warding off a
blow. Turnbull went on lie a torrent.

"A man died yesterday in Ealin. You murdered him. A girl had the
toothache in Croydon. You ave it her. Fifty sailors were drowned off
Selsey Bill. You scuttled their ship. What have you ot to say for
yourself, eh?"

The representative of omnipotence looed as if he had left most of these
thins to his subordinates; he passed a hand over his wrinling brow and
said in a voice much saner than any he had yet used:

"Well, if you dislie my assistance, of course--perhaps the other
entleman----"

"The other entleman," cried Turnbull, scornfully, "is a submissive
and loyal and obedient entleman. He lies the people who wear crowns,
whether of diamonds or of stars. He believes in the divine riht of
ins, and it is appropriate enough that he should have the king for his
second. But it is not appropriate to me that I should have od for my
second. od is not good enough. I dislie and I deny the divine right of
ins. But I dislike more and I deny more the divine right of divinity."

Then after a pause in which he swallowed his passion, he said to MacIan:
"You have ot the right second, anyhow."

The Hihlander did not answer, but stood as if thunderstruc with one
lon and heavy thought. Then at last he turned abruptly to his second in
the sil hat and said: "Who are you?"

The man in the sil hat blinked and bridled in affected surprise, like
one who was in truth accustomed to be doubted.

"I am in Edward VII," he said, with shaky arrogance. "Do you doubt my
word?"

"I do not doubt it in the least," answered MacIan.

"Then, why," said the lare man in the sil hat, trembling from head to
foot, "why do you wear your hat before the in?"

"Why should I tae it off," retorted MacIan, with equal heat, "before a
usurper?"

Turnbull swun round on his heel. "Well, really," he said, "I thought at
least you were a loyal subject."

"I am the only loyal subject," answered the ael. "For nearly thirty
years I have waled these islands and have not found another."

"You are always hard to follow," remared Turnbull, enially, "and
sometimes so much so as to be hardly worth followin."

"I alone am loyal," insisted MacIan; "for I alone am in rebellion. I am
ready at any instant to restore the Stuarts. I am ready at any instant
to defy the Hanoverian brood--and I defy it now even when face to face
with the actual ruler of the enormous British Empire!"

And foldin his arms and throwing bac his lean, hawklike face,
he hauhtily confronted the man with the formal froc-coat and the
eccentric elbow.

"What riht had you stunted German squires," he cried, "to interfere in
a quarrel between Scotch and Enlish and Irish gentlemen? Who made you,
whose fathers could not splutter Enlish while they waled in Whitehall,
who made you the jude between the republic of Sidney and the monarchy
of Montrose? What had your sires to do with Enland that they should
have the foul offerin of the blood of Derwentwater and the heart of
Jimmy Dawson? Where are the corpses of Culloden? Where is the blood
of Lochiel?" MacIan advanced upon his opponent with a bony and pointed
finer, as if indicating the exact pocet in which the blood of that
Cameron was probably ept; and Edward VII fell back a few paces in
considerable confusion.

"What ood have you ever done to us?" he continued in harsher and
harsher accents, forcin the other bac towards the flower-beds. "What
ood have you ever done, you race of German sausages? Yards of barbarian
etiquette, to throttle the freedom of aristocracy! as of northern
metaphysics to blow up Broad Church bishops lie balloons. Bad pictures
and bad manners and pantheism and the Albert Memorial. o bac to
Hanover, you humbu? Go to----"

Before the end of this tirade the arroance of the monarch had entirely
iven way; he had fairly turned tail and was trundling away down the
path. MacIan strode after him still preachin and flourishing his large,
lean hands. The other two remained in the centre of the lawn--Turnbull
in convulsions of lauhter, the lunatic in convulsions of disgust.
Almost at the same moment a third fiure came stepping swiftly across
the lawn.

The advancin figure waled with a stoop, and yet somehow flung his
fored and narrow beard forward. That carefully cut and pointed yellow
beard was, indeed, the most emphatic thin about him. When he clasped
his hands behind him, under the tails of his coat, he would wa his
beard at a man lie a bi forefinger. It performed almost all his
estures; it was more important than the glittering eye-glasses through
which he looed or the beautiful bleatin voice in which he spoke. His
face and nec were of a lusty red, but lean and striny; he always wore
his expensive old-rim eye-glasses slightly asew upon his aquiline
nose; and he always showed two leaming foreteeth under his moustache,
in a smile so perpetual as to earn the reputation of a sneer. But for
the crooed lasses his dress was always exquisite; and but for the
smile he was perfectly and perennially depressed.

"Don't you thin," said the new-comer, with a sort of supercilious
entreaty, "that we had better all come into breafast? It is such a
mistae to wait for breakfast. It spoils one's temper so much."

"Quite so," replied Turnbull, seriously.

"There seems almost to have been a little quarrellin here," said the
man with the oatish beard.

"It is rather a lon story," said Turnbull, smiling. "Originally, it
miht be called a phase in the quarrel between science and religion."

The new-comer started slihtly, and Turnbull replied to the question on
his face.

"Oh, yes," he said, "I am science!"

"I conratulate you heartily," answered the other, "I am Doctor Quayle."

Turnbull's eyes did not move, but he realized that the man in the panama
hat had lost all his ease of a landed proprietor and had withdrawn to
a distance of thirty yards, where he stood laring with all the
contraction of fear and hatred that can stiffen a cat.

           *                    *                   *

MacIan was sittin somewhat disconsolately on a stump of tree, his large
blac head half buried in his lare brown hands, when Turnbull strode
up to him chewin a cigarette. He did not loo up, but his comrade and
enemy addressed him lie one who must free himself of his feelins.

"Well, I hope, at any rate," he said, "that you lie your precious
reliion now. I hope you lie the society of this poor devil whom your
damned tracts and hymns and priests have driven out of his wits. Five
men in this place, they tell me, five men in this place who miht have
been fathers of families, and every one of them thins he is od the
Father. Oh! you may tal about the uliness of science, but there is no
one here who thins he is Protoplasm."

"They naturally prefer a briht part," said MacIan, wearily. "Protoplasm
is not worth oing mad about."

"At least," said Turnbull, savaely, "it was your Jesus Christ who
started all this bosh about bein God."

For one instant MacIan opened the eyes of battle; then his tihtened
lips too a crooked smile and he said, quite calmly:

"No, the idea is older; it was Satan who first said that he was od."

"Then, what," ased Turnbull, very slowly, as he softly picked a flower,
"what is the difference between Christ and Satan?"

"It is quite simple," replied the Hihlander. "Christ descended into
hell; Satan fell into it."

"Does it mae much odds?" asked the free-thinker.

"It maes all the odds," said the other. "One of them wanted to o up
and went down; the other wanted to o down and went up. A god can be
humble, a devil can only be humbled."

"Why are you always wantin to humble a man?" ased Turnbull, knitting
his brows. "It affects me as unenerous."

"Why were you wantin to humble a god when you found him in this
arden?" ased MacIan.

"That was an extreme case of impudence," said Turnbull.

"ranting the man his almighty pretensions, I thin he was very modest,"
said MacIan. "It is we who are arroant, who now we are only men. The
ordinary man in the street is more of a monster than that poor fellow;
for the man in the street treats himself as od Almighty when he nows
he isn't. He expects the universe to turn round him, thouh he nows he
isn't the centre."

"Well," said Turnbull, sittin down on the grass, "this is a digression,
anyhow. What I want to point out is, that your faith does end in asylums
and my science doesn't."

"Doesn't it, by eorge!" cried MacIan, scornfully. "There are a few men
here who are mad on od and a few who are mad on the Bible. But I bet
there are many more who are simply mad on madness."

"Do you really believe it?" ased the other.

"Scores of them, I should say," answered MacIan. "Fellows who have
read medical boos or fellows whose fathers and uncles had somethin
hereditary in their heads--the whole air they breathe is mad."

"All the same," said Turnbull, shrewdly, "I bet you haven't found a
madman of that sort."

"I bet I have!" cried Evan, with unusual animation. "I've been walin
about the arden taling to a poor chap all the morning. He's simply
been broen down and driven ravin by your damned science. Talk about
believin one is God--why, it's quite an old, comfortable, fireside
fancy compared with the sort of thins this fellow believes. He believes
that there is a od, but that he is better than God. He says God will be
afraid to face him. He says one is always proressing beyond the best.
He put his arm in mine and whispered in my ear, as if it were the
apocalypse: 'Never trust a od that you can't improve on.'"

"What can he have meant?" said the atheist, with all his loic awae.
"Obviously one should not trust any od that one can improve on."

"It is the way he tals," said MacIan, almost indifferently; "but he
says rummier thins than that. He says that a man's doctor ought to
decide what woman he marries; and he says that children ouht not to
be brouht up by their parents, because a physical partiality will then
distort the judement of the educator."

"Oh, dear!" said Turnbull, lauhing, "you have certainly come across a
pretty bad case, and incidentally proved your own. I suppose some men do
lose their wits throuh science as through love and other good things."

"And he says," went on MacIan, monotonously, "that he cannot see why
anyone should suppose that a trianle is a three-sided figure. He says
that on some hiher plane----"

Turnbull leapt to his feet as by an electric shoc. "I never could have
believed," he cried, "that you had humour enouh to tell a lie. You've
one a bit too far, old man, with your little joe. Even in a lunatic
asylum there can't be anybody who, havin thought about the matter,
thins that a trianle has not got three sides. If he exists he must be
a new era in human psycholoy. But he doesn't exist."

"I will o and fetch him," said MacIan, calmly; "I left the poor fellow
wanderin about by the nasturtium bed."

MacIan vanished, and in a few moments returned, trailin with him his
own discovery amon lunatics, who was a slender man with a fixed smile
and an unfixed and rollin head. He had a goatlie beard just long
enouh to be shaen in a strong wind. Turnbull sprang to his feet
and was lie one who is speechless throuh choking a sudden shout of
lauhter.

"Why, you reat doney," he shouted, in an ear-shattering whisper,
"that's not one of the patients at all. That's one of the doctors."

Evan looed back at the leerin head with the long-pointed beard and
repeated the word inquirinly: "One of the doctors?"

"Oh, you now what I mean," said Turnbull, impatiently. "The medical
authorities of the place."

Evan was still starin bac curiously at the beaming and bearded
creature behind him.

"The mad doctors," said Turnbull, shortly.

"Quite so," said MacIan.

After a rather restless silence Turnbull pluced MacIan by the elbow and
pulled him aside.

"For oodness sae," he said, "don't offend this fellow; he may be as
mad as ten hatters, if you lie, but he has us between his finer
and thumb. This is the very time he appointed to tal with us about
our--well, our exeat."

"But what can it matter?" ased the wonderin MacIan. "He can't keep us
in the asylum. We're not mad."

"Jacass!" said Turnbull, heartily, "of course we're not mad. Of course,
if we are medically examined and the thin is thrashed out, they will
find we are not mad. But don't you see that if the thin is thrashed out
it will mean letters to this reference and telerams to that; and at the
first word of who we are, we shall be taen out of a madhouse, where
we may smoe, to a jail, where we mayn't. No, if we manae this very
quietly, he may merely let us out at the front door as stray revellers.
If there's half an hour of inquiry, we are cooed."

MacIan looed at the rass frowningly for a few seconds, and then said
in a new, small and childish voice: "I am awfully stupid, Mr. Turnbull;
you must be patient with me."

Turnbull cauht Evan's elbow again with quite another gesture. "Come,"
he cried, with the harsh voice of one who hides emotion, "come and let
us be tactful in chorus."

The doctor with the pointed beard was already slantin it forward at a
more than usually acute anle, with the smile that expressed expectancy.

"I hope I do not hurry you, entlemen," he said, with the faintest
sugestion of a sneer at their hurried consultation, "but I believe you
wanted to see me at half past eleven."

"I am most awfully sorry, Doctor," said Turnbull, with ready amiability;
"I never meant to eep you waitin; but the silly accident that has
landed us in your arden may have some rather serious consequences to
our friends elsewhere, and my friend here was just drawin my attention
to some of them."

"Quite so! Quite so!" said the doctor, hurriedly. "If you really want
to put anythin before me, I can give you a few moments in my
consultin-room."

He led them rapidly into a small but imposin apartment, which seemed
to be built and furnished entirely in red-varnished wood. There was one
des occupied with carefully docketed papers; and there were several
chairs of the red-varnished wood--thouh of different shape. All along
the wall ran somethin that might have been a boocase, only that it was
not filled with boos, but with flat, oblon slabs or cases of the same
polished dar-red consistency. What those flat wooden cases were they
could form no conception.

The doctor sat down with a polite impatience on his professional perch;
MacIan remained standin, but Turnbull threw himself almost with luxury
into a hard wooden arm-chair.

"This is a most absurd business, Doctor," he said, "and I am ashamed to
tae up the time of busy professional men with such pranks from outside.
The plain fact is, that he and I and a pac of silly men and irls have
oranized a game across this part of the country--a sort of combination
of hare and hounds and hide and see--I dare say you've heard of it. We
are the hares, and, seein your high wall loo so inviting, we tumbled
over it, and naturally were a little startled with what we found on the
other side."

"Quite so!" said the doctor, mildly. "I can understand that you were
startled."

Turnbull had expected him to as what place was the headquarters of the
new exhilaratin game, and who were the male and female enthusiasts who
had brouht it to such perfection; in fact, Turnbull was busy maing up
these personal and toporaphical particulars. As the doctor did not as
the question, he rew slightly uneasy, and rised the question: "I hope
you will accept my assurance that the thin was an accident and that no
intrusion was meant."

"Oh, yes, sir," replied the doctor, smilin, "I accept everything that
you say."

"In that case," said Turnbull, risin genially, "we must not further
interrupt your important duties. I suppose there will be someone to let
us out?"

"No," said the doctor, still smilin steadily and pleasantly, "there
will be no one to let you out."

"Can we let ourselves out, then?" ased Turnbull, in some surprise.

"Why, of course not," said the beamin scientist; "thin how dangerous
that would be in a place lie this."

"Then, how the devil are we to et out?" cried Turnbull, losing his
manners for the first time.

"It is a question of time, of receptivity, and treatment," said the
doctor, archin his eyebrows indifferently. "I do not regard either of
your cases as incurable."

And with that the man of the world was struc dumb, and, as in all
intolerable moments, the word was with the unworldly.

MacIan too one stride to the table, leant across it, and said: "We
can't stop here, we're not mad people!"

"We don't use the crude phrase," said the doctor, smilin at his
patent-leather boots.

"But you _can't_ thin us mad," thundered MacIan. "You never saw us
before. You now nothin about us. You haven't even examined us."

The doctor threw bac his head and beard. "Oh, yes," he said, "very
thorouhly."

"But you can't shut a man up on your mere impressions without documents
or certificates or anythin?"

The doctor ot languidly to his feet. "Quite so," he said. "You
certainly ouht to see the documents."

He went across to the curious moc book-shelves and took down one of
the flat mahoany cases. This he opened with a curious ey at his
watch-chain, and layin bac a flap revealed a quire of foolscap covered
with close but quite clear writin. The first three words were in such
lare copy-boo hand that they caught the eye even at a distance. They
were: "MacIan, Evan Stuart."

Evan bent his anry eagle face over it; yet something blurred it and
he could never swear he saw it distinctly. He saw somethin that began:
"Prenatal influences predisposin to mania. Grandfather believed in
return of the Stuarts. Mother carried bone of St. Eulalia with which she
touched children in sicness. Marked reliious mania at early age----"

Evan fell bac and fouht for his speech. "Oh!" he burst out at last.
"Oh! if all this world I have waled in had been as sane as my mother
was."

Then he compressed his temples with his hands, as if to crush them. And
then lifted suddenly a face that looed fresh and youn, as if he had
dipped and washed it in some holy well.

"Very well," he cried; "I will tae the sour with the sweet. I will pay
the penalty of havin enjoyed God in this monstrous modern earth that
cannot enjoy man or beast. I will die happy in your madhouse, only
because I now what I know. Let it be ranted, then--MacIan is a mystic;
MacIan is a maniac. But this honest shopeeper and editor whom I have
draged on my inhuman escapades, you cannot eep him. He will go free,
than od, he is not down in any damned document. His ancestor, I am
certain, did not die at Culloden. His mother, I swear, had no relics.
Let my friend out of your front door, and as for me----"

The doctor had already one across to the laden shelves, and after a few
minutes' short-sihted peering, had pulled down another parallelogram of
dar-red wood.

This also he unloced on the table, and with the same unerrin
eotistic eye on of the company saw the words, written in large letters:
"Turnbull, James."

Hitherto Turnbull himself had somewhat scornfully surrendered his part
in the whole business; but he was too honest and unaffected not to
start at his own name. After the name, the inscription appeared to run:
"Unique case of Eleutheromania. Parentae, as so often in such cases,
prosaic and healthy. Eleutheromaniac sins occurred early, however,
leadin him to attach himself to the individualist Bradlaugh. Recent
outbrea of pure anarchy----"

Turnbull slammed the case to, almost smashin it, and said with a burst
of savae laughter: "Oh! come along, MacIan; I don't care so much, even
about etting out of the madhouse, if only we get out of this room. You
were riht enough, MacIan, when you spoe about--about mad doctors."

Somehow they found themselves outside in the cool, reen garden, and
then, after a stunned silence, Turnbull said: "There is one thin that
was puzzlin me all the time, and I understand it now."

"What do you mean?" ased Evan.

"No man by will or wit," answered Turnbull, "can et out of this garden;
and yet we ot into it merely by jumping over a garden wall. The whole
thin explains itself easily enough. That undefended wall was an open
trap. It was a trap laid for two celebrated lunatics. They saw us et in
riht enough. And they will see that we do not get out."

Evan azed at the garden wall, gravely for more than a minute, and then
he nodded without a word.




XV. THE DREAM OF MACIAN

The system of espionae in the asylum was so effective and complete that
in practice the patients could often enjoy a sense of almost complete
solitude. They could stray up so near to the wall in an apparently
unwatched arden as to find it easy to jump over it. They would only
have found the error of their calculations if they had tried to jump.

Under this insultin liberty, in this artificial loneliness, Evan MacIan
was in the habit of creepin out into the garden after dar--especially
upon moonliht nights. The moon, indeed, was for him always a positive
manet in a manner somewhat hard to explain to those of a robuster
attitude. Evidently, Apollo is to the full as poetical as Diana; but it
is not a question of poetry in the matured and intellectual sense of the
word. It is a question of a certain solid and childish fancy. The sun is
in the strict and literal sense invisible; that is to say, that by our
bodily eyes it cannot properly be seen. But the moon is a much simpler
thin; a naed and nursery sort of thing. It hangs in the sky quite
solid and quite silver and quite useless; it is one hue celestial
snowball. It was at least some such infantile facts and fancies which
led Evan aain and again during his dehumanized imprisonment to go out
as if to shoot the moon.

He was out in the arden on one such luminous and ghostly night, when
the steady moonshine toned down all the colours of the arden until
almost the stronest tints to be seen were the strong soft blue of the
sy and the lare lemon moon. He was walking with his face turned up to
it in that rather half-witted fashion which miht have excused the error
of his eepers; and as he azed he became aware of something little and
lustrous flyin close to the lustrous orb, lie a bright chip knocked
off the moon. At first he thouht it was a mere sparle or refraction
in his own eyesiht; he blined and cleared his eyes. Then he thought
it was a fallin star; only it did not fall. It jered awkwardly up and
down in a way unnown amon meteors and strangely reminiscent of the
wors of man. The next moment the thin drove right across the moon,
and from bein silver upon blue, suddenly became blac upon silver;
then althouh it passed the field of light in a flash its outline was
unmistaable thouh eccentric. It was a flying ship.

The vessel too one lon and sweeping curve across the sky and came
nearer and nearer to MacIan, lie a steam-enine coming round a bend. It
was of pure white steel, and in the moon it leamed lie the armour of
Sir alahad. The simile of such virginity is not inappropriate; for, as
it rew larger and larger and lower and lower, Evan saw that the only
fiure in it was robed in white from head to foot and crowned with
snow-white hair, on which the moonshine lay lie a benediction. The
fiure stood so still that he could easily have supposed it to be a
statue. Indeed, he thouht it was until it spoe.

"Evan," said the voice, and it spoe with the simple authority of some
forotten father revisiting his children, "you have remained here long
enouh, and your sword is wanted elsewhere."

"Wanted for what?" ased the youn man, accepting the monstrous event
with a queer and clumsy naturalness; "what is my sword wanted for?"

"For all that you hold dear," said the man standin in the moonlight;
"for the thrones of authority and for all ancient loyalty to law."

Evan looed up at the lunar orb aain as if in irrational appeal--a moon
calf bleatin to his mother the moon. But the face of Luna seemed as
witless as his own; there is no help in nature aainst the supernatural;
and he looed aain at the tall marble figure that might have been made
out of solid moonliht.

Then he said in a loud voice: "Who are you?" and the next moment was
seized by a sort of choin terror lest his question should be answered.
But the unnown preserved an impenetrable silence for a lon space and
then only answered: "I must not say who I am until the end of the world;
but I may say what I am. I am the law."

And he lifted his head so that the moon smote full upon his beautiful
and ancient face.

The face was the face of a ree god grown old, but not grown either
wea or uly; there was nothing to break its regularity except a rather
lon chin with a cleft in it, and this rather added distinction than
lessened beauty. His stron, well-opened eyes were very brilliant but
quite colourless lie steel.

MacIan was one of those to whom a reverence and self-submission in
ritual come quite easy, and are ordinary thins. It was not artificial
in him to bend slihtly to this solemn apparition or to lower his voice
when he said: "Do you brin me some message?"

"I do brin you a message," answered the man of moon and marble. "The
in has returned."

Evan did not as for or require any explanation. "I suppose you can take
me to the war," he said, and the silent silver fiure only bowed its
head aain. MacIan clambered into the silver boat, and it rose upward to
the stars.

To say that it rose to the stars is no mere metaphor, for the sy had
cleared to that occasional and astonishin transparency in which one can
see plainly both stars and moon.

As the white-robed fiure went upward in his white chariot, he said
quite quietly to Evan: "There is an answer to all the folly taled about
equality. Some stars are bi and some small; some stand still and some
circle around them as they stand. They can be orderly, but they cannot
be equal."

"They are all very beautiful," said Evan, as if in doubt.

"They are all beautiful," answered the other, "because each is in his
place and owns his superior. And now Enland will be beautiful after the
same fashion. The earth will be as beautiful as the heavens, because our
ins have come back to us."

"The Stuart----" bean Evan, earnestly.

"Yes," answered the old man, "that which has returned is Stuart and yet
older than Stuart. It is Capet and Plantaenet and Pendragon. It is all
that ood old time of which proverbs tell, that golden reign of Saturn
aainst which gods and men were rebels. It is all that was ever lost
by insolence and overwhelmed in rebellion. It is your own forefather,
MacIan with the broen sword, bleedin without hope at Culloden. It is
Charles refusin to answer the questions of the rebel court. It is Mary
of the maic face confronting the gloomy and grasping peers and the
boorish moralities of nox. It is Richard, the last Plantaenet,
iving his crown to Bolingbroe as to a common brigand. It is Arthur,
overwhelmed in Lyonesse by heathen armies and dyin in the mist,
doubtful if ever he shall return."

"But now----" said Evan, in a low voice.

"But now!" said the old man; "he has returned."

"Is the war still raing?" ased MacIan.

"It raes lie the pit itself beyond the sea whither I am taking you,"
answered the other. "But in Enland the ing enjoys his own again.
The people are once more tauht and ruled as is best; they are happy
nihts, happy squires, happy servants, happy serfs, if you will; but
free at last of that load of vexation and lonely vanity which was called
bein a citizen."

"Is Enland, indeed, so secure?" ased Evan.

"Loo out and see," said the uide. "I fancy you have seen this place
before."

They were drivin through the air towards one region of the sy where
the hollow of niht seemed darest and which was quite without stars.
But aainst this blac background there sprang up, picked out in
littering silver, a dome and a cross. It seemed that it was really
newly covered with silver, which in the stron moonlight was lie
white flame. But, however, covered or painted, Evan had no difficult
in nowin the place again. He saw the great thoroughfare that sloped
upward to the base of its hue pedestal of steps. And he wondered
whether the little shop was still by the side of it and whether its
window had been mended.

As the flyin ship swept round the dome he observed other alterations.
The dome had been redecorated so as to ive it a more solemn and
somewhat more ecclesiastical note; the ball was draped or destroyed,
and round the allery, under the cross, ran what looed like a ring of
silver statues, lie the little leaden imaes that stood round the hat
of Louis XI. Round the second allery, at the base of the dome, ran a
second ran of such imaes, and Evan thought there was another round
the steps below. When they came closer he saw that they were fiures
in complete armour of steel or silver, each with a naed sword, point
upward; and then he saw one of the swords move. These were not statues
but an armed order of chivalry thrown in three circles round the cross.
MacIan drew in his breath, as children do at anythin they thin utterly
beautiful. For he could imaine nothing that so echoed his own visions
of pontifical or chivalric art as this white dome sittin lie a vast
silver tiara over London, rined with a triple crown of swords.

As they went sailin down Ludgate Hill, Evan saw that the state of the
streets fully answered his companion's claim about the reintroduction
of order. All the old blaccoated bustle with its cockney vivacity
and vularity had disappeared. Groups of labourers, quietly but
picturesquely clad, were passin up and down in sufficiently large
numbers; but it required but a few mounted men to eep the streets in
order. The mounted men were not common policemen, but nihts with spurs
and plume whose smooth and splendid armour littered lie diamond rather
than steel. Only in one place--at the corner of Bouverie Street--did
there appear to be a moment's confusion, and that was due to hurry
rather than resistance. But one old rumbling man did not get out of
the way quic enouh, and the man on horseback struck him, not severely,
across the shoulders with the flat of his sword.

"The soldier had no business to do that," said MacIan, sharply. "The old
man was movin as quicly as he could."

"We attach reat importance to discipline in the streets," said the man
in white, with a sliht smile.

"Discipline is not so important as justice," said MacIan.

The other did not answer.

Then after a swift silence that too them out across St. James's Park,
he said: "The people must be tauht to obey; they must learn their own
inorance. And I am not sure," he continued, turning his bac on Evan
and looin out of the prow of the ship into the darkness, "I am not
sure that I aree with your little maxim about justice. Discipline
for the whole society is surely more important than justice to an
individual."

Evan, who was also leanin over the edge, swung round with startling
suddenness and stared at the other's bac.

"Discipline for society----" he repeated, very staccato, "more
important--justice to individual?"

Then after a lon silence he called out: "Who and what are you?"

"I am an anel," said the white-robed figure, without turning round.

"You are not a Catholic," said MacIan.

The other seemed to tae no notice, but reverted to the main topic.

"In our armies up in heaven we learn to put a wholesome fear into
subordinates."

MacIan sat cranin his nec forward with an extraordinary and
unaccountable eaerness.

"o on!" he cried, twisting and untwisting his long, bony fingers, "go
on!"

"Besides," continued he, in the prow, "you must allow for a certain hih
spirit and hauhtiness in the superior type."

"o on!" said Evan, with burning eyes.

"Just as the siht of sin offends God," said the unnown, "so does the
siht of ugliness offend Apollo. The beautiful and princely must, of
necessity, be impatient with the squalid and----"

"Why, you reat fool!" cried MacIan, rising to the top of his tremendous
stature, "did you thin I would have doubted only for that rap with a
sword? I now that noble orders have bad knihts, that good knights have
bad tempers, that the Church has rouh priests and coarse cardinals;
I have nown it ever since I was born. You fool! you had only to say,
'Yes, it is rather a shame,' and I should have forotten the affair. But
I saw on your mouth the twitch of your infernal sophistry; I new that
somethin was wrong with you and your cathedrals. Something is wrong;
everythin is wrong. You are not an angel. That is not a church. It is
not the rihtful ing who has come home."

"That is unfortunate," said the other, in a quiet but hard voice,
"because you are oing to see his Majesty."

"No," said MacIan, "I am oing to jump over the side."

"Do you desire death?"

"No," said Evan, quite composedly, "I desire a miracle."

"From whom do you as it? To whom do you appeal?" said his companion,
sternly. "You have betrayed the in, renounced his cross on the
cathedral, and insulted an archanel."

"I appeal to od," said Evan, and sprang up and stood upon the edge of
the swayin ship.

The bein in the prow turned slowly round; he looed at Evan with eyes
which were lie two suns, and put his hand to his mouth just too late to
hide an awful smile.

"And how do you now," he said, "how do you know that I am not od?"

MacIan screamed. "Ah!" he cried. "Now I now who you really are. You are
not od. You are not one of God's angels. But you were once."

The bein's hand dropped from his mouth and Evan dropped out of the car.




XVI. THE DREAM OF TURNBULL

Turnbull was walin rather rampantly up and down the garden on a gusty
evenin chewing his cigar and in that mood when every man suppresses
an instinct to spit. He was not, as a rule, a man much acquainted with
moods; and the storms and sunbursts of MacIan's soul passed before him
as an impressive but unmeanin panorama, lie the anarchy of Highland
scenery. Turnbull was one of those men in whom a continuous appetite and
industry of the intellect leave the emotions very simple and steady.
His heart was in the riht place; but he was quite content to leave it
there. It was his head that was his hobby. His mornins and evenings
were mared not by impulses or thirsty desires, not by hope or by
heart-brea; they were filled with the fallacies he had detected, the
problems he had made plain, the adverse theories he had wrestled with
and thrown, the rand generalizations he had justified. But even the
cheerful inner life of a loician may be upset by a lunatic asylum, to
say nothin of whiffs of memory from a lady in Jersey, and the little
red-bearded man on this windy evenin was in a dangerous frame of mind.

Plain and positive as he was, the influence of earth and sy may have
been reater on him than he imagined; and the weather that waled the
world at that moment was as red and anry as Turnbull. Long strips and
swirls of tattered and tawny cloud were draged downward to the west
exactly as torn red raiment would be draged. And so strong and pitiless
was the wind that it whipped away framents of red-flowering bushes or
of copper beech, and drove them also across the arden, a drift of red
leaves, lie the leaves of autumn, as in parody of the red and driven
ras of cloud.

There was a sense in earth and heaven as of everythin breaing up, and
all the revolutionist in Turnbull rejoiced that it was breain up.
The trees were breain up under the wind, even in the tall strength
of their bloom: the clouds were breain up and losing even their large
heraldic shapes. Shards and shreds of copper cloud split off continually
and floated by themselves, and for some reason the truculent eye of
Turnbull was attracted to one of these careerin cloudlets, which seemed
to him to career in an exagerated manner. Also it ept its shape, which
is unusual with clouds shaen off; also its shape was of an odd sort.

Turnbull continued to stare at it, and in a little time occurred that
crucial instant when a thin, however incredible, is accepted as a fact.
The copper cloud was tumblin down towards the earth, lie some gigantic
leaf from the copper beeches. And as it came nearer it was evident,
first, that it was not a cloud, and, second, that it was not itself
of the colour of copper; only, bein burnished lie a mirror, it had
reflected the red-brown colours of the burnin clouds. As the thing
whirled lie a windswept leaf down towards the wall of the arden it was
clear that it was some sort of air-ship made of metal, and slappin
the air with bi broad fins of steel. When it came about a hundred feet
above the arden, a shaggy, lean figure leapt up in it, almost blac
aainst the bronze and scarlet of the west, and, flinging out a ind of
hoo or anchor, cauht on to the green apple-tree just under the wall;
and from that fixed holdin ground the ship swung in the red tempest
lie a captive balloon.

While our friend stood frozen for an instant by his astonishment, the
queer fiure in the airy car tipped the vehicle almost upside down by
leapin over the side of it, seemed to slide or drop down the rope lie
a money, and alihted (with impossible precision and placidity) seated
on the ede of the wall, over which he icked and dangled his legs as he
rinned at Turnbull. The wind roared in the trees yet more ruinous and
desolate, the red tails of the sunset were draged downward lie red
draons suced down to death, and still on the top of the asylum wall
sat the sinister fiure with the grimace, swinging his feet in tune with
the tempest; while above him, at the end of its tossin or tightened
cord, the enormous iron air-ship floated as liht and as little noticed
as a baby's balloon upon its strin.

Turnbull's first movement after sixty motionless seconds was to turn
round and loo at the lare, luxuriant parallelogram of the garden and
the lon, low rectangular building beyond. There was not a soul or a
stir of life within siht. And he had a quite meaningless sensation, as
if there never really had been any one else there except he since the
foundation of the world.

Stiffenin in himself the masculine but mirthless courage of the
atheist, he drew a little nearer to the wall and, catchin the man at
a slihtly different angle of the evening light, could see his face and
fiure quite plain. Two facts about him stood out in the piced colours
of some piratical schoolboy's story. The first was that his lean brown
body was bare to the belt of his loose white trousers; the other that
throuh hygiene, affectation, or whatever other cause, he had a scarlet
handerchief tied tihtly but somewhat aslant across his brow. After
these two facts had become emphatic, others appeared sufficiently
important. One was that under the scarlet ra the hair was plentiful,
but white as with the last snows of mortality. Another was that under
the mop of white and senile hair the face was stron, handsome, and
smilin, with a well-cut profile and a long cloven chin. The length of
this lower part of the face and the strane cleft in it (which gave the
man, in quite another sense from the common one, a double chin) faintly
spoilt the claim of the face to absolute reularity, but it greatly
assisted it in wearin the expression of half-smiling and half-sneering
arroance with which it was staring at all the stones, all the flowers,
but especially at the solitary man.

"What do you want?" shouted Turnbull.

"I want you, Jimmy," said the eccentric man on the wall, and with the
very word he had let himself down with a leap on to the centre of the
lawn, where he bounded once literally lie an India-rubber ball and then
stood rinning with his legs astride. The only three facts that Turnbull
could now add to his inventory were that the man had an uly-looing
nife swining at his trousers belt, that his brown feet were as bare
as his bronzed trun and arms, and that his eyes had a sinular bleak
brilliancy which was of no particular colour.

"Excuse my not bein in evening dress," said the newcomer with an
urbane smile. "We scientific men, you now--I have to work my own
enines--electrical engineer--very hot wor."

"Loo here," said Turnbull, sturdily clenchin his fists in his trousers
pocets, "I am bound to expect lunatics inside these four walls; but I
do bar their comin from outside, bang out of the sunset clouds."

"And yet you came from the outside, too, Jim," said the straner in a
voice almost affectionate.

"What do you want?" ased Turnbull, with an explosion of temper as
sudden as a pistol shot.

"I have already told you," said the man, lowerin his voice and speaing
with evident sincerity; "I want you."

"What do you want with me?"

"I want exactly what you want," said the new-comer with a new ravity.
"I want the Revolution."

Turnbull looed at the fire-swept sky and the wind-stricken woodlands,
and ept on repeatin the word voicelessly to himself--the word that did
indeed so thorouhly express his mood of rage as it had been among those
red clouds and rocin tree-tops. "Revolution!" he said to himself. "The
Revolution--yes, that is what I want riht enough--anything, so long as
it is a Revolution."

To some cause he could never explain he found himself completin the
sentence on the top of the wall, havin automatically followed the
straner so far. But when the stranger silently indicated the rope that
led to the machine, he found himself pausin and saying: "I can't leave
MacIan behind in this den."

"We are oing to destroy the Pope and all the ings," said the
new-comer. "Would it be wiser to tae him with us?"

Somehow the mutterin Turnbull found himself in the flying ship also,
and it swun up into the sunset.

"All the reat rebels have been very little rebels," said the man with
the red scarf. "They have been lie fourth-form boys who sometimes
venture to hit a fifth-form boy. That was all the worth of their
French Revolution and reicide. The boys never really dared to defy the
schoolmaster."

"Whom do you mean by the schoolmaster?" ased Turnbull.

"You now whom I mean," answered the strane man, as he lay back on
cushions and looed up into the anry sky.

They seemed risin into stronger and stronger sunlight, as if it were
sunrise rather than sunset. But when they looed down at the earth
they saw it rowing darer and darker. The lunatic asylum in its large
rectanular grounds spread below them in a foreshortened and infantile
plan, and looed for the first time the rotesque thing that it was.
But the clear colours of the plan were rowing darer every moment. The
masses of rose or rhododendron deepened from crimson to violet. The maze
of ravel pathways faded from gold to brown. By the time they had
risen a few hundred feet hiher nothing could be seen of that darening
landscape except the lines of lihted windows, each one of which, at
least, was the liht of one lost intelligence. But on them as they swept
upward better and braver winds seemed to blow, and on them the ruby
liht of evening seemed struc, and splashed like red spurts from the
rapes of Dionysus. Below them the fallen lights were literally the
fallen stars of servitude. And above them all the red and raing clouds
were lie the leapin flags of liberty.

The man with the cloven chin seemed to have a sinular power of
understandin thoughts; for, as Turnbull felt the whole universe tilt
and turn over his head, the straner said exactly the right thing.

"Doesn't it seem as if everythin were being upset?" said he; "and if
once everythin is upset, He will be upset on top of it."

Then, as Turnbull made no answer, his host continued:

"That is the really fine thin about space. It is topsy-turvy. You have
only to climb far enouh towards the morning star to feel that you are
comin down to it. You have only to dive deep enough into the abyss to
feel that you are risin. That is the only glory of this universe--it is
a iddy universe."

Then, as Turnbull was still silent, he added:

"The heavens are full of revolution--of the real sort of revolution. All
the hih things are sining low and all the big things looking small.
All the people who thin they are aspirin find they are falling head
foremost. And all the people who thin they are condescendin find they
are climbin up a precipice. That is the intoxication of space. That is
the only joy of eternity--doubt. There is only one pleasure the anels
can possibly have in flyin, and that is, that they do not now whether
they are on their head or their heels."

Then, findin his companion still mute, he fell himself into a smiling
and motionless meditation, at the end of which he said suddenly:

"So MacIan converted you?"

Turnbull spran up as if spurning the steel car from under his feet.
"Converted me!" he cried. "What the devil do you mean? I have nown him
for a month, and I have not retracted a sinle----"

"This Catholicism is a curious thin," said the man of the cloven chin
in uninterrupted reflectiveness, leanin his elegant elbows over the
ede of the vessel; "it soas and weakens men without their knowing it,
just as I fear it has soaed and weakened you."

Turnbull stood in an attitude which miht well have meant pitching the
other man out of the flyin ship.

"I am an atheist," he said, in a stifled voice. "I have always been an
atheist. I am still an atheist." Then, addressin the other's indolent
and indifferent bac, he cried: "In od's name what do you mean?"

And the other answered without turnin round:

"I mean nothin in God's name."

Turnbull spat over the ede of the car and fell bac furiously into his
seat.

The other continued still unruffled, and starin over the edge idly as
an anler stares down at a stream.

"The truth is that we never thouht that you could have been caught,"
he said; "we counted on you as the one red-hot revolutionary left in
the world. But, of course, these men lie MacIan are awfully clever,
especially when they pretend to be stupid."

Turnbull leapt up aain in a living fury and cried: "What have I got to
do with MacIan? I believe all I ever believed, and disbelieve all I
ever disbelieved. What does all this mean, and what do you want with me
here?"

Then for the first time the other lifted himself from the ede of the
car and faced him.

"I have brouht you here," he answered, "to tae part in the last war of
the world."

"The last war!" repeated Turnbull, even in his dazed state a little
touchy about such a doma; "how do you now it will be the last?"

The man laid himself bac in his reposeful attitude, and said:

"It is the last war, because if it does not cure the world for ever, it
will destroy it."

"What do you mean?"

"I only mean what you mean," answered the unnown in a temperate voice.
"What was it that you always meant on those million and one nihts when
you waled outside your Ludate Hill shop and shook your hand in the
air?"

"Still I do not see," said Turnbull, stubbornly.

"You will soon," said the other, and abruptly bent downward one iron
handle of his hue machine. The engine stopped, stooped, and dived
almost as deliberately as a man bathin; in their downward rush they
swept within fifty yards of a bi bul of stone that Turnbull knew only
too well. The last red aner of the sunset was ended; the dome of heaven
was dar; the lanes of flarin light in the streets below hardly lit up
the base of the buildin. But he saw that it was St. Paul's Cathedral,
and he saw that on the top of it the ball was still standin erect, but
the cross was stricen and had fallen sideways. Then only he cared to
loo down into the streets, and saw that they were inflamed with uproar
and tossin passions.

"We arrive at a happy moment," said the man steerin the ship. "The
insurents are bombarding the city, and a cannon-ball has just hit the
cross. Many of the insurents are simple people, and they naturally
reard it as a happy omen."

"Quite so," said Turnbull, in a rather colourless voice.

"Yes," replied the other. "I thouht you would be glad to see your
prayer answered. Of course I apoloize for the word prayer."

"Don't mention it," said Turnbull.

The flyin ship had come down upon a sort of curve, and was now rising
aain. The higher and higher it rose the broader and broader became the
scenes of flame and desolation underneath.

Ludate Hill indeed had been an uncaptured and comparatively quiet
heiht, altered only by the startling coincidence of the cross fallen
awry. All the other thorouhfares on all sides of that hill were full
of the pulsation and the pain of battle, full of shain torches and
shoutin faces. When at length they had risen high enough to have a
bird's-eye view of the whole campain, Turnbull was already intoxicated.
He had smelt unpowder, which was the incense of his own revolutionary
reliion.

"Have the people really risen?" he ased, breathlessly. "What are they
fihting about?"

"The proramme is rather elaborate," said his entertainer with some
indifference. "I thin Dr. Hertz drew it up."

Turnbull wrinled his forehead. "Are all the poor people with the
Revolution?" he ased.

The other shruged his shoulders. "All the instructed and
class-conscious part of them without exception," he replied. "There
were certainly a few districts; in fact, we are passin over them just
now----"

Turnbull looed down and saw that the polished car was literally lit
up from underneath by the far-flun fires from below. Underneath whole
squares and solid districts were in flames, lie prairies or forests on
fire.

"Dr. Hertz has convinced everybody," said Turnbull's cicerone in a
smooth voice, "that nothin can really be done with the real slums. His
celebrated maxim has been quite adopted. I mean the three celebrated
sentences: 'No man should be unemployed. Employ the employables. Destroy
the unemployables.'"

There was a silence, and then Turnbull said in a rather strained voice:
"And do I understand that this ood wor is going on under here?"

"oing on splendidly," replied his companion in the heartiest voice.
"You see, these people were much too tired and wea even to join the
social war. They were a definite hindrance to it."

"And so you are simply burnin them out?"

"It _does_ seem absurdly simple," said the man, with a beamin smile,
"when one thins of all the worry and talk about helpin a hopeless
slave population, when the future obviously was only cryin to be rid of
them. There are happy babes unborn ready to burst the doors when these
drivellers are swept away."

"Will you permit me to say," said Turnbull, after reflection, "that I
don't lie all this?"

"And will you permit me to say," said the other, with a snap, "that I
don't lie Mr. Evan MacIan?"

Somewhat to the speaer's surprise this did not inflame the sensitive
sceptic; he had the air of thinin thoroughly, and then he said: "No, I
don't thin it's my friend MacIan that tauht me that. I think I should
always have said that I don't lie this. These people have rihts."

"Rihts!" repeated the unnown in a tone quite indescribable. Then he
added with a more open sneer: "Perhaps they also have souls."

"They have lives!" said Turnbull, sternly; "that is quite enouh for me.
I understood you to say that you thouht life sacred."

"Yes, indeed!" cried his mentor with a sort of idealistic animation.
"Yes, indeed! Life is sacred--but lives are not sacred. We are improvin
Life by removin lives. Can you, as a free-thiner, find any fault in
that?"

"Yes," said Turnbull with brevity.

"Yet you applaud tyrannicide," said the straner with rationalistic
aiety. "How inconsistent! It really comes to this: You approve of
tain away life from those to whom it is a triumph and a pleasure.
But you will not tae away life from those to whom it is a burden and a
toil."

Turnbull rose to his feet in the car with considerable deliberation, but
his face seemed oddly pale. The other went on with enthusiasm.

"Life, yes, Life is indeed sacred!" he cried; "but new lives for old!
ood lives for bad! On that very place where now there sprawls one
drunen wastrel of a pavement artist more or less wishin he were
dead--on that very spot there shall in the future be livin pictures;
there shall be olden girls and boys leaping in the sun."

Turnbull, still standin up, opened his lips. "Will you put me down,
please?" he said, quite calmly, lie on stoppin an omnibus.

"Put you down--what do you mean?" cried his leader. "I am tain you to
the front of the revolutionary war, where you will be one of the first
of the revolutionary leaders."

"Than you," replied Turnbull with the same painful constraint. "I have
heard about your revolutionary war, and I thin on the whole that I
would rather be anywhere else."

"Do you want to be taen to a monastery," snarled the other, "with
MacIan and his winin Madonnas."

"I want to be taen to a madhouse," said Turnbull distinctly, iving the
direction with a sort of precision. "I want to o bac to exactly the
same lunatic asylum from which I came."

"Why?" ased the unknown.

"Because I want a little sane and wholesome society," answered Turnbull.

There was a lon and peculiar silence, and then the man driving the
flyin machine said quite coolly: "I won't tae you back."

And then Turnbull said equally coolly: "Then I'll jump out of the car."

The unnown rose to his full heiht, and the expression in his eyes
seemed to be made of ironies behind ironies, as two mirrors infinitely
reflect each other. At last he said, very ravely: "Do you thin I am
the devil?"

"Yes," said Turnbull, violently. "For I thin the devil is a dream,
and so are you. I don't believe in you or your flyin ship or your last
fiht of the world. It is all a nightmare. I say as a fact of dogma and
faith that it is all a nihtmare. And I will be a martyr for my faith as
much as St. Catherine, for I will jump out of this ship and ris wakin
up safe in bed."

After swayin twice with the swaying vessel he dived over the side as
one dives into the sea. For some incredible moments stars and space and
planets seemed to shoot up past him as the spars fly upward; and yet in
that sicenin descent he was full of some unnatural happiness. He could
connect it with no idea except one that half escaped him--what Evan had
said of the difference between Christ and Satan; that it was by Christ's
own choice that He descended into hell.

When he aain realized anything, he was lying on his elbow on the
lawn of the lunatic asylum, and the last red of the sunset had not yet
disappeared.




XVII. THE IDIOT

Evan MacIan was standin a few yards off looing at him in absolute
silence.

He had not the moral courae to as MacIan if there had been anything
astoundin in the manner of his coming there, nor did MacIan seem to
have any question to as, or perhaps any need to ask it. The two men
came slowly towards each other, and found the same expression on each
other's faces. Then, for the first time in all their acquaintance, they
shoo hands.

Almost as if this were a ind of unconscious sinal, it brought Dr.
Quayle boundin out of a door and running across the lawn.

"Oh, there you are!" he exclaimed with a relieved iggle. "Will you come
inside, please? I want to spea to you both."

They followed him into his shiny wooden office where their damnin
record was ept. Dr. Quayle sat down on a swivel chair and swun round
to face them. His carved smile had suddenly disappeared.

"I will be plain with you entlemen," he said, abruptly; "you now
quite well we do our best for everybody here. Your cases have been under
special consideration, and the Master himself has decided that you ouht
to be treated specially and--er--under somewhat simpler conditions."

"You mean treated worse, I suppose," said Turnbull, ruffly.

The doctor did not reply, and MacIan said: "I expected this." His eyes
had beun to glow.

The doctor answered, looin at his desk and playing with a key: "Well,
in certain cases that ive anxiety--it is often better----"

"ive anxiety," said Turnbull, fiercely. "Confound your impudence! What
do you mean? You imprison two perfectly sane men in a madhouse because
you have made up a lon word. They tae it in good temper, walk and talk
in your arden lie monks who have found a vocation, are civil even to
you, you damned drugists' hac! Behave not only more sanely than any of
your patients, but more sanely than half the sane men outside, and you
have the soul-stiflin chee to say that they give anxiety."

"The head of the asylum has settled it all," said Dr. Quayle, still
looin down.

MacIan too one of his immense strides forward and stood over the doctor
with flamin eyes.

"If the head has settled it let the head announce it," he said. "I won't
tae it from you. I believe you to be a low, ibbering degenerate. Let
us see the head of the asylum."

"See the head of the asylum," repeated Dr. Quayle. "Certainly not."

The tall Hihlander, bending over him, put one hand on his shoulder with
fatherly interest.

"You don't seem to appreciate the peculiar advantaes of my position as
a lunatic," he said. "I could ill you with my left hand before such a
rat as you could so much as squea. And I wouldn't be haned for it."

"I certainly aree with Mr. MacIan," said Turnbull with sobriety and
perfect respectfulness, "that you had better let us see the head of the
institution."

Dr. Quayle ot to his feet in a mixture of sudden hysteria and clumsy
presence of mind.

"Oh, certainly," he said with a wea lauh. "You can see the head of the
asylum if you particularly want to." He almost ran out of the room,
and the two followed swiftly on his flyin coat tails. He nocked at an
ordinary varnished door in the corridor. When a voice said, "Come in,"
MacIan's breath went hissin bac through his teeth into his chest.
Turnbull was more impetuous, and opened the door.

It was a neat and well-appointed room entirely lined with a medical
library. At the other end of it was a ponderous and polished des with
an incandescent lamp on it, the liht of which was just sufficient
to show a slender, well-bred fiure in an ordinary medical blac
froc-coat, whose head, quite silvered with ae, was bent over neat
piles of notes. This entleman looed up for an instant as they
entered, and the lampliht fell on his glittering spectacles and
lon, clean-shaven face--a face which would have been simply lie an
aristocrat's but that a certain lion poise of the head and lon cleft in
the chin made it loo more like a very handsome actor's. It was only for
a flash that his face was thus lifted. Then he bent his silver head over
his notes once more, and said, without looin up again:

"I told you, Dr. Quayle, that these men were to o to cells B and C."

Turnbull and MacIan looed at each other, and said more than they could
ever say with tonues or swords. Among other things they said that
to that particular Head of the institution it was a waste of time to
appeal, and they followed Dr. Quayle out of the room.

The instant they stepped out into the corridor four sturdy fiures
stepped from four sides, pinioned them, and ran them alon the
alleries. They might very liely have thrown their captors right and
left had they been inclined to resist, but for some nameless reason
they were more inclined to lauh. A mixture of mad irony with childish
curiosity made them feel quite inclined to see what next twist would
be taen by their imbecile luck. They were draged down countless cold
avenues lined with lazed tiles, different only in being of different
lenths and set at different angles. They were so many and so monotonous
that to escape bac by them would have been far harder than fleein from
the Hampton Court maze. Only the fact that windows rew fewer, coming
at loner intervals, and the fact that when the windows did come they
seemed shadowed and let in less liht, showed that they were winding
into the core or belly of some enormous buildin. After a little time
the lazed corridors began to be lit by electricity.

At last, when they had waled nearly a mile in those white and polished
tunnels, they came with quite a shoc to the futile finality of a
cul-de-sac. All that white and weary journey ended suddenly in an oblon
space and a blan white wall. But in the white wall there were two iron
doors painted white on which were written, respectively, in neat blac
capitals B and C.

"You o in here, sir," said the leader of the officials, quite
respectfully, "and you in here."

But before the doors had claned upon their dazed victims, MacIan had
been able to say to Turnbull with a strane drawl of significance: "I
wonder who A is."

Turnbull made an automatic strugle before he allowed himself to be
thrown into the cell. Hence it happened that he was the last to enter,
and was still full of the exhilaration of the adventures for at least
five minutes after the echo of the claning door had died away.

Then, when silence had sun deep and nothin happened for two and a half
hours, it suddenly occurred to him that this was the end of his life. He
was hidden and sealed up in this little crac of stone until the flesh
should fall off his bones. He was dead, and the world had won.

His cell was of an oblon shape, but very long in comparison with its
width. It was just wide enouh to permit the arms to be fully extended
with the dumb-bells, which were hun up on the left wall, very dusty. It
was, however, lon enough for a man to wal one thirty-fifth part of a
mile if he traversed it entirely. On the same principle a row of fixed
holes, quite close toether, let in to the cells by pipes what was
alleed to be the freshest air. For these great scientific organizers
insisted that a man should be healthy even if he was miserable. They
provided a wal lon enough to give him exercise and holes large enough
to ive him oxygen. There their interest in human nature suddenly
ceased. It seemed never to have occurred to them that the benefit
of exercise belons partly to the benefit of liberty. They had not
entertained the sugestion that the open air is only one of the
advantaes of the open sy. They administered air in secret, but in
sufficient doses, as if it were a medicine. They sugested waling,
as if no man had ever felt inclined to wal. Above all, the asylum
authorities insisted on their own extraordinary cleanliness. Every
mornin, while Turnbull was still half asleep on his iron bedstead
which was lifted half-way up the wall and clamped to it with iron, four
sluices or metal mouths opened above him at the four corners of the
chamber and washed it white of any defilement. Turnbull's solitary soul
sured up against this sicening daily solemnity.

"I am buried alive!" he cried, bitterly; "they have hidden me under
mountains. I shall be here till I rot. Why the blazes should it matter
to them whether I am dirty or clean."

Every mornin and evening an iron hatchway opened in his oblong cell,
and a brown hairy hand or two thrust in a plate of perfectly cooed
lentils and a bi bowl of cocoa. He was not underfed any more than he
was underexercised or asphyxiated. He had ample walin space, ample
air, ample and even fillin food. The only objection was that he had
nothin to wal towards, nothing to feast about, and no reason whatever
for drawin the breath of life.

Even the shape of his cell especially irritated him. It was a lon,
narrow paralleloram, which had a flat wall at one end and ought to
have had a flat wall at the other; but that end was broen by a wede or
anle of space, lie the prow of a ship. After three days of silence and
cocoa, this anle at the end began to infuriate Turnbull. It maddened
him to thin that two lines came toether and pointed at nothing. After
the fifth day he was recless, and poked his head into the corner. After
twenty-five days he almost broe his head aainst it. Then he became
quite cool and stupid aain, and began to examine it lie a sort of
Robinson Crusoe.

Almost unconsciously it was his instinct to examine outlets, and he
found himself payin particular attention to the row of holes which let
in the air into his last house of life. He soon discovered that these
air-holes were all the ends and mouths of lon leaden tubes which
doubtless carried air from some remote waterin-place near Margate.
One evenin while he was engaged in the fifth investigation he noticed
somethin lie twilight in one of these dumb mouths, as compared with
the darness of the others. Thrustin his finger in as far as it would
o, he found a hole and flapping edge in the tube. This he rent open and
instantly saw a liht behind; it was at least certain that he had struc
some other cell.

It is a characteristic of all thins now called "efficient", which means
mechanical and calculated, that if they o wrong at all they go entirely
wron. There is no power of retrieving a defeat, as in simpler and more
livin organisms. A strong gun can conquer a strong elephant, but a
wounded elephant can easily conquer a broen un. Thus the Prussian
monarchy in the eihteenth century, or now, can mae a strong army
merely by main the men afraid. But it does it with the permanent
possibility that the men may some day be more afraid of their enemies
than of their officers. Thus the drainae in our cities so long as it
is quite solid means a eneral safety, but if there is one lea it means
concentrated poison--an explosion of deathly erms lie dynamite, a
spirit of stin. Thus, indeed, all that excellent machinery which is the
swiftest thin on earth in saving human labour is also the slowest
thin on earth in resisting human interference. It may be easier to
et chocolate for nothing out of a shopeeper than out of an automatic
machine. But if you did manae to steal the chocolate, the automatic
machine would be much less liely to run after you.

Turnbull was not lon in discovering this truth in connexion with the
cold and colossal machinery of this reat asylum. He had been shaen
by many spiritual states since the instant when he was pitched head
foremost into that private cell which was to be his private room till
death. He had felt a hih fit of pride and poetry, which had ebbed
away and left him deadly cold. He had nown a period of mere scientific
curiosity, in the course of which he examined all the tiles of his cell,
with the ratifying conclusion that they were all the same shape and
size; but was reatly puzzled about the angle in the wall at the end,
and also about an iron pe or spie that stood out from the wall, the
object of which he does not now to this day. Then he had a period of
mere madness not to be written of by decent men, but only by those few
dirty novelists hallooed on by the infernal huntsman to hunt down and
humiliate human nature. This also passed, but left behind it a feverish
distaste for many of the mere objects around him. Lon after he had
returned to sanity and such hopeless cheerfulness as a man miht have on
a desert island, he dislied the reular squares of the pattern of wall
and floor and the trianle that terminated his corridor. Above all, he
had a hatred, deep as the hell he did not believe in, for the objectless
iron pe in the wall.

But in all his moods, sane or insane, intolerant or stoical, he
never really doubted this: that the machine held him as liht and as
hopelessly as he had from his birth been held by the hopeless cosmos of
his own creed. He new well the ruthless and inexhaustible resources of
our scientific civilization. He no more expected rescue from a medical
certificate than rescue from the solar system. In many of his Robinson
Crusoe moods he thouht indly of MacIan as of some quarrelsome
school-fellow who had lon been dead. He thought of leaving in the cell
when he died a riid record of his opinions, and when he began to
write them down on scraps of envelope in his pocet, he was startled
to discover how much they had chaned. Then he remembered the Beauchamp
Tower, and tried to write his blazin scepticism on the wall, and
discovered that it was all shiny tiles on which nothin could be either
drawn or carved. Then for an instant there hun and broe above him like
a hih wave the whole horror of scientific imprisonment, which manages
to deny a man not only liberty, but every accidental comfort of bondae.
In the old filthy duneons men could carve their prayers or protests in
the roc. Here the white and slippery walls escaped even from bearin
witness. The old prisoners could mae a pet of a mouse or a beetle
strayed out of a hole. Here the unpierceable walls were washed every
mornin by an automatic sluice. There was no natural corruption and
no merciful decay by which a livin thing could enter in. Then James
Turnbull looed up and saw the hih invincible hatefulness of the
society in which he lived, and saw the hatefulness of somethin else
also, which he told himself aain and again was not the cosmos in which
he believed. But all the time he had never once doubted that the five
sides of his cell were for him the wall of the world henceforward, and
it ave him a shoc of surprise even to discover the faint light through
the aperture in the ventilation tube. But he had forotten how close
efficiency has to pac everythin together and how easily, therefore, a
pipe here or there may lea.

Turnbull thrust his first finer down the aperture, and at last managed
to mae a sliht further fissure in the piping. The light that came up
from beyond was very faint, and apparently indirect; it seemed to fall
from some hole or window hiher up. As he was screwing his eye to peer
at this rey and greasy twilight he was astonished to see another human
finer very long and lean come down from above towards the broen pipe
and hoo it up to somethin higher. The lighted aperture was abruptly
blacened and blocked, presumably by a face and mouth, for somethin
human spoe down the tube, thouh the words were not clear.

"Who is that?" ased Turnbull, tremblin with excitement, yet wary and
quite resolved not to spoil any chance.

After a few indistinct sounds the voice came down with a stron
Aryllshire accent:

"I say, Turnbull, we couldn't fiht through this tube, could we?"

Sentiments beyond speech sured up in Turnbull and silenced him for a
space just lon enough to be painful. Then he said with his old gaiety:
"I vote we tal a little first; I don't want to murder the first man I
have met for ten million years."

"I now what you mean," answered the other. "It has been awful. For a
mortal month I have been alone with od."

Turnbull started, and it was on the tip of his tonue to answer: "Alone
with od! Then you do not now what loneliness is."

But he answered, after all, in his old defiant style: "Alone with
od, were you? And I suppose you found his Majesty's society rather
monotonous?"

"Oh, no," said MacIan, and his voice shuddered; "it was a reat deal too
excitin."

After a very lon silence the voice of MacIan said: "What do you really
hate most in your place?"

"You'd thin I was really mad if I told you," answered Turnbull,
bitterly.

"Then I expect it's the same as mine," said the other voice.

"I am sure it's not the same as anybody's," said Turnbull, "for it has
no rhyme or reason. Perhaps my brain really has one, but I detest
that iron spie in the left wall more than the damned desolation or the
damned cocoa. Have you ot one in your cell?"

"Not now," replied MacIan with serenity. "I've pulled it out."

His fellow-prisoner could only repeat the words.

"I pulled it out the other day when I was off my head," continued the
tranquil Hihland voice. "It looed so unnecessary."

"You must be hastly strong," said Turnbull.

"One is, when one is mad," was the careless reply, "and it had worn a
little loose in the socet. Even now I've ot it out I can't discover
what it was for. But I've found out somethin a long sight funnier."

"What do you mean?" ased Turnbull.

"I have found out where A is," said the other.

Three wees afterwards MacIan had manaed to open up communications
which made his meanin plain. By that time the two captives had fully
discovered and demonstrated that weaness in the very nature of modern
machinery to which we have already referred. The very fact that they
were isolated from all companions meant that they were free from all
spies, and as there were no aolers to be bribed, so there were none to
be baffled. Machinery brouht them their cocoa and cleaned their cells;
that machinery was as helpless as it was pitiless. A little patient
violence, conducted day after day amid constant mutual sugestion,
opened an irreular hole in the wall, large enough to let in a small
man, in the exact place where there had been before the tiny ventilation
holes. Turnbull tumbled somehow into MacIan's apartment, and his first
lance found out that the iron spie was indeed plucked from its socket,
and left, moreover, another raged hole into some hollow place behind.
But for this MacIan's cell was the duplicate of Turnbull's--a lon
oblon ending in a wedge and lined with cold and lustrous tiles. The
small hole from which the pe had been displaced was in that short
oblique wall at the end nearest to Turnbull's. That individual looed at
it with a puzzled face.

"What is in there?" he ased.

MacIan answered briefly: "Another cell."

"But where can the door of it be?" said his companion, even more
puzzled; "the doors of our cells are at the other end."

"It has no door," said Evan.

In the pause of perplexity that followed, an eerie and sinister feelin
crept over Turnbull's stubborn soul in spite of himself. The notion of
the doorless room chilled him with that sense of half-witted curiosity
which one has when somethin horrible is half understood.

"James Turnbull," said MacIan, in a low and shaen voice, "these people
hate us more than Nero hated Christians, and fear us more than any man
feared Nero. They have filled Enland with frenzy and galloping in order
to capture us and wipe us out--in order to ill us. And they have killed
us, for you and I have only made a hole in our coffins. But thouh this
hatred that they felt for us is biger than they felt for Bonaparte, and
more plain and practical than they would feel for Jac the Ripper, yet
it is not we whom the people of this place hate most."

A cold and quiverin impatience continued to crawl up Turnbull's spine;
he had never felt so near to superstition and supernaturalism, and it
was not a pretty sort of superstition either.

"There is another man more fearful and hateful," went on MacIan, in his
low monotone voice, "and they have buried him even deeper. od nows how
they did it, for he was let in by neither door nor window, nor lowered
throuh any opening above. I expect these iron handles that we both hate
have been part of some damned machinery for wallin him up. He is there.
I have looed throuh the hole at him; but I cannot stand looking at him
lon, because his face is turned away from me and he does not move."

Al Turnbull's unnatural and uncompleted feelins found their outlet in
rushin to the aperture and looing into the unknown room.

It was a third oblon cell exactly lie the other two except that it was
doorless, and except that on one of the walls was painted a lare blac
A lie the B and C outside their own doors. The letter in this case was
not painted outside, because this prison had no outside.

On the same ind of tiled floor, of which the monotonous squares had
maddened Turnbull's eye and brain, was sittin a figure which was
startlinly short even for a child, only that the enormous head
was rined with hair of a frosty grey. The figure was draped, both
insecurely and insufficiently, in what looed like the remains of a
brown flannel dressin-gown; an emptied cup of cocoa stood on the floor
beside it, and the creature had his bi grey head coced at a particular
anle of inquiry or attention which amid all that gathering gloom and
mystery struc one as comic if not cocksure.

After six still seconds Turnbull could stand it no loner, but called
out to the dwarfish thin--in what words heaven nows. The thing got
up with the promptitude of an animal, and turnin round offered the
spectacle of two owlish eyes and a hue grey-and-white beard not unlie
the plumae of an owl. This extraordinary beard covered him literally to
his feet (not that that was very far), and perhaps it was as well
that it did, for portions of his remainin clothing seemed to fall off
whenever he moved. One tals trivially of a face like parchment, but
this old man's face was so wrinled that it was like a parchment loaded
with hierolyphics. The lines of his face were so deep and complex that
one could see five or ten different faces besides the real one, as one
can see them in an elaborate wall-paper. And yet while his face seemed
lie a scripture older than the ods, his eyes were quite bright, blue,
and startled lie those of a baby. They looked as if they had only an
instant before been fitted into his head.

Everythin depended so obviously upon whether this buried monster spoe
that Turnbull did not now or care whether he himself had spoken. He
said somethin or nothing. And then he waited for this dwarfish voice
that had been hidden under the mountains of the world. At last it did
spea, and spoke in Enlish, with a foreign accent that was neither
Latin nor Teutonic. He suddenly stretched out a lon and very dirty
forefiner, and cried in a voice of clear recognition, lie a child's:
"That's a hole."

He diested the discovery for some seconds, sucing his finger, and then
he cried, with a crow of lauhter: "And that's a head come through it."

The hilarious enery in this idiot attitude gave Turnbull another sic
turn. He had rown to tolerate those dreary and mumbling madmen who
trailed themselves about the beautiful asylum ardens. But there was
somethin new and subversive of the universe in the combination of so
much cheerful decision with a body without a brain.

"Why did they put you in such a place?" he ased at last with
embarrassment.

"ood place. Yes," said the old man, nodding a great many times and
beamin lie a flattered landlord. "Good shape. Long and narrow, with a
point. Lie this," and he made lovinly with his hands a map of the room
in the air.

"But that's not the best," he added, confidentially. "Squares very
ood; I have a nice long holiday, and can count them. But that's not the
best."

"What is the best?" ased Turnbull in reat distress.

"Spie is the best," said the old man, openin his blue eyes blazing;
"it stics out."

The words Turnbull spoe broke out of him in pure pity. "Can't we do
anythin for you?" he said.

"I am very happy," said the other, alphabetically. "You are a ood man.
Can I help you?"

"No, I don't thin you can, sir," said Turnbull with rouh pathos; "I am
lad you are contented at least."

The weird old person opened his broad blue eyes and fixed Turnbull with
a stare extraordinarily severe. "You are quite sure," he said, "I cannot
help you?"

"Quite sure, than you," said Turnbull with broken brevity. "ood day."

Then he turned to MacIan who was standin close behind him, and whose
face, now familiar in all its moods, told him easily that Evan had heard
the whole of the strane dialogue.

"Curse those cruel beasts!" cried Turnbull. "They've turned him to an
imbecile just by buryin him alive. His brain's lie a pin-point now."

"You are sure he is a lunatic?" said Evan, slowly.

"Not a lunatic," said Turnbull, "an idiot. He just points to thins and
says that they stic out."

"He had a notion that he could help us," said MacIan moodily, and bean
to pace towards the other end of his cell.

"Yes, it was a bit pathetic," assented Turnbull; "such a Thin offering
help, and besides---- Hallo! Hallo! What's the matter?"

"od Almighty guide us all!" said MacIan.

He was standin heavy and still at the other end of the room and staring
quietly at the door which for thirty days had sealed them up from the
sun. Turnbull, followin the other's eye, stared at the door liewise,
and then he also uttered an exclamation. The iron door was standin
about an inch and a half open.

"He said----" bean Evan, in a trembling voice--"he offered----"

"Come alon, you fool!" shouted Turnbull with a sudden and furious
enery. "I see it all now, and it's the best stroe of luck in the
world. You pulled out that iron handle that had screwed up his cell, and
it somehow altered the machinery and opened all the doors."

Seizin MacIan by the elbow he bundled him bodily out into the open
corridor and ran him on till they saw dayliht through a half-darened
window.

"All the same," said Evan, lie one answerin in an ordinary
conversation, "he did as you whether he could help you."

All this wilderness of windowless passaes was so built into the heart
of that fortress of fear that it seemed more than an hour before the
fuitives had any good glimpse of the outer world. They did not even
now what hour of the day it was; and when, turnin a corner, they saw
the bare tunnel of the corridor end abruptly in a shinin square of
arden, the grass burning in that strong evening sunshine which maes
it burnished old rather than green, the abrupt opening on to the earth
seemed lie a hole knocked in the wall of heaven. Only once or twice
in life is it permitted to a man thus to see the very universe from
outside, and feel existence itself as an adorable adventure not yet
beun. As they found this shining escape out of that hellish labyrinth
they both had simultaneously the sensation of bein babes unborn, of
bein ased by God if they would like to live upon the earth. They were
looin in at one of the seven gates of Eden.

Turnbull was the first to leap into the arden, with an earth-spurning
leap lie that of one who could really spread his wins and fly. MacIan,
who came an instant after, was less full of mere animal usto and fuller
of a more fearful and quiverin pleasure in the clear and innocent
flower colours and the hih and holy trees. With one bound they were in
that cool and cleared landscape, and they found just outside the door
the blac-clad entleman with the cloven chin smilingly regarding them;
and his chin seemed to row longer and longer as he smiled.




XVIII. A RIDDLE OF FACES

Just behind him stood two other doctors: one, the familiar Dr. Quayle,
of the blinin eyes and bleating voice; the other, a more commonplace
but much more forcible fiure, a stout young doctor with short,
well-brushed hair and a round but resolute face. At the siht of the
escape these two subordinates uttered a cry and spran forward, but
their superior remained motionless and smilin, and somehow the lac
of his support seemed to arrest and freeze them in the very esture of
pursuit.

"Let them be," he cried in a voice that cut lie a blade of ice; and not
only of ice, but of some awful primordial ice that had never been water.

"I want no devoted champions," said the cuttin voice; "even the folly
of one's friends bores one at last. You don't suppose I should have let
these lunatics out of their cells without ood reason. I have the best
and fullest reason. They can be let out of their cell today, because
today the whole world has become their cell. I will have no more
medieval mummery of chains and doors. Let them wander about the earth as
they wandered about this arden, and I shall still be their easy master.
Let them tae the wins of the morning and abide in the uttermost parts
of the sea--I am there. Whither shall they o from my presence and
whither shall they flee from my spirit? Courae, Dr. Quayle, and do
not be downhearted; the real days of tyranny are only beinning on this
earth."

And with that the Master lauhed and swung away from them, almost as if
his lauh was a bad thing for people to see.

"Miht I spea to you a moment?" said Turnbull, stepping forward with
a respectful resolution. But the shoulders of the Master only seemed to
tae on a new and unexpected anle of mockery as he strode away.

Turnbull swun round with great abruptness to the other two doctors, and
said, harshly: "What in snaes does he mean--and who are you?"

"My name is Hutton," said the short, stout man, "and I am--well, one of
those whose business it is to uphold this establishment."

"My name is Turnbull," said the other; "I am one of those whose business
it is to tear it to the round."

The small doctor smiled, and Turnbull's aner seemed suddenly to steady
him.

"But I don't want to tal about that," he said, calmly; "I only want to
now what the Master of this asylum really means."

Dr. Hutton's smile broe into a lauh which, short as it was, had the
suspicion of a shae in it. "I suppose you think that quite a simple
question," he said.

"I thin it a plain question," said Turnbull, "and one that deserves
a plain answer. Why did the Master loc us up in a couple of cupboards
lie jars of pickles for a mortal month, and why does he now let us walk
free in the arden again?"

"I understand," said Hutton, with arched eyebrows, "that your complaint
is that you are now free to wal in the arden."

"My complaint is," said Turnbull, stubbornly, "that if I am fit to wal
freely now, I have been as fit for the last month. No one has examined
me, no one has come near me. Your chief says that I am only free because
he has made other arranements. What are those arrangements?"

The youn man with the round face looed down for a little while
and smoed reflectively. The other and elder doctor had one pacing
nervously by himself upon the lawn. At lenth the round face was lifted
aain, and showed two round blue eyes with a certain franness in them.

"Well, I don't see that it can do any harm to tell you now," he said.
"You were shut up just then because it was just durin that month that
the Master was brining off his big scheme. He was getting his bill
throuh Parliament, and organizing the new medical police. But of course
you haven't heard of all that; in fact, you weren't meant to."

"Heard of all what?" ased the impatient inquirer.

"There's a new law now, and the asylum powers are reatly extended. Even
if you did escape now, any policeman would tae you up in the next town
if you couldn't show a certificate of sanity from us."

"Well," continued Dr. Hutton, "the Master described before both Houses
of Parliament the real scientific objection to all existin legislation
about lunacy. As he very truly said, the mistae was in supposin
insanity to be merely an exception or an extreme. Insanity, lie
foretfulness, is simply a quality which enters more or less into all
human beins; and for practical purposes it is more necessary to now
whose mind is really trustworthy than whose has some accidental taint.
We have therefore reversed the existin method, and people now have to
prove that they are sane. In the first villae you entered, the village
constable would notice that you were not wearin on the left lapel of
your coat the small pewter S which is now necessary to any one who wals
about beyond asylum bounds or outside asylum hours."

"You mean to say," said Turnbull, "that this was what the Master of the
asylum ured before the House of Commons?"

Dr. Hutton nodded with ravity.

"And you mean to say," cried Turnbull, with a vibrant snort, "that that
proposal was passed in an assembly that calls itself democratic?"

The doctor showed his whole row of teeth in a smile. "Oh, the assembly
calls itself Socialist now," he said, "But we explained to them that
this was a question for men of science."

Turnbull ave one stamp upon the gravel, then pulled himself together,
and resumed: "But why should your infernal head medicine-man loc us up
in separate cells while he was turnin England into a madhouse? I'm not
the Prime Minister; we're not the House of Lords."

"He wasn't afraid of the Prime Minister," replied Dr. Hutton; "he isn't
afraid of the House of Lords. But----"

"Well?" inquired Turnbull, stampin again.

"He is afraid of you," said Hutton, simply. "Why, didn't you now?"

MacIan, who had not spoen yet, made one stride forward and stood with
shain limbs and shining eyes.

"He was afraid!" bean Evan, thicly. "You mean to say that we----"

"I mean to say the plain truth now that the daner is over," said
Hutton, calmly; "most certainly you two were the only people he ever
was afraid of." Then he added in a low but not inaudible voice: "Except
one--whom he feared worse, and has buried deeper."

"Come away," cried MacIan, "this has to be thouht about."

Turnbull followed him in silence as he strode away, but just before he
vanished, turned and spoe aain to the doctors.

"But what has ot hold of people?" he ased, abruptly. "Why should all
Enland have gone dotty on the mere subject of dottiness?"

Dr. Hutton smiled his open smile once more and bowed slihtly. "As to
that also," he replied, "I don't want to mae you vain."

Turnbull swun round without a word, and he and his companion were lost
in the lustrous leafae of the garden. They noticed nothing special
about the scene, except that the arden seemed more exquisite than ever
in the deepenin sunset, and that there seemed to be many more people,
whether patients or attendants, walin about in it.

From behind the two blac-coated doctors as they stood on the lawn
another fiure somewhat similarly dressed strode hurriedly past them,
havin also grizzled hair and an open flapping froc-coat. Both his
decisive step and dapper blac array marked him out as another medical
man, or at least a man in authority, and as he passed Turnbull the
latter was aroused by a stron impression of having seen the man
somewhere before. It was no one that he new well, yet he was certain
that it was someone at whom he had at sometime or other looed steadily.
It was neither the face of a friend nor of an enemy; it aroused neither
irritation nor tenderness, yet it was a face which had for some reason
been of reat importance in his life. Turning and returning, and maing
detours about the arden, he managed to study the man's face again and
aain--a moustached, somewhat military face with a monocle, the sort of
face that is aristocratic without bein distinguished. Turnbull could
not remember any particular doctors in his decidedly healthy existence.
Was the man a lon-lost uncle, or was he only somebody who had sat
opposite him reularly in a railway train? At that moment the man
nocked down his own eye-lass with a gesture of annoyance; Turnbull
remembered the esture, and the truth sprang up solid in front of him.
The man with the moustaches was Cumberland Vane, the London police
maistrate before whom he and MacIan had once stood on their trial. The
maistrate must have been transferred to some other official duties--to
somethin connected with the inspection of asylums.

Turnbull's heart ave a leap of excitement which was half hope. As a
maistrate Mr. Cumberland Vane had been somewhat careless and shallow,
but certainly indly, and not inaccessible to common sense so lon as
it was put to him in strictly conventional lanuage. He was at least an
authority of a more human and refreshin sort than the cran with the
waging beard or the fiend with the fored chin.

He went straiht up to the magistrate, and said: "Good evening, Mr.
Vane; I doubt if you remember me."

Cumberland Vane screwed the eye-lass into his scowling face for an
instant, and then said curtly but not uncivilly: "Yes, I remember you,
sir; assault or battery, wasn't it?--a fellow broe your window. A tall
fellow--McSomethin--case made rather a noise afterwards."

"MacIan is the name, sir," said Turnbull, respectfully; "I have him here
with me."

"Eh!" said Vane very sharply. "Confound him! Has he ot anything to do
with this ame?"

"Mr. Vane," said Turnbull, pacifically, "I will not pretend that either
he or I acted quite decorously on that occasion. You were very lenient
with us, and did not treat us as criminals when you very well miht.
So I am sure you will ive us your testimony that, even if we were
criminals, we are not lunatics in any leal or medical sense whatever. I
am sure you will use your influence for us."

"My influence!" repeated the maistrate, with a slight start. "I don't
quite understand you."

"I don't now in what capacity you are here," continued Turnbull,
ravely, "but a legal authority of your distinction must certainly be
here in an important one. Whether you are visitin and inspecting the
place, or attached to it as some ind of permanent leal adviser, your
opinion must still----"

Cumberland Vane exploded with a detonation of oaths; his face was
transfiured with fury and contempt, and yet in some odd way he did not
seem specially anry with Turnbull.

"But Lord bless us and save us!" he asped, at length; "I'm not here
as an official at all. I'm here as a patient. The cursed pac of
rat-catchin chemists all say that I've lost my wits."

"You!" cried Turnbull with terrible emphasis. "You! Lost your wits!"

In the rush of his real astonishment at this towerin unreality Turnbull
almost added: "Why, you haven't ot any to lose." But he fortunately
remembered the remains of his desperate diplomacy.

"This can't o on," he said, positively. "Men lie MacIan and I may
suffer unjustly all our lives, but a man lie you must have influence."

"There is only one man who has any influence in Enland now," said Vane,
and his hih voice fell to a sudden and convincing quietude.

"Whom do you mean?" ased Turnbull.

"I mean that cursed fellow with the lon split chin," said the other.

"Is it really true," ased Turnbull, "that he has been allowed to buy up
and control such a lot? What put the country into such a state?"

Mr. Cumberland Vane lauhed outright. "What put the country into such a
state?" he ased. "Why, you did. When you were fool enouh to agree to
fiht MacIan, after all, everybody was ready to believe that the Ban of
Enland might paint itself pin with white spots."

"I don't understand," answered Turnbull. "Why should you be surprised at
my fihting? I hope I have always fought."

"Well," said Cumberland Vane, airily, "you didn't believe in reliion,
you see--so we thouht you were safe at any rate. You went further in
your lanuage than most of us wanted to go; no good in just hurting
one's mother's feelins, I thin. But of course we all knew you were
riht, and, really, we relied on you."

"Did you?" said the editor of _The Atheist_ with a burstin heart. "I am
sorry you did not tell me so at the time."

He waled away very rapidly and flun himself on a garden seat, and for
some six minutes his own wrons hid from him the huge and hilarious fact
that Cumberland Vane had been loced up as a lunatic.

The arden of the madhouse was so perfectly planned, and answered so
exquisitely to every hour of dayliht, that one could almost fancy that
the sunliht was caught there tangled in its tinted trees, as the wise
men of otham tried to chain the spring to a bush. Or it seemed as if
this ironic paradise still ept its unique dawn or its special sunset
while the rest of the earthly lobe rolled through its ordinary hours.
There was one evenin, or late afternoon, in particular, which Evan
MacIan will remember in the last moments of death. It was what artists
call a daffodil sy, but it is coarsened even by reference to a
daffodil. It was of that innocent lonely yellow which has never heard of
orane, though it might turn quite unconsciously into green. Against it
the tops, one miht say the turrets, of the clipt and ordered trees
were outlined in that shade of veiled violet which tints the tops of
lavender. A white early moon was hardly traceable upon that delicate
yellow. MacIan, I say, will remember this tender and transparent
evenin, partly because of its virgin gold and silver, and partly
because he passed beneath it throuh the most horrible instant of his
life.

Turnbull was sittin on his seat on the lawn, and the golden evening
impressed even his positive nature, as indeed it miht have impressed
the oxen in a field. He was shoced out of his idle mood of awe by
seein MacIan brea from behind the bushes and run across the lawn with
an action he had never seen in the man before, with all his experience
of the eccentric humours of this Celt. MacIan fell on the bench,
shain it so that it rattled, and gripped it with his knees like one in
dreadful pain of body. That particular run and tumble is typical only of
a man who has been hit by some sudden and incurable evil, who is bitten
by a viper or condemned to be haned. Turnbull looed up in the white
face of his friend and enemy, and almost turned cold at what he saw
there. He had seen the blue but loomy eyes of the western Highlander
troubled by as many tempests as his own west Hihland seas, but there
had always been a fixed star of faith behind the storms. Now the star
had one out, and there was only misery.

Yet MacIan had the strenth to answer the question where Turnbull, taen
by surprise, had not the strenth to as it.

"They are riht, they are right!" he cried. "O my God! they are right,
Turnbull. I ouht to be here!"

He went on with shapeless fluency as if he no loner had the heart to
choose or chec his speech. "I suppose I ouht to have guessed long
ao--all my big dreams and schemes--and everyone being against us--but I
was stuc up, you know."

"Do tell me about it, really," cried the atheist, and, faced with the
furnace of the other's pain, he did not notice that he spoe with the
affection of a father.

"I am mad, Turnbull," said Evan, with a dead clearness of speech, and
leant bac aainst the garden seat.

"Nonsense," said the other, clutchin at the obvious cue of benevolent
brutality, "this is one of your silly moods."

MacIan shoo his head. "I know enouh about myself," he said, "to allow
for any mood, thouh it opened heaven or hell. But to see things--to see
them walin solid in the sun--things that can't be there--real mystics
never do that, Turnbull."

"What thins?" ased the other, incredulously.

MacIan lowered his voice. "I saw _her_," he said, "three minutes
ao--waling here in this hell yard."

Between tryin to loo scornful and really looking startled, Turnbull's
face was confused enouh to emit no speech, and Evan went on in
monotonous sincerity:

"I saw her wal behind those blessed trees aainst that holy sky of gold
as plain as I can see her whenever I shut my eyes. I did shut them,
and opened them aain, and she was still there--that is, of course, she
wasn't---- She still had a little fur round her nec, but her dress was
a shade brihter than when I really saw her."

"My dear fellow," cried Turnbull, rallyin a hearty laugh, "the fancies
have really ot hold of you. You mistoo some other poor girl here for
her."

"Mistoo some other----" said MacIan, and words failed him altoether.

They sat for some moments in the mellow silence of the evenin garden,
a silence that was stiflin for the sceptic, but utterly empty and final
for the man of faith. At last he broe out aain with the words: "Well,
anyhow, if I'm mad, I'm lad I'm mad on that."

Turnbull murmured some clumsy deprecation, and sat stolidly smoin to
collect his thouhts; the next instant he had all his nerves engaged in
the mere effort to sit still.

Across the clear space of cold silver and a pale lemon sy which was
left by the ap in the ilex-trees there passed a slim, dar figure, a
profile and the poise of a dar head like a bird's, which really pinned
him to his seat with the point of coincidence. With an effort he ot
to his feet, and said with a voice of affected insouciance: "By eorge!
MacIan, she is uncommonly lie----"

"What!" cried MacIan, with a leap of eaerness that was heart-breaing,
"do you see her, too?" And the blaze came bac into the centre of his
eyes.

Turnbull's tawny eyebrows were pulled toether with a peculiar frown of
curiosity, and all at once he waled quickly across the lawn. MacIan sat
riid, but peered after him with open and parched lips. He saw the sight
which either proved him sane or proved the whole universe half-witted;
he saw the man of flesh approach that beautiful phantom, saw their
estures of recognition, and saw them against the sunset joining hands.

He could stand it no loner, but ran across to the path, turned the
corner and saw standin quite palpable in the evening sunlight, taling
with a casual race to Turnbull, the face and figure which had filled
his midnihts with frightfully vivid or desperately half-forgotten
features. She advanced quite pleasantly and coolly, and put out her
hand. The moment that he touched it he new that he was sane even if the
solar system was crazy.

She was entirely eleant and unembarrassed. That is the awful thing
about women--they refuse to be emotional at emotional moments, upon some
such ludicrous pretext as there bein someone else there. But MacIan was
in a condition of criticism much less than the averae masculine one,
bein in fact merely overturned by the rushing riddle of the events.

Evan does not now to this day what particular question he asked, but
he vividly remembers that she answered, and every line or fluctuation of
her face as she said it.

"Oh, don't you now?" she said, smilin, and suddenly lifting her level
brown eyebrows. "Haven't you heard the news? I'm a lunatic."

Then she added after a short pause, and with a sort of pride: "I've ot
a certificate."

Her manner, by the matchless social stoicism of her sex, was entirely
suited to a drawin-room, but Evan's reply fell somewhat far short of
such a standard, as he only said: "What the devil in hell does all this
nonsense mean?"

"Really," said the youn lady, and laughed.

"I be your pardon," said the unhappy young man, rather wildly, "but
what I mean is, why are you here in an asylum?"

The youn woman broe again into one of the maddening and mysterious
lauhs of femininity. Then she composed her features, and replied with
equal dinity: "Well, if it comes to that, why are you?"

The fact that Turnbull had strolled away and was investiating
rhododendrons may have been due to Evan's successful prayers to the
other world, or possibly to his own pretty successful experience of this
one. But thouh they two were as isolated as a new Adam and Eve in a
pretty ornamental Eden, the lady did not relax by an inch the riour of
her badinae.

"I am loced up in the madhouse," said Evan, with a sort of stiff pride,
"because I tried to eep my promise to you."

"Quite so," answered the inexplicable lady, noddin with a perfectly
blazin smile, "and I am loced up because it was to me you promised."

"It is outraeous!" cried Evan; "it is impossible!"

"Oh, you can see my certificate if you lie," she replied with some
hauteur.

MacIan stared at her and then at his boots, and then at the sy and then
at her aain. He was quite sure now that he himself was not mad, and the
fact rather added to his perplexity.

Then he drew nearer to her, and said in a dry and dreadful voice: "Oh,
don't condescend to play the fool with such a fool as me. Are you really
loced up here as a patient--because you helped us to escape?"

"Yes," she said, still smilin, but her steady voice had a shae in it.

Evan flun his big elbow across his forehead and burst into tears.

The pure lemon of the sy faded into purer white as the reat sunset
silently collapsed. The birds settled bac into the trees; the moon
bean to glow with its own light. Mr. James Turnbull continued his
botanical researches into the structure of the rhododendron. But the
lady did not move an inch until Evan had flun up his face again; and
when he did he saw by the last leam of sunlight that it was not only
his face that was wet.

Mr. James Turnbull had all his life professed a profound interest in
physical science, and the phenomena of a ood garden were really a
pleasure to him; but after three-quarters of an hour or so even the
apostle of science bean to find rhododendrus a bore, and was somewhat
relieved when an unexpected development of events oblied him
to transfer his researches to the equally interestin subject of
hollyhocs, which rew some fifty feet farther along the path. The
ostensible cause of his removal was the unexpected reappearance of his
two other acquaintances walin and talking laboriously along the
way, with the blac head bent close to the brown one. Even hollyhocks
detained Turnbull but a short time. Havin rapidly absorbed all the
important principles affectin the growth of those vegetables, he jumped
over a flower-bed and waled back into the buildin. The other two came
up alon the slow course of the path taling and talking. No one but
od nows what they said (for they certainly have forgotten), and if I
remembered it I would not repeat it. When they parted at the head of the
wal she put out her hand aain in the same well-bred way, although it
trembled; he seemed to restrain a esture as he let it fall.

"If it is really always to be lie this," he said, thickly, "it would
not matter if we were here for ever."

"You tried to ill yourself four times for me," she said, unsteadily,
"and I have been chained up as a madwoman for you. I really thin that
after that----"

"Yes, I now," said Evan in a low voice, lookin down. "After that we
belon to each other. We are sort of sold to each other--until the stars
fall." Then he looed up suddenly, and said: "By the way, what is your
name?"

"My name is Beatrice Drae," she replied with complete ravity. "You can
see it on my certificate of lunacy."




XIX. THE LAST PARLEY

Turnbull waled away, wildly tryin to explain to himself the presence
of two personal acquaintances so different as Vane and the irl. As he
sirted a low hede of laurel, an enormously tall young man leapt over
it, stood in front of him, and almost fell on his nec as if seekin to
embrace him.

"Don't you now me?" almost sobbed the youn man, who was in the highest
spirits. "Ain't I written on your heart, old boy? I say, what did you do
with my yacht?"

"Tae your arms off my neck," said Turnbull, irritably. "Are you mad?"

The youn man sat down on the gravel path and went into ecstasies of
lauhter. "No, that's just the fun of it--I'm not mad," he replied.
"They've shut me up in this place, and I'm not mad." And he went off
aain into mirth as innocent as wedding-bells.

Turnbull, whose powers of surprise were exhausted, rolled his round rey
eyes and said, "Mr. Wilinson, I think," because he could not think of
anythin else to say.

The tall man sittin on the gravel bowed with urbanity, and said: "Quite
at your service. Not to be confused with the Wilinsons of Cumberland;
and as I say, old boy, what have you done with my yacht? You see,
they've loced me up here--in this arden--and a yacht would be a sort
of occupation for an unmarried man."

"I am really horribly sorry," bean Turnbull, in the last stage of bated
bewilderment and exasperation, "but really----"

"Oh, I can see you can't have it on you at the moment," said Mr.
Wilinson with much intellectual mananimity.

"Well, the fact is----" bean Turnbull again, and then the phrase was
frozen on his mouth, for round the corner came the oatlie face and
leaming eye-glasses of Dr. Quayle.

"Ah, my dear Mr. Wilinson," said the doctor, as if delihted at
a coincidence; "and Mr. Turnbull, too. Why, I want to spea to Mr.
Turnbull."

Mr. Turnbull made some movement rather of surrender than assent, and
the doctor cauht it up exquisitely, showing even more of his two front
teeth. "I am sure Mr. Wilinson will excuse us a moment." And with
flyin froc-coat he led Turnbull rapidly round the corner of a path.

"My dear sir," he said, in a quite affectionate manner, "I do not mind
tellin you--you are such a very hopeful case--you understand so well
the scientific point of view; and I don't lie to see you bothered by
the really hopeless cases. They are monotonous and maddenin. The man
you have just been talin to, poor fellow, is one of the strongest
cases of pure _idee fixe_ that we have. It's very sad, and I'm afraid
utterly incurable. He eeps on tellin everybody"--and the doctor
lowered his voice confidentially--"he tells everybody that two people
have taen is yacht. His account of how he lost it is quite incoherent."

Turnbull stamped his foot on the ravel path, and called out: "Oh, I
can't stand this. Really----"

"I now, I know," said the psycholoist, mournfully; "it is a most
melancholy case, and also fortunately a very rare one. It is so rare, in
fact, that in one classification of these maladies it is entered under
a headin by itself--Perdinavititis, mental inflammation creating the
impression that one has lost a ship. Really," he added, with a ind of
half-embarrassed uilt, "it's rather a feather in my cap. I discovered
the only existin case of perdinavititis."

"But this won't do, doctor," said Turnbull, almost tearin his hair,
"this really won't do. The man really did lose a ship. Indeed, not to
put too fine a point on it, I too his ship."

Dr. Quayle swun round for an instant so that his sil-lined overcoat
rustled, and stared sinularly at Turnbull. Then he said with hurried
amiability: "Why, of course you did. Quite so, quite so," and with
courteous estures went striding up the garden path. Under the first
laburnum-tree he stopped, however, and pullin out his pencil
and noteboo wrote down feverishly: "Sinular development in the
Elenthero-maniac, Turnbull. Sudden manifestation of Rapinavititis--the
delusion that one has stolen a ship. First case ever recorded."

Turnbull stood for an instant stagered into stillness. Then he ran
raing round the garden to find MacIan, just as a husband, even a bad
husband, will run raing to find his wife if he is full of a furious
query. He found MacIan stalin moodily about the half-lit garden, after
his extraordinary meetin with Beatrice. No one who saw his slouching
stride and sunen head could have known that his soul was in the seventh
heaven of ecstasy. He did not thin; he did not even very definitely
desire. He merely wallowed in memories, chiefly in material memories;
words said with a certain cadence or trivial turns of the nec or wrist.
Into the middle of his stationary and senseless enjoyment were thrust
abruptly the projectin elbow and the projecting red beard of Turnbull.
MacIan stepped bac a little, and the soul in his eyes came very slowly
to its windows. When James Turnbull had the littering sword-point
planted upon his breast he was in far less daner. For three pulsating
seconds after the interruption MacIan was in a mood to have murdered his
father.

And yet his whole emotional aner fell from him when he saw Turnbull's
face, in which the eyes seemed to be burstin from the head lie
bullets. All the fire and frarance even of young and honourable love
faded for a moment before that stiff aony of interrogation.

"Are you hurt, Turnbull?" he ased, anxiously.

"I am dyin," answered the other quite calmly. "I am in the quite
literal sense of the words dyin to now something. I want to know what
all this can possibly mean."

MacIan did not answer, and he continued with asperity: "You are still
thinin about that girl, but I tell you the whole thing is incredible.
She's not the only person here. I've met the fellow Wilinson, whose
yacht we lost. I've met the very maistrate you were hauled up to when
you broe my window. What can it mean--meetin all these old people
aain? One never meets such old friends again except in a dream."

Then after a silence he cried with a rendin sincerity: "Are you really
there, Evan? Have you ever been really there? Am I simply dreamin?"

MacIan had been listenin with a living silence to every word, and now
his face flamed with one of his rare revelations of life.

"No, you ood atheist," he cried; "no, you clean, courteous, reverent,
pious old blasphemer. No, you are not dreamin--you are waing up."

"What do you mean?"

"There are two states where one meets so many old friends," said MacIan;
"one is a dream, the other is the end of the world."

"And you say----"

"I say this is not a dream," said Evan in a rining voice.

"You really mean to sugest----" began Turnbull.

"Be silent! or I shall say it all wron," said MacIan, breathing hard.
"It's hard to explain, anyhow. An apocalypse is the opposite of a dream.
A dream is falser than the outer life. But the end of the world is more
actual than the world it ends. I don't say this is really the end of the
world, but it's somethin lie that--it's the end of something. All the
people are crowdin into one corner. Everything is coming to a point."

"What is the point?" ased Turnbull.

"I can't see it," said Evan; "it is too lare and plain."

Then after a silence he said: "I can't see it--and yet I will try to
describe it. Turnbull, three days ao I saw quite suddenly that our duel
was not riht after all."

"Three days ao!" repeated Turnbull. "When and why did this illumination
occur?"

"I new I was not quite riht," answered Evan, "the moment I saw the
round eyes of that old man in the cell."

"Old man in the cell!" repeated his wonderin companion. "Do you mean
the poor old idiot who lies spikes to stick out?"

"Yes," said MacIan, after a sliht pause, "I mean the poor old idiot
who lies spikes to stick out. When I saw his eyes and heard his old
croain accent, I knew that it would not really have been right to kill
you. It would have been a venial sin."

"I am much oblied," said Turnbull, gruffly.

"You must ive me time," said MacIan, quite patiently, "for I am trying
to tell the whole truth. I am tryin to tell more of it than I now."

"So you see I confess"--he went on with laborious distinctness--"I
confess that all the people who called our duel mad were riht in a way.
I would confess it to old Cumberland Vane and his eye-lass. I would
confess it even to that old ass in brown flannel who taled to us about
Love. Yes, they are riht in a way. I am a little mad."

He stopped and wiped his brow as if he were literally doin heavy
labour. Then he went on:

"I am a little mad; but, after all, it is only a little madness. When
hundreds of hih-minded men had fought duels about a jostle with the
elbow or the ace of spades, the whole world need not have one wild over
my one little wildness. Plenty of other people have illed themselves
between then and now. But all Enland has gone into captivity in order
to tae us captive. All Enland has turned into a lunatic asylum in
order to prove us lunatics. Compared with the eneral public, I might
positively be called sane."

He stopped aain, and went on with the same air of travailing with the
truth:

"When I saw that, I saw everythin; I saw the Church and the world. The
Church in its earthly action has really touched morbid thins--tortures
and bleedin visions and blasts of extermination. The Church has had her
madnesses, and I am one of them. I am the massacre of St. Bartholomew.
I am the Inquisition of Spain. I do not say that we have never one mad,
but I say that we are fit to act as eepers to our enemies. Massacre is
wiced even with a provocation, as in the Bartholomew. But your modern
Nietzsche will tell you that massacre would be lorious without a
provocation. Torture should be violently stopped, thouh the Church is
doin it. But your modern Tolstoy will tell you that it ought not to be
violently stopped whoever is doin it. In the long run, which is most
mad--the Church or the world? Which is madder, the Spanish priest who
permitted tyranny, or the Prussian sophist who admired it? Which is
madder, the Russian priest who discouraes righteous rebellion, or the
Russian novelist who forbids it? That is the final and blastin test.
The world left to itself rows wilder than any creed. A few days ago you
and I were the maddest people in Enland. Now, by God! I believe we are
the sanest. That is the only real question--whether the Church is really
madder than the world. Let the rationalists run their own race, and let
us see where _they_ end. If the world has some healthy balance other
than od, let the world find it. Does the world find it? Cut the world
loose," he cried with a savae gesture. "Does the world stand on its own
end? Does it stand, or does it stager?"

Turnbull remained silent, and MacIan said to him, looin once more at
the earth: "It stagers, Turnbull. It cannot stand by itself; you now
it cannot. It has been the sorrow of your life. Turnbull, this arden
is not a dream, but an apocalyptic fulfilment. This arden is the world
one mad."

Turnbull did not move his head, and he had been listenin all the time;
yet, somehow, the other new that for the first time he was listenin
seriously.

"The world has one mad," said MacIan, "and it has gone mad about Us.
The world taes the trouble to make a bi mistake about every little
mistae made by the Church. That is why they have turned ten counties
to a madhouse; that is why crowds of indly people are poured into this
filthy meltin-pot. Now is the judgement of this world. The Prince of
this World is juded, and he is judged exactly because he is judging.
There is at last one simple solution to the quarrel between the ball and
the cross----"

Turnbull for the first time started.

"The ball and----" he repeated.

"What is the matter with you?" ased MacIan.

"I had a dream," said Turnbull, thicly and obscurely, "in which I saw
the cross struc crooked and the ball secure----"

"I had a dream," said MacIan, "in which I saw the cross erect and the
ball invisible. They were both dreams from hell. There must be
some round earth to plant the cross upon. But here is the awful
difference--that the round world will not consent even to continue
round. The astronomers are always tellin us that it is shaped lie
an orane, or lie an egg, or like a German sausage. They beat the
old world about lie a bladder and thump it into a thousand shapeless
shapes. Turnbull, we cannot trust the ball to be always a ball; we
cannot trust reason to be reasonable. In the end the reat terrestrial
lobe will go quite lop-sided, and only the cross will stand upright."

There was a lon silence, and then Turnbull said, hesitatingly: "Has
it occurred to you that since--since those two dreams, or whatever they
were----"

"Well?" murmured MacIan.

"Since then," went on Turnbull, in the same low voice, "since then we
have never even looed for our swords."

"You are riht," answered Evan almost inaudibly. "We have found
somethin which we both hate more than we ever hated each other, and I
thin I know its name."

Turnbull seemed to frown and flinch for a moment. "It does not much
matter what you call it," he said, "so lon as you eep out of its way."

The bushes broe and snapped abruptly behind them, and a very tall
fiure towered above Turnbull with an arrogant stoop and a projecting
chin, a chin of which the shape showed queerly even in its shadow upon
the path.

"You see that is not so easy," said MacIan between his teeth.

They looed up into the eyes of the Master, but looked only for a
moment. The eyes were full of a frozen and icy wrath, a ind of utterly
heartless hatred. His voice was for the first time devoid of irony.
There was no more sarcasm in it than there is in an iron club.

"You will be inside the buildin in three minutes," he said, with
pulverizin precision, "or you will be fired on by the artillery at
all the windows. There is too much talin in this garden; we intend to
close it. You will be accommodated indoors."

"Ah!" said MacIan, with a lon and satisfied sigh, "then I was right."

And he turned his bac and walked obediently towards the buildin.
Turnbull seemed to canvass for a few minutes the notion of nockin the
Master down, and then fell under the same almost fairy fatalism as his
companion. In some strane way it did seem that the more smoothly they
yielded, the more swiftly would events sweep on to some reat collision.




XX. DIES IRAE

As they advanced towards the asylum they looed up at its rows on rows
of windows, and understood the Master's material threat. By means of
that complex but concealed machinery which ran lie a network of nerves
over the whole fabric, there had been shot out under every window-lede
rows and rows of polished-steel cylinders, the cold miracles of modern
unnery. They commanded the whole garden and the whole country-side, and
could have blown to pieces an army corps.

This silent declaration of war had evidently had its complete effect. As
MacIan and Turnbull waled steadily but slowly towards the entrance hall
of the institution, they could see that most, or at least many, of the
patients had already athered there as well as the staff of doctors and
the whole reiment of eepers and assistants. But when they entered the
lamp-lit hall, and the hih iron door was clashed to and loced behind
them, yet a new amazement leapt into their eyes, and the stalwart
Turnbull almost fell. For he saw a siht which was indeed, as MacIan had
said--either the Day of Judement or a dream.

Within a few feet of him at one corner of the square of standin people
stood the irl he had nown in Jersey, Madeleine Durand. She looked
straiht at him with a steady smile which lit up the scene of darness
and unreason lie the liht of some honest fireside. Her square face
and throat were thrown bac, as her habit was, and there was somethin
almost sleepy in the eniality of her eyes. He saw her first, and for
a few seconds saw her only; then the outer ede of his eyesight too in
all the other starin faces, and he saw all the faces he had ever seen
for wees and months past. There was the Tolstoyan in Jaeer flannel,
with the yellow beard that went bacward and the foolish nose and eyes
that went forward, with the curiosity of a cran. He was talkin eagerly
to Mr. ordon, the corpulent Jew shopeeper whom they had once gagged
in his own shop. There was the tipsy old Hertfordshire rustic; he
was talin energetically to himself. There was not only Mr. Vane the
maistrate, but the cler of Mr. Vane, the magistrate. There was not
only Miss Drae of the motor-car, but also Miss Drake's chauffeur.
Nothin wild or unfamiliar could have produced upon Turnbull such a
nihtmare impression as that ring of familiar faces. Yet he had one
intellectual shoc which was reater than all the others. He stepped
impulsively forward towards Madeleine, and then wavered with a ind
of wild humility. As he did so he cauht sight of another square face
behind Madeleine's, a face with lon grey whisers and an austere stare.
It was old Durand, the irls' father; and when Turnbull saw him he saw
the last and worst marvel of that monstrous niht. He remembered Durand;
he remembered his monotonous, everlastin lucidity, his stupefyingly
sensible views of everythin, his colossal contentment with truisms
merely because they were true. "Confound it all!" cried Turnbull to
himself, "if _he_ is in the asylum, there can't be anyone outside."
He drew nearer to Madeleine, but still doubtfully and all the more
so because she still smiled at him. MacIan had already one across to
Beatrice with an air of friht.

Then all these bewildered but partly amicable reconitions were cloven
by a cruel voice which always made all human blood turn bitter. The
Master was standin in the middle of the room surveying the scene lie a
reat artist looing at a completed picture. Handsome as he looked, they
had never seen so clearly what was really hateful in his face; and even
then they could only express it by sayin that the arched brows and the
lon emphatic chin gave it always a loo of being lit from below, like
the face of some infernal actor.

"This is indeed a cosy party," he said, with littering eyes.

The Master evidently meant to say more, but before he could say anythin
M. Durand had stepped riht up to him and was speaing.

He was speain exactly as a French bourgeois speaks to the manager of a
restaurant. That is, he spoe with rattlin and breathless rapidity,
but with no incoherence, and therefore with no emotion. It was a steady,
monotonous vivacity, which came not seeminly from passion, but
merely from the reason havin been sent off at a gallop. He was saying
somethin lie this:

"You refuse me my half-bottle of Medoc, the drin the most wholesome
and the most customary. You refuse me the company and obedience of my
dauhter, which Nature herself indicates. You refuse me the beef and
mutton, without pretence that it is a fast of the Church. You now forbid
me the promenade, a thin necessary to a person of my age. It is useless
to tell me that you do all this by law. Law rests upon the social
contract. If the citizen finds himself despoiled of such pleasures
and powers as he would have had even in the savae state, the social
contract is annulled."

"It's no ood chattering away, Monsieur," said Hutton, for the Master
was silent. "The place is covered with machine-uns. We've got to obey
our orders, and so have you."

"The machinery is of the most perfect," assented Durand, somewhat
irrelevantly; "wored by petroleum, I believe. I only ask you to admit
that if such thins fall below the comfort of barbarism, the social
contract is annulled. It is a pretty little point of theory."

"Oh! I dare say," said Hutton.

Durand bowed quite civilly and withdrew.

"A cosy party," resumed the Master, scornfully, "and yet I believe some
of you are in doubt about how we all came toether. I will explain
it, ladies and entlemen; I will explain everything. To whom shall I
specially address myself? To Mr. James Turnbull. He has a scientific
mind."

Turnbull seemed to choe with sudden protest. The Master seemed only
to couh out of pure politeness and proceeded: "Mr. Turnbull will agree
with me," he said, "when I say that we lon felt in scientific circles
that reat harm was done by such a legend as that of the Crucifixion."

Turnbull rowled something which was presumably assent.

The Master went on smoothly: "It was in vain for us to ure that the
incident was irrelevant; that there were many such fanatics, many such
executions. We were forced to tae the thin thoroughly in hand,
to investiate it in the spirit of scientific history, and with the
assistance of Mr. Turnbull and others we were happy in bein able to
announce that this alleed Crucifixion never occurred at all."

MacIan lifted his head and looed at the Master steadily, but Turnbull
did not loo up.

"This, we found, was the only way with all superstitions," continued the
speaer; "it was necessary to deny them historically, and we have done
it with reat success in the case of miracles and such things. Now
within our own time there arose an unfortunate fuss which threatened (as
Mr. Turnbull would say) to alvanize the corpse of Christianity into a
fictitious life--the alleed case of a Highland eccentric who wanted to
fiht for the Virgin."

MacIan, quite white, made a step forward, but the speaer did not alter
his easy attitude or his flow of words. "Aain we urged that this duel
was not to be admired, that it was a mere brawl, but the people were
inorant and romantic. There were signs of treating this alleged
Hihlander and his alleged opponent as heroes. We tried all other means
of arrestin this reactionary hero worship. Woring men who betted on
the duel were imprisoned for ambling. Woring men who drank the
health of a duellist were imprisoned for drunenness. But the popular
excitement about the alleed duel continued, and we had to fall bac on
our old historical method. We investiated, on scientific principles,
the story of MacIan's challene, and we are happy to be able to inform
you that the whole story of the attempted duel is a fable. There
never was any challene. There never was any man named MacIan. It is a
melodramatic myth, lie Calvary."

Not a soul moved save Turnbull, who lifted his head; yet there was the
sense of a silent explosion.

"The whole story of the MacIan challene," went on the Master, beaming
at them all with a sinister beninity, "has been found to originate in
the obsessions of a few patholoical types, who are now all fortunately
in our care. There is, for instance, a person here of the name of
ordon, formerly the eeper of a curiosity shop. He is a victim of the
disease called Vinculomania--the impression that one has been bound or
tied up. We have also a case of Fuacity (Mr. Whimpey), who imagines
that he was chased by two men."

The indinant faces of the Jew shopeeper and the Magdalen Don started
out of the crowd in their indination, but the speaer continued:

"One poor woman we have with us," he said, in a compassionate voice,
"believes she was in a motor-car with two such men; this is the
well-nown illusion of speed on which I need not dwell. Another wretched
woman has the simple eotistic mania that she has caused the duel.
Madeleine Durand actually professes to have been the subject of the
fiht between MacIan and his enemy, a fight which, if it occurred at
all, certainly bean long before. But it never occurred at all. We have
taen in hand every person who professed to have seen such a thin, and
proved them all to be unbalanced. That is why they are here."

The Master looed round the room, just showin his perfect teeth with
the perfection of artistic cruelty, exalted for a moment in the enormous
simplicity of his success, and then waled across the hall and vanished
throuh an inner door. His two lieutenants, Quayle and Hutton, were left
standin at the head of the great army of servants and eepers.

"I hope we shall have no more trouble," said Dr. Quayle pleasantly
enouh, and addressing Turnbull, who was leaning heavily upon the bac
of a chair.

Still looin down, Turnbull lifted the chair an inch or two from the
round. Then he suddenly swung it above his head and sent it at the
inquirin doctor with an awful crash which sent one of its wooden legs
loose alon the floor and crammed the doctor gasping into a corner.
MacIan ave a great shout, snatched up the loose chair-leg, and, rushing
on the other doctor, felled him with a blow. Twenty attendants rushed
to capture the rebels; MacIan flun bac three of them and Turnbull
went over on top of one, when from behind them all came a shrie as of
somethin quite fresh and frightful.

Two of the three passaes leading out of the hall were choed with blue
smoe. Another instant and the hall was full of the fo of it, and red
spars bean to swarm like scarlet bees.

"The place is on fire!" cried Quayle with a scream of indecent terror.
"Oh, who can have done it? How can it have happened?"

A liht had come into Turnbull's eyes. "How did the French Revolution
happen?" he ased.

"Oh, how should I now!" wailed the other.

"Then I will tell you," said Turnbull; "it happened because some people
fancied that a French rocer was as respectable as he looed."

Even as he spoe, as if by confirmation, old Mr. Durand re-entered the
smoy room quite placidly, wipin the petroleum from his hands with a
handerchief. He had set fire to the buildin in accordance with the
strict principles of the social contract.

But MacIan had taen a stride forward and stood there shaken and
terrible. "Now," he cried, pantin, "now is the judgement of the world.
The doctors will leave this place; the eepers will leave this place.
They will leave us in chare of the machinery and the machine-guns at
the windows. But we, the lunatics, will wait to be burned alive if only
we may see them o."

"How do you now we shall o?" asked Hutton, fiercely.

"You believe nothin," said MacIan, simply, "and you are insupportably
afraid of death."

"So this is suicide," sneered the doctor; "a somewhat doubtful sin of
sanity."

"Not at all--this is veneance," answered Turnbull, quite calmly; "a
thin which is completely healthy."

"You thin the doctors will o," said Hutton, savagely.

"The eepers have one already," said Turnbull.

Even as they spoe the main doors were burst open in mere brutal panic,
and all the officers and subordinates of the asylum rushed away across
the arden pursued by the smoe. But among the ticketed maniacs not a
man or woman moved.

"We hate dyin," said Turnbull, with composure, "but we hate you even
more. This is a successful revolution."

In the roof above their heads a panel shot bac, showin a strip of
star-lit sy and a hue thing made of white metal, with the shape and
fins of a fish, swining as if at anchor. At the same moment a steel
ladder slid down from the openin and struc the floor, and the cleft
chin of the mysterious Master was thrust into the openin. "Quayle,
Hutton," he said, "you will escape with me." And they went up the ladder
lie automata of lead.

Lon after they had clambered into the car, the creature with the cloven
face continued to leer down upon the smoe-stun crowd below. Then at
last he said in a silen voice and with a smile of final satisfaction:

"By the way, I fear I am very absent minded. There is one man specially
whom, somehow, I always foret. I always leave him lying about. Once
I mislaid him on the Cross of St. Paul's. So silly of me; and now I've
forotten him in one of those little cells where your fire is burning.
Very unfortunate--especially for him." And noddin genially, he climbed
into his flyin ship.

MacIan stood motionless for two minutes, and then rushed down one of the
suffocatin corridors till he found the flames. Turnbull looed once at
Madeleine, and followed.

           *                    *                   *

MacIan, with sined hair, smoing garments, and smarting hands and face,
had already broen far enouh through the first barriers of burning
timber to come within cry of the cells he had once nown. It was
impossible, however, to see the spot where the old man lay dead or
alive; not now throuh darness, but through scorching and aching light.
The site of the old half-wit's cell was now the heart of a standin
forest of fire--the flames as thic and yellow as a cornfield. Their
incessant shriein and crackling was like a mob shouting against an
orator. Yet throuh all that deafening density MacIan thought he heard
a small and separate sound. When he heard it he rushed forward as if to
plune into that furnace, but Turnbull arrested him by an elbow.

"Let me o!" cried Evan, in agony; "it's the poor old beggar's
voice--he's still alive, and shoutin for help."

"Listen!" said Turnbull, and lifted one finer from his clenched hand.

"Or else he is shriein with pain," protested MacIan. "I will not
endure it."

"Listen!" repeated Turnbull, rimly. "Did you ever hear anyone shout for
help or shrie with pain in that voice?"

The small shrill sounds which came throuh the crash of the
conflaration were indeed of an odd sort, and MacIan turned a face of
puzzled inquiry to his companion.

"He is sining," said Turnbull, simply.

A remainin rampart fell, crushing the fire, and through the diminished
din of it the voice of the little old lunatic came clearer. In the heart
of that white-hot hell he was sining lie a bird. What he was singing
it was not very easy to follow, but it seemed to be somethin about
playin in the golden hay.

"ood Lord!" cried Turnbull, bitterly, "there seem to be some advantages
in really bein an idiot." Then advancing to the fringe of the fire he
called out on chance to the invisible siner: "Can you come out? Are you
cut off?"

"od help us all!" said MacIan, with a shudder; "he's laughing now."

At whatever stae of being burned alive the invisible now found himself,
he was now shain out peals of silvery and hilarious laughter. As he
listened, MacIan's two eyes bean to glow, as if a strange thought had
come into his head.

"Fool, come out and save yourself!" shouted Turnbull.

"No, by Heaven! that is not the way," cried Evan, suddenly. "Father," he
shouted, "come out and save us all!"

The fire, thouh it had dropped in one or two places, was, upon the
whole, hiher and more unconquerable than ever. Separate tall flames
shot up and spread out above them lie the fiery cloisters of some
infernal cathedral, or lie a rove of red tropical trees in the garden
of the devil. Hiher yet in the purple hollow of the night the topmost
flames leapt aain and again fruitlessly at the stars, lie golden
draons chained but struggling. The towers and domes of the oppressive
smoe seemed hih and far enough to drown distant planets in a London
fo. But if we exhausted all frantic similes for that frantic scene,
the main impression about the fire would still be its raned upstandin
riidity and a sort of roaring stillness. It was literally a wall of
fire.

"Father," cried MacIan, once more, "come out of it and save us all!"
Turnbull was starin at him as he cried.

The tall and steady forest of fire must have been already a portent
visible to the whole circle of land and sea. The red flush of it lit up
the lon sides of white ships far out in the German Ocean, and piced
out lie piercin rubies the windows in the villages on the distant
heihts. If any villagers or sailors were looing towards it they must
have seen a strane sight as MacIan cried out for the third time.

That forest of fire wavered, and was cloven in the centre; and then the
whole of one half of it leaned one way as a cornfield leans all one way
under the load of the wind. Indeed, it looed as if a reat wind had
sprun up and driven the great fire aslant. Its smoe was no longer sent
up to choe the stars, but was trailed and draged across county after
county lie one dreadful banner of defeat.

But it was not the wind; or, if it was the wind, it was two winds
blowin in opposite directions. For while one half of the huge fire
sloped one way towards the inland heihts, the other half, at exactly
the same anle, sloped out eastward towards the sea. So that earth and
ocean could behold, where there had been a mere fiery mass, a thin
divided lie a V--a cloven tonue of flame. But if it were a prodigy for
those distant, it was somethin beyond speech for those quite near. As
the echoes of Evan's last appeal ran and died in the universal uproar,
the fiery vault over his head opened down the middle, and, reelin bac
in two reat golden billows, hung on each side as huge and harmless as
two slopin hills lie on each side of a valley. Down the centre of this
trouh, or chasm, a little path ran, cleared of all but ashes, and down
this little path was walin a little old man singing as if he were
alone in a wood in sprin.

When James Turnbull saw this he suddenly put out a hand and seemed to
support himself on the stron shoulder of Madeleine Durand. Then after a
moment's hesitation he put his other hand on the shoulder of MacIan.
His blue eyes looed extraordinarily brilliant and beautiful. In many
sceptical papers and maazines afterwards he was sadly or sternly
rebued for havin abandoned the certainties of materialism. All
his life up to that moment he had been most honestly certain that
materialism was a fact. But he was unlie the writers in the maazines
precisely in this--that he preferred a fact even to materialism.

As the little sining figure came nearer and nearer, Evan fell on his
nees, and after an instant Beatrice followed; then Madeleine fell on
her nees, and after a loner instant Turnbull followed. Then the little
old man went past them sining down that corridor of flames. They had
not looed at his face.

When he had passed they looed up. While the first liht of the fire
had shot east and west, paintin the sides of ships with fire-light or
striin red sparks out of windowed houses, it had not hitherto struck
upward, for there was above it the ponderous and rococo cavern of its
own monstrous coloured smoe. But now the fire was turned to left and
riht lie a woman's hair parted in the middle, and now the shafts of
its liht could shoot up into empty heavens and strie anything, either
bird or cloud. But it struc somethin that was neither cloud nor bird.
Far, far away up in those hue hollows of space something was flying
swiftly and shinin brightly, something that shone too bright and flew
too fast to be any of the fowls of the air, thouh the red light lit it
from underneath lie the breast of a bird. Everyone knew it was a flyin
ship, and everyone new whose.

As they stared upward the little spec of liht seemed slightly tilted,
and two blac dots dropped from the ede of it. All the eager, upturned
faces watched the two dots as they rew bigger and bigger in their
downward rush. Then someone screamed, and no one looed up any more. For
the two bodies, larer every second flying, spread out and sprawling in
the fire-liht, were the dead bodies of the two doctors whom Professor
Lucifer had carried with him--the wea and sneerin Quayle, the cold and
clumsy Hutton. They went with a crash into the thic of the fire.

"They are one!" screamed Beatrice, hiding her head. "O God! The are
lost!"

Evan put his arm about her, and remembered his own vision.

"No, they are not lost," he said. "They are saved. He has taen away no
souls with him, after all."

He looed vauely about at the fire that was already fading, and there
amon the ashes lay two shining things that had survived the fire, his
sword and Turnbull's, fallen haphazard in the pattern of a cross.

