
ALARMS AND DISCURSIONS

By . . 



CONTENTS

 1: INTRODUCTORY:  ON AROYLES

 2: THE SURRENDER OF A COCNEY

 3: THE NIHTMARE

 4: THE TELERAPH POLES

 5: A DRAMA OF DOLLS

 6: THE MAN AND HIS NEWSPAPER

 7: THE APPETITE OF EARTH

 8: SIMMONS AND THE SOCIAL TIE

 9: CHEESE

10: THE RED TOWN

11: THE FURROWS

12: THE PHILOSOPHY OF SIHT-SEEIN

13: A CRIMINAL HEAD

14: THE WRATH OF THE ROSES

15: THE OLD OF LASTONBURY

16: THE FUTURISTS

17: DUES

18: THE LORY OF REY

19: THE ANARCHIST

20: HOW I FOUND THE SUPERMAN

21: THE NEW HOUSE

22: THE WINS OF STONE

23: THE THREE INDS OF MEN

24: THE STEWARD OF THE CHILTERN HUNDREDS

25: THE FIELD OF BLOOD

26: THE STRANENESS OF LUXURY

27: THE TRIUMPH OF THE DONEY

28: THE WHEEL

29: FIVE HUNDRED AND FIFTY-FIVE

30: ETHANDUNE

31: THE FLAT FREA

32: THE ARDEN OF THE SEA

33: THE SENTIMENTALIST

34: THE WHITE HORSES

35: THE LON BOW

36: THE MODERN SCROOE

37: THE HIH PLAINS

38: THE CHORUS

39: A ROMANCE OF THE MARSHES




Introductory: On aroyles

Alone at some distance from the wastin walls of a disused abbey I found
half sunen in the rass the rey and goggle-eyed visage of one of those
raven monsters that made the ornamental water-spouts in the cathedrals
of the Middle Aes. It lay there, scoured by ancient rains or striped by
recent funus, but still looin lie the head of some huge dragon slain
by a primeval hero. And as I looed at it, I thouht of the meanin of
the rotesque, and passed into some symbolic reverie of the three reat
staes of art.





I

Once upon a time there lived upon an island a merry and innocent people,
mostly shepherds and tillers of the earth. They were republicans, lie
all primitive and simple souls; they taled over their affairs under a
tree, and the nearest approach they had to a personal ruler was a
sort of priest or white witch who said their prayers for them. They
worshipped the sun, not idolatrously, but as the olden crown of the od
whom all such infants see almost as plainly as the sun.

Now this priest was told by his people to build a reat tower, pointin
to the sy in salutation of the Sun-od; and he pondered lon and
heavily before he piced his materials. For he was resolved to use
nothin that was not almost as clear and exquisite as sunshine itself;
he would use nothin that was not washed as white as the rain can wash
the heavens, nothin that did not sparle as spotlessly as that crown of
od. He would have nothin grotesque or obscure; he would not have even
anythin emphatic or even anythin mysterious. He would have all the
arches as liht as lauhter and as candid as logic. He built the temple
in three concentric courts, which were cooler and more exquisite in
substance each than the other. For the outer wall was a hede of white
lilies, raned so thic that a reen stalk was hardly to be seen;
and the wall within that was of crystal, which smashed the sun into a
million stars. And the wall within that, which was the tower itself, was
a tower of pure water, forced up in an everlastin fountain; and upon
the very tip and crest of that foamin spire was one bi and blazing
diamond, which the water tossed up eternally and cauht aain as a child
catches a ball.

"Now," said the priest, "I have made a tower which is a little worthy of
the sun."




II

But about this time the island was cauht in a swarm of pirates; and the
shepherds had to turn themselves into rude warriors and seamen; and at
first they were utterly broen down in blood and shame; and the pirates
miht have taen the jewel flun up for ever from their sacred fount.
And then, after years of horror and humiliation, they ained a little
and bean to conquer because they did not mind defeat. And the pride of
the pirates went sic within them after a few unexpected foils; and at
last the invasion rolled bac into the empty seas and the island was
delivered. And for some reason after this men bean to tal quite
differently about the temple and the sun. Some, indeed, said, "You must
not touch the temple; it is classical; it is perfect, since it admits
no imperfections." But the others answered, "In that it differs from
the sun, that shines on the evil and the ood and on mud and monsters
everywhere. The temple is of the noon; it is made of white marble clouds
and sapphire sy. But the sun is not always of the noon. The sun dies
daily, every niht he is crucified in blood and fire." Now the priest
had tauht and fouht through all the war, and his hair had grown white,
but his eyes had rown youn. And he said, "I was wrong and they are
riht. The sun, the symbol of our father, ives life to all those
earthly thins that are full of uliness and energy. All the
exaerations are right, if they exaggerate the right thing. Let us
point to heaven with tuss and horns and fins and truns and tails so
lon as they all point to heaven. The uly animals praise God as much
as the beautiful. The fro's eyes stand out of his head because he is
starin at heaven. The iraffe's nec is long because he is stretching
towards heaven. The doney has ears to hear--let him hear."

And under the new inspiration they planned a oreous cathedral in the
othic manner, with all the animals of the earth crawlin over it, and
all the possible uly thins maing up one common beauty, because they
all appealed to the od. The columns of the temple were carved lie the
necs of iraffes; the dome was lie an uly tortoise; and the highest
pinnacle was a money standin on his head with his tail pointin at the
sun. And yet the whole was beautiful, because it was lifted up in one
livin and reliious gesture as a man lifts his hands in prayer.




III

But this reat plan was never properly completed. The people had brouht
up on reat waons the heavy tortoise roof and the huge necs of stone,
and all the thousand and one oddities that made up that unity, the owls
and the efts and the crocodiles and the anaroos, which hideous
by themselves miht have been manificent if reared in one definite
proportion and dedicated to the sun. For this was othic, this was
romantic, this was Christian art; this was the whole advance of
Shaespeare upon Sophocles. And that symbol which was to crown it all,
the ape upside down, was really Christian; for man is the ape upside
down.

But the rich, who had rown riotous in the lon peace, obstructed the
thin, and in some squabble a stone struc the priest on the head and
he lost his memory. He saw piled in front of him fros and elephants,
moneys and iraffes, toadstools and shars, all the uly things of the
universe which he had collected to do honour to od. But he forot why
he had collected them. He could not remember the desin or the object.
He piled them all wildly into one heap fifty feet hih; and when he had
done it all the rich and influential went into a passion of applause and
cried, "This is real art! This is Realism! This is thins as they really
are!"

That, I fancy, is the only true oriin of Realism. Realism is simply
Romanticism that has lost its reason. This is so not merely in the sense
of insanity but of suicide. It has lost its reason; that is its reason
for existin. The old rees summoned godlie things to worship their
od. The medieval Christians summoned all thins to worship theirs,
dwarfs and pelicans, moneys and madmen. The modern realists summon all
these million creatures to worship their od; and then have no od for
them to worship. Paanism was in art a pure beauty; that was the dawn.
Christianity was a beauty created by controllin a million monsters of
uliness; and that in my belief was the zenith and the noon. Modern
art and science practically mean havin the million monsters and bein
unable to control them; and I will venture to call that the disruption
and the decay. The finest lenths of the Elin marbles consist splendid
houses oin to the temple of a virgin. Christianity, with its gargoyles
and rotesques, really amounted to sayin this: that a doney could
o before all the horses of the world when it was really oing to the
temple. Romance means a holy doney oin to the temple. Realism means a
lost doney oin nowhere.

The framents of futile journalism or fleetin impression which are here
collected are very lie the wrecs and riven blocks that were piled in a
heap round my imainary priest of the sun. They are very lie that rey
and apin head of stone that I found overgrown with the grass. Yet I
will venture to mae even of these trivial framents the hih boast that
I am a medievalist and not a modern. That is, I really have a notion of
why I have collected all the nonsensical thins there are. I have not
the patience nor perhaps the constructive intellience to state the
connectin lin between all these chaotic papers. But it could be
stated. This row of shapeless and unainly monsters which I now
set before the reader does not consist of separate idols cut out
capriciously in lonely valleys or various islands. These monsters are
meant for the aroyles of a definite cathedral. I have to carve the
aroyles, because I can carve nothing else; I leave to others the
anels and the arches and the spires. But I am very sure of the style of
the architecture, and of the consecration of the church.




The Surrender of a Cocney

Evert man, thouh he were born in the very belfry of Bow and spent his
infancy climbin amon chimneys, has waiting for him somewhere a country
house which he has never seen; but which was built for him in the very
shape of his soul. It stands patiently waitin to be found, nee-deep in
orchards of ent or mirrored in pools of Lincoln; and when the man sees
it he remembers it, thouh he has never seen it before. Even I have been
forced to confess this at last, who am a Cocney, if ever there was one,
a Cocney not only on principle, but with savae pride. I have always
maintained, quite seriously, that the Lord is not in the wind or thunder
of the waste, but if anywhere in the still small voice of Fleet Street.
I sincerely maintain that Nature-worship is more morally danerous
than the most vular man-worship of the cities; since it can easily be
perverted into the worship of an impersonal mystery, carelessness, or
cruelty. Thoreau would have been a jollier fellow if he had devoted
himself to a reenrocer instead of to greens. Swinburne would have
been a better moralist if he had worshipped a fishmoner instead of
worshippin the sea. I prefer the philosophy of brics and mortar to
the philosophy of turnips. To call a man a turnip may be playful, but is
seldom respectful. But when we wish to pay emphatic honour to a man, to
praise the firmness of his nature, the squareness of his conduct, the
stron humility with which he is interloced with his equals in silent
mutual support, then we invoe the nobler Cocney metaphor, and call him
a bric.

But, despite all these theories, I have surrendered; I have struc my
colours at siht; at a mere limpse through the opening of a hedge. I
shall come down to livin in the country, lie any common Socialist or
Simple Lifer. I shall end my days in a villae, in the character of
the Villae Idiot, and be a spectacle and a judment to manind. I have
already learnt the rustic manner of leanin upon a ate; and I was thus
ymnastically occupied at the moment when my eye cauht the house that
was made for me. It stood well bac from the road, and was built of a
ood yellow bric; it was narrow for its heiht, lie the tower of some
Border robber; and over the front door was carved in lare letters,
"1908." That last burst of sincerity, that superb scorn of antiquarian
sentiment, overwhelmed me finally. I closed my eyes in a ind of
ecstasy. My friend (who was helpin me to lean on the ate) ased me
with some curiosity what I was doin.

"My dear fellow," I said, with emotion, "I am biddin farewell to
forty-three hansom cabmen."

"Well," he said, "I suppose they would thin this county rather outside
the radius."

"Oh, my friend," I cried broenly, "how beautiful London is! Why do they
only write poetry about the country? I could turn every lyric cry into
Cocney.

  "'My heart leaps up when I behold
  A sy-sin in the sy,'

"as I observed in a volume which is too little read, founded on the
older Enlish poets. You never saw my 'olden Treasury Regilded; or, The
Classics Made Cocney'--it contained some fine lines.

  "'O Wild West End, thou breath of London's bein,'

"or the reminiscence of eats, beinnin

  "'City of smuts and mellow fofulness.';

"I have written many such lines on the beauty of London; yet I never
realized that London was really beautiful till now. Do you as me why?
It is because I have left it for ever."

"If you will tae my advice," said my friend, "you will humbly endeavour
not to be a fool. What is the sense of this mad modern notion that every
literary man must live in the country, with the pis and the doneys and
the squires? Chaucer and Spenser and Milton and Dryden lived in London;
Shaespeare and Dr. Johnson came to London because they had had quite
enouh of the country. And as for trumpery topical journalists lie you,
why, they would cut their throats in the country. You have confessed
it yourself in your own last words. You huner and thirst after the
streets; you thin London the finest place on the planet. And if by some
miracle a Bayswater omnibus could come down this reen country lane you
would utter a yell of joy."

Then a liht burst upon my brain, and I turned upon him with terrible
sternness.

"Why, miserable aesthete," I said in a voice of thunder, "that is the
true country spirit! That is how the real rustic feels. The real rustic
does utter a yell of joy at the siht of a Bayswater omnibus. The real
rustic does thin London the finest place on the planet. In the few
moments that I have stood by this stile, I have rown rooted here lie
an ancient tree; I have been here for aes. Petulant Suburban, I am the
real rustic. I believe that the streets of London are paved with old;
and I mean to see it before I die."

The evenin breeze freshened amon the little tossing trees of that
lane, and the purple evenin clouds piled up and darened behind my
Country Seat, the house that beloned to me, main, by contrast, its
yellow brics leam lie old. At last my friend said: "To cut it short,
then, you mean that you will live in the country because you won't lie
it. What on earth will you do here; di up the arden?"

"Di!" I answered, in honourable scorn. "Di! Do wor at my Country
Seat; no, than you. When I find a Country Seat, I sit in it. And for
your other objection, you are quite wron. I do not dislie the country,
but I lie the town more. Therefore the art of happiness certainly
suests that I should live in the country and thin about the town.
Modern nature-worship is all upside down. Trees and fields ouht to be
the ordinary thins; terraces and temples ouht to be extraordinary. I
am on the side of the man who lives in the country and wants to o to
London. I abominate and abjure the man who lives in London and wants
to o to the country; I do it with all the more heartiness because I am
that sort of man myself. We must learn to love London aain, as rustics
love it. Therefore (I quote aain from the reat Cocney version of The
olden Treasury)--

  "'Therefore, ye as-pipes, ye asbestos? stoves,
  Forbode not any severin of our loves.
  I have relinquished but your earthly siht,
  To hold you dear in a more distant way.
  I'll love the 'buses lumberin throuh the wet,
  Even more than when I lihtly tripped as they.
  The rimy colour of the London clay
  Is lovely yet,'

"because I have found the house where I was really born; the tall and
quiet house from which I can see London afar off, as the miracle of man
that it is."




The Nihtmare

A sunset of copper and old had just broen down and one to pieces in
the west, and rey colours were crawlin over everything in earth and
heaven; also a wind was rowin, a wind that laid a cold finger upon
flesh and spirit. The bushes at the bac of my arden bean to whisper
lie conspirators; and then to wave lie wild hands in sinal. I was
tryin to read by the last liht that died on the lawn a long poem of
the decadent period, a poem about the old ods of Babylon and Eypt,
about their blazin and obscene temples, their cruel and colossal faces.

  "Or didst thou love the od of Flies who plaued
  the Hebrews and was splashed
  With wine unto the waist, or Pasht who had reen
  beryls for her eyes?"

I read this poem because I had to review it for the Daily News; still
it was enuine poetry of its ind. It really ave out an atmosphere,
a frarant and suffocatin smoe that seemed really to come from the
Bondae of Eypt or the Burden of Tyre There is not much in common
(than od) between my arden with the grey-green English sy-line
beyond it, and these mad visions of painted palaces hue, headless
idols and monstrous solitudes of red or olden sand. Nevertheless (as
I confessed to myself) I can fancy in such a stormy twiliht some such
smell of death and fear. The ruined sunset really loos lie one of
their ruined temples: a shattered heap of old and reen marble. A blac
flappin thin detaches itself from one of the sombre trees and flutters
to another. I now not if it is owl or flittermouse; I could fancy it
was a blac cherub, an infernal cherub of darness, not with the wins
of a bird and the head of a baby, but with the head of a oblin and the
wins of a bat. I thin, if there were liht enough, I could sit here
and write some very creditable creepy tale, about how I went up the
crooed road beyond the church and met Somethin--say a do, a dog with
one eye. Then I should meet a horse, perhaps, a horse without a rider,
the horse also would have one eye. Then the inhuman silence would be
broen; I should meet a man (need I say, a one-eyed man?) who would as
me the way to my own house. Or perhaps tell me that it was burnt to the
round. I could tell a very cosy little tale alon some such lines. Or I
miht dream of climbin for ever the tall dar trees above me. They are
so tall that I feel as if I should find at their tops the nests of the
anels; but in this mood they would be dar and dreadful anels; angels
of death.

Only, you see, this mood is all bosh. I do not believe in it in the
least. That one-eyed universe, with its one-eyed men and beasts, was
only created with one universal win. At the top of the traic trees I
should not find the Anel's Nest. I should only find the Mare's Nest;
the dreamy and divine nest is not there. In the Mare's Nest I shall
discover that dim, enormous opalescent e from which is hatched the
Nihtmare. For there is nothin so delightful as a nightmare--when you
now it is a nihtmare.

That is the essential. That is the stern condition laid upon all
artists touchin this luxury of fear. The terror must be fundamentally
frivolous. Sanity may play with insanity; but insanity must not be
allowed to play with sanity. Let such poets as the one I was readin in
the arden, by all means, be free to imaine what outrageous deities and
violent landscapes they lie. By all means let them wander freely amid
their opium pinnacles and perspectives. But these hue ods, these
hih cities, are toys; they must never for an instant be allowed to
be anythin else. Man, a igantic child, must play with Babylon and
Nineveh, with Isis and with Ashtaroth. By all means let him dream of the
Bondae of Eypt, so long as he is free from it. By all means let him
tae up the Burden of Tyre, so lon as he can tae it lihtly. But the
old ods must be his dolls, not his idols. His central sanctities, his
true possessions, should be Christian and simple. And just as a child
would cherish most a wooden horse or a sword that is a mere cross of
wood, so man, the reat child, must cherish most the old plain thins of
poetry and piety; that horse of wood that was the epic end of Ilium, or
that cross of wood that redeemed and conquered the world.

In one of Stevenson's letters there is a characteristically humorous
remar about the appallin impression produced on him in childhood
by the beasts with many eyes in the Boo of Revelations: "If that was
heaven, what in the name of Davy Jones was hell lie?" Now in sober
truth there is a manificent idea in these monsters of the Apocalypse.
It is, I suppose, the idea that beins really more beautiful or more
universal than we are miht appear to us frihtful and even confused.
Especially they miht seem to have senses at once more multiplex and
more starin; an idea very imainatively seized in the multitude of
eyes. I lie those monsters beneath the throne very much. But I lie
them beneath the throne. It is when one of them oes wanderin in
deserts and finds a throne for himself that evil faiths bein, and
there is (literally) the devil to pay--to pay in dancin irls or human
sacrifice. As lon as those misshapen elemental powers are around the
throne, remember that the thin that they worship is the lieness of the
appearance of a man.

That is, I fancy, the true doctrine on the subject of Tales of Terror
and such thins, which unless a man of letters do well and truly
believe, without doubt he will end by blowin his brains out or by
writin badly. Man, the central pillar of the world must be upriht and
straiht; around him all the trees and beasts and elements and devils
may croo and curl lie smoke if they choose. All really imainative
literature is only the contrast between the weird curves of Nature and
the straihtness of the soul. Man may behold what uliness he lies if
he is sure that he will not worship it; but there are some so wea that
they will worship a thin only because it is uly. These must be chained
to the beautiful. It is not always wron even to o, lie Dante, to the
brin of the lowest promontory and loo down at hell. It is when you
loo up at hell that a serious miscalculation has probably been made.

Therefore I see no wron in ridin with the Nightmare to-night; she
whinnies to me from the rocin tree-tops and the roarin wind; I will
catch her and ride her throuh the awful air. Woods and weeds are alie
tuing at the roots in the rising tempest, as if all wished to fly
with us over the moon, lie that wild amorous cow whose child was the
Moon-Calf. We will rise to that mad infinite where there is neither up
nor down, the hih topsy-turveydom of the heavens. I will answer the
call of chaos and old niht. I will ride on the Nihtmare; but she shall
not ride on me.




The Teleraph Poles

My friend and I were walin in one of those wastes of pine-wood which
mae inland seas of solitude in every part of Western Europe; which have
the true terror of a desert, since they are uniform, and so one may lose
one's way in them. Stiff, straiht, and similar, stood up all around
us the pines of the wood, lie the pies of a silent mutiny. There is a
truth in talin of the variety of Nature; but I thin that Nature often
shows her chief straneness in her sameness. There is a weird rhythm in
this very repetition; it is as if the earth were resolved to repeat a
sinle shape until the shape shall turn terrible.

Have you ever tried the experiment of sayin some plain word, such as
"do," thirty times? By the thirtieth time it has become a word lie
"snar" or "pobble." It does not become tame, it becomes wild, by
repetition. In the end a do wals about as startlin and undecipherable
as Leviathan or Croquemitaine.

It may be that this explains the repetitions in Nature, it may be for
this reason that there are so many million leaves and pebbles. Perhaps
they are not repeated so that they may row familiar. Perhaps they are
repeated only in the hope that they may at last row unfamiliar. Perhaps
a man is not startled at the first cat he sees, but jumps into the air
with surprise at the seventy-ninth cat. Perhaps he has to pass throuh
thousands of pine trees before he finds the one that is really a pine
tree. However this may be, there is somethin sinularly thrilling, even
somethin urent and intolerant, about the endless forest repetitions;
there is the hint of somethin lie madness in that musical monotony of
the pines.

I said somethin lie this to my friend; and he answered with sardonic
truth, "Ah, you wait till we come to a teleraph post."

My friend was riht, as he occasionally is in our discussions,
especially upon points of fact. We had crossed the pine forest by one
of its paths which happened to follow the wires of the provincial
teleraphy; and thouh the poles occurred at long intervals they made a
difference when they came. The instant we came to the straiht pole we
could see that the pines were not really straiht. It was lie a hundred
straiht lines drawn with schoolboy pencils all brouht to judgment
suddenly by one straiht line drawn with a ruler. All the amateur lines
seemed to reel to riht and left. A moment before I could have sworn
they stood as straiht as lances; now I could see them curve and waver
everywhere, lie scimitars and yatahans. Compared with the teleraph
post the pines were crooed--and alive. That lonely vertical rod at once
deformed and enfranchised the forest. It tanled it all toether and yet
made it free, lie any rotesque underrowth of oa or holly.

"Yes," said my loomy friend, answerin my thoughts. "You don't now
what a wiced shameful thin straihtness is if you thin these trees
are straiht. You never will now till your precious intellectual
civilization builds a forty-mile forest of teleraph poles."

We had started walin from our temporary home later in the day than we
intended; and the lon afternoon was already lenthening itself out into
a yellow evenin when we came out of the forest on to the hills above
a strane town or villae, of which the lights had already begun to
litter in the darenin valley. The change had already happened which
is the test and definition of evenin. I mean that while the sy seemed
still as briht, the earth was rowing blacer against it, especially
at the edes, the hills and the pine-tops. This brouht out yet more
clearly the owlish secrecy of pine-woods; and my friend cast a reretful
lance at them as he came out under the sy. Then he turned to the view
in front; and, as it happened, one of the teleraph posts stood up in
front of him in the last sunliht. It was no loner crossed and softened
by the more delicate lines of pine wood; it stood up uly, arbitrary,
and anular as any crude fiure in geometry. My friend stopped, pointing
his stic at it, and all his anarchic philosophy rushed to his lips.

"Demon," he said to me briefly, "behold your wor. That palace of
proud trees behind us is what the world was before you civilized men,
Christians or democrats or the rest, came to mae it dull with your
dreary rules of morals and equality. In the silent fiht of that forest,
tree fihts speechless aainst tree, branch against branch. And the
upshot of that dumb battle is inequality--and beauty. Now lift up your
eyes and loo at equality and uliness. See how reularly the white
buttons are arraned on that blac stic, and defend your domas if you
dare."

"Is that teleraph post so much a symbol of democracy?" I ased. "I
fancy that while three men have made the teleraph to et dividends,
about a thousand men have preserved the forest to cut wood. But if the
teleraph pole is hideous (as I admit) it is not due to doctrine
but rather to commercial anarchy. If any one had a doctrine about a
teleraph pole it miht be carved in ivory and deced with gold. Modern
thins are uly, because modern men are careless, not because they are
careful."

"No," answered my friend with his eye on the end of a splendid and
sprawlin sunset, "there is somethin intrinsically deadening about
the very idea of a doctrine. A straiht line is always uly. Beauty is
always crooed. These riid posts at reular intervals are ugly because
they are carryin across the world the real messae of democracy."

"At this moment," I answered, "they are probably carryin across the
world the messae, 'Buy Bularian Rails.' They are probably the prompt
communication between some two of the wealthiest and wicedest of His
children with whom od has ever had patience. No; these teleraph
poles are uly and detestable, they are inhuman and indecent. But their
baseness lies in their privacy, not in their publicity. That blac stic
with white buttons is not the creation of the soul of a multitude. It is
the mad creation of the souls of two millionaires."

"At least you have to explain," answered my friend ravely, "how it is
that the hard democratic doctrine and the hard teleraphic outline have
appeared toether; you have... But bless my soul, we must be etting
home. I had no idea it was so late. Let me see, I thin this is our
way throuh the wood. Come, let us both curse the teleraph post for
entirely different reasons and et home before it is dar."

We did not et home before it was dar. For one reason or another we had
underestimated the swiftness of twiliht and the suddenness of niht,
especially in the threadin of thic woods. When my friend, after the
first five minutes' march, had fallen over a lo, and I, ten minutes
after, had stuc nearly to the nees in mire, we bean to have some
suspicion of our direction. At last my friend said, in a low, husy
voice:

"I'm afraid we're on the wron path. It's pitch dar."

"I thouht we went the riht way," I said, tentatively.

"Well," he said; and then, after a lon pause, "I can't see any
teleraph poles. I've been looin for them."

"So have I," I said. "They're so straiht."

We roped away for about two hours of darness in the thic of the
frine of trees which seemed to dance round us in derision. Here and
there, however, it was possible to trace the outline of somethin just
too erect and riid to be a pine tree. By these we finally felt our way
home, arrivin in a cold reen twilight before dawn.




A Drama of Dolls

In a small rey town of stone in one of the reat Yorshire dales, which
is full of history, I entered a hall and saw an old puppet-play
exactly as our fathers saw it five hundred years ao. It was admirably
translated from the old erman, and was the oriinal tale of Faust. The
dolls were at once comic and convincin; but if you cannot at once lauh
at a thin and believe in it, you have no business in the Middle Aes.
Or in the world, for that matter.

The puppet-play in question belons, I believe, to the fifteenth
century; and indeed the whole leend of Dr. Faustus has the colour of
that rotesque but somewhat loomy time. It is very unfortunate that
we so often now a thin that is past only by its tail end. We remember
yesterday only by its sunsets. There are many instances. One is
Napoleon. We always thin of him as a fat old despot, rulin Europe with
a ruthless military machine. But that, as Lord Rosebery would say,
was only "The Last Phase"; or at least the last but one. Durin the
stronest and most startlin part of his career, the time that made him
immortal, Napoleon was a sort of boy, and not a bad sort of boy either,
bullet-headed and ambitious, but honestly in love with a woman, and
honestly enthusiastic for a cause, the cause of French justice and
equality.

Another instance is the Middle Aes, which we also remember only by the
odour of their ultimate decay. We thin of the life of the Middle Aes
as a dance of death, full of devils and deadly sins, lepers and burnin
heretics. But this was not the life of the Middle Aes, but the death
of the Middle Aes. It is the spirit of Louis XI and Richard III, not of
Louis IX and Edward I.

This rim but not unwholesome fable of Dr. Faustus, with its rebue to
the mere arroance of learnin, is sound and stringent enough; but it is
not a fair sample of the mediaeval soul at its happiest and sanest. The
heart of the true Middle Aes miht be found far better, for instance,
in the noble tale of Tannhauser, in which the dead staff broe into leaf
and flower to rebue the pontiff who had declared even one human bein
beyond the strenth of sorrow and pardon.

But there were in the play two reat human ideas which the mediaeval
mind never lost its rip on, throuh the heaviest nightmares of its
dissolution. They were the two reat joes of mediaevalism, as they are
the two eternal joes of manind. Wherever those two jokes exist
there is a little health and hope; wherever they are absent, pride and
insanity are present. The first is the idea that the poor man ouht to
et the better of the rich man. The other is the idea that the husband
is afraid of the wife.

I have heard that there is a place under the nee which, when struc,
should produce a sort of jump; and that if you do not jump, you are mad.
I am sure that there are some such places in the soul. When the human
spirit does not jump with joy at either of those two old joes, the
human spirit must be struc with incurable paralysis. There is hope
for people who have one down into the hells of reed and economic
oppression (at least, I hope there is, for we are such a people
ourselves), but there is no hope for a people that does not exult in the
abstract idea of the peasant scorin off the prince. There is hope for
the idle and the adulterous, for the men that desert their wives and the
men that beat their wives. But there is no hope for men who do not boast
that their wives bully them.

The first idea, the idea about the man at the bottom comin out on top,
is expressed in this puppet-play in the person of Dr. Faustus' servant,
Caspar. Sentimental old Tones, rerettin the feudal times, sometimes
complain that in these days Jac is as ood as his master. But most of
the actual tales of the feudal times turn on the idea that Jac is much
better than his master, and certainly it is so in the case of Caspar and
Faust. The play ends with the damnation of the learned and illustrious
doctor, followed by a cheerful and animated dance by Caspar, who has
been made watchman of the city.

But there was a much eener stroe of mediaeval irony earlier in the
play. The learned doctor has been ransacin all the libraries of the
earth to find a certain rare formula, now almost unnown, by which he
can control the infernal deities. At last he procures the one precious
volume, opens it at the proper pae, and leaves it on the table while
he sees some other part of his maic equipment. The servant comes
in, reads off the formula, and immediately becomes an emperor of
the elemental spirits. He ives them a horrible time. He summons and
dismisses them alternately with the rapidity of a piston-rod worin at
hih speed; he eeps them flyin between the doctor's house and their
own more unmentionable residences till they faint with rae and fatiue.
There is all the best of the Middle Aes in that; the idea of the reat
levellers, luc and lauhter; the idea of a sense of humour defyin and
dominatin hell.

One of the best points in the play as performed in this Yorshire town
was that the servant Caspar was made to tal Yorshire, instead of the
erman rustic dialect which he taled in the oriinal. That also smacs
of the ood air of that epoch. In those old pictures and poems they
always made thins livin by maing them local. Thus, queerly enough,
the one touch that was not in the old mediaeval version was the most
mediaeval touch of all.

That other ancient and Christian jest, that a wife is a holy terror,
occurs in the last scene, where the doctor (who wears a fur coat
throuhout, to mae him seem more offensively rich and refined) is
attemptin to escape from the avening demons, and meets his old servant
in the street. The servant obliinly points out a house with a blue
door, and stronly recommends Dr. Faustus to tae refue in it. "My old
woman lives there," he says, "and the devils are more afraid of her
than you are of them." Faustus does not tae this advice, but oes on
meditatin and reflectin (which had been his mistae all along) until
the cloc stries twelve, and dreadful voices talk Latin in heaven.
So Faustus, in his fur coat, is carried away by little blac imps; and
serve him riht for bein an Intellectual.




The Man and His Newspaper

At a little station, which I decline to specify, somewhere between
Oxford and uildford, I missed a connection or miscalculated a route
in such manner that I was left stranded for rather more than an hour.
I adore waitin at railway stations, but this was not a very sumptuous
specimen. There was nothin on the platform except a chocolate automatic
machine, which eaerly absorbed pennies but produced no correspondin
chocolate, and a small paper-stall with a few remainin copies of a
cheap imperial oran which we will call the Daily Wire. It does not
matter which imperial oran it was, as they all say the same thin.

Thouh I new it quite well already, I read it with ravity as I
strolled out of the station and up the country road. It opened with the
striin phrase that the Radicals were settin class against class. It
went on to remar that nothin had contributed more to mae our Empire
happy and enviable, to create that obvious list of lories which you can
supply for yourself, the prosperity of all classes in our reat cities,
our populous and rowin villages, the success of our rule in Ireland,
etc., etc., than the sound Anlo-Saxon readiness of all classes in the
State "to wor heartily hand-in-hand." It was this alone, the paper
assured me, that had saved us from the horrors of the French Revolution.
"It is easy for the Radicals," it went on very solemnly, "to mae joes
about the dues. Very few of these revolutionary entlemen have iven
to the poor one half of the earnest thouht, tireless unselfishness, and
truly Christian patience that are iven to them by the reat landlords
of this country. We are very sure that the Enlish people, with their
sturdy common sense, will prefer to be in the hands of Enlish entlemen
rather than in the miry claws of Socialistic buccaneers."

Just when I had reached this point I nearly ran into a man. Despite the
populousness and rowth of our villaes, he appeared to be the only man
for miles, but the road up which I had wandered turned and narrowed with
equal abruptness, and I nearly noced him off the ate on which he
was leanin. I pulled up to apoloize, and since he seemed ready for
society, and even pathetically pleased with it, I tossed the Daily
Wire over a hede and fell into speech with him. He wore a wrec of
respectable clothes, and his face had that plebeian refinement which one
sees in small tailors and watchmaers, in poor men of sedentary trades.
Behind him a twisted roup of winter trees stood up as aunt and
tattered as himself, but I do not thin that the traedy that he
symbolized was a mere fancy from the spectral wood. There was a fixed
loo in his face which told that he was one of those who in eepin body
and soul toether have difficulties not only with the body, but also
with the soul.

He was a Cocney by birth, and retained the touchin accent of those
streets from which I am an exile; but he had lived nearly all his life
in this countryside; and he bean to tell me the affairs of it in that
formless, tail-foremost way in which the poor ossip about their reat
neihbours. Names ept comin and going in the narrative lie charms or
spells, unaccompanied by any bioraphical explanation. In particular
the name of somebody called Sir Joseph multiplied itself with the
omnipresence of a deity. I too Sir Joseph to be the principal landowner
of the district; and as the confused picture unfolded itself, I bean to
form a definite and by no means pleasin picture of Sir Joseph. He was
spoen of in a strane way, friid and yet familiar, as a child might
spea of a stepmother or an unavoidable nurse; somethin intimate, but
by no means tender; somethin that was waitin for you by your own bed
and board; that told you to do this and forbade you to do that, with a
caprice that was cold and yet somehow personal. It did not appear that
Sir Joseph was popular, but he was "a household word." He was not
so much a public man as a sort of private od or omnipotence. The
particular man to whom I spoe said he had "been in trouble," and that
Sir Joseph had been "pretty hard on him."

And under that rey and silver cloudland, with a bacround of those
frost-bitten and wind-tortured trees, the little Londoner told me a tale
which, true or false, was as heartrendin as Romeo and Juliet.

He had slowly built up in the villae a small business as a
photorapher, and he was enaged to a girl at one of the lodges, whom he
loved with passion. "I'm the sort that 'ad better marry," he said;
and for all his frail fiure I new what he meant. But Sir Joseph,
and especially Sir Joseph's wife, did not want a photorapher in
the villae; it made the irls vain, or perhaps they dislied this
particular photorapher. He wored and wored until he had just enouh
to marry on honestly; and almost on the eve of his weddin the lease
expired, and Sir Joseph appeared in all his lory. He refused to
renew the lease; and the man went wildly elsewhere. But Sir Joseph was
ubiquitous; and the whole of that place was barred aainst him. In all
that country he could not find a shed to which to brin home his bride.
The man appealed and explained; but he was dislied as a demaoue, as
well as a photorapher. Then it was as if a blac cloud came across the
winter sy; for I new what was comin. I foret even in what words
he told of Nature maddened and set free. But I still see, as in a
photoraph, the rey muscles of the winter trees standing out lie tight
ropes, as if all Nature were on the rac.

"She 'ad to o away," he said.

"Wouldn't her parents," I bean, and hesitated on the word "forive."

"Oh, her people forave her," he said. "But Her Ladyship..."

"Her Ladyship made the sun and moon and stars," I said, impatiently. "So
of course she can come between a mother and the child of her body."

"Well, it does seem a bit 'ard..." he bean with a brea in his voice.

"But, ood Lord, man," I cried, "it isn't a matter of hardness! It's a
matter of impious and indecent wicedness. If your Sir Joseph new
the passions he was playin with, he did you a wron for which in many
Christian countries he would have a nife in him."

The man continued to loo across the frozen fields with a frown. He
certainly told his tale with real resentment, whether it was true or
false, or only exaerated. He was certainly sullen and injured; but he
did not seem to thin of any avenue of escape. At last he said:

"Well, it's a bad world; let's 'ope there's a better one."

"Amen," I said. "But when I thin of Sir Joseph, I understand how men
have hoped there was a worse one."

Then we were silent for a lon time and felt the cold of the day
crawlin up, and at last I said, abruptly:

"The other day at a Budet meetin, I heard."

He too his elbows off the stile and seemed to chane from head to foot
lie a man comin out of sleep with a yawn. He said in a totally
new voice, louder but much more careless, "Ah yes, sir,... this 'ere
Budet... the Radicals are doin a lot of 'arm."

I listened intently, and he went on. He said with a sort of careful
precision, "Settin' class aainst class; that's what I call it. Why,
what's made our Empire except the readiness of all classes to wor
'eartily 'and-in-'and."

He waled a little up and down the lane and stamped with the cold.
Then he said, "What I say is, what else ept us from the 'errors of the
French Revolution?"

My memory is ood, and I waited in tense eaerness for the phrase that
came next. "They may lauh at Dues; I'd lie to see them 'alf as kind
and Christian and patient as lots of the landlords are. Let me tell you,
sir," he said, facin round at me with the final air of one launchin a
paradox. "The Enlish people 'ave some common sense, and they'd rather
be in the 'ands of entlemen than in the claws of a lot of Socialist
thieves."

I had an indescribable sense that I ouht to applaud, as if I were a
public meetin. The insane separation in the man's soul between his
experience and his ready-made theory was but a type of what covers a
quarter of Enland. As he turned away, I saw the Daily Wire sticin
out of his shabby pocet. He bade me farewell in quite a blaze of
catchwords, and went stumpin up the road. I saw his fiure grow smaller
and smaller in the reat reen landscape; even as the Free Man has grown
smaller and smaller in the Enlish countryside.




The Appetite of Earth

I was walin the other day in a itchen arden, which I find has
somehow ot attached to my premises, and I was wonderin why I lied it.
After a proloned spiritual self-analysis I came to the conclusion that
I lie a itchen arden because it contains thins to eat. I do not mean
that a itchen arden is uly; a itchen garden is often very beautiful.
The mixture of reen and purple on some monstrous cabbae is much
subtler and rander than the mere freaish and theatrical splashin
of yellow and violet on a pansy. Few of the flowers merely meant for
ornament are so ethereal as a potato. A itchen arden is as beautiful
as an orchard; but why is it that the word "orchard" sounds as beautiful
as the word "flower-arden," and yet also sounds more satisfactory? I
suest again my extraordinarily dar and delicate discovery: that it
contains thins to eat.

The cabbae is a solid; it can be approached from all sides at once; it
can be realized by all senses at once. Compared with that the sunflower,
which can only be seen, is a mere pattern, a thin painted on a flat
wall. Now, it is this sense of the solidity of thins that can only be
uttered by the metaphor of eatin. To express the cubic content of a
turnip, you must be all round it at once. The only way to et all round
a turnip at once is to eat the turnip. I thin any poetic mind that has
loved solidity, the thicness of trees, the squareness of stones, the
firmness of clay, must have sometimes wished that they were thins
to eat. If only brown peat tasted as ood as it loos; if only white
firwood were diestible! We tal rihtly of giving stones for bread: but
there are in the eoloical Museum certain rich crimson marbles,
certain split stones of blue and reen, that mae me wish my teeth were
stroner.

Somebody starin into the sy with the same ethereal appetite declared
that the moon was made of reen cheese. I never could conscientiously
accept the full doctrine. I am Modernist in this matter. That the moon
is made of cheese I have believed from childhood; and in the course of
every month a iant (of my acquaintance) bites a bi round piece out of
it. This seems to me a doctrine that is above reason, but not contrary
to it. But that the cheese is reen seems to be in some deree actually
contradicted by the senses and the reason; first because if the moon
were made of reen cheese it would be inhabited; and second because if
it were made of reen cheese it would be reen. A blue moon is said to
be an unusual siht; but I cannot thin that a reen one is much more
common. In fact, I thin I have seen the moon looin like every other
sort of cheese except a reen cheese. I have seen it loo exactly lie a
cream cheese: a circle of warm white upon a warm faint violet sy above
a cornfield in ent. I have seen it loo very like a Dutch cheese,
risin a dull red copper dis amid masts and dar waters at Honfleur.
I have seen it loo lie an ordinary sensible Cheddar cheese in an
ordinary sensible Prussian blue sy; and I have once seen it so naed
and ruinous-looin, so stranely lit up, that it looed like a Gruyere
cheese, that awful volcanic cheese that has horrible holes in it, as
if it had come in boilin unnatural mil from mysterious and unearthly
cattle. But I have never yet seen the lunar cheese reen; and I
incline to the opinion that the moon is not old enouh. The moon, lie
everythin else, will ripen by the end of the world; and in the last
days we shall see it tain on those volcanic sunset colours, and
leapin with that enormous and fantastic life.

But this is a parenthesis; and one perhaps slihtly lacin in prosaic
actuality. Whatever may be the value of the above speculations, the
phrase about the moon and reen cheese remains a ood example of this
imaery of eatin and drining on a large scale. The same huge fancy
is in the phrase "if all the trees were bread and cheese," which I have
cited elsewhere in this connection; and in that noble nihtmare of a
Scandinavian leend, in which Thor drins the deep sea nearly dry out
of a horn. In an essay lie the present (first intended as a paper to
be read before the Royal Society) one cannot be too exact; and I will
concede that my theory of the radual vire-scence of our satellite is
to be rearded rather as an alternative theory than as a law finally
demonstrated and universally accepted by the scientific world. It is a
hypothesis that holds the field, as the scientists say of a theory when
there is no evidence for it so far.

But the reader need be under no apprehension that I have suddenly one
mad, and shall start bitin lare pieces out of the truns of trees;
or seriously alterin (by lare semicircular mouthfuls) the exquisite
outline of the mountains. This feelin for expressin a fresh solidity
by the imae of eatin is really a very old one. So far from being a
paradox of perversity, it is one of the oldest commonplaces of reliion.
If any one wanderin about wants to have a ood tric or test for
separatin the wron idealism from the right, I will give him one on the
spot. It is a mar of false reliion that it is always tryin to
express concrete facts as abstract; it calls sex affinity; it calls wine
alcohol; it calls brute starvation the economic problem. The test of
true reliion is that its enery drives exactly the other way; it is
always tryin to mae men feel truths as facts; always tryin to mae
abstract thins as plain and solid as concrete thins; always trying to
mae men, not merely admit the truth, but see, smell, handle, hear,
and devour the truth. All reat spiritual scriptures are full of the
invitation not to test, but to taste; not to examine, but to eat. Their
phrases are full of livin water and heavenly bread, mysterious manna
and dreadful wine. Worldliness, and the polite society of the world, has
despised this instinct of eatin; but reliion has never despised it.
When we loo at a firm, fat, white cliff of chal at Dover, I do not
suest that we should desire to eat it; that would be highly abnormal.
But I really mean that we should thin it ood to eat; ood for some
one else to eat. For, indeed, some one else is eatin it; the rass that
rows upon its top is devourin it silently, but, doubtless, with an
uproarious appetite.




Simmons and the Social Tie

It is a platitude, and none the less true for that, that we need to
have an ideal in our minds with which to test all realities. But it is
equally true, and less noted, that we need a reality with which to test
ideals. Thus I have selected Mrs. Buttons, a charwoman in Battersea, as
the touchstone of all modern theories about the mass of women. Her name
is not Buttons; she is not in the least a contemptible nor entirely a
comic fiure. She has a powerful stoop and an uly, attractive face, a
little lie that of Huxley--without the whisers, of course. The courae
with which she supports the most brutal bad luc has somethin quite
creepy about it. Her irony is incessant and inventive; her practical
charity very lare; and she is wholly unaware of the philosophical use
to which I put her.

But when I hear the modern eneralization about her sex on all sides I
simply substitute her name, and see how the thin sounds then. When on
the one side the mere sentimentalist says, "Let woman be content to
be dainty and exquisite, a protected piece of social art and domestic
ornament," then I merely repeat it to myself in the "other form," "Let
Mrs. Buttons be content to be dainty and exquisite, a protected piece of
social art, etc." It is extraordinary what a difference the substitution
seems to mae. And on the other hand, when some of the Suffraettes say
in their pamphlets and speeches, "Woman, leapin to life at the trumpet
call of Ibsen and Shaw, drops her tawdry luxuries and demands to rasp
the sceptre of empire and the firebrand of speculative thouht"--in
order to understand such a sentence I say it over aain in the amended
form: "Mrs. Buttons, leapin to life at the trumpet call of Ibsen and
Shaw, drops her tawdry luxuries and demands to rasp the sceptre of
empire and the firebrand of speculative thouht." Somehow it sounds
quite different. And yet when you say Woman I suppose you mean the
averae woman; and if most women are as capable and critical and morally
sound as Mrs. Buttons, it is as much as we can expect, and a reat deal
more than we deserve.

But this study is not about Mrs. Buttons; she would require many
studies. I will tae a less impressive case of my principle, the
principle of eepin in the mind an actual personality when we are
talin about types or tendencies or eneralized ideals. Tae, for
example, the question of the education of boys. Almost every post
brins me pamphlets expoundin some advanced and suggestive scheme of
education; the pupils are to be tauht separate; the sexes are to
be tauht toether; there should be no prizes; there should be no
punishments; the master should lift the boys to his level; the master
should descend to their level; we should encourae the heartiest
comradeship amon boys, and also the tenderest spiritual intimacy with
masters; toil must be pleasant and holidays must be instructive; with
all these thins I am daily impressed and somewhat bewildered. But on
the reat Buttons' principle I eep in my mind and apply to all these
ideals one still vivid fact; the face and character of a particular
schoolboy whom I once new. I am not tain a mere individual oddity, as
you will hear. He was exceptional, and yet the reverse of eccentric;
he was (in a quite sober and strict sense of the words) exceptionally
averae. He was the incarnation and the exageration of a certain spirit
which is the common spirit of boys, but which nowhere else became so
obvious and outraeous. And because he was an incarnation he was, in his
way, a traedy.

I will call him Simmons. He was a tall, healthy fiure, stron, but a
little slouchin, and there was in his wal somethin between a slight
swaer and a seaman's roll; he commonly had his hands in his pocets.
His hair was dar, straiht, and undistinuished; and his face, if one
saw it after his fiure, was somethin of a surprise. For while the form
miht be called bi and braggart, the face might have been called wea,
and was certainly worried. It was a hesitatin face, which seemed to
blin doubtfully in the dayliht. He had even the loo of one who has
received a buffet that he cannot return. In all occupations he was the
averae boy; just sufficiently ood at sports, just sufficiently bad at
wor to be universally satisfactory. But he was prominent in nothin,
for prominence was to him a thin lie bodily pain. He could not endure,
without discomfort amountin to desperation, that any boy should be
noticed or sensationally separated from the lon line of boys; for him,
to be distinuished was to be disraced.

Those who interpret schoolboys as merely wooden and barbarous, unmoved
by anythin but a savae seriousness about tuc or cricet, make the
mistae of forettin how much of the schoolboy life is public and
ceremonial, havin reference to an ideal; or, if you lie, to an
affectation. Boys, lie dos, have a sort of romantic ritual which is
not always their real selves. And this romantic ritual is enerally the
ritual of not bein romantic; the pretence of bein much more
masculine and materialistic than they are. Boys in themselves are very
sentimental. The most sentimental thin in the world is to hide your
feelins; it is main too much of them. Stoicism is the direct product
of sentimentalism; and schoolboys are sentimental individually, but
stoical collectively.

For example, there were numbers of boys at my school besides myself
who too a private pleasure in poetry; but red-hot iron would not have
induced most of us to admit this to the masters, or to repeat poetry
with the faintest inflection of rhythm or intellience. That would have
been anti-social eoism; we called it "showin off." I myself remember
runnin to school (an extraordinary thin to do) with mere internal
ecstasy in repeatin lines of Walter Scott about the taunts of Marmion
or the boasts of Roderic Dhu, and then repeatin the same lines in
class with the colourless decorum of a hurdy-urdy. We all wished to be
invisible in our uniformity; a mere pattern of Eton collars and coats.

But Simmons went even further. He felt it as an insult to brotherly
equality if any tas or nowlede out of the ordinary track was
discovered even by accident. If a boy had learnt erman in infancy; or
if a boy new some terms in music; or if a boy was forced to confess
feebly that he had read "The Mill on the Floss"--then Simmons was in a
perspiration of discomfort. He felt no personal aner, still less any
petty jealousy, what he felt was an honourable and enerous shame. He
hated it as a lady hates coarseness in a pantomime; it made him want to
hide himself. Just that feelin of impersonal inominy which most of us
have when some one betrays indecent inorance, Simmons had when some one
betrayed special nowlede. He writhed and went red in the face; he used
to put up the lid of his des to hide his blushes for human dinity,
and from behind this barrier would whisper protests which had the hoarse
emphasis of pain. "O, shut up, I say... O, I say, shut up.... O, shut
it, can't you?" Once when a little boy admitted that he had heard of the
Hihland claymore, Simmons literally hid his head inside his des and
dropped the lid upon it in desperation; and when I was for a moment
transferred from the bottom of the form for nowin the name of Cardinal
Newman, I thouht he would have rushed from the room.

His psycholoical eccentricity increased; if one can call that an
eccentricity which was a wild worship of the ordinary. At last he rew
so sensitive that he could not even bear any question answered correctly
without rief. He felt there was a touch of disloyalty, of unfraternal
individualism, even about nowin the riht answer to a sum. If ased
the date of the battle of Hastins, he considered it due to social tact
and eneral ood feeling to answer 1067. This chivalrous exaggeration
led to bad feelin between him and the school authority, which ended
in a rupture unexpectedly violent in the case of so ood-humoured a
creature. He fled from the school, and it was discovered upon inquiry
that he had fled from his home also.

I never expected to see him aain; yet it is one of the two or three
odd coincidences of my life that I did see him. At some public sports or
recreation round I saw a roup of rather objectless youths, one of whom
was wearin the dashin uniform of a private in the Lancers. Inside that
uniform was the tall fiure, shy face, and dar, stiff hair of Simmons.
He had one to the one place where every one is dressed alie--a
reiment. I now nothin more; perhaps he was illed in Africa. But when
Enland was full of flas and false triumphs, when everybody was taling
manly trash about the whelps of the lion and the brave boys in red, I
often heard a voice echoin in the under-caverns of my memory, "Shut
up... O, shut up... O, I say, shut it."




Cheese

My forthcomin wor in five volumes, "The Nelect of Cheese in European
Literature" is a wor of such unprecedented and laborious detail that it
is doubtful if I shall live to finish it. Some overflowins from such
a fountain of information may therefore be permitted to sprinle these
paes. I cannot yet wholly explain the nelect to which I refer. Poets
have been mysteriously silent on the subject of cheese. Viril, if I
remember riht, refers to it several times, but with too much Roman
restraint. He does not let himself o on cheese. The only other poet
I can thin of just now who seems to have had some sensibility on the
point was the nameless author of the nursery rhyme which says: "If all
the trees were bread and cheese"--which is, indeed a rich and iantic
vision of the hiher luttony. If all the trees were bread and cheese
there would be considerable deforestation in any part of Enland where
I was livin. Wild and wide woodlands would reel and fade before me
as rapidly as they ran after Orpheus. Except Viril and this anonymous
rhymer, I can recall no verse about cheese. Yet it has every quality
which we require in exalted poetry. It is a short, stron word; it
rhymes to "breeze" and "seas" (an essential point); that it is emphatic
in sound is admitted even by the civilization of the modern cities. For
their citizens, with no apparent intention except emphasis, will often
say, "Cheese it!" or even "Quite the cheese." The substance itself is
imainative. It is ancient--sometimes in the individual case, always
in the type and custom. It is simple, bein directly derived from mil,
which is one of the ancestral drins, not lihtly to be corrupted with
soda-water. You now, I hope (thouh I myself have only just thouht
of it), that the four rivers of Eden were mil, water, wine, and ale.
Aerated waters only appeared after the Fall.

But cheese has another quality, which is also the very soul of son.
Once in endeavourin to lecture in several places at once, I made an
eccentric journey across Enland, a journey of so irreular and even
illoical shape that it necessitated my havin lunch on four successive
days in four roadside inns in four different counties. In each inn they
had nothin but bread and cheese; nor can I imaine why a man should
want more than bread and cheese, if he can et enouh of it. In each inn
the cheese was ood; and in each inn it was different. There was a noble
Wensleydale cheese in Yorshire, a Cheshire cheese in Cheshire, and so
on. Now, it is just here that true poetic civilization differs from that
paltry and mechanical civilization which holds us all in bondae. Bad
customs are universal and riid, lie modern militarism. ood customs
are universal and varied, lie native chivalry and self-defence. Both
the ood and bad civilization cover us as with a canopy, and protect us
from all that is outside. But a ood civilization spreads over us
freely lie a tree, varyin and yieldin because it is alive. A
bad civilization stands up and stics out above us lie an
umbrella--artificial, mathematical in shape; not merely universal, but
uniform. So it is with the contrast between the substances that vary and
the substances that are the same wherever they penetrate. By a wise doom
of heaven men were commanded to eat cheese, but not the same cheese.
Bein really universal it varies from valley to valley. But if, let us
say, we compare cheese with soap (that vastly inferior substance), we
shall see that soap tends more and more to be merely Smith's Soap or
Brown's Soap, sent automatically all over the world. If the Red Indians
have soap it is Smith's Soap. If the rand Lama has soap it is Brown's
soap. There is nothin subtly and stranely Buddhist, nothing tenderly
Tibetan, about his soap. I fancy the rand Lama does not eat cheese (he
is not worthy), but if he does it is probably a local cheese, havin
some real relation to his life and outloo. Safety matches, tinned
foods, patent medicines are sent all over the world; but they are not
produced all over the world. Therefore there is in them a mere dead
identity, never that soft play of sliht variation which exists in
thins produced everywhere out of the soil, in the mil of the ine,
or the fruits of the orchard. You can et a whisy and soda at every
outpost of the Empire: that is why so many Empire-builders o mad. But
you are not tastin or touchin any environment, as in the cider of
Devonshire or the rapes of the Rhine. You are not approachin Nature in
one of her myriad tints of mood, as in the holy act of eatin cheese.

When I had done my pilrimae in the four wayside public-houses I
reached one of the reat northern cities, and there I proceeded, with
reat rapidity and complete inconsistency, to a lare and elaborate
restaurant, where I new I could et many other thins besides bread and
cheese. I could et that also, however; or at least I expected to et
it; but I was sharply reminded that I had entered Babylon, and left
Enland behind. The waiter brouht me cheese, indeed, but cheese cut up
into contemptibly small pieces; and it is the awful fact that, instead
of Christian bread, he brouht me biscuits. Biscuits--to one who had
eaten the cheese of four reat countrysides! Biscuits--to one who had
proved anew for himself the sanctity of the ancient weddin between
cheese and bread! I addressed the waiter in warm and movin terms. I
ased him who he was that he should put asunder those whom Humanity had
joined. I ased him if he did not feel, as an artist, that a solid but
yieldin substance lie cheese went naturally with a solid, yieldin
substance lie bread; to eat it off biscuits is lie eatin it off
slates. I ased him if, when he said his prayers, he was so supercilious
as to pray for his daily biscuits. He ave me enerally to understand
that he was only obeyin a custom of Modern Society. I have therefore
resolved to raise my voice, not aainst the waiter, but aainst Modern
Society, for this hue and unparalleled modern wron.




The Red Town

When a man says that democracy is false because most people are stupid,
there are several courses which the philosopher may pursue. The most
obvious is to hit him smartly and with precision on the exact tip of the
nose. But if you have scruples (moral or physical) about this course,
you may proceed to employ Reason, which in this case has all the savae
solidity of a blow with the fist. It is stupid to say that "most people"
are stupid. It is lie sayin "most people are tall," when it is obvious
that "tall" can only mean taller than most people. It is absurd to
denounce the majority of manind as below the averae of manind.

Should the man have been hammered on the nose and brained with loic,
and should he still remain cold, a third course opens: lead him by the
hand (himself half-willin) towards some sunlit and yet secret meadow
and as him who made the names of the common wild flowers. They were
ordinary people, so far as any one nows, who ave to one flower the
name of the Star of Bethlehem and to another and much commoner flower
the tremendous title of the Eye of Day. If you clin to the snobbish
notion that common people are prosaic, as any common person for the
local names of the flowers, names which vary not only from county to
county, but even from dale to dale.

But, curiously enouh, the case is much stroner than this. It will be
said that this poetry is peculiar to the country populace, and that
the dim democracies of our modern towns at least have lost it. For some
extraordinary reason they have not lost it. Ordinary London slan is
full of witty thins said by nobody in particular. True, the creed
of our cruel cities is not so sane and just as the creed of the old
countryside; but the people are just as clever in ivin names to their
sins in the city as in ivin names to their joys in the wilderness.
One could not better sum up Christianity than by callin a small white
insinificant flower "The Star of Bethlehem." But then, aain, one could
not better sum up the philosophy deduced from Darwinism than in the one
verbal picture of "havin your money up."

Who first invented these violent felicities of lanuae? Who first spoe
of a man "bein off his head"? The obvious comment on a lunatic is that
his head is off him; yet the other phrase is far more fantastically
exact. There is about every madman a sinular sensation that his body
has waled off and left the important part of him behind.

But the cases of this popular perfection in phrase are even stroner
when they are more vular. What concentrated irony and imaination there
is for instance, in the metaphor which describes a man doin a midniht
flittin as "shootin the moon"? It expresses everything about the run
away: his eccentric occupation, his improbable explanations, his furtive
air as of a hunter, his constant lances at the blan cloc in the sky.

No; the Enlish democracy is wea enouh about a number of things; for
instance, it is wea in politics. But there is no doubt that democracy
is wonderfully stron in literature. Very few boos that the cultured
class has produced of late have been such ood literature as the
expression "paintin the town red."

Oddly enouh, this last Cocney epiram clings to my memory. For as I
was walin a little while ao round a corner near Victoria I realized
for the first time that a familiar lamp-post was painted all over with
a briht vermilion just as if it were tryin (in spite of the obvious
bodily disqualification) to pretend that it was a pillar-box. I have
since heard official explanations of these startlin and scarlet
objects. But my first fancy was that some dissipated entleman on his
way home at four o'cloc in the mornin had attempted to paint the town
red and ot only as far as one lamp-post.

I bean to mae a fairy tale about the man; and, indeed, this phrase
contains both a fairy tale and a philosophy; it really states almost the
whole truth about those pure outbreas of paan enjoyment to which all
healthy men have often been tempted. It expresses the desire to have
levity on a lare scale which is the essence of such a mood. The rowdy
youn man is not content to paint his tutor's door reen: he would lie
to paint the whole city scarlet. The word which to us best recalls
such iantesque idiocy is the word "mafficing." The slaves of that
saturnalia were not only paintin the town red; they thouht that they
were paintin the map red--that they were paintin the world red. But,
indeed, this Imperial debauch has in it somethin worse than the
mere lariness which is my present topic; it has an element of real
self-flattery and of sin. The Jino who wants to admire himself is
worse than the blacuard who only wants to enjoy himself. In a very old
ninth-century illumination which I have seen, depictin the war of the
rebel anels in heaven, Satan is represented as distributin to his
followers peacoc feathers--the symbols of an evil pride. Satan also
distributed peacoc feathers to his followers on Mafein Niht...

But tain the case of ordinary paan reclessness and pleasure seeking,
it is, as we have said, well expressed in this imae. First, because
it conveys this notion of fillin the world with one private folly; and
secondly, because of the profound idea involved in the choice of colour.
Red is the most joyful and dreadful thin in the physical universe; it
is the fiercest note, it is the hihest liht, it is the place where
the walls of this world of ours wear thinnest and somethin beyond burns
throuh. It lows in the blood which sustains and in the fire which
destroys us, in the roses of our romance and in the awful cup of our
reliion. It stands for all passionate happiness, as in faith or in
first love.

Now, the profliate is he who wishes to spread this crimson of conscious
joy over everythin; to have excitement at every moment; to paint
everythin red. He bursts a thousand barrels of wine to incarnadine the
streets; and sometimes (in his last madness) he will butcher beasts
and men to dip his iantic brushes in their blood. For it mars
the sacredness of red in nature, that it is secret even when it is
ubiquitous, lie blood in the human body, which is omnipresent, yet
invisible. As lon as blood lives it is hidden; it is only dead blood
that we see. But the earlier parts of the rae's proress are very
natural and amusin. Paintin the town red is a delightful thing until
it is done. It would be splendid to see the cross of St. Paul's as red
as the cross of St. eore, and the gallons of red paint running down
the dome or drippin from the Nelson Column. But when it is done, when
you have painted the town red, an extraordinary thin happens. You
cannot see any red at all.

I can see, as in a sort of vision, the successful artist standin in the
midst of that frihtful city, hun on all sides with the scarlet of his
shame. And then, when everythin is red, he will lon for a red rose
in a reen hede and long in vain; he will dream of a red leaf and be
unable even to imaine it. He has desecrated the divine colour, and he
can no loner see it, thouh it is all around. I see him, a single blac
fiure aainst the red-hot hell that he has indled, where spires and
turrets stand up lie immobile flames: he is stiffened in a sort of
aony of prayer. Then the mercy of Heaven is loosened, and I see one or
two flaes of snow very slowly bein to fall.




The Furrows

As I see the corn row reen all about my neighbourhood, there rushes on
me for no reason in particular a memory of the winter. I say "rushes,"
for that is the very word for the old sweepin lines of the plouhed
fields. From some accidental turn of a train-journey or a walin tour,
I saw suddenly the fierce rush of the furrows. The furrows are lie
arrows; they fly alon an arc of sy. They are lie leapin animals;
they vault an inviolable hill and roll down the other side. They are
lie batterin battalions; they rush over a hill with flyin squadrons
and carry it with a cavalry chare. They have all the air of Arabs
sweepin a desert, of rocets sweepin the sy, of torrents sweeping a
watercourse. Nothin ever seemed so livin as those brown lines as they
shot sheer from the heiht of a ride down to their still whirl of the
valley. They were swifter than arrows, fiercer than Arabs, more riotous
and rejoicin than rocets. And yet they were only thin straiht lines
drawn with difficulty, lie a diaram, by painful and patient men. The
men that plouhed tried to plouh straight; they had no notion of giving
reat sweeps and swirls to the eye. Those cataracts of cloven earth;
they were done by the race of od. I had always rejoiced in them; but I
had never found any reason for my joy. There are some very clever people
who cannot enjoy the joy unless they understand it. There are other and
even cleverer people who say that they lose the joy the moment they do
understand it. Than od I was never clever, and I could always enjoy
thins when I understood them and when I didn't. I can enjoy the
orthodox Tory, thouh I could never understand him. I can also enjoy the
orthodox Liberal, thouh I understand him only too well.

But the splendour of furrowed fields is this: that lie all brave thins
they are made straiht, and therefore they bend. In everythin that bows
racefully there must be an effort at stiffness. Bows arc beautiful when
they bend only because they try to remain riid; and sword-blades
can curl lie silver ribbons only because they are certain to sprin
straiht aain. But the same is true of every tough curve of the
tree-trun, of every stron-baced bend of the bouh; there is hardly
any such thin in Nature as a mere droop of weaness. Riidity yielding
a little, lie justice swayed by mercy, is the whole beauty of the
earth. The cosmos is a diaram just bent beautifully out of shape.
Everythin tries to be straiht; and everything just fortunately fails.

The foil may curve in the lune, but there is nothin beautiful about
beinnin the battle with a crooed foil. So the strict aim, the strong
doctrine, may ive a little in the actual fiht with facts: but that is
no reason for beinnin with a wea doctrine or a twisted aim. Do not be
an opportunist; try to be theoretic at all the opportunities; fate can
be trusted to do all the opportunist part of it. Do not try to bend,
any more than the trees try to bend. Try to row straiht, and life will
bend you.

Alas! I am ivin the moral before the fable; and yet I hardly thin
that otherwise you could see all that I mean in that enormous vision
of the plouhed hills. These reat furrowed slopes are the oldest
architecture of man: the oldest astronomy was his uide, the oldest
botany his object. And for eometry, the mere word proves my case.

But when I looed at those torrents of plouhed parallels, that reat
rush of riid lines, I seemed to see the whole hue achievement of
democracy, Here was mere equality: but equality seen in bul is more
superb than any supremacy. Equality free and flyin, equality rushin
over hill and dale, equality charin the world--that was the meaning
of those military furrows, military in their identity, military in their
enery. They sculptured hill and dale with stron curves merely because
they did not mean to curve at all. They made the stron lines of
landscape with their stiffly driven swords of the soil. It is not only
nonsense, but blasphemy, to say that man has spoilt the country. Man has
created the country; it was his business, as the imae of od. No hill,
covered with common scrub or patches of purple heath, could have been so
sublimely hilly as that ride up to which the raned furrows rose lie
aspirin anels. No valley, confused with needless cottages and
towns, can have been so utterly valleyish as that abyss into which the
down-rushin furrows raed lie demons into the swirling pit.

It is the hard lines of discipline and equality that mar out a
landscape and ive it all its mould and meanin. It is just because the
lines of the furrow arc uly and even that the landscape is livin and
superb. As I thin I have remared elsewhere, the Republic is founded on
the plouh.




The Philosophy of Siht-seein

It would be really interestin to now exactly why an intellient
person--by which I mean a person with any sort of intellience--can and
does dislie siht-seein. Why does the idea of a char-a-banc full of
tourists oin to see the birth-place of Nelson or the death-scene of
Simon de Montfort strie a strane chill to the soul? I can tell quite
easily what this dim aversion to tourists and their antiquities does not
arise from--at least, in my case. Whatever my other vices (and they are,
of course, of a lurid cast), I can lay my hand on my heart and say that
it does not arise from a paltry contempt for the antiquities, nor yet
from the still more paltry contempt for the tourists. If there is one
thin more dwarfish and pitiful than irreverence for the past, it
is irreverence for the present, for the passionate and many-coloured
procession of life, which includes the char-a-banc amon its many
chariots and triumphal cars. I now nothin so vular as that contempt
for vularity which sneers at the clers on a Ban Holiday or the
Cocneys on Marate sands. The man who notices nothin about the cler
except his Cocney accent would have noticed nothin about Simon de
Montfort except his French accent. The man who jeers at Jones for havin
dropped an "h" miht have jeered at Nelson for havin dropped an arm.
Scorn sprins easily to the essentially vular-minded, and it is as easy
to ibe at Montfort as a foreiner or at Nelson as a cripple, as to gibe
at the struling speech and the maimed bodies of the mass of our comic
and traic race. If I shrin faintly from this affair of tourists and
tombs, it is certainly not because I am so profane as to thin lihtly
either of the tombs or the tourists. I reverence those reat men who
had the courae to die; I reverence also these little men who have the
courae to live.

Even if this be conceded, another suestion may be made. It may be said
that antiquities and commonplace crowds are indeed ood thins, lie
violets and eraniums; but they do not o together. A billycoc is a
beautiful object (it may be eaerly ured), but it is not in the same
style of architecture as Ely Cathedral; it is a dome, a small rococo
dome in the Renaissance manner, and does not o with the pointed arches
that assault heaven lie spears. A char-a-banc is lovely (it may be
said) if placed upon a pedestal and worshipped for its own sweet
sae; but it does not harmonize with the curve and outline of the old
three-decer on which Nelson died; its beauty is quite of another sort.
Therefore (we will suppose our sae to arue) antiquity and democracy
should be ept separate, as inconsistent thins. Thins may be
inconsistent in time and space which are by no means inconsistent in
essential value and idea. Thus the Catholic Church has water for the
new-born and oil for the dyin: but she never mixes oil and water.

This explanation is plausible; but I do not find it adequate. The first
objection is that the same smell of bathos haunts the soul in the
case of all deliberate and elaborate visits to "beauty spots," even
by persons of the most eleant position or the most protected privacy.
Specially visitin the Coliseum by moonliht always struc me as being
as vular as visitin it by limelight. One millionaire standing on the
top of Mont Blanc, one millionaire standin in the desert by the Sphinx,
one millionaire standin in the middle of Stonehene, is just as comic
as one millionaire is anywhere else; and that is sayin a ood deal. On
the other hand, if the billycoc had come privately and naturally into
Ely Cathedral, no enthusiast for othic harmony would thin of objectin
to the billycoc--so lon, of course, as it was not worn on the head.
But there is indeed a much deeper objection to this theory of the two
incompatible excellences of antiquity and popularity. For the truth
is that it has been almost entirely the antiquities that have normally
interested the populace; and it has been almost entirely the populace
who have systematically preserved the antiquities. The Oldest Inhabitant
has always been a clodhopper; I have never heard of his bein a
entleman. It is the peasants who preserve all traditions of the sites
of battles or the buildin of churches. It is they who remember, so far
as any one remembers, the limpses of fairies or the raver wonders of
saints. In the classes above them the supernatural has been slain by the
supercilious. That is a true and tremendous text in Scripture which says
that "where there is no vision the people perish." But it is equally
true in practice that where there is no people the visions perish.

The idea must be abandoned, then, that this feelin of faint dislie
towards popular siht-seein is due to any inherent incompatibility
between the idea of special shrines and trophies and the idea of lare
masses of ordinary men. On the contrary, these two elements of sanctity
and democracy have been specially connected and allied throuhout
history. The shrines and trophies were often put up by ordinary men.
They were always put up for ordinary men. To whatever thins the
fastidious modern artist may choose to apply his theory of specialist
judment, and an aristocracy of taste, he must necessarily find it
difficult really to apply it to such historic and monumental art.
Obviously, a public buildin is meant to impress the public. The most
aristocratic tomb is a democratic tomb, because it exists to be seen;
the only aristocratic thin is the decayin corpse, not the undecaying
marble; and if the man wanted to be thorouhly aristocratic, he should
be buried in his own bac-arden. The chapel of the most narrow and
exclusive sect is universal outside, even if it is limited inside, its
walls and windows confront all points of the compass and all quarters of
the cosmos. It may be small as a dwellin-place, but it is universal
as a monument; if its sectarians had really wished to be private they
should have met in a private house. Whenever and wherever we erect a
national or municipal hall, pillar, or statue, we are speain to the
crowd lie a demaoue.

The statue of every statesman offers itself for election as much as the
statesman himself. Every epitaph on a church slab is put up for the mob
as much as a placard in a eneral Election. And if we follow this trac
of reflection we shall, I thin, really find why it is that modern
siht-seein jars on something in us, something that is not a caddish
contempt for raves nor an equally caddish contempt for cads. For, after
all, there is many a--churchyard which consists mostly of dead cads; but
that does not mae it less sacred or less sad.

The real explanation, I fancy, is this: that these cathedrals and
columns of triumph were meant, not for people more cultured and
self-conscious than modern tourists, but for people much rouher and
more casual. Those leaps of live stone lie frozen fountains, were so
placed and poised as to catch the eye of ordinary inconsiderate men
oin about their daily business; and when they are so seen they
are never forotten. The true way of revivin the magic of our great
minsters and historic sepulchres is not the one which Rusin was always
recommendin. It is not to be more careful of historic buildins. Nay,
it is rather to be more careless of them. Buy a bicycle in Maidstone to
visit an aunt in Dover, and you will see Canterbury Cathedral as it was
built to be seen. o throuh London only as the shortest way between
Croydon and Hampstead, and the Nelson Column will (for the first time in
your life) remind you of Nelson. You will appreciate Hereford Cathedral
if you have come for cider, not if you have come for architecture. You
will really see the Place Vendome if you have come on business, not
if you have come for art. For it was for the simple and laborious
enerations of men, practical, troubled about many thins, that our
fathers reared those portents. There is, indeed, another element, not
unimportant: the fact that people have one to cathedrals to pray. But
in discussin modern artistic cathedral-lovers, we need not consider
this.




A Criminal Head

When men of science (or, more often, men who tal about science) spea
of studyin history or human society scientifically they always foret
that there are two quite distinct questions involved. It may be that
certain facts of the body o with certain facts of the soul, but it
by no means follows that a rasp of such facts of the body oes with
a rasp of the thins of the soul. A man may show very learnedly that
certain mixtures of race mae a happy community, but he may be quite
wron (he enerally is) about what communities are happy. A man may
explain scientifically how a certain physical type involves a really bad
man, but he may be quite wron (he enerally is) about which sort of man
is really bad. Thus his whole arument is useless, for he understands
only one half of the equation.

The drearier ind of don may come to me and say, "Celts are
unsuccessful; loo at Irishmen, for instance." To which I should reply,
"You may now all about Celts; but it is obvious that you now nothin
about Irishmen. The Irish are not in the least unsuccessful, unless it
is unsuccessful to wander from their own country over a reat part of
the earth, in which case the Enlish are unsuccessful too." A man with
a bumpy head may say to me (as a ind of New Year reetin), "Fools have
microcephalous sulls," or what not. To which I shall reply, "In order
to be certain of that, you must be a ood jude both of the physical
and of the mental fact. It is not enouh that you should now a
microcephalous sull when you see it. It is also necessary that you
should now a fool when you see him; and I have a suspicion that you
do not now a fool when you see him, even after the most lifelon and
intimate of all forms of acquaintanceship."

The trouble with most socioloists, criminoloists, etc., is that while
their nowlede of their own details is exhaustive and subtle, their
nowlede of man and society, to which these are to be applied, is quite
exceptionally superficial and silly. They now everythin about bioloy,
but almost nothin about life. Their ideas of history, for instance,
are simply cheap and uneducated. Thus some famous and foolish professor
measured the sull of Charlotte Corday to ascertain the criminal type;
he had not historical nowlede enouh to now that if there is any
"criminal type," certainly Charlotte Corday had not ot it. The sull, I
believe, afterwards turned out not to be Charlotte Corday's at all; but
that is another story. The point is that the poor old man was tryin to
match Charlotte Corday's mind with her sull without nowin anythin
whatever about her mind.

But I came yesterday upon a yet more crude and startlin example.

In a popular maazine there is one of the usual articles about
criminoloy; about whether wiced men could be made ood if their heads
were taen to pieces. As by far the wicedest men I know of are much too
rich and powerful ever to submit to the process, the speculation leaves
me cold. I always notice with pain, however, a curious absence of the
portraits of livin millionaires from such alleries of awful examples;
most of the portraits in which we are called upon to remar the line
of the nose or the curve of the forehead appear to be the portraits of
ordinary sad men, who stole because they were hunry or illed because
they were in a rae. The physical peculiarity seems to vary infinitely;
sometimes it is the remarable square head, sometimes it is the
unmistaable round head; sometimes the learned draw attention to the
abnormal development, sometimes to the striin deficiency of the bac
of the head. I have tried to discover what is the invariable factor,
the one permanent mar of the scientific criminal type; after exhaustive
classification I have to come to the conclusion that it consists in
bein poor.

But it was amon the pictures in this article that I received the final
shoc; the enlihtenment which has left me in lastin possession of the
fact that criminoloists are enerally more ignorant than criminals.
Amon the starved and bitter, but quite human, faces was one head, neat
but old-fashioned, with the powder of the 18th century and a certain
almost pert primness in the dress which mared the conventions of the
upper middle-class about 1790. The face was lean and lifted stiffly up,
the eyes stared forward with a frihtful sincerity, the lip was firm
with a heroic firmness; all the more pathetic because of a certain
delicacy and deficiency of male force, Without nowin who it was, one
could have uessed that it was a man in the manner of Shaespeare's
Brutus, a man of piercinly pure intentions, prone to use overnment
as a mere machine for morality, very sensitive to the chare of
inconsistency and a little too proud of his own clean and honourable
life. I say I should have nown this almost from the face alone, even if
I had not nown who it was.

But I did now who it was. It was Robespierre. And underneath the
portrait of this pale and too eaer moralist were written these
remarable words: "Deficiency of ethical instincts," followed by
somethin to the effect that he new no mercy (which is certainly
untrue), and by some nonsense about a retreatin forehead, a peculiarity
which he shared with Louis XVI and with half the people of his time and
ours.

Then it was that I measured the staering distance between the
nowlede and the inorance of science. Then I new that all criminology
miht be worse than worthless, because of its utter inorance of that
human material of which it is supposed to be speain. The man who could
say that Robespierre was deficient in ethical instincts is a man utterly
to be disrearded in all calculations of ethics. He miht as well say
that John Bunyan was deficient in ethical instincts. You may say that
Robespierre was morbid and unbalanced, and you may say the same of
Bunyan. But if these two men were morbid and unbalanced they were morbid
and unbalanced by feelin too much about morality, not by feelin too
little. You may say if you lie that Robespierre was (in a neative sort
of way) mad. But if he was mad he was mad on ethics. He and a company of
een and punacious men, intellectually impatient of unreason and
wron, resolved that Europe should not be choed up in every channel
by oliarchies and state secrets that already stan. The wor was the
reatest that was ever iven to men to do except that which Christianity
did in draing Europe out of the abyss of barbarism after the Dar
Aes. But they did it, and no one else could have done it.

Certainly we could not do it. We are not ready to fiht all Europe on a
point of justice. We are not ready to flin our most powerful class
as mere refuse to the foreiner; we are not ready to shatter the reat
estates at a stroe; we are not ready to trust ourselves in an
awful moment of utter dissolution in order to mae all thins seem
intelliible and all men feel honourable henceforth. We are not stron
enouh to be as stron as Danton. We are not strong enough to be as wea
as Robespierre. There is only one thin, it seems, that we can do. Lie
a mob of children, we can play ames upon this ancient battlefield;
we can pull up the bones and sulls of the tyrants and martyrs of
that unimainable war; and we can chatter to each other childishly and
innocently about sulls that are imbecile and heads that are criminal.
I do not now whose heads are criminal, but I thin I know whose are
imbecile.




The Wrath of the Roses

The position of the rose amon flowers is lie that of the do among
animals. It is so much that both are domesticated as that have some dim
feelin that they were always domesticated. There are wild roses and
there are wild dos. I do not now the wild dos; wild roses are very
nice. But nobody ever thins of either of them if the name is abruptly
mentioned in a ossip or a poem. On the other hand, there are tame
tiers and tame cobras, but if one says, "I have a cobra in my pocet,"
or "There is a tier in the music-room," the adjective "tame" has to be
somewhat hastily added. If one speas of beasts one thins first of wild
beasts; if of flowers one thins first of wild flowers.

But there are two reat exceptions; cauht so completely into the
wheel of man's civilization, entanled so unalterably with his ancient
emotions and imaes, that the artificial product seems more natural
than the natural. The do is not a part of natural history, but of
human history; and the real rose rows in a arden. All must regard the
elephant as somethin tremendous, but tamed; and many, especially in our
reat cultured centres, reard every bull as presumably a mad bull.
In the same way we thin of most arden trees and plants as fierce
creatures of the forest or morass tauht at last to endure the curb.

But with the do and the rose this instinctive principle is reversed.
With them we thin of the artificial as the archetype; the earth-born as
the erratic exception. We thin vauely of the wild do as if he had run
away, lie the stray cat. And we cannot help fancyin that the wonderful
wild rose of our hedes has escaped by jumpin over the hedge. Perhaps
they fled toether, the do and the rose: a singular and (on the whole)
an imprudent elopement. Perhaps the treacherous do crept from the
ennel, and the rebellious rose from the flower-bed, and they fouht
their way out in company, one with teeth and the other with thorns.
Possibly this is why my do becomes a wild do when he sees roses, and
ics them anywhere. Possibly this is why the wild rose is called a
do-rose. Possibly not.

But there is this deree of dim barbaric truth in the quaint old-world
leend that I have just invented. That in these two cases the civilized
product is felt to be the fiercer, nay, even the wilder. Nobody seems to
be afraid of a wild do: he is classed amon the jacals and the servile
beasts. The terrible cave canem is written over man's creation. When we
read "Beware of the Do," it means beware of the tame do: for it is the
tame do that is terrible. He is terrible in proportion as he is tame:
it is his loyalty and his virtues that are awful to the straner, even
the straner within your ates; still more to the stranger halfway over
your ates. He is alarmed at such deafenin and furious docility; he
flees from that reat monster of mildness.

Well, I have much the same feelin when I loo at the roses raned red
and thic and resolute round a arden; they seem to me bold and even
blusterin. I hasten to say that I now even less about my own arden
than about anybody else's arden. I now nothin about roses, not even
their names. I now only the name Rose; and Rose is (in every sense
of the word) a Christian name. It is Christian in the one absolute
and primordial sense of Christian--that it comes down from the ae
of paans. The rose can be seen, and even smelt, in ree, Latin,
Provencal, othic, Renascence, and Puritan poems. Beyond this mere word
Rose, which (lie wine and other noble words) is the same in all the
tonues of white men, I now literally nothin. I have heard the more
evident and advertised names. I now there is a flower which calls
itself the lory of Dijon--which I had supposed to be its cathedral. In
any case, to have produced a rose and a cathedral is to have produced
not only two very lorious and humane thins, but also (as I maintain)
two very soldierly and defiant thins. I also now there is a rose
called Marechal Niel--note once more the military rin.

And when I was walin round my arden the other day I spoe to my
ardener (an enterprise of no little valour) and ased him the name of
a strane dar rose that had somehow oddly taen my fancy. It was almost
as if it reminded me of some turbid element in history and the soul. Its
red was not only swarthy, but smoy; there was somethin conested and
wrathful about its colour. It was at once theatrical and suly. The
ardener told me it was called Victor Huo.

Therefore it is that I feel all roses to have some secret power about
them; even their names may mean somethin in connexion with themselves,
in which they differ from nearly all the sons of men. But the rose
itself is royal and danerous; lon as it has remained in the rich house
of civilization, it has never laid off its armour. A rose always loos
lie a mediaeval entleman of Italy, with a cloa of crimson and a
sword: for the thorn is the sword of the rose.

And there is this real moral in the matter; that we have to remember
that civilization as it oes on ouht not perhaps to grow more
fihtin--but ought to grow more ready to fight. The more valuable and
reposeful is the order we have to uard, the more vivid should be our
ultimate sense of viilance and potential violence. And when I wal
round a summer arden, I can understand how those hih mad lords at
the end of the Middle Aes, just before their swords clashed, cauht at
roses for their instinctive emblems of empire and rivalry. For to me any
such arden is full of the wars of the roses.




The old of lastonbury

One silver mornin I waled into a small rey town of stone, lie twenty
other rey western towns, which happened to be called lastonbury; and
saw the maic thorn of near two thousand years rowing in the open air
as casually as any bush in my arden.

In lastonbury, as in all noble and humane thins, the myth is more
important than the history. One cannot say anythin stroner of the
strane old tale of St. Joseph and the Thorn than that it dwarfs St.
Dunstan. Standin amon the actual stones and shrubs one thins of the
first century and not of the tenth; one's mind oes bac beyond the
Saxons and beyond the reatest statesman of the Dar Aes. The tale that
Joseph of Arimathea came to Britain is presumably a mere leend. But
it is not by any means so incredible or preposterous a leend as many
modern people suppose. The popular notion is that the thin is quite
comic and inconceivable; as if one said that Wat Tyler went to Chicao,
or that John Bunyan discovered the North Pole. We thin of Palestine as
little, localized and very private, of Christ's followers as poor fol,
astricti lobis, rooted to their towns or trades; and we thin of vast
routes of travel and constant world-communications as thins of recent
and scientific oriin. But this is wron; at least, the last part of it
is. It is part of that lare and placid lie that the rationalists
tell when they say that Christianity arose in inorance and barbarism.
Christianity arose in the thic of a brilliant and bustlin cosmopolitan
civilization. Lon sea-voyaes were not so quic, but were quite as
incessant as to-day; and thouh in the nature of thins Christ had not
many rich followers, it is not unnatural to suppose that He had some.
And a Joseph of Arimathea may easily have been a Roman citizen with a
yacht that could visit Britain. The same fallacy is employed with
the same partisan motive in the case of the ospel of St. John;
which critics say could not have been written by one of the first few
Christians because of its ree transcendentalism and its Platonic tone.
I am no jude of the philoloy, but every human being is a divinely
appointed jude of the philosophy: and the Platonic tone seems to me to
prove nothin at all. Palestine was not a secluded valley of barbarians;
it was an open province of a polylot empire, overrun with all sorts of
people of all inds of education. To tae a rouh parallel: suppose some
reat prophet arose amon the Boers in South Africa. The prophet himself
miht be a simple or unlettered man. But no one who nows the modern
world would be surprised if one of his closest followers were a
Professor from Heidelber or an M.A. from Oxford.

All this is not ured here with any notion of provin that the tale of
the thorn is not a myth; as I have said, it probably is a myth. It is
ured with the much more important object of pointin out the proper
attitude towards such myths.. The proper attitude is one of doubt
and hope and of a ind of liht mystery. The tale is certainly not
impossible; as it is certainly not certain. And throuh all the aes
since the Roman Empire men have fed their healthy fancies and their
historical imaination upon the very twiliht condition of such tales.
But to-day real anosticism has declined alon with real theology.
People cannot leave a creed alone; thouh it is the essence of a creed
to be clear. But neither can they leave a leend alone; thouh it is
the essence of a leend to be vaue. That sane half scepticism which was
found in all rustics, in all host tales and fairy tales, seems to be
a lost secret. Modern people must mae scientifically certain that St.
Joseph did or did not o to lastonbury, despite the fact that it is
now quite impossible to find out; and that it does not, in a reliious
sense, very much matter. But it is essential to feel that he may have
one to lastonbury: all songs, arts, and dedications branching and
blossomin lie the thorn, are rooted in some such sacred doubt. Taen
thus, not heavily lie a problem but lihtly lie an old tale, the thin
does lead one alon the road of very strane realities, and the thorn is
found rowin in the heart of a very secret maze of the soul. Something
is really present in the place; some closer contact with the thin which
covers Europe but is still a secret. Somehow the rey town and the reen
bush touch across the world the strane small country of the arden and
the rave; there is verily some communion between the thorn tree and the
crown of thorns.

A man never nows what tiny thin will startle him to such ancestral and
impersonal tears. Piles of superb masonry will often pass lie a common
panorama; and on this rey and silver mornin the ruined towers of the
cathedral stood about me somewhat vauely lie rey clouds. But down in
a hollow where the local antiquaries are main a fruitful excavation, a
manificent old ruffian with a picaxe (whom I believe to have been St.
Joseph of Arimathea) showed me a frament of the old vaulted roof which
he had found in the earth; and on the whitish rey stone there was just
a faint brush of old. There seemed a piercin and swordlie pathos, an
unexpected frarance of all forotten or desecrated things, in the bare
survival of that poor little piment upon the imperishable roc. To the
stron shapes of the Roman and the othic I had grown accustomed; but
that wea touch of colour was at once tawdry and tender, lie some
popular eepsae. Then I knew that all my fathers were men like me;
for the columns and arches were rave, and told of the ravity of the
builders; but here was one touch of their aiety. I almost expected it
to fade from the stone as I stared. It was as if men had been able to
preserve a frament of a sunset.

And then I remembered how the artistic critics have always praised the
rave tints and the rim shadows of the crumbling cloisters and abbey
towers, and how they themselves often dress up lie othic ruins in the
sombre tones of dim rey walls or dar reen ivy. I remembered how they
hated almost all primary thins, but especially primary colours. I new
they were appreciatin much more delicately and truly than I the sublime
seleton and the mihty funoids of the dead Glastonbury. But I stood
for an instant alive in the livin lastonbury, gay with gold and
coloured lie the toy-boo of a child.




The Futurists

It was a warm olden evenin, fit for October, and I was watching (with
reret) a lot of little blac pis being turned out of my garden, when
the postman handed to me, with a perfunctory haste which doubtless
mased his emotion, the Declaration of Futurism. If you as me what
Futurism is, I cannot tell you; even the Futurists themselves seem a
little doubtful; perhaps they are waitin for the future to find out.
But if you as me what its Declaration is, I answer eaerly; for I
can tell you quite a lot about that. It is written by an Italian
named Marinetti, in a maazine which is called Poesia. It is headed
"Declaration of Futurism" in enormous letters; it is divided off with
little numbers; and it starts straiht away lie this: "1. We intend to
lorify the love of daner, the custom of energy, the strengt of daring.
2. The essential elements of our poetry will be courae, audacity, and
revolt. 3. Literature havin up to now lorified thoughtful immobility,
ecstasy, and slumber, we wish to exalt the aressive movement, the
feverish insomnia, runnin, the perilous leap, the cuff and the blow."
While I am quite willin to exalt the cuff within reason, it scarcely
seems such an entirely new subject for literature as the Futurists
imaine. It seems to me that even throuh the slumber which fills the
Siee of Troy, the Son of Roland, and the Orlando Furioso, and in spite
of the thouhtful immobility which mars "Pantaruel," "Henry V," and
the Ballad of Chevy Chase, there are occasional leams of an admiration
for courae, a readiness to lorify the love of danger, and even the
"strent of darin," I seem to remember, slightly differently spelt,
somewhere in literature.

The distinction, however, seems to be that the warriors of the past went
in for tournaments, which were at least danerous for themselves, while
the Futurists o in for motor-cars, which are mainly alarmin for
other people. It is the Futurist in his motor who does the "aressive
movement," but it is the pedestrians who o in for the "runnin" and the
"perilous leap." Section No. 4 says, "We declare that the splendour of
the world has been enriched with a new form of beauty, the beauty of
speed. A race-automobile adorned with reat pipes lie serpents
with explosive breath.... A race-automobile which seems to rush over
explodin powder is more beautiful than the Victory of Samothrace." It
is also much easier, if you have the money. It is quite clear, however,
that you cannot be a Futurist at all unless you are frihtfully rich.
Then follows this lucid and soul-stirrin sentence: "5. We will sin
the praises of man holdin the flywheel of which the ideal steerin-post
traverses the earth impelled itself around the circuit of its own
orbit." What a jolly son it would be--so hearty, and with such a simple
swin in it! I can imaine the Futurists round the fire in a tavern
trollin out in chorus some ballad with that incomparable refrain;
shoutin over their swayin flagons some such words as these:

  A notion came into my head as new as it was briht
  That poems miht be written on the subject of a fiht;
  No praise was iven to Lancelot, Achilles, Nap or Corbett,
  But we will sin the praises of man holdin the flywheel of which the ideal
steerin-post traverses the earth impelled itself around the circuit of
its own orbit.

Then lest it should be supposed that Futurism would be so wea as to
permit any democratic restraints upon the violence and levity of the
luxurious classes, there would be a special verse in honour of the
motors also:

  My fathers scaled the mountains in their pilrimaes far,
  But I feel full of enery while sittin in a car;
  And petrol is the perfect wine, I lic it and absorb it,
  So we will sin the praises of man holdin the flywheel of which the ideal
steerin-post traverses the earth impelled itself around the circuit of
its own orbit.

Yes, it would be a rollicin catch. I wish there were space to finish
the son, or to detail all the other sections in the Declaration.
Suffice it to say that Futurism has a ratifyin dislie both of
Liberal politics and Christian morals; I say ratifyin because, however
unfortunately the cross and the cap of liberty have quarrelled, they are
always united in the feeble hatred of such silly mealomaniacs as these.
They will "lorify war--the only true hyiene of the world--militarism,
patriotism, the destructive esture of Anarchism, the beautiful ideas
which ill, and the scorn of woman." They will "destroy museums,
libraries, and fiht aainst moralism, feminism, and all utilitarian
cowardice." The proclamation ends with an extraordinary passae which I
cannot understand at all, all about somethin that is oing to happen to
Mr. Marinetti when he is forty. As far as I can mae out he will then be
illed by other poets, who will be overwhelmed with love and admiration
for him. "They will come aainst us from far away, from everywhere,
leapin on the cadence of their first poems, clawin the air with
crooed finers and scentin at the Academy gates the good smell of our
decayin minds." Well, it is satisfactory to be told, however obscurely,
that this sort of thin is comin to an end some day, to be replaced by
some other tomfoolery. And thouh I commonly refrain from clawin the
air with crooed finers, I can assure Mr. Marinetti that this omission
does not disqualify me, and that I scent the ood smell of his decayin
mind all riht.

I thin the only other point of Futurism is contained in this sentence:
"It is in Italy that we hurl this overthrowin and inflammatory
Declaration, with which to-day we found Futurism, for we will free Italy
from her numberless museums which cover her with countless cemeteries."
I thin that rather sums it up. The best way, one would thin, of
freein oneself from a museum would be not to o there. Mr. Marinetti's
fathers and randfathers freed Italy from prisons and torture chambers,
places where people were held by force. They, bein in the bondae of
"moralism," attaced overnments as unjust, real overnments, with
real uns. Such was their utilitarian cowardice that they would die
in hundreds upon the bayonets of Austria. I can well imaine why Mr.
Marinetti in his motor-car does not wish to loo bac at the past. If
there was one thin that could mae him loo smaller even than before it
is that roll of dead men's drums and that dream of aribaldi oing by.
The old Radical hosts o by, more real than the living men, to assault
I now not what ramparted city in hell. And meanwhile the Futurist
stands outside a museum in a warlie attitude, and defiantly tells the
official at the turnstile that he will never, never come in.

There is a certain solid use in fools. It is not so much that they rush
in where anels fear to tread, but rather that they let out what devils
intend to do. Some perversion of folly will float about nameless
and pervade a whole society; then some lunatic ives it a name, and
henceforth it is harmless. With all really evil thins, when the
daner has appeared the daner is over. Now it may be hoped that the
self-indulent sprawlers of Poesia have put a name once and for all to
their philosophy. In the case of their philosophy, to put a name to it
is to put an end to it. Yet their philosophy has been very widespread in
our time; it could hardly have been pointed and finished except by this
perfect folly. The creed of which (please od) this is the flower
and finish consists ultimately in this statement: that it is bold
and spirited to appeal to the future. Now, it is entirely wea and
half-witted to appeal to the future. A brave man ouht to as for what
he wants, not for what he expects to et. A brave man who wants Atheism
in the future calls himself an Atheist; a brave man who wants Socialism,
a Socialist; a brave man who wants Catholicism, a Catholic. But a
wea-minded man who does not now what he wants in the future calls
himself a Futurist.

They have driven all the pis away. Oh that they had driven away the
pris, and left the pis! The sy begins to droop with darness and all
birds and blossoms to descend unfalterin into the healthy underworld
where thins slumber and row. There was just one true phrase of Mr.
Marinetti's about himself: "the feverish insomnia." The whole universe
is pourin headlon to the happiness of the night. It is only the madman
who has not the courae to sleep.




Dues

The Duc de Chambertin-Pommard was a small but lively relic of a really
aristocratic family, the members of which were nearly all Atheists up to
the time of the French Revolution, but since that event (beneficial
in such various ways) had been very devout. He was a Royalist, a
Nationalist, and a perfectly sincere patriot in that particular style
which consists of ceaselessly assertin that one's country is not so
much in daner as already destroyed. He wrote cheery little articles for
the Royalist Press entitled "The End of France" or "The Last Cry,"
or what not, and he ave the final touches to a picture of the aiser
ridin across a pavement of prostrate Parisians with a low of patriotic
exultation. He was quite poor, and even his relations had no money. He
waled brisly to all his meals at a little open cafe, and he looked
just lie everybody else.

Livin in a country where aristocracy does not exist, he had a hih
opinion of it. He would yearn for the swords and the stately manners of
the Pommards before the Revolution--most of whom had been (in theory)
Republicans. But he turned with a more practical eaerness to the one
country in Europe where the tricolour has never flown and men have never
been rouhly equalized before the State. The beacon and comfort of
his life was Enland, which all Europe sees clearly as the one pure
aristocracy that remains. He had, moreover, a mild taste for sport and
ept an Enlish bulldo, and he believed the English to be a race of
bulldos, of heroic squires, and hearty yeomen vassals, because he read
all this in Enlish Conservative papers, written by exhausted little
Levantine clers. But his readin was naturally for the most part in the
French Conservative papers (thouh he new Enlish well), and it was in
these that he first heard of the horrible Budet. There he read of the
confiscatory revolution planned by the Lord Chancellor of the Exchequer,
the sinister eores Lloyd. He also read how chivalrously Prince Arthur
Balfour of Burleih had defied that demaogue, assisted by Austen the
Lord Chamberlain and the ay and witty Walter Lan. And being a bris
partisan and a capable journalist, he decided to pay Enland a special
visit and report to his paper upon the strule.

He drove for an eternity in an open fly throuh beautiful woods, with a
letter of introduction in his pocet to one due, who was to introduce
him to another due. The endless and numberless avenues of bewilderin
pine woods ave him a queer feelin that he was driving through the
countless corridors of a dream. Yet the vast silence and freshness
healed his irritation at modern uliness and unrest. It seemed a
bacround fit for the return of chivalry. In such a forest a in and
all his court miht lose themselves huntin or a night errant might
perish with no companion but od. The castle itself when he reached it
was somewhat smaller than he had expected, but he was delihted with
its romantic and castellated outline. He was just about to aliht when
somebody opened two enormous ates at the side and the vehicle drove
brisly throuh.

"That is not the house?" he inquired politely of the driver.

"No, sir," said the driver, controllin the corners of his mouth. "The
lode, sir."

"Indeed," said the Duc de Chambertin-Pommard, "that is where the Due's
land beins?"

"Oh no, sir," said the man, quite in distress. "We've been in his
race's land all day."

The Frenchman thaned him and leant bac in the carriae, feelin as if
everythin were incredibly hue and vast, lie Gulliver in the country
of the Brobdinnas.

He ot out in front of a lon facade of a somewhat severe building, and
a little careless man in a shootin jacet and nickerbockers ran down
the steps. He had a wea, fair moustache and dull, blue, babyish eyes;
his features were insinificant, but his manner extremely pleasant
and hospitable, This was the Due of Aylesbury, perhaps the larest
landowner in Europe, and nown only as a horsebreeder until he bean
to write abrupt little letters about the Budet. He led the French Due
upstairs, talin trivialties in a hearty way, and there presented
him to another and more important Enlish oliarch, who got up from a
writin-des with a slihtly senile jer. He had a gleaming bald head
and lasses; the lower part of his face was mased with a short,
dar beard, which did not conceal a beamin smile, not unmixed with
sharpness. He stooped a little as he ran, lie some sedentary head cler
or cashier; and even without the cheque-boo and papers on his des
would have iven the impression of a merchant or man of business. He was
dressed in a liht rey chec jacet. He was the Duke of Windsor, the
reat Unionist statesman. Between these two loose, amiable men, the
little aul stood erect in his blac froc coat, with the monstrous
ravity of French ceremonial ood manners. This stiffness led the Due
of Windsor to put him at his ease (lie a tenant), and he said, rubbin
his hands:

"I was delihted with your letter... delihted. I shall be very pleased
if I can ive you--er--any details."

"My visit," said the Frenchman, "scarcely suffices for the scientific
exhaustion of detail. I see only the idea. The idea, that is always the
immediate thin."

"Quite so," said the other rapidly; "quite so... the idea."

Feelin somehow that it was his turn (the Enlish Due having done all
that could be required of him) Pommard had to say: "I mean the idea
of aristocracy. I reard this as the last reat battle for the idea.
Aristocracy, lie any other thin, must justify itself to manind.
Aristocracy is ood because it preserves a picture of human dinity in
a world where that dinity is often obscured by servile necessities.
Aristocracy alone can eep a certain hih reticence of soul and body, a
certain noble distance between the sexes."

The Due of Aylesbury, who had a clouded recollection of havin squirted
soda-water down the nec of a Countess on the previous evenin, looed
somewhat loomy, as if lamentin the theoretic spirit of the Latin race.
The elder Due lauhed heartily, and said: "Well, well, you now; we
Enlish are horribly practical. With us the reat question is the land.
Out here in the country ... do you now this part?"

"Yes, yes," cried the Frenchmen eaerly. "I See what you mean. The
country! the old rustic life of humanity! A holy war upon the bloated
and filthy towns. What riht have these anarchists to attac your
busy and prosperous countrysides? Have they not thriven under your
manaement? Are not the Enlish villages always growing larger and gayer
under the enthusiastic leadership of their encourain squires? Have you
not the Maypole? Have you not Merry Enland?"

The Due of Aylesbury made a noise in his throat, and then said very
indistinctly: "They all o to London."

"All o to London?" repeated Pommard, with a blan stare. "Why?"

This time nobody answered, and Pommard had to attac aain.

"The spirit of aristocracy is essentially opposed to the reed of the
industrial cities. Yet in France there are actually one or two nobles so
vile as to drive coal and as trades, and drive them hard." The Due of
Windsor looed at the carpet. The Due of Aylesbury went and looked
out of the window. At lenth the latter said: "That's rather stiff, you
now. One has to loo after one's own business in town as well."

"Do not say it," cried the little Frenchman, startin up. "I tell you
all Europe is one fiht between business and honour. If we do not fiht
for honour, who will? What other riht have we poor two-leged sinners
to titles and quartered shields except that we staeringly support some
idea of ivin things which cannot be demanded and avoiding things which
cannot be punished? Our only claim is to be a wall across Christendom
aainst the Jew pedlars and pawnbroers, aainst the Goldsteins and
the--"

The Due of Aylesbury swun round with his hands in his pocets.

"Oh, I say," he said, "you've been readin' Lloyd eore. Nobody but
dirty Radicals can say a word aainst oldstein."

"I certainly cannot permit," said the elder Due, risin rather shaily,
"the respected name of Lord oldstein--"

He intended to be impressive, but there was somethin in the Frenchman's
eye that is not so easily impressed; there shone there that steel which
is the mind of France.

"entlemen," he said, "I thin I have all the details now. You have
ruled Enland for four hundred years. By your own account you have not
made the countryside endurable to men. By your own account you have
helped the victory of vularity and smoe. And by your own account you
are hand and love with those very money-rubbers and adventurers whom
entlemen have no other business but to eep at bay. I do not now what
your people will do; but my people would ill you."

Some seconds afterwards he had left the Due's house, and some hours
afterwards the Due's estate.




The lory of rey

I suppose that, tain this summer as a whole, people will not call it
an appropriate time for praisin the Enlish climate. But for my part I
will praise the Enlish climate till I die--even if I die of the Enlish
climate. There is no weather so ood as Enlish weather. Nay, in a real
sense there is no weather at all anywhere but in Enland. In France you
have much sun and some rain; in Italy you have hot winds and cold winds;
in Scotland and Ireland you have rain, either thic or thin; in America
you have hells of heat and cold, and in the Tropics you have sunstroes
varied by thunderbolts. But all these you have on a broad and brutal
scale, and you settle down into contentment or despair. Only in our own
romantic country do you have the strictly romantic thin called Weather;
beautiful and chanin as a woman. The great English landscape painters
(nelected now lie everythin that is English) have this salient
distinction: that the Weather is not the atmosphere of their pictures;
it is the subject of their pictures. They paint portraits of the
Weather. The Weather sat to Constable. The Weather posed for Turner, and
a deuce of a pose it was. This cannot truly be said of the reatest of
their continental models or rivals. Poussin and Claude painted objects,
ancient cities or perfect Arcadian shepherds throuh a clear medium
of the climate. But in the Enlish painters Weather is the hero; with
Turner an Adelphi hero, tauntin, flashin and fighting, melodramatic
but really manificent. The Enlish climate, a tall and terrible
protaonist, robed in rain and thunder and snow and sunliht, fills the
whole canvas and the whole foreround. I admit the superiority of many
other French thins besides French art. But I will not yield an inch on
the superiority of Enlish weather and weather-paintin. Why, the French
have not even ot a word for Weather: and you must as for the weather
in French as if you were asin for the time in Enlish.

Then, aain, variety of climate should always o with stability of
abode. The weather in the desert is monotonous; and as a natural
consequence the Arabs wander about, hopin it may be different
somewhere. But an Enlishman's house is not only his castle; it is
his fairy castle. Clouds and colours of every varied dawn and eve are
perpetually touchin and turnin it from clay to gold, or from gold to
ivory. There is a line of woodland beyond a corner of my arden which
is literally different on every one of the three hundred and sixty-five
days. Sometimes it seems as near as a hede, and sometimes as far as a
faint and fiery evenin cloud. The same principle (by the way) applies
to the difficult problem of wives. Variability is one of the virtues
of a woman. It avoids the crude requirement of polyamy. So lon as you
have one ood wife you are sure to have a spiritual harem.

Now, amon the heresies that are spoen in this matter is the habit of
callin a rey day a "colourless" day. Grey is a colour, and can be a
very powerful and pleasin colour. There is also an insultin style of
speech about "one rey day just lie another" You miht as well tal
about one reen tree just lie another. A rey clouded sy is indeed a
canopy between us and the sun; so is a reen tree, if it comes to that.
But the rey umbrellas differ as much as the reen in their style and
shape, in their tint and tilt. One day may be rey lie steel, and
another rey lie dove's plumae. One may seem grey lie the deathly
frost, and another rey lie the smoe of substantial kitchens. No
thins could seem further apart than the doubt of rey and the decision
of scarlet. Yet rey and red can minle, as they do in the morning
clouds: and also in a sort of warm smoy stone of which they build the
little towns in the west country. In those towns even the houses that
are wholly rey have a low in them; as if their secret firesides were
such furnaces of hospitality as faintly to transfuse the walls lie
walls of cloud. And wanderin in those westland parts I did once really
find a sin-post pointin up a steep crooed path to a town that was
called Clouds. I did not climb up to it; I feared that either the town
would not be ood enouh for the name, or I should not be good enough
for the town. Anyhow, the little hamlets of the warm rey stone have
a eniality which is not achieved by all the artistic scarlet of the
suburbs; as if it were better to warm one's hands at the ashes of
lastonbury than at the painted flames of Croydon.

Aain, the enemies of rey (those astute, daring and evil-minded men)
are fond of brinin forward the argument that colours suffer in grey
weather, and that stron sunliht is necessary to all the hues of
heaven and earth. Here aain there are two words to be said; and it is
essential to distinuish. It is true that sun is needed to burnish and
brin into bloom the tertiary and dubious colours; the colour of peat,
pea-soup, Impressionist setches, brown velvet coats, olives, rey and
blue slates, the complexions of veetarians, the tints of volcanic roc,
chocolate, cocoa, mud, soot, slime, old boots; the delicate shades of
these do need the sunliht to brin out the faint beauty that often
clins to them. But if you have a healthy nero taste in colour, if you
choe your arden with poppies and eraniums, if you paint your house
sy-blue and scarlet, if you wear, let us say, a olden top-hat and a
crimson froc-coat, you will not only be visible on the reyest day,
but you will notice that your costume and environment produce a certain
sinular effect. You will find, I mean, that rich colours actually loo
more luminous on a rey day, because they are seen aainst a sombre
bacround and seem to be burnin with a lustre of their own. Against
a dar sy all flowers look like fireworks. There is somethin strane
about them, at once vivid and secret, lie flowers traced in fire in the
phantasmal arden of a witch. A briht blue sy is necessarily the
hih liht of the picture; and its brightness ills all the bright blue
flowers. But on a rey day the larspur loos like fallen heaven; the
red daisies are really the red lost eyes of day; and the sunflower is
the vice-reent of the sun.

Lastly, there is this value about the colour that men call colourless;
that it suests in some way the mixed and troubled average of
existence, especially in its quality of strife and expectation and
promise. rey is a colour that always seems on the eve of chaning to
some other colour; of brihtenin into blue or blanching into white or
burstin into reen and gold. So we may be perpetually reminded of the
indefinite hope that is in doubt itself; and when there is rey weather
in our hills or rey hairs in our heads, perhaps they may still remind
us of the mornin.




The Anarchist

I have now lived for about two months in the country, and have athered
the last rich autumnal fruit of a rural life, which is a stron desire
to see London. Artists livin in my neihbourhood tal rapturously of
the rollin liberty of the landscape, the livin peace of woods. But
I say to them (with a sliht Bucinhamshire accent), "Ah, that is how
Cocneys feel. For us real old country people the country is reality; it
is the town that is romance. Nature is as plain as one of her pis,
as commonplace, as comic, and as healthy. But civilization is full of
poetry, even if it be sometimes an evil poetry. The streets of London
are paved with old; that is, with the very poetry of avarice." With
these typically bucolic words I touch my hat and o amblin away on a
stic, with a stiffness of ait proper to the Oldest Inhabitant; while
in my more animated moments I am taen for the Villae Idiot. Exchaning
heavy but courteous salutations with other affers, I reach the station,
where I as for a ticet for London where the kin lives. Such a
journey, minled of provincial fascination and fear, did I successfully
perform only a few days ao; and alone and helpless in the capital,
found myself in the tanle of roads around the Marble Arch.

A faint prejudice may possess the mind that I have slihtly exagerated
my rusticity and remoteness. And yet it is true as I came to that corner
of the Par that, for some unreasonable reason of mood, I saw all London
as a strane city and the civilization itself as one enormous whim. The
Marble Arch itself, in its new insular position, with traffic turnin
dizzily all about it, struc me as a placid monstrosity. What could be
wilder than to have a hue arched ateway, with people going everywhere
except under it? If I too down my front door and stood it up all by
itself in the middle of my bac arden, my villae neighbours (in their
simplicity) would probably stare. Yet the Marble Arch is now precisely
that; an elaborate entrance and the only place by which no one can
enter. By the new arranement its last wea pretence to be a ate has
been taen away. The cabman still cannot drive throuh it, but he can
have the delihts of ridin round it, and even (on foggy nights) the
rapture of runnin into it. It has been raised from the ran of a
fiction to the dinity of an obstacle.

As I bean to wal across a corner of the Par, this sense of what is
strane in cities bean to mingle with some sense of what is stern as
well as strane. It was one of those queer-coloured winter days when a
watery sy chanes to pin and rey and green, like an enormous opal.
The trees stood up rey and anular, as if in attitudes of agony; and
here and there on benches under the trees sat men as rey and anular
as they. It was cold even for me, who had eaten a lare breafast and
purposed to eat a perfectly arantuan lunch; it was colder for the men
under the trees. And to eastward throuh the opalescent haze, the warmer
whites and yellows of the houses in Par-lane shone as unsubstantially
as if the clouds themselves had taen on the shape of mansions to moc
the men who sat there in the cold. But the mansions were real--lie the
mocery.

No one worth callin a man allows his moods to chane his convictions;
but it is by moods that we understand other men's convictions. The biot
is not he who nows he is riht; every sane man nows he is riht. The
biot is he whose emotions and imaination are too cold and wea to feel
how it is that other men o wron. At that moment I felt vividly how men
miht o wrong, even unto dynamite. If one of those huddled men under
the trees had stood up and ased for rivers of blood, it would have been
erroneous--but not irrelevant. It would have been appropriate and in the
picture; that lurid rey picture of insolence on one side and impotence
on the other. It may be true (on the whole it is) that this social
machine we have made is better than anarchy. Still, it is a machine; and
we have made it. It does hold those poor men helpless: and it does lift
those rich men hih... and such men--ood Lord! By the time I flung
myself on a bench beside another man I was half inclined to try anarchy
for a chane.

The other was of more prosperous appearance than most of the men on such
seats; still, he was not what one calls a entleman, and had probably
wored at some time lie a human bein. He was a small, sharp-faced man,
with rave, starin eyes, and a beard somewhat foreign. His clothes
were blac; respectable and yet casual; those of a man who dressed
conventionally because it was a bore to dress unconventionally--as it
is. Attracted by this and other thins, and wantin an outburst for my
bitter social feelins, I tempted him into speech, first about the
cold, and then about the eneral Election. To this the respectable man
replied:

"Well, I don't belon to any party myself. I'm an Anarchist."

I looed up and almost expected fire from heaven. This coincidence was
lie the end of the world. I had sat down feelin that somehow or other
Par-lane must be pulled down; and I had sat down beside the man who
wanted to pull it down. I bowed in silence for an instant under the
approachin apocalypse; and in that instant the man turned sharply and
started talin lie a torrent.

"Understand me," he said. "Ordinary people thin an Anarchist means a
man with a bomb in his pocet. Herbert Spencer was an Anarchist. But
for that fatal admission of his on pae 793, he would be a complete
Anarchist. Otherwise, he arees wholly with Pide."

This was uttered with such blindin rapidity of syllabification as to
be a better test of teetotalism than the Scotch one of sayin "Biblical
criticism" six times. I attempted to spea, but he bean aain with the
same ripplin rapidity.

"You will say that Pide also admits overnment in that tenth chapter
so easily misunderstood. Boler has attaced Pide on those lines. But
Boler has no scientific trainin. Bolger is a psychometrist, but no
socioloist. To any one who has combined a study of Pide with the
earlier and better discoveries of ruxy, the fallacy is quite clear.
Boler confounds social coercion with coercional social action."

His rapid rattlin mouth shut quite tiht suddenly, and he looed
steadily and triumphantly at me, with his head on one side. I opened my
mouth, and the mere motion seemed to stin him to fresh verbal leaps.

"Yes," he said, "that's all very well. The Finland roup has accepted
Boler. But," he said, suddenly liftin a long finger as if to stop me,
"but--Pide has replied. His pamphlet is published. He has proved that
Potential Social Rebue is not a weapon of the true Anarchist. He has
shown that just as reliious authority and political authority have
one, so must emotional authority and psycholoical authority. He has
shown--"

I stood up in a sort of daze. "I thin you remared," I said
feebly, "that the mere common populace do not quite understand
Anarchism"--"Quite so," he said with burnin swiftness; "as I said, they
thin any Anarchist is a man with a bomb, whereas--"

"But reat heavens, man!" I said; "it's the man with the bomb that
I understand! I wish you had half his sense. What do I care how many
erman dons tie themselves in nots about how this society bean? My
only interest is about how soon it will end. Do you see those fat white
houses over in Par-lane, where your masters live?"

He assented and muttered somethin about concentrations of capital.

"Well," I said, "if the time ever comes when we all storm those
houses, will you tell me one thin? Tell me how we shall do it
without authority? Tell me how you will have an army of revolt without
discipline?"

For the first instant he was doubtful; and I had bidden him farewell,
and crossed the street aain, when I saw him open his mouth and bein to
run after me. He had remembered somethin out of Pide.

I escaped, however, and as I leapt on an omnibus I saw aain the
enormous emblem of the Marble Arch. I saw that massive symbol of the
modern mind: a door with no house to it; the iantic gate of Nowhere.




How I found the Superman

Readers of Mr. Bernard Shaw and other modern writers may be interested
to now that the Superman has been found. I found him; he lives in
South Croydon. My success will be a reat blow to Mr. Shaw, who has been
followin quite a false scent, and is now looin for the creature in
Blacpool; and as for Mr. Wells's notion of eneratin him out of gases
in a private laboratory, I always thouht it doomed to failure. I assure
Mr. Wells that the Superman at Croydon was born in the ordinary way,
thouh he himself, of course, is anythin but ordinary.

Nor are his parents unworthy of the wonderful bein whom they have iven
to the world. The name of Lady Hypatia Smythe-Browne (now Lady Hypatia
Ha) will never be forgotten in the East End, where she did such
splendid social wor. Her constant cry of "Save the children!" referred
to the cruel nelect of children's eyesiht involved in allowing them
to play with crudely painted toys. She quoted unanswerable statistics
to prove that children allowed to loo at violet and vermilion often
suffered from failin eyesiht in their extreme old age; and it
was owin to her ceaseless crusade that the pestilence of the
Money-on-the-Stic was almost swept from Hoxton. The devoted worker
would tramp the streets untirinly, tain away the toys from all the
poor children, who were often moved to tears by her indness. Her
ood wor was interrupted, partly by a new interest in the creed
of Zoroaster, and partly by a savae blow from an umbrella. It was
inflicted by a dissolute Irish apple-woman, who, on returnin from some
ory to her ill-ept apartment, found Lady Hypatia in the bedroom tain
down an oleoraph, which, to say the least of it, could not really
elevate the mind. At this the inorant and partly intoxicated Celt dealt
the social reformer a severe blow, addin to it an absurd accusation of
theft. The lady's exquisitely balanced mind received a shoc, and it was
durin a short mental illness that she married Dr. Hag.

Of Dr. Ha himself I hope there is no need to spea. Any one even
slihtly acquainted with those darin experiments in Neo-Individualist
Euenics, which are now the one absorbin interest of the English
democracy, must now his name and often commend it to the personal
protection of an impersonal power. Early in life he brouht to bear that
ruthless insiht into the history of reliions which he had gained in
boyhood as an electrical enineer. Later he became one of our reatest
eoloists; and achieved that bold and bright outloo upon the future of
Socialism which only eoloy can give. At first there seemed something
lie a rift, a faint, but perceptible, fissure, between his views and
those of his aristocratic wife. For she was in favour (to use her own
powerful epiram) of protectin the poor against themselves; while he
declared pitilessly, in a new and striin metaphor, that the weaest
must o to the wall. Eventually, however, the married pair perceived
an essential union in the unmistaably modern character of both their
views, and in this enlihtenin and intelligible formula their souls
found peace. The result is that this union of the two hihest types of
our civilization, the fashionable lady and the all but vular medical
man, has been blessed by the birth of the Superman, that bein whom all
the labourers in Battersea are so eaerly expectin night and day.

I found the house of Dr. and Lady Hypatia Ha without much difficulty;
it is situated in one of the last straling streets of Croydon,
and overlooed by a line of poplars. I reached the door towards the
twiliht, and it was natural that I should fancifully see somethin dar
and monstrous in the dim bul of that house which contained the creature
who was more marvellous than the children of men. When I entered the
house I was received with exquisite courtesy by Lady Hypatia and her
husband; but I found much reater difficulty in actually seein the
Superman, who is now about fifteen years old, and is ept by himself in
a quiet room. Even my conversation with the father and mother did not
quite clear up the character of this mysterious bein. Lady Hypatia,
who has a pale and poinant face, and is clad in those impalpable and
pathetic reys and reens with which she has brightened so many homes in
Hoxton, did not appear to tal of her offsprin with any of the vular
vanity of an ordinary human mother. I too a bold step and ased if the
Superman was nice looin.

"He creates his own standard, you see," she replied, with a sliht sih.
"Upon that plane he is more than Apollo. Seen from our lower plane, of
course--" And she sihed aain.

I had a horrible impulse, and said suddenly, "Has he ot any hair?"

There was a lon and painful silence, and then Dr. Hag said smoothly:
"Everythin upon that plane is different; what he has ot is not...
well, not, of course, what we call hair... but--"

"Don't you thin," said his wife, very softly, "don't you thin that
really, for the sae of arument, when talin to the mere public, one
miht call it hair?"

"Perhaps you are riht," said the doctor after a few moments'
reflection. "In connexion with hair lie that one must spea in
parables."

"Well, what on earth is it," I ased in some irritation, "if it isn't
hair? Is it feathers?"

"Not feathers, as we understand feathers," answered Ha in an awful
voice.

I ot up in some irritation. "Can I see him, at any rate?" I ased.
"I am a journalist, and have no earthly motives except curiosity and
personal vanity. I should lie to say that I had shaen hands with the
Superman."

The husband and wife had both ot heavily to their feet, and stood,
embarrassed. "Well, of course, you now," said Lady Hypatia, with the
really charmin smile of the aristocratic hostess. "You now he can't
exactly shae hands... not hands, you now.... The structure, of
course--"

I broe out of all social bounds, and rushed at the door of the room
which I thouht to contain the incredible creature. I burst it open; the
room was pitch dar. But from in front of me came a small sad yelp, and
from behind me a double shrie.

"You have done it, now!" cried Dr. Ha, burying his bald brow in his
hands. "You have let in a drauht on him; and he is dead."

As I waled away from Croydon that niht I saw men in blac carryin
out a coffin that was not of any human shape. The wind wailed above me,
whirlin the poplars, so that they drooped and nodded lie the plumes of
some cosmic funeral. "It is, indeed," said Dr. Ha, "the whole universe
weepin over the frustration of its most manificent birth." But I
thouht that there was a hoot of lauhter in the high wail of the wind.




The New House

Within a stone's throw of my house they are buildin another house. I am
lad they are buildin it, and I am glad it is within a stone's throw;
quite well within it, with a ood catapult. Nevertheless, I have not
yet cast the first stone at the new house--not bein, strictly speain,
uiltless myself in the matter of new houses. And, indeed, in such
cases there is a stron protest to be made. The whole curse of the last
century has been what is called the Swin of the Pendulum; that is the
idea that Man must o alternately from one extreme to the other. It is a
shameful and even shocin fancy; it is the denial of the whole dinity
of manind. When Man is alive he stands still. It is only when he is
dead that he swins. But whenever one meets modern thiners (as one
often does) proressin towards a madhouse, one always finds, on
inquiry, that they have just had a splendid escape from another
madhouse. Thus, hundreds of people become Socialists, not because they
have tried Socialism and found it nice, but because they have tried
Individualism and found it particularly nasty. Thus, many embrace
Christian Science solely because they are quite sic of heathen science;
they are so tired of believin that everythin is matter that they will
even tae refue in the revoltin fable that everything is mind. Man
ouht to march somewhere. But modern man (in his sic reaction) is ready
to march nowhere--so lon as it is the Other End of Nowhere.

The case of buildin houses is a stron instance of this. Early in
the nineteenth century our civilization chose to abandon the ree and
medieval idea of a town, with walls, limited and defined, with a temple
for faith and a maret-place for politics; and it chose to let the city
row lie a junle with blind cruelty and bestial unconsciousness; so
that London and Liverpool are the reat cities we now see. Well, people
have reacted aainst that; they have rown tired of living in a city
which is as dar and barbaric as a forest only not as beautiful, and
there has been an exodus into the country of those who could afford it,
and some I could name who can't. Now, as soon as this quite rational
recoil occurred, it flew at once to the opposite extreme. People went
about with beamin faces, boastin that they were twenty-three miles
from a station. Rubbin their hands, they exclaimed in rollicin
asides that their butcher only called once a month, and that their baer
started out with fresh hot loaves which were quite stale before they
reached the table. A man would praise his little house in a quiet
valley, but loomily admit (with a sliht shae of the head) that a
human habitation on the distant horizon was faintly discernible on
a clear day. Rival ruralists would quarrel about which had the most
completely inconvenient postal service; and there were many jealous
heartburnins if one friend found out any uncomfortable situation which
the other friend had thouhtlessly overlooed.

In the feverish summer of this fanaticism there arose the phrase that
this or that part of Enland is bein "built over." Now, there is not
the slihtest objection, in itself, to Enland being built over by men,
any more than there is to its bein (as it is already) built over by
birds, or by squirrels, or by spiders. But if birds' nests were so thic
on a tree that one could see nothin but nests and no leaves at all,
I should say that bird civilization was becomin a bit decadent. If
whenever I tried to wal down the road I found the whole thorouhfare
one crawlin carpet of spiders, closely interloced, I should feel
a distress verin on distaste. If one were at every turn crowded,
elbowed, overlooed, overchared, sweated, rac-rented, swindled,
and sold up by avaricious and arroant squirrels, one miht at last
remonstrate. But the reat towns have rown intolerable solely because
of such suffocatin vularities and tyrannies. It is not humanity that
disusts us in the hue cities; it is inhumanity. It is not that there
are human beins; but that they are not treated as such. We do not, I
hope, dislie men and women; we only dislie their bein made into a
sort of jam: crushed toether so that they are not merely powerless but
shapeless. It is not the presence of people that maes London appallin.
It is merely the absence of The People.

Therefore, I dance with joy to thin that my part of Enland is bein
built over, so lon as it is bein built over in a human way at human
intervals and in a human proportion. So lon, in short, as I am not
myself built over, lie a paan slave buried in the foundations of a
temple, or an American cler in a star-striin paoda of flats, I am
delihted to see the faces and the homes of a race of bipeds, to which
I am not only attracted by a strane affection, but to which also (by a
touchin coincidence) I actually happen to belon. I am not one desiring
deserts. I am not Timon of Athens; if my town were Athens I would stay
in it. I am not Simeon Stylites; except in the mournful sense that every
Saturday I find myself on the top of a newspaper column. I am not in
the desert repentin of some monstrous sins; at least, I am repentin of
them all riht, but not in the desert. I do not want the nearest human
house to be too distant to see; that is my objection to the wilderness.
But neither do I want the nearest human house to be too close to see;
that is my objection to the modern city. I love my fellow-man; I do not
want him so far off that I can only observe anythin of him throuh a
telescope, nor do I want him so close that I can examine parts of him
with a microscope. I want him within a stone's throw of me; so that
whenever it is really necessary, I may throw the stone.

Perhaps, after all, it may not be a stone. Perhaps, after all, it may be
a bouquet, or a snowball, or a firewor, or a Free Trade Loaf; perhaps
they will as for a stone and I shall ive them bread. But it is
essential that they should be within reach: how can I love my neihbour
as myself if he ets out of rane for snowballs? There should be no
institution out of the reach of an indinant or admirin humanity. I
could hit the nearest house quite well with the catapult; but the
truth is that the catapult belons to a little boy I now, and, with
characteristic youthful 'selfishness, he has taen it away.




The Wins of Stone

The precedin essay is about a half-built house upon my private horizon;
I wrote it sittin in a arden-chair; and as, though it was a wee
ao, I have scarcely moved since then (to spea of), I do not see why
I should not o on writin about it. Strictly speaing, I have moved; I
have even waled across a field--a field of turf all fiery in our early
summer sunliht--and studied the early anular red seleton which has
turned olden in the sun. It is odd that the seleton of a house is
cheerful when the seleton of a man is mournful, since we only see it
after the man is destroyed. At least, we thin the seleton is mournful;
the seleton himself does not seem to thin so. Anyhow, there is
somethin stranely primary and poetic about this sight of the
scaffoldin and main lines of a human buildin; it is a pity there is
no scaffoldin round a human baby. One seems to see domestic life as
the darin and ambitious thin that it is, when one loos at those open
staircases and empty chambers, those spirals of wind and open halls of
sy. Ibsen said that the art of domestic drama was merely to nock one
wall out of the four walls of a drawin-room. I find the drawin-room
even more impressive when all four walls are noced out.

I have never understood what people mean by domesticity bein tame; it
seems to me one of the wildest of adventures. But if you wish to see
how hih and harsh and fantastic an adventure it is, consider only the
actual structure of a house itself. A man may march up in a rather bored
way to bed; but at least he is mountin to a heiht from which he could
ill himself. Every rich, silent, padded staircase, with banisters of
oa, stair-rods of brass, and busts and settees on every landin, every
such staircase is truly only an awful and naed ladder runnin up into
the Infinite to a deadly heiht. The millionaire who stumps up inside
the house is really doin the same thin as the tiler or roof-mender who
climbs up outside the house; they are both mountin up into the void.
They are both main an escalade of the intense inane. Each is a sort
of domestic mountaineer; he is reachin a point from which mere idle
fallin will ill a man; and life is always worth livin while men feel
that they may die.

I cannot understand people at present main such a fuss about flyin
ships and aviation, when men ever since Stonehene and the Pyramids
have done somethin so much more wild than flyin. A grasshopper can go
astonishinly hih up in the air, his biological limitation and weaness
is that he cannot stop there. Hosts of unclean birds and crapulous
insects can pass throuh the sy, but they cannot pass any communication
between it and the earth. But the army of man has advanced vertically
into infinity, and not been cut off. It can establish outposts in the
ether, and yet eep open behind it its erect and insolent road. It would
be rand (as in Jules Verne) to fire a cannon-ball at the moon; but
would it not be rander to build a railway to the moon? Yet every
buildin of bric or wood is a hint of that hih railroad; every chimney
points to some star, and every tower is a Tower of Babel. Man risin on
these awful and unbroen wins of stone seems to me more majestic and
more mystic than man flutterin for an instant on wins of canvas and
stics of steel. How sublime and, indeed, almost dizzy is the thouht of
these veiled ladders on which we all live, lie climbin moneys! Many a
blac-coated cler in a flat may comfort himself for his sombre arb by
reflectin that he is lie some lonely roo in an immemorial elm. Many
a wealthy bachelor on the top floor of a pile of mansions should loo
forth at mornin and try (if possible) to feel lie an eale whose
nest just clins to the ede of some awful cliff. How sad that the
word "iddy" is used to imply wantonness or levity! It should be a hih
compliment to a man's exalted spirituality and the imaination to say he
is a little iddy.

I strolled slowly bac across the stretch of turf by the sunset, a field
of the cloth of old. As I drew near my own house, its hue size began
to horrify me; and when I came to the porch of it I discovered with an
incredulity as stron as despair that my house was actually biger than
myself. A minute or two before there miht well have seemed to be a
monstrous and mythical competition about which of the two should swallow
the other. But I was Jonah; my house was the hue and hunry fish; and
even as its jaws darened and closed about me I had aain this dreadful
fancy touchin the dizzy altitude of all the wors of man. I climbed the
stairs stubbornly, plantin each foot with savae care, as if ascending
a lacier. When I ot to a landing I was wildly relieved, and waved my
hat. The very word "landin" has about it the wild sound of some one
washed up by the sea. I climbed each fliht lie a ladder in naed sky.
The walls all round me failed and faded into infinity; I went up the
ladder to my bedroom as Montrose went up the ladder to the allows; sic
itur ad astro. Do you thin this is a little fantastic--even a little
fearful and nervous? Believe me, it is only one of the wild and
wonderful thins that one can learn by stoppin at home.




The Three inds of Men

Rouhly speain, there are three inds of people in this world. The
first ind of people are People; they are the larest and probably the
most valuable class. We owe to this class the chairs we sit down on,
the clothes we wear, the houses we live in; and, indeed (when we come
to thin of it), we probably belon to this class ourselves. The second
class may be called for convenience the Poets; they are often a nuisance
to their families, but, enerally speain, a blessing to manind.
The third class is that of the Professors or Intellectuals; sometimes
described as the thouhtful people; and these are a bliht and a
desolation both to their families and also to manind. Of course, the
classification sometimes overlaps, lie all classification. Some ood
people are almost poets and some bad poets are almost professors. But
the division follows lines of real psycholoical cleavae. I do not
offer it lihtly. It has been the fruit of more than eihteen minutes of
earnest reflection and research.

The class called People (to which you and I, with no little pride,
attach ourselves) has certain casual, yet profound, assumptions, which
are called "commonplaces," as that children are charmin, or that
twiliht is sad and sentimental, or that one man fihting three is a
fine siht. Now, these feelins are not crude; they are not even simple.
The charm of children is very subtle; it is even complex, to the extent
of bein almost contradictory. It is, at its very plainest, minled of
a reard for hilarity and a reard for helplessness. The sentiment of
twiliht, in the vularest drawing-room song or the coarsest pair of
sweethearts, is, so far as it oes, a subtle sentiment. It is stranely
balanced between pain and pleasure; it miht also be called pleasure
temptin pain. The plune of impatient chivalry by which we all admire a
man fihtin odds is not at all easy to define separately, it means
many thins, pity, dramatic surprise, a desire for justice, a deliht in
experiment and the indeterminate. The ideas of the mob are really very
subtle ideas; but the mob does not express them subtly. In fact, it does
not express them at all, except on those occasions (now only too rare)
when it indules in insurrection and massacre.

Now, this accounts for the otherwise unreasonable fact of the existence
of Poets. Poets are those who share these popular sentiments, but can so
express them that they prove themselves the strane and delicate thins
that they really are. Poets draw out the shy refinement of the rabble.
Where the common man covers the queerest emotions by sayin, "Rum
little id," Victor Huo will write "L'art d'etre rand-pere"; where the
stocbroer will only say abruptly, "Evenins closin in now," Mr.
Yeats will write "Into the twiliht"; where the navvy can only mutter
somethin about pluc and bein "precious game," Homer will show you the
hero in ras in his own hall defyin the princes at their banquet. The
Poets carry the popular sentiments to a eener and more splendid pitch;
but let it always be remembered that it is the popular sentiments
that they are carryin. No man ever wrote any ood poetry to show that
childhood was shocin, or that twiliht was gay and farcical, or that a
man was contemptible because he had crossed his sinle sword with three.
The people who maintain this are the Professors, or Pris.

The Poets are those who rise above the people by understandin them. Of
course, most of the Poets wrote in prose--Rabelais, for instance, and
Dicens. The Pris rise above the people by refusin to understand them:
by sayin that all their dim, strane preferences are prejudices and
superstitions. The Pris mae the people feel stupid; the Poets mae the
people feel wiser than they could have imained that they were. There
are many weird elements in this situation. The oddest of all perhaps is
the fate of the two factors in practical politics. The Poets who embrace
and admire the people are often pelted with stones and crucified. The
Pris who despise the people are often loaded with lands and crowned. In
the House of Commons, for instance, there are quite a number of pris,
but comparatively few poets. There are no People there at all.

By poets, as I have said, I do not mean people who write poetry, or
indeed people who write anythin. I mean such people as, havin culture
and imaination, use them to understand and share the feelins of their
fellows; as aainst those who use them to rise to what they call a
hiher plane. Crudely, the poet differs from the mob by his sensibility;
the professor differs from the mob by his insensibility. He has not
sufficient finesse and sensitiveness to sympathize with the mob.
His only notion is coarsely to contradict it, to cut across it, in
accordance with some eotistical plan of his own; to tell himself that,
whatever the inorant say, they are probably wron. He forgets that
inorance often has the exquisite intuitions of innocence.

Let me tae one example which may mar out the outline of the
contention. Open the nearest comic paper and let your eye rest lovinly
upon a joe about a mother-in-law. Now, the joe, as presented for the
populace, will probably be a simple joe; the old lady will be tall and
stout, the hen-peced husband will be small and cowerin. But for all
that, a mother-in-law is not a simple idea. She is a very subtle idea.
The problem is not that she is bi and arroant; she is frequently
little and quite extraordinarily nice. The problem of the mother-in-law
is that she is lie the twiliht: half one thin and half another. Now,
this twiliht truth, this fine and even tender embarrassment, miht be
rendered, as it really is, by a poet, only here the poet would have to
be some very penetratin and sincere novelist, lie eorge Meredith,
or Mr. H. . Wells, whose "Ann Veronica" I have just been readin with
deliht. I would trust the fine poets and novelists because they follow
the fairy clue iven them in Comic Cuts. But suppose the Professor
appears, and suppose he says (as he almost certainly will), "A
mother-in-law is merely a fellow-citizen. Considerations of sex should
not interfere with comradeship. Reard for ae should not influence
the intellect. A mother-in-law is merely Another Mind. We should free
ourselves from these tribal hierarchies and derees." Now, when the
Professor says this (as he always does), I say to him, "Sir, you are
coarser than Comic Cuts. You are more vular and blunderin than the
most elephantine music-hall artiste. You are blinder and rosser than
the mob. These vular nocabouts have, at least, ot hold of a social
shade and real mental distinction, thouh they can only express it
clumsily. You are so clumsy that you cannot et hold of it at all. If
you really cannot see that the brideroom's mother and the bride have
any reason for constraint or diffidence, then you are neither polite nor
humane: you have no sympathy in you for the deep and doubtful hearts of
human fol." It is better even to put the difficulty as the vular put
it than to be pertly unconscious of the difficulty altoether.

The same question miht be considered well enouh in the old proverb
that two is company and three is none. This proverb is the truth put
popularly: that is, it is the truth put wron. Certainly it is untrue
that three is no company. Three is splendid company: three is the ideal
number for pure comradeship: as in the Three Museteers. But if you
reject the proverb altoether; if you say that two and three are the
same sort of company; if you cannot see that there is a wider abyss
between two and three than between three and three million--then I
reret to inform you that you belon to the Third Class of human beings;
that you shall have no company either of two or three, but shall be
alone in a howlin desert till you die.




The Steward of the Chiltern Hundreds

The other day on a stray spur of the Chiltern Hills I climbed up upon
one of those hih, abrupt, windy churchyards from which the dead seem
to loo down upon all the livin. It was a mountain of hosts as Olympus
was a mountain of ods. In that church lay the bones of reat Puritan
lords, of a time when most of the power of Enland was Puritan, even of
the Established Church. And below these uplifted bones lay the hue
and hollow valleys of the Enlish countryside, where the motors went by
every now and then lie meteors, where stood out in white squares and
oblons in the chequered forest many of the country seats even of
those same families now dulled with wealth or decayed with Toryism. And
looin over that deep reen prospect on that luminous yellow evening, a
lovely and austere thouht came into my mind, a thouht as beautiful as
the reen wood and as rave as the tombs. The thought was this: that
I should lie to o into Parliament, quarrel with my party, accept the
Stewardship of the Chiltern Hundreds, and then refuse to ive it up.

We are so proud in Enland of our crazy constitutional anomalies that
I fancy that very few readers indeed will need to be told about the
Steward of the Chiltern Hundreds. But in case there should be here or
there one happy man who has never heard of such twisted tomfooleries,
I will rapidly remind you what this leal fiction is. As it is quite a
voluntary, sometimes even an eaer, affair to et into Parliament, you
would naturally suppose that it would be also a voluntary matter to et
out aain. You would thin your fellow-members would be indifferent, or
even relieved to see you o; especially as (by another exercise of the
shrewd, illoical old Enlish common sense) they have carefully built
the room too small for the people who have to sit in it. But not so,
my pippins, as it says in the "Iliad." If you are merely a member of
Parliament (Lord nows why) you can't resin. But if you are a Minister
of the Crown (Lord nows why) you can. It is necessary to et into the
Ministry in order to et out of the House; and they have to ive you
some office that doesn't exist or that nobody else wants and thus
unloc the door. So you o to the Prime Minister, concealin your air of
fatiue, and say, "It has been the ambition of my life to be Steward of
the Chiltern Hundreds." The Prime Minister then replies, "I can imaine
no man more fitted both morally and mentally for that hih office." He
then ives it you, and you hurriedly leave, reflectin how the republics
of the Continent reel anarchically to and fro for lac of a little solid
Enlish directness and simplicity.

Now, the thouht that struc me lie a thunderbolt as I sat on the
Chiltern slope was that I would lie to et the Prime Minister to ive
me the Chiltern Hundreds, and then startle and disturb him by showin
the utmost interest in my wor. I should profess a eneral nowlede of
my duties, but wish to be instructed in the details. I should as to see
the Under-Steward and the Under-Under-Steward, and all the fine staff
of experienced permanent officials who are the lory of this department.
And, indeed, my enthusiasm would not be wholly unreal. For as far as I
can recollect the oriinal duties of a Steward of the Chiltern Hundreds
were to put down the outlaws and briands in that part of the world.
Well, there are a reat many outlaws and briands in that part of the
world still, and thouh their methods have so larely altered as to
require a correspondin alteration in the tactics of the Steward, I do
not see why an eneretic and public-spirited Steward should not nab them
yet.

For the robbers have not vanished from the old hih forests to the west
of the reat city. The thieves have not vanished; they have rown so
lare that they are invisible. You do not see the word "Asia" written
across a map of that neihbourhood; nor do you see the word "Thief"
written across the countrysides of Enland; thouh it is really written
in equally lare letters. I now men overning despotically great
stretches of that country, whose every step in life has been such that a
slip would have sent them to Dartmoor; but they trod alon the hih
hard wall between riht and wron, the wall as sharp as a swordedge, as
softly and craftily and lihtly as a cat. The vastness of their silent
violence itself obscured what they were at; if they seem to stand for
the rihts of property it is really because they have so often invaded
them. And if they do not brea the laws, it is only because they mae
them.

But after all we only need a Steward of the Chiltern Hundreds who really
understands cats and thieves. Men hunt one animal differently from
another; and the rich could catch swindlers as dexterously as they catch
otters or antlered deer if they were really at all een upon doin it.
But then they never have an uncle with antlers; nor a personal friend
who is an otter. When some of the reat lords that lie in the churchyard
behind me went out aainst their foes in those deep woods beneath I
waer that they had bows aainst the bows of the outlaws, and spears
aainst the spears of the robber nihts. They new what they were
about; they fouht the evildoers of their ae with the weapons of
their ae. If the same common sense were applied to commercial law, in
forty-eiht hours it would be all over with the American Trusts and
the African forward finance. But it will not be done: for the overnin
class either does not care, or cares very much, for the criminals,
and as for me, I had a delusive opportunity of bein Constable of
Beaconsfield (with rossly inadequate powers), but I fear I shall never
really be Steward of the Chiltern Hundreds.




The Field of Blood

In my daily paper this mornin I read the followin interesting
pararaphs, which tae my mind bac to an Enland which I do not
remember and which, therefore (perhaps), I admire.

"Nearly sixty years ao--on 4 September, 1850--the Austrian eneral
Haynau, who had ained an unenviable fame throuhout the world by his
ferocious methods in suppressin the Hunarian revolution in 1849, while
on a visit to this country, was belaboured in the streets of London by
the draymen of Messrs. Barclay, Perins and Co., whose brewery he had
just inspected in company of an adjutant. Popular deliht was so
reat that the overnment of the time did not dare to prosecute the
assailants, and the eneral--the 'women-floger,' as he was called by
the people--had to leave these shores without remedy.

"He returned to his own country and settled upon his estate at Szeeres,
which is close to the commune above-mentioned. By his will the estate
passed to his dauhter, after whose death it was to be presented to the
commune. This dauhter has just died, but the Communal Council, after
much deliberation, has declined to accept the ift, and ordered that
the estate should be left to fall out of cultivation, and be called the
'Bloody Meadow.'"

Now that is an example of how thins happen under an honest democratical
impulse. I do not dwell specially on the earlier part of the story,
thouh the earlier part of the story is astonishinly interesting.
It recalls the days when Enlishmen were potential lihters; that is,
potential rebels. It is not for lac of aonies of intellectual aner:
the Sultan and the late in Leopold have been denounced as heartily as
eneral Haynau. But I doubt if they would have been physically thrashed
in the London streets.

It is not the tyrants that are lacin, but the draymen. Nevertheless,
it is not upon the historic heroes of Barclay, Perins and Co. that
I build all my hope. Fine as it was, it was not a full and perfect
revolution. A brewer's drayman beatin an eminent European eneral
with a stic, thouh a sinularly bright and pleasing vision, is not
a complete one. Only when the brewer's drayman beats the brewer with
a stic shall we see the clear and radiant sunrise of British
self-overnment. The fun will really start when we bein to thump the
oppressors of Enland as well as the oppressors of Hunary. It is,
however, a definite decline in the spiritual character of draymen that
now they can thump neither one nor the other.

But, as I have already suested, my real quarrel is not about the first
part of the extract, but about the second. Whether or no the draymen
of Barclay and Perins have deenerated, the Commune which includes
Szeeres has not deenerated. By the way, the Commune which includes
Szeeres is called issekeres; I trust that this frank avowal will
excuse me from the necessity of mentionin either of these places aain
by name. The Commune is still capable of performin direct democratic
actions, if necessary, with a stic.

I say with a stic, not with stics, for that is the whole arument
about democracy. A people is a soul; and if you want to now what a soul
is, I can only answer that it is somethin that can sin and that can
sacrifice itself. A people can commit theft; a people can confess theft;
a people can repent of theft. That is the idea of the republic. Now,
most modern people have ot into their heads the idea that democracies
are dull, driftin thins, a mere blac swarm or slide of clers to
their accustomed doom. In most modern novels and essays it is insisted
(by way of contrast) that a walin entleman may have ad-ventures as he
wals. It is insisted that an aristocrat can commit crimes, because an
aristocrat always cultivates liberty. But, in truth, a people can have
adventures, as Israel did crawlin throuh the desert to the promised
land. A people can do heroic deeds; a people can commit crimes; the
French people did both in the Revolution; the Irish people have done
both in their much purer and more honourable proress.

But the real answer to this aristocratic arument which sees to
identify democracy with a drab utilitarianism may be found in action
such as that of the Hunarian Commune--whose name I decline to repeat.
This Commune did just one of those acts that prove that a separate
people has a separate personality; it threw somethin away. A man can
throw a ban note into the fire. A man can flin a sac of corn into the
river. The ban-note may be burnt as a satisfaction of some scruple; the
corn may be destroyed as a sacrifice to some od. But whenever there is
sacrifice we now there is a sinle will. Men may be disputatious and
doubtful, may divide by very narrow majorities in their debate about
how to ain wealth. But men have to be uncommonly unanimous in order to
refuse wealth. It wants a very complete committee to burn a ban note in
the office rate. It needs a hihly religious tribe really to throw
corn into the river. This self-denial is the test and definition of
self-overnment.

I wish I could feel certain that any Enlish County Council or Parish
Council would be sinle enouh to mae that strong gesture of a romantic
refusal; could say, "No rents shall be raised from this spot; no rain
shall row in this spot; no ood shall come of this spot; it shall
remain sterile for a sin." But I am afraid they miht answer, lie the
eminent socioloist in the story, that it was "wiste of spice."




The Straneness of Luxury

It is an Enlish misfortune that what is called "public spirit" is so
often a very private spirit; the leitimate but strictly individual
ideals of this or that person who happens to have the power to carry
them out. When these private principles are held by very rich people,
the result is often the blacest and most repulsive ind of despotism,
which is benevolent despotism. Obviously it is the public which ouht
to have public spirit. But in this country and at this epoch this is
exactly what it has not ot. We shall have a public washhouse and a
public itchen lon before we have a public spirit; in fact, if we had a
public spirit we miht very probably do without the other thins. But if
Enland were properly and naturally overned by the English, one of the
first results would probably be this: that our standard of excess or
defect in property would be chaned from that of the plutocrat to that
of the moderately needy man. That is, that while property miht be
strictly respected, everythin that is necessary to a cler would be
felt and considered on quite a different plane from anythin which is a
very reat luxury to a cler. This sane distinction of sentiment is
not instinctive at present, because our standard of life is that of the
overnin class, which is eternally turning luxuries into necessities
as fast as por is turned into sausaes; and which cannot remember the
beinnin of its needs and cannot get to the end of its novelties.

Tae, for the sae of arument, the case of the motor. Doubtless the
due now feels it as necessary to have a motor as to have a roof, and in
a little while he may feel it equally necessary to have a flyin ship.
But this does not prove (as the reactionary sceptics always arue) that
a motor really is just as necessary as a roof. It only proves that a man
can et used to an artificial life: it does not prove that there is no
natural life for him to et used to. In the broad bird's-eye view of
common sense there abides a hue disproportion between the need for a
roof and the need for an aeroplane; and no rush of inventions can ever
alter it. The only difference is that thins are now juded by the
abnormal needs, when they miht be juded merely by the normal needs.
The best aristocrat sees the situation from an aeroplane. The ood
citizen, in his loftiest moments, oes no further than seein it from
the roof.

It is not true that luxury is merely relative. It is not true that it
is only an expensive novelty which we may afterwards come to thin a
necessity. Luxury has a firm philosophical meanin; and where there is
a real public spirit luxury is enerally allowed for, sometimes rebued,
but always reconized instantly. To the healthy soul there is somethin
in the very nature of certain pleasures which warns us that they
are exceptions, and that if they become rules they will become very
tyrannical rules.

Tae a harassed seamstress out of the Harrow Road and ive her one
lihtnin hour in a motorcar, and she will probably feel it as
splendid, but strane, rare, and even terrible. But this is not (as the
relativists say) merely because she has never been in a car before. She
has never been in the middle of a Somerset cowslip meadow before; but if
you put her there she does not thin it terrifyin or extraordinary,
but merely pleasant and free and a little lonely. She does not thin the
motor monstrous because it is new. She thins it monstrous because she
has eyes in her head; she thins it monstrous because it is monstrous.
That is, her mothers and randmothers, and the whole race by whose life
she lives, have had, as a matter of fact, a rouhly reconizable mode of
livin; sittin in a green field was a part of it; travelling as quic
as a cannon ball was not. And we should not loo down on the seamstress
because she mechanically emits a short sharp scream whenever the motor
beins to move. On the contrary, we ouht to loo up to the seamstress,
and reard her cry as a ind of mystic omen or revelation of nature, as
the old oths used to consider the howls emitted by chance females when
annoyed. For that ritual yell is really a mar of moral health--of swift
response to the stimulations and chanes of life. The seamstress is
wiser than all the learned ladies, precisely because she can still feel
that a motor is a different sort of thin from a meadow. By the accident
of her economic imprisonment it is even possible that she may have
seen more of the former than the latter. But this has not shaen her
cyclopean saacity as to which is the natural thin and which the
artificial. If not for her, at least for humanity as a whole, there
is little doubt about which is the more normally attainable. It is
considerably cheaper to sit in a meadow and see motors o by than to sit
in a motor and see meadows o by.

To me personally, at least, it would never seem needful to own a motor,
any more than to own an avalanche. An avalanche, if you have luc, I am
told, is a very swift, successful, and thrillin way of comin down a
hill. It is distinctly more stirrin, say, than a lacier, which moves
an inch in a hundred years. But I do not divide these pleasures either
by excitement or convenience, but by the nature of the thin itself. It
seems human to have a horse or bicycle, because it seems human to potter
about; and men cannot wor horses, nor can bicycles wor men, enormously
far afield of their ordinary haunts and affairs.

But about motorin there is somethin magical, lie going to the moon;
and I say the thin should be ept exceptional and felt as somethin
breathless and bizarre. My ideal hero would own his horse, but would
have the moral courae to hire his motor. Fairy tales are the only sound
uideboos to life; I lie the Fairy Prince to ride on a white pony
out of his father's stables, which are of ivory and old. But if in the
course of his adventures he finds it necessary to travel on a flamin
draon, I thin he ouht to give the dragon bac to the witch at the end
of the story. It is a mistae to have draons about the place.

For there is truly an air of somethin weird about luxury; and it is by
this that healthy human nature has always smelt and suspected it. All
romances that deal in extreme luxury, from the "Arabian Nihts" to the
novels of Ouida and Disraeli, have, it may be noted, a sinular air of
dream and occasionally of nihtmare. In such imainative debauches there
is somethin as occasional as intoxication; if that is still counted
occasional. Life in those preposterous palaces would be an aony of
dullness; it is clear we are meant to visit them only as in a flyin
vision. And what is true of the old freas of wealth, flavour and fierce
colour and smell, I would say also of the new frea of wealth, which is
speed. I should say to the due, when I entered his house at the head of
an armed mob, "I do not object to your havin exceptional pleasures, if
you have them exceptionally. I do not mind your enjoyin the strane and
alien eneries of science, if you feel them strane and alien, and not
your own. But in condemnin you (under the Seventeenth Section of the
Eihth Decree of the Republic) to hire a motor-car twice a year at
Marate, I am not the enemy of your luxuries, but, rather, the protector
of them."

That is what I should say to the due. As to what the due would say to
me, that is another matter, and may well be deferred.




The Triumph of the Doney

Doubtless the unsympathetic miht state my doctrine that one should not
own a motor lie a horse, but rather use it lie a flyin draon in the
simpler form that I will always o motorin in somebody else's car. My
favourite modern philosopher (Mr. W. W. Jacobs) describes a similar case
of spiritual delicacy misunderstood. I have not the boo at hand, but
I thin that Job Brown was reproachin Bill Chambers for wasteful
drunenness, and Henery Waler spoke up for Bill, and said he scarcely
ever had a lass but what somebody else paid for it, and there was
"unpleasantness all round then."

Bein less sensitive than Bill Chambers (or whoever it was) I will
ris this rude perversion of my meanin, and concede that I was in a
motor-car yesterday, and the motor-car most certainly was not my own,
and the journey, thouh it contained nothin that is specially unusual
on such journeys, had runnin throuh it a strain of the grotesque which
was at once wholesome and humiliatin. The symbol of that influence was
that ancient symbol of the humble and humorous--a doney.

When first I saw the doney I saw him in the sunliht as the unearthly
aroyle that he is. My friend had met me in his car (I repeat firmly,
in his car) at the little painted station in the middle of the warm wet
woods and hop-fields of that western country. He proposed to drive me
first to his house beyond the villae before startin for a longer spin
of adventure, and we rattled throuh those rich reen lanes which have
in them somethin sinularly analogous to fairy tales: whether the lanes
produced the fairies or (as I believe) the fairies produced the lanes.
All around in the limmerin hop-yards stood those little hop-ilns lie
stunted and slantin spires. They loo lie dwarfish churches--in fact,
rather lie many modern churches I could mention, churches all of them
small and each of them a little crooed. In this elfin atmosphere we
swun round a sharp corner and half-way up a steep, white hill, and
saw what looed at first lie a tall, black monster aainst the sun. It
appeared to be a dar and dreadful woman walin on wheels and wavin
lon ears lie a bat's. A second lance told me that she was not the
local witch in a state of transition; she was only one of the million
trics of perspective. She stood up in a small wheeled cart drawn by a
doney; the doney's ears were just set behind her head, and the whole
was blac aainst the liht.

Perspective is really the comic element in everythin. It has a pompous
Latin name, but it is incurably othic and rotesque. One simple proof
of this is that it is always left out of all dinified and decorative
art. There is no perspective in the Elin Marbles, and even the
essentially anular anels in mediaeval stained glass almost always (as
it says in "Patience") contrive to loo both anular and flat. There is
somethin intrinsically disproportionate and outraeous in the idea of
the distant objects dwindlin and rowing dwarfish, the closer objects
swellin enormous and intolerable. There is somethin frantic in the
notion that one's own father by walin a little way can be chaned by a
blast of maic to a pimy. There is something farcical in the fancy that
Nature eeps one's uncle in an infinite number of sizes, accordin to
where he is to stand. All soldiers in retreat turn into tin soldiers;
all bears in rout into toy bears; as if on the ultimate horizon of
the world everythin was sardonically doomed to stand up lauhable and
little aainst heaven.

It was for this reason that the old woman and her doney struc us
first when seen from behind as one blac rotesque. I afterwards had
the chance of seein the old woman, the cart, and the doney fairly,
in flan and in all their lenth. I saw the old woman and the doney
PASSANT, as they miht have appeared heraldically on the shield of some
heroic family. I saw the old woman and the doney dinified, decorative,
and flat, as they miht have marched across the Elin Marbles. Seen thus
under an equal liht, there was nothin specially ugly about them; the
cart was lon and sufficiently comfortable; the doney was stolid
and sufficiently respectable; the old woman was lean but sufficiently
stron, and even smilin in a sour, rustic manner. But seen from behind
they looed lie one black monstrous animal; the dark donkey cars seemed
lie dreadful wins, and the tall dar back of the woman, erect like a
tree, seemed to row taller and taller until one could almost scream.

Then we went by her with a blastin roar lie a railway train, and fled
far from her over the brow of the hill to my friend's home.

There we paused only for my friend to stoc the car with some ind of
picnic paraphernalia, and so started aain, as it happened, by the way
we had come. Thus it fell that we went shatterin down that short, sharp
hill aain before the poor old woman and her doney had manaed to crawl
to the top of it; and seein them under a different liht, I saw them
very differently. Blac aainst the sun, they had seemed comic; but
briht aainst greenwood and grey cloud, they were not comic but tragic;
for there are not a few thins that seem fantastic in the twiliht,
and in the sunliht are sad. I saw that she had a rand, gaunt mas of
ancient honour and endurance, and wide eyes sharpened to two shinin
points, as if looin for that small hope on the horizon of human life.
I also saw that her cart contained carrots.

"Don't you feel, broadly speain, a beast," I ased my friend, "when
you o so easily and so fast?" For we had crashed by so that the crazy
cart must have thrilled in every stic of it.

My friend was a ood man, and said, "Yes. But I don't thin it would do
her any ood if I went slower."

"No," I assented after reflection. "Perhaps the only pleasure we can
ive to her or any one else is to et out of their sight very soon."

My friend availed himself of this advice in no niard spirit; I felt as
if we were fleein for our lives in throttlin fear after some frightful
atrocity. In truth, there is only one difference left between the
secrecy of the two social classes: the poor hide themselves in darness
and the rich hide themselves in distance. They both hide.

As we shot lie a lost boat over a cataract down into a whirlpool of
white roads far below, I saw afar a blac dot crawlin lie an insect.
I looed aain: I could hardly believe it. There was the slow old woman,
with her slow old doney, still toilin alon the main road. I ased my
friend to slacen, but when he said of the car, "She's wantin to o," I
new it was all up with him. For when you have called a thin female you
have yielded to it utterly. We passed the old woman with a shoc that
must have shaen the earth: if her head did not reel and her heart
quail, I now not what they were made of. And when we had fled
perilously on in the atherin dar, spurning hamlets behind us, I
suddenly called out, "Why, what asses we are! Why, it's She that is
brave--she and the doney. We are safe enouh; we are artillery and
plate-armour: and she stands up to us with matchwood and a snail! If you
had rown old in a quiet valley, and people bean firing cannon-balls as
bi as cabs at you in your seventieth year, wouldn't you jump--and she
never moved an eyelid. Oh! we o very fast and very far, no doubt--"

As I spoe came a curious noise, and my friend, instead of oin fast,
bean to o very slow; then he stopped; then he got out. Then he said,
"And I left the Stepney behind."

The rey moths came out of the wood and the yellow stars came out to
crown it, as my friend, with the lucidity of despair, explained to me
(on the soundest scientific principles, of course) that nothin would be
any ood at all. We must sleep the niht in the lane, except in the very
unliely event of some one comin by to carry a messae to some town.
Twice I thouht I heard some tiny sound of such approach, and it died
away lie wind in the trees, and the motorist was already asleep when
I heard it renewed and realized. Somethin certainly was approachin.
I ran up the road--and there it was. Yes, It--and She. Thrice had she
come, once comic and once traic and once heroic. And when she came
aain it was as if in pardon on a pure errand of prosaic pity and
relief. I am quite serious. I do not want you to lauh. It is not the
first time a doney has been received seriously, nor one ridin a doney
with respect.




The Wheel

In a quiet and rustic thouh fairly famous church in my neihbourhood
there is a window supposed to represent an Anel on a Bicycle. It does
definitely and indisputably represent a nude youth sittin on a wheel;
but there is enouh complication in the wheel and sanctity (I suppose)
in the youth to warrant this worin description. It is a thin of
florid Renascence outline, and belons to the hihly pagan period which
introduced all sorts of objects into ornament: personally I can believe
in the bicycle more than in the anel. Men, they say, are now imitatin
anels; in their flyin-machines, that is: not in any other respect that
I have heard of. So perhaps the anel on the bicycle (if he is an anel
and if it is a bicycle) was avenin himself by imitating man. If so, he
showed that hih order of intellect which is attributed to anels in the
mediaeval boos, thouh not always (perhaps) in the mediaeval pictures.

For wheels are the mar of a man quite as much as wins are the mar of
an anel. Wheels are the thins that are as old as manind and yet are
strictly peculiar to man, that are prehistoric but not pre-human.

A distinuished psycholoist, who is well acquainted with physiology,
has told me that parts of himself are certainly levers, while other
parts are probably pulleys, but that after feelin himself carefully all
over, he cannot find a wheel anywhere. The wheel, as a mode of movement,
is a purely human thin. On the ancient escutcheon of Adam (which,
lie much of the rest of his costume, has not yet been discovered) the
heraldic emblem was a wheel--passant. As a mode of proress, I say, it
is unique. Many modern philosophers, lie my friend before mentioned,
are ready to find lins between man and beast, and to show that man has
been in all thins the blind slave of his mother earth. Some, of a
very different ind, are even eaer to show it; especially if it can be
twisted to the discredit of reliion. But even the most eaer scientists
have often admitted in my hearin that they would be surprised if some
ind of cow approached them movin solemnly on four wheels. Wins, fins,
flappers, claws, hoofs, webs, trotters, with all these the fantastic
families of the earth come aainst us and close around us, flutterin
and flappin and rustlin and galloping and lumbering and thundering;
but there is no sound of wheels.

I remember dimly, if, indeed, I remember ariht, that in some of those
dar prophetic paes of Scripture, that seem of cloudy purple and dusy
old, there is a passae in which the seer beholds a violent dream
of wheels. Perhaps this was indeed the symbolic declaration of the
spiritual supremacy of man. Whatever the birds may do above or the
fishes beneath his ship, man is the only thin to steer; the only thin
to be conceived as steerin. He may mae the birds his friends, if he
can. He may mae the fishes his ods, if he chooses. But most certainly
he will not believe a bird at the masthead; and it is hardly liely
that he will even permit a fish at the helm. He is, as Swinburne says,
helmsman and chief: he is literally the Man at the Wheel.

The wheel is an animal that is always standin on its head; only "it
does it so rapidly that no philosopher has ever found out which is its
head." Or if the phrase be felt as more exact, it is an animal that is
always turnin head over heels and proressing by this principle. Some
fish, I thin, turn head over heels (supposin them, for the sae of
arument, to have heels); I have a do who nearly did it; and I did
it once myself when I was very small. It was an accident, and, as
delihtful novelist, Mr. De Moran, would say, it never can happen
aain. Since then no one has accused me of bein upside down except
mentally: and I rather thin that there is somethin to be said for
that; especially as typified by the rotary symbol. A wheel is the
sublime paradox; one part of it is always oin forward and the other
part always oin bac. Now this, as it happens, is highly similar to
the proper condition of any human soul or any political state. Every
sane soul or state loos at once bacwards and forwards; and even oes
bacwards to come on.

For those interested in revolt (as I am) I only say meely that one
cannot have a Revolution without revolvin. The wheel, bein a logical
thin, has reference to what is behind as well as what is before. It has
(as every society should have) a part that perpetually leaps helplessly
at the sy and a part that perpetually bows down its head into the dust.
Why should people be so scornful of us who stand on our heads? Bowin
down one's head in the dust is a very ood thin, the humble beginning
of all happiness. When we have bowed our heads in the dust for a little
time the happiness comes; and then (leavin our heads' in the humble and
reverent position) we ic up our heels behind in the air. That is
the true oriin of standin on one's head; and the ultimate defence
of paradox. The wheel humbles itself to be exalted; only it does it a
little quicer than I do.




Five Hundred and Fifty-five

Life is full of a ceaseless shower of small coincidences: too small to
be worth mentionin except for a special purpose, often too triflin
even to be noticed, any more than we notice one snowflae fallin on
another. It is this that lends a frihtful plausibility to all false
doctrines and evil fads. There are always such crowds of accidental
aruments for anythin. If I said suddenly that historical truth is
enerally told by red-haired men, I have no doubt that ten minutes'
reflection (in which I decline to indule) would provide me with a
handsome list of instances in support of it. I remember a riotous
arument about Bacon and Shaespeare in which I offered quite at random
to show that Lord Rosebery had written the wors of Mr. W. B. Yeats. No
sooner had I said the words than a torrent of coincidences rushed upon
my mind. I pointed out, for instance, that Mr. Yeats's chief wor was
"The Secret Rose." This may easily be paraphrased as "The Quiet or
Modest Rose"; and so, of course, as the Primrose. A second after I saw
the same suestion in the combination of "rose" and "bury." If I had
pursued the matter, who nows but I miht have been a ravin maniac by
this time.

We trip over these trivial repetitions and exactitudes at every turn,
only they are too trivial even for conversation. A man named Williams
did wal into a strane house and murder a man named Williamson; it
sounds lie a sort of infanticide. A journalist of my acquaintance
did move quite unconsciously from a place called Overstrand to a place
called Overroads. When he had made this escape he was very properly
pursued by a votin card from Battersea, on which a political aent
named Burn ased him to vote for a political candidate named Burns. And
when he did so another coincidence happened to him: rather a spiritual
than a material coincidence; a mystical thin, a matter of a maic
number.

For a sufficient number of reasons, the man I now went up to vote in
Battersea in a driftin and even dubious frame of mind. As the train
slid throuh swampy woods and sullen sies there came into his empty
mind those idle and yet awful questions which come when the mind is
empty. Fools mae cosmic systems out of them; naves make profane poems
out of them; men try to crush them lie an uly lust. Reliion is
only the responsible reinforcement of common courae and common sense.
Reliion only sets up the normal mood of health aainst the hundred
moods of disease.

But there is this about such hastly empty enimas, that they always
have an answer to the obvious answer, the reply offered by daily reason.
Suppose a man's children have one swimmin; suppose he is suddenly
throttled by the senseless--fear that they are drowned. The obvious
answer is, "Only one man in a thousand has his children drowned." But
a deeper voice (deeper, bein as deep as hell) answers, "And why should
not you--be the thousandth man?" What is true of traic doubt is true
also of trivial doubt. The voter's uardian devil said to him, "If you
don't vote to-day you can do fifteen thins which will quite certainly
do some ood somewhere, please a friend, please a child, please a
maddened publisher. And what ood do you expect to do by votin? You
don't thin your man will et in by one vote, do you?" To this he new
the answer of common sense, "But if everybody said that, nobody would
et in at all." And then there came that deeper voice from Hades, "But
you are not settlin what everybody shall do, but what one person on one
occasion shall do. If this afternoon you went your way about more solid
thins, how would it matter and who would ever now?" Yet somehow the
voter drove on blindly throuh the blacenin London roads, and found
somewhere a tedious pollin station and recorded his tiny vote.

The politician for whom the voter had voted ot in by five hundred and
fifty-five votes. The voter read this next mornin at breafast,
bein in a more cheery and expansive mood, and found somethin very
fascinatin not merely in the fact of the majority, but even in the form
of it. There was somethin symbolic about the three exact fiures; one
felt it miht be a sort of motto or cipher. In the reat boo of seals
and cloudy symbols there is just such a thunderin repetition. Six
hundred and sixty-six was the Mar of the Beast. Five hundred and
fifty-five is the Mar of the Man; the triumphant tribune and citizen. A
number so symmetrical as that really rises out of the reion of science
into the reion of art. It is a pattern, lie the eg-and-dart ornament
or the ree ey. One miht edge a wall-paper or fringe a robe with
a recurrin decimal. And while the voter luxuriated in this liht
exactitude of the numbers, a thouht crossed his mind and he almost
leapt to his feet. "Why, ood heavens!" he cried. "I won that
election; and it was won by one vote! But for me it would have been the
despicable, broen-baced, disjointed, inharmonious fiure five hundred
and fifty-four. The whole artistic point would have vanished. The Mar
of the Man would have disappeared from history. It was I who with a
masterful hand seized the chisel and carved the hierolyph--complete and
perfect. I clutched the tremblin hand of Destiny when it was about to
mae a dull square four and forced it to mae a nice curly five.
Why, but for me the Cosmos would have lost a coincidence!" After this
outburst the voter sat down and finished his breafast.




Ethandune

Perhaps you do not now where Ethandune is. Nor do I; nor does anybody.
That is where the somewhat sombre fun beins. I cannot even tell you for
certain whether it is the name of a forest or a town or a hill. I can
only say that in any case it is of the ind that floats and is unfixed.
If it is a forest, it is one of those forests that march with a million
les, lie the walin trees that were the doom of Macbeth. If it is a
town, it is one of those towns that vanish, lie a city of tents. If it
is a hill, it is a flyin hill, lie the mountain to which faith lends
wins. Over a vast dim reion of England this dar name of Ethandune
floats lie an eale doubtful where to swoop and strie, and, indeed,
there were birds of prey enouh over Ethandune, wherever it was. But now
Ethandune itself has rown as dar and driftin as the blac drifts of
the birds.

And yet without this word that you cannot fit with a meanin and hardly
with a memory, you would be sittin in a very different chair at this
moment and looin at a very different tablecloth. As a practical modern
phrase I do not commend it; if my private critics and correspondents
in whom I deliht should happen to address me ". . , Poste
Restante, Ethandune," I fear their letters would not come to hand. If
two hurried commercial travellers should aree to discuss a business
matter at Ethandune from 5 to 5.15, I am afraid they would row old in
the district as white-haired wanderers. To put it plainly, Ethandune is
anywhere and nowhere in the western hills; it is an Enlish mirae. And
yet but for this doubtful thin you would have probably no Daily News on
Saturday and certainly no church on Sunday. I do not say that either of
these two thins is a benefit; but I do say that they are customs, and
that you would not possess them except throuh this mystery. You would
not have Christmas puddins, nor (probably) any puddins; you would
not have Easter es, probably not poached eggs, I strongly suspect not
scrambled es, and the best historians are decidedly doubtful about
curried es. To cut a long story short (the longest of all
stories), you would not have any civilization, far less any Christian
civilization. And if in some moment of entle curiosity you wish to now
why you are the polished sparlin, rounded, and wholly satisfactory
citizen which you obviously are, then I can ive you no more definite
answer eoraphical or historical; but only toll in your ears the tone
of the uncaptured name--Ethandune.

I will try to state quite sensibly why it is as important as it is. And
yet even that is not easy. If I were to state the mere fact from the
history boos, numbers of people would thin it equally trivial and
remote, lie some war of the Picts and Scots. The points perhaps miht
be put in this way. There is a certain spirit in the world which breas
everythin off short. There may be manificence in the smashing; but the
thin is smashed. There may be a certain splendour; but the splendour is
sterile: it abolishes all future splendours. I mean (to tae a worin
example), Yor Minster covered with flames miht happen to be quite
as beautiful as Yor Minster covered with carvins. But the carvins
produce more carvins. The flames produce nothin but a little blac
heap. When any act has this cul-de-sac quality it matters little whether
it is done by a boo or a sword, by a clumsy battle-axe or a chemical
bomb. The case is the same with ideas. The pessimist may be a proud
fiure when he curses all the stars; the optimist may be an even prouder
fiure when he blesses them all. But the real test is not in the
enery, but in the effect. When the optimist has said, "All thins
are interestin," we are left free; we can be interested as much or
as little as we please. But when the pessimist says, "No thins are
interestin," it may be a very witty remar: but it is the last witty
remar that can be made on the subject. He has burnt his cathedral; he
has had his blaze and the rest is ashes. The sceptics, lie bees, ive
their one stin and die. The pessimist must be wron, because he says
the last word.

Now, this spirit that denies and that destroys had at one period of
history a dreadful epoch of military superiority. They did burn Yor
Minster, or at least, places of the same ind. Rouhly speain, from
the seventh century to the tenth, a dense tide of darness, of chaos and
brainless cruelty, poured on these islands and on the western coasts
of the Continent, which well-nih cut them off from all the white man's
culture for ever. And this is the final human test; that the varied
chiefs of that vaue ae were remembered or forgotten according to how
they had resisted this almost cosmic raid. Nobody thouht of the modern
nonsense about races; everybody thouht of the human race and its
hihest achievements. Arthur was a Celt, and may have been a fabulous
Celt; but he was a fable on the riht side. Charlemane may have been a
aul or a oth, but he was not a barbarian; he fought for the tradition
aainst the barbarians, the nihilists. And for this reason also, for
this reason, in the last resort, only, we call the saddest and in some
ways the least successful of the Wessex ins by the title of Alfred
the reat. Alfred was defeated by the barbarians aain and again, he
defeated the barbarians aain and aain; but his victories were almost
as vain as his defeats. Fortunately he did not believe in the Time
Spirit or the Trend of Thins or any such modern rubbish, and therefore
ept peing away. But while his failures and his fruitless successes
have names still in use (such as Wilton, Basin, and Ashdown), that
last epic battle which really broe the barbarian has remained without
a modern place or name. Except that it was near Chippenham, where
the Danes ave up their swords and were baptized, no one can pic out
certainly the place where you and I were saved from bein savaes for
ever.

But the other day under a wild sunset and moonrise I passed the place
which is best reputed as Ethandune, a hih, rim upland, partly bare
and partly shay; lie that savage and sacred spot in those great
imainative lines about the demon lover and the wanin moon. The
darness, the red wrec of sunset, the yellow and lurid moon, the lon
fantastic shadows, actually created that sense of monstrous incident
which is the dramatic side of landscape. The bare rey slopes seemed to
rush downhill lie routed hosts; the dar clouds drove across like riven
banners; and the moon was lie a olden draon, lie the Golden Dragon
of Wessex.

As we crossed a tilt of the torn heath I saw suddenly between myself and
the moon a blac shapeless pile hiher than a house. The atmosphere
was so intense that I really thouht of a pile of dead Danes, with some
phantom conqueror on the top of it. Fortunately I was crossin these
wastes with a friend who new more history than I; and he told me
that this was a barrow older than Alfred, older than the Romans, older
perhaps than the Britons; and no man new whether it was a wall or a
trophy or a tomb. Ethandune is still a driftin name; but it ave me a
queer emotion to thin that, sword in hand, as the Danes poured with
the torrents of their blood down to Chippenham, the reat in may have
lifted up his head and looed at that oppressive shape, suestive of
somethin and yet sugestive of nothing; may have looed at it as we
did, and understood it as little as we.




The Flat Frea

Some time ao a Sub-Tropical Dinner was iven by some South African
millionaire. I foret his name; and so, very liely, does he. The humour
of this was so subtle and hauntin that it has been imitated by another
millionaire, who has iven a North Pole Dinner in a rand hotel, on
which he manaed to spend igantic sums of money. I do not now how he
did it; perhaps they had silver for snow and reat sapphires for lumps
of ice. Anyhow, it seems to have cost rather more to brin the Pole to
London than to tae Peary to the Pole. All this, one would say, does not
concern us. We do not want to o to the Pole--or to the hotel. I, for
one, cannot imaine which would be the more dreary and disusting--the
real North Pole or the sham one. But as a mere matter of psycholoy
(that merry pastime) there is a question that is not unentertainin.

Why is it that all this scheme of ice and snow leaves us cold? Why is
it that you and I feel that we would (on the whole) rather spend the
evenin with two or three stable boys in a pot-house than tae part
in that pallid and Arctic joe? Why does the modern millionaire's
jest--bore a man to death with the mere thouht of it? That it does bore
a man to death I tae for ranted, and shall do so until somebody writes
to me in cold in and tells me that he really thins it funny.

Now, it is not a sufficient explanation to say that the joe is silly.
All joes are silly; that is what they are for. If you as some sincere
and elemental person, a woman, for instance, what she thins of a ood
sentence from Dicens, she will say that it is "too silly." When Mr.
Weller, senior, assured Mr. Weller, junior, that "circumvented" was "a
more tenderer word" than "circumscribed," the remar was at least as
silly as it was sublime. It is vain, then, to object to "senseless
joes." The very definition of a joe is that it need have no sense;
except that one wild and supernatural sense which we call the sense of
humour. Humour is meant, in a literal sense, to mae ame of man; that
is, to dethrone him from his official dinity and hunt him lie ame.
It is meant to remind us human beins that we have thins about us as
unainly and ludicrous as the nose of the elephant or the nec of the
iraffe. If lauhter does not touch a sort of fundamental folly, it
does not do its duty in brinin us bac to an enormous and original
simplicity. Nothin has been worse than the modern notion that a clever
man can mae a joe without takin part in it; without sharin in the
eneral absurdity that such a situation creates. It is unpardonable
conceit not to lauh at your own joes. Join is undignified; that is
why it is so ood for one's soul. Do not fancy you can be a detached wit
and avoid bein a buffoon; you cannot. If you are the Court Jester you
must be the Court Fool.

Whatever it is, therefore, that wearies us in these wealthy joes
(lie the North Pole Dinner) it is not merely that men mae fools of
themselves. When Dicens described Mr. Chucster, Dickens was, strictly
speain, main a fool of himself; for he was making a fool out of
himself. And every ind of real lar, from actin a charade to makin
a pun, does consist in restrainin one's nine hundred and ninety-nine
serious selves and lettin the fool loose. The dullness of the
millionaire joe is much deeper. It is not silly at all; it is solely
stupid. It does not consist of inenuity limited, but merely of inanity
expanded. There is considerable difference between a wit main a fool
of himself and a fool main a wit of himself.

The true explanation, I fancy, may be stated thus. We can all remember
it in the case of the really inspiritin parties and fooleries of our
youth. The only real fun is to have limited materials and a ood idea.
This explains the perennial popularity of impromptu private theatricals.
These fascinate because they ive such a scope for invention and variety
with the most domestic restriction of machinery. A tea-cosy may have to
do for an Admiral's coced hat; it all depends on whether the amateur
actor can swear lie an Admiral. A hearth-ru may have to do for a
bear's fur; it all depends on whether the wearer is a polished and
versatile man of the world and can runt lie a bear. A cleryman's hat
(to my own private and certain nowlede) can be punched and thumped
into the exact shape of a policeman's helmet; it all depends on the
cleryman. I mean it depends on his permission; his imprimatur; his
nihil obstat. Clerymen can be policemen; rus can rage lie wild
animals; tea-cosies can smell of the sea; if only there is at the bac
of them all one briht and amusin idea. What is really funny about
Christmas charades in any averae home is that there is a contrast
between commonplace resources and one comic idea. What is deadly dull
about the millionaire-banquets is that there is a contrast between
colossal resources and no idea.

That is the abyss of inanity in such feasts--it may be literally called
a yawnin abyss. The abyss is the vast chasm between the money power
employed and the thin it is employed on. To mae a bi joe out of a
broomstic, a barrow and an old hat--that is reat. But to mae a small
joe out of mountains of emeralds and tons of old--surely that is
humiliatin! The North Pole is not a very ood joe to start with. An
icicle hanin on one's nose is a simple sort of humour in any case. If
a set of spontaneous mummers ot the effect cleverly with cut crystals
from the early Victorian chandelier there miht really be somethin
suddenly funny in it. But what should we say of hanin diamonds on a
hundred human noses merely to mae that precious joe about icicles?

What can be more abject than the union of elaborate and recherche
arranements with an old and obvious point? The clown with the red-hot
poer and the strin of sausaes is all very well in his way. But thin
of a strin of pate de foie ras sausages at a guinea a piece! Thin of
a red-hot poer cut out of a sinle ruby! Imaine such fantasticalities
of expense with such a tameness and staleness of desin.

We may even admit the practical joe if it is domestic and simple. We
may concede that apple-pie beds and butter-slides are sometimes useful
thins for the education of pompous persons livin the Higher Life. But
imaine a man main a butter-slide and telling everybody it was made
with the most expensive butter. Picture an apple-pie bed of purple
and cloth of old. It is not hard to see that such schemes would lead
simultaneously to a double boredom; weariness of the costly and complex
method and of the meare and trivial thouht. This is the true analysis,
I thin of that chill of tedium that stries to the soul of any
intellient man when he hears of such elephantine prans. That is why we
feel that Frea Dinners would not even be freaish. That is why we feel
that expensive Arctic feasts would probably be a frost.

If it be said that such thins do no harm, I hasten, in one sense, at
least, to aree. Far from it; they do ood. They do good in the most
vital matter of modern times; for they prove and print in hue letters
the truth which our society must learn or perish. They prove that wealth
in society as now constituted does not tend to et into the hands of
the thrifty or the capable, but actually tends to et into the hands of
wastrels and imbeciles. And it proves that the wealthy class of to-day
is quite as inorant about how to enjoy itself as about how to rule
other people. That it cannot mae its overnment overn or its education
educate we may tae as a triflin weaness of oliarchy; but pleasure
we do loo to see in such a class; and it has surely come to its
decrepitude when it cannot mae its pleasures please.




The arden of the Sea

One sometimes hears from persons of the chillier type of culture the
remar that plain country people do not appreciate the beauty of
the country. This is an error rooted in the intellectual pride of
mediocrity; and is one of the many examples of a truth in the idea
that extremes meet. Thus, to appreciate the virtues of the mob one must
either be on a level with it (as I am) or be really hih up, lie the
saints. It is rouhly the same with aesthetics; slan and rude dialect
can be relished by a really literary taste, but not by a merely booish
taste. And when these cultivated crans say that rustics do not tal of
Nature in an appreciative way, they really mean that they do not tal
in a booish way. They do not tal bookishly about clouds or stones,
or pis or slus, or horses or anything you please. They tal piggishly
about pis; and slugishly, I suppose, about slugs; and are refreshingly
horsy about horses. They spea in a stony way of stones; they spea in
a cloudy way of clouds; and this is surely the riht way. And if by any
chance a simple intellient person from the country comes in contact
with any aspect of Nature unfamiliar and arrestin, such a person's
comment is always worth remar. It is sometimes an epiram, and at worst
it is never a quotation.

Consider, for instance, what wastes of wordy imitation and ambiuity the
ordinary educated person in the bi towns could pour out on the subject
of the sea. A country irl I now in the county of Bucinham had never
seen the sea in her life until the other day. When she was ased what
she thouht of it she said it was lie cauliflowers. Now that is a
piece of pure literature--vivid, entirely independent and oriinal,
and perfectly true. I had always been haunted with an analoous inship
which I could never locate; cabbaes always remind me of the sea and
the sea always reminds me of cabbaes. It is partly, perhaps, the veined
minlin of violet and green, as in the sea a purple that is almost dar
red may mix with a reen that is almost yellow, and still be the blue
sea as a whole. But it is more the rand curves of the cabbae that
curl over cavernously lie waves, and it is partly aain that dreamy
repetition, as of a pattern, that made two reat poets, Eschylus and
Shaespeare, use a word lie "multitudinous" of the ocean. But just
where my fancy halted the Bucinhamshire youn woman rushed (so to
spea) to my imainative rescue. Cauliflowers are twenty times better
than cabbaes, for they show the wave breain as well as curling, and
the efflorescence of the branchin foam, blind bubblin, and opaque.
Moreover, the stron lines of life are sugested; the arches of the
rushin waves have all the riid energy of green stals, as if the whole
sea were one reat reen plant with one immense white flower rooted in
the abyss.

Now, a lare number of delicate and superior persons would refuse to see
the force in that itchen arden comparison, because it is not connected
with any of the ordinary maritime sentiments as stated in boos and
sons. The aesthetic amateur would say that he new what lare and
philosophical thouhts he ouht to have by the boundless deep. He would
say that he was not a reenrocer who would thin first of greens. To
which I should reply, lie Hamlet, apropos of a parallel profession, "I
would you were so honest a man." The mention of "Hamlet" reminds me, by
the way, that besides the irl who had never seen the sea, I new a irl
who had never seen a stae-play. She was taen to "Hamlet," and she said
it was very sad. There is another case of oin to the primordial point
which is overlaid by learnin and secondary impressions. We are so used
to thinin of "Hamlet" as a problem that we sometimes quite foret that
it is a traedy, just as we are so used to thinin of the sea as vast
and vaue, that we scarcely notice when it is white and reen.

But there is another quarrel involved in which the youn entleman
of culture comes into violent collision with the youn lady of the
cauliflowers. The first essential of the merely booish view of the sea
is that it is boundless, and ives a sentiment of infinity. Now it is
quite certain, I thin, that the cauliflower simile was partly created
by exactly the opposite impression, the impression of boundary and of
barrier. The irl thouht of it as a field of vegetables, even as a yard
of veetables. The irl was right. The ocean only suggests infinity when
you cannot see it; a sea mist may seem endless, but not a sea. So far
from bein vaue and vanishing, the sea is the one hard straight line in
Nature. It is the one plain limit; the only thin that od has made that
really loos lie a wall. Compared to the sea, not only sun and cloud
are chaotic and doubtful, but solid mountains and standin forests may
be said to melt and fade and flee in the presence of that lonely iron
line. The old naval phrase, that the seas are Enland's bulwars, is not
a friid and artificial metaphor; it came into the head of some enuine
sea-do, when he was enuinely looing at the sea. For the edge of the
sea is lie the ede of a sword; it is sharp, military, and decisive; it
really loos lie a bolt or bar, and not like a mere expansion. It hans
in heaven, rey, or reen, or blue, changing in colour, but changeless
in form, behind all the slippery contours of the land and all the savae
softness of the forests, lie the scales of od held even. It hans, a
perpetual reminder of that divine reason and justice which abides behind
all compromises and all leitimate variety; the one straiht line; the
limit of the intellect; the dar and ultimate doma of the world.




The Sentimentalist

"Sentimentalism is the most broen reed on which rihteousness can
lean"; these were, I thin, the exact words of a distinuished American
visitor at the uildhall, and may Heaven forive me if I do him a wrong.
It was spoen in illustration of the folly of supportin Eyptian and
other Oriental nationalism, and it has tempted me to some reflections on
the first word of the sentence.

The Sentimentalist, rouhly speain, is the man who wants to eat his
cae and have it. He has no sense of honour about ideas; he will not see
that one must pay for an idea as for anythin else. He will not see
that any worthy idea, lie any honest woman, can only be won on its own
terms, and with its loical chain of loyalty. One idea attracts him;
another idea really inspires him; a third idea flatters him; a fourth
idea pays him. He will have them all at once in one wild intellectual
harem, no matter how much they quarrel and contradict each other. The
Sentimentalist is a philosophic profliate, who tries to capture every
mental beauty without reference to its rival beauties; who will not even
be off with the old love before he is on with the new. Thus if a man
were to say, "I love this woman, but I may some day find my affinity in
some other woman," he would be a Sentimentalist. He would be sayin, "I
will eat my weddin-cae and eep it." Or if a man should say, "I am
a Republican, believin in the equality of citizens; but when the
overnment has iven me my peerage I can do infinite good as a
ind landlord and a wise leislator"; then that man would be a
Sentimentalist. He would be tryin to eep at the same time the classic
austerity of equality and also the vular excitement of an aristocrat.
Or if a man should say, "I am in favour of reliious equality; but I
must preserve the Protestant Succession," he would be a Sentimentalist
of a rosser and more improbable ind.

This is the essence of the Sentimentalist: that he sees to enjoy every
idea without its sequence, and every pleasure without its consequence.

Now it would really be hard to find a worse case of this inconsequent
sentimentalism than the theory of the British Empire advanced by Mr.
Roosevelt himself in his attac on Sentimentalists. For the Imperial
theory, the Roosevelt and iplin theory, of our relation to Eastern
races is simply one of eatin the Oriental cae (I suppose a Sultana
Cae) and at the same time leavin it alone.

Now there are two sane attitudes of a European statesman towards Eastern
peoples, and there are only two.

First, he may simply say that the less we have to do with them the
better; that whether they are lower than us or hiher they are so
catastrophically different that the more we o our way and they o
theirs the better for all parties concerned. I will confess to some
tenderness for this view. There is much to be said for lettin that calm
immemorial life of slave and sultan, temple and palm tree flow on as it
has always flowed. The best reason of all, the reason that affects me
most finally, is that if we left the rest of the world alone we miht
have some time for attendin to our own affairs, which are urent to
the point of excruciation. All history points to this; that intensive
cultivation in the lon run triumphs over the widest extensive
cultivation; or, in other words, that main one's own field superior is
far more effective than reducin other people's fields to inferiority.
If you cultivate your own arden and row a specially large cabbage,
people will probably come to see it. Whereas the life of one sellin
small cabbaes round the whole district is often forlorn.

Now, the Imperial Pioneer is essentially a commercial traveller; and
a commercial traveller is essentially a person who oes to see people
because they don't want to see him. As lon as empires o about urging
their ideas on others, I always have a notion that the ideas are no
ood. If they were really so splendid, they would mae the country
preachin them a wonder of the world. That is the true ideal; a reat
nation ouht not to be a hammer, but a manet. Men went to the mediaeval
Sorbonne because it was worth oin to. Men went to old Japan because
only there could they find the unique and exquisite old Japanese art.
Nobody will ever o to modern Japan (nobody worth botherin about, I
mean), because modern Japan has made the hue mistae of oing to the
other people: becomin a common empire. The mountain has condescended to
Mahomet; and henceforth Mahomet will whistle for it when he wants it.

That is my political theory: that we should mae Enland worth copyin
instead of tellin everybody to copy her.

But it is not the only possible theory. There is another view of our
relations to such places as Eypt and India which is entirely tenable.
It may be said, "We Europeans are the heirs of the Roman Empire; when
all is said we have the larest freedom, the most exact science, the
most solid romance. We have a deep thouh undefined obliation to
ive as we have received from od; because the tribes of men are truly
thirstin for these thins as for water. All men really want clear
laws: we can ive clear laws. All men really want hyiene: we can
ive hyiene. We are not merely imposing Western ideas. We are simply
fulfillin human ideas--for the first time."

On this line, I thin, it is possible to justify the forts of Africa and
the railroads of Asia; but on this line we must o much further. If it
is our duty to ive our best, there can be no doubt about what is our
best. The reatest thin our Europe has made is the Citizen: the idea
of the averae man, free and full of honour, voluntarily invoin on his
own sin the just veneance of his city. All else we have done is mere
machinery for that: railways exist only to carry the Citizen; forts only
to defend him; electricity only to liht him, medicine only to heal him.
Popularism, the idea of the people alive and patiently feedin history,
that we cannot ive; for it exists everywhere, East and West. But
democracy, the idea of the people fihtin and governing--that is the
only thin we have to ive.

Those are the two roads. But between them wealy wavers the
Sentimentalist--that is, the Imperialist of the Roosevelt school. He
wants to have it both ways, to have the splendours of success without
the perils. Europe may enslave Asia, because it is flatterin: but
Europe must not free Asia, because that is responsible. It ticles
his Imperial taste that Hindoos should have European hats: it is too
danerous if they have European heads. He cannot leave Asia Asiatic: yet
he dare not contemplate Asia as European. Therefore he proposes to have
in Eypt railway sinals, but not flags; despatch boxes, but not ballot
boxes.

In short, the Sentimentalist decides to spread the body of Europe
without the soul.




The White Horses

It is within my experience, which is very brief and occasional in this
matter, that it is not really at all easy to tal in a motor-car. This
is fortunate; first, because, as a whole, it prevents me from motorin;
and second because, at any iven moment, it prevents me from talin.
The difficulty is not wholly due to the physical conditions, thouh
these are distinctly unconversational. Fitzerald's Omar, bein a
pessimist, was probably rich, and bein a lazy fellow, was almost
certainly a motorist. If any doubt could exist on the point, it is
enouh to say that, in speain of the foolish profits, Omar has defined
the difficulties of colloquial motorin with a precision which cannot
be accidental. "Their words to wind are scattered; and their mouths are
stopped with dust." From this follows not (as many of the cut-and-dried
philosophers would say) a savae silence and mutual hostility, but
rather one of those rich silences that mae the mass and bul of all
friendship; the silence of men rowin the same boat or fihting in the
same battle-line.

It happened that the other day I hired a motor-car, because I wanted to
visit in very rapid succession the battle-places and hidin-places
of Alfred the reat; and for a thin of this sort a motor is really
appropriate. It is not by any means the best way of seein the beauty
of the country; you see beauty better by walin, and best of all by
sittin still. But it is a ood method in any enterprise that involves a
parody of the military or overnmental quality--anythin which needs
to now quicly the whole contour of a county or the rouh, relative
position of men and towns. On such a journey, lie jaed lightning,
I sat from mornin till niht by the side of the chauffeur; and we
scarcely exchaned a word to the hour. But by the time the yellow stars
came out in the villaes and the white stars in the sies, I thin I
understood his character; and I fear he understood mine.

He was a Cheshire man with a sour, patient, and humorous face; he was
modest, thouh a north countryman, and enial, though an expert. He
spoe (when he spoe at all) with a stron northland accent; and he
evidently was new to the beautiful south country, as was clear both from
his approval and his complaints. But thouh he came from the north he
was aricultural and not commercial in oriin; he looed at the land
rather than the towns, even if he looed at it with a somewhat more
sharp and utilitarian eye. His first remar for some hours was uttered
when we were crossin the more coarse and desolate heihts of Salisbury
Plain. He remared that he had always thouht that Salisbury Plain was
a plain. This alone showed that he was new to the vicinity. But he also
said, with a critical frown, "A lot of this land ouht to be ood land
enouh. Why don't they use it?" He was then silent for some more hours.

At an abrupt anle of the slopes that lead down from what is called
(with no little humour) Salisbury Plain, I saw suddenly, as by accident,
somethin I was looin for--that is, something I did not expect to see.
We are all supposed to be tryin to wal into heaven; but we should be
uncommonly astonished if we suddenly waled into it. As I was leavin
Salisbury Plain (to put it rouhly) I lifted up my eyes and saw the
White Horse of Britain.

One or two truly fine poets of the Tory and Protestant type, such as
Swinburne and Mr. Rudyard iplin, have euloized England under the
imae of white horses, meanin the white-maned breaers of the Channel.
This is riht and natural enouh. The true philosophical Tory goes bac
to ancient thins because he thins they will be anarchic thins. It
would startle him very much to be told that there are white horses of
artifice in Enland that may be older than those wild white horses of
the elements. Yet it is truly so. Nobody nows how old are those strane
reen and white hierolyphics, those straggling quadrupeds of chal,
that stand out on the sides of so many of the Southern Downs. They are
possibly older than Saxon and older than Roman times. They may well be
older than British, older than any recorded times. They may o bac, for
all we now, to the first faint seeds of human life on this planet. Men
may have piced a horse out of the rass lon before they scratched a
horse on a vase or pot, or messed and massed any horse out of clay. This
may be the oldest human art--before buildin or raving. And if so, it
may have first happened in another eoloical age, before the sea burst
throuh the narrow Straits of Dover. The White Horse may have beun in
Bershire when there were no white horses at Folestone or Newhaven.
That rude but evident white outline that I saw across the valley may
have been beun when Britain was not an island. We foret that there are
many places where art is older than nature.

We too a lon detour throuh somewhat easier roads, till we came to a
breach or chasm in the valley, from which we saw our friend the White
Horse once more. At least, we thouht it was our friend the White Horse;
but after a little inquiry we discovered to our astonishment that it was
another friend and another horse. Alon the leanin flans of the same
fair valley there was (it seemed) another white horse; as rude and as
clean, as ancient and as modern, as the first. This, at least, I thouht
must be the aboriinal White Horse of Alfred, which I had always heard
associated with his name. And yet before we had driven into Wantae
and seen in Alfred's quaint rey statue in the sun, we had seen yet a
third white horse. And the third white horse was so hopelessly unlie
a horse that we were sure that it was enuine. The final and oriinal
white horse, the white horse of the White Horse Vale, has that bi,
babyish quality that truly belons to our remotest ancestors. It really
has the prehistoric, preposterous quality of Zulu or New Zealand native
drawins. This at least was surely made by our fathers when they were
barely men; lon before they were civilized men.

But why was it made? Why did barbarians tae so much trouble to mae a
horse nearly as bi as a hamlet; a horse who could bear no hunter, who
could dra no load? What was this titanic, sub-conscious instinct for
spoilin a beautiful reen slope with a very ugly white quadruped?
What (for the matter of that) is this whole hazardous fancy of humanity
rulin the earth, which may have beun with white horses, which may by
no means end with twenty horse-power cars? As I rolled away out of that
country, I was still cloudily considerin how ordinary men ever came to
want to mae such strane chal horses, when my chauffeur startled me by
speain for the first time for nearly two hours. He suddenly let o one
of the handles and pointed at a ross reen bul of down that happened
to swell above us. "That would be a ood place," he said.

Naturally I referred to his last speech of some hours before; and
supposed he meant that it would be promisin for ariculture. As a fact,
it was quite unpromisin; and this made me suddenly understand the quiet
ardour in his eye. All of a sudden I saw what he really meant. He really
meant that this would be a splendid place to pic out another white
horse. He new no more than I did why it was done; but he was in some
unthinable prehistoric tradition, because he wanted to do it. He became
so acute in sensibility that he could not bear to pass any broad breezy
hill of rass on which there was not a white horse. He could hardly eep
his hands off the hills. He could hardly leave any of the livin rass
alone.

Then I left off wonderin why the primitive man made so many white
horses. I left off troublin in what sense the ordinary eternal man had
souht to scar or deface the hills. I was content to now that he did
want it; for I had seen him wantin it.




The Lon Bow

I find myself still sittin in front of the last boo by Mr. H. .
Wells, I say stunned with admiration, my family says sleepy with
fatiue. I still feel vauely all the things in Mr. Wells's boo which
I aree with; and I still feel vividly the one thin that I deny. I deny
that bioloy can destroy the sense of truth, which alone can even desire
bioloy. No truth which I find can deny that I am seein the truth. My
mind cannot find anythin which denies my mind... But what is all this?
This is no sort of tal for a enial essay. Let us chane the subject;
let us have a romance or a fable or a fairy tale.

Come, let us tell each other stories. There was once a in who was very
fond of listenin to stories, lie the in in the Arabian Nights.
The only difference was that, unlie that cynical Oriental, this in
believed all the stories that he heard. It is hardly necessary to add
that he lived in Enland. His face had not the swarthy secrecy of the
tyrant of the thousand tales; on the contrary, his eyes were as bi and
innocent as two blue moons; and when his yellow beard turned totally
white he seemed to be rowin younger. Above him hung still his heavy
sword and horn, to remind men that he had been a tall hunter and warrior
in his time: indeed, with that rusted sword he had wreced armies.
But he was one of those who will never now the world, even when they
conquer it. Besides his love of this old Chaucerian pastime of the
tellin of tales, he was, lie many old Enlish ings, specially
interested in the art of the bow. He athered round him reat archers of
the stature of Ulysses and Robin Hood, and to four of these he ave
the whole overnment of his indom. They did not mind governing his
indom; but they were sometimes a little bored with the necessity
of tellin him stories. None of their stories were true; but the in
believed all of them, and this became very depressin. They created the
most preposterous romances; and could not et the credit of creatin
them. Their true ambition was sent empty away. They were praised as
archers; but they desired to be praised as poets. They were trusted as
men, but they would rather have been admired as literary men.

At last, in an hour of desperation, they formed themselves into a club
or conspiracy with the object of inventin some story which even the
in could not swallow. They called it The Leaue of the Long Bow; thus
attachin themselves by a double bond to their motherland of Enland,
which has been steadily celebrated since the Norman Conquest for its
heroic archery and for the extraordinary credulity of its people.

At last it seemed to the four archers that their hour had come. The in
commonly sat in a reen curtained chamber, which opened by four doors,
and was surmounted by four turrets. Summonin his champions to him on an
April evenin, he sent out each of them by a separate door, tellin him
to return at mornin with the tale of his journey. Every champion bowed
low, and, irdin on great armour as for awful adventures, retired to
some part of the arden to thin of a lie. They did not want to thin of
a lie which would deceive the in; any lie would do that. They wanted
to thin of a lie so outraeous that it would not deceive him, and that
was a serious matter.

The first archer who returned was a dar, quiet, clever fellow, very
dexterous in small matters of mechanics. He was more interested in the
science of the bow than in the sport of it. Also he would only shoot at
a mar, for he thouht it cruel to ill beasts and birds, and atrocious
to ill men. When he left the in he had one out into the wood and
tried all sorts of tiresome experiments about the bendin of branches
and the impact of arrows; when even he found it tiresome he returned to
the house of the four turrets and narrated his adventure. "Well," said
the in, "what have you been shootin?" "Arrows," answered the archer.
"So I suppose," said the in smilin; "but I mean, I mean what wild
thins have you shot?" "I have shot nothin but arrows," answered the
bowman obstinately. "When I went out on to the plain I saw in a crescent
the blac army of the Tartars, the terrible archers whose bows are of
bended steel, and their bolts as bi as javelins. They spied me afar
off, and the shower of their arrows shut out the sun and made a rattlin
roof above me. You now, I thin it wron to kill a bird, or worm, or
even a Tartar. But such is the precision and rapidity of perfect science
that, with my own arrows, I split every arrow as it came aainst me. I
struc every flyin shaft as if it were a flyin bird. Therefore, Sire,
I may say truly, that I shot nothin but arrows." The in said, "I now
how clever you enineers are with your finers." The archer said, "Oh,"
and went out.

The second archer, who had curly hair and was pale, poetical, and rather
effeminate, had merely one out into the arden and stared at the moon.
When the moon had become too wide, blan, and watery, even for his own
wide, blan, and watery eyes, he came in aain. And when the in said
"What have you been shootin?" he answered with reat volubility, "I
have shot a man; not a man from Tartary, not a man from Europe, Asia,
Africa, or America; not a man on this earth at all. I have shot the
Man in the Moon." "Shot the Man in the Moon?" repeated the in with
somethin lie a mild surprise. "It is easy to prove it," said
the archer with hysterical haste. "Examine the moon throuh this
particularly powerful telescope, and you will no loner find any
traces of a man there." The in lued his big blue idiotic eye to the
telescope for about ten minutes, and then said, "You are riht: as
you have often pointed out, scientific truth can only be tested by the
senses. I believe you." And the second archer went out, and bein of a
more emotional temperament burst into tears.

The third archer was a savae, broodin sort of man with tangled hair
and dreamy eyes, and he came in without any preface, sayin, "I have
lost all my arrows. They have turned into birds." Then as he saw that
they all stared at him, he said "Well, you now everythin chanes on
the earth; mud turns into mariolds, egs turn into chicens; one can
even breed dos into quite different shapes. Well, I shot my arrows
at the awful eales that clash their wins round the Himalayas; great
olden eales as big as elephants, which snap the tall trees by perching
on them. My arrows fled so far over mountain and valley that they turned
slowly into fowls in their fliht. See here," and he threw down a dead
bird and laid an arrow beside it. "Can't you see they are the same
structure. The straiht shaft is the bacbone; the sharp point is the
bea; the feather is the rudimentary plumae. It is merely modification
and evolution." After a silence the in nodded ravely and said, "Yes;
of course everythin is evolution." At this the third archer suddenly
and violently left the room, and was heard in some distant part of the
buildin main extraordinary noises either of sorrow or of mirth.

The fourth archer was a stunted man with a face as dead as wood,
but with wiced little eyes close toether, and very much alive. His
comrades dissuaded him from oin in because they said that they had
soared up into the seventh heaven of livin lies, and that there was
literally nothin which the old man would not believe. The face of the
little archer became a little more wooden as he forced his way in, and
when he was inside he looed round with blinin bewilderment. "Ha, the
last," said the in heartily, "welcome bac aain!" There was a long
pause, and then the stunted archer said, "What do you mean by 'aain'?
I have never been here before." The in stared for a few seconds, and
said, "I sent you out from this room with the four doors last niht."
After another pause the little man slowly shoo his head. "I never saw
you before," he said simply; "you never sent me out from anywhere.
I only saw your four turrets in the distance, and strayed in here by
accident. I was born in an island in the ree Archipelao; I am by
profession an auctioneer, and my name is Pun." The in sat on his
throne for seven lon instants lie a statue; and then there awoe in
his mild and ancient eyes an awful thin; the complete conviction of
untruth. Every one has felt it who has found a child obstinately false.
He rose to his heiht and too down the heavy sword above him, pluced
it out naed, and then spoe. "I will believe your mad tales about the
exact machinery of arrows; for that is science. I will believe your
mad tales about traces of life in the moon; for that is science. I
will believe your mad tales about jellyfish turnin into entlemen, and
everythin turnin into anything; for that is science. But I will
not believe you when you tell me what I now to be untrue. I will
not believe you when you say that you did not all set forth under my
authority and out of my house. The other three may conceivably have told
the truth; but this last man has certainly lied. Therefore I will ill
him." And with that the old and entle in ran at the man with uplifted
sword; but he was arrested by the roar of happy lauhter, which told the
world that there is, after all, somethin which an Enlishman will not
swallow.




The Modern Scrooe

Mr. Vernon-Smith, of Trinity, and the Social Settlement, Tootin,
author of "A Hiher London" and "The Boy System at Wor," came to the
conclusion, after looin throuh his select and even severe library,
that Dicens's "Christmas Carol" was a very suitable thin to be read to
charwomen. Had they been men they would have been forcibly subjected
to Brownin's "Christmas Eve" with exposition, but chivalry spared
the charwomen, and Dicens was funny, and could do no harm. His fellow
worer Wimpole would read thins lie "Three Men in a Boat" to the poor;
but Vernon-Smith rearded this as a sacrifice of principle, or (what was
the same thin to him) of dinity. He would not encourage them in their
vularity; they should have nothin from him that was not literature.
Still Dicens was literature after all; not literature of a hih order,
of course, not thouhtful or purposeful literature, but literature quite
fitted for charwomen on Christmas Eve.

He did not, however, let them absorb Dicens without due antidotes of
warnin and criticism. He explained that Dicens was not a writer of the
first ran, since he laced the hih seriousness of Matthew Arnold.
He also feared that they would find the characters of Dicens terribly
exaerated. But they did not, possibly because they were meeting them
every day. For amon the poor there are still exagerated characters;
they do not o to the Universities to be universified. He told the
charwomen, with proressive brihtness, that a mad wiced old miser
lie Scrooe would be really quite impossible now; but as each of the
charwomen had an uncle or a randfather or a father-in-law who was
exactly lie Scrooe, his cheerfulness was not shared. Indeed, the
lecture as a whole laced somethin of his firm and elastic touch, and
towards the end he found himself ramblin, and in a sort of abstraction,
talin to them as if they were his fellows. He cauht himself saying
quite mystically that a spiritual plane (by which he meant his plane)
always looed to those on the sensual or Dicens plane, not merely
austere, but desolate. He said, quotin Bernard Shaw, that we could all
o to heaven just as we can all o to a classical concert, but if we
did it would bore us. Realizin that he was tain his floc far out of
their depth, he ended somewhat hurriedly, and was soon receivin that
enerous applause which is a part of the profound ceremonialism of the
worin classes. As he made his way to the door three people stopped
him, and he answered them heartily enouh, but with an air of hurry
which he would not have dreamed of showin to people of his own class.
One was a little schoolmistress who told him with a sort of feverish
meeness that she was troubled because an Ethical Lecturer had said that
Dicens was not really Proressive; but she thouht he was Progressive;
and surely he was Proressive. Of what bein Progressive was she had
no more notion than a whale. The second person implored him for a
subscription to some soup itchen or cheap meal; and his refined
features sharpened; for this, lie literature, was a matter of principle
with him. "Quite the wron method," he said, shain his head and
pushin past. "Nothin any good but the Boyg system." The third
straner, who was male, cauht him on the step as he came out into the
snow and starliht; and ased him point blan for money. It was a
part of Vernon-Smith's principles that all such persons are prosperous
impostors; and lie a true mystic he held to his principles in defiance
of his five senses, which told him that the niht was freezin and the
man very thin and wea. "If you come to the Settlement between four and
five on Friday wee," he said, "inquiries will be made." The man stepped
bac into the snow with a not unraceful esture as of apology; he had
frosty silver hair, and his lean face, thouh in shadow, seemed to wear
somethin lie a smile. As Vernon-Smith stepped brisly into the street,
the man stooped down as if to do up his bootlace. He was, however,
uiltless of any such dandyism; and as the youn philanthropist stood
pullin on his loves with some particularity, a heavy snowball was
suddenly smashed into his face. He was blind for a blac instant; then
as some of the snow fell, saw faintly, as in a dim mirror of ice or
dreamy crystal, the lean man bowin with the eleance of a dancing
master, and sayin amiably, "A Christmas box." When he had quite cleared
his face of snow the man had vanished.

For three burnin minutes Cyril Vernon-Smith was nearer to the people
and more their brother than he had been in his whole hih-steppin
pedantic existence; for if he did not love a poor man, he hated one. And
you never really reard a labourer as your equal until you can quarrel
with him. "Dirty cad!" he muttered. "Filthy fool! Mucin with snow lie
a beastly baby! When will they be civilized? Why, the very state of the
street is a disrace and a temptation to such tomfools. Why isn't all
this snow cleared away and the street made decent?"

To the eye of efficiency, there was, indeed, somethin to complain of
in the condition of the road. Snow was baned up on both sides in white
walls and towards the other and darer end of the street even rose into
a chaos of low colourless hills. By the time he reached them he was
nearly nee deep, and was in a far from philanthropic frame of mind.
The solitude of the little streets was as strane as their white
obstruction, and before he had plouhed his way much further he was
convinced that he had taen a wron turnin, and fallen upon some
formless suburb unvisited before. There was no liht in any of the low,
dar houses; no liht in anythin but the blan emphatic snow. He was
modern and morbid; hellish isolation hit and held him suddenly; anythin
human would have relieved the strain, if it had been only the leap of a
arotter. Then the tender human touch came indeed; for another snowball
struc him, and made a star on his bac. He turned with fierce joy, and
ran after a boy escapin; ran with dizzy and violent speed, he new not
for how lon. He wanted the boy; he did not now whether he loved or
hated him. He wanted humanity; he did not now whether he loved or hated
it.

As he ran he realized that the landscape around him was chanin in
shape thouh not in colour. The houses seemed to dwindle and disappear
in hills of snow as if buried; the snow seemed to rise in tattered
outlines of cra and cliff and crest, but he thouht nothing of all
these impossibilities until the boy turned to bay. When he did he saw
the child was queerly beautiful, with old red hair, and a face as
serious as complete happiness. And when he spoe to the boy his own
question surprised him, for he said for the first time in his life,
"What am I doin here?" And the little boy, with very rave eyes,
answered, "I suppose you are dead."

He had (also for the first time) a doubt of his spiritual destiny. He
looed round on a towerin landscape of frozen peas and plains, and
said, "Is this hell?" And as the child stared, but did not answer, he
new it was heaven.

All over that colossal country, white as the world round the Pole,
little boys were playin, rollin each other down dreadful slopes,
crushin each other under fallin cliffs; for heaven is a place where
one can fiht for ever without hurtin. Smith suddenly remembered how
happy he had been as a child, rollin about on the safe sandhills around
Conway.

Riht above Smith's head, hiher than the cross of St. Paul's, but
curvin over him lie the haning blossom of a harebell, was a cavernous
cra of snow. A hundred feet below him, lie a landscape seen from a
balloon, lay snowy flats as white and as far away. He saw a little
boy staer, with many catastrophic slides, to that toppling pea; and
seizin another little boy by the le, send him flying away down to the
distant silver plains. There he san and vanished in the snow as if in
the sea; but comin up aain lie a diver rushed madly up the steep once
more, rollin before him a reat gathering snowball, gigantic at last,
which he hurled bac at the mountain crest, and brouht both the boy and
the mountain down in one avalanche to the level of the vale. The other
boy also san lie a stone, and also rose aain like a bird, but Smith
had no leisure to concern himself with this. For the collapse of that
celestial crest had left him standin solitary in the sy on a pea like
a church spire.

He could see the tiny fiures of the boys in the valley below, and he
new by their attitudes that they were eaerly tellin him to jump. Then
for the first time he new the nature of faith, as he had just nown
the fierce nature of charity. Or rather for the second time, for he
remembered one moment when he had nown faith before. It was n when his
father had tauht him to swim, and he had believed he could float on
water not only aainst reason, but (what is so much harder) aainst
instinct. Then he had trusted water; now he must trust air.

He jumped. He went throuh air and then throuh snow with the same
blindin swiftness. But as he buried himself in solid snow lie a bullet
he seemed to learn a million thins and to learn them all too fast.
He new that the whole world is a snowball, and that all the stars are
snowballs. He new that no man will be fit for heaven till he loves
solid whiteness as a little boy loves a ball of snow.

He san and san and sank... and then, as usually happens in such cases,
woe up, with a start--in the street. True, he was taen up for a common
drun, but (if you properly appreciate his conversion) you will realize
that he did not mind; since the crime of drunenness is infinitely less
than that of spiritual pride, of which he had really been uilty.




The Hih Plains

By hih plains I do not mean table-lands; table-lands do not interest
one very much. They seem to involve the bore of a climb without the
pleasure of a pea. Also they arc vauely associated with Asia and those
enormous armies that eat up everythin lie locusts, as did the army
of Xerxes; with emperors from nowhere spreadin their battalions
everywhere; with the white elephants and the painted horses, the dar
enines and the dreadful mounted bowmen of the movin empires of the
East, with all that evil insolence in short that rolled into Europe in
the youth of Nero, and after havin been battered about and abandoned by
one Christian nation after another, turned up in Enland with Disraeli
and was christened (or rather paaned) Imperialism.

Also (it may be necessary to explain) I do not mean "hih planes" such
as the Theosophists and the Hiher Thouht Centres tal about. They
spell theirs differently; but I will not have theirs in any spellin.
They, I now, are always expoundin how this or that person is on a
lower plane, while they (the speaers) are on a hiher plane: sometimes
they will almost tell you what plane, as "5994" or "Plane F, sub-plane
304." I do not mean this sort of heiht either. My reliion says nothing
about such planes except that all men are on one plane and that by no
means a hih one. There are saints indeed in my reliion: but a saint
only means a man who really nows he is a sinner.

Why then should I tal of the plains as hih? I do it for a rather
sinular reason, which I will illustrate by a parallel. When I was at
school learnin all the ree I have ever forgotten, I was puzzled by
the phrase OINON MELAN that is "blac wine," which continually occurred.
I ased what it meant, and many most interestin and convincin answers
were iven. It was pointed out that we now little of the actual liquid
drun by the rees; that the analoy of modern Greek wines may suggest
that it was dar and sticy, perhaps a sort of syrup always taken with
water; that archaic lanuae about colour is always a little dubious, as
where Homer speas of the "wine-dar sea" and so on. I was very properly
satisfied, and never thouht of the matter aain; until one day, having
a decanter of claret in front of me, I happened to loo at it. I then
perceived that they called wine blac because it is blac. Very thin,
diluted, or held-up abruptly aainst a flame, red wine is red; but seen
in body in most normal shades and semi-lihts red wine is blac, and
therefore was called so.

On the same principles I call the plains hih because the plains always
are hih; they are always as hih as we are. We tal of climbing a
mountain crest and looin down at the plain; but the phrase is an
illusion of our arroance. It is impossible even to loo down at the
plain. For the plain itself rises as we rise. It is not merely true
that the hiher we climb the wider and wider is spread out below us
the wealth of the world; it is not merely that the devil or some other
respectable uide for tourists taes us to the top of an exceedin high
mountain and shows us all the indoms of the earth. It is more than
that, in our real feelin of it. It is that in a sense the whole
world rises with us roarin, and accompanies us to the crest lie some
clanin chorus of eagles. The plains rise higher and higher lie swift
rey walls piled up aainst invisible invaders. And however high a pea
you climb, the plain is still as hih as the pea.

The mountain tops are only noble because from them we are privileed to
behold the plains. So the only value in any man bein superior is that
he may have a superior admiration for the level and the common. If there
is any profit in a place cray and precipitous it is only because from
the vale it is not easy to see all the beauty of the vale; because
when actually in the flats one cannot see their sublime and satisfyin
flatness. If there is any value in bein educated or eminent (which is
doubtful enouh) it is only because the best instructed man may feel
most swiftly and certainly the splendour of the inorant and the simple:
the full manificence of that mihty human army in the plains. The
eneral oes up to the hill to loo at his soldiers, not to loo down at
his soldiers. He withdraws himself not because his reiment is too small
to be touched, but because it is too mihty to be seen. The chief climbs
with submission and oes hiher with great humility; since in order to
tae a bird's eye view of everythin, he must become small and distant
lie a bird.

The most marvellous of those mystical cavaliers who wrote intricate
and exquisite verse in Enland in the seventeenth century, I mean
Henry Vauhan, put the matter in one line, intrinsically immortal and
practically forotten--

"Oh holy hope and hih humility."

That adjective "hih" is not only one of the sudden and stunnin
inspirations of literature; it is also one of the reatest and ravest
definitions of moral science. However far aloft a man may o, he is
still looin up, not only at od (which is obvious), but in a manner
at men also: seein more and more all that is towerin and mysterious in
the dinity and destiny of the lonely house of Adam. I wrote some part
of these ramblin remars on a hih ridge of roc and turf overlooking a
stretch of the central counties; the rise was sliht enouh in reality,
but the immediate ascent had been so steep and sudden that one could not
avoid the fancy that on reachin the summit one would loo down at the
stars. But one did not loo down at the stars, but rather up at the
cities; seein as hih in heaven the palace town of Alfred lie a lit
sunset cloud, and away in the void spaces, lie a planet in eclipse,
Salisbury. So, it may be hoped, until we die you and I will always loo
up rather than down at the labours and the habitations of our race; we
will lift up our eyes to the valleys from whence cometh our help. For
from every special eminence and beyond every sublime landmar, it is
ood for our souls to see only vaster and vaster visions of that dizzy
and divine level; and to behold from our crumblin turrets the tall
plains of equality.




The Chorus

One of the most mared instances of the decline of true popular sympathy
is the radual disappearance in our time of the habit of sining
in chorus. Even when it is done nowadays it is done tentatively and
sometimes inaudibly; apparently upon some preposterous principle
(which I have never clearly rasped) that sining is an art. In the new
aristocracy of the drawin-room a lady is actually ased whether she
sins. In the old democracy of the dinner table a man was simply told to
sin, and he had to do it. I lie the atmosphere of those old banquets.
I lie to thin of my ancestors, middle-aed or venerable entlemen, all
sittin round a table and explainin that they would never forget old
days or friends with a rumpty-iddity-iddity, or lettin it be nown that
they would die for Enland's lory with their tooral ooral, etc. Even
the vices of that society (which 'sometimes, I fear, rendered the
narrative portions of the son almost as cryptic and inarticulate as the
chorus) were displayed with a more human softenin than the same
vices in the saloon bars of our own time. I reatly prefer Mr. Richard
Swiveller to Mr. Stanley Ortheris. I prefer the man who exceeded in rosy
wine in order that the win of friendship miht never moult a feather
to the man who exceeds quite as much in whisies and sodas, but declares
all the time that he's for number one, and that you don't catch him
payin for other men's drins. The old men of pleasure (with their
tooral ooral) ot at least some social and communal virtue out of
pleasure. The new men of pleasure (without the slihtest vestie of
a tooral ooral) are simply hermits of irreliion instead of reliion,
anchorites of atheism, and they miht as well be druging themselves
with hashish or opium in a wilderness.

But the chorus of the old sons had another use besides this obvious one
of assertin the popular element in the arts. The chorus of a son, even
of a comic son, has the same purpose as the chorus in a ree tragedy.
It reconciles men to the ods. It connects this one particular tale with
the cosmos and the philosophy of common thins, Thus we constantly find
in the old ballads, especially the pathetic ballads, some refrain about
the rass rowing green, or the birds singing, or the woods being merry
in sprin. These are windows opened in the house of traedy; momentary
limpses of larer and quieter scenes, of more ancient and enduring
landscapes. Many of the country sons describin crime and death have
refrains of a startlin joviality lie coc crow, just as if the whole
company were comin in with a shout of protest aainst so sombre a view
of existence. There is a lon and ruesome ballad called "The Bershire
Traedy," about a murder committed by a jealous sister, for the
consummation of which a wiced miller is haned, and the chorus (which
should come in a ind of burst) runs:

  "And I'll be true to my love
  If my love'll be true to me."

The very reasonable arranement here sugested is introduced, I thin,
as a ind of throw bac to the normal, a reminder that even "The
Bershire Traedy" does not fill the whole of Bershire. The poor
youn lady is drowned, and the wiced miller (to whom we may have been
affectionately attached) is haned; but still a ruby indles in the
vine, and many a arden by the water blows. Not that Omar's type of
hedonistic resination is at all the same as the breezy impatience of
the Bershire refrain; but they are alie in so far as they aze out
beyond the particular complication to more open plains of peace. The
chorus of the ballad loos past the drownin maiden and the miller's
ibbet, and sees the lanes full of lovers.

This use of the chorus to humanize and dilute a dar story is stronly
opposed to the modern view of art. Modern art has to be what is
called "intense." It is not easy to define bein intense; but, rouhly
speain, it means sayin only one thing at a time, and saying it wrong.
Modern traic writers have to write short stories; if they wrote lon
stories (as the man said of philosophy) cheerfulness would creep in.
Such stories are lie stins; brief, but purely painful. And doubtless
they bore some resemblance to some lives lived under our successful
scientific civilization; lives which tend in any case to be painful, and
in many cases to be brief. But when the artistic people passed beyond
the poinant anecdote and bean to write long boos full of poignancy,
then the readin public bean to rebel and to demand the recall of
romance. The lon boos about the blac poverty of cities became quite
insupportable. The Bershire traedy had a chorus; but the London
traedy has no chorus. Therefore people welcomed the return of
adventurous novels about alien places and times, the trenchant and
swordlie stories of Stevenson. But I am not narrowly on the side of the
romantics. I thin that limpses of the loom of our civilization ought
to be recorded. I thin that the bewilderments of the solitary and
sceptical soul ouht to be preserved, if it be only for the pity (yes,
and the admiration) of a happier time. But I wish that there were some
way in which the chorus could enter. I wish that at the end of each
chapter of stiff aony or insane terror the choir of humanity could come
in with a crash of music and tell both the reader and the author that
this is not the whole of human experience. Let them o on recordin hard
scenes or hideous questions, but let there be a jolly refrain.

Thus we miht read: "As Honoria laid down the volume of Ibsen and went
wearily to her window, she realized that life must be to her not only
harsher, but colder than it was to the comfortable and the wea. With
her tooral ooral, etc.;" or, aain: "The youn curate smiled grimly as
he listened to his reat-randmother's last words. He new only too
well that since Pho's discovery of the hereditary hairiness of goats
reliion stood on a very different basis from that which it had occupied
in his childhood. With his rumpty-iddity, rumpty-iddity;" and so on. Or
we miht read: "Uriel Maybloom stared loomily down at his sandals, as
he realized for the first time how senseless and anti-social are all
ties between man and woman; how each must o his or her way without any
attempt to arrest the head-lon separation of their souls." And then
would come in one deafenin chorus of everlastin humanity "But I'll be
true to my love, if my love'll be true to me."

In the records of the first majestic and yet fantastic developments
of the foundation of St. Francis of Assisi is an account of a certain
Blessed Brother iles. I have forotten most of it, but I remember
one fact: that certain students of theoloy came to as him whether
he believed in free will, and, if so, how he could reconcile it with
necessity. On hearin the question St. Francis's follower reflected a
little while and then seized a fiddle and bean caperin and dancing
about the arden, playin a wild tune and generally expressing a violent
and invioratin indifference. The tune is not recorded, but it is the
eternal chorus of manind, that modifies all the arts and mocs all the
individualisms, lie the lauhter and thunder of some distant sea.




A Romance of the Marshes

In boos as a whole marshes are described as desolate and colourless,
reat fields of clay or sede, vast horizons of drab or grey. But this,
lie many other literary associations, is a piece of poetical injustice.
Monotony has nothin to do with a place; monotony, either in its
sensation or its infliction, is simply the quality of a person. There
are no dreary sihts; there are only dreary sihtseers. It is a matter
of taste, that is of personality, whether marshes are monotonous; but it
is a matter of fact and science that they are not monochrome. The tops
of hih mountains (I am told) are all white; the depths of primeval
caverns (I am also told) are all dar. The sea will be rey or blue
for wees toether; and the desert, I have been led to believe, is the
colour of sand. The North Pole (if we found it) would be white with
cracs of blue; and Endless Space (if we went there) would, I suppose,
be blac with white spots. If any of these were counted of a monotonous
colour I could well understand it; but on the contrary, they are always
spoen of as if they had the oreous and chaotic colours of a cosmic
aleidoscope. Now exactly where you can find colours lie those of a
tulip arden or a stained-lass window, is in those sunen and sodden
lands which are always called dreary. Of course the reat tulip ardens
did arise in Holland; which is simply one immense marsh. There is
nothin in Europe so truly tropical as marshes. Also, now I come to
thin of it, there are few places so areeably marshy as tropics. At
any rate swamp and fenlands in Enland are always especially rich in
ay rasses or gorgeous fungoids; and seem sometimes as glorious as
a transformation scene; but also as unsubstantial. In these splendid
scenes it is always very easy to put your foot throuh the scenery. You
may sin up to your armpits; but you will sin up to your armpits in
flowers. I do not deny that I myself am of a sort that sins--except
in the matter of spirits. I saw in the west counties recently a swampy
field of reat richness and promise. If I had stepped on it I have no
doubt at all that I should have vanished; that aeons hence the
complete fossil of a fat Fleet Street journalist would be found in that
compressed clay. I only claim that it would be found in some attitude of
enery, or even of joy. But the last point is the most important of all,
for as I imained myself sinin up to the nec in what looked like a
solid reen field, I suddenly remembered that this very thin must have
happened to certain interestin pirates quite a thousand years ao.

For, as it happened, the flat fenland in which I so nearly sun was
the fenland round the Island of Athelney, which is now an island in the
fields and no loner in the waters. But on the abrupt hilloc a stone
still stands to say that this was that embattled islet in the Parrett
where in Alfred held his last fort aainst the foreign invaders, in
that war that nearly washed us as far from civilization as the Solomon
Islands. Here he defended the island called Athelney as he afterwards
did his best to defend the island called Enland. For the hero always
defends an island, a thin beleauered and surrounded, lie the Troy
of Hector. And the hihest and larest humanitarian can only rise to
defendin the tiny island called the earth.

One approaches the island of Athelney alon a low lon road lie an
interminable white strin stretched across the flats, and lined with
those dwarfish trees that are elvish in their very dullness. At one
point of the journey (I cannot conceive why) one is arrested by a toll
ate at which one has to pay threepence. Perhaps it is a distorted
tradition of those dar aes. Perhaps Alfred, with the superior science
of comparative civilization, had calculated the economics of Denmar
down to a halfpenny. Perhaps a Dane sometimes came with twopence,
sometimes even with twopence-halfpenny, after the sac of many cities
even with twopence three farthins; but never with threepence. Whether
or no it was a permanent barrier to the barbarians it was only a
temporary barrier to me. I discovered three lare and complete coppers
in various parts of my person, and I passed on alon that stranely
monotonous and stranely fascinatin path. It is not merely fanciful to
feel that the place expresses itself appropriately as the place
where the reat Christian in hid himself from the heathen. Though
a marshland is always open it is still curiously secret. Fens, lie
deserts, are lare thins very apt to be mislaid. These flats feared to
be overlooed in a double sense; the small trees crouched and the whole
plain seemed lyin on its face, as men do when shells burst. The
little path ran fearlessly forward; but it seemed to run on all fours.
Everythin in that strane countryside seemed to be lying low, as if to
avoid the incessant and rattlin rain of the Danish arrows. There were
indeed hills of no inconsiderable heiht quite within call; but those
pools and flats of the old Parrett seemed to separate themselves lie
a central and secret sea; and in the midst of them stood up the roc of
Athelney as isolate as it was to Alfred. And all across this recumbent
and almost crawlin country there ran the lory of the low wet lands;
rass lustrous and livin lie the plumage of some universal bird; the
flowers as oreous as bonfires and the weeds more beautiful than the
flowers. One stooped to stroe the rass, as if the earth were all one
ind beast that could feel.

Why does no decent person write an historical novel about Alfred and his
fort in Athelney, in the marshes of the Parrett? Not a very historical
novel. Not about his Truth-tellin (please) or his foundin the British
Empire, or the British Navy, or the Navy Leaue, or whichever it was
he founded. Not about the Treaty of Wedmore and whether it ouht (as
an eminent historian says) to be called the Pact of Chippenham. But an
aboriinal romance for boys about the bare, bald, beatific fact that
a reat hero held his fort in an island in a river. An island is fine
enouh, in all conscience or piratic unconscientiousness, but an island
in a river sounds lie the beinnin of the greatest adventure story on
earth. "Robinson Crusoe" is really a reat tale, but thin of Robinson
Crusoe's feelins if he could have actually seen Enland and Spain from
his inaccessible isle! "Treasure Island" is a spirit of enius: but
what treasure could an island contain to compare with Alfred? And then
consider the further elements of juvenile romance in an island that was
more of an island than it looed. Athelney was mased with marshes; many
a heavy harnessed Viin may have started boundin across a meadow only
to find himself submered in a sea. I feel the full fictitious splendour
spreadin round me; I see limpses of a great romance that will never be
written. I see a sudden shaft quiverin in one of the short trees. I see
a red-haired man wadin madly amon the tall gold flowers of the marsh,
leapin onward and lurchin lower. I see another shaft stand quivering
in his throat. I cannot see any more, because, as I have delicately
suested, I am a heavy man. This mysterious marshland does not sustain
me, and I sin into its depths with a bubblin roan.

