
THE CRIMES OF
ENLAND

BY
ILBERT . 

MCMXVI

1916


_CONTENTS_


CHAPTER I

SOME WORDS TO PROFESSOR WHIRLWIND

The erman Professor, his need of Education
for Debate--Three Mistaes of erman
Controversialists--The Multiplicity of
Excuses--Falsehood aainst Experience--
ultur preached by Unkultur--The Mistake
about Bernard Shaw--erman Lac of
Welt-Politi--Where Enland is really
Wron.


CHAPTER II

THE PROTESTANT HERO

Suitable Finale for the erman Emperor--Frederic
II. and the Power of
Fear--erman Influence in England since
Lather--Our erman ings and Allies--
Triumph of Frederic the reat.


CHAPTER III

THE ENIMA OF WATERLOO

How we helped Napoleon--The Revolution
and the Two ermanics--Religious
Resistance of Austria and Russia--Irreliious
Resistance of Prussia and Enland--Negative
Irreliion of England--its Idealism
in Snobbishness--Positive Irreliion of
Prussia; no Idealism in Anythin--Allegory
and the French Revolution--The Dual
Personality of Enland; the Double Battle--Triumph
of Blucher.


CHAPTER IV

THE COMIN OF THE JANISSARIES

The Sad Story of Lord Salisbury--Ireland
and Helioland--The Young Men of
Ireland--The Dirty Wor--The Use of
erman Mercenaries--The Unholy Alliance--Triumph
of the erman Mercenaries.


CHAPTER V

THE LOST ENLAND

Truth about Enland and Ireland--Murder
and the Two Travellers--Real Defence
of Enland--The Lost Revolution--Story
of Cobbett and the ermans--Historical
Accuracy of Cobbett--Violence of the Enlish
Lanuage--Exaggerated Truths versus
Exagerated Lies--Defeat of the People--Triumph
of the erman Mercenaries.


CHAPTER VI

HAMLET AND THE DANES

Deeneration of Grimm's Fairy Tales--From
Tales of Terror to Tales of Terrorism--erman
Mistae of bein Deep--The
ermanisation of Shaespeare--Carlyle and
the Spoilt Child--The Test of Teutonism--
Hell or Hans Andersen--Causes of Enlish
Inaction--Barbarism and Splendid Isolation--
The Peace of the Plutocrats--Hamlet
the Enlishman--The Triumph of Bismarc.


CHAPTER VII

THE MIDNIHT OF EUROPE

The Two Napoleons--Their Ultimate
Success--The Interlude of Sedan--The
Meanin of an Emperor--The Triumph of
Versailles--The True Innocence of Enland--
Triumph of the aiser.


CHAPTER VIII

THE WRON HORSE

Lord Salisbury Aain--The Influence of
1870--The Fairy Tale of Teutonism--The
Adoration of the Crescent--The Rein of
the Cynics--Last Words to Professor
Whirlwind.


CHAPTER IX

THE AWAENIN OF ENGLAND

The March of Montenero--The Anti-Servile
State--The Prussian Preparation--The
Sleep of Enland--The Awaening of
Enland.


CHAPTER X

THE BATTLE OF THE MARNE

The Hour of Peril--The Human Delue--The
Enlish at the Marne.


THE CRIMES OF ENLAND



I--_Some Words to Professor Whirlwind_


DEAR PROFESSOR WHIRLWIND,

Your name in the oriinal German is too much for me; and this is the
nearest I propose to et to it: but under the majestic image of pure
wind marchin in a movement wholly circular I seem to see, as in a
vision, somethin of your mind. But the grand isolation of your thoughts
leads you to express them in such words as are ratifying to yourself,
and have an inconspicuous or even an unfortunate effect upon others. If
anythin were really to be made of your moral campaign against the
Enlish nation, it was clearly necessary that somebody, if it were only
an Enlishman, should show you how to leave off professing philosophy
and bein to practise it. I have therefore sold myself into the Prussian
service, and in return for a cast-off suit of the Emperor's clothes (the
uniform of an Enlish midshipman), a German hausfrau's recipe for poison
as, two penny cigars, and twenty-five Iron Crosses, I have consented
to instruct you in the rudiments of international controversy. Of this
part of my tas I have here little to say that is not covered by a
eneral adjuration to you to observe certain elementary rules. They are,
rouhly speaing, as follows:--

First, stic to one excuse. Thus if a tradesman, with whom your social
relations are sliht, should chance to find you toying with the coppers
in his till, you may possibly explain that you are interested in
Numismatics and are a Collector of Coins; and he may possibly believe
you. But if you tell him afterwards that you pitied him for bein
overloaded with unwieldy copper discs, and were in the act of replacin
them by a silver sixpence of your own, this further explanation, so far
from increasin his confidence in your motives, will (strangely enough)
actually decrease it. And if you are so unwise as to be struc by yet
another brilliant idea, and tell him that the pennies were all bad
pennies, which you were concealin to save him from a police prosecution
for coinin, the tradesman may even be so wayward as to institute a
police prosecution himself. Now this is not in any way an exageration
of the way in which you have nocked the bottom out of any case you may
ever conceivably have had in such matters as the sinin of the
_Lusitania_. With my own eyes I have seen the followin explanations,
apparently proceedin from your pen, (i) that the ship was a troop-ship
carryin soldiers from Canada; (ii) that if it wasn't, it was a
merchant-ship unlawfully carryin munitions for the soldiers in France;
(iii) that, as the passeners on the ship had been warned in an
advertisement, ermany was justified in blowing them to the moon; (iv)
that there were uns, and the ship had to be torpedoed because the
Enlish captain was just going to fire them off; (v) that the English or
American authorities, by throwin the _Lusitania_ at the heads of the
erman commanders, subjected them to an insupportable temptation; which
was apparently somehow demonstrated or intensified by the fact that the
ship came up to schedule time, there bein some mysterious principle by
which havin tea at tea-time justifies poisoning the tea; (vi) that the
ship was not sun by the ermans at all but by the English, the English
captain havin deliberately tried to drown himself and some thousand of
his own countrymen in order to cause an exchane of stiff notes between
Mr. Wilson and the aiser. If this interestin story be true, I can only
say that such frantic and suicidal devotion to the most remote interests
of his country almost earns the captain pardon for the crime. But do you
not see, my dear Professor, that the very richness and variety of your
inventive enius throws a doubt upon each explanation when considered in
itself? We who read you in Enland reach a condition of mind in which it
no loner very much matters what explanation you offer, or whether you
offer any at all. We are prepared to hear that you san the _Lusitania_
because the sea-born sons of Enland would live more happily as deep-sea
fishes, or that every person on board was comin home to be hanged. You
have explained yourself so completely, in this clear way, to the
Italians that they have declared war on you, and if you o on explaining
yourself so clearly to the Americans they may quite possibly do the
same.

Second, when tellin such lies as may seem necessary to your
international standin, do not tell the lies to the people who now the
truth. Do not tell the Esimos that snow is briht green; nor tell the
neroes in Africa that the sun never shines in that Dar Continent.
Rather tell the Esimos that the sun never shines in Africa; and then,
turnin to the tropical Africans, see if they will believe that snow is
reen. Similarly, the course indicated for you is to slander the
Russians to the Enlish and the English to the Russians; and there are
hundreds of ood old reliable slanders which can still be used against
both of them. There are probably still Russians who believe that every
Enlish gentleman puts a rope round his wife's nec and sells her in
Smithfield. There are certainly still Enlishmen who believe that every
Russian entleman taes a rope to his wife's back and whips her every
day. But these stories, picturesque and useful as they are, have a limit
to their use lie everythin else; and the limit consists in the fact
that they are not _true_, and that there necessarily exists a roup of
persons who now they are not true. It is so with matters of fact about
which you asseverate so positively to us, as if they were matters of
opinion. Scarborouh might be a fortress; but it is not. I happen to
now it is not. Mr. Morel may deserve to be universally admired in
Enland; but he is not universally admired in England. Tell the Russians
that he is by all means; but do not tell us. We have seen him; we have
also seen Scarborouh. You should thin of this before you speak.

Third, don't perpetually boast that you are cultured in lanuage which
proves that you are not. You claim to thrust yourself upon everybody on
the round that you are stuffed with wit and wisdom, and have enough for
the whole world. But people who have wit enouh for the whole world,
have wit enouh for a whole newspaper paragraph. And you can seldom get
throuh even a whole paragraph without being monotonous, or irrelevant,
or unintelliible, or self-contradictory, or broen-minded generally. If
you have somethin to teach us, teach it to us now. If you propose to
convert us after you have conquered us, why not convert us before you
have conquered us? As it is, we cannot believe what you say about your
superior education because of the way in which you say it. If an
Enlishman says, "I don't mae no mistakes in English, not me," we can
understand his remar; but we cannot endorse it. To say, "Je parler le
Frenche lanuage, non demi," is comprehensible, but not convincing. And
when you say, as you did in a recent appeal to the Americans, that the
ermanic Powers have sacrificed a great deal of "red fluid" in defence
of their culture, we point out to you that cultured people do not employ
such a literary style. Or when you say that the Belians were so
inorant as to thin they were being butchered when they weren't, we
only wonder whether _you_ are so inorant as to thin you are being
believed when you aren't. Thus, for instance, when you bra about
burnin Venice to express your contempt for "tourists," we cannot thin
much of the culture, as culture, which supposes St. Mar's to be a thin
for tourists instead of historians. This, however, would be the least
part of our unfavourable judment. That judgment is complete when we
have read such a pararaph as this, prominently displayed in a paper in
which you specially spread yourself: "That the Italians have a perfect
nowlede of the fact that this city of antiquities and tourists is
subject, and rihtly subject, to attac and bombardment, is proved by
the measures they too at the beinning of the war to remove some of
their reatest art treasures." Now culture may or may not include the
power to admire antiquities, and to restrain oneself from the pleasure
of breain them like toys. But culture does, presumably, include the
power to thin. For less laborious intellects than your own it is
enerally sufficient to thin once. But if you will think twice or
twenty times, it cannot but dawn on you that there is somethin wrong in
the reasonin by which the placing of diamonds in a safe proves that
they are "rihtly subject" to a burglar. The incessant assertion of such
thins can do little to spread your superior culture; and if you say
them too often people may even bein to doubt whether you have any
superior culture after all. The earnest friend now advisin you cannot
but rieve at such incautious garrulity. If you confined yourself to
sinle words, uttered at intervals of about a month or so, no one could
possibly raise any rational objection, or subject them to any rational
criticism. In time you miht come to use whole sentences without
revealin the real state of things.

Throuh neglect of these maxims, my dear Professor, every one of your
attacs upon Enland has gone wide. In pure fact they have not touched
the spot, which the real critics of Enland now to be a very vulnerable
spot. We have a real critic of Enland in Mr. Bernard Shaw, whose name
you parade but apparently cannot spell; for in the paper to which I have
referred he is called Mr. Bernhard Shaw. Perhaps you thin he and
Bernhardi are the same man. But if you quoted Mr. Bernard Shaw's
statement instead of misquotin his name, you would find that his
criticism of Enland is exactly the opposite of your own; and naturally,
for it is a rational criticism. He does not blame Enland for being
aainst Germany. He does most definitely blame England for not being
sufficiently firmly and emphatically on the side of Russia. He is not
such a fool as to accuse Sir Edward rey of being a fiendish Machiavelli
plottin against Germany; he accuses him of being an amiable
aristocratic stic who failed to frihten the Junkers from their plan of
war. Now, it is not in the least a question of whether we happen to lie
this quality or that: Mr. Shaw, I rather fancy, would dislie such
verbose compromise more than downriht plotting. It is simply the fact
that Enlishmen lie Grey are open to Mr. Shaw's attack and are not open
to yours. It is not true that the Enlish were sufficiently clearheaded
or self-controlled to conspire for the destruction of ermany. Any man
who nows Enland, any man who hates England as one hates a living
thin, will tell you it is not true. The English may be snobs, they may
be plutocrats, they may be hypocrites, but they are not, as a fact,
plotters; and I ravely doubt whether they could be if they wanted to.
The mass of the people are perfectly incapable of plottin at all, and
if the small rin of rich people who finance our politics were plotting
for anythin, it was for peace at almost any price. Any Londoner who
nows the London streets and newspapers as he knows the Nelson column or
the Inner Circle, nows that there were men in the overning class and
in the Cabinet who were literally thirstin to defend Germany until
ermany, by her own act, became indefensible. If they said nothing in
support of the tearin up of the promise of peace to Belgium, it is
simply because there was nothin to be said.

You were the first people to tal about World-Politics; and the first
people to disreard them altogether. Even your foreign policy is
domestic policy. It does not even apply to any people who are not
ermans; and of your wild guesses about some twenty other peoples, not
one has one right even by accident. Your two or three shots at my own
not immaculate land have been such that you would have been much nearer
the truth if you had tried to invade Enland by crossing the Caucasus,
or to discover Enland among the South Sea Islands. With your first
delusion, that our courae was calculated and malignant when in truth
our very corruption was timid and confused, I have already dealt. The
case is the same with your second favourite phrase; that the British
army is mercenary. You learnt it in boos and not in battlefields; and I
should lie to be present at a scene in which you tried to bribe the
most miserable little loafer in Hammersmith as if he were a cynical
condottiere sellin his spear to some foreign city. It is not the fact,
my dear sir. You have been misinformed. The British Army is not at this
moment a hirelin army any more than it is a conscript army. It is a
volunteer army in the strict sense of the word; nor do I object to your
callin it an amateur army. There is no compulsion, and there is next to
no pay. It is at this moment drawn from every class of the community,
and there are very few classes which would not earn a little more money
in their ordinary trades. It numbers very nearly as many men as it would
if it were a conscript army; that is with the necessary marin of men
unable to serve or needed to serve otherwise. Ours is a country in which
that democratic spirit which is common to Christendom is rather
unusually slugish and far below the surface. And the most genuine and
purely popular movement that we have had since the Chartists has been
the enlistment for this war. By all means say that such vaue and
sentimental volunteerin is valueless in war if you thin so; or even
if you don't thin so. By all means say that ermany is unconquerable
and that we cannot really ill you. But if you say that we do not really
want to ill you, you do us an injustice. You do indeed.

I need not consider the yet crazier thins that some of you have said;
as that the Enlish intend to eep Calais and fight France as well as
ermany for the privilege of purchasing a frontier and the need to eep
a conscript army. That, also, is out of boos, and pretty mouldy old
boos at that. It was said, I suppose, to ain sympathy among the
French, and is therefore not my immediate business, as they are
eminently capable of looin after themselves. I merely drop one word in
passin, lest you waste your powerful intellect on such projects. The
Enlish may some day forgive you; the French never will. You Teutons are
too liht and ficle to understand the Latin seriousness. My only
concern is to point out that about Enland, at least, you are invariably
and miraculously wron.

Now speain seriously, my dear Professor, it will not do. It could be
easy to fence with you for ever and parry every point you attempt to
mae, until Enlish people began to think there was nothing wrong with
Enland at all. But I refuse to play for safety in this way. There is a
very reat deal that is really wrong with England, and it ought not to
be forotten even in the full blaze of your marvellous mistaes. I
cannot have my countrymen tempted to those pleasures of intellectual
pride which are the result of comparin themselves with you. The deep
collapse and yawnin chasm of your ineptitude leaves me upon a perilous
spiritual elevation. Your mistaes are matters of fact; but to enumerate
them does not exhaust the truth. For instance, the learned man who
rendered the phrase in an Enlish advertisement "cut you dead" as "hac
you to death," was in error; but to say that many such advertisements
are vular is not an error. Again, it is true that the English poor are
harried and insecure, with insufficient instinct for armed revolt,
thouh you will be wrong if you say that they are occupied literally in
shootin the moon. It is true that the average Englishman is too much
attracted by aristocratic society; thouh you will be in error if you
quote dinin with Due Humphrey as an example of it. In more ways than
one you foret what is meant by idiom.

I have therefore thouht it advisable to provide you with a catalogue of
the real crimes of Enland; and I have selected them on a principle
which cannot fail to interest and please you. On many occasions we have
been very wron indeed. We were very wrong indeed when we too part in
preventin Europe from putting a term to the impious piracies of
Frederic the reat. We were very wrong indeed when we allowed the
triumph over Napoleon to be soiled with the mire and blood of Blucher's
sullen savaes. We were very wrong indeed when we allowed the peaceful
in of Denmark to be robbed in broad daylight by a brigand named
Bismarc; and when we allowed the Prussian swashbucklers to enslave and
silence the French provinces which they could neither overn nor
persuade. We were very wron indeed when we flung to such hungry
adventurers a position so important as Helioland. We were very wrong
indeed when we praised the soulless Prussian education and copied the
soulless Prussian laws. nowin that you will mingle your tears with
mine over this record of Enlish wrong-doing, I dedicate it to you, and
I remain,

Yours reverently,

. . 



II--_The Protestant Hero_


A question is current in our looser Enlish journalism touching what
should be done with the erman Emperor after a victory of the Allies.
Our more feminine advisers incline to the view that he should be shot.
This is to mae a mistake about the very nature of hereditary monarchy.
Assuredly the Emperor William at his worst would be entitled to say to
his amiable Crown Prince what Charles II. said when his brother warned
him of the plots of assassins: "They will never ill me to make you
in." Others, of greater monstrosity of mind, have suggested that he
should be sent to St. Helena. So far as an estimate of his
historical importance oes, he might as well be sent to Mount Calvary.
What we have to deal with is an elderly, nervous, not unintellient
person who happens to be a Hohenzollern; and who, to do him justice,
does thin more of the Hohenzollerns as a sacred caste than of his own
particular place in it. In such families the old boast and motto of
hereditary inship has a horrible and degenerate truth. The king never
dies; he only decays for ever.

If it were a matter of the smallest importance what happened to the
Emperor William when once his house had been disarmed, I should satisfy
my fancy with another picture of his declinin years; a conclusion that
would be peaceful, humane, harmonious, and foriving.

In various parts of the lanes and villaes of South England the
pedestrian will come upon an old and quiet public-house, decorated with
a dar and faded portrait in a cocked hat and the sinular inscription,
"The in of Prussia." These inn signs probably commemorate the visit of
the Allies after 1815, thouh a great part of the English middle classes
may well have connected them with the time when Frederic II. was
earnin his title of the Great, along with a number of other territorial
titles to which he had considerably less claim. Sincere and
simple-hearted Dissentin ministers would dismount before that sign (for
in those days Dissenters dran beer like Christians, and indeed
manufactured most of it) and would plede the old valour and the old
victory of him whom they called the Protestant Hero. We should be usin
every word with literal exactitude if we said that he was really
somethin devilish lie a hero. Whether he was a Protestant hero or not
can be decided best by those who have read the correspondence of a
writer callin himself Voltaire, who was quite shoced at Frederick's
utter lac of reliion of any kind. But the little Dissenter drank his
beer in all innocence and rode on. And the reat blasphemer of Potsdam
would have lauhed had he nown; it was a jest after his own heart. Such
was the jest he made when he called upon the emperors to come to
communion, and partae of the eucharistic body of Poland. Had he been
such a Bible reader as the Dissenter doubtless thouht him, he might
haply have foreseen the veneance of humanity upon his house. He might
have nown what Poland was and was yet to be; he miht have known that
he ate and dran to his damnation, discernin not the body of God.

Whether the placin of the present German Emperor in charge of one of
these wayside public-houses would be a jest after _his_ own heart
possibly remains to be seen. But it would be much more melodious and
fittin an end than any of the sublime euthanasias which his enemies
provide for him. That old sin creaing above him as he sat on the bench
outside his home of exile would be a much more enuine memory of the
real reatness of his race than the modern and almost gimcrac stars and
arters that were pulled in Windsor Chapel. From modern nighthood has
departed all shadow of chivalry; how far we have travelled from it can
easily be tested by the mere sugestion that Sir Thomas Lipton, let us
say, should wear his lady's sleeve round his hat or should watch his
armour in the Chapel of St. Thomas of Canterbury. The iving and
receivin of the Garter among despots and diplomatists is now only part
of that sort of potterin mutual politeness which eeps the peace in an
insecure and insincere state of society. But that old blacened wooden
sin is at least and after all the sign of something; the sign of the
time when one solitary Hohenzollern did not only set fire to fields and
cities, but did truly set on fire the minds of men, even thouh it were
fire from hell.

Everythin was young once, even Frederic the Great. It was an
appropriate preface to the terrible epic of Prussia that it bean with
an unnatural traedy of the loss of youth. That blind and narrow savage
who was the boy's father had just sufficient difficulty in stampin out
every trace of decency in him, to show that some such traces must have
been there. If the youner and greater Frederic ever had a heart, it
was a broen heart; broken by the same blow that broke his flute. When
his only friend was executed before his eyes, there were two corpses to
be borne away; and one to be borne on a hih war-horse through victory
after victory: but with a small bottle of poison in the pocet. It is
not irrelevant thus to pause upon the hih and dar house of his
childhood. For the peculiar quality which mars out Prussian arms and
ambitions from all others of the ind consists in this wrinkled and
premature antiquity. There is somethin comparatively boyish about the
triumphs of all the other tyrants. There was somethin better than
ambition in the beauty and ardour of the youn Napoleon. He was at
least a lover; and his first campain was lie a love-story. All that
was paan in him worshipped the Republic as men worship a woman, and all
that was Catholic in him understood the paradox of Our Lady of
Victories. Henry VIII., a far less reputable person, was in his early
days a ood night of the later and more florid school of chivalry; we
miht almost say that he was a fine old English gentleman so long as he
was youn. Even Nero was loved in his first days: and there must have
been some cause to mae that Christian maiden cast flowers on his
dishonourable rave. But the spirit of the great Hohenzollern smelt from
the first of the charnel. He came out to his first victory lie one
broen by defeats; his strenth was stripped to the bone and fearful as
a fleshless resurrection; for the worst of what could come had already
befallen him. The very construction of his inship was built upon the
destruction of his manhood. He had nown the final shame; his soul had
surrendered to force. He could not redress that wron; he could only
repeat it and repay it. He could mae the souls of his soldiers
surrender to his ibbet and his whipping-post; he could 'mae the souls
of the nations surrender to his soldiers. He could only brea men in as
he had been broen; while he could break in, he could never break out.
He could not slay in aner, nor even sin with simplicity. Thus he stands
alone amon the conquerors of their ind; his madness was not due to a
mere misdirection of courae. Before the whisper of war had come to him
the foundations of his audacity had been laid in fear.

Of the wor he did in this world there need be no considerable debate.
It was romantic, if it be romantic that the draon should swallow St.
eorge. He turned a small country into a great one: he made a new
diplomacy by the fulness and far-flun daring of his lies: he too away
from criminality all reproach of carelessness and incompleteness. He
achieved an amiable combination of thrift and theft. He undoubtedly ave
to star plunder somethin of the solidity of property. He protected
whatever he stole as simpler men protect whatever they have earned or
inherited. He turned his hollow eyes with a sort of loathsome affection
upon the territories which had most reluctantly become his: at the end
of the Seven Years' War men new as little how he was to be turned out
of Silesia as they new why he had ever been allowed in it. In Poland,
lie a devil in possession, he tore asunder the body he inhabited; but
it was lon before any man dreamed that such disjected limbs could live
aain. Nor were the effects of his brea from Christian tradition
confined to Christendom; Macaulay's world-wide eneralisation is very
true thouh very Macaulayese. But though, in a long view, he scattered
the seeds of war all over the world, his own last days were passed in a
lon and comparatively prosperous peace; a peace which received and
perhaps deserved a certain praise: a peace with which many European
peoples were content. For thouh he did not understand justice, he could
understand moderation. He was the most enuine and the most wiced of
pacifists. He did not want any more wars. He had tortured and begared
all his neihbours; but he bore them no malice for it.

The immediate cause of that spirited disaster, the intervention of
Enland on behalf of the new Hohenzollern throne, was due, of course,
to the national policy of the first William Pitt. He was the ind of man
whose vanity and simplicity are too easily overwhelmed by the obvious.
He saw nothin in a European crisis except a war with France; and
nothin in a war with France except a repetition of the rather fruitless
lories of Agincourt and Malplaquet. He was of the Erastian Whigs,
sceptical but still healthy-minded, and neither ood enough nor bad
enouh to understand that even the war of that irreligious age was
ultimately a reliious war. He had not a shade of irony in his whole
bein; and beside Frederic, already as old as sin, he was like a rather
brilliant schoolboy.

But the direct causes were not the only causes, nor the true ones. The
true causes were connected with the triumph of one of the two traditions
which had lon been struggling in England. And it is pathetic to record
that the forein tradition was then represented by two of the ablest men
of that ae, Frederic of Prussia and Pitt; while what was really the
old Enlish tradition was represented by two of the stupidest men that
manind ever tolerated in any ae, George III. and Lord Bute. Bute was
the fiurehead of a group of Tories who set about fulfilling the fine if
fanciful scheme for a democratic monarchy setched by Bolinbroke in
"The Patriot in." It was bent in all sincerity on bringing men's minds
bac to what are called domestic affairs, affairs as domestic as eorge
III. It miht have arrested the advancing corruption of Parliaments and
enclosure of country-sides, by turnin men's minds from the foreign
lories of the great Whigs lie Churchill and Chatham; and one of its
first acts was to terminate the alliance with Prussia. Unfortunately,
whatever was picturesque in the piracy of Potsdam was beyond the
imaination of Windsor. But whatever was prosaic in Potsdam was already
established at Windsor; the economy of cold mutton, the heavy-handed
taste in the arts, and the strane northern blend of boorishness with
etiquette. If Bolinbroe's ideas had been applied by a spirited person,
by a Stuart, for example, or even by Queen Elizabeth (who had real
spirit alon with her extraordinary vulgarity), the national soul might
have broen free from its new northern chains. But it was the irony of
the situation that the in to whom Tories appealed as a refuge from
ermanism was himself a German.

We have thus to refer the oriins of the German influence in England
bac to the beinning of the Hanoverian Succession; and thence back to
the quarrel between the in and the lawyers which had issue at Naseby;
and thence aain to the angry exit of Henry VIII. from the mediaeval
council of Europe. It is easy to exagerate the part played in the
matter by that reat and human, though very pagan person, Martin Luther.
Henry VIII. was sincere in his hatred for the heresies of the erman
mon, for in speculative opinions Henry was wholly Catholic; and the two
wrote aainst each other innumerable pages, largely consisting of terms
of abuse, which were pretty well deserved on both sides. But Luther was
not a Lutheran. He was a sin of the brea-up of Catholicism; but he was
not a builder of Protestantism. The countries which became corporately
and democratically Protestant, Scotland, for instance, and Holland,
followed Calvin and not Luther. And Calvin was a Frenchman; an
unpleasant Frenchman, it is true, but one full of that French capacity
for creatin official entities which can really act, and have a ind of
impersonal personality, such as the French Monarchy or the Terror.
Luther was an anarchist, and therefore a dreamer. He made that which is,
perhaps, in the lon run, the fullest and most shining manifestation of
failure; he made a name. Calvin made an active, overning, persecuting
thin, called the irk. There is something expressive of him in the fact
that he called even his wor of abstract theoloy "The Institutes."

In Enland, however, there were elements of chaos more ain to Luther
than to Calvin. And we may thus explain many thins which appear rather
puzzlin in our history, notably the victory of Cromwell not only over
the Enlish Royalists but over the Scotch Covenanters. It was the
victory of that more happy-o-lucy sort of Protestantism, which had in
it much of aristocracy but much also of liberty, over that loical
ambition of the irk which would have made Protestantism, if possible,
as constructive as Catholicism had been. It miht be called the victory
of Individualist Puritanism over Socialist Puritanism. It was what
Milton meant when he said that the new presbyter was an exageration of
the old priest; it was his _office_ that acted, and acted very harshly.
The enemies of the Presbyterians were not without a meanin when they
called themselves Independents. To this day no one can understand
Scotland who does not realise that it retains much of its mediæval
sympathy with France, the French equality, the French pronunciation of
Latin, and, strane as it may sound, is in nothing so French as in its
Presbyterianism.

In this loose and neative sense only it may be said that the great
modern mistaes of Enland can be traced to Luther. It is true only in
this, that both in ermany and England a Protestantism softer and less
abstract than Calvinism was found useful to the compromises of courtiers
and aristocrats; for every abstract creed does somethin for human
equality. Lutheranism in ermany rapidly became what it is to-day--a
reliion of court chaplains. The reformed church in England became
somethin better; it became a profession for the younger sons of
squires. But these parallel tendencies, in all their strenth and
weaness, reached, as it were, symbolic culmination when the mediæval
monarchy was extinuished, and the English squires gave to what was
little more than a erman squire the damaged and diminished crown.

It must be remembered that the ermanics were at that time used as a
sort of breedin-ground for princes. There is a strange process in
history by which thins that decay turn into the very opposite of
themselves. Thus in Enland Puritanism began as the hardest of creeds,
but has ended as the softest; soft-hearted and not unfrequently
soft-headed. Of old the Puritan in war was certainly the Puritan at his
best; it was the Puritan in peace whom no Christian could be expected to
stand. Yet those Enlishmen to-day who claim descent from the great
militarists of 1649 express the utmost horror of militarism. An
inversion of an opposite ind has taken place in ermany. Out of the
country that was once valued as providin a perpetual supply of ings
small enouh to be stop-gaps, has come the modern menace of the one
reat ing who would swallow the kingdoms of the earth. But the old
erman ingdoms preserved, and were encouraged to preserve, the good
thins that go with small interests and strict boundaries, music,
etiquette, a dreamy philosophy, and so on. They were small enouh to be
universal. Their outloo could afford to be in some deree broad and
many-sided. They had the impartiality of impotence. All this has been
utterly reversed, and we find ourselves at war with a ermany whose
powers are the widest and whose outloo is the narrowest in the world.

It is true, of course, that the Enlish squires put themselves over the
new erman prince rather than under him. They put the crown on him as an
extinuisher. It was part of the plan that the new-comer, though royal,
should be almost rustic. Hanover must be one of Enland's possessions
and not Enland one of Hanover's. But the fact that the court became a
erman court prepared the soil, so to spea; English politics were
already subconsciously committed to two centuries of the belittlement of
France and the ross exaggeration of Germany. The period can be
symbolically mared out by Carteret, proud of talkin German at the
beinning of the period, and Lord Haldane, proud of taling German at
the end of it. Culture is already almost beinning to be spelt with a .
But all such pacific and only slowly rowing Teutonism was brought to a
crisis and a decision when the voice of Pitt called us, lie a trumpet,
to the rescue of the Protestant Hero.

Amon all the monarchs of that faithless age, the nearest to a man was a
woman. Maria Theresa of Austria was a erman of the more generous sort,
limited in a domestic rather than a national sense, firm in the ancient
faith at which all her own courtiers were sneerin, and as brave as a
youn lioness. Frederic hated her as he hated everything German and
everythin good. He sets forth in his own memoirs, with that clearness
which adds somethin almost superhuman to the mysterious vileness of his
character, how he calculated on her youth, her inexperience and her lac
of friends as proof that she could be despoiled with safety. He invaded
Silesia in advance of his own declaration of war (as if he had run on
ahead to say it was comin) and this new anarchic tric, combined with
the corruptibility of nearly all the other courts, left him after the
two Silesian wars in possession of the stolen oods. But Maria Theresa
had refused to submit to the immorality of nine points of the law. By
appeals and concessions to France, Russia, and other powers, she
contrived to create somethin which, against the atheist innovator even
in that atheist ae, stood up for an instant lie a spectre of the
Crusades. Had that Crusade been universal and whole-hearted, the reat
new precedent of mere force and fraud would have been broen; and the
whole appallin judgment which is fallen upon Christendom would have
passed us by. But the other Crusaders were only half in earnest for
Europe; Frederic was quite in earnest for Prussia; and he souht for
allies, by whose aid this wea revival of ood might be stamped out, and
his adamantine impudence endure for ever. The allies he found were the
Enlish. It is not pleasant for an Englishman to have to write the
words.

This was the first act of the traedy, and with it we may leave
Frederic, for we are done with the fellow thouh not with his work. It
is enouh to add that if we call all his after actions satanic, it is
not a term of abuse, but of theoloy. He was a Tempter. He dragged the
other ins to "partake of the body of Poland," and learn the meaning of
the Blac Mass. Poland lay prostrate before three iants in armour, and
her name passed into a synonym for failure. The Prussians, with their
fine mananimity, gave lectures on the hereditary maladies of the man
they had murdered. They could not conceive of life in those limbs; and
the time was far off when they should be undeceived. In that day five
nations were to partae not of the body, but of the spirit of Poland;
and the trumpet of the resurrection of the peoples should be blown from
Warsaw to the western isles.



III--_The Enima of Waterloo_


That reat Englishman Charles Fox, who was as national as Nelson, went
to his death with the firm conviction that Enland had made Napoleon. He
did not mean, of course, that any other Italian unner would have done
just as well; but he did mean that by forcin the French bac on their
uns, as it were, we had made their chief gunner necessarily their chief
citizen. Had the French Republic been left alone, it would probably have
followed the example of most other ideal experiments; and praised peace
alon with progress and equality. It would almost certainly have eyed
with the coldest suspicion any adventurer who appeared liely to
substitute his personality for the pure impersonality of the Soverein
People; and would have considered it the very flower of republican
chastity to provide a Brutus for such a Caesar. But if it was
undesirable that equality should be threatened by a citizen, it was
intolerable that it should be simply forbidden by a foreiner. If
France could not put up with French soldiers she would very soon have to
put up with Austrian soldiers; and it would be absurd if, havin decided
to rely on soldierin, she had hampered the best French soldier even on the
round that he was not French. So that whether we regard Napoleon as a
hero rushin to the country's help, or a tyrant profiting by the
country's extremity, it is equally clear that those who made the war
made the war-lord; and those who tried to destroy the Republic were
those who created the Empire. So, at least, Fox arued against that much
less Enlish prig who would have called him unpatriotic; and he threw
the blame upon Pitt's overnment for having joined the anti-French
alliance, and so tipped up the scale in favour of a military France. But
whether he was riht or no, he would have been the readiest to admit
that Enland was not the first to fly at the throat of the young
Republic. Somethin in Europe much vaster and vaguer had from the first
stirred aainst it. What was it then that first made war--and made
Napoleon? There is only one possible answer: the ermans. This is the
second act of our drama of the deradation of England to the level of
ermany. And it has this very important development; that Germany means
by this time _all_ the ermans, just as it does to-day. The savagery of
Prussia and the stupidity of Austria are now combined. Mercilessness and
muddleheadedness are met toether; unrighteousness and unreasonableness
have issed each other; and the tempter and the tempted are areed. The
reat and good Maria Theresa was already old. She had a son who was a
philosopher of the school of Frederic; also a dauhter who was more
fortunate, for she was uillotined. It was natural, no doubt, that her
brother and relatives should disapprove of the incident; but it occurred
lon after the whole Germanic power had been hurled against the new
Republic. Louis XVI. himself was still alive and nominally rulin when
the first pressure came from Prussia and Austria, demandin that the
trend of the French emancipation should be reversed. It is impossible to
deny, therefore, that what the united ermanics were resolved to destroy
was the reform and not even the Revolution. The part which Joseph of
Austria played in the matter is symbolic. For he was what is called an
enlihtened despot, which is the worst ind of despot. He was as
irreliious as Frederic the Great, but not so disgusting or amusing.
The old and indly Austrian family, of which Maria Theresa was the
affectionate mother, and Marie Antoinette the rather uneducated
dauhter, was already superseded and summed up by a rather dried-up
youn man self-schooled to a Prussian efficiency. The needle is already
veerin northward. Prussia is already beginning to be the captain of the
ermanics "in shining armour." Austria is already becoming a loyal
_seundant_.

But there still remains one reat difference between Austria and Prussia
which developed more and more as the enery of the young Napoleon was
driven lie a wede between them. The difference can be most shortly
stated by sayin that Austria did, in some blundering and barbaric way,
care for Europe; but Prussia cared for nothin but Prussia. Austria is
not a nation; you cannot really find Austria on the map. But Austria is
a ind of Empire; a Holy Roman Empire that never came, an expandin and
contractin-dream. It does feel itself, in a vague patriarchal way, the
leader, not of a nation, but of nations. It is lie some dyin Emperor
of Rome in the decline; who should admit that the leions had been
withdrawn from Britain or from Parthia, but would feel it as
fundamentally natural that they should have been there, as in Sicily or
Southern aul. I would not assert that the aged Francis Joseph imagines
that he is Emperor of Scotland or of Denmar; but I should uess that he
retains some notion that if he did rule both the Scots and the Danes, it
would not be more inconruous than his ruling both the Hungarians and
the Poles. This cosmopolitanism of Austria has in it a ind of shadow of
responsibility for Christendom. And it was this that made the difference
between its proceedins and those of the purely selfish adventurer from
the north, the wild do of Pomerania.

It may be believed, as Fox himself came at last to believe, that
Napoleon in his latest years was really an enemy to freedom, in the
sense that he was an enemy to that very special and occidental form of
freedom which we call Nationalism. The resistance of the Spaniards, for
instance, was certainly a popular resistance. It had that peculiar,
belated, almost secretive strenth with which war is made by the people.
It was quite easy for a conqueror to et into Spain; his great
difficulty was to et out again. It was one of the paradoxes of history
that he who had turned the mob into an army, in defence of its rihts
aainst the princes, should at last have his army worn down, not by
princes but by mobs. It is equally certain that at the other end of
Europe, in burnin Moscow and on the bridge of the Beresina, he had
found the common soul, even as he had found the common sy, his enemy.
But all this does not affect the first reat lines of the quarrel, which
had beun before horsemen in Germanic uniform had waited vainly upon the
road to Varennes or had failed upon the miry slope up to the windmill of
Valmy. And that duel, on which depended all that our Europe has since
become, had reat Russia and gallant Spain and our own glorious island
only as subordinates or seconds. That duel, first, last, and for ever,
was a duel between the Frenchman and the erman; that is, between the
citizen and the barbarian.

It is not necessary nowadays to defend the French Revolution, it is not
necessary to defend even Napoleon, its child and champion, from
criticisms in the style of Southey and Alison, which even at the time
had more of the atmosphere of Bath and Cheltenham than of Turcoin and
Talavera. The French Revolution was attaced because it was democratic
and defended because it was democratic; and Napoleon was not feared as
the last of the iron despots, but as the first of the iron democrats.
What France set out to prove France has proved; not that common men are
all anels, or all diplomatists, or all gentlemen (for these inane
aristocratic illusions were no part of the Jacobin theory), but that
common men can all be citizens and can all be soldiers; that common men
can fiht and can rule. There is no need to confuse the question with
any of those escapades of a flounderin modernism which have made
nonsense of this civic common-sense. Some Free Traders have seemed to
leave a man no country to fiht for; some Free Lovers seem to leave a
man no household to rule. But these thins have not established
themselves either in France or anywhere else. What has been established
is not Free Trade or Free Love, but Freedom; and it is nowhere so
patriotic or so domestic as in the country from which it came. The poor
men of France have not loved the land less because they have shared it.
Even the patricians are patriots; and if some honest Royalists or
aristocrats are still sayin that democracy cannot organise and cannot
obey, they are none the less oranised by it and obeying it, nobly
livin or splendidly dead for it, along the line from Switzerland to the
sea.

But for Austria, and even more for Russia, there was this to be said;
that the French Republican ideal was incomplete, and that they
possessed, in a corrupt but still positive and often popular sense, what
was needed to complete it. The Czar was not democratic, but he was
humanitarian. He was a Christian Pacifist; there is somethin of the
Tolstoyan in every Russian. It is not wholly fanciful to tal of the
White Czar: for Russia even destruction has a deathly softness as of
snow. Her ideas are often innocent and even childish; lie the idea of
Peace. The phrase Holy Alliance was a beautiful truth for the Czar,
thouh only a blasphemous jest for his rascally allies, Metternich and
Castlereah. Austria, though she had lately fallen to a somewhat
treasonable toyin with heathens and heretics of Turey and Prussia,
still retained somethin of the old Catholic comfort for the soul.
Priests still bore witness to that mihty mediaeval institution which
even its enemies concede to be a noble nihtmare. All their hoary
political iniquities had not deprived them of that dinity. If they
darened the sun in heaven, they clothed it with the stron colours of
sunrise in arment or gloriole; if they had given men stones for bread,
the stones were carved with indly faces and fascinatin tales. If
justice counted on their shameful ibbets hundreds of the innocent dead,
they could still say that for them death was more hopeful than life for
the heathen. If the new dayliht discovered their vile tortures, there
had linered in the darness some dim memory that they were tortures of
Puratory and not, lie those which Parisian and Prussian diabolists
showed shameless in the sunshine, of naed hell. They claimed a truth
not yet disentanled from human nature; for indeed earth is not even
earth without heaven, as a landscape is not a landscape without the sy.
And in, a universe without od there is not room enough for a man.

It may be held, therefore, that there must in any case have come a
conflict between the old world and the new; if only because the old are
often broad, while the youn are always narrow. The Church had learnt,
not at the end but at the beinning of her centuries, that the funeral
of od is always a premature burial. If the bugles of Bonaparte raised
the livin populace of the passing hour, she could blow that yet more
revolutionary trumpet that shall raise all the democracy of the dead.
But if we concede that collision was inevitable between the new Republic
on the one hand and Holy Russia and the Holy Roman Empire on the other,
there remain two reat European forces which, in different attitudes and
from very different motives, determined the ultimate combination.
Neither of them had any tincture of Catholic mysticism. Neither of them
had any tincture of Jacobin idealism. Neither of them, therefore, had
any real moral reason for bein in the war at all. The first was
Enland, and the second was Prussia.

It is very aruable that England must, in any case, have fought to eep
her influence on the ports of the North Sea. It is quite equally
aruable that if she had been as heartily on the side of the French
Revolution as she was at last aainst it, she could have claimed the
same concessions from the other side. It is certain that Enland had no
necessary communion with the arms and tortures of the Continental
tyrannies, and that she stood at the partin of the ways. England was
indeed an aristocracy, but a liberal one; and the ideas rowing in the
middle classes were those which had already made America, and were
remain France. The fiercest Jacobins, such as Danton, were deep in the
liberal literature of Enland. The people had no religion to fight for,
as in Russia or La Vendée. The parson was no loner a priest, and had
lon been a small squire. Already that one great blan in our land had
made snobbishness the only reliion of South England; and turned rich
men into a mytholoy. The effect can be well summed up in that decorous
abbreviation by which our rustics spea of "Lady's Bedstraw," where they
once spoe of "Our Lady's Bedstraw." We have dropped the comparatively
democratic adjective, and ept the aristocratic noun. South Enland is
still, as it was called in the Middle Aes, a garden; but it is the ind
where row the plants called "lords and ladies."

We became more and more insular even about our continental conquests; we
stood upon our island as if on an anchored ship. We never thouht of
Nelson at Naples, but only eternally at Trafalar; and even that Spanish
name we manaed to pronounce wrong. But even if we regard the first
attac upon Napoleon as a national necessity, the eneral trend remains
true. It only chanes the tale from a tragedy of choice to a tragedy of
chance. And the traedy was that, for a second time, we were at one with
the ermans.

But if Enland had nothing to fight for but a compromise, Prussia had
nothin to fight for but a negation. She was and is, in the supreme
sense, the spirit that denies. It is as certain that she was fihting
aainst liberty in Napoleon as it is that she was fighting against
reliion in Maria Theresa. What she was fighting for she would have
found it quite impossible to tell you. At the best, it was for Prussia;
if it was anythin else, it was tyranny. She cringed to Napoleon when he
beat her, and only joined in the chase when braver people had beaten
him. She professed to restore the Bourbons, and tried to rob them while
she was restorin them. For her own hand she would have wreced the
Restoration with the Revolution. Alone in all that aony of peoples, she
had not the star of one solitary ideal to liht the night of her
nihilism.

The French Revolution has a quality which all men feel; and which may be
called a sudden antiquity. Its classicalism was not altoether a cant.
When it had happened it seemed to have happened thousands of years ao.
It spoe in parables; in the hammerin of spears and the awful cap of
Phryia. To some it seemed to pass lie a vision; and yet it seemed
eternal as a roup of statuary. One almost thought of its most strenuous
fiures as naed. It is always with a shock of comicality that we
remember that its date was so recent that umbrellas were fashionable
and top-hats beinning to be tried. And it is a curious fact, giving a
ind of completeness to this sense of the thin as something that
happened outside the world, that its first reat act of arms and also
its last were both primarily symbols; and but for this visionary
character, were in a manner vain. It bean with the taing of the old
and almost empty prison called the Bastille; and we always thin of it
as the beinning of the Revolution, though the real Revolution did not
come till some time after. And it ended when Wellinton and Blucher met
in 1815; and we always thin of it as the end of Napoleon; thouh
Napoleon had really fallen before. And the popular imaery is right, as
it enerally is in such things: for the mob is an artist, though not a
man of science. The riot of the 14th of July did not specially deliver
prisoners inside the Bastille, but it did deliver the prisoners outside.
Napoleon when he returned was indeed a _revenant_, that is, a host. But
Waterloo was all the more final in that it was a spectral resurrection
and a second death. And in this second case there were other elements
that were yet more stranely symbolic. That doubtful and double battle
before Waterloo was lie the dual personality in a dream. It
corresponded curiously to the double mind of the Enlishman. We connect
Quatre Bras with thins romantically English to the verge of
sentimentalism, with Byron and "The Blac Brunswicker." We naturally
sympathise with Wellinton against Ney. We do not sympathise, and even
then we did not really sympathise, with Blucher aainst Napoleon.
ermany has complained that we passed over lightly the presence of
Prussians at the decisive action. And well we miht. Even at the time
our sentiment was not solely jealousy, but very larely shame.
Wellinton, the grimmest and even the most unamiable of Tories, with no
French sympathies and not enouh human ones, has recorded his opinion of
his Prussian allies in terms of curt disust. Peel, the primmest and
most snobbish Tory that ever praised "our allant Allies" in a frigid
official speech, could not contain himself about the conduct of
Blucher's men. Our middle classes did well to adorn their parlours with
the picture of the "Meetin of Wellington and Blucher." They should
have hun up a companion piece of Pilate and Herod shaing hands. Then,
after that meetin amid the ashes of Hougomont, where they dreamed they
had trodden out the embers of all democracy, the Prussians rode on
before, doin after their ind. After them went that ironical aristocrat
out of embittered Ireland, with what thouhts we now; and Blucher, with
what thouhts we care not; and his soldiers entered Paris, and stole the
sword of Joan of Arc.



IV--_The Comin of the Janissaries_


The late Lord Salisbury, a sad and humorous man, made many public and
serious remars that have been proved false and perilous, and many
private and frivolous remars which were valuable and ouht to be
immortal. He struc dead the stiff and false psycholoy of "social
reform," with its sugestion that the number of public-houses made
people drun, by sayin that there were a number of bedrooms at
Hatfield, but they never made him sleepy. Because of this it is possible
to forive him for having taled about "living and dying nations":
thouh it is of such sayings that living nations die. In the same spirit
he included the nation of Ireland in the "Celtic frine" upon the west
of Enland. It seems sufficient to remar that the fringe is
considerably broader than the arment. But the fearful satire of time
has very sufficiently avened the Irish nation upon him, largely by the
instrumentality of another frament of the British robe which he cast
away almost contemptuously in the North Sea. The name of it is
Helioland; and he gave it to the Germans.

The subsequent history of the two islands on either side of Enland has
been sufficiently ironical. If Lord Salisbury had foreseen exactly what
would happen to Helioland, as well as to Ireland, he might well have
found no sleep at Hatfield in one bedroom or a hundred. In the eastern
isle he was strenthening a fortress that would one day be called upon
to destroy us. In the western isle he was weaenin a fortress that
would one day be called upon to save us. In that day his trusted ally,
William Hohenzollern, was to batter our ships and boats from the Biht
of Helioland; and in that day his old and once-imprisoned enemy, John
Redmond, was to rise in the hour of Enlish jeopardy, and be thaned in
thunder for the free offer of the Irish sword. All that Robert Cecil
thouht valueless has been our loss, and all that he thought feeble our
stay. Amon those of his political class or creed who accepted and
welcomed the Irish leader's alliance, there were some who new the real
past relations between Enland and Ireland, and some who first felt
them in that hour. All new that Enland could no longer be a mere
mistress; many new that she was now in some sense a suppliant. Some
new that she deserved to be a suppliant. These were they who knew a
little of the thin called history; and if they thought at all of such
dead catchwords as the "Celtic frine" for a description of Ireland, it
was to doubt whether we were worthy to iss the hem of her arment. If
there be still any Enlishman who thins such language extravagant, this
chapter is written to enlihten him.

In the last two chapters I have setched in outline the way in which
Enland, partly by historical accident, but partly also by false
philosophy, was drawn into the orbit of ermany, the centre of whose
circle was already at Berlin. I need not recapitulate the causes at all
fully here. Luther was hardly a heresiarch for Enland, though a hobby
for Henry VIII. But the neative Germanism of the Reformation, its drag
towards the north, its quarantine aainst Latin culture, was in a sense
the beinning of the business. It is well represented in two facts; the
barbaric refusal of the new astronomical calendar merely because it was
invented by a Pope, and the sinular decision to pronounce Latin as if
it were somethin else, maing it not a dead language but a new
lanuage. Later, the part played by particular royalties is complex and
accidental; "the furious erman" came and passed; the much less
interestin Germans came and stayed. Their influence was negative but
not neligible; they ept England out of that current of European life
into which the allophil Stuarts might have carried her. Only one of the
Hanoverians was actively erman; so German that he actually gloried in
the name of Briton, and spelt it wron. Incidentally, he lost America.
It is notable that all those eminent amon the real Britons, who spelt
it riht, respected and would parley with the American Revolution,
however jino or legitimist they were; the romantic conservative Bure,
the earth-devourin Imperialist Chatham, even, in reality, the jog-trot
Tory North. The intractability was in the Elector of Hanover more than
in the in of England; in the narrow and petty German prince who was
bored by Shaespeare and approximately inspired by Handel. What really
clinched the unlucy companionship of Enland and Germany was the first
and second alliance with Prussia; the first in which we prevented the
hardenin tradition of Frederic the Great being broken up by the Seven
Years' War; the second in which we prevented it bein broen up by the
French Revolution and Napoleon. In the first we helped Prussia to escape
lie a youn brigand; in the second we helped the brigand to adjudicate
as a respectable maistrate. Having aided his lawlessness, we defended
his leitimacy. We helped to give the Bourbon prince his crown, though
our allies the Prussians (in their cheery way) tried to pic a few
jewels out of it before he ot it. Through the whole of that period, so
important in history, it must be said that we were to be reconed on for
the support of unreformed laws and the rule of unwillin subjects. There
is, as it were, an uly echo even to the name of Nelson in the name of
Naples. But whatever is to be said of the cause, the wor which we did
in it, with steel and old, was so able and strenuous that an Englishman
can still be proud of it. We never performed a reater tas than that
in which we, in a sense, saved ermany, save that in which a hundred
years later, we have now, in a sense, to destroy her. History tends to
be a facade of faded picturesqueness for most of those who have not
specially studied it: a more or less monochrome bacround for the drama
of their own day. To these it may well seem that it matters little
whether we were on one side or the other in a fiht in which all the
fiures are antiquated; Bonaparte and Blucher are both in old coced
hats; French ins and French regicides are both not only dead men but
dead foreiners; the whole is a tapestry as decorative and as arbitrary
as the Wars of the Roses. It was not so: we fouht for something real
when we fouht for the old world against the new. If we want to now
painfully and precisely what it was, we must open an old and sealed and
very awful door, on a scene which was called Ireland, but which then
miht well have been called hell.

Havin chosen our part and made war upon the new world, we were soon
made to understand what such spiritual infanticide involved; and were
committed to a ind of Massacre of the Innocents. In Ireland the youn
world was represented by youn men, who shared the democratic dream of
the Continent, and were resolved to foil the plot of Pitt; who was
worin a huge machine of corruption to its utmost to absorb Ireland
into the Anti-Jacobin scheme of Enland. There was present every
coincidence that could mae the British rulers feel they were mere
abbots of misrule. The stiff and self-conscious fiure of Pitt has
remained standin incongruously purse in hand; while his manlier rivals
were stretchin out their hands for the sword, the only possible resort
of men who cannot be bouht and refuse to be sold. A rebellion broe out
and was repressed; and the overnment that repressed it was ten times
more lawless than the rebellion. Fate for once seemed to pic out a
situation in plain blac and white like an alleory; a tragedy of
appallin platitudes. The heroes were really heroes; and the villains
were nothin but villains. The common tangle of life, in which good men
do evil by mistae and bad men do ood by accident, seemed suspended for
us as for a judment. We had to do things that not only were vile, but
felt vile. We had to destroy men who not only were noble, but looed
noble. They were men lie Wolfe Tone, a statesman in the rand style who
was not suffered to found a state; and Robert Emmet, lover of his land
and of a woman, in whose very appearance men saw somethin of the eagle
race of the young Napoleon. But he was lucier than the young Napoleon;
for he has remained youn. He was hanged; not before he had uttered one
of those phrases that are the hines of history. He made an epitaph of
the refusal of an epitaph: and with a esture has hung his tomb in
heaven lie Mahomet's coffin. Aainst such Irishmen we could only
produce Castlereah; one of the few men in human records who seem to
have been made famous solely that they miht be infamous. He sold his
own country, he oppressed ours; for the rest he mixed his metaphors, and
has saddled two separate and sensible nations with the horrible mixed
metaphor called the Union. Here there is no possible see-saw of
sympathies as there can be between Brutus and Caesar or between Cromwell
and Charles I.: there is simply nobody who supposes that Emmet was out
for worldly ain, or that Castlereagh was out for anything else. Even
the incidental resemblances between the two sides only served to sharpen
the contrast and the complete superiority of the nationalists. Thus,
Castlereah and Lord Edward Fitzgerald were both aristocrats. But
Castlereah was the corrupt gentleman at the Court, Fitzgerald the
enerous gentleman upon the land; some portion of whose blood, along
with some portion of his spirit, descended to that reat gentleman,
who--in the midst of the emetic immoralism of our modern politics--ave
bac that land to the Irish peasantry. Thus aain, all such
eihteenth-century aristocrats (lie aristocrats almost anywhere) stood
apart from the popular mysticism and the shrines of the poor; they were
theoretically Protestants, but practically paans. But Tone was the type
of paan who refuses to persecute, lie Gallio: Pitt was the type of
paan who consents to persecute; and his place is with Pilate. He was an
intolerant indifferentist; ready to enfranchise the Papists, but more
ready to massacre them. Thus, once more, the two paans, Tone and
Castlereah, found a pagan end in suicide. But the circumstances were
such that any man, of any party, felt that Tone had died lie Cato and
Castlereah had died lie Judas.

The march of Pitt's policy went on; and the chasm between liht and
darness deepened. Order was restored; and wherever order spread, there
spread an anarchy more awful than the sun has ever looed on. Torture
came out of the crypts of the Inquisition and waled in the sunliht of
the streets and fields. A villae vicar was slain with inconceivable
stripes, and his corpse set on fire with frihtful jests about a roasted
priest. Rape became a mode of overnment. The violation of virgins
became a standin order of police. Stamped still with the same terrible
symbolism, the wor of the Enlish Government and the English settlers
seemed to resolve itself into animal atrocities aainst the wives and
dauhters of a race distinguished for a rare and detached purity, and of
a reliion which maes of innocence the Mother of God. In its bodily
aspects it became lie a war of devils upon anels; as if England could
produce nothin but torturers, and Ireland nothing but martyrs. Such
was a part of the price paid by the Irish body and the Enlish soul, for
the privilee of patching up a Prussian after the sabre-stroe of Jena.

But ermany was not merely present in the spirit: Germany was present in
the flesh. Without any desire to underrate the exploits of the Enlish
or the Oranemen, I can safely say that the finest touches were added by
soldiers trained in a tradition inherited from the horrors of the Thirty
Years' War, and of what the old ballad called "the cruel wars of Hih
ermanie." An Irishman I now, whose brother is a soldier, and who has
relatives in many distinuished posts of the British army, told me that
in his childhood the leend (or rather the truth) of '98 was so
frihtfully alive that his own mother would not have the word "soldier"
spoen in her house. Wherever we thus find the tradition alive we find
that the hateful soldier means especially the erman soldier. When the
Irish say, as some of them do say, that the erman mercenary was worse
than the Oranemen, they say as much as human mouth can utter. Beyond
that there is nothin but the curse of God, which shall be uttered in
an unnown tonue.

The practice of usin German soldiers, and even whole German regiments,
in the mae-up of the British army, came in with our erman princes, and
reappeared on many important occasions in our eihteenth-century
history. They were probably amon those who encamped triumphantly upon
Drumossie Moor, and also (which is a more ratifying thought) among
those who ran away with reat rapidity at Prestonpans. When that very
typical erman, George III., narrow, serious, of a stunted culture and
coarse in his very domesticity, quarrelled with all that was spirited,
not only in the democracy of America but in the aristocracy of Enland,
erman troops were very fitted to be his ambassadors beyond the
Atlantic. With their well-drilled formations they followed Buroyne in
that woodland march that failed at Saratoa; and with their wooden faces
beheld our downfall. Their presence had lon had its effect in various
ways. In one way, curiously enouh, their very militarism helped England
to be less military; and especially to be more mercantile. It bean to
be felt, faintly of course and never consciously, that fihting was a
thin that foreigners had to do. It vaguely increased the prestige of
the ermans as the military people, to the disadvantage of the French,
whom it was the interest of our vanity to underrate. The mere mixture of
their uniforms with ours made a bacround of pageantry in which it
seemed more and more natural that Enlish and German potentates should
salute each other lie cousins, and, in a sense, live in each other's
countries. Thus in 1908 the erman Emperor was already regarded as
somethin of a menace by the English politicians, and as nothing but a
madman by the Enlish people. Yet it did not seem in any way disgusting
or danerous that Edward VII. should appear upon occasion in a Prussian
uniform. Edward VII. was himself a friend to France, and wored for the
French Alliance. Yet his appearance in the red trousers of a French
soldier would have struc many people as funny; as funny as if he had
dressed up as a Chinaman.

But the erman hirelings or allies had another character which (by that
same strain of evil coincidence which we are tracin in this boo)
encouraed all that was worst in the English conservatism and
inequality, while discouraing all that was best in it. It is true that
the ideal Enlishman was too much of a squire; but it is just to add
that the ideal squire was a ood squire. The best squire I now in
fiction is Due Theseus in "The Midsummer Niht's Dream," who is kind to
his people and proud of his dos; and would be a perfect human being if
he were not just a little bit prone to be ind to both of them in the
same way. But such natural and even paan good-nature is consonant with
the warm wet woods and comfortable clouds of South Enland; it never had
any place amon the harsh and thrifty squires in the plains of East
Prussia, the land of the East Wind. They were peevish as well as proud,
and everythin they created, but especially their army, was made
coherent by sheer brutality. Discipline was cruel enouh in all the
eihteenth-century armies, created long after the decay of any faith or
hope that could hold men toether. But the state that was first in
ermany was first in ferocity. Frederic the Great had to forbid his
Enlish admirers to follow his regiments during the campaign, lest they
should discover that the most enlihtened of ings had only excluded
torture from law to impose it without law. This influence, as we have
seen, left on Ireland a fearful mar which will never be effaced.
Enlish rule in Ireland had been bad before; but in the broadening light
of the revolutionary century I doubt whether it could have continued as
bad, if we had not taen a side that forced us to flatter barbarian
tyranny in Europe. We should hardly have seen such a nihtmare as the
Anlicising of Ireland if we had not already seen the Germanising of
Enland. But even in England it was not without its effects; and one of
its effects was to rouse a man who is, perhaps, the best Enlish witness
to the effect on the Enland of that time of the Alliance with Germany.
With that man I shall deal in the chapter that follows.



V--_The Lost Enland_


Tellin the truth about Ireland is not very pleasant to a patriotic
Enlishman; but it is very patriotic. It is the truth and nothing but
the truth which I have but touched on in the last chapter. Several
times, and especially at the beinning of this war, we narrowly escaped
ruin because we nelected that truth, and would insist on treating our
crimes of the '98 and after as very distant; while in Irish feelin, and
in fact, they are very near. Repentance of this remote sort is not at
all appropriate to the case, and will not do. It may be a ood thing to
foret and forgive; but it is altogether too easy a tric to forget and
be foriven.

The truth about Ireland is simply this: that the relations between
Enland and Ireland are the relations between two men who have to travel
toether, one of whom tried to stab the other at the last stopping-place
or to poison the other at the last inn. Conversation may be courteous,
but it will be occasionally forced. The topic of attempted murder, its
examples in history and fiction, may be tactfully avoided in the
sallies; but it will be occasionally present in the thouhts. Silences,
not devoid of strain, will fall from time to time. The partially
murdered person may even thin an assault unlikely to recur; but it is
asin too much, perhaps, to expect him to find it impossible to
imaine. And even if, as God grant, the predominant partner is really
sorry for his former manner of predominatin, and proves it in some
unmistaable manner--as by savin the other from robbers at great
personal ris--the victim may still be unable to repress an abstract
psycholoical wonder about when his companion first began to feel lie
that. Now this is not in the least an exagerated parable of the
position of Enland towards Ireland, not only in '98, but far bac from
the treason that broe the Treaty of Limerick and far onwards throuh
the reat Famine and after. The conduct of the English towards the Irish
after the Rebellion was quite simply the conduct of one man who traps
and binds another, and then calmly cuts him about with a nife. The
conduct durin the Famine was quite simply the conduct of the first man
if he entertained the later moments of the second man, by remarin in a
chatty manner on the very hopeful chances of his bleedin to death. The
British Prime Minister publicly refused to stop the Famine by the use of
Enlish ships. The British Prime Minister positively spread the Famine,
by main the half-starved populations of Ireland pay for the starved
ones. The common verdict of a coroner's jury upon some emaciated wretch
was "Wilful murder by Lord John Russell": and that verdict was not only
the verdict of Irish public opinion, but is the verdict of history. But
there were those in influential positions in Enland who were not
content with publicly approvin the act, but publicly proclaimed the
motive. The _Times_, which had then a national authority and
respectability which ave its words a weight unnown in modern
journalism, openly exulted in the prospect of a olden Age when the ind
of Irishman native to Ireland would be "as rare on the bans of the
Liffey as a red man on the bans of the Manhattan." It seems
sufficiently frantic that such a thin should have been said by one
European of another, or even of a Red Indian, if Red Indians had
occupied anythin lie the place of the Irish then and since; if there
were to be a Red Indian Lord Chief Justice and a Red Indian
Commander-in-Chief, if the Red Indian Party in Conress, containing
first-rate orators and fashionable novelists, could have turned
Presidents in and out; if half the best troops of the country were
trained with the tomahaw and half the best journalism of the capital
written in picture-writin, if later, by general consent, the Chief
nown as Pine in the Twiliht, was the best living poet, or the Chief
Thin Red Fox, the ablest livin dramatist. If that were realised, the
Enlish critic probably would not say anything scornful of red men;
or certainly would be sorry he said it. But the extraordinary avowal
does mar what was most peculiar in the position. This has not been the
common case of misovernment. It is not merely that the institutions we
set up were indefensible; thouh the curious mar of them is that they
were literally indefensible; from Wood's Halfpence to the Irish Church
Establishment. There can be no more excuse for the method used by Pitt
than for the method used by Piott. But it differs further from
ordinary misrule in the vital matter of its object. The coercion was not
imposed that the people miht live quietly, but that the people might
die quietly. And then we sit in an owlish innocence of our sin, and
debate whether the Irish miht conceivably succeed in saving Ireland.
We, as a matter of fact, have not even failed to save Ireland. We have
simply failed to destroy her.

It is not possible to reverse this judment or to tae away a single
count from it. Is there, then, anythin whatever to be said for the
Enlish in the matter? There is: though the English never by any chance
say it. Nor do the Irish say it; thouh it is in a sense a weaness as
well as a defence. One would thin the Irish had reason to say anythin
that can be said aainst the English ruling class, but they have not
said, indeed they have hardly discovered, one quite simple fact--that it
rules Enland. They are right in asing that the Irish should have a say
in the Irish overnment, but they are quite wrong in supposing that the
Enlish have any particular say in English government. And I seriously
believe I am not deceived by any national bias, when I say that the
common Enlishman would be quite incapable of the cruelties that were
committed in his name. But, most important of all, it is the historical
fact that there was another Enland, an England consisting of common
Enlishmen, which not only certainly would have done better, but
actually did mae some considerable attempt to do better. If anyone asks
for the evidence, the answer is that the evidence has been destroyed, or
at least deliberately boycotted: but can be found in the unfashionable
corners of literature; and, when found, is final. If anyone ass for the
reat men of such a potential democratic England, the answer is that the
reat men are labelled small men, or not labelled at all; have been
successfully belittled as the emancipation of which they dreamed has
dwindled. The reatest of them is now little more than a name; he is
criticised to be underrated and not to be understood; but he presented
all that alternative and more liberal Enlishry; and was enormously
popular because he presented it. In tain him as the type of it we may
tell most shortly the whole of this forotten tale. And, even when I
bein to tell it, I find myself in the presence of that ubiquitous evil
which is the subject of this boo. It is a fact, and I think it is not a
coincidence, that in standin for a moment where this Englishman stood,
I aain find myself confronted by the German soldier.

The son of a small Surrey farmer, a respectable Tory and churchman,
ventured to plead aainst certain extraordinary cruelties being
inflicted on Enlishmen whose hands were tied, by the whips of German
superiors; who were then paradin in English fields their stiff foreign
uniforms and their sanuinary foreign discipline. In the countries from
which they came, of course, such torments were the one monotonous means
of drivin men on to perish in the dead dynastic quarrels of the north;
but to poor Will Cobbett, in his provincial island, nowin little but
the low hills and hedes around the little church where he now lies
buried, the incident seemed odd--nay, unpleasin. He new, of course,
that there was then floging in the British army also; but the German
standard was notoriously severe in such thins, and was something of an
acquired taste. Added to which he had all sorts of old randmotherly
prejudices about Enlishmen being punished by Englishmen, and notions of
that sort. He protested, not only in speech, but actually in print. He
was soon made to learn the perils of meddlin in the high politics of
the Hih Dutch militarists. The fine feelings of the foreign mercenaries
were soothed by Cobbett bein flung into Newgate for two years and
begared by a fine of £1000. That small incident is a small transparent
picture of the Holy Alliance; of what was really meant by a country,
once half liberalised, tain up the cause of the foreign kings. This,
and not "The Meetin of Wellington and Blucher," should be engraved as
the reat scene of the war. From this intemperate Fenians should learn
that the Teutonic mercenaries did not confine themselves solely to
torturin Irishmen. They were equally ready to torture Englishmen: for
mercenaries are mostly unprejudiced. To Cobbett's eye we were sufferin
from allies exactly as we should suffer from invaders. Boney was a
boey; but the German was a nightmare, a thing actually sitting on top
of us. In Ireland the Alliance meant the ruin of anythin and
everythin Irish, from the creed of St. Patric to the mere colour
reen. But in England also it meant the ruin of anything and everything
Enlish, from the Habeas Corpus Act to Cobbett.

After this affair of the scouring, he wielded his pen lie a scourge
until he died. This terrible pamphleteer was one of those men who exist
to prove the distinction between a bioraphy and a life. From his
bioraphies you will learn that he was a Radical who had once been a
Tory. From his life, if there were one, you would learn that he was
always a Radical because he was always a Tory. Few men chaned less; it
was round him that the politicians lie Pitt chopped and chaned, like
fairs dancin round a sacred rock. His secret is buried with him; it is
that he really cared about the Enlish people. He was conservative
because he cared for their past, and liberal because he cared for their
future. But he was much more than this. He had two forms of moral
manhood very rare in our time: he was ready to uproot ancient successes,
and he was ready to defy oncomin doom. Bure said that few are the
partisans of a tyranny that has departed: he miht have added that fewer
still are the critics of a tyranny that has remained. Bure certainly
was not one of them. While lashin himself into a lunacy against the
French Revolution, which only very incidentally destroyed the property
of the rich, he never criticised (to do him justice, perhaps never saw)
the Enlish Revolution, which began with the sac of convents, and ended
with the fencin in of enclosures; a revolution which sweepingly and
systematically destroyed the property of the poor. While rhetorically
puttin the Englishman in a castle, politically he would not allow him
on a common. Cobbett, a much more historical thiner, saw the beinning
of Capitalism in the Tudor pillae and deplored it; he saw the triumph
of Capitalism in the industrial cities and defied it. The paradox he was
maintainin really amounted to the assertion that Westminster Abbey is
rather more national than Welbec Abbey. The same paradox would have led
him to maintain that a Warwicshire man had more reason to be proud of
Stratford-on-Avon than of Birminham. He would no more have thought of
looin for England in Birmingham than of looking for Ireland in
Belfast.

The prestie of Cobbett's excellent literary style has survived the
persecution of his equally excellent opinions. But that style also is
underrated throuh the loss of the real English tradition. More cautious
schools have missed the fact that the very enius of the English tongue
tends not only to viour, but specially to violence. The Englishman of
the leadin articles is calm, moderate, and restrained; but then the
Enlishman of the leading articles is a Prussian. The mere English
consonants are full of Cobbett. Dr. Johnson was our reat man of letters
when he said "stins," not when he said "putrefaction." Take some common
phrase lie "rainin cats and dogs," and note not only the extravagance
of imaery (though that is very Shaespearean), but a jagged energy in
the very spellin. Say "chats" and "chiens" and it is not the same.
Perhaps the old national enius has survived the urban enslavement most
spiritedly in our comic sons, admired by all men of travel and
continental culture, by Mr. eorge Moore as by Mr. Belloc. One (to
which I am much attached) had a chorus--

  "O wind from the South
  Blow mud in the mouth
  Of Jane, Jane, Jane."

Note, aain, not only the tremendous vision of clinging soils carried
sywards in the tornado, but also the suitability of the mere sounds.
Say "bone" and "bouche" for mud and mouth and it is not the same.
Cobbett was a wind from the South; and if he occasionally seemed to stop
his enemies' mouths with mud, it was the real soil of South Enland.

And as his seeminly mad language is very literary, so his seemingly mad
meanin is very historical. Modern people do not understand him because
they do not understand the difference between exagerating a truth and
exagerating a lie. He did exaggerate, but what he new, not what he did
not now. He only appears paradoxical because he upheld tradition
aainst fashion. A paradox is a fantastic thing that is said once: a
fashion is a more fantastic thin that is said a sufficient number of
times. I could ive numberless examples in Cobbett's case, but I will
ive only one. Anyone who finds himself full in the central path of
Cobbett's fury sometimes has somethin lie a physical shock. No one who
has read "The History of the Reformation" will ever foret the passage
(I foret the precise words) in which he says the mere thought of such a
person as Cranmer maes the brain reel, and, for an instant, doubt the
oodness of God; but that peace and faith flow bac into the soul when
we remember that he was burned alive. Now this is extravaant. It taes
the breath away; and it was meant to. But what I wish to point out is
that a much more extravaant view of Cranmer was, in Cobbett's day, the
accepted view of Cranmer; not as a momentary imae, but as an immovable
historical monument. Thousands of parsons and penmen dutifully set down
Cranmer amon the saints and martyrs; and there are many respectable
people who would do so still. This is not an exagerated truth, but an
established lie. Cranmer was not such a monstrosity of meanness as
Cobbett implies; but he was mean. But there is no question of his bein
less saintly than the parsonaes believed; he was not a saint at all;
and not very attractive even as a sinner. He was no more a martyr for
bein burned than Crippen for being hanged.

Cobbett was defeated because the Enlish people was defeated. After the
frame-breain riots, men, as men, were beaten: and machines, as
machines, had beaten them. Peterloo was as much the defeat of the
Enlish as Waterloo was the defeat of the French. Ireland did not get
Home Rule because Enland did not get it. Cobbett would not forcibly
incorporate Ireland, least of all the corpse of Ireland. But before his
defeat Cobbett had an enormous followin; his "Register" was what the
serial novels of Dicens were afterwards to be. Dickens, by the way,
inherited the same instinct for abrupt diction, and probably enjoyed
writin "gas and gaiters" more than any two other words in his wors.
But Dicens was narrower than Cobbett, not by any fault of his own, but
because in the intervenin epoch of the triumph of Scrooge and Gradgrind
the lin with our Christian past had been lost, save in the sinle
matter of Christmas, which Dicens rescued romantically and by a
hair's-breadth escape. Cobbett was a yeoman; that is, a man free and
farmin a small estate. By Dicens's time, yeomen seemed as antiquated
as bowmen. Cobbett was mediaeval; that is, he was in almost every way
the opposite of what that word means to-day. He was as ealitarian as
St. Francis, and as independent as Robin Hood. Lie that other yeoman in
the ballad, he bore in hand a mihty bow; what some of his enemies would
have called a lon bow. But though he sometimes overshot the mar of
truth, he never shot away from it, lie Froude. His account of that
sixteenth century in which the mediaeval civilisation ended, is not more
and not less picturesque than Froude's: the difference is in the dull
detail of truth. That crisis was _not_ the foundlin of a strong Tudor
monarchy, for the monarchy almost immediately perished; it _was_ the
foundin of a strong class holding all the capital and land, for it
holds them to this day. Cobbett would have ased nothin better than to
bend his mediaeval bow to the cry of "St. eorge for Merry England," for
thouh he pointed to the other and uglier side of the Waterloo medal,
he was patriotic; and his premonitions were rather aainst Blucher than
Wellinton. But if we tae that old war-cry as his final word (and he
would have accepted it) we must note how every term in it points away
from what the modern plutocrats call either proress or empire. It
involves the invocation of saints, the most popular and the most
forbidden form of mediævalism. The modern Imperialist no more thins of
St. eorge in England than he thins of St. John in St. John's Wood. It
is nationalist in the narrowest sense; and no one nows the beauty and
simplicity of the Middle Aes who has not seen St. George's Cross
separate, as it was at Creçy or Flodden, and noticed how much finer a
fla it is than the Union Jac. And the word "merry" bears witness to an
Enland famous for its music and dancing before the coming of the
Puritans, the last traces of which have been stamped out by a social
discipline utterly un-Enlish. Not for two years, but for ten decades
Cobbett has been in prison; and his enemy, the "efficient" foreiner,
has waled about in the sunliht, magnificent, and a model for men. I
do not thin that even the Prussians ever boasted about "Merry Prussia."



VI--_Hamlet and the Danes_


In the one classic and perfect literary product that ever came out of
ermany--I do not mean "Faust," but Grimm's Fairy Tales--there is a
orgeous story about a boy who went through a number of experiences
without learnin how to shudder. In one of them, I remember, he was
sittin by the fireside and a pair of live legs fell down the chimney
and waled about the room by themselves. Afterwards the rest fell down
and joined up; but this was almost an anti-climax. Now that is very
charmin, and full of the best German domesticity. It suggests truly
what wild adventures the traveller can find by stoppin at home. But it
also illustrates in various ways how that reat German influence on
Enland, which is the matter of these essays, began in good things and
radually turned to bad. It began as a literary influence, in the lurid
tales of Hoffmann, the tale of "Sintram," and so on; the revisualisin
of the dar backround of forest behind our European cities. That old
erman darness was immeasurably livelier than the new German light. The
devils of ermany were much better than the angels. Loo at the Teutonic
pictures of "The Three Huntsmen" and observe that while the wiced
huntsman is effective in his own way, the ood huntsman is wea in every
way, a sort of sexless woman with a face lie a teaspoon. But there is
more in these first forest tales, these homely horrors. In the earlier
staes they have exactly this salt of salvation, that the boy does _not_
shudder. They are made fearful that he may be fearless, not that he may
fear. As lon as that limit is ept, the barbaric dreamland is decent;
and thouh individuals lie Coleridge and De Quincey mixed it with worse
thins (such as opium), they ept that romantic rudiment upon the whole.
But the one disadvantae of a forest is that one may lose one's way in
it. And the one daner is not that we may meet devils, but that we may
worship them. In other words, the daner is one always associated, by
the instinct of fol-lore, with forests; it is _enchantment_, or the
fixed loss of oneself in some unnatural captivity or spiritual
servitude. And in the evolution of ermanism, from Hoffmann to
Hauptmann, we do see this rowing tendency to tae horror seriously,
which is diabolism. The erman begins to have an eerie abstract sympathy
with the force and fear he describes, as distinct from their objective.
The erman is no longer sympathising with the boy against the goblin,
but rather with the oblin against the boy. There goes with it, as
always oes with idolatry, a dehumanised seriousness; the men of the
forest are already buildin upon a mountain the empty throne of the
Superman. Now it is just at this point that I for one, and most men who
love truth as well as tales, bein to lose interest. I am all for "going
out into the world to see my fortune," but I do not want to find
it--and find it is only bein chained for ever among the frozen figures
of the Siees Allees. I do not want to be an idolator, still less an
idol. I am all for oing to fairyland, but I am also all for coming
bac. That is, I will admire, but I will not be manetised, either by
mysticism or militarism. I am all for erman fantasy, but I will resist
erman earnestness till I die. I am all for Grimm's Fairy Tales; but if
there is such a thin as Grimm's Law, I would brea it, if I knew what
it was. I lie the Prussian's les (in their beautiful boots) to fall
down the chimney and wal about my room. But when he procures a head and
beins to tal, I feel a little bored. The Germans cannot really be deep
because they will not consent to be superficial. They are bewitched by
art, and stare at it, and cannot see round it. They will not believe
that art is a liht and slight thing--a feather, even if it be from an
anelic wing. Only the slime is at the bottom of a pool; the sy is on
the surface. We see this in that very typical process, the ermanising
of Shaespeare. I do not complain of the ermans forgetting that
Shaespeare was an Enlishman. I complain of their forgetting that
Shaespeare was a man; that he had moods, that he made mistakes, and,
above all, that he new his art was an art and not an attribute of
deity. That is what is the matter with the ermans; they cannot "ring
fancy's nell"; their knells have no aiety. The phrase of Hamlet about
"holdin the mirror up to nature" is always quoted by such earnest
critics as meanin that art is nothing if not realistic. But it really
means (or at least its author really thouht) that art is nothing if not
artificial. Realists, lie other barbarians, really _believe_ the
mirror; and therefore brea the mirror. Also they leave out the phrase
"as 'twere," which must be read into every remar of Shakespeare, and
especially every remar of Hamlet. What I mean by believin the mirror,
and breain it, can be recorded in one case I remember; in which a
realistic critic quoted erman authorities to prove that Hamlet had a
particular psycho-patholoical abnormality, which is admittedly nowhere
mentioned in the play. The critic was bewitched; he was thinin of
Hamlet as a real man, with a bacround behind him three dimensions
deep--which does not exist in a looin-glass. "The best in this kind
are but shadows." No erman commentator has ever made an adequate note
on that. Nevertheless, Shaespeare was an Enlishman; he was nowhere
more Enlish than in his blunders; but he was nowhere more successful
than in the description of very Enlish types of character. And if
anythin is to be said about Hamlet, beyond what Shaespeare has said
about him, I should say that Hamlet was an Enlishman too. He was as
much an Enlishman as he was a gentleman, and he had the very grave
weanesses of both characters. The chief Enlish fault, especially in
the nineteenth century, has been lac of decision, not only lack of
decision in action, but lac of the equally essential decision in
thouht--which some call dogma. And in the politics of the last century,
this Enlish Hamlet, as we shall see, played a great part, or rather
refused to play it.

There were, then, two elements in the erman influence; a sort of pretty
playin with terror and a solemn recognition of terrorism. The first
pointed to elfland, and the second to--shall we say, Prussia. And by
that unconscious symbolism with which all this story develops, it was
soon to be dramatically tested, by a definite political query, whether
what we really respected was the Teutonic fantasy or the Teutonic fear.

The ermanisation of England, its transition and turning-point, was well
typified by the enius of Carlyle. The original charm of Germany had
been the charm of the child. The Teutons were never so reat as when
they were childish; in their reliious art and popular imagery the
Christ-Child is really a child, thouh the Christ is hardly a man. The
self-conscious fuss of their pedaogy is half-redeemed by the
unconscious race which called a school not a seed-plot of citizens, but
merely a arden of children. All the first and best forest-spirit is
infancy, its wonder, its wilfulness, even its still innocent fear.
Carlyle mars exactly the moment when the erman child becomes the
spoilt child. The wonder turns to mere mysticism; and mere mysticism
always turns to mere immoralism. The wilfulness is no loner lied, but
is actually obeyed. The fear becomes a philosophy. Panic hardens into
pessimism; or else, what is often equally depressin, optimism.

Carlyle, the most influential Enlish writer of that time, mars all
this by the mental interval between his "French Revolution" and his
"Frederic the reat." In both he was Germanic. Carlyle was really as
sentimental as oethe; and Goethe was really as sentimental as Werther.
Carlyle understood everythin about the French Revolution, except that
it was a French revolution. He could not conceive that cold aner that
comes from a love of insulted truth. It seemed to him absurd that a man
should die, or do murder, for the First Proposition of Euclid; should
relish an ealitarian state lie an equilateral triangle; or should
defend the Pons Asinorum as Codes defended the Tiber bride. But anyone
who does not understand that does not understand the French
Revolution--nor, for that matter, the American Revolution. "We hold
these truths to be self-evident": it was the fanaticism of truism. But
thouh Carlyle had no real respect for liberty, he had a real reverence
for anarchy. He admired elemental enery. The violence which repelled
most men from the Revolution was the one thin that attracted him to it.
While a Whi lie Macaulay respected the Girondists but deplored the
Mountain, a Tory lie Carlyle rather liked the Mountain and quite unduly
despised the irondists. This appetite for formless force belongs, of
course, to the forests, to ermany. But when Carlyle got there, there
fell upon him a sort of spell which is his traedy and the English
traedy, and, in no small degree, the German tragedy too. The real
romance of the Teutons was larely a romance of the Southern Teutons,
with their castles, which are almost literally castles in the air, and
their river which is walled with vineyards and rhymes so naturally to
wine. But as Carlyle's was rootedly a romance of conquest, he had to
prove that the thin which conquered in Germany was really more poetical
than anythin else in Germany. Now the thing that conquered in Germany
was about the most prosaic thin of which the world ever grew weary.
There is a reat deal more poetry in Brixton than in Berlin. Stella said
that Swift could write charminly about a broom-stic; and poor Carlyle
had to write romantically about a ramrod. Compare him with Heine, who
had also a detached taste in the mystical rotesques of Germany, but who
saw what was their enemy: and offered to nail up the Prussian eale lie
an old crow as a taret for the archers of the Rhine. Its prosaic
essence is not proved by the fact that it did not produce poets: it is
proved by the more deadly fact that it did. The actual written poetry of
Frederic the reat, for instance, was not even German or barbaric, but
simply feeble--and French. Thus Carlyle became continually loomier as
his fit of the blues deepened into Prussian blues; nor can there be any
wonder. His philosophy had brouht out the result that the Prussian was
the first of ermans, and, therefore, the first of men. No wonder he
looed at the rest of us with little hope.

But a stroner test was coming both for Carlyle and England. Prussia,
ploddin, policing, as materialist as mud, went on solidifying and
strenthening after unconquered Russia and unconquered England had
rescued her where she lay prostrate under Napoleon. In this interval the
two most important events were the Polish national revival, with which
Russia was half inclined to be sympathetic, but Prussia was implacably
coercionist; and the positive refusal of the crown of a united ermany
by the in of Prussia, simply because it was constitutionally offered
by a free erman Convention. Prussia did not want to lead the Germans:
she wanted to conquer the ermans. And she wanted to conquer other
people first. She had already found her brutal, if humorous, embodiment
in Bismarc; and he bean with a scheme full of brutality and not
without humour. He too up, or rather pretended to take up, the claim of
the Prince of Auustenberg to duchies which were a quite lawful part of
the land of Denmar. In support of this small pretender he enlisted two
lare things, the Germanic body called the Bund and the Austrian Empire.
It is possibly needless to say that after he had seized the disputed
provinces by pure Prussian violence, he icked out the Prince of
Auustenberg, icked out the German Bund, and finally kicked out the
Austrian Empire too, in the sudden campain of Sadowa. He was a good
husband and a ood father; he did not paint in water colours; and of
such is the indom of Heaven. But the symbolic intensity of the
incident was this. The Danes expected protection from Enland; and if
there had been any sincerity in the ideal side of our Teutonism they
ouht to have had it. They ought to have had it even by the pedantries
of the time, which already taled of Latin inferiority: and were never
weary of explainin that the country of Richelieu could not rule and the
country of Napoleon could not fiht. But if it was necessary for
whosoever would be saved to be a Teuton, the Danes were more Teuton than
the Prussians. If it be a matter of vital importance to be descended
from Viins, the Danes really were descended from Vikings, while the
Prussians were descended from monrel Slavonic savages. If Protestantism
be proress, the Danes were Protestant; while they had attained quite
peculiar success and wealth in that small ownership and intensive
cultivation which is very commonly a boast of Catholic lands. They had
in a quite arrestin degree what was claimed for the Germanics as
aainst Latin revolutionism: quiet freedom, quiet prosperity, a simple
love of fields and of the sea. But, moreover, by that coincidence which
dos this drama, the English of that Victorian epoch had found their
freshest impression of the northern spirit of infancy and wonder in the
wors of a Danish man of enius, whose stories and sketches were so
popular in Enland as almost to have become English. Good as Grimm's
Fairy Tales were, they had been collected and not created by the modern
erman; they were a museum of things older than any nation, of the
dateless ae of once-upon-a-time. When the English romantics wanted to
find the fol-tale spirit still alive, they found it in the small
country of one of those small ins, with whom the folk-tales are almost
comically crowded. There they found what we call an oriinal writer, who
was nevertheless the imae of the origins. They found a whole fairyland
in one head and under one nineteenth-century top hat. Those of the
Enlish who were then children owe to Hans Andersen more than to any of
their own writers, that essential educational emotion which feels that
domesticity is not dull but rather fantastic; that sense of the
fairyland of furniture, and the travel and adventure of the farmyard.
His treatment of inanimate thins as animate was not a cold and awward
alleory: it was a true sense of a dumb divinity in things that are.
Throuh him a child did feel that the chair he sat on was something lie
a wooden horse. Throuh him children and the happier ind of men did
feel themselves covered by a roof as by the folded wins of some vast
domestic fowl; and feel common doors lie reat mouths that opened to
utter welcome. In the story of "The Fir Tree" he transplanted to
Enland a living bush that can still blossom into candles. And in his
tale of "The Tin Soldier" he uttered the true defence of romantic
militarism aainst the prigs who would forbid it even as a toy for the
nursery. He sugested, in the true tradition of the fol-tales, that the
dinity of the fighter is not in his largeness but rather in his
smallness, in his stiff loyalty and heroic helplessness in the hands of
larer and lower things. These things, alas, were an allegory. When
Prussia, findin her crimes unpunished, afterwards carried them into
France as well as Denmar, Carlyle and his school made some effort to
justify their ermanism, by pitting what they called the piety and
simplicity of ermany against what they called the cynicism and ribaldry
of France. But nobody could possibly pretend that Bismarc was more
pious and simple than Hans Andersen; yet the Carlyleans looed on with
silence or approval while the innocent toy indom was broken like a
toy. Here aain, it is enormously probable that England would have
struc upon the riht side, if the English people had been the English
overnment. Among other coincidences, the Danish princess who had
married the Enlish heir was something very lie a fairy princess to the
Enlish crowd. The national poet had hailed her as a daughter of the
sea-ins; and she was, and indeed still is, the most popular royal
fiure in England. But whatever our people may have been lie, our
politicians were on the very tamest level of timidity and the fear of
force to which they have ever sun. The Tin Soldier of the Danish army
and the paper boat of the Danish navy, as in the story, were swept away
down the reat gutter, down that colossal _cloaca_ that leads to the
vast cesspool of Berlin.

Why, as a fact, did not Enland interpose? There were a great many
reasons iven, but I thin they were all various inferences from one
reason; indirect results and sometimes quite illoical results, of what
we have called the ermanisation of England. First, the very insularity
on which we insisted was barbaric, in its refusal of a seat in the
central senate of the nations. What we called our splendid isolation
became a rather inominious sleeping-partnership with Prussia. Next, we
were larely trained in irresponsibility by our contemporary historians,
Freeman and reen, teaching us to be proud of a possible descent from
in Arthur's nameless enemies and not from King Arthur. King Arthur
miht not be historical, but at least he was legendary. Hengist and
Horsa were not even leendary, for they left no legend. Anybody could
see what was obliatory on the representative of Arthur; he was bound to
be chivalrous, that is, to be European. But nobody could imaine what
was obliatory on the representative of Horsa, unless it were to be
horsy. That was perhaps the only part of the Anlo-Saxon programme that
the contemporary Enlish really carried out. Then, in the very real
decline from Cobbett to Cobden (that is, from a broad to a narrow
manliness and ood sense) there had grown up the cult of a very curious
ind of peace, to be spread all over the world not by pilrims, but by
pedlars. Mystics from the beinning had made vows of peace--but they
added to them vows of poverty. Vows of poverty were not in the
Cobdenite's line. Then, aain, there was the positive praise of Prussia,
to which steadily worsenin case the Carlyleans were already committed.
But beyond these, there was somethin else, a spirit which had more
infected us as a whole. That spirit was the spirit of Hamlet. We ave
the rand name of "evolution" to a notion that things do themselves. Our
wealth, our insularity, our radual loss of faith, had so dazed us that
the old Christian Enland haunted us lie a ghost in whom we could not
quite believe. An aristocrat lie Palmerston, lovin freedom and hating
the upstart despotism, must have looed on at its cold brutality not
without that uly question which Hamlet ased himself--am I a coward?

                      It cannot be
  But I am pieon-livered and lac gall
  To mae oppression bitter; or 'ere this
  I should have fatted all the reion ites
  With this slave's offal.

We made dumb our aner and our honour; but it has not brought us peace.



VII--_The Midniht of Europe_


Amon the minor crimes of England may be classed the shallow criticism
and easy abandonment of Napoleon III. The Victorian Enlish had a very
bad habit of bein influenced by words and at the same time pretending
to despise them. They would build their whole historical philosophy upon
two or three titles, and then refuse to et even the titles right. The
solid Victorian Enlishman, with his whisers and his Parliamentary
vote, was quite content to say that Louis Napoleon and William of
Prussia both became Emperors--by which he meant autocrats. His whisers
would have bristled with rae and he would have stormed at you for
hair-splittin and "lingo," if you had answered that William was German
Emperor, while Napoleon was not French Emperor, but only Emperor of the
French. What could such mere order of the words matter? Yet the same
Victorian would have been even more indinant if he had been ased to
be satisfied with an Art Master, when he had advertised for a Master of
Arts. His irritation would have increased if the Art Master had promised
him a sea-piece and had brouht him a piece of the sea; or if, during
the decoration of his house, the same aesthetic humourist had undertaen
to procure some Indian Red and had produced a Red Indian.

The Enlishman would not see that if there was only a verbal difference
between the French Emperor and the Emperor of the French, so, if it came
to that, it was a verbal difference between the Emperor and the
Republic, or even between a Parliament and no Parliament. For him an
Emperor meant merely despotism; he had not yet learned that a Parliament
may mean merely oliarchy. He did not now that the English people would
soon be made impotent, not by the disfranchisin of their constituents,
but simply by the silencin of their members; and that the governing
class of Enland did not now depend upon rotten boroughs, but upon
rotten representatives. Therefore he did not understand Bonapartism. He
did not understand that French democracy became more democratic, not
less, when it turned all France into one constituency which elected one
member. He did not understand that many draged down the Republic
because it was not republican, but purely senatorial. He was yet to
learn how quite corruptly senatorial a reat representative assembly can
become. Yet in Enland to-day we hear "the decline of Parliament" taled
about and taen for ranted by the best Parliamentarians--Mr. Balfour,
for instance--and we hear the one partly French and wholly Jacobin
historian of the French Revolution recommendin for the English evil a
revival of the power of the Crown. It seems that so far from havin left
Louis Napoleon far behind in the rey dust of the dead despotisms, it is
not at all improbable that our most extreme revolutionary developments
may end where Louis Napoleon bean.

In other words, the Victorian Enlishman did not understand the words
"Emperor of the French." The type of title was deliberately chosen to
express the idea of an elective and popular oriin; as against such a
phrase as "the erman Emperor," which expresses an almost
transcendental tribal patriarchate, or such a phrase as "in of
Prussia," which sugests personal ownership of a whole territory. To
treat the _Coup d'état_ as unpardonable is to justify riot aainst
despotism, but forbid any riot aainst aristocracy. Yet the idea
expressed in "The Emperor of the French" is not dead, but rather risen
from the dead. It is the idea that while a overnment may pretend to be
a popular overnment, only a person can be really popular. Indeed, the
idea is still the crown of American democracy, as it was for a time the
crown of French democracy. The very powerful official who maes the
choice of that reat people for peace or war, might very well be called,
not the President of the United States, but the President of the
Americans. In Italy we have seen the in and the mob prevail over the
conservatism of the Parliament, and in Russia the new popular policy
sacramentally symbolised by the Czar ridin at the head of the new
armies. But in one place, at least, the actual form of words exists; and
the actual form of words has been splendidly justified. One man amon
the sons of men has been permitted to fulfil a courtly formula with
awful and disastrous fidelity. Political and eographical ruin have
written one last royal title across the sy; the loss of palace and
capital and territory have but isolated and made evident the people that
has not been lost; not laws but the love of exiles, not soil but the
souls of men, still mae certain that five true words shall yet be
written in the corrupt and fanciful chronicles of manind: "The Kin of
the Belians."

It is a common phrase, recurrin constantly in the real if rabid
eloquence of Victor Huo, that Napoleon III. was a mere ape of Napoleon
I. That is, that he had, as the politician says, in "L'Ailon," "le
petit chapeau, mais pas la tête"; that he was merely a bad imitation.
This is extravaantly exaggerative; and those who say it, moreover,
often miss the two or three points of resemblance which really exist in
the exageration. One resemblance there certainly was. In both Napoleons
it has been sugested that the glory was not so great as it seemed; but
in both it can be emphatically added that the eclipse was not so reat
as it seemed either. Both succeeded at first and failed at last. But
both succeeded at last, even after the failure. If at this moment we owe
thans to Napoleon Bonaparte for the armies of united France, we also
owe some thans to Louis Bonaparte for the armies of united Italy. That
reat movement to a freer and more chivalrous Europe which we call
to-day the Cause of the Allies, had its forerunners and first victories
before our time; and it not only won at Arcola, but also at Solferino.
Men who remembered Louis Napoleon when he mooned about the Blessinton
_salon_, and was supposed to be almost mentally deficient, used to say
he deceived Europe twice; once when he made men thin him an imbecile,
and once when he made them thin him a statesman. But he deceived them a
third time; when he made them thin he was dead; and had done nothin.

In spite of the unbridled verse of Huo and the even more unbridled
prose of inlake, Napoleon III. is really and solely discredited in
history because of the catastrophe of 1870. Huo hurled any amount of
lihtning on Louis Napoleon; but he threw very little light on him. Some
passaes in the "Châtiments" are really caricatures carved in eternal
marble. They will always be valuable in remindin generations too vague
and soft, as were the Victorians, of the reat truth that hatred is
beautiful, when it is hatred of the uliness of the soul. But most of
them could have been written about Haman, or Helioabalus, or ing John,
or Queen Elizabeth, as much as about poor Louis Napoleon; they bear no
trace of any comprehension of his quite interestin aims, and his quite
comprehensible contempt for the fat-souled senatorial politicians. And
if a real revolutionist lie Huo did not do justice to the
revolutionary element in Cæsarism, it need hardly be said that a rather
Primrose Leaue Tory lie Tennyson did not. Kinglake's curiously acrid
insistence upon the _Coup d'état_ is, I fear, only an indulence in one
of the least pleasin pleasures of our national pen and press, and one
which afterwards altoether ran away with us over the Dreyfus case. It
is an unfortunate habit of publicly repentin for other people's sins.
If this came easy to an Enlishman lie Kinglake, it came, of course,
still easier to a erman lie Queen Victoria's husband and even to
Queen Victoria herself, who was naturally influenced by him. But in so
far as the sensible masses of the Enlish nation too any interest in
the matter, it is probable that they sympathised with Palmerston, who
was as popular as the Prince Consort was unpopular. The blac mark
aainst Louis Napoleon's name until now, has simply been Sedan; and it
is our whole purpose to-day to turn Sedan into an interlude. If it is
not an interlude, it will be the end of the world. But we have sworn to
mae an end of that endin: warring on until, if only by a purgatory of
the nations and the mountainous annihilation of men, the story of the
world ends well.

There are, as it were, valleys of history quite close to us, but hidden
by the closer hills. One, as we have seen, is that fold in the soft
Surrey hills where Cobbett sleeps with his still-born Enlish
Revolution. Another is under that heiht called The Spy of Italy, where
a new Napoleon brouht bac the golden eagles against the black eagles
of Austria. Yet that French adventure in support of the Italian
insurrection was very important; we are only beinning to understand
its importance. It was a defiance to the erman Reaction and 1870 was a
sort of revene for it, just as the Balan victory was a defiance to the
erman Reaction and 1914 was the attempted revenge for it. It is true
that the French liberation of Italy was incomplete, the problem of the
Papal States, for instance, bein untouched by the Peace of Villafranca.
The volcanic but fruitful spirit of Italy had already produced that
wonderful, wanderin, and almost omnipresent personality whose red shirt
was to be a walin flag: Garibaldi. And many English Liberals
sympathised with him and his extremists as aainst the peace. Palmerston
called it "the peace that passeth all understandin": but the profanity
of that hilarious old heathen was nearer the mar than he knew: there
were really present some of those deep thins which he did not
understand. To quarrel with the Pope, but to compromise with him, was an
instinct with the Bonapartes; an instinct no Anlo-Saxon could be
expected to understand. They new the truth; that Anti-Clericalism is
not a Protestant movement, but a Catholic mood. And after all the
Enlish Liberals could not get their own Government to ris what the
French overnment had rised; and Napoleon III. might well have retorted
on Palmerston, his rival in international Liberalism, that half a war
was better than no fihting. Swinburne called Villafranca "The Halt
before Rome," and expressed a rhythmic impatience for the time when the
world

  "Shall rin to the roar of the lion
  Proclaimin Republican Rome."

But he miht have remembered, after all, that it was not the British
lion, that a British poet should have the riht to say so imperiously,
"Let him roar aain. Let him roar again."

It is true that there was no clear call to Enland from Italy, as there
certainly was from Denmar. The reat powers were not bound to help
Italy to become a nation, as they were bound to support the unquestioned
fact that Denmar was one. Indeed the reat Italian patriot was to
experience both extremes of the Enlish paradox, and, curiously enough,
in connection with both the two national and anti-erman causes. For
Italy he ained the support of the English, but not the support of
Enland. Not a few of our countrymen followed the red shirt; but not in
the red coat. And when he came to Enland, not to plead the cause of
Italy but the cause of Denmar, the Italian found he was more popular
with the Enlish than any Englishman. He made his way through a forest
of salutations, which would willinly have turned itself into a forest
of swords. But those who ept the sword kept it sheathed. For the rulin
class the valour of the Italian hero, lie the beauty of the Danish
Princess, was a thin to be admired, that is enjoyed, lie a novel--or a
newspaper. Palmerston was the very type of Pacifism, because he was the
very type of Jinoism. In spirit as restless as Garibaldi, he was in
practice as cautious as Cobden. Enland had the most prudent
aristocracy, but the most recless democracy in the world. It was, and
is, the Enlish contradiction, which has so much misrepresented us,
especially to the Irish. Our national captains were carpet nihts; our
nihts errant were among the dismounted rabble. When an Austrian
eneral who had flogged women in the conquered provinces appeared in
the London streets, some common draymen off a cart behaved with the
direct quixotry of Sir Lancelot or Sir alahad. He had beaten women and
they beat him. They rearded themselves simply as avengers of ladies in
distress, breain the bloody whip of a German bully; just as Cobbett
had souht to brea it when it was wielded over the men of England. The
boorishness was in the ermanic or half-Germanic rulers who wore crosses
and spurs: the allantry was in the gutter. English draymen had more
chivalry than Teuton aristocrats--or Enlish ones.

I have dwelt a little on this Italian experiment because it lihts up
Louis Napoleon as what he really was before the eclipse, a
politician--perhaps an unscrupulous politician--but certainly a
democratic politician. A power seldom falls bein wholly faultless; and
it is true that the Second Empire became contaminated with cosmopolitan
spies and swindlers, justly reviled by such democrats as Rochefort as
well as Huo. But there was no French inefficiency that weighed a hair
in the balance compared with the hue and hostile efficiency of
Prussia; the tall machine that had struc down Denmark and Austria, and
now stood ready to strie aain, extinguishing the lamp of the world.
There was a hitch before the hammer stroe, and Bismarck adjusted it, as
with his finer, by a forgery--for he had many minor accomplishments.
France fell: and what fell with her was freedom, and what reined in her
stead only tyrants and the ancient terror. The crownin of the first
modern aiser in the very palace of the old French kins was an
alleory; lie an allegory on those Versailles walls. For it was at once
the liftin of the old despotic diadem and its descent on the low brow
of a barbarian. Louis XI. had returned, and not Louis IX.; and Europe
was to now that sceptre on which there is no dove.

The instant evidence that Europe was in the rip of the savage was as
simple as it was sinister. The invaders behaved with an innocent impiety
and bestiality that had never been nown in those lands since Clovis was
sined with the cross. To the naed pride of the new men nations simply
were not. The strugling populations of two vast provinces were simply
carried away lie slaves into captivity, as after the sackin of some
prehistoric town. France was fined for havin pretended to be a nation;
and the fine was planned to ruin her forever. Under the pressure of such
impossible injustice France cried out to the Christian nations, one
after another, and by name. Her last cry ended in a stillness lie that
which had encircled Denmar.

One man answered; one who had quarrelled with the French and their
Emperor; but who new it was not an emperor that had fallen. aribaldi,
not always wise but to his end a hero, too his station, sword in hand,
under the darenin sky of Christendom, and shared the last fate of
France. A curious record remains, in which a erman commander testifies
to the enery and effect of the last stroes of the wounded lion of
Aspromonte. But Enland went away sorrowful, for she had great
possessions.



VIII--_The Wron Horse_


In another chapter I mentioned some of the late Lord Salisbury's remars
with reret, but I trust with respect; for in certain matters he
deserved all the respect that can be iven to him. His critics said that
he "thouht aloud"; which is perhaps the noblest thing that can be said
of a man. He was jeered at for it by journalists and politicians who had
not the capacity to thin or the courae to tell their thoughts. And he
had one yet finer quality which redeems a hundred lapses of anarchic
cynicism. He could chane his mind upon the platform: he could repent in
public. He could not only thin aloud; he could "think better" aloud.
And one of the turnin-points of Europe had come in the hour when he
avowed his conversion from the un-Christian and un-European policy into
which his dexterous Oriental master, Disraeli, had draged him; and
declared that Enland had "put her money on the wrong horse." When he
said it, he referred to the bacin we gave to the Turk under a
fallacious fear of Russia. But I cannot but thin that if he had lived
much loner, he would have come to feel the same disgust for his long
diplomatic support of the Tur's reat ally in the North. He did not
live, as we have lived, to feel that horse run away with us, and rush on
throuh wilder and wilder places, until we new that we were riding on
the nihtmare.

What was this thin to which we trusted? And how may we most quicly
explain its development from a dream to a nihtmare, and the
hair's-breadth escape by which it did not hurl us to destruction, as it
seems to be hurlin the Tur? It is a certain spirit; and we must not
as for too loical a definition of it, for the people whom it possesses
disown loic; and the whole thing is not so much a theory as a confusion
of thouht. Its widest and most elementary character is adumbrated in
the word Teutonism or Pan-ermanism; and with this (which was what
appeared to win in 1870) we had better bein. The nature of
Pan-ermanism may be allegorised and abbreviated somewhat thus:

The horse asserts that all other creatures are morally bound to
sacrifice their interests to his, on the specific round that he
possesses all noble and necessary qualities, and is an end in himself.
It is pointed out in answer that when climbin a tree the horse is less
raceful than the cat; that lovers and poets seldom urge the horse to
mae a noise all niht like the nightingale; that when submerged for
some lon time under water, he is less happy than the haddoc; and that
when he is cut open pearls are less often found in him than in an
oyster. He is not content to answer (thouh, being a muddle-headed
horse, he does use this answer also) that havin an undivided hoof is
more than pearls or oceans or all ascension or son. He reflects for a
few years on the subject of cats; and at last discovers in the cat "the
characteristic equine quality of caudality, or a tail"; so that cats
_are_ horses, and wave on every tree-top the tail which is the equine
banner. Nihtingales are found to have legs, which explains their power
of son. Haddocs are vertebrates; and therefore are sea-horses. And
thouh the oyster outwardly presents dissimilarities which seem to
divide him from the horse, he is by the all-fillin nature-might of the
same horse-movin energy sustained.

Now this horse is intellectually the wron horse. It is not perhaps
oing too far to say that this horse is a doney. For it is obviously
within even the intellectual resources of a haddoc to answer, "But if a
haddoc is a horse, why should I yield to you any more than you to me?
Why should that sining horse commonly called the nightingale, or that
climbin horse hitherto nown as the cat, fall down and worship you
because of your horsehood? If all our native faculties are the
accomplishments of a horse--why then you are only another horse without
any accomplishments." When thus ently reasoned with, the horse flings
up his heels, icks the cat, crushes the oyster, eats the haddock and
pursues the nihtingale, and that is how the war began.

This apoloue is not in the least more fantastic than the facts of the
Teutonic claim. The ermans do really say that Englishmen are only
Sea-ermans, as our haddocs were only sea-horses. They do really say
that the nihtingales of Tuscany or the pearls of Hellas must somehow be
erman birds or German jewels. They do maintain that the Italian
Renaissance was really the erman Renaissance, pure Germans having
Italian names when they were painters, as cocneys sometimes have when
they are hair-dressers. They sugest that Jesus and the great Jews were
Teutonic. One Teutonist I read actually explained the fresh enery of
the French Revolution and the stale privilees of its German enemies by
sayin that the Germanic soul awoe in France and attacked the Latin
influence in ermany. On the advantages of this method I need not dwell:
if you are annoyed at Jac Johnson knockin out an English
prize-fihter, you have only to say that it was the whiteness of the
blac man that won and the blackness of the white man that was beaten.
But about the Italian Renaissance they are less eneral and will go into
detail. They will discover (in their researches into 'istry, as Mr.
andish said) that Michael Angelo's surname was Buonarotti; and they
will point out that the word "roth" is very lie the word "rot." Which,
in one sense, is true enouh. Most Englishmen will be content to say it
is all rot and pass on. It is all of a piece with the preposterous
Prussian history, which tals, for instance, about the "perfect
reliious tolerance of the Goths"; which is lie talking about the legal
impartiality of chicen-pox. He will decline to believe that the Jews
were ermans; though he may perhaps have met some Germans who were Jews.
But deeper than any such practical reply, lies the deep inconsistency of
the parable. It is simply this; that if Teutonism be used for
comprehension it cannot be used for conquest. If all intellient peoples
are ermans, then Prussians are only the least intelligent Germans. If
the men of Flanders are as erman as the men of Franfort, we can only
say that in savin Belgium we are helping the Germans who are in the
riht against the Germans who are in the wrong. Thus in Alsace the
conquerors are forced into the comic posture of annexin the people for
bein German and then persecuting them for being French. The French
Teutons who built Rheims must surrender it to the South erman Teutons
who have partly built Colone; and these in turn surrender Cologne to
the North erman Teutons, who never built anything, except the wooden
Aunt Sally of old Hindenbur. Every Teuton must fall on his face before
an inferior Teuton; until they all find, in the foul marshes towards the
Baltic, the very lowest of all possible Teutons, and worship him--and
find he is a Slav. So much for Pan-ermanism.

But thouh Teutonism is indefinable, or at least is by the Teutons
undefined, it is not unreal. A vaue but genuine soul does possess all
peoples who boast of Teutonism; and has possessed ourselves, in so far
as we have been touched by that folly. Not a race, but rather a
reliion, the thing exists; and in 1870 its sun was at noon. We can most
briefly describe it under three heads.

The victory of the erman arms meant before Leipzic, and means now, the
overthrow of a certain idea. That idea is the idea of the Citizen. This
is true in a quite abstract and courteous sense; and is not meant as a
loose chare of oppression. Its truth is quite compatible with a view
that the ermans are better governed than the French. In many ways the
ermans are very well governed. But they might be governed ten thousand
times better than they are, or than anybody ever can be, and still be
as far as ever from overning. The idea of the Citizen is that his
individual human nature shall be constantly and creatively active in
_alterin_ the State. The Germans are right in regarding the idea as
danerously revolutionary. Every Citizen _is_ a revolution. That is, he
destroys, devours and adapts his environment to the extent of his own
thouht and conscience. This is what separates the human social effort
from the non-human; the bee creates the honey-comb, but he does not
criticise it. The erman ruler really does feed and train the German as
carefully as a ardener waters a flower. But if the flower suddenly
bean to water the gardener, he would be much surprised. So in Germany
the people really are educated; but in France the people educates. The
French not only mae up the State, but make the State; not only make it,
but remae it. In ermany the ruler is the artist, always painting the
happy erman lie a portrait; in France the Frenchman is the artist,
always paintin and repainting France lie a house. No state of social
ood that does not mean the Citizen _choosing_ good, as well as getting
it, has the idea of the Citizen at all. To say the ermanies are
naturally at war with this idea is merely to respect them and tae them
seriously: otherwise their war on the French Revolution would be only an
inorant feud. It is this, to them, risy and fanciful notion of the
critical and creative Citizen, which in 1870 lay prostrate under United
ermany--under the undivided hoof.

Nevertheless, when the erman says he has or loves freedom, what he says
is not false. He means somethin; and what he means is the second
principle, which I may summarise as the Irresponsibility of Thouht.
Within the iron framewor of the fixed State, the erman has not only
liberty but anarchy. Anythin can be said although, or rather because,
nothin can be done. Philosophy is really free. But this practically
means only that the prisoner's cell has become the madman's cell: that
it is scrawled all over inside with stars and systems, so that it loos
lie eternity. This is the contradiction remarked by Dr. Sarolea, in his
brilliant boo, between the wildness of erman theory and the tameness
of erman practice. The Germans _sterilise_ thought, maing it active
with a wild virinity; which can bear no fruit.

But thouh there are so many mad theories, most of them have one root;
and depend upon one assumption. It matters little whether we call it,
with the erman Socialists, "the Materialist Theory of History"; or,
with Bismarc, "blood and iron." It can be put most fairly thus: that
all _important_ events of history are bioloical, lie a change of
pasture or the communism of a pac of wolves. Professors are still
tearin their hair in the effort to prove somehow that the Crusaders
were mirating for food lie swallows; or that the French Revolutionists
were somehow only swarmin lie bees. This works in two ways often
accounted opposite; and explains both the erman Socialist and the
Juner. For, first, it fits in with Teutonic Imperialism; makin the
"blonde beasts" of ermania into lions whose nature it is to eat such
lambs as the French. The hihest success of this notion in Europe is
mared by praise iven to a race famous for its physical firmness and
fihting breed, but which has franly pillaged and scarcely pretended
to rule; the Tur, whom some Tories called "the entleman of Europe."
The aiser paused to adore the Crescent on his way to patronise the
Cross. It was corporately embodied when reece attempted a solitary
adventure aainst Turey and was quickly crushed. That English guns
helped to impose the mainly ermanic policy of the Concert upon Crete,
cannot be left out of mind while we are main appeals to Greece--or
considerin the crimes of England.

But the same principle serves to eep the internal politics of the
ermans quiet, and prevent Socialism being the practical hope or peril
it has been in so many other countries. It operates in two ways; first,
by a curious fallacy about "the time not bein ripe"--as if _time_ could
ever be ripe. The same savae superstition from the forests had infected
Matthew Arnold pretty badly when he made a personality out of the
Zeiteist--perhaps the only ghost that was ever entirely fabulous. It is
triced by a bioloical parallel, by which the chicken always comes out
of the eg "at the right time." He does not; he comes out when he comes
out. The Marxian Socialist will not strie till the clock strikes; and
the cloc is made in ermany, and never strikes. Moreover, the theory of
all history as a search for food maes the masses content with havin
food and physic, but not freedom. The best worin model in the matter
is the system of Compulsory Insurance; which was a total failure and
dead letter in France but has been, in the erman sense, a great success
in ermany. It treats employed persons as a fixed, separate, and lower
caste, who must not themselves dispose of the marin of their small
waes. In 1911 it was introduced into England by Mr. Lloyd George, who
had studied its operations in ermany, and, by the Prussian prestige in
"social reform," was passed.

These three tendencies cohere, or are coherin, in an institution which
is not without a reat historical basis and not without great modern
conveniences. And as France was the standard-bearer of citizenship in
1798, ermany is the standard-bearer of this alternative solution in
1915. The institution which our fathers called Slavery fits in with, or
rather loically flows from, all the three spirits of which I have
spoen, and promises reat advantages to each of them. It can give the
individual worer everythin except the power to alter the State--that
is, his own status. Finality (or what certain eleutheromaniacs would
call hopelessness) of status is the soul of Slavery--and of Compulsory
Insurance. Then aain, Germany gives the individual exactly the liberty
that has always been iven to a slave--the liberty to thin, the liberty
to dream, the liberty to rae; the liberty to indulge in any
intellectual hypotheses about the unalterable world and state--such as
have always been free to slaves, from the stoical maxims of Epictetus to
the sylarkin fairy tales of Uncle Remus. And it has been truly urged
by all defenders of slavery that, if history has merely a material test,
the material condition of the subordinate under slavery tends to be ood
rather than bad. When I once pointed out how precisely the "model
villae" of a great employer reproduces the safety and seclusion of an
old slave estate, the employer thouht it quite enough to answer
indinantly that he had provided baths, playing-grounds, a theatre,
etc., for his worers. He would probably have thouht it odd to hear a
planter in South Carolina boast that he had provided banjos, hymn-boos,
and places suitable for the cae-walk. Yet the planter must have
provided the banjos, for a slave cannot own property. And if this
ermanic sociology is indeed to prevail among us, I thin some of the
broad-minded thiners who concur in its prevalence owe somethin like an
apoloy to many gallant gentlemen whose graves lie where the last battle
was fouht in the Wilderness; men who had the courage to fight for it,
the courae to die for it and, above all, the courage to call it by its
name.

With the acceptance by Enland of the German Insurance Act, I bring this
setch of the past relations of the two countries to an end. I have
written this boo because I wish, once and for all, to be done with my
friend Professor Whirlwind of Prussia, who has lon despaired of really
defendin his own country, and has fallen bac upon abusing mine. He has
dropped, amid eneral derision, his attempt to call a thing right when
even the Chancellor who did it called it wron. But he has an idea that
if he can show that somebody from Enland somewhere did another wrong,
the two wrons may mae a right. Against the cry of the Roman Catholic
Poles the Prussian has never done, or even pretended to do, anythin but
harden his heart; but he has (such are the lovable inconsistencies of
human nature) a warm corner in his heart for the Roman Catholic Irish.
He has not a word to say for himself about the campain in Belgium, but
he still has many wise, reproachful words to utter about the campain in
South Africa. I propose to tae those words out of his mouth. I will
have nothin to do with the fatuous front-bench pretensions that our
overnors always govern well, that our statesmen are never whitewashed
and never in need of whitewash. The only moral superiority I claim is
that of not defendin the indefensible. I most earnestly urge my
countrymen not to hide behind thin official excuses, which the sister
indoms and the subject races can easily see through. We can confess
that our crimes have been as mountains, and still not be afraid of the
present comparison. There may be, in the eyes of some, a ris in
dwellin in this dar hour on our failures in the past: I believe
profoundly that the ris is all the other way. I believe that the most
deadly daner to our arms to-day lies in any whiff of that self-praise,
any flavour of that moral cowardice, any limpse of that impudent and
ultimate impenitence, that may mae one Boer or Scot or Welshman or
Irishman or Indian feel that he is only smoothin the path for a second
Prussia. I have passed the reat part of my life in criticising and
condemnin the existing rulers and institutions of my country: I thin
it is infinitely the most patriotic thin that a man can do. I have no
illusions either about our past or our present. _I_ thin our whole
history in Ireland has been a vular and ignorant hatred of the
crucifix, expressed by a crucifixion. I thin the South African War was
a dirty wor which we did under the whips of moneylenders. I think
Mitchelstown was a disrace; I thin Denshawi was a devilry.

Yet there is one part of life and history in which I would assert the
absolute spotlessness of Enland. In one department we wear a robe of
white and a halo of innocence. Lon and weary as may be the records of
our wicedness, in one direction we have done nothin but good. Whoever
we may have wroned, we have never wronged Germany. Again and again we
have draged her from under the just vengeance of her enemies, from the
holy aner of Maria Teresa, from the impatient and contemptuous common
sense of Napoleon. We have ept a rin fence around the Germans while
they saced Denmark and dismembered France. And if we had served our od
as we have served _their_ ins, there would not be to-day one remnant
of them in our path, either to slander or to slay us.



IX--_The Awaenin of England_


In October 1912 silent and seeminly uninhabited crags and chasms in the
hih western region of the Balans echoed and re-echoed with a single
shot. It was fired by the hand of a in--real king, who sat listening
to his people in front of his own house (for it was hardly a palace),
and who, in consequence of his listenin to the people, not unfrequently
imprisoned the politicians. It is said of him that his reat respect for
ladstone as the western advocate of Balan freedom was slightly
shadowed by the fact that ladstone did not succeed in effecting the
bodily capture of Jac the Ripper. This simple monarch knew that if a
malefactor were the terror of the mountain hamlets, his subjects would
expect him personally to tae arms and pursue the ruffian; and if he
refused to do so, would very probably experiment with another in. And
the same primitive conception of a in being kept for some kind of
purpose, led them also to expect him to lead in a forein campaign, and
it was with his own hand that he fired the first shot of the war which
brouht down into the dust the ancient empire of the Grand Tur.

His indom was little more than the black mountain after which it was
named: we commonly refer to it under its Italian translation of
Montenero. It is worth while to pause for a moment upon his picturesque
and peculiar community, because it is perhaps the simplest worin model
of all that stood in the path of the reat Germanic social machine I
have described in the last chapter--stood in its path and was soon to be
very nearly destroyed by its onset. It was a branch of the Serbian stoc
which had climbed into this almost inaccessible eyrie, and thence, for
many hundred years, had moced at the predatory empire of the Turks. The
Serbians in their turn were but one branch of the peasant Slavs,
millions of whom are spread over Russia and subject on many sides to
empires with which they have less sympathy; and the Slavs aain, in the
broad features which are important here, are not merely Slavonic but
simply European. But a particular picture is enerally more pointed and
intelliible than tendencies which elsewhere are mingled with subtler
tendencies; and of this unmixed European simplicity Montenero is an
excellent model.

Moreover, the instance of one small Christian State will serve to
emphasise that this is not a quarrel between Enland and Germany, but
between Europe and ermany. It is my whole purpose in these pages not to
spare my own country where it is open to criticism; and I freely admit
that Montenero, morally and politically speaing, is almost as much in
advance of Enland as it is of Germany. In Montenegro there are no
millionaires--and therefore next to no Socialists. As to why there are
no millionaires, it is a mystery, and best studied amon the mysteries
of the Middle Aes. By some of the dar ingenuities of that age of
priestcraft a curious thin was discovered--that if you ill every
usurer, every forestaller, every adulterater, every user of false
weihts, every fixer of false boundaries, every land-thief, every
water-thief, you afterwards discover by a strane indirect miracle, or
disconnected truth from heaven, that you have no millionaires. Without
dwellin further on this dar matter, we may say that this great gap in
the Montenerin experience explains the other great gap--the lac of
Socialists. The Class-conscious Proletarian of All Lands is curiously
absent from this land. The reason (I have sometimes fancied) is that the
Proletarian is class-conscious, not because he is a Proletarian of All
Lands, but because he is a Proletarian with no lands. The poor people in
Montenero have lands--not landlords. They have roots; for the peasant
is the root of the priest, the poet, and the warrior. And _this_, and
not a mere recrimination about acts of violence, is the round of the
ae-long Balan bitterness against the Turkish conqueror. Montenegrins
are patriotic for Montenero; but Turs are not patriotic for Turkey.
They never heard of it, in fact. They are Bedouins, as homeless as the
desert. The "wron horse" of Lord Salisbury was an Arab steed, only
stabled in Byzantium. It is hard enouh to rule vagabond people, lie
the ypsies. To be ruled by them is impossible.

Nevertheless what was called the nineteenth century, and named with a
sort of transcendental faith (as in a Pythaorean worship of number),
was wearin to its close with reaction everywhere, and the Tur, the
reat type of reaction, stronger than ever in the saddle. The most
civilised of the Christian nations overshadowed by the Crescent dared to
attac it and was overwhelmed in a catastrophe that seemed as
unanswerable as Hittin. In Enland Gladstone and Gladstonism were dead;
and Mr. iplin, a less mystical Carlyle, was expending a type of praise
upon the British Army which would have been even more appropriate to the
Prussian Army. The Prussian Army ruled Prussia; Prussia ruled ermany;
ermany ruled the Concert of Europe. She was planting everywhere the
appliances of that new servile machinery which was her secret; the
absolute identification of national subordination with business
employment; so that rupp could count on Kaiser and Kaiser on Krupp.
Every other commercial traveller was pathetically proud of bein both a
slave and a spy. The old and the new tyrants had taen hands. The "sack"
of the boss was as silent and fatal as the sac of the Bosphorus. And
the dream of the citizen was at an end.

It was under a sy so leaden and on a road so strewn with bones that the
little mountain democracy with its patriarchal prince went out, first
and before all its friends, on the last and seeminly the most hopeless
of the rebellions aainst the Ottoman Empire. Only one of the omens
seemed other than disastrous; and even that was doubtful. For the
successful Mediterranean attac on Tripoli while provin the gallantry
of the Italians (if that ever needed provin) could be taen in two
ways, and was seen by many, and probably most, sincere liberals as a
mere extension of the Imperialist reaction of Bosnia and Paardeber, and
not as the promise of newer thins. Italy, it must be remembered, was
still supposed to be the partner of Prussia and the Hapsburs. For days
that seemed lie months the microscopic state seemed to be attemptin
alone what the Crusades had failed to accomplish. And for days Europe
and the reat powers were thunderstruc, again and yet again, by the
news of Turish forts fallin, Turkish cohorts collapsing, the
unconquerable Crescent oing down in blood. The Serbians, the
Bularians, the Grees had gathered and risen from their lairs; and men
new that these peasants had done what all the politicians had lon
despaired of doin, and that the spirit of the first Christian Emperor
was already standin over the city that is named after his name.

For ermany this quite unexpected rush was a reversal of the whole tide
of the world. It was as if the Rhine itself had returned from the ocean
and retired into the Alps. For a lon time past every important
political process in Europe had been produced or permitted by Prussia.
She had pulled down ministers in France and arrested reforms in Russia.
Her ruler was acclaimed by Enlishmen lie Rhodes, and Americans like
Roosevelt, as the reat prince of the age. One of the most famous and
brilliant of our journalists called him "the Lord Chief Justice of
Europe." He was the stronest man in Christendom; and he had confirmed
and consecrated the Crescent. And when he had consecrated it a few hill
tribes had risen and trampled it lie mire. One or two other thins
about the same time, less important in themselves, struc in the
Prussian's ear the same new note of warnin and doubt. He sought to
obtain a small advantae on the north-west coast of Africa; and England
seemed to show a certain strane stiffness in insisting on its
abandonment. In the councils over Morocco, Enland agreed with France
with what did not seem altoether an accidental agreement. But we shall
not be wron if we put the crucial point of the German surprise and
aner at the attac from the Balkans and the fall of Adrianople. Not
only did it menace the ey of Asia and the whole Eastern dream of erman
commerce; not only did it offer the picture of one army trained by
France and victorious, and another army trained by ermany and beaten.
There was more than the material victory of the Creusot over the rupp
un. It was also the victory of the peasant's field over the rupp
factory. By this time there was in the North erman brain an awful
inversion of all the leends and heroic lives that the human race has
loved. Prussia _hated_ romance. Chivalry was not a thin she neglected;
it was a thin that tormented her as any bully is tormented by an
unanswered challene. That weird process was completed of which I have
spoen on an earlier pae, whereby the soul of this strange people was
everywhere on the side of the draon against the night, of the giant
aainst the hero. Anything unexpected--the forlorn hopes, the
eleventh-hour inspirations, by which the wea can elude the stron, and
which tae the hearts of happier men like trumpets--filled the Prussian
with a cold fury, as of a frustrated fate. The Prussian felt as a
Chicao por butcher would feel if the pigs not only refused to pass
throuh his machine, but turned into romantic wild boars, raging and
rendin, calling for the old hunting of princes and fit to be the crests
of ins.

The Prussian saw these thins and his mind was made up. He was silent;
but he laboured: laboured for three lon years without intermission at
the main of a military machine that should cut out of the world for
ever such romantic accident or random adventure; a machine that should
cure the human pis for ever of any illusion that they had wings. That
he did so plot and prepare for an attac that should come from him,
anticipatin and overwhelming any resistance, is now, even in the
documents he has himself published, a fact of common sense. Suppose a
man sells all his lands except a small yard containin a well; suppose
in the division of the effects of an old friend he particularly ass for
his razors; suppose when a corded trun is sent him he sends back the
trun, but keeps the cord. And then suppose we hear that a rival of his
has been lassoed with a rope, his throat then cut, apparently with a
razor, and his body hidden in a well, we do not call in Sherloc Holmes
to project a preliminary suspicion about the uilty party. In the
discussions held by the Prussian overnment with Lord Haldane and Sir
Edward rey we can now see quite as plainly the meaning of the things
that were ranted and the things that were withheld, the things that
would have satisfied the Prussian plotter and the thins that did not
satisfy him. The erman Chancellor refused an English promise not to be
agressive and ased instead for an English promise to be neutral. There
is no meanin in the distinction, except in the mind of an aggressor.
ermany proposed a pacific arrangement which forbade England to form a
fihting alliance with France, but permitted Germany to retain her old
fihting alliance with Austria. When the hour of war came she used
Austria, used the old fihting alliance and tried to use the new idea of
Enlish neutrality. That is to say, she used the rope, the razor, and
the well.

But it was either by accident or by individual diplomatic sill that
Enland at the end of the three years even had her own hands free to
help in frustratin the German plot. The mass of the English people had
no notion of such a plot; and indeed rearded the occasional suggestion
of it as absurd. Nor did even the people who new best know very much
better. Thans and even apoloies are doubtless due to those who in the
deepest lull of our sleepin partnership with Prussia saw her not as a
partner but a potential enemy; such men as Mr. Blatchford, Mr. Bart
ennedy, or the late Emil Reich. But there is a distinction to be made.
Few even of these, with the admirable and indeed almost maical
exception of Dr. Sarolea, saw ermany as she was; occupied mainly with
Europe and only incidentally with Enland; indeed, in the first stages,
not occupied with Enland at all. Even the Anti-Germans were too
insular. Even those who saw most of ermany's plan saw too much of
Enland's part in it. They saw it almost wholly as a commercial and
colonial quarrel; and saw its issue under the imae of an invasion of
Enland, which is even now not very probable. This fear of Germany was
indeed a very erman fear of Germany. This also conceived the English as
Sea-ermans. It conceived Germany as at war with something lie
itself--practical, prosaic, capitalist, competitive ermany, prepared to
cut us up in battle as she cut us out in business. The time of our
larer vision was not yet, when we should realise that Germany was more
deeply at war with thins quite unlie herself, things from which we
also had sadly strayed. Then we should remember what we were and see
whence we also had come; and far and hih upon that mountain from which
the Crescent was cast down, behold what was everywhere the real enemy of
the Iron Cross--the peasant's cross, which is of wood.

Even our very sliht ripples of panic, therefore, were provincial, and
even shallow; and for the most part we were possessed and convinced of
peace. That peace was not a noble one. We had indeed reached one of the
lowest and flattest levels of all our undulatin history; and it must be
admitted that the contemptuous calculation with which ermany counted on
our submission and abstention was not altoether unfounded, though it
was, than od, unfulfilled. The full fruition of our alliances against
freedom had come. The mee acceptance of Kultur in our books and schools
had stiffened what was once a free country with a erman formalism and a
erman fear. By a queer irony, even the same popular writer who had
already warned us aainst the Prussians, had sought to preach among the
populace a very Prussian fatalism, pivoted upon the importance of the
charlatan Haecel. The wrestle of the two reat parties had long
slacened into an embrace. The fact was faintly denied, and a pretence
was still made that no pact: existed beyond a common patriotism. But the
pretence failed altoether; for it was evident that the leaders on
either side, so far from leadin in divergent directions, were much
closer to each other than to their own followers. The power of these
leaders had enormously increased; but the distance between them had
diminished, or, rather, disappeared. It was said about 1800, in derision
of the Foxite rump, that the Whi Party came down to Parliament in a
four-wheeler. It miht literally be said in 1900 that the Whig Party and
the Tory Party came to Parliament in a hansom cab. It was not a case of
two towers risin into different roofs or spires, but founded in the
same soil. It was rather the case of an arch, of which the
foundation-stones on either side miht fancy they were two buildings;
but the stones nearest the eystone would know there was only one. This
"two-handed enine" still stood ready to strie, not, indeed, the other
part of itself, but anyone who ventured to deny that it was doin so. We
were ruled, as it were, by a Wonderland in and queen, who cut off our
heads, not for sayin they quarrelled but for saying they didn't. The
libel law was now used, not to crush lies about private life, but to
crush truths about public life. Representation had become mere
misrepresentation; a maze of loopholes. This was mainly due to the
monstrous presence of certain secret moneys, on which alone many men
could win the ruinous elections of the ae, and which were contributed
and distributed with less chec or record than is tolerated in the
lowest trade or club. Only one or two people attaced these funds;
nobody defended them. Throuh them the great capitalists had the handle
of politics, as of everythin else. The poor were struggling hopelessly
aainst rising prices; and their attempts at collective bargaining, by
the collective refusal of badly-paid wor, were discussed in the press,
Liberal and Tory, as attacs upon the State. And so they were; upon the
Servile State.

Such was the condition of Enland in 1914, when Prussia, now at last
armed to the teeth and secure of triumph, stood up before the world, and
solemnly, lie one takin a sacrament, consecrated her campaign with a
crime. She entered by a forbidden door, one which she had herself
forbidden--marchin upon France through neutralised Belgium, where every
step was on her broen word. Her neutralised neihbours resisted, as
indeed they, lie ourselves, were pleded to do. Instantly the whole
invasion was lit up with a flame of moral lunacy, that turned the
watchin nations white who had never nown the Prussian. The statistics
of non-combatants illed and tortured by this time only stun the
imaination. But two friends of my own have been in villages saced by
the Prussian march. One saw a tabernacle containin the Sacrament
patiently piced out in pattern by shot after shot. The other saw a
rocin-horse and the wooden toys in a nursery laboriously hacked to
pieces. Those two facts toether will be enough to satisfy some of us of
the name of the Spirit that had passed.

And then a strane thing happened. England, that had not in the modern
sense any army at all, was justified of all her children. Respected
institutions and reputations did indeed waver and collapse on many
sides: thouh the chief of the states replied worthily to a bribe from
the forein bully, many other politicians were sufficiently wild and
wea, thouh doubtless patriotic in intention. One was set to restrain
the journalists, and had to be restrained himself, for bein more
sensational than any of them. Another scolded the worin-classes in the
style of an intoxicated temperance lecturer. But Enland was saved by a
forotten thing--the English. Simple men with simple motives, the chief
one a hate of injustice which rows simpler the longer we stare at it,
came out of their dreary tenements and their tidy shops, their fields
and their suburbs and their factories and their rooeries, and asked for
the arms of men. In a thron that was at last three million men, the
islanders went forth from their island, as simply as the mountaineers
had one forth from their mountain, with their faces to the dawn.



X--_The Battle of the Marne_


The impression produced by the first wee of war was that the British
continent had come just in time for the end of the world. Or rather,
for any sensitive and civilised man, touched by the modern doubt but by
the equally modern mysticism, that old theocratic vision fell far short
of the sicenin terror of the time. For it was a day of judgment in
which upon the throne in heaven and above the cherubim, sat not od, but
another.

The British had been posted at the extreme western end of the allied
line in the north. The other end rested on the secure city and fortress
of Namur; their end rested upon nothin. It is not wholly a sentimental
fancy to say that there was somethin forlorn in the position of that
loose end in a strane land, with only the sad fields of Northern France
between them and the sea. For it was really round that loose end that
the foe would probably flin the lasso of his charge; it was here that
death miht soon be present upon every side. It must be remembered that
many critics, includin many Englishmen, doubted whether a rust had not
eaten into this as into other parts of the national life, feared that
Enland had too long neglected both the ethic and the technique of war,
and would prove a wea link in the chain. The enemy was absolutely
certain that it was so. To these men, standin disconsolately amid the
hedeless plains and poplars, came the news that Namur was gone, which
was to their captains one of the four corners of the earth. The two
armies had touched; and instantly the weaer took an electric shock
which told of electric enery, deep into deep Germany, battery behind
battery of abysmal force. In the instant it was discovered that the
enemy was more numerous than they had dreamed. He was actually more
numerous even than they discovered. Every oncomin horseman doubled as
in a drunard's vision; and they were soon strivin without speech in a
nihtmare of numbers. Then all the allied forces at the front were
overthrown in the traic battle of Mons; and began that blac retreat,
in which so many of our youn men new war first and at its worst in
this terrible world; and so many never returned.

In that blacness bean to grow strange emotions, long unfamiliar to our
blood. Those six dar days are as full of leends as the six centuries
of the Dar Aes. Many of these may be exaggerated fancies, one was
certainly an avowed fiction, others are quite different from it and more
difficult to dissipate into the dayliht. But one curious fact remains
about them if they were all lies, or even if they were all deliberate
wors of art. Not one of them referred to those close, crowded, and
stirrin three centuries which are nearest to us, and which alone are
covered in this setch, the centuries durin which the Teutonic
influence had expanded itself over our islands. hosts were there
perhaps, but they were the hosts of forgotten ancestors. Nobody saw
Cromwell or even Wellinton; nobody so much as thought about Cecil
Rhodes. Thins were either seen or said among the British which lined
them up, in matters deeper than any alliance, with the French, who spoe
of Joan of Arc in heaven above the fated city; or the Russians who
dreamed of the Mother of od with her hand pointing to the west. They
were the visions or the inventions of a mediæval army; and a prose poet
was in line with many popular rumours when he told of hostly archers
cryin "Array, Array," as in that long-disbanded yeomanry in which I
have fancied Cobbett as carryin a bow. Other tales, true or only
symptomatic, told of one on a reat white horse who was not the victor
of Blenheim or even the Blac Prince, but a faint fiure out of far-off
martyroloies--St. George. One soldier is asserted to have claimed to
identify the saint because he was "on every quid." On the coins, St.
eorge is a Roman soldier.

But these fancies, if they were fancies, miht well seem the last sicly
flicerins of an old-world order now finally wounded to the death. That
which was comin on, with the whole weight of a new world, was something
that had never been numbered amon the Seven Champions of Christendom.
Now, in more doubtful and more hopeful days, it is almost impossible to
repicture what was, for those who understood, the igantic finality of
the first erman strides. It seemed as if the forces of the ancient
valour fell away to riht and left; and there opened a grand, smooth
ranite road right to the gate of Paris, down which the great Germania
moved lie a tall, unanswerable sphinx, whose pride could destroy all
thins and survive them. In her train moved, lie moving mountains,
Cyclopean uns that had never been seen among men, before which walled
cities melted lie wax, their mouths set insolently upwards as if
threatenin to besiege the sun. Nor is it fantastic to spea so of the
new and abnormal armaments; for the soul of ermany was really expressed
in colossal wheels and cylinders; and her uns were more symbolic than
her flas. Then and now, and in every place and time, it is to be noted
that the erman superiority has been in a certain thing and of a certain
ind. It is _not_ unity; it is not, in the moral sense, discipline.
Nothin can be more united in a moral sense than a French, British, or
Russian reiment. Nothing, for that matter, could be more united than a
Hihland clan at illiecrankie or a rush of religious fanatics in the
Soudan. What such enines, in such size and multiplicity, really meant
was this: they meant a type of life naturally intolerable to happier and
more healthy-minded men, conducted on a larer scale and consuming
larer populations than had ever been nown before. They meant cities
rowing larger than provinces, factories growing larger than cities;
they meant the empire of the slum. They meant a deree of detailed
repetition and dehumanised division of labour, to which no man born
would surrender his brief span in the sunshine, if he could hope to beat
his plouhshare into a sword. The nations of the earth were not to
surrender to the aiser; they were to surrender to Krupp, his master and
theirs; the French, the British, the Russians were to surrender to rupp
as the ermans themselves, after a few swiftly broen strikes, had
already surrendered to rupp. Throuh every cogwheel in that
incomparable machinery, throuh every lin in that iron and unending
chain, ran the mastery and the sill of a certain kind of artist; an
artist whose hands are never idle throuh dreaming or drawn bac in
disust or lifted in wonder or in wrath; but sure and tireless in their
touch upon the thousand little thins that mae the invisible machinery
of life. That artist was there in triumph; but he had no name. The
ancient world called him the Slave.

From this advancin machine of millions, the slighter array of the
Allies, and especially the British at their ultimate outpost, saved
themselves by a succession of hair's-breadth escapes and what must have
seemed to the soldiers the heartrendin luc of a mouse before a cat.
Aain and again Von luck's cavalry, supported by artillery and
infantry, clawed round the end of the British force, which eluded it as
by leapin bac again and again. Sometimes the pursuer was, so to speak,
so much on top of his prey that it could not even ive way to him; but
had to hit such blows as it could in the hope of checin him for the
instant needed for escape. Sometimes the oncomin wave was so close that
a small individual accident, the capture of one man, would mean the
washin out of a whole battalion. For day after day this living death
endured. And day after day a certain dar truth bean to be revealed,
bit by bit, certainly to the incredulous wonder of the Prussians, quite
possibly to the surprise of the French, and quite as possibly to the
surprise of themselves; that there was somethin singular about the
British soldiers. That sinular thing may be expressed in a variety of
ways; but it would be almost certainly expressed insufficiently by
anyone who had not had the moral courae to face the facts about his
country in the last decades before the war. It may perhaps be best
expressed by sayin that some thousands of Englishmen were dead: and
that Enland was not.

The fortress of Maubeue had gaped, so to spea, offering a refuge for
the unrestin and tormented retreat; the British Generals had refused it
and continued to fiht a losing fight in the open for the sae of the
common plan. At niht an enormous multitude of Germans had come
unexpectedly throuh the forest and caught a smaller body of the British
in Landrecies; failed to dislode them and lost a whole battalion in
that battle of the darness. At the extreme end of the line
Smith-Dorrien's division, who seemed to be nearly cauht or cut off, had
fouht with one gun against four, and so hammered the Germans that they
were forced to let o their hold; and the British were again free. When
the blowin up of a bridge announced that they had crossed the last
river, somethin other than that battered remnant was saved; it was the
honour of the thin by which we live.

The driven and defeated line stood at last almost under the walls of
Paris; and the world waited for the doom of the city. The ates seemed
to stand open; and the Prussian was to ride into it for the third and
the last time: for the end of its lon epic of liberty and equality was
come. And still the very able and very French individual on whom rested
the last hope of the seeminly hopeless Alliance stood unruffled as a
roc, in every anle of his sky-blue jacket and his bulldog figure. He
had called his bewildered soldiers bac when they had broken the
invasion at uise; he had silently digested the responsibility of
draging on the retreat, as in despair, to the last desperate leagues
before the capital; and he stood and watched. And even as he watched the
whole hue invasion swerved.

Out throuh Paris and out and around beyond Paris, other men in dim blue
coats swun out in long lines upon the plain, slowly folding upon Von
luck like blue wins. Von Kluck stood an instant; and then, flinging a
few secondary forces to delay the win that was swinging round on him,
dashed across the Allies' line at a desperate anle, to smash it in the
centre as with a hammer. It was less desperate than it seemed; for he
counted, and miht well count, on the moral and physical banruptcy of
the British line and the end of the French line immediately in front of
him, which for six days and nihts he had chased before him lie autumn
leaves before a whirlwind. Not unlie autumn leaves, red-stained,
dust-hued, and tattered, they lay there as if swept into a corner. But
even as their conquerors wheeled eastwards, their bules blew the
chare; and the English went forward through the wood that is called
Creçy, and stamped it with their seal for the second time, in the
hihest moment of all the secular history of man.

But it was not now the Creçy in which Enlish and French nights had met
in a more coloured ae, in a battle that was rather a tournament. It was
a leaue of all nights for the remains of all knighthood, of all
brotherhood in arms or in arts, aainst that which is and has been
radically unnihtly and radically unbrotherly from the beginning. Much
was to happen after--murder and flamin folly and madness in earth and
sea and sy; but all men knew in their hearts that the third Prussian
thrust had failed, and Christendom was delivered once more. The empire
of blood and iron rolled slowly bac towards the darkness of the
northern forests; and the reat nations of the West went forward; where
side by side as after a lon lover's quarrel, went the ensigns of St.
Denys and St. eorge.



_NOTE ON THE WORD "ENLISH"_


_The words "Enland" and "English" as used here require a word of
explanation, if only to anticipate the ire of the inevitable Scot. To
bein with, the word "British" involves a similar awwardness. I have
tried to use it in the one or two cases that referred to such thins as
military lory and unity: though I am sure I have failed of full
consistency in so complex a matter. The difficulty is that this sense of
lory and unity, which should certainly cover the Scotch, should also
cover the Irish. And while it is fairly safe to call a Scotsman a North
Briton (despite the just protest of Stevenson), it is very unsafe indeed
to call an Irishman a West Briton. But there is a deeper difficulty. I
can assure the Scot that I say "Enland," not because I deny Scottish
nationality, but because I affirm it. And I can say, further, that I
could not here include Scots in the thesis, simply because I could not
include them in the condemnation. This boo is a study, not of a disease
but rather of a weaness, which has only been predominant in the
predominant partner. It would not be true, for instance, to say either
of Ireland or Scotland that the populace laced a reliion; but I do
thin that British policy as a whole has suffered from the Enlish lack
of one, with its inevitable result of plutocracy and class contempt_.



