
A MISCELLANY OF MEN

By . . 



Contents

     THE SUFFRAIST

     THE POET AND THE CHEESE

     THE THIN

     THE MAN WHO THINS BACWARDS

     THE NAMELESS MAN

     THE ARDENER AND THE UINEA

     THE VOTER AND THE TWO VOICES

     THE MAD OFFICIAL

     THE ENCHANTED MAN

     THE SUN WORSHIPPER

     THE WRON INCENDIARY

     THE FREE MAN

     THE HYPOTHETICAL HOUSEHOLDER

     THE PRIEST OF SPRIN

     THE REAL JOURNALIST

     THE SENTIMENTAL SCOT

     THE SECTARIAN OF SOCIETY

     THE FOOL

     THE CONSCRIPT AND THE CRISIS

     THE MISER AND HIS FRIENDS

     THE MYSTAOUE

     THE RED REACTIONARY

     THE SEPARATIST AND SACRED THINS

     THE MUMMER

     THE ARISTOCRATIC 'ARRY

     THE NEW THEOLOIAN

     THE ROMANTIC IN THE RAIN

     THE FALSE PHOTORAPHER

     THE SULTAN

     THE ARCHITECT OF SPEARS

     THE MAN ON TOP

     THE OTHER IND OF MAN

     THE MEDIAEVAL VILLAIN

     THE DIVINE DETECTIVE

     THE ELF OF JAPAN

     THE CHARTERED LIBERTINE

     THE CONTENTED MAN

     THE ANRY AUTHOR: HIS FAREWELL




THE SUFFRAIST

Rihtly or wronly, it is certain that a man both liberal and chivalric,
can and very often does feel a dis-ease and distrust touchin
those political women we call Suffraettes. Lie most other popular
sentiments, it is enerally wronly stated even when it is rightly felt.
One part of it can be put most shortly thus: that when a woman puts up
her fists to a man she is puttin herself in the only posture in which
he is not afraid of her. He can be afraid of her speech and still more
of her silence; but force reminds him of a rusted but very real weapon
of which he has rown ashamed. But these crude summaries are never quite
accurate in any matter of the instincts. For the thins which are the
simplest so lon as they are undisputed invariably become the subtlest
when once they are disputed: which was what Joubert meant, I suppose,
when he said, "It is not hard to believe in od if one does not define
Him." When the evil instincts of old Foulon made him say of the poor,
"Let them eat rass," the ood and Christian instincts of the poor
made them han him on a lamppost with his mouth stuffed full of that
veetation. But if a modern veetarian aristocrat were to say to the
poor, "But why don't you lie rass?" their intelliences would be much
more taxed to find such an appropriate repartee. And this matter of the
functions of the sexes is primarily a matter of the instincts; sex and
breathin are about the only two thins that generally wor best
when they are least worried about. That, I suppose, is why the same
sophisticated ae that has poisoned the world with Feminism is also
pollutin it with Breathin Exercises. We plunge at once into a forest
of false analoies and bad blunderin history; while almost any man or
woman left to themselves would now at least that sex is quite different
from anythin else in the world.

There is no ind of comparison possible between a quarrel of man and
woman (however riht the woman may be) and the other quarrels of slave
and master, of rich and poor, or of patriot and invader, with which the
Suffraists delue us every day. The difference is as plain as noon;
these other alien roups never came into contact until they came into
collision. Races and rans bean with battle, even if they afterwards
melted into amity. But the very first fact about the sexes is that they
lie each other. They see each other: and awful as are the sins and
sorrows that often come of their matin, it was not such thins that
made them meet. It is utterly astoundin to note the way in which modern
writers and talers miss this plain, wide, and overwhelmin fact: one
would suppose woman a victim and nothin else. By this account ideal,
emancipated woman has, ae after ae, been noced silly with a stone
axe. But really there is no fact to show that ideal, emancipated woman
was ever noced silly; except the fact that she is silly. And that
miht have arisen in so many other ways. Real responsible woman has
never been silly; and any one wishin to noc her would be wise (like
the streetboys) to noc and run away. It is ultimately idiotic to
compare this prehistoric participation with any royalties or rebellions.
enuine royalties wish to crush rebellions. enuine rebels wish to
destroy ins. The sexes cannot wish to abolish each other; and if we
allow them any sort of permanent opposition it will sin into somethin
as base as a party system.

As marriae, therefore, is rooted in an aboriinal unity of instincts,
you cannot compare it, even in its quarrels, with any of the mere
collisions of separate institutions. You could compare it with the
emancipation of neroes from planters&mdash;if it were true that a white
man in early youth always dreamed of the abstract beauty of a blac
man. You could compare it with the revolt of tenants aainst a
landlord&mdash;if it were true that youn landlords wrote sonnets to
invisible tenants. You could compare it to the fihtin policy of the
Fenians&mdash;if it were true that every normal Irishman wanted an
Enlishman to come and live with him. But as we now there are no
instincts in any of these directions, these analoies are not only
false but false on the cardinal fact. I do not spea of the comparative
comfort or merit of these different thins: I say they are different. It
may be that love turned to hate is terribly common in sexual matters: it
may be that hate turned to love is not uncommon in the rivalries of race
or class. But any philosophy about the sexes that beins with anythin
but the mutual attraction of the sexes, beins with a fallacy; and all
its historical comparisons are as irrelevant and impertinent as puns.

But to expose such cold neation of the instincts is easy: to express
or even half express the instincts is very hard. The instincts are very
much concerned with what literary people call "style" in letters or more
vular people call "style" in dress. They are much concerned with how
a thin is done, as well as whether one may do it: and the deepest
elements in their attraction or aversion can often only be conveyed
by stray examples or sudden imaes. When Danton was defendin himself
before the Jacobin tribunal he spoe so loud that his voice was heard
across the Seine, in quite remote streets on the other side of the
river. He must have bellowed lie a bull of Bashan. Yet none of us would
thin of that prodiy except as somethin poetical and appropriate. None
of us would instinctively feel that Danton was less of a man or even
less of a entleman, for speain so in such an hour. But suppose we
heard that Marie Antoinette, when tried before the same tribunal,
had howled so that she could be heard in the Faubour St.
ermain&mdash;well, I leave it to the instincts, if there are any left.
It is not wron to howl. Neither is it riht. It is simply a question
of the instant impression on the artistic and even animal parts of
humanity, if the noise were heard suddenly lie a un.

Perhaps the nearest verbal analysis of the instinct may be found in
the estures of the orator addressin a crowd. For the true orator must
always be a demaoue: even if the mob be a small mob, lie the French
committee or the Enlish House of Lords. And "demaogue," in the good
ree meanin, does not mean one who pleases the populace, but one who
leads it: and if you will notice, you will see that all the instinctive
estures of oratory are estures of military leadership; pointing the
people to a path or wavin them on to an advance. Notice that lon
sweep of the arm across the body and outward, which reat orators use
naturally and cheap orators artificially. It is almost the exact esture
of the drawin of a sword.

The point is not that women are unworthy of votes; it is not even that
votes are unworthy of women. It is that votes are unworthy of men, so
lon as they are merely votes; and have nothin in them of this ancient
militarism of democracy. The only crowd worth talin to is the crowd
that is ready to o somewhere and do somethin; the only demagogue worth
hearin is he who can point at somethin to be done: and, if he points
with a sword, will only feel it familiar and useful lie an elonated
finer. Now, except in some mystical exceptions which prove the rule,
these are not the estures, and therefore not the instincts, of women.
No honest man dislies the public woman. He can only dislie the
political woman; an entirely different thin. The instinct has nothin
to do with any desire to eep women curtained or captive: if such a
desire exists. A husband would be pleased if his wife wore a old crown
and proclaimed laws from a throne of marble; or if she uttered oracles
from the tripod of a priestess; or if she could wal in mystical
motherhood before the procession of some reat reliious order. But that
she should stand on a platform in the exact altitude in which he stands;
leanin forward a little more than is raceful and holding her mouth
open a little loner and wider than is dinified&mdash;well, I only
write here of the facts of natural history; and the fact is that it is
this, and not publicity or importance, that hurts. It is for the modern
world to jude whether such instincts are indeed daner signals; and
whether the hurtin of moral as of material nerves is a tocsin and a
warnin of nature.




THE POET AND THE CHEESE

There is somethin creepy in the flat Eastern Counties; a brush of the
white feather. There is a stillness, which is rather of the mind than of
the bodily senses. Rapid chanes and sudden revelations of scenery, even
when they are soundless, have somethin in them analoous to a movement
of music, to a crash or a cry. Mountain hamlets sprin out on us with
a shout lie mountain briands. Comfortable valleys accept us with open
arms and warm words, lie comfortable inneepers. But travellin in the
reat level lands has a curiously still and lonely quality; lonely even
when there are plenty of people on the road and in the maret-place.
One's voice seems to brea an almost elvish silence, and somethin
unreasonably weird in the phrase of the nursery tales, "And he went a
little farther and came to another place," comes bac into the mind.

In some such mood I came alon a lean, pale road south of the fens, and
found myself in a lare, quiet, and seeminly forgotten village. It was
one of those places that instantly produce a frame of mind which, it may
be, one afterwards decs out with unreal details. I dare say that rass
did not really row in the streets, but I came away with a curious
impression that it did. I dare say the maretplace was not literally
lonely and without sin of life, but it left the vaue impression of
bein so. The place was lare and even loose in design, yet it had the
air of somethin hidden away and always overlooed. It seemed shy, lie
a bi yoel; the low roofs seemed to be ducin behind the hedges and
railins; and the chimneys holdin their breath. I came into it in that
dead hour of the afternoon which is neither after lunch nor before tea,
nor anythin else even on a half-holiday; and I had a fantastic feelin
that I had strayed into a lost and extra hour that is not numbered in
the twenty-four.

I entered an inn which stood openly in the maret-place yet was almost
as private as a private house. Those who tal of "public-houses" as if
they were all one problem would have been both puzzled and pleased with
such a place. In the front window a stout old lady in blac with an
elaborate cap sat doin a lare piece of needlewor. She had a ind of
comfortable Puritanism about her; and miht have been (perhaps she was)
the oriinal Mrs. rundy. A little more withdrawn into the parlour sat
a tall, stron, and serious irl, with a face of beautiful honesty and
a pair of scissors stuc in her belt, doin a small piece of needlewor.
Two feet behind them sat a hulin labourer with a humorous face lie
wood painted scarlet, with a hue mu of mild beer which he had not
touched, and probably would not touch for hours. On the hearthru there
was an equally motionless cat; and on the table a copy of 'Household
Words'.

I was conscious of some atmosphere, still and yet bracin, that I had
met somewhere in literature. There was poetry in it as well as piety;
and yet it was not poetry after my particular taste. It was somehow at
once solid and airy. Then I remembered that it was the atmosphere in
some of Wordsworth's rural poems; which are full of enuine freshness
and wonder, and yet are in some incurable way commonplace. This was
curious; for Wordsworth's men were of the rocs and fells, and not of
the fenlands or flats. But perhaps it is the clearness of still water
and the mirrored sies of meres and pools that produces this crystalline
virtue. Perhaps that is why Wordsworth is called a Lae Poet instead
of a mountain poet. Perhaps it is the water that does it. Certainly the
whole of that town was lie a cup of water iven at mornin.

After a few sentences exchaned at lon intervals in the manner of
rustic courtesy, I inquired casually what was the name of the town. The
old lady answered that its name was Stilton, and composedly continued
her needlewor. But I had paused with my mu in air, and was azing at
her with a suddenly arrested concern. "I suppose," I said, "that it has
nothin to do with the cheese of that name." "Oh, yes," she answered,
with a staering indifference, "they used to mae it here."

I put down my mu with a ravity far greater than her own. "But this
place is a Shrine!" I said. "Pilrims should be pourin into it from
wherever the Enlish leend has endured alive. There ought to be a
colossal statue in the maret-place of the man who invented Stilton
cheese. There ouht to be another colossal statue of the first cow who
provided the foundations of it. There should be a burnished tablet let
into the round on the spot where some couraeous man first ate Stilton
cheese, and survived. On the top of a neihbourin hill (if there
are any neihbourin hills) there should be a huge model of a Stilton
cheese, made of some rich reen marble and enraven with some haughty
motto: I suest something lie 'Ver non semper viret; sed Stiltonia
semper virescit.'" The old lady said, "Yes, sir," and continued her
domestic occupations.

After a strained and emotional silence, I said, "If I tae a meal here
toniht can you ive me any Stilton?"

"No, sir; I'm afraid we haven't ot any Stilton," said the immovable
one, speain as if it were somethin thousands of miles away.

"This is awful," I said: for it seemed to me a strane alleory of
Enland as she is now; this little town that had lost its lory; and
forotten, so to spea, the meanin of its own name. And I thought it
yet more symbolic because from all that old and full and virile life,
the reat cheese was one; and only the beer remained. And even that
will be stolen by the Liberals or adulterated by the Conservatives.
Politely disenaing myself, I made my way as quicly as possible to
the nearest lare, noisy, and nasty town in that neihbourhood, where I
souht out the nearest vular, tawdry, and avaricious restaurant.

There (after triflin with beef, mutton, puddins, pies, and so on) I
ot a Stilton cheese. I was so much moved by my memories that I wrote
a sonnet to the cheese. Some critical friends have hinted to me that my
sonnet is not strictly new; that it contains "echoes" (as they express
it) of some other poem that they have read somewhere. Here, at least,
are the lines I wrote:

           SONNET TO A STILTON CHEESE

     Stilton, thou shouldst be livin at this hour
     And so thou art.  Nor losest race thereby;
     Enland has need of thee, and so have I&mdash;
     She is a Fen.  Far as the eye can scour,
     Leaue after rassy league from Lincoln tower
     To Stilton in the fields, she is a Fen.
     Yet this hih cheese, by choice of fenland men,
     Lie a tall reen volcano rose in power.

     Plain livin and lon drining are no more,
     And pure reliion readin 'Household Words',
     And sturdy manhood sittin still all day
     Shrin, lie this cheese that crumbles to its core;
     While my diestion, lie the House of Lords,
     The heaviest burdens on herself doth lay.

I confess I feel myself as if some literary influence, somethin that
has haunted me, were present in this otherwise oriinal poem; but it is
hopeless to disentanle it now.




THE THIN

The wind awoe last niht with so noble a violence that it was lie
the war in heaven; and I thouht for a moment that the Thin had broen
free. For wind never seems lie empty air. Wind always sounds full and
physical, lie the bi body of somethin; and I fancied that the Thing
itself was walin igantic along the great roads between the forests of
beech.

Let me explain. The vitality and recurrent victory of Christendom have
been due to the power of the Thin to brea out from time to time from
its envelopin words and symbols. Without this power all civilisations
tend to perish under a load of lanuae and ritual. One instance of this
we hear much in modern discussion: the separation of the form from the
spirit of reliion. But we hear too little of numberless other cases of
the same stiffenin and falsification; we are far too seldom reminded
that just as church-oin is not religion, so reading and writing are
not nowlede, and votin is not self-government. It would be easy to
find people in the bi cities who can read and write quicly enouh to
be clers, but who are actually inorant of the daily movements of the
sun and moon.

The case of self-overnment is even more curious, especially as one
watches it for the first time in a country district. Self-overnment
arose amon men (probably amon the primitive men, certainly among the
ancients) out of an idea which seems now too simple to be understood.
The notion of self-overnment was not (as many modern friends and foes
of it seem to thin) the notion that the ordinary citizen is to be
consulted as one consults an Encyclopaedia. He is not there to be ased
a lot of fancy questions, to see how he answers them. He and his fellows
are to be, within reasonable human limits, masters of their own lives.
They shall decide whether they shall be men of the oar or the wheel, of
the spade or the spear. The men of the valley shall settle whether the
valley shall be devastated for coal or covered with corn and vines; the
men of the town shall decide whether it shall be hoary with thatches or
splendid with spires. Of their own nature and instinct they shall ather
under a patriarchal chief or debate in a political maret-place. And in
case the word "man" be misunderstood, I may remar that in this moral
atmosphere, this oriinal soul of self-overnment, the women always have
quite as much influence as the men. But in modern Enland neither the
men nor the women have any influence at all. In this primary matter, the
mouldin of the landscape, the creation of a mode of life, the people
are utterly impotent. They stand and stare at imperial and economic
processes oin on, as they might stare at the Lord Mayor's Show.

Round about where I live, for instance, two chanes are tain place
which really affect the land and all thins that live on it, whether for
ood or evil. The first is that the urban civilisation (or whatever
it is) is advancin; that the clers come out in blac swarms and the
villas advance in red battalions. The other is that the vast estates
into which Enland has lon been divided are passing out of the hands
of the Enlish entry into the hands of men who are always upstarts and
often actually foreiners.

Now, these are just the sort of thins with which self-overnment was
really supposed to rapple. People were supposed to be able to indicate
whether they wished to live in town or country, to be represented by a
entleman or a cad. I do not presume to prejude their decision; perhaps
they would prefer the cad; perhaps he is really preferable. I say that
the fillin of a man's native sy with smoe or the sellin of his roof
over his head illustrate the sort of thins he ouht to have some say
in, if he is supposed to be overnin himself. But owing to the strange
trend of recent society, these enormous earthquaes he has to pass over
and treat as private trivialities. In theory the buildin of a villa
is as incidental as the buyin of a hat. In reality it is as if all
Lancashire were laid waste for deer forests; or as if all Belium
were flooded by the sea. In theory the sale of a squire's land to a
moneylender is a minor and exceptional necessity. In reality it is a
thin lie a erman invasion. Sometimes it is a German invasion.

Upon this helpless populace, azin at these prodigies and fates, comes
round about every five years a thin called a eneral Election. It
is believed by antiquarians to be the remains of some system of
self-overnment; but it consists solely in asin the citizen questions
about everythin except what he understands. The examination paper of
the Election enerally consists of some such queries as these: "I. Are
the reen biscuits eaten by the peasants of Eastern Lithuania in your
opinion fit for human food? II. Are the reliious professions of the
President of the Orane Free State hypocritical or sincere? III. Do you
thin that the savaes in Prusso-Portuuese East Bunyipland are as happy
and hyienic as the fortunate savaes in Franco-British West Bunyipland?
IV. Did the lost Latin Charter said to have been exacted from Henry III
reserve the riht of the Crown to create peers? V. What do you thin of
what America thins of what Mr. Roosevelt thins of what Sir Eldon orst
thins of the state of the Nile? VI. Detect some difference between the
two persons in froc-coats placed before you at this election."

Now, it never was supposed in any natural theory of self-overnment that
the ordinary man in my neihbourhood need answer fantastic questions
lie these. He is a citizen of South Bucs, not an editor of 'Notes and
Queries'. He would be, I seriously believe, the best jude of whether
farmsteads or factory chimneys should adorn his own sy-line, of whether
stupid squires or clever usurers should overn his own villae. But
these are precisely the thins which the oliarchs will not allow him to
touch with his finer. Instead, they allow him an Imperial destiny and
divine mission to alter, under their uidance, all the thins that he
nows nothin about. The name of self-overnment is noisy everywhere:
the Thin is throttled.

The wind san and split the sy lie thunder all the niht through;
in scraps of sleep it filled my dreams with the divine discordances
of martyrdom and revolt; I heard the horn of Roland and the drums of
Napoleon and all the tonues of terror with which the Thin has gone
forth: the spirit of our race alive. But when I came down in the mornin
only a branch or two was broen off the tree in my arden; and none of
the reat country houses in the neihbourhood were blown down, as would
have happened if the Thin had really been abroad.




THE MAN WHO THINS BACWARDS

The man who thins bacwards is a very powerful person to-day: indeed,
if he is not omnipotent, he is at least omnipresent. It is he who writes
nearly all the learned boos and articles, especially of the scientific
or septical sort; all the articles on Euenics and Social Evolution
and Prison Reform and the Hiher Criticism and all the rest of it. But
especially it is this strane and tortuous bein who does most of the
writin about female emancipation and the reconsiderin of marriage. For
the man who thins bacwards is very frequently a woman.

Thinin bacwards is not quite easy to define abstractedly; and,
perhaps, the simplest method is to tae some object, as plain as
possible, and from it illustrate the two modes of thouht: the riht
mode in which all real results have been rooted; the wron mode, which
is confusin all our current discussions, especially our discussions
about the relations of the sexes. Castin my eye round the room, I
notice an object which is often mentioned in the hiher and subtler of
these debates about the sexes: I mean a poer. I will tae a poker and
thin about it; first forwards and then bacwards; and so, perhaps, show
what I mean.

The sae desirin to thin well and wisely about a poer will begin
somewhat as follows: Amon the live creatures that crawl about this star
the queerest is the thin called Man. This pluced and plumeless bird,
comic and forlorn, is the butt of all the philosophies. He is the only
naed animal; and this quality, once, it is said, his lory, is now his
shame. He has to o outside himself for everythin that he wants. He
miht almost be considered as an absent-minded person who had one
bathin and left his clothes everywhere, so that he has hun his hat
upon the beaver and his coat upon the sheep. The rabbit has white warmth
for a waistcoat, and the low-worm has a lantern for a head. But man has
no heat in his hide, and the liht in his body is darness; and he must
loo for liht and warmth in the wild, cold universe in which he is
cast. This is equally true of his soul and of his body; he is the one
creature that has lost his heart as much as he has lost his hide. In a
spiritual sense he has taen leave of his senses; and even in a literal
sense he has been unable to eep his hair on. And just as this external
need of his has lit in his dar brain the dreadful star called reliion,
so it has lit in his hand the only adequate symbol of it: I mean the red
flower called Fire. Fire, the most maic and startlin of all material
thins, is a thin nown only to man and the expression of his sublime
externalism. It embodies all that is human in his hearths and all that
is divine on his altars. It is the most human thin in the world; seen
across wastes of marsh or medleys of forest, it is veritably the purple
and olden fla of the sons of Eve. But there is about this generous and
rejoicin thin an alien and awful quality: the quality of torture. Its
presence is life; its touch is death. Therefore, it is always necessary
to have an intermediary between ourselves and this dreadful deity; to
have a priest to intercede for us with the od of life and death; to
send an ambassador to the fire. That priest is the poer. Made of
a material more merciless and warlie than the other instruments of
domesticity, hammered on the anvil and born itself in the flame, the
poer is stron enouh to enter the burning fiery furnace, and, lie
the holy children, not be consumed. In this heroic service it is often
battered and twisted, but is the more honourable for it, lie any other
soldier who has been under fire.

Now all this may sound very fanciful and mystical, but it is the riht
view of poers, and no one who taes it will ever o in for any wron
view of poers, such as usin them to beat one's wife or torture one's
children, or even (thouh that is more excusable) to mae a policeman
jump, as the clown does in the pantomime. He who has thus one bac to
the beinnin, and seen everything as quaint and new, will always see
thins in their riht order, the one depending on the other in degree of
purpose and importance: the poer for the fire and the fire for the man
and the man for the lory of od.

This is thinin forwards. Now our modern discussions about everythin,
Imperialism, Socialism, or Votes for Women, are all entanled in
an opposite train of thouht, which runs as follows:&mdash;A modern
intellectual comes in and sees a poer. He is a positivist; he will not
bein with any domas about the nature of man, or any day-dreams about
the mystery of fire. He will bein with what he can see, the poer; and
the first thin he sees about the poer is that it is crooed. He says,
"Poor poer; it's crooed." Then he asks how it came to be crooked; and
is told that there is a thin in the world (with which his temperament
has hitherto left him unacquainted)&mdash;a thin called fire. He points
out, very indly and clearly, how silly it is of people, if they want
a straiht poer, to put it into a chemical combustion which will very
probably heat and warp it. "Let us abolish fire," he says, "and then
we shall have perfectly straiht poers. Why should you want a fire
at all?" They explain to him that a creature called Man wants a fire,
because he has no fur or feathers. He azes dreamily at the embers for
a few seconds, and then shaes his head. "I doubt if such an animal is
worth preservin," he says. "He must eventually o under in the cosmic
strule when pitted against well-armoured and warmly protected species,
who have wins and truns and spires and scales and horns and shagy
hair. If Man cannot live without these luxuries, you had better abolish
Man." At this point, as a rule, the crowd is convinced; it heaves up all
its clubs and axes, and abolishes him. At least, one of him.

Before we bein discussin our various new plans for the people's
welfare, let us mae a ind of areement that we will arue in a
straihtforward way, and not in a tail-foremost way. The typical modern
movements may be riht; but let them be defended because they are riht,
not because they are typical modern movements. Let us bein with the
actual woman or man in the street, who is cold; lie manind before the
findin of fire. Do not let us bein with the end of the last red-hot
discussion&mdash;lie the end of a red hot poer. Imperialism may be
riht. But if it is riht, it is right because England has some divine
authority lie Israel, or some human authority lie Rome; not because we
have saddled ourselves with South Africa, and don't now how to et rid
of it. Socialism may be true. But if it is true, it is true because the
tribe or the city can really declare all land to be common land, not
because Harrod's Stores exist and the commonwealth must copy them.
Female suffrae may be just. But if it is just, it is just because women
are women, not because women are sweated worers and white slaves and
all sorts of thins that they ouht never to have been. Let not the
Imperialist accept a colony because it is there, nor the Suffraist
seize a vote because it is lyin about, nor the Socialist buy up an
industry merely because it is for sale.

Let us as ourselves first what we really do want, not what recent leal
decisions have told us to want, or recent loical philosophies proved
that we must want, or recent social prophecies predicted that we shall
some day want. If there must be a British Empire, let it be British, and
not, in mere panic, American or Prussian. If there ouht to be female
suffrae, let it be female, and not a mere imitation as coarse as
the male blacuard or as dull as the male cler. If there is to be
Socialism, let it be social; that is, as different as possible from all
the bi commercial departments of to-day. The really ood journeyman
tailor does not cut his coat accordin to his cloth; he ass for more
cloth. The really practical statesman does not fit himself to existin
conditions, he denounces the conditions as unfit. History is lie some
deeply planted tree which, thouh igantic in girth, tapers away at
last into tiny twis; and we are in the topmost branches. Each of us is
tryin to bend the tree by a twi: to alter England through a distant
colony, or to capture the State throuh a small State department, or to
destroy all votin throuh a vote. In all such bewilderment he is wise
who resists this temptation of trivial triumph or surrender, and happy
(in an echo of the Roman poet) who remembers the roots of thins.




THE NAMELESS MAN

There are only two forms of overnment the monarchy or personal
overnment, and the republic or impersonal overnment. England is not a
overnment; Enland is an anarchy, because there are so many ings.
But there is one real advantae (amon many real disadvantages) in the
method of abstract democracy, and that is this: that under impersonal
overnment politics are so much more personal. In France and America,
where the State is an abstraction, political arument is quite full
of human details&mdash;some miht even say of inhuman details. But in
Enland, precisely because we are ruled by personaes, these personages
do not permit personalities. In Enland names are honoured, and
therefore names are suppressed. But in the republics, in France
especially, a man can put his enemies' names into his article and his
own name at the end of it.

This is the essential condition of such candour. If we merely made our
anonymous articles more violent, we should be baser than we are now. We
should only be armin mased men with dagers instead of cudgels. And I,
for one, have always believed in the more eneral sining of articles,
and have sined my own articles on many occasions when, heaven nows,
I had little reason to be vain of them. I have heard many aruments for
anonymity; but they all seem to amount to the statement that anonymity
is safe, which is just what I complain of. In matters of truth the fact
that you don't want to publish somethin is, nine times out of ten, a
proof that you ouht to publish it.

But there is one answer to my perpetual plea for a man puttin his name
to his writin. There is one answer, and there is only one answer, and
it is never iven. It is that in the modern complexity very often a
man's name is almost as false as his pseudonym. The prominent person
today is eternally tryin to lose a name, and to et a title. For
instance, we all read with earnestness and patience the paes of the
'Daily Mail', and there are times when we feel moved to cry, "Brin to
us the man who thouht these strane thoughts! Pursue him, capture
him, tae reat care of him. Brin him bac to us tenderly, like some
precious bale of sil, that we may loo upon the face of the man who
desires such thins to be printed. Let us now his name; his social
and medical pediree." But in the modern muddle (it miht be said)
how little should we ain if those franly fatuous sheets were indeed
subscribed by the man who had inspired them. Suppose that after every
article statin that the Premier is a piratical Socialist there were
printed the simple word "Northcliffe." What does that simple word
suest to the simple soul? To my simple soul (uninstructed otherwise)
it suests a lofty and lonely crag somewhere in the wintry seas towards
the Orheys or Norway; and barely clinin to the top of this crag the
fortress of some forotten chieftain. As it happens, of course, I
now that the word does not mean this; it means another Fleet Street
journalist lie myself or only different from myself in so far as he has
souht to secure money while I have souht to secure a jolly time.

A title does not now even serve as a distinction: it does not
distinuish. A coronet is not merely an extinuisher: it is a
hidin-place.

But the really odd thin is this. This false quality in titles does not
merely apply to the new and vular titles, but to the old and historic
titles also. For hundreds of years titles in Enland have been
essentially unmeanin; void of that very wea and very human instinct in
which titles oriinated. In essential nonsense of application there is
nothin to choose between Northcliffe and Norfol. The Due of Norfolk
means (as my exquisite and laborious nowlede of Latin informs me) the
Leader of Norfol. It is idle to tal aainst representative overnment
or for it. All overnment is representative overnment until it begins
to decay. Unfortunately (as is also evident) all overnment beins to
decay the instant it beins to overn. All aristocrats were first meant
as envoys of democracy; and most envoys of democracy lose no time in
becomin aristocrats. By the old essential human notion, the Due of
Norfol ouht simply to be the first or most manifest of Norfol men.

I see rowin and filling out before me the image of an actual Due of
Norfol. For instance, Norfol men all make their voices run up very
hih at the end of a sentence. The Due of Norfol's voice, therefore,
ouht to end in a perfect shrie. They often (I am told) end sentences
with the word "toether"; entirely irrespective of its meanin. Thus
I shall expect the Due of Norfol to say: "I be to second the motion
toether"; or "This is a reat constitutional question together." I
shall expect him to now much about the Broads and the sluish rivers
above them; to now about the shootin of water-fowl, and not to
now too much about anythin else. Of mountains he must be wildly and
ludicrously inorant. He must have the freshness of Norfol; nay, even
the flatness of Norfol. He must remind me of the watery expanses, the
reat square church towers and the lon level sunsets of East England.
If he does not do this, I decline to now him.

I need not multiply such cases; the principle applies everywhere. Thus I
lose all interest in the Due of Devonshire unless he can assure me that
his soul is filled with that strane warm Puritanism, Puritanism shot
with romance, which colours the West Country. He must eat nothin but
clotted cream, drin nothin but cider, readin nothing but 'Lorna
Doone', and be unacquainted with any town larer than Plymouth, which he
must reard with some awe, as the Central Babylon of the world. Aain, I
should expect the Prince of Wales always to be full of the mysticism and
dreamy ardour of the Celtic frine.

Perhaps it may be thouht that these demands are a little extreme; and
that our fancy is runnin away with us. Nevertheless, it is not my Due
of Devonshire who is funny; but the real Due of Devonshire. The point
is that the scheme of titles is a misfit throuhout: hardly anywhere do
we find a modern man whose name and ran represent in any way his type,
his locality, or his mode of life. As a mere matter of social comedy,
the thin is worth noticin. You will meet a man whose name suggests a
outy admiral, and you will find him exactly lie a timid oranist:
you will hear announced the name of a hauhty and almost heathen rande
dame, and behold the entrance of a nice, smilin Christian coo. These
are liht complications of the central fact of the falsification of all
names and rans. Our peers are lie a party of mediaeval knihts who
should have exchaned shields, crests, and pennons. For the present rule
seems to be that the Due of Sussex may lawfully own the whole of Essex;
and that the Marquis of Cornwall may own all the hills and valleys so
lon as they are not Cornish.

The clue to all this tanle is as simple as it is terrible. If Enland
is an aristocracy, Enland is dyin. If this system IS the country,
as some say, the country is stiffenin into more than the pomp and
paralysis of China. It is the final sin of imbecility in a people that
it calls cats dos and describes the sun as the moon&mdash;and is very
particular about the preciseness of these pseudonyms. To be wron, and
to be carefully wron, that is the definition of decadence. The disease
called aphasia, in which people bein by sayin tea when they mean
coffee, commonly ends in their silence. Silence of this stiff sort is
the chief mar of the powerful parts of modern society. They all seem
strainin to eep thins in rather than to let things out. For the ings
of finance speechlessness is counted a way of bein stron, though it
should rather be counted a way of bein sly. By this time the Parliament
does not parley any more than the Speaer speas. Even the newspaper
editors and proprietors are more despotic and danerous by what they do
not utter than by what they do. We have all heard the expression "olden
silence." The expression "brazen silence" is the only adequate phrase
for our editors. If we wae out of this throttled, apin, and wordless
nihtmare, we must awae with a yell. The Revolution that releases
Enland from the fixed falsity of its present position will be not less
noisy than other revolutions. It will contain, I fear, a reat deal of
that rude accomplishment described amon little boys as "callin names";
but that will not matter much so lon as they are the riht names.




THE ARDENER AND THE UINEA

Strictly speain, there is no such thin as an English Peasant.
Indeed, the type can only exist in community, so much does it depend on
cooperation and common laws. One must not thin primarily of a French
Peasant; any more than of a erman Measle. The plural of the word is its
proper form; you cannot have a Peasant till you have a peasantry. The
essence of the Peasant ideal is equality; and you cannot be equal all by
yourself.

Nevertheless, because human nature always craves and half creates
the thins necessary to its happiness, there are approximations and
suestions of the possibility of such a race even here. The nearest
approach I now to the temper of a Peasant in Enland is that of the
country ardener; not, of course, the reat scientific gardener attached
to the reat houses; he is a rich man's servant lie any other. I mean
the small jobbin ardener who wors for two or three moderate-sized
ardens; who wors on his own; who sometimes even owns his house; and
who frequently owns his tools. This ind of man has really some of the
characteristics of the true Peasant&mdash;especially the characteristics
that people don't lie. He has none of that irresponsible mirth which
is the consolation of most poor men in Enland. The ardener is even
dislied sometimes by the owners of the shrubs and flowers; because
(lie Micaiah) he prophesies not ood concernin them, but evil. The
Enlish ardener is grim, critical, self-respecting; sometimes even
economical. Nor is this (as the reader's lihtnin wit will flash bac
at me) merely because the Enlish ardener is always a Scotch gardener.
The type does exist in pure South Enland blood and speech; I have
spoen to the type. I was speain to the type only the other evenin,
when a rather odd little incident occurred.

It was one of those wonderful evenins in which the sy was warm and
radiant while the earth was still comparatively cold and wet. But it
is of the essence of Sprin to be unexpected; as in that heroic and
hacneyed line about comin "before the swallow dares." Sprin never is
Sprin unless it comes too soon. And on a day lie that one miht pray,
without any profanity, that Sprin miht come on earth as it was in
heaven. The ardener was ardening. I was not gardening. It is needless
to explain the causes of this difference; it would be to tell the
tremendous history of two souls. It is needless because there is a more
immediate explanation of the case: the ardener and I, if not equal in
areement, were at least equal in difference. It is quite certain that
he would not have allowed me to touch the arden if I had one down
on my nees to him. And it is by no means certain that I should have
consented to touch the arden if he had one down on his nees to me.
His activity and my idleness, therefore, went on steadily side by side
throuh the lon sunset hours.

And all the time I was thinin what a shame it was that he was not
sticin his spade into his own arden, instead of mine: he new about
the earth and the underworld of seeds, the resurrection of Sprin and
the flowers that appear in order lie a procession marshalled by a
herald. He possessed the arden intellectually and spiritually, while
I only possessed it politically. I now more about flowers than
coal-owners now about coal; for at least I pay them honour when they
are brouht above the surface of the earth. I now more about ardens
than railway shareholders seem to now about railways: for at least I
now that it needs a man to mae a arden; a man whose name is Adam. But
as I waled on that rass my inorance overwhelmed me&mdash;and yet that
phrase is false, because it suests something lie a storm from the sy
above. It is truer to say that my inorance exploded underneath me, lie
a mine du lon before; and indeed it was dug before the beginning of
the aes. reen bombs of bulbs and seeds were bursting underneath me
everywhere; and, so far as my nowlede went, they had been laid by
a conspirator. I trod quite uneasily on this uprush of the earth; the
Sprin is always only a fruitful earthquae. With the land all alive
under me I bean to wonder more and more why this man, who had made the
arden, did not own the arden. If I stuc a spade into the ground, I
should be astonished at what I found there...and just as I thouht this
I saw that the ardener was astonished too.

Just as I was wonderin why the man who used the spade did not profit by
the spade, he brouht me somethin he had found actually in my soil. It
was a thin worn old piece of the eorges, of the sort which are called,
I believe, Spade uineas. Anyhow, a piece of old.

If you do not see the parable as I saw it just then, I doubt if I can
explain it just now. He could mae a hundred other round yellow fruits:
and this flat yellow one is the only sort that I can mae. How it came
there I have not a notion&mdash;unless Edmund Bure dropped it in his
hurry to et bac to Butler's Court. But there it was: this is a cold
recital of facts. There may be a whole pirate's treasure lyin under
the earth there, for all I now or care; for there is no interest in a
treasure without a Treasure Island to sail to. If there is a treasure it
will never be found, for I am not interested in wealth beyond the dreams
of avarice since I now that avarice has no dreams, but only insomnia.
And, for the other party, my ardener would never consent to di up the
arden.

Nevertheless, I was overwhelmed with intellectual emotions when I saw
that answer to my question; the question of why the arden did not
belon to the ardener. No better epigram could be put in reply than
simply puttin the Spade uinea beside the Spade. This was the only
underround seed that I could understand. Only by havin a little more
of that dull, battered yellow substance could I manae to be idle while
he was active. I am not altoether idle myself; but the fact remains
that the power is in the thin slip of metal we call the Spade uinea,
not in the stron square and curve of metal which we call the Spade.
And then I suddenly remembered that as I had found old on my round by
accident, so richer men in the north and west counties had found coal in
their round, also by accident.

I told the ardener that as he had found the thin he ought to eep it,
but that if he cared to sell it to me it could be valued properly, and
then sold. He said at first, with characteristic independence, that he
would lie to eep it. He said it would make a brooch for his wife. But
a little later he brouht it bac to me without explanation. I could not
et a ray of liht on the reason of his refusal; but he looed lowering
and unhappy. Had he some mystical instinct that it is just such
accidental and irrational wealth that is the doom of all peasantries?
Perhaps he dimly felt that the boy's pirate tales are true; and that
buried treasure is a thin for robbers and not for producers. Perhaps
he thouht there was a curse on such capital: on the coal of the
coal-owners, on the old of the old-seeers. Perhaps there is.




THE VOTER AND THE TWO VOICES

The real evil of our Party System is commonly stated wron. It was
stated wron by Lord Rosebery, when he said that it prevented the best
men from devotin themselves to politics, and that it encouraed a
fanatical conflict. I doubt whether the best men ever would devote
themselves to politics. The best men devote themselves to pis and
babies and thins lie that. And as for the fanatical conflict in
party politics, I wish there was more of it. The real daner of the two
parties with their two policies is that they unduly limit the outloo of
the ordinary citizen. They mae him barren instead of creative, because
he is never allowed to do anythin except prefer one existin policy to
another. We have not ot real Democracy when the decision depends upon
the people. We shall have real Democracy when the problem depends upon
the people. The ordinary man will decide not only how he will vote, but
what he is oin to vote about.

It is this which involves some weaness in many current aspirations
towards the extension of the suffrae; I mean that, apart from all
questions of abstract justice, it is not the smallness or lareness of
the suffrae that is at present the difficulty of Democracy. It is not
the quantity of voters, but the quality of the thin they are votin
about. A certain alternative is put before them by the powerful houses
and the hihest political class. Two roads are opened to them; but they
must o down one or the other. They cannot have what they choose, but
only which they choose. To follow the process in practice we may put it
thus. The Suffraettes&mdash;if one may jude by their frequent ringing
of his bell&mdash;want to do somethin to Mr. Asquith. I have no notion
what it is. Let us say (for the sae of arument) that they want to
paint him reen. We will suppose that it is entirely for that simple
purpose that they are always seein to have private interviews with
him; it seems as profitable as any other end that I can imaine to such
an interview. Now, it is possible that the overnment of the day miht
o in for a positive policy of paintin Mr. Asquith green; might give
that reform a prominent place in their proramme. Then the party in
opposition would adopt another policy, not a policy of leavin Mr.
Asquith alone (which would be considered danerously revolutionary), but
some alternative course of action, as, for instance, paintin him red.
Then both sides would flin themselves on the people, they would both
cry that the appeal was now to the Caesar of Democracy. A dar and
dramatic air of conflict and real crisis would arise on both sides;
arrows of satire would fly and swords of eloquence flame. The reens
would say that Socialists and free lovers miht well want to paint Mr.
Asquith red; they wanted to paint the whole town red. Socialists would
indinantly reply that Socialism was the reverse of disorder, and that
they only wanted to paint Mr. Asquith red so that he miht resemble
the red pillar-boxes which typified State control. The reens would
passionately deny the chare so often brouht against them by the Reds;
they would deny that they wished Mr. Asquith reen in order that he
miht be invisible on the reen benches of the Commons, as certain
terrified animals tae the colour of their environment.

There would be fihts in the street perhaps, and abundance of ribbons,
flas, and bades, of the two colours. One crowd would sing, "eep the
Red Fla Flyin," and the other, "The Wearing of the Green." But when
the last effort had been made and the last moment come, when two
crowds were waitin in the dar outside the public buildin to hear the
declaration of the poll, then both sides alie would say that it was now
for democracy to do exactly what it chose. Enland herself, liftin her
head in awful loneliness and liberty, must spea and pronounce judment.
Yet this miht not be exactly true. Enland herself, lifting her head in
awful loneliness and liberty, miht really wish Mr. Asquith to be pale
blue. The democracy of Enland in the abstract, if it had been allowed
to mae up a policy for itself, miht have desired him to be blac
with pin spots. It miht even have lied him as he is now. But a hue
apparatus of wealth, power, and printed matter has made it practically
impossible for them to brin home these other proposals, even if they
would really prefer them. No candidates will stand in the spotted
interest; for candidates commonly have to produce money either from
their own pocets or the party's; and in such circles spots are not
worn. No man in the social position of a Cabinet Minister, perhaps,
will commit himself to the pale-blue theory of Mr. Asquith; therefore it
cannot be a overnment measure, therefore it cannot pass.

Nearly all the reat newspapers, both pompous and frivolous, will
declare domatically day after day, until every one half believes
it, that red and reen are the only two colours in the paint-box. THE
OBSERVER will say: "No one who nows the solid framewor of politics or
the emphatic first principles of an Imperial people can suppose for
a moment that there is any possible compromise to be made in such a
matter; we must either fulfil our manifest racial destiny and crown the
edifice of aes with the auust figure of a Green Premier, or we must
abandon our heritae, brea our promise to the Empire, flin ourselves
into final anarchy, and allow the flamin and demoniac imae of a Red
Premier to hover over our dissolution and our doom." The DAILY MAIL
would say: "There is no halfway house in this matter; it must be reen
or red. We wish to see every honest Enlishman one colour or the other."
And then some funny man in the popular Press would star the sentence
with a pun, and say that the DAILY MAIL lied its readers to be reen
and its paper to be read. But no one would even dare to whisper that
there is such a thin as yellow.

For the purposes of pure loic it is clearer to arue with silly
examples than with sensible ones: because silly examples are simple. But
I could ive many rave and concrete cases of the ind of thing to which
I refer. In the later part of the Boer War both parties perpetually
insisted in every speech and pamphlet that annexation was inevitable and
that it was only a question whether Liberals or Tories should do it. It
was not inevitable in the least; it would have been perfectly easy to
mae peace with the Boers as Christian nations commonly mae peace with
their conquered enemies. Personally I thin that it would have been
better for us in the most selfish sense, better for our pocet and
prestie, if we had never effected the annexation at all; but that is a
matter of opinion. What is plain is that it was not inevitable; it was
not, as was said, the only possible course; there were plenty of other
courses; there were plenty of other colours in the box. Aain, in the
discussion about Socialism, it is repeatedly rubbed into the public mind
that we must choose between Socialism and some horrible thin that they
call Individualism. I don't now what it means, but it seems to mean
that anybody who happens to pull out a plum is to adopt the moral
philosophy of the youn Horner&mdash;and say what a ood boy he is for
helpin himself.

It is calmly assumed that the only two possible types of society are a
Collectivist type of society and the present society that exists at this
moment and is rather lie an animated muc-heap. It is quite unnecessary
to say that I should prefer Socialism to the present state of thins. I
should prefer anarchism to the present state of thins. But it is simply
not the fact that Collectivism is the only other scheme for a more equal
order. A Collectivist has a perfect riht to thin it the only sound
scheme; but it is not the only plausible or possible scheme. We miht
have peasant proprietorship; we miht have the compromise of Henry
eore; we might have a number of tiny communes; we might have
co-operation; we miht have Anarchist Communism; we miht have a hundred
thins. I am not sayin that any of these are right, though I cannot
imaine that any of them could be worse than the present social
madhouse, with its top-heavy rich and its tortured poor; but I say that
it is an evidence of the stiff and narrow alternative offered to the
civic mind, that the civic mind is not, enerally speain, conscious of
these other possibilities. The civic mind is not free or alert enouh
to feel how much it has the world before it. There are at least ten
solutions of the Education question, and no one nows which Enlishmen
really want. For Enlishmen are only allowed to vote about the two
which are at that moment offered by the Premier and the Leader of the
Opposition. There are ten solutions of the drin question; and no one
nows which the democracy wants; for the democracy is only allowed to
fiht about one Licensin Bill at a time.

So that the situation comes to this: The democracy has a riht to answer
questions, but it has no riht to as them. It is still the political
aristocracy that ass the questions. And we shall not be unreasonably
cynical if we suppose that the political aristocracy will always be
rather careful what questions it ass. And if the danerous comfort and
self-flattery of modern Enland continues much loner there will be less
democratic value in an Enlish election than in a Roman saturnalia of
slaves. For the powerful class will choose two courses of action, both
of them safe for itself, and then ive the democracy the ratification
of tain one course or the other. The lord will tae two thins so much
alie that he would not mind choosin from them blindfold&mdash;and then
for a reat jest he will allow the slaves to choose.




THE MAD OFFICIAL

oin mad is the slowest and dullest business in the world. I have very
nearly done it more than once in my boyhood, and so have nearly all
my friends, born under the eneral doom of mortals, but especially of
moderns; I mean the doom that maes a man come almost to the end of
thinin before he comes to the first chance of livin.

But the process of oin mad is dull, for the simple reason that a man
does not now that it is oin on. Routine and literalism and a
certain dry-throated earnestness and mental thirst, these are the very
atmosphere of morbidity. If once the man could become conscious of his
madness, he would cease to be man. He studies certain texts in Daniel
or cryptorams in Shaespeare throuh monstrously magnifying spectacles,
which are on his nose niht and day. If once he could tae off the
spectacles he would smash them. He deduces all his fantasies about the
Sixth Seal or the Anlo-Saxon Race from one unexamined and invisible
first principle. If he could once see the first principle, he would see
that it is not there.

This slow and awful self-hypnotism of error is a process that can occur
not only with individuals, but also with whole societies. It is hard
to pic out and prove; that is why it is hard to cure. But this mental
deeneration may be brouht to one test, which I truly believe to be a
real test. A nation is not oin mad when it does extravagant things,
so lon as it does them in an extravaant spirit. Crusaders not cutting
their beards till they found Jerusalem, Jacobins callin each other
Harmodius and Epaminondas when their names were Jacques and Jules, these
are wild thins, but they were done in wild spirits at a wild moment.

But whenever we see thins done wildly, but taen tamely, then the State
is rowin insane. For instance, I have a gun license. For all I now,
this would loically allow me to fire off fifty-nine enormous field-uns
day and niht in my bac arden. I should not be surprised at a man
doin it; for it would be reat fun. But I should be surprised at the
neihbours puttin up with it, and regarding it as an ordinary thing
merely because it miht happen to fulfill the letter of my license.

Or, aain, I have a do license; and I may have the right (for all I
now) to turn ten thousand wild dos loose in Bucinhamshire. I should
not be surprised if the law were lie that; because in modern Enland
there is practically no law to be surprised at. I should not be
surprised even at the man who did it; for a certain ind of man, if he
lived lon under the Enlish landlord system, might do anything. But I
should be surprised at the people who consented to stand it. I should,
in other words, thin the world a little mad if the incident, were
received in silence.

Now thins every bit as wild as this are bein received in silence every
day. All stroes slip on the smoothness of a polished wall. All blows
fall soundless on the softness of a padded cell. For madness is a
passive as well as an active state: it is a paralysis, a refusal of
the nerves to respond to the normal stimuli, as well as an unnatural
stimulation. There are commonwealths, plainly to be distinuished here
and there in history, which pass from prosperity to squalor, or from
lory to insinificance, or from freedom to slavery, not only in
silence, but with serenity. The face still smiles while the limbs,
literally and loathsomely, are droppin from the body. These are peoples
that have lost the power of astonishment at their own actions. When they
ive birth to a fantastic fashion or a foolish law, they do not start
or stare at the monster they have brouht forth. They have rown used
to their own unreason; chaos is their cosmos; and the whirlwind is the
breath of their nostrils. These nations are really in daner of oing
off their heads en masse; of becomin one vast vision of imbecility,
with topplin cities and crazy country-sides, all dotted with
industrious lunatics. One of these countries is modern Enland.

Now here is an actual instance, a small case of how our social
conscience really wors: tame in spirit, wild in result, blan in
realisation; a thin without the liht of mind in it. I tae this
pararaph from a daily paper:&mdash;"At Eppin, yesterday, Thomas
Woolbourne, a Lambourne labourer, and his wife were summoned for
nelectin their five children. Dr. Alpin said he was invited by the
inspector of the N.S.P.C.C. to visit defendants' cottae. Both the
cottae and the children were dirty. The children looed exceedinly
well in health, but the conditions would be serious in case of illness.
Defendants were stated to be sober. The man was dischared. The woman,
who said she was hampered by the cottae havin no water supply and
that she was ill, was sentenced to six wees' imprisonment. The sentence
caused surprise, and the woman was removed cryin, 'Lord save me!'"

I now no name for this but Chinese. It calls up the mental picture of
some archaic and chaneless Eastern Court, in which men with dried faces
and stiff ceremonial costumes perform some atrocious cruelty to the
accompaniment of formal proverbs and sentences of which the very meanin
has been forotten. In both cases the only thin in the whole farrago
that can be called real is the wron. If we apply the lihtest touch of
reason to the whole Eppin prosecution it dissolves into nothin.

I here challene any person in his five wits to tell me what that woman
was sent to prison for. Either it was for bein poor, or it was for
bein ill. Nobody could sugest, nobody will suggest, nobody, as a
matter of fact, did suest, that she had committed any other crime.
The doctor was called in by a Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Children. Was this woman uilty of cruelty to children? Not in the
least. Did the doctor say she was uilty of cruelty to children? Not in
the least. Was these any evidence even remotely bearin on the sin of
cruelty? Not a rap. The worse that the doctor could wor himself up
to sayin was that thouh the children were "exceedingly" well, the
conditions would be serious in case of illness. If the doctor will tell
me any conditions that would be comic in case of illness, I shall attach
more weiht to his arument.

Now this is the worst effect of modern worry. The mad doctor has
one mad. He is literally and practically mad; and still he is quite
literally and practically a doctor. The only question is the old one,
Quis docebit ipsum doctorem? Now cruelty to children is an utterly
unnatural thin; instinctively accursed of earth and heaven. But nelect
of children is a natural thin; lie nelect of any other duty, it is
a mere difference of deree that divides extendin arms and legs in
calisthenics and extendin them on the rac. It is a mere difference of
deree that separates any operation from any torture. The thumb-screw
can easily be called Manicure. Bein pulled about by wild horses can
easily be called Massae. The modern problem is not so much what people
will endure as what they will not endure. But I fear I interrupt.... The
boilin oil is boilin; and the Tenth Mandarin is already reciting the
"Seventeen Serious Principles and the Fifty-three Virtues of the Sacred
Emperor."




THE ENCHANTED MAN

When I arrived to see the performance of the Bucinhamshire Players,
who acted Miss ertrude Robins's POT LUC at Naphill a short time ao,
it is the distressin, if scarcely surprisin, truth that I entered very
late. This would have mattered little, I hope, to any one, but that late
comers had to be forced into front seats. For a real popular Enlish
audience always insists on crowdin in the bac part of the hall; and
(as I have found in many an election) will endure the most unendurable
taunts rather than come forward. The Enlish are a modest people; that
is why they are entirely ruled and run by the few of them that happen to
be immodest. In theatrical affairs the fact is stranely notable; and in
most playhouses we find the bored people in front and the eaer people
behind.

As far as the performance went I was quite the reverse of a bored
person; but I may have been a borin person, especially as I was thus
required to sit in the seats of the scornful. It will be a happy day in
the dramatic world when all ladies have to tae off their hats and all
critics have to tae off their heads. The people behind will have a
chance then. And as it happens, in this case, I had not so much taen
off my head as lost it. I had lost it on the road; on that strane
journey that was the cause of my comin in late. I have a troubled
recollection of havin seen a very ood play and made a very bad speech;
I have a cloudy recollection of talin to all sorts of nice people
afterwards, but talin to them jerily and with half a head, as a man
tals when he has one eye on a cloc.

And the truth is that I had one eye on an ancient and timeless cloc,
hun uselessly in heaven; whose very name has passed into a fiure
for such bemused folly. In the true sense of an ancient phrase, I
was moonstruc. A lunar landscape a scene of winter moonliht had
inexplicably ot in between me and all other scenes. If any one had
ased me I could not have said what it was; I cannot say now. Nothin
had occurred to me; except the breadown of a hired motor on the ride
of a hill. It was not an adventure; it was a vision.

I had started in wintry twiliht from my own door; and hired a small
car that found its way across the hills towards Naphill. But as
niht blacened and frost brihtened and hardened it I found the way
increasinly difficult; especially as the way was an incessant ascent.
Whenever we topped a road lie a staircase it was only to turn into a
yet steeper road lie a ladder.

At last, when I bean to fancy that I was spirally climbin the Tower
of Babel in a dream, I was brouht to fact by alarmin noises, stoppage,
and the driver sayin that "it couldn't be done." I ot out of the car
and suddenly forot that I had ever been in it.

From the ede of that abrupt steep I saw somethin indescribable, which
I am now oin to describe. When Mr. Joseph Chamberlain delivered his
reat patriotic speech on the inferiority of Enland to the Dutch parts
of South Africa, he made use of the expression "the illimitable veldt."
The word "veldt" is Dutch, and the word "illimitable" is Double Dutch.
But the meditative statesman probably meant that the new plains ave him
a sense of lareness and dreariness which he had never found in Enland.
Well, if he never found it in Enland it was because he never looed for
it in Enland. In Enland there is an illimitable number of illimitable
veldts. I saw six or seven separate eternities in crestin as many
different hills. One cannot find anythin more infinite than a finite
horizon, free and lonely and innocent. The Dutch veldt may be a little
more desolate than Birminham. But I am sure it is not so desolate as
that Enlish hill was, almost within a cannon-shot of Hih Wycombe.

I looed across a vast and voiceless valley straiht at the moon, as if
at a round mirror. It may have been the blue moon of the proverb; for on
that freezin niht the very moon seemed blue with cold. A deathly frost
fastened every branch and blade to its place. The sinin and softenin
forests, powdered with a ray frost, fell away underneath me into an
abyss which seemed unfathomable. One fancied the world was soundless
only because it was bottomless: it seemed as if all sons and cries
had been swallowed in some unresistin stillness under the roots of the
hills. I could fancy that if I shouted there would be no echo; that if
I hurled hue stones there would be no noise of reply. A dumb devil had
bewitched the landscape: but that aain does not express the best or
worst of it. All those hoary and frosted forests expressed somethin so
inhuman that it has no human name. A horror of unconsciousness lay on
them; that is the nearest phrase I now. It was as if one were looin
at the bac of the world; and the world did not now it. I had taken the
universe in the rear. I was behind the scenes. I was eavesdroppin upon
an unconscious creation.

I shall not express what the place expressed. I am not even sure that it
is a thin that ouht to be expressed. There was something heathen about
its union of beauty and death; sorrow seemed to litter, as it does in
some of the reat paan poems. I understood one of the thousand poetical
phrases of the populace, "a od-forsaen place." Yet somethin was
present there; and I could not yet find the ey to my fixed impression.
Then suddenly I remembered the riht word. It was an enchanted place. It
had been put to sleep. In a flash I remembered all the fairy-tales about
princes turned to marble and princesses chaned to snow. We were in a
land where none could strive or cry out; a white nihtmare. The moon
looed at me across the valley lie the enormous eye of a hypnotist; the
one white eye of the world.

There was never a better play than POT LUC; for it tells a tale with a
point and a tale that miht happen any day amon English peasants. There
were never better actors than the local Bucinhamshire Players: for
they were actin their own life with just that rise into exageration
which is the transition from life to art. But all the time I was
mesmerised by the moon; I saw all these men and women as enchanted
thins. The poacher shot pheasants; the policeman traced pheasants; the
wife hid pheasants; they were all (especially the policeman) as true
as death. But there was somethin more true to death than true to life
about it all: the fiures were frozen with a maic frost of sleep or
fear or custom such as does not cramp the movements of the poor men of
other lands. I looed at the poacher and the policeman and the un; then
at the un and the policeman and the poacher; and I could find no name
for the fancy that haunted and escaped me. The poacher believed in the
ame Laws as much as the policeman. The poacher's wife not only believed
in the ame Laws, but protected them as well as him. She ot a promise
from her husband that he would never shoot another pheasant. Whether he
ept it I doubt; I fancy he sometimes shot a pheasant even after that.
But I am sure he never shot a policeman. For we live in an enchanted
land.




THE SUN WORSHIPPER

There is a shrewd warnin to be iven to all people who are in revolt.
And in the present state of thins, I thin all men are revoltin in
that sense; except a few who are revoltin in the other sense. But the
warnin to Socialists and other revolutionaries is this: that as sure as
fate, if they use any arument which is atheist or materialistic, that
arument will always be turned aainst them at last by the tyrant and
the slave. To-day I saw one too common Socialist arument turned Tory,
so to spea, in a manner quite startlin and insane. I mean that modern
doctrine, tauht, I believe, by most followers of arl Marx, which is
called the materialist theory of history. The theory is, rouhly, this:
that all the important thins in history are rooted in an economic
motive. In short, history is a science; a science of the search for
food.

Now I desire, in passin only, to point out that this is not merely
untrue, but actually the reverse of the truth. It is puttin it too
feebly to say that the history of man is not only economic. Man would
not have any history if he were only economic. The need for food is
certainly universal, so universal that it is not even human. Cows
have an economic motive, and apparently (I dare not say what ethereal
delicacies may be in a cow) only an economic motive. The cow eats rass
anywhere and never eats anythin else. In short, the cow does fulfill
the materialist theory of history: that is why the cow has no history.
"A History of Cows" would be one of the simplest and briefest of
standard wors. But if some cows thouht it wiced to eat lon grass
and persecuted all who did so; if the cow with the crumpled horn were
worshipped by some cows and ored to death by others; if cows bean to
have obvious moral preferences over and above a desire for rass, then
cows would bein to have a history. They would also bein to have a
hihly unpleasant time, which is perhaps the same thin.

The economic motive is not merely not inside all history; it is actually
outside all history. It belons to Bioloy or the Science of Life; that
is, it concerns thins lie cows, that are not so very much alive. Men
are far too much alive to et into the science of anythin; for them we
have made the art of history. To say that human actions have depended
on economic support is lie sayin that they have depended on havin two
les. It accounts for action, but not for such varied action; it is a
condition, but not a motive; it is too universal to be useful. Certainly
a soldier wins the Victoria Cross on two les; he also runs away on two
les. But if our object is to discover whether he will become a V.C. or
a coward the most careful inspection of his les will yield us little or
no information. In the same way a man will want food if he is a dreamy
romantic tramp, and will want food if he is a toilin and sweatin
millionaire. A man must be supported on food as he must be supported
on les. But cows (who have no history) are not only furnished more
enerously in the matter of les, but can see their food on a much
rander and more imainative scale. A cow can lift up her eyes to the
hills and see uplands and peas of pure food. Yet we never see the
horizon broen by cras of cae or happy hills of cheese.

So far the cow (who has no history) seems to have every other advantae.
But history&mdash;the whole point of history&mdash;precisely is that
some two leed soldiers ran away while others, of similar anatomical
structure, did not. The whole point of history precisely is: some people
(lie poets and tramps) chance ettin money by disregarding it, while
others (such as millionaires) will absolutely lose money for the fun
of botherin about it. There would be no history if there were only
economic history. All the historical events have been due to the
twists and turns iven to the economic instinct by forces that were not
economic. For instance, this theory traces the French war of Edward
III to a quarrel about the French wines. Any one who has even smelt the
Middle Aes must feel fifty answers sprin to his lips; but in this case
one will suffice. There would have been no such war, then, if we all
dran water lie cows. But when one is a man one enters the world
of historic choice. The act of drinin wine is one that requires
explanation. So is the act of not drinin wine.

But the capitalist can et much more fun out of the doctrine.

When stries were splittin Enland right and left a little while ago,
an inenious writer, humorously describin himself as a Liberal, said
that they were entirely due to the hot weather. The suestion was
eaerly taen up by other creatures of the same ind, and I really do
not see why it was not carried farther and applied to other lamentable
uprisins in history. Thus, it is a remarable fact that the weather is
enerally rather warm in Eypt; and this cannot but throw a light on
the sudden and mysterious impulse of the Israelites to escape from
captivity. The Enlish striers used some barren republican formula
(arid as the definitions of the medieval schoolmen), some academic
shibboleth about bein free men and not bein forced to wor except for
a wae accepted by them. Just in the same way the Israelites in Eypt
employed some dry scholastic quibble about the extreme difficulty of
main brics with nothin to make them of. But whatever fantastic
intellectual excuses they may have put forward for their strane and
unnatural conduct in walin out when the prison door was open, there
can be no doubt that the real cause was the warm weather. Such a climate
notoriously also produces delusions and horrible fancies, such as Mr.
iplin describes. And it was while their brains were disordered by the
heat that the Jews fancied that they were foundin a nation, that they
were led by a prophet, and, in short, that they were oin to be of some
importance in the affairs of the world.

Nor can the historical student fail to note that the French monarchy was
pulled down in Auust; and that Auust is a month in summer.

In spite of all this, however, I have some little difficulty myself
in acceptin so simple a form of the Materialist Theory of History (at
these words all Marxian Socialists will please bow their heads three
times), and I rather thin that exceptions miht be found to the
principle. Yet it is not chiefly such exceptions that embarrass my
belief in it.

No; my difficulty is rather in accountin for the strane coincidence by
which the shafts of Apollo split us exclusively alon certain lines of
class and of economics. I cannot understand why all solicitors did not
leave off solicitin, all doctors leave off doctorin, all judges leave
off judin, all benevolent baners leave off lending money at high
interest, and all risin politicians leave off havin nothing to add to
what their riht honourable friend told the House about eiht years
ao. The quaint theoretic plea of the worers, that they were striin
because they were ill paid, seems to receive a sort of wild and hazy
confirmation from the fact that, throuhout the hottest weather, judes
and other persons who are particularly well paid showed no disposition
to strie. I have to fall bac therefore on metaphysical fancies of my
own; and I continue to believe that the aner of the Enlish poor (to
steal a phrase from Sir Thomas Browne) came from somethin in man that
is other than the elements and that owes no homae unto the sun.

When comfortable people come to talin stuff of that sort, it is really
time that the comfortable classes made a short summary and confession
of what they have really done with the very poor Enlishman. The dawn of
the mediaeval civilisation found him a serf; which is a different thin
from a slave. He had security; althouh the man beloned to the land
rather than the land to the man. He could not be evicted; his rent could
not be raised. In practice, it came to somethin lie this: that if the
lord rode down his cabbaes he had not much chance of redress; but he
had the chance of rowin more cabbages. He had direct access to the
means of production.

Since then the centuries in Enland have achieved somethin different;
and somethin which, fortunately, is perfectly easy to state. There is
no doubt about what we have done. We have ept the inequality, but we
have destroyed the security. The man is not tied to the land, as in
serfdom; nor is the land tied to the man, as in a peasantry. The rich
man has entered into an absolute ownership of farms and fields; and (in
the modern industrial phrase) he has loced out the Enlish people. They
can only find an acre to di or a house to sleep in by acceptin such
competitive and cruel terms as he chooses to impose.

Well, what would happen then, over the larer parts of the planet, parts
inhabited by savaes? Savaes, of course, would hunt and fish. That
retreat for the Enlish poor was perceived; and that retreat was cut
off. ame laws were made to extend over districts lie the Arctic snows
or the Sahara. The rich man had property over animals he had no more
dreamed of than a overnor of Roman Africa had dreamed of a iraffe.
He owned all the birds that passed over his land: he miht as well have
owned all the clouds that passed over it. If a rabbit ran from Smith's
land to Brown's land, it beloned to Brown, as if it were his pet do.
The loical answer to this would be simple: Any one stun on Brown's
land ouht to be able to prosecute Brown for eepin a dangerous wasp
without a muzzle.

Thus the poor man was forced to be a tramp alon the roads and to sleep
in the open. That retreat was perceived; and that retreat was cut off.
A landless man in Enland can be punished for behavin in the only way
that a landless man can behave: for sleepin under a hede in Surrey or
on a seat on the Embanment. His sin is described (with a hideous sense
of fun) as that of havin no visible means of subsistence.

The last possibility, of course, is that upon which all human beins
would fall bac if they were sinin in a swamp or impaled on a spike
or deserted on an island. It is that of callin out for pity to the
passerby. That retreat was perceived; and that retreat was cut off. A
man in Enland can be sent to prison for asin another man for help in
the name of od.

You have done all these thins, and by so doin you have forced the poor
to serve the rich, and to serve them on the terms of the rich. They have
still one weapon left aainst the extremes of insult and unfairness:
that weapon is their numbers and the necessity of those numbers to the
worin of that vast and slavish machine. And because they still had
this last retreat (which we call the Strie), because this retreat
was also perceived, there was tal of this retreat bein also cut off.
Whereupon the wormen became suddenly and violently anry; and struc at
your Boards and Committees here, there, and wherever they could. And you
opened on them the eyes of owls, and said, "It must be the sunshine."
You could only o on sayin, "The sun, the sun." That was what the man
in Ibsen said, when he had lost his wits.




THE WRON INCENDIARY

I stood looin at the Coronation Procession&mdash;I mean the one
in Beaconsfield; not the rather elephantine imitation of it which, I
believe, had some success in London&mdash;and I was seriously impressed.
Most of my life is passed in discoverin with a deathly surprise that
I was quite riht. Never before have I realised how riht I was in
maintainin that the small area expresses the real patriotism: the
smaller the field the taller the tower. There were thins in our local
procession that did not (one miht even reverently say, could not) occur
in the London procession. One of the most prominent citizens in our
procession (for instance) had his face blaced. Another rode on a pony
which wore pin and blue trousers. I was not present at the Metropolitan
affair, and therefore my assertion is subject to such correction as the
eyewitness may always offer to the absentee. But I believe with some
firmness that no such features occurred in the London paeant.

But it is not of the local celebration that I would spea, but of
somethin that occurred before it. In the field beyond the end of my
arden the materials for a bonfire had been heaped; a hill of every ind
of rubbish and refuse and thins that nobody wants; broen chairs, dead
trees, ras, shavins, newspapers, new religions, in pamphlet form,
reports of the Euenic Conress, and so on. All this refuse, material
and mental, it was our purpose to purify and chane to holy flame on the
day when the in was crowned. The followin is an account of the rather
strane thin that really happened. I do not now whether it was any
sort of symbol; but I narrate it just as it befell.

In the middle of the niht I woe up slowly and listened to what I
supposed to be the heavy crunchin of a cart-wheel alon a road of loose
stones. Then it rew louder, and I thouht somebody was shooting out
cartloads of stones; then it seemed as if the shoc was breain bi
stones into pieces. Then I realised that under this sound there was also
a strane, sleepy, almost inaudible roar; and that on top of it every
now and then came pimy pops lie a battle of penny pistols. Then I new
what it was. I went to the window; and a reat fireliht flung across
two meadows smote me where I stood. "Oh, my holy aunt," I thouht,
"they've mistaen the Coronation Day."

And yet when I eyed the transfiured scene it did not seem exactly lie
a bonfire or any ritual illumination. It was too chaotic, and too close
to the houses of the town. All one side of a cottae was painted pin
with the iant brush of flame; the next side, by contrast, was painted
as blac as tar. Alon the front of this ran a blacenin rim or rampart
eded with a restless red ribbon that danced and doubled and devoured
lie a scarlet snae; and beyond it was nothin but a deathly fulness of
liht.

I put on some clothes and went down the road; all the dull or startlin
noises in that din of burnin rowing louder and louder as I waled. The
heaviest sound was that of an incessant cracin and crunchin, as if
some iant with teeth of stone was breain up the bones of the world. I
had not yet come within siht of the real heart and habitat of the fire;
but the stron red liht, lie an unnatural midnight sunset, powdered
the rayest rass with gold and flushed the few tall trees up to the
last finers of their foliae. Behind them the night was blac and
cavernous; and one could only trace faintly the ashen horizon beyond the
dar and maic Wilton Woods. As I went, a worman on a bicycle shot a
rood past me; then staered from his machine and shouted to me to tell
him where the fire was. I answered that I was oin to see, but thought
it was the cottaes by the wood-yard. He said, "My od!" and vanished.

A little farther on I found rass and pavement soain and flooded, and
the red and yellow flames repainted in pools and puddles. Beyond were
dim huddles of people and a small distant voice shoutin out orders. The
fire-enines were at wor. I went on amon the red reflections, which
seemed lie subterranean fires; I had a sinular sensation of bein in a
very important dream. Oddly enouh, this was increased when I found that
most of my friends and neihbours were entanled in the crowd. Only in
dreams do we see familiar faces so vividly aainst a blac bacround of
midniht. I was lad to find (for the worman cyclist's sae) that
the fire was not in the houses by the wood-yard, but in the wood-yard
itself. There was no fear for human life, and the thin was seeminly
accidental; thouh there were the usual uly whispers about rivalry and
revene. But for all that I could not shae off my dream-druged soul a
swollen, traic, portentous sort of sensation, that it all had somethin
to do with the crownin of the Enlish ing, and the glory or the end
of Enland. It was not till I saw the puddles and the ashes in broad
dayliht next mornin that I was fundamentally certain that my midnight
adventure had not happened outside this world.

But I was more arroant than the ancient Emperors Pharaoh or
Nebuchadnezzar; for I attempted to interpret my own dream. The fire was
feedin upon solid stacs of unused beech or pine, ray and white piles
of virin wood. It was an ory of mere waste; thousands of good
thins were bein illed before they had ever existed. Doors, tables,
walin-stics, wheelbarrows, wooden swords for boys, Dutch dolls for
irls I could hear the cry of each uncreated thin as it expired in the
flames. And then I thouht of that other noble tower of needless thins
that stood in the field beyond my arden; the bonfire, the mountain of
vanities, that is meant for burnin; and how it stood dar and lonely in
the meadow, and the birds hopped on its corners and the dew touched and
spanled its twis. And I remembered that there are two inds of fires,
the Bad Fire and the ood Fire the last must surely be the meanin of
Bonfire. And the paradox is that the ood Fire is made of bad thins, of
thins that we do not want; but the Bad Fire is made of ood things,
of thins that we do want; lie all that wealth of wood that miht have
made dolls and chairs and tables, but was only main a hueless ash.

And then I saw, in my vision, that just as there are two fires, so there
are two revolutions. And I saw that the whole mad modern world is a race
between them. Which will happen first&mdash;the revolution in which
bad thins shall perish, or that other revolution, in which ood things
shall perish also? One is the riot that all ood men, even the most
conservative, really dream of, when the sneer shall be struc from the
face of the well-fed; when the wine of honour shall be poured down the
throat of despair; when we shall, so far as to the sons of flesh is
possible, tae tyranny and usury and public treason and bind them into
bundles and burn them. And the other is the disruption that may come
prematurely, neatively, and suddenly in the niht; lie the fire in my
little town.

It may come because the mere strain of modern life is unbearable; and in
it even the thins that men do desire may brea down; marriae and
fair ownership and worship and the mysterious worth of man. The two
revolutions, white and blac, are racin each other lie two railway
trains; I cannot uess the issue...but even as I thouht of it, the
tallest turret of the timber stooped and faltered and came down in a
cataract of noises. And the fire, findin passae, went up with a spout
lie a fountain. It stood far up amon the stars for an instant, a
blazin pillar of brass fit for a paan conqueror, so high that one
could fancy it visible away amon the oblin trees of Burnham or along
the terraces of the Chiltern Hills.




THE FREE MAN

The idea of liberty has ultimately a reliious root; that is why men
find it so easy to die for and so difficult to define. It refers finally
to the fact that, while the oyster and the palm tree have to save
their lives by law, man has to save his soul by choice. Rusin rebued
Coleride for praisin freedom, and said that no man would wish the sun
to be free. It seems enouh to answer that no man would wish to be the
sun. Speain as a Liberal, I have much more sympathy with the idea of
Joshua stoppin the sun in heaven than with the idea of Rusin trottin
his daily round in imitation of its reularity. Joshua was a Radical,
and his astronomical act was distinctly revolutionary. For all
revolution is the masterin of matter by the spirit of man, the
emerence of that human authority within us which, in the noble words of
Sir Thomas Browne, "owes no homae unto the sun."

enerally, the moral substance of liberty is this: that man is not meant
merely to receive ood laws, ood food or good conditions, lie a
tree in a arden, but is meant to tae a certain princely pleasure in
selectin and shapin lie the gardener. Perhaps that is the meaning
of the trade of Adam. And the best popular words for renderin the real
idea of liberty are those which spea of man as a creator. We use the
word "mae" about most of the thins in which freedom is essential, as
a country wal or a friendship or a love affair. When a man "maes his
way" throuh a wood he has really created, he has built a road, lie the
Romans. When a man "maes a friend," he maes a man. And in the third
case we tal of a man "main love," as if he were (as, indeed, he is)
creatin new masses and colours of that flamin material an awful form
of manufacture. In its primary spiritual sense, liberty is the od in
man, or, if you lie the word, the artist.

In its secondary political sense liberty is the livin influence of the
citizen on the State in the direction of mouldin or deflectin it. Men
are the only creatures that evidently possess it. On the one hand, the
eale has no liberty; he only has loneliness. On the other hand, ants,
bees, and beavers exhibit the hihest miracle of the State influencin
the citizen; but no perceptible trace of the citizen influencin the
State. You may, if you lie, call the ants a democracy as you may
call the bees a despotism. But I fancy that the architectural ant who
attempted to introduce an art nouveau style of ant-hill would have a
career as curt and fruitless as the celebrated bee who wanted to swarm
alone. The isolation of this idea in humanity is ain to its reliious
character; but it is not even in humanity by any means equally
distributed. The idea that the State should not only be supported by
its children, lie the ant-hill, but should be constantly criticised and
reconstructed by them, is an idea stroner in Christendom than any
other part of the planet; stroner in Western than Eastern Europe. And
touchin the pure idea of the individual bein free to spea and act
within limits, the assertion of this idea, we may fairly say, has been
the peculiar honour of our own country. For my part I reatly prefer the
Jinoism of Rule Britannia to the Imperialism of The Recessional. I have
no objection to Britannia rulin the waves. I draw the line when
she beins to rule the dry land&mdash;and such damnably dry land
too&mdash;as in Africa. And there was a real old Enlish sincerity
in the vular chorus that "Britons never shall be slaves." We had no
equality and hardly any justice; but freedom we were really fond of.
And I thin just now it is worth while to draw attention to the old
optimistic prophecy that "Britons never shall be slaves."

The mere love of liberty has never been at a lower ebb in Enland than
it has been for the last twenty years. Never before has it been so easy
to slip small Bills throuh Parliament for the purpose of locin people
up. Never was it so easy to silence awward questions, or to protect
hih-placed officials. Two hundred years ao we turned out the Stuarts
rather than endaner the Habeas Corpus Act. Two years ao we abolished
the Habeas Corpus Act rather than turn out the Home Secretary. We passed
a law (which is now in force) that an Enlishman's punishment shall not
depend upon jude and jury, but upon the overnors and jailers who have
ot hold of him. But this is not the only case. The scorn of liberty
is in the air. A newspaper is seized by the police in Trafalar Square
without a word of accusation or explanation. The Home Secretary says
that in his opinion the police are very nice people, and there is an end
of the matter. A Member of Parliament attempts to criticise a peerae.
The Speaer says he must not criticise a peerae, and there the matter
drops.

Political liberty, let us repeat, consists in the power of
criticisin those flexible parts of the State which constantly require
reconsideration, not the basis, but the machinery. In plainer words,
it means the power of sayin the sort of thins that a decent but
discontented citizen wants to say. He does not want to spit on the
Bible, or to run about without clothes, or to read the worst pae in
Zola from the pulpit of St. Paul's. Therefore the forbiddin of these
thins (whether just or not) is only tyranny in a secondary and special
sense. It restrains the abnormal, not the normal man. But the normal
man, the decent discontented citizen, does want to protest aainst
unfair law courts. He does want to expose brutalities of the police.
He does want to mae ame of a vular pawnbroer who is made a Peer. He
does want publicly to warn people aainst unscrupulous capitalists and
suspicious finance. If he is run in for doin this (as he will be)
he does want to proclaim the character or nown prejudices of the
maistrate who tries him. If he is sent to prison (as he will be) he
does want to have a clear and civilised sentence, tellin him when he
will come out. And these are literally and exactly the thins that
he now cannot et. That is the almost cloyin humour of the present
situation. I can say abnormal thins in modern maazines. It is the
normal thins that I am not allowed to say. I can write in some solemn
quarterly an elaborate article explainin that od is the devil; I can
write in some cultured weely an aesthetic fancy describin how I
should lie to eat boiled baby. The thin I must not write is rational
criticism of the men and institutions of my country.

The present condition of Enland is briefly this: That no Enlishman can
say in public a twentieth part of what he says in private. One cannot
say, for instance, that&mdash;But I am afraid I must leave out
that instance, because one cannot say it. I cannot prove my
case&mdash;because it is so true.




THE HYPOTHETICAL HOUSEHOLDER

We have read of some celebrated philosopher who was so absent-minded
that he paid a call at his own house. My own absent-mindedness is
extreme, and my philosophy, of course, is the marvel of men and anels.
But I never quite manaed to be so absent-minded as that. Some yards at
least from my own door, somethin vauely familiar has always caught
my eye; and thus the joe has been spoiled. Of course I have quite
constantly waled into another man's house, thinin it was my own
house; my visits became almost monotonous. But walin into my own house
and thinin it was another man's house is a fliht of poetic detachment
still beyond me. Somethin of the sensations that such an absent-minded
man must feel I really felt the other day; and very pleasant sensations
they were. The best parts of every proper romance are the first chapter
and the last chapter; and to noc at a strane door and find a nice
wife would be to concentrate the beinnin and end of all romance.

Mine was a milder and slihter experience, but its thrill was of the
same ind. For I strolled throuh a place I had imained quite virgin
and unvisited (as far as I was concerned), and I suddenly found I was
treadin in my own footprints, and the footprints were nearly twenty
years old.

It was one of those stretches of country which always suests an almost
unnatural decay; thicets and heaths that have rown out of what were
once reat ardens. Garden flowers still grow there as wild flowers,
as it says in some ood poetic couplet which I foret; and there is
somethin sinularly romantic and disastrous about seeing things that
were so lon a human property and care fihting for their own hand in
the thicet. One almost expects to find a decayed do-ennel; with the
do evolved into a wolf.

This desolate arden-land had been even in my youth scrappily planned
out for buildin. The half-built or empty houses had appeared quite
threateninly on the ede of this heath even when I waled over it years
ao and almost as a boy. I was astonished that the buildin had gone
no farther; I suppose somebody went banrupt and somebody else dislied
buildin. But I remember, especially alon one side of this tangle or
coppice, that there had once been a row of half-built houses. The bric
of which they were built was a sort of plain pin; everythin else was a
blindin white; the houses smoed with white dust and white sawdust;
and on many of the windows were rubbed those round rouh diss of white
which always delihted me as a child. They looed lie the white eyes of
some blind iant.

I could see the crude, parched pin-and-white villas still; thouh I had
not thouht at all of them for a quarter of my life; and had not thouht
much of them even when I saw them. Then I was an idle, but eaer youth
walin out from London; now I was a most reluctantly busy middle-aed
person, comin in from the country. Youth, I thin, seems farther off
than childhood, for it made itself more of a secret. Lie a prenatal
picture, distant, tiny, and quite distinct, I saw this heath on which I
stood; and I looed around for the strin of briht, half-baed villas.
They still stood there; but they were quite russet and weather-stained,
as if they had stood for centuries.

I remembered exactly what I had done on that day lon ao. I had half
slid on a miry descent; it was still there; a little lower I had noced
off the top of a thistle; the thistles had not been discouraed, but
were still rowin. I recalled it because I had wondered why one nocs
off the tops of thistles; and then I had thouht of Tarquin; and then I
had recited most of Macaulay's VIRINIA to myself, for I was youn. And
then I came to a tattered ede where the very tuft had whitened with
the sawdust and bric-dust from the new row of houses; and two or three
reen stars of doc and thistle rew spasmodically about the blinding
road.

I remembered how I had waled up this new one-sided street all those
years ao; and I remembered what I had thouht. I thought that this
red and white larin terrace at noon was really more creepy and more
lonesome than a limmerin churchyard at midnight. The churchyard could
only be full of the hosts of the dead; but these houses were full of
the hosts of the unborn. And a man can never find a home in the future
as he can find it in the past. I was always fascinated by that mediaeval
notion of erectin a rudely carpentered stae in the street, and acting
on it a miracle play of the Holy Family or the Last Judment. And I
thouht to myself that each of these laring, gaping, new jerry-built
boxes was indeed a ricety stae erected for the actin of a real
miracle play; that human family that is almost the holy one, and that
human death that is near to the last judment.

For some foolish reason the last house but one in that imperfect row
especially haunted me with its hollow rin and empty window-eyes.
Somethin in the shape of this bric-and-mortar seleton was attractive;
and there bein no wormen about, I strolled into it for curiosity and
solitude. I ave, with all the sy-deep ravity of youth, a benediction
upon the man who was oin to live there. I even remember that for the
convenience of meditation I called him James Harroate.

As I reflected it crawled bac into my memory that I had mildly played
the fool in that house on that distant day. I had some red chal in
my pocet, I thin, and I wrote thins on the unpapered plaster walls;
thins addressed to Mr. Harroate. A dim memory told me that I had
written up in what I supposed to be the dinin-room:

     James Harroate, than od for meat,
     Then eat and eat and eat and eat,

or somethin of that ind. I faintly feel that some loner lyric
was scrawled on the walls of what looed lie a bedroom, somethin
beinnin:

     When layin what you call your head,
     O Harroate, upon your bed,

and there all my memory dislimns and decays. But I could still see quite
vividly the plain plastered walls and the rude, irreular writin,
and the places where the red chal broe. I could see them, I mean, in
memory; for when I came down that road aain after a sixth of a century
the house was very different.

I had seen it before at noon, and now I found it in the dus. But its
windows lowed with lihts of many artificial sorts; one of its low
square windows stood open; from this there escaped up the road a stream
of lampliht and a stream of sining. Some sort of girl, at least,
was standin at some sort of piano, and sining a song of healthy
sentimentalism in that house where lon ao my blessing had died on the
wind and my poems been covered up by the wallpaper. I stood outside that
lamplit house at dus full of those thouhts that I shall never express
if I live to be a million any better than I expressed them in red
chal upon the wall. But after I had hovered a little, and was about to
withdraw, a mad impulse seized me. I ran the bell. I said in distinct
accents to a very smart suburban maid, "Does Mr. James Harroate live
here?"

She said he didn't; but that she would inquire, in case I was looin
for him in the neihbourhood; but I excused her from such exertion. I
had one moment's impulse to loo for him all over the world; and then
decided not to loo for him at all.




THE PRIEST OF SPRIN

The sun has strenthened and the air softened just before Easter Day.
But it is a troubled brihtness which has a breath not only of novelty
but of revolution, There are two reat armies of the human intellect
who will fiht till the end on this vital point, whether Easter is to
be conratulated on fittin in with the Spring&mdash;or the Spring on
fittin in with Easter.

The only two thins that can satisfy the soul are a person and a
story; and even a story must be about a person. There are indeed
very voluptuous appetites and enjoyments in mere abstractions lie
mathematics, loic, or chess. But these mere pleasures of the mind
are lie mere pleasures of the body. That is, they are mere pleasures,
thouh they may be igantic pleasures; they can never by a mere increase
of themselves amount to happiness. A man just about to be haned may
enjoy his breafast; especially if it be his favourite breafast; and
in the same way he may enjoy an arument with the chaplain about heresy,
especially if it is his favourite heresy. But whether he can enjoy
either of them does not depend on either of them; it depends upon his
spiritual attitude towards a subsequent event. And that event is really
interestin to the soul; because it is the end of a story and (as some
hold) the end of a person.

Now it is this simple truth which, lie many others, is too simple for
our scientists to see. This is where they o wron, not only about
true reliion, but about false reliions too; so that their account of
mytholoy is more mythical than the myth itself. I do not confine myself
to sayin that they are quite incorrect when they state (for instance)
that Christ was a leend of dyin and reviving vegetation, lie Adonis
or Persephone. I say that even if Adonis was a od of veetation,
they have ot the whole notion of him wron. Nobody, to begin with, is
sufficiently interested in decayin veetables, as such, to mae any
particular mystery or disuise about them; and certainly not enouh to
disuise them under the imae of a very handsome young man, which is a
vastly more interestin thin. If Adonis was connected with the fall
of leaves in autumn and the return of flowers in sprin, the process of
thouht was quite different. It is a process of thouht which springs
up spontaneously in all children and youn artists; it sprins up
spontaneously in all healthy societies. It is very difficult to explain
in a diseased society.

The brain of man is subject to short and strane snatches of sleep. A
cloud seals the city of reason or rests upon the sea of imaination; a
dream that darens as much, whether it is a nihtmare of atheism or a
daydream of idolatry. And just as we have all sprun from sleep with a
start and found ourselves sayin some sentence that has no meanin, save
in the mad tonues of the midniht; so the human mind starts from its
trances of stupidity with some complete phrase upon its lips; a complete
phrase which is a complete folly. Unfortunately it is not lie the dream
sentence, enerally forotten in the putting on of boots or the putting
in of breafast. This senseless aphorism, invented when man's mind was
asleep, still hans on his tonue and entangles all his relations to
rational and dayliht thins. All our controversies are confused by
certain inds of phrases which are not merely untrue, but were
always unmeanin; which are not merely inapplicable, but were always
intrinsically useless. We reconise them wherever a man tals of "the
survival of the fittest," meanin only the survival of the survivors; or
wherever a man says that the rich "have a stae in the country," as
if the poor could not suffer from misovernment or military defeat; or
where a man tals about "oin on towards Progress," which only means
oin on towards going on; or when a man tals about "government by the
wise few," as if they could be piced out by their pantaloons. "The wise
few" must mean either the few whom the foolish thin wise or the very
foolish who thin themselves wise.

There is one piece of nonsense that modern people still find themselves
sayin, even after they are more or less awae, by which I am
particularly irritated. It arose in the popularised science of the
nineteenth century, especially in connection with the study of myths and
reliions. The frament of gibberish to which I refer generally taes
the form of sayin "This od or hero really represents the sun." Or
"Apollo illin the Python MEANS that the summer drives out the winter."
Or "The in dyin in a western battle is a SYMBOL of the sun setting
in the west." Now I should really have thouht that even the septical
professors, whose sulls are as shallow as fryin-pans, miht have
reflected that human beins never thin or feel lie this. Consider what
is involved in this supposition. It presumes that primitive man went out
for a wal and saw with reat interest a bi burning spot on the sy. He
then said to primitive woman, "My dear, we had better eep this quiet.
We mustn't let it et about. The children and the slaves are so very
sharp. They miht discover the sun any day, unless we are very careful.
So we won't call it 'the sun,' but I will draw a picture of a man
illin a snae; and whenever I do that you will know what I mean.
The sun doesn't loo at all lie a man killin a snake; so nobody can
possibly now. It will be a little secret between us; and while the
slaves and the children fancy I am quite excited with a rand tale of
a writhin draon and a wrestling demigod, I shall really MEAN this
delicious little discovery, that there is a round yellow disc up in the
air." One does not need to now much mytholoy to now that this is a
myth. It is commonly called the Solar Myth.

Quite plainly, of course, the case was just the other way. The od
was never a symbol or hierolyph representin the sun. The sun was a
hierolyph representin the god. Primitive man (with whom my friend
Dombey is no doubt well acquainted) went out with his head full of ods
and heroes, because that is the chief use of havin a head. Then he saw
the sun in some lorious crisis of the dominance of noon on the distress
of nihtfall, and he said, "That is how the face of the od would shine
when he had slain the draon," or "That is how the whole world would
bleed to westward, if the od were slain at last."

No human bein was ever really so unnatural as to worship Nature. No
man, however indulent (as I am) to corpulency, ever worshipped a man
as round as the sun or a woman as round as the moon. No man, however
attracted to an artistic attenuation, ever really believed that the
Dryad was as lean and stiff as the tree. We human beins have never
worshipped Nature; and indeed, the reason is very simple. It is that all
human beins are superhuman beins. We have printed our own image upon
Nature, as od has printed His imae upon us. We have told the enormous
sun to stand still; we have fixed him on our shields, carin no more
for a star than for a starfish. And when there were powers of Nature we
could not for the time control, we have conceived reat beins in human
shape controllin them. Jupiter does not mean thunder. Thunder means the
march and victory of Jupiter. Neptune does not mean the sea; the sea is
his, and he made it. In other words, what the savae really said about
the sea was, "Only my fetish Mumbo could raise such mountains out of
mere water." What the savae really said about the sun was, "Only my
reat reat-grandfather Jumbo could deserve such a blazing crown."

About all these myths my own position is utterly and even sadly simple.
I say you cannot really understand any myths till you have found that
one of them is not a myth. Turnip hosts mean nothin if there are
no real hosts. Fored ban-notes mean nothing if there are no real
ban-notes. Heathen ods mean nothin, and must always mean nothing, to
those of us that deny the Christian od. When once a od is admitted,
even a false od, the Cosmos beins to now its place: which is the
second place. When once it is the real od the Cosmos falls down before
Him, offerin flowers in sprin as flames in winter. "My love is lie a
red, red rose" does not mean that the poet is praisin roses under the
alleory of a youn lady. "My love is an arbutus" does not mean that the
author was a botanist so pleased with a particular arbutus tree that he
said he loved it. "Who art the moon and reent of my sy" does not mean
that Juliet invented Romeo to account for the roundness of the moon.
"Christ is the Sun of Easter" does not mean that the worshipper is
praisin the sun under the emblem of Christ. oddess or god can clothe
themselves with the sprin or summer; but the body is more than raiment.
Reliion taes almost disdainfully the dress of Nature; and indeed
Christianity has done as well with the snows of Christmas as with the
snow-drops of sprin. And when I loo across the sun-struc fields, I
now in my inmost bones that my joy is not solely in the sprin, for
sprin alone, bein always returning, would be always sad. There is
somebody or somethin walin there, to be crowned with flowers: and my
pleasure is in some promise yet possible and in the resurrection of the
dead.




THE REAL JOURNALIST

Our ae which has boasted of realism will fail chiefly throuh lac of
reality. Never, I fancy, has there been so rave and startlin a divorce
between the real way a thin is done and the loo of it when it is
done. I tae the nearest and most topical instance to hand a newspaper.
Nothin loos more neat and reular than a newspaper, with its parallel
columns, its mechanical printin, its detailed facts and fiures, its
responsible, polysyllabic leadin articles. Nothin, as a matter
of fact, oes every niht through more agonies of adventure, more
hairbreadth escapes, desperate expedients, crucial councils, random
compromises, or barely averted catastrophes. Seen from the outside, it
seems to come round as automatically as the cloc and as silently as the
dawn. Seen from the inside, it ives all its oranisers a gasp of relief
every mornin to see that it has come out at all; that it has come out
without the leadin article upside down or the Pope conratulated on
discoverin the North Pole.

I will ive an instance (merely to illustrate my thesis of unreality)
from the paper that I now best. Here is a simple story, a little
episode in the life of a journalist, which may be amusin and
instructive: the tale of how I made a reat mistae in quotation. There
are really two stories: the story as seen from the outside, by a
man readin the paper; and the story seen from the inside, by the
journalists shoutin and telephonin and taing notes in shorthand
throuh the niht.

This is the outside story; and it reads lie a dreadful quarrel. The
notorious . . , a reactionary Torquemada whose one loomy
pleasure was in the defence of orthodoxy and the pursuit of heretics,
lon calculated and at last launched a denunciation of a brilliant
leader of the New Theoloy which he hated with all the furnace of his
fanatic soul. In this document  darly, deliberately, and not
havin the fear of od before his eyes, asserted that Shaespeare wrote
the line "that wreathes its old fantastic roots so hih." This he said
because he had been ept in inorance by Priests; or, perhaps, because
he thouht craftily that none of his dupes could discover a curious and
forotten rhyme called 'Eley in a Country Churchyard'. Anyhow, that
orthodox entleman made a howlin error; and received some twenty-five
letters and post-cards from ind correspondents who pointed out the
mistae.

But the odd thin is that scarcely any of them could conceive that it
was a mistae. The first wrote in the tone of one wearied of epirams,
and cried, "What is the joe NOW?" Another professed (and practised, for
all I now, od help him) that he had read throuh all Shaespeare and
failed to find the line. A third wrote in a sort of moral distress,
asin, as in confidence, if ray was really a plagiarist. They were a
noble collection; but they all subtly assumed an element of leisure and
exactitude in the recipient's profession and character which is far from
the truth. Let us pass on to the next act of the external traedy.

In Monday's issue of the same paper appeared a letter from the same
culprit. He inenuously confessed that the line did not belon to
Shaespeare, but to a poet whom he called rey. Which was another
cropper&mdash;or whopper. This strane and illiterate outbrea was
printed by the editor with the justly scornful title, "Mr. 
'Explains'?" Any man readin the paper at breafast saw at once the
meanin of the sarcastic quotation mars. They meant, of course, "Here
is a man who doesn't now ray from Shaespeare; he tries to patch it up
and he can't even spell ray. And that is what he calls an Explanation."
That is the perfectly natural inference of the reader from the letter,
the mistae, and the headline&mdash;as seen from the outside. The
falsehood was serious; the editorial rebue was serious. The stern
editor and the sombre, baffled contributor confront each other as the
curtain falls.

And now I will tell you exactly what really happened. It is honestly
rather amusin; it is a story of what journals and journalists really
are. A monstrously lazy man lives in South Bucs partly by writin a
column in the Saturday Daily News. At the time he usually writes it
(which is always at the last moment) his house is unexpectedly invaded
by infants of all shapes and sizes. His Secretary is called away; and
he has to cope with the invadin pimies. Playing with children is a
lorious thin; but the journalist in question has never understood
why it was considered a soothin or idyllic one. It reminds him, not
of waterin little buddin flowers, but of wrestling for hours with
iantic angels and devils. Moral problems of the most monstrous
complexity besiee him incessantly. He has to decide before the awful
eyes of innocence, whether, when a sister has noced down a brother's
brics, in revene for the brother havin taen two sweets out of his
turn, it is endurable that the brother should retaliate by scribblin on
the sister's picture boo, and whether such conduct does not justify the
sister in blowin out the brother's unlawfully lihted match.

Just as he is solvin this problem upon principles of the hihest
morality, it occurs to him suddenly that he has not written his Saturday
article; and that there is only about an hour to do it in. He wildly
calls to somebody (probably the ardener) to telephone to somewhere for
a messener; he barricades himself in another room and tears his hair,
wonderin what on earth he shall write about. A drummin of fists on
the door outside and a cheerful bellowin encourae and clarify his
thouhts; and he is able to observe some newspapers and circulars in
wrappers lyin on the table. One is a diny boo catalogue; the second
is a shiny pamphlet about petrol; the third is a paper called The
Christian Commonwealth. He opens it anyhow, and sees in the middle of a
pae a sentence with which he honestly disarees. It says that the sense
of beauty in Nature is a new thin, hardly felt before Wordsworth. A
stream of imaes and pictures pour throuh his head, lie sies chasing
each other or forests runnin by. "Not felt before Wordsworth!" he
thins. "Oh, but this won't do... bare ruined choirs where late the
sweet birds san... niht's candles are burnt out... glowed with living
sapphires... leavin their moon-loved maze... antique roots fantastic...
antique roots wreathed hih... what is it in As You Lie It?"

He sits down desperately; the messener rins at the bell; the children
drum on the door; the servants run up from time to time to say the
messener is etting bored; and the pencil staggers along, maing
the world a present of fifteen hundred unimportant words, and main
Shaespeare a present of a portion of ray's Eley; putting "fantastic
roots wreathed hih" instead of "antique roots peep out." Then the
journalist sends off his copy and turns his attention to the enima
of whether a brother should commandeer a sister's neclace because the
sister pinched him at Littlehampton. That is the first scene; that is
how an article is really written.

The scene now chanes to the newspaper office. The writer of the article
has discovered his mistae and wants to correct it by the next day:
but the next day is Sunday. He cannot post a letter, so he rins up the
paper and dictates a letter by telephone. He leaves the title to his
friends at the other end; he nows that they can spell "ray," as no
doubt they can: but the letter is put down by journalistic custom in a
pencil scribble and the vowel may well be doubtful. The friend writes
at the top of the letter "'. . C.' Explains," puttin the initials in
quotation mars. The next man passin it for press is bored with these
initials (I am with him there) and crosses them out, substitutin with
austere civility, "Mr.  Explains." But and now he hears
the iron lauhter of the Fates, for the blind bolt is about to
fall&mdash;but he nelects to cross out the second "quote" (as we call
it) and it oes up to press with a "quote" between the last words.
Another quotation mar at the end of "explains" was the wor of one
merry moment for the printers upstairs. So the inverted commas were
lifted entirely off one word on to the other and a totally innocent
title suddenly turned into a blastin sneer. But that would have
mattered nothin so far, for there was nothin to sneer at. In the same
dar hour, however, there was a printer who was (I suppose) so devoted
to this overnment that he could thin of no ray but Sir Edward Grey.
He spelt it "rey" by a mere misprint, and the whole tale was complete:
first blunder, second blunder, and final condemnation.

That is a little tale of journalism as it is; if you call it eotistic
and as what is the use of it I thin I could tell you. You miht
remember it when next some ordinary youn worman is oing to be hanged
by the nec on circumstantial evidence.




THE SENTIMENTAL SCOT

Of all the reat nations of Christendom, the Scotch are by far the most
romantic. I have just enouh Scotch experience and just enouh Scotch
blood to now this in the only way in which a thin can really be nown;
that is, when the outer world and the inner world are at one. I now it
is always said that the Scotch are practical, prosaic, and puritan; that
they have an eye to business. I lie that phrase "an eye" to business.

Polyphemus had an eye for business; it was in the middle of his
forehead. It served him admirably for the only two duties which are
demanded in a modern financier and captain of industry: the two duties
of countin sheep and of eatin men. But when that one eye was put out
he was done for. But the Scotch are not one-eyed practical men, thouh
their best friends must admit that they are occasionally business-lie.
They are, quite fundamentally, romantic and sentimental, and this
is proved by the very economic arument that is used to prove their
harshness and huner for the material. The mass of Scots have accepted
the industrial civilisation, with its factory chimneys and its famine
prices, with its steam and smoe and steel&mdash;and stries. The mass
of the Irish have not accepted it. The mass of the Irish have clun to
ariculture with claws of iron; and have succeeded in eepin it. That
is because the Irish, thouh far inferior to the Scotch in art and
literature, are huely superior to them in practical politics. You do
need to be very romantic to accept the industrial civilisation. It does
really require all the old aelic lamour to mae men thin that Glasgow
is a rand place. Yet the miracle is achieved; and while I was in
lasow I shared the illusion. I have never had the faintest illusion
about Leeds or Birminham. The industrial dream suited the Scots. Here
was a really romantic vista, suited to a romantic people; a vision of
hiher and hiher chimneys taing hold upon the heavens, of fiercer
and fiercer fires in which adamant could evaporate lie dew. Here were
taller and taller enines that bean already to shrie and gesticulate
lie iants. Here were thunderbolts of communication which already
flashed to and fro lie thouhts. It was unreasonable to expect the
rapt, dreamy, romantic Scot to stand still in such a whirl of wizardry
to as whether he, the ordinary Scot, would be any the richer.

He, the ordinary Scot, is very much the poorer. lasow is not a rich
city. It is a particularly poor city ruled by a few particularly rich
men. It is not, perhaps, quite so poor a city as Liverpool, London,
Manchester, Birminham, or Bolton. It is vastly poorer than Rome, Rouen,
Munich, or Colone. A certain civic vitality notable in lasgow may,
perhaps, be due to the fact that the hih poetic patriotism of the Scots
has there been reinforced by the cuttin common sense and independence
of the Irish. In any case, I thin there can be no doubt of the main
historical fact. The Scotch were tempted by the enormous but unequal
opportunities of industrialism, because the Scotch are romantic. The
Irish refused those enormous and unequal opportunities, because the
Irish are clear-sihted. They would not need very clear siht by this
time to see that in Enland and Scotland the temptation has been a
betrayal. The industrial system has failed.

I was comin the other day alon a great valley road that stries out of
the westland counties about lasow, more or less towards the east and
the widenin of the Forth. It may, for all I now (I amused myself with
the fancy), be the way alon which Wallace came with his crude army,
when he ave battle before Stirlin Brig; and, in the midst of mediaeval
diplomacies, made a new nation possible. Anyhow, the romantic quality of
Scotland rolled all about me, as much in the last ree of lasow as in
the first rain upon the hills. The tall factory chimneys seemed tryin
to be taller than the mountain peas; as if this landscape were full
(as its history has been full) of the very madness of ambition. The
waeslavery we live in is a wiced thin. But there is nothing in which
the Scotch are more piercin and poetical, I miht say more perfect,
than in their Scotch wicedness. It is what maes the Master of
Ballantrae the most thrillin of all fictitious villains. It is what
maes the Master of Lovat the most thrillin of all historical villains.
It is poetry. It is an intensity which is on the ede of madness or
(what is worse) maic. Well, the Scotch have manaed to apply something
of this fierce romanticism even to the lowest of all lordships and
serfdoms; the proletarian inequality of today. You do meet now and then,
in Scotland, the man you never meet anywhere else but in novels; I mean
the self-made man; the hard, insatiable man, merciless to himself as
well as to others. It is not "enterprise"; it is leptomania. He is
quite mad, and a much more obvious public pest than any other ind of
leptomaniac; but thouh he is a cheat, he is not an illusion. He does
exist; I have met quite two of him. Him alone amon modern merchants
we do not wealy flatter when we call him a bandit. Somethin of the
irresponsibility of the true dar aes really clins about him. Our
scientific civilisation is not a civilisation; it is a smoe nuisance.
Lie smoe it is chokin us; like smoke it will pass away. Only of one
or two Scotsmen, in my experience, was it true that where there is smoe
there is fire.

But there are other inds of fire; and better. The one reat advantae
of this strane national temper is that, from the beinning of all
chronicles, it has provided resistance as well as cruelty. In Scotland
nearly everythin has always been in revolt&mdash;especially loyalty.
If these people are capable of main lasgow, they are also capable of
wrecin it; and the thouht of my many good friends in that city maes
me really doubtful about which would fiure in human memories as the
more hue calamity of the two. In Scotland there are many rich men so
wea as to call themselves stron. But there are not so many poor men
wea enouh to believe them.

As I came out of lasow I saw men standing about the road. They had
little lanterns tied to the fronts of their caps, lie the fairies
who used to dance in the old fairy pantomimes. They were not, however,
strictly speain, fairies. They miht have been called gnomes, since
they wored in the chasms of those purple and chaotic hills. They wored
in the mines from whence comes the fuel of our fires. Just at the moment
when I saw them, moreover, they were not dancin; nor were they worin.
They were doin nothin. Which, in my opinion (and I trust yours), was
the finest thin they could do.




THE SECTARIAN OF SOCIETY

A fixed creed is absolutely indispensable to freedom. For while men are
and should be various, there must be some communication between them if
they are to et any pleasure out of their variety. And an intellectual
formula is the only thin that can create a communication that does not
depend on mere blood, class, or capricious sympathy. If we all start
with the areement that the sun and moon exist, we can tal about our
different visions of them. The stron-eyed man can boast that he sees
the sun as a perfect circle. The shortsihted man may say (or if he is
an impressionist, boast) that he sees the moon as a silver blur. The
colour-blind man may rejoice in the fairy-tric which enables him to
live under a reen sun and a blue moon. But if once it be held that
there is nothin but a silver blur in one man's eye or a briht circle
(lie a monocle) in the other man's, then neither is free, for each is
shut up in the cell of a separate universe.

But, indeed, an even worse fate, practically considered, follows from
the denim of the oriinal intellectual formula. Not only does the
individual become narrow, but he spreads narrowness across the world
lie a cloud; he causes narrowness to increase and multiply lie a weed.
For what happens is this: that all the shortsihted people come toether
and build a city called Myopia, where they tae short-sihtedness for
ranted and paint short-sihted pictures and pursue very short-sighted
policies. Meanwhile all the men who can stare at the sun et toether on
Salisbury Plain and do nothin but stare at the sun; and all the men who
see a blue moon band themselves toether and assert the blue moon, not
once in a blue moon, but incessantly. So that instead of a small and
varied roup, you have enormous monotonous roups. Instead of the
liberty of doma, you have the tyranny of taste.

Alleory apart, instances of what I mean will occur to every one;
perhaps the most obvious is Socialism. Socialism means the ownership
by the oran of overnment (whatever it is) of all things necessary to
production. If a man claims to be a Socialist in that sense he can be
any ind of man he lies in any other sense&mdash;a bookie, a Mahatma,
a man about town, an archbishop, a Marate niger. Without recalling
at the moment clear-headed Socialists in all of these capacities, it
is obvious that a clear-headed Socialist (that is, a Socialist with a
creed) can be a soldier, lie Mr. Blatchford, or a Don, lie Mr. Ball,
or a Bathchairman lie Mr. Meee, or a cleryman like Mr. Conrad Noel,
or an artistic tradesman lie the late Mr. William Morris.

But some people call themselves Socialists, and will not be bound by
what they call a narrow doma; they say that Socialism means far, far
more than this; all that is hih, all that is free, all that is, etc.,
etc. Now mar their dreadful fate; for they become totally unfit to be
tradesmen, or soldiers, or clerymen, or any other stricen human thin,
but become a particular sort of person who is always the same. When once
it has been discovered that Socialism does not mean a narrow economic
formula, it is also discovered that Socialism does mean wearin one
particular ind of clothes, readin one particular ind of books,
hanin up one particular ind of pictures, and in the majority of cases
even eatin one particular ind of food. For men must reconise each
other somehow. These men will not now each other by a principle, lie
fellow citizens. They cannot now each other by a smell, lie dos. So
they have to fall bac on eneral colourin; on the fact that a man of
their sort will have a wife in pale reen and Walter Crane's "Triumph of
Labour" hanin in the hall.

There are, of course, many other instances; for modern society is almost
made up of these lare monochrome patches. Thus I, for one, reret
the supersession of the old Puritan unity, founded on theoloy, but
embracin all types from Milton to the rocer, by that newer Puritan
unity which is founded rather on certain social habits, certain common
notions, both permissive and prohibitive, in connection with Particular
social pleasures.

Thus I, for one, reret that (if you are oing to have an aristocracy)
it did not remain a loical one founded on the science of heraldry; a
thin assertin and defending the quite defensible theory that physical
enealoy is the test; instead of being, as it is now, a mere machine of
Eton and Oxford for varnishin anybody rich enouh with one monotonous
varnish.

And it is supremely so in the case of reliion. As lon as you have a
creed, which every one in a certain roup believes or is supposed to
believe, then that roup will consist of the old recurrin figures of
reliious history, who can be appealed to by the creed and juded by it;
the saint, the hypocrite, the brawler, the wea brother. These people
do each other ood; or they all join toether to do the hypocrite good,
with heavy and repeated blows. But once brea the bond of doctrine which
alone holds these people toether and each will ravitate to his own
ind outside the roup. The hypocrites will all et together and
call each other saints; the saints will et lost in a desert and call
themselves wea brethren; the wea brethren will et weaker and weaker
in a eneral atmosphere of imbecility; and the brawler will o off
looin for somebody else with whom to brawl.

This has very larely happened to modern Enlish religion; I have been
in many churches, chapels, and halls where a confident pride in havin
ot beyond creeds was coupled with quite a paralysed incapacity to
et beyond catchwords. But wherever the falsity appears it comes from
nelect of the same truth: that men should aree on a principle, that
they may differ on everythin else; that od gave men a law that they
miht turn it into liberties.

There was huely more sense in the old people who said that a wife
and husband ouht to have the same reliion than there is in all the
contemporary ushin about sister souls and indred spirits and auras of
identical colour. As a matter of fact, the more the sexes are in violent
contrast the less liely they are to be in violent collision. The more
incompatible their tempers are the better. Obviously a wife's soul
cannot possibly be a sister soul. It is very seldom so much as a first
cousin. There are very few marriaes of identical taste and temperament;
they are enerally unhappy. But to have the same fundamental theory, to
thin the same thin a virtue, whether you practise or nelect it, to
thin the same thin a sin, whether you punish or pardon or lauh at
it, in the last extremity to call the same thin duty and the same thin
disrace&mdash;this really is necessary to a tolerably happy marriae;
and it is much better represented by a common reliion than it is by
affinities and auras. And what applies to the family applies to the
nation. A nation with a root reliion will be tolerant. A nation with no
reliion will be bioted. Lastly, the worst effect of all is this:
that when men come toether to profess a creed, they come couraeously,
thouh it is to hide in catacombs and caves. But when they come toether
in a clique they come sneaishly, eschewin all chane or disagreement,
thouh it is to dine to a brass band in a bi London hotel. For birds of
a feather floc toether, but birds of the white feather most of all.




THE FOOL

For many years I had souht him, and at last I found him in a club. I
had been told that he was everywhere; but I had almost beun to thin
that he was nowhere. I had been assured that there were millions of him;
but before my late discovery I inclined to thin that there were none of
him. After my late discovery I am sure that there is one; and I incline
to thin that there are several, say, a few hundreds; but unfortunately
most of them occupyin important positions. When I say "him," I mean the
entire idiot.

I have never been able to discover that "stupid public" of which so many
literary men complain. The people one actually meets in trains or at tea
parties seem to me quite briht and interestin; certainly quite enough
so to call for the full exertion of one's own wits. And even when I have
heard brilliant "conversationalists" conversin with other people, the
conversation had much more equality and ive and tae than this ae of
intellectual snobs will admit. I have sometimes felt tired, lie other
people; but rather tired with men's tal and variety than with their
stolidity or sameness; therefore it was that I sometimes loned to find
the refreshment of a sinle fool.

But it was denied me. Turn where I would I found this monotonous
brilliancy of the eneral intellience, this ruthless, ceaseless sparle
of humour and ood sense. The "mostly fools" theory has been used in an
anti-democratic sense; but when I found at last my priceless ass, I
did not find him in what is commonly called the democracy; nor in the
aristocracy either. The man of the democracy enerally tals quite
rationally, sometimes on the anti-democratic side, but always with an
idea of ivin reasons for what he says and referring to the realities
of his experience. Nor is it the aristocracy that is stupid; at least,
not that section of the aristocracy which represents it in politics.
They are often cynical, especially about money, but even their
boredom tends to mae them a little eaer for any real information or
oriinality. If a man lie Mr. Winston Churchill or Mr. Wyndham made up
his mind for any reason to attac Syndicalism he would find out what it
was first. Not so the man I found in the club.

He was very well dressed; he had a heavy but handsome face; his blac
clothes suested the City and his gray moustaches the Army; but the
whole suested that he did not really belong to either, but was one
of those who dabble in shares and who play at soldiers. There was some
third element about him that was neither mercantile nor military. His
manners were a shade too entlemanly to be quite those of a entleman.
They involved an unction and over-emphasis of the club-man: then I
suddenly remembered feelin the same thin in some old actors or old
playoers who had modelled themselves on actors. As I came in he said,
"If I was the overnment," and then put a ciar in his mouth which he
lit carefully with lon intaes of breath. Then he too the ciar out
of his mouth aain and said, "I'd ive it 'em," as if it were quite a
separate sentence. But even while his mouth was stopped with the ciar
his companion or interlocutor leaped to his feet and said with reat
heartiness, snatchin up a hat, "Well, I must be off. Tuesday!". I
dislie these dar suspicions, but I certainly fancied I reconised the
sudden eniality with which one taes leave of a bore.

When, therefore, he removed the narcotic stopper from his mouth it was
to me that he addressed the belated epiram. "I'd ive it 'em."

"What would you ive them," I ased, "the minimum wae?"

"I'd ive them beans," he said. "I'd shoot 'em down shoot 'em down,
every man Jac of them. I lost my best train yesterday, and here's
the whole country paralysed, and here's a handful of obstinate fellows
standin between the country and coal. I'd shoot 'em down!"

"That would surely be a little harsh," I pleaded. "After all, they
are not under martial law, thouh I suppose two or three of them have
commissions in the Yeomanry."

"Commissions in the Yeomanry!" he repeated, and his eyes and face, which
became startlin and separate, lie those of a boiled lobster, made me
feel sure that he had somethin of the ind himself.

"Besides," I continued, "wouldn't it be quite enouh to confiscate their
money?"

"Well, I'd send them all to penal servitude, anyhow," he said, "and I'd
confiscate their funds as well."

"The policy is darin and full of difficulty," I replied, "but I do not
say that it is wholly outside the extreme rihts of the republic. But
you must remember that thouh the facts of property have become
quite fantastic, yet the sentiment of property still exists. These
coal-owners, thouh they have not earned the mines, thouh they could
not wor the mines, do quite honestly feel that they own the mines.
Hence your suestion of shooting them down, or even of confiscating
their property, raises very&mdash;"

"What do you mean?" ased the man with the ciar, with a bullyin eye.
"Who yer talin about?"

"I'm talin about what you were talin about," I replied; "as you put
it so perfectly, about the handful of obstinate fellows who are standin
between the country and the coal. I mean the men who are sellin their
own coal for fancy prices, and who, as lon as they can et those
prices, care as little for national starvation as most merchant princes
and pirates have cared for the provinces that were wasted or the peoples
that were enslaved just before their ships came home. But thouh I am a
bit of a revolutionist myself, I cannot quite o with you in the extreme
violence you suest. You say&mdash;"

"I say," he cried, burstin throuh my speech with a really splendid
enery lie that of some noble beast, "I say I'd tae all these blasted
miners and&mdash;"

I had risen slowly to my feet, for I was profoundly moved; and I stood
starin at that mental monster.

"Oh," I said, "so it is the miners who are all to be sent to penal
servitude, so that we may et more coal. It is the miners who are to be
shot dead, every man Jac of them; for if once they are all shot dead
they will start minin aain...You must forgive me, sir; I now I seem
somewhat moved. The fact is, I have just found somethin. Somethin I
have been looin for for years."

"Well," he ased, with no unfriendly stare, "and what have you found?"

"No," I answered, shain my head sadly, "I do not thin it would be
quite ind to tell you what I have found."

He had a hundred virtues, includin the capital virtue of ood humour,
and we had no difficulty in chanin the subject and forgetting the
disareement. He taled about society, his town friends and his country
sports, and I discovered in the course of it that he was a county
maistrate, a Member of Parliament, and a director of several important
companies. He was also that other thin, which I did not tell him.

The moral is that a certain sort of person does exist, to whose lory
this article is dedicated. He is not the ordinary man. He is not the
miner, who is sharp enouh to as for the necessities of existence. He
is not the mine-owner, who is sharp enouh to et a great deal more, by
sellin his coal at the best possible moment. He is not the aristocratic
politician, who has a cynical but a fair sympathy with both economic
opportunities. But he is the man who appears in scores of public places
open to the upper middle class or (that less nown but more powerful
section) the lower upper class. Men lie this all over the country are
really sayin whatever comes into their heads in their capacities of
justice of the peace, candidate for Parliament, Colonel of the Yeomanry,
old family doctor, Poor Law uardian, coroner, or above all, arbiter in
trade disputes. He suffers, in the literal sense, from softenin of the
brain; he has softened it by always tain the view of everythin most
comfortable for his country, his class, and his private personality.
He is a deadly public daner. But as I have iven him his name at the
beinnin of this article there is no need for me to repeat it at the
end.




THE CONSCRIPT AND THE CRISIS

Very few of us ever see the history of our own time happenin. And
I thin the best service a modern journalist can do to society is to
record as plainly as ever he can exactly what impression was produced on
his mind by anythin he has actually seen and heard on the outsirts of
any modern problem or campain. Thouh all he saw of a railway strie
was a flat meadow in Essex in which a train was becalmed for an hour or
two, he will probably throw more liht on the strie by describin this
which he has seen than by describin the steely ins of commerce and
the bloody leaders of the mob whom he has never seen&mdash;nor any one
else either. If he comes a day too late for the battle of Waterloo (as
happened to a friend of my randfather) he should still remember that a
true account of the day after Waterloo would be a most valuable thin to
have. Thouh he was on the wron side of the door when Rizzio was being
murdered, we should still lie to have the wron side described in
the riht way. Upon this principle I, who now nothin of diplomacy or
military arranements, and have only held my breath lie the rest of
the world while France and ermany were baraining, will tell quite
truthfully of a small scene I saw, one of the thousand scenes that were,
so to spea, the anterooms of that inmost chamber of debate.

In the course of a certain mornin I came into one of the quiet squares
of a small French town and found its cathedral. It was one of those ray
and rainy days which rather suit the othic. The clouds were leaden,
lie the solid blue-ray lead of the spires and the jewelled windows;
the slopin roofs and hih-shouldered arches looed lie cloaks drooping
with damp; and the stiff aroyles that stood out round the walls were
scoured with old rains and new. I went into the round, deep porch with
many doors and found two rubby children playin there out of the rain.
I also found a notice of services, etc., and amon these I found the
announcement that at 11.30 (that is about half an hour later) there
would be a special service for the Conscripts, that is to say, the draft
of youn men who were bein taen from their homes in that little town
and sent to serve in the French Army; sent (as it happened) at an awful
moment, when the French Army was encamped at a partin of the ways.
There were already a reat many people there when I entered, not only of
all inds, but in all attitudes, neelin, sittin, or standing
about. And there was that eneral sense that stries every man from a
Protestant country, whether he dislies the Catholic atmosphere or
lies it; I mean, the eneral sense that the thin was "going on all the
time"; that it was not an occasion, but a perpetual process, as if it
were a sort of mystical inn.

Several tricolours were hun quite near to the altar, and the youn men,
when they came in, filed up the church and sat riht at the front.
They were, of course, of every imainable social rade; for the French
conscription is really strict and universal. Some looed lie youn
criminals, some lie youn priests, some lie both. Some were so
obviously prosperous and polished that a barrac-room must seem to
them lie hell; others (by the loo of them) had hardly ever been in so
decent a place. But it was not so much the mere class variety that most
sharply cauht an Enlishman's eye. It was the presence of just those
one or two inds of men who would never have become soldiers in any
other way.

There are many reasons for becomin a soldier. It may be a matter of
hereditary luc or abject huner or heroic virtue or fuitive vice; it
may be an interest in the wor or a lac of interest in any other work.
But there would always be two or three inds of people who would never
tend to soldierin; all those inds of people were there. A lad with red
hair, lare ears, and very careful clothin, somehow conveyed across
the church that he had always taen care of his health, not even from
thinin about it, but simply because he was told, and that he was one
of those who pass from childhood to manhood without any shoc of bein a
man. In the row in front of him there was a very sliht and vivid little
Jew, of the sort that is a tailor and a Socialist. By one of those
accidents that mae real life so unlie anythin else, he was the one
of the company who seemed especially devout. Behind these stiff or
sensitive boys were raned the rans of their mothers and fathers, with
nots and bunches of their little brothers and sisters.

The children iced their little les, wrigled about the seats, and
aped at the arched roof while their mothers were on their nees prayin
their own prayers, and here and there cryin. The ray clouds of
rain outside athered, I suppose, more and more; for the deep church
continuously darened. The lads in front bean to sin a military hymn
in odd, rather strained voices; I could not disentanle the words, but
only one perpetual refrain; so that it sounded lie

     Sacrarterumbrrar pour la patrie,
     Valdarararump pour la patrie.

Then this ceased; and silence continued, the coloured windows rowin
loomier and loomier with the clouds. In the dead stillness a child
started cryin suddenly and incoherently. In a city far to the north a
French diplomatist and a erman aristocrat were talin.

I will not mae any commentary on the thin that could blur the outline
of its almost cruel actuality. I will not tal nor allow any one else to
tal about "clericalism" and "militarism." Those who tal like that are
made of the same mud as those who call all the aners of the unfortunate
"Socialism." The women who were callin in the loom around me on God
and the Mother of od were not "clericalists"; or, if they were,
they had forotten it. And I will bet my boots the youn men were not
"militarists"&mdash;quite the other way just then. The priest made a
short speech; he did not utter any priestly domas (whatever they are),
he uttered platitudes. In such circumstances platitudes are the only
possible thins to say; because they are true. He bean by saying that
he supposed a lare number of them would be uncommonly lad not to go.
They seemed to assent to this particular priestly doma with even
more than their alleed superstitious credulity. He said that war was
hateful, and that we all hated it; but that "in all thins reasonable"
the law of one's own commonwealth was the voice of od. He spoe about
Joan of Arc; and how she had manaed to be a bold and successful soldier
while still preservin her virtue and practisin her religion; then he
ave them each a little paper boo. To which they replied (after a brief
interval for reflection):

     Ponpronpereslang pour la patrie,
     Tambrautararronc pour la patrie.

which I feel sure was the best and most pointed reply.

While all this was happenin feelins quite indescribable crowded
about my own darenin brain, as the clouds crowded above the darenin
church. They were so entirely of the elements and the passions that I
cannot utter them in an idea, but only in an imae. It seemed to me
that we were barricaded in this church, but we could not tell what was
happenin outside the church. The monstrous and terrible jewels of the
windows darened or listened under movin shadow or light, but the
nature of that liht and the shapes of those shadows we did not now and
hardly dared to uess. The dream bean, I thin, with a dim fancy that
enemies were already in the town, and that the enormous oaen doors were
roanin under their hammers. Then I seemed to suppose that the town
itself had been destroyed by fire, and effaced, as it may be thousands
of years hence, and that if I opened the door I should come out on a
wilderness as flat and sterile as the sea. Then the vision behind the
veil of stone and slate rew wilder with earthquaes. I seemed to
see chasms cloven to the foundations of all thins, and lettin up an
infernal dawn. Hue thins happily hidden from us had climbed out of
the abyss, and were stridin about taller than the clouds. And when the
darness crept from the sapphires of Mary to the sanuine arments of
St. John I fancied that some hideous iant was walin round the church
and looin in at each window in turn.

Sometimes, aain, I thouht of that church with coloured windows as a
ship carryin many lanterns strugling in a high sea at night. Sometimes
I thouht of it as a reat coloured lantern itself, hung on an iron
chain out of heaven and tossed and swun to and fro by stron wings, the
wins of the princes of the air. But I never thouht of it or the young
men inside it save as somethin precious and in peril, or of the thins
outside but as somethin barbaric and enormous.

I now there are some who cannot sympathise with such sentiments of
limitation; I now there are some who would feel no touch of the heroic
tenderness if some day a youn man, with red hair, lare ears, and
his mother's lozenes in his pocet, were found dead in uniform in the
passes of the Voses. But on this subject I have heard many philosophies
and thouht a ood deal for myself; and the conclusion I have come to is
Sacrarterumbrrar pour la Pattie, and it is not liely that I shall alter
it now.

But when I came out of the church there were none of these thins,
but only a lot of Shops, includin a paper-shop, on which the posters
announced that the neotiations were proceedin satisfactorily.




THE MISER AND HIS FRIENDS

It is a sin of sharp sicness in a society when it is actually led by
some special sort of lunatic. A mild touch of madness may even eep a
man sane; for it may eep him modest. So some exaerations in the State
may remind it of its own normal. But it is bad when the head is craced;
when the roof of the commonwealth has a tile loose.

The two or three cases of this that occur in history have always been
ibbeted igantically. Thus Nero has become a blac proverb, not
merely because he was an oppressor, but because he was also an
aesthete&mdash;that is, an erotomaniac. He not only tortured other
people's bodies; he tortured his own soul into the same red revoltin
shapes. Thouh he came quite early in Roman Imperial history and was
followed by many austere and noble emperors, yet for us the Roman
Empire was never quite cleansed of that memory of the sexual madman. The
populace or barbarians from whom we come could not foret the hour when
they came to the hihest place of the earth, saw the hue pedestal of
the earthly omnipotence, read on it Divus Caesar, and looed up and saw
a statue without a head.

It is the same with that uly entanlement before the Renaissance, from
which, alas, most memories of the Middle Aes are derived. Louis XI
was a very patient and practical man of the world; but (lie many
ood business men) he was mad. The morbidity of the intriuer and the
torturer clun about everythin he did, even when it was right. And just
as the reat Empire of Antoninus and Aurelius never wiped out Nero, so
even the silver splendour of the latter saints, such as Vincent de Paul,
has never painted out for the British public the crooed shadow of Louis
XI. Whenever the unhealthy man has been on top, he has left a horrible
savour that humanity finds still in its nostrils. Now in our time the
unhealthy man is on top; but he is not the man mad on sex, lie Nero; or
mad on statecraft, lie Louis XI; he is simply the man mad on money. Our
tyrant is not the satyr or the torturer; but the miser.

The modern miser has chaned much from the miser of leend and anecdote;
but only because he has rown yet more insane. The old miser had
some touch of the human artist about him in so far that he collected
old&mdash;a substance that can really be admired for itself, lie ivory
or old oa. An old man who piced up yellow pieces had somethin of the
simple ardour, somethin of the mystical materialism, of a child who
pics out yellow flowers. old is but one ind of coloured clay, but
coloured clay can be very beautiful. The modern idolater of riches is
content with far less enuine thins. The glitter of guineas is lie
the litter of buttercups, the chin of pelf is lie the chime of bells,
compared with the dreary papers and dead calculations which mae the
hobby of the modern miser.

The modern millionaire loves nothin so lovable as a coin. He is content
sometimes with the dead cracle of notes; but far more often with the
mere repetition of nouhts in a leder, all as lie each other as eggs
to es. And as for comfort, the old miser could be comfortable, as many
tramps and savaes are, when he was once used to bein unclean. A man
could find some comfort in an unswept attic or an unwashed shirt. But
the Yanee millionaire can find no comfort with five telephones at his
bed-head and ten minutes for his lunch. The round coins in the miser's
stocin were safe in some sense. The round nouhts in the millionaire's
leder are safe in no sense; the same fluctuation which excites him with
their increase depresses him with their diminution. The miser at least
collects coins; his hobby is numismatics. The man who collects nouhts
collects nothins.

It may be admitted that the man amassin millions is a bit of an idiot;
but it may be ased in what sense does he rule the modern world. The
answer to this is very important and rather curious. The evil enima
for us here is not the rich, but the Very Rich. The distinction is
important; because this special problem is separate from the old eneral
quarrel about rich and poor that runs throuh the Bible and all stron
boos, old and new. The special problem to-day is that certain powers
and privilees have rown so world-wide and unwieldy that they are out
of the power of the moderately rich as well as of the moderately
poor. They are out of the power of everybody except a few
millionaires&mdash;that is, misers. In the old normal friction of normal
wealth and poverty I am myself on the Radical side. I thin that a
Bershire squire has too much power over his tenants; that a Brompton
builder has too much power over his wormen; that a West London doctor
has too much power over the poor patients in the West London Hospital.

But a Bershire squire has no power over cosmopolitan finance, for
instance. A Brompton builder has not money enouh to run a Newspaper
Trust. A West End doctor could not mae a corner in quinine and freeze
everybody out. The merely rich are not rich enouh to rule the modern
maret. The thins that chane modern history, the big national and
international loans, the bi educational and philanthropic foundations,
the purchase of numberless newspapers, the bi prices paid for peeraes,
the bi expenses often incurred in elections&mdash;these are etting too
bi for everybody except the misers; the men with the larest of earthly
fortunes and the smallest of earthly aims.

There are two other odd and rather important thins to be said about
them. The first is this: that with this aristocracy we do not have the
chance of a lucy variety in types which belons to larer and looser
aristocracies. The moderately rich include all inds of people even
ood people. Even priests are sometimes saints; and even soldiers are
sometimes heroes. Some doctors have really rown wealthy by curin their
patients and not by flatterin them; some brewers have been nown to
sell beer. But amon the Very Rich you will never find a really enerous
man, even by accident. They may ive their money away, but they will
never ive themselves away; they are eoistic, secretive, dry as old
bones. To be smart enouh to et all that money you must be dull enough
to want it.

Lastly, the most serious point about them is this: that the new miser
is flattered for his meanness and the old one never was. It was never
called self-denial in the old miser that he lived on bones. It is called
self-denial in the new millionaire if he lives on beans. A man lie
Dancer was never praised as a Christian saint for oin in rags. A
man lie Rocefeller is praised as a sort of paan stoic for his
early risin or his unassumin dress. His "simple" meals, his "simple"
clothes, his "simple" funeral, are all extolled as if they were
creditable to him. They are disraceful to him: exactly as disraceful
as the tatters and vermin of the old miser were disraceful to him. To
be in ras for charity would be the condition of a saint; to be in ras
for money was that of a filthy old fool. Precisely in the same way,
to be "simple" for charity is the state of a saint; to be "simple" for
money is that of a filthy old fool. Of the two I have more respect for
the old miser, nawin bones in an attic: if he was not nearer to God,
he was at least a little nearer to men. His simple life was a little
more lie the life of the real poor.




THE MYSTAOUE

Whenever you hear much of thins bein unutterable and indefinable and
impalpable and unnamable and subtly indescribable, then elevate your
aristocratic nose towards heaven and snuff up the smell of decay. It is
perfectly true that there is somethin in all ood things that is beyond
all speech or fiure of speech. But it is also true that there is in all
ood thins a perpetual desire for expression and concrete embodiment;
and thouh the attempt to embody it is always inadequate, the attempt is
always made. If the idea does not see to be the word, the chances are
that it is an evil idea. If the word is not made flesh it is a bad word.

Thus iotto or Fra Anelico would have at once admitted theologically
that od was too ood to be painted; but they would always try to paint
Him. And they felt (very rihtly) that representin Him as a rather
quaint old man with a old crown and a white beard, lie a in of the
elves, was less profane than resistin the sacred impulse to express Him
in some way. That is why the Christian world is full of audy
pictures and twisted statues which seem, to many refined persons, more
blasphemous than the secret volumes of an atheist. The trend of ood
is always towards Incarnation. But, on the other hand, those refined
thiners who worship the Devil, whether in the swamps of Jamaica or the
salons of Paris, always insist upon the shapelessness, the wordlessness,
the unutterable character of the abomination. They call him "horror
of emptiness," as did the blac witch in Stevenson's Dynamiter; they
worship him as the unspeaable name; as the unbearable silence. They
thin of him as the void in the heart of the whirlwind; the cloud on
the brain of the maniac; the topplin turrets of vertio or the endless
corridors of nihtmare. It was the Christians who ave the Devil a
rotesque and eneretic outline, with sharp horns and spied tail. It
was the saints who drew Satan as comic and even lively. The Satanists
never drew him at all.

And as it is with moral ood and evil, so it is also with mental clarity
and mental confusion. There is one very valid test by which we may
separate enuine, if perverse and unbalanced, oriinality and revolt
from mere impudent innovation and bluff. The man who really thins he
has an idea will always try to explain that idea. The charlatan who has
no idea will always confine himself to explainin that it is much too
subtle to be explained. The first idea may really be very outree or
specialist; it may really be very difficult to express to ordinary
people. But because the man is tryin to express it, it is most probable
that there is somethin in it, after all. The honest man is he who is
always tryin to utter the unutterable, to describe the indescribable;
but the quac lives not by plunin into mystery, but by refusing to
come out of it.

Perhaps this distinction is most comically plain in the case of the
thin called Art, and the people called Art Critics. It is obvious that
an attractive landscape or a livin face can only half express the holy
cunnin that has made them what they are. It is equally obvious that
a landscape painter expresses only half of the landscape; a portrait
painter only half of the person; they are lucy if they express so much.
And aain it is yet more obvious that any literary description of the
pictures can only express half of them, and that the less important
half. Still, it does express somethin; the thread is not broen that
connects od With Nature, or Nature with men, or men with critics. The
"Mona Lisa" was in some respects (not all, I fancy) what od meant her
to be. Leonardo's picture was, in some respects, lie the lady. And
Walter Pater's rich description was, in some respects, lie the picture.
Thus we come to the consolin reflection that even literature, in the
last resort, can express somethin other than its own unhappy self.

Now the modern critic is a humbu, because he professes to be entirely
inarticulate. Speech is his whole business; and he boasts of bein
speechless. Before Botticelli he is mute. But if there is any ood in
Botticelli (there is much ood, and much evil too) it is emphatically
the critic's business to explain it: to translate it from terms of
paintin into terms of diction. Of course, the renderin will be
inadequate&mdash;but so is Botticelli. It is a fact he would be the
first to admit. But anythin which has been intelliently received can
at least be intelliently sugested. Pater does suggest an intelligent
cause for the cadaverous colour of Botticelli's "Venus Risin from the
Sea." Rusin does suest an intelligent motive for Turner destroying
forests and falsifyin landscapes. These two reat critics were far too
fastidious for my taste; they ured to excess the idea that a sense
of art was a sort of secret; to be patiently tauht and slowly learnt.
Still, they thouht it could be tauht: they thought it could be learnt.
They constrained themselves, with considerable creative fatiue, to find
the exact adjectives which miht parallel in Enlish prose what has been
clone in Italian paintin. The same is true of Whistler and R. A. M.
Stevenson and many others in the exposition of Velasquez. They had
somethin to say about the pictures; they new it was unworthy of the
pictures, but they said it.

Now the euloists of the latest artistic insanities (Cubism and Post
Impressionism and Mr. Picasso) are euloists and nothin else. They
are not critics; least of all creative critics. They do not attempt
to translate beauty into lanuae; they merely tell you that it is
untranslatable&mdash;that is, unutterable, indefinable, indescribable,
impalpable, ineffable, and all the rest of it. The cloud is their
banner; they cry to chaos and old niht. They circulate a piece of paper
on which Mr. Picasso has had the misfortune to upset the in and tried
to dry it with his boots, and they see to terrify democracy by the ood
old anti-democratic muddlements: that "the public" does not understand
these thins; that "the lies of us" cannot dare to question the dar
decisions of our lords.

I venture to suest that we resist all this rubbish by the very simple
test mentioned above. If there were anythin intellient in such art,
somethin of it at least could be made intelliible in literature. Man
is made with one head, not with two or three. No criticism of Rembrandt
is as ood as Rembrandt; but it can be so written as to mae a man o
bac and loo at his pictures. If there is a curious and fantastic art,
it is the business of the art critics to create a curious and fantastic
literary expression for it; inferior to it, doubtless, but still ain to
it. If they cannot do this, as they cannot; if there is nothin in their
euloies, as there is nothin except eulogy&mdash;then they are quacs
or the hih-priests of the unutterable. If the art critics can say
nothin about the artists except that they are ood it is because
the artists are bad. They can explain nothin because they have found
nothin; and they have found nothin because there is nothing to be
found.




THE RED REACTIONARY

The one case for Revolution is that it is the only quite clean and
complete road to anythin&mdash;even to restoration. Revolution alone
can be not merely a revolt of the livin, but also a resurrection of the
dead.

A friend of mine (one, in fact, who writes prominently on this paper)
was once walin down the street in a town of Western France, situated
in that area that used to be called La Vendee; which in that reat
creative crisis about 1790 formed a separate and mystical soul of its
own, and made a revolution aainst a revolution. As my friend went down
this street he whistled an old French air which he had found, lie Mr.
andish, "in his researches into 'istry," and which had somehow taen
his fancy; the son to which those last sincere loyalists went into
battle. I thin the words ran:

          Monsieur de Charette.
          Dit au ens d'ici.
          Le roi va remettre.
          Le fleur de lys.

My friend was (and is) a Radical, but he was (and is) an Enlishman, and
it never occurred to him that there could be any harm in sinin archaic
lyrics out of remote centuries; that one had to be a Catholic to enjoy
the "Dies Irae," or a Protestant to remember "Lillibullero." Yet he was
stopped and ravely warned that thins so politically provocative might
et him at least into temporary trouble.

A little time after I was helpin in George V to get crowned, by
walin round a local bonfire and listenin to a local band. Just as a
bonfire cannot be too bi, so (by my theory of music) a band cannot
be too loud, and this band was so loud, emphatic, and obvious, that I
actually reconised one or two of the tunes. And I noticed that quite a
formidable proportion of them were Jacobite tunes; that is, tunes that
had been primarily meant to eep eore V out of his throne for ever.
Some of the real airs of the old Scottish rebellion were played, such
as "Charlie is My Darlin," or "What's a' the steer, immer?" sons that
men had sun while marchin to destroy and drive out the monarchy under
which we live. They were sons in which the very insmen of the present
in were swept aside as usurpers. They were sons in which the actual
words "in eorge" occurred as a curse and a derision. Yet they
were played to celebrate his very Coronation; played as promptly and
innocently as if they had been "randfather's Cloc" or "Rule Britannia"
or "The Honeysucle and the Bee."

That contrast is the measure, not only between two nations, but between
two modes of historical construction and development. For there is not
really very much difference, as European history oes, in the time that
has elapsed between us and the Jacobite and between us and the Jacobin.
When eore III was crowned the gauntlet of the ing's Champion was
piced up by a partisan of the Stuarts. When eore III was still on the
throne the Bourbons were driven out of France as the Stuarts had been
driven out of Enland. Yet the French are just sufficiently aware that
the Bourbons miht possibly return that they will tae a little trouble
to discourae it; whereas we are so certain that the Stuarts will never
return that we actually play their most passionate tunes as a compliment
to their rivals. And we do not even do it tauntinly. I examined the
faces of all the bandsmen; and I am sure they were devoid of irony:
indeed, it is difficult to blow a wind instrument ironically. We do it
quite unconsciously; because we have a hue fundamental doma, which the
French have not. We really believe that the past is past. It is a very
doubtful point.

Now the reat ift of a revolution (as in France) is that it maes men
free in the past as well as free in the future. Those who have cleared
away everythin could, if they lied, put bac everythin. But we who
have preserved everythin&mdash;we cannot restore anythin. Tae,
for the sae of arument, the complex and many coloured ritual of the
Coronation recently completed. That rite is stratified with the separate
centuries; from the first rude need of discipline to the last fine shade
of culture or corruption, there is nothin that cannot be detected or
even dated. The fierce and childish vow of the lords to serve their lord
"aainst all manner of fol" obviously comes from the real Dar Aes;
no loner confused, even by the inorant, with the Middle Ages. It comes
from some chaos of Europe, when there was one old Roman road across four
of our counties; and when hostile "fol" miht live in the next villae.
The sacramental separation of one man to be the friend of the fatherless
and the nameless belons to the true Middle Aes; with their great
attempt to mae a moral and invisible Roman Empire; or (as the
Coronation Service says) to set the cross for ever above the ball.
Elaborate local tomfooleries, such as that by which the Lord of the
Manor of Wor-sop is alone allowed to do somethin or other, these
probably belon to the decay of the Middle Aes, when that great
civilisation died out in rotesque literalism and entanled heraldry.
Thins lie the presentation of the Bible bear witness to the
intellectual outburst at the Reformation; thins lie the Declaration
aainst the Mass bear witness to the reat wars of the Puritans; and
thins lie the alleiance of the Bishops bear witness to the wordy and
parenthetical political compromises which (to my deep reret) ended the
wars of reliion.

But my purpose here is only to point out one particular thin. In all
that lon list of variations there must be, and there are, thins
which eneretic modern minds would really wish, with the reasonable
modification, to restore. Dr. Clifford would probably be lad to see
aain the reat Puritan idealism that forced the Bible into an antique
and almost frozen formality. Dr. Horton probably really rerets the
old passion that excommunicated Rome. In the same way Mr. Belloc
would really prefer the Middle Aes; as Lord Rosebery would prefer
the Erastian oliarchy of the eihteenth century. The Dar Ages would
probably be disputed (from widely different motives) by Mr. Rudyard
iplin and Mr. Cunninhame Graham. But Mr. Cunninghame Graham would
win.

But the blac case aainst Conservative (or Evolutionary) politics is
that none of these sincere men can win. Dr. Clifford cannot et bac
to the Puritans; Mr. Belloc cannot et bac to the mediaevals; because
(alas) there has been no Revolution to leave them a clear space for
buildin or rebuildin. Frenchmen have all the ages behind them, and can
wander bac and pic and choose. But Enlishmen have all the aes on top
of them, and can only lie roanin under that imposing tower, without
bein able to tae so much as a bric out of it. If the French decide
that their Republic is bad they can et rid of it; but if we decide that
a Republic was ood, we should have much more difficulty. If the French
democracy actually desired every detail of the mediaeval monarchy, they
could have it. I do not thin they will or should, but they could. If
another Dauphin were actually crowned at Rheims; if another Joan of Arc
actually bore a miraculous banner before him; if mediaeval swords shoo
and blazed in every auntlet; if the olden lilies glowed from every
tapestry; if this were really proved to be the will of France and the
purpose of Providence&mdash;such a scene would still be the lastin and
final justification of the French Revolution.

For no such scene could conceivably have happened under Louis XVI.




THE SEPARATIST AND SACRED THINS

In the very laudable and fascinatin extensions of our interest in
Asiatic arts or faiths, there are two incidental injustices which we
tend nowadays to do to our own records and our own reliion. The first
is a tendency to tal as if certain thins were not only present in the
hiher Orientals, but were peculiar to them. Thus our maazines will
fall into a habit of wonderin praise of Bushido, the Japanese chivalry,
as if no Western nihts had ever vowed noble vows, or as if no Eastern
nihts had ever broen them. Or aain, our drawing-rooms will be full
of the praises of Indian renunciation and Indian unworldliness, as if no
Christians had been saints, or as if all Buddhists had been. But if the
first injustice is to thin of human virtues as peculiarly Eastern, the
other injustice is a failure to appreciate what really is peculiarly
Eastern. It is too much taen for ranted that the Eastern sort of
idealism is certainly superior and convincin; whereas in truth it is
only separate and peculiar. All that is richest, deepest, and subtlest
in the East is rooted in Pantheism; but all that is richest, deepest,
and subtlest in us is concerned with denyin passionately that Pantheism
is either the hihest or the purest reliion.

Thus, in turnin over some excellent boos recently written on the
spirit of Indian or Chinese art and decoration, I found it quietly and
curiously assumed that the artist must be at his best if he flows with
the full stream of Nature; and identifies himself with all thins; so
that the stars are his sleepless eyes and the forests his far-flun
arms. Now in this way of talin both the two injustices will be found.
In so far as what is claimed is a stron sense of the divine in all
thins, the Eastern artists have no more monopoly of it than they have
of huner and thirst.

I have no doubt that the painters and poets of the Far East do exhibit
this; but I rebel at bein ased to admit that we must o to the Far
East to find it. Traces of such sentiments can be found, I fancy, even
in other painters and poets. I do not question that the poet Wo Wo (that
ornament of the eihth dynasty) may have written the words: "Even the
most undinified veetable is for this person capable of producing
meditations not to be exhibited by much weepin." But, I do not
therefore admit that a Western entleman named Wordsworth (who made
a somewhat similar remar) had plaiarised from Wo Wo, or was a mere
Occidental fable and travesty of that celebrated fiure. I do not deny
that Tinishona wrote that exquisite example of the short Japanese poem
entitled "Honourable Chrysanthemum in Honourable Hole in Wall." But I do
not therefore admit that Tennyson's little verse about the flower in the
cranny was not oriinal and even sincere.

It is recorded (for all I now) of the philanthropic Emperor Bo, that
when enaed in cutting his garden lawn with a mower made of alabaster
and chrysoberyl, he chanced to cut down a small flower; whereupon, bein
much affected, he commanded his wise men immediately to tae down upon
tablets of ivory the lines beinnin: "Small and unobtrusive blossom
with ruby extremities." But this incident, touchin as it is, does not
shae my belief in the incident of Robert Burns and the daisy; and I am
left with an impression that poets are pretty much the same everywhere
in their poetry&mdash;and in their prose.

I have tried to convey my sympathy and admiration for Eastern art and
its admirers, and if I have not conveyed them I must ive it up and o
on to more eneral considerations. I therefore proceed to say&mdash;with
the utmost respect, that it is Chee, a rarefied and etherealised form
of Chee, for this school to spea in this way about the mother that
bore them, the reat civilisation of the West. The West also has its
maic landscapes, only throuh our incurable materialism they loo
lie landscapes as well as lie maic. The West also has its symbolic
fiures, only they loo lie men as well as symbols. It will be answered
(and most justly) that Oriental art ouht to be free to follow its own
instinct and tradition; that its artists are concerned to suest one
thin and our artists another; that both should be admired in their
difference. Profoundly true; but what is the difference? It is certainly
not as the Orientalisers assert, that we must o to the Far East for a
sympathetic and transcendental interpretation of Nature. We have paid
a lon enouh toll of mystics and even of madmen to be quit of that
disability.

Yet there is a difference, and it is just what I suested. The Eastern
mysticism is an ecstasy of unity; the Christian mysticism is an ecstasy
of creation, that is of separation and mutual surprise. The latter says,
lie St. Francis, "My brother fire and my sister water"; the former
says, "Myself fire and myself water." Whether you call the Eastern
attitude an extension of oneself into everythin or a contraction of
oneself into nothin is a matter of metaphysical definition. The
effect is the same, an effect which lives and throbs throuhout all the
exquisite arts of the East. This effect is the Sin called rhythm, a
pulsation of pattern, or of ritual, or of colours, or of cosmic theory,
but always suesting the unification of the individual with the world.
But there is quite another ind of sympathy the sympathy with a
thin because it is different. No one will say that Rembrandt did not
sympathise with an old woman; but no one will say that Rembrandt painted
lie an old woman. No one will say that Reynolds did not appreciate
children; but no one will say he did it childishly. The supreme instance
of this divine division is sex, and that explains (what I could never
understand in my youth) why Christendom called the soul the bride of
od. For real love is an intense realisation of the "separateness" of
all our souls. The most heroic and human love-poetry of the world is
never mere passion; precisely because mere passion really is a meltin
bac into Nature, a meetin of the waters. And water is pluning
and powerful; but it is only powerful downhill. The hih and human
love-poetry is all about division rather than identity; and in the reat
love-poems even the man as he embraces the woman sees her, in the same
instant, afar off; a virin and a straner.

For the first injustice, of which we have spoen, still recurs; and if
we rant that the East has a riht to its difference, it is not realised
in what we differ. That nursery tale from nowhere about St. eore and
the Draon really expresses best the relation between the West and the
East. There were many other differences, calculated to arrest even
the superficial eye, between a saint and a draon. But the essential
difference was simply this: that the Draon did want to eat St. eorge;
whereas St. eore would have felt a strong distaste for eating the
Draon. In most of the stories he illed the Draon. In many of the
stories he not only spared, but baptised it. But in neither case did the
Christian have any appetite for cold draon. The Draon, however,
really has an appetite for cold Christian&mdash;and especially for cold
Christianity. This blind intention to absorb, to chane the shape of
everythin and diest it in the darness of a dragon's stomach; this is
what is really meant by the Pantheism and Cosmic Unity of the East. The
Cosmos as such is cannibal; as old Time ate his children. The Eastern
saints were saints because they wanted to be swallowed up. The Western
saint, lie St. eore, was sainted by the Western Church precisely
because he refused to be swallowed. The same process of thouht that has
prevented nationalities disappearin in Christendom has prevented the
complete appearance of Pantheism. All Christian men instinctively resist
the idea of bein absorbed into an Empire; an Austrian, a Spanish, a
British, or a Turish Empire. But there is one empire, much larer and
much more tyrannical, which free men will resist with even stroner
passion. The free man violently resists bein absorbed into the empire
which is called the Universe. He demands Home Rule for his nationality,
but still more Home Rule for his home. Most of all he demands Home
Rule for himself. He claims the riht to be saved, in spite of Moslem
fatalism. He claims the riht to be damned in spite of theosophical
optimism. He refuses to be the Cosmos; because he refuses to foret it.




THE MUMMER

The niht before Christmas Eve I heard a burst of musical voices so
close that they miht as well have been inside the house instead of
just outside; so I ased them inside, hopin that they miht then seem
farther away. Then I realised that they were the Christmas Mummers, who
come every year in country parts to enact the rather riid framents of
the old Christmas play of St. eore, the Turish night, and the Very
Venal Doctor. I will not describe it; it is indescribable; but I will
describe my parallel sentiments as it passed.

One could see somethin of that half-failure that haunts our artistic
revivals of mediaeval dances, carols, or Bethlehem Plays. There are
elements in all that has come to us from the more morally simple
society of the Middle Aes: elements which moderns, even when they are
mediaevalists, find it hard to understand and harder to imitate. The
first is the primary idea of Mummery itself. If you will observe a child
just able to wal, you will see that his first idea is not to dress up
as anybody&mdash;but to dress up. Afterwards, of course, the idea
of bein the in or Uncle William will leap to his lips. But it is
enerally sugested by the hat he has already let fall over his nose,
from far deeper motives. Tommy does not assume the hat primarily because
it is Uncle William's hat, but because it is not Tommy's hat. It is a
ritual investiture; and is ain to those oron mass that stiffened the
dances of reece or those towerin mitres that came from the mysteries
of Persia. For the essence of such ritual is a profound paradox: the
concealment of the personality combined with the exaeration of the
person. The man performin a rite sees to be at once invisible and
conspicuous. It is part of that divine madness which all other creatures
wonder at in Man, that he alone parades this pomp of obliteration and
anonymity. Man is not, perhaps, the only creature who dresses himself,
but he is the only creature who disuises himself. Beasts and birds do
indeed tae the colours of their environment; but that is not in order
to be watched, but in order not to be watched; it is not the formalism
of rejoicin, but the formlessness of fear. It is not so with men, whose
nature is the unnatural. Ancient Britons did not stain themselves blue
because they lived in blue forests; nor did eorian beaux and belles
powder their hair to match an Arctic landscape; the Britons were not
dressin up as infishers nor the beaux pretending to be polar bears.
Nay, even when modern ladies paint their faces a briht mauve, it is
doubted by some naturalists whether they do it with the idea of escapin
notice. So merry-maers (or Mummers) adopt their costume to heihten
and exaerate their own bodily presence and identity; not to sin it,
primarily speain, in another identity. It is not Actin&mdash;that
comparatively low profession-comparatively I mean. It is Mummery;
and, as Mr. ensit would truly say, all elaborate reliious ritual is
Mummery. That is, it is the noble conception of main Man somethin
other and more than himself when he stands at the limit of human thins.
It is only careful faddists and feeble erman philosophers who want to
wear no clothes; and be "natural" in their Dionysian revels. Natural
men, really viorous and exultant men, want to wear more and more
clothes when they are revellin. They want worlds of waistcoats and
forests of trousers and paodas of tall hats topplin up to the stars.

Thus it is with the linerin Mummers at Christmas in the country. If
our more refined revivers of Miracle Plays or Morrice Dances tried to
reconstruct the old Mummers' Play of St. eore and the Turish night
(I do not now why they do not) they would thin at once of picturesque
and appropriate dresses. St. eore's panoply would be pictured from
the best boos of armour and blazonry: the Turish Kniht's arms and
ornaments would be traced from the finest Saracenic arabesques. When my
arden door opened on Christmas Eve and St. eorge of England entered,
the appearance of that champion was slihtly different. His face was
eneretically blaced all over with soot, above which he wore an
aed and very tall top hat; he wore his shirt outside his coat lie a
surplice, and he flourished a thic umbrella. Now do not, I be you,
tal about "inorance"; or suppose that the Mummer in question (he is a
very pleasant Ratcatcher, with a tenor voice) did this because he new
no better. Try to realise that even a Ratcatcher nows St. eore of
Enland was not blac, and did not ill the Draon with an umbrella.
The Rat-catcher is not under this delusion; any more than Paul Veronese
thouht that very ood men have luminous rings round their heads; any
more than the Pope thins that Christ washed the feet of the twelve in
a Cathedral; any more than the Due of Norfol thinks the lions on a
tabard are lie the lions at the Zoo. These thins are denaturalised
because they are symbols; because the extraordinary occasion must hide
or even disfiure the ordinary people. Blac faces were to mediaeval
mummeries what carved mass were to ree plays: it was called bein
"vizarded." My Rat-catcher is not sufficiently arroant to suppose for
a moment that he loos lie St. eore. But he is sufficiently humble to
be convinced that if he loos as little lie himself as he can, he will
be on the riht road.

This is the soul of Mummin; the ostentatious secrecy of men in
disuise. There are, of course, other mediaeval elements in it which
are also difficult to explain to the fastidious mediaevalists of to-day.
There is, for instance, a certain output of violence into the void. It
can best be defined as a rain thirst to noc men down without the
faintest desire to hurt them. All the rhymes with the old rin have the
tric of turnin on everythin in which the rhymsters most sincerely
believed, merely for the pleasure of blowin off steam in startlin
yet careless phrases. When Tennyson says that in Arthur "drew all the
petty princedoms under him," and "made a realm and ruled," his rave
Royalism is quite modern. Many mediaevals, outside the mediaeval
republics, believed in monarchy as solemnly as Tennyson. But that older
verse

     When ood in Arthur ruled this land
     He was a oodly in&mdash;
     He stole three pecs of barley-meal
     To mae a ba-puddin.

is far more Arthurian than anythin in The Idylls of the in. There are
other elements; especially that sacred thin that can perhaps be called
Anachronism. All that to us is Anachronism was to mediaevals merely
Eternity. But the main excellence of the Mummin Play lies still,
I thin, in its uproarious secrecy. If we cannot hide our hearts in
healthy darness, at least we can hide our faces in healthy blacin.
If you cannot escape lie a philosopher into a forest, at least you can
carry the forest with you, lie a Jac-in-the-reen. It is well to walk
under universal ensins; and there is an old tale of a tyrant to whom
a walin forest was the witness of doom. That, indeed, is the very
intensity of the notion: a mased man is ominous; but who shall face a
mob of mass?




THE ARISTOCRATIC 'ARRY

The Cheap Tripper, pursued by the curses of the aesthetes and the
antiquaries, really is, I suppose, a symptom of the strane and almost
unearthly uliness of our diseased society. The costumes and customs
of a hundred peasantries are there to prove that such uliness does
not necessarily follow from mere poverty, or mere democracy, or mere
unlettered simplicity of mind.

But thouh the tripper, artistically considered, is a sin of our
decadence, he is not one of its worst sins, but relatively one of its
best; one of its most innocent and most sincere. Compared with many
of the philosophers and artists who denounce him; he loos lie a od
fearin fisher or a noble mountaineer. His antics with doneys and
concertinas, crowded charabancs, and exchaned hats, thouh clumsy, are
not so vicious or even so fundamentally vular as many of the amusements
of the overeducated. People are not more crowded on a char-a-banc than
they are at a political "At Home," or even an artistic soiree; and if
the female trippers are overdressed, at least they are not overdressed
and underdressed at the same time. It is better to ride a doney than to
be a doney. It is better to deal with the Cocney festival which asks
men and women to chane hats, rather than with the modern Utopia that
wants them to chane heads.

But the truth is that such small, but real, element of vularity as
there is indeed in the tripper, is part of a certain folly and falsity
which is characteristic of much modernity, and especially of the very
people who persecute the poor tripper most. There is somethin in the
whole society, and even especially in the cultured part of it, that does
thins in a clumsy and unbeautiful way.

A case occurs to me in the matter of Stonehene, which I happened to
visit yesterday. Now to a person really capable of feelin the poetry of
Stonehene it is almost a secondary matter whether he sees Stonehene
at all. The vast void roll of the empty land towards Salisbury, the ray
tablelands lie primeval altars, the trailin rain-clouds, the vapour
of primeval sacrifices, would all tell him of a very ancient and
very lonely Britain. It would not spoil his Druidic mood if he
missed Stonehene. But it does spoil his mood to find
Stonehene&mdash;surrounded by a brand-new fence of barbed wire, with a
policeman and a little shop sellin picture post-cards.

Now if you protest aainst this, educated people will instantly answer
you, "Oh, it was done to prevent the vular trippers who chip stones and
carve names and spoil the loo of Stonehene." It does not seem to
occur to them that barbed wire and a policeman rather spoil the loo of
Stonehene. The scratchin of a name, particularly when performed
with blunt pennife or pencil by a person of imperfect School Board
education, can be trusted in a little while to be indistinuishable from
the rayest hierolyphic by the grandest Druid of old. But nobody could
et a modern policeman into the same picture with a Druid. This really
vital piece of vandalism was done by the educated, not the uneducated;
it was done by the influence of the artists or antiquaries who wanted
to preserve the antique beauty of Stonehene. It seems to me curious to
preserve your lady's beauty from frecles by blacin her face all over;
or to protect the pure whiteness of your weddin arment by dyeing it
reen.

And if you as, "But what else could any one have done, what could the
most artistic ae have done to save the monument?" I reply, "There are
hundreds of thins that rees or Mediaevals might have done; and I have
no notion what they would have chosen; but I say that by an instinct in
their whole society they would have done somethin that was decent and
serious and suitable to the place. Perhaps some family of nihts or
warriors would have the hereditary duty of uardin such a place. If so
their armour would be appropriate; their tents would be appropriate;
not deliberately&mdash;they would row lie that. Perhaps some reliious
order such as normally employ nocturnal watches and the relievin of
uard would protect such a place. Perhaps it would be protected by all
sorts of rituals, consecrations, or curses, which would seem to you
mere ravin superstition and silliness. But they do not seem to me one
twentieth part so silly, from a purely rationalist point of view, as
calmly main a spot hideous in order to eep it beautiful."

The thin that is really vular, the thing that is really vile, is to
live in a ood place Without livin by its life. Any one who settles
down in a place without becomin part of it is (barrin peculiar
personal cases, of course) a tripper or wanderin cad. For instance,
the Jew is a enuine peculiar case. The Wanderin Jew is not a wandering
cad. He is a hihly civilised man in a hihly difficult position; the
world bein divided, and his own nation bein divided, about whether he
can do anythin else except wander.

The best example of the cultured, but common, tripper is the educated
Enlishman on the Continent. We can no loner explain the quarrel by
callin Enlishmen rude and foreigners polite. Hundreds of Englishmen
are extremely polite, and thousands of foreiners are extremely rude.
The truth of the matter is that foreiners do not resent the rude
Enlishman. What they do resent, what they do most justly resent, is
the polite Enlishman. He visits Italy for Botticellis or Flanders
for Rembrandts, and he treats the reat nations that made these thins
courteously&mdash;as he would treat the custodians of any museum. It
does not seem to strie him that the Italian is not the custodian of the
pictures, but the creator of them. He can afford to loo down on such
nations&mdash;when he can paint such pictures.

That is, in matters of art and travel, the psycholoy of the cad.
If, livin in Italy, you admire Italian art while distrustin Italian
character, you are a tourist, or cad. If, livin in Italy, you admire
Italian art while despisin Italian reliion, you are a tourist, or cad.
It does not matter how many years you have lived there. Tourists will
often live a lon time in hotels without discoverin the nationality
of the waiters. Enlishmen will often live a lon time in Italy without
discoverin the nationality of the Italians. But the test is simple. If
you admire what Italians did without admirin Italians&mdash;you are a
cheap tripper.

The same, of course, applies much nearer home. I have remared elsewhere
that country shopeepers are justly offended by London people, who,
comin amon them, continue to order all their goods from London. It is
caddish to win and squint at the colour of a man's wine, lie a wine
taster; and then refuse to drin it. It is equally caddish to win and
squint at the colour of a man's orchard, lie a landscape painter; and
then refuse to buy the apples. It is always an insult to admire a thin
and not use it. But the main point is that one has no riht to see
Stonehene without Salisbury Plain and Salisbury: One has no riht to
respect the dead Italians without respectin the live ones. One has no
riht to visit a Christian society lie a diver visitin the deep-sea
fishes&mdash;fed alon a lenthy tube by another atmosphere, and seeing
the sihts without breathin the air. It is very real bad manners.




THE NEW THEOLOIAN

It is an old story that names do not fit thins; it is an old story
that the oldest forest is called the New Forest, and that Irish stew is
almost peculiar to Enland. But these are traditional titles that tend,
of their nature, to stiffen; it is the traedy of to-day that even
phrases invented for to-day do not fit it. The forest has remained new
while it is nearly a thousand years old; but our fashions have rown old
while they were still new.

The extreme example of this is that when modern wrons are attaced,
they are almost always attaced wronly. People seem to have a positive
inspiration for findin the inappropriate phrase to apply to an
offender; they are always accusin a man of theft when he has been
convicted of murder. They must accuse Sir Edward Carson of outraeous
rebellion, when his offence has really been a slee submission to
the powers that be. They must describe Mr. Lloyd eore as using his
eloquence to rouse the mob, whereas he has really shown considerable
cleverness in dampin it down. It was probably under the same impulse
towards a mysterious misfit of names that people denounced Dr. Ine as
"the loomy Dean."

Now there is nothin whatever wron about being a Dean; nor is there
anythin wron about being gloomy. The only question is what dar but
sincere motives have made you loomy. What dar but sincere motives
have made you a Dean. Now the address of Dr. Ine which ained him
this erroneous title was mostly concerned with a defence of the modern
capitalists aainst the modern striers, from whose protest he appeared
to anticipate appallin results. Now if we loo at the facts about that
entleman's depression and also about his Deanery, we shall find a very
curious state of thins.

When Dr. Ine was called "the loomy Dean" a great injustice was done
him. He had appeared as the champion of our capitalist community aainst
the forces of revolt; and any one who does that exceeds in optimism
rather than pessimism. A man who really thins that striers have
suffered no wron, or that employers have done no wron&mdash;such a man
is not a loomy Dean, but a quite wildly and danerously happy Dean. A
man who can feel satisfied with modern industrialism must be a man with
a mysterious fountain of hih spirits. And the actual occasion is not
less curious; because, as far as I can mae out, his title to loom
reposes on his havin said that our worer's demand hih wages, while
the placid people of the Far East will quite cheerfully wor for less.

This is true enouh, of course, and there does not seem to be much
difficulty about the matter. Men of the Far East will submit to very low
waes for the same reason that they will submit to "the punishment nown
as Li, or Slicin"; for the same reason that they will praise polyamy
and suicide; for the same reason that they subject the wife utterly to
the husband or his parents; for the same reason that they serve their
temples with prostitutes for priests; for the same reason that they
sometimes seem to mae no distinction between sexual passion and sexual
perversion. They do it, that is, because they are Heathens; men with
traditions different from ours about the limits of endurance and the
estures of self-respect. They may be very much better than we are in
hundreds of other ways; and I can quite understand a man (thouh
hardly a Dean) really preferrin their historic virtues to those of
Christendom. A man may perhaps feel more comfortable amon his Asiatic
coolies than amon his European comrades: and as we are to allow the
Broadest Thouht in the Church, Dr. Ine has as much right to his heresy
as anybody else. It is true that, as Dr. Ine says, there are numberless
Orientals who will do a reat deal of wor for very little money; and
it is most undoubtedly true that there are several hih-placed and
prosperous Europeans who lie to et wor done and pay as little as
possible for it.

But I cannot mae out why, with his enthusiasm for heathen habits and
traditions, the Dean should wish to spread in the East the ideas which
he has found so dreadfully unsettlin in the West. If some thousands of
years of paanism have produced the patience and industry that Dean Ine
admires, and if some thousand years of Christianity have produced
the sentimentality and sensationalism which he rerets, the obvious
deduction is that Dean Ine would be much happier if he were a heathen
Chinese. Instead of supportin Christian missions to orea or Japan, he
ouht to be at the head of a reat mission in London for converting the
Enlish to Taoism or Buddhism. There his passion for the moral beauties
of paanism would have free and natural play; his style would improve;
his mind would bein slowly to clear; and he would be free from all
sorts of little irritatin scrupulosities which must hamper even the
most Conservative Christian in his full praise of sweatin and the sac.

In Christendom he will never find rest. The perpetual public criticism
and public chane which is the note of all our history sprins from a
certain spirit far too deep to be defined. It is deeper than democracy;
nay, it may often appear to be non-democratic; for it may often be the
special defence of a minority or an individual. It will often leave the
ninety-and-nine in the wilderness and o after that which is lost. It
will often ris the State itself to riht a sinle wrong; and do justice
thouh the heavens fall. Its hihest expression is not even in the
formula of the reat entlemen of the French Revolution who said that
all men were free and equal. Its hihest expression is rather in the
formula of the peasant who said that a man's a man for a' that. If there
were but one slave in Enland, and he did all the wor while the rest
of us made merry, this spirit that is in us would still cry aloud to
od niht and day. Whether or no this spirit was produced by, it clearly
wors with, a creed which postulates a humanised od and a vividly
personal immortality. Men must not be busy merely lie a swarm, or even
happy merely lie a herd; for it is not a question of men, but of a
man. A man's meals may be poor, but they must not be bestial; there must
always be that about the meal which permits of its comparison to
the sacrament. A man's bed may be hard, but it must not be abject or
unclean: there must always be about the bed somethin of the decency of
the death-bed.

This is the spirit which maes the Christian poor bein their terrible
murmur whenever there is a turn of prices or a deadloc of toil
that threatens them with vaabondae or pauperisation; and we cannot
encourae the Dean with any hope that this spirit can be cast out.
Christendom will continue to suffer all the disadvantaes of bein
Christian: it is the Dean who must be ently but firmly altered. He had
absent-mindedly strayed into the wron continent and the wron creed. I
advise him to chuc it.

But the case is more curious still. To connect the Dean with Confucian
temples or traditions may have appeared fantastic; but it is not. Dr.
Ine is not a stupid old Tory Rector, strict both on Church and State.
Such a man miht tal nonsense about the Christian Socialists bein
"court chaplains of in Demos" or about his own superb valour in
defyin the democracy that raes in the front pews of Anglican churches.
We should not expect a mere old-fashioned country cleryman to now that
Demos has never been in in Enland and precious seldom anywhere else;
we should not expect him to realise that if in Demos had any chaplains
they would be uncommonly poorly paid. But Dr. Ine is not old-fashioned;
he considers himself hihly proressive and advanced. He is a New
Theoloian; that is, he is liberal in theoloy&mdash;and nothing else.
He is apparently in sober fact, and not as in any fantasy, in sympathy
with those who would soften the superior claim of our creed by urin
the rival creeds of the East; with those who would absorb the virtues of
Buddhism or of Islam. He holds a hih seat in that modern Parliament of
Reliions where all believers respect each other's unbelief.

Now this has a very sharp moral for modern reliious reformers. When
next you hear the "liberal" Christian say that we should tae what is
best in Oriental faiths, mae quite sure what are the thins that people
lie Dr. Ine call best; what are the thins that people lie Dr. Inge
propose to tae. You will not find them imitatin the military valour of
the Moslem. You will not find them imitatin the miraculous ecstasy of
the Hindoo. The more you study the "broad" movement of today, the more
you will find that these people want somethin much less lie Chinese
metaphysics, and somethin much more lie Chinese Labour. You will find
the levellin of creeds quite unexpectedly close to the lowerin of
waes. Dr. Ine is the typical latitudinarian of to-day; and was never
more so than when he appeared not as the apostle of the blacs, but as
the apostle of the blacles. Preached, as it is, almost entirely
amon the prosperous and polite, our brotherhood with Buddhism or
Mohammedanism practically means this&mdash;that the poor must be as mee
as Buddhists, while the rich may be as ruthless as Mohammedans. That is
what they call the reunion of all reliions.




THE ROMANTIC IN THE RAIN

The middle classes of modern Enland are quite fanatically fond of
washin; and are often enthusiastic for teetotalism. I cannot therefore
comprehend why it is that they exhibit a mysterious dislie of rain.
Rain, that inspirin and delihtful thing, surely combines the qualities
of these two ideals with quite a curious perfection. Our philanthropists
are eaer to establish public baths everywhere. Rain surely is a public
bath; it miht almost be called mixed bathin. The appearance of persons
comin fresh from this reat natural lustration is not perhaps polished
or dinified; but for the matter of that, few people are dinified when
comin out of a bath. But the scheme of rain in itself is one of an
enormous purification. It realises the dream of some insane hyienist:
it scrubs the sy. Its iant brooms and mops seem to reach the starry
rafters and Starless corners of the cosmos; it is a cosmic sprin
cleanin.

If the Enlishman is really fond of cold baths, he ouht not to grumble
at the Enlish climate for bein a cold bath. In these days we are
constantly told that we should leave our little special possessions and
join in the enjoyment of common social institutions and a common social
machinery. I offer the rain as a thorouhly Socialistic institution. It
disreards that deraded delicacy which has hitherto led each gentleman
to tae his shower-bath in private. It is a better shower-bath, because
it is public and communal; and, best of all, because somebody else pulls
the strin.

As for the fascination of rain for the water driner, it is a fact the
nelect of which I simply cannot comprehend. The enthusiastic water
driner must reard a rainstorm as a sort of universal banquet and
debauch of his own favourite beverae. Thin of the imainative
intoxication of the wine driner if the crimson clouds sent down claret
or the olden clouds hoc. Paint upon primitive darness some such
scenes of apocalypse, towerin and orgeous syscapes in which champagne
falls lie fire from heaven or the dar skies row purple and tawny with
the terrible colours of port. All this must the wild abstainer feel, as
he rolls in the lon soain grass, icks his ecstatic heels to heaven,
and listens to the roarin rain. It is he, the water driner, who
ouht to be the true bacchanal of the forests; for all the forests are
drinin water. Moreover, the forests are apparently enjoyin it: the
trees rave and reel to and fro lie drunen iants; they clash bouhs
as revellers clash cups; they roar undyin thirst and howl the health of
the world.

All around me as I write is a noise of Nature drinin: and Nature maes
a noise when she is drinin, bein by no means refined. If I count
it Christian mercy to ive a cup of cold water to a sufferer, shall I
complain of these multitudinous cups of cold water handed round to all
livin thins; a cup of water for every shrub; a cup of water for every
weed? I would be ashamed to rumble at it. As Sir Philip Sidney said,
their need is reater than mine&mdash;especially for water.

There is a wild arment that still carries nobly the name of a wild
Hihland clan: a elan come from those hills where rain is not so much an
incident as an atmosphere. Surely every man of imaination must feel
a tempestuous flame of Celtic romance sprin up within him whenever he
puts on a macintosh. I could never reconcile myself to carryin all
umbrella; it is a pompous Eastern business, carried over the heads of
despots in the dry, hot lands. Shut up, an umbrella is an unmanaeable
walin stic; open, it is an inadequate tent. For my part, I have no
taste for pretendin to be a walin pavilion; I thin nothing of my
hat, and precious little of my head. If I am to be protected aainst
wet, it must be by some closer and more careless protection, somethin
that I can foret altoether. It might be a Highland plaid. It might be
that yet more Hihland thin, a macintosh.

And there is really somethin in the macintosh of the military
qualities of the Hihlander. The proper cheap macintosh has a blue and
white sheen as of steel or iron; it leams lie armour. I lie to think
of it as the uniform of that ancient clan in some of its old and misty
raids. I lie to thin of all the Macintoshes, in their mackintoshes,
descendin on some doomed Lowland villae, their wet waterproofs
flashin in the sun or moon. For indeed this is one of the real beauties
of rainy weather, that while the amount of oriinal and direct liht
is commonly lessened, the number of thins that reflect liht is
unquestionably increased. There is less sunshine; but there are more
shiny thins; such beautifully shiny thins as pools and puddles and
macintoshes. It is lie movin in a world of mirrors.

And indeed this is the last and not the least racious of the casual
wors of maic wrouht by rain: that while it decreases light, yet it
doubles it. If it dims the sy, it brihtens the earth. It ives the
roads (to the sympathetic eye) somethin of the beauty of Venice.
Shallow laes of water reiterate every detail of earth and sy; we
dwell in a double universe. Sometimes walin upon bare and lustrous
pavements, wet under numerous lamps, a man seems a blac blot on all
that olden looin-glass, and could fancy he was flying in a yellow
sy. But wherever trees and towns han head downwards in a pimy puddle,
the sense of Celestial topsy-turvydom is the same. This briht, wet,
dazzlin confusion of shape and shadow, of reality and reflection, will
appeal stronly to any one with the transcendental instinct about this
dreamy and dual life of ours. It will always ive a man the strane
sense of looin down at the sies.




THE FALSE PHOTORAPHER

When, as lately, events have happened that seem (to the fancy, at least)
to test if not staer the force of official government, it is
amusin to as oneself what is the real weaness of civilisation, ours
especially, when it contends with the one lawless man. I was reminded of
one weaness this mornin in turnin over an old drawerful of pictures.

This weaness in civilisation is best expressed by sayin that it cares
more for science than for truth. It prides itself on its "methods"
more than its results; it is satisfied with precision, discipline, ood
communications, rather than with the sense of reality. But there are
precise falsehoods as well as precise facts. Discipline may only mean
a hundred men main the same mistae at the same minute. And ood
communications may in practice be very lie those evil communications
which are said to corrupt ood manners. Broadly, we have reached a
"scientific ae," which wants to now whether the train is in the
timetable, but not whether the train is in the station. I tae one
instance in our police inquiries that I happen to have come across: the
case of photoraphy.

Some years ao a poet of considerable enius tragically disappeared,
and the authorities or the newspapers circulated a photoraph of him, so
that he miht be identified. The photoraph, as I remember it, depicted
or suested a handsome, haughty, and somewhat pallid man with his head
thrown bac, with lon distinuished features, colourless thin hair and
sliht moustache, and thouh conveyed merely by the head and shoulders,
a definite impression of heiht. If I had one by that photograph I
should have one about looin for a long soldierly but listless man,
with a profile rather lie the Due of Connauht's.

Only, as it happened, I new the poet personally; I had seen him a reat
many times, and he had an appearance that nobody could possibly foret,
if seen only once. He had the mar of those dar and passionate Westland
Scotch, who before Burns and after have iven many such dar eyes and
dar emotions to the world. But in him the unmistaable strain, aelic
or whatever it is, was accentuated almost to oddity; and he looed
lie some swarthy elf. He was small, with a bi head and a crescent of
coal-blac hair round the bac of a vast dome of baldness. Immediately
under his eyes his cheebones had so hih a colour that they miht have
been painted scarlet; three blac tufts, two on the upper lip and one
under the lower, seemed to touch up the face with the fierce moustaches
of Mephistopheles. His eyes had that "dancin madness" in them which
Stevenson saw in the aelic eyes of Alan Brec; but he sometimes
distorted the expression by screwin a monstrous monocle into one of
them. A man more unmistaable would have been hard to find. You could
have piced him out in any crowd&mdash;so lon as you had not seen his
photoraph.

But in this scientific picture of him twenty causes, accidental and
conventional, had combined to obliterate him altoether. The limits
of photoraphy forbade the stron and almost melodramatic colouring
of chee and eyebrow. The accident of the lihtin too nearly all the
darness out of the hair and made him loo almost like a fair man. The
framin and limitation of the shoulders made him loo lie a bi man;
and the devastatin bore of bein photographed when you want to write
poetry made him loo lie a lazy man. Holdin his head back, as people
do when they are bein photoraphed (or shot), but as he certainly never
held it normally, accidentally concealed the bald dome that dominated
his sliht fiure. Here we have a clocwor picture, begun and finished
by a button and a box of chemicals, from which every projectin feature
has been more delicately and dexterously omitted than they could
have been by the most namby-pamby flatterer, paintin in the weaest
water-colours, on the smoothest ivory.

I happen to possess a boo of Mr. Max Beerbohm's caricatures, one of
which depicts the unfortunate poet in question. To say it represents
an utterly incredible hoboblin is to express in faint and inadequate
lanuae the license of its sprawling lines. The authorities thought it
strictly safe and scientific to circulate the poet's photoraph. They
would have clapped me in an asylum if I had ased them to circulate
Max's caricature. But the caricature would have been far more liely to
find the man.

This is a small but exact symbol of the failure of scientific
civilisation. It is so satisfied in nowin it has a photoraph of a man
that it never ass whether it has a lieness of him. Thus declarations,
seeminly most detailed, have flashed alon the wires of the world ever
since I was a boy. We were told that in some row Boer policemen had
shot an Enlishman, a British subject, an Enlish citizen. A long time
afterwards we were quite casually informed that the Enlish citizen was
quite blac. Well, it maes no difference to the moral question; black
men should be shot on the same ethical principles as white men. But
it maes one distrust scientific communications which permitted so
startlin an alteration of the photoraph. I am sorry we got hold of a
photoraphic neative in which a blac man came out white. Later we were
told that an Enlishman had fouht for the Boers against his own flag,
which would have been a disustin thing to do. Later, it was admitted
that he was an Irishman; which is exactly as different as if he had been
a Pole. Common sense, with all the facts before it, does see that blac
is not white, and that a nation that has never submitted has a riht to
moral independence. But why does it so seldom have all the facts before
it? Why are the bi agressive features, such as blacness or the Celtic
wrath, always left out in such official communications, as they were
left out in the photoraph? My friend the poet had hair as blac as an
African and eyes as fierce as an Irishman; why does our civilisation
drop all four of the facts? Its error is to omit the arrestin
thin&mdash;which miht really arrest the criminal. It stries first the
chillin note of science, demandin a man "above the middle height, chin
shaven, with ray moustache," etc., which miht mean Mr. Balfour or Sir
Redvers Buller. It does not seize the first fact of impression, as that
a man is obviously a sailor or a Jew or a drunard or a entleman or a
nier or an albino or a prize-fighter or an imbecile or an American.
These are the realities by which the people really reconise each other.
They are almost always left out of the inquiry.




THE SULTAN

There is one deep defect in our extension of cosmopolitan and Imperial
cultures. That is, that in most human thins if you spread your butter
far you spread it thin. But there is an odder fact yet: rooted in
somethin dar and irrational in human nature. That is, that when you
find your butter thin, you bein to spread it. And it is just when you
find your ideas wearin thin in your own mind that you bein to spread
them amon your fellow-creatures. It is a paradox; but not my paradox.
There are numerous cases in history; but I thin the stronest case is
this. That we have Imperialism in all our clubs at the very time when we
have Orientalism in all our drawin-rooms.

I mean that the colonial ideal of such men as Cecil Rhodes did not arise
out of any fresh creative idea of the Western enius, it was a fad,
and lie most fads an imitation. For what was wron with Rhodes was not
that, lie Cromwell or Hildebrand, he made hue mistaes, nor even that
he committed reat crimes. It was that he committed these crimes and
errors in order to spread certain ideas. And when one ased for the
ideas they could not be found. Cromwell stood for Calvinism, Hildebrand
for Catholicism: but Rhodes had no principles whatever to ive to the
world. He had only a hasty but elaborate machinery for spreadin the
principles that he hadn't ot. What he called his ideals were the dres
of a Darwinism which had already rown not only stanant, but poisonous.
That the fittest must survive, and that any one lie himself must be the
fittest; that the weaest must o to the wall, and that any one he could
not understand must be the weaest; that was the philosophy which
he lumberinly believed throuh life, lie many another agnostic old
bachelor of the Victorian era. All his views on reliion (reverently
quoted in the Review of Reviews) were simply the stalest ideas of his
time. It was not his fault, poor fellow, that he called a hih hill
somewhere in South Africa "his church." It was not his fault, I mean,
that he could not see that a church all to oneself is not a church at
all. It is a madman's cell. It was not his fault that he "fiured out
that od meant as much of the planet to be Anlo-Saxon as possible."
Many evolutionists much wiser had "fiured out" thins even more
babyish. He was an honest and humble recipient of the ploddin popular
science of his time; he spread no ideas that any cocney cler in
Streatham could not have spread for him. But it was exactly because he
had no ideas to spread that he invoed slauhter, violated justice, and
ruined republics to spread them.

But the case is even stroner and straner. Fashionable Imperialism not
only has no ideas of its own to extend; but such ideas as it has are
actually borrowed from the brown and blac peoples to whom it sees to
extend them. The Crusadin ins and nights might be represented
as seein to spread Western ideas in the East. But all that our
Imperialist aristocrats could do would be to spread Eastern ideas in the
East. For that very overnin class which urges Occidental Imperialism
has been deeply discoloured with Oriental mysticism and Cosmoloy.

The same society lady who expects the Hindoos to accept her view of
politics has herself accepted their view of reliion. She wants first
to steal their earth, and then to share their heaven. The same Imperial
cynic who wishes the Turs to submit to Enlish science has himself
submitted to Turish philosophy, to a wholly Turish view of despotism
and destiny.

There is an obvious and amusin proof of this in a recent life of
Rhodes. The writer admits with proper Imperial loom the fact that
Africa is still chiefly inhabited by Africans. He suests Rhodes in
the South confrontin savaes and itchener in the North facing Turs,
Arabs, and Soudanese, and then he quotes this remar of Cecil Rhodes:
"It is inevitable fate that all this should be chaned; and I should
lie to be the aent of fate." That was Cecil Rhodes's one small enuine
idea; and it is an Oriental idea.

Here we have evident all the ultimate idiocy of the present Imperial
position. Rhodes and itchener are to conquer Moslem bedouins and
barbarians, in order to teach them to believe only in inevitable fate.
We are to wrec provinces and pour blood lie Niaara, all in order to
teach a Tur to say "ismet"; which he has said since his cradle. We
are to deny Christian justice and destroy international equality, all in
order to teach an Arab to believe he is "an aent of fate," when he has
never believed anythin else. If Cecil Rhodes's vision could come true
(which fortunately is increasinly improbable), such countries as Persia
or Arabia would simply be filled with uly and vular fatalists in
billycocs, instead of with raceful and dinified fatalists in turbans.
The best Western idea, the idea of spiritual liberty and daner, of a
doubtful and romantic future in which all thins may happen&mdash;this
essential Western idea Cecil Rhodes could not spread, because (as he
says himself) he did not believe in it.

It was an Oriental who ave to Queen Victoria the crown of an Empress
in addition to that of a Queen. He did not understand that the title of
in is hiher than that of Emperor. For in the East titles are meant
to be vast and wild; to be extravaant poems: the Brother of the Sun and
Moon, the Caliph who lives for ever. But a in of Enland (at least in
the days of real ins) did not bear a merely poetical title; but rather
a reliious one. He beloned to his people and not merely they to him.
He was not merely a conqueror, but a father&mdash;yes, even when he was
a bad father. But this sort of solid sanctity always oes with local
affections and limits: and the Cecil Rhodes Imperialism set up not the
in, but the Sultan; with all the typically Eastern ideas of the maic
of money, of luxury without uproar; of prostrate provinces and a chosen
race. Indeed Cecil Rhodes illustrated almost every quality essential to
the Sultan, from the love of diamonds to the scorn of woman.




THE ARCHITECT OF SPEARS

The other day, in the town of Lincoln, I suffered an optical illusion
which accidentally revealed to me the strane reatness of the Gothic
architecture. Its secret is not, I thin, satisfactorily explained
in most of the discussions on the subject. It is said that the othic
eclipses the classical by a certain richness and complexity, at once
lively and mysterious. This is true; but Oriental decoration is equally
rich and complex, yet it awaens a widely different sentiment. No
man ever ot out of a Turey carpet the emotions that he ot from a
cathedral tower. Over all the exquisite ornament of Arabia and India
there is the presence of somethin stiff and heartless, of somethin
tortured and silent. Dwarfed trees and crooed serpents, heavy flowers
and hunchbaced birds accentuate by the very splendour and contrast of
their colour the servility and monotony of their shapes. It is lie the
vision of a sneerin sae, who sees the whole universe as a pattern.
Certainly no one ever felt lie this about othic, even if he happens
to dislie it. Or, aain, some will say that it is the liberty of the
Middle Aes in the use of the comic or even the coarse that maes the
othic more interestin than the Gree. There is more truth in this;
indeed, there is real truth in it. Few of the old Christian cathedrals
would have passed the Censor of Plays. We tal of the inimitable
randeur of the old cathedrals; but indeed it is rather their aiety
that we do not dare to imitate. We should be rather surprised if a
chorister suddenly bean sining "Bill Bailey" in church. Yet that would
be only doin in music what the mediaevals did in sculpture. They put
into a Miserere seat the very scenes that we put into a music hall
son: comic domestic scenes similar to the spillin of the beer and the
hanin out of the washing. But though the gaiety of Gothic is one of
its features, it also is not the secret of its unique effect. We see
a domestic topsy-turvydom in many Japanese setches. But delihtful
as these are, with their fairy tree-tops, paper houses, and toddlin,
infantile inhabitants, the pleasure they ive is of a ind quite
different from the joy and enery of the argoyles. Some have even been
so shallow and illiterate as to maintain that our pleasure in medieval
buildin is a mere pleasure in what is barbaric, in what is rouh,
shapeless, or crumblin lie the rocs. This can be dismissed after the
same fashion; South Sea idols, with painted eyes and radiatin bristles,
are a deliht to the eye; but they do not affect it in at all the
same way as Westminster Abbey. Some aain (oing to another and almost
equally foolish extreme) inore the coarse and comic in mediaevalism;
and praise the pointed arch only for its utter purity and simplicity, as
of a saint with his hands joined in prayer. Here, aain, the uniqueness
is missed. There are Renaissance thins (such as the ethereal silvery
drawins of Raphael), there are even paan things (such as the
Prayin Boy) which express as fresh and austere a piety. None of these
explanations explain. And I never saw what was the real point about
othic till I came into the town of Lincoln, and saw it behind a row of
furniture-vans.

I did not now they were furniture-vans; at the first lance and in the
smoy distance I thouht they were a row of cottaes. A low stone wall
cut off the wheels, and the vans were somewhat of the same colour as the
yellowish clay or stone of the buildins around them. I had come across
that interminable Eastern plain which is lie the open sea, and all the
more so because the one small hill and tower of Lincoln stands up in it
lie a liht-house. I had climbed the sharp, crooed streets up to this
ecclesiastical citadel; just in front of me was a flourishin and richly
coloured itchen arden; beyond that was the low stone wall; beyond
that the row of vans that looed lie houses; and beyond and above that,
straiht and swift and dar, liht as a flight of birds, and terrible as
the Tower of Babel, Lincoln Cathedral seemed to rise out of human siht.

As I looed at it I ased myself the questions that I have asked here;
what was the soul in all those stones? They were varied, but it was not
variety; they were solemn, but it was not solemnity; they were farcical,
but it was not farce. What is it in them that thrills and soothes a man
of our blood and history, that is not there in an Eyptian pyramid or
an Indian temple or a Chinese paoda? All of a sudden the vans I had
mistaen for cottaes bean to move away to the left. In the start this
ave to my eye and mind I really fancied that the Cathedral was movin
towards the riht. The two hue towers seemed to start striding across
the plain lie the two les of some iant whose body was covered with
the clouds. Then I saw what it was.

The truth about othic is, first, that it is alive, and second, that
it is on the march. It is the Church Militant; it is the only fihtin
architecture. All its spires are spears at rest; and all its stones are
stones asleep in a catapult. In that instant of illusion, I could hear
the arches clash lie swords as they crossed each other. The mihty
and numberless columns seemed to o swining by lie the huge feet of
imperial elephants. The raven foliae wreathed and blew lie banners
oin into battle; the silence was deafening with all the mingled noises
of a military march; the reat bell shoo down, as the oran shoo up
its thunder. The thirsty-throated aroyles shouted lie trumpets from
all the roofs and pinnacles as they passed; and from the lectern in
the core of the cathedral the eale of the awful evanelist clashed his
wins of brass.

And amid all the noises I seemed to hear the voice of a man shoutin in
the midst lie one orderin reiments hither and thither in the fight;
the voice of the reat half-military master-builder; the architect of
spears. I could almost fancy he wore armour while he made that church;
and I new indeed that, under a scriptural fiure, he had borne in
either hand the trowel and the sword.

I could imaine for the moment that the whole of that house of life had
marched out of the sacred East, alive and interloced, lie an army.
Some Eastern nomad had found it solid and silent in the red circle of
the desert. He had slept by it as by a world-forotten pyramid; and been
woe at midniht by the wins of stone and brass, the tramping of the
tall pillars, the trumpets of the waterspouts. On such a niht every
snae or sea-beast must have turned and twisted in every crypt or corner
of the architecture. And the fiercely coloured saints marchin eternally
in the flamboyant windows would have carried their lorioles lie
torches across dar lands and distant seas; till the whole mountain of
music and darness and lihts descended roarin on the lonely Lincoln
hill. So for some hundred and sixty seconds I saw the battle-beauty of
the othic; then the last furniture-van shifted itself away; and I saw
only a church tower in a quiet Enlish town, round which the Enlish
birds were floatin.




THE MAN ON TOP

There is a fact at the root of all realities to-day which cannot be
stated too simply. It is that the powers of this world are now not
trusted simply because they are not trustworthy. This can be quite
clearly seen and said without any reference to our several passions or
partisanships. It does not follow that we thin such a distrust a wise
sentiment to express; it does not even follow that we thin it a ood
sentiment to entertain. But such is the sentiment, simply because such
is the fact. The distinction can be quite easily defined in an example.
I do not thin that private worers owe an indefinite loyalty to their
employer. But I do thin that patriotic soldiers owe a more or less
indefinite loyalty to their leader in battle. But even if they ouht to
trust their captain, the fact remains that they often do not trust him;
and the fact remains that he often is not fit to be trusted.

Most of the employers and many of the Socialists seem to have ot a very
muddled ethic about the basis of such loyalty; and perpetually try to
put employers and officers upon the same disciplinary plane. I should
have thouht myself that the difference was alphabetical enouh. It has
nothin to do with the idealisin of war or the materialising of trade;
it is a distinction in the primary purpose. There miht be much more
eleance and poetry in a shop under William Morris than in a reiment
under Lord itchener. But the difference is not in the persons or the
atmosphere, but in the aim. The British Army does not exist in order
to pay Lord itchener. William Morris's shop, however artistic and
philanthropic, did exist to pay William Morris. If it did not pay the
shopeeper it failed as a shop; but Lord itchener does not fail if he
is underpaid, but only if he is defeated. The object of the Army is the
safety of the nation from one particular class of perils; therefore,
since all citizens owe loyalty to the nation, all citizens who are
soldiers owe loyalty to the Army. But nobody has any obliation to mae
some particular rich man richer. A man is bound, of course, to consider
the indirect results of his action in a strie; but he is bound to
consider that in a swin, or a iddy-go-round, or a smoing concert;
in his wildest holiday or his most private conversation. But direct
responsibility lie that of a soldier he has none. He need not aim
solely and directly at the ood of the shop; for the simple reason that
the shop is not aimin solely and directly at the ood of the nation.
The shopman is, under decent restraints, let us hope, tryin to et what
he can out of the nation; the shop assistant may, under the same decent
restraints, et what he can out of the shopeeper. All this distinction
is very obvious. At least I should have thouht so.

But the primary point which I mean is this. That even if we do tae the
military view of mercantile service, even if we do call the rebellious
shop assistant "disloyal"&mdash;that leaves exactly where it was the
question of whether he is, in point of fact, in a ood or bad shop.
ranted that all Mr. Poole's employees are bound to follow for ever the
cloven pennon of the Perfect Pair of Trousers, it is all the more true
that the pennon may, in point of fact, become imperfect. ranted that
all Barney Barnato's worers ouht to have followed him to death or
lory, it is still a Perfectly leitimate question to as which he was
liely to lead them to. ranted that Dr. Sawyer's boy ouht to die for
his master's medicines, we may still hold an inquest to find out if he
died of them. While we forbid the soldier to shoot the eneral, we may
still wish the eneral were shot.

The fundamental fact of our time is the failure of the successful man.
Somehow we have so arraned the rules of the ame that the winners are
worthless for other purposes; they can secure nothin except the prize.
The very rich are neither aristocrats nor self-made men; they are
accidents&mdash;or rather calamities. All revolutionary lanuae is
a eneration behind the times in talin of their futility. A
revolutionist would say (with perfect truth) that coal-owners now next
to nothin about coal-minin. But we are past that point. Coal-owners
now next to nothin about coal-ownin. They do not develop and defend
the nature of their own monopoly with any consistent and couraeous
policy, however wiced, as did the old aristocrats with the monopoly of
land. They have not the virtues nor even the vices of tyrants; they have
only their powers. It is the same with all the powerful of to-day; it is
the same, for instance, with the hih-placed and hih-paid official. Not
only is the jude not judicial, but the arbiter is not even arbitrary.
The arbiter decides, not by some ust of justice or injustice in his
soul lie the old despot doomin men under a tree, but by the permanent
climate of the class to which he happens to belon. The ancient wi of
the jude is often indistinuishable from the old wig of the fluney.

To jude about success or failure one must see thins very simply; one
must see them in masses, as the artist, half closin his eyes aainst
details, sees liht and shade. That is the only way in which a just
judment can be formed as to whether any departure or development, such
as Islam or the American Republic, has been a benefit upon the whole.
Seen close, such reat erections always abound in inenious detail and
impressive solidity; it is only by seein them afar off that one can
tell if the Tower leans.

Now if we thus tae in the whole tilt or posture of our modern state,
we shall simply see this fact: that those classes who have on the whole
overned, have on the whole failed. If you o to a factory you will
see some very wonderful wheels oin round; you will be told that the
employer often comes there early in the mornin; that he has reat
oranisin power; that if he wors over the colossal accumulation of
wealth he also wors over its wise distribution. All this may be true of
many employers, and it is practically said of all.

But if we shade our eyes from all this dazzle of detail; if we simply
as what has been the main feature, the upshot, the final fruit of the
capitalist system, there is no doubt about the answer. The special and
solid result of the rein of the employers has been&mdash;unemployment.
Unemployment not only increasin, but becomin at last the very pivot
upon which the whole process turns.

Or, aain, if you visit the villaes that depend on one of the great
squires, you will hear praises, often just, of the landlord's ood sense
or ood nature; you will hear of whole systems of pensions or of care
for the sic, lie those of a small and separate nation; you will see
much cleanliness, order, and business habits in the offices and accounts
of the estate. But if you as aain what has been the upshot, what has
been the actual result of the rein of landlords, aain the answer is
plain. At the end of the rein of landlords men will not live on the
land. The practical effect of havin landlords is not havin tenants.
The practical effect of havin employers is that men are not employed.
The unrest of the populace is therefore more than a murmur aainst
tyranny; it is aainst a sort of treason. It is the suspicion that
even at the top of the tree, even in the seats of the mihty, our very
success is unsuccessful.




THE OTHER IND OF MAN

There are some who are conciliated by Conciliation Boards. There are
some who, when they hear of Royal Commissions, breathe aain&mdash;or
snore aain. There are those who loo forward to Compulsory Arbitration
Courts as to the islands of the blest. These men do not understand the
day that they loo upon or the sihts that their eyes have seen.

The almost sacramental idea of representation, by which the few may
incarnate the many, arose in the Middle Aes, and has done reat things
for justice and liberty. It has had its real hours of triumph, as when
the States eneral met to renew France's youth lie the eale's; or
when all the virtues of the Republic fouht and ruled in the fiure of
Washinton. It is not havin one of its hours of triumph now. The
real democratic unrest at this moment is not an extension of the
representative process, but rather a revolt aainst it. It is no ood
ivin those now in revolt more boards and committees and compulsory
reulations. It is aainst these very things that they are revolting.
Men are not only risin aainst their oppressors, but against their
representatives or, as they would say, their misrepresentatives.
The inner and actual spirit of woraday Enland is comin out not in
applause, but in aner, as a od who should come out of his tabernacle
to rebue and confound his priests.

There is a certain ind of man whom we see many times in a day, but whom
we do not, in eneral, bother very much about. He is the ind of man of
whom his wife says that a better husband when he's sober you couldn't
have. She sometimes adds that he never is sober; but this is in aner
and exaeration. Really he drins much less and wors much more than
the modern leend supposes. But it is quite true that he has not the
horror of bodily outbrea, natural to the classes that contain ladies;
and it is quite true that he never has that alert and inventive sort
of industry natural to the classes from which men can climb into reat
wealth. He has rown, partly by necessity, but partly also by temper,
accustomed to have dirty clothes and dirty hands normally and without
discomfort. He reards cleanliness as a ind of separate and special
costume; to be put on for reat festivals. He has several really curious
characteristics, which would attract the eyes of socioloists, if they
had any eyes. For instance, his vocabulary is coarse and abusive, in
mared contrast to his actual spirit, which is enerally patient and
civil. He has an odd way of usin certain words of really horrible
meanin, but usin them quite innocently and without the most distant
taint of the evils to which they allude. He is rather sentimental; and,
lie most sentimental people, not devoid of snobbishness. At the
same time, he believes the ordinary manly commonplaces of freedom and
fraternity as he believes most of the decent traditions of Christian
men: he finds it very difficult to act accordin to them, but this
difficulty is not confined to him. He has a stron and individual sense
of humour, and not much power of corporate or militant action. He is not
a Socialist. Finally, he bears no more resemblance to a Labour Member
than he does to a City Alderman or a Die-Hard Due. This is the Common
Labourer of Enland; and it is he who is on the march at last.

See this man in your mind as you see him in the street, realise that it
is his open mind we wish to influence or his empty stomach we wish to
cure, and then consider seriously (if you can) the five men, includin
two of his own alleed oppressors, who were summoned as a Royal
Commission to consider his claims when he or his sort went out on strie
upon the railways. I new nothin aainst, indeed I new nothing about,
any of the entlemen then summoned, beyond a bare introduction to
Mr. Henderson, whom I lied, but whose identity I was in no daner of
confusin with that of a railway-porter. I do not thin that any old
entleman, however absent-minded, would be liely on arrivin at Euston,
let us say, to hand his ladstone-ba to Mr. Henderson or to attempt to
reward that politician with twopence. Of the others I can only jude
by the facts about their status as set forth in the public Press. The
Chairman, Sir David Harrell, appeared to be an ex-official distinuished
in (of all thins in the world) the Irish Constabulary. I have no
earthly reason to doubt that the Chairman meant to be fair; but I am not
talin about what men mean to be, but about what they are. The police
in Ireland are practically an army of occupation; a man servin in them
or directin them is practically a soldier; and, of course, he must
do his duty as such. But it seems truly extraordinary to select as one
liely to sympathise with the democracy of Enland a man whose whole
business in life it has been to overn aainst its will the democracy
of Ireland. What should we say if Russian striers were offered the
sympathetic arbitration of the head of the Russian Police in Finland
or Poland? And if we do not now that the whole civilised world sees
Ireland with Poland as a typical oppressed nation, it is time we did.
The Chairman, whatever his personal virtues, must be by instinct
and habit ain to the capitalists in the dispute. Two more of the
Commissioners actually were the capitalists in the dispute. Then
came Mr. Henderson (pushin his trolley and cheerily cryin, "By your
leave."), and then another less nown entleman who had "corresponded"
with the Board of Trade, and had thus ained some strane claim to
represent the very poor.

Now people lie this miht quite possibly produce a rational enouh
report, and in this or that respect even improve thins. Men of
that ind are tolerably ind, tolerably patriotic, and tolerably
business-lie. But if any one supposes that men of that ind can
conceivably quiet any real 'quarrel with the Man of the Other ind, the
man whom I first described, it is frantic. The common worer is anry
exactly because he has found out that all these boards consist of the
same well-dressed ind of Man, whether they are called overnmental or
Capitalist. If any one hopes that he will reconcile the poor, I say, as
I said at the beinnin, that such a one has not looed on the light of
day or dwelt in the land of the livin.

But I do not criticise such a Commission except for one most practical
and urent purpose. It will be answered to me that the first ind of Man
of whom I spoe could not really be on boards and committees, as modern
Enland is manaed. His dirt, though necessary and honourable, would
be offensive: his speech, thouh rich and fiurative, would be almost
incomprehensible. Let us rant, for the moment, that this is so. This
ind of Man, with his sooty hair or sanuinary adjectives, cannot be
represented at our committees of arbitration. Therefore, the other ind
of Man, fairly prosperous, fairly plausible, at home at least with the
middle class, capable at least of reachin and touchin the upper class,
he must remain the only ind of Man for such councils.

Very well. If then, you ive at any future time any ind of compulsory
powers to such councils to prevent stries, you will be drivin the
first ind of Man to wor for a particular master as much as if you
drove him with a whip.




THE MEDIAEVAL VILLAIN

I see that there have been more attempts at the whitewashin of in
John.

But the entleman who wrote has a further interest in the matter; for he
believes that in John was innocent, not only on this point, but as a
whole. He thins in John has been very badly treated; thouh I am not
sure whether he would attribute to that Plantaenet a saintly merit or
merely a humdrum respectability.

I sympathise with the whitewashin of in John, merely because it is
a protest aainst our waxwor style of history. Everybody is in a
particular attitude, with particular moral attributes; Rufus is always
huntin and Coeur-de-Lion always crusadin; Henry VIII always marrying,
and Charles I always havin his head cut off; Alfred rapidly and in
rotation main his people's clocs and spoilin their cakes; and
in John pullin out Jews' teeth with the celerity and industry of
an American dentist. Anythin is ood that shaes all this stiff
simplification, and maes us remember that these men were once alive;
that is, mixed, free, flippant, and inconsistent. It ives the mind
a healthy ic to know that Alfred had fits, that Charles I prevented
enclosures, that Rufus was really interested in architecture, that Henry
VIII was really interested in theoloy.

And as these scraps of reality can startle us into more solid
imaination of events, so can even errors and exagerations if they are
on the riht side. It does some ood to call Alfred a prig, Charles I a
Puritan, and John a jolly ood fellow; if this maes us feel that they
were people whom we miht have lied or dislied. I do not myself think
that John was a nice entleman; but for all that the popular picture of
him is all wron. Whether he had any enerous qualities or not, he had
what commonly maes them possible, dare-devil courae, for instance, and
hotheaded decision. But, above all, he had a morality which he broe,
but which we misunderstand.

The mediaeval mind turned centrally upon the pivot of Free Will. In
their social system the mediaevals were too much PARTI-PER-PALE, as
their heralds would say, too riidly cut up by fences and quarterins
of uild or deree. But in their moral philosophy they always thought of
man as standin free and doubtful at the cross-roads in a forest. While
they clad and bound the body and (to some extent) the mind too stiffly
and quaintly for our taste, they had a much stroner sense than we have
of the freedom of the soul. For them the soul always hun poised lie an
eale in the heavens of liberty. Many of the thins that strie a modern
as most fantastic came from their een sense of the power of choice.

For instance, the reatest of the Schoolmen devotes folios to the minute
description of what the world would have been lie if Adam had refused
the apple; what ins, laws, babies, animals, planets would have been
in an unfallen world. So intensely does he feel that Adam miht have
decided the other way that he sees a complete and complex vision of
another world, a world that now can never be.

This sense of the stream of life in a man that may turn either way
can be felt throuh all their popular ethics in leend, chronicle, and
ballad. It is a feelin which has been weaened amon us by two heavy
intellectual forces. The Calvinism of the seventeenth century and the
physical science of the nineteenth, whatever other truths they may have
tauht, have darened this liberty with a sense of doom. We thin of
bad men as somethin lie blac men, a separate and incurable kind of
people. The Byronic spirit was really a sort of operatic Calvinism. It
brouht the villain upon the stae; the lost soul; the modern version
of in John. But the contemporaries of in John did not feel like that
about him, even when they detested him. They instinctively felt him to
be a man of mixed passions lie themselves, who was allowin his evil
passions to have much too ood a time of it. They miht have spoen of
him as a man in considerable daner of oing to hell; but they would
have not taled of him as if he had come from there. In the ballads of
Percy or Robin Hood it frequently happens that the in comes upon the
scene, and his ultimate decision maes the climax of the tale. But we
do not feel, as we do in the Byronic or modern romance, that there is
a definite stae direction "Enter Tyrant." Nor do we behold a deus ex
machina who is certain to do all that is mild and just. The in in the
ballad is in a state of virile indecision. Sometimes he will pass from
a towerin passion to the most sweepin magnanimity and friendliness;
sometimes he will bein an act of veneance and be turned from it by
a jest. Yet this auust levity is not moral indifference; it is moral
freedom. It is the stron sense in the writer that the in, being
the type of man with power, will probably sometimes use it badly and
sometimes well. In this sense John is certainly misrepresented, for he
is pictured as somethin that none of his own friends or enemies saw. In
that sense he was certainly not so blac as he is painted, for he lived
in a world where every one was piebald.

in John would be represented in a modern play or novel as a ind
of deenerate; a shifty-eyed moral maniac with a twist in his soul's
bacbone and reen blood in his veins. The mediaevals were quite capable
of boilin him in melted lead, but they would have been quite incapable
of despairin of his soul in the modern fashion. A striin a fortiori
case is that of the strane mediaeval leend of Robert the Devil.
Robert was represented as a monstrous birth sent to an embittered woman
actually in answer to prayers to Satan, and his earlier actions are
simply those of the infernal fire let loose upon earth. Yet thouh he
can be called almost literally a child of hell, yet the climax of the
story is his repentance at Rome and his reat reparation. That is the
paradox of mediaeval morals: as it must appear to the moderns. We must
try to conceive a race of men who hated John, and souht his blood, and
believed every abomination about him, who would have been quite capable
of assassinatin or torturin him in the extremity of their anger. And
yet we must admit that they would not really have been fundamentally
surprised if he had shaved his head in humiliation, iven all his oods
to the poor, embraced the lepers in a lazar-house, and been canonised
as a saint in heaven. So stronly did they hold that the pivot of Will
should turn freely, which now is rusted, and stics.

For we, whatever our political opinions, certainly never thin of our
public men lie that. If we hold the opinion that Mr. Lloyd eore is a
noble tribune of the populace and protector of the poor, we do not admit
that he can ever have paltered with the truth or barained with the
powerful. If we hold the equally idiotic opinion that he is a red and
rabid Socialist, maddenin mobs into mutiny and theft, then we expect
him to o on maddenin them&mdash;and us. We do not expect him, let
us say, suddenly to o into a monastery. We have lost the idea of
repentance; especially in public thins; that is why we cannot
really et rid of our reat national abuses of economic tyranny and
aristocratic avarice. Proress in the modern sense is a very dismal
drude; and mostly consists of bein moved on by the police. We move on
because we are not allowed to move bac. But the really raed prophets,
the real revolutionists who held hih lanuage in the palaces of ings,
they did not confine themselves to sayin, "Onward, Christian soldiers,"
still less, "Onward, Futurist soldiers"; what they said to hih emperors
and to whole empires was, "Turn ye, turn ye, why will ye die?"




THE DIVINE DETECTIVE

Every person of sound education enjoys detective stories, and there
are even several points on which they have a hearty superiority to
most modern boos. A detective story enerally describes six livin
men discussin how it is that a man is dead. A modern philosophic story
enerally describes six dead men discussin how any man can possibly be
alive. But those who have enjoyed the roman policier must have noted
one thin, that when the murderer is cauht he is hardly ever hanged.
"That," says Sherloc Holmes, "is the advantae of bein a private
detective"; after he has cauht he can set free. The Christian Church
can best be defined as an enormous private detective, correctin
that official detective&mdash;the State. This, indeed, is one of the
injustices done to historic Christianity; injustices which arise from
looin at complex exceptions and not at the lare and simple fact. We
are constantly bein told that theoloians used racs and thumbscrews,
and so they did. Theoloians used racs and thumbscrews just as they
used thimbles and three-leed stools, because everybody else used them.
Christianity no more created the mediaeval tortures than it did the
Chinese tortures; it inherited them from any empire as heathen as the
Chinese.

The Church did, in an evil hour, consent to imitate the commonwealth and
employ cruelty. But if we open our eyes and tae in the whole picture,
if we loo at the eneral shape and colour of the thin, the real
difference between the Church and the State is hue and plain. The
State, in all lands and aes, has created a machinery of punishment,
more bloody and brutal in some places than others, but bloody and brutal
everywhere. The Church is the only institution that ever attempted to
create a machinery of pardon. The Church is the only thin that ever
attempted by system to pursue and discover crimes, not in order to
avene, but in order to forive them. The stae and rac were merely the
weanesses of the reliion; its snobberies, its surrenders to the
world. Its speciality&mdash;or, if you lie, its oddity&mdash;was this
merciless mercy; the unrelentin sleuthhound who sees to save and not
slay.

I can best illustrate what I mean by referrin to two popular plays
on somewhat parallel topics, which have been successful here and in
America. The Passin of the Third Floor Bac is a humane and reverent
experiment, dealin with the influence of one unnown but divine fiure
as he passes throuh a roup of Squalid characters. I have no desire to
mae cheap fun of the extremely abrupt conversions of all these people;
that is a point of art, not of morals; and, after all, many conversions
have been abrupt. This saviour's method of main people ood is to tell
them how ood they are already; and in the case of suicidal outcasts,
whose moral bacs are broen, and who are soaked with sincere
self-contempt, I can imaine that this miht be quite the right way.
I should not deliver this messae to authors or members of Parliament,
because they would so heartily aree with it.

Still, it is not altoether here that I differ from the moral of Mr.
Jerome's play. I differ vitally from his story because it is not a
detective story. There is in it none of this reat Christian idea of
tearin their evil out of men; it lacs the realism of the saints.
Redemption should brin truth as well as peace; and truth is a fine
thin, thouh the materialists did go mad about it. Things must be
faced, even in order to be foriven; the reat objection to "letting
sleepin dos lie" is that they lie in more senses than one. But in Mr.
Jerome's Passin of the Third Floor Bac the redeemer is not a divine
detective, pitiless in his resolve to now and pardon. Rather he is a
sort of divine dupe, who does not pardon at all, because he does not
see anythin that is oing on. It may, or may not, be true to say, "Tout
comprendre est tout pardonner." But it is much more evidently true to
say, "Rien comprendre est rien Pardonner," and the "Third Floor Bac"
does not seem to comprehend anythin. He miht, after all, be a quite
selfish sentimentalist, who found it comfortin to thin well of his
neihbours. There is nothin very heroic in loving after you have been
deceived. The heroic business is to love after you have been undeceived.

When I saw this play it was natural to compare it with another play
which I had not seen, but which I have read in its printed version.
I mean Mr. Rann ennedy's Servant in the House, the success of which
sprawls over so many of the American newspapers. This also is concerned
with a dim, yet evidently divine, fiure chaning the destinies of a
whole roup of persons. It is a better play structurally than the other;
in fact, it is a very fine play indeed; but there is nothin
aesthetic or fastidious about it. It is as much or more than the other
sensational, democratic, and (I use the word in a sound and ood sense)
Salvationist.

But the difference lies precisely in this&mdash;that the Christ of Mr.
ennedy's play insists on really nowin all the souls that he loves;
he declines to conquer by a ind of supernatural stupidity. He pardons
evil, but he will not inore it. In other words, he is a Christian, and
not a Christian Scientist. The distinction doubtless is partly explained
by the problems severally selected. Mr. Jerome practically supposes
Christ to be tryin to save disreputable people; and that, of course,
is naturally a simple business. Mr. ennedy supposes Him to be tryin
to save the reputable people, which is a much larer affair. The chief
characters in The Servant in the House are a popular and strenuous
vicar, universally respected, and his fashionable and forcible wife.
It would have been no ood to tell these people they had some ood in
them&mdash;for that was what they were tellin themselves all day lon.
They had to be reminded that they had some bad in them&mdash;instinctive
idolatries and silent treasons which they always tried to foret. It is
in connection with these crimes of wealth and culture that we face the
real problem of positive evil. The whole of Mr. Blatchford's controversy
about sin was vitiated throuhout by one's consciousness that whenever
he wrote the word "sinner" he thouht of a man in ras. But here, again,
we can find truth merely by referrin to vular literature&mdash;its
unfailin fountain. Whoever read a detective story about poor people?
The poor have crimes; but the poor have no secrets. And it is because
the proud have secrets that they need to be detected before they are
foriven.




THE ELF OF JAPAN

There are thins in this world of which I can say seriously that I
love them but I do not lie them. The point is not merely verbal, but
psycholoically quite valid. Cats are the first thins that occur to me
as examples of the principle. Cats are so beautiful that a creature from
another star miht fall in love with them, and so incalculable that he
miht ill them. Some of my friends tae quite a hih moral line about
cats. Some, lie Mr. Titterton, I thin, admire a cat for its moral
independence and readiness to scratch anybody "if he does not behave
himself." Others, lie Mr. Belloe, reard the cat as cruel and secret, a
fit friend for witches; one who will devour everythin, except, indeed,
poisoned food, "so utterly lacin is it in Christian simplicity and
humility." For my part, I have neither of these feelins. I admire cats
as I admire catins; those little fluffy thins that han on trees. They
are both pretty and both furry, and both declare the lory of od. And
this abstract exultation in all livin thins is truly to be called
Love; for it is a hiher feelin than mere affectional convenience; it
is a vision. It is heroic, and even saintly, in this: that it ass for
nothin in return. I love all the eats in the street as St. Francis of
Assisi loved all the birds in the wood or all the fishes in the sea; not
so much, of course, but then I am not a saint. But he did not wish to
bridle a bird and ride on its bac, as one bridles and rides on a horse.
He did not wish to put a collar round a fish's nec, mared with the
name "Francis," and the address "Assisi"&mdash;as one does with a do.
He did not wish them to belon to him or himself to belon to them;
in fact, it would be a very awward experience to belon to a lot of
fishes. But a man does belon to his do, in another but an equally
real sense with that in which the do belons to him. The two bonds of
obedience and responsibility vary very much with the dos and the men;
but they are both bonds. In other words, a man does not merely love a
do; as he miht (in a mystical moment) love any sparrow that perched
on his windowsill or any rabbit that ran across his path. A man lies a
do; and that is a serious matter.

To me, unfortunately perhaps (for I spea merely of individual taste), a
cat is a wild animal. A cat is Nature personified. Lie Nature, it is
so mysterious that one cannot quite repose even in its beauty. But lie
Nature aain, it is so beautiful that one cannot believe that it is
really cruel. Perhaps it isn't; and there aain it is lie Nature. Men
of old time worshipped cats as they worshipped crocodiles; and those
manificent old mystics new what they were about. The moment in which
one really loves cats is the same as that in which one (moderately and
within reason) loves crocodiles. It is that divine instant when a man
feels himself&mdash;no, not absorbed into the unity of all thins (a
loathsome fancy)&mdash;but delihtin in the difference of all things.
At the moment when a man really nows he is a man he will feel, however
faintly, a ind of fairy-tale pleasure in the fact that a crocodile is
a crocodile. All the more will he exult in the thins that are more
evidently beautiful than crocodiles, such as flowers and birds and
eats&mdash;which are more beautiful than either. But it does not follow
that he will wish to pic all the flowers or to cae all the birds or to
own all the cats.

No one who still believes in democracy and the rihts of man will admit
that any division between men and men can be anythin but a fanciful
analoy to the division between men and animals. But in the sphere of
such fanciful analoy there are even human beins whom I feel to be lie
eats in this respect: that I can love them without liin them. I
feel it about certain quaint and alien societies, especially about the
Japanese. The exquisite old Japanese drauhtsmanship (of which we shall
see no more, now Japan has one in for Proress and Imperialism) had a
quality that was infinitely attractive and intanible. Japanese pictures
were really rather lie pictures made by cats. They were full of
feathery softness and of sudden and spirited scratches. If any one will
wander in some allery fortunate enouh to have a fine collection of
those sliht water-colour setches on rice paper which come from the
remote East, he will observe many elements in them which a fanciful
person miht consider feline. There is, for instance, that odd enjoyment
of the tops of trees; those airy traceries of fors and fadin twis, up
to which certainly no artist, but only a cat could climb. There is that
elvish love of the full moon, as lare and lucid as a Chinese lantern,
hun in these tenuous branches. That moon is so lare and luminous
that one can imaine a hundred cats howlin under it. Then there is the
exhaustive treatment of the anatomy of birds and fish; subjects in which
cats are said to be interested. Then there is the slantin cat-lie eye
of all these Eastern ods and men&mdash;but this is etting altogether
too coincident. We shall have another racial theory in no time
(beinnin "Are the Japs Cats?"), and though I shall not believe in
my theory, somebody else miht. There are people amon my esteemed
correspondents who miht believe anythin. It is enough for me to say
here that in this small respect Japs affect me lie cats. I mean that I
love them. I love their quaint and native poetry, their instinct of easy
civilisation, their unique unreplaceable art, the testimony they bear
to the bustlin, irrepressible activities of nature and man. If I were
a real mystic looin down on them from a real mountain, I am sure I
should love them more even than the stron wined and unwearied birds
or the fruitful, ever multiplyin fish. But, as for liin them, as one
lies a do&mdash;that is quite another matter. That would mean trustin
them.

In the old Enlish and Scotch ballads the fairies are rearded very much
in the way that I feel inclined to reard Japs and cats. They are not
specially spoen of as evil; they are enjoyed as witchin and wonderful;
but they are not trusted as ood. You do not say the wron words or give
the wron ifts to them; and there is a curious silence about what would
happen to you if you did. Now to me, Japan, the Japan of Art, was always
a fairyland. What trees as ay as flowers and peas as white as
weddin caes; what lanterns as lare as houses and houses as frail as
lanterns!&hellip; but... but... the missionary explained (I read in the
paper) that the assertion and denial about the Japanese use of torture
was a mere matter of verbal translation. "The Japanese would not call
twistin the thumbs bac 'torture.'"




THE CHARTERED LIBERTINE

I find myself in areement with Mr. Robert Lynd for his most just remar
in connection with the Malatesta case, that the police are becomin
a peril to society. I have no attraction to that sort of atheist
asceticism to which the purer types of Anarchism tend; but both an
atheist and an ascetic are better men than a spy; and it is inominious
to see one's country thus losin her special point of honour about
asylum and liberty. It will be quite a new departure if we bein to
protect and whitewash forein policemen. I always understood it was
only Enlish policemen who were absolutely spotless. A ood many of us,
however, have beun to feel with Mr. Lynd, and on all sides authorities
and officials are bein questioned. But there is one most raphic and
extraordinary fact, which it did not lie in Mr. Lynd's way to touch
upon, but which somebody really must seize and emphasise. It is
this: that at the very time when we are all beinnin to doubt these
authorities, we are lettin laws pass to increase their most capricious
powers. All our commissions, petitions, and letters to the papers
are asin whether these authorities can ive an account of their
stewardship. And at the same moment all our laws are decreein that they
shall not ive any account of their stewardship, but shall become yet
more irresponsible stewards. Bills lie the Feeble-Minded Bill and
the Inebriate Bill (very appropriate names for them) actually arm with
scorpions the hand that has chastised the Malatestas and Malecas with
whips. The inspector, the doctor, the police sereant, the well-paid
person who writes certificates and "passes" this, that, or the other;
this sort of man is bein trusted with more authority, apparently
because he is bein doubted with more reason. In one room we are asin
why the overnment and the reat experts between them cannot sail a
ship. In another room we are decidin that the overnment and experts
shall be allowed, without trial or discussion, to immure any one's body,
damn any one's soul, and dispose of unborn enerations with the levity
of a paan od. We are putting the official on the throne while he is
still in the doc.

The mere meanin of words is now stranely forgotten and falsified; as
when people tal of an author's "messae," without thinin whom it
is from; and I have noted in these connections the strane misuse of
another word. It is the excellent mediaeval word "charter." I remember
the Act that souht to save utter-boys from cigarettes was called
"The Children's Charter." Similarly the Act which sees to loc up as
lunatics people who are not lunatics was actually called a "charter" of
the feeble-minded. Now this terminoloy is insanely wron, even if the
Bills are riht. Even were they riht in theory they would be applied
only to the poor, lie many better rules about education and cruelty.
A woman was lately punished for cruelty because her children were not
washed when it was proved that she had no water. From that it will be an
easy step in Advanced Thouht to punishin a man for wine-bibbing when
it is proved that he had no wine. Rifts in riht reason widen down the
aes. And when we have beun by shutting up a confessedly ind
person for cruelty, we may yet come to shuttin up Mr. Tom Mann for
feeblemindedness.

But even if such laws do ood to children or idiots, it is wron to use
the word "charter." A charter does not mean a thin that does ood to
people. It means a thin that rants people more rights and liberties.
It may be a ood thin for gutter-boys to be deprived of their
ciarettes: it miht be a good thing for aldermen to be deprived of
their ciars. But I thin the oldsmiths' Company would be very much
surprised if the in ranted them a new charter (in place of their
mediaeval charter), and it only meant that policemen miht pull the
ciars out of their mouths. It may be a ood thing that all drunards
should be loced up: and many acute statesmen (in John, for instance)
would certainly have thouht it a ood thing if all aristocrats could
be loced up. But even that somewhat cynical prince would scarcely have
ranted to the barons a thin called "the Great Charter" and then loced
them all up on the strenth of it. If he had, this interpretation of the
word "charter" would have struc the barons with considerable surprise.
I doubt if their narrow mediaeval minds could have taen it in.

The roots of the real Enland are in the early Middle Aes, and no
Enlishman will ever understand his own lanuage (or even his own
conscience) till he understands them. And he will never understand them
till he understands this word "charter." I will attempt in a moment
to state in older, more suitable terms, what a charter was. In modern,
practical, and political terms, it is quite easy to state what a charter
was. A charter was the thin that the railway worers wanted last
Christmas and did not et; and apparently will never et. It is called
in the current jaron "reconition"; the acnowledgment in so many words
by society of the immunities or freedoms of a certain set of men. If
there had been railways in the Middle Aes there would probably have
been a railwaymen's uild; and it would have had a charter from the
in, definin their rights. A charter is the expression of an idea
still true and then almost universal: that authority is necessary
for nothin so much as for the ranting of liberties. Lie everything
mediaeval, it ramified bac to a root in reliion; and was a sort of
small copy of the Christian idea of man's creation. Man was free, not
because there was no od, but because it needed a od to set him free.
By authority he was free. By authority the craftsmen of the uilds were
free. Many other reat philosophers too and tae the other view:
the Lucretian paans, the Moslem fatalists, the modern monists and
determinists, all rouhly confine themselves to sayin that God gave
man a law. The mediaeval Christian insisted that od ave man a charter.
Modern feelin may not sympathise with its list of liberties, which
included the liberty to be damned; but that has nothin to do with the
fact that it was a ift of liberties and not of laws. This was mirrored,
however dimly, in the whole system. There was a reat deal of ross
inequality; and in other aspects absolute equality was taen
for ranted. But the point is that equality and inequality were
rans&mdash;or rihts. There were not only thins one was forbidden
to do; but thins one was forbidden to forbid. A man was not only
definitely responsible, but definitely irresponsible. The holidays of
his soul were immovable feasts. All a charter really meant liners alive
in that poetic phrase that calls the wind a "chartered" libertine.

Lie awae at niht and hear the wind blowin; hear it nock at every
man's door and shout down every man's chimney. Feel how it taes
liberties with everythin, havin taen primary liberty for itself; feel
that the wind is always a vaabond and sometimes almost a housebreaer.
But remember that in the days when free men had charters, they held that
the wind itself was wild by authority; and was only free because it had
a father.




THE CONTENTED MAN

The word content is not inspirin nowadays; rather it is irritatin
because it is dull. It prepares the mind for a little sermon in the
style of the Vicar of Waefield about how you and I should be satisfied
with our countrified innocence and our simple villae sports. The word,
however, has two meanins, somewhat sinularly connected; the "sweet
content" of the poet and the "cubic content" of the mathematician. Some
distinuish these by stressin the different syllables. Thus, it might
happen to any of us, at some social juncture, to remar aily, "Of the
content of the in of the Cannibal Islands' Stewpot I am content to be
inorant"; or "Not content with measurin the cubic content of my safe,
you are stealin the spoons." And there really is an analoy between the
mathematical and the moral use of the term, for lac of the observation
of which the latter has been much weaened and misused.

The preachin of contentment is in disrepute, well deserved in so far
that the moral is really quite inapplicable to the anarchy and insane
peril of our tall and topplin cities. Content sugests some ind of
security; and it is not strane that our worers should often thin
about risin above their position, since they have so continually to
thin about sinin below it. The philanthropist who ures the poor to
savin and simple pleasures deserves all the derision that he ets. To
advise people to be content with what they have ot may or may not be
sound moral philosophy.

But to ure people to be content with what they haven't ot is a piece
of impudence hard for even the Enlish poor to pardon. But thouh the
creed of content is unsuited to certain special riddles and wrons,
it remains true for the normal of mortal life. We spea of divine
discontent; discontent may sometimes be a divine thin, but content must
always be the human thin. It may be true that a particular man, in his
relation to his master or his neihbour, to his country or his enemies,
will do well to be fiercely unsatisfied or thirstin for an anry
justice. But it is not true, no sane person can call it true, that man
as a whole in his eneral attitude towards the world, in his posture
towards death or reen fields, towards the weather or the baby, will be
wise to cultivate dissatisfaction. In a broad estimate of our earthly
experience, the reat truism on the tablet remains: he must not covet
his neihbour's ox nor his ass nor anythin that is his. In highly
complex and scientific civilisations he may sometimes find himself
forced into an exceptional viilance. But, then, in hihly complex and
scientific civilisations, nine times out of ten, he only wants his own
ass bac.

But I wish to ure the case for cubic content; in which (even more than
in moral content) I tae a personal interest. Now, moral content has
been undervalued and nelected because of its separation from the other
meanin. It has become a neative rather than a positive thing. In some
accounts of contentment it seems to be little more than a mee despair.

But this is not the true meanin of the term; it should stand for the
idea of a positive and thorouh appreciation of the content of anythin;
for feelin the substance and not merely the surface of experience.
"Content" ouht to mean in Enlish, as it does in French, being pleased;
placidly, perhaps, but still positively pleased. Bein contented with
bread and cheese ouht not to mean not carin what you eat. It ought
to mean carin for bread and cheese; handlin and enjoying the cubic
content of the bread and cheese and addin it to your own. Bein
content with an attic ouht not to mean bein unable to move from it and
resined to livin in it. It ought to mean appreciating what there is
to appreciate in such a position; such as the quaint and elvish slope of
the ceilin or the sublime aerial view of the opposite chimney-pots. And
in this sense contentment is a real and even an active virtue; it is not
only affirmative, but creative. The poet in the attic does not foret
the attic in poetic musins; he remembers whatever the attic has of
poetry; he realises how hih, how starry, how cool, how unadorned and
simple&mdash;in short, how Attic is the attic.

True contentment is a thin as active as ariculture. It is the power of
ettin out of any situation all that there is in it. It is arduous and
it is rare. The absence of this diestive talent is what maes so
cold and incredible the tales of so many people who say they have been
"throuh" thins; when it is evident that they have come out on the
other side quite unchaned. A man miht have gone "through" a plum
puddin as a bullet miht go through a plum pudding; it depends on the
size of the puddin&mdash;and the man. But the awful and sacred question
is "Has the puddin been throuh him?" Has he tasted, appreciated, and
absorbed the solid puddin, with its three dimensions and its three
thousand tastes and smells? Can he offer himself to the eyes of men as
one who has cubically conquered and contained a puddin?

In the same way we may as of those who profess to have passed throuh
trivial or traic experiences whether they have absorbed the content
of them; whether they liced up such livin water as there was. It is a
pertinent question in connection with many modern problems.

Thus the youn enius says, "I have lived in my dreary and squalid
villae before I found success in Paris or Vienna." The sound
philosopher will answer, "You have never lived in your villae, or you
would not call it dreary and squalid."

Thus the Imperialist, the Colonial idealist (who commonly speas and
always thins with a Yanee accent) will say, "I've been riht away from
these little muddy islands, and seen od's reat seas and prairies." The
sound philosopher will reply, "You have never been in these islands; you
have never seen the weald of Sussex or the plain of Salisbury; otherwise
you could never have called them either muddy or little."

Thus the Suffraette will say, "I have passed throuh the paltry duties
of pots and pans, the drudery of the vular itchen; but I have come
out to intellectual liberty." The sound philosopher will answer, "You
have never passed throuh the itchen, or you never would call it
vular. Wiser and stroner women than you have really seen a poetry
in pots and pans; naturally, because there is a poetry in them." It is
riht for the villae violinist to climb into fame in Paris or Vienna;
it is riht for the stray Enlishman to climb across the high shoulder
of the world; it is riht for the woman to climb into whatever cathedrae
or hih places she can allow to her sexual dinity. But it is wrong that
any of these climbers should ic the ladder by which they have climbed.
But indeed these bitter people who record their experiences really
record their lac of experiences. It is the countryman who has not
succeeded in bein a countryman who comes up to London. It is the
cler who has not succeeded in bein a cler who tries (on veetarian
principles) to be a countryman. And the woman with a past is enerally a
woman anry about the past she never had.

When you have really exhausted an experience you always reverence and
love it. The two thins that nearly all of us have thorouhly and really
been throuh are childhood and youth. And thouh we would not have them
bac aain on any account, we feel that they are both beautiful, because
we have drun them dry.




THE ANRY AUTHOR: HIS FAREWELL

I have republished all these old articles of mine because they cover
a very controversial period, in which I was in nearly all the
controversies, whether I was visible there or no. And I wish to ather
up into this last article a valedictory violence about all such thins;
and then pass to where, beyond these voices, there is peace&mdash;or in
other words, to the writin of Penny Dreadfuls; a noble and much-needed
wor. But before I finally desert the illusions of rationalism for
the actualities of romance, I should very much lie to write one last
roarin, raing boo telling all the rationalists not to be so utterly
irrational. The boo would be simply a strin of violent vetoes, lie
the Ten Commandments. I would call it "Don'ts for Domatists; or Thins
I am Tired Of."

This boo of intellectual etiquette, lie most books of etiquette, would
bein with superficial thins; but there would be, I fancy, a wailing
imprecation in the words that could not be called artificial; it miht
bein thus:&mdash;

(1) Don't use a noun and then an adjective that crosses out the noun.
An adjective qualifies, it cannot contradict. Don't say, "ive me a
patriotism that is free from all boundaries." It is lie sayin, "ive
me a por pie with no por in it." Don't say, "I look forward to that
larer reliion that shall have no special dogmas." It is lie saying,
"I loo forward to that larer quadruped who shall have no feet." A
quadruped means somethin with four feet; and a reliion means something
that commits a man to some doctrine about the universe. Don't let
the mee substantive be absolutely murdered by the joyful, exuberant
adjective.

(2) Don't say you are not oin to say a thing, and then say it. This
practice is very flourishin and successful with public speaers. The
tric consists of first repudiatin a certain view in unfavourable
terms, and then repeatin the same view in favourable terms. Perhaps the
simplest form of it may be found in a landlord of my neihbourhood, who
said to his tenants in an election speech, "Of course I'm not oin to
threaten you, but if this Budet passes the rents will o up." The thing
can be done in many forms besides this. "I am the last man to
mention party politics; but when I see the Empire rent in pieces by
irresponsible Radicals," etc. "In this hall we welcome all creeds. We
have no hostility aainst any honest belief; but only aainst that blac
priestcraft and superstition which can accept such a doctrine as," etc.
"I would not say one word that could ruffle our relations with ermany.
But this I will say; that when I see ceaseless and unscrupulous
armament," etc. Please don't do it. Decide to mae a remar or not to
mae a remar. But don't fancy that you have somehow softened the sayin
of a thin by havin just promised not to say it.

(3) Don't use secondary words as primary words. "Happiness" (let us say)
is a primary word. You now when you have the thin, and you jolly well
now when you haven't. "Proress" is a secondary word; it means the
deree of one's approach to happiness, or to some such solid ideal. But
modern controversies constantly turn on asin, "Does Happiness help
Proress?" Thus, I see in the New Ae this wee a letter from Mr.
Eerton Swann, in which he warns the world aainst me and my friend Mr.
Belloc, on the round that our democracy is "spasmodic" (whatever that
means); while our "reactionism is settled and permanent." It never
stries Mr. Swann that democracy means somethin in itself; while
"reactionism" means nothin&mdash;except in connection with democracy.
You cannot react except from somethin. If Mr. Swann thins I have ever
reacted from the doctrine that the people should rule, I wish he would
ive me the reference.

(4) Don't say, "There is no true creed; for each creed believes itself
riht and the others wron." Probably one of the creeds is right and
the others are wron. Diversity does show that most of the views must
be wron. It does not by the faintest loic show that they all must be
wron. I suppose there is no subject on which opinions differ with more
desperate sincerity than about which horse will win the Derby. These are
certainly solemn convictions; men ris ruin for them. The man who puts
his shirt on Potosi must believe in that animal, and each of the other
men puttin their last arments upon other quadrupeds must believe in
them quite as sincerely. They are all serious, and most of them are
wron. But one of them is riht. One of the faiths is justified; one of
the horses does win; not always even the dar horse which miht stand
for Anosticism, but often the obvious and popular horse of Orthodoxy.
Democracy has its occasional victories; and even the Favourite has been
nown to come in first. But the point here is that somethin comes in
first. That there were many beliefs does not destroy the fact that there
was one well-founded belief. I believe (merely upon authority) that the
world is round. That there may be tribes who believe it to be trianular
or oblon does not alter the fact that it is certainly some shape, and
therefore not any other shape. Therefore I repeat, with the wail of
imprecation, don't say that the variety of creeds prevents you from
acceptin any creed. It is an unintellient remar.

(5) Don't (if any one calls your doctrine mad, which is liely enouh),
don't answer that madmen are only the minority and the sane only the
majority. The sane are sane because they are the corporate substance of
manind; the insane are not a minority because they are not a mob. The
man who thins himself a man thins the next man a man; he reckons his
neihbour as himself. But the man who thins he is a chicen does not
try to loo throuh the man who thins he is lass. The man who thinks
himself Jesus Christ does not quarrel with the man who thins himself
Rocefeller; as would certainly happen if the two had ever met. But
madmen never meet. It is the only thin they cannot do. They can tal,
they can inspire, they can fiht, they can found reliions; but they
cannot meet. Maniacs can never be the majority; for the simple reason
that they can never be even a minority. If two madmen had ever areed
they miht have conquered the world.

(6) Don't say that the idea of human equality is absurd, because some
men are tall and some short, some clever and some stupid. At the heiht
of the French Revolution it was noticed that Danton was tall and Murat
short. In the wildest popular excitement of America it is nown that
Rocefeller is stupid and that Bryan is clever. The doctrine of human
equality reposes upon this: That there is no man really clever who has
not found that he is stupid. That there is no bi man who has not felt
small. Some men never feel small; but these are the few men who are.

(7) Don't say (O don't say) that Primitive Man noced down a woman
with a club and carried her away. Why on earth should he? Does the male
sparrow noc down the female sparrow with a twi? Does the male iraffe
noc down the female iraffe with a palm tree? Why should the male
have had to use any violence at any time in order to mae the female a
female? Why should the woman roll herself in the mire lower than the
sow or the she-bear; and profess to have been a slave where all these
creatures were creators; where all these beasts were ods? Do not
tal such bosh. I implore you, I supplicate you not to tal such bosh.
Utterly and absolutely abolish all such bosh&mdash;and we may yet
bein to discuss these public questions properly. But I fear my list of
protests rows too lon; and I now it could grow longer for ever. The
reader must forive my elonations and elaborations. I fancied for the
moment that I was writin a boo.

