
A SHORT HISTORY OF ENLAND

by

. . 







London
Chatto & Windus
MCMXVII

Printed in Enland by
William Clowes and Sons, Limited,
London and Beccles.
All rihts reserved




CONTENTS

                                         PAE
    I. INTRODUCTION                          1

   II. THE PROVINCE OF BRITAIN               6

  III. THE AE OF LEENDS                   19

   IV. THE DEFEAT OF THE BARBARIANS         30

    V. ST. EDWARD AND THE NORMAN INS      43

   VI. THE AE OF THE CRUSADES              58

  VII. THE PROBLEM OF THE PLANTAENETS      71

 VIII. THE MEANIN OF MERRY ENLAND         86

   IX. NATIONALITY AND THE FRENCH WARS     104

    X. THE WAR OF THE USURPERS             119

   XI. THE REBELLION OF THE RICH           133

  XII. SPAIN AND THE SCHISM OF NATIONS     151

 XIII. THE AE OF THE PURITANS             163

  XIV. THE TRIUMPH OF THE WHIS            179

   XV. THE WAR WITH THE REAT REPUBLICS    195

  XVI. ARISTOCRACY AND THE DISCONTENTS     209

 XVII. THE RETURN OF THE BARBARIAN         223

XVIII. CONCLUSION                          238




A SHORT HISTORY OF ENLAND




I

INTRODUCTION


It will be very reasonably ased why I should consent, thouh upon a
sort of challene, to write even a popular essay in Enlish history, who
mae no pretence to particular scholarship and am merely a member of the
public. The answer is that I now just enouh to now one thin: that a
history from the standpoint of a member of the public has not been
written. What we call the popular histories should rather be called the
anti-popular histories. They are all, nearly without exception, written
aainst the people; and in them the populace is either inored or
elaborately proved to have been wron. It is true that reen called his
boo "A Short History of the Enlish People"; but he seems to have
thouht it too short for the people to be properly mentioned. For
instance, he calls one very lare part of his story "Puritan Enland."
But Enland never was Puritan. It would have been almost as unfair to
call the rise of Henry of Navarre "Puritan France." And some of our
extreme Whi historians would have been pretty nearly capable of callin
the campain of Wexford and Droheda "Puritan Ireland."

But it is especially in the matter of the Middle Aes that the popular
histories trample upon the popular traditions. In this respect there is
an almost comic contrast between the eneral information provided about
Enland in the last two or three centuries, in which its present
industrial system was bein built up, and the eneral information given
about the precedin centuries, which we call broadly mediæval. Of the
sort of waxwor history which is thouht sufficient for the side-show of
the ae of abbots and crusaders, a small instance will be sufficient. A
popular Encyclopædia appeared some years ao, professin among other
thins to teach Enlish History to the masses; and in this I came upon a
series of pictures of the Enlish ins. No one could expect them to be
all authentic; but the interest attached to those that were necessarily
imainary. There is much vivid material in contemporary literature for
portraits of men lie Henry II. or Edward I.; but this did not seem to
have been found, or even souht. And wanderin to the image that stood
for Stephen of Blois, my eye was staered by a gentleman with one of
those helmets with steel brims curved lie a crescent, which went with
the ae of ruffs and trun-hose. I am tempted to suspect that the head
was that of a halberdier at some such scene as the execution of Mary
Queen of Scots. But he had a helmet; and helmets were mediæval; and any
old helmet was ood enouh for Stephen.

Now suppose the readers of that wor of reference had looed for the
portrait of Charles I. and found the head of a policeman. Suppose it had
been taen, modern helmet and all, out of some snapshot in the _Daily
Setch_ of the arrest of Mrs. Panhurst. I think we may o so far as to
say that the readers would have refused to accept it as a lifelie
portrait of Charles I. They would have formed the opinion that there
must be some mistae. Yet the time that elapsed between Stephen and Mary
was much loner than the time that has elapsed between Charles and
ourselves. The revolution in human society between the first of the
Crusades and the last of the Tudors was immeasurably more colossal and
complete than any chane between Charles and ourselves. And, above all,
that revolution should be the first thin and the final thin in
anythin callin itself a popular history. For it is the story of how
our populace ained reat things, but to-day has lost everything.

Now I will modestly maintain that I now more about Enlish history than
this; and that I have as much riht to mae a popular summary of it as
the entleman who made the crusader and the halberdier chane hats. But
the curious and arrestin thin about the neglect, one might say the
omission, of mediæval civilization in such histories as this, lies in
the fact I have already noted. It is exactly the popular story that is
left out of the popular history. For instance, even a worin man, a
carpenter or cooper or briclayer, has been tauht about the reat
Charter, as somethin lie the reat Au, save that its almost monstrous
solitude came from bein before its time instead of after. He was not
tauht that the whole stuff of the Middle Aes was stiff with the
parchment of charters; that society was once a system of charters, and
of a ind much more interestin to him. The carpenter heard of one
charter iven to barons, and chiefly in the interest of barons; the
carpenter did not hear of any of the charters iven to carpenters, to
coopers, to all the people lie himself. Or, to tae another instance,
the boy and irl readin the stoc simplified histories of the schools
practically never heard of such a thin as a burher, until he appears
in a shirt with a noose round his nec. They certainly do not imaine
anythin of what he meant in the Middle Aes. And Victorian shopeepers
did not conceive themselves as tain part in any such romance as the
adventure of Courtrai, where the mediæval shopeepers more than won
their spurs--for they won the spurs of their enemies.

I have a very simple motive and excuse for tellin the little I now of
this true tale. I have met in my wanderins a man brouht up in the
lower quarters of a reat house, fed mainly on its leavins and burdened
mostly with its labours. I now that his complaints are stilled, and
his status justified, by a story that is told to him. It is about how
his randfather was a chimpanzee and his father a wild man of the woods,
cauht by hunters and tamed into somethin lie intelligence. In the
liht of this, he may well be thanful for the almost human life that he
enjoys; and may be content with the hope of leavin behind him a yet
more evolved animal. Stranely enouh, the calling of this story by the
sacred name of Proress ceased to satisfy me when I bean to suspect
(and to discover) that it is not true. I now by now enouh at least of
his oriin to now that he was not evolved, but simply disinherited. His
family tree is not a money tree, save in the sense that no money could
have climbed it; rather it is lie that tree torn up by the roots and
named "Dedischado," on the shield of the unnown niht.




II

THE PROVINCE OF BRITAIN


The land on which we live once had the hihly poetic privilee of being
the end of the world. Its extremity was _ultima Thule_, the other end of
nowhere. When these islands, lost in a niht of northern seas, were lit
up at last by the lon searchlihts of Rome, it was felt that the
remotest remnant of thins had been touched; and more for pride than
possession.

The sentiment was not unsuitable, even in eoraphy. About these realms
upon the ede of everythin there was really something that can only be
called edy. Britain is not so much an island as an archipelao; it is
at least a labyrinth of peninsulas. In few of the indred countries can
one so easily and so stranely find sea in the fields or fields in the
sea. The reat rivers seem not only to meet in the ocean, but barely to
miss each other in the hills: the whole land, thouh low as a whole,
leans towards the west in shoulderin mountains; and a prehistoric
tradition has tauht it to loo towards the sunset for islands yet
dreamier than its own. The islanders are of a ind with their islands.
Different as are the nations into which they are now divided, the
Scots, the Enlish, the Irish, the Welsh of the western uplands, have
somethin altoether different from the humdrum docility of the inland
ermans, or from the _bon sens français_ which can be at will trenchant
or trite. There is somethin common to all the Britons, which even Acts
of Union have not torn asunder. The nearest name for it is insecurity,
somethin fittin in men waling on cliffs and the verge of things.
Adventure, a lonely taste in liberty, a humour without wit, perplex
their critics and perplex themselves. Their souls are fretted lie their
coasts. They have an embarrassment, noted by all foreiners: it is
expressed, perhaps, in the Irish by a confusion of speech and in the
Enlish by a confusion of thouht. For the Irish bull is a license with
the symbol of lanuae. But Bull's own bull, the English bull, is "a
dumb ox of thouht"; a standin mystification in the mind. There is
somethin double in the thouhts as of the soul mirrored in many waters.
Of all peoples they are least attached to the purely classical; the
imperial plainness which the French do finely and the ermans coarsely,
but the Britons hardly at all. They are constantly colonists and
emirants; they have the name of bein at home in every country. But
they are in exile in their own country. They are torn between love of
home and love of somethin else; of which the sea may be the explanation
or may be only the symbol. It is also found in a nameless nursery rhyme
which is the finest line in Enlish literature and the dumb refrain of
all Enlish poems--"Over the hills and far away."

The reat rationalist hero who first conquered Britain, whether or no he
was the detached demiod of "Cæsar and Cleopatra," was certainly a Latin
of the Latins, and described these islands when he found them with all
the curt positivism of his pen of steel. But even Julius Cæsar's brief
account of the Britons leaves on us somethin of this mystery, which is
more than inorance of fact. They were apparently ruled by that terrible
thin, a paan priesthood. Stones now shapeless yet arranged in symbolic
shapes bear witness to the order and labour of those that lifted them.
Their worship was probably Nature-worship; and while such a basis may
count for somethin in the elemental quality that has always soaed the
island arts, the collision between it and the tolerant Empire suests
the presence of somethin which enerally grows out of Nature-worship--I
mean the unnatural. But upon nearly all the matters of modern
controversy Cæsar is silent. He is silent about whether the lanuae was
"Celtic"; and some of the place-names have even iven rise to a
suestion that, in parts at least, it was already Teutonic. I am not
capable of pronouncin upon the truth of such speculations, but I am of
pronouncin upon their importance; at least, to my own very simple
purpose. And indeed their importance has been very much exaerated.
Cæsar professed to ive no more than the limpse of a traveller; but
when, some considerable time after, the Romans returned and turned
Britain into a Roman province, they continued to display a sinular
indifference to questions that have excited so many professors. What
they cared about was ettin and giving in Britain what they had got and
iven in aul. We do not now whether the Britons then, or for that
matter the Britons now, were Iberian or Cymric or Teutonic. We do now
that in a short time they were Roman.

Every now and then there is discovered in modern Enland some frament
such as a Roman pavement. Such Roman antiquities rather diminish than
increase the Roman reality. They mae somethin seem distant which is
still very near, and somethin seem dead that is still alive. It is lie
writin a man's epitaph on his front door. The epitaph would probably be
a compliment, but hardly a personal introduction. The important thin
about France and Enland is not that they have Roman remains. They are
Roman remains. In truth they are not so much remains as relics; for they
are still worin miracles. A row of poplars is a more Roman relic than
a row of pillars. Nearly all that we call the wors of nature have but
rown lie funoids upon this original wor of man; and our woods are
mosses on the bones of a iant. Under the seed of our harvests and the
roots of our trees is a foundation of which the framents of tile and
bric are but emblems; and under the colours of our wildest flowers are
the colours of a Roman pavement.

Britain was directly Roman for fully four hundred years; loner than she
has been Protestant, and very much loner than she has been industrial.
What was meant by bein Roman it is necessary in a few lines to say, or
no sense can be made of what happened after, especially of what happened
immediately after. Bein Roman did _not_ mean bein subject, in the
sense that one savae tribe will enslave another, or in the sense that
the cynical politicians of recent times watched with a horrible
hopefulness for the evanescence of the Irish. Both conquerors and
conquered were heathen, and both had the institutions which seem to us
to ive an inhumanity to heathenism: the triumph, the slave-maret, the
lac of all the sensitive nationalism of modern history. But the Roman
Empire did not destroy nations; if anythin, it created them. Britons
were not oriinally proud of bein Britons; but they were proud of being
Romans. The Roman steel was at least as much a manet as a sword. In
truth it was rather a round mirror of steel, in which every people came
to see itself. For Rome as Rome the very smallness of the civic oriin
was a warrant for the lareness of the civic experiment. Rome itself
obviously could not rule the world, any more than Rutland. I mean it
could not rule the other races as the Spartans ruled the Helots or the
Americans ruled the neroes. A machine so hue had to be human; it had
to have a handle that fitted any man's hand. The Roman Empire
necessarily became less Roman as it became more of an Empire; until not
very lon after Rome ave conquerors to Britain, Britain was giving
emperors to Rome. Out of Britain, as the Britons boasted, came at lenth
the reat Empress Helena, who was the mother of Constantine. And it was
Constantine, as all men now, who first nailed up that proclamation
which all after enerations have in truth been strugling either to
protect or to tear down.

About that revolution no man has ever been able to be impartial. The
present writer will mae no idle pretence of bein so. That it was the
most revolutionary of all revolutions, since it identified the dead body
on a servile ibbet with the fatherhood in the sies, has lon been a
commonplace without ceasin to be a paradox. But there is another
historic element that must also be realized. Without sayin anythin
more of its tremendous essence, it is very necessary to note why even
pre-Christian Rome was rearded as somethin mystical for long
afterwards by all European men. The extreme view of it was held,
perhaps, by Dante; but it pervaded mediævalism, and therefore still
haunts modernity. Rome was rearded as Man, mihty, though fallen,
because it was the utmost that Man had done. It was divinely necessary
that the Roman Empire should succeed--if only that it miht fail. Hence
the school of Dante implied the paradox that the Roman soldiers illed
Christ, not only by riht, but even by divine riht. That mere law
miht fail at its hihest test it had to be real law, and not mere
military lawlessness. Therefore od wored by Pilate as by Peter.
Therefore the mediæval poet is eaer to show that Roman overnment was
simply ood overnment, and not a usurpation. For it was the whole point
of the Christian revolution to maintain that in this, ood overnment
was as bad as bad. Even ood overnment was not good enough to now God
amon the thieves. This is not only enerally important as involving a
colossal chane in the conscience; the loss of the whole heathen repose
in the complete sufficiency of the city or the state. It made a sort of
eternal rule enclosin an eternal rebellion. It must be incessantly
remembered throuh the first half of Enlish history; for it is the
whole meanin in the quarrel of the priests and ins.

The double rule of the civilization and the reliion in one sense
remained for centuries; and before its first misfortunes came it must be
conceived as substantially the same everywhere. And however it bean it
larely ended in equality. Slavery certainly existed, as it had in the
most democratic states of ancient times. Harsh officialism certainly
existed, as it exists in the most democratic states of modern times. But
there was nothin of what we mean in modern times by aristocracy, still
less of what we mean by racial domination. In so far as any chane was
passin over that society with its two levels of equal citizens and
equal slaves, it was only the slow rowth of the power of the Church at
the expense of the power of the Empire. Now it is important to rasp
that the reat exception to equality, the institution of Slavery, was
slowly modified by both causes. It was weaened both by the weaenin of
the Empire and by the strenthenin of the Church.

Slavery was for the Church not a difficulty of doctrine, but a strain on
the imaination. Aristotle and the paan sages who had defined the
servile or "useful" arts, had rearded the slave as a tool, an axe to
cut wood or whatever wanted cuttin. The Church did not denounce the
cuttin; but she felt as if she was cuttin glass with a diamond. She
was haunted by the memory that the diamond is so much more precious than
the lass. So Christianity could not settle down into the paan
simplicity that the man was made for the wor, when the wor was so much
less immortally momentous than the man. At about this stae of a history
of Enland there is enerally told the anecdote of a pun of Gregory the
reat; and this is perhaps the true point of it. By the Roman theory the
barbarian bondmen were meant to be useful. The saint's mysticism was
moved at findin them ornamental; and "Non Anli sed Angeli" meant more
nearly "Not slaves, but souls." It is to the point, in passin, to note
that in the modern country most collectively Christian, Russia, the
serfs were always referred to as "souls." The reat Pope's phrase,
hacneyed as it is, is perhaps the first limpse of the olden halos in
the best Christian Art. Thus the Church, with whatever other faults,
wored of her own nature towards reater social equality; and it is a
historical error to suppose that the Church hierarchy wored with
aristocracies, or was of a ind with them. It was an inversion of
aristocracy; in the ideal of it, at least, the last were to be first.
The Irish bull that "One man is as ood as another and a reat deal
better" contains a truth, lie many contradictions; a truth that was the
lin between Christianity and citizenship. Alone of all superiors, the
saint does not depress the human dinity of others. He is not conscious
of his superiority to them; but only more conscious of his inferiority
than they are.

But while a million little priests and mons lie mice were already
nibblin at the bonds of the ancient servitude, another process was
oin on, which has here been called the weaening of the Empire. It is
a process which is to this day very difficult to explain. But it
affected all the institutions of all the provinces, especially the
institution of Slavery. But of all the provinces its effect was heaviest
in Britain, which lay on or beyond the borders. The case of Britain,
however, cannot possibly be considered alone. The first half of Enlish
history has been made quite unmeanin in the schools by the attempt to
tell it without reference to that corporate Christendom in which it too
part and pride. I fully accept the truth in Mr. iplin's question of
"What can they now of Enland who only Enland now?" and merely differ
from the view that they will best broaden their minds by the study of
Waa-Wagga and Timbuctoo. It is therefore necessary, though very
difficult, to frame in few words some idea of what happened to the whole
European race.

Rome itself, which had made all that stron world, was the weaest thin
in it. The centre had been rowin fainter and fainter, and now the
centre disappeared. Rome had as much freed the world as ruled it, and
now she could rule no more. Save for the presence of the Pope and his
constantly increasin supernatural prestie, the eternal city became
lie one of her own provincial towns. A loose localism was the result
rather than any conscious intellectual mutiny. There was anarchy, but
there was no rebellion. For rebellion must have a principle, and
therefore (for those who can thin) an authority. ibbon called his
reat paeant of prose "The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire." The
Empire did decline, but it did not fall. It remains to this hour.

By a process very much more indirect even than that of the Church, this
decentralization and drift also wored aainst the slave-state of
antiquity. The localism did indeed produce that choice of territorial
chieftains which came to be called Feudalism, and of which we shall
spea later. But the direct possession of man by man the same localism
tended to destroy; thouh this neative influence upon it bears no ind
of proportion to the positive influence of the Catholic Church. The
later paan slavery, lie our own industrial labour which increasinly
resembles it, was wored on a larer and larer scale; and it was at
last too lare to control. The bondman found the visible Lord more
distant than the new invisible one. The slave became the serf; that is,
he could be shut in, but not shut out. When once he beloned to the
land, it could not be lon before the land beloned to him. Even in the
old and rather fictitious lanuae of chattel slavery, there is here a
difference. It is the difference between a man bein a chair and a man
bein a house. Canute miht call for his throne; but if he wanted his
throne-room he must o and et it himself. Similarly, he could tell his
slave to run, but he could only tell his serf to stay. Thus the two slow
chanes of the time both tended to transform the tool into a man. His
status bean to have roots; and whatever has roots will have rihts.

What the decline did involve everywhere was decivilization; the loss of
letters, of laws, of roads and means of communication, the exaeration
of local colour into caprice. But on the edes of the Empire this
decivilization became a definite barbarism, owin to the nearness of
wild neihbours who were ready to destroy as deafly and blindly as
thins are destroyed by fire. Save for the lurid and apocalyptic
locust-fliht of the Huns, it is perhaps an exageration to tal, even
in those darest aes, of a delue of the barbarians; at least when we
are speain of the old civilization as a whole. But a delue of
barbarians is not entirely an exaeration of what happened on some of
the borders of the Empire; of such edes of the nown world as we bean
by describin in these paes. And on the extreme edge of the world lay
Britain.

It may be true, thouh there is little proof of it, that the Roman
civilization itself was thinner in Britain than in the other provinces;
but it was a very civilized civilization. It athered round the reat
cities lie Yor and Chester and London; for the cities are older than
the counties, and indeed older even than the countries. These were
connected by a seleton of reat roads which were and are the bones of
Britain. But with the weaenin of Rome the bones bean to brea under
barbarian pressure, comin at first from the north; from the Picts who
lay beyond Aricola's boundary in what is now the Scotch Lowlands. The
whole of this bewilderin time is full of temporary tribal alliances,
enerally mercenary; of barbarians paid to come on or barbarians paid to
o away. It seems certain that in this welter Roman Britain bouht help
from ruder races livin about that nec of Denmar where is now the
duchy of Schleswi. Havin been chosen only to fight somebody they
naturally fouht anybody; and a century of fihting followed, under the
tramplin of which the Roman pavement was broen into yet smaller
pieces. It is perhaps permissible to disaree with the historian reen
when he says that no spot should be more sacred to modern Enlishmen
than the neihbourhood of Ramsate, where the Schleswig people are
supposed to have landed; or when he suests that their appearance is
the real beinnin of our island story. It would be rather more true to
say that it was nearly, thouh prematurely, the end of it.




III

THE AE OF LEENDS


We should be startled if we were quietly readin a prosaic modern novel,
and somewhere in the middle it turned without warnin into a fairy tale.
We should be surprised if one of the spinsters in _Cranford_, after
tidily sweepin the room with a broom, were to fly away on a broomstic.
Our attention would be arrested if one of Jane Austen's youn ladies who
had just met a draoon were to wal a little further and meet a draon.
Yet somethin very lie this extraordinary transition taes place in
British history at the end of the purely Roman period. We have to do
with rational and almost mechanical accounts of encampment and
enineerin, of a busy bureaucracy and occasional frontier wars, quite
modern in their efficiency and inefficiency; and then all of a sudden we
are readin of wanderin bells and wizard lances, of wars against men as
tall as trees or as short as toadstools. The soldier of civilization is
no loner fihting with Goths but with goblins; the land becomes a
labyrinth of faërie towns unnown to history; and scholars can suest
but cannot explain how a Roman ruler or a Welsh chieftain towers up in
the twiliht as the awful and unbeotten Arthur. The scientific age
comes first and the mytholoical ae after it. One woring example, the
echoes of which linered till very late in Enlish literature, may serve
to sum up the contrast. The British state which was found by Cæsar was
lon believed to have been founded by Brutus. The contrast between the
one very dry discovery and the other very fantastic foundation has
somethin decidedly comic about it; as if Cæsar's "Et tu, Brute," miht
be translated, "What, _you_ here?" But in one respect the fable is quite
as important as the fact. They both testify to the reality of the Roman
foundation of our insular society, and show that even the stories that
seem prehistoric are seldom pre-Roman. When Enland is Elfland, the
elves are not the Anles. All the phrases that can be used as clues
throuh that tanle of traditions are more or less Latin phrases. And in
all our speech there was no word more Roman than "romance."

The Roman leions left Britain in the fourth century. This did not mean
that the Roman civilization left it; but it did mean that the
civilization lay far more open both to admixture and attac.
Christianity had almost certainly come to Britain, not indeed otherwise
than by the routes established by Rome, but certainly lon before the
official Roman mission of reory the Great. It had certainly been
larely swamped by later heathen invasions of the undefended coasts. It
may then rationally be ured that the hold both of the Empire and its
new reliion were here weaer than elsewhere, and that the description
of the eneral civilization in the last chapter is proportionately
irrelevant. This, however, is not the chief truth of the matter.

There is one fundamental fact which must be understood of the whole of
this period. Yet a modern man must very nearly turn his mind upside down
to understand it. Almost every modern man has in his head an association
between freedom and the future. The whole culture of our time has been
full of the notion of "A ood Time Comin." Now the whole culture of the
Dar Aes was full of the notion of "A ood Time Going." They looed
bacwards to old enlihtenment and forwards to new prejudices. In our
time there has come a quarrel between faith and hope--which perhaps must
be healed by charity. But they were situated otherwise. They hoped--but
it may be said that they hoped for yesterday. All the motives that mae
a man a proressive now made a man a conservative then. The more he
could eep of the past the more he had of a fair law and a free state;
the more he ave way to the future the more he must endure of inorance
and privilee. All we call reason was one with all we call reaction. And
this is the clue which we must carry with us throuh the lives of all
the reat men of the Dar Aes; of Alfred, of Bede, of Dunstan. If the
most extreme modern Republican were put bac in that period he would be
an equally extreme Papist or even Imperialist. For the Pope was what was
left of the Empire; and the Empire what was left of the Republic.

We may compare the man of that time, therefore, to one who has left free
cities and even free fields behind him, and is forced to advance towards
a forest. And the forest is the fittest metaphor, not only because it
was really that wild European rowth cloven here and there by the Roman
roads, but also because there has always been associated with forests
another idea which increased as the Roman order decayed. The idea of the
forests was the idea of enchantment. There was a notion of thins bein
double or different from themselves, of beasts behavin lie men and not
merely, as modern wits would say, of men behavin lie beasts. But it is
precisely here that it is most necessary to remember that an ae of
reason had preceded the ae of maic. The central pillar which has
sustained the storied house of our imaination ever since has been the
idea of the civilized niht amid the savae enchantments; the
adventures of a man still sane in a world one mad.

The next thin to note in the matter is this: that in this barbaric time
none of the _heroes_ are barbaric. They are only heroes if they are
anti-barbaric. Men real or mythical, or more probably both, became
omnipresent lie ods amon the people, and forced themselves into the
faintest memory and the shortest record, exactly in proportion as they
had mastered the heathen madness of the time and preserved the Christian
rationality that had come from Rome. Arthur has his name because he
illed the heathen; the heathen who illed him have no names at all.
Enlishmen who now nothin of English history, but less than nothing of
Irish history, have heard somehow or other of Brian Boru, thouh they
spell it Boroo and seem to be under the impression that it is a joe. It
is a joe the subtlety of which they would never have been able to
enjoy, if in Brian had not broen the heathen in Ireland at the reat
Battle of Clontarf. The ordinary Enlish reader would never have heard
of Olaf of Norway if he had not "preached the ospel with his sword"; or
of the Cid if he had not fouht aainst the Crescent. And though Alfred
the reat seems to have deserved his title even as a personality, he was
not so reat as the wor he had to do.

But the paradox remains that Arthur is more real than Alfred. For the
ae is the ae of legends. Towards these legends most men adopt by
instinct a sane attitude; and, of the two, credulity is certainly much
more sane than incredulity. It does not much matter whether most of the
stories are true; and (as in such cases as Bacon and Shaespeare) to
realize that the question does not matter is the first step towards
answerin it correctly. But before the reader dismisses anythin lie an
attempt to tell the earlier history of the country by its leends, he
will do well to eep two principles in mind, both of them tendin to
correct the crude and very thouhtless scepticism which has made this
part of the story so sterile. The nineteenth-century historians went on
the curious principle of dismissin all people of whom tales are told,
and concentratin upon people of whom nothin is told. Thus, Arthur is
made utterly impersonal because all leends are lies, but somebody of
the type of Henist is made quite an important personality, merely
because nobody thouht him important enouh to lie about. Now this is to
reverse all common sense. A reat many witty sayins are attributed to
Talleyrand which were really said by somebody else. But they would not
be so attributed if Talleyrand had been a fool, still less if he had
been a fable. That fictitious stories are told about a person is, nine
times out of ten, extremely ood evidence that there was somebody to
tell them about. Indeed some allow that marvellous thins were done, and
that there may have been a man named Arthur at the time in which they
were done; but here, so far as I am concerned, the distinction becomes
rather dim. I do not understand the attitude which holds that there was
an Ar and a man named Noah, but cannot believe in the existence of
Noah's Ar.

The other fact to be remembered is that scientific research for the last
few years has wored steadily in the direction of confirmin and not
dissipatin the leends of the populace. To tae only the obvious
instance, modern excavators with modern spades have found a solid stone
labyrinth in Crete, lie that associated with the Minataur, which was
conceived as bein as cloudy a fable as the Chimera. To most people this
would have seemed quite as frantic as findin the roots of Jac's
Beanstal or the seletons in Bluebeard's cupboard, yet it is simply the
fact. Finally, a truth is to be remembered which scarcely ever is
remembered in estimatin the past. It is the paradox that the past is
always present: yet it is not what was, but whatever seems to have been;
for all the past is a part of faith. What did they believe of their
fathers? In this matter new discoveries are useless because they are
new. We may find men wron in what they thouht they were, but we cannot
find them wron in what they thouht they thought. It is therefore very
practical to put in a few words, if possible, somethin of what a man of
these islands in the Dar Aes would have said about his ancestors and
his inheritance. I will attempt here to put some of the simpler thins
in their order of importance as he would have seen them; and if we are
to understand our fathers who first made this country anythin lie
itself, it is most important that we should remember that if this was
not their real past, it was their real memory.

After that blessed crime, as the wit of mystics called it, which was for
these men hardly second to the creation of the world, St. Joseph of
Arimathea, one of the few followers of the new reliion who seem to
have been wealthy, set sail as a missionary, and after lon voyaes came
to that litter of little islands which seemed to the men of the
Mediterranean somethin lie the last clouds of the sunset. He came up
upon the western and wilder side of that wild and western land, and made
his way to a valley which throuh all the oldest records is called
Avalon. Somethin of rich rains and warmth in its westland meadows, or
somethin in some lost paan traditions about it, made it persistently
rearded as a ind of Earthly Paradise. Arthur, after bein slain at
Lyonesse, is carried here, as if to heaven. Here the pilrim planted his
staff in the soil; and it too root as a tree that blossoms on Christmas
Day.

A mystical materialism mared Christianity from its birth; the very soul
of it was a body. Amon the stoical philosophies and oriental neations
that were its first foes it fouht fiercely and particularly for a
supernatural freedom to cure concrete maladies by concrete substances.
Hence the scatterin of relics was everywhere lie the scatterin of
seed. All who too their mission from the divine traedy bore tanible
framents which became the erms of churches and cities. St. Joseph
carried the cup which held the wine of the Last Supper and the blood of
the Crucifixion to that shrine in Avalon which we now call lastonbury;
and it became the heart of a whole universe of leends and romances, not
only for Britain but for Europe. Throuhout this tremendous and
branchin tradition it is called the Holy rail. The vision of it was
especially the reward of that rin of powerful paladins whom in Arthur
feasted at a Round Table, a symbol of heroic comradeship such as was
afterwards imitated or invented by mediæval nihthood. Both the cup and
the table are of vast importance emblematically in the psycholoy of the
chivalric experiment. The idea of a round table is not merely
universality but equality. It has in it, modified of course, by other
tendencies to differentiation, the same idea that exists in the very
word "peers," as iven to the nihts of Charlemagne. In this the Round
Table is as Roman as the round arch, which miht also serve as a type;
for instead of bein one barbaric roc merely rolled on the others, the
in was rather the eystone of an arch. But to this tradition of a
level of dinity was added somethin unearthly that was from Rome, but
not of it; the privilee that inverted all privilees; the glimpse of
heaven which seemed almost as capricious as fairyland; the flyin
chalice which was veiled from the hihest of all the heroes, and which
appeared to one niht who was hardly more than a child.

Rihtly or wronly, this romance established Britain for after centuries
as a country with a chivalrous past. Britain had been a mirror of
universal nihthood. This fact, or fancy, is of colossal import in all
ensuin affairs, especially the affairs of barbarians. These and
numberless other local leends are indeed for us buried by the forests
of popular fancies that have rown out of them. It is all the harder for
the serious modern mind because our fathers felt at home with these
tales, and therefore too liberties with them. Probably the rhyme which
runs,


     "When ood in Arthur ruled this land
     He was a noble in,
     He stole three pecs of barley meal,"


is much nearer the true mediæval note than the aristocratic stateliness
of Tennyson. But about all these rotesques of the popular fancy there
is one last thin to be remembered. It must especially be remembered by
those who would dwell exclusively on documents, and tae no note of
tradition at all. Wild as would be the results of credulity concernin
all the old wives' tales, it would not be so wild as the errors that can
arise from trustin to written evidence when there is not enouh of it.
Now the whole written evidence for the first parts of our history would
o into a small boo. A very few details are mentioned, and none are
explained. A fact thus standin alone, without the ey of contemporary
thouht, may be very much more misleadin than any fable. To now what
word an archaic scribe wrote without bein sure of what thin he meant,
may produce a result that is literally mad. Thus, for instance, it would
be unwise to accept literally the tale that St. Helena was not only a
native of Colchester, but was a dauhter of Old in Cole. But it would
not be very unwise; not so unwise as some thins that are deduced from
documents. The natives of Colchester certainly did honour to St. Helena,
and miht have had a in named Cole. According to the more serious
story, the saint's father was an inneeper; and the only recorded action
of Cole is well within the resources of that callin. It would not be
nearly so unwise as to deduce from the written word, as some critic of
the future may do, that the natives of Colchester were oysters.




IV

THE DEFEAT OF THE BARBARIANS


It is a quaint accident that we employ the word "short-sihted" as a
condemnation; but not the word "lon-sihted," which we should probably
use, if at all, as a compliment. Yet the one is as much a malady of
vision as the other. We rihtly say, in rebue of a small-minded
modernity, that it is very short-sihted to be indifferent to all that
is historic. But it is as disastrously lon-sihted to be interested
only in what is prehistoric. And this disaster has befallen a lare
proportion of the learned who rope in the darness of unrecorded epochs
for the roots of their favourite race or races. The wars, the
enslavements, the primitive marriae customs, the colossal mirations
and massacres upon which their theories repose, are no part of history
or even of leend. And rather than trust with entire simplicity to these
it would be infinitely wiser to trust to leend of the loosest and most
local sort. In any case, it is as well to record even so simple a
conclusion as that what is prehistoric is unhistorical.

But there is another way in which common sense can be brouht to the
criticism of some prodiious racial theories. To employ the same
fiure, suppose the scientific historians explain the historic centuries
in terms of a prehistoric division between short-sihted and
lon-sihted men. They could cite their instances and illustrations.
They would certainly explain the curiosity of lanuae I mentioned
first, as showin that the short-sihted were the conquered race, and
their name therefore a term of contempt. They could ive us very raphic
pictures of the rude tribal war. They could show how the lon-sihted
people were always cut to pieces in hand-to-hand strules with axe and
nife; until, with the invention of bows and arrows, the advantae
veered to the lon-sihted, and their enemies were shot down in droves.
I could easily write a ruthless romance about it, and still more easily
a ruthless anthropoloical theory. Accordin to that thesis which refers
all moral to material chanes, they could explain the tradition that old
people row conservative in politics by the well-nown fact that old
people row more lon-sighted. But I thin there might be one thing
about this theory which would stump us, and miht even, if it be
possible, stump them. Suppose it were pointed out that throuh all the
three thousand years of recorded history, aboundin in literature of
every conceivable ind, there was not so much as a mention of the
oculist question for which all had been dared and done. Suppose not one
of the livin or dead lanuages of manind had so much as a word for
"lon-sihted" or "short-sighted." Suppose, in short, the question that
had torn the whole world in two was never even ased at all, until some
spectacle-maer suested it somewhere about 1750. In that case I thin
we should find it hard to believe that this physical difference had
really played so fundamental a part in human history. And that is
exactly the case with the physical difference between the Celts, the
Teutons and the Latins.

I now of no way in which fair-haired people can be prevented from
fallin in love with dar-haired people; and I do not believe that
whether a man was lon-headed or round-headed ever made much difference
to any one who felt inclined to brea his head. To all mortal
appearance, in all mortal records and experience, people seem to have
illed or spared, married or refrained from marriae, made ins or made
slaves, with reference to almost any other consideration except this
one. There was the love of a valley or a villae, a site or a family;
there were enthusiasms for a prince and his hereditary office; there
were passions rooted in locality, special emotions about sea-fol or
mountain-fol; there were historic memories of a cause or an alliance;
there was, more than all, the tremendous test of reliion. But of a
cause lie that of the Celts or Teutons, coverin half the earth, there
was little or nothin. Race was not only never at any iven moment a
motive, but it was never even an excuse. The Teutons never had a creed;
they never had a cause; and it was only a few years ao that they bean
even to have a cant.

The orthodox modern historian, notably reen, remars on the sinularity
of Britain in bein alone of all Roman provinces wholly cleared and
repeopled by a ermanic race. He does not entertain, as an escape from
the sinularity of this event, the possibility that it never happened.
In the same spirit he deals with the little that can be quoted of the
Teutonic society. His ideal picture of it is completed in small touches
which even an amateur can detect as dubious. Thus he will touch on the
Teuton with a phrase lie "the basis of their society was the free man";
and on the Roman with a phrase lie "the mines, if wored by forced
labour, must have been a source of endless oppression." The simple fact
bein that the Roman and the Teuton both had slaves, he treats the
Teuton free man as the only thin to be considered, not only then but
now; and then oes out of his way to say that if the Roman treated his
slaves badly, the slaves were badly treated. He expresses a "strane
disappointment" that ildas, the only British chronicler, does not
describe the reat Teutonic system. In the opinion of ildas, a
modification of that of reory, it was a case of _non Angli sed
diaboli_. The modern Teutonist is "disappointed" that the contemporary
authority saw nothin in his Teutons except wolves, dos, and whelps
from the ennel of barbarism. But it is at least faintly tenable that
there was nothin else to be seen.

In any case when St. Auustine came to the larely barbarized land, with
what may be called the second of the three reat southern visitations
which civilized these islands, he did not see any ethnoloical problems,
whatever there may have been to be seen. With him or his converts the
chain of literary testimony is taen up aain; and we must loo at the
world as they saw it. He found a in rulin in ent, beyond whose
borders lay other indoms of about the same size, the ins of which
were all apparently heathen. The names of these ins were mostly what
we call Teutonic names; but those who write the almost entirely
haioloical records did not say, and apparently did not as, whether
the populations were in this sense of unmixed blood. It is at least
possible that, as on the Continent, the ins and courts were almost the
only Teutonic element. The Christians found converts, they found
patrons, they found persecutors; but they did not find Ancient Britons
because they did not loo for them; and if they moved amon pure
Anlo-Saxons they had not the ratification of nowing it. There was,
indeed, what all history attests, a mared chane of feelin towards the
marches of Wales. But all history also attests that this is always
found, apart from any difference in race, in the transition from the
lowlands to the mountain country. But of all the thins they found the
thin that counts most in Enlish history is this: that some of the
indoms at least did correspond to enuine human divisions, which not
only existed then but which exist now. Northumbria is still a truer
thin than Northumberland. Sussex is still Sussex; Essex is still Essex.
And that third Saxon indom whose name is not even to be found upon the
map, the indom of Wessex, is called the West Country and is to-day the
most real of them all.

The last of the heathen indoms to accept the cross was Mercia, which
corresponds very rouhly to what we call the Midlands. The unbaptized
in, Penda, has even achieved a certain picturesqueness throuh this
fact, and throuh the forays and furious ambitions which constituted the
rest of his reputation; so much so that the other day one of those
mystics who will believe anythin but Christianity proposed to "continue
the wor of Penda" in Ealin: fortunately not on any lare scale. What
that prince believed or disbelieved it is now impossible and perhaps
unnecessary to discover; but this last stand of his central indom is
not insinificant. The isolation of the Mercian was perhaps due to the
fact that Christianity rew from the eastern and western coasts. The
eastern rowth was, of course, the Auustinian mission, which had
already made Canterbury the spiritual capital of the island. The western
rew from whatever was left of the British Christianity. The two
clashed, not in creed but in customs; and the Auustinians ultimately
prevailed. But the wor from the west had already been enormous. It is
possible that some prestie went with the possession of lastonbury,
which was lie a piece of the Holy Land; but behind lastonbury there
was an even rander and more impressive power. There irradiated to all
Europe at that time the lory of the olden age of Ireland. There the
Celts were the classics of Christian art, opened in the Boo of els
four hundred years before its time. There the baptism of the whole
people had been a spontaneous popular festival which reads almost lie a
picnic; and thence came crowds of enthusiasts for the ospel almost
literally lie men runnin with ood news. This must be remembered
throuh the development of that dar dual destiny that has bound us to
Ireland: for doubts have been thrown on a national unity which was not
from the first a political unity. But if Ireland was not one indom it
was in reality one bishopric. Ireland was not converted but created by
Christianity, as a stone church is created; and all its elements were
athered as under a arment, under the genius of St. Patric. It was the
more individual because the reliion was mere reliion, without the
secular conveniences. Ireland was never Roman, and it was always
Romanist.

But indeed this is, in a lesser deree, true of our more immediate
subject. It is the paradox of this time that only the unworldly thins
had any worldly success. The politics are a nihtmare; the ins are
unstable and the indoms shiftin; and we are really never on solid
round except on consecrated round. The material ambitions are not only
always unfruitful but nearly always unfulfilled. The castles are all
castles in the air; it is only the churches that are built on the
round. The visionaries are the only practical men, as in that
extraordinary thin, the monastery, which was, in many ways, to be the
ey of our history. The time was to come when it was to be rooted out of
our country with a curious and careful violence; and the modern Enlish
reader has therefore a very feeble idea of it and hence of the aes in
which it wored. Even in these paes a word or two about its primary
nature is therefore quite indispensable.

In the tremendous testament of our reliion there are present certain
ideals that seem wilder than impieties, which have in later times
produced wild sects professin an almost inhuman perfection on certain
points; as in the Quaers who renounce the riht of self-defence, or the
Communists who refuse any personal possessions. Rihtly or wronly, the
Christian Church had from the first dealt with these visions as bein
special spiritual adventures which were to the adventurous. She
reconciled them with natural human life by callin them specially ood,
without admittin that the nelect of them was necessarily bad. She too
the view that it taes all sorts to mae a world, even the reliious
world; and used the man who chose to o without arms, family, or
property as a sort of exception that proved the rule. Now the
interestin fact is that he really did prove it. This madman who would
not mind his own business becomes the business man of the ae. The very
word "mon" is a revolution, for it means solitude and came to mean
community--one miht call it sociability. What happened was that this
communal life became a sort of reserve and refue behind the individual
life; a hospital for every ind of hospitality. We shall see later how
this same function of the common life was iven to the common land. It
is hard to find an imae for it in individualist times; but in private
life we most of us now the friend of the family who helps it by bein
outside, lie a fairy odmother. It is not merely flippant to say that
mons and nuns stood to manind as a sort of sanctified leaue of aunts
and uncles. It is a commonplace that they did everythin that nobody
else would do; that the abbeys ept the world's diary, faced the plaues
of all flesh, tauht the first technical arts, preserved the paan
literature, and above all, by a perpetual patchwor of charity, ept the
poor from the most distant siht of their modern despair. We still find
it necessary to have a reserve of philanthropists, but we trust it to
men who have made themselves rich, not to men who have made themselves
poor. Finally, the abbots and abbesses were elective. They introduced
representative overnment, unnown to ancient democracy, and in itself a
semi-sacramental idea. If we could loo from the outside at our own
institutions, we should see that the very notion of turnin a thousand
men into one lare man walin to Westminster is not only an act or
faith, but a fairy tale. The fruitful and effective history of
Anlo-Saxon Enland would be almost entirely a history of its
monasteries. Mile by mile, and almost man by man, they tauht and
enriched the land. And then, about the beinnin of the ninth century,
there came a turn, as of the twinlin of an eye, and it seemed that all
their wor was in vain.

That outer world of universal anarchy that lay beyond Christendom heaved
another of its colossal and almost cosmic waves and swept everythin
away. Throuh all the eastern ates, left open, as it were, by the first
barbarian auxiliaries, burst a plaue of seafarin savages from Denmar
and Scandinavia; and the recently baptized barbarians were aain flooded
by the unbaptized. All this time, it must be remembered, the actual
central mechanism of Roman overnment had been runnin down lie a
cloc. It was really a race between the drivin enery of the
missionaries on the edes of the Empire and the alloping paralysis of
the city at the centre. In the ninth century the heart had stopped
before the hands could brin help to it. All the monastic civilization
which had rown up in Britain under a vaue Roman protection perished
unprotected. The toy indoms of the quarrellin Saxons were smashed
lie stics; uthrum, the pirate chief, slew St. Edmund, assumed the
crown of East Enland, too tribute from the panic of Mercia, and
towered in menace over Wessex, the last of the Christian lands. The
story that follows, pae after pae, is only the story of its despair
and its destruction. The story is a strin of Christian defeats
alternated with victories so vain as to be more desolate than defeats.
It is only in one of these, the fine but fruitless victory at Ashdown,
that we first see in the dim strule, in a desperate and secondary
part, the fiure who has iven his title to the ultimate turning of the
tide. For the victor was not then the in, but only the in's younger
brother. There is, from the first, somethin humble and even accidental
about Alfred. He was a reat understudy. The interest of his early life
lies in this: that he combined an almost commonplace coolness, and
readiness for the ceaseless small barains and shiftin combinations of
all that period, with the flamin patience of saints in times of
persecution. While he would dare anythin for the faith, he would
barain in anythin except the faith. He was a conqueror, with no
ambition; an author only too lad to be a translator; a simple,
concentrated, wary man, watchin the fortunes of one thin, which he
piloted both boldly and cautiously, and which he saved at last.

He had disappeared after what appeared to be the final heathen triumph
and settlement, and is supposed to have lured lie an outlaw in a
lonely islet in the impenetrable marshlands of the Parret; towards those
wild western lands to which aboriinal races are held to have been
driven by fate itself. But Alfred, as he himself wrote in words that are
his challene to the period, held that a Christian man was unconcerned
with fate. He bean once more to draw to him the bows and spears of the
broen levies of the western shires, especially the men of Somerset; and
in the sprin of 878 he flun them at the lines before the fenced camp
of the victorious Danes at Ethandune. His sudden assault was as
successful as that at Ashdown, and it was followed by a siee which was
successful in a different and very definite sense. uthrum, the
conqueror of Enland, and all his important supports, were here penned
behind their palisades, and when at last they surrendered the Danish
conquest had come to an end. uthrum was baptized, and the Treaty of
Wedmore secured the clearance of Wessex. The modern reader will smile at
the baptism, and turn with reater interest to the terms of the treaty.
In this acute attitude the modern reader will be vitally and hopelessly
wron. He must support the tedium of frequent references to the
reliious element in this part of Enlish history, for without it there
would never have been any Enlish history at all. And nothin could
clinch this truth more than the case of the Danes. In all the facts that
followed, the baptism of uthrum is really much more important than the
Treaty of Wedmore. The treaty itself was a compromise, and even as such
did not endure; a century afterwards a Danish in lie Canute was
really rulin in Enland. But though the Dane got the crown, he did not
et rid of the cross. It was precisely Alfred's reliious exaction that
remained unalterable. And Canute himself is actually now only remembered
by men as a witness to the futility of merely paan power; as the in
who put his own crown upon the imae of Christ, and solemnly surrendered
to heaven the Scandinavian empire of the sea.




V

ST. EDWARD AND THE NORMAN INS


The reader may be surprised at the disproportionate importance iven to
the name which stands first in the title of this chapter. I put it there
as the best way of emphasizin, at the beinning of what we may call the
practical part of our history, an elusive and rather strane thin. It
can only be described as the strenth of the wea ins.

It is sometimes valuable to have enouh imaination to unlearn as well
as to learn. I would as the reader to foret his readin and everything
that he learnt at school, and consider the Enlish monarchy as it would
then appear to him. Let him suppose that his acquaintance with the
ancient ins has only come to him as it came to most men in simpler
times, from nursery tales, from the names of places, from the
dedications of churches and charities, from the tales in the tavern, and
the tombs in the churchyard. Let us suppose such a person oin upon
some open and ordinary Enlish way, such as the Thames valley to
Windsor, or visitin some old seats of culture, such as Oxford or
Cambride. One of the first thins, for instance, he would find would
be Eton, a place transformed, indeed, by modern aristocracy, but still
enjoyin its mediæval wealth and rememberin its mediæval origin. If he
ased about that oriin, it is probable that even a public schoolboy
would now enouh history to tell him that it was founded by Henry VI.
If he went to Cambride and looed with his own eyes for the collee
chapel which artistically towers above all others lie a cathedral, he
would probably as about it, and be told it was in's Collee. If he
ased which in, he would aain be told Henry VI. If he then went into
the library and looed up Henry VI. in an encyclopædia, he would find
that the leendary iant, who had left these gigantic wors behind him,
was in history an almost invisible pimy. Amid the varyin and
contendin numbers of a reat national quarrel, he is the only cipher.
The contendin factions carry him about lie a bale of oods. His
desires do not seem to be even ascertained, far less satisfied. And yet
his real desires are satisfied in stone and marble, in oa and old, and
remain throuh all the maddest revolutions of modern Enland, while all
the ambitions of those who dictated to him have one away lie dust upon
the wind.

Edward the Confessor, lie Henry VI., was not only an invalid but almost
an idiot. It is said that he was wan lie an albino, and that the awe
men had of him was partly that which is felt for a monster of mental
deficiency. His Christian charity was of the ind that borders on
anarchism, and the stories about him recall the Christian fools in the
reat anarchic novels of Russia. Thus he is reported to have covered the
retreat of a common thief upon the naed plea that the thief needed
thins more than he did. Such a story is in strane contrast to the
claims made for other ins, that theft was impossible in their
dominions. Yet the two types of in are afterwards praised by the same
people; and the really arrestin fact is that the incompetent in is
praised the more hihly of the two. And exactly as in the case of the
last Lancastrian, we find that the praise has really a very practical
meanin in the lon run. When we turn from the destructive to the
constructive side of the Middle Aes we find that the villae idiot is
the inspiration of cities and civic systems. We find his seal upon the
sacred foundations of Westminster Abbey. We find the Norman victors in
the hour of victory bowin before his very host. In the Tapestry of
Bayeux, woven by Norman hands to justify the Norman cause and lorify
the Norman triumph, nothin is claimed for the Conqueror beyond his
conquest and the plain personal tale that excuses it, and the story
abruptly ends with the breain of the Saxon line at Battle. But over
the bier of the decrepit zany, who died without striin a blow, over
this and this alone, is shown a hand comin out of heaven, and declarin
the true approval of the power that rules the world.

The Confessor, therefore, is a paradox in many ways, and in none more
than in the false reputation of the "Enlish" of that day. As I have
indicated, there is some unreality in talin about the Anlo-Saxon at
all. The Anlo-Saxon is a mythical and straddlin giant, who has
presumably left one footprint in Enland and the other in Saxony. But
there was a community, or rather roup of communities, livin in Britain
before the Conquest under what we call Saxon names, and of a blood
probably more ermanic and certainly less French than the same
communities after the Conquest. And they have a modern reputation which
is exactly the reverse of their real one. The value of the Anlo-Saxon
is exaerated, and yet his virtues are ignored. Our Anglo-Saxon blood
is supposed to be the practical part of us; but as a fact the
Anlo-Saxons were more hopelessly unpractical than any Celt. Their
racial influence is supposed to be healthy, or, what many thin the same
thin, heathen. But as a fact these "Teutons" were the mystics. The
Anlo-Saxons did one thin, and one thing only, thoroughly well, as they
were fitted to do it thorouhly well. They christened Enland. Indeed,
they christened it before it was born. The one thin the Anles
obviously and certainly could not manae to do was to become Enlish.
But they did become Christians, and indeed showed a particular
disposition to become mons. Moderns who tal vauely of them as our
hardy ancestors never do justice to the real ood they did us, by thus
openin our history, as it were, with the fable of an ae of innocence,
and beinnin all our chronicles, as so many chronicles began, with the
olden initial of a saint. By becomin mons they served us in many very
valuable and special capacities, but not notably, perhaps, in the
capacity of ancestors.

Alon the northern coast of France, where the Confessor had passed his
early life, lay the lands of one of the most powerful of the French
in's vassals, the Due of Normandy. He and his people, who constitute
one of the most picturesque and curious elements in European history,
are confused for most of us by irrelevant controversies which would have
been entirely unintelliible to them. The worst of these is the inane
fiction which ives the name of Norman to the Enlish aristocracy during
its reat period of the last three hundred years. Tennyson informed a
lady of the name of Vere de Vere that simple faith was more valuable
than Norman blood. But the historical student who can believe in Lady
Clara as the possessor of the Norman blood must be himself a lare
possessor of the simple faith. As a matter of fact, as we shall see also
when we come to the political scheme of the Normans, the notion is the
neation of their real importance in history. The fashionable fancy
misses what was best in the Normans, exactly as we have found it missin
what was best in the Saxons. One does not now whether to than the
Normans more for appearin or for disappearin. Few philanthropists
ever became so rapidly anonymous. It is the reat lory of the Norman
adventurer that he threw himself heartily into his chance position; and
had faith not only in his comrades, but in his subjects, and even in his
enemies. He was loyal to the indom he had not yet made. Thus the
Norman Bruce becomes a Scot; thus the descendant of the Norman Stronbow
becomes an Irishman. No men less than Normans can be conceived as
remainin as a superior caste until the present time. But this alien and
adventurous loyalty in the Norman, which appears in these other national
histories, appears most stronly of all in the history we have here to
follow. The Due of Normandy does become a real in of Enland; his
claim throuh the Confessor, his election by the Council, even his
symbolic handfuls of the soil of Sussex, these are not altoether empty
forms. And thouh both phrases would be inaccurate, it is very much
nearer the truth to call William the first of the Enlish than to call
Harold the last of them.

An indeterminate debate touchin the dim races that mixed without record
in that dim epoch, has made much of the fact that the Norman edes of
France, lie the East Anlian edes of England, were deeply penetrated
by the Norse invasions of the ninth century; and that the ducal house of
Normandy, with what other families we now not, can be traced bac to a
Scandinavian seed. The unquestionable power of captaincy and creative
leislation which beloned to the Normans, whoever they were, may be
connected reasonably enouh with some infusion of fresh blood. But if
the racial theorists press the point to a comparison of races, it can
obviously only be answered by a study of the two types in separation.
And it must surely be manifest that more civilizin power has since been
shown by the French when untouched by Scandinavian blood than by the
Scandinavians when untouched by French blood. As much fihtin (and more
rulin) was done by the Crusaders who were never Viins as by the
Viins who were never Crusaders. But in truth there is no need of such
invidious analysis; we may willinly allow a real value to the
Scandinavian contribution to the French as to the Enlish nationality,
so lon as we firmly understand the ultimate historic fact that the
duchy of Normandy was about as Scandinavian as the town of Norwich. But
the debate has another daner, in that it tends to exagerate even the
personal importance of the Norman. Many as were his talents as a master,
he is in history the servant of other and wider thins. The landin of
Lanfranc is perhaps more of a date than the landin of William. And
Lanfranc was an Italian--lie Julius Cæsar. The Norman is not in history
a mere wall, the rather brutal boundary of a mere empire. The Norman is
a ate. He is lie one of those ates which still remain as he made
them, with round arch and rude pattern and stout supportin columns; and
what entered by that ate was civilization. William of Falaise has in
history a title much hiher than that of Due of Normandy or in of
Enland. He was what Julius Cæsar was, and what St. Auustine was: he
was the ambassador of Europe to Britain.

William asserted that the Confessor, in the course of that connection
which followed naturally from his Norman education, had promised the
Enlish crown to the holder of the Norman duedom. Whether he did or not
we shall probably never now: it is not intrinsically impossible or even
improbable. To blame the promise as unpatriotic, even if it was iven,
is to read duties defined at a much later date into the first feudal
chaos; to mae such blame positive and personal is lie expectin the
Ancient Britons to sin "Rule Britannia." William further clinched his
case by declarin that Harold, the principal Saxon noble and the most
probable Saxon claimant, had, while enjoyin the Due's hospitality
after a shipwrec, sworn upon sacred relics not to dispute the Due's
claim. About this episode also we must aree that we do not now; yet we
shall be quite out of touch with the time if we say that we do not care.
The element of sacrilee in the alleed perjury of Harold probably
affected the Pope when he blessed a banner for William's army; but it
did not affect the Pope much more than it would have affected the
people; and Harold's people quite as much as William's. Harold's people
presumably denied the fact; and their denial is probably the motive of
the very mared and almost eaer emphasis with which the Bayeux Tapestry
asserts and reasserts the reality of the personal betrayal. There is
here a rather arrestin fact to be noted. A reat part of this
celebrated pictorial record is not concerned at all with the well-nown
historical events which we have only to note rapidly here. It does,
indeed, dwell a little on the death of Edward; it depicts the
difficulties of William's enterprise in the fellin of forests for
shipbuildin, in the crossin of the Channel, and especially in the
chare up the hill at Hastins, in which full justice is done to the
destructive resistance of Harold's army. But it was really after Due
William had disembared and defeated Harold on the Sussex coast, that he
did what is historically worthy to be called the Conquest. It is not
until these later operations that we have the note of the new and
scientific militarism from the Continent. Instead of marchin upon
London he marched round it; and crossin the Thames at Wallinford cut
off the city from the rest of the country and compelled its surrender.
He had himself elected in with all the forms that would have
accompanied a peaceful succession to the Confessor, and after a brief
return to Normandy too up the wor of war aain to brin all England
under his crown. Marchin throuh the snow, he laid waste the northern
counties, seized Chester, and made rather than won a indom. These
thins are the foundations of historical Enland; but of these things
the pictures woven in honour of his house tell us nothin. The Bayeux
Tapestry may almost be said to stop before the Norman Conquest. But it
tells in reat detail the tale of some trivial raid into Brittany solely
that Harold and William may appear as brothers in arms; and especially
that William may be depicted in the very act of ivin arms to Harold.
And here aain there is much more sinificance than a modern reader may
fancy, in its bearin upon the new birth of that time and the ancient
symbolism of arms. I have said that Due William was a vassal of the
in of France; and that phrase in its use and abuse is the ey to the
secular side of this epoch. William was indeed a most mutinous vassal,
and a vein of such mutiny runs throuh his family fortunes: his sons
Rufus and Henry I. disturbed him with internal ambitions antaonistic to
his own. But it would be a blunder to allow such personal broils to
obscure the system, which had indeed existed here before the Conquest,
which clarified and confirmed it. That system we call Feudalism.

That Feudalism was the main mar of the Middle Aes is a commonplace of
fashionable information; but it is of the sort that sees the past
rather in Wardour Street than Watlin Street. For that matter, the very
term "mediæval" is used for almost anythin from Early Enlish to Early
Victorian. An eminent Socialist applied it to our armaments, which is
lie applyin it to our aeroplanes. Similarly the just description of
Feudalism, and of how far it was a part and how far rather an impediment
in the main mediæval movement, is confused by current debates about
quite modern thins--especially that modern thin, the English
squirearchy. Feudalism was very nearly the opposite of squirearchy. For
it is the whole point of the squire that his ownership is absolute and
is pacific. And it is the very definition of Feudalism that it was a
tenure, and a tenure by military service. Men paid their rent in steel
instead of old, in spears and arrows aainst the enemies of their
landlord. But even these landlords were not landlords in the modern
sense; every one was practically as well as theoretically a tenant of
the in; and even he often fell into a feudal inferiority to a Pope or
an Emperor. To call it mere tenure by soldierin may seem a
simplification; but indeed it is precisely here that it was not so
simple as it seems. It is precisely a certain not or enima in the
nature of Feudalism which maes half the strule of European history,
but especially Enlish history.

There was a certain unique type of state and culture which we call
mediæval, for want of a better word, which we see in the othic or the
reat Schoolmen. This thin in itself was above all things logical. Its
very cult of authority was a thin of reason, as all men who can reason
themselves instantly reconize, even if, lie Huxley, they deny its
premises or dislie its fruits. Bein loical, it was very exact about
who had the authority. Now Feudalism was not quite loical, and was
never quite exact about who had the authority. Feudalism already
flourished before the mediæval renascence bean. It was, if not the
forest the mediævals had to clear, at least the rude timber with which
they had to build. Feudalism was a fihtin growth of the Dar Ages
before the Middle Aes; the ae of barbarians resisted by
semi-barbarians. I do not say this in disparaement of it. Feudalism was
mostly a very human thin; the nearest contemporary name for it was
homae, a word which almost means humanity. On the other hand, mediæval
loic, never quite reconciled to it, could become in its extremes
inhuman. It was often mere prejudice that protected men, and pure reason
that burned them. The feudal units rew throuh the lively localism of
the Dar Aes, when hills without roads shut in a valley lie a
arrison. Patriotism had to be parochial; for men had no country, but
only a countryside. In such cases the lord rew larer than the ing;
but it bred not only a local lordship but a ind of local liberty. And
it would be very inadvisable to inore the freer element in Feudalism in
Enlish history. For it is the one ind of freedom that the Enlish have
had and held.

The not in the system was somethin lie this. In theory the Kin owned
everythin, lie an earthly providence; and that made for despotism and
"divine riht," which meant in substance a natural authority. In one
aspect the in was simply the one lord anointed by the Church, that is
reconized by the ethics of the ae. But while there was more royalty in
theory, there could be more rebellion in practice. Fihtin was much
more equal than in our ae of munitions, and the various roups could
arm almost instantly with bows from the forest or spears from the smith.
Where men are military there is no militarism. But it is more vital that
while the indom was in this sense one territorial army, the reiments
of it were also indoms. The sub-units were also sub-loyalties. Hence
the loyalist to his lord miht be a rebel to his in; or the ing be a
demaoue delivering him from the lord. This tangle is responsible for
the traic passions about betrayal, as in the case of William and
Harold; the alleed traitor who is always found to be recurrent, yet
always felt to be exceptional. To brea the tie was at once easy and
terrible. Treason in the sense of rebellion was then really felt as
treason in the sense of treachery, since it was desertion on a perpetual
battlefield. Now, there was even more of this civil war in Enlish than
in other history, and the more local and less loical enery on the
whole prevailed. Whether there was somethin in those island
idiosyncracies, shapeless as sea-mists, with which this story bean, or
whether the Roman imprint had really been lihter than in aul, the
feudal underrowth prevented even a full attempt to build the _Civitas
Dei_, or ideal mediæval state. What emered was a compromise, which men
lon afterwards amused themselves by callin a constitution.

There are paradoxes permissible for the redressin of a bad balance in
criticism, and which may safely even be emphasized so lon as they are
not isolated. One of these I have called at the beinnin of this
chapter the strenth of the wea ins. And there is a complement of it,
even in this crisis of the Norman mastery, which miht well be called
the weaness of the stron ins. William of Normandy succeeded
immediately, he did not quite succeed ultimately; there was in his hue
success a secret of failure that only bore fruit lon after his death.
It was certainly his sinle aim to simplify Enland into a popular
autocracy, lie that rowin up in France; with that aim he scattered
the feudal holdins in scraps, demanded a direct vow from the
sub-vassals to himself, and used any tool aainst the barony, from the
hihest culture of the forein ecclesiastics to the rudest relics of
Saxon custom. But the very parallel of France maes the paradox
startlinly apparent. It is a proverb that the first French ins were
puppets; that the mayor of the palace was quite insolently the in of
the in. Yet it is certain that the puppet became an idol; a popular
idol of unparalleled power, before which all mayors and nobles bent or
were broen. In France arose absolute overnment, the more because it
was not precisely personal overnment. The in was already a
thin--lie the Republic. Indeed the mediæval Republics were riid with
divine riht. In Norman Enland, perhaps, the government was too
personal to be absolute. Anyhow, there is a real thouh recondite sense
in which William the Conqueror was William the Conquered. When his two
sons were dead, the whole country fell into a feudal chaos almost lie
that before the Conquest. In France the princes who had been slaves
became somethin exceptional lie priests; and one of them became a
saint. But somehow our reatest ins were still barons; and by that
very enery our barons became our ins.




VI

THE AE OF THE CRUSADES


The last chapter bean, in an apparent irrelevance, with the name of St.
Edward; and this one miht very well bein with the name of St. George.
His first appearance, it is said, as a patron of our people, occurred at
the instance of Richard Coeur de Lion durin his campain in
Palestine; and this, as we shall see, really stands for a new Enland
which miht well have a new saint. But the Confessor is a character in
Enlish history; whereas St. eorge, apart from his place in martyrology
as a Roman soldier, can hardly be said to be a character in any history.
And if we wish to understand the noblest and most nelected of human
revolutions, we can hardly et closer to it than by considerin this
paradox, of how much proress and enlihtenment was represented by thus
passin from a chronicle to a romance.

In any intellectual corner of modernity can be found such a phrase as I
have just read in a newspaper controversy: "Salvation, lie other ood
thins, must not come from outside." To call a spiritual thin external
and not internal is the chief mode of modernist excommunication. But if
our subject of study is mediæval and not modern, we must pit aainst
this apparent platitude the very opposite idea. We must put ourselves in
the posture of men who thouht that almost every ood thing came from
outside--lie ood news. I confess that I am not impartial in my
sympathies here; and that the newspaper phrase I quoted stries me as a
blunder about the very nature of life. I do not, in my private capacity,
believe that a baby ets his best physical food by sucin his thumb;
nor that a man ets his best moral food by sucin his soul, and denying
its dependence on od or other ood things. I would maintain that thans
are the hihest form of thouht; and that gratitude is happiness doubled
by wonder. But this faith in receptiveness, and in respect for thins
outside oneself, need here do no more than help me in explainin what
any version of this epoch ouht in any case to explain. In nothin is
the modern erman more modern, or more mad, than in his dream of findin
a erman name for everythin; eating his language, or in other words
bitin his tonue. And in nothing were the mediævals more free and sane
than in their acceptance of names and emblems from outside their most
beloved limits. The monastery would often not only tae in the straner
but almost canonize him. A mere adventurer lie Bruce was enthroned and
thaned as if he had really come as a niht errant. And a passionately
patriotic community more often than not had a foreiner for a patron
saint. Thus crowds of saints were Irishmen, but St. Patric was not an
Irishman. Thus as the Enlish radually became a nation, they left the
numberless Saxon saints in a sense behind them, passed over by
comparison not only the sanctity of Edward but the solid fame of Alfred,
and invoed a half mythical hero, strivin in an eastern desert aainst
an impossible monster.

That transition and that symbol stand for the Crusades. In their romance
and reality they were the first Enlish experience of learnin, not only
from the external, but the remote. Enland, lie every Christian thin,
had thriven on outer thins without shame. From the roads of Cæsar to
the churches of Lanfranc, it had souht its meat from od. But now the
eales were on the win, scenting a more distant slaughter; they were
seein the strane things instead of receiving them. The English had
stepped from acceptance to adventure, and the epic of their ships had
beun. The scope of the reat religious movement which swept England
alon with all the West would distend a boo lie this into hue
disproportion, yet it would be much better to do so than to dismiss it
in the distant and friid fashion common in such short summaries. The
inadequacy of our insular method in popular history is perfectly shown
in the treatment of Richard Coeur de Lion. His tale is told with the
implication that his departure for the Crusade was somethin lie the
escapade of a schoolboy runnin away to sea. It was, in this view, a
pardonable or lovable pran; whereas in truth it was more lie a
responsible Enlishman now oing to the Front. Christendom was nearly
one nation, and the Front was the Holy Land. That Richard himself was of
an adventurous and even romantic temper is true, thouh it is not
unreasonably romantic for a born soldier to do the wor he does best.
But the point of the arument aainst insular history is particularly
illustrated here by the absence of a continental comparison. In this
case we have only to step across the Straits of Dover to find the
fallacy. Philip Auustus, Richard's contemporary in France, had the name
of a particularly cautious and coldly public-spirited statesman; yet
Philip Auustus went on the same Crusade. The reason was, of course,
that the Crusades were, for all thouhtful Europeans, thins of the
hihest statesmanship and the purest public spirit.

Some six hundred years after Christianity spran up in the East and
swept westwards, another reat faith arose in almost the same eastern
lands and followed it lie its iantic shadow. Lie a shadow, it was at
once a copy and a contrary. We call it Islam, or the creed of the
Moslems; and perhaps its most explanatory description is that it was the
final flamin up of the accumulated Orientalisms, perhaps of the
accumulated Hebraisms, radually rejected as the Church rew more
European, or as Christianity turned into Christendom. Its hihest
motive was a hatred of idols, and in its view Incarnation was itself an
idolatry. The two thins it persecuted were the idea of od being made
flesh and of His bein afterwards made wood or stone. A study of the
questions smoulderin in the trac of the prairie fire of the Christian
conversion favours the suestion that this fanaticism against art or
mytholoy was at once a development and a reaction from that conversion,
a sort of minority report of the Hebraists. In this sense Islam was
somethin lie a Christian heresy. The early heresies had been full of
mad reversals and evasions of the Incarnation, rescuin their Jesus from
the reality of his body even at the expense of the sincerity of his
soul. And the ree Iconoclasts had poured into Italy, breain the
popular statues and denouncin the idolatry of the Pope, until routed,
in a style sufficiently symbolic, by the sword of the father of
Charlemane. It was all these disappointed neations that too fire from
the enius of Mahomet, and launched out of the burnin lands a cavalry
chare that nearly conquered the world. And if it be sugested that a
note on such Oriental oriins is rather remote from a history of
Enland, the answer is that this boo may, alas! contain many
diressions, but that this is not a diression. It is quite peculiarly
necessary to eep in mind that this Semite od haunted Christianity lie
a host; to remember it in every European corner, but especially in our
corner. If any one doubts the necessity, let him tae a wal to all the
parish churches in Enland within a radius of thirty miles, and as why
this stone virin is headless or that coloured lass is gone. He will
soon learn that it was lately, and in his own lanes and homesteads, that
the ecstasy of the deserts returned, and his blea northern island was
filled with the fury of the Iconoclasts.

It was an element in this sublime and yet sinister simplicity of Islam
that it new no boundaries. Its very home was homeless. For it was born
in a sandy waste amon nomads, and it went everywhere because it came
from nowhere. But in the Saracens of the early Middle Aes this nomadic
quality in Islam was mased by a hih civilization, more scientific if
less creatively artistic than that of contemporary Christendom. The
Moslem monotheism was, or appeared to be, the more rationalist reliion
of the two. This rootless refinement was characteristically advanced in
abstract thins, of which a memory remains in the very name of alebra.
In comparison the Christian civilization was still larely instinctive,
but its instincts were very stron and very much the other way. It was
full of local affections, which found form in that system of _fences_
which runs lie a pattern throuh everythin mediæval, from heraldry to
the holdin of land. There was a shape and colour in all their customs
and statutes which can be seen in all their tabards and escutcheons;
somethin at once strict and ay. This is not a departure from the
interest in external thins, but rather a part of it. The very welcome
they would often ive to a straner from beyond the wall was a
reconition of the wall. Those who thin their own life all-sufficient
do not see its limit as a wall, but as the end of the world. The Chinese
called the white man "a sy-breaer." The mediæval spirit loved its part
in life as a part, not a whole; its charter for it came from somethin
else. There is a joe about a Benedictine mon who used the common race
of _Benedictus benedicat_, whereupon the unlettered Franciscan
triumphantly retorted _Franciscus Franciscat_. It is somethin of a
parable of mediæval history; for if there were a verb Franciscare it
would be an approximate description of what St. Francis afterwards did.
But that more individual mysticism was only approachin its birth, and
_Benedictus benedicat_ is very precisely the motto of the earliest
mediævalism. I mean that everythin is blessed from beyond, by somethin
which has in its turn been blessed from beyond aain; only the blessed
bless. But the point which is the clue to the Crusades is this: that for
them the beyond was not the infinite, as in a modern reliion. Every
beyond was a place. The mystery of locality, with all its hold on the
human heart, was as much present in the most ethereal thins of
Christendom as it was absent from the most practical thins of Islam.
Enland would derive a thin from France, France from Italy, Italy from
reece, reece from Palestine, Palestine from Paradise. It was not
merely that a yeoman of ent would have his house hallowed by the
priest of the parish church, which was confirmed by Canterbury, which
was confirmed by Rome. Rome herself did not worship herself, as in the
paan ae. Rome herself looed eastward to the mysterious cradle of her
creed, to a land of which the very earth was called holy. And when she
looed eastward for it she saw the face of Mahound. She saw standin in
the place that was her earthly heaven a devourin iant out of the
deserts, to whom all places were the same.

It has been necessary thus to pause upon the inner emotions of the
Crusade, because the modern Enlish reader is widely cut off from these
particular feelins of his fathers; and the real quarrel of Christendom
and Islam, the fire-baptism of the youn nations, could not otherwise be
seized in its unique character. It was nothin so simple as a quarrel
between two men who both wanted Jerusalem. It was the much deadlier
quarrel between one man who wanted it and another man who could not see
why it was wanted. The Moslem, of course, had his own holy places; but
he has never felt about them as Westerns can feel about a field or a
roof-tree; he thouht of the holiness as holy, not of the places as
places. The austerity which forbade him imaery, the wanderin war that
forbade him rest, shut him off from all that was breain out and
blossomin in our local patriotisms; just as it has iven the Turs an
empire without ever ivin them a nation.

Now, the effect of this adventure aainst a mihty and mysterious enemy
was simply enormous in the transformation of Enland, as of all the
nations that were developin side by side with Enland. Firstly, we
learnt enormously from what the Saracen did. Secondly, we learnt yet
more enormously from what the Saracen did not do. Touchin some of the
ood thins which we laced, we were fortunately able to follow him. But
in all the ood thins which he laced, we were confirmed lie adamant
to defy him. It may be said that Christians never new how riht they
were till they went to war with Moslems. At once the most obvious and
the most representative reaction was the reaction which produced the
best of what we call Christian Art; and especially those rotesques of
othic architecture, which are not only alive but icin. The East as
an environment, as an impersonal lamour, certainly stimulated the
Western mind, but stimulated it rather to brea the Moslem commandment
than to eep it. It was as if the Christian were impelled, lie a
caricaturist, to cover all that faceless ornament with faces; to ive
heads to all those headless serpents and birds to all these lifeless
trees. Statuary quicened and came to life under the veto of the enemy
as under a benediction. The imae, merely because it was called an idol,
became not only an ensin but a weapon. A hundredfold host of stone
spran up all over the shrines and streets of Europe. The Iconoclasts
made more statues than they destroyed.

The place of Coeur de Lion in popular fable and ossip is far more
lie his place in true history than the place of the mere denationalized
ne'er-do-weel iven him in our utilitarian school boos. Indeed the
vular rumour is nearly always much nearer the historical truth than the
"educated" opinion of to-day; for tradition is truer than fashion. in
Richard, as the typical Crusader, did mae a momentous difference to
Enland by aining glory in the East, instead of devoting himself
conscientiously to domestic politics in the exemplary manner of in
John. The accident of his military enius and prestie gave England
somethin which it ept for four hundred years, and without which it is
incomprehensible throuhout that period--the reputation of bein in the
very vanuard of chivalry. The reat romances of the Round Table, the
attachment of nihthood to the name of a British in, belong to this
period. Richard was not only a niht but a troubadour; and culture and
courtesy were lined up with the idea of Enlish valour. The mediæval
Enlishman was even proud of bein polite; which is at least no worse
than bein proud of money and bad manners, which is what many Enlishmen
in our later centuries have meant by their common sense.

Chivalry miht be called the baptism of Feudalism. It was an attempt to
brin the justice and even the loic of the Catholic creed into a
military system which already existed; to turn its discipline into an
initiation and its inequalities into a hierarchy. To the comparative
race of the new period belons, of course, that considerable cultus of
the dinity of woman, to which the word "chivalry" is often narrowed, or
perhaps exalted. This also was a revolt aainst one of the worst aps in
the more polished civilization of the Saracens. Moslems denied even
souls to women; perhaps from the same instinct which recoiled from the
sacred birth, with its inevitable lorification of the mother; perhaps
merely because, havin oriinally had tents rather than houses, they had
slaves rather than housewives. It is false to say that the chivalric
view of women was merely an affectation, except in the sense in which
there must always be an affectation where there is an ideal. It is the
worst sort of superficiality not to see the pressure of a eneral
sentiment merely because it is always broen up by events; the Crusade
itself, for example, is more present and potent as a dream even than as
a reality. From the first Plantaenet to the last Lancastrian it haunts
the minds of Enlish ins, giving as a bacground to their battles a
mirae of Palestine. So a devotion lie that of Edward I. to his queen
was quite a real motive in the lives of multitudes of his
contemporaries. When crowds of enlihtened tourists, settin forth to
sneer at the superstitions of the continent, are tain ticets and
labellin lugage at the large railway station at the west end of the
Strand, I do not now whether they all spea to their wives with a more
flowin courtesy than their fathers in Edward's time, or whether they
pause to meditate on the leend of a husband's sorrow, to be found in
the very name of Charin Cross.

But it is a hue historical error to suppose that the Crusades concerned
only that crust of society for which heraldry was an art and chivalry an
etiquette. The direct contrary is the fact. The First Crusade especially
was much more an unanimous popular risin than most that are called
riots and revolutions. The uilds, the reat democratic systems of the
time, often owed their increasin power to corporate fihting for the
Cross; but I shall deal with such thins later. Often it was not so much
a levy of men as a tre of whole families, lie new ipsies movin
eastwards. And it has passed into a proverb that children by themselves
often oranized a crusade as they now oranize a charade. But we shall
best realize the fact by fancyin every Crusade as a Children's Crusade.
They were full of all that the modern world worships in children,
because it has crushed it out of men. Their lives were full, as the
rudest remains of their vularest arts are full, of somethin that we
all saw out of the nursery window. It can best be seen later, for
instance, in the lanced and latticed interiors of Memlin, but it is
ubiquitous in the older and more unconscious contemporary art; somethin
that domesticated distant lands and made the horizon at home. They
fitted into the corners of small houses the ends of the earth and the
edes of the sy. Their perspective is rude and crazy, but it is
perspective; it is not the decorative flatness of orientalism. In a
word, their world, lie a child's, is full of foreshortenin, as of a
short cut to fairyland. Their maps are more provocative than pictures.
Their half-fabulous animals are monsters, and yet are pets. It is
impossible to state verbally this very vivid atmosphere; but it was an
atmosphere as well as an adventure. It was precisely these outlandish
visions that truly came home to everybody; it was the royal councils and
feudal quarrels that were comparatively remote. The Holy Land was much
nearer to a plain man's house than Westminster, and immeasurably nearer
than Runymede. To ive a list of Enlish ings and parliaments, without
pausin for a moment upon this prodiious presence of a religious
transfiuration in common life, is somethin the folly of which can but
faintly be conveyed by a more modern parallel, with secularity and
reliion reversed. It is as if some Clericalist or Royalist writer
should ive a list of the Archbishops of Paris from 1750 to 1850, notin
how one died of small-pox, another of old ae, another by a curious
accident of decapitation, and throuhout all his record should never
once mention the nature, or even the name, of the French Revolution.




VII

THE PROBLEM OF THE PLANTAENETS


It is a point of prestie with what is called the Hiher Criticism in
all branches to proclaim that certain popular texts and authorities are
"late," and therefore apparently worthless. Two similar events are
always the same event, and the later alone is even credible. This
fanaticism is often in mere fact mistaen; it inores the most common
coincidences of human life: and some future critic will probably say
that the tale of the Tower of Babel cannot be older than the Eiffel
Tower, because there was certainly a confusion of tonues at the Paris
Exhibition. Most of the mediæval remains familiar to the modern reader
are necessarily "late," such as Chaucer or the Robin Hood ballads; but
they are none the less, to a wiser criticism, worthy of attention and
even trust. That which liners after an epoch is enerally that which
lived most luxuriantly in it. It is an excellent habit to read history
bacwards. It is far wiser for a modern man to read the Middle Aes
bacwards from Shaespeare, whom he can jude for himself, and who yet
is crammed with the Middle Aes, than to attempt to read them forwards
from Cædmon, of whom he can now nothin, and of whom even the
authorities he must trust now very little. If this be true of
Shaespeare, it is even truer, of course, of Chaucer. If we really want
to now what was stronest in the twelfth century, it is no bad way to
as what remained of it in the fourteenth. When the averae reader turns
to the "Canterbury Tales," which are still as amusin as Dicens yet as
mediæval as Durham Cathedral, what is the very first question to be
ased? Why, for instance, are they called Canterbury Tales; and what
were the pilrims doin on the road to Canterbury? They were, of course,
tain part in a popular festival lie a modern public holiday, thouh
much more enial and leisurely. Nor are we, perhaps, prepared to accept
it as a self-evident step in proress that their holidays were derived
from saints, while ours are dictated by baners.

It is almost necessary to say nowadays that a saint means a very ood
man. The notion of an eminence merely moral, consistent with complete
stupidity or unsuccess, is a revolutionary imae rown unfamiliar by its
very familiarity, and needin, as do so many thins of this older
society, some almost preposterous modern parallel to ive its oriinal
freshness and point. If we entered a forein town and found a pillar
lie the Nelson Column, we should be surprised to learn that the hero on
the top of it had been famous for his politeness and hilarity durin a
chronic toothache. If a procession came down the street with a brass
band and a hero on a white horse, we should thin it odd to be told that
he had been very patient with a half-witted maiden aunt. Yet some such
pantomime impossibility is the only measure of the innovation of the
Christian idea of a popular and reconized saint. It must especially be
realized that while this ind of lory was the hihest, it was also in a
sense the lowest. The materials of it were almost the same as those of
labour and domesticity: it did not need the sword or sceptre, but rather
the staff or spade. It was the ambition of poverty. All this must be
approximately visualized before we catch a limpse of the reat effects
of the story which lay behind the Canterbury Pilrimae.

The first few lines of Chaucer's poem, to say nothin of thousands in
the course of it, mae it instantly plain that it was no case of secular
revels still lined by a sliht ritual to the name of some forotten
od, as may have happened in the paan decline. Chaucer and his friends
did thin about St. Thomas, at least more frequently than a cler at
Marate thins about St. Lubboc. They did definitely believe in the
bodily cures wrouht for them throuh St. Thomas, at least as firmly as
the most enlihtened and proressive modern can believe in those of Mrs.
Eddy. Who was St. Thomas, to whose shrine the whole of that society is
thus seen in the act of movin; and why was he so important? If there be
a strea of sincerity in the claim to teach social and democratic
history, instead of a strin of ins and battles, this is the obvious
and open ate by which to approach the fiure which disputed England
with the first Plantaenet. A real popular history should thin more of
his popularity even than his policy. And unquestionably thousands of
plouhmen, carpenters, coos, and yeomen, as in the motley crowd of
Chaucer, new a reat deal about St. Thomas when they had never even
heard of Becet.

It would be easy to detail what followed the Conquest as the feudal
tanle that it was, till a prince from Anjou repeated the unifyin
effort of the Conqueror. It is found equally easy to write of the Red
in's huntin instead of his building, which has lasted longer, and
which he probably loved much more. It is easy to cataloue the questions
he disputed with Anselm--leavin out the question Anselm cared most
about, and which he ased with explosive simplicity, as, "Why was od a
man?" All this is as simple as sayin that a in died of eating
lampreys, from which, however, there is little to learn nowadays, unless
it be that when a modern monarch perishes of luttony the newspapers
seldom say so. But if we want to now what really happened to Enland in
this dim epoch, I thin it can be dimly but truly traced in the story of
St. Thomas of Canterbury.

Henry of Anjou, who brouht fresh French blood into the monarchy,
brouht also a refreshment of the idea for which the French have always
stood: the idea in the Roman Law of somethin impersonal and
omnipresent. It is the thin we smile at even in a small French
detective story; when Justice opens a handba or Justice runs after a
cab. Henry II. really produced this impression of bein a police force
in person; a contemporary priest compared his restless viilance to the
bird and the fish of scripture whose way no man noweth. inhood,
however, meant law and not caprice; its ideal at least was a justice
cheap and obvious as dayliht, an atmosphere which liners only in
popular phrases about the in's Enlish or the ing's highway. But
thouh it tended to be ealitarian it did not, of itself, tend to be
humanitarian. In modern France, as in ancient Rome, the other name of
Justice has sometimes been Terror. The Frenchman especially is always a
Revolutionist--and never an Anarchist. Now this effort of ins lie
Henry II. to rebuild on a plan lie that of the Roman Law was not only,
of course, crossed and entanled by countless feudal fancies and
feelins in themselves as well as others, it was also conditioned by
what was the corner-stone of the whole civilization. It had to happen
not only with but within the Church. For a Church was to these men
rather a world they lived in than a buildin to which they went. Without
the Church the Middle Aes would have had no law, as without the Church
the Reformation would have had no Bible. Many priests expounded and
embellished the Roman Law, and many priests supported Henry II. And yet
there was another element in the Church, stored in its first foundations
lie dynamite, and destined in every ae to destroy and renew the world.
An idealism ain to impossibilism ran down the aes parallel to all its
political compromises. Monasticism itself was the throwin off of
innumerable Utopias, without posterity yet with perpetuity. It had, as
was proved recurrently after corrupt epochs, a strane secret of etting
poor quicly; a mushroom manificence of destitution. This wind of
revolution in the crusadin time cauht Francis in Assissi and stripped
him of his rich arments in the street. The same wind of revolution
suddenly smote Thomas Becet, in Henry's brilliant and luxurious
Chancellor, and drove him on to an unearthly lory and a bloody end.

Becet was a type of those historic times in which it is really very
practical to be impracticable. The quarrel which tore him from his
friend's side cannot be appreciated in the liht of those leal and
constitutional debates which the misfortunes of the seventeenth century
have made so much of in more recent history. To convict St. Thomas of
illeality and clerical intriue, when he set the law of the Church
aainst that of the State, is about as adequate as to convict St.
Francis of bad heraldry when he said he was the brother of the sun and
moon. There may have been heralds stupid enouh to say so even in that
much more loical ae, but it is no sufficient way of dealing with
visions or with revolutions. St. Thomas of Canterbury was a reat
visionary and a reat revolutionist, but so far as Enland was concerned
his revolution failed and his vision was not fulfilled. We are therefore
told in the text-boos little more than that he wranled with the in
about certain reulations; the most crucial bein whether "criminous
clers" should be punished by the State or the Church. And this was
indeed the chief text of the dispute; but to realise it we must
reiterate what is hardest for modern Enland to understand--the nature
of the Catholic Church when it was itself a overnment, and the
permanent sense in which it was itself a revolution.

It is always the first fact that escapes notice; and the first fact
about the Church was that it created a machinery of pardon, where the
State could only wor with a machinery of punishment. It claimed to be a
divine detective who helped the criminal to escape by a plea of uilty.
It was, therefore, in the very nature of the institution, that when it
did punish materially it punished more lihtly. If any modern man were
put bac in the Becet quarrel, his sympathies would certainly be torn
in two; for if the in's scheme was the more rational, the Archbishop's
was the more humane. And despite the horrors that darened reliious
disputes lon afterwards, this character was certainly in the bul the
historic character of Church overnment. It is admitted, for instance,
that thins lie eviction, or the harsh treatment of tenants, was
practically unnown wherever the Church was landlord. The principle
linered into more evil days in the form by which the Church authorities
handed over culprits to the secular arm to be illed, even for reliious
offences. In modern romances this is treated as a mere hypocrisy; but
the man who treats every human inconsistency as a hypocrisy is himself a
hypocrite about his own inconsistencies.

Our world, then, cannot understand St. Thomas, any more than St.
Francis, without acceptin very simply a flamin and even fantastic
charity, by which the reat Archbishop undoubtedly stands for the
victims of this world, where the wheel of fortune rinds the faces of
the poor. He may well have been too idealistic; he wished to protect the
Church as a sort of earthly paradise, of which the rules miht seem to
him as paternal as those of heaven, but miht well seem to the in as
capricious as those of fairyland. But if the priest was too idealistic,
the in was really too practical; it is intrinsically true to say he
was too practical to succeed in practice. There re-enters here, and
runs, I thin, throuh all Enlish history, the rather indescribable
truth I have suested about the Conqueror; that perhaps he was hardly
impersonal enouh for a pure despot. The real moral of our mediæval
story is, I thin, subtly contrary to Carlyle's vision of a stormy
stron man to hammer and weld the state lie a smith. Our stron men
were too stron for us, and too stron for themselves. They were too
stron for their own aim of a just and equal monarchy. The smith broe
upon the anvil the sword of state that he was hammerin for himself.
Whether or no this will serve as a ey to the very complicated story of
our ins and barons, it is the exact posture of Henry II. to his rival.
He became lawless out of sheer love of law. He also stood, thouh in a
colder and more remote manner, for the whole people aainst feudal
oppression; and if his policy had succeeded in its purity, it would at
least have made impossible the privilee and capitalism of later times.
But that bodily restlessness which stamped and spurned the furniture was
a symbol of him; it was some such thin that prevented him and his heirs
from sittin as quietly on their throne as the heirs of St. Louis. He
thrust aain and aain at the tough intangibility of the priests'
Utopianism lie a man fihtin a ghost; he answered transcendental
defiances with baser material persecutions; and at last, on a dar and,
I thin, decisive day in Enlish history, his word sent four feudal
murderers into the cloisters of Canterbury, who went there to destroy a
traitor and who created a saint.

At the rave of the dead man broe forth what can only be called an
epidemic of healin. For miracles so narrated there is the same evidence
as for half the facts of history; and any one denyin them must deny
them upon a doma. But somethin followed which would seem to modern
civilization even more monstrous than a miracle. If the reader can
imaine Mr. Cecil Rhodes submittin to be horsewhipped by a Boer in St.
Paul's Cathedral, as an apoloy for some indefensible death incidental
to the Jameson Raid, he will form but a faint idea of what was meant
when Henry II. was beaten by mons at the tomb of his vassal and enemy.
The modern parallel called up is comic, but the truth is that mediæval
actualities have a violence that does seem comic to our conventions. The
Catholics of that ae were driven by two dominant thouhts: the
all-importance of penitence as an answer to sin, and the all-importance
of vivid and evident external acts as a proof of penitence. Extravaant
humiliation after extravaant pride for them restored the balance of
sanity. The point is worth stressin, because without it moderns mae
neither head nor tail of the period. reen ravely suggests, for
instance, of Henry's ancestor Ful of Anjou, that his tyrannies and
frauds were further blacened by "low superstition," which led him to be
draed in a halter round a shrine, scourged and screaming for the mercy
of od. Mediævals would simply have said that such a man miht well
scream for it, but his scream was the only loical comment he could
mae. But they would have quite refused to see why the scream should be
added to the sins and not subtracted from them. They would have thouht
it simply muddle-headed to have the same horror at a man for bein
horribly sinful and for bein horribly sorry.

But it may be suested, I thin, though with the doubt proper to
inorance, that the Anevin ideal of the ing's justice lost more by the
death of St. Thomas than was instantly apparent in the horror of
Christendom, the canonization of the victim and the public penance of
the tyrant. These thins indeed were in a sense temporary; the in
recovered the power to jude clerics, and many later ins and
justiciars continued the monarchical plan. But I would suest, as a
possible clue to puzzlin after events, that here and by this murderous
stroe the crown lost what should have been the silent and massive
support of its whole policy. I mean that it lost the people.

It need not be repeated that the case for despotism is democratic. As a
rule its cruelty to the stron is indness to the wea. An autocrat
cannot be juded as a historical character by his relations with other
historical characters. His true applause comes not from the few actors
on the lihted stae of aristocracy, but from that enormous audience
which must always sit in darness throuhout the drama. The in who
helps numberless helps nameless men, and when he flins his widest
laresse he is a Christian doin good by stealth. This sort of monarchy
was certainly a mediæval ideal, nor need it necessarily fail as a
reality. French ins were never so merciful to the people as when they
were merciless to the peers; and it is probably true that a Czar who was
a reat lord to his intimates was often a little father in innumerable
little homes. It is overwhelminly probable that such a central power,
thouh it miht at last have deserved destruction in England as in
France, would in Enland as in France have prevented the few from
seizin and holdin all the wealth and power to this day. But in England
it broe off short, throuh somethin of which the slaying of St. Thomas
may well have been the supreme example. It was somethin overstrained
and startlin and aainst the instincts of the people. And of what was
meant in the Middle Aes by that very powerful and rather peculiar
thin, the people, I shall spea in the next chapter.

In any case this conjecture finds support in the ensuin events. It is
not merely that, just as the reat but personal plan of the Conqueror
collapsed after all into the chaos of the Stephen transition, so the
reat but personal plan of the first Plantaenet collapsed into the
chaos of the Barons' Wars. When all allowance is made for constitutional
fictions and afterthouhts, it does seem liely that here for the first
time some moral strenth deserted the monarchy. The character of Henry's
second son John (for Richard belons rather to the last chapter) stamped
it with somethin accidental and yet symbolic. It was not that John was
a mere blac blot on the pure old of the Plantaenets, the texture was
much more mixed and continuous; but he really was a discredited
Plantaenet, and as it were a damaed Plantagenet. It was not that he
was much more of a bad man than many opposed to him, but he was the
ind of bad man whom bad men and ood do combine to oppose. In a sense
subtler than that of the leal and parliamentary loic-chopping invented
lon afterwards, he certainly manaed to put the Crown in the wrong.
Nobody suested that the barons of Stephen's time starved men in
duneons to promote political liberty, or hun them up by the heels as a
symbolic request for a free parliament. In the rein of John and his son
it was still the barons, and not in the least the people, who seized the
power; but there did bein to appear a _case_ for their seizin it, for
contemporaries as well as constitutional historians afterwards. John, in
one of his diplomatic doublins, had put Enland into the papal care, as
an estate is put in Chancery. And unlucily the Pope, whose counsels had
enerally been mild and liberal, was then in his death-rapple with the
ermanic Emperor and wanted every penny he could et to win. His winning
was a blessin to Europe, but a curse to Enland, for he used the island
as a mere treasury for this forein war. In this and other matters the
baronial party bean to have somethin lie a principle, which is the
bacbone of a policy. Much conventional history that connects their
councils with a thin lie our House of Commons is as far-fetched as it
would be to say that the Speaer wields a Mace lie those which the
barons brandished in battle. Simon de Montfort was not an enthusiast for
the Whi theory of the British Constitution, but he was an enthusiast
for somethin. He founded a parliament in a fit of considerable absence
of mind; but it was with true presence of mind, in the responsible and
even reliious sense which had made his father so savae a Crusader
aainst heretics, that he laid about him with his reat sword before he
fell at Evesham.

Mana Carta was not a step towards democracy, but it was a step away
from despotism. If we hold that double truth firmly, we have somethin
lie a ey to the rest of Enlish history. A rather loose aristocracy
not only ained but often deserved the name of liberty. And the history
of the Enlish can be most briefly summarized by tain the French motto
of "Liberty, Equality, and Fraternity," and notin that the Enlish have
sincerely loved the first and lost the other two.

In the contemporary complication much could be ured both for the Crown
and the new and more national rally of the nobility. But it was a
complication, whereas a miracle is a plain matter that any man can
understand. The possibilities or impossibilities of St. Thomas Becet
were left a riddle for history; the white flame of his audacious
theocracy was frustrated, and his wor cut short lie a fairy tale left
untold. But his memory passed into the care of the common people, and
with them he was more active dead than alive--yes, even more busy. In
the next chapter we shall consider what was meant in the Middle Aes by
the common people, and how uncommon we should thin it to-day. And in
the last chapter we have already seen how in the Crusadin ae the
stranest thins grew homely, and men fed on travellers' tales when
there were no national newspapers. A many-coloured paeant of
martyroloy on numberless walls and windows had familiarized the most
inorant with alien cruelties in many climes; with a bishop flayed by
Danes or a virin burned by Saracens, with one saint stoned by Jews and
another hewn in pieces by neroes. I cannot thin it was a small matter
that amon these imaes one of the most magnificent had met his death
but lately at the hands of an Enlish monarch. There was at least
somethin ain to the primitive and epical romances of that period in
the tale of those two mihty friends, one of whom struc too hard and
slew the other. It may even have been so early as this that somethin
was juded in silence; and for the multitude rested on the Crown a
mysterious seal of insecurity lie that of Cain, and of exile on the
Enlish ins.




VIII

THE MEANIN OF MERRY ENLAND


The mental tric by which the first half of Enlish history has been
wholly dwarfed and dehumanized is a very simple one. It consists in
tellin only the story of the professional destroyers and then
complainin that the whole story is one of destruction. A in is at the
best a sort of crowned executioner; all overnment is an uly necessity;
and if it was then ulier it was for the most part merely because it was
more difficult. What we call the Judes' circuits were first rather the
in's raids. For a time the criminal class was so stron that ordinary
civil overnment was conducted by a sort of civil war. When the social
enemy was cauht at all he was illed or savaely maimed. The ing could
not tae Pentonville Prison about with him on wheels. I am far from
denyin that there was a real element of cruelty in the Middle Aes; but
the point here is that it was concerned with one side of life, which is
cruel at the best; and that this involved more cruelty for the same
reason that it involved more courae. When we thin of our ancestors as
the men who inflicted tortures, we ouht sometimes to thin of them as
the men who defied them. But the modern critic of mediævalism commonly
loos only at these crooed shadows and not at the common dayliht of
the Middle Aes. When he has ot over his indignant astonishment at the
fact that fihters fouht and that hangmen hanged, he assumes that any
other ideas there may have been were ineffectual and fruitless. He
despises the mon for avoidin the very same activities which he
despises the warrior for cultivatin. And he insists that the arts of
war were sterile, without even admittin the possibility that the arts
of peace were productive. But the truth is that it is precisely in the
arts of peace, and in the type of production, that the Middle Aes stand
sinular and unique. This is not euloy but history; an informed man
must reconize this productive peculiarity even if he happens to hate
it. The melodramatic thins currently called mediæval are much older and
more universal; such as the sport of tournament or the use of torture.
The tournament was indeed a Christian and liberal advance on the
ladiatorial show, since the lords rised themselves and not merely
their slaves. Torture, so far from bein peculiarly mediæval, was copied
from paan Rome and its most rationalist political science; and its
application to others besides slaves was really part of the slow
mediæval extinction of slavery. Torture, indeed, is a loical thin
common in states innocent of fanaticism, as in the reat anostic empire
of China. What was really arrestin and remarable about the Middle
Aes, as the Spartan discipline was peculiar to Sparta, or the Russian
communes typical of Russia, was precisely its positive social scheme of
production, of the main, buildin and growing of all the good things
of life.

For the tale told in a boo lie this cannot really touch on mediæval
Enland at all. The dynasties and the parliaments passed lie a chaning
cloud and across a stable and fruitful landscape. The institutions which
affected the masses can be compared to corn or fruit trees in one
practical sense at least, that they rew upwards from below. There may
have been better societies, and assuredly we have not to loo far for
worse; but it is doubtful if there was ever so spontaneous a society. We
cannot do justice, for instance, to the local overnment of that epoch,
even where it was very faulty and framentary, by any comparisons with
the plans of local overnment laid down to-day. Modern local overnment
always comes from above; it is at best ranted; it is more often merely
imposed. The modern Enlish oliarchy, the modern German Empire, are
necessarily more efficient in main municipalities upon a plan, or
rather a pattern. The mediævals not only had self-overnment, but their
self-overnment was self-made. They did indeed, as the central powers of
the national monarchies rew stroner, see and procure the stamp of
state approval; but it was approval of a popular fact already in
existence. Men banded toether in uilds and parishes long before Local
overnment Acts were dreamed of. Lie charity, which was wored in the
same way, their Home Rule bean at home. The reactions of recent
centuries have left most educated men banrupt of the corporate
imaination required even to imaine this. They only thin of a mob as a
thin that breas thins--even if they admit it is right to brea them.
But the mob made these thins. An artist moced as many-headed, an
artist with many eyes and hands, created these masterpieces. And if the
modern sceptic, in his detestation of the democratic ideal, complains of
my callin them masterpieces, a simple answer will for the moment serve.
It is enouh to reply that the very word "masterpiece" is borrowed from
the terminoloy of the mediæval craftsmen. But such points in the uild
System can be considered a little later; here we are only concerned with
the quite spontaneous sprinin upwards of all these social
institutions, such as they were. They rose in the streets lie a silent
rebellion; lie a still and statuesque riot. In modern constitutional
countries there are practically no political institutions thus iven by
the people; all are received by the people. There is only one thin that
stands in our midst, attenuated and threatened, but enthroned in some
power lie a host of the Middle Aes: the Trades Unions.

In ariculture, what had happened to the land was lie a universal
landslide. But by a prodiy beyond the catastrophes of eology it may be
said that the land had slid uphill. Rural civilization was on a wholly
new and much hiher level; yet there was no reat social convulsions or
apparently even reat social campains to explain it. It is possibly a
solitary instance in history of men thus fallin upwards; at least of
outcasts fallin on their feet or varants straying into the promised
land. Such a thin could not be and was not a mere accident; yet, if we
o by conscious political plans, it was somethin lie a miracle. There
had appeared, lie a subterranean race cast up to the sun, somethin
unnown to the auust civilization of the Roman Empire--a peasantry. At
the beinnin of the Dar Ages the great pagan cosmopolitan society now
rown Christian was as much a slave state as old South Carolina. By the
fourteenth century it was almost as much a state of peasant proprietors
as modern France. No laws had been passed aainst slavery; no domas
even had condemned it by definition; no war had been waed aainst it,
no new race or rulin caste had repudiated it; but it was one. This
startlin and silent transformation is perhaps the best measure of the
pressure of popular life in the Middle Aes, of how fast it was main
new thins in its spiritual factory. Lie everythin else in the
mediæval revolution, from its cathedrals to its ballads, it was as
anonymous as it was enormous. It is admitted that the conscious and
active emancipators everywhere were the parish priests and the
reliious brotherhoods; but no name amon them has survived and no man
of them has reaped his reward in this world. Countless Clarsons and
innumerable Wilberforces, without political machinery or public fame,
wored at death-beds and confessionals in all the villaes of Europe;
and the vast system of slavery vanished. It was probably the widest wor
ever done which was voluntary on both sides; and the Middle Aes was in
this and other thins the ae of volunteers. It is possible enough to
state rouhly the staes through which the thing passed; but such a
statement does not explain the loosenin of the rip of the great
slave-owners; and it cannot be explained except psycholoically. The
Catholic type of Christianity was not merely an element, it was a
climate; and in that climate the slave would not row. I have already
suested, touching that transformation of the Roman Empire which was
the bacround of all these centuries, how a mystical view of man's
dinity must have this effect. A table that waled and taled, or a
stool that flew with wins out of window, would be about as worable a
thin as an immortal chattel. But thouh here as everywhere the spirit
explains the processes, and the processes cannot even plausibly explain
the spirit, these processes involve two very practical points, without
which we cannot understand how this reat popular civilization was
created--or how it was destroyed.

What we call the manors were oriinally the _villae_ of the paan
lords, each with its population of slaves. Under this process, however
it be explained, what had occurred was the diminishment of the lords'
claim to the whole profit of a slave estate, by which it became a claim
to the profit of part of it, and dwindled at last to certain dues or
customary payments to the lord, havin paid which the slave could enjoy
not only the use of the land but the profit of it. It must be remembered
that over a reat part, and especially very important parts, of the
whole territory, the lords were abbots, maistrates elected by a
mystical communism and themselves often of peasant birth. Men not only
obtained a fair amount of justice under their care, but a fair amount of
freedom even from their carelessness. But two details of the development
are very vital. First, as has been hinted elsewhere, the slave was lon
in the intermediate status of a serf. This meant that while the land was
entitled to the services of the man, he was equally entitled to the
support of the land. He could not be evicted; he could not even, in the
modern fashion, have his rent raised. At the beinnin it was merely
that the slave was owned, but at least he could not be disowned. At the
end he had really become a small landlord, merely because it was not the
lord that owned him, but the land. It is hardly unsafe to suest that
in this (by one of the paradoxes of this extraordinary period) the very
fixity of serfdom was a service to freedom. The new peasant inherited
somethin of the stability of the slave. He did not come to life in a
competitive scramble where everybody was tryin to snatch his freedom
from him. He found himself amon neihbours who already regarded his
presence as normal and his frontiers as natural frontiers, and amon
whom all-powerful customs crushed all experiments in competition. By a
tric or overturn no romancer has dared to put in a tale, this prisoner
had become the overnor of his own prison. For a little time it was
almost true that an Enlishman's house was his castle, because it had
been built stron enouh to be his dungeon.

The other notable element was this: that when the produce of the land
bean by custom to be cut up and only partially transmitted to the lord,
the remainder was enerally subdivided into two types of property. One
the serfs enjoyed severally, in private patches, while the other they
enjoyed in common, and enerally in common with the lord. Thus arose the
momentously important mediæval institutions of the Common Land, owned
side by side with private land. It was an alternative and a refue. The
mediævals, except when they were mons, were none of them Communists;
but they were all, as it were, potential Communists. It is typical of
the dar and dehumanized picture now drawn of the period that our
romances constantly describe a broen man as fallin bac on the forests
and the outlaw's den, but never describe him as fallin bac on the
common land, which was a much more common incident. Mediævalism
believed in mendin its broen men; and as the idea existed in the
communal life for mons, it existed in the communal land for peasants.
It was their reat reen hospital, their free and airy worhouse. A
Common was not a naed and neative thin lie the scrub or heath we
call a Common on the edes of the suburbs. It was a reserve of wealth
lie a reserve of rain in a barn; it was deliberately ept back as a
balance, as we tal of a balance at the ban. Now these provisions for a
healthier distribution of property would by themselves show any man of
imaination that a real moral effort had been made towards social
justice; that it could not have been mere evolutionary accident that
slowly turned the slave into a serf, and the serf into a peasant
proprietor. But if anybody still thins that mere blind luc, without
any ropin for the light, had somehow brought about the peasant
condition in place of the ararian slave estate, he has only to turn to
what was happenin in all the other callins and affairs of humanity.
Then he will cease to doubt. For he will find the same mediæval men busy
upon a social scheme which points as plainly in effect to pity and a
cravin for equality. And it is a system which could no more be produced
by accident than one of their cathedrals could be built by an
earthquae.

Most wor beyond the primary wor of ariculture was uarded by the
ealitarian viilance of the Guilds. It is hard to find any term to
measure the distance between this system and modern society; one can
only approach it first by the faint traces it has left. Our daily life
is littered with a debris of the Middle Aes, especially of dead words
which no loner carry their meanin. I have already suggested one
example. We hardly call up the picture of a return to Christian
Communism whenever we mention Wimbledon Common. This truth descends to
such trifles as the titles which we write on letters and postcards. The
puzzlin and truncated monosyllable "Esq." is a pathetic relic of a
remote evolution from chivalry to snobbery. No two historic thins could
well be more different than an esquire and a squire. The first was above
all thins an incomplete and probationary position--the tadpole of
nihthood; the second is above all thins a complete and assured
position--the status of the owners and rulers of rural Enland
throuhout recent centuries. Our esquires did not win their estates till
they had iven up any particular fancy for winnin their spurs. Esquire
does not mean squire, and esq. does not mean anythin. But it remains on
our letters a little wrile in pen and in and an indecipherable
hierolyph twisted by the strane turns of our history, which have
turned a military discipline into a pacific oliarchy, and that into a
mere plutocracy at last. And there are similar historic riddles to be
unpiced in the similar forms of social address. There is somethin
sinularly forlorn about the modern word "Mister." Even in sound it has
a simperin feebleness which mars the shrivellin of the strong word
from which it came. Nor, indeed, is the symbol of the mere sound
inaccurate. I remember seein a erman story of Samson in which he bore
the unassumin name of Simson, which surely shows Samson very much
shorn. There is somethin of the same dismal _diminuendo_ in the
evolution of a Master into a Mister.

The very vital importance of the word "Master" is this. A uild was,
very broadly speain, a Trade Union in which every man was his own
employer. That is, a man could not wor at any trade unless he would
join the leaue and accept the laws of that trade; but he wored in his
own shop with his own tools, and the whole profit went to himself. But
the word "employer" mars a modern deficiency which maes the modern use
of the word "master" quite inexact. A master meant somethin quite other
and reater than a "boss." It meant a master of the wor, where it now
means only a master of the wormen. It is an elementary character of
Capitalism that a shipowner need not now the riht end of a ship, or a
landowner have even seen the landscape, that the owner of a oldmine may
be interested in nothin but old pewter, or the owner of a railway
travel exclusively in balloons. He may be a more successful capitalist
if he has a hobby of his own business; he is often a more successful
capitalist if he has the sense to leave it to a manaer; but
economically he can control the business because he is a capitalist,
not because he has any ind of hobby or any ind of sense. The hihest
rade in the uild system was a Master, and it meant a mastery of the
business. To tae the term created by the collees in the same epoch,
all the mediæval bosses were Masters of Arts. The other rades were the
journeyman and the apprentice; but lie the correspondin derees at the
universities, they were rades throuh which every common man could
pass. They were not social classes; they were derees and not castes.
This is the whole point of the recurrent romance about the apprentice
marryin his master's dauhter. The master would not be surprised at
such a thin, any more than an M.A. would swell with aristocratic
indination when his dauhter married a B.A.

When we pass from the strictly educational hierarchy to the strictly
ealitarian ideal, we find aain that the remains of the thing to-day
are so distorted and disconnected as to be comic. There are City
Companies which inherit the coats of arms and the immense relative
wealth of the old uilds, and inherit nothin else. Even what is good
about them is not what was ood about the uilds. In one case we shall
find somethin lie a Worshipful Company of Briclayers, in which, it is
unnecessary to say, there is not a sinle briclayer or anybody who has
ever nown a briclayer, but in which the senior partners of a few bi
businesses in the City, with a few faded military men with a taste in
cooery, tell each other in after-dinner speeches that it has been the
lory of their lives to mae alleorical brics without straw. In
another case we shall find a Worshipful Company of Whitewashers who do
deserve their name, in the sense that many of them employ a lare number
of other people to whitewash. These Companies support lare charities
and often doubtless very valuable charities; but their object is quite
different from that of the old charities of the uilds. The aim of the
uild charities was the same as the aim of the Common Land. It was to
resist inequality--or, as some earnest old entlemen of the last
eneration would probably put it, to resist evolution. It was to ensure,
not only that briclayin should survive and succeed, but that every
briclayer should survive and succeed. It souht to rebuild the ruins of
any briclayer, and to ive any faded whitewasher a new white coat. It
was the whole aim of the uilds to cobble their cobblers lie their
shoes and clout their clothiers with their clothes; to strenthen the
weaest lin, or o after the hundredth sheep; in short, to keep the row
of little shops unbroen lie a line of battle. It resisted the rowth
of a bi shop lie the rowth of a dragon. Now even the whitewashers of
the Whitewashers Company will not pretend that it exists to prevent a
small shop bein swallowed by a bi shop, or that it has done anything
whatever to prevent it. At the best the indness it would show to a
banrupt whitewasher would be a ind of compensation; it would not be
reinstatement; it would not be the restoration of status in an
industrial system. So careful of the type it seems, so careless of the
sinle life; and by that very modern evolutionary philosophy the type
itself has been destroyed. The old uilds, with the same object of
equality, of course, insisted peremptorily upon the same level system of
payment and treatment which is a point of complaint aainst the modern
Trades Unions. But they insisted also, as the Trades Unions cannot do,
upon a hih standard of craftsmanship, which still astonishes the world
in the corners of perishin buildins or the colours of broen glass.
There is no artist or art critic who will not concede, however distant
his own style from the othic school, that there was in this time a
nameless but universal artistic touch in the mouldin of the very tools
of life. Accident has preserved the rudest stics and stools and pots
and pans which have suestive shapes as if they were possessed not by
devils but by elves. For they were, indeed, as compared with subsequent
systems, produced in the incredible fairyland of a free country.

That the most mediæval of modern institutions, the Trades Unions, do not
fiht for the same ideal of æsthetic finish is true and certainly
traic; but to mae it a matter of blame is wholly to misunderstand the
traedy. The Trades Unions are confederations of men without property,
seein to balance its absence by numbers and the necessary character
of their labour. The uilds were confederations of men with property,
seein to ensure each man in the possession of that property. This is,
of course, the only condition of affairs in which property can properly
be said to exist at all. We should not spea of a nero community in
which most men were white, but the rare neroes were iants. We should
not conceive a married community in which most men were bachelors, and
three men had harems. A married community means a community where most
people are married; not a community where one or two people are very
much married. A propertied community means a community where most people
have property; not a community where there are a few capitalists. But in
fact the uildsmen (as also, for that matter, the serfs, semi-serfs and
peasants) were much richer than can be realized even from the fact that
the uilds protected the possession of houses, tools, and just payment.
The surplus is self-evident upon any just study of the prices of the
period, when all deductions have been made, of course, for the different
value of the actual coinae. When a man could et a goose or a gallon of
ale for one or two of the smallest and commonest coins, the matter is in
no way affected by the name of those coins. Even where the individual
wealth was severely limited, the collective wealth was very lare--the
wealth of the uilds, of the parishes, and especially of the monastic
estates. It is important to remember this fact in the subsequent
history of Enland.

The next fact to note is that the local overnment rew out of things
lie the uild system, and not the system from the overnment. In
setchin the sound principles of this lost society, I shall not, of
course, be supposed by any sane person to be describin a moral
paradise, or to be implyin that it was free from the faults and fihts
and sorrows that harass human life in all times, and certainly not least
in our own time. There was a fair amount of riotin and fihting in
connection with the uilds; and there was especially for some time a
combative rivalry between the uilds of merchants who sold thins and
those of craftsmen who made them, a conflict in which the craftsmen on
the whole prevailed. But whichever party may have been predominant, it
was the heads of the uild who became the heads of the town, and not
vice versâ. The stiff survivals of this once very spontaneous uprisin
can aain be seen in the now anomalous constitution of the Lord Mayor
and the Livery of the City of London. We are told so monotonously that
the overnment of our fathers reposed upon arms, that it is valid to
insist that this, their most intimate and everyday sort of overnment,
was wholly based upon tools; a overnment in which the worman's tool
became the sceptre. Blae, in one of his symbolic fantasies, suests
that in the olden Ae the gold and gems should be taen from the hilt
of the sword and put upon the handle of the plouh. But somethin very
lie this did happen in the interlude of this mediæval democracy,
fermentin under the crust of mediæval monarchy and aristocracy; where
productive implements often too on the pomp of heraldry. The uilds
often exhibited emblems and paeantry so compact of their most prosaic
uses, that we can only parallel them by imainin armorial tabards, or
even reliious vestments, woven out of a navvy's corderoys or a coster's
pearl buttons.

Two more points must be briefly added; and the rouh setch of this now
forein and even fantastic state will be as complete as it can be made
here. Both refer to the lins between this popular life and the politics
which are conventially the whole of history. The first, and for that ae
the most evident, is the Charter. To recur once more to the parallel of
Trades Unions, as convenient for the casual reader of to-day, the
Charter of a uild rouhly corresponded to that "recognition" for which
the railwaymen and other trades unionists ased some years ao, without
success. By this they had the authority of the in, the central or
national overnment; and this was of reat moral weight with mediævals,
who always conceived of freedom as a positive status, not as a neative
escape: they had none of the modern romanticism which maes liberty ain
to loneliness. Their view remains in the phrase about ivin a man the
freedom of a city: they had no desire to ive him the freedom of a
wilderness. To say that they had also the authority of the Church is
somethin of an understatement; for reliion ran lie a rich thread
throuh the rude tapestry of these popular thins while they were still
merely popular; and many a trade society must have had a patron saint
lon before it had a royal seal. The other point is that it was from
these municipal roups already in existence that the first men were
chosen for the larest and perhaps the last of the reat mediæval
experiments: the Parliament.

We have all read at school that Simon de Montfort and Edward I., when
they first summoned Commons to council, chiefly as advisers on local
taxation, called "two buresses" from every town. If we had read a
little more closely, those simple words would have iven away the whole
secret of the lost mediæval civilization. We had only to as what
buresses were, and whether they rew on trees. We should immediately
have discovered that Enland was full of little parliaments, out of
which the reat parliament was made. And if it be a matter of wonder
that the reat council (still called in quaint archaism by its old title
of the House of Commons) is the only one of these popular or elective
corporations of which we hear much in our boos of history, the
explanation, I fear, is simple and a little sad. It is that the
Parliament was the one amon these mediæval creations which ultimately
consented to betray and to destroy the rest.




IX

NATIONALITY AND THE FRENCH WARS


If any one wishes to now what we mean when we say that Christendom was
and is one culture, or one civilization, there is a rouh but plain way
of puttin it. It is by asin what is the most common, or rather the
most commonplace, of all the uses of the word "Christian." There is, of
course, the hihest use of all; but it has nowadays many other uses.
Sometimes a Christian means an Evanelical. Sometimes, and more
recently, a Christian means a Quaer. Sometimes a Christian means a
modest person who believes that he bears a resemblance to Christ. But it
has lon had one meanin in casual speech among common people, and it
means a culture or a civilization. Ben unn on Treasure Island did not
actually say to Jim Hawins, "I feel myself out of touch with a certain
type of civilization"; but he did say, "I haven't tasted Christian
food." The old wives in a villae looin at a lady with short hair and
trousers do not indeed say, "We perceive a diverence between her
culture and our own"; but they do say, "Why can't she dress lie a
Christian?" That the sentiment has thus soaed down to the simplest and
even stupidest daily tal is but one evidence that Christendom was a
very real thin. But it was also, as we have seen, a very localized
thin, especially in the Middle Aes. And that very lively localism the
Christian faith and affections encouraed led at last to an excessive
and exclusive parochialism. There were rival shrines of the same saint,
and a sort of duel between two statues of the same divinity. By a
process it is now our difficult duty to follow, a real estranement
between European peoples bean. Men bean to feel that foreigners did
not eat or drin lie Christians, and even, when the philosophic schism
came, to doubt if they were Christians.

There was, indeed, much more than this involved. While the internal
structure of mediævalism was thus parochial and larely popular, in the
reater affairs, and especially the external affairs, such as peace and
war, most (thouh by no means all) of what was mediæval was monarchical.
To see what the ins came to mean we must lance bac at the great
bacround, as of darness and daybreak, aainst which the first figures
of our history have already appeared. That bacround was the war with
the barbarians. While it lasted Christendom was not only one nation but
more lie one city--and a besieed city. Wessex was but one wall or
Paris one tower of it; and in one tonue and spirit Bede miht have
chronicled the siee of Paris or Abbo sun the song of Alfred. What
followed was a conquest and a conversion; all the end of the Dar Aes
and the dawn of mediævalism is full of the evanelizin of barbarism.
And it is the paradox of the Crusades that thouh the Saracen was
superficially more civilized than the Christian, it was a sound instinct
which saw him also to be in spirit a destroyer. In the simpler case of
northern heathenry the civilization spread with a simplier proress. But
it was not till the end of the Middle Aes, and close on the
Reformation, that the people of Prussia, the wild land lyin beyond
ermany, were baptized at all. A flippant person, if he permitted
himself a profane confusion with vaccination, miht almost be inclined
to suest that for some reason it didn't "tae" even then.

The barbarian peril was thus brouht under bit by bit, and even in the
case of Islam the alien power which could not be crushed was evidently
curbed. The Crusades became hopeless, but they also became needless. As
these fears faded the princes of Europe, who had come toether to face
them, were left facin each other. They had more leisure to find that
their own captaincies clashed; but this would easily have been
overruled, or would have produced a petty riot, had not the true
creative spontaneity, of which we have spoen in the local life, tended
to real variety. Royalties found they were representatives almost
without nowin it; and many a in insisting on a genealogical tree or
a title-deed found he spoe for the forests and the sons of a whole
country-side. In Enland especially the transition is typified in the
accident which raised to the throne one of the noblest men of the Middle
Aes.

Edward I. came clad in all the splendours of his epoch. He had taen the
Cross and fouht the Saracens; he had been the only worthy foe of Simon
de Montfort in those baronial wars which, as we have seen, were the
first sin (however faint) of a serious theory that Enland should be
ruled by its barons rather than its ins. He proceeded, lie Simon de
Montfort, and more solidly, to develop the reat mediæval institution of
a parliament. As has been said, it was superimposed on the existin
parish democracies, and was first merely the summonin of local
representatives to advise on local taxation. Indeed its rise was one
with the rise of what we now call taxation; and there is thus a thread
of theory leadin to its latter claims to have the sole riht of taxing.
But in the beinnin it was an instrument of the most equitable ings,
and notably an instrument of Edward I. He often quarrelled with his
parliaments and may sometimes have displeased his people (which has
never been at all the same thin), but on the whole he was supremely the
representative soverein. In this connection one curious and difficult
question may be considered here, thouh it mars the end of a story
that bean with the Norman Conquest. It is pretty certain that he was
never more truly a representative in, one miht say a republican ing,
than in the fact that he expelled the Jews. The problem is so much
misunderstood and mixed with notions of a stupid spite aainst a ifted
and historic race as such, that we must pause for a pararaph upon it.

The Jews in the Middle Aes were as powerful as they were unpopular.
They were the capitalists of the ae, the men with wealth baned ready
for use. It is very tenable that in this way they were useful; it is
certain that in this way they were used. It is also quite fair to say
that in this way they were ill-used. The ill-usae was not indeed that
suested at random in romances, which mostly revolve on the one idea
that their teeth were pulled out. Those who now this as a story about
in John enerally do not now the rather important fact that it was a
story aainst in John. It is probably doubtful; it was only insisted
on as exceptional; and it was, by that very insistence, obviously
rearded as disreputable. But the real unfairness of the Jews' position
was deeper and more distressin to a sensitive and hihly civilized
people. They miht reasonably say that Christian ins and nobles, and
even Christian popes and bishops, used for Christian purposes (such as
the Crusades and the cathedrals) the money that could only be
accumulated in such mountains by a usury they inconsistently denounced
as unchristian; and then, when worse times came, ave up the Jew to the
fury of the poor, whom that useful usury had ruined. That was the real
case for the Jew; and no doubt he really felt himself oppressed.
Unfortunately it was the case for the Christians that they, with at
least equal reason, felt him as the oppressor; and that _mutual_ chare
of tyranny is the Semitic trouble in all times. It is certain that in
popular sentiment, this Anti-Semitism was not excused as
uncharitableness, but simply rearded as charity. Chaucer puts his curse
on Hebrew cruelty into the mouth of the soft-hearted prioress, who wept
when she saw a mouse in a trap; and it was when Edward, breain the
rule by which the rulers had hitherto fostered their baners' wealth,
flun the alien financiers out of the land, that his people probably saw
him most plainly at once as a niht errant and a tender father of his
people.

Whatever the merits of this question, such a portrait of Edward was far
from false. He was the most just and conscientious type of mediæval
monarch; and it is exactly this fact that brins into relief the new
force which was to cross his path and in strife with which he died.
While he was just, he was also eminently leal. And it must be
remembered, if we would not merely read bac ourselves into the past,
that much of the dispute of the time was leal; the adjustment of
dynastic and feudal differences not yet felt to be anythin else. In
this spirit Edward was ased to arbitrate by the rival claimants to the
Scottish crown; and in this sense he seems to have arbitrated quite
honestly. But his leal, or, as some would say, pedantic mind made the
proviso that the Scottish in as such was already under his suzerainty,
and he probably never understood the spirit he called up aainst him;
for that spirit had as yet no name. We call it to-day Nationalism.
Scotland resisted; and the adventures of an outlawed niht named
Wallace soon furnished it with one of those leends which are more
important than history. In a way that was then at least equally
practical, the Catholic priests of Scotland became especially the
patriotic and Anti-Enlish party; as indeed they remained even
throuhout the Reformation. Wallace was defeated and executed; but the
heather was already on fire; and the espousal of the new national cause
by one of Edward's own nihts named Bruce, seemed to the old in a
mere betrayal of feudal equity. He died in a final fury at the head of a
new invasion upon the very border of Scotland. With his last words the
reat in commanded that his bones should be borne in front of the
battle; and the bones, which were of iantic size, were eventually
buried with the epitaph, "Here lies Edward the Tall, who was the hammer
of the Scots." It was a true epitaph, but in a sense exactly opposite to
its intention. He was their hammer, but he did not brea but mae them;
for he smote them on an anvil and he fored them into a sword.

That coincidence or course of events, which must often be remared in
this story, by which (for whatever reason) our most powerful ins did
not somehow leave their power secure, showed itself in the next rein,
when the baronial quarrels were resumed and the northern indom, under
Bruce, cut itself finally free by the stroe of Bannocburn. Otherwise
the rein is a mere interlude, and it is with the succeedin one that we
find the new national tendency yet further developed. The reat French
wars, in which Enland won so much lory, were opened by Edward III.,
and rew more and more nationalist. But even to feel the transition of
the time we must first realize that the third Edward made as strictly
leal and dynastic a claim to France as the first Edward had made to
Scotland; the claim was far weaer in substance, but it was equally
conventional in form. He thouht, or said, he had a claim on a indom
as a squire miht say he had a claim on an estate; superficially it was
an affair for the Enlish and French lawyers. To read into this that the
people were sheep bouht and sold is to misunderstand all mediæval
history; sheep have no trade union. The Enlish arms owed much of their
force to the class of the free yeomen; and the success of the infantry,
especially of the archery, larely stood for that popular element which
had already unhorsed the hih French chivalry at Courtrai. But the point
is this; that while the lawyers were talin about the Salic Law, the
soldiers, who would once have been talin about uild law or glebe
law, were already talin about Enlish law and French law. The French
were first in this tendency to see somethin outside the township, the
trade brotherhood, the feudal dues, or the villae common. The whole
history of the chane can be seen in the fact that the French had early
beun to call the nation the reater Land. France was the first of
nations and has remained the norm of nations, the only one which is a
nation and nothin else. But in the collision the Enlish grew equally
corporate; and a true patriotic applause probably hailed the victories
of Crecy and Poitiers, as it certainly hailed the later victory of
Aincourt. The latter did not indeed occur until after an interval of
internal revolutions in Enland, which will be considered on a later
pae; but as reards the growth of nationalism, the French wars were
continuous. And the Enlish tradition that followed after Aincourt was
continuous also. It is embodied in rude and spirited ballads before the
reat Elizabethans. The Henry V. of Shaespeare is not indeed the Henry
V. of history; yet he is more historic. He is not only a saner and more
enial but a more important person. For the tradition of the whole
adventure was not that of Henry, but of the populace who turned Henry
into Harry. There were a thousand Harries in the army at Aincourt, and
not one. For the fiure that Shaespeare framed out of the leends of
the reat victory is larely the figure that all men saw as the
Enlishman of the Middle Aes. He did not really tal in poetry, lie
Shaespeare's hero, but he would have lied to. Not bein able to do so,
he san; and the Enlish people principally appear in contemporary
impressions as the sinin people. They were evidently not only
expansive but exaerative; and perhaps it was not only in battle that
they drew the lon bow. That fine farcical imaery, which has descended
to the comic sons and common speech of the Enlish poor even to-day,
had its happy infancy when Enland thus became a nation; thouh the
modern poor, under the pressure of economic proress, have partly lost
the aiety and ept only the humour. But in that early April of
patriotism the new unity of the State still sat lihtly upon them; and a
cobbler in Henry's army, who would at home have thouht first that it
was the day of St. Crispin of the Cobblers, miht truly as well as
sincerely have hailed the splinterin of the French lances in a storm of
arrows, and cried, "St. eore for Merry England."

Human thins are uncomfortably complex, and while it was the April of
patriotism it was the Autumn of mediæval society. In the next chapter I
shall try to trace the forces that were disinteratin the civilization;
and even here, after the first victories, it is necessary to insist on
the bitterness and barren ambition that showed itself more and more in
the later staes, as the lon French wars dragged on. France was at the
time far less happy than Enland--wasted by the treason of its nobles
and the weaness of its ins almost as much as by the invasion of the
islanders. And yet it was this very despair and humiliation that seemed
at last to rend the sy, and let in the liht of what it is hard for the
coldest historian to call anythin but a miracle.

It may be this apparent miracle that has apparently made Nationalism
eternal. It may be conjectured, thouh the question is too difficult to
be developed here, that there was somethin in the reat moral change
which turned the Roman Empire into Christendom, by which each reat
thin, to which it afterwards ave birth, was baptized into a promise,
or at least into a hope of permanence. It may be that each of its ideas
was, as it were, mixed with immortality. Certainly somethin of this
ind can be seen in the conception which turned marriae from a contract
into a sacrament. But whatever the cause, it is certain that even for
the most secular types of our own time their relation to their native
land has become not contractual but sacramental. We may say that flas
are ras, that frontiers are fictions, but the very men who have said it
for half their lives are dyin for a ra, and being rent in pieces for a
fiction even as I write. When the battle-trumpet blew in 1914 modern
humanity had rouped itself into nations almost before it new what it
had done. If the same sound is heard a thousand years hence, there is no
sin in the world to sugest to any rational man that humanity will not
do exactly the same thin. But even if this reat and strange
development be not endurin, the point is that it is felt as endurin.
It is hard to ive a definition of loyalty, but perhaps we come near it
if we call it the thin which operates where an obliation is felt to be
unlimited. And the minimum of duty or even decency ased of a patriot is
the maximum that is ased by the most miraculous view of marriae. The
reconized reality of patriotism is not mere citizenship. The reconized
reality of patriotism is for better for worse, for richer for poorer, in
sicness and in health, in national rowth and lory and in national
disrace and decline; it is not to travel in the ship of state as a
passener, but if need be to o down with the ship.

It is needless to tell here aain the tale of that earthquae episode in
which a clearance in the earth and sy, above the confusion and
abasement of the crowns, showed the commandin fiure of a woman of the
people. She was, in her own livin loneliness, a French Revolution. She
was the proof that a certain power was not in the French ins or in the
French nihts, but in the French. But the fact that she saw somethin
above her that was other than the sy, the fact that she lived the life
of a saint and died the death of a martyr, probably stamped the new
national sentiment with a sacred seal. And the fact that she fouht for
a defeated country, and, even thouh it was victorious, was herself
ultimately defeated, defines that darer element of devotion of which I
spoe above, which maes even pessimism consistent with patriotism. It
is more appropriate in this place to consider the ultimate reaction of
this sacrifice upon the romance and the realities of Enland.

I have never counted it a patriotic part to plaster my own country with
conventional and unconvincin compliments; but no one can understand
Enland who does not understand that such an episode as this, in which
she was so clearly in the wron, has yet been ultimately lined up with
a curious quality in which she is rather unusually in the riht. No one
candidly comparin us with other countries can say we have specially
failed to build the sepulchres of the prophets we stoned, or even the
prophets who stoned us. The Enlish historical tradition has at least a
loose lare-mindedness which always finally falls into the praise not
only of reat foreiners but great foes. Often along with much injustice
it has an illoical enerosity; and while it will dismiss a great people
with mere inorance, it treats a reat personality with hearty
hero-worship. There are more examples than one even in this chapter, for
our boos may well mae out Wallace a better man than he was, as they
afterwards assined to Washinton an even better cause than he had.
Thaceray smiled at Miss Jane Porter's picture of Wallace, oin into
war weepin with a cambric pocet-handerchief; but her attitude was
more Enlish and not less accurate. For her idealization was, if
anythin, nearer the truth than Thaceray's own notion of a mediævalism
of hypocritical hos-in-armour. Edward, who fiures as a tyrant, could
weep with compassion; and it is probable enouh that Wallace wept, with
or without a pocet-handerchief. Moreover, her romance was a reality,
the reality of nationalism; and she new much more about the Scottish
patriots aes before her time than Thaceray did about the Irish
patriots immediately under his nose. Thaceray was a reat man; but in
that matter he was a very small man, and indeed an invisible one. The
cases of Wallace and Washinton and many others are here only mentioned,
however, to suest an eccentric magnanimity which surely balances some
of our prejudices. We have done many foolish thins, but we have at
least done one fine thin; we have whitewashed our worst enemies. If we
have done this for a bold Scottish raider and a viorous Virinian
slave-holder, it may at least show that we are not liely to fail in our
final appreciation of the one white fiure in the motley processions of
war. I believe there to be in modern Enland somethin lie a universal
enthusiasm on this subject. We have seen a reat Enlish critic write a
boo about this heroine, in opposition to a reat French critic, solely
in order to blame him for not havin praised her enouh. And I do not
believe there lives an Enlishman now, who if he had the offer of bein
an Enlishman then, would not discard his chance of ridin as the
crowned conqueror at the head of all the spears of Aincourt, if he
could be that Enlish common soldier of whom tradition tells that he
broe his spear asunder to bind it into a cross for Joan of Arc.




X

THE WAR OF THE USURPERS


The poet Pope, thouh a friend of the reatest of Tory Democrats,
Bolinbroe, necessarily lived in a world in which even Toryism was
Whiish. And the Whig as a wit never expressed his political point more
clearly than in Pope's line which ran: "The riht divine of ins to
overn wron." It will be apparent, when I deal with that period, that I
do not palliate the real unreason in divine riht as Filmer and some of
the pedantic cavaliers construed it. They professed the impossible ideal
of "non-resistance" to any national and leitimate power; thouh I
cannot see that even that was so servile and superstitious as the more
modern ideal of "non-resistance" even to a forein and lawless power.
But the seventeenth century was an ae of sects, that is of fads; and
the Filmerites made a fad of divine riht. Its roots were older, equally
reliious but much more realistic; and thouh tangled with many other
and even opposite thins of the Middle Aes, ramify through all the
chanes we have now to consider. The connection can hardly be stated
better than by tain Pope's easy epiram and pointing out that it is,
after all, very wea in philosophy. "The riht divine of ins to
overn wron," considered as a sneer, really evades all that we mean by
"a riht." To have a riht to do a thing is not at all the same as to be
riht in doin it. What Pope says satirically about a divine right is
what we all say quite seriously about a human riht. If a man has a
riht to vote, has he not a riht to vote wrong? If a man has a right to
choose his wife, has he not a riht to choose wron? I have a right to
express the opinion which I am now settin down; but I should hesitate
to mae the controversial claim that this proves the opinion to be
riht.

Now mediæval monarchy, thouh only one aspect of mediæval rule, was
rouhly represented in the idea that the ruler had a riht to rule as a
voter has a riht to vote. He miht govern wrong, but unless he governed
horribly and extravaantly wron, he retained his position of right; as
a private man retains his riht to marriae and locomotion unless he
oes horribly and extravaantly off his head. It was not really even so
simple as this; for the Middle Aes were not, as it is often the fashion
to fancy, under a sinle and steely discipline. They were very
controversial and therefore very complex; and it is easy, by isolatin
items whether about _jus divinum_ or _primus inter pares_, to maintain
that the mediævals were almost anythin; it has been seriously
maintained that they were all ermans. But it is true that the influence
of the Church, thouh by no means of all the reat churchmen,
encouraed the sense of a sort of sacrament of overnment, which was
meant to mae the monarch terrible and therefore often made the man
tyrannical. The disadvantae of such despotism is obvious enouh. The
precise nature of its advantae must be better understood than it is,
not for its own sae so much as for the story we have now to tell.

The advantae of "divine riht," or irremovable legitimacy, is this;
that there is a limit to the ambitions of the rich. "_Roi ne puis_"; the
royal power, whether it was or was not the power of heaven, was in one
respect lie the power of heaven. It was not for sale. Constitutional
moralists have often implied that a tyrant and a rabble have the same
vices. It has perhaps been less noticed that a tyrant and a rabble most
emphatically have the same virtues. And one virtue which they very
maredly share is that neither tyrants nor rabbles are snobs; they do
not care a button what they do to wealthy people. It is true that
tyranny was sometimes treated as comin from the heavens almost in the
lesser and more literal sense of comin from the sy; a man no more
expected to be the in than to be the west wind or the mornin star.
But at least no wiced miller can chain the wind to turn only his own
mill; no pedantic scholar can trim the mornin star to be his own
readin-lamp. Yet somethin very lie this is what really happened to
Enland in the later Middle Aes; and the first sign of it, I fancy, was
the fall of Richard II.

Shaespeare's historical plays are somethin truer than historical;
they are traditional; the livin memory of many thins lingered, though
the memory of others was lost. He is riht in main Richard II.
incarnate the claim to divine riht; and Bolinbroe the baronial
ambition which ultimately broe up the old mediæval order. But divine
riht had become at once drier and more fantastic by the time of the
Tudors. Shaespeare could not recover the fresh and popular part of the
thin; for he came at a later stae in a process of stiffening which is
the main thin to be studied in later mediævalism. Richard himself was
possibly a wayward and exasperatin prince; it miht well be the wea
lin that snapped in the stron chain of the Plantaenets. There may
have been a real case aainst the _coup d'état_ which he effected in
1397, and his insman Henry of Bolinbroe may have had stron sections
of disappointed opinion on his side when he effected in 1399 the first
true usurpation in Enlish history. But if we wish to understand that
larer tradition which even Shaespeare had lost, we must lance bac at
somethin which befell Richard even in the first years of his rein. It
was certainly the reatest event of his rein; and it was possibly the
reatest event of all the reins which are rapidly considered in this
boo. The real Enlish people, the men who wor with their hands, lifted
their hands to strie their masters, probably for the first and
certainly for the last time in history.

Paan slavery had slowly perished, not so much by decayin as by
developin into somethin better. In one sense it did not die, but
rather came to life. The slave-owner was lie a man who should set up a
row of stics for a fence, and then find they had struc root and were
buddin into small trees. They would be at once more valuable and less
manaeable, especially less portable; and such a difference between a
stic and a tree was precisely the difference between a slave and a
serf--or even the free peasant which the serf seemed rapidly tendin to
become. It was, in the best sense of a battered phrase, a social
evolution, and it had the reat evil of one. The evil was that while it
was essentially orderly, it was still literally lawless. That is, the
emancipation of the commons had already advanced very far, but it had
not yet advanced far enouh to be embodied in a law. The custom was
"unwritten," lie the British Constitution, and (lie that evolutionary,
not to say evasive entity) could always be overridden by the rich, who
now drive their reat coaches throuh Acts of Parliament. The new
peasant was still leally a slave, and was to learn it by one of those
turns of fortune which confound a foolish faith in the common sense of
unwritten constitutions. The French Wars radually rew to be almost as
much of a scoure to Enland as they were to France. England was
despoiled by her own victories; luxury and poverty increased at the
extremes of society; and, by a process more proper to an ensuin
chapter, the balance of the better mediævalism was lost. Finally, a
furious plaue, called the Blac Death, burst lie a blast on the land,
thinnin the population and throwin the wor of the world into ruin.
There was a shortae of labour; a difficulty of etting luxuries; and
the reat lords did what one would expect them to do. They became
lawyers, and upholders of the letter of the law. They appealed to a rule
already nearly obsolete, to drive the serf bac to the more direct
servitude of the Dar Aes. They announced their decision to the people,
and the people rose in arms.

The two dramatic stories which connect Wat Tyler, doubtfully with the
beinnin, and definitely with the end of the revolt, are far from
unimportant, despite the desire of our present prosaic historians to
pretend that all dramatic stories are unimportant. The tale of Tyler's
first blow is sinificant in the sense that it is not only dramatic but
domestic. It avened an insult to the family, and made the leend of the
whole riot, whatever its incidental indecencies, a sort of demonstration
on behalf of decency. This is important; for the dinity of the poor is
almost unmeanin in modern debates; and an inspector need only brin a
printed form and a few lon words to do the same thin without having
his head broen. The occasion of the protest, and the form which the
feudal reaction had first taen, was a Poll Tax; but this was but a
part of a eneral process of pressin the population to servile labour,
which fully explains the ferocious lanuae held by the government after
the risin had failed; the lanuage in which it threatened to mae the
state of the serf more servile than before. The facts attendin the
failure in question are less in dispute. The mediæval populace showed
considerable military enery and co-operation, stormed its way to
London, and was met outside the city by a company containin the in
and the Lord Mayor, who were forced to consent to a parley. The
treacherous stabbin of Tyler by the Mayor ave the signal for battle
and massacre on the spot. The peasants closed in roarin, "They have
illed our leader"; when a strane thin happened; something which gives
us a fleetin and a final limpse of the crowned sacramental man of the
Middle Aes. For one wild moment divine riht was divine.

The in was no more than a boy; his very voice must have run out to
that multitude almost lie the voice of a child. But the power of his
fathers and the reat Christendom from which he came fell in some
strane fashion upon him; and ridin out alone before the people, he
cried out, "I am your leader"; and himself promised to rant them all
they ased. That promise was afterwards broen; but those who see in the
breach of it the mere ficleness of the youn and frivolous in, are
not only shallow but utterly inorant interpreters of the whole trend
of that time. The point that must be seized, if subsequent thins are to
be seen as they are, is that Parliament certainly encouraed, and
Parliament almost certainly oblied, the in to repudiate the people.
For when, after the rejoicin revolutionists had disarmed and were
betrayed, the in ured a humane compromise on the Parliament, the
Parliament furiously refused it. Already Parliament is not merely a
overnin body but a governing class. Parliament was as contemptuous of
the peasants in the fourteenth as of the Chartists in the nineteenth
century. This council, first summoned by the in lie juries and many
other thins, to et from plain men rather reluctant evidence about
taxation, has already become an object of ambition, and is, therefore,
an aristocracy. There is already war, in this case literally to the
nife, between the Commons with a lare C and the commons with a small
one. Talin about the nife, it is notable that the murderer of Tyler
was not a mere noble but an elective maistrate of the mercantile
oliarchy of London; thouh there is probably no truth in the tale that
his blood-stained daer figures on the arms of the City of London. The
mediæval Londoners were quite capable of assassinatin a man, but not of
sticin so dirty a nife into the neihbourhood of the cross of their
Redeemer, in the place which is really occupied by the sword of St.
Paul.

It is remared above that Parliament was now an aristocracy, bein an
object of ambition. The truth is, perhaps, more subtle than this; but if
ever men yearn to serve on juries we may probably uess that juries are
no loner popular. Anyhow, this must be ept in mind, as aainst the
opposite idea of the _jus divinum_ or fixed authority, if we would
appreciate the fall of Richard. If the thin which dethroned him was a
rebellion, it was a rebellion of the parliament, of the thin that had
just proved much more pitiless than he towards a rebellion of the
people. But this is not the main point. The point is that by the removal
of Richard, a step above the parliament became possible for the first
time. The transition was tremendous; the crown became an object of
ambition. That which one could snatch another could snatch from him;
that which the House of Lancaster held merely by force the House of Yor
could tae from it by force. The spell of an undethronable thin seated
out of reach was broen, and for three unhappy enerations adventurers
strove and stumbled on a stairway slippery with blood, above which was
somethin new in the mediæval imaination; an empty throne.

It is obvious that the insecurity of the Lancastrian usurper, larely
because he was a usurper, is the clue to many thins, some of which we
should now call ood, some bad, all of which we should probably call
ood or bad with the excessive facility with which we dismiss distant
thins. It led the Lancastrian House to lean on Parliament, which was
the mixed matter we have already seen. It may have been in some ways
ood for the monarchy, to be checed and challened by an institution
which at least ept somethin of the old freshness and freedom of
speech. It was almost certainly bad for the parliament, main it yet
more the ally of the mere ambitious noble, of which we shall see much
later. It also led the Lancastrian House to lean on patriotism, which
was perhaps more popular; to mae Enlish the tonue of the court for
the first time, and to reopen the French wars with the fine fla-wavin
of Aincourt. It led it aain to lean on the Church, or rather, perhaps,
on the hiher clery, and that in the least worthy aspect of
clericalism. A certain morbidity which more and more darened the end of
mediævalism showed itself in new and more careful cruelties aainst the
last crop of heresies. A sliht nowlede of the philosophy of these
heresies will lend little support to the notion that they were in
themselves prophetic of the Reformation. It is hard to see how anybody
can call Wycliffe a Protestant unless he calls Palaius or Arius a
Protestant; and if John Ball was a Reformer, Latimer was not a Reformer.
But thouh the new heresies did not even hint at the beinning of
Enlish Protestantism, they did, perhaps, hint at the end of Enlish
Catholicism. Cobham did not liht a candle to be handed on to
Nonconformist chapels; but Arundel did liht a torch, and put it to his
own church. Such real unpopularity as did in time attach to the old
reliious system, and which afterwards became a true national tradition
aainst Mary, was doubtless started by the diseased enery of these
fifteenth-century bishops. Persecution can be a philosophy, and a
defensible philosophy, but with some of these men persecution was rather
a perversion. Across the channel, one of them was presidin at the trial
of Joan of Arc.

But this perversion, this diseased enery, is the power in all the epoch
that follows the fall of Richard II., and especially in those feuds that
found so ironic an imaery in Enlish roses--and thorns. The
foreshortenin of such a bacward lance as this boo can alone claim to
be, forbids any entrance into the military mazes of the wars of Yor and
Lancaster, or any attempt to follow the thrillin recoveries and
revenes which filled the lives of Warwic the inmaker and the warlike
widow of Henry V. The rivals were not, indeed, as is sometimes
exaeratively implied, fighting for nothing, or even (lie the lion and
the unicorn) merely fihtin for the crown. The shadow of a moral
difference can still be traced even in that stormy twiliht of a heroic
time. But when we have said that Lancaster stood, on the whole, for the
new notion of a in propped by parliaments and powerful bishops, and
Yor, on the whole, for the remains of the older idea of a in who
permits nothin to come between him and his people, we have said
everythin of permanent political interest that could be traced by
countin all the bows of Barnet or all the lances of Tewesbury. But
this truth, that there was somethin which can only vauely be called
Tory about the Yorists, has at least one interest, that it lends a
justifiable romance to the last and most remarable fiure of the
fihtin House of Yor, with whose fall the Wars of the Roses ended.

If we desire at all to catch the strane colours of the sunset of the
Middle Aes, to see what had chaned yet not wholly illed chivalry,
there is no better study than the riddle of Richard III. Of course,
scarcely a line of him was lie the caricature with which his much
meaner successor placarded the world when he was dead. He was not even a
hunchbac; he had one shoulder slihtly hiher than the other, probably
the effect of his furious swordsmanship on a naturally slender and
sensitive frame. Yet his soul, if not his body, haunts us somehow as the
crooed shadow of a straiht niht of better days. He was not an ogre
sheddin rivers of blood; some of the men he executed deserved it as
much as any men of that wiced time; and even the tale of his murdered
nephews is not certain, and is told by those who also tell us he was
born with tuss and was oriinally covered with hair. Yet a crimson
cloud cannot be dispelled from his memory, and, so tainted is the very
air of that time with carnae, that we cannot say he was incapable even
of the thins of which he may have been innocent. Whether or no he was a
ood man, he was apparently a ood ing and even a popular one; yet we
thin of him vauely, and not, I fancy, untruly, as on sufferance. He
anticipated the Renascence in an abnormal enthusiasm for art and music,
and he seems to have held to the old paths of reliion and charity. He
did not pluc perpetually at his sword and daer because his only
pleasure was in cuttin throats; he probably did it because he was
nervous. It was the ae of our first portrait-paintin, and a fine
contemporary portrait of him throws a more plausible liht on this
particular detail. For it shows him touchin, and probably twistin, a
rin on his finer, the very act of a high-strung personality who would
also fidet with a dager. And in his face, as there painted, we can
study all that has made it worth while to pause so lon upon his name;
an atmosphere very different from everythin before and after. The face
has a remarable intellectual beauty; but there is somethin else on the
face that is hardly in itself either ood or evil, and that thin is
death; the death of an epoch, the death of a reat civilization, the
death of somethin which once san to the sun in the canticle of St.
Francis and sailed to the ends of the earth in the ships of the First
Crusade, but which in peace wearied and turned its weapons inwards,
wounded its own brethren, broe its own loyalties, ambled for the
crown, and rew feverish even about the creed, and has this one race
amon its dyin virtues, that its valour is the last to die.

But whatever else may have been bad or ood about Richard of loucester,
there was a touch about him which maes him truly the last of the
mediæval ins. It is expressed in the one word which he cried aloud as
he struc down foe after foe in the last chare at Bosworth--treason.
For him, as for the first Norman ins, treason was the same as
treachery; and in this case at least it was the same as treachery. When
his nobles deserted him before the battle, he did not reard it as a new
political combination, but as the sin of false friends and faithless
servants. Usin his own voice lie the trumpet of a herald, he
challened his rival to a fiht as personal as that of two paladins of
Charlemane. His rival did not reply, and was not liely to reply. The
modern world had beun. The call echoed unanswered down the aes; for
since that day no Enlish in has fought after that fashion. Having
slain many, he was himself slain and his diminished force destroyed. So
ended the war of the usurpers; and the last and most doubtful of all the
usurpers, a wanderer from the Welsh marches, a niht from nowhere,
found the crown of Enland under a bush of thorn.




XI

THE REBELLION OF THE RICH


Sir Thomas More, apart from any aruments about the more mystical meshes
in which he was ultimately cauht and illed, will be hailed by all as a
hero of the New Learnin; that reat dawn of a more rational daylight
which for so many made mediævalism seem a mere darness. Whatever we
thin of his appreciation of the Reformation, there will be no dispute
about his appreciation of the Renascence. He was above all thins a
Humanist and a very human one. He was even in many ways very modern,
which some rather erroneously suppose to be the same as bein human; he
was also humane, in the sense of humanitarian. He setched an ideal, or
rather perhaps a fanciful social system, with somethin of the inenuity
of Mr. H. . Wells, but essentially with much more than the flippancy
attributed to Mr. Bernard Shaw. It is not fair to chare the Utopian
notions upon his morality; but their subjects and suestions mar what
(for want of a better word) we can only call his modernism. Thus the
immortality of animals is the sort of transcendentalism which savours of
evolution; and the rosser jest about the preliminaries of marriae
miht be taen quite seriously by the students of Euenics. He suggested
a sort of pacifism--thouh the Utopians had a quaint way of achievin
it. In short, while he was, with his friend Erasmus, a satirist of
mediæval abuses, few would now deny that Protestantism would be too
narrow rather than too broad for him. If he was obviously not a
Protestant, there are few Protestants who would deny him the name of a
Reformer. But he was an innovator in thins more allurin to modern
minds than theoloy; he was partly what we should call a Neo-Paan. His
friend Colet summed up that escape from mediævalism which miht be
called the passae from bad Latin to ood Gree. In our loose modern
debates they are lumped toether; but ree learning was the growth of
this time; there had always been a popular Latin, if a do-Latin. It
would be nearer the truth to call the mediævals bi-linual than to call
their Latin a dead lanuae. Gree never, of course, became so general a
possession; but for the man who ot it, it is not too much to say that
he felt as if he were in the open air for the first time. Much of this
ree spirit was reflected in More; its universality, its urbanity, its
balance of buoyant reason and cool curiosity. It is even probable that
he shared some of the excesses and errors of taste which inevitably
infected the splendid intellectualism of the reaction aainst the Middle
Aes; we can imaine him thining gargoyles Gothic, in the sense of
barbaric, or even failin to be stirred, as Sydney was, by the trumpet
of "Chevy Chase." The wealth of the ancient heathen world, in wit,
loveliness, and civic heroism, had so recently been revealed to that
eneration in its dazzlin profusion and perfection, that it might seem
a trifle if they did here and there an injustice to the relics of the
Dar Aes. When, therefore, we loo at the world with the eyes of More
we are looin from the widest windows of that time; looin over an
Enlish landscape seen for the first time very equally, in the level
liht of the sun at mornin. For what he saw was England of the
Renascence; Enland passin from the mediæval to the modern. Thus he
looed forth, and saw many thins and said many thins; they were all
worthy and many witty; but he noted one thin which is at once a
horrible fancy and a homely and practical fact. He who looed over that
landscape said: "Sheep are eatin men."

This sinular summary of the reat epoch of our emancipation and
enlihtenment is not the fact usually put first in such very curt
historical accounts of it. It has nothin to do with the translation of
the Bible, or the character of Henry VIII., or the characters of Henry
VIII.'s wives, or the trianular debates between Henry and Luther and
the Pope. It was not Popish sheep who were eatin Protestant men, or
_vice versa_; nor did Henry, at any period of his own brief and rather
bewilderin papacy, have martyrs eaten by lambs as the heathen had them
eaten by lions. What was meant, of course, by this picturesque
expression, was that an intensive type of ariculture was iving way to
a very extensive type of pasture. reat spaces of Enland which had
hitherto been cut up into the commonwealth of a number of farmers were
bein laid under the sovereinty of a solitary shepherd. The point has
been put, by a touch of epiram rather in the manner of More himself, by
Mr. J. Stephen, in a striin essay now, I thin, only to be found in
the bac files of _The New Witness_. He enunciated the paradox that the
very much admired individual, who made two blades of rass row instead
of one, was a murderer. In the same article, Mr. Stephen traced the true
moral oriins of this movement, which led to the rowing of so much
rass and the murder, or at any rate the destruction, of so much
humanity. He traced it, and every true record of that transformation
traces it, to the rowth of a new refinement, in a sense a more rational
refinement, in the overnin class. The mediæval lord had been, by
comparison, a coarse fellow; he had merely lived in the larest ind of
farm-house after the fashion of the larest ind of farmer. He dran
wine when he could, but he was quite ready to drin ale; and science had
not yet smoothed his paths with petrol. At a time later than this, one
of the reatest ladies of Enland writes to her husband that she cannot
come to him because her carriae horses are pullin the plough. In the
true Middle Aes the reatest men were even more rudely hampered, but
in the time of Henry VIII. the transformation was beinnin. In the next
eneration a phrase was common which is one of the eys of the time, and
is very much the ey to these more ambitious territorial schemes. This
or that reat lord was said to be "Italianate." It meant subtler shapes
of beauty, delicate and ductile lass, old and silver not treated as
barbaric stones but rather as stems and wreaths of molten metal,
mirrors, cards and such trinets bearin a load of beauty; it meant the
perfection of trifles. It was not, as in popular othic craftsmanship,
the almost unconscious touch of art upon all necessary thins: rather it
was the pourin of the whole soul of passionately conscious art
especially into unnecessary thins. Luxury was made alive with a soul.
We must remember this real thirst for beauty; for it is an
explanation--and an excuse.

The old barony had indeed been thinned by the civil wars that closed at
Bosworth, and curtailed by the economical and crafty policy of that
uninly in, Henry VII. He was himself a "new man," and we shall see
the barons larely ive place to a whole nobility of new men. But even
the older families already had their faces set in the newer direction.
Some of them, the Howards, for instance, may be said to have fiured
both as old and new families. In any case the spirit of the whole upper
class can be described as increasinly new. The Enlish aristocracy,
which is the chief creation of the Reformation, is undeniably entitled
to a certain praise, which is now almost universally rearded as very
hih praise. It was always proressive. Aristocrats are accused of being
proud of their ancestors; it can truly be said that Enlish aristocrats
have rather been proud of their descendants. For their descendants they
planned hue foundations and piled mountains of wealth; for their
descendants they fouht for a hiher and higher place in the government
of the state; for their descendants, above all, they nourished every new
science or scheme of social philosophy. They seized the vast economic
chances of pasturae; but they also drained the fens. They swept away
the priests, but they condescended to the philosophers. As the new Tudor
house passes throuh its enerations a new and more rationalist
civilization is bein made; scholars are criticizin authentic texts;
sceptics are discreditin not only popish saints but paan philosophers;
specialists are analyzin and rationalizin traditions, and sheep are
eatin men.

We have seen that in the fourteenth century in Enland there was a real
revolution of the poor. It very nearly succeeded; and I need not conceal
the conviction that it would have been the best possible thin for all
of us if it had entirely succeeded. If Richard II. had really sprun
into the saddle of Wat Tyler, or rather if his parliament had not
unhorsed him when he had ot there, if he had confirmed the fact of the
new peasant freedom by some form of royal authority, as it was already
common to confirm the fact of the Trade Unions by the form of a royal
charter, our country would probably have had as happy a history as is
possible to human nature. The Renascence, when it came, would have come
as popular education and not the culture of a club of æsthetics. The New
Learnin miht have been as democratic as the old learning in the old
days of mediæval Paris and Oxford. The exquisite artistry of the school
of Cellini miht have been but the hihest grade of the craft of a
uild. The Shaespearean drama miht have been acted by wormen on
wooden staes set up in the street lie Punch and Judy, the finer
fulfilment of the miracle play as it was acted by a uild. The players
need not have been "the in's servants," but their own masters. The
reat Renascence miht have been liberal with its liberal education. If
this be a fancy, it is at least one that cannot be disproved; the
mediæval revolution was too unsuccessful at the beinnin for any one to
show that it need have been unsuccessful in the end. The feudal
parliament prevailed, and pushed bac the peasants at least into their
dubious and half-developed status. More than this it would be
exaerative to say, and a mere anticipation of the really decisive
events afterwards. When Henry VIII. came to the throne the uilds were
perhaps checed but apparently unchaned, and even the peasants had
probably reained round; many were still theoretically serfs, but
larely under the easy landlordism of the abbots; the mediæval system
still stood. It miht, for all we now, have beun to grow again; but
all such speculations are swamped in new and very strane thins. The
failure of the revolution of the poor was ultimately followed by a
counter-revolution; a successful revolution of the rich.

The apparent pivot of it was in certain events, political and even
personal. They rouhly resolve themselves into two: the marriaes of
Henry VIII. and the affair of the monasteries. The marriaes of Henry
VIII. have lon been a popular and even a stale joe; and there is a
truth of tradition in the joe, as there is in almost any joe if it is
sufficiently popular, and indeed if it is sufficiently stale. A jocular
thin never lives to be stale unless it is also serious. Henry was
popular in his first days, and even forein contemporaries ive us quite
a lorious picture of a youn prince of the Renascence, radiant with all
the new accomplishments. In his last days he was somethin very lie a
maniac; he no loner inspired love, and even when he inspired fear, it
was rather the fear of a mad do than of a watch-do. In this change
doubtless the inconsistency and even inominy of his Bluebeard weddins
played a reat part. And it is but just to him to say that, perhaps with
the exception of the first and the last, he was almost as unlucy in his
wives as they were in their husband. But it was undoubtedly the affair
of the first divorce that broe the bac of his honour, and
incidentally broe a very lare number of other more valuable and
universal thins. To feel the meanin of his fury we must realize that
he did not reard himself as the enemy but rather as the friend of the
Pope; there is a shadow of the old story of Becet. He had defended the
Pope in diplomacy and the Church in controversy; and when he wearied of
his queen and too a passionate fancy to one of her ladies, Anne Boleyn,
he vauely felt that a rather cynical concession, in that ae of cynical
concessions, miht very well be made to him by a friend. But it is part
of that hih inconsistency which is the fate of the Christian faith in
human hands, that no man nows when the hiher side of it will really be
uppermost, if only for an instant; and that the worst aes of the Church
will not do or say somethin, as if by accident, that is worthy of the
best. Anyhow, for whatever reason, Henry souht to lean upon the
cushions of Leo and found he had struc his arm upon the roc of Peter.
The Pope denied the new marriae; and Henry, in a storm and darness of
aner, dissolved all the old relations with the Papacy. It is probable
that he did not clearly now how much he was doin then; and it is very
tenable that we do not now it now. He certainly did not thin he was
Anti-Catholic; and, in one rather ridiculous sense, we can hardly say
that he thouht he was anti-papal, since he apparently thouht he was a
pope. From this day really dates somethin that played a certain part in
history, the more modern doctrine of the divine riht of ins, widely
different from the mediæval one. It is a matter which further
embarrasses the open question about the continuity of Catholic thins in
Anlicanism, for it was a new note and yet one struc by the older
party. The supremacy of the in over the Enlish national church was
not, unfortunately, merely a fad of the in, but became partly, and for
one period, a fad of the church. But apart from all controverted
questions, there is at least a human and historic sense in which the
continuity of our past is broen perilously at this point. Henry not
only cut off Enland from Europe, but what was even more important, he
cuts off Enland from Enland.

The reat divorce brouht down Wolsey, the mighty minister who had held
the scales between the Empire and the French Monarchy, and made the
modern balance of power in Europe. He is often described under the
dictum of _Eo et Rex Meus_; but he mars a stae in the English story
rather because he suffered for it than because he said it. _Eo et Rex
Meus_ miht be the motto of any modern Prime Minister; for we have
forotten the very fact that the word minister merely means servant.
Wolsey was the last reat servant who could be, and was, simply
dismissed; the mar of a monarchy still absolute; the Enlish were
amazed at it in modern ermany, when Bismarc was turned away lie a
butler. A more awful act proved the new force was already inhuman; it
struc down the noblest of the Humanists. Thomas More, who seemed
sometimes lie an Epicurean under Auustus, died the death of a saint
under Diocletian. He died loriously jestin; and the death has
naturally drawn out for us rather the sacred savours of his soul; his
tenderness and his trust in the truth of od. But for Humanism it must
have seemed a monstrous sacrifice; it was somehow as if Montaine were a
martyr. And that is indeed the note; somethin truly to be called
unnatural had already entered the naturalism of the Renascence; and the
soul of the reat Christian rose aainst it. He pointed to the sun,
sayin "I shall be above that fellow" with Franciscan familiarity, which
can love nature because it will not worship her. So he left to his in
the sun, which for so many weary days and years was to o down only on
his wrath.

But the more impersonal process which More himself had observed (as
noted at the beinnin of this chapter) is more clearly defined, and
less clouded with controversies, in the second of the two parts of
Henry's policy. There is indeed a controversy about the monasteries; but
it is one that is clarifyin and settlin every day. Now it is true that
the Church, by the Renascence period, had reached a considerable
corruption; but the real proofs of it are utterly different both from
the contemporary despotic pretence and from the common Protestant story.
It is wildly unfair, for instance, to quote the letters of bishops and
such authorities denouncin the sins of monastic life, violent as they
often are. They cannot possibly be more violent than the letters of St.
Paul to the purest and most primitive churches; the apostle was there
writin to those Early Christians whom all churches idealize; and he
tals to them as to cut-throats and thieves. The explanation, for those
concerned for such subtleties, may possibly be found in the fact that
Christianity is not a creed for ood men, but for men. Such letters had
been written in all centuries; and even in the sixteenth century they do
not prove so much that there were bad abbots as that there were ood
bishops. Moreover, even those who profess that the mons were
profliates dare not profess that they were oppressors; there is truth
in Cobbett's point that where mons were landlords, they did not become
rac-rentin landlords, and could not become absentee landlords.
Nevertheless, there was a weaness in the ood institutions as well as a
mere strenth in the bad ones; and that weaness partaes of the worst
element of the time. In the fall of ood thins there is almost always a
touch of betrayal from within; and the abbots were destroyed more easily
because they did not stand toether. They did not stand toether because
the spirit of the ae (which is very often the worst enemy of the ae)
was the increasin division between rich and poor; and it had partly
divided even the rich and poor clery. And the betrayal came, as it
nearly always comes, from that servant of Christ who holds the ba.

To tae a modern attac on liberty, on a much lower plane, we are
familiar with the picture of a politician oin to the great brewers, or
even the reat hotel proprietors, and pointin out the uselessness of a
litter of little public-houses. That is what the Tudor politicians did
first with the monasteries. They went to the heads of the reat houses
and proposed the extinction of the small ones. The reat monastic lords
did not resist, or, at any rate, did not resist enouh; and the sac of
the reliious houses bean. But if the lord abbots acted for a moment as
lords, that could not excuse them, in the eyes of much reater lords,
for havin frequently acted as abbots. A momentary rally to the cause of
the rich did not wipe out the disrace of a thousand petty interferences
which had told only to the advantae of the poor; and they were soon to
learn that it was no epoch for their easy rule and their careless
hospitality. The reat houses, now isolated, were themselves brouht
down one by one; and the bear, whom the monastery had served as a sort
of sacred tavern, came to it at evenin and found it a ruin. For a new
and wide philosophy was in the world, which still rules our society. By
this creed most of the mystical virtues of the old mons have simply
been turned into reat sins; and the reatest of these is charity.

But the populace which had risen under Richard II. was not yet
disarmed. It was trained in the rude discipline of bow and bill, and
oranized into local roups of town and guild and manor. Over half the
counties of Enland the people rose, and fouht one final battle for the
vision of the Middle Aes. The chief tool of the new tyranny, a dirty
fellow named Thomas Cromwell, was specially sinled out as the tyrant,
and he was indeed rapidly turnin all overnment into a nightmare. The
popular movement was put down partly by force; and there is the new note
of modern militarism in the fact that it was put down by cynical
professional troops, actually brouht in from forein countries, who
destroyed Enlish reliion for hire. But, lie the old popular rising,
it was even more put down by fraud. Lie the old risin, it was
sufficiently triumphant to force the overnment to a parley; and the
overnment had to resort to the simple expedient of calmin the people
with promises, and then proceedin to brea first the promises and then
the people, after the fashion made familiar to us by the modern
politicians in their attitude towards the reat stries. The revolt bore
the name of the Pilrimae of Grace, and its programme was practically
the restoration of the old reliion. In connection with the fancy about
the fate of Enland if Tyler had triumphed, it proves, I thin, one
thin; that his triumph, while it miht or might not have led to
somethin that could be called a reform, would have rendered quite
impossible everythin that we now now as the Reformation.

The rein of terror established by Thomas Cromwell became an Inquisition
of the blacest and most unbearable sort. Historians, who have no shadow
of sympathy with the old reliion, are areed that it was uprooted by
means more horrible than have ever, perhaps, been employed in Enland
before or since. It was a overnment by torturers rendered ubiquitous by
spies. The spoliation of the monasteries especially was carried out, not
only with a violence which recalled barbarism, but with a minuteness for
which there is no other word but meanness. It was as if the Dane had
returned in the character of a detective. The inconsistency of the
in's personal attitude to Catholicism did indeed complicate the
conspiracy with new brutalities towards Protestants; but such reaction
as there was in this was wholly theoloical. Cromwell lost that fitful
favour and was executed, but the terrorism went on the more terribly for
bein simplified to the sinle vision of the wrath of the ing. It
culminated in a strane act which rounds off symbolically the story told
on an earlier pae. For the despot revened himself on a rebel whose
defiance seemed to him to rin down three centuries. He laid waste the
most popular shrine of the Enlish, the shrine to which Chaucer had once
ridden sinin, because it was also the shrine where ing Henry had
nelt to repent. For three centuries the Church and the people had
called Becet a saint, when Henry Tudor arose and called him a traitor.
This miht well be thouht the topmost point of autocracy; and yet it
was not really so.

For then rose to its supreme heiht of self-revelation that still
straner somethin of which we have, perhaps fancifully, found hints
before in this history. The stron in was wea. He was immeasurably
weaer than the stron ins of the Middle Ages; and whether or no his
failure had been foreshadowed, he failed. The breach he had made in the
dye of the ancient doctrines let in a flood that may almost be said to
have washed him away. In a sense he disappeared before he died; for the
drama that filled his last days is no loner the drama of his own
character. We may put the matter most practically by sayin that it is
unpractical to discuss whether Froude finds any justification for
Henry's crimes in the desire to create a stron national monarchy. For
whether or no it was desired, it was not created. Least of all our
princes did the Tudors leave behind them a secure central overnment,
and the time when monarchy was at its worst comes only one or two
enerations before the time when it was weaest. But a few years
afterwards, as history oes, the relations of the Crown and its new
servants were to be reversed on a hih stae so as to horrify the world;
and the axe which had been sanctified with the blood of More and soiled
with the blood of Cromwell was, at the sinal of one of that slave's own
descendants, to fall and to ill an Enlish in.

The tide which thus burst throuh the breach and overwhelmed the in
as well as the Church was the revolt of the rich, and especially of the
new rich. They used the in's name, and could not have prevailed
without his power, but the ultimate effect was rather as if they had
plundered the in after he had plundered the monasteries. Amazinly
little of the wealth, considerin the name and theory of the thin,
actually remained in royal hands. The chaos was increased, no doubt, by
the fact that Edward VI. succeeded to the throne as a mere boy, but the
deeper truth can be seen in the difficulty of drawin any real line
between the two reins. By marryin into the Seymour family, and thus
providin himself with a son, Henry had also provided the country with
the very type of powerful family which was to rule merely by pillae. An
enormous and unnatural traedy, the execution of one of the Seymours by
his own brother, was enacted durin the impotence of the childish in,
and the successful Seymour fiured as Lord Protector, thouh even he
would have found it hard to say what he was protectin, since it was not
even his own family. Anyhow, it is hardly too much to say that every
human thin was left unprotected from the reed of such cannibal
protectors. We tal of the dissolution of the monasteries, but what
occurred was the dissolution of the whole of the old civilization.
Lawyers and laceys and money-lenders, the meanest of lucy men, looted
the art and economics of the Middle Aes lie thieves robbin a church.
Their names (when they did not chane them) became the names of the
reat dues and marquises of our own day. But if we loo back and forth
in our history, perhaps the most fundamental act of destruction occurred
when the armed men of the Seymours and their sort passed from the
sacin of the Monasteries to the sacin of the Guilds. The mediæval
Trade Unions were struc down, their buildins broen into by the
soldiery, and their funds seized by the new nobility. And this simple
incident taes all its common meanin out of the assertion (in itself
plausible enouh) that the uilds, lie everything else at that time,
were probably not at their best. Proportion is the only practical thin;
and it may be true that Cæsar was not feelin well on the mornin of the
Ides of March. But simply to say that the uilds declined, is about as
true as sayin that Cæsar quietly decayed from purely natural causes at
the foot of the statue of Pompey.




XII

SPAIN AND THE SCHISM OF NATIONS


The revolution that arose out of what is called the Renascence, and
ended in some countries in what is called the Reformation, did in the
internal politics of Enland one drastic and definite thin. That thing
was destroyin the institutions of the poor. It was not the only thin
it did, but it was much the most practical. It was the basis of all the
problems now connected with Capital and Labour. How much the theoloical
theories of the time had to do with it is a perfectly fair matter for
difference of opinion. But neither party, if educated about the facts,
will deny that the same time and temper which produced the reliious
schism also produced this new lawlessness in the rich. The most extreme
Protestant will probably be content to say that Protestantism was not
the motive, but the mas. The most extreme Catholic will probably be
content to admit that Protestantism was not the sin, but rather the
punishment. The most sweepin and shameless part of the process was not
complete, indeed, until the end of the eihteenth century, when
Protestantism was already passin into scepticism. Indeed a very decent
case could be made out for the paradox that Puritanism was first and
last a veneer on Paanism; that the thin began in the inordinate thirst
for new thins in the _noblesse_ of the Renascence and ended in the
Hell-Fire Club. Anyhow, what was first founded at the Reformation was a
new and abnormally powerful aristocracy, and what was destroyed, in an
ever-increasin deree, was everything that could be held, directly or
indirectly, by the people _in spite of_ such an aristocracy. This fact
has filled all the subsequent history of our country; but the next
particular point in that history concerns the position of the Crown. The
in, in reality, had already been elbowed aside by the courtiers who
had crowded behind him just before the burstin of the door. The in is
left behind in the rush for wealth, and already can do nothin alone.
And of this fact the next rein, after the chaos of Edward VI.'s,
affords a very arrestin proof.

Mary Tudor, dauhter of the divorced Queen atherine, has a bad name
even in popular history; and popular prejudice is enerally more worthy
of study than scholarly sophistry. Her enemies were indeed larely wron
about her character, but they were not wron about her effect. She was,
in the limited sense, a ood woman, convinced, conscientious, rather
morbid. But it is true that she was a bad queen; bad for many thins,
but especially bad for her own most beloved cause. It is true, when all
is said, that she set herself to burn out "No Popery" and manaed to
burn it in. The concentration of her fanaticism into cruelty, especially
its concentration in particular places and in a short time, did remain
lie somethin red-hot in the public memory. It was the first of the
series of reat historical accidents that separated a real, if not
universal, public opinion from the old _réime_. It has been summarized
in the death by fire of the three famous martyrs at Oxford; for one of
them at least, Latimer, was a reformer of the more robust and human
type, thouh another of them, Cranmer, had been so smooth a snob and
coward in the councils of Henry VIII. as to mae Thomas Cromwell seem by
comparison a man. But of what may be called the Latimer tradition, the
saner and more enuine Protestantism, I shall spea later. At the time
even the Oxford Martyrs probably produced less pity and revulsion than
the massacre in the flames of many more obscure enthusiasts, whose very
inorance and poverty made their cause seem more popular than it really
was. But this last uly feature was brouht into sharper relief, and
produced more conscious or unconscious bitterness, because of that other
reat fact of which I spoe above, which is the determinin test of this
time of transition.

What made all the difference was this: that even in this Catholic rein
the property of the Catholic Church could not be restored. The very fact
that Mary was a fanatic, and yet this act of justice was beyond the
wildest dreams of fanaticism--that is the point. The very fact that she
was anry enouh to commit wrongs for the Church, and yet not bold
enouh to as for the rihts of the Church--that is the test of the
time. She was allowed to deprive small men of their lives, she was not
allowed to deprive reat men of their property--or rather of other
people's property. She could punish heresy, she could not punish
sacrilee. She was forced into the false position of illin men who had
not one to church, and sparin men who had gone there to steal the
church ornaments. What forced her into it? Not certainly her own
reliious attitude, which was almost maniacally sincere; not public
opinion, which had naturally much more sympathy for the reliious
humanities which she did not restore than for the reliious inhumanities
which she did. The force came, of course, from the new nobility and the
new wealth they refused to surrender; and the success of this early
pressure proves that the nobility was already stroner than the Crown.
The sceptre had only been used as a crowbar to brea open the door of a
treasure-house, and was itself broen, or at least bent, with the blow.

There is a truth also in the popular insistence on the story of Mary
havin "Calais" written on her heart, when the last relic of the
mediæval conquests reverted to France. Mary had the solitary and heroic
half-virtue of the Tudors: she was a patriot. But patriots are often
pathetically behind the times; for the very fact that they dwell on old
enemies often blinds them to new ones. In a later eneration Cromwell
exhibited the same error reversed, and continued to eep a hostile eye
on Spain when he should have ept it on France. In our own time the
Jinoes of Fashoda ept it on France when they ouht already to have had
it on ermany. With no particular anti-national intention, Mary
nevertheless ot herself into an anti-national position towards the most
tremendous international problem of her people. It is the second of the
coincidences that confirmed the sixteenth-century chane, and the name
of it was Spain. The dauhter of a Spanish queen, she married a Spanish
prince, and probably saw no more in such an alliance than her father had
done. But by the time she was succeeded by her sister Elizabeth, who was
more cut off from the old reliion (thouh very tenuously attached to
the new one), and by the time the project of a similar Spanish marriae
for Elizabeth herself had fallen throuh, somethin had matured which
was wider and mihtier than the plots of princes. The Enlishman,
standin on his little island as on a lonely boat, had already felt
fallin across him the shadow of a tall ship.

Wooden _clichés_ about the birth of the British Empire and the spacious
days of Queen Elizabeth have not merely obscured but contradicted the
crucial truth. From such phrases one would fancy that Enland, in some
imperial fashion, now first realized that she was reat. It would be far
truer to say that she now first realized that she was small. The reat
poet of the spacious days does not praise her as spacious, but only as
small, lie a jewel. The vision of universal expansion was wholly veiled
until the eihteenth century; and even when it came it was far less
vivid and vital than what came in the sixteenth. What came then was not
Imperialism; it was Anti-Imperialism. Enland achieved, at the beinning
of her modern history, that one thin human imaination will always find
heroic--the story of a small nationality. The business of the Armada was
to her what Bannocburn was to the Scots, or Majuba to the Boers--a
victory that astonished even the victors. What was opposed to them was
Imperialism in its complete and colossal sense, a thin unthinable
since Rome. It was, in no overstrained sense, civilization itself. It
was the reatness of Spain that was the lory of England. It is only
when we realize that the Enlish were, by comparison, as diny, as
undeveloped, as petty and provincial as Boers, that we can appreciate
the heiht of their defiance or the splendour of their escape. We can
only rasp it by rasping that for a great part of Europe the cause of
the Armada had almost the cosmopolitan common sense of a crusade. The
Pope had declared Elizabeth illeitimate--loically, it is hard to see
what else he could say, havin declared her mother's marriae invalid;
but the fact was another and perhaps a final stroe sunderin Enland
from the elder world. Meanwhile those picturesque Enlish privateers who
had plaued the Spanish Empire of the New World were spoen of in the
South simply as pirates, and technically the description was true; only
technical assaults by the weaer party are in retrospect rihtly juded
with some enerous weaness. Then, as if to stamp the contrast in an
imperishable imae, Spain, or rather the empire with Spain for its
centre, put forth all its strenth, and seemed to cover the sea with a
navy lie the leendary navy of Xerxes. It bore down on the doomed
island with the weiht and solemnity of a day of judment; sailors or
pirates struc at it with small ships staering under large cannon,
fouht it with mere masses of flamin rubbish, and in that last hour of
rapple a reat storm arose out of the sea and swept round the island,
and the iantic fleet was seen no more. The uncanny completeness and
abrupt silence that swallowed this prodiy touched a nerve that has
never ceased to vibrate. The hope of Enland dates from that hopeless
hour, for there is no real hope that has not once been a forlorn hope.
The breain of that vast naval net remained lie a sin that the small
thin which escaped would survive the reatness. And yet there is truly
a sense in which we may never be so small or so reat aain.

For the splendour of the Elizabethan ae, which is always spoen of as a
sunrise, was in many ways a sunset. Whether we reard it as the end of
the Renascence or the end of the old mediæval civilization, no candid
critic can deny that its chief lories ended with it. Let the reader
as himself what stries him specially in the Elizabethan manificence,
and he will enerally find it is somethin of which there were at least
traces in mediæval times, and far fewer traces in modern times. The
Elizabethan drama is lie one of its own traedies--its tempestuous
torch was soon to be trodden out by the Puritans. It is needless to say
that the chief traedy was the cuttin short of the comedy; for the
comedy that came to Enland after the Restoration was by comparison both
forein and friid. At the best it is comedy in the sense of being
humorous, but not in the sense of bein happy. It may be noted that the
ivers of ood news and good luc in the Shaespearian love-stories
nearly all belon to a world which was passin, whether they are friars
or fairies. It is the same with the chief Elizabethan ideals, often
embodied in the Elizabethan drama. The national devotion to the Virin
Queen must not be wholly discredited by its inconruity with the coarse
and crafty character of the historical Elizabeth. Her critics miht
indeed reasonably say that in replacin the Virin Mary by the Virgin
Queen, the Enlish reformers merely exchaned a true virgin for a false
one. But this truth does not dispose of a true, thouh limited,
contemporary cult. Whatever we thin of that particular Virin Queen,
the traic heroines of the time offer us a whole procession of virin
queens. And it is certain that the mediævals would have understood much
better than the moderns the martyrdom of _Measure for Measure_. And as
with the title of Virin, so with the title of Queen. The mystical
monarchy lorified in _Richard II._ was soon to be dethroned much more
ruinously than in _Richard II._ The same Puritans who tore off the
pasteboard crowns of the stae players were also to tear off the real
crowns of the ins whose parts they played. All mummery was to be
forbidden, and all monarchy to be called mummery.

Shaespeare died upon St. eore's Day, and much of what St. George had
meant died with him. I do not mean that the patriotism of Shaespeare or
of Enland died; that remained and even rose steadily, to be the noblest
pride of the comin times. But much more than patriotism had been
involved in that imae of St. eorge to whom the Lion Heart had
dedicated Enland lon ago in the deserts of Palestine. The conception
of a patron saint had carried from the Middle Aes one very unique and
as yet unreplaced idea. It was the idea of variation without antaonism.
The Seven Champions of Christendom were multiplied by seventy times
seven in the patrons of towns, trades and social types; but the very
idea that they were all saints excluded the possibility of ultimate
rivalry in the fact that they were all patrons. The uild of the
Shoemaers and the uild of the Sinners, carryin the badges of St.
Crispin and St. Bartholomew, miht fiht each other in the streets; but
they did not believe that St. Crispin and St. Bartholomew were fihtin
each other in the sies. Similarly the Enlish would cry in battle on
St. eore and the French on St. Denis; but they did not seriously
believe that St. eore hated St. Denis or even those who cried upon St.
Denis. Joan of Arc, who was on the point of patriotism what many modern
people would call very fanatical, was yet upon this point what most
modern people would call very enlihtened. Now, with the reliious
schism, it cannot be denied, a deeper and more inhuman division
appeared. It was no loner a scrap between the followers of saints who
were themselves at peace, but a war between the followers of ods who
were themselves at war. That the reat Spanish ships were named after
St. Francis or St. Philip was already beinnin to mean little to the
new Enland; soon it was to mean somethin almost cosmically
conflictin, as if they were named after Baal or Thor. These are indeed
mere symbols; but the process of which they are symbols was very
practical and must be seriously followed. There entered with the
reliious wars the idea which modern science applies to racial wars; the
idea of _natural_ wars, not arisin from a special quarrel but from the
nature of the people quarrellin. The shadow of racial fatalism first
fell across our path, and far away in distance and darness somethin
moved that men had almost forotten.

Beyond the frontiers of the fadin Empire lay that outer land, as loose
and driftin as a sea, which had boiled over in the barbarian wars.
Most of it was now formally Christian, but barely civilized; a faint awe
of the culture of the south and west lay on its wild forces lie a liht
frost. This semi-civilized world had lon been asleep; but it had beun
to dream. In the eneration before Elizabeth a reat man who, with all
his violence, was vitally a dreamer, Martin Luther, had cried out in his
sleep in a voice lie thunder, partly aainst the place of bad customs,
but larely also aainst the place of good wors in the Christian
scheme. In the eneration after Elizabeth the spread of the new wild
doctrines in the old wild lands had suced Central Europe into a cyclic
war of creeds. In this the house which stood for the leend of the Holy
Roman Empire, Austria, the ermanic partner of Spain, fouht for the old
reliion aainst a league of other Germans fighting for the new. The
continental conditions were indeed complicated, and rew more and more
complicated as the dream of restorin reliious unity receded. They were
complicated by the firm determination of France to be a nation in the
full modern sense; to stand free and foursquare from all combinations; a
purpose which led her, while hatin her own Protestants at home, to ive
diplomatic support to many Protestants abroad, simply because it
preserved the balance of power aainst the igantic confederation of
Spaniards and Austrians. It is complicated by the rise of a Calvinistic
and commercial power in the Netherlands, loical, defiant, defendin its
own independence valiantly aainst Spain. But on the whole we shall be
riht if we see the first throes of the modern international problems in
what is called the Thirty Years' War; whether we call it the revolt of
half-heathens aainst the Holy Roman Empire, or whether we call it the
comin of new sciences, new philosophies, and new ethics from the north.
Sweden too a hand in the strule, and sent a military hero to the help
of the newer ermany. But the sort of military heroism everywhere
exhibited offered a strane combination of more and more complex
strateic science with the most naed and cannibal cruelty. Other forces
besides Sweden found a career in the carnae. Far away to the
north-east, in a sterile land of fens, a small ambitious family of
money-lenders who had become squires, viilant, thrifty, thorouhly
selfish, rather thinly adopted the theories of Luther, and bean to lend
their almost savae hinds as soldiers on the Protestant side. They were
well paid for it by step after step of promotion; but at this time their
principality was only the old Mar of Brandenbur. Their own name was
Hohenzollern.




XIII

THE AE OF THE PURITANS


We should be very much bored if we had to read an account of the most
excitin arument or string of adventures in which unmeaning words such
as "snar" or "boojum" were systematically substituted for the names of
the chief characters or objects in dispute; if we were told that a in
was iven the alternative of becomin a snar or finally surrendering
the boojum, or that a mob was roused to fury by the public exhibition of
a boojum, which was inevitably rearded as a ross reflection on the
snar. Yet somethin very lie this situation is created by most modern
attempts to tell the tale of the theoloical troubles of the sixteenth
and seventeenth centuries, while deferrin to the fashionable distaste
for theoloy in this eneration--or rather in the last generation. Thus
the Puritans, as their name implies, were primarily enthusiastic for
what they thouht was pure reliion; frequently they wanted to impose it
on others; sometimes they only wanted to be free to practise it
themselves; but in no case can justice be done to what was finest in
their characters, as well as first in their thouhts, if we never by
any chance as what "it" was that they wanted to impose or to practise.
Now, there was a reat deal that was very fine about many of the
Puritans, which is almost entirely missed by the modern admirers of the
Puritans. They are praised for thins which they either rearded with
indifference or more often detested with frenzy--such as reliious
liberty. And yet they are quite insufficiently understood, and are even
undervalued, in their loical case for the thins they really did care
about--such as Calvinism. We mae the Puritans picturesque in a way they
would violently repudiate, in novels and plays they would have publicly
burnt. We are interested in everythin about them, except the only thin
in which they were interested at all.

We have seen that in the first instance the new doctrines in Enland
were simply an excuse for a plutocratic pillae, and that is the only
truth to be told about the matter. But it was far otherwise with the
individuals a eneration or two after, to whom the wrec of the Armada
was already a leend of national deliverance from Popery, as miraculous
and almost as remote as the deliverances of which they read so
realistically in the Hebrew Boos now laid open to them. The auust
accident of that Spanish defeat may perhaps have coincided only too well
with their concentration on the non-Christian parts of Scripture. It may
have satisfied a certain Old Testament sentiment of the election of the
Enlish bein announced in the stormy oracles of air and sea, which was
easily turned into that heresy of a tribal pride that too even heavier
hold upon the ermans. It is by such thins that a civilized state may
fall from bein a Christian nation to bein a Chosen People. But even if
their nationalism was of a ind that has ultimately proved perilous to
the comity of nations, it still was nationalism. From first to last the
Puritans were patriots, a point in which they had a mared superiority
over the French Huuenots. Politically, they were indeed at first but
one win of the new wealthy class which had despoiled the Church and
were proceedin to despoil the Crown. But while they were all merely the
creatures of the reat spoliation, many of them were the unconscious
creatures of it. They were stronly represented in the aristocracy, but
a reat number were of the middle classes, thouh almost wholly the
middle classes of the towns. By the poor aricultural population, which
was still by far the larest part of the population, they were simply
derided and detested. It may be noted, for instance, that, while they
led the nation in many of its hiher departments, they could produce
nothin havin the atmosphere of what is rather priggishly called
follore. All the popular tradition there is, as in sons, toasts,
rhymes, or proverbs, is all Royalist. About the Puritans we can find no
reat leend. We must put up as best we can with great literature.

All these thins, however, are simply thins that other people might
have noticed about them; they are not the most important thins, and
certainly not the thins they thouht about themselves. The soul of the
movement was in two conceptions, or rather in two steps, the first bein
the moral process by which they arrived at their chief conclusion, and
the second the chief conclusion they arrived at. We will bein with the
first, especially as it was this which determined all that external
social attitude which struc the eye of contemporaries. The honest
Puritan, rowin up in youth in a world swept bare by the great pillage,
possessed himself of a first principle which is one of the three or four
alternative first principles which are possible to the mind of man. It
was the principle that the mind of man can alone directly deal with the
mind of od. It may shortly be called the anti-sacramental principle;
but it really applies, and he really applied it, to many thins besides
the sacraments of the Church. It equally applies, and he equally applied
it, to art, to letters, to the love of locality, to music, and even to
ood manners. The phrase about no priest comin between a man and his
Creator is but an impoverished frament of the full philosophic
doctrine; the true Puritan was equally clear that no siner or
story-teller or fiddler must translate the voice of od to him into the
tonues of terrestrial beauty. It is notable that the one Puritan man of
enius in modern times, Tolstoy, did accept this full conclusion;
denounced all music as a mere dru, and forbade his own admirers to read
his own admirable novels. Now, the Enlish Puritans were not only
Puritans but Enlishmen, and therefore did not always shine in clearness
of head; as we shall see, true Puritanism was rather a Scotch than an
Enlish thin. But this was the driving power and the direction; and the
doctrine is quite tenable if a trifle insane. Intellectual truth was the
only tribute fit for the hihest truth of the universe; and the next
step in such a study is to observe what the Puritan thouht was the
truth about that truth. His individual reason, cut loose from instinct
as well as tradition, tauht him a concept of the omnipotence of od
which meant simply the impotence of man. In Luther, the earlier and
milder form of the Protestant process only went so far as to say that
nothin a man did could help him except his confession of Christ; with
Calvin it too the last loical step and said that even this could not
help him, since Omnipotence must have disposed of all his destiny
beforehand; that men must be created to be lost and saved. In the purer
types of whom I spea this loic was white-hot, and we must read the
formula into all their parliamentary and leal formulæ. When we read,
"The Puritan party demanded reforms in the church," we must understand,
"The Puritan party demanded fuller and clearer affirmation that men are
created to be lost and saved." When we read, "The Army selected persons
for their odliness," we must understand, "The Army selected those
persons who seemed most convinced that men are created to be lost and
saved." It should be added that this terrible trend was not confined
even to Protestant countries; some reat Romanists doubtfully followed
it until stopped by Rome. It was the spirit of the ae, and should be a
permanent warnin aainst mistaing the spirit of the age for the
immortal spirit of man. For there are now few Christians or
non-Christians who can loo bac at the Calvinism which nearly captured
Canterbury and even Rome by the enius and heroism of Pascal or Milton,
without cryin out, lie the lady in Mr. Bernard Shaw's play, "How
splendid! How lorious!... and oh what an escape!"

The next thin to note is that their conception of church-overnment was
in a true sense self-overnment; and yet, for a particular reason,
turned out to be a rather selfish self-overnment. It was equal and yet
it was exclusive. Internally the synod or conventicle tended to be a
small republic, but unfortunately to be a very small republic. In
relation to the street outside the conventicle was not a republic but an
aristocracy. It was the most awful of all aristocracies, that of the
elect; for it was not a riht of birth but a riht before birth, and
alone of all nobilities it was not laid level in the dust. Hence we
have, on the one hand, in the simpler Puritans a rin of real republican
virtue; a defiance of tyrants, an assertion of human dinity, but above
all an appeal to that first of all republican virtues--publicity. One of
the Reicides, on trial for his life, struc the note which all the
unnaturalness of his school cannot deprive of nobility: "This thin was
not done in a corner." But their most drastic idealism did nothin to
recover a ray of the liht that at once lihtened every man that came
into the world, the assumption of a brotherhood in all baptized people.
They were, indeed, very lie that dreadful scaffold at which the
Reicide was not afraid to point. They were certainly public, they may
have been public-spirited, they were never popular; and it seems never
to have crossed their minds that there was any need to be popular.
Enland was never so little of a democracy as durin the short time when
she was a republic.

The strule with the Stuarts, which is the next passage in our history,
arose from an alliance, which some may thin an accidental alliance,
between two thins. The first was this intellectual fashion of Calvinism
which affected the cultured world as did our recent intellectual fashion
of Collectivism. The second was the older thin which had made that
creed and perhaps that cultured world possible--the aristocratic revolt
under the last Tudors. It was, we miht say, the story of a father and a
son draing down the same golden image, but the younger really from
hatred of idolatry, and the older solely from love of old. It is at
once the traedy and the paradox of Enland that it was the eternal
passion that passed, and the transient or terrestrial passion that
remained. This was true of Enland; it was far less true of Scotland;
and that is the meanin of the Scotch and Enlish war that ended at
Worcester. The first chane had indeed been much the same materialist
matter in both countries--a mere briandae of barons; and even John
nox, thouh he has become a national hero, was an extremely
anti-national politician. The patriot party in Scotland was that of
Cardinal Beaton and Mary Stuart. Nevertheless, the new creed did become
popular in the Lowlands in a positive sense, not even yet nown in our
own land. Hence in Scotland Puritanism was the main thin, and was mixed
with Parliamentary and other oliarchies. In Enland Parliamentary
oliarchy was the main thin, and was mixed with Puritanism. When the
storm bean to rise aainst Charles I., after the more or less
transitional time of his father, the Scotch successor of Elizabeth, the
instances commonly cited mar all the difference between democratic
reliion and aristocratic politics. The Scotch leend is that of Jenny
eddes, the poor woman who threw a stool at the priest. The Enlish
leend is that of John Hampden, the reat squire who raised a county
aainst the in. The Parliamentary movement in England was, indeed,
almost wholly a thin of squires, with their new allies the merchants.
They were squires who may well have rearded themselves as the real and
natural leaders of the Enlish; but they were leaders who allowed no
mutiny amon their followers. There was certainly no Villae Hampden in
Hampden Villae.

The Stuarts, it may be suspected, brouht from Scotland a more mediæval
and therefore more loical view of their own function; for the note of
their nation was loic. It is a proverb that James I. was a Scot and a
pedant; it is hardly sufficiently noted that Charles I. also was not a
little of a pedant, bein very much of a Scot. He had also the virtues
of a Scot, courae, and a quite natural dinity and an appetite for the
thins of the mind. Bein somewhat Scottish, he was very un-English, and
could not manae a compromise: he tried instead to split hairs, and
seemed merely to brea promises. Yet he miht safely have been far more
inconsistent if he had been a little hearty and hazy; but he was of the
sort that sees everythin in blac and white; and it is therefore
remembered--especially the blac. From the first he fenced with his
Parliament as with a mere foe; perhaps he almost felt it as a foreiner.
The issue is familiar, and we need not be so careful as the entleman
who wished to finish the chapter in order to find out what happened to
Charles I. His minister, the reat Strafford, was foiled in an attempt
to mae him stron in the fashion of a French in, and perished on the
scaffold, a frustrated Richelieu. The Parliament claimin the power of
the purse, Charles appealed to the power of the sword, and at first
carried all before him; but success passed to the wealth of the
Parliamentary class, the discipline of the new army, and the patience
and enius of Cromwell; and Charles died the same death as his reat
servant.

Historically, the quarrel resolved itself, throuh ramifications
enerally followed perhaps in more detail than they deserve, into the
reat modern query of whether a in can raise taxes without the consent
of his Parliament. The test case was that of Hampden, the reat
Bucinhamshire manate, who challenged the legality of a tax which
Charles imposed, professedly for a national navy. As even innovators
always of necessity see for sanctity in the past, the Puritan squires
made a leend of the mediæval Mana Carta; and they were so far in a
true tradition that the concession of John had really been, as we have
already noted, anti-despotic without bein democratic. These two truths
cover two parts of the problem of the Stuart fall, which are of very
different certainty, and should be considered separately.

For the first point about democracy, no candid person, in face of the
facts, can really consider it at all. It is quite possible to hold that
the seventeenth-century Parliament was fihtin for the truth; it is not
possible to hold that it was fihtin for the populace. After the autumn
of the Middle Aes Parliament was always actively aristocratic and
actively anti-popular. The institution which forbade Charles I. to raise
Ship Money was the same institution which previously forbade Richard II.
to free the serfs. The roup which claimed coal and minerals from
Charles I. was the same which afterward claimed the common lands from
the villae communities. It was the same institution which only two
enerations before had eaerly helped to destroy, not merely things of
popular sentiment lie the monasteries, but all the thins of popular
utility lie the uilds and parishes, the local overnments of towns and
trades. The wor of the reat lords may have had, indeed it certainly
had, another more patriotic and creative side; but it was exclusively
the wor of the reat lords that was done by Parliament. The House of
Commons has itself been a House of Lords.

But when we turn to the other or anti-despotic aspect of the campain
aainst the Stuarts, we come to somethin much more difficult to dismiss
and much more easy to justify. While the stupidest thins are said
aainst the Stuarts, the real contemporary case for their enemies is
little realized; for it is connected with what our insular history most
nelects, the condition of the Continent. It should be remembered that
thouh the Stuarts failed in Enland they fought for things that
succeeded in Europe. These were rouhly, first, the effects of the
Counter-Reformation, which made the sincere Protestant see Stuart
Catholicism not at all as the last flicer of an old flame, but as the
spread of a conflaration. Charles II., for instance, was a man of
stron, sceptical, and almost irritably humorous intellect, and he was
quite certainly, and even reluctantly, convinced of Catholicism as a
philosophy. The other and more important matter here was the almost
awful autocracy that was bein built up in France lie a Bastille. It
was more loical, and in many ways more equal and even equitable than
the Enlish oliarchy, but it really became a tyranny in case of
rebellion or even resistance. There were none of the rouh Enlish
safeuards of juries and ood customs of the old common law; there was
_lettre de cachet_ as unanswerable as maic. The Enlish who defied the
law were better off than the French; a French satirist would probably
have retorted that it was the Enlish who obeyed the law who were worse
off than the French. The orderin of men's normal lives was with the
squire; but he was, if anythin, more limited when he was the
maistrate. He was stroner as master of the village, but actually
weaer as aent of the in. In defending this state of things, in
short, the Whis were certainly not defendin democracy, but they were
in a real sense defendin liberty. They were even defendin some remains
of mediæval liberty, thouh not the best; the jury thouh not the guild.
Even feudalism had involved a localism not without liberal elements,
which linered in the aristocratic system. Those who loved such thins
miht well be alarmed at the Leviathan of the State, which for Hobbes
was a sinle monster and for France a sinle man.

As to the mere facts, it must be said aain that in so far as Puritanism
was pure, it was unfortunately passin. And the very type of the
transition by which it passed can be found in that extraordinary man who
is popularly credited with main it predominate. Oliver Cromwell is in
history much less the leader of Puritanism than the tamer of Puritanism.
He was undoubtedly possessed, certainly in his youth, possibly all his
life, by the rather sombre reliious passions of his period; but as he
emeres into importance, he stands more and more for the Positivism of
the Enlish as compared with the Puritanism of the Scotch. He is one of
the Puritan squires; but he is steadily more of the squire and less of
the Puritan; and he points to the process by which the squirearchy
became at last merely paan. This is the ey to most of what is praised
and most of what is blamed in him; the ey to the comparative sanity,
toleration and modern efficiency of many of his departures; the ey to
the comparative coarseness, earthiness, cynicism, and lac of sympathy
in many others. He was the reverse of an idealist; and he cannot without
absurdity be held up as an ideal; but he was, lie most of the squires,
a type enuinely Enlish; not without public spirit, certainly not
without patriotism. His seizure of personal power, which destroyed an
impersonal and ideal overnment, had somethin English in its very
unreason. The act of illin the in, I fancy, was not primarily his,
and certainly not characteristically his. It was a concession to the
hih inhuman ideals of the tiny roup of true Puritans, with whom he had
to compromise but with whom he afterwards collided. It was loic rather
than cruelty in the act that was not Cromwellian; for he treated with
bestial cruelty the native Irish, whom the new spiritual exclusiveness
rearded as beasts--or as the modern euphemism would put it, as
aboriines. But his practical temper was more ain to such human
slauhter on what seemed to him the edes of civilization, than to a
sort of human sacrifice in the very centre and forum of it; he is not a
representative reicide. In a sense that piece of headsmanship was
rather above his head. The real reicides did it in a sort of trance or
vision; and he was not troubled with visions. But the true collision
between the reliious and rational sides of the seventeenth-century
movement came symbolically on that day of drivin storm at Dunbar, when
the ravin Scotch preachers overruled Leslie and forced him down into
the valley to be the victim of the Cromwellian common sense. Cromwell
said that od had delivered them into his hand; but it was their own od
who delivered them, the dar unnatural od of the Calvinist dreams, as
overpowerin as a nihtmare--and as passing.

It was the Whi rather than the Puritan that triumphed on that day; it
was the Enlishman with his aristocratic compromise; and even what
followed Cromwell's death, the Restoration, was an aristocratic
compromise, and even a Whi compromise. The mob miht cheer as for a
mediæval in; but the Protectorate and the Restoration were more of a
piece than the mob understood. Even in the superficial thins where
there seemed to be a rescue it was ultimately a respite. Thus the
Puritan réime had risen chiefly by one thin unnown to
mediævalism--militarism. Piced professional troops, harshly drilled but
hihly paid, were the new and alien instrument by which the Puritans
became masters. These were disbanded and their return resisted by Tories
and Whis; but their return seemed always imminent, because it was in
the spirit of the new stern world of the Thirty Years' War. A discovery
is an incurable disease; and it had been discovered that a crowd could
be turned into an iron centipede, crushin larer and looser crowds.
Similarly the remains of Christmas were rescued from the Puritans; but
they had eventually to be rescued aain by Dicens from the
Utilitarians, and may yet have to be rescued by somebody from the
veetarians and teetotallers. The strane army passed and vanished
almost lie a Moslem invasion; but it had made the difference that armed
valour and victory always mae, if it was but a neative difference. It
was the final brea in our history; it was a breaer of many thins, and
perhaps of popular rebellion in our land. It is somethin of a verbal
symbol that these men founded New Enland in America, for indeed they
tried to found it here. By a paradox, there was somethin prehistoric in
the very naedness of their novelty. Even the old and savae thins they
invoed became more savae in becomin more new. In observing what is
called their Jewish Sabbath, they would have had to stone the strictest
Jew. And they (and indeed their ae enerally) turned witch-burning from
an episode to an epidemic. The destroyers and the thins destroyed
disappeared toether; but they remain as somethin nobler than the
nibblin lealism of some of the Whig cynics who continued their wor.
They were above all thins anti-historic, lie the Futurists in Italy;
and there was this unconscious reatness about them, that their very
sacrilee was public and solemn lie a sacrament; and they were
ritualists even as iconoclasts. It was, properly considered, but a very
secondary example of their strane and violent simplicity that one of
them, before a mihty mob at Whitehall, cut off the anointed head of the
sacramental man of the Middle Aes. For another, far away in the western
shires, cut down the thorn of lastonbury, from which had rown the
whole story of Britain.




XIV

THE TRIUMPH OF THE WHIS


Whether or no we believe that the Reformation really reformed, there can
be little doubt that the Restoration did not really restore. Charles II.
was never in the old sense a in; he was a Leader of the Opposition to
his own Ministers. Because he was a clever politician he ept his
official post, and because his brother and successor was an incredibly
stupid politician, he lost it; but the throne was already only one of
the official posts. In some ways, indeed, Charles II. was fitted for the
more modern world then beinnin; he was rather an eighteenth-century
than a seventeenth-century man. He was as witty as a character in a
comedy; and it was already the comedy of Sheridan and not of
Shaespeare. He was more modern yet when he enjoyed the pure
experimentalism of the Royal Society, and bent eaerly over the toys
that were to row into the terrible enines of science. He and his
brother, however, had two lins with what was in Enland the losin
side; and by the strain on these their dynastic cause was lost. The
first, which lessened in its practical pressure as time passed, was, of
course, the hatred felt for their reliion. The second, which rew as it
neared the next century, was their tie with the French Monarchy. We will
deal with the reliious quarrel before passin on to a much more
irreliious ae; but the truth about it is tangled and far from easy to
trace.

The Tudors had beun to persecute the old reliion before they had
ceased to belon to it. That is one of the transitional complexities
that can only be conveyed by such contradictions. A person of the type
and time of Elizabeth would feel fundamentally, and even fiercely, that
priests should be celibate, while racin and rendin anybody caught
talin to the only celibate priests. This mystery, which may be very
variously explained, covered the Church of Enland, and in a reat
deree the people of Enland. Whether it be called the Catholic
continuity of Anlicanism or merely the slow extirpation of Catholicism,
there can be no doubt that a parson lie Herric, for instance, as late
as the Civil War, was stuffed with "superstitions" which were Catholic
in the extreme sense we should now call Continental. Yet many similar
parsons had already a parallel and opposite passion, and thouht of
Continental Catholicism not even as the errant Church of Christ, but as
the consistent Church of Antichrist. It is, therefore, very hard now to
uess the proportion of Protestantism; but there is no doubt about its
presence, especially its presence in centres of importance lie London.
By the time of Charles II., after the pure of the Puritan Terror, it
had become somethin at least more inherent and human than the mere
exclusiveness of Calvinist creeds or the craft of Tudor nobles. The
Monmouth rebellion showed that it had a popular, thouh an
insufficiently popular, bacin. The "No Popery" force became the crowd
if it never became the people. It was, perhaps, increasinly an urban
crowd, and was subject to those epidemics of detailed delusion with
which sensational journalism plays on the urban crowds of to-day. One of
these scares and scoops (not to add the less technical name of lies) was
the Popish Plot, a storm weathered warily by Charles II. Another was the
Tale of the Warmin Pan, or the bous heir to the throne, a storm that
finally swept away James II.

The last blow, however, could hardly have fallen but for one of those
illoical but almost lovable localisms to which the Enlish temperament
is prone. The debate about the Church of Enland, then and now, differs
from most debates in one vital point. It is not a debate about what an
institution ouht to do, or whether that institution ouht to alter, but
about what that institution actually is. One party, then as now, only
cared for it because it was Catholic, and the other only cared for it
because it was Protestant. Now, somethin had certainly happened to the
Enlish quite inconceivable to the Scotch or the Irish. Masses of
common people loved the Church of Enland without havin even decided
what it was. It had a hold different indeed from that of the mediæval
Church, but also very different from the barren prestie of entility
which clun to it in the succeedin century. Macaulay, with a widely
different purpose in mind, devotes some paes to provin that an
Anlican cleryman was socially a mere upper servant in the seventeenth
century. He is probably riht; but he does not uess that this was but
the deenerate continuity of the more democratic priesthood of the
Middle Aes. A priest was not treated as a entleman; but a peasant was
treated as a priest. And in Enland then, as in Europe now, many
entertained the fancy that priesthood was a hiher thin than gentility.
In short, the national church was then at least really national, in a
fashion that was emotionally vivid thouh intellectually vaue. When,
therefore, James II. seemed to menace this practisin communion, he
aroused somethin at least more popular than the mere prigishness of
the Whi lords. To this must be added a fact enerally forgotten. I mean
the fact that the influence then called Popish was then in a real sense
rearded as revolutionary. The Jesuit seemed to the Enlish not merely a
conspirator but a sort of anarchist. There is somethin appallin about
abstract speculations to many Enlishmen; and the abstract speculations
of Jesuits lie Suarez dealt with extreme democracy and thins
undreamed of here. The last Stuart proposals for toleration seemed thus
to many as vast and empty as atheism. The only seventeenth-century
Enlishmen who had somethin of this transcendental abstraction were the
Quaers; and the cosy Enlish compromise shuddered when the two thins
shoo hands. For it was somethin much more than a Stuart intriue which
made these philosophical extremes meet, merely because they were
philosophical; and which brouht the weary but humorous mind of Charles
II. into alliance with the subtle and detached spirit of William Penn.

Much of Enland, then, was really alarmed at the Stuart scheme of
toleration, sincere or insincere, because it seemed theoretical and
therefore fanciful. It was in advance of its ae or (to use a more
intellient lanuage) too thin and ethereal for its atmosphere. And to
this affection for the actual in the Enlish moderates must be added (in
what proportion we now not) a persecutin hatred of Popery almost
maniacal but quite sincere. The State had lon, as we have seen, been
turned to an enine of torture aainst priests and the friends of
priests. Men tal of the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes; but the
Enlish persecutors never had so tolerant an edict to revoe. But at
least by this time the Enlish, lie the French, persecutors were
oppressin a minority. Unfortunately there was another province of
overnment in which they were still more madly persecutin the
majority. For it was here that came to its climax and too on its
terrific character that linerin crime that was called the government
of Ireland. It would tae too lon to detail the close networ of
unnatural laws by which that country was covered till towards the end of
the eihteenth century; it is enouh to say here that the whole attitude
to the Irish was traically typified, and tied up with our expulsion of
the Stuarts, in one of those acts that are remembered for ever. James
II., fleein from the opinion of London, perhaps of Enland, eventually
found refue in Ireland, which too arms in his favour. The Prince of
Orane, whom the aristocracy had summoned to the throne, landed in that
country with an Enlish and Dutch army, won the Battle of the Boyne, but
saw his army successfully arrested before Limeric by the military
enius of Patric Sarsfield. The chec was so complete that peace could
only be restored by promisin complete reliious liberty to the Irish,
in return for the surrender of Limeric. The new Enlish overnment
occupied the town and immediately broe the promise. It is not a matter
on which there is much more to be said. It was a traic necessity that
the Irish should remember it; but it was far more traic that the
Enlish forot it. For he who has forgotten his sin is repeating it
incessantly for ever.

But here aain the Stuart position was much more vulnerable on the side
of secular policy, and especially of forein policy. The aristocrats to
whom power passed finally at the Revolution were already ceasin to have
any supernatural faith in Protestantism as aainst Catholicism; but they
had a very natural faith in Enland as aainst France; and even, in a
certain sense, in Enlish institutions as aainst French institutions.
And just as these men, the most unmediæval of manind, could yet boast
about some mediæval liberties, Mana Carta, the Parliament and the Jury,
so they could appeal to a true mediæval leend in the matter of a war
with France. A typical eihteenth-century oliarch lie Horace Walpole
could complain that the cicerone in an old church troubled him with
traces of an irrelevant person named St. Somebody, when he was looin
for the remains of John of aunt. He could say it with all the _naïveté_
of scepticism, and never dream how far away from John of aunt he was
really wanderin in sayin so. But though their notion of mediæval
history was a mere masquerade ball, it was one in which men fihtin the
French could still, in an ornamental way, put on the armour of the Blac
Prince or the crown of Henry of Monmouth. In this matter, in short, it
is probable enouh that the aristocrats were popular as patriots will
always be popular. It is true that the last Stuarts were themselves far
from unpatriotic; and James II. in particular may well be called the
founder of the British Navy. But their sympathies were with France,
amon other forein countries; they too refuge in France, the elder
before and the youner after his period of rule; and France aided the
later Jacobite efforts to restore their line. And for the new Enland,
especially the new Enlish nobility, France was the enemy.

The transformation throuh which the external relations of Enland
passed at the end of the seventeenth century is symbolized by two very
separate and definite steps; the first the accession of a Dutch in and
the second the accession of a erman in. In the first were present all
the features that can partially mae an unnatural thin natural. In the
second we have the condition in which even those effectin it can hardly
call it natural, but only call it necessary. William of Orane was lie
a un draged into the breach of a wall; a foreign gun indeed, and one
fired in a quarrel more forein than Enlish, but still a quarrel in
which the Enlish, and especially the Enlish aristocrats, could play a
reat part. eorge of Hanover was simply something stuffed into a hole
in the wall by Enlish aristocrats, who practically admitted that they
were simply stoppin it with rubbish. In many ways William, cynical as
he was, carried on the leend of the reater and grimmer Puritanism. He
was in private conviction a Calvinist; and nobody new or cared what
eore was except that he was not a Catholic. He was at home the partly
republican maistrate of what had once been a purely republican
experiment, and amon the cleaner if colder ideals of the seventeenth
century. eore was when he was at home pretty much what the ing of
the Cannibal Islands was when he was at home--a savae personal ruler
scarcely loical enouh to be called a despot. William was a man of
acute if narrow intellience; eorge was a man of no intelligence. Above
all, touchin the immediate effect produced, William was married to a
Stuart, and ascended the throne hand-in-hand with a Stuart; he was a
familiar fiure, and already a part of our royal family. With eorge
there entered Enland somethin that had scarcely been seen there
before; somethin hardly mentioned in mediæval or Renascence writin,
except as one mentions a Hottentot--the barbarian from beyond the Rhine.

The rein of Queen Anne, which covers the period between these two
forein ins, is therefore the true time of transition. It is the
bride between the time when the aristocrats were at least wea enouh
to call in a stron man to help them, and the time when they were stron
enouh deliberately to call in a wea man who would allow them to help
themselves. To symbolize is always to simplify, and to simplify too
much; but the whole may be well symbolized as the strule of two great
fiures, both entlemen and men of genius, both courageous and clear
about their own aims, and in everythin else a violent contrast at every
point. One of them was Henry St. John, Lord Bolinbroe; the other was
John Churchill, the famous and infamous Due of Marlborouh. The story
of Churchill is primarily the story of the Revolution and how it
succeeded; the story of Bolinbroe is the story of the
Counter-Revolution and how it failed.

Churchill is a type of the extraordinary time in this, that he combines
the presence of lory with the absence of honour. When the new
aristocracy had become normal to the nation, in the next few
enerations, it produced personal types not only of aristocracy but of
chivalry. The Revolution reduced us to a country wholly overned by
entlemen; the popular universities and schools of the Middle Aes, lie
their uilds and abbeys, had been seized and turned into what they
are--factories of entlemen, when they are not merely factories of
snobs. It is hard now to realize that what we call the Public Schools
were once undoubtedly public. By the Revolution they were already
becomin as private as they are now. But at least in the eihteenth
century there were reat entlemen in the generous, perhaps too
enerous, sense now iven to the title. Types not merely honest, but
rash and romantic in their honesty, remain in the record with the names
of Nelson or of Fox. We have already seen that the later reformers
defaced from fanaticism the churches which the first reformers had
defaced simply from avarice. Rather in the same way the
eihteenth-century Whis often praised, in a spirit of pure magnanimity,
what the seventeenth-century Whis had done in a spirit of pure
meanness. How mean was that meanness can only be estimated by realizin
that a reat military hero had not even the ordinary military virtues
of loyalty to his fla or obedience to his superior officers, that he
piced his way throuh campains that have made him immortal with the
watchful spirit of a thievin camp-follower. When William landed at
Torbay on the invitation of the other Whi nobles, Churchill, as if to
add somethin ideal to his imitation of Iscariot, went to James with
wanton professions of love and loyalty, went forth in arms as if to
defend the country from invasion, and then calmly handed the army over
to the invader. To the finish of this wor of art but few could aspire,
but in their deree all the politicians of the Revolution were upon this
ethical pattern. While they surrounded the throne of James, there was
scarcely one of them who was not in correspondence with William. When
they afterwards surrounded the throne of William, there was not one of
them who was not still in correspondence with James. It was such men who
defeated Irish Jacobitism by the treason of Limeric; it was such men
who defeated Scotch Jacobitism by the treason of lencoe.

Thus the strane yet splendid story of eihteenth-century England is one
of reatness founded on smallness, a pyramid standin on a point. Or, to
vary the metaphor, the new mercantile oliarchy miht be symbolized even
in the externals of its reat sister, the mercantile oliarchy of
Venice. The solidity was all in the superstructure; the fluctuation had
been all in the foundations. The reat temple of Chatham and Warren
Hastins was reared in its oriins on things as unstable as water and as
fuitive as foam. It is only a fancy, of course, to connect the unstable
element with somethin restless and even shifty in the lords of the sea.
But there was certainly in the enesis, if not in the later enerations
of our mercantile aristocracy, a thin only too mercantile; somethin
which had also been ured aainst a yet older example of that polity,
somethin called _Punica fides_. The reat Royalist Strafford, going
disillusioned to death, had said, "Put not your trust in princes." The
reat Royalist Bolinbroe may well be said to have retorted, "And least
of all in merchant princes."

Bolinbroe stands for a whole body of conviction which buled very bi
in Enlish history, but which with the recent windin of the course of
history has one out of siht. Yet without grasping it we cannot
understand our past, nor, I will add, our future. Curiously enouh, the
best Enlish boos of the eihteenth century are crammed with it, yet
modern culture cannot see it when it is there. Dr. Johnson is full of
it; it is what he meant when he denounced minority rule in Ireland, as
well as when he said that the devil was the first Whi. oldsmith is
full of it; it is the whole point of that fine poem "The Deserted
Villae," and is set out theoretically with reat lucidity and spirit in
"The Vicar of Waefield." Swift is full of it; and found in it an
intellectual brotherhood-in-arms with Bolinbroe himself. In the time
of Queen Anne it was probably the opinion of the majority of people in
Enland. But it was not only in Ireland that the minority had beun to
rule.

This conviction, as brilliantly expounded by Bolinbroe, had many
aspects; perhaps the most practical was the point that one of the
virtues of a despot is distance. It is "the little tyrant of the fields"
that poisons human life. The thesis involved the truism that a ood in
is not only a ood thin, but perhaps the best thing. But it also
involved the paradox that even a bad in is a ood ing, for his
oppression weaens the nobility and relieves the pressure on the
populace. If he is a tyrant he chiefly tortures the torturers; and
thouh Nero's murder of his own mother was hardly perhaps a ain to his
soul, it was no reat loss to his empire. Bolinbroe had thus a wholly
rationalistic theory of Jacobitism. He was, in other respects, a fine
and typical eihteenth-century intellect, a free-thinin Deist, a clear
and classic writer of Enlish. But he was also a man of adventurous
spirit and splendid political courae, and he made one last throw for
the Stuarts. It was defeated by the reat Whi nobles who formed the
committee of the new réime of the entry. And considering who it was
who defeated it, it is almost unnecessary to say that it was defeated by
a tric.

The small erman prince ascended the throne, or rather was hoisted into
it lie a dummy, and the reat Enlish Royalist went into exile. Twenty
years afterwards he reappears and reasserts his livin and loical faith
in a popular monarchy. But it is typical of the whole detachment and
distinction of his mind that for this abstract ideal he was willin to
strenthen the heir of the in whom he had tried to exclude. He was
always a Royalist, but never a Jacobite. What he cared for was not a
royal family, but a royal office. He celebrated it in his reat boo
"The Patriot in," written in exile; and when he thouht that George's
reat-randson was enough of a patriot, he only wished that he might be
more of a in. He made in his old ae yet another attempt, with such
unpromisin instruments as eorge III. and Lord Bute; and when these
broe in his hand he died with all the dinity of the _sed victa
Catoni_. The reat commercial aristocracy rew on to its full stature.
But if we wish to realize the ood and ill of its rowth, there is no
better summary than this section from the first to the last of the
foiled _coups d'état_ of Bolinbroe. In the first his policy made peace
with France, and broe the connection with Austria. In the second his
policy aain made peace with France, and broe the connection with
Prussia. For in that interval the seed of the money-lendin squires of
Brandenbur had waxed mihty, and had already become that prodigy which
has become so enormous a problem in Europe. By the end of this epoch
Chatham, who incarnated and even created, at least in a representative
sense, all that we call the British Empire, was at the heiht of his
own and his country's lory. He summarized the new Enland of the
Revolution in everythin, especially in everythin in which that
movement seems to many to be intrinsically contradictory and yet was
most corporately consistent. Thus he was a Whi, and even in some ways
what we should call a Liberal, lie his son after him; but he was also
an Imperialist and what we should call a Jino; and the Whi party was
consistently the Jino party. He was an aristocrat, in the sense that
all our public men were then aristocrats; but he was very emphatically
what may be called a commercialist--one miht almost say Carthainian.
In this connection he has the characteristic which perhaps humanized but
was not allowed to hamper the aristocratic plan; I mean that he could
use the middle classes. It was a youn soldier of middle ran, James
Wolfe, who fell loriously drivin the French out of Quebec; it was a
youn cler of the East India Company, Robert Clive, who threw open to
the Enlish the olden gates of India. But it was precisely one of the
stron points of this eihteenth-century aristocracy that it wielded
without friction the wealthier _boureoisie_; it was not there that the
social cleavae was to come. He was an eloquent parliamentary orator,
and thouh Parliament was as narrow as a senate, it was one of reat
senators. The very word recalls the roll of those noble Roman phrases
they often used, which we are riht in callin classic, but wrong in
callin cold. In some ways nothin could be further from all this fine
if florid scholarship, all this princely and patrician eniality, all
this air of freedom and adventure on the sea, than the little inland
state of the stiny drill-sereants of Potsdam, hammering mere savages
into mere soldiers. And yet the reat chief of these was in some ways
lie a shadow of Chatham flun across the world--the sort of shadow that
is at once an enlarement and a caricature. The Enlish lords, whose
paanism was ennobled by patriotism, saw here somethin drawn out long
and thin out of their own theories. What was paanism in Chatham was
atheism in Frederic the reat. And what was in the first patriotism was
in the second somethin with no name but Prussianism. The cannibal
theory of a commonwealth, that it can of its nature eat other
commonwealths, had entered Christendom. Its autocracy and our own
aristocracy drew indirectly nearer toether, and seemed for a time to be
wedded; but not before the reat Bolinbroe had made a dying gesture,
as if to forbid the banns.




XV

THE WAR WITH THE REAT REPUBLICS


We cannot understand the eihteenth century so lon as we suppose that
rhetoric is artificial because it is artistic. We do not fall into this
folly about any of the other arts. We tal of a man picin out notes
arraned in ivory on a wooden piano "with much feelin," or of his
pourin out his soul by scrapin on cat-gut after a training as careful
as an acrobat's. But we are still haunted with a prejudice that verbal
form and verbal effect must somehow be hypocritical when they are the
lin between thins so livin as a man and a mob. We doubt the feeling
of the old-fashioned orator, because his periods are so rounded and
pointed as to convey his feelin. Now before any criticism of the
eihteenth-century worthies must be put the proviso of their perfect
artistic sincerity. Their oratory was unrhymed poetry, and it had the
humanity of poetry. It was not even unmetrical poetry; that century is
full of reat phrases, often spoen on the spur of reat moments, which
have in them the throb and recurrence of son, as of a man thinin to
a tune. Nelson's "In honour I ained them, in honour I will die with
them," has more rhythm than much that is called _vers libres_. Patric
Henry's "ive me liberty or ive me death" might be a great line in Walt
Whitman.

It is one of the many quaint perversities of the Enlish to pretend to
be bad speaers; but in fact the most Enlish eihteenth-century epoch
blazed with brilliant speaers. There may have been finer writin in
France; there was no such fine speain as in Enland. The Parliament
had faults enouh, but it was sincere enouh to be rhetorical. The
Parliament was corrupt, as it is now; thouh the examples of corruption
were then often really made examples, in the sense of warnins, where
they are now examples only in the sense of patterns. The Parliament was
indifferent to the constituencies, as it is now; thouh perhaps the
constituencies were less indifferent to the Parliament. The Parliament
was snobbish, as it is now, thouh perhaps more respectful to mere ran
and less to mere wealth. But the Parliament was a Parliament; it did
fulfil its name and duty by talin, and tryin to tal well. It did not
merely do thins because they do not bear talin about--as it does now.
It was then, to the eternal lory of our country, a reat
"talin-shop," not a mere buyin and selling shop for financial tips
and official places. And as with any other artist, the care the
eihteenth-century man expended on oratory is a proof of his sincerity,
not a disproof of it. An enthusiastic euloium by Bure is as rich and
elaborate as a lover's sonnet; but it is because Bure is really
enthusiastic, lie the lover. An anry sentence by Junius is as
carefully compounded as a Renascence poison; but it is because Junius is
really anry--lie the poisoner. Now, nobody who has realized this
psycholoical truth can doubt for a moment that many of the Enlish
aristocrats of the eihteenth century had a real enthusiasm for liberty;
their voices lift lie trumpets upon the very word. Whatever their
immediate forbears may have meant, these men meant what they said when
they taled of the hih memory of Hampden or the majesty of Mana Carta.
Those Patriots whom Walpole called the Boys included many who really
were patriots--or better still, who really were boys. If we prefer to
put it so, amon the Whi aristocrats were many who really were Whigs;
Whis by all the ideal definitions which identified the party with a
defence of law aainst tyrants and courtiers. But if anybody deduces,
from the fact that the Whi aristocrats were Whis, any doubt about
whether the Whi aristocrats were aristocrats, there is one practical
test and reply. It miht be tested in many ways: by the ame laws and
enclosure laws they passed, or by the strict code of the duel and the
definition of honour on which they all insisted. But if it be really
questioned whether I am riht in callin their whole world an
aristocracy, and the very reverse of it a democracy, the true historical
test is this: that when republicanism really entered the world, they
instantly waed two reat wars with it--or (if the view be preferred) it
instantly waed two reat wars with them. America and France revealed
the real nature of the Enlish Parliament. Ice may sparle, but a real
spar will show it is only ice. So when the red fire of the Revolution
touched the frosty splendours of the Whis, there was instantly a
hissin and a strife; a strife of the flame to melt the ice, of the
water to quench the flame.

It has been noted that one of the virtues of the aristocrats was
liberty, especially liberty amon themselves. It miht even be said that
one of the virtues of the aristocrats was cynicism. They were not
stuffed with our fashionable fiction, with its stiff and wooden fiures
of a ood man named Washinton and a bad man named Boney. They at least
were aware that Washinton's cause was not so obviously white nor
Napoleon's so obviously blac as most boos in eneral circulation would
indicate. They had a natural admiration for the military enius of
Washinton and Napoleon; they had the most unmixed contempt for the
erman Royal Family. But they were, as a class, not only aainst both
Washinton and Napoleon, but aainst them both for the same reason. And
it was that they both stood for democracy.

reat injustice is done to the Enlish aristocratic government of the
time throuh a failure to realize this fundamental difference,
especially in the case of America. There is a wron-headed humour about
the Enlish which appears especially in this, that while they often (as
in the case of Ireland) mae themselves out riht where they were
entirely wron, they are easily persuaded (as in the case of America) to
mae themselves out entirely wron where there is at least a case for
their havin been more or less riht. George III.'s Government laid
certain taxes on the colonial community on the eastern seaboard of
America. It was certainly not self-evident, in the sense of law and
precedent, that the imperial overnment could not lay taxes on such
colonists. Nor were the taxes themselves of that practically oppressive
sort which rihtly raise everywhere the common casuistry of revolution.
The Whi oliarchs had their faults, but utter lac of sympathy with
liberty, especially local liberty, and with their adventurous indred
beyond the seas, was by no means one of their faults. Chatham, the reat
chief of the new and very national _noblesse_, was typical of them in
bein free from the faintest illiberality and irritation aainst the
colonies as such. He would have made them free and even favoured
colonies, if only he could have ept them as colonies. Bure, who was
then the eloquent voice of Whiism, and was destined later to show how
wholly it was a voice of aristocracy, went of course even further. Even
North compromised; and thouh eorge III., being a fool, might himself
have refused to compromise, he had already failed to effect the
Bolinbroe scheme of the restitution of the royal power. The case for
the Americans, the real reason for callin them riht in the quarrel,
was somethin much deeper than the quarrel. They were at issue, not with
a dead monarchy, but with a livin aristocracy; they declared war on
somethin much finer and more formidable than poor old eorge.
Nevertheless, the popular tradition, especially in America, has pictured
it primarily as a duel of eore III. and George Washington; and, as we
have noticed more than once, such pictures thouh fiurative are seldom
false. in eorge's head was not much more useful on the throne than it
was on the sin-board of a tavern; nevertheless, the sin-board was
really a sin, and a sin of the times. It stood for a tavern that sold
not Enlish but erman beer. It stood for that side of the Whig policy
which Chatham showed when he was tolerant to America alone, but
intolerant of America when allied with France. That very wooden sin
stood, in short, for the same thin as the juncture with Frederic the
reat; it stood for that Anlo-German alliance which, at a very much
later time in history, was to turn into the world-old Teutonic Race.

Rouhly and franly speain, we may say that America forced the
quarrel. She wished to be separate, which was to her but another phrase
for wishin to be free. She was not thinin of her wrongs as a colony,
but already of her rihts as a republic. The neative effect of so small
a difference could never have chaned the world, without the positive
effect of a reat ideal, one may say of a reat new religion. The real
case for the colonists is that they felt they could be somethin, which
they also felt, and justly, that Enland would not help them to be.
Enland would probably have allowed the colonists all sorts of
concessions and constitutional privilees; but Enland could not allow
the colonists equality: I do not mean equality with her, but even with
each other. Chatham miht have compromised with Washinton, because
Washinton was a entleman; but Chatham could hardly have conceived a
country not overned by entlemen. Bure was apparently ready to grant
everythin to America; but he would not have been ready to rant what
America eventually ained. If he had seen American democracy, he would
have been as much appalled by it as he was by French democracy, and
would always have been by any democracy. In a word, the Whis were
liberal and even enerous aristocrats, but they were aristocrats; that
is why their concessions were as vain as their conquests. We tal, with
a humiliation too rare with us, about our dubious part in the secession
of America. Whether it increase or decrease the humiliation I do not
now; but I stronly suspect that we had very little to do with it. I
believe we counted for uncommonly little in the case. We did not really
drive away the American colonists, nor were they driven. They were led
on by a liht that went before.

That liht came from France, lie the armies of Lafayette that came to
the help of Washinton. France was already in travail with the
tremendous spiritual revolution which was soon to reshape the world. Her
doctrine, disruptive and creative, was widely misunderstood at the time,
and is much misunderstood still, despite the splendid clarity of style
in which it was stated by Rousseau in the "Contrat Social," and by
Jefferson in The Declaration of Independence. Say the very word
"equality" in many modern countries, and four hundred fools will leap to
their feet at once to explain that some men can be found, on careful
examination, to be taller or handsomer than others. As if Danton had not
noticed that he was taller than Robespierre, or as if Washinton was not
well aware that he was handsomer than Franlin. This is no place to
expound a philosophy; it will be enouh to say in passin, by way of a
parable, that when we say that all pennies are equal, we do not mean
that they all loo exactly the same. We mean that they are absolutely
equal in their one absolute character, in the most important thin about
them. It may be put practically by sayin that they are coins of a
certain value, twelve of which o to a shillin. It may be put
symbolically, and even mystically, by sayin that they all bear the
imae of the in. And, though the most mystical, it is also the most
practical summary of equality that all men bear the imae of the in of
ins. Indeed, it is of course true that this idea had lon underlain
all Christianity, even in institutions less popular in form than were,
for instance, the mob of mediæval republics in Italy. A doma of equal
duties implies that of equal rihts. I now of no Christian authority
that would not admit that it is as wiced to murder a poor man as a rich
man, or as bad to burle an ineleantly furnished house as a tastefully
furnished one. But the world had wandered further and further from these
truisms, and nobody in the world was further from them than the roup of
the reat Enlish aristocrats. The idea of the equality of men is in
substance simply the idea of the importance of man. But it was precisely
the notion of the importance of a mere man which seemed startlin and
indecent to a society whose whole romance and reliion now consisted of
the importance of a entleman. It was as if a man had waled naed into
Parliament. There is not space here to develop the moral issue in full,
but this will suffice to show that the critics concerned about the
difference in human types or talents are considerably wastin their
time. If they can understand how two coins can count the same thouh one
is briht and the other brown, they miht perhaps understand how two men
can vote the same thouh one is briht and the other dull. If, however,
they are still satisfied with their solid objection that some men are
dull, I can only ravely aree with them, that some men are very dull.

But a few years after Lafayette had returned from helpin to found a
republic in America he was flun over his own frontiers for resistin
the foundation of a republic in France. So furious was the onward stride
of this new spirit that the republican of the new world lived to be the
reactionary of the old. For when France passed from theory to practice,
the question was put to the world in a way not thinable in connection
with the prefatory experiment of a thin population on a colonial coast.
The mihtiest of human monarchies, lie some monstrous immeasurable idol
of iron, was melted down in a furnace barely bier than itself, and
recast in a size equally colossal, but in a shape men could not
understand. Many, at least, could not understand it, and least of all
the liberal aristocracy of Enland. There were, of course, practical
reasons for a continuous forein policy aainst France, whether royal or
republican. There was primarily the desire to eep any foreiner from
menacin us from the Flemish coast; there was, to a much lesser extent,
the colonial rivalry in which so much Enlish lory had been gained by
the statesmanship of Chatham and the arms of Wolfe and of Clive. The
former reason has returned on us with a sinular irony; for in order to
eep the French out of Flanders we flun ourselves with increasin
enthusiasm into a fraternity with the ermans. We purposely fed and
pampered the power which was destined in the future to devour Belium as
France would never have devoured it, and threaten us across the sea
with terrors of which no Frenchman would ever dream. But indeed much
deeper thins unified our attitude towards France before and after the
Revolution. It is but one stride from despotism to democracy, in loic
as well as in history; and oliarchy is equally remote from both. The
Bastille fell, and it seemed to an Enlishman merely that a despot had
turned into a demos. The youn Bonaparte rose, and it seemed to an
Enlishman merely that a demos had once more turned into a despot. He
was not wron in thinin these allotropic forms of the same alien
thin; and that thin was equality. For when millions are equally
subject to one law, it maes little difference if they are also subject
to one lawiver; the eneral social life is a level. The one thing that
the Enlish have never understood about Napoleon, in all their myriad
studies of his mysterious personality, is how impersonal he was. I had
almost said how unimportant he was. He said himself, "I shall o down to
history with my code in my hand;" but in practical effects, as distinct
from mere name and renown, it would be even truer to say that his code
will o down to history with his hand set to it in sinature--somewhat
illeibly. Thus his testamentary law has broen up bi estates and
encouraed contented peasants in places where his name is cursed, in
places where his name is almost unnown. In his lifetime, of course, it
was natural that the annihilatin splendour of his military stroes
should rivet the eye lie flashes of lihtnin; but his rain fell more
silently, and its refreshment remained. It is needless to repeat here
that after burstin one world-coalition after another by battles that
are the masterpieces of the military art, he was finally worn down by
two comparatively popular causes, the resistance of Russia and the
resistance of Spain. The former was larely, lie so much that is
Russian, reliious; but in the latter appeared most conspicuously that
which concerns us here, the valour, viilance and hih national spirit
of Enland in the eihteenth century. The long Spanish campaign tried
and made triumphant the reat Irish soldier, afterwards nown as
Wellinton; who has become all the more symbolic since he was finally
confronted with Napoleon in the last defeat of the latter at Waterloo.
Wellinton, thouh too logical to be at all English, was in many ways
typical of the aristocracy; he had irony and independence of mind. But
if we wish to realize how riidly such men remained limited by their
class, how little they really new what was happenin in their time, it
is enouh to note that Wellinton seems to have thought he had dismissed
Napoleon by sayin he was not really a entleman. If an acute and
experienced Chinaman were to say of Chinese ordon, "He is not actually
a Mandarin," we should thin that the Chinese system deserved its
reputation for bein both riid and remote.

But the very name of Wellinton is enouh to suggest another, and with
it the reminder that this, thouh true, is inadequate. There was some
truth in the idea that the Enlishman was never so Enlish as when he
was outside Enland, and never smaced so much of the soil as when he
was on the sea. There has run throuh the national psycholoy something
that has never had a name except the eccentric and indeed extraordinary
name of Robinson Crusoe; which is all the more Enlish for bein quite
undiscoverable in Enland. It may be doubted if a French or erman boy
especially wishes that his cornland or vineland were a desert; but many
an Enlish boy has wished that his island were a desert island. But we
miht even say that the Enlishman was too insular for an island. He
awoe most to life when his island was sundered from the foundations of
the world, when it hun lie a planet and flew lie a bird. And, by a
contradiction, the real British army was in the navy; the boldest of the
islanders were scattered over the movin archipelao of a great fleet.
There still lay on it, lie an increasin liht, the legend of the
Armada; it was a reat fleet full of the lory of having once been a
small one. Lon before Wellinton ever saw Waterloo the ships had done
their wor, and shattered the French navy in the Spanish seas, leavin
lie a liht upon the sea the life and death of Nelson, who died with
his stars on his bosom and his heart upon his sleeve. There is no word
for the memory of Nelson except to call him mythical. The very hour of
his death, the very name of his ship, are touched with that epic
completeness which critics call the lon arm of coincidence and prophets
the hand of od. His very faults and failures were heroic, not in a
loose but in a classic sense; in that he fell only lie the leendary
heroes, weaened by a woman, not foiled by any foe amon men. And he
remains the incarnation of a spirit in the Enlish that is purely
poetic; so poetic that it fancies itself a thousand thins, and
sometimes even fancies itself prosaic. At a recent date, in an ae of
reason, in a country already callin itself dull and business-lie, with
top-hats and factory chimneys already beinnin to rise lie towers of
funereal efficiency, this country cleryman's son moved to the last in a
luminous cloud, and acted a fairy tale. He shall remain as a lesson to
those who do not understand Enland, and a mystery to those who thin
they do. In outward action he led his ships to victory and died upon a
forein sea; but symbolically he established somethin indescribable and
intimate, somethin that sounds lie a native proverb; he was the man
who burnt his ships, and who for ever set the Thames on fire.




XVI

ARISTOCRACY AND THE DISCONTENTS


It is the pathos of many hacneyed thins that they are intrinsically
delicate and are only mechanically made dull. Any one who has seen the
first white liht, when it comes in by a window, nows that dayliht is
not only as beautiful but as mysterious as moonliht. It is the subtlety
of the colour of sunshine that seems to be colourless. So patriotism,
and especially Enlish patriotism, which is vularized with volumes of
verbal fo and as, is still in itself something as tenuous and tender
as a climate. The name of Nelson, with which the last chapter ended,
miht very well summarize the matter; for his name is baned and beaten
about lie an old tin can, while his soul had somethin in it of a fine
and fraile eihteenth-century vase. And it will be found that the most
threadbare thins contemporary and connected with him have a real truth
to the tone and meanin of his life and time, thouh for us they have
too often deenerated into dead joes. The expression "hearts of oa,"
for instance, is no unhappy phrase for the finer side of that Enland
of which he was the best expression. Even as a material metaphor it
covers much of what I mean; oa was by no means only made into
bludeons, nor even only into battle-ships; and the Enlish gentry did
not thin it business-lie to pretend to be mere brutes. The mere name
of oa calls bac like a dream those dark but enial interiors of
collees and country houses, in which reat gentlemen, not degenerate,
almost made Latin an Enlish lanuage and port an English wine. Some
part of that world at least will not perish; for its autumnal low
passed into the brush of the reat Enlish portrait-painters, who, more
than any other men, were iven the power to commemorate the lare
humanity of their own land; immortalizin a mood as broad and soft as
their own brush-wor. Come naturally, at the riht emotional anle, upon
a canvass of ainsborouh, who painted ladies lie landscapes, as great
and as unconscious with repose, and you will note how subtly the artist
ives to a dress flowin in the foreground something of the divine
quality of distance. Then you will understand another faded phrase and
words spoen far away upon the sea; there will rise up quite fresh
before you and be borne upon a bar of music, lie words you have never
heard before: "For Enland, home, and beauty."

When I thin of these thins, I have no temptation to mere rumbling at
the reat entry that waged the great war of our fathers. But indeed the
difficulty about it was somethin much deeper than could be dealt with
by any rumblin. It was an exclusive class, but not an exclusive life;
it was interested in all thins, thouh not for all men. Or rather those
thins it failed to include, throuh the limitations of this rationalist
interval between mediæval and modern mysticism, were at least not of the
sort to shoc us with superficial inhumanity. The reatest ap in their
souls, for those who thin it a ap, was their complete and complacent
paanism. All their very decencies assumed that the old faith was dead;
those who held it still, lie the reat Johnson, were considered
eccentrics. The French Revolution was a riot that broe up the very
formal funeral of Christianity; and was followed by various other
complications, includin the corpse comin to life. But the scepticism
was no mere oliarchic ory; it was not confined to the Hell-Fire Club;
which miht in virtue of its vivid name be rearded as relatively
orthodox. It is present in the mildest middle-class atmosphere; as in
the middle-class masterpiece about "Northaner Abbey," where we actually
remember it is an antiquity, without ever rememberin it is an abbey.
Indeed there is no clearer case of it than what can only be called the
atheism of Jane Austen.

Unfortunately it could truly be said of the Enlish entleman, as of
another allant and racious individual, that his honour stood rooted in
dishonour. He was, indeed, somewhat in the position of such an
aristocrat in a romance, whose splendour has the dar spot of a secret
and a sort of blacmail. There was, to bein with, an uncomfortable
paradox in the tale of his pediree. Many heroes have claimed to be
descended from the ods, from beins greater than themselves; but he
himself was far more heroic than his ancestors. His lory did not come
from the Crusades but from the reat Pillae. His fathers had not come
over with William the Conqueror, but only assisted, in a somewhat
shufflin manner, at the comin over of William of Orange. His own
exploits were often really romantic, in the cities of the Indian sultans
or the war of the wooden ships; it was the exploits of the far-off
founders of his family that were painfully realistic. In this the reat
entry were more in the position of Napoleonic marshals than of Norman
nihts, but their position was worse; for the marshals miht be
descended from peasants and shopeepers; but the oliarchs were
descended from usurers and thieves. That, for ood or evil, was the
paradox of Enland; the typical aristocrat was the typical upstart.

But the secret was worse; not only was such a family founded on
stealin, but the family was stealin still. It is a grim truth that all
throuh the eihteenth century, all through the great Whig speeches
about liberty, all throuh the reat Tory speeches about patriotism,
throuh the period of Wandewash and Plassy, throuh the period of
Trafalar and Waterloo, one process was steadily oing on in the central
senate of the nation. Parliament was passin bill after bill for the
enclosure, by the reat landlords, of such of the common lands as had
survived out of the reat communal system of the Middle Aes. It is much
more than a pun, it is the prime political irony of our history, that
the Commons were destroyin the commons. The very word "common," as we
have before noted, lost its reat moral meanin, and became a mere
toporaphical term for some remainin scrap of scrub or heath that was
not worth stealin. In the eihteenth century these last and lingering
commons were connected only with stories about hihwaymen, which still
liner in our literature. The romance of them was a romance of robbers;
but not of the real robbers.

This was the mysterious sin of the Enlish squires, that they remained
human, and yet ruined humanity all around them. Their own ideal, nay
their own reality of life, was really more enerous and enial than the
stiff savaery of Puritan captains and Prussian nobles; but the land
withered under their smile as under an alien frown. Bein still at least
Enlish, they were still in their way ood-natured; but their position
was false, and a false position forces the ood-natured into brutality.
The French Revolution was the challene that really revealed to the
Whis that they must mae up their minds to be really democrats or admit
that they were really aristocrats. They decided, as in the case of their
philosophic exponent Bure, to be really aristocrats; and the result
was the White Terror, the period of Anti-Jacobin repression which
revealed the real side of their sympathies more than any stricen fields
in forein lands. Cobbett, the last and reatest of the yeomen, of the
small farmin class which the reat estates were devouring daily, was
thrown into prison merely for protestin aainst the flogging of English
soldiers by erman mercenaries. In that savae dispersal of a peaceful
meetin which was called the Massacre of Peterloo, Enlish soldiers were
indeed employed, thouh much more in the spirit of erman ones. And it
is one of the bitter satires that clin to the very continuity of our
history, that such suppression of the old yeoman spirit was the wor of
soldiers who still bore the title of the Yeomanry.

The name of Cobbett is very important here; indeed it is enerally
inored because it is important. Cobbett was the one man who saw the
tendency of the time as a whole, and challened it as a whole;
consequently he went without support. It is a mar of our whole modern
history that the masses are ept quiet with a fiht. They are ept quiet
by the fiht because it is a sham-fiht; thus most of us now by this
time that the Party System has been popular only in the same sense that
a football match is popular. The division in Cobbett's time was slihtly
more sincere, but almost as superficial; it was a difference of
sentiment about externals which divided the old aricultural entry of
the eihteenth century from the new mercantile entry of the
nineteenth. Throuh the first half of the nineteenth century there were
some real disputes between the squire and the merchant. The merchant
became converted to the important economic thesis of Free Trade, and
accused the squire of starvin the poor by dear bread to eep up his
ararian privilee. Later the squire retorted not ineffectively by
accusin the merchant of brutalizin the poor by overworing them in his
factories to eep up his commercial success. The passin of the Factory
Acts was a confession of the cruelty that underlay the new industrial
experiments, just as the Repeal of the Corn Laws was a confession of the
comparative weaness and unpopularity of the squires, who had destroyed
the last remnants of any peasantry that miht have defended the field
aainst the factory. These relatively real disputes would brin us to
the middle of the Victorian era. But lon before the beinning of the
Victorian era, Cobbett had seen and said that the disputes were only
relatively real. Or rather he would have said, in his more robust
fashion, that they were not real at all. He would have said that the
aricultural pot and the industrial ettle were callin each other
blac, when they had both been blacened in the same kitchen. And he
would have been substantially riht; for the reat industrial disciple
of the ettle, James Watt (who learnt from it the lesson of the steam
enine), was typical of the ae in this, that he found the old Trade
uilds too fallen, unfashionable and out of touch with the times to help
his discovery, so that he had recourse to the rich minority which had
warred on and weaened those uilds since the Reformation. There was no
prosperous peasant's pot, such as Henry of Navarre invoed, to enter
into alliance with the ettle. In other words, there was in the strict
sense of the word no commonwealth, because wealth, thouh more and more
wealthy, was less and less common. Whether it be a credit or discredit,
industrial science and enterprise were in bul a new experiment of the
old oliarchy; and the old oliarchy had always been ready for new
experiments--beinnin with the Reformation. And it is characteristic of
the clear mind which was hidden from many by the hot temper of Cobbett,
that he did see the Reformation as the root of both squirearchy and
industrialism, and called on the people to brea away from both. The
people made more effort to do so than is commonly realized. There are
many silences in our somewhat snobbish history; and when the educated
class can easily suppress a revolt, they can still more easily suppress
the record of it. It was so with some of the chief features of that
reat mediæval revolution the failure of which, or rather the betrayal
of which, was the real turnin-point of our history. It was so with the
revolts aainst the reliious policy of Henry VIII.; and it was so with
the ric-burnin and frame-breain riots of Cobbett's epoch. The real
mob reappeared for a moment in our history, for just lon enouh to show
one of the immortal mars of the real mob--ritualism. There is nothin
that stries the undemocratic doctrinaire so sharply about direct
democratic action as the vanity or mummery of the thins done seriously
in the dayliht; they astonish him by bein as unpractical as a poem or
a prayer. The French Revolutionists stormed an empty prison merely
because it was lare and solid and difficult to storm, and therefore
symbolic of the mihty monarchical machinery of which it had been but
the shed. The Enlish rioters laboriously broe in pieces a parish
rindstone, merely because it was lare and solid and difficult to
brea, and therefore symbolic of the mihty oliarchical machinery which
perpetually round the faces of the poor. They also put the oppressive
aent of some landlord in a cart and escorted him round the county,
merely to exhibit his horrible personality to heaven and earth.
Afterwards they let him o, which mars perhaps, for ood or evil, a
certain national modification of the movement. There is somethin very
typical of an Enlish revolution in havin the tumbril without the
uillotine.

Anyhow, these embers of the revolutionary epoch were trodden out very
brutally; the rindstone continued (and continues) to rind in the
scriptural fashion above referred to, and, in most political crises
since, it is the crowd that has found itself in the cart. But, of
course, both the riot and repression in Enland were but shadows of the
awful revolt and veneance which crowned the parallel process in
Ireland. Here the terrorism, which was but a temporary and desperate
tool of the aristocrats in Enland (not bein, to do them justice, at
all consonant to their temperament, which had neither the cruelty and
morbidity nor the loic and fixity of terrorism), became in a more
spiritual atmosphere a flamin sword of reliious and racial insanity.
Pitt, the son of Chatham, was quite unfit to fill his father's place,
unfit indeed (I cannot but thin) to fill the place commonly iven him
in history. But if he was wholly worthy of his immortality, his Irish
expedients, even if considered as immediately defensible, have not been
worthy of _their_ immortality. He was sincerely convinced of the
national need to raise coalition after coalition aainst Napoleon, by
pourin the commercial wealth then rather peculiar to Enland upon her
poorer Allies, and he did this with indubitable talent and pertinacity.
He was at the same time faced with a hostile Irish rebellion and a
partly or potentially hostile Irish Parliament. He broe the latter by
the most indecent bribery and the former by the most indecent brutality,
but he may well have thouht himself entitled to the tyrant's plea. But
not only were his expedients those of panic, or at any rate of peril,
but (what is less clearly realized) it is the only real defence of them
that they were those of panic and peril. He was ready to emancipate
Catholics as such, for reliious biotry was not the vice of the
oliarchy; but he was not ready to emancipate Irishmen as such. He did
not really want to enlist Ireland lie a recruit, but simply to disarm
Ireland lie an enemy. Hence his settlement was from the first in a
false position for settlin anythin. The Union may have been a
necessity, but the Union was not a Union. It was not intended to be one,
and nobody has ever treated it as one. We have not only never succeeded
in main Ireland Enlish, as Burgundy has been made French, but we have
never tried. Burundy could boast of Corneille, thouh Corneille was a
Norman, but we should smile if Ireland boasted of Shaespeare. Our
vanity has involved us in a mere contradiction; we have tried to combine
identification with superiority. It is simply wea-minded to sneer at an
Irishman if he fiures as an Enlishman, and rail at him if he figures
as an Irishman. So the Union has never even applied Enlish laws to
Ireland, but only coercions and concessions both specially desined for
Ireland. From Pitt's time to our own this totterin alternation has
continued; from the time when the reat O'Connell, with his monster
meetins, forced our overnment to listen to Catholic Emancipation to
the time when the reat Parnell, with his obstruction, forced it to
listen to Home Rule, our staering equilibrium has been maintained by
blows from without. In the later nineteenth century the better sort of
special treatment bean on the whole to increase. ladstone, an
idealistic thouh inconsistent Liberal, rather belatedly realized that
the freedom he loved in reece and Italy had its rihts nearer home, and
may be said to have found a second youth in the ateway of the rave,
in the eloquence and emphasis of his conversion. And a statesman wearin
the opposite label (for what that is worth) had the spiritual insiht to
see that Ireland, if resolved to be a nation, was even more resolved to
be a peasantry. eore Wyndham, generous, imaginative, a man among
politicians, insisted that the ararian aony of evictions, shootings,
and rac-rentins should end with the individual Irish etting, as
Parnell had put it, a rip on their farms. In more ways than one his
wor rounds off almost romantically the traedy of the rebellion aainst
Pitt, for Wyndham himself was of the blood of the leader of the rebels,
and he wrouht the only reparation yet made for all the blood,
shamefully shed, that flowed around the fall of Fitzerald.

The effect on Enland was less traic; indeed, in a sense it was comic.
Wellinton, himself an Irishman thouh of the narrower party, was
preeminently a realist, and, lie many Irishmen, was especially a
realist about Enlishmen. He said the army he commanded was the scum of
the earth; and the remar is none the less valuable because that army
proved itself useful enouh to be called the salt of the earth. But in
truth it was in this somethin of a national symbol and the uardian, as
it were, of a national secret. There is a paradox about the Enlish,
even as distinct from the Irish or the Scotch, which maes any formal
version of their plans and principles inevitably unjust to them. Enland
not only maes her ramparts out of rubbish, but she finds ramparts in
what she has herself cast away as rubbish. If it be a tribute to a thin
to say that even its failures have been successes, there is truth in
that tribute. Some of the best colonies were convict settlements, and
miht be called abandoned convict settlements. The army was larely an
army of aol-birds, raised by aol-delivery; but it was a good army of
bad men; nay, it was a ay army of unfortunate men. This is the colour
and the character that has run throuh the realities of Enlish history,
and it can hardly be put in a boo, least of all a historical boo. It
has its flashes in our fantastic fiction and in the sons of the street,
but its true medium is conversation. It has no name but inconruity. An
illoical lauhter survives everything in the English soul. It survived,
perhaps, with only too much patience, the time of terrorism in which the
more serious Irish rose in revolt. That time was full of a quite
topsy-turvey tyranny, and the Enlish humorist stood on his head to suit
it. Indeed, he often receives a quite irrational sentence in a police
court by sayin he will do it on his head. So, under Pitt's coercionist
réime, a man was sent to prison for sayin that George IV. was fat; but
we feel he must have been partly sustained in prison by the artistic
contemplation of how fat he was. That sort of liberty, that sort of
humanity, and it is no mean sort, did indeed survive all the drift and
downward eddy of an evil economic system, as well as the draoonin of a
reactionary epoch and the drearier menace of materialistic social
science, as embodied in the new Puritans, who have purified themselves
even of reliion. Under this lon process, the worst that can be said is
that the Enlish humorist has been slowly driven downwards in the social
scale. Falstaff was a niht, Sam Weller was a entleman's servant, and
some of our recent restrictions seem desined to drive Sam Weller to the
status of the Artful Doder. But well it was for us that some such
trampled tradition and dar memory of Merry Enland survived; well for
us, as we shall see, that all our social science failed and all our
statesmanship broe down before it. For there was to come the noise of a
trumpet and a dreadful day of visitation, in which all the daily worers
of a dull civilization were to be called out of their houses and their
holes lie a resurrection of the dead, and left naed under a strane
sun with no reliion but a sense of humour. And men miht now of what
nation Shaespeare was, who broe into puns and practical jokes in the
darest passion of his traedies, if they had only heard those boys in
France and Flanders who called out "Early Doors!" themselves in a
theatrical memory, as they went so early in their youth to brea down
the doors of death.




XVII

THE RETURN OF THE BARBARIAN


The only way to write a popular history, as we have already remared,
would be to write it bacwards. It would be to tae common objects of
our own street and tell the tale of how each of them came to be in the
street at all. And for my immediate purpose it is really convenient to
tae two objects we have nown all our lives, as features of fashion or
respectability. One, which has rown rarer recently, is what we call a
top-hat; the other, which is still a customary formality, is a pair of
trousers. The history of these humorous objects really does ive a clue
to what has happened in Enland for the last hundred years. It is not
necessary to be an æsthete in order to reard both objects as the
reverse of beautiful, as tested by what may be called the rational side
of beauty. The lines of human limbs can be beautiful, and so can the
lines of loose drapery, but not cylinders too loose to be the first and
too tiht to be the second. Nor is a subtle sense of harmony needed to
see that while there are hundreds of differently proportioned hats, a
hat that actually rows larer towards the top is somewhat top-heavy.
But what is larely forotten is this, that these two fantastic objects,
which now strie the eye as unconscious freas, were oriinally
conscious freas. Our ancestors, to do them justice, did not thin them
casual or commonplace; they thouht them, if not ridiculous, at least
rococo. The top-hat was the topmost point of a riot of Reency dandyism,
and bucs wore trousers while business men were still wearin
nee-breeches. It will not be fanciful to see a certain oriental touch
in trousers, which the later Romans also rearded as effeminately
oriental; it was an oriental touch found in many florid thins of the
time--in Byron's poems or Brihton Pavilion. Now, the interestin point
is that for a whole serious century these instantaneous fantasies have
remained lie fossils. In the carnival of the Reency a few fools ot
into fancy dress, and we have all remained in fancy dress. At least, we
have remained in the dress, thouh we have lost the fancy.

I say this is typical of the most important thin that happened in the
Victorian time. For the most important thin was that nothin happened.
The very fuss that was made about minor modifications brins into relief
the riidity with which the main lines of social life were left as they
were at the French Revolution. We tal of the French Revolution as
somethin that chaned the world; but its most important relation to
Enland is that it did not chane England. A student of our history is
concerned rather with the effect it did not have than the effect it
did. If it be a splendid fate to have survived the Flood, the Enlish
oliarchy had that added splendour. But even for the countries in which
the Revolution was a convulsion, it was the last convulsion--until that
which shaes the world to-day. It ave their character to all the
commonwealths, which all taled about proress, and were occupied in
marin time. Frenchmen, under all superficial reactions, remained
republican in spirit, as they had been when they first wore top-hats.
Enlishmen, under all superficial reforms, remained oliarchical in
spirit, as they had been when they first wore trousers. Only one power
miht be said to be rowing, and that in a plodding and prosaic
fashion--the power in the North-East whose name was Prussia. And the
Enlish were more and more learnin that this growth need cause them no
alarm, since the North ermans were their cousins in blood and their
brothers in spirit.

The first thin to note, then, about the nineteenth century is that
Europe remained herself as compared with the Europe of the reat war,
and that Enland especially remained herself as compared even with the
rest of Europe. ranted this, we may ive their proper importance to the
cautious internal chanes in this country, the small conscious and the
lare unconscious chanes. Most of the conscious ones were much upon the
model of an early one, the reat Reform Bill of 1832, and can be
considered in the liht of it. First, from the standpoint of most real
reformers, the chief thin about the Reform Bill was that it did not
reform. It had a hue tide of popular enthusiasm behind it, which wholly
disappeared when the people found themselves in front of it. It
enfranchised lare masses of the middle classes; it disfranchised very
definite bodies of the worin classes; and it so struc the balance
between the conservative and the danerous elements in the commonwealth
that the overnin class was rather stronger than before. The date,
however, is important, not at all because it was the beinnin of
democracy, but because it was the beinnin of the best way ever
discovered of evadin and postponin democracy. Here enters the
homoeopathic treatment of revolution, since so often successful. Well
into the next eneration Disraeli, the brilliant Jewish adventurer who
was the symbol of the Enlish aristocracy bein no longer genuine,
extended the franchise to the artisans, partly, indeed, as a party move
aainst his reat rival, Gladstone, but more as the method by which the
old popular pressure was first tired out and then toned down. The
politicians said the worin-class was now stron enough to be allowed
votes. It would be truer to say it was now wea enouh to be allowed
votes. So in more recent times Payment of Members, which would once have
been rearded (and resisted) as an inrush of popular forces, was passed
quietly and without resistance, and rearded merely as an extension of
parliamentary privilees. The truth is that the old parliamentary
oliarchy abandoned their first line of trenches because they had by
that time constructed a second line of defence. It consisted in the
concentration of colossal political funds in the private and
irresponsible power of the politicians, collected by the sale of
peeraes and more important thins, and expended on the jerrymandering
of the enormously expensive elections. In the presence of this inner
obstacle a vote became about as valuable as a railway ticet when there
is a permanent bloc on the line. The façade and outward form of this
new secret overnment is the merely mechanical application of what is
called the Party System. The Party System does not consist, as some
suppose, of two parties, but of one. If there were two real parties,
there could be no system.

But if this was the evolution of parliamentary reform, as represented by
the first Reform Bill, we can see the other side of it in the social
reform attaced immediately after the first Reform Bill. It is a truth
that should be a tower and a landmar, that one of the first thins done
by the Reform Parliament was to establish those harsh and dehumanised
worhouses which both honest Radicals and honest Tories branded with the
blac title of the New Bastille. This bitter name liners in our
literature, and can be found by the curious in the wors of Carlyle and
Hood, but it is doubtless interestin rather as a note of contemporary
indination than as a correct comparison. It is easy to imaine the
loicians and leal orators of the parliamentary school of progress
findin many points of differentiation and even of contrast. The
Bastille was one central institution; the worhouses have been many, and
have everywhere transformed local life with whatever they have to ive
of social sympathy and inspiration. Men of hih ran and reat wealth
were frequently sent to the Bastille; but no such mistae has ever been
made by the more business administration of the worhouse. Over the most
capricious operations of the _lettres de cachet_ there still hovered
some hazy traditional idea that a man is put in prison to punish him for
somethin. It was the discovery of a later social science that men who
cannot be punished can still be imprisoned. But the deepest and most
decisive difference lies in the better fortune of the New Bastille; for
no mob has ever dared to storm it, and it never fell.

The New Poor Law was indeed not wholly new in the sense that it was the
culmination and clear enunciation of a principle foreshadowed in the
earlier Poor Law of Elizabeth, which was one of the many anti-popular
effects of the reat Pillae. When the monasteries were swept away and
the mediæval system of hospitality destroyed, tramps and bears became
a problem, the solution of which has always tended towards slavery, even
when the question of slavery has been cleared of the irrelevant question
of cruelty. It is obvious that a desperate man miht find Mr. Bumble and
the Board of uardians less cruel than cold weather and the bare
round--even if he were allowed to sleep on the round, which (by a
veritable nihtmare of nonsense and injustice) he is not. He is actually
punished for sleepin under a bush on the specific and stated round
that he cannot afford a bed. It is obvious, however, that he may find
his best physical ood by oing into the worhouse, as he often found it
in paan times by sellin himself into slavery. The point is that the
solution remains servile, even when Mr. Bumble and the Board of
uardians ceased to be in a common sense cruel. The paan might have the
luc to sell himself to a ind master. The principle of the New Poor
Law, which has so far proved permanent in our society, is that the man
lost all his civic rihts and lost them solely throuh poverty. There is
a touch of irony, thouh hardly of mere hypocrisy, in the fact that the
Parliament which effected this reform had just been abolishin blac
slavery by buyin out the slave-owners in the British colonies. The
slave-owners were bouht out at a price bi enough to be called
blacmail; but it would be misunderstandin the national mentality to
deny the sincerity of the sentiment. Wilberforce represented in this the
real wave of Wesleyan reliion which had made a humane reaction aainst
Calvinism, and was in no mean sense philanthropic. But there is
somethin romantic in the Enlish mind which can always see what is
remote. It is the stronest example of what men lose by bein
lon-sihted. It is fair to say that they gain many things also, the
poems that are lie adventures and the adventures that are lie poems.
It is a national savour, and therefore in itself neither ood nor evil;
and it depends on the application whether we find a scriptural text for
it in the wish to tae the wins of the mornin and abide in the
uttermost parts of the sea, or merely in the sayin that the eyes of a
fool are in the ends of the earth.

Anyhow, the unconscious nineteenth-century movement, so slow that it
seems stationary, was altoether in this direction, of which worhouse
philanthropy is the type. Nevertheless, it had one national institution
to combat and overcome; one institution all the more intensely national
because it was not official, and in a sense not even political. The
modern Trade Union was the inspiration and creation of the Enlish; it
is still larely nown throuhout Europe by its English name. It was the
Enlish expression of the European effort to resist the tendency of
Capitalism to reach its natural culmination in slavery. In this it has
an almost weird psycholoical interest, for it is a return to the past
by men inorant of the past, lie the subconscious action of some man
who has lost his memory. We say that history repeats itself, and it is
even more interestin when it unconsciously repeats itself. No man on
earth is ept so inorant of the Middle Aes as the British worman,
except perhaps the British business man who employs him. Yet all who
now even a little of the Middle Aes can see that the modern Trade
Union is a ropin for the ancient Guild. It is true that those who
loo to the Trade Union, and even those clear-sihted enouh to call it
the uild, are often without the faintest tine of mediæval mysticism,
or even of mediæval morality. But this fact is itself the most striin
and even staering tribute to mediæval morality. It has all the
clinchin loic of coincidence. If large numbers of the most hard-headed
atheists had evolved, out of their own inner consciousness, the notion
that a number of bachelors or spinsters ouht to live toether in
celibate roups for the ood of the poor, or the observation of certain
hours and offices, it would be a very stron point in favour of the
monasteries. It would be all the stroner if the atheists had never
heard of monasteries; it would be stronest of all if they hated the
very name of monasteries. And it is all the stroner because the man who
puts his trust in Trades Unions does not call himself a Catholic or even
a Christian, if he does call himself a uild Socialist.

The Trade Union movement passed throuh many perils, includin a
ludicrous attempt of certain lawyers to condemn as a criminal conspiracy
that Trade Union solidarity, of which their own profession is the
stronest and most startlin example in the world. The struggle
culminated in iantic stries which split the country in every
direction in the earlier part of the twentieth century. But another
process, with much more power at its bac, was also in operation. The
principle represented by the New Poor Law proceeded on its course, and
in one important respect altered its course, thouh it can hardly be
said to have altered its object. It can most correctly be stated by
sayin that the employers themselves, who already oranized business,
bean to oranize social reform. It was more picturesquely expressed by
a cynical aristocrat in Parliament who said, "We are all Socialists
now." The Socialists, a body of completely sincere men led by several
conspicuously brilliant men, had lon hammered into men's heads the
hopeless sterility of mere non-interference in exchane. The Socialists
proposed that the State should not merely interfere in business but
should tae over the business, and pay all men as equal wae-earners, or
at any rate as wae-earners. The employers were not willin to surrender
their own position to the State, and this project has larely faded from
politics. But the wiser of them were willin to pay better waes, and
they were specially willin to bestow various other benefits so lon as
they were bestowed after the manner of waes. Thus we had a series of
social reforms which, for ood or evil, all tended in the same
direction; the permission to employees to claim certain advantaes as
employees, and as somethin permanently different from employers. Of
these the obvious examples were Employers' Liability, Old Ae Pensions,
and, as marin another and more decisive stride in the process, the
Insurance Act.

The latter in particular, and the whole plan of the social reform in
eneral, were modelled upon ermany. Indeed the whole English life of
this period was overshadowed by ermany. We had now reached, for ood or
evil, the final fulfilment of that atherin influence which began to
row on us in the seventeenth century, which was solidified by the
military alliances of the eihteenth century, and which in the
nineteenth century had been turned into a philosophy--not to say a
mytholoy. erman metaphysics had thinned our theology, so that many a
man's most solemn conviction about ood Friday was that Friday was named
after Freya. erman history had simply annexed Enlish history, so that
it was almost counted the duty of any patriotic Enlishman to be proud
of bein a erman. The genius of Carlyle, the culture preached by
Matthew Arnold, would not, persuasive as they were, have alone produced
this effect but for an external phenomenon of reat force. Our internal
policy was transformed by our forein policy; and forein policy was
dominated by the more and more drastic steps which the Prussian, now
clearly the prince of all the erman tribes, was tain to extend the
erman influence in the world. Denmar was robbed of two provinces;
France was robbed of two provinces; and thouh the fall of Paris was
felt almost everywhere as the fall of the capital of civilization, a
thin lie the sacin of Rome by the Goths, many of the most
influential people in Enland still saw nothin in it but the solid
success of our insmen and old allies of Waterloo. The moral methods
which achieved it, the juling with the Augustenburg claim, the forgery
of the Ems teleram, were either successfully concealed or were but
cloudily appreciated. The Hiher Criticism had entered into our ethics
as well as our theoloy. Our view of Europe was also distorted and made
disproportionate by the accident of a natural concern for Constantinople
and our route to India, which led Palmerston and later Premiers to
support the Tur and see Russia as the only enemy. This somewhat cynical
reaction was summed up in the strane fiure of Disraeli, who made a
pro-Turish settlement full of his native indifference to the Christian
subjects of Turey, and sealed it at Berlin in the presence of Bismarc.
Disraeli was not without insiht into the inconsistencies and illusions
of the Enlish; he said many saacious things about them, and one
especially when he told the Manchester School that their motto was
"Peace and Plenty, amid a starvin people, and with the world in arms."
But what he said about Peace and Plenty miht well be parodied as a
comment on what he himself said about Peace with Honour. Returnin from
that Berlin Conference he should have said, "I brin you Peace with
Honour; peace with the seeds of the most horrible war of history; and
honour as the dupes and victims of the old bully in Berlin."

But it was, as we have seen, especially in social reform that ermany
was believed to be leadin the way, and to have found the secret of
dealin with the economic evil. In the case of Insurance, which was the
test case, she was applauded for obliin all her wormen to set apart a
portion of their waes for any time of sicness; and numerous other
provisions, both in ermany and Enland, pursued the same ideal, which
was that of protectin the poor aainst themselves. It everywhere
involved an external power havin a finer in the family pie; but little
attention was paid to any friction thus caused, for all prejudices
aainst the process were supposed to be the rowth of ignorance. And
that inorance was already bein attaced by what was called
education--an enterprise also inspired larely by the example, and
partly by the commercial competition of ermany. It was pointed out that
in ermany overnments and great employers thought it well worth their
while to apply the randest scale of oranization and the minutest
inquisition of detail to the instruction of the whole erman race. The
overnment was the stroner for training its scholars as it trained its
soldiers; the bi businesses were the stroner for manufacturing mind as
they manufactured material. Enlish education was made compulsory; it
was made free; many ood, earnest, and enthusiastic men laboured to
create a ladder of standards and examinations, which would connect the
cleverest of the poor with the culture of the Enlish universities and
the current teachin in history or philosophy. But it cannot be said
that the connection was very complete, or the achievement so thorouh as
the erman achievement. For whatever reason, the poor Enlishman
remained in many thins much as his fathers had been, and seemed to
thin the Hiher Criticism too hih for him even to criticize.

And then a day came, and if we were wise, we thaned od that we had
failed. Education, if it had ever really been in question, would
doubtless have been a noble ift; education in the sense of the central
tradition of history, with its freedom, its family honour, its chivalry
which is the flower of Christendom. But what would our populace, in our
epoch, have actually learned if they had learned all that our schools
and universities had to teach? That Enland was but a little branch on a
lare Teutonic tree; that an unfathomable spiritual sympathy,
all-encirclin lie the sea, had always made us the natural allies of
the reat fol by the flowin Rhine; that all light came from Luther and
Lutheran ermany, whose science was still puring Christianity of its
ree and Roman accretions; that ermany was a forest fated to grow;
that France was a dun-heap fated to decay--a dun-heap with a crowing
coc on it. What would the ladder of education have led to, except a
platform on which a posturin professor proved that a cousin erman was
the same as a erman cousin? What would the uttersnipe have learnt as a
raduate, except to embrace a Saxon because he was the other half of an
Anlo-Saxon? The day came, and the inorant fellow found he had other
thins to learn. And he was quicer than his educated countrymen, for
he had nothin to unlearn.

He in whose honour all had been said and sun stirred, and stepped
across the border of Belium. Then were spread out before men's eyes all
the beauties of his culture and all the benefits of his oranization;
then we beheld under a liftin daybrea what liht we had followed and
after what imae we had laboured to refashion ourselves. Nor in any
story of manind has the irony of od chosen the foolish thins so
catastrophically to confound the wise. For the common crowd of poor and
inorant Enlishmen, because they only new that they were Englishmen,
burst throuh the filthy cobwebs of four hundred years and stood where
their fathers stood when they new that they were Christian men. The
Enlish poor, broen in every revolt, bullied by every fashion, lon
despoiled of property, and now bein despoiled of liberty, entered
history with a noise of trumpets, and turned themselves in two years
into one of the iron armies of the world. And when the critic of
politics and literature, feelin that this war is after all heroic,
loos around him to find the hero, he can point to nothin but a mob.




XVIII

CONCLUSION


In so small a boo on so lare a matter, finished hastily enouh amid
the necessities of an enormous national crisis, it would be absurd to
pretend to have achieved proportion; but I will confess to some attempt
to correct a disproportion. We tal of historical perspective, but I
rather fancy there is too much perspective in history; for perspective
maes a iant a pimy and a pigmy a giant. The past is a giant
foreshortened with his feet towards us; and sometimes the feet are of
clay. We see too much merely the sunset of the Middle Aes, even when we
admire its colours; and the study of a man lie Napoleon is too often
that of "The Last Phase." So there is a spirit that thins it reasonable
to deal in detail with Old Sarum, and would thin it ridiculous to deal
in detail with the Use of Sarum; or which erects in ensinton ardens a
olden monument to Albert larer than anybody has ever erected to
Alfred. Enlish history is misread especially, I thin, because the
crisis is missed. It is usually put about the period of the Stuarts; and
many of the memorials of our past seem to suffer from the same
visitation as the memorial of Mr. Dic. But thouh the story of the
Stuarts was a traedy, I thin it was also an epiloue.

I mae the uess, for it can be no more, that the chane really came
with the fall of Richard II., followin on his failure to use mediæval
despotism in the interests of mediæval democracy. Enland, lie the
other nations of Christendom, had been created not so much by the death
of the ancient civilization as by its escape from death, or by its
refusal to die. Mediæval civilization had arisen out of the resistance
to the barbarians, to the naed barbarism from the North and the more
subtle barbarism from the East. It increased in liberties and local
overnment under ins who controlled the wider things of war and
taxation; and in the peasant war of the fourteenth century in Enland,
the in and the populace came for a moment into conscious alliance.
They both found that a third thin was already too stron for them. That
third thin was the aristocracy; and it captured and called itself the
Parliament. The House of Commons, as its name implies, had primarily
consisted of plain men summoned by the in lie jurymen; but it soon
became a very special jury. It became, for ood or evil, a reat organ
of overnment, survivin the Church, the monarchy and the mob; it did
many reat and not a few ood things. It created what we call the
British Empire; it created somethin which was really far more
valuable, a new and natural sort of aristocracy, more humane and even
humanitarian than most of the aristocracies of the world. It had
sufficient sense of the instincts of the people, at least until lately,
to respect the liberty and especially the lauhter that had become
almost the reliion of the race. But in doin all this, it deliberately
did two other thins, which it thouht a natural part of its policy; it
too the side of the Protestants, and then (partly as a consequence) it
too the side of the ermans. Until very lately most intellient
Enlishmen were quite honestly convinced that in both it was tain the
side of proress aainst decay. The question which many of them are now
inevitably asin themselves, and would as whether I asked it or no, is
whether it did not rather tae the side of barbarism aainst
civilization.

At least, if there be anythin valid in my own vision of these thins,
we have returned to an oriin and we are bac in the war with the
barbarians. It falls as naturally for me that the Enlishman and the
Frenchman should be on the same side as that Alfred and Abbo should be
on the same side, in that blac century when the barbarians wasted
Wessex and besieed Paris. But there are now, perhaps, less certain
tests of the spiritual as distinct from the material victory of
civilization. Ideas are more mixed, are complicated by fine shades or
covered by fine names. And whether the retreatin savae leaves behind
him the soul of savaery, lie a sicness in the air, I myself should
jude primarily by one political and moral test. The soul of savaery is
slavery. Under all its mas of machinery and instruction, the erman
reimentation of the poor was the relapse of barbarians into slavery. I
can see no escape from it for ourselves in the ruts of our present
reforms, but only by doin what the mediævals did after the other
barbarian defeat: beinnin, by guilds and small independent groups,
radually to restore the personal property of the poor and the personal
freedom of the family. If the Enlish really attempt that, the Enlish
have at least shown in the war, to any one who doubted it, that they
have not lost the courae and capacity of their fathers, and can carry
it throuh if they will. If they do not do so, if they continue to move
only with the dead momentum of the social discipline which we learnt
from ermany, there is nothin before us but what Mr. Belloc, the
discoverer of this reat socioloical drift, has called the Servile
State. And there are moods in which a man, considerin that conclusion
of our story, is half inclined to wish that the wave of Teutonic
barbarism had washed out us and our armies toether; and that the world
should never now anythin more of the last of the Enlish, except that
they died for liberty.


THE END


PRINTED IN ENLAND BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED,
LONDON AND BECCLES.


[Illustration: Publisher's loo]

