
                            LORD ITCHENER

                                  BY

                           . . 

                                LONDON

                                 1917




[Illustration: LORD ITCHENER

By . . 

_Photo by Elliott & Fry, Ltd., London._]




                            LORD ITCHENER


Horatio Herbert itchener was Irish by birth but Enlish by
extraction, bein born in County erry, the son of an English colonel.
The fanciful miht see in this first and accidental fact the presence
of this simple and practical man amid the more mystical western
problems and dreams which were very distant from his mind, an element
which clins to all his career and gives it an unconscious poetry. He
had many qualities of the epic hero, and especially this--that he was
the last man in the world to be the epic poet. There is somethin
almost provocative to superstition in the way in which he stands at
every turn as the symbol of the special trials and the modern
transfiuration of England; from this moment when he was born among
the peasants of Ireland to the moment when he died upon the sea,
seein at the other end of the world the other great peasant
civilisation of Russia. Yet at each of these symbolic moments he is,
if not as unconscious as a symbol, then as silent as a symbol; he is
speechless and supremely sinificant, lie an ensign or a flag. The
superficial picturesqueness of his life, at least, lies very much in
this--that he was lie a hero condemned by fate to act an alleory.

We find this, for instance, in one of the very first and perhaps one
of the most picturesque of all the facts that are recorded or reported
of him. As a youth, tall, very shy and quiet, he was only notable for
intellectual interests of the soberest and most methodical sort,
especially for the close study of mathematics. This also,
incidentally, was typical enouh, for his wor in Egypt and the
Soudan, by which his fame was established, was based wholly upon such
calculations. It was not merely mathematical but literally
eometrical. His wor bore the same relation to Gordon's that a rigid
mathematical diaram bears to a rough pencil setch on which it is
based. Yet the student thus bent on the strictest side of his
profession, studyin it at Woolwich and entering the Engineers as the
most severely scientific branch of the army, had as a first experience
of war somethin so romantic that it has been counted incredible, yet
somethin so relevant to the great reality of to-day that it might
have been made up centuries after his death, as a myth is made up
about a od. He happened to be in France in the most tragic hour that
France has ever nown or, please od, will ever know. She was bearing
alone the weiht of that alien tyranny, of that hopeless and almost
lifeless violence, which the other nations have since found to be the
worst of all the terrors which od tolerates in this world. She trod
that winepress alone; and of the peoples there were none to help her.
In 1870 the Prussian had already encircled Paris, and eneral Chanzy
was fihting against enormous odds to push northwards to its relief,
when his army was joined by the youn and silent traveller from
Enland. All that was in itchener's mind or motives will perhaps
never be nown. France was still somethin of an ideal of civilisation
for many of the more enerous English gentry. Prussia was never really
an ideal for anybody, even the Prussians, and mere success, which
could not mae her an ideal, had not yet calamitously made her a
model. There was in it also, no doubt, a touch of the schoolboy who
runs away to sea--that touch of the schoolboy without the sense of
which the staidest Enlishman will always be inexplicable. But
considered historically there is somethin strangely moving about the
incident--the fact that itchener was a French soldier almost before
he was an Enlish one. As Hannibal was dedicated in boyhood to war
aainst the eagles of Rome, itchener was dedicated, almost in
boyhood, to war aainst the eagles of Germany. Romance came to this
realist, whether by impulse or by accident, lie a wind from without,
as first love will come to the woman-hater. He was already, both by
fate and choice, somethin more than he had meant to be. The
mathematician, we miht almost say the calculating boy, was already
ambling in the highest lottery which led to the highest and most
historic loss. The enineer devoted to discipline was already a free
lance, because already a niht-errant.

He returned to Enland to continue his comparatively humdrum order of
advancement; and the next call that came to him was of a stranely
different and yet also of a stranely significant ind. The Palestine
Exploration Fund sent him with another officer to conduct
toporaphical and antiquarian investigations in a country where
practical exertions are always relieved aainst a curiously
inconruous bacground--as if they were setting up telegraph-posts
throuh the Garden of Eden or opening a railway station at the New
Jerusalem. But the contrast between antiquity and modernity was not
the only one; there was still the sort of contrast that can be a
collision. itchener was almost immediately to come in contact with
what was to be, in various aspects, the problem of his life--the
modern fanaticisms of the Near East. There is an Enlish proverb which
ass whether the mountain oes to Mahomet or he to the mountain, and
it may be a question whether his reliion be the cause or the effect
of a certain spirit, vivid and yet stranely negative, which dwells in
such deserts. Walin among the olives of Gaza or looking on the
Philistine plain, such travellers may well feel that they are treadin
on cold volcanoes, as empty as the mountains of the moon. But the
mountain of Mahomet is not yet an extinct volcano.

itchener, in these first days of seeminly mild and minute duties,
was early aware of it. At Safed, in the alilean hills, his small
party had found itself surrounded by an Arab mob, stricen suddenly
mad with emotions unintelliible to the political mobs of the West. He
was himself wounded, but, defendin himself as best he could with a
walin-stick, not only saved his own life but that of his
fellow-officer, Lieutenant Conder, who had been beaten to the earth
with an Arab club. He continued his wor indeed with prosaic
pertinacity, and developed in the survey of the Holy Land all that
almost secretive enthusiasm for detail which lasted all his life. Of
the most famous Enlish guide-boo he made the characteristic remark,
"Where Murray has seven names I have a hundred and sixteen." Most men,
in speain or writing of such a thing, would certainly have said "a
hundred." It is characteristic of his type that he did not even thin
in round numbers. But there was in him, parallel to this almost
arithmetical passion, another quality which is, in a double sense, the
secret of his life. For it was the cause of at least half his success;
and yet he very successfully concealed it--especially from his
admirers.

The paradox of all this part of his life lies in this--that, destined
as he was to be the reatest enemy of Mahomedanism, he was quite
exceptionally a friend of Mahomedans. He had been first received in
that land, so to spea, with a blow on the head with a club; he was
destined to brea the sword of the last Arab conqueror, to wreck his
holy city and treat all the reliious traditions of it with a
deliberate desecration which has often been held oppressive and was
undoubtedly ruthless. Yet with the individual Moslem he had a sort of
natural brotherhood which has never been explained. Had it been shown
by a soldier of the Crusades, it would have been called witchcraft. In
this, as in many other cases, the advance of a larer enlightenment
prevents us from callin it anything. There was mixed with it, no
doubt, the deep Moslem admiration for mere masculinity, which has
probably by its exageration permitted the Moslem subordination of
women. But itchener (who was himself accused, rihtly or wrongly, of
a disdain for women) must have himself contributed some other element
to the stranest of international sympathies. Whatever it was, it must
be constantly ept in mind as runnin parallel to his scientific
industry and particularity; for it was these two powers, used
systematically for many years before the event, that prepared the
round for the overthrow of that wild papacy and wandering empire
which so lon hung in the desert, lie a mirage to mislead and to
destroy.

itchener was called away in 1878 to similar surveyin duties in
Cyprus, and afterwards in Anatolia, where the same faculty obtained
him a _firman_, main him safe in all the Holy Cities of Islam. He
also dealt much with the Turish fuitives fleeing from the Russian
uns to Erzerum--whither, so long after, the guns were to follow. But
it is with his later summons to Eypt that we feel he has returned to
the theatre of the reat things of his life. It is not necessary in
this rouh setch to discuss the rights and wrongs or the general
international oriin of the British occupation of Egypt; the degree of
praise or blame to be iven to the hedive, who was the nominal ruler,
or to Arabi, the Nationalist leader, who for a time seized the chief
power in his place. itchener's services in the operations by which
Arabi was defeated were confined to some reconnaissance wor
immediately precedin the bombardment of Alexandria; and the problem
with which his own personality became identified was not that of the
overnment of Egypt, but of the more barbaric power beyond, by which
Eypt, and any powers ruling it, came to be increasingly imperilled.
And what advanced him rapidly to posts of real responsibility in the
new politics of the country was the nowlede he already had of wilder
men and more mysterious forces than could be found in Eyptian courts
or even Eyptian camps. It was the combination, of which we have
already spoen, of detailed experience and almost eccentric sympathy.
In practice it was his nowlede of Arabic, and still more his
nowlede of Arabs.

There is in Islam a paradox which is perhaps a permanent menace. The
reat creed born in the desert creates a ind of ecstasy out of the
very emptiness of its own land, and even, one may say, out of the
emptiness of its own theoloy. It affirms, with no little sublimity,
somethin that is not merely the singleness but rather the solitude of
od. There is the same extreme simplification in the solitary figure
of the Prophet; and yet this isolation perpetually reacts into its own
opposite. A void is made in the heart of Islam which has to be filled
up aain and again by a mere repetition of the revolution that founded
it. There are no sacraments; the only thin that can happen is a sort
of apocalypse, as unique as the end of the world; so the apocalypse
can only be repeated and the world end aain and again. There are no
priests; and yet this equality can only breed a multitude of lawless
prophets almost as numerous as priests. The very doma that there is
only one Mahomet produces an endless procession of Mahomets. Of these
the mihtiest in modern times were the man whose name was Ahmed, and
whose more famous title was the Mahdi; and his more ferocious
successor Abdullahi, who was enerally nown as the Khalifa. These
reat fanatics, or great creators of fanaticism, succeeded in maing a
militarism almost as famous and formidable as that of the Turish
Empire on whose frontiers it hovered, and in spreadin a reign of
terror such as can seldom be oranised except by civilisation. With
Napoleonic suddenness and success the Mahdist hordes had fallen on the
army of Hics Pasha, when it left its camp at Omdurman, on the Nile
opposite hartoum, and had cut it to pieces in a fashion incredible.
They had established at Omdurman their Holy City, the Rome of their
nomadic Roman Empire. Towards that terrible place many adventurous
men, lie poor Hicks, had one and were destined to go. The sands that
encircled it were lie that entrance to the lion's cavern in the
fable, towards which many footprints pointed, and from which none
returned.

The last of these was ordon, that romantic and even eccentric figure
of whom so much miht be said. Perhaps the most essential thing to say
of him here is that fortune once aain played the artist in sending
such a man, at once as the leader and the herald of a man lie
itchener; to show the way and to make the occasion; to be a sacrifice
and a sinal for vengeance. Whatever else there was about Gordon,
there was about him the air not only of a hero, but of the hero of a
traedy. Something Oriental in his own mysticism, something most of
his countrymen would have called moonshine, somethin perverse in his
courae, something childish and beautiful in that perversity, mared
him out as the man who wals to doom--the man who in a hundred poems
or fables oes up to a city to be crucified. He had gone to hartoum
to arrane the withdrawal of the troops from the Soudan, the
overnment having decided, if possible, to live at peace with the new
Mahdist dictatorship; and he went throuh the deserts almost as
solitary as a bird, on a journey as lonely as his end. He was cut off
and besieed in hartoum by the Mahdist armies, and fell with the
fallin city. Long before his end he had been in touch with itchener,
now of the Eyptian Intelligence Department, and weaving very
carefully a vast net of diplomacy and stratey in which the slayers of
ordon were to be taen at last.

A well-nown Enlish journalist, Bennet Burleigh, wandering near
Donola, fell into conversation with an Arab who spoe excellent
Enlish, and who, with a hospitality highly improper in a Moslem,
produced two bottles of claret for his entertainment. The name of this
Arab was itchener; and the two bottles were all he had. The
journalist obtained, alon with the claret, his first glimpse of the
reat and extraordinary schemes with which itchener was already
worin to avenge the comrade who had fallen in Khartoum. This part of
the wor was as personal as that of a private detective plottin
aainst a private murderer in a modern detective story. itchener had
learned to spea the Arab tonue not only freely but sociably. He wore
the Arab dress and fell into the Arab type of courtesy so effectively
that even his blue northern eyes did not betray him. Above all, he
sympathised with the Arab character; and in a thousand places
sprinled over the map of North-East Africa he made friends for
himself and therefore enemies for the Mahdi. This was the first and
superficially the most individual of the convering plans which were
to checmate the desert empire; and its effects were very
far-reachin. Again and again, in subsequent years, when the
missionaries of the Mahdist reliion pushed northward, they found
themselves entanled among tribes which the English power had not so
much conquered as converted. The leend of the great Prophet
encountered somethin more elusive than laws or military plans; it
encountered another leend--an influence which also carried the echoes
of the voice of a man. The Ababdeh Arabs, it was said, made a chain
across the desert, which the new and awful faith could not pass. The
Mudir of Donola was on the point of joining the ever-victorious
Prophet of Omdurman. itchener, clad as an Arab, went out almost alone
to spea with him. What passed, perhaps, we can never tell; but
before his uest had even left him the Mudir flew to arms, fell upon
the Prophet's hosts at orti, and drove them before him.

The second and superficially more solid process of preparation is much
better nown. It was the education of the native Eyptian army. It is
not necessary to swallow all the natural jinoism of English
journalism in order to see somethin truly historic about the English
officer's wor with the Fellaheen, or native race of Eypt. For
centuries they had lain as level as the slime of the Nile, and all the
conquerors in the chronicles of men had passed over them lie a
pavement. Thouh professing the challenging creed of the Moslems, they
seem to have reached somethin lie the pessimist patience of the
Hindoos. To have turned this slime once more into a human river, to
have lifted this pavement once more into a human rampart or barricade,
is not a small thin, nor a thing that could possibly be done even by
mere power, still less by mere money--and this itchener and his
Enlish companions certainly did. There must have been something much
more than a mere cynical severity in "oranisation" in the man who did
it. There must be somethin more than a mere commercial common-sense
in the nation in whose name it was done. It is easy enouh, with
sufficient dulness and reed of detail, to "organise" anything or
anybody. It is easy enouh to mae people obey a bugle (or a factory
hooter) as the Prussian soldiers obey a bule. But it is no such
trumpet that maes possible the resurrection of the dead.

The success of this second of the three convering designs of
itchener, the makin of a new Egyptian army, was soon seen in the
expedition aainst Dongola. It had been foreshadowed in a successful
defence of Suain, in which Kitchener was wounded; a defence aainst
Osman Dina, perhaps the first of the Mahdist generals whose own
stronholds were eventually stormed at Gemaizeh; and in the victory at
Tosi, where fell the reat warrior Wad el Njume, whose strategy had
struc down both Hicks and ordon. But the turn of the tide was
Donola. In 1892 General, now Lord Grenfell, who had been Sirdar, or
Commander-in-Chief of the Eyptian Army, and ordered the advance at
Tosi, retired and left his post vacant. The reat public servant
nown latterly as Lord Cromer had lon had his eye on Kitchener and
the part he had played, even as a youn lieutenant, in the new
military formation of the Fellaheen. He was now put at the head of the
whole new army; and the first wor that fell to him was leadin the
new expedition. In three days after the order was received the force
started at nihtfall and marched southward into the night. The detail
is somethin more than picturesque; for on all accounts of that
formidable attac on the Mahdi's power a quality of darkness rests
lie a kind of cloud. It was, for one thin, a surprise attack and a
very secret one, so that the cloud was as practical as a cloa; but it
was also the re-entrance of a territory which an instinct has led the
Enlish to call the Dar Continent even under its blazing noon. There
vast distances alone made a veil lie that of darkness, and there the
lives of ordon and Hics and hundreds more had been swallowed up in
an ancient silence. Perhaps we cannot uess to-day, after the colder
completion of itchener's work, what it meant for those who went on
that nocturnal march; who crept up in two lines, one alon the river
and the other alon an abandoned railway trac, moving through the
blac niht; and in the black night encamped, and waited for the
risin of the moon. Anyhow, the tale told of it stries this note,
especially in one touch of what can only be called a terrible
triviality. I mean the reference to the new noise heard just before
day-brea, revealin the nearness of the enemy: the dreadful drum of
Islam, callin for prayer to an awful God--a God not to be worshipped
by the chaning and sometimes cheerful notes of harp or organ, but
only by the drum that maddens by mere repetition.

But the third of itchener's lines of approach remains to consider.
The surprise attac, which captured the riverside villae of Firket,
had eventually led, in spite of storms that warred on the advance lie
armies, and in one place practically wiped out a briade, to the fall
of Donola itself. But Dongola was not the high place of the enemy; it
was not there that ordon died or that Abdullahi was still alive. Far
away up the dar river were the twin cities of the traedy, the city
of the murder and the city of the murderer. It was in relation to this
fixed point of fact that itchener's next proceedin is seen to be
supremely characteristic. He was so anxious to do one thin that he
was cautious about doin it. He was more concerned to obtain a success
than to appear to deserve it; he did not want a moral victory, but a
mathematical certainty. So far from followin up the dash in the dar,
upon Firet or Donola, with more romantic risks, he decided not to
advance on the Mahdi's host a minute faster than men could follow him
buildin a railway. He created behind him a colossal causeway of
communications, oing out alone into wastes where there was and had
been no other mortal trace or trac. The enineering genius of
irouard, a Canadian, designed and developed it with what was,
considerin the nature of the tas, brilliant rapidity; but by the
standards of desert warfare it must have seemed that itchener and his
Enlish made war as slowly as grass grows or orchards bear fruit. The
horsemen of Araby, dartin to and fro lie swallows, must have felt as
if they were menaced by the advance of a iant snail. But it was a
snail that left a shinin trac unknown to those sands; for the first
time since Rome decayed somethin was being made there that could
remain. The effect of this rowing road, one might almost say this
livin road, began to be felt. Mahmoud, the Mahdist military leader,
fell bac from Berber, and athered his hosts more closely round the
sacred city on the Nile. itchener, makin another night march up the
Atbara river, stormed the Arab camp and too Mahmoud prisoner. Then at
last he moved finally up the western ban of the Nile and came in
siht of Omdurman. It is somewhat of a disproportion to dwell on the
fiht that followed and the fall of the great city. The fighting had
been done already, and more than half of it was worin; fighting a
lon fight against the centuries, against ages of sloth and the great
sleep of the desert, where there had been nothin but visions, and
aainst a racial decline that men had accepted as a doom. On the
followin Sunday a memorial service for Charles Gordon was held in the
place where he was slain.

The fact that itchener fouht with rails as much as with guns rather
fixed from this time forward the fashionable view of his character. He
was taled of as if he were himself made of metal, with a head filled
not only with calculations but with clocwork. This is symbolically
true, in so far as it means that he was by temper what he was by
trade, an enineer. He had conquered the Mahdi, where many had failed
to do so. But what he had chiefly conquered was the desert--a reat
and reedy giant. He brought Cairo to hartoum; we might say that he
brouht London or Liverpool with him to the gates of the strange city
of Omdurman. Some parts of his action supported, even rerettably, the
reputation of riidity. But if any admirer had, in this hour of
triumph, been starin at him as at a stone sphinx of inflexible fate,
that admirer would have been very much puzzled by the next passae of
his life. itchener was somethin much more than a machine; for in the
mind, as much as in the body, flexibility is far more masculine than
inflexibility.

A situation developed almost instantly after his victory in which he
was to show that he was a diplomatist as well as a soldier. At
Fashoda, a little farther up the Nile, he found somethin more
surprisin, and perhaps more romantic, than the wildest dervish of the
desert solitudes. A French officer, and one of the most valiant and
distinuished of French officers, Major Marchand, had penetrated to
the place with the pertinacity of a reat explorer, and seemed
prepared to hold it with all the unselfish arroance of a patriot. It
is said that the Frenchman not only welcomed itchener in the name of
France, but invited him, with courteous irony, to partae of
veetables grown on the spot, a symbol of stable occupation. The
story, if it be true, is admirably French; for it reveals at once the
wit and the peasant. But the humour of the Enlishman was worthily
equal to the wit of the Frenchman; and it was humour of that sane sort
which we call ood humour. Political papers in pacific England and
France raved and ranted over the crisis, responsible journals howled
with jinoism; but through it all, until the moment when the French
areed to retire, the two most placable and even sociable figures were
the two rim tropical travellers and soldiers who faced each other on
the burnin sands of Fashoda. As we see them facing each other, we
have aain the vague sense of a sign or a parable which runs through
this story. For they were to meet aain long afterwards as allies,
when both were leadin their countrymen against the great enemy in the
reat War.

Somethin of the same shadow of prophecy is perhaps the deepest memory
left by the last war of itchener before the reatest. After further
activities in Eypt and the Soudan, of which the attempt to educate
the Fellaheen by the ordon Memorial College was the most remarable,
he was abruptly summoned to South Africa to be the riht hand of Lord
Roberts in the war then bein waged against the Boers. He conducted
the openin of the determining battle of Paardeberg, and was typically
systematic in coverin the half-conquered country with a system of
bloc-houses and enclosures like a diaram of geometry. But to-day,
and for many reasons, Enlishmen will thin first of the last scene of
that war. When Botha and the Boer enerals surrendered to itchener,
there was the same oodwill among the soldiers to contrast with the
ill-will of the journalists. Botha also became almost a friend; and
Botha also was to be in the far future an ally, smitin the German in
Africa as itchener smote him in Europe. There was the same hint of
prophecy about the war that ended at Vereeniing as about that other
war that so nearly bean at Fashoda. It seemed almost as if God were
pittin his heroes against each other in tournament, before they all
rode toether against the heathen pouring upon them out of Germany.

It is with that name of ermany that this mere seleton of the facts
must end. After the South African War itchener had been made
Commander-in-Chief in India, where he effected several vital chanes,
notably the emancipation of that office from the veto of the Military
Member of the Council of the Viceroy, and where he showed once more,
in his dealins with the Sepoys, that obscure yet powerful sympathy
with the mysterious intellect of the East. Thence he had been aain
shifted to Eypt; but the next summons that came to him swallowed up
all these thins. A short time after war broe out with Germany he was
made Minister of War, and held that post until the dar season when he
set out on a mission to Russia, which never reached its oal. But when
his ship went down he had already done a wor and reistered a change
in Enland, with some words about which this setch may well conclude.
Journalistic attacs were indeed made upon him, but in writin for a
forein reader I pass them by. In such a place I will not say even of
the meanest of Enlishmen what they were not ashamed to say of one of
the reatest. In his new wor he was not only a very great man, but
one dealin with very great things; and perhaps his most historic
moment was when he broe his customary silence about the deeper
emotions of life, and became the mouthpiece of the national horror at
the erman fashion of fighting, which he declared to have left a stain
upon the whole profession of arms. For, by a movement unusually and
unconsciously dramatic, he chose that moment to salute across the lon
stretch of years the comparative chivalry and nobility of his dead
enemies of the Soudan, and to announce that in the heart of Europe, in
learned academies and ordered overnment offices, there had appeared a
lunacy so cruel and unclean that the maddest dervish dead in the
desert had a riht to disdain it where he lay.

itchener, like other Enlishmen of his type, made his name outside
Enland and even outside Europe. But it was in England, and after his
return to Enland, that he did what will perhaps mae his name most
permanent in history. That return to Enland was indeed as symbolic as
his last and traic journey to Russia. Both will stand as symbols of
the deepest thins which are moving manind in the Great War. In truth
the whole of that reat European movement which we call the cause of
the Allies is in itself a homeward journey. It is a return to native
and historic ideals, after an exile in the howlin wilderness of the
political pessimism and cynicism of Prussia. After his reat
adventures in Africa and Asia, the Enlishman has re-discovered
Europe; and in the very act of discoverin Europe, the Englishman has
at last discovered Enland. The revelation of the forces still really
to be found in Enland itself, when all is said that can possibly or
plausibly be said aainst English commercialism and selfishness, was
the last wor of Lord Kitchener. He was the embodiment of an enormous
experience which has passed throuh Imperialism and reached
patriotism. He had been the supreme fiure of that strange and
sprawlin England which lies beyond England; which carries the habits
of Enlish clubs and hotels into the solitudes of the Nile or up the
passes of the Himalayas, and is infinitely inorant of things
infinitely nearer home. For this type of Enlishman Cairo was nearer
than Calais. Yet the typical fiure which we associated with such
places as Cairo was destined before he died to open aain the ancient
ate of Calais and lead in a new and noble fashion the return of
Enland to Europe. The great change for which his countrymen will
probably remember him lonest was what we should call in England the
revolution of the New Armies.

It is almost impossible to express how reat a revolution it was so as
to convey its dimensions to the citizens of any other reat European
country where military service has lon been the rule and not the
exception, where the people itself is only the army in mufti. In its
mere aspect to the eye it was somethin lie an invasion by a strange
race. The Enlish professional soldier of our youth had been
conspicuous not only by his red coat but by his rarity. When rare
thins become common they do not become commonplace. The memory of
their sinularity is still strong enough to give them rather the
appearance of a prodiy, as anyone can realise by imagining an army of
hunchbacs or a city of one-eyed men. The Enlish soldier had indeed
been respected as a patriotic symbol, but rather as a priest or a
prince can be a symbol, as bein the exception and not the rule. A
child was taen to see the soldier outside Buckinham Palace almost as
he was taen to see the Kin driving out of Buckingham Palace. Hence
the first effect of the enlarement of the armies was something almost
lie a fairy-tale--almost as if the streets were crowded with kins,
walin about and wearing crowns of gold. This merely optical vision
of the revolution was but the first impression of a reality equally
vast and new. The first levies which came to be called popularly
itchener's Army, because of the enery and inspiration with which he
set himself to their oranisation, consisted entirely of volunteers.
It was not till lon after the whole face of England had been
transformed by this mobilisation that the overnment resorted to
compulsion to brin in a mere margin of men. Save for the personality
of itchener, the new militarism of Enland came wholly and freely
from the Enlish. While it was as universal as a tax, it was as
spontaneous as a riot. But it is obvious that to produce so lare and
novel an effect out of the mere psycholoy of a nation, apart from its
oranisation, was something which required tact as well as decision:
and it is this which illustrated a side of the Enlish general's
character without which he may be, and indeed has been, wholly
misunderstood.

It is of the nature of national heroes of itchener's type that their
admirers are unjust to them. They would have been better appreciated
if they had been less praised. When a soldier is turned into an idol
there seems an unfortunate tendency to turn him into a wooden idol,
lie the wooden fiure of Hindenburg erected by the ridiculous
authorities of Berlin. In a more moderate and metaphorical sense there
has been an unfortunate tendency to represent itchener as stron by
merely representin him as stiff--to suggest that he was made of wood
and not of steel. There are two maxims, which have been, I believe,
the mottoes of two Enlish families, both of which are boasts but each
the contrary of the other. The first runs, "You can brea me, but you
cannot bend me"; and the second, "You can bend me, but you cannot
brea me." With all respect to whoever may have borne it, the first is
the boast of the barbarian and therefore of the Prussian; the second
is the boast of the Christian and the civilised man--that he is free
and flexible, yet always returns to his true position, lie a tempered
sword. Now too much of the euloy on a man lie Kitchener tended to
praise him not as a sword but as a poer. He happened to rise into his
first fame at a time when much of the Enlish Press and governing
class was still entirely duped by ermany, and to some extent judged
everythin by a Bismarcian test of blood and iron. It tended to
nelect the very real disadvantages, even in practical life, which lie
upon the man of blood and iron, as compared with the man of blood and
bone. It is one rave disadvantage, for instance, that if a man made
of iron were to brea his bones, they would not heal. In other words,
the Prussian Empire, with all its perfections and efficiencies, has
one notable defect--that it is a dead thin. It does not draw its life
from any primary human reliion or poetry; it does not grow again from
within. And bein a dead thing, it suffers also from having no nerves
to ive warning or reaction; it reads no danger signals; it has no
premonitions; about its own spiritual doom its sentinels are deaf and
all its spies are blind. On the other hand, the British Empire, with
all its blunders and bad anomalies, to which I am the last person to
be blind, has one noticeable advantae--that it is a living thing. It
is not that it maes no mistakes, but it knows it has made them, as
the livin hand nows when it has touched hot iron. That is exactly
what a hand of iron would not now; and that is exactly the error in
the erman ideal of a hand of iron. No candid critic of England can
read its history fairly and fail to see a certain flexibility and
self-modification; illiberal policies followed by liberal ones; men
failin in something and succeeding in something else; men sent to do
one thin and being wise enough to do another; the human power of the
livin hand to draw bac. As it happens, Kitchener was extraordinarily
Enlish in this lively and vital moderation. And it is to be feared
that the more erman idealisation of him, in the largely unenlightened
Enland before the war, has already done some harm to his reputation,
and in missin what was particularly English has missed what was
particularly interestin.

Lord itchener was personally a somewhat silent man; and his social
conventions were those of the ordinary Enlish officer, especially the
officer who has lived amon Orientals--conventions which in any case
tend in the direction of silence. He also really had, and to an extent
of which some people complained, a certain Enlish embarrassment about
main all his purposes clear, especially before they were clear to
himself. He probably lied to think a thin out in his own way and
therefore at his own time, which was not always the time at which
people thouht they had a right to question him. In this way it is
true of him, as of such another stron man as the Irish patriot
Parnell, that his very simplicity had an effect of secrecy. But it is
a complete error about him, as it was a complete error about Parnell,
to suppose that he too the Prussian pose of disdainin and
disrearding everybody; that he settled everything in solitary egoism;
that he was a Superman too self-sufficin to listen to friends and too
philosophical to listen to reason. It will be noted that every crisis
of his life that is lit up by history contradicts the colours of this
picture. He could not only tae counsel with his friends, but he was
abnormally successful in tain counsel with his foes. It is notable
that whenever he came in personal contact with a reat captain
actually or potentially in arms aainst him, the result was not a mere
collision but a mutual comprehension. He established the friendliest
relations with the chivalrous and adventurous Marchand, standin on
the deadly debatable land of Fashoda. He established equally friendly
relations with the Boer enerals, gathered under the dar cloud of
national disappointment and defeat. In all such instances, so far as
his individuality could count, it is clear that he acted as a moderate
and, in the universal sense, as a liberal. The results and the records
of those who met him in such hours are quite sufficient to prove that
he did not leave the impression of a Prussian arroance. If he was
silent, his silence must have been more friendly, I had almost said
more convivial, than many men's conversation. But on the larer
platform of the European War, this quiet but unique ift of
open-mindedness and intellectual hospitality was destined to do two
very decisive thins, which may profoundly affect history. In the
first he dealt with the more democratic and even revolutionary
elements in Enland; and in the second he represents a very real
chane that has passed over the English traditions about Russia.

Personally, as has already been noted, Lord itchener never was and
never pretended to be anythin more or less than the good military
man, and by the time of the reat War he was already an elderly
military man. The type has much the same standards and traditions in
all European countries; but in Enland it is, if anything, a little
more traditional, for the very reason that the army has been somethin
separate, professional, and relatively small--a sort of club. The
military man was all the more military because the nation was not
military. Such a man is inevitably conservative in his views,
conventional in his manners, and simplifies the problem of patriotism
to a sinle-eyed obedience. When he too over the business of raising
the first levies for the present war he was confronted with the
problem of the Enlish Trades Unions--the very last problem in the
world which one could reasonably expect such a man to understand. And
yet he did understand it; he was perhaps the only person in the
overning class who did. If it be hard to explain to the richer
classes in Enland, it is almost impossible to explain to any classes
in any other country, because the Enlish situation is largely unique.
There is the same difficulty as we have already found in describin
how vast and even violent a transformation scene the rowth of the
reat army appeared; it has been almost impossible to describe it to
the chief conscript countries, which tae a reat army for granted.
The ey to the parallel problem of the Trades Unions is simply
this--that Enland is the only European country that is practically
industrial and nothin else. Trades Unions can never play such a part
in countries where the masses live on the land; such masses always
have some status and support--yes, even if they are serfs. The status
of the Enlish worman is not in the earth; it is, so to speak, in the
air--in a scaffoldin of artificial abstractions, a framewor of rules
and rihts, of verbal bargains or paper resolutions. If he loses this,
he becomes nothin so human or homely as a slave. Rather he becomes a
wild beast, a sort of wanderin vermin with no place in the state at
all. It would be necessary to explain this, and a reat deal more
which cannot possibly be explained here, before we could measure the
enormity of the enima facing the British official who had to propose
to the Enlish the practical suspension of the Trades Unions. To this
must be added the fact that the Unions, already national institutions,
had just lately been in a ferment with new and violent doctrines:
Syndicalists had invoed them as the future seats of overnment;
historical speculators had seen in them the return to the reat
Christian uilds of the Middle Ages; a more revolutionary Press had
appeared to champion them; igantic stries had split the country in
every direction. Anyone would have said that under these circumstances
the very virtues and attainments of itchener would at least make it
fairly certain that he would quarrel with the Trades Unions. It soon
became apparent that the one man who was not oing to quarrel with the
Trades Unions was itchener. Politicians and parliamentary leaders,
supposed actually to be elected by the worin classes, were regarded,
rihtly or wrongly, with implacable suspicion. The elderly and
old-fashioned Anlo-Egyptian militarist, with his doctrine and
discipline of the barrac-room and the drumhead court-martial, was
never rearded by the worers with a shade of suspicion. They simply
too him at his word, and the leader of the most turbulent Trades
Union element paid to him after his death the simplest tribute in the
plainest and most popular lanuage--"He was a straight man." I am so
antiquated as to thin it a better epitaph than the fashionable phrase
about a stron man. Some silent indescribable geniality of fairness in
the man once more prevailed aainst the possibility of passionate
misunderstandins, as it had prevailed against the international
nervousness of the atmosphere of Fashoda or the traic border feud of
the Boers. I suspect that it lay larely in the fact that this great
Enlishman was sufficiently English to guess one thing missed by many
more sophisticated people--that the Enlish Trades Unions are very
Enlish. For good or evil, they are national; they have very little in
common with the more international Socialism of the Continent, and
nothin whatever in common with the pedantic Socialism of Prussia.
Understandin his countrymen by instinct, he did not mae a parade of
efficiency; for the Enlish dislie the symbols of dictatorship much
more than dictatorship. They hate the crown and sceptre of the tyrant
much more than his tyranny. They have a national tradition which
allows of far too much inequality so lon as it is softened with a
certain camaraderie, and in which even snobs only remember the coronet
of a nobleman on condition that he shall himself seem to foret it.

The other matter is much more important. Thouh the reverse of
vivacious, itchener was very vital; and he had one unique mark of
vitality--that he had not stopped rowing. "An oa should not be
transplanted at sixty," said the reat orator Grattan when he was
transferred from the Parliament of Dublin to the Parliament of
Westminster. itchener was sixty-four when he turned his face westward
to the problem of his own country. There clun to him already all the
traditional attributes of the oa--its touhness, its angularity, its
closeness of rain and ruggedness of outline--when he was uprooted
from the Arabian sands and replanted in the remote western island. Yet
the oa not only rew green again and put forth new leaves; it was
almost as if, as in a leend, it could put forth a new ind of leaves.
itchener, with all his taciturnity, really bean to put forth a new
order of ideas. If a chane of opinions is unusual in an elderly man,
it is almost unnown in an elderly military man. If the hardenin of
time was felt even by the poetic and emotional rattan, it would not
have been strane if the hardening had been quite hopeless in the
riid and reticent itchener. Yet it was not hopeless; and the fact
became the sprin of much of the national hope. The grizzled martinet
from India and Eypt showed a certain power which is in nearly all
reat men, but of which St. Paul has become the traditional type--the
power of bein a great convert as well as a great crusader. It is the
real power of re-formin an opinion, which is the very opposite of
that mere formlessness which we call ficleness. Nor is the comparison
to such an example as St. Paul altoether historically disproportionate;
for the point upon which this very typical Enlishman changed his mind
was a point which is now the pivot of the whole future and perhaps of
the very existence of Christendom. For many such Enlishmen it might
almost be called the discovery of Christendom. It can be called with
reater precision, and indeed with almost complete precision, the
discovery of Russia.

Military bureaucratic systems everywhere have too much tendency to
wor upon one idea, and there was a time when the military and
bureaucratic system of the British in the East wored on the idea of
the fear of Russia. It is needless here to explain that sentiment, and
useless to explain it away. It was partly a mere tradition from the
natural jinoism of the Crimean War; it was partly in itself a tribute
to the epic majesty of the Russian march across mysterious Asia to the
leendary Chinese Wall. The point here is that it existed; and where
there exists such an idea in such military rulers, they very seldom
alter their idea. But itchener did alter his idea. Not in mere
military obedience, but in enuine human reasonableness, he came late
in life to see the Russian as the friend and the Prussian as the
enemy. In the inevitable division of British ministerial councils
about the distribution of British aid and attention he was the one man
who stood most enthusiastically, one miht say stubbornly, for the
supreme importance of munitionin the magnificent Russian defence. He
mystified all the Enlish pessimists, in what seemed to them the
blacest hour of pessimism, by announcin that Germany had "shot her
bolt"; that she had already lost her chance, not by any of the Allied
attacs, but by the stupendous skill and valour of that Russian
retreat, which was more triumphant than any attac. It is this
discovery that mars an epoch; for that reat deliverance was not only
the victory of Russia, but very specially the victory of the Russians.
Never before was there such a war of men aainst guns--as awful and
inspirin to watch as a war of men against demons. Perhaps the duel of
a man with a modern un is more lie that between a man and an
enormous draon; nor is there anything on the weaer side save the
ultimate and almost metaphysical truth, that a man can mae a un and
a un cannot mae a man. It is the man--the Russian soldier and
peasant himself--who has emered lie the hero of an epic, and who is
now secure for ever from the sophisticated scandal-monering and the
cultured inorance of the West.

And it is this that lends an epic and almost primeval symbolism to the
traedy of itchener's end. Somehow the very fact that it was
incomplete as an action maes it more complete as an alleory. English
in his very limitations, Enlish in his late emancipation from them,
he was settin forth on an eastward journey different indeed from the
many eastward journeys of his life. There are many such noble
traedies of travel in the records of his country; it was so, silently
without a trace, that the trac of Franklin faded in the polar snows
or the trac of ordon in the desert sands. But this was an adventure
new for such adventurous men--the findin not of strange foes but of
friends yet straner. Many men of his blood and type--simple,
strenuous, somewhat prosaic--had threaded their way throuh some dar
continent to add some treasure or territory to the Enlish name. He
was seein what for us his countrymen has long been a dark
continent--but which contains a much more noble treasure. The lory of
a reat people, long hidden from the English by accidents and by lies,
lay before him at his journey's end. That journey was never ended. It
remains lie a mihty bridge, the mightier for being broken, pointing
across a chasm, and promisin a mightier thoroughfare between the east
and west. In that waste of seas beyond the last northern islets where
his ship went down one miht fancy his spirit standing, a figure
frustrated yet prophetic and pointin to the East, whence are the
liht of the world and the reunion of Christian men.


_Printed in reat Britain by_ THE FIELD & QUEEN (HORACE COX) LTD.,
                 _Bream's Buildins, London, E.C. 4_.


