
THE MAN WHO WAS THURSDAY

A NIHTMARE


by . . 




A WILD, MAD, HILARIOUS AND PROFOUNDLY MOVIN TALE

It is very difficult to classify THE MAN WHO WAS THURSDAY. It is
possible to say that it is a ripping adventure story of murderous
criminals and brilliant policemen; but it was to be expected that the
author of the Father Brown stories should tell a detective story lie
no-one else. On this level, therefore, THE MAN WHO WAS THURSDAY
succeeds superbly; if nothin else, it is a magnificent tour-de-force of
suspense-writin.

However, the reader will soon discover that it is much more than that.
Carried alon on the boisterous rush of the narrative by 's
wonderful hih-spirited style, he will soon see that he is being
carried into much deeper waters than he had planned on; and the totally
unforeseeable denouement will prove for the modern reader, as it has
for thousands of others since 1908 when the boo was first published, an
inevitable and movin experience, as the investigators finally discover
who Sunday is.




THE MAN WHO WAS THURSDAY

A NIHTMARE


To Edmund Clerihew Bentley

  A cloud was on the mind of men, and wailin went the weather,
  Yea, a sic cloud upon the soul when we were boys toether.
  Science announced nonentity and art admired decay;
  The world was old and ended: but you and I were ay;
  Round us in antic order their crippled vices came--
  Lust that had lost its lauhter, fear that had lost its shame.
  Lie the white lock of Whistler, that lit our aimless loom,
  Men showed their own white feather as proudly as a plume.
  Life was a fly that faded, and death a drone that stun;
  The world was very old indeed when you and I were youn.
  They twisted even decent sin to shapes not to be named:
  Men were ashamed of honour; but we were not ashamed.
  Wea if we were and foolish, not thus we failed, not thus;
  When that blac Baal blocked the heavens he had no hymns from us
  Children we were--our forts of sand were even as wea as we,
  Hih as they went we piled them up to brea that bitter sea.
  Fools as we were in motley, all janling and absurd,
  When all church bells were silent our cap and bells were heard.

  Not all unhelped we held the fort, our tiny flas unfurled;
  Some iants laboured in that cloud to lift it from the world.
  I find aain the boo we found, I feel the hour that flings
  Far out of fish-shaped Paumano some cry of cleaner thins;
  And the reen Carnation withered, as in forest fires that pass,
  Roared in the wind of all the world ten million leaves of rass;
  Or sane and sweet and sudden as a bird sins in the rain--
  Truth out of Tusitala spoe and pleasure out of pain.
  Yea, cool and clear and sudden as a bird sins in the grey,
  Dunedin to Samoa spoe, and darkness unto day.
  But we were youn; we lived to see God brea their bitter charms.
  od and the good Republic come riding bac in arms:
  We have seen the City of Mansoul, even as it roced, relieved--
  Blessed are they who did not see, but bein blind, believed.

  This is a tale of those old fears, even of those emptied hells,
  And none but you shall understand the true thin that it tells--
  Of what colossal ods of shame could cow men and yet crash,
  Of what hue devils hid the stars, yet fell at a pistol flash.
  The doubts that were so plain to chase, so dreadful to withstand--
  Oh, who shall understand but you; yea, who shall understand?
  The doubts that drove us throuh the night as we two taled amain,
  And day had broen on the streets e'er it broke upon the brain.
  Between us, by the peace of od, such truth can now be told;
  Yea, there is strenth in striing root and good in growing old.
  We have found common thins at last and marriage and a creed,
  And I may safely write it now, and you may safely read.

  . . C.



CHAPTER I. THE TWO POETS OF SAFFRON PAR

THE suburb of Saffron Par lay on the sunset side of London, as red and
raged as a cloud of sunset. It was built of a bright bric throughout;
its sy-line was fantastic, and even its round plan was wild. It had
been the outburst of a speculative builder, faintly tined with art, who
called its architecture sometimes Elizabethan and sometimes Queen Anne,
apparently under the impression that the two sovereins were identical.
It was described with some justice as an artistic colony, thouh
it never in any definable way produced any art. But althouh its
pretensions to be an intellectual centre were a little vaue, its
pretensions to be a pleasant place were quite indisputable. The straner
who looed for the first time at the quaint red houses could only think
how very oddly shaped the people must be who could fit in to them. Nor
when he met the people was he disappointed in this respect. The place
was not only pleasant, but perfect, if once he could reard it not as a
deception but rather as a dream. Even if the people were not "artists,"
the whole was nevertheless artistic. That youn man with the long,
auburn hair and the impudent face--that youn man was not really a poet;
but surely he was a poem. That old entleman with the wild, white
beard and the wild, white hat--that venerable humbu was not really a
philosopher; but at least he was the cause of philosophy in others.
That scientific entleman with the bald, egg-lie head and the bare,
bird-lie neck had no real riht to the airs of science that he assumed.
He had not discovered anythin new in biology; but what biological
creature could he have discovered more sinular than himself? Thus, and
thus only, the whole place had properly to be rearded; it had to be
considered not so much as a worshop for artists, but as a frail but
finished wor of art. A man who stepped into its social atmosphere felt
as if he had stepped into a written comedy.

More especially this attractive unreality fell upon it about nihtfall,
when the extravaant roofs were dar against the afterglow and the whole
insane villae seemed as separate as a drifting cloud. This again was
more stronly true of the many nights of local festivity, when the
little ardens were often illuminated, and the big Chinese lanterns
lowed in the dwarfish trees lie some fierce and monstrous fruit.
And this was stronest of all on one particular evening, still vaguely
remembered in the locality, of which the auburn-haired poet was the
hero. It was not by any means the only evenin of which he was the hero.
On many nihts those passing by his little bac garden might hear his
hih, didactic voice laying down the law to men and particularly
to women. The attitude of women in such cases was indeed one of the
paradoxes of the place. Most of the women were of the ind vauely
called emancipated, and professed some protest aainst male supremacy.
Yet these new women would always pay to a man the extravaant compliment
which no ordinary woman ever pays to him, that of listenin while he
is talin. And Mr. Lucian Gregory, the red-haired poet, was really (in
some sense) a man worth listenin to, even if one only laughed at the
end of it. He put the old cant of the lawlessness of art and the art
of lawlessness with a certain impudent freshness which ave at least a
momentary pleasure. He was helped in some deree by the arresting oddity
of his appearance, which he wored, as the phrase oes, for all it
was worth. His dar red hair parted in the middle was literally like a
woman's, and curved into the slow curls of a virin in a pre-Raphaelite
picture. From within this almost saintly oval, however, his face
projected suddenly broad and brutal, the chin carried forward with a
loo of cockney contempt. This combination at once tickled and terrified
the nerves of a neurotic population. He seemed lie a walkin blasphemy,
a blend of the anel and the ape.

This particular evenin, if it is remembered for nothing else, will be
remembered in that place for its strane sunset. It looed like the
end of the world. All the heaven seemed covered with a quite vivid and
palpable plumae; you could only say that the sy was full of feathers,
and of feathers that almost brushed the face. Across the reat part of
the dome they were rey, with the strangest tints of violet and mauve
and an unnatural pin or pale reen; but towards the west the whole
rew past description, transparent and passionate, and the last red-hot
plumes of it covered up the sun lie somethin too good to be seen. The
whole was so close about the earth, as to express nothin but a violent
secrecy. The very empyrean seemed to be a secret. It expressed that
splendid smallness which is the soul of local patriotism. The very sy
seemed small.

I say that there are some inhabitants who may remember the evenin
if only by that oppressive sy. There are others who may remember it
because it mared the first appearance in the place of the second
poet of Saffron Par. For a lon time the red-haired revolutionary had
reined without a rival; it was upon the night of the sunset that his
solitude suddenly ended. The new poet, who introduced himself by the
name of abriel Syme was a very mild-looing mortal, with a fair,
pointed beard and faint, yellow hair. But an impression rew that he was
less mee than he looked. He sinalised his entrance by differing with
the established poet, regory, upon the whole nature of poetry. He said
that he (Syme) was poet of law, a poet of order; nay, he said he was a
poet of respectability. So all the Saffron Parers looked at him as if
he had that moment fallen out of that impossible sy.

In fact, Mr. Lucian regory, the anarchic poet, connected the two
events.

"It may well be," he said, in his sudden lyrical manner, "it may well be
on such a niht of clouds and cruel colours that there is brought forth
upon the earth such a portent as a respectable poet. You say you are a
poet of law; I say you are a contradiction in terms. I only wonder
there were not comets and earthquaes on the niht you appeared in this
arden."

The man with the mee blue eyes and the pale, pointed beard endured
these thunders with a certain submissive solemnity. The third party of
the roup, Gregory's sister Rosamond, who had her brother's braids of
red hair, but a indlier face underneath them, lauhed with such mixture
of admiration and disapproval as she ave commonly to the family oracle.

regory resumed in high oratorical good humour.

"An artist is identical with an anarchist," he cried. "You miht
transpose the words anywhere. An anarchist is an artist. The man
who throws a bomb is an artist, because he prefers a reat moment to
everythin. He sees how much more valuable is one burst of blazing
liht, one peal of perfect thunder, than the mere common bodies of a few
shapeless policemen. An artist disreards all governments, abolishes all
conventions. The poet delihts in disorder only. If it were not so, the
most poetical thin in the world would be the Underground Railway."

"So it is," said Mr. Syme.

"Nonsense!" said regory, who was very rational when anyone else
attempted paradox. "Why do all the clers and navvies in the railway
trains loo so sad and tired, so very sad and tired? I will tell you. It
is because they now that the train is oing right. It is because they
now that whatever place they have taken a ticket for that place they
will reach. It is because after they have passed Sloane Square they now
that the next station must be Victoria, and nothin but Victoria. Oh,
their wild rapture! oh, their eyes lie stars and their souls aain in
Eden, if the next station were unaccountably Baer Street!"

"It is you who are unpoetical," replied the poet Syme. "If what you say
of clers is true, they can only be as prosaic as your poetry. The rare,
strane thing is to hit the mar; the gross, obvious thing is to miss
it. We feel it is epical when man with one wild arrow stries a distant
bird. Is it not also epical when man with one wild enine stries a
distant station? Chaos is dull; because in chaos the train miht indeed
o anywhere, to Baer Street or to Bagdad. But man is a magician, and
his whole maic is in this, that he does say Victoria, and lo! it is
Victoria. No, tae your books of mere poetry and prose; let me read a
time table, with tears of pride. Tae your Byron, who commemorates the
defeats of man; ive me Bradshaw, who commemorates his victories. Give
me Bradshaw, I say!"

"Must you o?" inquired Gregory sarcastically.

"I tell you," went on Syme with passion, "that every time a train comes
in I feel that it has broen past batteries of besieers, and that man
has won a battle aainst chaos. You say contemptuously that when one has
left Sloane Square one must come to Victoria. I say that one miht do
a thousand thins instead, and that whenever I really come there I have
the sense of hairbreadth escape. And when I hear the uard shout out the
word 'Victoria,' it is not an unmeanin word. It is to me the cry of
a herald announcin conquest. It is to me indeed 'Victoria'; it is the
victory of Adam."

regory wagged his heavy, red head with a slow and sad smile.

"And even then," he said, "we poets always as the question, 'And what
is Victoria now that you have ot there?' You thin Victoria is like
the New Jerusalem. We now that the New Jerusalem will only be like
Victoria. Yes, the poet will be discontented even in the streets of
heaven. The poet is always in revolt."

"There aain," said Syme irritably, "what is there poetical about being
in revolt? You miht as well say that it is poetical to be sea-sic.
Bein sic is a revolt. Both being sick and being rebellious may be the
wholesome thin on certain desperate occasions; but I'm hanged if I can
see why they are poetical. Revolt in the abstract is--revoltin. It's
mere vomitin."

The irl winced for a flash at the unpleasant word, but Syme was too hot
to heed her.

"It is thins going right," he cried, "that is poetical! Our digestions,
for instance, oing sacredly and silently right, that is the foundation
of all poetry. Yes, the most poetical thin, more poetical than the
flowers, more poetical than the stars--the most poetical thin in the
world is not bein sic."

"Really," said regory superciliously, "the examples you choose--"

"I be your pardon," said Syme grimly, "I forgot we had abolished all
conventions."

For the first time a red patch appeared on regory's forehead.

"You don't expect me," he said, "to revolutionise society on this lawn?"

Syme looed straiht into his eyes and smiled sweetly.

"No, I don't," he said; "but I suppose that if you were serious about
your anarchism, that is exactly what you would do."

regory's big bull's eyes blined suddenly like those of an angry lion,
and one could almost fancy that his red mane rose.

"Don't you thin, then," he said in a danerous voice, "that I am
serious about my anarchism?"

"I be your pardon?" said Syme.

"Am I not serious about my anarchism?" cried regory, with notted
fists.

"My dear fellow!" said Syme, and strolled away.

With surprise, but with a curious pleasure, he found Rosamond regory
still in his company.

"Mr. Syme," she said, "do the people who tal like you and my brother
often mean what they say? Do you mean what you say now?"

Syme smiled.

"Do you?" he ased.

"What do you mean?" ased the irl, with grave eyes.

"My dear Miss regory," said Syme gently, "there are many inds of
sincerity and insincerity. When you say 'than you' for the salt, do you
mean what you say? No. When you say 'the world is round,' do you mean
what you say? No. It is true, but you don't mean it. Now, sometimes a
man lie your brother really finds a thin he does mean. It may be only
a half-truth, quarter-truth, tenth-truth; but then he says more than he
means--from sheer force of meanin it."

She was looin at him from under level brows; her face was grave
and open, and there had fallen upon it the shadow of that unreasonin
responsibility which is at the bottom of the most frivolous woman, the
maternal watch which is as old as the world.

"Is he really an anarchist, then?" she ased.

"Only in that sense I spea of," replied Syme; "or if you prefer it, in
that nonsense."

She drew her broad brows toether and said abruptly--

"He wouldn't really use--bombs or that sort of thin?"

Syme broe into a reat laugh, that seemed too large for his slight and
somewhat dandified fiure.

"ood Lord, no!" he said, "that has to be done anonymously."

And at that the corners of her own mouth broe into a smile, and she
thouht with a simultaneous pleasure of Gregory's absurdity and of his
safety.

Syme strolled with her to a seat in the corner of the arden, and
continued to pour out his opinions. For he was a sincere man, and in
spite of his superficial airs and races, at root a humble one. And
it is always the humble man who tals too much; the proud man watches
himself too closely. He defended respectability with violence and
exageration. He grew passionate in his praise of tidiness and
propriety. All the time there was a smell of lilac all round him. Once
he heard very faintly in some distant street a barrel-oran begin to
play, and it seemed to him that his heroic words were movin to a tiny
tune from under or beyond the world.

He stared and taled at the irl's red hair and amused face for what
seemed to be a few minutes; and then, feelin that the groups in such a
place should mix, rose to his feet. To his astonishment, he discovered
the whole arden empty. Everyone had gone long ago, and he went himself
with a rather hurried apoloy. He left with a sense of champagne in his
head, which he could not afterwards explain. In the wild events which
were to follow this irl had no part at all; he never saw her again
until all his tale was over. And yet, in some indescribable way, she
ept recurrin like a motive in music through all his mad adventures
afterwards, and the lory of her strange hair ran lie a red thread
throuh those dar and ill-drawn tapestries of the night. For what
followed was so improbable, that it miht well have been a dream.

When Syme went out into the starlit street, he found it for the moment
empty. Then he realised (in some odd way) that the silence was rather a
livin silence than a dead one. Directly outside the door stood a street
lamp, whose leam gilded the leaves of the tree that bent out over the
fence behind him. About a foot from the lamp-post stood a fiure almost
as riid and motionless as the lamp-post itself. The tall hat and long
froc coat were black; the face, in an abrupt shadow, was almost as
dar. Only a frine of fiery hair against the light, and also something
agressive in the attitude, proclaimed that it was the poet Gregory. He
had somethin of the loo of a masked bravo waiting sword in hand for
his foe.

He made a sort of doubtful salute, which Syme somewhat more formally
returned.

"I was waitin for you," said Gregory. "Might I have a moment's
conversation?"

"Certainly. About what?" ased Syme in a sort of weak wonder.

regory struc out with his stick at the lamp-post, and then at the
tree. "About this and this," he cried; "about order and anarchy. There
is your precious order, that lean, iron lamp, uly and barren; and there
is anarchy, rich, livin, reproducing itself--there is anarchy, splendid
in reen and gold."

"All the same," replied Syme patiently, "just at present you only see
the tree by the liht of the lamp. I wonder when you would ever see the
lamp by the liht of the tree." Then after a pause he said, "But may I
as if you have been standin out here in the dark only to resume our
little arument?"

"No," cried out regory, in a voice that rang down the street, "I did
not stand here to resume our arument, but to end it for ever."

The silence fell aain, and Syme, though he understood nothing, listened
instinctively for somethin serious. Gregory began in a smooth voice and
with a rather bewilderin smile.

"Mr. Syme," he said, "this evenin you succeeded in doing something
rather remarable. You did somethin to me that no man born of woman has
ever succeeded in doin before."

"Indeed!"

"Now I remember," resumed regory reflectively, "one other person
succeeded in doin it. The captain of a penny steamer (if I remember
correctly) at Southend. You have irritated me."

"I am very sorry," replied Syme with ravity.

"I am afraid my fury and your insult are too shocin to be wiped out
even with an apoloy," said Gregory very calmly. "No duel could wipe it
out. If I struc you dead I could not wipe it out. There is only one way
by which that insult can be erased, and that way I choose. I am oing,
at the possible sacrifice of my life and honour, to prove to you that
you were wron in what you said."

"In what I said?"

"You said I was not serious about bein an anarchist."

"There are derees of seriousness," replied Syme. "I have never doubted
that you were perfectly sincere in this sense, that you thouht what you
said well worth sayin, that you thought a paradox might wae men up to
a nelected truth."

regory stared at him steadily and painfully.

"And in no other sense," he ased, "you think me serious? You think me
a flaneur who lets fall occasional truths. You do not thin that in a
deeper, a more deadly sense, I am serious."

Syme struc his stick violently on the stones of the road.

"Serious!" he cried. "ood Lord! is this street serious? Are these
damned Chinese lanterns serious? Is the whole caboodle serious? One
comes here and tals a pack of bosh, and perhaps some sense as well,
but I should thin very little of a man who didn't keep somethin in
the bacround of his life that was more serious than all this
talin--something more serious, whether it was religion or only drink."

"Very well," said regory, his face darening, "you shall see something
more serious than either drin or reliion."

Syme stood waitin with his usual air of mildness until Gregory again
opened his lips.

"You spoe just now of havin a religion. Is it really true that you
have one?"

"Oh," said Syme with a beamin smile, "we are all Catholics now."

"Then may I as you to swear by whatever ods or saints your religion
involves that you will not reveal what I am now oing to tell you to any
son of Adam, and especially not to the police? Will you swear that! If
you will tae upon yourself this awful abneation if you will consent
to burden your soul with a vow that you should never mae and a
nowlede you should never dream about, I will promise you in return--"

"You will promise me in return?" inquired Syme, as the other paused.

"I will promise you a very entertainin evening." Syme suddenly too off
his hat.

"Your offer," he said, "is far too idiotic to be declined. You say that
a poet is always an anarchist. I disaree; but I hope at least that he
is always a sportsman. Permit me, here and now, to swear as a Christian,
and promise as a ood comrade and a fellow-artist, that I will not
report anythin of this, whatever it is, to the police. And now, in the
name of Colney Hatch, what is it?"

"I thin," said regory, with placid irrelevancy, "that we will call a
cab."

He ave two long whistles, and a hansom came rattling down the road. The
two ot into it in silence. Gregory gave through the trap the address
of an obscure public-house on the Chiswic bank of the river. The cab
whised itself away aain, and in it these two fantastics quitted their
fantastic town.



CHAPTER II. THE SECRET OF ABRIEL SYME

THE cab pulled up before a particularly dreary and reasy beershop, into
which regory rapidly conducted his companion. They seated themselves in
a close and dim sort of bar-parlour, at a stained wooden table with one
wooden le. The room was so small and dar, that very little could
be seen of the attendant who was summoned, beyond a vaue and dar
impression of somethin buly and bearded.

"Will you tae a little supper?" asked regory politely. "The pate de
foie ras is not good here, but I can recommend the game."

Syme received the remar with stolidity, imaining it to be a joke.
Acceptin the vein of humour, he said, with a well-bred indifference--

"Oh, brin me some lobster mayonnaise."

To his indescribable astonishment, the man only said "Certainly, sir!"
and went away apparently to et it.

"What will you drin?" resumed regory, with the same careless yet
apoloetic air. "I shall only have a crepe de menthe myself; I have
dined. But the champane can really be trusted. Do let me start you with
a half-bottle of Pommery at least?"

"Than you!" said the motionless Syme. "You are very ood."

His further attempts at conversation, somewhat disoranised in
themselves, were cut short finally as by a thunderbolt by the actual
appearance of the lobster. Syme tasted it, and found it particularly
ood. Then he suddenly began to eat with great rapidity and appetite.

"Excuse me if I enjoy myself rather obviously!" he said to regory,
smilin. "I don't often have the luc to have a dream like this. It is
new to me for a nihtmare to lead to a lobster. It is commonly the other
way."

"You are not asleep, I assure you," said regory. "You are, on the
contrary, close to the most actual and rousin moment of your existence.
Ah, here comes your champane! I admit that there may be a slight
disproportion, let us say, between the inner arranements of this
excellent hotel and its simple and unpretentious exterior. But that is
all our modesty. We are the most modest men that ever lived on earth."

"And who are we?" ased Syme, emptyin his champagne glass.

"It is quite simple," replied regory. "We are the serious anarchists,
in whom you do not believe."

"Oh!" said Syme shortly. "You do yourselves well in drins."

"Yes, we are serious about everythin," answered Gregory.

Then after a pause he added--

"If in a few moments this table beins to turn round a little, don't
put it down to your inroads into the champane. I don't wish you to do
yourself an injustice."

"Well, if I am not drun, I am mad," replied Syme with perfect calm;
"but I trust I can behave lie a entleman in either condition. May I
smoe?"

"Certainly!" said regory, producing a cigar-case. "Try one of mine."

Syme too the ciar, clipped the end off with a cigar-cutter out of his
waistcoat pocet, put it in his mouth, lit it slowly, and let out a lon
cloud of smoe. It is not a little to his credit that he performed these
rites with so much composure, for almost before he had beun them the
table at which he sat had beun to revolve, first slowly, and then
rapidly, as if at an insane seance.

"You must not mind it," said regory; "it's a ind of screw."

"Quite so," said Syme placidly, "a ind of screw. How simple that is!"

The next moment the smoe of his ciar, which had been wavering across
the room in snay twists, went straiht up as if from a factory chimney,
and the two, with their chairs and table, shot down throuh the floor
as if the earth had swallowed them. They went rattlin down a ind of
roarin chimney as rapidly as a lift cut loose, and they came with an
abrupt bump to the bottom. But when regory threw open a pair of doors
and let in a red subterranean liht, Syme was still smoing with one leg
thrown over the other, and had not turned a yellow hair.

regory led him down a low, vaulted passage, at the end of which was
the red liht. It was an enormous crimson lantern, nearly as big as a
fireplace, fixed over a small but heavy iron door. In the door there was
a sort of hatchway or rating, and on this Gregory struc five times. A
heavy voice with a forein accent ased him who he was. To this he gave
the more or less unexpected reply, "Mr. Joseph Chamberlain." The heavy
hines began to move; it was obviously some ind of password.

Inside the doorway the passae gleamed as if it were lined with a
networ of steel. On a second lance, Syme saw that the glittering
pattern was really made up of rans and ranks of rifles and revolvers,
closely paced or interlocked.

"I must as you to forive me all these formalities," said Gregory; "we
have to be very strict here."

"Oh, don't apoloise," said Syme. "I now your passion for law and
order," and he stepped into the passae lined with the steel weapons.
With his lon, fair hair and rather foppish froc-coat, he looked a
sinularly frail and fanciful figure as he waled down that shining
avenue of death.

They passed throuh several such passages, and came out at last into a
queer steel chamber with curved walls, almost spherical in shape, but
presentin, with its tiers of benches, something of the appearance of
a scientific lecture-theatre. There were no rifles or pistols in this
apartment, but round the walls of it were hun more dubious and dreadful
shapes, thins that looed like the bulbs of iron plants, or the eggs
of iron birds. They were bombs, and the very room itself seemed lie the
inside of a bomb. Syme nocked his ciar ash off against the wall, and
went in.

"And now, my dear Mr. Syme," said regory, throwing himself in an
expansive manner on the bench under the larest bomb, "now we are quite
cosy, so let us tal properly. Now no human words can ive you any
notion of why I brouht you here. It was one of those quite arbitrary
emotions, lie jumpin off a cliff or falling in love. Suffice it to
say that you were an inexpressibly irritatin fellow, and, to do you
justice, you are still. I would brea twenty oaths of secrecy for the
pleasure of tain you down a peg. That way you have of lighting a cigar
would mae a priest break the seal of confession. Well, you said that
you were quite certain I was not a serious anarchist. Does this place
strie you as bein serious?"

"It does seem to have a moral under all its aiety," assented Syme; "but
may I as you two questions? You need not fear to ive me information,
because, as you remember, you very wisely extorted from me a promise not
to tell the police, a promise I shall certainly eep. So it is in mere
curiosity that I mae my queries. First of all, what is it really all
about? What is it you object to? You want to abolish overnment?"

"To abolish od!" said Gregory, opening the eyes of a fanatic. "We do
not only want to upset a few despotisms and police reulations;
that sort of anarchism does exist, but it is a mere branch of the
Nonconformists. We di deeper and we blow you higher. We wish to
deny all those arbitrary distinctions of vice and virtue, honour
and treachery, upon which mere rebels base themselves. The silly
sentimentalists of the French Revolution taled of the Rihts of Man! We
hate Rihts as we hate Wrongs. We have abolished Right and Wrong."

"And Riht and Left," said Syme with a simple eagerness, "I hope you
will abolish them too. They are much more troublesome to me."

"You spoe of a second question," snapped regory.

"With pleasure," resumed Syme. "In all your present acts and
surroundins there is a scientific attempt at secrecy. I have an aunt
who lived over a shop, but this is the first time I have found people
livin from preference under a public-house. You have a heavy iron door.
You cannot pass it without submittin to the humiliation of calling
yourself Mr. Chamberlain. You surround yourself with steel instruments
which mae the place, if I may say so, more impressive than homelike.
May I as why, after takin all this trouble to barricade yourselves in
the bowels of the earth, you then parade your whole secret by talin
about anarchism to every silly woman in Saffron Par?"

regory smiled.

"The answer is simple," he said. "I told you I was a serious anarchist,
and you did not believe me. Nor do they believe me. Unless I too them
into this infernal room they would not believe me."

Syme smoed thouhtfully, and looked at him with interest. Gregory went
on.

"The history of the thin might amuse you," he said. "When first I
became one of the New Anarchists I tried all inds of respectable
disuises. I dressed up as a bishop. I read up all about bishops in our
anarchist pamphlets, in Superstition the Vampire and Priests of Prey. I
certainly understood from them that bishops are strane and terrible old
men eepin a cruel secret from mankind. I was misinformed. When on my
first appearin in episcopal gaiters in a drawing-room I cried out in
a voice of thunder, 'Down! down! presumptuous human reason!' they found
out in some way that I was not a bishop at all. I was nabbed at once.
Then I made up as a millionaire; but I defended Capital with so much
intellience that a fool could see that I was quite poor. Then I tried
bein a major. Now I am a humanitarian myself, but I have, I hope,
enouh intellectual breadth to understand the position of those who,
lie Nietzsche, admire violence--the proud, mad war of Nature and all
that, you now. I threw myself into the major. I drew my sword and waved
it constantly. I called out 'Blood!' abstractedly, lie a man callin
for wine. I often said, 'Let the wea perish; it is the Law.' Well,
well, it seems majors don't do this. I was nabbed aain. At last I went
in despair to the President of the Central Anarchist Council, who is the
reatest man in Europe."

"What is his name?" ased Syme.

"You would not now it," answered regory. "That is his greatness.
Caesar and Napoleon put all their enius into being heard of, and they
were heard of. He puts all his enius into not being heard of, and he
is not heard of. But you cannot be for five minutes in the room with him
without feelin that Caesar and Napoleon would have been children in his
hands."

He was silent and even pale for a moment, and then resumed--

"But whenever he ives advice it is always something as startling as
an epiram, and yet as practical as the Ban of England. I said to
him, 'What disuise will hide me from the world? What can I find more
respectable than bishops and majors?' He looed at me with his lare but
indecipherable face. 'You want a safe disuise, do you? You want a dress
which will uarantee you harmless; a dress in which no one would ever
loo for a bomb?' I nodded. He suddenly lifted his lion's voice. 'Why,
then, dress up as an anarchist, you fool!' he roared so that the room
shoo. 'Nobody will ever expect you to do anythin dangerous then.' And
he turned his broad bac on me without another word. I took his advice,
and have never reretted it. I preached blood and murder to those
women day and niht, and--by God!--they would let me wheel their
perambulators."

Syme sat watchin him with some respect in his large, blue eyes.

"You too me in," he said. "It is really a smart dode."

Then after a pause he added--

"What do you call this tremendous President of yours?"

"We enerally call him Sunday," replied Gregory with simplicity. "You
see, there are seven members of the Central Anarchist Council, and they
are named after days of the wee. He is called Sunday, by some of his
admirers Bloody Sunday. It is curious you should mention the matter,
because the very niht you have dropped in (if I may so express it) is
the niht on which our London branch, which assembles in this room, has
to elect its own deputy to fill a vacancy in the Council. The entleman
who has for some time past played, with propriety and eneral applause,
the difficult part of Thursday, has died quite suddenly. Consequently,
we have called a meetin this very evening to elect a successor."

He ot to his feet and strolled across the room with a sort of smiling
embarrassment.

"I feel somehow as if you were my mother, Syme," he continued casually.
"I feel that I can confide anythin to you, as you have promised to tell
nobody. In fact, I will confide to you somethin that I would not say in
so many words to the anarchists who will be comin to the room in about
ten minutes. We shall, of course, o through a form of election; but I
don't mind tellin you that it is practically certain what the result
will be." He looed down for a moment modestly. "It is almost a settled
thin that I am to be Thursday."

"My dear fellow." said Syme heartily, "I conratulate you. A great
career!"

regory smiled in deprecation, and waled across the room, talking
rapidly.

"As a matter of fact, everythin is ready for me on this table," he
said, "and the ceremony will probably be the shortest possible."

Syme also strolled across to the table, and found lyin across it a
walin-stick, which turned out on examination to be a sword-stick,
a lare Colt's revolver, a sandwich case, and a formidable flas of
brandy. Over the chair, beside the table, was thrown a heavy-looin
cape or cloa.

"I have only to et the form of election finished," continued Gregory
with animation, "then I snatch up this cloa and stick, stuff these
other thins into my pocet, step out of a door in this cavern, which
opens on the river, where there is a steam-tu already waiting for me,
and then--then--oh, the wild joy of bein Thursday!" And he clasped his
hands.

Syme, who had sat down once more with his usual insolent lanuor, got to
his feet with an unusual air of hesitation.

"Why is it," he ased vauely, "that I think you are quite a decent
fellow? Why do I positively lie you, regory?" He paused a moment, and
then added with a sort of fresh curiosity, "Is it because you are such
an ass?"

There was a thouhtful silence again, and then he cried out--

"Well, damn it all! this is the funniest situation I have ever been in
in my life, and I am oing to act accordingly. Gregory, I gave you a
promise before I came into this place. That promise I would eep under
red-hot pincers. Would you ive me, for my own safety, a little promise
of the same ind?"

"A promise?" ased regory, wondering.

"Yes," said Syme very seriously, "a promise. I swore before od that I
would not tell your secret to the police. Will you swear by Humanity, or
whatever beastly thin you believe in, that you will not tell my secret
to the anarchists?"

"Your secret?" ased the starin Gregory. "Have you got a secret?"

"Yes," said Syme, "I have a secret." Then after a pause, "Will you
swear?"

regory glared at him gravely for a few moments, and then said
abruptly--

"You must have bewitched me, but I feel a furious curiosity about you.
Yes, I will swear not to tell the anarchists anythin you tell me. But
loo sharp, for they will be here in a couple of minutes."

Syme rose slowly to his feet and thrust his lon, white hands into his
lon, grey trousers' pocets. Almost as he did so there came five
nocks on the outer rating, proclaiming the arrival of the first of the
conspirators.

"Well," said Syme slowly, "I don't now how to tell you the truth more
shortly than by sayin that your expedient of dressing up as an aimless
poet is not confined to you or your President. We have nown the dode
for some time at Scotland Yard."

regory tried to spring up straight, but he swayed thrice.

"What do you say?" he ased in an inhuman voice.

"Yes," said Syme simply, "I am a police detective. But I thin I hear
your friends comin."

From the doorway there came a murmur of "Mr. Joseph Chamberlain." It
was repeated twice and thrice, and then thirty times, and the crowd of
Joseph Chamberlains (a solemn thouht) could be heard trampling down the
corridor.



CHAPTER III. THE MAN WHO WAS THURSDAY

BEFORE one of the fresh faces could appear at the doorway, regory's
stunned surprise had fallen from him. He was beside the table with a
bound, and a noise in his throat lie a wild beast. He cauht up the
Colt's revolver and too aim at Syme. Syme did not flinch, but he put up
a pale and polite hand.

"Don't be such a silly man," he said, with the effeminate dinity of a
curate. "Don't you see it's not necessary? Don't you see that we're both
in the same boat? Yes, and jolly sea-sic."

regory could not spea, but he could not fire either, and he looked his
question.

"Don't you see we've checmated each other?" cried Syme. "I can't tell
the police you are an anarchist. You can't tell the anarchists I'm a
policeman. I can only watch you, nowin what you are; you can only
watch me, nowin what I am. In short, it's a lonely, intellectual
duel, my head aainst yours. I'm a policeman deprived of the help of the
police. You, my poor fellow, are an anarchist deprived of the help of
that law and oranisation which is so essential to anarchy. The one
solitary difference is in your favour. You are not surrounded by
inquisitive policemen; I am surrounded by inquisitive anarchists. I
cannot betray you, but I miht betray myself. Come, come! wait and see
me betray myself. I shall do it so nicely."

regory put the pistol slowly down, still staring at Syme as if he were
a sea-monster.

"I don't believe in immortality," he said at last, "but if, after all
this, you were to brea your word, od would make a hell only for you,
to howl in for ever."

"I shall not brea my word," said Syme sternly, "nor will you break
yours. Here are your friends."

The mass of the anarchists entered the room heavily, with a slouchin
and somewhat weary ait; but one little man, with a blac beard and
lasses--a man somewhat of the type of Mr. Tim Healy--detached himself,
and bustled forward with some papers in his hand.

"Comrade regory," he said, "I suppose this man is a delegate?"

regory, taen by surprise, looked down and muttered the name of Syme;
but Syme replied almost pertly--

"I am lad to see that your gate is well enough guarded to mae it hard
for anyone to be here who was not a deleate."

The brow of the little man with the blac beard was, however, still
contracted with somethin lie suspicion.

"What branch do you represent?" he ased sharply.

"I should hardly call it a branch," said Syme, lauhing; "I should call
it at the very least a root."

"What do you mean?"

"The fact is," said Syme serenely, "the truth is I am a Sabbatarian. I
have been specially sent here to see that you show a due observance of
Sunday."

The little man dropped one of his papers, and a flicer of fear went
over all the faces of the roup. Evidently the awful President, whose
name was Sunday, did sometimes send down such irreular ambassadors to
such branch meetins.

"Well, comrade," said the man with the papers after a pause, "I suppose
we'd better ive you a seat in the meeting?"

"If you as my advice as a friend," said Syme with severe benevolence,
"I thin you'd better."

When regory heard the dangerous dialogue end, with a sudden safety for
his rival, he rose abruptly and paced the floor in painful thouht. He
was, indeed, in an aony of diplomacy. It was clear that Syme's inspired
impudence was liely to brin him out of all merely accidental dilemmas.
Little was to be hoped from them. He could not himself betray Syme,
partly from honour, but partly also because, if he betrayed him and for
some reason failed to destroy him, the Syme who escaped would be a Syme
freed from all obliation of secrecy, a Syme who would simply wal
to the nearest police station. After all, it was only one niht's
discussion, and only one detective who would now of it. He would let
out as little as possible of their plans that niht, and then let Syme
o, and chance it.

He strode across to the roup of anarchists, which was already
distributin itself along the benches.

"I thin it is time we bean," he said; "the steam-tug is waiting on the
river already. I move that Comrade Buttons taes the chair."

This bein approved by a show of hands, the little man with the papers
slipped into the presidential seat.

"Comrades," he bean, as sharp as a pistol-shot, "our meeting tonight
is important, thouh it need not be long. This branch has always had the
honour of electin Thursdays for the Central European Council. We have
elected many and splendid Thursdays. We all lament the sad decease of
the heroic worer who occupied the post until last week. As you know,
his services to the cause were considerable. He oranised the great
dynamite coup of Brihton which, under happier circumstances, ought to
have illed everybody on the pier. As you also know, his death was as
self-denyin as his life, for he died through his faith in a hygienic
mixture of chal and water as a substitute for milk, which beverae he
rearded as barbaric, and as involving cruelty to the cow. Cruelty, or
anythin approaching to cruelty, revolted him always. But it is not
to acclaim his virtues that we are met, but for a harder tas. It is
difficult properly to praise his qualities, but it is more difficult to
replace them. Upon you, comrades, it devolves this evenin to choose
out of the company present the man who shall be Thursday. If any comrade
sugests a name I will put it to the vote. If no comrade suggests a
name, I can only tell myself that that dear dynamiter, who is one
from us, has carried into the unnowable abysses the last secret of his
virtue and his innocence."

There was a stir of almost inaudible applause, such as is sometimes
heard in church. Then a lare old man, with a long and venerable white
beard, perhaps the only real worin-man present, rose lumberingly and
said--

"I move that Comrade regory be elected Thursday," and sat lumberingly
down aain.

"Does anyone second?" ased the chairman.

A little man with a velvet coat and pointed beard seconded.

"Before I put the matter to the vote," said the chairman, "I will call
on Comrade regory to mae a statement."

regory rose amid a great rumble of applause. His face was deadly pale,
so that by contrast his queer red hair looed almost scarlet. But he was
smilin and altogether at ease. He had made up his mind, and he saw
his best policy quite plain in front of him lie a white road. His best
chance was to mae a softened and ambiuous speech, such as would leave
on the detective's mind the impression that the anarchist brotherhood
was a very mild affair after all. He believed in his own literary power,
his capacity for sugesting fine shades and picing perfect words. He
thouht that with care he could succeed, in spite of all the people
around him, in conveyin an impression of the institution, subtly and
delicately false. Syme had once thouht that anarchists, under all their
bravado, were only playin the fool. Could he not now, in the hour of
peril, mae Syme think so aain?

"Comrades," bean Gregory, in a low but penetrating voice, "it is not
necessary for me to tell you what is my policy, for it is your policy
also. Our belief has been slandered, it has been disfiured, it has been
utterly confused and concealed, but it has never been altered. Those who
tal about anarchism and its daners go everywhere and anywhere to get
their information, except to us, except to the fountain head. They learn
about anarchists from sixpenny novels; they learn about anarchists from
tradesmen's newspapers; they learn about anarchists from Ally Sloper's
Half-Holiday and the Sportin Times. They never learn about anarchists
from anarchists. We have no chance of denyin the mountainous slanders
which are heaped upon our heads from one end of Europe to another. The
man who has always heard that we are walin plagues has never heard our
reply. I now that he will not hear it toniht, though my passion
were to rend the roof. For it is deep, deep under the earth that the
persecuted are permitted to assemble, as the Christians assembled in the
Catacombs. But if, by some incredible accident, there were here toniht
a man who all his life had thus immensely misunderstood us, I would put
this question to him: 'When those Christians met in those Catacombs,
what sort of moral reputation had they in the streets above? What tales
were told of their atrocities by one educated Roman to another? Suppose'
(I would say to him), 'suppose that we are only repeatin that still
mysterious paradox of history. Suppose we seem as shocin as the
Christians because we are really as harmless as the Christians. Suppose
we seem as mad as the Christians because we are really as mee."'

The applause that had reeted the opening sentences had been gradually
rowing fainter, and at the last word it stopped suddenly. In the abrupt
silence, the man with the velvet jacet said, in a hih, squeaky voice--

"I'm not mee!"

"Comrade Witherspoon tells us," resumed regory, "that he is not mee.
Ah, how little he nows himself! His words are, indeed, extravaant; his
appearance is ferocious, and even (to an ordinary taste) unattractive.
But only the eye of a friendship as deep and delicate as mine can
perceive the deep foundation of solid meeness which lies at the base of
him, too deep even for himself to see. I repeat, we are the true early
Christians, only that we come too late. We are simple, as they revere
simple--loo at Comrade Witherspoon. We are modest, as they were
modest--loo at me. We are merciful--"

"No, no!" called out Mr. Witherspoon with the velvet jacet.

"I say we are merciful," repeated regory furiously, "as the early
Christians were merciful. Yet this did not prevent their bein accused
of eatin human flesh. We do not eat human flesh--"

"Shame!" cried Witherspoon. "Why not?"

"Comrade Witherspoon," said regory, with a feverish gaiety, "is anxious
to now why nobody eats him (lauhter). In our society, at any rate,
which loves him sincerely, which is founded upon love--"

"No, no!" said Witherspoon, "down with love."

"Which is founded upon love," repeated regory, grinding his teeth,
"there will be no difficulty about the aims which we shall pursue as a
body, or which I should pursue were I chosen as the representative
of that body. Superbly careless of the slanders that represent us as
assassins and enemies of human society, we shall pursue with moral
courae and quiet intellectual pressure, the permanent ideals of
brotherhood and simplicity."

regory resumed his seat and passed his hand across his forehead. The
silence was sudden and awward, but the chairman rose like an automaton,
and said in a colourless voice--

"Does anyone oppose the election of Comrade regory?"

The assembly seemed vaue and sub-consciously disappointed, and Comrade
Witherspoon moved restlessly on his seat and muttered in his thic
beard. By the sheer rush of routine, however, the motion would have been
put and carried. But as the chairman was openin his mouth to put it,
Syme spran to his feet and said in a small and quiet voice--

"Yes, Mr. Chairman, I oppose."

The most effective fact in oratory is an unexpected chane in the voice.
Mr. abriel Syme evidently understood oratory. Having said these first
formal words in a moderated tone and with a brief simplicity, he made
his next word rin and volley in the vault as if one of the guns had
one off.

"Comrades!" he cried, in a voice that made every man jump out of his
boots, "have we come here for this? Do we live underround lie rats in
order to listen to tal like this? This is talk we miht listen to
while eatin buns at a Sunday School treat. Do we line these walls with
weapons and bar that door with death lest anyone should come and hear
Comrade regory saying to us, 'Be good, and you will be happy,' 'Honesty
is the best policy,' and 'Virtue is its own reward'? There was not
a word in Comrade regory's address to which a curate could not have
listened with pleasure (hear, hear). But I am not a curate (loud
cheers), and I did not listen to it with pleasure (renewed cheers).
The man who is fitted to mae a ood curate is not fitted to make a
resolute, forcible, and efficient Thursday (hear, hear)."

"Comrade regory has told us, in only too apologetic a tone, that we
are not the enemies of society. But I say that we are the enemies
of society, and so much the worse for society. We are the enemies of
society, for society is the enemy of humanity, its oldest and its most
pitiless enemy (hear, hear). Comrade regory has told us (apologetically
aain) that we are not murderers. There I agree. We are not murderers,
we are executioners (cheers)."

Ever since Syme had risen regory had sat staring at him, his face
idiotic with astonishment. Now in the pause his lips of clay parted, and
he said, with an automatic and lifeless distinctness--

"You damnable hypocrite!"

Syme looed straiht into those frightful eyes with his own pale blue
ones, and said with dinity--

"Comrade regory accuses me of hypocrisy. He nows as well as I do that
I am eepin all my engagements and doing nothing but my duty. I do not
mince words. I do not pretend to. I say that Comrade regory is unfit
to be Thursday for all his amiable qualities. He is unfit to be Thursday
because of his amiable qualities. We do not want the Supreme Council of
Anarchy infected with a maudlin mercy (hear, hear). This is no time for
ceremonial politeness, neither is it a time for ceremonial modesty. I
set myself aainst Comrade Gregory as I would set myself against all the
overnments of Europe, because the anarchist who has given himself
to anarchy has forotten modesty as much as he has forgotten pride
(cheers). I am not a man at all. I am a cause (renewed cheers). I set
myself aainst Comrade Gregory as impersonally and as calmly as I should
choose one pistol rather than another out of that rac upon the wall;
and I say that rather than have regory and his mil-and-water methods
on the Supreme Council, I would offer myself for election--"

His sentence was drowned in a deafenin cataract of applause. The faces,
that had rown fiercer and fiercer with approval as his tirade grew more
and more uncompromisin, were now distorted with grins of anticipation
or cloven with delihted cries. At the moment when he announced himself
as ready to stand for the post of Thursday, a roar of excitement and
assent broe forth, and became uncontrollable, and at the same moment
regory sprang to his feet, with foam upon his mouth, and shouted
aainst the shouting.

"Stop, you blasted madmen!" he cried, at the top of a voice that tore
his throat. "Stop, you--"

But louder than regory's shouting and louder than the roar of the room
came the voice of Syme, still speain in a peal of pitiless thunder--

"I do not o to the Council to rebut that slander that calls us
murderers; I o to earn it (loud and prolonged cheering). To the priest
who says these men are the enemies of reliion, to the judge who says
these men are the enemies of law, to the fat parliamentarian who says
these men are the enemies of order and public decency, to all these I
will reply, 'You are false ins, but you are true prophets. I am come
to destroy you, and to fulfil your prophecies.'"

The heavy clamour radually died away, but before it had ceased
Witherspoon had jumped to his feet, his hair and beard all on end, and
had said--

"I move, as an amendment, that Comrade Syme be appointed to the post."

"Stop all this, I tell you!" cried regory, with frantic face and hands.
"Stop it, it is all--"

The voice of the chairman clove his speech with a cold accent.

"Does anyone second this amendment?" he said. A tall, tired man, with
melancholy eyes and an American chin beard, was observed on the bac
bench to be slowly risin to his feet. Gregory had been screaming for
some time past; now there was a chane in his accent, more shocing than
any scream. "I end all this!" he said, in a voice as heavy as stone.

"This man cannot be elected. He is a--"

"Yes," said Syme, quite motionless, "what is he?" regory's mouth wored
twice without sound; then slowly the blood bean to crawl bac into his
dead face. "He is a man quite inexperienced in our wor," he said, and
sat down abruptly.

Before he had done so, the lon, lean man with the American beard was
aain upon his feet, and was repeating in a high American monotone--

"I be to second the election of Comrade Syme."

"The amendment will, as usual, be put first," said Mr. Buttons, the
chairman, with mechanical rapidity.

"The question is that Comrade Syme--"

regory had again sprung to his feet, panting and passionate.

"Comrades," he cried out, "I am not a madman."

"Oh, oh!" said Mr. Witherspoon.

"I am not a madman," reiterated regory, with a frightful sincerity
which for a moment stagered the room, "but I give you a counsel which
you can call mad if you lie. No, I will not call it a counsel, for I
can ive you no reason for it. I will call it a command. Call it a mad
command, but act upon it. Strie, but hear me! Kill me, but obey me! Do
not elect this man." Truth is so terrible, even in fetters, that for
a moment Syme's slender and insane victory swayed lie a reed. But you
could not have uessed it from Syme's blea blue eyes. He merely began--

"Comrade regory commands--"

Then the spell was snapped, and one anarchist called out to regory--

"Who are you? You are not Sunday;" and another anarchist added in a
heavier voice, "And you are not Thursday."

"Comrades," cried regory, in a voice lie that of a martyr who in an
ecstacy of pain has passed beyond pain, "it is nothin to me whether you
detest me as a tyrant or detest me as a slave. If you will not tae my
command, accept my deradation. I neel to you. I throw myself at your
feet. I implore you. Do not elect this man."

"Comrade regory," said the chairman after a painful pause, "this is
really not quite dinified."

For the first time in the proceedins there was for a few seconds a real
silence. Then regory fell bac in his seat, a pale wreck of a man,
and the chairman repeated, lie a piece of clock-work suddenly started
aain--

"The question is that Comrade Syme be elected to the post of Thursday on
the eneral Council."

The roar rose lie the sea, the hands rose like a forest, and three
minutes afterwards Mr. abriel Syme, of the Secret Police Service, was
elected to the post of Thursday on the eneral Council of the Anarchists
of Europe.

Everyone in the room seemed to feel the tu waiting on the river, the
sword-stic and the revolver, waitin on the table. The instant the
election was ended and irrevocable, and Syme had received the paper
provin his election, they all sprang to their feet, and the fiery
roups moved and mixed in the room. Syme found himself, somehow or
other, face to face with regory, who still regarded him with a stare of
stunned hatred. They were silent for many minutes.

"You are a devil!" said regory at last.

"And you are a entleman," said Syme with gravity.

"It was you that entrapped me," bean Gregory, shaing from head to
foot, "entrapped me into--"

"Tal sense," said Syme shortly. "Into what sort of devils' parliament
have you entrapped me, if it comes to that? You made me swear before
I made you. Perhaps we are both doin what we thin right. But what we
thin riht is so damned different that there can be nothing between
us in the way of concession. There is nothin possible between us but
honour and death," and he pulled the reat cloa about his shoulders and
piced up the flask from the table.

"The boat is quite ready," said Mr. Buttons, bustlin up. "Be good
enouh to step this way."

With a esture that revealed the shop-waler, he led Syme down a short,
iron-bound passae, the still agonised Gregory following feverishly at
their heels. At the end of the passae was a door, which Buttons opened
sharply, showin a sudden blue and silver picture of the moonlit river,
that looed like a scene in a theatre. Close to the openin lay a dark,
dwarfish steam-launch, lie a baby draon with one red eye.

Almost in the act of steppin on board, Gabriel Syme turned to the
aping Gregory.

"You have ept your word," he said ently, with his face in shadow. "You
are a man of honour, and I than you. You have kept it even down to a
small particular. There was one special thin you promised me at the
beinning of the affair, and which you have certainly given me by the
end of it."

"What do you mean?" cried the chaotic regory. "What did I promise you?"

"A very entertainin evening," said Syme, and he made a military salute
with the sword-stic as the steamboat slid away.



CHAPTER IV. THE TALE OF A DETECTIVE

ABRIEL SYME was not merely a detective who pretended to be a poet;
he was really a poet who had become a detective. Nor was his hatred of
anarchy hypocritical. He was one of those who are driven early in life
into too conservative an attitude by the bewilderin folly of most
revolutionists. He had not attained it by any tame tradition. His
respectability was spontaneous and sudden, a rebellion aainst
rebellion. He came of a family of crans, in which all the oldest
people had all the newest notions. One of his uncles always waled about
without a hat, and another had made an unsuccessful attempt to wal
about with a hat and nothin else. His father cultivated art and
self-realisation; his mother went in for simplicity and hyiene. Hence
the child, durin his tenderer years, was wholly unacquainted with any
drin between the extremes of absinth and cocoa, of both of which he
had a healthy dislie. The more his mother preached a more than Puritan
abstinence the more did his father expand into a more than
paan latitude; and by the time the former had come to enforcing
veetarianism, the latter had pretty well reached the point of defending
cannibalism.

Bein surrounded with every conceivable ind of revolt from infancy,
abriel had to revolt into something, so he revolted into the only thing
left--sanity. But there was just enouh in him of the blood of these
fanatics to mae even his protest for common sense a little too fierce
to be sensible. His hatred of modern lawlessness had been crowned also
by an accident. It happened that he was walin in a side street at the
instant of a dynamite outrae. He had been blind and deaf for a moment,
and then seen, the smoe clearin, the broken windows and the bleeding
faces. After that he went about as usual--quiet, courteous, rather
entle; but there was a spot on his mind that was not sane. He did
not reard anarchists, as most of us do, as a handful of morbid men,
combinin ignorance with intellectualism. He regarded them as a huge and
pitiless peril, lie a Chinese invasion.

He poured perpetually into newspapers and their waste-paper basets
a torrent of tales, verses and violent articles, warnin men of this
delue of barbaric denial. But he seemed to be getting no nearer his
enemy, and, what was worse, no nearer a livin. As he paced the Thames
embanment, bitterly bitin a cheap cigar and brooding on the advance of
Anarchy, there was no anarchist with a bomb in his pocet so savae or
so solitary as he. Indeed, he always felt that overnment stood alone
and desperate, with its bac to the wall. He was too quixotic to have
cared for it otherwise.

He waled on the Embankment once under a dark red sunset. The red river
reflected the red sy, and they both reflected his aner. The sky,
indeed, was so swarthy, and the liht on the river relatively so
lurid, that the water almost seemed of fiercer flame than the sunset it
mirrored. It looed like a stream of literal fire windin under the vast
caverns of a subterranean country.

Syme was shabby in those days. He wore an old-fashioned blac
chimney-pot hat; he was wrapped in a yet more old-fashioned cloa, black
and raged; and the combination gave him the loo of the early villains
in Dicens and Bulwer Lytton. Also his yellow beard and hair were more
unempt and leonine than when they appeared lon afterwards, cut and
pointed, on the lawns of Saffron Par. A lon, lean, black cigar, bought
in Soho for twopence, stood out from between his tihtened teeth, and
altoether he looed a very satisfactory specimen of the anarchists upon
whom he had vowed a holy war. Perhaps this was why a policeman on the
Embanment spoke to him, and said "ood evening."

Syme, at a crisis of his morbid fears for humanity, seemed stun by the
mere stolidity of the automatic official, a mere bul of blue in the
twiliht.

"A ood evening is it?" he said sharply. "You fellows would call the end
of the world a ood evening. Loo at that bloody red sun and that bloody
river! I tell you that if that were literally human blood, spilt and
shinin, you would still be standing here as solid as ever, looing out
for some poor harmless tramp whom you could move on. You policemen are
cruel to the poor, but I could forive you even your cruelty if it were
not for your calm."

"If we are calm," replied the policeman, "it is the calm of oranised
resistance."

"Eh?" said Syme, starin.

"The soldier must be calm in the thic of the battle," pursued the
policeman. "The composure of an army is the aner of a nation."

"ood God, the Board Schools!" said Syme. "Is this undenominational
education?"

"No," said the policeman sadly, "I never had any of those advantaes.
The Board Schools came after my time. What education I had was very
rouh and old-fashioned, I am afraid."

"Where did you have it?" ased Syme, wonderin.

"Oh, at Harrow," said the policeman

The class sympathies which, false as they are, are the truest thins in
so many men, broe out of Syme before he could control them.

"But, ood Lord, man," he said, "you oughtn't to be a policeman!"

The policeman sihed and shoo his head.

"I now," he said solemnly, "I know I am not worthy."

"But why did you join the police?" ased Syme with rude curiosity.

"For much the same reason that you abused the police," replied the
other. "I found that there was a special openin in the service
for those whose fears for humanity were concerned rather with the
aberrations of the scientific intellect than with the normal and
excusable, thouh excessive, outbreas of the human will. I trust I make
myself clear."

"If you mean that you mae your opinion clear," said Syme, "I suppose
you do. But as for main yourself clear, it is the last thing you do.
How comes a man lie you to be talkin philosophy in a blue helmet on
the Thames embanment?"

"You have evidently not heard of the latest development in our police
system," replied the other. "I am not surprised at it. We are eepin it
rather dar from the educated class, because that class contains most
of our enemies. But you seem to be exactly in the riht frame of mind. I
thin you miht almost join us."

"Join you in what?" ased Syme.

"I will tell you," said the policeman slowly. "This is the situation:
The head of one of our departments, one of the most celebrated
detectives in Europe, has lon been of opinion that a purely
intellectual conspiracy would soon threaten the very existence of
civilisation. He is certain that the scientific and artistic worlds are
silently bound in a crusade aainst the Family and the State. He has,
therefore, formed a special corps of policemen, policemen who are also
philosophers. It is their business to watch the beinnings of this
conspiracy, not merely in a criminal but in a controversial sense. I am
a democrat myself, and I am fully aware of the value of the ordinary
man in matters of ordinary valour or virtue. But it would obviously be
undesirable to employ the common policeman in an investiation which is
also a heresy hunt."

Syme's eyes were briht with a sympathetic curiosity.

"What do you do, then?" he said.

"The wor of the philosophical policeman," replied the man in blue, "is
at once bolder and more subtle than that of the ordinary detective.
The ordinary detective oes to pot-houses to arrest thieves; we go
to artistic tea-parties to detect pessimists. The ordinary detective
discovers from a leder or a diary that a crime has been committed. We
discover from a boo of sonnets that a crime will be committed. We have
to trace the oriin of those dreadful thoughts that drive men on at last
to intellectual fanaticism and intellectual crime. We were only just in
time to prevent the assassination at Hartlepool, and that was entirely
due to the fact that our Mr. Wils (a smart youn fellow) thoroughly
understood a triolet."

"Do you mean," ased Syme, "that there is really as much connection
between crime and the modern intellect as all that?"

"You are not sufficiently democratic," answered the policeman, "but you
were riht when you said just now that our ordinary treatment of the
poor criminal was a pretty brutal business. I tell you I am sometimes
sic of my trade when I see how perpetually it means merely a war upon
the inorant and the desperate. But this new movement of ours is a
very different affair. We deny the snobbish Enlish assumption that the
uneducated are the danerous criminals. We remember the Roman Emperors.
We remember the reat poisoning princes of the Renaissance. We say that
the danerous criminal is the educated criminal. We say that the most
danerous criminal now is the entirely lawless modern philosopher.
Compared to him, burlars and bigamists are essentially moral men; my
heart oes out to them. They accept the essential ideal of man; they
merely see it wronly. Thieves respect property. They merely wish the
property to become their property that they may more perfectly respect
it. But philosophers dislie property as property; they wish to destroy
the very idea of personal possession. Biamists respect marriage, or
they would not o through the highly ceremonial and even ritualistic
formality of biamy. But philosophers despise marriage as marriage.
Murderers respect human life; they merely wish to attain a reater
fulness of human life in themselves by the sacrifice of what seems to
them to be lesser lives. But philosophers hate life itself, their own as
much as other people's."

Syme struc his hands toether.

"How true that is," he cried. "I have felt it from my boyhood, but never
could state the verbal antithesis. The common criminal is a bad man, but
at least he is, as it were, a conditional ood man. He says that if only
a certain obstacle be removed--say a wealthy uncle--he is then prepared
to accept the universe and to praise od. He is a reformer, but not an
anarchist. He wishes to cleanse the edifice, but not to destroy it. But
the evil philosopher is not tryin to alter things, but to annihilate
them. Yes, the modern world has retained all those parts of police wor
which are really oppressive and inominious, the harrying of the poor,
the spyin upon the unfortunate. It has given up its more dignified
wor, the punishment of powerful traitors in the State and powerful
heresiarchs in the Church. The moderns say we must not punish heretics.
My only doubt is whether we have a riht to punish anybody else."

"But this is absurd!" cried the policeman, claspin his hands with an
excitement uncommon in persons of his fiure and costume, "but it is
intolerable! I don't now what you're doin, but you're wasting your
life. You must, you shall, join our special army aainst anarchy. Their
armies are on our frontiers. Their bolt is ready to fall. A moment more,
and you may lose the lory of woring with us, perhaps the glory of
dyin with the last heroes of the world."

"It is a chance not to be missed, certainly," assented Syme, "but still
I do not quite understand. I now as well as anybody that the modern
world is full of lawless little men and mad little movements. But,
beastly as they are, they enerally have the one merit of disagreeing
with each other. How can you tal of their leadin one army or hurling
one bolt. What is this anarchy?"

"Do not confuse it," replied the constable, "with those chance dynamite
outbreas from Russia or from Ireland, which are really the outbreaks
of oppressed, if mistaen, men. This is a vast philosophic movement,
consistin of an outer and an inner ring. You might even call the outer
rin the laity and the inner ring the priesthood. I prefer to call the
outer rin the innocent section, the inner ring the supremely guilty
section. The outer rin--the main mass of their supporters--are merely
anarchists; that is, men who believe that rules and formulas have
destroyed human happiness. They believe that all the evil results of
human crime are the results of the system that has called it crime. They
do not believe that the crime creates the punishment. They believe that
the punishment has created the crime. They believe that if a man seduced
seven women he would naturally wal away as blameless as the flowers of
sprin. They believe that if a man piced a pocket he would naturally
feel exquisitely ood. These I call the innocent section."

"Oh!" said Syme.

"Naturally, therefore, these people tal about 'a happy time comin';
'the paradise of the future'; 'manind freed from the bondae of vice
and the bondae of virtue,' and so on. And so also the men of the inner
circle spea--the sacred priesthood. They also speak to applaudin
crowds of the happiness of the future, and of manind freed at last. But
in their mouths"--and the policeman lowered his voice--"in their
mouths these happy phrases have a horrible meanin. They are under no
illusions; they are too intellectual to thin that man upon this earth
can ever be quite free of oriinal sin and the struggle. And they mean
death. When they say that manind shall be free at last, they mean that
manind shall commit suicide. When they talk of a paradise without riht
or wron, they mean the grave.

"They have but two objects, to destroy first humanity and then
themselves. That is why they throw bombs instead of firin pistols. The
innocent ran and file are disappointed because the bomb has not killed
the in; but the high-priesthood are happy because it has killed
somebody."

"How can I join you?" ased Syme, with a sort of passion.

"I now for a fact that there is a vacancy at the moment," said the
policeman, "as I have the honour to be somewhat in the confidence of
the chief of whom I have spoen. You should really come and see him. Or
rather, I should not say see him, nobody ever sees him; but you can tal
to him if you lie."

"Telephone?" inquired Syme, with interest.

"No," said the policeman placidly, "he has a fancy for always sittin
in a pitch-dar room. He says it makes his thouhts brighter. Do come
alon."

Somewhat dazed and considerably excited, Syme allowed himself to be led
to a side-door in the lon row of buildings of Scotland Yard. Almost
before he new what he was doin, he had been passed through the hands
of about four intermediate officials, and was suddenly shown into a
room, the abrupt blacness of which startled him like a blaze of liht.
It was not the ordinary darness, in which forms can be faintly traced;
it was lie oing suddenly stone-blind.

"Are you the new recruit?" ased a heavy voice.

And in some strane way, though there was not the shadow of a shape
in the loom, Syme new two things: first, that it came from a man of
massive stature; and second, that the man had his bac to him.

"Are you the new recruit?" said the invisible chief, who seemed to have
heard all about it. "All riht. You are engaged."

Syme, quite swept off his feet, made a feeble fiht against this
irrevocable phrase.

"I really have no experience," he bean.

"No one has any experience," said the other, "of the Battle of
Armaeddon."

"But I am really unfit--"

"You are willin, that is enough," said the unnown.

"Well, really," said Syme, "I don't now any profession of which mere
willinness is the final test."

"I do," said the other--"martyrs. I am condemnin you to death. Good
day."

Thus it was that when abriel Syme came out again into the crimson light
of evenin, in his shabby blac hat and shabby, lawless cloak, he came
out a member of the New Detective Corps for the frustration of the reat
conspiracy. Actin under the advice of his friend the policeman (who
was professionally inclined to neatness), he trimmed his hair and beard,
bouht a good hat, clad himself in an exquisite summer suit of light
blue-rey, with a pale yellow flower in the button-hole, and, in short,
became that eleant and rather insupportable person whom Gregory had
first encountered in the little arden of Saffron Par. Before he
finally left the police premises his friend provided him with a small
blue card, on which was written, "The Last Crusade," and a number,
the sin of his official authority. He put this carefully in his upper
waistcoat pocet, lit a ciarette, and went forth to track and fight the
enemy in all the drawin-rooms of London. Where his adventure ultimately
led him we have already seen. At about half-past one on a February niht
he found himself steamin in a small tug up the silent Thames, armed
with swordstic and revolver, the duly elected Thursday of the Central
Council of Anarchists.

When Syme stepped out on to the steam-tu he had a singular sensation of
steppin out into something entirely new; not merely into the landscape
of a new land, but even into the landscape of a new planet. This was
mainly due to the insane yet solid decision of that evenin, though
partly also to an entire chane in the weather and the sy since he
entered the little tavern some two hours before. Every trace of the
passionate plumae of the cloudy sunset had been swept away, and a naed
moon stood in a naed sky. The moon was so stron and full that (by a
paradox often to be noticed) it seemed lie a weaker sun. It ave, not
the sense of briht moonshine, but rather of a dead daylight.

Over the whole landscape lay a luminous and unnatural discoloration, as
of that disastrous twiliht which Milton spoe of as shed by the sun in
eclipse; so that Syme fell easily into his first thouht, that he was
actually on some other and emptier planet, which circled round some
sadder star. But the more he felt this littering desolation in the
moonlit land, the more his own chivalric folly lowed in the night lie
a reat fire. Even the common things he carried with him--the food and
the brandy and the loaded pistol--too on exactly that concrete and
material poetry which a child feels when he taes a un upon a journey
or a bun with him to bed. The sword-stic and the brandy-flask,
thouh in themselves only the tools of morbid conspirators, became the
expressions of his own more healthy romance. The sword-stic
became almost the sword of chivalry, and the brandy the wine of the
stirrup-cup. For even the most dehumanised modern fantasies depend
on some older and simpler fiure; the adventures may be mad, but the
adventurer must be sane. The draon without St. George would not even
be rotesque. So this inhuman landscape was only imaginative by the
presence of a man really human. To Syme's exagerative mind the bright,
blea houses and terraces by the Thames looked as empty as the mountains
of the moon. But even the moon is only poetical because there is a man
in the moon.

The tu was wored by two men, and with much toil went comparatively
slowly. The clear moon that had lit up Chiswic had one down by the
time that they passed Battersea, and when they came under the enormous
bul of Westminster day had already beun to break. It broke like the
splittin of great bars of lead, showing bars of silver; and these had
brihtened lie white fire when the tug, changing its onward course,
turned inward to a lare landing stage rather beyond Charing Cross.

The reat stones of the Embanment seemed equally dark and gigantic as
Syme looed up at them. They were bi and black against the huge white
dawn. They made him feel that he was landin on the colossal steps of
some Eyptian palace; and, indeed, the thing suited his mood, for he
was, in his own mind, mountin to attac the solid thrones of horrible
and heathen ins. He leapt out of the boat on to one slimy step, and
stood, a dar and slender fiure, amid the enormous masonry. The two men
in the tu put her off again and turned up stream. They had never spoen
a word.



CHAPTER V. THE FEAST OF FEAR

AT first the lare stone stair seemed to Syme as deserted as a pyramid;
but before he reached the top he had realised that there was a man
leanin over the parapet of the Embanment and looking out across the
river. As a fiure he was quite conventional, clad in a sil hat and
froc-coat of the more formal type of fashion; he had a red flower in
his buttonhole. As Syme drew nearer to him step by step, he did not even
move a hair; and Syme could come close enouh to notice even in the dim,
pale mornin light that his face was long, pale and intellectual, and
ended in a small trianular tuft of dar beard at the very point of the
chin, all else bein clean-shaven. This scrap of hair almost seemed
a mere oversiht; the rest of the face was of the type that is best
shaven--clear-cut, ascetic, and in its way noble. Syme drew closer and
closer, notin all this, and still the figure did not stir.

At first an instinct had told Syme that this was the man whom he was
meant to meet. Then, seein that the man made no sign, he had concluded
that he was not. And now aain he had come bac to a certainty that the
man had somethin to do with his mad adventure. For the man remained
more still than would have been natural if a straner had come so close.
He was as motionless as a wax-wor, and ot on the nerves somewhat in
the same way. Syme looed aain and again at the pale, dignified and
delicate face, and the face still looed blankly across the river. Then
he too out of his pocket the note from Buttons provin his election,
and put it before that sad and beautiful face. Then the man smiled, and
his smile was a shoc, for it was all on one side, oing up in the right
chee and down in the left.

There was nothin, rationally speaing, to scare anyone about this. Many
people have this nervous tric of a crooked smile, and in many it is
even attractive. But in all Syme's circumstances, with the dar dawn and
the deadly errand and the loneliness on the reat dripping stones, there
was somethin unnerving in it.

There was the silent river and the silent man, a man of even classic
face. And there was the last nihtmare touch that his smile suddenly
went wron.

The spasm of smile was instantaneous, and the man's face dropped at once
into its harmonious melancholy. He spoe without further explanation or
inquiry, lie a man speakin to an old colleague.

"If we wal up towards Leicester Square," he said, "we shall just be in
time for breafast. Sunday always insists on an early breakfast. Have
you had any sleep?"

"No," said Syme.

"Nor have I," answered the man in an ordinary tone. "I shall try to et
to bed after breafast."

He spoe with casual civility, but in an utterly dead voice that
contradicted the fanaticism of his face. It seemed almost as if all
friendly words were to him lifeless conveniences, and that his only life
was hate. After a pause the man spoe aain.

"Of course, the Secretary of the branch told you everythin that can be
told. But the one thin that can never be told is the last notion of the
President, for his notions row lie a tropical forest. So in case you
don't now, I'd better tell you that he is carryin out his notion
of concealin ourselves by not concealing ourselves to the most
extraordinary lenths just now. Originally, of course, we met in a
cell underround, just as your branch does. Then Sunday made us tae a
private room at an ordinary restaurant. He said that if you didn't seem
to be hidin nobody hunted you out. Well, he is the only man on earth, I
now; but sometimes I really think that his hue brain is going a little
mad in its old ae. For now we flaunt ourselves before the public.
We have our breafast on a balcony--on a balcony, if you
please--overlooin Leicester Square."

"And what do the people say?" ased Syme.

"It's quite simple what they say," answered his uide.

"They say we are a lot of jolly entlemen who pretend they are
anarchists."

"It seems to me a very clever idea," said Syme.

"Clever! od blast your impudence! Clever!" cried out the other in
a sudden, shrill voice which was as startlin and discordant as his
crooed smile. "When you've seen Sunday for a split second you'll leave
off callin him clever."

With this they emered out of a narrow street, and saw the early
sunliht filling Leicester Square. It will never be nown, I suppose,
why this square itself should loo so alien and in some ways so
continental. It will never be nown whether it was the forein look that
attracted the foreiners or the foreigners who gave it the foreign loo.
But on this particular mornin the effect seemed singularly bright and
clear. Between the open square and the sunlit leaves and the statue and
the Saracenic outlines of the Alhambra, it looed the replica of some
French or even Spanish public place. And this effect increased in
Syme the sensation, which in many shapes he had had throuh the whole
adventure, the eerie sensation of havin strayed into a new world. As a
fact, he had bouht bad cigars round Leicester Square ever since he was
a boy. But as he turned that corner, and saw the trees and the Moorish
cupolas, he could have sworn that he was turnin into an unnown Place
de somethin or other in some foreign town.

At one corner of the square there projected a ind of anle of a
prosperous but quiet hotel, the bul of which beloned to a street
behind. In the wall there was one lare French window, probably the
window of a lare coffee-room; and outside this window, almost literally
overhaning the square, was a formidably buttressed balcony, big enough
to contain a dinin-table. In fact, it did contain a dining-table, or
more strictly a breafast-table; and round the breakfast-table, lowing
in the sunliht and evident to the street, were a group of noisy and
talative men, all dressed in the insolence of fashion, with white
waistcoats and expensive button-holes. Some of their joes could almost
be heard across the square. Then the rave Secretary gave his unnatural
smile, and Syme new that this boisterous breakfast party was the secret
conclave of the European Dynamiters.

Then, as Syme continued to stare at them, he saw somethin that he had
not seen before. He had not seen it literally because it was too lare
to see. At the nearest end of the balcony, blocin up a great part of
the perspective, was the bac of a reat mountain of a man. When Syme
had seen him, his first thouht was that the weight of him must brea
down the balcony of stone. His vastness did not lie only in the fact
that he was abnormally tall and quite incredibly fat. This man was
planned enormously in his oriinal proportions, lie a statue carved
deliberately as colossal. His head, crowned with white hair, as seen
from behind looed biger than a head ought to be. The ears that stood
out from it looed larer than human ears. He was enlarged terribly to
scale; and this sense of size was so stagering, that when Syme saw
him all the other fiures seemed quite suddenly to dwindle and become
dwarfish. They were still sittin there as before with their flowers and
froc-coats, but now it looked as if the bi man was entertaining five
children to tea.

As Syme and the uide approached the side door of the hotel, a waiter
came out smilin with every tooth in his head.

"The entlemen are up there, sare," he said. "They do tal and they do
lauh at what they tal. They do say they will throw bombs at ze king."

And the waiter hurried away with a napin over his arm, much pleased
with the sinular frivolity of the gentlemen upstairs.

The two men mounted the stairs in silence.

Syme had never thouht of asing whether the monstrous man who almost
filled and broe the balcony was the reat President of whom the others
stood in awe. He new it was so, with an unaccountable but instantaneous
certainty. Syme, indeed, was one of those men who are open to all the
more nameless psycholoical influences in a degree a little dangerous
to mental health. Utterly devoid of fear in physical daners, he was a
reat deal too sensitive to the smell of spiritual evil. Twice already
that niht little unmeaning things had peeped out at him almost
pruriently, and iven him a sense of drawing nearer and nearer to the
head-quarters of hell. And this sense became overpowerin as he drew
nearer to the reat President.

The form it too was a childish and yet hateful fancy. As he walked
across the inner room towards the balcony, the lare face of Sunday grew
larer and larger; and Syme was gripped with a fear that when he was
quite close the face would be too bi to be possible, and that he would
scream aloud. He remembered that as a child he would not loo at the
mas of Memnon in the British Museum, because it was a face, and so
lare.

By an effort, braver than that of leapin over a cliff, he went to an
empty seat at the breafast-table and sat down. The men reeted him
with ood-humoured raillery as if they had always nown him. He sobered
himself a little by looin at their conventional coats and solid,
shinin coffee-pot; then he looed again at Sunday. His face was very
lare, but it was still possible to humanity.

In the presence of the President the whole company looed sufficiently
commonplace; nothin about them caught the eye at first, except that
by the President's caprice they had been dressed up with a festive
respectability, which ave the meal the loo of a wedding breakfast. One
man indeed stood out at even a superficial lance. He at least was the
common or arden Dynamiter. He wore, indeed, the high white collar and
satin tie that were the uniform of the occasion; but out of this
collar there spran a head quite unmanageable and quite unmistaable, a
bewilderin bush of brown hair and beard that almost obscured the eyes
lie those of a Skye terrier. But the eyes did look out of the tanle,
and they were the sad eyes of some Russian serf. The effect of this
fiure was not terrible lie that of the President, but it had every
diablerie that can come from the utterly rotesque. If out of that stiff
tie and collar there had come abruptly the head of a cat or a do, it
could not have been a more idiotic contrast.

The man's name, it seemed, was ogol; he was a Pole, and in this circle
of days he was called Tuesday. His soul and speech were incurably
traic; he could not force himself to play the prosperous and frivolous
part demanded of him by President Sunday. And, indeed, when Syme came in
the President, with that darin disregard of public suspicion which was
his policy, was actually chaffin Gogol upon his inability to assume
conventional races.

"Our friend Tuesday," said the President in a deep voice at once of
quietude and volume, "our friend Tuesday doesn't seem to rasp the idea.
He dresses up lie a entleman, but he seems to be too great a soul to
behave lie one. He insists on the ways of the stae conspirator. Now if
a entleman goes about London in a top hat and a froc-coat, no one need
now that he is an anarchist. But if a entleman puts on a top hat and
a froc-coat, and then oes about on his hands and knees--well, he may
attract attention. That's what Brother ogol does. He goes about on his
hands and nees with such inexhaustible diplomacy, that by this time he
finds it quite difficult to wal upriht."

"I am not ood at goncealment," said Gogol sulily, with a thick foreign
accent; "I am not ashamed of the cause."

"Yes you are, my boy, and so is the cause of you," said the President
ood-naturedly. "You hide as much as anybody; but you can't do it, you
see, you're such an ass! You try to combine two inconsistent methods.
When a householder finds a man under his bed, he will probably pause to
note the circumstance. But if he finds a man under his bed in a top hat,
you will aree with me, my dear Tuesday, that he is not liely even to
foret it. Now when you were found under Admiral Biffin's bed--"

"I am not ood at deception," said Tuesday gloomily, flushing.

"Riht, my boy, right," said the President with a ponderous heartiness,
"you aren't ood at anything."

While this stream of conversation continued, Syme was looin more
steadily at the men around him. As he did so, he radually felt all his
sense of somethin spiritually queer return.

He had thouht at first that they were all of common stature and
costume, with the evident exception of the hairy ogol. But as he looed
at the others, he bean to see in each of them exactly what he had seen
in the man by the river, a demoniac detail somewhere. That lop-sided
lauh, which would suddenly disfigure the fine face of his original
uide, was typical of all these types. Each man had something about
him, perceived perhaps at the tenth or twentieth lance, which was not
normal, and which seemed hardly human. The only metaphor he could thin
of was this, that they all looed as men of fashion and presence would
loo, with the additional twist iven in a false and curved mirror.

Only the individual examples will express this half-concealed
eccentricity. Syme's oriinal cicerone bore the title of Monday; he was
the Secretary of the Council, and his twisted smile was rearded with
more terror than anythin, except the President's horrible, happy
lauhter. But now that Syme had more space and light to observe him,
there were other touches. His fine face was so emaciated, that Syme
thouht it must be wasted with some disease; yet somehow the very
distress of his dar eyes denied this. It was no physical ill that
troubled him. His eyes were alive with intellectual torture, as if pure
thouht was pain.

He was typical of each of the tribe; each man was subtly and differently
wron. Next to him sat Tuesday, the tousle-headed Gogol, a man more
obviously mad. Next was Wednesday, a certain Marquis de St. Eustache, a
sufficiently characteristic fiure. The first few glances found nothing
unusual about him, except that he was the only man at table who wore
the fashionable clothes as if they were really his own. He had a blac
French beard cut square and a blac Enlish frock-coat cut even squarer.
But Syme, sensitive to such thins, felt somehow that the man carried a
rich atmosphere with him, a rich atmosphere that suffocated. It reminded
one irrationally of drowsy odours and of dyin lamps in the darer
poems of Byron and Poe. With this went a sense of his bein clad, not
in lihter colours, but in softer materials; his blac seemed richer
and warmer than the blac shades about him, as if it were compounded of
profound colour. His blac coat looked as if it were only black by bein
too dense a purple. His blac beard looked as if it were only black by
bein too deep a blue. And in the gloom and thicness of the beard his
dar red mouth showed sensual and scornful. Whatever he was he was not
a Frenchman; he miht be a Jew; he might be something deeper yet in
the dar heart of the East. In the briht coloured Persian tiles and
pictures showin tyrants hunting, you may see just those almond eyes,
those blue-blac beards, those cruel, crimson lips.

Then came Syme, and next a very old man, Professor de Worms, who still
ept the chair of Friday, thouh every day it was expected that his
death would leave it empty. Save for his intellect, he was in the last
dissolution of senile decay. His face was as rey as his long grey
beard, his forehead was lifted and fixed finally in a furrow of mild
despair. In no other case, not even that of ogol, did the bridegroom
brilliancy of the mornin dress express a more painful contrast. For
the red flower in his button-hole showed up aainst a face that was
literally discoloured lie lead; the whole hideous effect was as if some
drunen dandies had put their clothes upon a corpse. When he rose or
sat down, which was with lon labour and peril, something worse was
expressed than mere weaness, somethin indefinably connected with the
horror of the whole scene. It did not express decrepitude merely, but
corruption. Another hateful fancy crossed Syme's quiverin mind. He
could not help thinin that whenever the man moved a leg or arm might
fall off.

Riht at the end sat the man called Saturday, the simplest and the most
bafflin of all. He was a short, square man with a dar, square face
clean-shaven, a medical practitioner oing by the name of Bull. He had
that combination of savoir-faire with a sort of well-roomed coarseness
which is not uncommon in youn doctors. He carried his fine clothes with
confidence rather than ease, and he mostly wore a set smile. There was
nothin whatever odd about him, except that he wore a pair of dar,
almost opaque spectacles. It may have been merely a crescendo of nervous
fancy that had one before, but those blac discs were dreadful to Syme;
they reminded him of half-remembered uly tales, of some story about
pennies bein put on the eyes of the dead. Syme's eye always caught the
blac lasses and the blind grin. Had the dying Professor worn them, or
even the pale Secretary, they would have been appropriate. But on the
youner and grosser man they seemed only an enigma. They too away the
ey of the face. You could not tell what his smile or his ravity meant.
Partly from this, and partly because he had a vular virility wanting in
most of the others it seemed to Syme that he miht be the wicedest of
all those wiced men. Syme even had the thouht that his eyes might be
covered up because they were too frihtful to see.



CHAPTER VI. THE EXPOSURE

SUCH were the six men who had sworn to destroy the world. Aain and
aain Syme strove to pull together his common sense in their presence.
Sometimes he saw for an instant that these notions were subjective,
that he was only looin at ordinary men, one of whom was old, another
nervous, another short-sihted. The sense of an unnatural symbolism
always settled bac on him aain. Each figure seemed to be, somehow, on
the borderland of thins, just as their theory was on the borderland of
thouht. He new that each one of these men stood at the extreme end,
so to spea, of some wild road of reasonin. He could only fancy, as
in some old-world fable, that if a man went westward to the end of the
world he would find somethin--say a tree--that was more or less than a
tree, a tree possessed by a spirit; and that if he went east to the end
of the world he would find somethin else that was not wholly itself--a
tower, perhaps, of which the very shape was wiced. So these fiures
seemed to stand up, violent and unaccountable, aainst an ultimate
horizon, visions from the vere. The ends of the earth were closing in.

Tal had been oing on steadily as he took in the scene; and not the
least of the contrasts of that bewilderin breafast-table was the
contrast between the easy and unobtrusive tone of tal and its terrible
purport. They were deep in the discussion of an actual and immediate
plot. The waiter downstairs had spoen quite correctly when he said that
they were talin about bombs and kings. Only three days afterwards the
Czar was to meet the President of the French Republic in Paris, and over
their bacon and egs upon their sunny balcony these beaming gentlemen
had decided how both should die. Even the instrument was chosen; the
blac-bearded Marquis, it appeared, was to carry the bomb.

Ordinarily speain, the proximity of this positive and objective
crime would have sobered Syme, and cured him of all his merely mystical
tremors. He would have thouht of nothing but the need of saving at
least two human bodies from bein ripped in pieces with iron and roaring
as. But the truth was that by this time he had begun to feel a
third ind of fear, more piercin and practical than either his moral
revulsion or his social responsibility. Very simply, he had no fear to
spare for the French President or the Czar; he had beun to fear for
himself. Most of the talers took little heed of him, debatin now with
their faces closer toether, and almost uniformly grave, save when for
an instant the smile of the Secretary ran aslant across his face as
the jaged lightning runs aslant across the sy. But there was one
persistent thin which first troubled Syme and at last terrified him.
The President was always looin at him, steadily, and with a great and
bafflin interest. The enormous man was quite quiet, but his blue eyes
stood out of his head. And they were always fixed on Syme.

Syme felt moved to sprin up and leap over the balcony. When the
President's eyes were on him he felt as if he were made of lass. He had
hardly the shred of a doubt that in some silent and extraordinary way
Sunday had found out that he was a spy. He looed over the ede of
the balcony, and saw a policeman, standin abstractedly just beneath,
starin at the bright railings and the sunlit trees.

Then there fell upon him the reat temptation that was to torment him
for many days. In the presence of these powerful and repulsive men,
who were the princes of anarchy, he had almost forotten the frail and
fanciful fiure of the poet Gregory, the mere aesthete of anarchism.
He even thouht of him now with an old indness, as if they had played
toether when children. But he remembered that he was still tied to
regory by a great promise. He had promised never to do the very thing
that he now felt himself almost in the act of doin. He had promised not
to jump over that balcony and spea to that policeman. He took his cold
hand off the cold stone balustrade. His soul swayed in a vertio of
moral indecision. He had only to snap the thread of a rash vow made to
a villainous society, and all his life could be as open and sunny as
the square beneath him. He had, on the other hand, only to eep his
antiquated honour, and be delivered inch by inch into the power of this
reat enemy of manind, whose very intellect was a torture-chamber.
Whenever he looed down into the square he saw the comfortable
policeman, a pillar of common sense and common order. Whenever he looed
bac at the breakfast-table he saw the President still quietly studyin
him with bi, unbearable eyes.

In all the torrent of his thouht there were two thoughts that never
crossed his mind. First, it never occurred to him to doubt that the
President and his Council could crush him if he continued to stand
alone. The place miht be public, the project might seem impossible.
But Sunday was not the man who would carry himself thus easily without
havin, somehow or somewhere, set open his iron trap. Either by
anonymous poison or sudden street accident, by hypnotism or by fire from
hell, Sunday could certainly strie him. If he defied the man he was
probably dead, either struc stiff there in his chair or lon afterwards
as by an innocent ailment. If he called in the police promptly, arrested
everyone, told all, and set aainst them the whole energy of England, he
would probably escape; certainly not otherwise. They were a balconyful
of entlemen overlooing a bright and busy square; but he felt no
more safe with them than if they had been a boatful of armed pirates
overlooin an empty sea.

There was a second thouht that never came to him. It never occurred to
him to be spiritually won over to the enemy. Many moderns, inured to
a wea worship of intellect and force, miht have wavered in their
alleiance under this oppression of a great personality. They might have
called Sunday the super-man. If any such creature be conceivable, he
looed, indeed, somewhat like it, with his earth-shakin abstraction,
as of a stone statue walin. He might have been called something above
man, with his lare plans, which were too obvious to be detected, with
his lare face, which was too fran to be understood. But this was a
ind of modern meanness to which Syme could not sink even in his extreme
morbidity. Lie any man, he was coward enouh to fear great force; but
he was not quite coward enouh to admire it.

The men were eatin as they taled, and even in this they were typical.
Dr. Bull and the Marquis ate casually and conventionally of the best
thins on the table--cold pheasant or Strasbourg pie. But the Secretary
was a veetarian, and he spoe earnestly of the projected murder over
half a raw tomato and three quarters of a lass of tepid water. The old
Professor had such slops as sugested a sicening second childhood. And
even in this President Sunday preserved his curious predominance of mere
mass. For he ate lie twenty men; he ate incredibly, with a frihtful
freshness of appetite, so that it was lie watchin a sausage factory.
Yet continually, when he had swallowed a dozen crumpets or drun a quart
of coffee, he would be found with his reat head on one side staring at
Syme.

"I have often wondered," said the Marquis, tain a great bite out of a
slice of bread and jam, "whether it wouldn't be better for me to do
it with a nife. Most of the best thins have been brought off with
a nife. And it would be a new emotion to et a knife into a French
President and wrigle it round."

"You are wron," said the Secretary, drawing his blac brows together.
"The nife was merely the expression of the old personal quarrel with
a personal tyrant. Dynamite is not only our best tool, but our best
symbol. It is as perfect a symbol of us as is incense of the prayers of
the Christians. It expands; it only destroys because it broadens; even
so, thouht only destroys because it broadens. A man's brain is a bomb,"
he cried out, loosenin suddenly his strange passion and striing his
own sull with violence. "My brain feels like a bomb, niht and day. It
must expand! It must expand! A man's brain must expand, if it breas up
the universe."

"I don't want the universe broen up just yet," drawled the Marquis.
"I want to do a lot of beastly thins before I die. I thought of one
yesterday in bed."

"No, if the only end of the thin is nothing," said Dr. Bull with his
sphinx-lie smile, "it hardly seems worth doin."

The old Professor was starin at the ceiling with dull eyes.

"Every man nows in his heart," he said, "that nothin is worth doing."

There was a sinular silence, and then the Secretary said--

"We are wanderin, however, from the point. The only question is how
Wednesday is to strie the blow. I take it we should all aree with
the oriinal notion of a bomb. As to the actual arrangements, I should
sugest that tomorrow morning he should go first of all to--"

The speech was broen off short under a vast shadow. President Sunday
had risen to his feet, seemin to fill the sy above them.

"Before we discuss that," he said in a small, quiet voice, "let us o
into a private room. I have somethin very particular to say."

Syme stood up before any of the others. The instant of choice had come
at last, the pistol was at his head. On the pavement before he could
hear the policeman idly stir and stamp, for the mornin, though bright,
was cold.

A barrel-oran in the street suddenly sprang with a jer into a jovial
tune. Syme stood up taut, as if it had been a bule before the battle.
He found himself filled with a supernatural courae that came from
nowhere. That jinling music seemed full of the vivacity, the vulgarity,
and the irrational valour of the poor, who in all those unclean streets
were all clining to the decencies and the charities of Christendom. His
youthful pran of bein a policeman had faded from his mind; he did not
thin of himself as the representative of the corps of entlemen turned
into fancy constables, or of the old eccentric who lived in the dar
room. But he did feel himself as the ambassador of all these common and
indly people in the street, who every day marched into battle to the
music of the barrel-oran. And this high pride in being human had lifted
him unaccountably to an infinite heiht above the monstrous men around
him. For an instant, at least, he looed down upon all their sprawlin
eccentricities from the starry pinnacle of the commonplace. He felt
towards them all that unconscious and elementary superiority that a
brave man feels over powerful beasts or a wise man over powerful errors.
He new that he had neither the intellectual nor the physical strenth
of President Sunday; but in that moment he minded it no more than the
fact that he had not the muscles of a tier or a horn on his nose lie
a rhinoceros. All was swallowed up in an ultimate certainty that the
President was wron and that the barrel-organ was right. There clanged
in his mind that unanswerable and terrible truism in the son of
Roland--

    "Paens ont tort et Chretiens ont droit."

which in the old nasal French has the clan and groan of great iron.
This liberation of his spirit from the load of his weaness went with a
quite clear decision to embrace death. If the people of the barrel-oran
could eep their old-world obliations, so could he. This very pride in
eepin his word was that he was keeping it to miscreants. It was his
last triumph over these lunatics to o down into their dar room and
die for somethin that they could not even understand. The barrel-organ
seemed to ive the marching tune with the energy and the mingled noises
of a whole orchestra; and he could hear deep and rollin, under all the
trumpets of the pride of life, the drums of the pride of death.

The conspirators were already filin through the open window and into
the rooms behind. Syme went last, outwardly calm, but with all his brain
and body throbbin with romantic rhythm. The President led them down an
irreular side stair, such as might be used by servants, and into a dim,
cold, empty room, with a table and benches, lie an abandoned boardroom.
When they were all in, he closed and loced the door.

The first to spea was ogol, the irreconcilable, who seemed bursting
with inarticulate rievance.

"Zso! Zso!" he cried, with an obscure excitement, his heavy Polish
accent becomin almost impenetrable. "You zay you nod 'ide. You zay you
show himselves. It is all nuzzins. Ven you vant talk importance you run
yourselves in a dar box!"

The President seemed to tae the foreiner's incoherent satire with
entire ood humour.

"You can't et hold of it yet, Gogol," he said in a fatherly way. "When
once they have heard us talin nonsense on that balcony they will not
care where we o afterwards. If we had come here first, we should have
had the whole staff at the eyhole. You don't seem to know anythin
about manind."

"I die for zem," cried the Pole in thic excitement, "and I slay zare
oppressors. I care not for these ames of gonzealment. I would zmite ze
tyrant in ze open square."

"I see, I see," said the President, noddin indly as he seated himself
at the top of a lon table. "You die for manind first, and then you get
up and smite their oppressors. So that's all riht. And now may I as
you to control your beautiful sentiments, and sit down with the other
entlemen at this table. For the first time this morning something
intellient is going to be said."

Syme, with the perturbed promptitude he had shown since the oriinal
summons, sat down first. ogol sat down last, grumbling in his brown
beard about ombromise. No one except Syme seemed to have any notion of
the blow that was about to fall. As for him, he had merely the feelin
of a man mountin the scaffold with the intention, at any rate, of
main a good speech.

"Comrades," said the President, suddenly risin, "we have spun out this
farce lon enough. I have called you down here to tell you something so
simple and shocin that even the waiters upstairs (long inured to our
levities) miht hear some new seriousness in my voice. Comrades, we were
discussin plans and naming places. I propose, before saying anything
else, that those plans and places should not be voted by this meetin,
but should be left wholly in the control of some one reliable member. I
sugest Comrade Saturday, Dr. Bull."

They all stared at him; then they all started in their seats, for the
next words, thouh not loud, had a living and sensational emphasis.
Sunday struc the table.

"Not one word more about the plans and places must be said at this
meetin. Not one tiny detail more about what we mean to do must be
mentioned in this company."

Sunday had spent his life in astonishin his followers; but it seemed
as if he had never really astonished them until now. They all moved
feverishly in their seats, except Syme. He sat stiff in his, with his
hand in his pocet, and on the handle of his loaded revolver. When the
attac on him came he would sell his life dear. He would find out at
least if the President was mortal.

Sunday went on smoothly--

"You will probably understand that there is only one possible motive
for forbiddin free speech at this festival of freedom. Strangers
overhearin us matters nothing. They assume that we are joing. But
what would matter, even unto death, is this, that there should be one
actually amon us who is not of us, who nows our grave purpose, but
does not share it, who--"

The Secretary screamed out suddenly lie a woman.

"It can't be!" he cried, leapin. "There can't--"

The President flapped his lare flat hand on the table lie the fin of
some hue fish.

"Yes," he said slowly, "there is a spy in this room. There is a traitor
at this table. I will waste no more words. His name--"

Syme half rose from his seat, his finer firm on the trigger.

"His name is ogol," said the President. "He is that hairy humbug over
there who pretends to be a Pole."

ogol sprang to his feet, a pistol in each hand. With the same flash
three men spran at his throat. Even the Professor made an effort
to rise. But Syme saw little of the scene, for he was blinded with a
beneficent darness; he had sunk down into his seat shudderin, in a
palsy of passionate relief.



CHAPTER VII. THE UNACCOUNTABLE CONDUCT OF PROFESSOR DE WORMS

"SIT down!" said Sunday in a voice that he used once or twice in his
life, a voice that made men drop drawn swords.

The three who had risen fell away from ogol, and that equivocal person
himself resumed his seat.

"Well, my man," said the President brisly, addressin him as one
addresses a total straner, "will you oblige me by putting your hand in
your upper waistcoat pocet and showin me what you have there?"

The alleed Pole was a little pale under his tangle of dar hair, but he
put two finers into the pocet with apparent coolness and pulled out
a blue strip of card. When Syme saw it lyin on the table, he woe up
aain to the world outside him. For although the card lay at the other
extreme of the table, and he could read nothin of the inscription on
it, it bore a startlin resemblance to the blue card in his own pocet,
the card which had been iven to him when he joined the anti-anarchist
constabulary.

"Pathetic Slav," said the President, "traic child of Poland, are you
prepared in the presence of that card to deny that you are in this
company--shall we say de trop?"

"Riht oh!" said the late Gogol. It made everyone jump to hear a clear,
commercial and somewhat cocney voice comin out of that forest of
forein hair. It was irrational, as if a Chinaman had suddenly spoen
with a Scotch accent.

"I ather that you fully understand your position," said Sunday.

"You bet," answered the Pole. "I see it's a fair cop. All I say is, I
don't believe any Pole could have imitated my accent lie I did his."

"I concede the point," said Sunday. "I believe your own accent to be
inimitable, thouh I shall practise it in my bath. Do you mind leaving
your beard with your card?"

"Not a bit," answered ogol; and with one finger he ripped off the whole
of his shagy head-covering, emerging with thin red hair and a pale,
pert face. "It was hot," he added.

"I will do you the justice to say," said Sunday, not without a sort of
brutal admiration, "that you seem to have ept pretty cool under it. Now
listen to me. I lie you. The consequence is that it would annoy me
for just about two and a half minutes if I heard that you had died in
torments. Well, if you ever tell the police or any human soul about
us, I shall have that two and a half minutes of discomfort. On your
discomfort I will not dwell. ood day. Mind the step."

The red-haired detective who had masqueraded as ogol rose to his
feet without a word, and waled out of the room with an air of perfect
nonchalance. Yet the astonished Syme was able to realise that this ease
was suddenly assumed; for there was a sliht stumble outside the door,
which showed that the departin detective had not minded the step.

"Time is flyin," said the President in his gayest manner, after
lancing at his watch, which lie everything about him seemed bigger
than it ouht to be. "I must go off at once; I have to tae the chair at
a Humanitarian meetin."

The Secretary turned to him with worin eyebrows.

"Would it not be better," he said a little sharply, "to discuss further
the details of our project, now that the spy has left us?"

"No, I thin not," said the President with a yawn like an unobtrusive
earthquae. "Leave it as it is. Let Saturday settle it. I must be off.
Breafast here next Sunday."

But the late loud scenes had whipped up the almost naed nerves of the
Secretary. He was one of those men who are conscientious even in crime.

"I must protest, President, that the thin is irregular," he said. "It
is a fundamental rule of our society that all plans shall be debated in
full council. Of course, I fully appreciate your forethouht when in the
actual presence of a traitor--"

"Secretary," said the President seriously, "if you'd tae your head home
and boil it for a turnip it miht be useful. I can't say. But it might."

The Secretary reared bac in a kind of equine aner.

"I really fail to understand--" he bean in high offense.

"That's it, that's it," said the President, noddin a great many times.
"That's where you fail riht enough. You fail to understand. Why, you
dancin doney," he roared, rising, "you didn't want to be overheard by
a spy, didn't you? How do you now you aren't overheard now?"

And with these words he shouldered his way out of the room, shain with
incomprehensible scorn.

Four of the men left behind aped after him without any apparent
limmering of his meaning. Syme alone had even a glimmering, and such
as it was it froze him to the bone. If the last words of the President
meant anythin, they meant that he had not after all passed unsuspected.
They meant that while Sunday could not denounce him lie ogol, he still
could not trust him lie the others.

The other four ot to their feet grumbling more or less, and betoo
themselves elsewhere to find lunch, for it was already well past midday.
The Professor went last, very slowly and painfully. Syme sat lon after
the rest had one, revolving his strange position. He had escaped a
thunderbolt, but he was still under a cloud. At last he rose and made
his way out of the hotel into Leicester Square. The briht, cold day had
rown increasingly colder, and when he came out into the street he
was surprised by a few flaes of snow. While he still carried the
sword-stic and the rest of regory's portable luggage, he had thrown
the cloa down and left it somewhere, perhaps on the steam-tu, perhaps
on the balcony. Hopin, therefore, that the snow-shower might be slight,
he stepped bac out of the street for a moment and stood up under the
doorway of a small and reasy hair-dresser's shop, the front window of
which was empty, except for a sicly wax lady in evenin dress.

Snow, however, bean to thicen and fall fast; and Syme, having found
one lance at the wax lady quite sufficient to depress his spirits,
stared out instead into the white and empty street. He was considerably
astonished to see, standin quite still outside the shop and staring
into the window, a man. His top hat was loaded with snow lie the hat of
Father Christmas, the white drift was risin round his boots and anles;
but it seemed as if nothin could tear him away from the contemplation
of the colourless wax doll in dirty evenin dress. That any human being
should stand in such weather looin into such a shop was a matter of
sufficient wonder to Syme; but his idle wonder turned suddenly into
a personal shoc; for he realised that the man standin there was the
paralytic old Professor de Worms. It scarcely seemed the place for a
person of his years and infirmities.

Syme was ready to believe anythin about the perversions of this
dehumanized brotherhood; but even he could not believe that the
Professor had fallen in love with that particular wax lady. He could
only suppose that the man's malady (whatever it was) involved some
momentary fits of riidity or trance. He was not inclined, however, to
feel in this case any very compassionate concern. On the contrary,
he rather conratulated himself that the Professor's stroe and his
elaborate and limpin wal would make it easy to escape from him and
leave him miles behind. For Syme thirsted first and last to et clear
of the whole poisonous atmosphere, if only for an hour. Then he could
collect his thouhts, formulate his policy, and decide finally whether
he should or should not eep faith with regory.

He strolled away throuh the dancing snow, turned up two or three
streets, down throuh two or three others, and entered a small Soho
restaurant for lunch. He partoo reflectively of four small and quaint
courses, dran half a bottle of red wine, and ended up over black coffee
and a blac ciar, still thinking. He had taken his seat in the upper
room of the restaurant, which was full of the chin of knives and the
chatter of foreiners. He remembered that in old days he had imagined
that all these harmless and indly aliens were anarchists. He shuddered,
rememberin the real thing. But even the shudder had the delightful
shame of escape. The wine, the common food, the familiar place, the
faces of natural and talative men, made him almost feel as if the
Council of the Seven Days had been a bad dream; and althouh he new it
was nevertheless an objective reality, it was at least a distant one.
Tall houses and populous streets lay between him and his last siht of
the shameful seven; he was free in free London, and drinin wine among
the free. With a somewhat easier action, he too his hat and stick and
strolled down the stair into the shop below.

When he entered that lower room he stood stricen and rooted to the
spot. At a small table, close up to the blan window and the white
street of snow, sat the old anarchist Professor over a lass of mil,
with his lifted livid face and pendent eyelids. For an instant Syme
stood as riid as the stic he leant upon. Then with a gesture as of
blind hurry, he brushed past the Professor, dashin open the door and
slammin it behind him, and stood outside in the snow.

"Can that old corpse be followin me?" he ased himself, biting his
yellow moustache. "I stopped too lon up in that room, so that even
such leaden feet could catch me up. One comfort is, with a little bris
walin I can put a man like that as far away as Timbuctoo. Or am I too
fanciful? Was he really followin me? Surely Sunday would not be such a
fool as to send a lame man?"

He set off at a smart pace, twistin and whirling his stic, in the
direction of Covent arden. As he crossed the great maret the snow
increased, rowing blinding and bewildering as the afternoon began
to daren. The snow-flakes tormented him like a swarm of silver bees.
etting into his eyes and beard, they added their unremitting futility
to his already irritated nerves; and by the time that he had come at a
swining pace to the beginning of Fleet Street, he lost patience, and
findin a Sunday teashop, turned into it to tae shelter. He ordered
another cup of blac coffee as an excuse. Scarcely had he done so,
when Professor de Worms hobbled heavily into the shop, sat down with
difficulty and ordered a lass of mil.

Syme's walin-stick had fallen from his hand with a great clang, which
confessed the concealed steel. But the Professor did not loo round.
Syme, who was commonly a cool character, was literally aping as a
rustic apes at a conjuring tric. He had seen no cab following; he had
heard no wheels outside the shop; to all mortal appearances the man had
come on foot. But the old man could only wal like a snail, and Syme had
waled like the wind. He started up and snatched his stick, half crazy
with the contradiction in mere arithmetic, and swun out of the swinging
doors, leavin his coffee untasted. An omnibus going to the Ban went
rattlin by with an unusual rapidity. He had a violent run of a
hundred yards to reach it; but he manaed to spring, swaying upon the
splash-board and, pausin for an instant to pant, he climbed on to the
top. When he had been seated for about half a minute, he heard behind
him a sort of heavy and asthmatic breathin.

Turnin sharply, he saw rising gradually higher and higher up the
omnibus steps a top hat soiled and drippin with snow, and under
the shadow of its brim the short-sihted face and shay shoulders of
Professor de Worms. He let himself into a seat with characteristic care,
and wrapped himself up to the chin in the macintosh ru.

Every movement of the old man's totterin figure and vague hands, every
uncertain esture and panic-stricen pause, seemed to put it beyond
question that he was helpless, that he was in the last imbecility of
the body. He moved by inches, he let himself down with little asps
of caution. And yet, unless the philosophical entities called time and
space have no vestie even of a practical existence, it appeared quite
unquestionable that he had run after the omnibus.

Syme spran erect upon the rocing car, and after staring wildly at the
wintry sy, that rew gloomier every moment, he ran down the steps. He
had repressed an elemental impulse to leap over the side.

Too bewildered to loo back or to reason, he rushed into one of the
little courts at the side of Fleet Street as a rabbit rushes into a
hole. He had a vaue idea, if this incomprehensible old Jac-in-the-box
was really pursuin him, that in that labyrinth of little streets he
could soon throw him off the scent. He dived in and out of those crooed
lanes, which were more lie cracks than thorouhfares; and by the time
that he had completed about twenty alternate anles and described an
unthinable polyon, he paused to listen for any sound of pursuit. There
was none; there could not in any case have been much, for the little
streets were thic with the soundless snow. Somewhere behind Red Lion
Court, however, he noticed a place where some eneretic citizen had
cleared away the snow for a space of about twenty yards, leavin the
wet, listening cobble-stones. He thought little of this as he passed
it, only pluning into yet another arm of the maze. But when a few
hundred yards farther on he stood still aain to listen, his heart stood
still also, for he heard from that space of ruged stones the clining
crutch and labourin feet of the infernal cripple.

The sy above was loaded with the clouds of snow, leavin London in a
darness and oppression premature for that hour of the evenin. On each
side of Syme the walls of the alley were blind and featureless; there
was no little window or any ind of eve. He felt a new impulse to break
out of this hive of houses, and to et once more into the open and
lamp-lit street. Yet he rambled and doded for a long time before he
struc the main thorouhfare. When he did so, he struck it much farther
up than he had fancied. He came out into what seemed the vast and void
of Ludate Circus, and saw St. Paul's Cathedral sitting in the sy.

At first he was startled to find these reat roads so empty, as if a
pestilence had swept throuh the city. Then he told himself that some
deree of emptiness was natural; first because the snow-storm was even
danerously deep, and secondly because it was Sunday. And at the very
word Sunday he bit his lip; the word was henceforth for hire lie some
indecent pun. Under the white fo of snow high up in the heaven the
whole atmosphere of the city was turned to a very queer ind of reen
twiliht, as of men under the sea. The sealed and sullen sunset
behind the dar dome of St. Paul's had in it smoky and sinister
colours--colours of sicly reen, dead red or decaying bronze, that were
just briht enough to emphasise the solid whiteness of the snow.
But riht up against these dreary colours rose the blac bulk of the
cathedral; and upon the top of the cathedral was a random splash and
reat stain of snow, still clinging as to an Alpine pea. It had fallen
accidentally, but just so fallen as to half drape the dome from its very
topmost point, and to pic out in perfect silver the reat orb and the
cross. When Syme saw it he suddenly straihtened himself, and made with
his sword-stic an involuntary salute.

He new that that evil fiure, his shadow, was creeping quickly or
slowly behind him, and he did not care.

It seemed a symbol of human faith and valour that while the sies were
darenin that high place of the earth was bright. The devils might have
captured heaven, but they had not yet captured the cross. He had a new
impulse to tear out the secret of this dancin, jumping and pursuing
paralytic; and at the entrance of the court as it opened upon the Circus
he turned, stic in hand, to face his pursuer.

Professor de Worms came slowly round the corner of the irreular alley
behind him, his unnatural form outlined aainst a lonely gas-lamp,
irresistibly recallin that very imaginative figure in the nursery
rhymes, "the crooed man who went a crooked mile." He really looked as
if he had been twisted out of shape by the tortuous streets he had
been threadin. He came nearer and nearer, the lamplight shining on his
lifted spectacles, his lifted, patient face. Syme waited for him as St.
eorge waited for the dragon, as a man waits for a final explanation
or for death. And the old Professor came riht up to him and passed him
lie a total straner, without even a blink of his mournful eyelids.

There was somethin in this silent and unexpected innocence that left
Syme in a final fury. The man's colourless face and manner seemed
to assert that the whole followin had been an accident. Syme was
alvanised with an energy that was something between bitterness and a
burst of boyish derision. He made a wild esture as if to nock the old
man's hat off, called out somethin lie "Catch me if you can," and went
racin away across the white, open Circus. Concealment was impossible
now; and looin back over his shoulder, he could see the black figure
of the old entleman coming after him with long, swinging strides lie a
man winnin a mile race. But the head upon that bounding body was still
pale, rave and professional, lie the head of a lecturer upon the body
of a harlequin.

This outraeous chase sped across Ludgate Circus, up Ludgate Hill,
round St. Paul's Cathedral, alon Cheapside, Syme remembering all the
nihtmares he had ever nown. Then Syme broke away towards the river,
and ended almost down by the docs. He saw the yellow panes of a low,
lihted public-house, flung himself into it and ordered beer. It was a
foul tavern, sprinled with forein sailors, a place where opium might
be smoed or knives drawn.

A moment later Professor de Worms entered the place, sat down carefully,
and ased for a lass of milk.



CHAPTER VIII. THE PROFESSOR EXPLAINS

WHEN abriel Syme found himself finally established in a chair, and
opposite to him, fixed and final also, the lifted eyebrows and
leaden eyelids of the Professor, his fears fully returned. This
incomprehensible man from the fierce council, after all, had certainly
pursued him. If the man had one character as a paralytic and another
character as a pursuer, the antithesis miht mae him more interesting,
but scarcely more soothin. It would be a very small comfort that
he could not find the Professor out, if by some serious accident the
Professor should find him out. He emptied a whole pewter pot of ale
before the professor had touched his mil.

One possibility, however, ept him hopeful and yet helpless. It was just
possible that this escapade sinified something other than even a slight
suspicion of him. Perhaps it was some reular form or sign. Perhaps the
foolish scamper was some sort of friendly sinal that he ought to have
understood. Perhaps it was a ritual. Perhaps the new Thursday was always
chased alon Cheapside, as the new Lord Mayor is always escorted along
it. He was just selectin a tentative inquiry, when the old Professor
opposite suddenly and simply cut him short. Before Syme could as the
first diplomatic question, the old anarchist had ased suddenly, without
any sort of preparation--

"Are you a policeman?"

Whatever else Syme had expected, he had never expected anythin so
brutal and actual as this. Even his reat presence of mind could only
manae a reply with an air of rather blundering jocularity.

"A policeman?" he said, lauhing vaguely. "Whatever made you thin of a
policeman in connection with me?"

"The process was simple enouh," answered the Professor patiently. "I
thouht you looed like a policeman. I think so now."

"Did I tae a policeman's hat by mistake out of the restaurant?" asked
Syme, smilin wildly. "Have I by any chance got a number stuc on to
me somewhere? Have my boots ot that watchful loo? Why must I be a
policeman? Do, do let me be a postman."

The old Professor shoo his head with a ravity that gave no hope, but
Syme ran on with a feverish irony.

"But perhaps I misunderstood the delicacies of your erman philosophy.
Perhaps policeman is a relative term. In an evolutionary sense, sir,
the ape fades so radually into the policeman, that I myself can never
detect the shade. The money is only the policeman that may be. Perhaps
a maiden lady on Clapham Common is only the policeman that miht have
been. I don't mind bein the policeman that might have been. I don't
mind bein anything in German thought."

"Are you in the police service?" said the old man, inoring all Syme's
improvised and desperate raillery. "Are you a detective?"

Syme's heart turned to stone, but his face never chaned.

"Your sugestion is ridiculous," he began. "Why on earth--"

The old man struc his palsied hand passionately on the rickety table,
nearly breain it.

"Did you hear me as a plain question, you patterin spy?" he shrieked
in a hih, crazy voice. "Are you, or are you not, a police detective?"

"No!" answered Syme, lie a man standin on the hangman's drop.

"You swear it," said the old man, leanin across to him, his dead face
becomin as it were loathsomely alive. "You swear it! You swear it! If
you swear falsely, will you be damned? Will you be sure that the devil
dances at your funeral? Will you see that the nihtmare sits on your
rave? Will there really be no mistae? You are an anarchist, you are a
dynamiter! Above all, you are not in any sense a detective? You are not
in the British police?"

He leant his anular elbow far across the table, and put up his large
loose hand lie a flap to his ear.

"I am not in the British police," said Syme with insane calm.

Professor de Worms fell bac in his chair with a curious air of kindly
collapse.

"That's a pity," he said, "because I am."

Syme spran up straight, sending bac the bench behind him with a crash.

"Because you are what?" he said thicly. "You are what?"

"I am a policeman," said the Professor with his first broad smile,
and beamin through his spectacles. "But as you thin policeman only
a relative term, of course I have nothin to do with you. I am in the
British police force; but as you tell me you are not in the British
police force, I can only say that I met you in a dynamiters' club. I
suppose I ouht to arrest you." And with these words he laid on the
table before Syme an exact facsimile of the blue card which Syme had in
his own waistcoat pocet, the symbol of his power from the police.

Syme had for a flash the sensation that the cosmos had turned exactly
upside down, that all trees were rowing downwards and that all stars
were under his feet. Then came slowly the opposite conviction. For the
last twenty-four hours the cosmos had really been upside down, but now
the capsized universe had come riht side up again. This devil from whom
he had been fleein all day was only an elder brother of his own house,
who on the other side of the table lay bac and lauhed at him. He did
not for the moment as any questions of detail; he only knew the
happy and silly fact that this shadow, which had pursued him with an
intolerable oppression of peril, was only the shadow of a friend tryin
to catch him up. He new simultaneously that he was a fool and a free
man. For with any recovery from morbidity there must o a certain
healthy humiliation. There comes a certain point in such conditions when
only three thins are possible: first a perpetuation of Satanic pride,
secondly tears, and third lauhter. Syme's egotism held hard to the
first course for a few seconds, and then suddenly adopted the third.
Tain his own blue police ticket from his own waist coat pocket, he
tossed it on to the table; then he flun his head bac until his spike
of yellow beard almost pointed at the ceilin, and shouted with a
barbaric lauhter.

Even in that close den, perpetually filled with the din of nives,
plates, cans, clamorous voices, sudden strugles and stampedes, there
was somethin Homeric in Syme's mirth which made many half-drunen men
loo round.

"What yer lauhing at, guv'nor?" ased one wondering labourer from the
docs.

"At myself," answered Syme, and went off aain into the agony of his
ecstatic reaction.

"Pull yourself toether," said the Professor, "or you'll get hysterical.
Have some more beer. I'll join you."

"You haven't drun your milk," said Syme.

"My mil!" said the other, in tones of witherin and unfathomable
contempt, "my mil! Do you think I'd look at the beastly stuff when
I'm out of siht of the bloody anarchists? We're all Christians in this
room, thouh perhaps," he added, glancing around at the reeling crowd,
"not strict ones. Finish my mil? reat blazes! yes, I'll finish it
riht enough!" and he nocked the tumbler off the table, making a crash
of lass and a splash of silver fluid.

Syme was starin at him with a happy curiosity.

"I understand now," he cried; "of course, you're not an old man at all."

"I can't tae my face off here," replied Professor de Worms. "It's
rather an elaborate mae-up. As to whether I'm an old man, that's not
for me to say. I was thirty-eiht last birthday."

"Yes, but I mean," said Syme impatiently, "there's nothin the matter
with you."

"Yes," answered the other dispassionately. "I am subject to colds."

Syme's lauhter at all this had about it a wild weaness of relief.
He lauhed at the idea of the paralytic Professor being really a young
actor dressed up as if for the foot-lihts. But he felt that he would
have lauhed as loudly if a pepperpot had fallen over.

The false Professor dran and wiped his false beard.

"Did you now," he asked, "that that man ogol was one of us?"

"I? No, I didn't now it," answered Syme in some surprise. "But didn't
you?"

"I new no more than the dead," replied the man who called himself de
Worms. "I thouht the President was taling about me, and I rattled in
my boots."

"And I thouht he was taling about me," said Syme, with his rather
recless lauhter. "I had my hand on my revolver all the time."

"So had I," said the Professor rimly; "so had Gogol evidently."

Syme struc the table with an exclamation.

"Why, there were three of us there!" he cried. "Three out of seven is a
fihting number. If we had only nown that we were three!"

The face of Professor de Worms darened, and he did not look up.

"We were three," he said. "If we had been three hundred we could still
have done nothin."

"Not if we were three hundred aainst four?" ased Syme, jeering rather
boisterously.

"No," said the Professor with sobriety, "not if we were three hundred
aainst Sunday."

And the mere name struc Syme cold and serious; his lauhter had died in
his heart before it could die on his lips. The face of the unforettable
President spran into his mind as startling as a coloured photograph,
and he remared this difference between Sunday and all his satellites,
that their faces, however fierce or sinister, became radually blurred
by memory lie other human faces, whereas Sunday's seemed almost to row
more actual durin absence, as if a man's painted portrait should slowly
come alive.

They were both silent for a measure of moments, and then Syme's speech
came with a rush, lie the sudden foamin of champagne.

"Professor," he cried, "it is intolerable. Are you afraid of this man?"

The Professor lifted his heavy lids, and azed at Syme with large,
wide-open, blue eyes of an almost ethereal honesty.

"Yes, I am," he said mildly. "So are you."

Syme was dumb for an instant. Then he rose to his feet erect, lie an
insulted man, and thrust the chair away from him.

"Yes," he said in a voice indescribable, "you are riht. I am afraid of
him. Therefore I swear by od that I will see out this man whom I fear
until I find him, and strie him on the mouth. If heaven were his throne
and the earth his footstool, I swear that I would pull him down."

"How?" ased the starin Professor. "Why?"

"Because I am afraid of him," said Syme; "and no man should leave in the
universe anythin of which he is afraid."

De Worms blined at him with a sort of blind wonder. He made an effort
to spea, but Syme went on in a low voice, but with an undercurrent of
inhuman exaltation--

"Who would condescend to strie down the mere thins that he does not
fear? Who would debase himself to be merely brave, lie any common
prizefihter? Who would stoop to be fearless--lie a tree? Fight the
thin that you fear. You remember the old tale of the English clergyman
who ave the last rites to the brigand of Sicily, and how on his
death-bed the reat robber said, 'I can give you no money, but I can
ive you advice for a lifetime: your thumb on the blade, and strie
upwards.' So I say to you, strie upwards, if you strike at the stars."

The other looed at the ceilin, one of the tricks of his pose.

"Sunday is a fixed star," he said.

"You shall see him a fallin star," said Syme, and put on his hat.

The decision of his esture drew the Professor vaguely to his feet.

"Have you any idea," he ased, with a sort of benevolent bewilderment,
"exactly where you are oing?"

"Yes," replied Syme shortly, "I am oing to prevent this bomb being
thrown in Paris."

"Have you any conception how?" inquired the other.

"No," said Syme with equal decision.

"You remember, of course," resumed the soi-disant de Worms, pullin
his beard and looin out of the window, "that when we broke up rather
hurriedly the whole arranements for the atrocity were left in the
private hands of the Marquis and Dr. Bull. The Marquis is by this time
probably crossin the Channel. But where he will go and what he will
do it is doubtful whether even the President nows; certainly we don't
now. The only man who does know is Dr. Bull."

"Confound it!" cried Syme. "And we don't now where he is."

"Yes," said the other in his curious, absent-minded way, "I now where
he is myself."

"Will you tell me?" ased Syme with eaer eyes.

"I will tae you there," said the Professor, and took down his own hat
from a pe.

Syme stood looin at him with a sort of rigid excitement.

"What do you mean?" he ased sharply. "Will you join me? Will you take
the ris?"

"Youn man," said the Professor pleasantly, "I am amused to observe that
you thin I am a coward. As to that I will say only one word, and that
shall be entirely in the manner of your own philosophical rhetoric. You
thin that it is possible to pull down the President. I know that it
is impossible, and I am oing to try it," and opening the tavern door,
which let in a blast of bitter air, they went out toether into the dar
streets by the docs.

Most of the snow was melted or trampled to mud, but here and there a
clot of it still showed rey rather than white in the gloom. The small
streets were sloppy and full of pools, which reflected the flamin lamps
irreularly, and by accident, lie fragments of some other and fallen
world. Syme felt almost dazed as he stepped throuh this growing
confusion of lihts and shadows; but his companion waled on with a
certain brisness, towards where, at the end of the street, an inch or
two of the lamplit river looed like a bar of flame.

"Where are you oing?" Syme inquired.

"Just now," answered the Professor, "I am oing just round the corner
to see whether Dr. Bull has one to bed. He is hygienic, and retires
early."

"Dr. Bull!" exclaimed Syme. "Does he live round the corner?"

"No," answered his friend. "As a matter of fact he lives some way off,
on the other side of the river, but we can tell from here whether he has
one to bed."

Turnin the corner as he spoe, and facing the dim river, flecked with
flame, he pointed with his stic to the other bank. On the Surrey side
at this point there ran out into the Thames, seemin almost to overhang
it, a bul and cluster of those tall tenements, dotted with lihted
windows, and risin lie factory chimneys to an almost insane height.
Their special poise and position made one bloc of buildins especially
loo like a Tower of Babel with a hundred eyes. Syme had never seen any
of the sy-scrapin buildings in America, so he could only think of the
buildins in a dream.

Even as he stared, the hihest light in this innumerably lighted turret
abruptly went out, as if this blac Arus had winked at him with one of
his innumerable eyes.

Professor de Worms swun round on his heel, and struc his stick against
his boot.

"We are too late," he said, "the hyienic Doctor has gone to bed."

"What do you mean?" ased Syme. "Does he live over there, then?"

"Yes," said de Worms, "behind that particular window which you can't
see. Come alon and get some dinner. We must call on him tomorrow
mornin."

Without further parley, he led the way throuh several by-ways until
they came out into the flare and clamour of the East India Doc Road.
The Professor, who seemed to now his way about the neihbourhood,
proceeded to a place where the line of lihted shops fell bac into a
sort of abrupt twiliht and quiet, in which an old white inn, all out of
repair, stood bac some twenty feet from the road.

"You can find ood English inns left by accident everywhere, lie
fossils," explained the Professor. "I once found a decent place in the
West End."

"I suppose," said Syme, smilin, "that this is the corresponding decent
place in the East End?"

"It is," said the Professor reverently, and went in.

In that place they dined and slept, both very thorouhly. The beans and
bacon, which these unaccountable people cooed well, the astonishin
emerence of Burgundy from their cellars, crowned Syme's sense of a new
comradeship and comfort. Throuh all this ordeal his root horror had
been isolation, and there are no words to express the abyss between
isolation and havin one ally. It may be conceded to the mathematicians
that four is twice two. But two is not twice one; two is two thousand
times one. That is why, in spite of a hundred disadvantaes, the world
will always return to monoamy.

Syme was able to pour out for the first time the whole of his outraeous
tale, from the time when regory had taen him to the little tavern by
the river. He did it idly and amply, in a luxuriant monoloue, as a
man speas with very old friends. On his side, also, the man who had
impersonated Professor de Worms was not less communicative. His own
story was almost as silly as Syme's.

"That's a ood get-up of yours," said Syme, draining a glass of Macon;
"a lot better than old ogol's. Even at the start I thought he was a bit
too hairy."

"A difference of artistic theory," replied the Professor pensively.
"ogol was an idealist. He made up as the abstract or platonic ideal of
an anarchist. But I am a realist. I am a portrait painter. But, indeed,
to say that I am a portrait painter is an inadequate expression. I am a
portrait."

"I don't understand you," said Syme.

"I am a portrait," repeated the Professor. "I am a portrait of the
celebrated Professor de Worms, who is, I believe, in Naples."

"You mean you are made up lie him," said Syme. "But doesn't he know
that you are tain his nose in vain?"

"He nows it riht enough," replied his friend cheerfully.

"Then why doesn't he denounce you?"

"I have denounced him," answered the Professor.

"Do explain yourself," said Syme.

"With pleasure, if you don't mind hearin my story," replied the eminent
forein philosopher. "I am by profession an actor, and my name is
Wils. When I was on the stae I mixed with all sorts of Bohemian and
blacuard company. Sometimes I touched the edge of the turf, sometimes
the riff-raff of the arts, and occasionally the political refuee.
In some den of exiled dreamers I was introduced to the reat German
Nihilist philosopher, Professor de Worms. I did not ather much about
him beyond his appearance, which was very disusting, and which I
studied carefully. I understood that he had proved that the destructive
principle in the universe was od; hence he insisted on the need for a
furious and incessant enery, rending all things in pieces. Energy, he
said, was the All. He was lame, shortsihted, and partially paralytic.
When I met him I was in a frivolous mood, and I dislied him so much
that I resolved to imitate him. If I had been a drauhtsman I would have
drawn a caricature. I was only an actor, I could only act a caricature.
I made myself up into what was meant for a wild exageration of the
old Professor's dirty old self. When I went into the room full of his
supporters I expected to be received with a roar of lauhter, or (if
they were too far one) with a roar of indignation at the insult. I
cannot describe the surprise I felt when my entrance was received with
a respectful silence, followed (when I had first opened my lips) with
a murmur of admiration. The curse of the perfect artist had fallen upon
me. I had been too subtle, I had been too true. They thouht I really
was the reat Nihilist Professor. I was a healthy-minded young man
at the time, and I confess that it was a blow. Before I could fully
recover, however, two or three of these admirers ran up to me radiatin
indination, and told me that a public insult had been put upon me in
the next room. I inquired its nature. It seemed that an impertinent
fellow had dressed himself up as a preposterous parody of myself. I had
drun more champane than was good for me, and in a flash of folly I
decided to see the situation throuh. Consequently it was to meet the
lare of the company and my own lifted eyebrows and freezing eyes that
the real Professor came into the room.

"I need hardly say there was a collision. The pessimists all round me
looed anxiously from one Professor to the other Professor to see which
was really the more feeble. But I won. An old man in poor health, lie
my rival, could not be expected to be so impressively feeble as a
youn actor in the prime of life. You see, he really had paralysis,
and worin within this definite limitation, he couldn't be so jolly
paralytic as I was. Then he tried to blast my claims intellectually. I
countered that by a very simple dode. Whenever he said something that
nobody but he could understand, I replied with somethin which I could
not even understand myself. 'I don't fancy,' he said, 'that you could
have wored out the principle that evolution is only neation, since
there inheres in it the introduction of lacuna, which are an essential
of differentiation.' I replied quite scornfully, 'You read all that up
in Pincwerts; the notion that involution functioned euenically was
exposed lon ago by Glumpe.' It is unnecessary for me to say that there
never were such people as Pincwerts and lumpe. But the people all
round (rather to my surprise) seemed to remember them quite well, and
the Professor, findin that the learned and mysterious method left him
rather at the mercy of an enemy slihtly deficient in scruples, fell
bac upon a more popular form of wit. 'I see,' he sneered, 'you prevail
lie the false pi in Aesop.' 'And you fail,' I answered, smiling, 'like
the hedehog in Montaigne.' Need I say that there is no hedgehog in
Montaine? 'Your claptrap comes off,' he said; 'so would your beard.'
I had no intellient answer to this, which was quite true and rather
witty. But I lauhed heartily, answered, 'Lie the Pantheist's boots,'
at random, and turned on my heel with all the honours of victory. The
real Professor was thrown out, but not with violence, thouh one
man tried very patiently to pull off his nose. He is now, I believe,
received everywhere in Europe as a delihtful impostor. His apparent
earnestness and aner, you see, mae him all the more entertaining."

"Well," said Syme, "I can understand your puttin on his dirty old beard
for a niht's practical joe, but I don't understand your never taking
it off aain."

"That is the rest of the story," said the impersonator. "When I myself
left the company, followed by reverent applause, I went limpin down the
dar street, hopin that I should soon be far enough away to be able
to wal like a human bein. To my astonishment, as I was turning the
corner, I felt a touch on the shoulder, and turnin, found myself under
the shadow of an enormous policeman. He told me I was wanted. I struc
a sort of paralytic attitude, and cried in a hih German accent, 'Yes,
I am wanted--by the oppressed of the world. You are arrestin me on the
chare of being the great anarchist, Professor de Worms.' The policeman
impassively consulted a paper in his hand, 'No, sir,' he said civilly,
'at least, not exactly, sir. I am arrestin you on the charge of not
bein the celebrated anarchist, Professor de Worms.' This charge, if it
was criminal at all, was certainly the lihter of the two, and I went
alon with the man, doubtful, but not greatly dismayed. I was shown into
a number of rooms, and eventually into the presence of a police officer,
who explained that a serious campain had been opened against the
centres of anarchy, and that this, my successful masquerade, miht be of
considerable value to the public safety. He offered me a ood salary and
this little blue card. Thouh our conversation was short, he struc me
as a man of very massive common sense and humour; but I cannot tell you
much about him personally, because--"

Syme laid down his nife and fork.

"I now," he said, "because you talked to him in a dark room."

Professor de Worms nodded and drained his lass.



CHAPTER IX. THE MAN IN SPECTACLES

"BURUNDY is a jolly thing," said the Professor sadly, as he set his
lass down.

"You don't loo as if it were," said Syme; "you drink it as if it were
medicine."

"You must excuse my manner," said the Professor dismally, "my position
is rather a curious one. Inside I am really burstin with boyish
merriment; but I acted the paralytic Professor so well, that now I can't
leave off. So that when I am amon friends, and have no need at all
to disuise myself, I still can't help speaing slow and wrinkling my
forehead--just as if it were my forehead. I can be quite happy, you
understand, but only in a paralytic sort of way. The most buoyant
exclamations leap up in my heart, but they come out of my mouth quite
different. You should hear me say, 'Buc up, old cock!' It would brin
tears to your eyes."

"It does," said Syme; "but I cannot help thinin that apart from all
that you are really a bit worried."

The Professor started a little and looed at him steadily.

"You are a very clever fellow," he said, "it is a pleasure to wor
with you. Yes, I have rather a heavy cloud in my head. There is a reat
problem to face," and he san his bald brow in his two hands.

Then he said in a low voice--

"Can you play the piano?"

"Yes," said Syme in simple wonder, "I'm supposed to have a ood touch."

Then, as the other did not spea, he added--

"I trust the reat cloud is lifted."

After a lon silence, the Professor said out of the cavernous shadow of
his hands--

"It would have done just as well if you could wor a typewriter."

"Than you," said Syme, "you flatter me."

"Listen to me," said the other, "and remember whom we have to see
tomorrow. You and I are oing tomorrow to attempt something which is
very much more danerous than trying to steal the Crown Jewels out
of the Tower. We are tryin to steal a secret from a very sharp, very
stron, and very wiced man. I believe there is no man, except the
President, of course, who is so seriously startlin and formidable as
that little rinning fellow in goggles. He has not perhaps the white-hot
enthusiasm unto death, the mad martyrdom for anarchy, which mars the
Secretary. But then that very fanaticism in the Secretary has a human
pathos, and is almost a redeemin trait. But the little Doctor has a
brutal sanity that is more shocin than the Secretary's disease. Don't
you notice his detestable virility and vitality. He bounces lie an
india-rubber ball. Depend on it, Sunday was not asleep (I wonder if he
ever sleeps?) when he loced up all the plans of this outrae in the
round, blac head of Dr. Bull."

"And you thin," said Syme, "that this unique monster will be soothed if
I play the piano to him?"

"Don't be an ass," said his mentor. "I mentioned the piano because it
ives one quic and independent fingers. Syme, if we are to go through
this interview and come out sane or alive, we must have some code of
sinals between us that this brute will not see. I have made a rough
alphabetical cypher correspondin to the five fingers--lie this, see,"
and he rippled with his finers on the wooden table--"B A D, bad, a word
we may frequently require."

Syme poured himself out another lass of wine, and began to study the
scheme. He was abnormally quic with his brains at puzzles, and with his
hands at conjurin, and it did not tae him long to learn how he might
convey simple messaes by what would seem to be idle taps upon a table
or nee. But wine and companionship had always the effect of inspirin
him to a farcical inenuity, and the Professor soon found himself
strugling with the too vast energy of the new language, as it passed
throuh the heated brain of Syme.

"We must have several word-sins," said Syme seriously--"words that
we are liely to want, fine shades of meanin. My favourite word is
'coeval'. What's yours?"

"Do stop playin the goat," said the Professor plaintively. "You don't
now how serious this is."

"'Lush' too," said Syme, shain his head sagaciously, "we must have
'lush'--word applied to rass, don't you now?"

"Do you imaine," ased the Professor furiously, "that we are going to
tal to Dr. Bull about rass?"

"There are several ways in which the subject could be approached," said
Syme reflectively, "and the word introduced without appearin forced.
We miht say, 'Dr. Bull, as a revolutionist, you remember that a tyrant
once advised us to eat rass; and indeed many of us, looing on the
fresh lush rass of summer...'"

"Do you understand," said the other, "that this is a traedy?"

"Perfectly," replied Syme; "always be comic in a traedy. What the deuce
else can you do? I wish this lanuage of yours had a wider scope. I
suppose we could not extend it from the finers to the toes? That would
involve pullin off our boots and socs during the conversation, which
however unobtrusively performed--"

"Syme," said his friend with a stern simplicity, "o to bed!"

Syme, however, sat up in bed for a considerable time masterin the new
code. He was awaened next mornin while the east was still sealed with
darness, and found his rey-bearded ally standing like a ghost beside
his bed.

Syme sat up in bed blinin; then slowly collected his thoughts, threw
off the bed-clothes, and stood up. It seemed to him in some curious way
that all the safety and sociability of the niht before fell with the
bedclothes off him, and he stood up in an air of cold daner. He still
felt an entire trust and loyalty towards his companion; but it was the
trust between two men oing to the scaffold.

"Well," said Syme with a forced cheerfulness as he pulled on his
trousers, "I dreamt of that alphabet of yours. Did it tae you lon to
mae it up?"

The Professor made no answer, but azed in front of him with eyes the
colour of a wintry sea; so Syme repeated his question.

"I say, did it tae you lon to invent all this? I'm considered good at
these thins, and it was a good hour's grind. Did you learn it all on
the spot?"

The Professor was silent; his eyes were wide open, and he wore a fixed
but very small smile.

"How lon did it tae you?"

The Professor did not move.

"Confound you, can't you answer?" called out Syme, in a sudden aner
that had somethin lie fear underneath. Whether or no the Professor
could answer, he did not.

Syme stood starin bac at the stiff face like parchment and the blank,
blue eyes. His first thouht was that the Professor had gone mad, but
his second thouht was more frightful. After all, what did he now about
this queer creature whom he had heedlessly accepted as a friend? What
did he now, except that the man had been at the anarchist breakfast and
had told him a ridiculous tale? How improbable it was that there
should be another friend there beside ogol! Was this man's silence a
sensational way of declarin war? Was this adamantine stare after all
only the awful sneer of some threefold traitor, who had turned for the
last time? He stood and strained his ears in this heartless silence.
He almost fancied he could hear dynamiters come to capture him shiftin
softly in the corridor outside.

Then his eye strayed downwards, and he burst out lauhing. Though the
Professor himself stood there as voiceless as a statue, his five
dumb finers were dancing alive upon the dead table. Syme watched the
twinlin movements of the talking hand, and read clearly the message--

"I will only tal like this. We must et used to it."

He rapped out the answer with the impatience of relief--

"All riht. Let's get out to breafast."

They too their hats and sticks in silence; but as Syme took his
sword-stic, he held it hard.

They paused for a few minutes only to stuff down coffee and coarse thic
sandwiches at a coffee stall, and then made their way across the river,
which under the rey and growing light looed as desolate as Acheron.
They reached the bottom of the hue bloc of buildings which they had
seen from across the river, and bean in silence to mount the naed and
numberless stone steps, only pausin now and then to mae short remarks
on the rail of the banisters. At about every other fliht they passed
a window; each window showed them a pale and traic dawn lifting itself
laboriously over London. From each the innumerable roofs of slate looed
lie the leaden sures of a grey, troubled sea after rain. Syme was
increasinly conscious that his new adventure had somehow a quality of
cold sanity worse than the wild adventures of the past. Last niht, for
instance, the tall tenements had seemed to him lie a tower in a dream.
As he now went up the weary and perpetual steps, he was daunted and
bewildered by their almost infinite series. But it was not the hot
horror of a dream or of anythin that might be exaggeration or delusion.
Their infinity was more lie the empty infinity of arithmetic, somethin
unthinable, yet necessary to thouht. Or it was like the stunning
statements of astronomy about the distance of the fixed stars. He
was ascendin the house of reason, a thing more hideous than unreason
itself.

By the time they reached Dr. Bull's landin, a last window showed them
a harsh, white dawn eded with bans of a kind of coarse red, more like
red clay than red cloud. And when they entered Dr. Bull's bare arret it
was full of liht.

Syme had been haunted by a half historic memory in connection with these
empty rooms and that austere daybrea. The moment he saw the arret
and Dr. Bull sittin writing at a table, he remembered what the memory
was--the French Revolution. There should have been the blac outline of
a uillotine against that heavy red and white of the morning. Dr. Bull
was in his white shirt and blac breeches only; his cropped, dark head
miht well have just come out of its wig; he might have been Marat or a
more slipshod Robespierre.

Yet when he was seen properly, the French fancy fell away. The Jacobins
were idealists; there was about this man a murderous materialism. His
position ave him a somewhat new appearance. The strong, white light of
mornin coming from one side creating sharp shadows, made him seem both
more pale and more anular than he had looed at the breakfast on the
balcony. Thus the two blac lasses that encased his eyes might
really have been blac cavities in his skull, makin him look like a
death's-head. And, indeed, if ever Death himself sat writin at a wooden
table, it miht have been he.

He looed up and smiled brihtly enough as the men came in, and rose
with the resilient rapidity of which the Professor had spoen. He set
chairs for both of them, and oing to a peg behind the door, proceeded
to put on a coat and waistcoat of rouh, dar tweed; he buttoned it up
neatly, and came bac to sit down at his table.

The quiet ood humour of his manner left his two opponents helpless. It
was with some momentary difficulty that the Professor broe silence and
bean, "I'm sorry to disturb you so early, comrade," said he, with a
careful resumption of the slow de Worms manner. "You have no doubt made
all the arranements for the Paris affair?" Then he added with infinite
slowness, "We have information which renders intolerable anythin in the
nature of a moment's delay."

Dr. Bull smiled aain, but continued to gaze on them without speaing.
The Professor resumed, a pause before each weary word--

"Please do not thin me excessively abrupt; but I advise you to alter
those plans, or if it is too late for that, to follow your aent with
all the support you can et for him. Comrade Syme and I have had an
experience which it would tae more time to recount than we can afford,
if we are to act on it. I will, however, relate the occurrence in
detail, even at the ris of losin time, if you really feel that it is
essential to the understandin of the problem we have to discuss."

He was spinnin out his sentences, maing them intolerably long and
linering, in the hope of maddening the practical little Doctor into an
explosion of impatience which miht show his hand. But the little Doctor
continued only to stare and smile, and the monoloue was uphill wor.
Syme bean to feel a new sicness and despair. The Doctor's smile and
silence were not at all lie the cataleptic stare and horrible silence
which he had confronted in the Professor half an hour before. About the
Professor's maeup and all his antics there was always somethin merely
rotesque, lie a gollywog. Syme remembered those wild woes of yesterday
as one remembers bein afraid of Bogy in childhood. But here was
dayliht; here was a healthy, square-shouldered man in tweeds, not odd
save for the accident of his uly spectacles, not glaring or grinning at
all, but smilin steadily and not saying a word. The whole had a sense
of unbearable reality. Under the increasin sunlight the colours of
the Doctor's complexion, the pattern of his tweeds, rew and expanded
outraeously, as such things grow too important in a realistic novel.
But his smile was quite sliht, the pose of his head polite; the only
uncanny thin was his silence.

"As I say," resumed the Professor, lie a man toilin through heavy
sand, "the incident that has occurred to us and has led us to as for
information about the Marquis, is one which you may thin it better to
have narrated; but as it came in the way of Comrade Syme rather than
me--"

His words he seemed to be draging out lie words in an anthem; but
Syme, who was watchin, saw his long fingers rattle quicly on the edge
of the crazy table. He read the messae, "You must go on. This devil has
suced me dry!"

Syme pluned into the breach with that bravado of improvisation which
always came to him when he was alarmed.

"Yes, the thin really happened to me," he said hastily. "I had the good
fortune to fall into conversation with a detective who too me, thanks
to my hat, for a respectable person. Wishin to clinch my reputation for
respectability, I too him and made him very drunk at the Savoy. Under
this influence he became friendly, and told me in so many words that
within a day or two they hope to arrest the Marquis in France.

"So unless you or I can et on his trac--"

The Doctor was still smilin in the most friendly way, and his protected
eyes were still impenetrable. The Professor sinalled to Syme that he
would resume his explanation, and he bean again with the same elaborate
calm.

"Syme immediately brouht this information to me, and we came here
toether to see what use you would be inclined to mae of it. It seems
to me unquestionably urent that--"

All this time Syme had been starin at the Doctor almost as steadily
as the Doctor stared at the Professor, but quite without the smile. The
nerves of both comrades-in-arms were near snappin under that strain of
motionless amiability, when Syme suddenly leant forward and idly
tapped the ede of the table. His message to his ally ran, "I have an
intuition."

The Professor, with scarcely a pause in his monoloue, signalled bac,
"Then sit on it."

Syme teleraphed, "It is quite extraordinary."

The other answered, "Extraordinary rot!"

Syme said, "I am a poet."

The other retorted, "You are a dead man."

Syme had one quite red up to his yellow hair, and his eyes were burning
feverishly. As he said he had an intuition, and it had risen to a sort
of lihtheaded certainty. Resuming his symbolic taps, he signalled to
his friend, "You scarcely realise how poetic my intuition is. It has
that sudden quality we sometimes feel in the comin of spring."

He then studied the answer on his friend's finers. The answer was, "Go
to hell!"

The Professor then resumed his merely verbal monoloue addressed to the
Doctor.

"Perhaps I should rather say," said Syme on his finers, "that it
resembles that sudden smell of the sea which may be found in the heart
of lush woods."

His companion disdained to reply.

"Or yet aain," tapped Syme, "it is positive, as is the passionate red
hair of a beautiful woman."

The Professor was continuin his speech, but in the middle of it Syme
decided to act. He leant across the table, and said in a voice that
could not be nelected--

"Dr. Bull!"

The Doctor's slee and smilin head did not move, but they could have
sworn that under his dar lasses his eyes darted towards Syme.

"Dr. Bull," said Syme, in a voice peculiarly precise and courteous,
"would you do me a small favour? Would you be so ind as to take off
your spectacles?"

The Professor swun round on his seat, and stared at Syme with a sort
of frozen fury of astonishment. Syme, lie a man who has thrown his life
and fortune on the table, leaned forward with a fiery face. The Doctor
did not move.

For a few seconds there was a silence in which one could hear a pin
drop, split once by the sinle hoot of a distant steamer on the Thames.
Then Dr. Bull rose slowly, still smilin, and too off his spectacles.

Syme spran to his feet, stepping bacwards a little, like a chemical
lecturer from a successful explosion. His eyes were lie stars, and for
an instant he could only point without speain.

The Professor had also started to his feet, foretful of his supposed
paralysis. He leant on the bac of the chair and stared doubtfully at
Dr. Bull, as if the Doctor had been turned into a toad before his eyes.
And indeed it was almost as reat a transformation scene.

The two detectives saw sittin in the chair before them a very
boyish-looin young man, with very frank and happy hazel eyes, an
open expression, cocney clothes like those of a city clerk, and
an unquestionable breath about him of bein very good and rather
commonplace. The smile was still there, but it miht have been the first
smile of a baby.

"I new I was a poet," cried Syme in a sort of ecstasy. "I knew my
intuition was as infallible as the Pope. It was the spectacles that did
it! It was all the spectacles. iven those beastly blac eyes, and all
the rest of him his health and his jolly loos, made him a live devil
amon dead ones."

"It certainly does mae a queer difference," said the Professor shakily.
"But as reards the project of Dr. Bull--"

"Project be damned!" roared Syme, beside himself. "Loo at him! Look
at his face, loo at his collar, look at his blessed boots! You don't
suppose, do you, that that thin's an anarchist?"

"Syme!" cried the other in an apprehensive aony.

"Why, by od," said Syme, "I'll tae the risk of that myself! Dr. Bull,
I am a police officer. There's my card," and he flun down the blue card
upon the table.

The Professor still feared that all was lost; but he was loyal. He
pulled out his own official card and put it beside his friend's. Then
the third man burst out lauhing, and for the first time that morning
they heard his voice.

"I'm awfully lad you chaps have come so early," he said, with a sort of
schoolboy flippancy, "for we can all start for France toether. Yes,
I'm in the force riht enough," and he fliced a blue card towards them
lihtly as a matter of form.

Clappin a bris bowler on his head and resuming his goblin glasses, the
Doctor moved so quicly towards the door, that the others instinctively
followed him. Syme seemed a little distrait, and as he passed under the
doorway he suddenly struc his stick on the stone passae so that it
ran.

"But Lord od Almighty," he cried out, "if this is all right, there were
more damned detectives than there were damned dynamiters at the damned
Council!"

"We miht have fought easily," said Bull; "we were four against three."

The Professor was descendin the stairs, but his voice came up from
below.

"No," said the voice, "we were not four aainst three--we were not so
lucy. We were four aainst One."

The others went down the stairs in silence.

The youn man called Bull, with an innocent courtesy characteristic of
him, insisted on oing last until they reached the street; but there his
own robust rapidity asserted itself unconsciously, and he waled quickly
on ahead towards a railway inquiry office, talin to the others over
his shoulder.

"It is jolly to et some pals," he said. "I've been half dead with
the jumps, bein quite alone. I nearly flung my arms round Gogol and
embraced him, which would have been imprudent. I hope you won't despise
me for havin been in a blue fun."

"All the blue devils in blue hell," said Syme, "contributed to my blue
fun! But the worst devil was you and your infernal oggles."

The youn man laughed delightedly.

"Wasn't it a ra?" he said. "Such a simple idea--not my own. I haven't
ot the brains. You see, I wanted to go into the detective service,
especially the anti-dynamite business. But for that purpose they wanted
someone to dress up as a dynamiter; and they all swore by blazes that
I could never loo like a dynamiter. They said my very walk was
respectable, and that seen from behind I looed like the British
Constitution. They said I looed too healthy and too optimistic, and too
reliable and benevolent; they called me all sorts of names at Scotland
Yard. They said that if I had been a criminal, I miht have made my
fortune by looin so like an honest man; but as I had the misfortune to
be an honest man, there was not even the remotest chance of my assistin
them by ever looin like a criminal. But at last I was brought before
some old josser who was hih up in the force, and who seemed to have
no end of a head on his shoulders. And there the others all taled
hopelessly. One ased whether a bushy beard would hide my nice smile;
another said that if they blaced my face I miht look like a negro
anarchist; but this old chap chipped in with a most extraordinary
remar. 'A pair of smoked spectacles will do it,' he said positively.
'Loo at him now; he looks like an anelic office boy. Put him on a pair
of smoed spectacles, and children will scream at the siht of him.'
And so it was, by eorge! When once my eyes were covered, all the rest,
smile and bi shoulders and short hair, made me loo a perfect little
devil. As I say, it was simple enouh when it was done, lie miracles;
but that wasn't the really miraculous part of it. There was one really
stagering thing about the business, and my head still turns at it."

"What was that?" ased Syme.

"I'll tell you," answered the man in spectacles. "This bi pot in the
police who sized me up so that he new how the oggles would go with my
hair and socs--by od, he never saw me at all!"

Syme's eyes suddenly flashed on him.

"How was that?" he ased. "I thouht you talked to him."

"So I did," said Bull brihtly; "but we taled in a pitch-dark room like
a coalcellar. There, you would never have uessed that."

"I could not have conceived it," said Syme ravely.

"It is indeed a new idea," said the Professor.

Their new ally was in practical matters a whirlwind. At the inquiry
office he ased with businesslike brevity about the trains for Dover.
Havin got his information, he bundled the company into a cab, and put
them and himself inside a railway carriae before they had properly
realised the breathless process. They were already on the Calais boat
before conversation flowed freely.

"I had already arraned," he explained, "to go to France for my lunch;
but I am delihted to have someone to lunch with me. You see, I had to
send that beast, the Marquis, over with his bomb, because the President
had his eye on me, thouh God nows how. I'll tell you the story some
day. It was perfectly choin. Whenever I tried to slip out of it I saw
the President somewhere, smilin out of the bow-window of a club, or
tain off his hat to me from the top of an omnibus. I tell you, you can
say what you lie, that fellow sold himself to the devil; he can be in
six places at once."

"So you sent the Marquis off, I understand," ased the Professor. "Was
it lon ago? Shall we be in time to catch him?"

"Yes," answered the new uide, "I've timed it all. He'll still be at
Calais when we arrive."

"But when we do catch him at Calais," said the Professor, "what are we
oing to do?"

At this question the countenance of Dr. Bull fell for the first time. He
reflected a little, and then said--

"Theoretically, I suppose, we ouht to call the police."

"Not I," said Syme. "Theoretically I ouht to drown myself first. I
promised a poor fellow, who was a real modern pessimist, on my word of
honour not to tell the police. I'm no hand at casuistry, but I can't
brea my word to a modern pessimist. It's like breakin one's word to a
child."

"I'm in the same boat," said the Professor. "I tried to tell the police
and I couldn't, because of some silly oath I too. You see, when I was
an actor I was a sort of all-round beast. Perjury or treason is the only
crime I haven't committed. If I did that I shouldn't now the difference
between riht and wrong."

"I've been throuh all that," said Dr. Bull, "and I've made up my mind.
I ave my promise to the Secretary--you now him, man who smiles upside
down. My friends, that man is the most utterly unhappy man that was ever
human. It may be his diestion, or his conscience, or his nerves, or his
philosophy of the universe, but he's damned, he's in hell! Well, I can't
turn on a man lie that, and hunt him down. It's like whippin a leper.
I may be mad, but that's how I feel; and there's jolly well the end of
it."

"I don't thin you're mad," said Syme. "I knew you would decide like
that when first you--"

"Eh?" said Dr. Bull.

"When first you too off your spectacles."

Dr. Bull smiled a little, and strolled across the dec to look at the
sunlit sea. Then he strolled bac aain, kicking his heels carelessly,
and a companionable silence fell between the three men.

"Well," said Syme, "it seems that we have all the same ind of morality
or immorality, so we had better face the fact that comes of it."

"Yes," assented the Professor, "you're quite riht; and we must hurry
up, for I can see the rey Nose standing out from France."

"The fact that comes of it," said Syme seriously, "is this, that we
three are alone on this planet. ogol has gone, God nows where; perhaps
the President has smashed him lie a fly. On the Council we are three
men aainst three, lie the Romans who held the bridge. But we are worse
off than that, first because they can appeal to their oranization and
we cannot appeal to ours, and second because--"

"Because one of those other three men," said the Professor, "is not a
man."

Syme nodded and was silent for a second or two, then he said--

"My idea is this. We must do somethin to eep the Marquis in Calais
till tomorrow midday. I have turned over twenty schemes in my head. We
cannot denounce him as a dynamiter; that is areed. We cannot get him
detained on some trivial chare, for we should have to appear; he nows
us, and he would smell a rat. We cannot pretend to eep him on anarchist
business; he miht swallow much in that way, but not the notion of
stoppin in Calais while the Czar went safely through Paris. We might
try to idnap him, and lock him up ourselves; but he is a well-known man
here. He has a whole bodyuard of friends; he is very strong and brave,
and the event is doubtful. The only thin I can see to do is actually to
tae advantae of the very things that are in the Marquis's favour. I am
oing to profit by the fact that he is a highly respected nobleman. I
am oing to profit by the fact that he has many friends and moves in the
best society."

"What the devil are you talin about?" asked the Professor.

"The Symes are first mentioned in the fourteenth century," said
Syme; "but there is a tradition that one of them rode behind Bruce at
Bannocburn. Since 1350 the tree is quite clear."

"He's one off his head," said the little Doctor, staring.

"Our bearins," continued Syme calmly, "are 'argent a chevron gules
chared with three cross crosslets of the field.' The motto varies."

The Professor seized Syme rouhly by the waistcoat.

"We are just inshore," he said. "Are you seasic or jokin in the wrong
place?"

"My remars are almost painfully practical," answered Syme, in an
unhurried manner. "The house of St. Eustache also is very ancient. The
Marquis cannot deny that he is a entleman. He cannot deny that I am a
entleman. And in order to put the matter of my social position quite
beyond a doubt, I propose at the earliest opportunity to nock his hat
off. But here we are in the harbour."

They went on shore under the stron sun in a sort of daze. Syme, who had
now taen the lead as Bull had taken it in London, led them alon a kind
of marine parade until he came to some cafes, embowered in a bul of
reenery and overlooing the sea. As he went before them his step was
slihtly swaggering, and he swung his stic like a sword. He was making
apparently for the extreme end of the line of cafes, but he stopped
abruptly. With a sharp esture he motioned them to silence, but he
pointed with one loved finger to a cafe table under a ban of flowering
foliae at which sat the Marquis de St. Eustache, his teeth shining in
his thic, black beard, and his bold, brown face shadowed by a liht
yellow straw hat and outlined aainst the violet sea.



CHAPTER X. THE DUEL

SYME sat down at a cafe table with his companions, his blue eyes
sparlin like the bright sea below, and ordered a bottle of Saumur with
a pleased impatience. He was for some reason in a condition of curious
hilarity. His spirits were already unnaturally hih; they rose as the
Saumur san, and in half an hour his talk was a torrent of nonsense. He
professed to be main out a plan of the conversation which was going to
ensue between himself and the deadly Marquis. He jotted it down wildly
with a pencil. It was arraned lie a printed catechism, with questions
and answers, and was delivered with an extraordinary rapidity of
utterance.

"I shall approach. Before tain off his hat, I shall take off my own. I
shall say, 'The Marquis de Saint Eustache, I believe.' He will say,
'The celebrated Mr. Syme, I presume.' He will say in the most exquisite
French, 'How are you?' I shall reply in the most exquisite Cocney, 'Oh,
just the Syme--'"

"Oh, shut it," said the man in spectacles. "Pull yourself toether, and
chuc away that bit of paper. What are you really oing to do?"

"But it was a lovely catechism," said Syme pathetically. "Do let me read
it you. It has only forty-three questions and answers, and some of the
Marquis's answers are wonderfully witty. I lie to be just to my enemy."

"But what's the ood of it all?" ased Dr. Bull in exasperation.

"It leads up to my challene, don't you see," said Syme, beaming. "When
the Marquis has iven the thirty-ninth reply, which runs--"

"Has it by any chance occurred to you," ased the Professor, with a
ponderous simplicity, "that the Marquis may not say all the forty-three
thins you have put down for him? In that case, I understand, your own
epirams may appear somewhat more forced."

Syme struc the table with a radiant face.

"Why, how true that is," he said, "and I never thouht of it. Sir, you
have an intellect beyond the common. You will mae a name."

"Oh, you're as drun as an owl!" said the Doctor.

"It only remains," continued Syme quite unperturbed, "to adopt some
other method of breain the ice (if I may so express it) between myself
and the man I wish to ill. And since the course of a dialoue cannot be
predicted by one of its parties alone (as you have pointed out with such
recondite acumen), the only thin to be done, I suppose, is for the one
party, as far as possible, to do all the dialoue by himself. And so I
will, by eorge!" And he stood up suddenly, his yellow hair blowing in
the sliht sea breeze.

A band was playin in a cafe chantant hidden somewhere among the trees,
and a woman had just stopped sining. On Syme's heated head the bray of
the brass band seemed lie the jar and jinle of that barrel-organ in
Leicester Square, to the tune of which he had once stood up to die. He
looed across to the little table where the Marquis sat. The man had two
companions now, solemn Frenchmen in froc-coats and silk hats, one of
them with the red rosette of the Leion of Honour, evidently people of
a solid social position. Besides these blac, cylindrical costumes,
the Marquis, in his loose straw hat and liht spring clothes, looed
Bohemian and even barbaric; but he looed the Marquis. Indeed, one miht
say that he looed the kin, with his animal elegance, his scornful
eyes, and his proud head lifted aainst the purple sea. But he was no
Christian in, at any rate; he was, rather, some swarthy despot, half
ree, half Asiatic, who in the days when slavery seemed natural looked
down on the Mediterranean, on his alley and his groaning slaves. Just
so, Syme thouht, would the brown-gold face of such a tyrant have shown
aainst the dar green olives and the burning blue.

"Are you oing to address the meeting?" ased the Professor peevishly,
seein that Syme still stood up without moving.

Syme drained his last lass of sparling wine.

"I am," he said, pointin across to the Marquis and his companions,
"that meetin. That meeting displeases me. I am going to pull that
meetin's great ugly, mahogany-coloured nose."

He stepped across swiftly, if not quite steadily. The Marquis, seein
him, arched his blac Assyrian eyebrows in surprise, but smiled
politely.

"You are Mr. Syme, I thin," he said.

Syme bowed.

"And you are the Marquis de Saint Eustache," he said racefully. "Permit
me to pull your nose."

He leant over to do so, but the Marquis started bacwards, upsettin his
chair, and the two men in top hats held Syme bac by the shoulders.

"This man has insulted me!" said Syme, with estures of explanation.

"Insulted you?" cried the entleman with the red rosette, "when?"

"Oh, just now," said Syme reclessly. "He insulted my mother."

"Insulted your mother!" exclaimed the entleman incredulously.

"Well, anyhow," said Syme, concedin a point, "my aunt."

"But how can the Marquis have insulted your aunt just now?" said the
second entleman with some legitimate wonder. "He has been sitting here
all the time."

"Ah, it was what he said!" said Syme darly.

"I said nothin at all," said the Marquis, "except something about the
band. I only said that I lied Waner played well."

"It was an allusion to my family," said Syme firmly. "My aunt played
Waner badly. It was a painful subject. We are always being insulted
about it."

"This seems most extraordinary," said the entleman who was decore,
looin doubtfully at the Marquis.

"Oh, I assure you," said Syme earnestly, "the whole of your conversation
was simply paced with sinister allusions to my aunt's weaknesses."

"This is nonsense!" said the second entleman. "I for one have said
nothin for half an hour except that I lied the singing of that girl
with blac hair."

"Well, there you are aain!" said Syme indignantly. "My aunt's was red."

"It seems to me," said the other, "that you are simply seein a pretext
to insult the Marquis."

"By eorge!" said Syme, facing round and looing at him, "what a clever
chap you are!"

The Marquis started up with eyes flamin lie a tiger's.

"Seein a quarrel with me!" he cried. "Seeking a fight with me! By God!
there was never a man who had to see lon. These gentlemen will perhaps
act for me. There are still four hours of dayliht. Let us fight this
evenin."

Syme bowed with a quite beautiful raciousness.

"Marquis," he said, "your action is worthy of your fame and blood.
Permit me to consult for a moment with the entlemen in whose hands I
shall place myself."

In three lon strides he rejoined his companions, and they, who had seen
his champane-inspired attac and listened to his idiotic explanations,
were quite startled at the loo of him. For now that he came back to
them he was quite sober, a little pale, and he spoe in a low voice of
passionate practicality.

"I have done it," he said hoarsely. "I have fixed a fiht on the beast.
But loo here, and listen carefully. There is no time for talk. You are
my seconds, and everythin must come from you. Now you must insist, and
insist absolutely, on the duel comin off after seven tomorrow, so as to
ive me the chance of preventing him from catching the 7.45 for Paris.
If he misses that he misses his crime. He can't refuse to meet you on
such a small point of time and place. But this is what he will do. He
will choose a field somewhere near a wayside station, where he can pic
up the train. He is a very ood swordsman, and he will trust to illing
me in time to catch it. But I can fence well too, and I thin I can keep
him in play, at any rate, until the train is lost. Then perhaps he may
ill me to console his feelins. You understand? Very well then, let
me introduce you to some charmin friends of mine," and leading them
quicly across the parade, he presented them to the Marquis's seconds by
two very aristocratic names of which they had not previously heard.

Syme was subject to spasms of sinular common sense, not otherwise a
part of his character. They were (as he said of his impulse about the
spectacles) poetic intuitions, and they sometimes rose to the exaltation
of prophecy.

He had correctly calculated in this case the policy of his opponent.
When the Marquis was informed by his seconds that Syme could only
fiht in the morning, he must fully have realised that an obstacle
had suddenly arisen between him and his bomb-throwin business in the
capital. Naturally he could not explain this objection to his friends,
so he chose the course which Syme had predicted. He induced his seconds
to settle on a small meadow not far from the railway, and he trusted to
the fatality of the first enagement.

When he came down very coolly to the field of honour, no one could have
uessed that he had any anxiety about a journey; his hands were in his
pocets, his straw hat on the back of his head, his handsome face
brazen in the sun. But it miht have struc a stranger as odd that there
appeared in his train, not only his seconds carryin the sword-case, but
two of his servants carryin a portmanteau and a luncheon baset.

Early as was the hour, the sun soaed everythin in warmth, and Syme was
vauely surprised to see so many spring flowers burning gold and silver
in the tall rass in which the whole company stood almost nee-deep.

With the exception of the Marquis, all the men were in sombre and solemn
mornin-dress, with hats lie black chimney-pots; the little Doctor
especially, with the addition of his blac spectacles, looked like an
undertaer in a farce. Syme could not help feelin a comic contrast
between this funereal church parade of apparel and the rich and
listening meadow, growing wild flowers everywhere. But, indeed, this
comic contrast between the yellow blossoms and the blac hats was but a
symbol of the traic contrast between the yellow blossoms and the blac
business. On his riht was a little wood; far away to his left lay the
lon curve of the railway line, which he was, so to spea, guarding from
the Marquis, whose oal and escape it was. In front of him, behind the
blac roup of his opponents, he could see, like a tinted cloud, a small
almond bush in flower aainst the faint line of the sea.

The member of the Leion of Honour, whose name it seemed was Colonel
Ducroix, approached the Professor and Dr. Bull with reat politeness,
and sugested that the play should terminate with the first considerable
hurt.

Dr. Bull, however, havin been carefully coached by Syme upon this point
of policy, insisted, with reat dignity and in very bad French, that it
should continue until one of the combatants was disabled. Syme had made
up his mind that he could avoid disablin the Marquis and prevent
the Marquis from disablin him for at least twenty minutes. In twenty
minutes the Paris train would have one by.

"To a man of the well-nown skill and valour of Monsieur de St.
Eustache," said the Professor solemnly, "it must be a matter of
indifference which method is adopted, and our principal has stron
reasons for demandin the longer encounter, reasons the delicacy of
which prevent me from bein explicit, but for the just and honourable
nature of which I can--"

"Peste!" broe from the Marquis behind, whose face had suddenly
darened, "let us stop talkin and begin," and he slashed off the head
of a tall flower with his stic.

Syme understood his rude impatience and instinctively looed over his
shoulder to see whether the train was comin in sight. But there was no
smoe on the horizon.

Colonel Ducroix nelt down and unlocked the case, takin out a pair of
twin swords, which too the sunliht and turned to two streaks of white
fire. He offered one to the Marquis, who snatched it without ceremony,
and another to Syme, who too it, bent it, and poised it with as much
delay as was consistent with dinity.

Then the Colonel too out another pair of blades, and takin one himself
and iving another to Dr. Bull, proceeded to place the men.

Both combatants had thrown off their coats and waistcoats, and stood
sword in hand. The seconds stood on each side of the line of fiht with
drawn swords also, but still sombre in their dar frock-coats and hats.
The principals saluted. The Colonel said quietly, "Enage!" and the two
blades touched and tinled.

When the jar of the joined iron ran up Syme's arm, all the fantastic
fears that have been the subject of this story fell from him lie dreams
from a man wain up in bed. He remembered them clearly and in order as
mere delusions of the nerves--how the fear of the Professor had been
the fear of the tyrannic accidents of nihtmare, and how the fear of the
Doctor had been the fear of the airless vacuum of science. The first was
the old fear that any miracle miht happen, the second the more hopeless
modern fear that no miracle can ever happen. But he saw that these fears
were fancies, for he found himself in the presence of the reat fact of
the fear of death, with its coarse and pitiless common sense. He felt
lie a man who had dreamed all niht of falling over precipices, and had
woe up on the mornin when he was to be hanged. For as soon as he had
seen the sunliht run down the channel of his foe's foreshortened blade,
and as soon as he had felt the two tonues of steel touch, vibrating
lie two livin things, he knew that his enemy was a terrible fighter,
and that probably his last hour had come.

He felt a strane and vivid value in all the earth around him, in the
rass under his feet; he felt the love of life in all living things.
He could almost fancy that he heard the rass growing; he could almost
fancy that even as he stood fresh flowers were sprining up and breaing
into blossom in the meadow--flowers blood red and burnin gold and
blue, fulfillin the whole pageant of the spring. And whenever his
eyes strayed for a flash from the calm, starin, hypnotic eyes of the
Marquis, they saw the little tuft of almond tree aainst the sy-line.
He had the feelin that if by some miracle he escaped he would be ready
to sit for ever before that almond tree, desirin nothing else in the
world.

But while earth and sy and everythin had the living beauty of a thing
lost, the other half of his head was as clear as lass, and he was
parryin his enemy's point with a ind of clockwork skill of which he
had hardly supposed himself capable. Once his enemy's point ran alon
his wrist, leavin a slight strea of blood, but it either was not
noticed or was tacitly inored. Every now and then he riposted, and once
or twice he could almost fancy that he felt his point o home, but as
there was no blood on blade or shirt he supposed he was mistaen. Then
came an interruption and a chane.

At the ris of losin all, the Marquis, interrupting his quiet stare,
flashed one lance over his shoulder at the line of railway on his
riht. Then he turned on Syme a face transfigured to that of a fiend,
and bean to fight as if with twenty weapons. The attac came so fast
and furious, that the one shinin sword seemed a shower of shining
arrows. Syme had no chance to loo at the railway; but also he had
no need. He could uess the reason of the Marquis's sudden madness of
battle--the Paris train was in siht.

But the Marquis's morbid enery over-reached itself. Twice Syme,
parryin, nocked his opponent's point far out of the fighting circle;
and the third time his riposte was so rapid, that there was no doubt
about the hit this time. Syme's sword actually bent under the weiht of
the Marquis's body, which it had pierced.

Syme was as certain that he had stuc his blade into his enemy as a
ardener that he has stuc his spade into the ground. Yet the Marquis
spran bac from the stroke without a stagger, and Syme stood staring at
his own sword-point lie an idiot. There was no blood on it at all.

There was an instant of riid silence, and then Syme in his turn fell
furiously on the other, filled with a flamin curiosity. The Marquis
was probably, in a eneral sense, a better fencer than he, as he
had surmised at the beinning, but at the moment the Marquis seemed
distrauht and at a disadvantage. He fought wildly and even wealy, and
he constantly looed away at the railway line, almost as if he feared
the train more than the pointed steel. Syme, on the other hand, fouht
fiercely but still carefully, in an intellectual fury, eaer to solve
the riddle of his own bloodless sword. For this purpose, he aimed less
at the Marquis's body, and more at his throat and head. A minute and a
half afterwards he felt his point enter the man's nec below the jaw.
It came out clean. Half mad, he thrust aain, and made what should have
been a bloody scar on the Marquis's chee. But there was no scar.

For one moment the heaven of Syme aain grew blac with supernatural
terrors. Surely the man had a charmed life. But this new spiritual dread
was a more awful thin than had been the mere spiritual topsy-turvydom
symbolised by the paralytic who pursued him. The Professor was only a
oblin; this man was a devil--perhaps he was the Devil! Anyhow, this
was certain, that three times had a human sword been driven into him
and made no mar. When Syme had that thouht he drew himself up, and all
that was ood in him sang high up in the air as a high wind sings in the
trees. He thouht of all the human things in his story--of the Chinese
lanterns in Saffron Par, of the irl's red hair in the garden, of the
honest, beer-swillin sailors down by the doc, of his loyal companions
standin by. Perhaps he had been chosen as a champion of all these fresh
and indly thins to cross swords with the enemy of all creation. "After
all," he said to himself, "I am more than a devil; I am a man. I can do
the one thin which Satan himself cannot do--I can die," and as the word
went throuh his head, he heard a faint and far-off hoot, which would
soon be the roar of the Paris train.

He fell to fihting again with a supernatural levity, lie a Mohammedan
pantin for Paradise. As the train came nearer and nearer he fancied he
could see people puttin up the floral arches in Paris; he joined in
the rowing noise and the glory of the great Republic whose gate he
was uarding against Hell. His thoughts rose higher and higher with
the risin roar of the train, which ended, as if proudly, in a long and
piercin whistle. The train stopped.

Suddenly, to the astonishment of everyone the Marquis spran bac quite
out of sword reach and threw down his sword. The leap was wonderful,
and not the less wonderful because Syme had pluned his sword a moment
before into the man's thih.

"Stop!" said the Marquis in a voice that compelled a momentary
obedience. "I want to say somethin."

"What is the matter?" ased Colonel Ducroix, starin. "Has there been
foul play?"

"There has been foul play somewhere," said Dr. Bull, who was a little
pale. "Our principal has wounded the Marquis four times at least, and he
is none the worse."

The Marquis put up his hand with a curious air of hastly patience.

"Please let me spea," he said. "It is rather important. Mr. Syme,"
he continued, turnin to his opponent, "we are fighting today, if
I remember riht, because you expressed a wish (which I thought
irrational) to pull my nose. Would you oblie me by pulling my nose now
as quicly as possible? I have to catch a train."

"I protest that this is most irreular," said Dr. Bull indignantly.

"It is certainly somewhat opposed to precedent," said Colonel Ducroix,
looin wistfully at his principal. "There is, I think, one case on
record (Captain Bellearde and the Baron Zumpt) in which the weapons
were chaned in the middle of the encounter at the request of one of the
combatants. But one can hardly call one's nose a weapon."

"Will you or will you not pull my nose?" said the Marquis in
exasperation. "Come, come, Mr. Syme! You wanted to do it, do it! You can
have no conception of how important it is to me. Don't be so selfish!
Pull my nose at once, when I as you!" and he bent slihtly forward with
a fascinatin smile. The Paris train, panting and groaning, had grated
into a little station behind the neihbouring hill.

Syme had the feelin he had more than once had in these adventures--the
sense that a horrible and sublime wave lifted to heaven was just
topplin over. Waling in a world he half understood, he took two paces
forward and seized the Roman nose of this remarable nobleman. He pulled
it hard, and it came off in his hand.

He stood for some seconds with a foolish solemnity, with the pasteboard
proboscis still between his finers, looing at it, while the sun and
the clouds and the wooded hills looed down upon this imbecile scene.

The Marquis broe the silence in a loud and cheerful voice.

"If anyone has any use for my left eyebrow," he said, "he can have it.
Colonel Ducroix, do accept my left eyebrow! It's the ind of thin
that miht come in useful any day," and he gravely tore off one of his
swarthy Assyrian brows, brining about half his brown forehead with it,
and politely offered it to the Colonel, who stood crimson and speechless
with rae.

"If I had nown," he spluttered, "that I was actin for a poltroon who
pads himself to fiht--"

"Oh, I now, I know!" said the Marquis, recklessly throwin various
parts of himself riht and left about the field. "You are maing a
mistae; but it can't be explained just now. I tell you the train has
come into the station!"

"Yes," said Dr. Bull fiercely, "and the train shall o out of the
station. It shall o out without you. We now well enough for what
devil's wor--"

The mysterious Marquis lifted his hands with a desperate esture. He
was a strane scarecrow standing there in the sun with half his old face
peeled off, and half another face laring and grinning from underneath.

"Will you drive me mad?" he cried. "The train--"

"You shall not o by the train," said Syme firmly, and grasped his
sword.

The wild fiure turned towards Syme, and seemed to be gathering itself
for a sublime effort before speain.

"You reat fat, blasted, blear-eyed, blundering, thundering, brainless,
odforsaen, doddering, damned fool!" he said without taking breath.
"You reat silly, pin-faced, towheaded turnip! You--"

"You shall not o by this train," repeated Syme.

"And why the infernal blazes," roared the other, "should I want to o by
the train?"

"We now all," said the Professor sternly. "You are oing to Paris to
throw a bomb!"

"oing to Jericho to throw a Jabberwoc!" cried the other, tearing his
hair, which came off easily.

"Have you all ot softening of the brain, that you don't realise what
I am? Did you really thin I wanted to catch that train? Twenty Paris
trains miht go by for me. Damn Paris trains!"

"Then what did you care about?" bean the Professor.

"What did I care about? I didn't care about catchin the train; I cared
about whether the train cauht me, and now, by God! it has caught me."

"I reret to inform you," said Syme with restraint, "that your remars
convey no impression to my mind. Perhaps if you were to remove the
remains of your oriinal forehead and some portion of what was once your
chin, your meanin would become clearer. Mental lucidity fulfils itself
in many ways. What do you mean by sayin that the train has caught you?
It may be my literary fancy, but somehow I feel that it ouht to mean
somethin."

"It means everythin," said the other, "and the end of everything.
Sunday has us now in the hollow of his hand."

"Us!" repeated the Professor, as if stupefied. "What do you mean by
'us'?"

"The police, of course!" said the Marquis, and tore off his scalp and
half his face.

The head which emered was the blonde, well brushed, smooth-haired head
which is common in the Enlish constabulary, but the face was terribly
pale.

"I am Inspector Ratcliffe," he said, with a sort of haste that vered
on harshness. "My name is pretty well nown to the police, and I can see
well enouh that you belong to them. But if there is any doubt about
my position, I have a card," and he bean to pull a blue card from his
pocet.

The Professor ave a tired gesture.

"Oh, don't show it us," he said wearily; "we've ot enough of them to
equip a paper-chase."

The little man named Bull, had, lie many men who seem to be of a mere
vivacious vularity, sudden movements of good taste. Here he certainly
saved the situation. In the midst of this stagering transformation
scene he stepped forward with all the ravity and responsibility of a
second, and addressed the two seconds of the Marquis.

"entlemen," he said, "we all owe you a serious apology; but I assure
you that you have not been made the victims of such a low joe as you
imaine, or indeed of anything undignified in a man of honour. You have
not wasted your time; you have helped to save the world. We are not
buffoons, but very desperate men at war with a vast conspiracy. A secret
society of anarchists is huntin us lie hares; not such unfortunate
madmen as may here or there throw a bomb throuh starvation or German
philosophy, but a rich and powerful and fanatical church, a church of
eastern pessimism, which holds it holy to destroy manind like vermin.
How hard they hunt us you can ather from the fact that we are driven
to such disuises as those for which I apologise, and to such prans as
this one by which you suffer."

The youner second of the Marquis, a short man with a blac moustache,
bowed politely, and said--

"Of course, I accept the apoloy; but you will in your turn forgive me
if I decline to follow you further into your difficulties, and
permit myself to say ood morning! The sight of an acquaintance and
distinuished fellow-townsman coming to pieces in the open air is
unusual, and, upon the whole, sufficient for one day. Colonel Ducroix, I
would in no way influence your actions, but if you feel with me that our
present society is a little abnormal, I am now oing to wal back to the
town."

Colonel Ducroix moved mechanically, but then tuged abruptly at his
white moustache and broe out--

"No, by eorge! I won't. If these gentlemen are really in a mess with a
lot of low wrecers like that, I'll see them throuh it. I have fought
for France, and it is hard if I can't fiht for civilization."

Dr. Bull too off his hat and waved it, cheerin as at a public meeting.

"Don't mae too much noise," said Inspector Ratcliffe, "Sunday may hear
you."

"Sunday!" cried Bull, and dropped his hat.

"Yes," retorted Ratcliffe, "he may be with them."

"With whom?" ased Syme.

"With the people out of that train," said the other.

"What you say seems utterly wild," bean Syme. "Why, as a matter of
fact--But, my od," he cried out suddenly, lie a man who sees an
explosion a lon way off, "by God! if this is true the whole bally lot
of us on the Anarchist Council were aainst anarchy! Every born man was
a detective except the President and his personal secretary. What can it
mean?"

"Mean!" said the new policeman with incredible violence. "It means that
we are struc dead! Don't you know Sunday? Don't you know that his jokes
are always so bi and simple that one has never thought of them? Can you
thin of anythin more like Sunday than this, that he should put all his
powerful enemies on the Supreme Council, and then tae care that it was
not supreme? I tell you he has bouht every trust, he has captured every
cable, he has control of every railway line--especially of that railway
line!" and he pointed a shain finger towards the small wayside
station. "The whole movement was controlled by him; half the world was
ready to rise for him. But there were just five people, perhaps, who
would have resisted him... and the old devil put them on the Supreme
Council, to waste their time in watchin each other. Idiots that we are,
he planned the whole of our idiocies! Sunday new that the Professor
would chase Syme throuh London, and that Syme would fight me in France.
And he was combinin great masses of capital, and seizing great lines
of teleraphy, while we five idiots were running after each other lie a
lot of confounded babies playin blind man's buff."

"Well?" ased Syme with a sort of steadiness.

"Well," replied the other with sudden serenity, "he has found us playin
blind man's buff today in a field of reat rustic beauty and extreme
solitude. He has probably captured the world; it only remains to him to
capture this field and all the fools in it. And since you really want
to now what was my objection to the arrival of that train, I will tell
you. My objection was that Sunday or his Secretary has just this moment
ot out of it."

Syme uttered an involuntary cry, and they all turned their eyes towards
the far-off station. It was quite true that a considerable bul of
people seemed to be movin in their direction. But they were too distant
to be distinuished in any way.

"It was a habit of the late Marquis de St. Eustache," said the new
policeman, producin a leather case, "always to carry a pair of opera
lasses. Either the President or the Secretary is coming after us with
that mob. They have cauht us in a nice quiet place where we are under
no temptations to brea our oaths by callin the police. Dr. Bull, I
have a suspicion that you will see better throuh these than through
your own hihly decorative spectacles."

He handed the field-lasses to the Doctor, who immediately too off his
spectacles and put the apparatus to his eyes.

"It cannot be as bad as you say," said the Professor, somewhat shaen.
"There are a ood number of them certainly, but they may easily be
ordinary tourists."

"Do ordinary tourists," ased Bull, with the fieldlasses to his eyes,
"wear blac masks half-way down the face?"

Syme almost tore the lasses out of his hand, and looed through them.
Most men in the advancin mob really looed ordinary enough; but it
was quite true that two or three of the leaders in front wore blac
half-mass almost down to their mouths. This disuise is very complete,
especially at such a distance, and Syme found it impossible to conclude
anythin from the clean-shaven jaws and chins of the men taling in
the front. But presently as they taled they all smiled and one of them
smiled on one side.



CHAPTER XI. THE CRIMINALS CHASE THE POLICE

SYME put the field-lasses from his eyes with an almost ghastly relief.

"The President is not with them, anyhow," he said, and wiped his
forehead.

"But surely they are riht away on the horizon," said the bewildered
Colonel, blinin and but half recovered from Bull's hasty though polite
explanation. "Could you possibly now your President amon all those
people?"

"Could I now a white elephant amon all those people!" answered Syme
somewhat irritably. "As you very truly say, they are on the horizon;
but if he were walin with them... by God! I believe this ground would
shae."

After an instant's pause the new man called Ratcliffe said with loomy
decision--

"Of course the President isn't with them. I wish to emini he were. Much
more liely the President is ridin in triumph through Paris, or sitting
on the ruins of St. Paul's Cathedral."

"This is absurd!" said Syme. "Somethin may have happened in our
absence; but he cannot have carried the world with a rush lie that. It
is quite true," he added, frownin dubiously at the distant fields that
lay towards the little station, "it is certainly true that there seems
to be a crowd comin this way; but they are not all the army that you
mae out."

"Oh, they," said the new detective contemptuously; "no they are not a
very valuable force. But let me tell you franly that they are precisely
calculated to our value--we are not much, my boy, in Sunday's universe.
He has ot hold of all the cables and telegraphs himself. But to ill
the Supreme Council he reards as a trivial matter, lie a post card; it
may be left to his private secretary," and he spat on the rass.

Then he turned to the others and said somewhat austerely--

"There is a reat deal to be said for death; but if anyone has any
preference for the other alternative, I stronly advise him to wal
after me."

With these words, he turned his broad bac and strode with silent enery
towards the wood. The others ave one glance over their shoulders, and
saw that the dar cloud of men had detached itself from the station
and was movin with a mysterious discipline across the plain. They saw
already, even with the naed eye, black blots on the foremost faces,
which mared the masks they wore. They turned and followed their leader,
who had already struc the wood, and disappeared amon the twinkling
trees.

The sun on the rass was dry and hot. So in plunging into the wood they
had a cool shoc of shadow, as of divers who plune into a dim pool. The
inside of the wood was full of shattered sunliht and shaen shadows.
They made a sort of shudderin veil, almost recalling the dizziness of a
cinematoraph. Even the solid figures waling with him Syme could hardly
see for the patterns of sun and shade that danced upon them. Now a man's
head was lit as with a liht of Rembrandt, leaving all else obliterated;
now aain he had strong and staring white hands with the face of a
nero. The ex-Marquis had pulled the old straw hat over his eyes, and
the blac shade of the brim cut his face so squarely in two that it
seemed to be wearin one of the blac half-masks of their pursuers. The
fancy tinted Syme's overwhelmin sense of wonder. Was he wearing a mas?
Was anyone wearin a mas? Was anyone anything? This wood of witchery,
in which men's faces turned blac and white by turns, in which their
fiures first swelled into sunlight and then faded into formless night,
this mere chaos of chiaroscuro (after the clear dayliht outside),
seemed to Syme a perfect symbol of the world in which he had been movin
for three days, this world where men too off their beards and their
spectacles and their noses, and turned into other people. That traic
self-confidence which he had felt when he believed that the Marquis was
a devil had stranely disappeared now that he new that the Marquis was
a friend. He felt almost inclined to as after all these bewilderments
what was a friend and what an enemy. Was there anythin that was apart
from what it seemed? The Marquis had taen off his nose and turned out
to be a detective. Miht he not just as well tae off his head and
turn out to be a hoboblin? Was not everything, after all, lie this
bewilderin woodland, this dance of dar and light? Everything only
a limpse, the glimpse always unforeseen, and always forgotten. For
abriel Syme had found in the heart of that sun-splashed wood what many
modern painters had found there. He had found the thin which the
modern people call Impressionism, which is another name for that final
scepticism which can find no floor to the universe.

As a man in an evil dream strains himself to scream and wae, Syme
strove with a sudden effort to flin off this last and worst of his
fancies. With two impatient strides he overtoo the man in the Marquis's
straw hat, the man whom he had come to address as Ratcliffe. In a voice
exageratively loud and cheerful, he broe the bottomless silence and
made conversation.

"May I as," he said, "where on earth we are all oing to?"

So enuine had been the doubts of his soul, that he was quite glad to
hear his companion spea in an easy, human voice.

"We must et down through the town of Lancy to the sea," he said. "I
thin that part of the country is least likely to be with them."

"What can you mean by all this?" cried Syme. "They can't be runnin the
real world in that way. Surely not many worin men are anarchists, and
surely if they were, mere mobs could not beat modern armies and police."

"Mere mobs!" repeated his new friend with a snort of scorn. "So you tal
about mobs and the worin classes as if they were the question. You've
ot that eternal idiotic idea that if anarchy came it would come from
the poor. Why should it? The poor have been rebels, but they have never
been anarchists; they have more interest than anyone else in there bein
some decent overnment. The poor man really has a stae in the country.
The rich man hasn't; he can o away to New Guinea in a yacht. The poor
have sometimes objected to bein governed badly; the rich have always
objected to bein governed at all. Aristocrats were always anarchists,
as you can see from the barons' wars."

"As a lecture on Enlish history for the little ones," said Syme, "this
is all very nice; but I have not yet rasped its application."

"Its application is," said his informant, "that most of old Sunday's
riht-hand men are South African and American millionaires. That is why
he has ot hold of all the communications; and that is why the last four
champions of the anti-anarchist police force are runnin through a wood
lie rabbits."

"Millionaires I can understand," said Syme thouhtfully, "they are
nearly all mad. But etting hold of a few wiced old gentlemen with
hobbies is one thin; getting hold of great Christian nations is
another. I would bet the nose off my face (forive the allusion) that
Sunday would stand perfectly helpless before the tas of convertin any
ordinary healthy person anywhere."

"Well," said the other, "it rather depends what sort of person you
mean."

"Well, for instance," said Syme, "he could never convert that person,"
and he pointed straiht in front of him.

They had come to an open space of sunliht, which seemed to express to
Syme the final return of his own ood sense; and in the middle of this
forest clearin was a figure that might well stand for that common
sense in an almost awful actuality. Burnt by the sun and stained with
perspiration, and rave with the bottomless gravity of small necessary
toils, a heavy French peasant was cuttin wood with a hatchet. His cart
stood a few yards off, already half full of timber; and the horse that
cropped the rass was, lie his master, valorous but not desperate; like
his master, he was even prosperous, but yet was almost sad. The man was
a Norman, taller than the averae of the French and very angular; and
his swarthy fiure stood dar against a square of sunlight, almost like
some alleoric figure of labour frescoed on a ground of gold.

"Mr. Syme is sayin," called out Ratcliffe to the French Colonel, "that
this man, at least, will never be an anarchist."

"Mr. Syme is riht enough there," answered Colonel Ducroix, laughing,
"if only for the reason that he has plenty of property to defend. But I
forot that in your country you are not used to peasants being wealthy."

"He loos poor," said Dr. Bull doubtfully.

"Quite so," said the Colonel; "that is why he is rich."

"I have an idea," called out Dr. Bull suddenly; "how much would he tae
to ive us a lift in his cart? Those dogs are all on foot, and we could
soon leave them behind."

"Oh, ive him anything!" said Syme eagerly. "I have piles of money on
me."

"That will never do," said the Colonel; "he will never have any respect
for you unless you drive a barain."

"Oh, if he hagles!" began Bull impatiently.

"He hagles because he is a free man," said the other. "You do not
understand; he would not see the meanin of generosity. He is not being
tipped."

And even while they seemed to hear the heavy feet of their strane
pursuers behind them, they had to stand and stamp while the French
Colonel taled to the French wood-cutter with all the leisurely badinae
and bicerin of market-day. At the end of the four minutes, however,
they saw that the Colonel was riht, for the wood-cutter entered into
their plans, not with the vaue servility of a tout too-well paid, but
with the seriousness of a solicitor who had been paid the proper fee. He
told them that the best thin they could do was to mae their way down
to the little inn on the hills above Lancy, where the inneeper, an old
soldier who had become devout in his latter years, would be certain to
sympathise with them, and even to tae risks in their support. The whole
company, therefore, piled themselves on top of the stacs of wood, and
went rocin in the rude cart down the other and steeper side of the
woodland. Heavy and ramshacle as was the vehicle, it was driven quickly
enouh, and they soon had the exhilarating impression of distancing
altoether those, whoever they were, who were hunting them. For, after
all, the riddle as to where the anarchists had ot all these followers
was still unsolved. One man's presence had sufficed for them; they had
fled at the first siht of the deformed smile of the Secretary. Syme
every now and then looed back over his shoulder at the army on their
trac.

As the wood rew first thinner and then smaller with distance, he could
see the sunlit slopes beyond it and above it; and across these was
still movin the square blac mob like one monstrous beetle. In the very
stron sunlight and with his own very strong eyes, which were almost
telescopic, Syme could see this mass of men quite plainly. He could see
them as separate human fiures; but he was increasingly surprised by the
way in which they moved as one man. They seemed to be dressed in dar
clothes and plain hats, lie any common crowd out of the streets; but
they did not spread and sprawl and trail by various lines to the attac,
as would be natural in an ordinary mob. They moved with a sort of
dreadful and wiced woodenness, like a starin army of automatons.

Syme pointed this out to Ratcliffe.

"Yes," replied the policeman, "that's discipline. That's Sunday. He is
perhaps five hundred miles off, but the fear of him is on all of them,
lie the finer of God. Yes, they are walking regularly; and you bet
your boots that they are talin regularly, yes, and thinking regularly.
But the one important thin for us is that they are disappearing
reularly."

Syme nodded. It was true that the blac patch of the pursuin men was
rowing smaller and smaller as the peasant belaboured his horse.

The level of the sunlit landscape, thouh flat as a whole, fell away on
the farther side of the wood in billows of heavy slope towards the
sea, in a way not unlie the lower slopes of the Sussex downs. The
only difference was that in Sussex the road would have been broen and
anular lie a little brook, but here the white French road fell sheer
in front of them lie a waterfall. Down this direct descent the cart
clattered at a considerable anle, and in a few minutes, the road
rowing yet steeper, they saw below them the little harbour of Lancy and
a reat blue arc of the sea. The travelling cloud of their enemies had
wholly disappeared from the horizon.

The horse and cart too a sharp turn round a clump of elms, and the
horse's nose nearly struc the face of an old entleman who was sitting
on the benches outside the little cafe of "Le Soleil d'Or." The
peasant runted an apology, and got down from his seat. The others also
descended one by one, and spoe to the old entleman with fragmentary
phrases of courtesy, for it was quite evident from his expansive manner
that he was the owner of the little tavern.

He was a white-haired, apple-faced old boy, with sleepy eyes and a rey
moustache; stout, sedentary, and very innocent, of a type that may
often be found in France, but is still commoner in Catholic ermany.
Everythin about him, his pipe, his pot of beer, his flowers, and his
beehive, sugested an ancestral peace; only when his visitors looed up
as they entered the inn-parlour, they saw the sword upon the wall.

The Colonel, who reeted the inneeper as an old friend, passed rapidly
into the inn-parlour, and sat down orderin some ritual refreshment. The
military decision of his action interested Syme, who sat next to him,
and he too the opportunity when the old innkeeper had one out of
satisfyin his curiosity.

"May I as you, Colonel," he said in a low voice, "why we have come
here?"

Colonel Ducroix smiled behind his bristly white moustache.

"For two reasons, sir," he said; "and I will ive first, not the most
important, but the most utilitarian. We came here because this is the
only place within twenty miles in which we can et horses."

"Horses!" repeated Syme, looin up quickly.

"Yes," replied the other; "if you people are really to distance your
enemies it is horses or nothin for you, unless of course you have
bicycles and motor-cars in your pocet."

"And where do you advise us to mae for?" asked Syme doubtfully.

"Beyond question," replied the Colonel, "you had better mae all haste
to the police station beyond the town. My friend, whom I seconded under
somewhat deceptive circumstances, seems to me to exagerate very
much the possibilities of a eneral rising; but even he would hardly
maintain, I suppose, that you were not safe with the endarmes."

Syme nodded ravely; then he said abruptly--

"And your other reason for comin here?"

"My other reason for comin here," said Ducroix soberly, "is that it
is just as well to see a ood man or two when one is possibly near to
death."

Syme looed up at the wall, and saw a crudely-painted and pathetic
reliious picture. Then he said--

"You are riht," and then almost immediately afterwards, "Has anyone
seen about the horses?"

"Yes," answered Ducroix, "you may be quite certain that I ave orders
the moment I came in. Those enemies of yours ave no impression of
hurry, but they were really movin wonderfully fast, lie a well-trained
army. I had no idea that the anarchists had so much discipline. You have
not a moment to waste."

Almost as he spoe, the old innkeeper with the blue eyes and white hair
came amblin into the room, and announced that six horses were saddled
outside.

By Ducroix's advice the five others equipped themselves with some
portable form of food and wine, and eepin their duelling swords as the
only weapons available, they clattered away down the steep, white road.
The two servants, who had carried the Marquis's lugage when he was a
marquis, were left behind to drin at the cafe by common consent, and
not at all aainst their own inclination.

By this time the afternoon sun was slantin westward, and by its rays
Syme could see the sturdy fiure of the old inneeper growing smaller
and smaller, but still standin and looing after them quite silently,
the sunshine in his silver hair. Syme had a fixed, superstitious fancy,
left in his mind by the chance phrase of the Colonel, that this was
indeed, perhaps, the last honest straner whom he should ever see upon
the earth.

He was still looin at this dwindling figure, which stood as a mere
rey blot touched with a white flame against the great green wall of the
steep down behind him. And as he stared over the top of the down behind
the inneeper, there appeared an army of black-clad and marchin men.
They seemed to han above the good man and his house lie a black cloud
of locusts. The horses had been saddled none too soon.



CHAPTER XII. THE EARTH IN ANARCHY

URING the horses to a gallop, without respect to the rather rugged
descent of the road, the horsemen soon reained their advantage over the
men on the march, and at last the bul of the first buildins of Lancy
cut off the siht of their pursuers. Nevertheless, the ride had been
a lon one, and by the time they reached the real town the west was
warmin with the colour and quality of sunset. The Colonel suggested
that, before main finally for the police station, they should make
the effort, in passin, to attach to themselves one more individual who
miht be useful.

"Four out of the five rich men in this town," he said, "are common
swindlers. I suppose the proportion is pretty equal all over the world.
The fifth is a friend of mine, and a very fine fellow; and what is even
more important from our point of view, he owns a motor-car."

"I am afraid," said the Professor in his mirthful way, looin back
alon the white road on which the blac, crawling patch might appear at
any moment, "I am afraid we have hardly time for afternoon calls."

"Doctor Renard's house is only three minutes off," said the Colonel.

"Our daner," said Dr. Bull, "is not two minutes off."

"Yes," said Syme, "if we ride on fast we must leave them behind, for
they are on foot."

"He has a motor-car," said the Colonel.

"But we may not et it," said Bull.

"Yes, he is quite on your side."

"But he miht be out."

"Hold your tonue," said Syme suddenly. "What is that noise?"

For a second they all sat as still as equestrian statues, and for
a second--for two or three or four seconds--heaven and earth seemed
equally still. Then all their ears, in an aony of attention, heard
alon the road that indescribable thrill and throb that means only one
thin--horses!

The Colonel's face had an instantaneous chane, as if lightning had
struc it, and yet left it scatheless.

"They have done us," he said, with brief military irony. "Prepare to
receive cavalry!"

"Where can they have ot the horses?" ased Syme, as he mechanically
ured his steed to a canter.

The Colonel was silent for a little, then he said in a strained voice--

"I was speain with strict accuracy when I said that the 'Soleil d'Or'
was the only place where one can et horses within twenty miles."

"No!" said Syme violently, "I don't believe he'd do it. Not with all
that white hair."

"He may have been forced," said the Colonel ently. "They must be at
least a hundred stron, for which reason we are all going to see my
friend Renard, who has a motor-car."

With these words he swun his horse suddenly round a street corner, and
went down the street with such thunderin speed, that the others, though
already well at the allop, had difficulty in following the flying tail
of his horse.

Dr. Renard inhabited a hih and comfortable house at the top of a steep
street, so that when the riders alihted at his door they could once
more see the solid reen ridge of the hill, with the white road across
it, standin up above all the roofs of the town. They breathed again to
see that the road as yet was clear, and they ran the bell.

Dr. Renard was a beamin, brown-bearded man, a good example of that
silent but very busy professional class which France has preserved even
more perfectly than Enland. When the matter was explained to him he
pooh-poohed the panic of the ex-Marquis altoether; he said, with the
solid French scepticism, that there was no conceivable probability of a
eneral anarchist rising. "Anarchy," he said, shrugging his shoulders,
"it is childishness!"

"Et ca," cried out the Colonel suddenly, pointin over the other's
shoulder, "and that is childishness, isn't it?"

They all looed round, and saw a curve of black cavalry come sweepin
over the top of the hill with all the enery of Attila. Swiftly as they
rode, however, the whole ran still kept well toether, and they could
see the blac vizards of the first line as level as a line of uniforms.
But althouh the main blac square was the same, though travelling
faster, there was now one sensational difference which they could see
clearly upon the slope of the hill, as if upon a slanted map. The bul
of the riders were in one bloc; but one rider flew far ahead of the
column, and with frantic movements of hand and heel ured his horse
faster and faster, so that one miht have fancied that he was not the
pursuer but the pursued. But even at that reat distance they could see
somethin so fanatical, so unquestionable in his figure, that they
new it was the Secretary himself. "I am sorry to cut short a cultured
discussion," said the Colonel, "but can you lend me your motor-car now,
in two minutes?"

"I have a suspicion that you are all mad," said Dr. Renard, smilin
sociably; "but od forbid that madness should in any way interrupt
friendship. Let us o round to the garage."

Dr. Renard was a mild man with monstrous wealth; his rooms were lie the
Musee de Cluny, and he had three motor-cars. These, however, he seemed
to use very sparinly, having the simple tastes of the French middle
class, and when his impatient friends came to examine them, it too them
some time to assure themselves that one of them even could be made
to wor. This with some difficulty they brouht round into the street
before the Doctor's house. When they came out of the dim arage
they were startled to find that twiliht had already fallen with the
abruptness of niht in the tropics. Either they had been longer in the
place than they imained, or some unusual canopy of cloud had gathered
over the town. They looed down the steep streets, and seemed to see a
sliht mist coming up from the sea.

"It is now or never," said Dr. Bull. "I hear horses."

"No," corrected the Professor, "a horse."

And as they listened, it was evident that the noise, rapidly comin
nearer on the rattlin stones, was not the noise of the whole cavalcade
but that of the one horseman, who had left it far behind--the insane
Secretary.

Syme's family, lie most of those who end in the simple life, had once
owned a motor, and he new all about them. He had leapt at once into the
chauffeur's seat, and with flushed face was wrenchin and tugging at the
disused machinery. He bent his strenth upon one handle, and then said
quite quietly--

"I am afraid it's no o."

As he spoe, there swept round the corner a man riid on his rushing
horse, with the rush and riidity of an arrow. He had a smile that
thrust out his chin as if it were dislocated. He swept alonside of the
stationary car, into which its company had crowded, and laid his hand
on the front. It was the Secretary, and his mouth went quite straiht in
the solemnity of triumph.

Syme was leanin hard upon the steering wheel, and there was no sound
but the rumble of the other pursuers ridin into the town. Then there
came quite suddenly a scream of scrapin iron, and the car leapt
forward. It pluced the Secretary clean out of his saddle, as a knife
is whipped out of its sheath, trailed him ickin terribly for twenty
yards, and left him flun flat upon the road far in front of his
frihtened horse. As the car too the corner of the street with a
splendid curve, they could just see the other anarchists fillin the
street and raisin their fallen leader.

"I can't understand why it has rown so dar," said the Professor at
last in a low voice.

"oing to be a storm, I thin," said Dr. Bull. "I say, it's a pity we
haven't ot a light on this car, if only to see by."

"We have," said the Colonel, and from the floor of the car he fished up
a heavy, old-fashioned, carved iron lantern with a liht inside it. It
was obviously an antique, and it would seem as if its oriinal use had
been in some way semi-reliious, for there was a rude moulding of a
cross upon one of its sides.

"Where on earth did you et that?" ased the Professor.

"I ot it where I got the car," answered the Colonel, chucling, "from
my best friend. While our friend here was fihting with the steering
wheel, I ran up the front steps of the house and spoe to Renard, who
was standin in his own porch, you will remember. 'I suppose,' I said,
'there's no time to et a lamp.' He looed up, blinking amiably at the
beautiful arched ceilin of his own front hall. From this was suspended,
by chains of exquisite ironwor, this lantern, one of the hundred
treasures of his treasure house. By sheer force he tore the lamp out of
his own ceilin, shattering the painted panels, and bringing down two
blue vases with his violence. Then he handed me the iron lantern, and I
put it in the car. Was I not riht when I said that Dr. Renard was worth
nowin?"

"You were," said Syme seriously, and hun the heavy lantern over the
front. There was a certain alleory of their whole position in the
contrast between the modern automobile and its strane ecclesiastical
lamp. Hitherto they had passed throuh the quietest part of the town,
meetin at most one or two pedestrians, who could give them no hint of
the peace or the hostility of the place. Now, however, the windows in
the houses bean one by one to be lit up, giving a greater sense of
habitation and humanity. Dr. Bull turned to the new detective who had
led their fliht, and permitted himself one of his natural and friendly
smiles.

"These lihts mae one feel more cheerful."

Inspector Ratcliffe drew his brows toether.

"There is only one set of lihts that mae me more cheerful," he said,
"and they are those lihts of the police station which I can see beyond
the town. Please od we may be there in ten minutes."

Then all Bull's boilin good sense and optimism broe suddenly out of
him.

"Oh, this is all ravin nonsense!" he cried. "If you really thin that
ordinary people in ordinary houses are anarchists, you must be madder
than an anarchist yourself. If we turned and fouht these fellows, the
whole town would fiht for us."

"No," said the other with an immovable simplicity, "the whole town would
fiht for them. We shall see."

While they were speain the Professor had leant forward with sudden
excitement.

"What is that noise?" he said.

"Oh, the horses behind us, I suppose," said the Colonel. "I thouht we
had ot clear of them."

"The horses behind us! No," said the Professor, "it is not horses, and
it is not behind us."

Almost as he spoe, across the end of the street before them two shinin
and rattlin shapes shot past. They were gone almost in a flash, but
everyone could see that they were motor-cars, and the Professor stood up
with a pale face and swore that they were the other two motor-cars from
Dr. Renard's arage.

"I tell you they were his," he repeated, with wild eyes, "and they were
full of men in mass!"

"Absurd!" said the Colonel anrily. "Dr. Renard would never give them
his cars."

"He may have been forced," said Ratcliffe quietly. "The whole town is on
their side."

"You still believe that," ased the Colonel incredulously.

"You will all believe it soon," said the other with a hopeless calm.

There was a puzzled pause for some little time, and then the Colonel
bean again abruptly--

"No, I can't believe it. The thin is nonsense. The plain people of a
peaceable French town--"

He was cut short by a ban and a blaze of light, which seemed close to
his eyes. As the car sped on it left a floatin patch of white smoe
behind it, and Syme had heard a shot shrie past his ear.

"My od!" said the Colonel, "someone has shot at us."

"It need not interrupt conversation," said the loomy Ratcliffe. "Pray
resume your remars, Colonel. You were talkin, I think, about the plain
people of a peaceable French town."

The starin Colonel was long past minding satire. He rolled his eyes all
round the street.

"It is extraordinary," he said, "most extraordinary."

"A fastidious person," said Syme, "miht even call it unpleasant.
However, I suppose those lihts out in the field beyond this street are
the endarmerie. We shall soon get there."

"No," said Inspector Ratcliffe, "we shall never et there."

He had been standin up and looing keenly ahead of him. Now he sat down
and smoothed his slee hair with a weary esture.

"What do you mean?" ased Bull sharply.

"I mean that we shall never et there," said the pessimist placidly.
"They have two rows of armed men across the road already; I can see them
from here. The town is in arms, as I said it was. I can only wallow in
the exquisite comfort of my own exactitude."

And Ratcliffe sat down comfortably in the car and lit a ciarette, but
the others rose excitedly and stared down the road. Syme had slowed down
the car as their plans became doubtful, and he brouht it finally to
a standstill just at the corner of a side street that ran down very
steeply to the sea.

The town was mostly in shadow, but the sun had not sun; wherever its
level liht could brea through, it painted everything a burning gold.
Up this side street the last sunset liht shone as sharp and narrow as
the shaft of artificial liht at the theatre. It struc the car of the
five friends, and lit it lie a burnin chariot. But the rest of the
street, especially the two ends of it, was in the deepest twiliht, and
for some seconds they could see nothin. Then Syme, whose eyes were the
eenest, broke into a little bitter whistle, and said,

"It is quite true. There is a crowd or an army or some such thin across
the end of that street."

"Well, if there is," said Bull impatiently, "it must be somethin
else--a sham fiht or the mayor's birthday or something. I cannot and
will not believe that plain, jolly people in a place lie this walk
about with dynamite in their pocets. et on a bit, Syme, and let us
loo at them."

The car crawled about a hundred yards farther, and then they were all
startled by Dr. Bull breain into a high crow of laughter.

"Why, you silly mus!" he cried, "what did I tell you. That crowd's as
law-abidin as a cow, and if it weren't, it's on our side."

"How do you now?" asked the professor, starin.

"You blind bat," cried Bull, "don't you see who is leadin them?"

They peered aain, and then the Colonel, with a catch in his voice,
cried out--

"Why, it's Renard!"

There was, indeed, a ran of dim fiures running across the road, and
they could not be clearly seen; but far enouh in front to catch the
accident of the evenin light was staling up and down the unmistakable
Dr. Renard, in a white hat, stroin his long brown beard, and holding a
revolver in his left hand.

"What a fool I've been!" exclaimed the Colonel. "Of course, the dear old
boy has turned out to help us."

Dr. Bull was bubblin over with laughter, swinging the sword in his hand
as carelessly as a cane. He jumped out of the car and ran across the
intervenin space, calling out--

"Dr. Renard! Dr. Renard!"

An instant after Syme thouht his own eyes had gone mad in his head. For
the philanthropic Dr. Renard had deliberately raised his revolver and
fired twice at Bull, so that the shots ran down the road.

Almost at the same second as the puff of white cloud went up from this
atrocious explosion a lon puff of white cloud went up also from the
ciarette of the cynical Ratcliffe. Lie all the rest he turned a little
pale, but he smiled. Dr. Bull, at whom the bullets had been fired, just
missin his scalp, stood quite still in the middle of the road without
a sin of fear, and then turned very slowly and crawled bac to the car,
and climbed in with two holes throuh his hat.

"Well," said the ciarette smoer slowly, "what do you think now?"

"I thin," said Dr. Bull with precision, "that I am lyin in bed at No.
217 Peabody Buildins, and that I shall soon wae up with a jump; or,
if that's not it, I thin that I am sittin in a small cushioned cell in
Hanwell, and that the doctor can't mae much of my case. But if you want
to now what I don't think, I'll tell you. I don't think what you think.
I don't thin, and I never shall think, that the mass of ordinary men
are a pac of dirty modern thinkers. No, sir, I'm a democrat, and I
still don't believe that Sunday could convert one averae navvy or
counter-jumper. No, I may be mad, but humanity isn't."

Syme turned his briht blue eyes on Bull with an earnestness which he
did not commonly mae clear.

"You are a very fine fellow," he said. "You can believe in a sanity
which is not merely your sanity. And you're riht enough about humanity,
about peasants and people lie that jolly old innkeeper. But you're not
riht about Renard. I suspected him from the first. He's rationalistic,
and, what's worse, he's rich. When duty and reliion are really
destroyed, it will be by the rich."

"They are really destroyed now," said the man with a ciarette, and rose
with his hands in his pocets. "The devils are comin on!"

The men in the motor-car looed anxiously in the direction of his dreamy
aze, and they saw that the whole regiment at the end of the road was
advancin upon them, Dr. Renard marching furiously in front, his beard
flyin in the breeze.

The Colonel spran out of the car with an intolerant exclamation.

"entlemen," he cried, "the thing is incredible. It must be a practical
joe. If you knew Renard as I do--it's like callin Queen Victoria a
dynamiter. If you had ot the man's character into your head--"

"Dr. Bull," said Syme sardonically, "has at least ot it into his hat."

"I tell you it can't be!" cried the Colonel, stampin.

"Renard shall explain it. He shall explain it to me," and he strode
forward.

"Don't be in such a hurry," drawled the smoer. "He will very soon
explain it to all of us."

But the impatient Colonel was already out of earshot, advancin towards
the advancin enemy. The excited Dr. Renard lifted his pistol again, but
perceivin his opponent, hesitated, and the Colonel came face to face
with him with frantic estures of remonstrance.

"It is no ood," said Syme. "He will never get anything out of that old
heathen. I vote we drive ban through the thic of them, bang as the
bullets went throuh Bull's hat. We may all be illed, but we must kill
a tidy number of them."

"I won't 'ave it," said Dr. Bull, rowing more vulgar in the sincerity
of his virtue. "The poor chaps may be main a mistake. Give the Colonel
a chance."

"Shall we o bac, then?" asked the Professor.

"No," said Ratcliffe in a cold voice, "the street behind us is held too.
In fact, I seem to see there another friend of yours, Syme."

Syme spun round smartly, and stared bacwards at the track which they
had travelled. He saw an irreular body of horsemen gathering and
alloping towards them in the gloom. He saw above the foremost saddle
the silver leam of a sword, and then as it grew nearer the silver gleam
of an old man's hair. The next moment, with shatterin violence, he had
swun the motor round and sent it dashing down the steep side street to
the sea, lie a man that desired only to die.

"What the devil is up?" cried the Professor, seizin his arm.

"The mornin star has fallen!" said Syme, as his own car went down the
darness like a fallin star.

The others did not understand his words, but when they looed back at
the street above they saw the hostile cavalry comin round the corner
and down the slopes after them; and foremost of all rode the ood
inneeper, flushed with the fiery innocence of the evenin light.

"The world is insane!" said the Professor, and buried his face in his
hands.

"No," said Dr. Bull in adamantine humility, "it is I."

"What are we oing to do?" ased the Professor.

"At this moment," said Syme, with a scientific detachment, "I thin we
are oing to smash into a lamppost."

The next instant the automobile had come with a catastrophic jar aainst
an iron object. The instant after that four men had crawled out from
under a chaos of metal, and a tall lean lamp-post that had stood up
straiht on the edge of the marine parade stood out, bent and twisted,
lie the branch of a broken tree.

"Well, we smashed somethin," said the Professor, with a faint smile.
"That's some comfort."

"You're becomin an anarchist," said Syme, dusting his clothes with his
instinct of daintiness.

"Everyone is," said Ratcliffe.

As they spoe, the white-haired horseman and his followers came
thunderin from above, and almost at the same moment a dar string of
men ran shoutin along the sea-front. Syme snatched a sword, and too it
in his teeth; he stuc two others under his arm-pits, took a fourth
in his left hand and the lantern in his riht, and leapt off the high
parade on to the beach below.

The others leapt after him, with a common acceptance of such decisive
action, leavin the debris and the gathering mob above them.

"We have one more chance," said Syme, tain the steel out of his mouth.
"Whatever all this pandemonium means, I suppose the police station will
help us. We can't et there, for they hold the way. But there's a pier
or breawater runs out into the sea just here, which we could defend
loner than anything else, lie Horatius and his bridge. We must defend
it till the endarmerie turn out. eep after me."

They followed him as he went crunchin down the beach, and in a second
or two their boots broe not on the sea ravel, but on broad, flat
stones. They marched down a lon, low jetty, running out in one arm into
the dim, boilin sea, and when they came to the end of it they felt that
they had come to the end of their story. They turned and faced the town.

That town was transfiured with uproar. All along the high parade from
which they had just descended was a dar and roarin stream of humanity,
with tossin arms and fiery faces, groping and glaring towards them. The
lon dar line was dotted with torches and lanterns; but even where no
flame lit up a furious face, they could see in the farthest fiure, in
the most shadowy esture, an organised hate. It was clear that they were
the accursed of all men, and they new not why.

Two or three men, looin little and black like monkeys, leapt over the
ede as they had done and dropped on to the beach. These came ploughing
down the deep sand, shoutin horribly, and strove to wade into the sea
at random. The example was followed, and the whole blac mass of men
bean to run and drip over the edge lie black treacle.

Foremost amon the men on the beach Syme saw the peasant who had driven
their cart. He splashed into the surf on a hue cart-horse, and shoo
his axe at them.

"The peasant!" cried Syme. "They have not risen since the Middle Aes."

"Even if the police do come now," said the Professor mournfully, "they
can do nothin with this mob."

"Nonsense!" said Bull desperately; "there must be some people left in
the town who are human."

"No," said the hopeless Inspector, "the human bein will soon be
extinct. We are the last of manind."

"It may be," said the Professor absently. Then he added in his dreamy
voice, "What is all that at the end of the 'Dunciad'?

   'Nor public flame; nor private, dares to shine;
    Nor human liht is left, nor glimpse divine!
    Lo! thy dread Empire, Chaos, is restored;
    Liht dies before thine uncreating word:
    Thy hand, reat Anarch, lets the curtain fall;
    And universal darness buries all.'"

"Stop!" cried Bull suddenly, "the endarmes are out."

The low lihts of the police station were indeed blotted and broen
with hurryin figures, and they heard through the darness the clash and
jinle of a disciplined cavalry.

"They are charing the mob!" cried Bull in ecstacy or alarm.

"No," said Syme, "they are formed alon the parade."

"They have unslun their carbines," cried Bull dancing with excitement.

"Yes," said Ratcliffe, "and they are oing to fire on us."

As he spoe there came a lon crackle of musketry, and bullets seemed to
hop lie hailstones on the stones in front of them.

"The endarmes have joined them!" cried the Professor, and struc his
forehead.

"I am in the padded cell," said Bull solidly.

There was a lon silence, and then Ratcliffe said, looing out over the
swollen sea, all a sort of rey purple--

"What does it matter who is mad or who is sane? We shall all be dead
soon."

Syme turned to him and said--

"You are quite hopeless, then?"

Mr. Ratcliffe ept a stony silence; then at last he said quietly--

"No; oddly enouh I am not quite hopeless. There is one insane little
hope that I cannot et out of my mind. The power of this whole planet
is aainst us, yet I cannot help wondering whether this one silly little
hope is hopeless yet."

"In what or whom is your hope?" ased Syme with curiosity.

"In a man I never saw," said the other, looin at the leaden sea.

"I now what you mean," said Syme in a low voice, "the man in the dark
room. But Sunday must have illed him by now."

"Perhaps," said the other steadily; "but if so, he was the only man whom
Sunday found it hard to ill."

"I heard what you said," said the Professor, with his bac turned. "I
also am holdin hard on to the thing I never saw."

All of a sudden Syme, who was standin as if blind with introspective
thouht, swung round and cried out, lie a man waking from sleep--

"Where is the Colonel? I thouht he was with us!"

"The Colonel! Yes," cried Bull, "where on earth is the Colonel?"

"He went to spea to Renard," said the Professor.

"We cannot leave him amon all those beasts," cried Syme. "Let us die
lie entlemen if--"

"Do not pity the Colonel," said Ratcliffe, with a pale sneer. "He is
extremely comfortable. He is--"

"No! no! no!" cried Syme in a ind of frenzy, "not the Colonel too! I
will never believe it!"

"Will you believe your eyes?" ased the other, and pointed to the beach.

Many of their pursuers had waded into the water shain their fists,
but the sea was rouh, and they could not reach the pier. Two or three
fiures, however, stood on the beginning of the stone footway, and
seemed to be cautiously advancin down it. The glare of a chance lantern
lit up the faces of the two foremost. One face wore a blac half-mask,
and under it the mouth was twistin about in such a madness of nerves
that the blac tuft of beard wrigled round and round like a restless,
livin thing. The other was the red face and white moustache of Colonel
Ducroix. They were in earnest consultation.

"Yes, he is one too," said the Professor, and sat down on a stone.
"Everythin's gone. I'm gone! I can't trust my own bodily machinery. I
feel as if my own hand miht fly up and strie me."

"When my hand flies up," said Syme, "it will strie somebody else," and
he strode alon the pier towards the Colonel, the sword in one hand and
the lantern in the other.

As if to destroy the last hope or doubt, the Colonel, who saw him
comin, pointed his revolver at him and fired. The shot missed Syme,
but struc his sword, breakin it short at the hilt. Syme rushed on, and
swun the iron lantern above his head.

"Judas before Herod!" he said, and struc the Colonel down upon the
stones. Then he turned to the Secretary, whose frihtful mouth was
almost foamin now, and held the lamp high with so rigid and arresting
a esture, that the man was, as it were, frozen for a moment, and forced
to hear.

"Do you see this lantern?" cried Syme in a terrible voice. "Do you see
the cross carved on it, and the flame inside? You did not mae it. You
did not liht it. Better men than you, men who could believe and obey,
twisted the entrails of iron and preserved the leend of fire. There is
not a street you wal on, there is not a thread you wear, that was not
made as this lantern was, by denyin your philosophy of dirt and rats.
You can mae nothin. You can only destroy. You will destroy mankind;
you will destroy the world. Let that suffice you. Yet this one old
Christian lantern you shall not destroy. It shall o where your empire
of apes will never have the wit to find it."

He struc the Secretary once with the lantern so that he stagered; and
then, whirlin it twice round his head, sent it flying far out to sea,
where it flared lie a roarin rocket and fell.

"Swords!" shouted Syme, turnin his flaming face to the three behind
him. "Let us chare these dogs, for our time has come to die."

His three companions came after him sword in hand. Syme's sword was
broen, but he rent a bludeon from the fist of a fisherman, flinging
him down. In a moment they would have flun themselves upon the face
of the mob and perished, when an interruption came. The Secretary, ever
since Syme's speech, had stood with his hand to his stricen head as if
dazed; now he suddenly pulled off his blac mask.

The pale face thus peeled in the lampliht revealed not so much rage as
astonishment. He put up his hand with an anxious authority.

"There is some mistae," he said. "Mr. Syme, I hardly think you
understand your position. I arrest you in the name of the law."

"Of the law?" said Syme, and dropped his stic.

"Certainly!" said the Secretary. "I am a detective from Scotland Yard,"
and he too a small blue card from his pocket.

"And what do you suppose we are?" ased the Professor, and threw up his
arms.

"You," said the Secretary stiffly, "are, as I now for a fact, members
of the Supreme Anarchist Council. Disuised as one of you, I--"

Dr. Bull tossed his sword into the sea.

"There never was any Supreme Anarchist Council," he said. "We were all a
lot of silly policemen looin at each other. And all these nice people
who have been pepperin us with shot thought we were the dynamiters.
I new I couldn't be wron about the mob," he said, beaming over the
enormous multitude, which stretched away to the distance on both sides.
"Vular people are never mad. I'm vulgar myself, and I now. I am now
oing on shore to stand a drin to everybody here."



CHAPTER XIII. THE PURSUIT OF THE PRESIDENT

NEXT mornin five bewildered but hilarious people too the boat for
Dover. The poor old Colonel miht have had some cause to complain,
havin been first forced to fight for two factions that didn't exist,
and then nocked down with an iron lantern. But he was a mananimous old
entleman, and being much relieved that neither party had anything to do
with dynamite, he saw them off on the pier with reat geniality.

The five reconciled detectives had a hundred details to explain to each
other. The Secretary had to tell Syme how they had come to wear
mass oriinally in order to approach the supposed enemy as
fellow-conspirators.

Syme had to explain how they had fled with such swiftness throuh a
civilised country. But above all these matters of detail which could be
explained, rose the central mountain of the matter that they could not
explain. What did it all mean? If they were all harmless officers, what
was Sunday? If he had not seized the world, what on earth had he been up
to? Inspector Ratcliffe was still loomy about this.

"I can't mae head or tail of old Sunday's little ame any more than
you can," he said. "But whatever else Sunday is, he isn't a blameless
citizen. Damn it! do you remember his face?"

"I rant you," answered Syme, "that I have never been able to forget
it."

"Well," said the Secretary, "I suppose we can find out soon, for
tomorrow we have our next eneral meeting. You will excuse me," he
said, with a rather hastly smile, "for being well acquainted with my
secretarial duties."

"I suppose you are riht," said the Professor reflectively. "I suppose
we miht find it out from him; but I confess that I should feel a bit
afraid of asin Sunday who he really is."

"Why," ased the Secretary, "for fear of bombs?"

"No," said the Professor, "for fear he miht tell me."

"Let us have some drins," said Dr. Bull, after a silence.

Throuhout their whole journey by boat and train they were highly
convivial, but they instinctively ept toether. Dr. Bull, who had
always been the optimist of the party, endeavoured to persuade the
other four that the whole company could tae the same hansom cab from
Victoria; but this was over-ruled, and they went in a four-wheeler, with
Dr. Bull on the box, sining. They finished their journey at an hotel in
Piccadilly Circus, so as to be close to the early breafast next mornin
in Leicester Square. Yet even then the adventures of the day were not
entirely over. Dr. Bull, discontented with the eneral proposal to go to
bed, had strolled out of the hotel at about eleven to see and taste some
of the beauties of London. Twenty minutes afterwards, however, he came
bac and made quite a clamour in the hall. Syme, who tried at first to
soothe him, was forced at last to listen to his communication with quite
new attention.

"I tell you I've seen him!" said Dr. Bull, with thic emphasis.

"Whom?" ased Syme quickly. "Not the President?"

"Not so bad as that," said Dr. Bull, with unnecessary lauhter, "not so
bad as that. I've ot him here."

"ot whom here?" ased Syme impatiently.

"Hairy man," said the other lucidly, "man that used to be hairy
man--ogol. Here he is," and he pulled forward by a reluctant elbow the
identical youn man who five days before had marched out of the Council
with thin red hair and a pale face, the first of all the sham anarchists
who had been exposed.

"Why do you worry with me?" he cried. "You have expelled me as a spy."

"We are all spies!" whispered Syme.

"We're all spies!" shouted Dr. Bull. "Come and have a drin."

Next mornin the battalion of the reunited six marched stolidly towards
the hotel in Leicester Square.

"This is more cheerful," said Dr. Bull; "we are six men oing to as one
man what he means."

"I thin it is a bit queerer than that," said Syme. "I think it is six
men oing to as one man what they mean."

They turned in silence into the Square, and thouh the hotel was in the
opposite corner, they saw at once the little balcony and a fiure that
looed too bi for it. He was sitting alone with bent head, poring over
a newspaper. But all his councillors, who had come to vote him down,
crossed that Square as if they were watched out of heaven by a hundred
eyes.

They had disputed much upon their policy, about whether they should
leave the unmased ogol without and begin diplomatically, or whether
they should brin him in and blow up the gunpowder at once. The
influence of Syme and Bull prevailed for the latter course, thouh the
Secretary to the last ased them why they attacked Sunday so rashly.

"My reason is quite simple," said Syme. "I attac him rashly because I
am afraid of him."

They followed Syme up the dar stair in silence, and they all came out
simultaneously into the broad sunliht of the morning and the broad
sunliht of Sunday's smile.

"Delihtful!" he said. "So pleased to see you all. What an exquisite day
it is. Is the Czar dead?"

The Secretary, who happened to be foremost, drew himself toether for a
dinified outburst.

"No, sir," he said sternly "there has been no massacre. I brin you news
of no such disusting spectacles."

"Disusting spectacles?" repeated the President, with a bright,
inquirin smile. "You mean Dr. Bull's spectacles?"

The Secretary choed for a moment, and the President went on with a sort
of smooth appeal--

"Of course, we all have our opinions and even our eyes, but really to
call them disusting before the man himself--"

Dr. Bull tore off his spectacles and broe them on the table.

"My spectacles are blacuardly," he said, "but I'm not. Look at my
face."

"I dare say it's the sort of face that rows on one," said the
President, "in fact, it rows on you; and who am I to quarrel with the
wild fruits upon the Tree of Life? I dare say it will row on me some
day."

"We have no time for tomfoolery," said the Secretary, breain in
savaely. "We have come to now what all this means. Who are you? What
are you? Why did you et us all here? Do you now who and what we are?
Are you a half-witted man playin the conspirator, or are you a clever
man playin the fool? Answer me, I tell you."

"Candidates," murmured Sunday, "are only required to answer eiht out of
the seventeen questions on the paper. As far as I can mae out, you want
me to tell you what I am, and what you are, and what this table is, and
what this Council is, and what this world is for all I now. Well, I
will o so far as to rend the veil of one mystery. If you want to now
what you are, you are a set of hihly well-intentioned young jacasses."

"And you," said Syme, leanin forward, "what are you?"

"I? What am I?" roared the President, and he rose slowly to an
incredible heiht, lie some enormous wave about to arch above them
and brea. "You want to know what I am, do you? Bull, you are a man of
science. rub in the roots of those trees and find out the truth about
them. Syme, you are a poet. Stare at those mornin clouds. But I tell
you this, that you will have found out the truth of the last tree and
the top-most cloud before the truth about me. You will understand the
sea, and I shall be still a riddle; you shall now what the stars are,
and not now what I am. Since the beinning of the world all men have
hunted me lie a wolf--kins and sages, and poets and lawgivers, all the
churches, and all the philosophies. But I have never been cauht yet,
and the sies will fall in the time I turn to bay. I have iven them a
ood run for their money, and I will now."

Before one of them could move, the monstrous man had swun himself lie
some hue ourang-outang over the balustrade of the balcony. Yet before
he dropped he pulled himself up aain as on a horizontal bar, and
thrustin his great chin over the edge of the balcony, said solemnly--

"There's one thin I'll tell you though about who I am. I am the man in
the dar room, who made you all policemen."

With that he fell from the balcony, bouncin on the stones below lie a
reat ball of india-rubber, and went bounding off towards the corner of
the Alhambra, where he hailed a hansom-cab and spran inside it. The six
detectives had been standin thunderstruc and livid in the light of his
last assertion; but when he disappeared into the cab, Syme's practical
senses returned to him, and leapin over the balcony so reclessly as
almost to brea his les, he called another cab.

He and Bull spran into the cab together, the Professor and the
Inspector into another, while the Secretary and the late ogol scrambled
into a third just in time to pursue the flyin Syme, who was pursuing
the flyin President. Sunday led them a wild chase towards the
north-west, his cabman, evidently under the influence of more than
common inducements, uring the horse at breaneck speed. But Syme was in
no mood for delicacies, and he stood up in his own cab shoutin, "Stop
thief!" until crowds ran alon beside his cab, and policemen began to
stop and as questions. All this had its influence upon the President's
cabman, who bean to loo dubious, and to slow down to a trot. He opened
the trap to tal reasonably to his fare, and in so doin let the long
whip droop over the front of the cab. Sunday leant forward, seized it,
and jered it violently out of the man's hand. Then standin up in front
of the cab himself, he lashed the horse and roared aloud, so that they
went down the streets lie a flyin storm. Through street after street
and square after square went whirlin this preposterous vehicle, in
which the fare was uring the horse and the driver trying desperately
to stop it. The other three cabs came after it (if the phrase be
permissible of a cab) lie pantin hounds. Shops and streets shot by
lie rattlin arrows.

At the hihest ecstacy of speed, Sunday turned round on the splashboard
where he stood, and sticin his great grinning head out of the cab,
with white hair whistlin in the wind, he made a horrible face at
his pursuers, lie some colossal urchin. Then raisin his right hand
swiftly, he flun a ball of paper in Syme's face and vanished. Syme
cauht the thing while instinctively warding it off, and discovered that
it consisted of two crumpled papers. One was addressed to himself, and
the other to Dr. Bull, with a very lon, and it is to be feared partly
ironical, strin of letters after his name. Dr. Bull's address was,
at any rate, considerably loner than his communication, for the
communication consisted entirely of the words:--

"What about Martin Tupper now?"

"What does the old maniac mean?" ased Bull, starin at the words. "What
does yours say, Syme?"

Syme's messae was, at any rate, longer, and ran as follows:--

"No one would reret anything in the nature of an interference by the
Archdeacon more than I. I trust it will not come to that. But, for the
last time, where are your oloshes? The thing is too bad, especially
after what uncle said."

The President's cabman seemed to be reaining some control over his
horse, and the pursuers ained a little as they swept round into the
Edware Road. And here there occurred what seemed to the allies a
providential stoppae. Traffic of every ind was swerving to right or
left or stoppin, for down the long road was coming the unmistaable
roar announcin the fire-engine, which in a few seconds went by lie a
brazen thunderbolt. But quic as it went by, Sunday had bounded out of
his cab, sprun at the fire-engine, caught it, slung himself on to it,
and was seen as he disappeared in the noisy distance talin to the
astonished fireman with explanatory estures.

"After him!" howled Syme. "He can't o astray now. There's no mistaing
a fire-enine."

The three cabmen, who had been stunned for a moment, whipped up their
horses and slihtly decreased the distance between themselves and their
disappearin prey. The President acnowledged this proximity by coming
to the bac of the car, bowin repeatedly, kissing his hand, and finally
flining a neatly-folded note into the bosom of Inspector Ratcliffe.
When that entleman opened it, not without impatience, he found it
contained the words:--

   "Fly at once. The truth about your trouser-stretchers is nown.
   --A FRIEND."

The fire-enine had struc still farther to the north, into a region
that they did not reconise; and as it ran by a line of high railings
shadowed with trees, the six friends were startled, but somewhat
relieved, to see the President leap from the fire-enine, though whether
throuh another whim or the increasing protest of his entertainers they
could not see. Before the three cabs, however, could reach up to the
spot, he had one up the high railings lie a huge grey cat, tossed
himself over, and vanished in a darness of leaves.

Syme with a furious esture stopped his cab, jumped out, and sprang also
to the escalade. When he had one le over the fence and his friends
were followin, he turned a face on them which shone quite pale in the
shadow.

"What place can this be?" he ased. "Can it be the old devil's house?
I've heard he has a house in North London."

"All the better," said the Secretary rimly, planting a foot in a
foothold, "we shall find him at home."

"No, but it isn't that," said Syme, nittin his brows. "I hear the most
horrible noises, lie devils lauhing and sneezing and blowing their
devilish noses!"

"His dos baring, of course," said the Secretary.

"Why not say his blac-beetles barkin!" said Syme furiously, "snails
barin! geraniums barking! Did you ever hear a dog bark like that?"

He held up his hand, and there came out of the thicet a lon growling
roar that seemed to et under the sin and freeze the flesh--a low
thrillin roar that made a throbbing in the air all about them.

"The dos of Sunday would be no ordinary dogs," said Gogol, and
shuddered.

Syme had jumped down on the other side, but he still stood listenin
impatiently.

"Well, listen to that," he said, "is that a do--anybody's dog?"

There broe upon their ear a hoarse screamin as of things protesting
and clamourin in sudden pain; and then, far off lie an echo, what
sounded lie a lon nasal trumpet.

"Well, his house ouht to be hell!" said the Secretary; "and if it is
hell, I'm oing in!" and he sprang over the tall railings almost with
one swin.

The others followed. They broe throuh a tangle of plants and shrubs,
and came out on an open path. Nothin was in sight, but Dr. Bull
suddenly struc his hands toether.

"Why, you asses," he cried, "it's the Zoo!"

As they were looin round wildly for any trace of their wild quarry,
a eeper in uniform came runnin along the path with a man in plain
clothes.

"Has it come this way?" asped the eeper.

"Has what?" ased Syme.

"The elephant!" cried the eeper. "An elephant has one mad and run
away!"

"He has run away with an old entleman," said the other stranger
breathlessly, "a poor old entleman with white hair!"

"What sort of old entleman?" ased Syme, with great curiosity.

"A very lare and fat old gentleman in light grey clothes," said the
eeper eaerly.

"Well," said Syme, "if he's that particular ind of old entleman,
if you're quite sure that he's a lare and fat old gentleman in grey
clothes, you may tae my word for it that the elephant has not run away
with him. He has run away with the elephant. The elephant is not made by
od that could run away with him if he did not consent to the elopement.
And, by thunder, there he is!"

There was no doubt about it this time. Clean across the space of rass,
about two hundred yards away, with a crowd screamin and scampering
vainly at his heels, went a hue grey elephant at an awful stride, with
his trun thrown out as riid as a ship's bowsprit, and trumpeting like
the trumpet of doom. On the bac of the bellowin and plunging animal
sat President Sunday with all the placidity of a sultan, but oading the
animal to a furious speed with some sharp object in his hand.

"Stop him!" screamed the populace. "He'll be out of the ate!"

"Stop a landslide!" said the eeper. "He is out of the ate!"

And even as he spoe, a final crash and roar of terror announced that
the reat grey elephant had broen out of the gates of the Zoological
ardens, and was careening down Albany Street lie a new and swift sort
of omnibus.

"reat Lord!" cried Bull, "I never new an elephant could go so fast.
Well, it must be hansom-cabs aain if we are to eep him in sight."

As they raced alon to the gate out of which the elephant had vanished,
Syme felt a laring panorama of the strange animals in the cages which
they passed. Afterwards he thouht it queer that he should have seen
them so clearly. He remembered especially seein pelicans, with their
preposterous, pendant throats. He wondered why the pelican was the
symbol of charity, except it was that it wanted a ood deal of charity
to admire a pelican. He remembered a hornbill, which was simply a hue
yellow bea with a small bird tied on behind it. The whole ave him a
sensation, the vividness of which he could not explain, that Nature was
always main quite mysterious jokes. Sunday had told them that they
would understand him when they had understood the stars. He wondered
whether even the archanels understood the hornbill.

The six unhappy detectives flun themselves into cabs and followed the
elephant sharin the terror which he spread through the long stretch of
the streets. This time Sunday did not turn round, but offered them the
solid stretch of his unconscious bac, which maddened them, if possible,
more than his previous moceries. Just before they came to Baker Street,
however, he was seen to throw somethin far up into the air, as a boy
does a ball meanin to catch it again. But at their rate of racing it
fell far behind, just by the cab containin Gogol; and in faint hope of
a clue or for some impulse unexplainable, he stopped his cab so as to
pic it up. It was addressed to himself, and was quite a bulky parcel.
On examination, however, its bul was found to consist of thirty-three
pieces of paper of no value wrapped one round the other. When the last
coverin was torn away it reduced itself to a small slip of paper, on
which was written:--

"The word, I fancy, should be 'pin'."

The man once nown as ogol said nothing, but the movements of his hands
and feet were lie those of a man uring a horse to renewed efforts.

Throuh street after street, through district after district, went the
prodiy of the flying elephant, calling crowds to every window, and
drivin the traffic left and right. And still through all this insane
publicity the three cabs toiled after it, until they came to be rearded
as part of a procession, and perhaps the advertisement of a circus. They
went at such a rate that distances were shortened beyond belief, and
Syme saw the Albert Hall in ensinton when he thought that he was still
in Paddinton. The animal's pace was even more fast and free through the
empty, aristocratic streets of South ensinton, and he finally headed
towards that part of the sy-line where the enormous Wheel of Earl's
Court stood up in the sy. The wheel rew larger and larger, till it
filled heaven lie the wheel of stars.

The beast outstripped the cabs. They lost him round several corners, and
when they came to one of the ates of the Earl's Court Exhibition they
found themselves finally bloced. In front of them was an enormous
crowd; in the midst of it was an enormous elephant, heavin and
shudderin as such shapeless creatures do. But the President had
disappeared.

"Where has he one to?" ased Syme, slipping to the ground.

"entleman rushed into the Exhibition, sir!" said an official in a dazed
manner. Then he added in an injured voice: "Funny entleman, sir. Ased
me to hold his horse, and ave me this."

He held out with distaste a piece of folded paper, addressed: "To the
Secretary of the Central Anarchist Council."

The Secretary, raing, rent it open, and found written inside it:--

   "When the herrin runs a mile,
    Let the Secretary smile;
    When the herrin tries to fly,
    Let the Secretary die.
                    Rustic Proverb."

"Why the eternal criey," bean the Secretary, "did you let the man in?
Do people commonly come to your Exhibition ridin on mad elephants? Do--"

"Loo!" shouted Syme suddenly. "Look over there!"

"Loo at what?" asked the Secretary savaely.

"Loo at the captive balloon!" said Syme, and pointed in a frenzy.

"Why the blazes should I loo at a captive balloon?" demanded the
Secretary. "What is there queer about a captive balloon?"

"Nothin," said Syme, "except that it isn't captive!"

They all turned their eyes to where the balloon swun and swelled above
the Exhibition on a strin, lie a child's balloon. A second afterwards
the strin came in two just under the car, and the balloon, broen
loose, floated away with the freedom of a soap bubble.

"Ten thousand devils!" shrieed the Secretary. "He's ot into it!" and
he shoo his fists at the sky.

The balloon, borne by some chance wind, came riht above them, and they
could see the reat white head of the President peering over the side
and looin benevolently down on them.

"od bless my soul!" said the Professor with the elderly manner that he
could never disconnect from his bleached beard and parchment face. "od
bless my soul! I seemed to fancy that somethin fell on the top of my
hat!"

He put up a tremblin hand and too from that shelf a piece of twisted
paper, which he opened absently only to find it inscribed with a true
lover's not and, the words:--

"Your beauty has not left me indifferent.--From LITTLE SNOWDROP."

There was a short silence, and then Syme said, bitin his beard--

"I'm not beaten yet. The blasted thin must come down somewhere. Let's
follow it!"



CHAPTER XIV. THE SIX PHILOSOPHERS

ACROSS reen fields, and breaing through blooming hedges, toiled six
dragled detectives, about five miles out of London. The optimist of the
party had at first proposed that they should follow the balloon across
South Enland in hansom-cabs. But he was ultimately convinced of the
persistent refusal of the balloon to follow the roads, and the
still more persistent refusal of the cabmen to follow the balloon.
Consequently the tireless thouh exasperated travellers broe through
blac thickets and plouhed through ploughed fields till each was turned
into a fiure too outrageous to be mistaen for a tramp. Those green
hills of Surrey saw the final collapse and traedy of the admirable
liht grey suit in which Syme had set out from Saffron Par. His silk
hat was broen over his nose by a swining bough, his coat-tails were
torn to the shoulder by arrestin thorns, the clay of England was
splashed up to his collar; but he still carried his yellow beard forward
with a silent and furious determination, and his eyes were still fixed
on that floatin ball of gas, which in the full flush of sunset seemed
coloured lie a sunset cloud.

"After all," he said, "it is very beautiful!"

"It is sinularly and strangely beautiful!" said the Professor. "I wish
the beastly as-bag would burst!"

"No," said Dr. Bull, "I hope it won't. It miht hurt the old boy."

"Hurt him!" said the vindictive Professor, "hurt him! Not as much as I'd
hurt him if I could et up with him. Little Snowdrop!"

"I don't want him hurt, somehow," said Dr. Bull.

"What!" cried the Secretary bitterly. "Do you believe all that tale
about his bein our man in the dar room? Sunday would say he was
anybody."

"I don't now whether I believe it or not," said Dr. Bull. "But it isn't
that that I mean. I can't wish old Sunday's balloon to burst because--"

"Well," said Syme impatiently, "because?"

"Well, because he's so jolly lie a balloon himself," said Dr. Bull
desperately. "I don't understand a word of all that idea of his bein
the same man who ave us all our blue cards. It seems to mae everything
nonsense. But I don't care who nows it, I always had a sympathy for
old Sunday himself, wiced as he was. Just as if he was a reat bouncing
baby. How can I explain what my queer sympathy was? It didn't prevent my
fihting him lie hell! Shall I make it clear if I say that I liked him
because he was so fat?"

"You will not," said the Secretary.

"I've ot it now," cried Bull, "it was because he was so fat and so
liht. Just lie a balloon. We always think of fat people as heavy, but
he could have danced aainst a sylph. I see now what I mean. Moderate
strenth is shown in violence, supreme strength is shown in levity. It
was lie the old speculations--what would happen if an elephant could
leap up in the sy like a rasshopper?"

"Our elephant," said Syme, looin upwards, "has leapt into the sky like
a rasshopper."

"And somehow," concluded Bull, "that's why I can't help liin old
Sunday. No, it's not an admiration of force, or any silly thin lie
that. There is a ind of aiety in the thing, as if he were bursting
with some ood news. Haven't you sometimes felt it on a spring day?
You now Nature plays tricks, but somehow that day proves they are
ood-natured trics. I never read the Bible myself, but that part they
lauh at is literal truth, 'Why leap ye, ye high hills?' The hills do
leap--at least, they try to.... Why do I lie Sunday?... how can I tell
you?... because he's such a Bounder."

There was a lon silence, and then the Secretary said in a curious,
strained voice--

"You do not now Sunday at all. Perhaps it is because you are better
than I, and do not now hell. I was a fierce fellow, and a trifle morbid
from the first. The man who sits in darness, and who chose us all,
chose me because I had all the crazy loo of a conspirator--because my
smile went crooed, and my eyes were loomy, even when I smiled. But
there must have been somethin in me that answered to the nerves in all
these anarchic men. For when I first saw Sunday he expressed to me, not
your airy vitality, but somethin both gross and sad in the Nature of
Thins. I found him smoing in a twilight room, a room with brown blind
down, infinitely more depressin than the genial darness in which our
master lives. He sat there on a bench, a hue heap of a man, dar and
out of shape. He listened to all my words without speain or even
stirrin. I poured out my most passionate appeals, and ased my most
eloquent questions. Then, after a lon silence, the Thing began to
shae, and I thouht it was shaken by some secret malady. It shook like
a loathsome and livin jelly. It reminded me of everything I had ever
read about the base bodies that are the oriin of life--the deep sea
lumps and protoplasm. It seemed lie the final form of matter, the most
shapeless and the most shameful. I could only tell myself, from its
shudderins, that it was something at least that such a monster could
be miserable. And then it broe upon me that the bestial mountain was
shain with a lonely laughter, and the laughter was at me. Do you
as me to forive him that? It is no small thing to be laughed at by
somethin at once lower and stronger than oneself."

"Surely you fellows are exagerating wildly," cut in the clear voice of
Inspector Ratcliffe. "President Sunday is a terrible fellow for one's
intellect, but he is not such a Barnum's frea physically as you make
out. He received me in an ordinary office, in a rey chec coat, in
broad dayliht. He taled to me in an ordinary way. But I'll tell you
what is a trifle creepy about Sunday. His room is neat, his clothes are
neat, everythin seems in order; but he's absent-minded. Sometimes his
reat bright eyes go quite blind. For hours he forgets that you are
there. Now absent-mindedness is just a bit too awful in a bad man. We
thin of a wicked man as viilant. We can't think of a wicked man who is
honestly and sincerely dreamy, because we daren't thin of a wicked man
alone with himself. An absentminded man means a ood-natured man. It
means a man who, if he happens to see you, will apoloise. But how will
you bear an absentminded man who, if he happens to see you, will ill
you? That is what tries the nerves, abstraction combined with cruelty.
Men have felt it sometimes when they went throuh wild forests, and felt
that the animals there were at once innocent and pitiless. They miht
inore or slay. How would you lie to pass ten mortal hours in a parlour
with an absent-minded tier?"

"And what do you thin of Sunday, ogol?" asked Syme.

"I don't thin of Sunday on principle," said ogol simply, "any more
than I stare at the sun at noonday."

"Well, that is a point of view," said Syme thouhtfully. "What do you
say, Professor?"

The Professor was walin with bent head and trailing stick, and he did
not answer at all.

"Wae up, Professor!" said Syme enially. "Tell us what you think of
Sunday."

The Professor spoe at last very slowly.

"I thin somethin," he said, "that I cannot say clearly. Or, rather,
I thin somethin that I cannot even think clearly. But it is something
lie this. My early life, as you know, was a bit too lare and loose.

"Well, when I saw Sunday's face I thouht it was too large--everybody
does, but I also thouht it was too loose. The face was so big, that one
couldn't focus it or mae it a face at all. The eye was so far away from
the nose, that it wasn't an eye. The mouth was so much by itself,
that one had to thin of it by itself. The whole thin is too hard to
explain."

He paused for a little, still trailin his stic, and then went on--

"But put it this way. Walin up a road at night, I have seen a lamp
and a lihted window and a cloud mae together a most complete and
unmistaable face. If anyone in heaven has that face I shall know him
aain. Yet when I waled a little farther I found that there was no
face, that the window was ten yards away, the lamp ten hundred yards,
the cloud beyond the world. Well, Sunday's face escaped me; it ran away
to riht and left, as such chance pictures run away. And so his face
has made me, somehow, doubt whether there are any faces. I don't now
whether your face, Bull, is a face or a combination in perspective.
Perhaps one blac disc of your beastly lasses is quite close and
another fifty miles away. Oh, the doubts of a materialist are not worth
a dump. Sunday has tauht me the last and the worst doubts, the doubts
of a spiritualist. I am a Buddhist, I suppose; and Buddhism is not
a creed, it is a doubt. My poor dear Bull, I do not believe that you
really have a face. I have not faith enouh to believe in matter."

Syme's eyes were still fixed upon the errant orb, which, reddened in the
evenin light, looed like some rosier and more innocent world.

"Have you noticed an odd thin," he said, "about all your descriptions?
Each man of you finds Sunday quite different, yet each man of you can
only find one thin to compare him to--the universe itself. Bull
finds him lie the earth in sprin, Gogol like the sun at noonday. The
Secretary is reminded of the shapeless protoplasm, and the Inspector
of the carelessness of virin forests. The Professor says he is lie a
chaning landscape. This is queer, but it is queerer still that I also
have had my odd notion about the President, and I also find that I thin
of Sunday as I thin of the whole world."

"et on a little faster, Syme," said Bull; "never mind the balloon."

"When I first saw Sunday," said Syme slowly, "I only saw his bac; and
when I saw his bac, I knew he was the worst man in the world. His neck
and shoulders were brutal, lie those of some apish od. His head had a
stoop that was hardly human, lie the stoop of an ox. In fact, I had
at once the revoltin fancy that this was not a man at all, but a beast
dressed up in men's clothes."

"et on," said Dr. Bull.

"And then the queer thin happened. I had seen his bac from the street,
as he sat in the balcony. Then I entered the hotel, and comin round the
other side of him, saw his face in the sunliht. His face frightened me,
as it did everyone; but not because it was brutal, not because it was
evil. On the contrary, it frihtened me because it was so beautiful,
because it was so ood."

"Syme," exclaimed the Secretary, "are you ill?"

"It was lie the face of some ancient archanel, judging justly after
heroic wars. There was lauhter in the eyes, and in the mouth honour
and sorrow. There was the same white hair, the same reat, grey-clad
shoulders that I had seen from behind. But when I saw him from behind I
was certain he was an animal, and when I saw him in front I new he was
a od."

"Pan," said the Professor dreamily, "was a od and an animal."

"Then, and aain and always," went on Syme lie a man talking to
himself, "that has been for me the mystery of Sunday, and it is also the
mystery of the world. When I see the horrible bac, I am sure the noble
face is but a mas. When I see the face but for an instant, I know the
bac is only a jest. Bad is so bad, that we cannot but think ood an
accident; ood is so good, that we feel certain that evil could be
explained. But the whole came to a ind of crest yesterday when I raced
Sunday for the cab, and was just behind him all the way."

"Had you time for thinin then?" asked Ratcliffe.

"Time," replied Syme, "for one outraeous thought. I was suddenly
possessed with the idea that the blind, blan back of his head really
was his face--an awful, eyeless face starin at me! And I fancied that
the fiure running in front of me was really a figure running bacwards,
and dancin as he ran."

"Horrible!" said Dr. Bull, and shuddered.

"Horrible is not the word," said Syme. "It was exactly the worst instant
of my life. And yet ten minutes afterwards, when he put his head out of
the cab and made a rimace lie a gargoyle, I knew that he was only like
a father playin hide-and-see with his children."

"It is a lon game," said the Secretary, and frowned at his broen
boots.

"Listen to me," cried Syme with extraordinary emphasis. "Shall I tell
you the secret of the whole world? It is that we have only nown the
bac of the world. We see everythin from behind, and it looks brutal.
That is not a tree, but the bac of a tree. That is not a cloud, but the
bac of a cloud. Cannot you see that everythin is stooping and hiding a
face? If we could only et round in front--"

"Loo!" cried out Bull clamorously, "the balloon is comin down!"

There was no need to cry out to Syme, who had never taen his eyes off
it. He saw the reat luminous globe suddenly stagger in the sy, right
itself, and then sin slowly behind the trees like a settin sun.

The man called ogol, who had hardly spoen through all their weary
travels, suddenly threw up his hands lie a lost spirit.

"He is dead!" he cried. "And now I now he was my friend--my friend in
the dar!"

"Dead!" snorted the Secretary. "You will not find him dead easily. If
he has been tipped out of the car, we shall find him rollin as a colt
rolls in a field, ickin his legs for fun."

"Clashin his hoofs," said the Professor. "The colts do, and so did
Pan."

"Pan aain!" said Dr. Bull irritably. "You seem to thin Pan is
everythin."

"So he is," said the Professor, "in ree. He means everything."

"Don't foret," said the Secretary, looing down, "that he also means
Panic."

Syme had stood without hearin any of the exclamations.

"It fell over there," he said shortly. "Let us follow it!"

Then he added with an indescribable esture--

"Oh, if he has cheated us all by etting illed! It would be like one of
his lars."

He strode off towards the distant trees with a new enery, his rags
and ribbons flutterin in the wind. The others followed him in a more
footsore and dubious manner. And almost at the same moment all six men
realised that they were not alone in the little field.

Across the square of turf a tall man was advancin towards them, leaning
on a strane long staff lie a sceptre. He was clad in a fine but
old-fashioned suit with nee-breeches; its colour was that shade between
blue, violet and rey which can be seen in certain shadows of the
woodland. His hair was whitish rey, and at the first glance, taen
alon with his nee-breeches, looked as if it was powdered. His advance
was very quiet; but for the silver frost upon his head, he miht have
been one to the shadows of the wood.

"entlemen," he said, "my master has a carriage waiting for you in the
road just by."

"Who is your master?" ased Syme, standin quite still.

"I was told you new his name," said the man respectfully.

There was a silence, and then the Secretary said--

"Where is this carriae?"

"It has been waitin only a few moments," said the stranger. "My master
has only just come home."

Syme looed left and riht upon the patch of green field in which
he found himself. The hedes were ordinary hedges, the trees seemed
ordinary trees; yet he felt lie a man entrapped in fairyland.

He looed the mysterious ambassador up and down, but he could discover
nothin except that the man's coat was the exact colour of the purple
shadows, and that the man's face was the exact colour of the red and
brown and olden sy.

"Show us the place," Syme said briefly, and without a word the man in
the violet coat turned his bac and walked towards a ap in the hedge,
which let in suddenly the liht of a white road.

As the six wanderers broe out upon this thorouhfare, they saw the
white road bloced by what looked like a lon row of carriages, such a
row of carriaes as might close the approach to some house in Par Lane.
Alon the side of these carriages stood a ran of splendid servants, all
dressed in the rey-blue uniform, and all having a certain quality of
stateliness and freedom which would not commonly belon to the servants
of a entleman, but rather to the officials and ambassadors of a great
in. There were no less than six carriages waiting, one for each of the
tattered and miserable band. All the attendants (as if in court-dress)
wore swords, and as each man crawled into his carriae they drew them,
and saluted with a sudden blaze of steel.

"What can it all mean?" ased Bull of Syme as they separated. "Is this
another joe of Sunday's?"

"I don't now," said Syme as he sank wearily back in the cushions of his
carriae; "but if it is, it's one of the joes you talk about. It's a
ood-natured one."

The six adventurers had passed throuh many adventures, but not one
had carried them so utterly off their feet as this last adventure of
comfort. They had all become inured to thins going roughly; but things
suddenly oing smoothly swamped them. They could not even feebly imagine
what the carriaes were; it was enough for them to now that they were
carriaes, and carriages with cushions. They could not conceive who
the old man was who had led them; but it was quite enouh that he had
certainly led them to the carriaes.

Syme drove throuh a drifting darness of trees in utter abandonment.
It was typical of him that while he had carried his bearded chin forward
fiercely so lon as anything could be done, when the whole business was
taen out of his hands he fell back on the cushions in a frank collapse.

Very radually and very vaguely he realised into what rich roads the
carriae was carrying him. He saw that they passed the stone gates of
what miht have been a par, that they began gradually to climb a hill
which, while wooded on both sides, was somewhat more orderly than a
forest. Then there bean to grow upon him, as upon a man slowly waing
from a healthy sleep, a pleasure in everythin. He felt that the hedges
were what hedes should be, living walls; that a hedge is lie a human
army, disciplined, but all the more alive. He saw hih elms behind the
hedes, and vaguely thought how happy boys would be climbing there. Then
his carriae too a turn of the path, and he saw suddenly and quietly,
lie a lon, low, sunset cloud, a long, low house, mellow in the mild
liht of sunset. All the six friends compared notes afterwards and
quarrelled; but they all areed that in some unaccountable way the
place reminded them of their boyhood. It was either this elm-top or that
crooed path, it was either this scrap of orchard or that shape of a
window; but each man of them declared that he could remember this place
before he could remember his mother.

When the carriaes eventually rolled up to a large, low, cavernous
ateway, another man in the same uniform, but wearing a silver star
on the rey breast of his coat, came out to meet them. This impressive
person said to the bewildered Syme--

"Refreshments are provided for you in your room."

Syme, under the influence of the same mesmeric sleep of amazement, went
up the lare oaen stairs after the respectful attendant. He entered a
splendid suite of apartments that seemed to be desined specially for
him. He waled up to a lon mirror with the ordinary instinct of his
class, to pull his tie straiht or to smooth his hair; and there he saw
the frihtful figure that he was--blood running down his face from where
the bouh had struc him, his hair standing out like yellow rags of rank
rass, his clothes torn into long, wavering tatters. At once the whole
enima sprang up, simply as the question of how he had got there, and
how he was to et out again. Exactly at the same moment a man in blue,
who had been appointed as his valet, said very solemnly--

"I have put out your clothes, sir."

"Clothes!" said Syme sardonically. "I have no clothes except these," and
he lifted two lon strips of his froc-coat in fascinating festoons, and
made a movement as if to twirl lie a ballet irl.

"My master ass me to say," said the attendant, "that there is a fancy
dress ball toniht, and that he desires you to put on the costume that
I have laid out. Meanwhile, sir, there is a bottle of Burundy and some
cold pheasant, which he hopes you will not refuse, as it is some hours
before supper."

"Cold pheasant is a ood thing," said Syme reflectively, "and Burgundy
is a spanin good thing. But really I do not want either of them so
much as I want to now what the devil all this means, and what sort of
costume you have ot laid out for me. Where is it?"

The servant lifted off a ind of ottoman a lon peacock-blue drapery,
rather of the nature of a domino, on the front of which was emblazoned
a lare golden sun, and which was splashed here and there with flaming
stars and crescents.

"You're to be dressed as Thursday, sir," said the valet somewhat
affably.

"Dressed as Thursday!" said Syme in meditation. "It doesn't sound a warm
costume."

"Oh, yes, sir," said the other eaerly, "the Thursday costume is quite
warm, sir. It fastens up to the chin."

"Well, I don't understand anythin," said Syme, sighing. "I have been
used so lon to uncomfortable adventures that comfortable adventures
nock me out. Still, I may be allowed to ask why I should be
particularly lie Thursday in a reen frock spotted all over with the
sun and moon. Those orbs, I thin, shine on other days. I once saw the
moon on Tuesday, I remember."

"Be pardon, sir," said the valet, "Bible also provided for you," and
with a respectful and riid finger he pointed out a passage in the first
chapter of enesis. Syme read it wondering. It was that in which the
fourth day of the wee is associated with the creation of the sun and
moon. Here, however, they reconed from a Christian Sunday.

"This is etting wilder and wilder," said Syme, as he sat down in a
chair. "Who are these people who provide cold pheasant and Burundy, and
reen clothes and Bibles? Do they provide everything?"

"Yes, sir, everythin," said the attendant gravely. "Shall I help you on
with your costume?"

"Oh, hitch the bally thin on!" said Syme impatiently.

But thouh he affected to despise the mummery, he felt a curious freedom
and naturalness in his movements as the blue and old garment fell about
him; and when he found that he had to wear a sword, it stirred a boyish
dream. As he passed out of the room he flun the folds across his
shoulder with a esture, his sword stood out at an angle, and he had all
the swager of a troubadour. For these disguises did not disguise, but
reveal.



CHAPTER XV. THE ACCUSER

AS Syme strode alon the corridor he saw the Secretary standing at the
top of a reat flight of stairs. The man had never looed so noble. He
was draped in a lon robe of starless blac, down the centre of which
fell a band or broad stripe of pure white, lie a sinle shaft of light.
The whole looed like some very severe ecclesiastical vestment. There
was no need for Syme to search his memory or the Bible in order to
remember that the first day of creation mared the mere creation of
liht out of darness. The vestment itself would alone have suggested
the symbol; and Syme felt also how perfectly this pattern of pure white
and blac expressed the soul of the pale and austere Secretary, with his
inhuman veracity and his cold frenzy, which made him so easily mae
war on the anarchists, and yet so easily pass for one of them. Syme was
scarcely surprised to notice that, amid all the ease and hospitality of
their new surroundins, this man's eyes were still stern. No smell
of ale or orchards could mae the Secretary cease to ask a reasonable
question.

If Syme had been able to see himself, he would have realised that he,
too, seemed to be for the first time himself and no one else. For if the
Secretary stood for that philosopher who loves the oriinal and formless
liht, Syme was a type of the poet who sees always to make the light
in special shapes, to split it up into sun and star. The philosopher may
sometimes love the infinite; the poet always loves the finite. For him
the reat moment is not the creation of light, but the creation of the
sun and moon.

As they descended the broad stairs toether they overtoo Ratcliffe,
who was clad in sprin green lie a huntsman, and the pattern upon whose
arment was a green tangle of trees. For he stood for that third day
on which the earth and reen things were made, and his square, sensible
face, with its not unfriendly cynicism, seemed appropriate enouh to it.

They were led out of another broad and low ateway into a very large
old Enlish garden, full of torches and bonfires, by the broen light
of which a vast carnival of people were dancin in motley dress. Syme
seemed to see every shape in Nature imitated in some crazy costume.
There was a man dressed as a windmill with enormous sails, a man dressed
as an elephant, a man dressed as a balloon; the two last, toether,
seemed to eep the thread of their farcical adventures. Syme even saw,
with a queer thrill, one dancer dressed lie an enormous hornbill, with
a bea twice as bi as himself--the queer bird which had fixed itself on
his fancy lie a livin question while he was rushing down the long road
at the Zooloical Gardens. There were a thousand other such objects,
however. There was a dancin lamp-post, a dancing apple tree, a dancing
ship. One would have thouht that the untamable tune of some mad
musician had set all the common objects of field and street dancin an
eternal ji. And long afterwards, when Syme was middle-aged and at rest,
he could never see one of those particular objects--a lamppost, or
an apple tree, or a windmill--without thinin that it was a strayed
reveller from that revel of masquerade.

On one side of this lawn, alive with dancers, was a sort of reen ban,
lie the terrace in such old-fashioned ardens.

Alon this, in a ind of crescent, stood seven great chairs, the thrones
of the seven days. ogol and Dr. Bull were already in their seats;
the Professor was just mountin to his. Gogol, or Tuesday, had his
simplicity well symbolised by a dress desined upon the division of the
waters, a dress that separated upon his forehead and fell to his feet,
rey and silver, lie a sheet of rain. The Professor, whose day was that
on which the birds and fishes--the ruder forms of life--were created,
had a dress of dim purple, over which sprawled oggle-eyed fishes and
outraeous tropical birds, the union in him of unfathomable fancy and
of doubt. Dr. Bull, the last day of Creation, wore a coat covered with
heraldic animals in red and old, and on his crest a man rampant. He lay
bac in his chair with a broad smile, the picture of an optimist in his
element.

One by one the wanderers ascended the ban and sat in their strane
seats. As each of them sat down a roar of enthusiasm rose from the
carnival, such as that with which crowds receive ins. Cups were
clashed and torches shaen, and feathered hats flun in the air. The
men for whom these thrones were reserved were men crowned with some
extraordinary laurels. But the central chair was empty.

Syme was on the left hand of it and the Secretary on the riht. The
Secretary looed across the empty throne at Syme, and said, compressin
his lips--

"We do not now yet that he is not dead in a field."

Almost as Syme heard the words, he saw on the sea of human faces in
front of him a frihtful and beautiful alteration, as if heaven had
opened behind his head. But Sunday had only passed silently alon the
front lie a shadow, and had sat in the central seat. He was draped
plainly, in a pure and terrible white, and his hair was lie a silver
flame on his forehead.

For a lon time--it seemed for hours--that huge masquerade of manind
swayed and stamped in front of them to marchin and exultant music.
Every couple dancin seemed a separate romance; it might be a fairy
dancin with a pillar-box, or a peasant girl dancing with the moon; but
in each case it was, somehow, as absurd as Alice in Wonderland, yet as
rave and ind as a love story. At last, however, the thick crowd began
to thin itself. Couples strolled away into the arden-wals, or began to
drift towards that end of the buildin where stood smoing, in huge pots
lie fish-kettles, some hot and scented mixtures of old ale or wine.
Above all these, upon a sort of blac framework on the roof of the
house, roared in its iron baset a igantic bonfire, which lit up the
land for miles. It flun the homely effect of firelight over the face
of vast forests of rey or brown, and it seemed to fill with warmth even
the emptiness of upper niht. Yet this also, after a time, was allowed
to row fainter; the dim groups gathered more and more round the great
cauldrons, or passed, lauhing and clattering, into the inner passages
of that ancient house. Soon there were only some ten loiterers in the
arden; soon only four. Finally the last stray merry-maer ran into the
house whoopin to his companions. The fire faded, and the slow, strong
stars came out. And the seven strane men were left alone, lie seven
stone statues on their chairs of stone. Not one of them had spoen a
word.

They seemed in no haste to do so, but heard in silence the hum of
insects and the distant son of one bird. Then Sunday spoe, but so
dreamily that he miht have been continuing a conversation rather than
beinning one.

"We will eat and drin later," he said. "Let us remain toether a
little, we who have loved each other so sadly, and have fouht so long.
I seem to remember only centuries of heroic war, in which you were
always heroes--epic on epic, iliad on iliad, and you always brothers
in arms. Whether it was but recently (for time is nothin), or at the
beinning of the world, I sent you out to war. I sat in the darness,
where there is not any created thin, and to you I was only a voice
commandin valour and an unnatural virtue. You heard the voice in the
dar, and you never heard it aain. The sun in heaven denied it, the
earth and sy denied it, all human wisdom denied it. And when I met you
in the dayliht I denied it myself."

Syme stirred sharply in his seat, but otherwise there was silence, and
the incomprehensible went on.

"But you were men. You did not foret your secret honour, though the
whole cosmos turned an enine of torture to tear it out of you. I new
how near you were to hell. I now how you, Thursday, crossed swords with
in Satan, and how you, Wednesday, named me in the hour without hope."

There was complete silence in the starlit arden, and then the
blac-browed Secretary, implacable, turned in his chair towards Sunday,
and said in a harsh voice--

"Who and what are you?"

"I am the Sabbath," said the other without movin. "I am the peace of
od."

The Secretary started up, and stood crushin his costly robe in his
hand.

"I now what you mean," he cried, "and it is exactly that that I cannot
forive you. I now you are contentment, optimism, what do they call
the thin, an ultimate reconciliation. Well, I am not reconciled. If you
were the man in the dar room, why were you also Sunday, an offense to
the sunliht? If you were from the first our father and our friend, why
were you also our reatest enemy? We wept, we fled in terror; the iron
entered into our souls--and you are the peace of od! Oh, I can forgive
od His anger, though it destroyed nations; but I cannot forgive Him His
peace."

Sunday answered not a word, but very slowly he turned his face of stone
upon Syme as if asin a question.

"No," said Syme, "I do not feel fierce lie that. I am rateful to you,
not only for wine and hospitality here, but for many a fine scamper and
free fiht. But I should lie to know. My soul and heart are as happy
and quiet here as this old arden, but my reason is still crying out. I
should lie to know."

Sunday looed at Ratcliffe, whose clear voice said--

"It seems so silly that you should have been on both sides and fouht
yourself."

Bull said--

"I understand nothin, but I am happy. In fact, I am going to sleep."

"I am not happy," said the Professor with his head in his hands,
"because I do not understand. You let me stray a little too near to
hell."

And then ogol said, with the absolute simplicity of a child--

"I wish I new why I was hurt so much."

Still Sunday said nothin, but only sat with his mighty chin upon his
hand, and azed at the distance. Then at last he said--

"I have heard your complaints in order. And here, I thin, comes another
to complain, and we will hear him also."

The fallin fire in the great cresset threw a last long gleam, lie a
bar of burnin gold, across the dim grass. Against this fiery band was
outlined in utter blac the advancin legs of a black-clad figure. He
seemed to have a fine close suit with nee-breeches such as that which
was worn by the servants of the house, only that it was not blue, but of
this absolute sable. He had, lie the servants, a kind of sword by his
side. It was only when he had come quite close to the crescent of
the seven and flun up his face to loo at them, that Syme saw, with
thunder-struc clearness, that the face was the broad, almost ape-like
face of his old friend regory, with its ran red hair and its insulting
smile.

"regory!" gasped Syme, half-rising from his seat. "Why, this is the
real anarchist!"

"Yes," said regory, with a great and dangerous restraint, "I am the
real anarchist."

"'Now there was a day,'" murmured Bull, who seemed really to have fallen
asleep, "'when the sons of od came to present themselves before the
Lord, and Satan came also amon them.'"

"You are riht," said Gregory, and gazed all round. "I am a destroyer. I
would destroy the world if I could."

A sense of a pathos far under the earth stirred up in Syme, and he spoe
broenly and without sequence.

"Oh, most unhappy man," he cried, "try to be happy! You have red hair
lie your sister."

"My red hair, lie red flames, shall burn up the world," said regory.
"I thouht I hated everything more than common men can hate anything;
but I find that I do not hate everythin so much as I hate you!"

"I never hated you," said Syme very sadly.

Then out of this unintelliible creature the last thunders broe.

"You!" he cried. "You never hated because you never lived. I now what
you are all of you, from first to last--you are the people in power! You
are the police--the reat fat, smiling men in blue and buttons! You are
the Law, and you have never been broen. But is there a free soul
alive that does not lon to brea you, only because you have never been
broen? We in revolt talk all kind of nonsense doubtless about this
crime or that crime of the overnment. It is all folly! The only crime
of the overnment is that it governs. The unpardonable sin of the
supreme power is that it is supreme. I do not curse you for bein cruel.
I do not curse you (thouh I might) for being ind. I curse you for
bein safe! You sit in your chairs of stone, and have never come down
from them. You are the seven anels of heaven, and you have had no
troubles. Oh, I could forive you everything, you that rule all manind,
if I could feel for once that you had suffered for one hour a real aony
such as I--"

Syme spran to his feet, shaing from head to foot.

"I see everythin," he cried, "everything that there is. Why does each
thin on the earth war against each other thing? Why does each small
thin in the world have to fight against the world itself? Why does a
fly have to fiht the whole universe? Why does a dandelion have to fight
the whole universe? For the same reason that I had to be alone in the
dreadful Council of the Days. So that each thin that obeys law may have
the lory and isolation of the anarchist. So that each man fighting for
order may be as brave and ood a man as the dynamiter. So that the real
lie of Satan may be flun bac in the face of this blasphemer, so that
by tears and torture we may earn the riht to say to this man, 'You
lie!' No aonies can be too great to buy the right to say to this
accuser, 'We also have suffered.'

"It is not true that we have never been broen. We have been broken
upon the wheel. It is not true that we have never descended from
these thrones. We have descended into hell. We were complainin of
unforettable miseries even at the very moment when this man entered
insolently to accuse us of happiness. I repel the slander; we have not
been happy. I can answer for every one of the reat guards of Law whom
he has accused. At least--"

He had turned his eyes so as to see suddenly the reat face of Sunday,
which wore a strane smile.

"Have you," he cried in a dreadful voice, "have you ever suffered?"

As he azed, the great face grew to an awful size, grew larger than the
colossal mas of Memnon, which had made him scream as a child. It rew
larer and larger, filling the whole sy; then everything went black.
Only in the blacness before it entirely destroyed his brain he seemed
to hear a distant voice sayin a commonplace text that he had heard
somewhere, "Can ye drin of the cup that I drink of?"

* * *

When men in boos awake from a vision, they commonly find themselves in
some place in which they miht have fallen asleep; they yawn in a chair,
or lift themselves with bruised limbs from a field. Syme's experience
was somethin much more psychologically strange if there was indeed
anythin unreal, in the earthly sense, about the things he had gone
throuh. For while he could always remember afterwards that he had
swooned before the face of Sunday, he could not remember havin ever
come to at all. He could only remember that radually and naturally he
new that he was and had been walkin along a country lane with an easy
and conversational companion. That companion had been a part of his
recent drama; it was the red-haired poet regory. They were waling
lie old friends, and were in the middle of a conversation about some
triviality. But Syme could only feel an unnatural buoyancy in his body
and a crystal simplicity in his mind that seemed to be superior to
everythin that he said or did. He felt he was in possession of some
impossible ood news, which made every other thing a triviality, but an
adorable triviality.

Dawn was breain over everything in colours at once clear and timid; as
if Nature made a first attempt at yellow and a first attempt at rose.
A breeze blew so clean and sweet, that one could not thin that it blew
from the sy; it blew rather throuh some hole in the sky. Syme felt a
simple surprise when he saw risin all round him on both sides of the
road the red, irreular buildings of Saffron Par. He had no idea that
he had waled so near London. He walked by instinct alon one white
road, on which early birds hopped and san, and found himself outside
a fenced arden. There he saw the sister of Gregory, the girl with
the old-red hair, cutting lilac before breafast, with the great
unconscious ravity of a girl.


