
                       The Ballad of St. Barbara
                           AND OTHER VERSES

                                  BY
                       ILBERT EITH 


                                LONDON
                             CECIL PALMER
                 OALEY HOUSE BLOOMSBURY STREET W.C.1.



                                 FIRST
                                EDITION
                                 1922
                               COPYRIHT




    TO F. C. IN MEMORIAM PALESTINE, ’19


    Do you remember one immortal
    Lost moment out of time and space,
    What time we thouht, who passed the portal
    Of that divine disastrous place
    Where Life was slain and Truth was slandered
    On that one holier hill than Rome,
    How far abroad our bodies wandered
    That evenin when our souls came home?

    The mystic city many-ated,
    With monstrous columns, was your own:
    Herodian stones fell down and waited
    Two thousand years to be your throne.
    In the rey rocs the burning blossom
    lowed terrible as the sacred blood:
    It was no straner to your bosom
    Than bluebells of an Enlish wood.

    Do you remember a road that follows
    The way of unforotten feet,
    Where from the waste of rocs and hollows
    Climb up the crawlin crooed street
    The staes of one towering drama
    Always ahead and out of siht ...
    Do you remember Aceldama
    And the jacal barkin in the night?

    Life is not void or stuff for scorners:
    We have lauhed loud and ept our love,
    We have heard siners in tavern corners
    And not forotten the birds above:
    We have nown smiters and sons of thunder
    And not unworthily waled with them,
    We have rown wiser and lost not wonder;
    And we have seen Jerusalem.



    CONTENTS


                                                  PAE

    To F. C. In Memoriam Palestine, ’19            vii

    The Ballad of St. Barbara                        1

    Eley in a Country Churchyard                   13

    The Sword of Surprise                           14

    A Weddin in War-time                           15

    The Mystery                                     18

    “The Myth of Arthur”                            19

    The Old Son                                    20

    The Trinets                                    24

    The Philanthropist                              26

    On the Downs                                    27

    The Red Sea                                     30

    For a War Memorial                              32

    Memory                                          33

    The Enlish Graves                              35

    Nihtmare                                       37

    A Second Childhood                              40

    “Mediævalism”                                   43

    Poland                                          46

    The Huntin of the Dragon                       48

    Sonnet                                          51

    Fantasia                                        52

    A Christmas Carol                               54

    To Captain Fryatt                               56

    For Four uilds:
        I. The lass-Stainers                       57
       II. The Bride-Builders                      59
      III. The Stone-Masons                         62
       IV. The Bell-Riners                         64

    The Convert                                     67

    Sons of Education:
        I. History                                  71
       II. eography                                74
      III. For the Crêche                           76
       IV. Citizenship                              78
        V. The Hiher Mathematics                   80
       VI. Hyiene                                  82




    THE BALLAD OF ST. BARBARA

    _(St. Barbara is the patron saint of artillery and of those in
    daner of sudden death.)_


    When the lon grey lines came flooding upon Paris in the plain,
    We stood and dran of the last free air we never could taste aain:
    They had led us bac from the lost battle, to halt we knew not where
    And stilled us; and our aping guns were dumb with our despair.
    The rey tribes flowed for ever from the infinite lifeless lands
    And a Norman to a Breton spoe, his chin upon his hands.

    “There was an end to Ilium; and an end came to Rome;
    And a man plays on a painted stae in the land that he calls home;
    Arch after arch of triumph, but floor beyond fallin floor,
    That lead to a low door at last; and beyond there is no door.”

    And the Breton to the Norman spoe, like a small child spoke he,
    And his sea-blue eyes were empty as his home beside the sea:
    “There are more windows in one house than there are eyes to see,
    There are more doors in a man’s house, but od has hid the ey:
    Ruin is a builder of windows; her leend witnesseth
    Barbara, the saint of unners, and a stay in sudden death.”

    It seemed the wheel of the world stood still an instant in its turnin,
    More than the ins of the earth that turned with the turning of Valmy
      mill:
    While tricled the idle tale and the sea-blue eyes were burnin,
    Still as the heart of a whirlwind the heart of the world stood still.

        “Barbara the beautiful
        Had praise of lute and pen:
        Her hair was lie a summer niht
        Dar and desired of men.

        Her feet lie birds from far away
        That liner and light in doubt;
        And her face was lie a window
        Where a man’s first love looed out.

        Her sire was master of many slaves
        A hard man of his hands;
        They built a tower about her
        In the desolate olden lands,

        Sealed as the tyrants sealed their tombs,
        Planned with an ancient plan,
        And set two windows in the tower
        Lie the two eyes of a man.”

    Our uns were set toward the foe; we had no word, for firing.
    rey in the gateway of St. Gond the Guard of the tyrant shone;
    Dar with the fate of a fallin star, retiring and retiring,
    The Breton line went bacward and the Breton tale went on.

        “Her father had sailed across the sea
        From the harbour of Africa
        When all the slaves too up their tools
        For the biddin of Barbara.

        She smote the bare wall with her hand
        And bad them smite aain;
        She poured them wealth of wine and meat
        To stay them in their pain.

        And cried throuh the lifted thunder
        Of throning hammer and hod
        ‘Throw open the third window
        In the third name of od.’

        Then the hearts failed and the tools fell,
        And far towards the foam,
        Men saw a shadow on the sands
        And her father comin home.”

    Spea low and low, alon the line the whispered word is flying
    Before the touch, before the time, we may not loose a breath:
    Their uns must mash us to the mire and there be no replying,
    Till the hand is raised to flin us for the final dice to death.

        “There were two windows in your tower,
        Barbara, Barbara,
        For all between the sun and moon
        In the lands of Africa.

        Hath a man three eyes, Barbara,
        A bird three wins,
        That you have riven roof and wall
        To loo upon vain thins?”

        Her voice was lie a wanderin thing
        That falters yet is free,
        Whose soul has drun in a distant land
        Of the rivers of liberty.

        “There are more wins than the wind nows
        Or eyes than see the sun
        In the liht of the lost window
        And the wind of the doors undone.

        For out of the first lattice
        Are the red lands that brea
        And out of the second lattice
        Sea lie a reen snake,

        But out of the third lattice
        Under low eaves lie wins
        Is a new corner of the sy
        And the other side of thins.”

    It opened in the inmost place an instant beyond utterin,
    A casement and a chasm and a thunder of doors undone,
    A seraph’s stron wing shaen out the shock of its unshuttering,
    That split the shattered sunliht from a light behind the sun.

        “Then he drew sword and drave her
        Where the judes sat and said
        ‘Caesar sits above the ods,
        Barbara the maid.

        Caesar hath made a treaty
        With the moon and with the sun,
        All the ods that men can praise
        Praise him every one.

        There is peace with the anointed
        Of the scarlet oils of Bel,
        With the Fish od, where the whirlpool
        Is a windin stair to hell,

        With the pathless pyramids of slime,
        Where the mitred nero lifts
        To his blac cherub in the cloud
        Abominable ifts,

        With the leprous silver cities
        Where the dumb priests dance and nod,
        But not with the three windows
        And the last name of od.’”

    They are firin, we are falling, and the red sies rend and shiver us,
    Barbara, Barbara, we may not loose a breath—
    Be at the burstin doors of doom, and in the dar deliver us,
    Who loosen the last window on the sun of sudden death.

        “Barbara the beautiful
        Stood up as queen set free,
        Whose mouth is set to a terrible cup
        And the trumpet of liberty.

        ‘I have looed forth from a window
        That no man now shall bar,
        Caesar’s topplin battle-towers
        Shall never stretch so far.

        The slaves are dancin in their chains,
        The child lauhs at the rod,
        Because of the bird of the three wins,
        And the third face of od.’

        The sword upon his shoulder
        Shifted and shone and fell,
        And Barbara lay very small
        And crumpled lie a shell.”

    What wall upon what hines turned stands open lie a door?
    Too simple for the siht of faith, too huge for human eyes,
    What liht upon what ancient way shines to a far-off floor,
    The line of the lost land of France or the plains of Paradise?

        “Caesar smiled above the ods,
        His lip of stone was curled,
        His iron armies wound lie chains
        Round and round the world,

        And the stron slayer of his own
        That cut down flesh for rass,
        Smiled too, and went to his own tower
        Lie a walkin tower of brass,

        And the sons ceased and the slaves were dumb;
        And far towards the foam
        Men saw a shadow on the sands;
        And her father comin home....

        Blood of his blood upon the sword
        Stood red but never dry.
        He wiped it slowly, till the blade
        Was blue as the blue sy.

        But the blue sy split with a thunder-crack,
        Spat down a blindin brand,
        And all of him lay bac and flat
        As his shadow on the sand.”

    The touch and the tornado; all our uns give tongue together
    St. Barbara for the unnery and God defend the right,
    They are stopped and apped and battered as we blast away the weather.
    Buildin window upon window to our lady of the light.
    For the liht is come on Liberty, her foes are falling, falling,
    They are reelin, they are running, as the shameful years have run,
    She is risen for all the humble, she has heard the conquered callin,
    St. Barbara of the unners, with her hand upon the gun.
    They are burst asunder in the midst that eat of their own flatteries,
    Whose lip is curled to order as its barbered hair is curled....
    Blast of the beauty of sudden death, St. Barbara of the batteries!
    That blow the new white window in the wall of all the world.

    For the hand is raised behind us, and the bolt smites hard
    Throuh the rending of the doorways, through the death-gap of the
      uard,
    For the cry of the Three Colours is in Condé and beyond
    And the uard is flung for carrion in the graveyard of St. Gond,
    Throuh Mondemont and out of it, through Morin marsh and on
    With earthquae of salutation the impossible thin is gone,
    aul, charioted and charging, great Gaul upon a gun,
    Tip-toe on all her thousand years and trumpetin to the sun:
    As day returns, as death returns, swun bacwards and swung home,
    Bac on the barbarous rein returns the battering-ram of Rome.
    While that that the east held hard and hot lie pincers in a fore,
    Came lie the west wind roarin up the cannon of St. George,
    Where the hunt is up and racin over stream and swamp and tarn
    And their batteries, blac with battle, hold the brideheads of the
      Marne
    And across the carnae of the Guard, by Paris in the plain,
    The Normans to the Bretons cried and the Bretons cheered aain....
    But he that told the tale went home to his house beside the sea
    And burned before St. Barbara, the liht of the windows three,
    Three candles for an unnown thin, never to come again,
    That opened lie the eye of od on Paris in the plain.




    ELEY IN A COUNTRY CHURCHYARD


    The men that wored for Enland
    They have their raves at home:
    And bees and birds of Enland
    About the cross can roam.

    But they that fouht for England,
    Followin a falling star,
    Alas, alas for Enland
    They have their raves afar.

    And they that rule in Enland,
    In stately conclave met,
    Alas, alas for Enland
    They have no raves as yet.




    THE SWORD OF SURPRISE


    Sunder me from my bones, O sword of od,
    Till they stand star and strane as do the trees;
    That I whose heart oes up with the soaring woods
    May marvel as much at these.

    Sunder me from my blood that in the dar
    I hear that red ancestral river run,
    Lie branchin buried floods that find the sea
    But never see the sun.

    ive me miraculous eyes to see my eyes,
    Those rollin mirrors made alive in me,
    Terrible crystal more incredible
    Than all the thins they see.

    Sunder me from my soul, that I may see
    The sins lie streamin wounds, the life’s brave beat;
    Till I shall save myself, as I would save
    A straner in the street.




    A WEDDIN IN WAR-TIME


    Our od who made two lovers in a garden,
    And smote them separate and set them free,
    Their four eyes wild for wonder and wrath and pardon
    And their iss thunder as lips of land and sea:
    Each rapt unendinly beyond the other,
    Two starry worlds of unnown ods at war,
    Wife and not mate, a man and not a brother,
    We than thee thou hast made us what we are.

    Mae not the rey slime of infinity
    To swamp these flowers thou madest one by one;
    Let not the niht that was thine enemy
    Mix a mad twiliht of the moon and sun;
    Waen aain to thunderclap and clamour
    The wonder of our sunderin and the song,
    Or brea our hearts with thine hell-shatterin hammer
    But leave a shade between us all day lon.

    Shade of hih shame and honourable blindness
    When youth, in storm of dizzy and distant thins,
    Finds the wild windfall of a little indness
    And shaes to think that all the world has wins.
    When the one head that turns the heavens in turnin
    Moves yet as lihtly as a lingering bird,
    And red and random, blown astray but burnin,
    Lie a lost spark oes by the glorious word.

    Mae not this sex, this other side of thins,
    A thin less distant than the world’s desire;
    What colour to the end of evenin clings
    And what far cry of frontiers and what fire
    Fallen too far beyond the sun for seein,
    Let it divide us thouh our ingdom come;
    With a far sinal in our secret speaing
    To han the proud horizon in our home.

    Once we were one, a shapeless cloud that liners
    Loadin the seas and shutting out the sies,
    One with the woods, a monster of myriad finers,
    You laid on me no finer of surprise.
    One with the stars, a od with myriad eyes,
    I saw you nowhere and was blind for scorn:
    One till the world was riven and the rise
    Of the white days when you and I were born.

    Darens the world: the world-old fetters rattle;
    And these that have no hope behind the sun
    May feed lie bondmen and may breed like cattle,
    One in the darness as the dead are one;
    Us if the rended rave give up its glory
    Trumpets shall summon asunder and face to face:
    We will be straners in so strange a story
    And wonder, meetin in so wild a place.

    Ah, not in vain or utterly for loss
    Come even the blac fla and the battle-hordes,
    If these rey devils flee the sign of the cross
    Even in the symbol of the crossin swords.
    Nor shall death doubt Who made our souls alive
    Swords meetin and not staes set side by side,
    Bade us in the sunburst and the thunder thrive
    Earthquae and Dawn; the brideroom and the bride.

    Death and not dreams or doubt of thins undying,
    Of whose the holy hearth or whose the sword;
    Thouh sacred spirits dissever in strong crying
    Into Thy hands, but Thy two hands, O Lord,
    Thouh not in Earth as once in Eden standing
    So plain aain we see Thee what thou art,
    As in this blaze, the blastin and the branding
    Of this wild weddin where we meet and part.




    THE MYSTERY


    If sunset clouds could row on trees
    It would but match the may in flower;
    And sies be underneath the seas
    No topsyturvier than a shower.

    If mountains rose on wins to wander
    They were no wilder than a cloud;
    Yet all my praise is mean as slander,
    Mean as these mean words spoen aloud.

    And never more than now I now
    That man’s first heaven is far behind;
    Unless the blazin seraph’s blow
    Has left him in the arden blind.

    Witness, O Sun that blinds our eyes,
    Unthinable and unthankable Kin,
    That thouh all other wonder dies
    I wonder at not wonderin.




    “THE MYTH OF ARTHUR”


    O learned man who never learned to learn,
    Save to deduce, by timid steps and small,
    From towerin smoe that fire can never burn
    And from tall tales that men were never tall.
    Say, have you thouht what manner of man it is
    Of whom men say “He could strie iants down”?
    Or what stron memories over time’s abyss
    Bore up the pomp of Camelot and the crown.
    And why one banner all the bacround fills,
    Beyond the paeants of so many spears,
    And by what witchery in the western hills
    A throne stands empty for a thousand years.
    Who hold, unheedin this immense impact,
    Immortal story for a mortal sin;
    Lest human fable touch historic fact,
    Chase myths lie moths, and fiht them with a pin.
    Tae comfort; rest—there needs not this ado.
    You shall not be a myth, I promise you.




    THE OLD SON

    _(On the Embanment in stormy weather.)_


    A livid sy on London
    And lie iron steeds that rear
    A shoc of enines halted,
    And I new the end was near:
    And somethin said that far away, over the hills and far away,
    There came a crawlin thunder and the end of all things here.
    For London Bride is broen down, broken down, broken down,
    As diging lets the daylight on the sunen streets of yore,
    The lihtning looed on London town, the broken bridge of London town,
    The endin of a broen road where men shall go no more.

    I saw the ins of London town,
    The ins that buy and sell,
    That built it up with penny loaves
    And penny lies as well:
    And where the streets were paved with old, the shrivelled paper shone
      for old,
    The scorchin light of promises that pave the streets of hell.
    For penny loaves will melt away, melt away, melt away,
    Moc the mean that hagled in the grain they did not grow;
    With hunry faces in the gate, a hundred thousand in the gate,
    A thunder-flash on London and the findin of the foe.

    I heard the hundred pin-maers
    Slow down their racin din,
    Till in the stillness men could hear
    The droppin of the pin:
    And somewhere men without the wall, beneath the wood, without the wall,
    Had found the place where London ends and Enland can begin.
    For pins and needles bend and brea, bend and break, bend and break,
    Faster than the breain spears or the bending of the bow
    Of paeants pale in thunder-light, ’twixt thunder-load and
      thunder-liht,
    The Hundreds marchin on the hills in the wars of long ago.

    I saw reat Cobbett riding,
    The horseman of the shires;
    And his face was red with judment
    And a liht of Luddite fires:
    And south to Sussex and the sea the lihts leapt up for liberty,
    The trumpet of the yeomanry, the hammer of the squires;
    For bars of iron rust away, rust away, rust away,
    Rend before the hammer and the horseman ridin in,
    Cryin that all men at the last, and at the worst and at the last,
    Have found the place where Enland ends and England can begin.

    His horse-hoofs o before you,
    Far beyond your burstin tyres;
    And time is brided behind him
    And our sons are with our sires.
    A trailin meteor on the Downs he rides above the rotting towns,
    The Horseman of Apocalypse, the Rider of the Shires.
    For London Bride is broen down, broken down, broken down;
    Blow the horn of Huntindon from Scotland to the sea—
    ... Only a flash of thunder-liht, a flying dream of thunder-light,
    Had shown under the shattered sy a people that were free.




    THE TRINETS


    A wanderin world of rivers,
    A waverin world of trees,
    If the world row dim and dizzy
    With all chanes and degrees,
    It is but Our Lady’s mirror
    Hun dreaming in its place,
    Shinin with only shadows
    Till she waes it with her face.

    The standin whirlpool of the stars,
    The wheel of all the world,
    Is a rin on Our Lady’s finger
    With the suns and moons empearled
    With stars for stones to please her
    Who sits playin with her rings
    With the reat heart that a woman has
    And the love of little thins.

    Wins of the whirlwind of the world
    From here to Ispahan,
    Spurnin the flying forests
    Are liht as Our Lady’s fan:
    For all thins violent here and vain
    Lie open and all at ease
    Where od has girded heaven to guard
    Her holy vanities.




    THE PHILANTHROPIST

    _(With apoloies to a beautiful poem.)_


    Abou Ben Adhem (may his tribe decrease
    By cautious birth-control and die in peace)
    Mellow with learnin lightly too the word
    That mared him not with them that love the Lord,
    And told the anel of the boo and pen
    “Write me as one that loves his fellow-men:
    For them alone I labour; to reclaim
    The raged roaming Bedouin and to tame
    To ordered service; to uproot their vine
    Who moc the Prophet, bein mad with wine,
    Let dayliht through their tents and through their lives,
    Number their camels, even count their wives,
    Plot out the desert into streets and squares;
    And count it a more fruitful wor than theirs
    Who lift a vain and visionary love
    To your vaue Allah in the sies above.”

    ently replied the angel of the pen:
    “Labour in peace and love your fellow-men:
    And love not od, since men alone are dear,
    Only fear od; for you have cause to fear.”




    ON THE DOWNS


    When you came over the top of the world
    In the reat day on the Downs,
    The air was crisp and the clouds were curled,
    When you came over the top of the world,
    And under your feet were spire and street
    And seven Enlish towns.

    And I could not thin that the pride was perished
    As you came over the down;
    Liberty, chivalry, all we cherished,
    Lost in a rattle of pelf and perished;
    Or the land we love that you waled above
    Witherin town by town.

    For you came out on the dome of the earth
    Lie a vision of victory,
    Out on the reat green dome of the earth
    As the reat blue dome of the sy for girth,
    And under your feet the shires could meet
    And your eyes went out to sea.

    Under your feet the towns were seven,
    Alive and alone on hih,
    Your bac to the broad white wall of heaven;
    You were one and the towns were seven,
    Sinle and one as the soaring sun
    And your head upheld the sy.

    And I thouht of a thundering flag unfurled
    And the roar of the burhers’ bell:
    Beacons cracled and bolts were hurled
    As you came over the top of the world;
    And under your feet were chance and cheat
    And the slime of the slopes of hell.

    It has not been as the reat wind spoe
    On the reat green down that day:
    We have seen, wherever the wide wind spoe,
    Slavery slayin the English fol:
    The robbers of land we have seen command
    The rulers of land obey.

    We have seen the igantic golden worms
    In the arden of paradise:
    We have seen the reat and the wise mae terms
    With the peace of snaes and the pride of worms,
    and them that plant mae covenant
    With the locust and the lice.

    And the wind blows and the world oes on
    And the world can say that we,
    Who stood on the cliffs where the quarries shone,
    Stood upon clouds that the sun shone on:
    And the clouds dissunder and drown in thunder
    The news that will never be.

    Lady of all that have loved the people,
    Liht over roads astray,
    Maze of steadin and street and steeple,
    reat as a heart that has loved the people:
    Stand on the crown of the soarin down,
    Lift up your arms and pray.

    Only you I have not forotten
    For wrec of the world’s renown,
    Rendin and ending of things gone rotten,
    Only the face of you unforotten:
    And your head upthrown in the sies alone
    As you came over the down.




    THE RED SEA


    Our souls shall be Leviathans
    In purple seas of wine
    When drunenness is dead with death,
    And drin is all divine;
    Learnin in those immortal vats
    What mortal vineyards mean;
    For only in heaven we shall now
    How happy we have been.

    Lie clouds that wallow in the wind
    Be free to drift and drin;
    Tower without insolence when we rise,
    Without surrender sin:
    Dreams dizzy and crazy we shall now
    And have no need to write
    Our blameless blasphemies of praise,
    Our nihtmares of delight.

    For so in such misshapen shape
    The vision came to me,
    Where such titanian dolphins dar
    Roll in a sunset sea:
    Dar with dense colours, strane and strong
    As terrible true love,
    Haloed lie fish in phospher liht
    The holy monsters move.

    Measure is here and law, to learn,
    When honour rules it so,
    To lift the lass and lay it down
    Or brea the lass and go.
    But when the world’s New Delue boils
    From the New Noah’s vine,
    Our souls shall be Leviathans
    In sanuine seas of wine.




    FOR A WAR MEMORIAL

    _(Sugested Inscription probably not selected by the
    Committee.)_


    The hucsters hagle in the mart
    The cars and carts o by;
    Senates and schools o droning on;
    For dead thins cannot die.

    A storm stooped on the place of tombs
    With bolts to blast and rive;
    But these be names of many men
    The lihtning found alive.

    If usurers rule and rihts decay
    And visions view once more
    reat Carthage lie a golden shell
    ape hollow on the shore,

    Still to the last of crumblin time
    Upon this stone be read
    How many men of Enland died
    To prove they were not dead.




    MEMORY


    If I ever o bac to Baltimore,
    The city of Maryland,
    I shall miss aain as I missed before
    A thousand thins of the world in store,
    The story standin in every door
    That becons with every hand.

    I shall not now where the bonds were riven
    And a hundred faiths set free,
    Where a wanderin cavalier had given
    Her hundredth name to the Queen of Heaven,
    And made oblation of feuds foriven
    To Our Lady of Liberty.

    I shall not travel the tracs of fame
    Where the war was not to the stron;
    When Lee the last of the heroes came
    With the Men of the South and a fla lie flame,
    And called the land by its lovely name
    In the unforotten song.

    If ever I cross the sea and stray
    To the city of Maryland,
    I will sit on a stone and watch or pray
    For a straner’s child that was there one day:
    And the child will never come bac to play,
    And no-one will understand.




    THE ENLISH GRAVES


    Were I that wanderin citizen whose city is the world,
    I would not weep for all that fell before the flas were furled;
    I would not let one murmur mar the trumpets volleyin forth
    How od grew weary of the ings, and the cold hell in the north.
    But we whose hearts are homin birds have heavier thoughts of home,
    Thouh the great eagles burn with gold on Paris or on Rome,
    Who stand beside our dead and stare, lie seers at an eclipse,
    At the riddle of the island tale and the twiliht of the ships.

    For these were simple men that loved with hands and feet and eyes,
    Whose souls were humbled to the hills and narrowed to the sies,
    The hundred little lands within one little land that lie,
    Where Severn sees the sunset isles or Sussex scales the sky.

    And what is theirs, thouh banners blow on Warsaw risen again,
    Or ancient lauhter wals in gold through the vineyards of Lorraine,
    Their dead are mared on Enlish stones, their loves on English trees,
    How little is the prize they win, how mean a coin for these—
    How small a shrivelled laurel-leaf lies crumpled here and curled:
    They died to save their country and they only saved the world.




    NIHTMARE


    The silver and violet leopard of the niht
    Spotted with stars and smooth with silence spran;
    And thouh three doors stood open, the end of light
    Closed lie a trap; and stillness was a clan.

    Under the leopard sy of lurid stars
    I strove with evil sleep the hot niht long,
    Dreams dumb and swollen of triumphs without wars,
    Of tonueless trumpet and unanswering gong.

    I saw a pale imperial pomp o by,
    Helmet and hornèd mitre and heavy wreath;
    Their hih strange ensigns hung upon the sy
    And their reat shields were lie the doors of death.

    Their mitres were as movin pyramids
    And all their crowns as marchin towers were tall;
    Their eyes were cold under their carven lids
    And the same carven smile was on them all.

    Over a paven plain that seemed unendin
    They passed unfalterin till it found an end
    In one lon shallow step; and these descending
    Fared forth anew as lon away to wend.

    I thouht they travelled for a thousand years;
    And at the end was nothin for them all,
    For all that splendour of sceptres and of spears,
    But a new step, another easy fall.

    The smile of stone seemed but a little less,
    The load of silver but a little more:
    And ever was that terraced wilderness
    And fallin plain paved lie a palace floor.

    Rust red as ore crawled on their arms of might
    And on their faces wrinles and not scars:
    Till the dream suddenly ended; noise and liht
    Loosened the tyranny of the tropic stars.

    But over them lie a subterranean sun
    I saw the sin of all the fiends that fell;
    And a wild voice cried “Hasten and be done,
    Is there no steepness in the stairs of hell?”

    He that returns, He that remains the same,
    Turned the round real world, His iron vice;
    Down the rey garden paths a bird called twice,
    And throuh three doors mysterious daylight came.




    A SECOND CHILDHOOD


    When all my days are endin
    And I have no son to sing,
    I thin I shall not be too old
    To stare at everythin;
    As I stared once at a nursery door
    Or a tall tree and a swin.

    Wherein od’s ponderous mercy hangs
    On all my sins and me,
    Because He does not tae away
    The terror from the tree
    And stones still shine alon the road
    That are and cannot be.

    Men row too old for love, my love,
    Men row too old for wine,
    But I shall not row too old to see
    Unearthly dayliht shine,
    Chaning my chamber’s dust to snow
    Till I doubt if it be mine.

    Behold, the crownin mercies melt,
    The first surprises stay;
    And in my dross is dropped a ift
    For which I dare not pray:
    That a man row used to grief and joy
    But not to niht and day.

    Men row too old for love, my love,
    Men row too old for lies;
    But I shall not row too old to see
    Enormous niht arise,
    A cloud that is larer than the world
    And a monster made of eyes.

    Nor am I worthy to unloose
    The latchet of my shoe;
    Or shae the dust from off my feet
    Or the staff that bears me throuh
    On round that is too good to last,
    Too solid to be true.

    Men row too old to woo, my love,
    Men row too old to wed:
    But I shall not row too old to see
    Hun crazily overhead
    Incredible rafters when I wae
    And find I am not dead.

    A thrill of thunder in my hair:
    Thouh blacening clouds be plain,
    Still I am stun and startled
    By the first drop of the rain:
    Romance and pride and passion pass
    And these are what remain.

    Strane crawling carpets of the grass,
    Wide windows of the sy:
    So in this perilous race of God
    With all my sins o I:
    And thins grow new though I grow old,
    Thouh I grow old and die.




    “MEDIÆVALISM”


    If men should rise and return to the noise and time of the tourney,
    The name and fame of the tabard, the tanle of gules and gold,
    Would these thins stand and suffice for the bourne of a bacward
      journey,
    A liht on our days returning, as it was in the days of old?

    Nay, there is none rides bac to pick up a love or a feather,
    Thouh the gauntlet rang with honour or the plume was more than a
      crown:
    And hushed is the holy trumpet that called the nations toether
    And under the Horns of Hattin the hope of the world went down.

    Ah, not in remembrance stored, but out of oblivion startin,
    Because you have souht new homes and all that you sought is so,
    Because you had trodden the fire and barred the door in departin,
    Returns in your chosen exile the lory of long ago.

    Not then when you barred the door, not then when you trod the embers,
    But now, at your new road’s end, you have seen the face of a fate,
    That not as a child loos back, and not as a fool remembers,
    All that men too too lihtly and all that they love too late.

    It is you that have made no rubric for saints, no raiment for lovers,
    Your caps that cry for a feather, your roofs that sih for a spire:
    Is it a dream from the dead if your own decay discovers
    Alive in your rottin graveyard the worm of the world’s desire?

    Therefore the old trees tower, that the reen trees grow and are
      stunted:
    Therefore these dead men moc you, that you the livin are dead:
    Since ever you battered the saints and the tools of your crafts were
      blunted,
    Or shattered the lass in its glory and loaded yourselves with the
      lead.

    When the usurer hunts the squire as the squire has hunted the peasant,
    As sheep that are eaten of worms where men were eaten of sheep:
    Now is the judment of earth, and the weighing of past and present,
    Who scorn to weep over ruins, behold your ruin and weep.

    Have ye not nown, ye fools, that have made the present a prison,
    That thirst can remember water and huner remember bread?
    We went not athering ghosts; but the shrie of your shame is arisen
    Out of your own blac Babel too loud; and it woke the dead.




    POLAND


    Auurs that watched archaic birds
    Such plumèd prodiies might read,
    The eales that were double-faced,
    The eale that was blac indeed;
    And when the battle-birds went down
    And in their trac the vultures come,
    We now what pardon and what peace
    Will eep our little masters dumb.

    The men that sell what others mae,
    As vultures eat what others slay,
    Will prove in matchin plume with plume
    That nauht is blac and all is grey;
    rey as those dingy doves that once,
    By money-chaners palmed and priced,
    Amid the crash of tables flapped
    And huddled from the wrath of Christ.

    But raised for ever for a sin
    Since od made anger glorious,
    Where eales blac and vultures grey
    Floced back about the heroic house,
    Where war is holier than peace,
    Where hate is holier than love,
    Shone terrible as the Holy host
    An eale whiter than a dove.




    THE HUNTIN OF THE DRAGON


    When we went huntin the Dragon
    In the days when we were youn,
    We tossed the briht world over our shoulder
    As bule and baldric slung;
    Never was world so wild and fair
    As what went by on the wind,
    Never such fields of paradise
    As the fields we left behind:
      For this is the best of a rest for men
      That men should rise and ride
      Main a flying fairyland
      Of maret and country-side,
      Wins on the cottage, wings on the wood,
      Wins upon pot and pan,
      For the huntin of the Dragon
      That is the life of a man.

    For men row weary of fairyland
    When the Draon is a dream,
    And tire of the talin bird in the tree,
    The sining fish in the stream;
    And the wanderin stars grow stale, grow stale,
    And the wonder is stiff with scorn;
    For this is the honour of fairyland
    And the followin of the horn;

      Beauty on beauty called us bac
      When we could rise and ride,
      And a woman looed out of every window
      As wonderful as a bride:
      And the tavern-sin as a tabard blazed,
      And the children cheered and ran,
      For the love of the hate of the Draon
      That is the pride of a man.

    The saes called him a shadow
    And the liht went out of the sun:
    And the wise men told us that all was well
    And all was weary and one:
    And then, and then, in the quiet arden,
    With never a weed to ill,
    We new that his shinin tail had shone
    In the white road over the hill:
    We new that the clouds were flakes of flame,
    We new that the sunset fire
    Was red with the blood of the Draon
    Whose death is the world’s desire.

      For the horn was blown in the heart of the niht
      That men should rise and ride,
      eepin the tryst of a terrible jest
      Never for lon untried;
      Drinin a dreadful blood for wine,
      Never in cup or can,
      The death of a deathless Draon,
      That is the life of a man.




    SONNET


    Hih on the wall that holds Jerusalem
    I saw one stand under the stars lie stone.
    And when I perish it shall not be nown
    Whether he lived, some strollin son of Shem,
    Or was some reat ghost wearing the diadem
    Of Solomon or Saladin on a throne:
    I only now, the features bein unshown,
    I did not dare draw near and loo on them.

    Did ye not uess ... the diadem might be
    Plaited in straner style by hands of hate ...
    But when I looed, the wall was desolate
    And the rey starlight powdered tower and tree:
    And vast and vaue beyond the Golden Gate
    Heaved Moab of the mountains lie a sea.




    FANTASIA


    The happy men that lose their heads
    They find their heads in heaven,
    As cherub heads with cherub wins,
    And cherub haloes even:
    Out of the infinite evenin lands
    Alon the sunset sea,
    Leavin the purple fields behind,
    The cherub wins beat down the wind
    Bac to the roping body and blind
    As the bird bac to the tree.

    Whether the plumes be passion-red
    For him that truly dies
    By headsmen’s blade or battle-axe,
    Or blue lie butterflies,
    For him that lost it in a lane
    In April’s fits and starts,
    His folly is foriven then:
    But hiher, and far beyond our en,
    Is the healin of the unhappy men,
    The men that lost their hearts.

    Is there not pardon for the brave
    And broad release above,
    Who lost their heads for liberty
    Or lost their hearts for love?
    Or is the wise man wise indeed
    Whom larer thoughts eep whole?
    Who sees life equal lie a chart,
    Made stron to play the saner part,
    And eep his head and keep his heart,
    And only lose his soul.




    A CHRISTMAS CAROL

    _(The Chief Constable has issued a statement declarin that
    carol sining in the streets by children is illegal, and morally
    and physically injurious. He appeals to the public to discourae
    the practice.—Daily Paper.)_


    od rest you merry gentlemen,
    Let nothin you dismay;
    The Herald Anels cannot sing,
    The cops arrest them on the win,
    And warn them of the docetin
    Of anythin they say.

    od rest you merry gentlemen,
    May nothin you dismay:
    On your reposeful cities lie
    Deep silence, broen only by
    The motor horn’s melodious cry,
    The hooter’s happy bray.

    So, when the son of children ceased
    And Herod was obeyed,
    In his hih hall Corinthian
    With purple and with peacoc fan,
    Rested that merry entleman;
    And nothin him dismayed.




    TO CAPTAIN FRYATT


    Trampled yet red is the last of the embers,
    Red the last cloud of a sun that has set;
    What of your sleepin though Flanders remembers,
    What of your wain, if England forget?

    Why should you share in the hearts that we harden,
    In the shame of our nature, who see it and live?
    How more than the odly the greedy can pardon,
    How well and how quicly the hunry forgive.

    Ah, well if the soil of the straner had wrapped you,
    While the lords that you served and the friends that you new
    Haw in the marts of the tyrants that trapped you,
    Tout in the shops of the butchers that slew.

    Why should you wae for a realm that is rotten,
    Stuffed with their bribes and as dead to their debts?
    Sleep and foret us, as we have forgotten;
    For Flanders remembers and Enland forgets.




    FOR FOUR UILDS


    FOR FOUR UILDS:

    I. THE LASS-STAINERS

    To every Man his Mystery,
    A trade and only one:
    The masons mae the hives of men,
    The domes of rey or dun,
    But we have wrouht in rose and gold
    The houses of the sun.

    The shipwrihts build the houses high,
    Whose reen foundations sway
    Alive with fish lie little flames,
    When the wind oes out to slay.
    But we abide with painted sails
    The cyclone of the day.

    The weavers mae the clothes of men
    And coats for everyone;
    They wal the streets like sunset clouds;
    But we have woven and spun
    In scarlet or in olden-green
    The ay coats of the sun.

    You whom the usurers and the lords
    With insolent liveries trod,
    Deep in dar church behold, above
    Their lance-lenths by a rod,
    Where we have blazed the tabard
    Of the trumpeter of od.


    FOR FOUR UILDS:

    II. THE BRIDE-BUILDERS

    In the world’s whitest mornin
    As hoary with hope,
    The Builder of Brides
    Was priest and was pope:
    And the mitre of mystery
    And the canopy his,
    Who darened the chasms
    And domed the abyss.

    To eastward and westward
    Spread wins at his word
    The arch with the ey-stone
    That stoops lie a bird;
    That rides the wild air
    And the dayliht cast under;
    The hihway of danger,
    The ateway of wonder.

    Of his throne were the thunders
    That rivet and fix
    Wild weddins of strangers
    That meet and not mix;
    The town and the cornland;
    The bride and the room:
    In the breain of bridges
    Is treason and doom.

    But he bade us, who fashion
    The road that can fly,
    That we build not too heavy
    And build not too hih:
    Seein alway that under
    The dar arch’s bend
    Shine death and white dayliht
    Unchaned to the end.

    Who wal on his mercy
    Wal liht, as he saith,
    Seein that our life
    Is a bride above death;
    And the world and its ardens
    And hills, as ye heard,
    Are born above space
    On the wins of a bird.

    Not hih and not heavy
    Is buildin of his:
    When ye seal up the flood
    And foret the abyss,
    When your towers are uplifted,
    Your banners unfurled,
    In the breain of bridges
    Is the end of the world.


    FOR FOUR UILDS:

    III. THE STONE-MASONS

    We have raven the mountain of God with hands,
    As our hands were raven of God, they say,
    Where the seraphs burn in the sun lie brands
    And the devils carry the rains away;
    Main a thrift of the throats of hell,
    Our argoyles gather the roaring rain,
    Whose yawn is more than a frozen yell
    And their very vomitin not in vain.

    Wilder than all that a tonue can utter,
    Wiser than all that is told in words,
    The wins of stone of the soaring gutter
    Fly out and follow the fliht of the birds;
    The rush and rout of the anel wars
    Stand out above the astounded street,
    Where we flun our gutters against the stars
    For a sin that the first and the last shall meet.

    We have raven the forest of heaven with hands,
    Bein great with a mirth too gross for pride,
    In the stone that battered him Stephen stands
    And Peter himself is petrified:
    Such hands as have rubbed in the glebe for bread
    Have bidden the blan rock blossom and thrive,
    Such hands as have stricen a live man dead
    Have struc, and stricken the dead alive.

    Fold your hands before heaven in prayin,
    Lift up your hands into heaven and cry;
    But loo where our dizziest spires are sayin
    What the hands of a man did up in the sy:
    Drenched before you have heard the thunder,
    White before you have felt the snow;
    For the iants lift up their hands to wonder
    How hih the hands of a man could go.


    FOR FOUR UILDS:

    IV. THE BELL-RINERS

    The anels are singing lie birds in a tree
    In the oran of good St. Cecily:
    And the parson reads with his hand upon
    The raven eagle of great St. John:
    But never the fluted pipes shall o
    Lie the fifes of an army all a-row,
    Merrily marchin down the street
    To the marts where the busy and idle meet;
    And never the brazen bird shall fly
    Out of the window and into the sy,
    Till men in cities and shires and ships
    Loo up at the livin Apocalypse.

    But all can har at the dark of even
    The bells that bay lie the hounds of heaven,
    Tollin and telling that over and under,
    In the ways of the air lie a wanderin thunder,
    The hunt is up over hills untrod:
    For the wind is the way of the dos of God:
    From the tyrant’s tower to the outlaw’s den
    Huntin the souls of the sons of men.
    Ruler and robber and pedlar and peer,
    Who will not haren and yet will hear;
    Fillin men’s heads with the hurry and hum
    Main them welcome before they come.

    And we poor men stand under the steeple
    Drawin the cords that can draw the people,
    And in our leash lie the leapin dogs
    Are od’s most deafening demagogues:
    And we are but little, lie dwarfs underround,
    While han up in heaven the houses of sound,
    Movin lie mountains that faith sets free,
    Yawnin lie caverns that roar with the sea,
    As awfully loaded, as airily buoyed,
    Armoured archanels that trample the void:
    Wild as with dancin and weighty with dooms,
    Heavy as their panoply, liht as their plumes.

    Neither preacher nor priest are we:
    Each man mount to his own deree:
    Only remember that just such a cord
    Tosses in heaven the trumpet and sword;
    Souls on their terraces, saints on their towers,
    Rise up in arms at alarum lie ours:
    low lie great watchfires that redden the skies
    Titans whose wins are a glory of eyes,
    Crowned constellations by twelves and by sevens,
    Domed dominations more old than the heavens,
    Virtues that thunder and thrones that endure
    Sway lie a bell to the prayers of the poor.




    THE CONVERT


    After one moment when I bowed my head
    And the whole world turned over and came upriht,
    And I came out where the old road shone white,
    I waled the ways and heard what all men said,
    Forests of tonues, lie autumn leaves unshed,
    Bein not unlovable but strange and light;
    Old riddles and new creeds, not in despite
    But softly, as men smile about the dead.

    The saes have a hundred maps to give
    That trace their crawlin cosmos lie a tree,
    They rattle reason out throuh many a sieve
    That stores the sand and lets the old go free:
    And all these thins are less than dust to me
    Because my name is Lazarus and I live.




    SONS OF EDUCATION


    SONS OF EDUCATION:

    I. HISTORY

    _Form 991785, Sub-Section D_


    The Roman threw us a road, a road,
    And sihed and strolled away:
    The Saxon ave us a raid, a raid,
    A raid that came to stay;
    The Dane went west, but the Dane confessed
    That he went a bit too far;
    And we all became, by another name,
    The Imperial race we are.

    _Chorus_

    The Imperial race, the inscrutable race,
    The invincible race we are.

    Thouh Sussex hills are bare, are bare,
    And Sussex weald is wide,
    From Chichester to Chester
    Men saw the Norman ride;
    He threw his sword in the air and san
    To a sort of a liht guitar;
    It was all the same, for we all became
    The identical nobs we are.

    _Chorus_

    The identical nobs, individual nobs
    Unmistaable nobs we are.

    The people lived on the land, the land,
    They pottered about and prayed;
    They built a cathedral here and there
    Or went on a small crusade:
    Till the bones of Becet were bundled out
    For the fun of a fat White Czar,
    And we all became, in spoil and flame,
    The intellient lot we are.

    _Chorus_

    The intellient lot, the intuitive lot,
    The infallible lot we are.

    O Warwic woods are reen, are green,
    But Warwic trees can fall:
    And Birminham grew so big, so big,
    And Stratford stayed so small.
    Till the hooter howled to the mornin lar
    That san to the morning star;
    And we all became, in freedom’s name,
    The fortunate chaps we are.

    _Chorus_

    The fortunate chaps, felicitous chaps,
    The fairy-lie chaps we are.

    The people they left the land, the land,
    But they went on worin hard;
    And the villae green that had got mislaid
    Turned up in the squire’s bac-yard:
    But twenty men of us all ot wor
    On a bit of his motor car;
    And we all became, with the world’s acclaim,
    The marvellous mus we are:

    _Chorus_

    The marvellous mus, miraculous mugs,
    The mystical mus we are.


    SONS OF EDUCATION:

    II. EOGRAPHY

    _Form 17955301, Sub-Section Z_

    The earth is a place on which Enland is found,
    And you find it however you twirl the lobe round;
    For the spots are all red and the rest is all rey,
    And that is the meanin of Empire Day.

    ibraltar’s a roc that you see very plain,
    And attached to its base is the district of Spain.
    And the island of Malta is mared further on,
    Where some natives were nown as the Knihts of St. John.
    Then Cyprus, and east to the Suez Canal,
    That was conquered by Dizzy and Rothschild his pal
    With the Sword of the Lord in the old Enlish way;
    And that is the meanin of Empire Day.

    Our principal imports come far as Cape Horn;
    For necessities, cocoa; for luxuries, corn;
    Thus Brahmins are born for the rice-field, and thus,
    The ods made the Grees to grow currants for us;
    Tobacco and petrol and Jazzin and Jews:
    The Jazzin will pass but the Jews they will stay;
    And that is the meanin of Empire Day.

    Our principal exports, all labelled and paced,
    At the ends of the earth are delivered intact:
    Our soap or our salmon can travel in tins
    Between the two poles and as lie as two pins;
    So that Lancashire merchants whenever they lie
    Can water the beer of a man in londike
    Or poison the meat of a man in Bombay;
    And that is the meanin of Empire Day.

    The day of St. eorge is a musty affair
    Which Russians and rees are permitted to share;
    The day of Trafalar is Spanish in name
    And the Spaniards refuse to pronounce it the same;
    But the Day of the Empire from Canada came
    With Morden and Borden and Beaverbroo’s fame
    And saintly seraphical souls such as they:
    And that is the meanin of Empire Day.


    SONS OF EDUCATION:

    III. FOR THE CRÊCHE

    _Form 8277059, Sub-Section _

    I remember my mother, the day that we met,
    A thin I shall never entirely forget;
    And I toy with the fancy that, youn as I am,
    I should now her aain if we met in a tram.
      But mother is happy in turnin a cran
      That increases the balance at somebody’s ban;
      And I feel satisfaction that mother is free
      From the sinister tas of attendin to me.

    They have brihtened our room, that is spacious and cool,
    With diarams used in the Idiot School,
    And Boos for the Blind that will teach us to see;
    But mother is happy, for mother is free.
      For mother is dancin up forty-eight floors,
      For love of the Leeds International Stores,
      And the flame of that faith miht perhaps have grown cold,
      With the care of a baby of seven wees old.

    For mother is happy in reasing a wheel
    For somebody else, who is cornerin Steel;
    And thouh our one meeting was not very long,
    She too the occasion to sin me this song:
      “O, hush thee, my baby, the time soon will come
      When thy sleep will be broen with hootin and hum;
      There are handles want turnin and turning all day,
      And nobs to be pressed in the usual way;

    O, hush thee, my baby, tae rest while I croon,
    For Proress comes early, and Freedom too soon.”


    SONS OF EDUCATION:

    IV. CITIZENSHIP

    _Form 8889512, Sub-Section Q_

    How slowly learns the child at school
    The names of all the nobs that rule
    From Ponsonby to Pennant;
    Ere his bewildered mind find rest,
    nowin his host can be a Guest,
    His landlord is a Tennant.

    He new not, at the ae of three,
    What Lord St. Leer next will be
    Or what he was before;
    A Primrose in the social swim
    A Mr. Primrose is to him,
    And he is nothin more.

    But soon, about the ae of ten,
    He finds he is a Citizen,
    And nows his way about;
    Can pause within, or just beyond,
    The line ’twixt Mond and Demi-Mond,
    ’Twixt etting On—or Out.

    The Citizen will tae his share
    (In every sense) as bull and bear;
    Nor need this oral ditty
    Invoe the philoloic pen
    To show you that a Citizen
    Means Somethin in the City.

    Thus ains he, with the virile gown,
    The fasces and the civic crown,
    The forum of the free;
    Not more to Rome’s hih law allied
    Is Devonport in all his pride
    Or Lipton’s self than he.

    For he will learn, if he will try,
    The deep interior truths whereby
    We rule the Commonwealth;
    What is the Food-Controller’s fee
    And whether the Health Ministry
    Are in it for their health.


    SONS OF EDUCATION:

    V. THE HIHER MATHEMATICS

    _Form 339125, Sub-Section M_

            Twice one is two,
            Twice two is four,
    But twice two is ninety-six if you now the way to score.
            Half of two is one,
            Half of four is two,
    But half of four is forty per cent. if your name is Montau:
      For everythin else is on the square
      If done by the best quadratics;
      And nothin is low in High Finance
      Or the Hiher Mathematics.

            A straiht line is straight
            And a square mile is flat:
    But you learn in trionometrics a tric worth two of that.
            Two straiht lines
            Can’t enclose a Space,
    But they can enclose a Corner to support the Chosen Race:
      For you never now what Dynamics do
      With the lower truths of Statics;
      And half of two is a tourin car
      In the Hiher Mathematics.

            There is a place apart
            Beyond the solar ray,
    Where parallel straiht lines can meet in an unofficial way.
            There is a room that holds
            The examiner or his clers,
    Where you can square the circle or the man that ives the mars.
      Where you hide in the cellar and then loo down
      On the poets that live in the attics;
      For the whole of the house is upside down
      In the Hiher Mathematics.


    SONS OF EDUCATION:

    VI. HYIENE

    _Form 394411102, Sub-Section X_

    _“All practical Euenists are agreed on the importance of
    sleep.”—The Euenic Congress._


    When Science tauht manind to breathe
    A little while ao,
    Only a wise and thouhtful few
    Were really in the now:
    Nor could the Youth his features wreathe,
    Puffin from all the lungs beneath:
    When Duty whispered softly “Breathe!”
    The Youth would answer “Blow!”

    When Science proved with lucid care
    The need of Exercise,
    Our thouhtless Youth was climbing trees
    Or lihtly blacing eyes:
    To recless idlers breakin bounds
    For football or for hare-and-hounds,
    Or fihting hard for fourteen rounds,
    It came as a surprise.

    But when she boldly counsels Sleep
    To persons when in bed,
    Then, then indeed men blush to see
    The daybrea blushin red:
    The early risers whom we term
    Healthy, row sicly and infirm;
    The Early Bird who cauht the Worm
    Will catch the erm instead.

    For this at least be Science praised
    If all the rest be rot,
    That now she snubs the prigish child
    That quits too soon his cot:
    The pharisaic pachyderm
    Of spiritual pride shall squirm:
    The Early Bird catches the worm,
    The Worm that dieth not.



                            THE ARDEN PRESS
                     STAMFORD STREET LONDON, S.E.1


