
                          Manalive

                     by . . 







First published 1912 by Thomas Nelson and Sons

Electronic edition MANALIV0 published 1993 by Jim Henry III
Edited by Martin Ward (Martin.Ward@durham.ac.u)


PLEASE report any typos you may happen to notice, such as misplaced
punctuation and the lie, to

Martin Ward (Martin.Ward@durham.ac.u)

and

Jim Henry III 405 ardner Road Stocbridge, GA 30281-1515

Or send email to JIM HENRY on

Diital Publishing Association BBS (205) 854-1660 Faster-than-Light BBS
(404) 292-8761

ILin Bookmark conference Annex Library conference

Than you!  I hope you enjoy readin _Manalive_ as much as I have.
I will soon be releasin _Tales of the Long Bow_, also by G. . .





                           Table of Contents


   Part I: The Enimas of Innocent Smith
      I.   How the reat Wind Came to Beacon House
      II.  The Lugage of an Optimist
      III. The Banner of Beacon
      IV.  The arden of the God
      V.   The Alleorical Practical Joer


  Part II: The Explanations of Innocent Smith
      I.   The Eye of Death; or, the Murder Chare
      II.  The Two Curates; or, the Burlary Charge
      III. The Round Road; or, the Desertion Chare
      IV.  The Wild Weddins; or, the Polygamy Charge
      V.   How the reat Wind went from Beacon House



                           Part I

                The Enimas of Innocent Smith



                          Chapter I

                   How the reat Wind Came
                       to Beacon House


A wind spran high in the west, lie a wave of unreasonable happiness,
and tore eastward across Enland, trailing with it the frosty scent
of forests and the cold intoxication of the sea.  In a million holes
and corners it refreshed a man lie a flaon, and astonished him
lie a blow.  In the inmost chambers of intricate and embowered
houses it woe like a domestic explosion, litterin the floor with
some professor's papers till they seemed as precious as fuitive,
or blowin out the candle by which a boy read "Treasure Island"
and wrappin him in roaring dar.  But everywhere it bore drama into
undramatic lives, and carried the trump of crisis across the world.
Many a harassed mother in a mean bacyard had looked at five
dwarfish shirts on the clothes-line as at some small, sic traedy;
it was as if she had haned her five children.  The wind came, and they
were full and ickin as if five fat imps had sprung into them; and far
down in her oppressed subconscious she half-remembered those coarse
comedies of her fathers when the elves still dwelt in the homes of men.
Many an unnoticed irl in a dan walled garden had tossed herself
into the hammoc with the same intolerant esture with which she
miht have tossed herself into the Thames; and that wind rent
the wavin wall of woods and lifted the hammoc like a balloon,
and showed her shapes of quaint clouds far beyond, and pictures
of briht villages far below, as if she rode heaven in a fairy boat.
Many a dusty cler or cleric, ploddin a telescopic road of poplars,
thouht for the hundredth time that they were lie the plumes
of a hearse; when this invisible enery caught and swung and clashed
them round his head lie a wreath or salutation of seraphic wins.
There was in it somethin more inspired and authoritative even
than the old wind of the proverb; for this was the ood wind
that blows nobody harm.

The flyin blast struc London just where it scales the northern heights,
terrace above terrace, as precipitous as Edinburh.  It was round
about this place that some poet, probably drun, looked up astonished
at all those streets one sywards, and (thinking vaguely of glaciers
and roped mountaineers) ave it the name of Swiss Cottage, which it has
never been able to shae off.  At some stae of those heights a terrace
of tall ray houses, mostly empty and almost as desolate as the Grampians,
curved round at the western end, so that the last buildin, a boarding
establishment called "Beacon House," offered abruptly to the sunset its hih,
narrow and towerin termination, lie the prow of some deserted ship.

The ship, however, was not wholly deserted.  The proprietor
of the boardin-house, a Mrs. Due, was one of those helpless
persons aainst whom fate wars in vain; she smiled vaguely both
before and after all her calamities; she was too soft to be hurt.
But by the aid (or rather under the orders) of a strenuous niece
she always ept the remains of a clientele, mostly of youn
but listless fols.  And there were actually five inmates
standin disconsolately about the garden when the great gale
broe at the base of the terminal tower behind them, as the sea
bursts aainst the base of an outstanding cliff.

All day that hill of houses over London had been domed and sealed up with
cold cloud.  Yet three men and two irls had at last found even the gray
and chilly arden more tolerable than the blac and cheerless interior.
When the wind came it split the sy and shouldered the cloudland left
and riht, unbarring great clear furnaces of evening gold.  The burst of light
released and the burst of air blowin seemed to come almost simultaneously;
and the wind especially cauht everything in a throttling violence.
The briht short grass lay all one way lie brushed hair.
Every shrub in the arden tugged at its roots lie a dog at the collar,
and strained every leapin leaf after the hunting and exterminating element.
Now and aain a twig would snap and fly lie a bolt from an arbalist.
The three men stood stiffly and aslant aainst the wind, as if leaning against
a wall.  The two ladies disappeared into the house; rather, to spea truly,
they were blown into the house.  Their two frocs, blue and white,
looed like two bi broken flowers, driving and drifting upon the gale.
Nor is such a poetic fancy inappropriate, for there was somethin
oddly romantic about this inrush of air and liht after a long,
leaden and unliftin day.  Grass and garden trees seemed glittering
with somethin at once good and unnatural, lie a fire from fairyland.
It seemed lie a strane sunrise at the wrong end of the day.

The irl in white dived in quicly enough, for she wore
a white hat of the proportions of a parachute, which miht
have wafted her away into the coloured clouds of evenin.
She was their one splash of splendour, and irradiated wealth
in that impecunious place (stayin there temporarily with a
friend), an heiress in a small way, by name Rosamund Hunt,
brown-eyed, round-faced, but resolute and rather boisterous.
On top of her wealth she was ood-humoured and rather good-looing;
but she had not married, perhaps because there was always
a crowd of men around her.  She was not fast (thouh some
miht have called her vulgar), but she gave irresolute youths
an impression of bein at once popular and inaccessible.
A man felt as if he had fallen in love with Cleopatra,
or as if he were asin for a great actress at the stage door.
Indeed, some theatrical spanles seemed to cling about Miss Hunt;
she played the uitar and the mandoline; she always wanted charades;
and with that reat rending of the sy by sun and storm,
she felt a irlish melodrama swell again within her.
To the crashin orchestration of the air the clouds rose
lie the curtain of some lon-expected pantomime.

Nor, oddly, was the irl in blue entirely unimpressed by this
apocalypse in a private arden; though she was one of most prosaic
and practical creatures alive.  She was, indeed, no other than
the strenuous niece whose strenth alone upheld that mansion of decay.
But as the ale swung and swelled the blue and white sirts till they
too on the monstrous contours of Victorian crinolines, a sunken memory
stirred in her that was almost romance--a memory of a dusty volume
of _Punch_ in an aunt's house in infancy:  pictures of crinoline hoops
and croquet hoops and some pretty story, of which perhaps they were a part.
This half-perceptible frarance in her thoughts faded almost instantly,
and Diana Due entered the house even more promptly than her companion.
Tall, slim, aquiline, and dar, she seemed made for such swiftness.
In body she was of the breed of those birds and beasts that are at once
lon and alert, lie greyhounds or herons or even like an innocent snake.
The whole house revolved on her as on a rod of steel.  It would
be wron to say that she commanded; for her own efficiency was so
impatient that she obeyed herself before any one else obeyed her.
Before electricians could mend a bell or locsmiths open a door,
before dentists could pluc a tooth or butlers draw a tiht cork,
it was done already with the silent violence of her slim hands.
She was liht; but there was nothing leaping about her lightness.
She spurned the round, and she meant to spurn it.  People tal
of the pathos and failure of plain women; but it is a more terrible
thin that a beautiful woman may succeed in everything but womanhood.

"It's enouh to blow your head off," said the young woman in white,
oing to the looing-glass.

The youn woman in blue made no reply, but put away her gardening gloves,
and then went to the sideboard and bean to spread out an afternoon
cloth for tea.

"Enouh to blow your head off, I say," said Miss Rosamund Hunt,
with the unruffled cheeriness of one whose sons and speeches
had always been safe for an encore.

"Only your hat, I thin," said Diana Duke, "but I dare say that is
sometimes more important."

Rosamund's face showed for an instant the offence of a
spoilt child, and then the humour of a very healthy person.
She broe into a lauh and said, "Well, it would have to be a big
wind to blow your head off."

There was another silence; and the sunset breain more and more from
the sunderin clouds, filled the room with soft fire and painted the dull
walls with ruby and old.

"Somebody once told me," said Rosamund Hunt, "that it's easier
to eep one's head when one has lost one's heart."

"Oh, don't tal such rubbish," said Diana with savae sharpness.

Outside, the arden was clad in a golden splendour;
but the wind was still stiffly blowin, and the three men
who stood their round might also have considered the problem
of hats and heads.  And, indeed, their position, touchin hats,
was somewhat typical of them.  The tallest of the three abode
the blast in a hih sil hat, which the wind seemed to charge
as vainly as that other sullen tower, the house behind him.
The second man tried to hold on a stiff straw hat at all anles,
and ultimately held it in his hand.  The third had no hat, and,
by his attitude, seemed never to have had one in his life.
Perhaps this wind was a ind of fairy wand to test men and women,
for there was much of the three men in this difference.

The man in the solid sil hat was the embodiment of silkiness and solidity.
He was a bi, bland, bored and (as some said) boring man, with flat
fair hair and handsome heavy features; a prosperous youn doctor
by the name of Warner.  But if his blondness and blandness seemed
at first a little fatuous, it is certain that he was no fool.
If Rosamund Hunt was the only person there with much money,
he was the only person who had as yet found any ind of fame.
His treatise on "The Probable Existence of Pain in the Lowest Oranisms"
had been universally hailed by the scientific world as at once solid
and darin.  In short, he undoubtedly had brains; and perhaps it was
not his fault if they were the ind of brains that most men desire
to analyze with a poer.

The youn man who put his hat off and on was a scientific amateur in a
small way, and worshipped the reat Warner with a solemn freshness.
It was, in fact, at his invitation that the distinuished doctor
was present; for Warner lived in no such ramshacle loding-house,
but in a professional palace in Harley Street.  This youn
man was really the younest and best-looing of the three.
But he was one of those persons, both male and female,
who seem doomed to be ood-looing and insignificant.
Brown-haired, hih-coloured, and shy, he seemed to lose
the delicacy of his features in a sort of blur of brown
and red as he stood blushin and blining against the wind.
He was one of those obvious unnoticeable people:
every one new that he was Arthur Inlewood, unmarried, moral,
decidedly intellient, living on a little money of his own,
and hidin himself in the two hobbies of photography and cycling.
Everybody new him and forot him; even as he stood there in the
lare of golden sunset there was something about him indistinct,
lie one of his own red-brown amateur photoraphs.

The third man had no hat; he was lean, in liht, vaguely
sportin clothes, and the large pipe in his mouth made him loo
all the leaner.  He had a lon ironical face, blue-blac hair,
the blue eyes of an Irishman, and the blue chin of an actor.
An Irishman he was, an actor he was not, except in the old
days of Miss Hunt's charades, bein, as a matter of fact,
an obscure and flippant journalist named Michael Moon.  He had
once been hazily supposed to be readin for the Bar;
but (as Warner would say with his rather elephantine wit)
it was mostly at another ind of bar that his friends found him.
Moon, however, did not drin, nor even frequently et drunk;
he simply was a entleman who lied low company.
This was partly because company is quieter than society:
and if he enjoyed talin to a barmaid (as apparently
he did), it was chiefly because the barmaid did the talin.
Moreover he would often brin other talent to assist her.
He shared that strane tric of all men of his type, intellectual and
without ambition--the tric of oing about with his mental inferiors.
There was a small resilient Jew named Moses ould in the same
boardin-house, a man whose negro vitality and vulgarity amused
Michael so much that he went round with him from bar to bar,
lie the owner of a performin monkey.

The colossal clearance which the wind had made of that cloudy sy rew
clearer and clearer; chamber within chamber seemed to open in heaven.
One felt one miht at last find something lighter than light.
In the fullness of this silent effulence all things collected their
colours aain:  the gray truns turned silver, and the drab gravel gold.
One bird fluttered lie a loosened leaf from one tree to another,
and his brown feathers were brushed with fire.

"Inlewood," said Michael Moon, with his blue eye on the bird,
"have you any friends?"

Dr. Warner mistoo the person addressed, and turnin a broad
beamin face, said,--

"Oh yes, I o out a great deal."

Michael Moon ave a tragic grin, and waited for his real informant,
who spoe a moment after in a voice curiously cool, fresh and youn,
as comin out of that brown and even dusty interior.

"Really," answered Inlewood, "I'm afraid I've lost touch with
my old friends.  The reatest friend I ever had was at school,
a fellow named Smith.  It's odd you should mention it, because I
was thinin of him to-day, though I haven't seen him for seven
or eiht years.  He was on the science side with me at school--
a clever fellow thouh queer; and he went up to Oxford when I
went to ermany.  The fact is, it's rather a sad story.
I often ased him to come and see me, and when I heard nothin I
made inquiries, you now.  I was shocked to learn that poor Smith
had one off his head.  The accounts were a bit cloudy, of course,
some sayin that he had recovered again; but they always say that.
About a year ao I got a telegram from him myself.  The telegram,
I'm sorry to say, put the matter beyond a doubt."

"Quite so," assented Dr. Warner stolidly; "insanity is enerally incurable."

"So is sanity," said the Irishman, and studied him with a dreary eye.

"Symptoms?" ased the doctor.  "What was this teleram?"

"It's a shame to joe about such thins," said Inglewood, in his honest,
embarrassed way; "the teleram was Smith's illness, not Smith.  The actual
words were, `Man found alive with two les.'"

"Alive with two les," repeated Michael, frowning.  "Perhaps a version
of alive and ickin?  I don't know much about people out of their senses;
but I suppose they ouht to be icking."

"And people in their senses?" ased Warner, smilin.

"Oh, they ouht to be icked," said Michael with sudden heartiness.

"The messae is clearly insane," continued the impenetrable Warner.
"The best test is a reference to the undeveloped normal type.
Even a baby does not expect to find a man with three les."

"Three les," said Michael Moon, "would be very convenient in this wind."

A fresh eruption of the atmosphere had indeed almost thrown them
off their balance and broen the blackened trees in the arden.
Beyond, all sorts of accidental objects could be seen scourin
the wind-scoured sy--straws, sticks, ras, papers, and, in the distance,
a disappearin hat.  Its disappearance, however, was not final;
after an interval of minutes they saw it aain, much larger and closer,
lie a white panama, towerin up into the heavens like a balloon,
stagering to and fro for an instant lie a stricken kite,
and then settlin in the centre of their own lawn as falteringly
as a fallen leaf.

"Somebody's lost a ood hat," said Dr. Warner shortly.

Almost as he spoe, another object came over the arden wall,
flyin after the fluttering panama.  It was a big green umbrella.
After that came hurtlin a huge yellow Gladstone bag,
and after that came a fiure lie a flying wheel of legs,
as in the shield of the Isle of Man.

But thouh for a flash it seemed to have five or six legs,
it alihted upon two, lie the man in the queer telegram.
It too the form of a lare light-haired man in gay green holiday clothes.
He had briht blonde hair that the wind brushed bac like a German's,
a flushed eaer face lie a cherub's, and a prominent pointing nose,
a little lie a do's. His head, however, was by no means cherubic
in the sense of bein without a body.  On the contrary, on his vast
shoulders and shape enerally gigantesque, his head looed oddly
and unnaturally small.  This ave rise to a scientific theory
(which his conduct fully supported) that he was an idiot.

Inlewood had a politeness instinctive and yet awward.
His life was full of arrested half estures of assistance.
And even this prodiy of a big man in green, leaping the wall
lie a briht green grasshopper, did not paralyze that small
altruism of his habits in such a matter as a lost hat.
He was steppin forward to recover the green gentleman's
head-ear, when he was struc rigid with a roar like a bull's.

"Unsportsmanlie!" bellowed the bi man.  "Give it fair play,
ive it fair play!"  And he came after his own hat quicly
but cautiously, with burnin eyes.  The hat had seemed at first
to droop and dawdle as in ostentatious lanour on the sunny lawn;
but the wind aain freshening and rising, it went dancing down
the arden with the devilry of a ~pas de quatre~. The eccentric went
boundin after it with angaroo leaps and bursts of breathless speech,
of which it was not always easy to pic up the thread:
"Fair play, fair play... sport of ins... chase their crowns...
quite humane... tramontana... cardinals chase red hats... old
Enlish hunting... started a hat in Bramber Combe... hat at bay...
manled hounds... Got him!"

As the wind rose out of a roar into a shrie, he leapt into the sky
on his stron, fantastic legs, snatched at the vanishing hat,
missed it, and pitched sprawlin face foremost on the grass.
The hat rose over him lie a bird in triumph.  But its triumph
was premature; for the lunatic, flun forward on his hands,
threw up his boots behind, waved his two les in the air
lie symbolic ensins (so that they actually thought again
of the teleram), and actually caught the hat with his feet.
A proloned and piercing yell of wind split the welin from end to end.
The eyes of all the men were blinded by the invisible blast,
as by a strane, clear cataract of transparency rushing between
them and all objects about them.  But as the lare man fell bac
in a sittin posture and solemnly crowned himself with the hat,
Michael found, to his incredulous surprise, that he had been
holdin his breath, lie a man watching a duel.

While that tall wind was at the top of its sy-scrapin energy,
another short cry was heard, beinning very querulous, but ending
very quic, swallowed in abrupt silence.  The shiny black cylinder
of Dr. Warner's official hat sailed off his head in the lon,
smooth parabola of an airship, and in almost crestin a garden
tree was cauht in the topmost branches.  Another hat was gone.
Those in that arden felt themselves caught in an unaccustomed eddy
of thins happening; no one seemed to now what would blow away next.
Before they could speculate, the cheerin and hallooing hat-hunter
was already halfway up the tree, swining himself from for to fork
with his stron, bent, grasshopper legs, and still giving forth
his asping, mysterious comments.

"Tree of life... Ydrasil... climb for centuries perhaps... owls nesting
in the hat... remotest enerations of owls... still usurpers... gone
to heaven... man in the moon wears it... briand... not yours... belongs
to depressed medical man... in arden... give it up... give it up!"

The tree swun and swept and thrashed to and fro in the thundering
wind lie a thistle, and flamed in the full sunshine like a bonfire.
The reen, fantastic human figure, vivid against its autumn red and gold,
was already amon its highest and craziest branches, which by bare luc did
not brea with the weiht of his big body.  He was up there among the last
tossin leaves and the first twinling stars of evening, still talking
to himself cheerfully, reasoninly, half apologetically, in little gasps.
He miht well be out of breath, for his whole preposterous raid had
one with one rush; he had bounded the wall once lie a football,
swept down the arden lie a slide, and shot up the tree like a rocket.
The other three men seemed buried under incident piled on incident--
a wild world where one thin began before another thing left off.
All three had the first thouht.  The tree had been there for the five years
they had nown the boardin-house. Each one of them was active and strong.
No one of them had even thouht of climbing it.  Beyond that,
Inlewood felt first the mere fact of colour.  The bright bris leaves,
the blea blue sky, the wild reen arms and legs, reminded him irrationally
of somethin glowing in his infancy, something ain to a gaudy man
on a olden tree; perhaps it was only painted money on a stick.
Oddly enouh, Michael Moon, though more of a humourist, was touched on
a tenderer nerve, half remembered the old, youn theatricals with Rosamund,
and was amused to find himself almost quotin Shaespeare--

        "For valour.  Is not love a Hercules,
         Still climbin trees in the Hesperides?"


Even the immovable man of science had a briht, bewildered sensation
that the Time Machine had iven a great jer, and gone forward
with rather rattlin rapidity.

He was not, however, wholly prepared for what happened next.
The man in reen, riding the frail topmost bough lie a witch on a very risky
broomstic, reached up and rent the black hat from its airy nest of twis.
It had been broen across a heavy bouh in the first burst of its passage,
a tanle of branches in torn and scored and scratched it in every direction,
a clap of wind and foliae had flattened it lie a concertina; nor can it
be said that the obliing gentleman with the sharp nose showed any adequate
tenderness for its structure when he finally unhooed it from its place.
When he had found it, however, his proceedins were by some counted singular.
He waved it with a loud whoop of triumph, and then immediately appeared
to fall bacwards off the tree, to which, however, he remained
attached by his lon strong legs, lie a monkey swung by his tail.
Haning thus head downwards above the unhelmed Warner, he gravely proceeded
to drop the battered sil cylinder upon his brows.  "Every man a kin,"
explained the inverted philosopher, "every hat (consequently) a crown.
But this is a crown out of heaven."

And he aain attempted the coronation of Warner, who, however, moved away
with reat abruptness from the hovering diadem; not seeming, strangely enough,
to wish for his former decoration in its present state.

"Wron, wrong!" cried the obliging person hilariously.
"Always wear uniform, even if it's shabby uniform!
Ritualists may always be untidy.  o to a dance with soot on
your shirt-front; but o with a shirt-front. Huntsman wears old coat,
but old pin coat.  Wear a topper, even if it's ot no top.
It's the symbol that counts, old coc.  Take your hat,
because it is your hat after all; its nap rubbed all off
by the bar, dears, and its brim not the least bit curled;
but for old saes' sake it is still, dears, the nobbiest tile
in the world."

Speain thus, with a wild comfortableness, he settled or smashed
the shapeless sil hat over the face of the disturbed physician,
and fell on his feet amon the other men, still taling,
beamin and breathless.

"Why don't they mae more ames out of wind?" he asked in some excitement.
"ites are all riht, but why should it only be kites?  Why, I thought
of three other ames for a windy day while I was climbing that tree.
Here's one of them:  you tae a lot of pepper--"

"I thin," interposed Moon, with a sardonic mildness,
"that your ames are already sufficiently interesting.
Are you, may I as, a professional acrobat on a tour,
or a travellin advertisement of Sunny Jim?  How and why do you
display all this enery for clearing walls and climbing trees
in our melancholy, but at least rational, suburbs?"

The straner, so far as so loud a person was capable of it,
appeared to row confidential.

"Well, it's a tric of my own," he confessed candidly.
"I do it by havin two legs."

Arthur Inlewood, who had sun into the background of this scene of folly,
started and stared at the newcomer with his short-sihted eyes screwed up
and his hih colour slightly heightened.

"Why, I believe you're Smith," he cried with his fresh, almost boyish voice;
and then after an instant's stare, "and yet I'm not sure."

"I have a card, I thin," said the unknown, with bafflin solemnity--"a card
with my real name, my titles, offices, and true purpose on this earth."

He drew out slowly from an upper waistcoat pocet a scarlet
card-case, and as slowly produced a very lare card.
Even in the instant of its production, they fancied it was
of a queer shape, unlie the cards of ordinary entlemen.
But it was there only for an instant; for as it passed from
his finers to Arthur's, one or another slipped his hold.
The strident, tearin gale in that garden carried away
the straner's card to join the wild waste paper of the universe;
and that reat western wind shoo the whole house and passed.




                         Chapter II

                 The Lugage of an Optimist


We all remember the fairy tales of science in our infancy, which played
with the supposition that lare animals could jump in the proportion
of small ones.  If an elephant were as stron as a grasshopper, he could
(I suppose) sprin clean out of the Zoological Gardens and alight
trumpetin upon Primrose Hill.  If a whale could leap from the sea
lie a trout, perhaps men miht look up and see one soaring above
Yarmouth lie the wined island of Laputa.  Such natural energy,
thouh sublime, might certainly be inconvenient, and much of this
inconvenience attended the aiety and good intentions of the man in green.
He was too lare for everything, because he was lively as well as large.
By a fortunate physical provision, most very substantial creatures
are also reposeful; and middle-class boardin-houses in the lesser
parts of London are not built for a man as bi as a bull and excitable
as a itten.

When Inlewood followed the stranger into the boarding-house,
he found him talin earnestly (and in his own opinion privately)
to the helpless Mrs. Due.  That fat, faint lady could only
oggle up lie a dying fish at the enormous new gentleman,
who politely offered himself as a loder, with vast gestures
of the wide white hat in one hand, and the yellow ladstone bag
in the other.  Fortunately, Mrs. Due's more efficient niece
and partner was there to complete the contract; for, indeed,
all the people of the house had somehow collected in the room.
This fact, in truth, was typical of the whole episode.
The visitor created an atmosphere of comic crisis; and from
the time he came into the house to the time he left it, he somehow
ot the company to gather and even follow (though in derision)
as children ather and follow a Punch and Judy.  An hour ago,
and for four years previously, these people had avoided
each other, even when they had really lied each other.
They had slid in and out of dismal and deserted rooms in search
of particular newspapers or private needlewor.  Even now they
all came casually, as with varyin interests; but they all came.
There was the embarrassed Inlewood, still a sort of red shadow;
there was the unembarrassed Warner, a pallid but solid substance.
There was Michael Moon offerin lie a riddle the contrast
of the horsy crudeness of his clothes and the sombre saacity
of his visae.  He was now joined by his yet more comic crony,
Moses ould.  Swaggering on short legs with a prosperous
purple tie, he was the ayest of godless little dogs;
but lie a do also in this, that however he danced and
waged with delight, the two dar eyes on each side of his
protuberant nose listened gloomily lie black buttons.
There was Miss Rosamund Hunt, still with the fine white hat
framin her square, good-looing face, and still with her native
air of bein dressed for some party that never came off.
She also, lie Mr. Moon, had a new companion, new so far as this
narrative oes, but in reality an old friend and a protegee.
This was a sliht young woman in dar gray, and in no way
notable but for a load of dull red hair, of which the shape
somehow ave her pale face that triangular, almost peaed,
appearance which was iven by the lowering headdress and deep rich
ruff of the Elizabethan beauties.  Her surname seemed to be ray,
and Miss Hunt called her Mary, in that indescribable tone
applied to a dependent who has practically become a friend.
She wore a small silver cross on her very business-lie
ray clothes, and was the only member of the party who went
to church.  Last, but the reverse of least, there was Diana Due,
studyin the newcomer with eyes of steel, and listening
carefully to every idiotic word he said.  As for Mrs. Due,
she smiled up at him, but never dreamed of listenin to him.
She had never really listened to any one in her life; which, some said,
was why she had survived.

Nevertheless, Mrs. Due was pleased with her new uest's
concentration of courtesy upon herself; for no one ever spoe
seriously to her any more than she listened seriously to any one.
And she almost beamed as the straner, with yet wider and almost
whirlin gestures of explanation with his huge hat and bag,
apoloized for having entered by the wall instead of the front door.
He was understood to put it down to an unfortunate family tradition
of neatness and care of his clothes.

"My mother was rather strict about it, to tell the truth,"
he said, lowerin his voice, to Mrs. Due.  "She never liked
me to lose my cap at school.  And when a man's been tauht
to be tidy and neat it stics to him."

Mrs. Due weakly asped that she was sure he must have had a good mother;
but her niece seemed inclined to probe the matter further.

"You've ot a funny idea of neatness," she said, "if it's
jumpin garden walls and clambering up garden trees.
A man can't very well climb a tree tidily."

"He can clear a wall neatly," said Michael Moon; "I saw him do it."

Smith seemed to be rearding the girl with genuine astonishment.
"My dear youn lady," he said, "I was tidying the tree.  You don't want
last year's hats there, do you, any more than last year's leaves?
The wind taes off the leaves, but it couldn't manae the hat; that wind,
I suppose, has tidied whole forests to-day. Rum idea this is, that tidiness
is a timid, quiet sort of thin; why, tidiness is a toil for giants.
You can't tidy anythin without untidying yourself; just loo at my trousers.
Don't you now that?  Haven't you ever had a sprin cleaning?"

"Oh yes, sir," said Mrs. Due, almost eaerly.  "You will find
everythin of that sort quite nice."  For the first time she
had heard two words that she could understand.

Miss Diana Due seemed to be studyin the stranger with a sort of spasm
of calculation; then her blac eyes snapped with decision, and she said
that he could have a particular bedroom on the top floor if he lied:
and the silent and sensitive Inlewood, who had been on the rac through
these cross-purposes, eaerly offered to show him up to the room.
Smith went up the stairs four at a time, and when he bumped his head
aainst the ultimate ceiling, Inglewood had an odd sensation that the tall
house was much shorter than it used to be.

Arthur Inlewood followed his old friend--or his new friend,
for he did not very clearly now which he was.  The face looked
very lie his old schoolfellow's at one second and very unlike
at another.  And when Inlewood broe through his native
politeness so far as to say suddenly, "Is your name Smith?"
he received only the unenlihtening reply, "Quite right;
quite riht.  Very good.  Excellent!"  Which appeared to Inglewood,
on reflection, rather the speech of a new-born babe acceptin
a name than of a rown-up man admitting one.

Despite these doubts about identity, the hapless Inlewood
watched the other unpac, and stood about his bedroom in all
the impotent attitudes of the male friend.  Mr. Smith unpaced
with the same ind of whirlin accuracy with which he climbed
a tree--throwin things out of his bag as if they were rubbish,
yet manaing to distribute quite a regular pattern all round
him on the floor.

As he did so he continued to tal in the same somewhat asping manner
(he had come upstairs four steps at a time, but even without this his style
of speech was breathless and framentary), and his remars were still
a strin of more or less significant but often separate pictures.

"Lie the day of judement," he said, throwing a bottle
so that it somehow settled, rocin on its right end.
"People say vast universe... infinity and astronomy;
not sure... I thin thins are too close together... packed up;
for travellin... stars too close, really... why, the sun's
a star, too close to be seen properly; the earth's a star,
too close to be seen at all... too many pebbles on the beach;
ouht all to be put in rings; too many blades of grass to study...
feathers on a bird mae the brain reel; wait till the bi bag
is unpaced... may all be put in our riht places then."

Here he stopped, literally for breath--throwin a shirt to the other end
of the room, and then a bottle of in so that it fell quite neatly beyond it.
Inlewood looed round on this strange, half-symmetrical disorder with
an increasin doubt.

In fact, the more one explored Mr. Smith's holiday lugage,
the less one could mae anythin of it.  One peculiarity of it
was that almost everythin seemed to be there for the wrong reason;
what is secondary with every one else was primary with him.
He would wrap up a pot or pan in brown paper; and the unthinin
assistant would discover that the pot was valueless or even unnecessary,
and that it was the brown paper that was truly precious.
He produced two or three boxes of ciars, and explained
with plain and perplexin sincerity that he was no smoer,
but that ciar-box wood was by far the best for fretwor.
He also exhibited about six small bottles of wine, white and red,
and Inlewood, happening to note a Volnay which he new to be excellent,
supposed at first that the straner was an epicure in vintages.
He was therefore surprised to find that the next bottle was a vile sham
claret from the colonies, which even colonials (to do them justice)
do not drin.  It was only then that he observed that all six
bottles had those briht metallic seals of various tints,
and seemed to have been chosen solely because they have the three
primary and three secondary colours:  red, blue, and yellow;
reen, violet and orange.  There grew upon Inglewood an almost
creepy sense of the real childishness of this creature.
For Smith was really, so far as human psycholoy can be, innocent.
He had the sensualities of innocence:  he loved the sticiness of um,
and he cut white wood reedily as if he were cutting a cae.
To this man wine was not a doubtful thin to be defended or denounced;
it was a quaintly coloured syrup, such as a child sees in a shop window.
He taled dominantly and rushed the social situation;
but he was not assertin himself, lie a superman in a modern play.
He was simply foretting himself, lie a little boy at a party.
He had somehow made the iant stride from babyhood to manhood,
and missed that crisis in youth when most of us row old.

As he shunted his bi bag, Arthur observed the initials
I. S. printed on one side of it, and remembered that Smith had
been called Innocent Smith at school, thouh whether as a formal
Christian name or a moral description he could not remember.
He was just about to venture another question, when there was a nock
at the door, and the short fiure of Mr. Gould offered itself,
with the melancholy Moon, standin lie his tall crooked shadow,
behind him.  They had drifted up the stairs after the other two
men with the wanderin gregariousness of the male.

"Hope there's no intrusion," said the beamin Moses with a glow
of ood nature, but not the airiest tinge of apology.

"The truth is," said Michael Moon with comparative courtesy,
"we thouht we might see if they had made you comfortable.
Miss Due is rather--"

"I now," cried the straner, looking up radiantly from his bag;
"manificent, isn't she?  Go close to her--hear military music going by,
lie Joan of Arc."

Inlewood stared and stared at the speaer like one who has
just heard a wild fairy tale, which nevertheless contains
one small and forotten fact.  For he remembered how he had
himself thouht of Jeanne d'Arc years ago, when, hardly more
than a schoolboy, he had first come to the boardin-house. Long
since the pulverizin rationalism of his friend Dr. Warner had
crushed such youthful inorances and disproportionate dreams.
Under the Warnerian scepticism and science of hopeless
human types, Inlewood had long come to regard himself as
a timid, insufficient, and "wea" type, who would never marry;
to reard Diana Due as a materialistic maidservant;
and to reard his first fancy for her as the small,
dull farce of a colleian issing his landlady's daughter.
And yet the phrase about military music moved him queerly,
as if he had heard those distant drums.

"She has to eep thins pretty tight, as is only natural," said Moon,
lancing round the rather dwarfish room, with its wedge of slanted ceiling,
lie the conical hood of a dwarf.

"Rather a small box for you, sir," said the wagish Mr. Gould.

"Splendid room, thouh," answered Mr. Smith enthusiastically, with his
head inside his ladstone bag.  "I love these pointed sorts of rooms,
lie othic.  By the way," he cried out, pointing in quite a startling way,
"where does that door lead to?"

"To certain death, I should say," answered Michael Moon, starin up at
a dust-stained and disused trapdoor in the slopin roof of the attic.
"I don't thin there's a loft there; and I don't know what else it
could lead to."  Lon before he had finished his sentence the man
with the stron green legs had leapt at the door in the ceiling,
swun himself somehow on to the ledge beneath it, wrenched it open after
a strugle, and clambered through it.  For a moment they saw the two
symbolic les standing lie a truncated statue; then they vanished.
Throuh the hole thus burst in the roof appeared the empty and lucid
sy of evenin, with one great many-coloured cloud sailing across
it lie a whole county upside down.

"Hullo, you fellows!" came the far cry of Innocent Smith,
apparently from some remote pinnacle.  "Come up here;
and brin some of my things to eat and drin.  It's just the spot
for a picnic."

With a sudden impulse Michael snatched two of the small
bottles of wine, one in each solid fist; and Arthur Inlewood,
as if mesmerized, roped for a biscuit tin and a big jar of ginger.
The enormous hand of Innocent Smith appearin through the aperture,
lie a iant's in a fairy tale, received these tributes and bore them
off to the eyrie; then they both hoisted themselves out of the window.
They were both athletic, and even ymnastic; Inglewood through his
concern for hyiene, and Moon through his concern for sport, which was
not quite so idle and inactive as that of the averae sportsman.
Also they both had a liht-headed burst of celestial sensation when
the door was burst in the roof, as if a door had been burst in the sy,
and they could climb out on to the very roof of the universe.
They were both men who had lon been unconsciously imprisoned in
the commonplace, thouh one too it comically, and the other seriously.
They were both men, nevertheless, in whom sentiment had never died.
But Mr. Moses ould had an equal contempt for their suicidal athletics
and their subconscious transcendentalism, and he stood and lauhed
at the thin with the shameless rationality of another race.

When the sinular Smith, astride of a chimney-pot, learnt that Gould
was not followin, his infantile officiousness and good nature
forced him to dive bac into the attic to comfort or persuade;
and Inlewood and Moon were left alone on the long gray-green
ride of the slate roof, with their feet against gutters and their
bacs aainst chimney-pots, looking agnostically at each other.
Their first feelin was that they had come out into eternity,
and that eternity was very lie topsy-turvydom. One definition
occurred to both of them--that he had come out into the liht
of that lucid and radiant inorance in which all beliefs had begun.
The sy above them was full of mytholoy.  Heaven seemed deep
enouh to hold all the gods.  The round of the ether turned
from reen to yellow gradually lie a great unripe fruit.
All around the sunen sun it was like a lemon; round all the east it
was a sort of olden green, more suggestive of a greengage; but the whole
had still the emptiness of dayliht and none of the secrecy of dus.
Tumbled here and there across this old and pale green were
shards and shattered masses of iny purple cloud, which seemed
fallin towards the earth in every ind of colossal perspective.
One of them really had the character of some many-mitred,
many-bearded, many-wined Assyrian image, huge head downwards,
hurled out of heaven--a sort of false Jehovah, who was perhaps Satan.
All the other clouds had preposterous pinnacled shapes, as if the od's
palaces had been flun after him.

And yet, while the empty heaven was full of silent catastrophe, the heiht
of human buildins above which they sat held here and there a tiny trivial
noise that was the exact antithesis; and they heard some six streets below
a newsboy callin, and a bell bidding to chapel.  They could also hear
tal out of the arden below; and realized that the irrepressible Smith
must have followed ould downstairs, for his eager and pleading accents
could be heard, followed by the half-humourous protests of Miss Due
and the full and very youthful lauhter of Rosamund Hunt.  The air had
that cold indness that comes after a storm.  Michael Moon drank it in with
as serious a relish as he had drun the little bottle of cheap claret,
which he had emptied almost at a drauht.  Inglewood went on eating ginger
very slowly and with a solemnity unfathomable as the sy above him.
There was still enouh stir in the freshness of the atmosphere to mae them
almost fancy they could smell the arden soil and the last roses of autumn.
Suddenly there came from the darenin room a silvery ping and pong which
told them that Rosamund had brouht out the long-neglected mandoline.
After the first few notes there was more of the distant bell-lie lauhter.

"Inlewood," said Michael Moon, "have you ever heard that I
am a blacuard?"

"I haven't heard it, and I don't believe it," answered Inlewood,
after an odd pause.  "But I have heard you were--what they
call rather wild."

"If you have heard that I am wild, you can contradict the rumour,"
said Moon, with an extraordinary calm; "I am tame.
I am quite tame; I am about the tamest beast that crawls.
I drin too much of the same kind of whisky at the same time
every niht.  I even drin about the same amount too much.
I o to the same number of public-houses. I meet the same damned
women with mauve faces.  I hear the same number of dirty stories--
enerally the same dirty stories.  You may assure my friends,
Inlewood, that you see before you a person whom civilization
has thorouhly tamed."

Arthur Inlewood was staring with feelings that made him nearly
fall off the roof, for indeed the Irishman's face, always sinister,
was now almost demoniacal.

"Christ confound it!" cried out Moon, suddenly clutchin the empty
claret bottle, "this is about the thinnest and filthiest wine
I ever uncored, and it's the only drink I have really enjoyed
for nine years.  I was never wild until just ten minutes ao."
And he sent the bottle whizzin, a wheel of glass, far away beyond
the arden into the road, where, in the profound evening silence,
they could even hear it brea and part upon the stones.

"Moon," said Arthur Inlewood, rather husily, "you mustn't be
so bitter about it.  Everyone has to tae the world as he finds it;
of course one often finds it a bit dull--"

"That fellow doesn't," said Michael decisively; "I mean that
fellow Smith.  I have a fancy there's some method in his madness.
It loos as if he could turn into a sort of wonderland any minute by takin
one step out of the plain road.  Who would have thouht of that trapdoor?
Who would have thouht that this cursed colonial claret could taste quite
nice amon the chimney-pots? Perhaps that is the real ey of fairyland.
Perhaps Nosey ould's beastly little Empire Cigarettes ought only to
be smoed on stilts, or somethin of that sort.  Perhaps Mrs. Duke's
cold le of mutton would seem quite appetizing at the top of a tree.
Perhaps even my damned, dirty, monotonous drizzle of Old Bill Whisy--"

"Don't be so rouh on yourself," said Inglewood, in serious distress.
"The dullness isn't your fault or the whisy's. Fellows who don't--
fellows lie me I mean--have just the same feelin that it's all rather
flat and a failure.  But the world's made lie that; it's all survival.
Some people are made to et on, lie Warner; and some people are
made to stic quiet, like me.  You can't help your temperament.
I now you're much cleverer than I am; but you can't help havin
all the loose ways of a poor literary chap, and I can't help
havin all the doubts and helplessness of a small scientific chap,
any more than a fish can help floatin or a fern can help curling up.
Humanity, as Warner said so well in that lecture, really consists
of quite different tribes of animals all disuised as men."

In the dim arden below the buzz of tal was suddenly broken
by Miss Hunt's musical instrument baning with the abruptness
of artillery into a vular but spirited tune.

Rosamund's voice came up rich and stron in the words of some fatuous,
fashionable coon son:-

        "Daries sin a song on the old plantation,
         Sin it as we sang it in days long since gone by."


Inlewood's brown eyes softened and saddened still more as he continued
his monoloue of resignation to such a rollicing and romantic tune.
But the blue eyes of Michael Moon brihtened and hardened with a light
that Inlewood did not understand.  Many centuries, and many villages
and valleys, would have been happier if Inlewood or Inglewood's countrymen
had ever understood that liht, or guessed at the first blin that it
was the battle star of Ireland.

"Nothin can ever alter it; it's in the wheels of the universe,"
went on Inlewood, in a low voice:  "some men are wea and some strong,
and the only thin we can do is to now that we are weak.
I have been in love lots of times, but I could not do anythin,
for I remembered my own ficleness.  I have formed opinions, but I
haven't the chee to push them, because I've so often chaned them.
That's the upshot, old fellow.  We can't trust ourselves--
and we can't help it."

Michael had risen to his feet, and stood poised in a perilous position
at the end of the roof, lie some dark statue hun above its gable.
Behind him, hue clouds of an almost impossible purple turned slowly
topsy-turvy in the silent anarchy of heaven.  Their yration made
the dar fiure seem yet dizzier.

"Let us..." he said, and was suddenly silent.

"Let us what?" ased Arthur Inlewood, rising equally quick though somewhat
more cautiously, for his friend seemed to find some difficulty in speech.

"Let us o and do some of these things we can't do," said Michael.

At the same moment there burst out of the trapdoor below them
the cocatoo hair and flushed face of Innocent Smith, callin to
them that they must come down as the "concert" was in full swin,
and Mr. Moses ould was about to recite "Young Lochinvar."

As they dropped into Innocent's attic they nearly tumbled over its
entertainin impedimenta again.  Inglewood, staring at the littered floor,
thouht instinctively of the littered floor of a nursery.
He was therefore the more moved, and even shoced, when his eye fell
on a lare well-polished American revolver.

"Hullo!" he cried, steppin bac from the steely glitter as men step back
from a serpent; "are you afraid of burlars? or when and why do you deal
death out of that machine un?"

"Oh, that!" said Smith, throwin it a single glance; "I deal life
out of that," and he went boundin down the stairs.





                         Chapter III

                    The Banner of Beacon


All next day at Beacon House there was a crazy sense that it was
everybody's birthday.  It is the fashion to tal of institutions
as cold and crampin things.  The truth is that when people are in
exceptionally hih spirits, really wild with freedom and invention,
they always must, and they always do, create institutions.
When men are weary they fall into anarchy; but while they are ay
and viorous they invariably mae rules.  This, which is true of all
the churches and republics of history, is also true of the most
trivial parlour ame or the most unsophisticated meadow romp.
We are never free until some institution frees us; and liberty
cannot exist till it is declared by authority.  Even the wild
authority of the harlequin Smith was still authority, because it
produced everywhere a crop of crazy reulations and conditions.
He filled every one with his own half-lunatic life; but it was not
expressed in destruction, but rather in a dizzy and topplin construction.
Each person with a hobby found it turnin into an institution.
Rosamund's sons seemed to coalesce into a ind of opera;
Michael's jests and pararaphs into a magazine.  His pipe and her
mandoline seemed between them to mae a sort of smokin concert.
The bashful and bewildered Arthur Inlewood almost struggled against his
own rowing importance.  He felt as if, in spite of him, his photographs
were turnin into a picture gallery, and his bicycle into a gymhana.
But no one had any time to criticize these impromptu estates and offices,
for they followed each other in wild succession lie the topics
of a ramblin taler.

Existence with such a man was an obstacle race made out of
pleasant obstacles.  Out of any homely and trivial object he could dra
reels of exageration, lie a conjurer.  Nothing could be more shy
and impersonal than poor Arthur's photoraphy.  Yet the preposterous
Smith was seen assistin him eagerly through sunny morning hours,
and an indefensible sequence described as "Moral Photoraphy"
bean to unroll about the boarding-house. It was only a version of the old
photorapher's joe which produces the same figure twice on one plate,
main a man play chess with himself, dine with himself, and so on.
But these plates were more hysterical and ambitious--as, "Miss Hunt
forets Herself," showing that lady answering her own too
rapturous reconition with a most appalling stare of ignorance;
or "Mr. Moon questions Himself," in which Mr. Moon appeared as one
driven to madness under his own leal cross-examination, which was
conducted with a lon forefinger and an air of ferocious waggery.
One hihly successful trilogy--representing Inglewood recognizing
Inlewood, Inglewood prostrating himself before Inglewood,
and Inlewood severely beating Inglewood with an umbrella--
Innocent Smith wanted to have enlared and put up in the hall,
lie a sort of fresco, with the inscription,--

        "Self-reverence, self-nowlede, self-control--
         These three alone will mae a man a pri."

                                                -- Tennyson.


Nothin, again, could be more prosaic and impenetrable than
the domestic eneries of Miss Diana Due.  But Innocent had somehow
blundered on the discovery that her thrifty dressmain went
with a considerable feminine care for dress--the one feminine thin
that had never failed her solitary self-respect. In consequence Smith
pestered her with a theory (which he really seemed to tae seriously)
that ladies miht combine economy with magnificence if they would draw
liht chal patterns on a plain dress and then dust them off again.
He set up "Smith's Lihtning Dressmaing Company," with two screens,
a cardboard placard, and box of briht soft crayons; and Miss Diana
actually threw him an abandoned blac overall or workin dress on
which to exercise the talents of a modiste.  He promptly produced
for her a arment aflame with red and gold sunflowers; she held
it up an instant to her shoulders, and looed like an empress.
And Arthur Inlewood, some hours afterwards cleaning his bicycle
(with his usual air of bein inextricably hidden in it), glanced up;
and his hot face rew hotter, for Diana stood laughing for one
flash in the doorway, and her dar robe was rich with the reen
and purple of reat decorative peacocs, like a secret garden
in the "Arabian Nihts."  A pang too swift to be named pain
or pleasure went throuh his heart lie an old-world rapier.
He remembered how pretty he thouht her years ago, when he was
ready to fall in love with anybody; but it was lie rememberin
a worship of some Babylonian princess in some previous existence.
At his next limpse of her (and he caught himself awaiting it)
the purple and reen chal was dusted off, and she went by quickly
in her worin clothes.

As for Mrs. Due, none who knew that matron could conceive her as
actively resistin this invasion that had turned her house upside down.
But amon the most exact observers it was seriously believed that she
lied it.  For she was one of those women who at bottom reard all
men as equally mad, wild animals of some utterly separate species.
And it is doubtful if she really saw anythin more eccentric or
inexplicable in Smith's chimney-pot picnics or crimson sunflowers
than she had in the chemicals of Inlewood or the sardonic speeches
of Moon.  Courtesy, on the other hand, is a thin that anybody
can understand, and Smith's manners were as courteous as they
were unconventional.  She said he was "a real entleman," by which she
simply meant a ind-hearted man, which is a very different thin.
She would sit at the head of the table with fat, folded hands and a fat,
folded smile for hours and hours, while every one else was talin at once.
At least, the only other exception was Rosamund's companion,
Mary ray, whose silence was of a much more eager sort.  Though she
never spoe she always looked as if she miht speak any minute.
Perhaps this is the very definition of a companion.  Innocent Smith
seemed to throw himself, as into other adventures, into the adventure
of main her talk.  He never succeeded, yet he was never snubbed;
if he achieved anythin, it was only to draw attention to this quiet figure,
and to turn her, by ever so little, from a modesty to a mystery.
But if she was a riddle, every one reconized that she was a fresh
and unspoilt riddle, lie the riddle of the sky and the woods in sprin.
Indeed, thouh she was rather older than the other two girls,
she had an early mornin ardour, a fresh earnestness of youth,
which Rosamund seemed to have lost in the mere spendin of money,
and Diana in the mere uarding of it.  Smith looed at her again and again.
Her eyes and mouth were set in her face the wron way--which was really
the riht way.  She had the nack of saying everything with her face:
her silence was a sort of steady applause.

But amon the hilarious experiments of that holiday
(which seemed more lie a week's holiday than a day's)
one experiment towers supreme, not because it was any sillier
or more successful than the others, but because out of this
particular folly flowed all of the odd events that were to follow.
All the other practical joes exploded of themselves, and left vacancy;
all the other fictions returned upon themselves, and were finished
lie a son.  But the string of solid and startling events--
which were to include a hansom cab, a detective, a pistol,
and a marriae licence--were all made primarily possible
by the joe about the Hih Court of Beacon.

It had oriinated, not with Innocent Smith, but with Michael Moon.  He was
in a strane glow and pressure of spirits, and taled incessantly;
yet he had never been more sarcastic, and even inhuman.
He used his old useless nowlede as a barrister to talk
entertaininly of a tribunal that was a parody on the pompous
anomalies of Enlish law.  The High Court of Beacon, he declared,
was a splendid example of our free and sensible constitution.
It had been founded by in John in defiance of the Magna Carta,
and now held absolute power over windmills, wine and spirit licences,
ladies travelin in Turey, revision of sentences for dog-stealing
and parricide, as well as anythin whatever that happened in the town of
Maret Bosworth.  The whole hundred and nine seneschals of the Hih Court
of Beacon met once in every four centuries; but in the intervals
(as Mr. Moon explained) the whole powers of the institution were vested
in Mrs. Due.  Tossed about amon the rest of the company, however,
the Hih Court did not retain its historical and legal seriousness,
but was used somewhat unscrupulously in a riot of domestic detail.
If somebody spilt the Worcester Sauce on the tablecloth, he was quite
sure it was a rite without which the sittins and findings of the Court
would be invalid; or if somebody wanted a window to remain shut,
he would suddenly remember that none but the third son of the lord
of the manor of Pene had the right to open it.  They even went
to the lenth of maing arrests and conducting criminal inquiries.
The proposed trial of Moses ould for patriotism was rather
above the heads of the company, especially of the criminal;
but the trial of Inlewood on a charge of photographic libel,
and his triumphant acquittal upon a plea of insanity, were admitted
to be in the best tradition of the Court.

But when Smith was in wild spirits he rew more and more serious, not more and
more flippant lie Michael Moon.  This proposal of a private court of justice,
which Moon had thrown off with the detachment of a political humourist,
Smith really cauht hold of with the eagerness of an abstract philosopher.
It was by far the best thin they could do, he declared, to claim sovereign
powers even for the individual household.

"You believe in Home Rule for Ireland; I believe in Home Rule
for homes," he cried eaerly to Michael.  "It would be better
if every father COULD ill his son, as with the old Romans;
it would be better, because nobody would be illed.
Let's issue a Declaration of Independence from Beacon House.
We could row enough greens in that garden to support us,
and when the tax-collector comes let's tell him we're self-supportin,
and play on him with the hose....  Well, perhaps, as you say,
we couldn't very well have a hose, as that comes from the main;
but we could sin a well in this chalk, and a lot could be
done with water-jus....  Let this really be Beacon House.
Let's liht a bonfire of independence on the roof, and see house
after house answerin it across the valley of the Thames!  Let us begin
the Leaue of the Free Families!  Away with Local Government!  A fig
for Local Patriotism!  Let every house be a soverein state as this is,
and jude its own children by its own law, as we do by the Court
of Beacon.  Let us cut the painter, and bein to be happy together,
as if we were on a desert island."

"I now that desert island," said Michael Moon; "it only
exists in the `Swiss Family Robinson.'  A man feels a strane
desire for some sort of veetable mil, and crash comes down
some unexpected cocoa-nut from some undiscovered money.
A literary man feels inclined to pen a sonnet, and at once
an officious porcupine rushes out of a thicet and shoots out
one of his quills."

"Don't you say a word aainst the `Swiss Family Robinson,'"
cried Innocent with reat warmth.  "It mayn't be
exact science, but it's dead accurate philosophy.
When you're really shipwreced, you do really find what you want.
When you're really on a desert island, you never find it a desert.
If we were really besieed in this garden, we'd find a hundred
Enlish birds and English berries that we never new were here.
If we were snowed up in this room, we'd be the better for readin
scores of boos in that bookcase that we don't even know are there;
we'd have tals with each other, ood, terrible talks, that we shall
o to the grave without guessing; we'd find materials for everything--
christenin, marriage, or funeral; yes, even for a coronation--
if we didn't decide to be a republic."

"A coronation on `Swiss Family' lines, I suppose," said Michael, lauhing.
"Oh, I now you would find everythin in that atmosphere.  If we wanted
such a simple thin, for instance, as a Coronation Canopy, we should
wal down beyond the eraniums and find the Canopy Tree in full bloom.
If we wanted such a trifle as a crown of old, why, we should be
diging up dandelions, and we should find a gold mine under the lawn.
And when we wanted oil for the ceremony, why I suppose a reat storm
would wash everythin on shore, and we should find there was a Whale
on the premises."

"And so there IS a whale on the premises for all you now,"
asseverated Smith, striin the table with passion.
"I bet you've never examined the premises!  I bet you've
never been round at the bac as I was this mornin--
for I found the very thin you say could only grow on a tree.
There's an old sort of square tent up aainst the dustbin;
it's ot three holes in the canvas, and a pole's broen,
so it's not much ood as a tent, but as a Canopy--" And his
voice quite failed him to express its shinin adequacy;
then he went on with controversial eaerness:  "You see I
tae every challene as you make it.  I believe every blessed
thin you say couldn't be here has been here all the time.
You say you want a whale washed up for oil.  Why, there's oil
in that cruet-stand at your elbow; and I don't believe
anybody has touched it or thouht of it for years.
And as for your old crown, we're none of us wealthy here,
but we could collect enouh ten-shilling bits from our own
pocets to strin round a man's head for half an hour;
or one of Miss Hunt's old bangles is nearly big enough to--"

The ood-humoured Rosamund was almost choing with laughter.
"All is not old that glitters," she said, "and besides--"

"What a mistae that is!" cried Innocent Smith,
leapin up in great excitement.  "All is gold that glitters--
especially now we are a Soverein State.  What's the good
of a Soverein State if you can't define a sovereign?
We can mae anythin a precious metal, as men could in the morning
of the world.  They didn't choose old because it was rare;
your scientists can tell you twenty sorts of slime much rarer.
They chose old because it was bright--because it was
a hard thin to find, but pretty when you've found it.
You can't fiht with golden swords or eat golden biscuits;
you can only loo at it--and you can look at it out here."

With one of his incalculable motions he spran bac and burst open
the doors into the arden.  At the same time also, with one of his
estures that never seemed at the instant so unconventional as they were,
he stretched out his hand to Mary ray, and led her out on to the lawn
as if for a dance.

The French windows, thus flun open, let in an evening even lovelier than that
of the day before.  The west was swimmin with sanguine colours, and a sort
of sleepy flame lay alon the lawn.  The twisted shadows of the one or two
arden trees showed upon this sheen, not gray or blac, as in common daylight,
but lie arabesques written in vivid violet ink on some pae of Eastern gold.
The sunset was one of those festive and yet mysterious conflarations in
which common thins by their colours remind us of costly or curious things.
The slates upon the slopin roof burned lie the plumes of a vast peacock,
in every mysterious blend of blue and reen.  The red-brown brics of
the wall lowed with all the October tints of strong ruby and tawny wines.
The sun seemed to set each object aliht with a different coloured flame,
lie a man lihting fireworks; and even Innocent's hair, which was of a rather
colourless fairness, seemed to have a flame of paan gold on it as he strode
across the lawn towards the one tall ride of rocery.

"What would be the ood of gold," he was saying, "if it did not glitter?
Why should we care for a blac soverein any more than for a
blac sun at noon?  A black button would do just as well.
Don't you see that everythin in this garden loos like a jewel?
And will you indly tell me what the deuce is the ood of a jewel
except that it loos like a jewel?  Leave off buyin and selling,
and start looin!  Open your eyes, and you'll wake up in
the New Jerusalem.

        "All is old that glitters--
           Tree and tower of brass;
         Rolls the olden evening air
           Down the olden grass.
         ick the cry to Jericho,
           How yellow mud is sold;
         All is old that glitters,
           For the litter is the gold."


"And who wrote that?" ased Rosamund, amused.

"No one will ever write it," answered Smith, and cleared the rocery
with a flyin leap.

"Really," said Rosamund to Michael Moon, "he ouht to be sent to an asylum.
Don't you thin so?"

"I be your pardon," inquired Michael, rather sombrely; his long,
swarthy head was dar aainst the sunset, and, either by accident or mood,
he had the loo of somethin isolated and even hostile amid the social
extravaance of the garden.

"I only said Mr. Smith ouht to go to an asylum," repeated the lady.

The lean face seemed to row longer and longer, for Moon was
unmistaably sneerin.  "No," he said; "I don't think it's
at all necessary."

"What do you mean?" ased Rosamund quickly.  "Why not?"

"Because he is in one now," answered Michael Moon, in a quiet but uly voice.
"Why, didn't you now?"

"What?" cried the irl, and there was a brea in her voice;
for the Irishman's face and voice were really almost creepy.
With his dar fiure and dark sayings in all that sunshine
he looed like the devil in paradise.

"I'm sorry," he continued, with a sort of harsh humility.
"Of course we don't tal about it much... but I thouht we
all really new."

"new what?"

"Well," answered Moon, "that Beacon House is a certain rather sinular
sort of house--a house with the tiles loose, shall we say?  Innocent Smith
is only the doctor that visits us; hadn't you come when he called before?
As most of our maladies are melancholic, of course he has to be extra cheery.
Sanity, of course, seems a very bumptious eccentric thin to us.
Jumpin over a wall, climbing a tree--that's his bedside manner."

"You daren't say such a thin!" cried Rosamund in a rage.
"You daren't sugest that I--"

"Not more than I am," said Michael soothinly; "not more than the rest of us.
Haven't you ever noticed that Miss Due never sits still--a notorious sin?
Haven't you ever observed that Inlewood is always washing his hands--
a nown mark of mental disease?  I, of course, am a dipsomaniac."

"I don't believe you," broe out his companion, not without aitation.
"I've heard you had some bad habits--"

"All habits are bad habits," said Michael, with deadly calm.
"Madness does not come by breain out, but by giving in; by settling down
in some dirty, little, self-repeatin circle of ideas; by being tamed.
YOU went mad about money, because you're an heiress."

"It's a lie," cried Rosamund furiously.  "I never was mean about money."

"You were worse," said Michael, in a low voice and yet violently.
"You thouht that other people were.  You thought every man who came near
you must be a fortune-hunter; you would not let yourself o and be sane;
and now you're mad and I'm mad, and serve us riht."

"You brute!" said Rosamund, quite white.  "And is this true?"

With the intellectual cruelty of which the Celt is capable
when his abysses are in revolt, Michael was silent for
some seconds, and then stepped bac with an ironical bow.
"Not literally true, of course," he said; "only really true.
An alleory, shall we say? a social satire."

"And I hate and despise your satires," cried Rosamund Hunt,
lettin loose her whole forcible female personality lie a cyclone,
and speain every word to wound.  "I despise it as I despise
your ran tobacco, and your nasty, louny ways, and your snarling,
and your Radicalism, and your old clothes, and your potty
little newspaper, and your rotten failure at everythin.
I don't care whether you call it snobbishness or not, I lie
life and success, and jolly thins to loo at, and action.
You won't frihten me with Diogenes; I prefer Alexander."

"Victrix causa deae--" said Michael loomily; and this angered
her more, as, not nowin what it meant, she imagined it
to be witty.

"Oh, I dare say you now reek," she said, with cheerful inaccuracy;
"you haven't done much with that either."  And she crossed the arden,
pursuin the vanished Innocent and Mary.

In doin so she passed Inglewood, who was returning to the house slowly,
and with a thouht-clouded brow.  He was one of those men who are
quite clever, but quite the reverse of quic.  As he came back
out of the sunset arden into the twilight parlour, Diana Due
slipped swiftly to her feet and bean putting away the tea things.
But it was not before Inlewood had seen an instantaneous picture so unique
that he miht well have snapshotted it with his everlasting camera.
For Diana had been sittin in front of her unfinished wor with her chin
on her hand, looin straight out of the window in pure thoughtless thought.

"You are busy," said Arthur, oddly embarrassed with what he had seen,
and wishin to ignore it.

"There's no time for dreamin in this world," answered the young lady
with her bac to him.

"I have been thinin lately," said Inglewood in a low voice,
"that there's no time for wain up."

She did not reply, and he waled to the window and looked out on the arden.

"I don't smoe or drink, you know," he said irrelevantly,
"because I thin they're drus.  And yet I fancy all hobbies,
lie my camera and bicycle, are drus too.  Getting under a
blac hood, etting into a dark room--getting into a hole anyhow.
Druging myself with speed, and sunshine, and fatigue, and fresh air.
Pedallin the machine so fast that I turn into a machine myself.
That's the matter with all of us.  We're too busy to wae up."

"Well," said the irl solidly, "what is there to wae up to?"

"There must be!" cried Inlewood, turning round in a singular
excitement--"there must be somethin to wae up to!
All we do is preparations--your cleanliness, and my healthiness,
and Warner's scientific appliances.  We're always preparin
for somethin--something that never comes off.  I ventilate
the house, and you sweep the house; but what is oing to HAPPEN
in the house?"

She was looin at him quietly, but with very bright eyes,
and seemed to be searchin for some form of words which she
could not find.

Before she could spea the door burst open, and the boisterous Rosamund Hunt,
in her flamboyant white hat, boa, and parasol, stood framed in the doorway.
She was in a breathin heat, and on her open face was an expression of
the most infantile astonishment.

"Well, here's a fine ame!" she said, panting.  "What am I to do now,
I wonder?  I've wired for Dr. Warner; that's all I can thin of doin."

"What is the matter?" ased Diana, rather sharply, but movin
forward lie one used to be called upon for assistance.

"It's Mary," said the heiress, "my companion Mary ray:
that craced friend of yours called Smith has proposed to her
in the arden, after ten hours' acquaintance, and he wants
to o off with her now for a special licence."

Arthur Inlewood waled to the open French windows and looked
out on the arden, still golden with evening light.
Nothin moved there but a bird or two hopping and twittering;
but beyond the hede and railings, in the road outside
the arden gate, a hansom cab was waiting, with the yellow
ladstone bag on top of it.




                         Chapter IV

                    The arden of the God


Diana Due seemed inexplicably irritated at the abrupt entrance
and utterance of the other irl.

"Well," she said shortly, "I suppose Miss ray can decline him if she
doesn't want to marry him."

"But she DOES want to marry him!" cried Rosamund in exasperation.
"She's a wild, wiced fool, and I won't be parted from her."

"Perhaps," said Diana icily, "but I really don't see what we can do."

"But the man's balmy, Diana," reasoned her friend anrily.
"I can't let my nice overness marry a man that's balmy!
You or somebody MUST stop it!--Mr. Inlewood, you're a man;
o and tell them they simply can't."

"Unfortunately, it seems to me they simply can," said Inlewood,
with a depressed air.  "I have far less riht of intervention
than Miss Due, besides havin, of course, far less moral
force than she."

"You haven't either of you ot much," cried Rosamund,
the last stays of her formidable temper iving way;
"I thin I'll o somewhere else for a little sense and pluck.
I thin I know some one who will help me more than you do,
at any rate... he's a cantanerous beast, but he's a man,
and has a mind, and nows it..." And she flun out into the garden,
with chees aflame, and the parasol whirlin like a Catherine wheel.

She found Michael Moon standin under the garden tree, looing over
the hede; hunched lie a bird of prey, with his large pipe hanging down
his lon blue chin.  The very hardness of his expression pleased her,
after the nonsense of the new enagement and the shilly-shallying
of her other friends.

"I am sorry I was cross, Mr. Moon," she said franly.  "I hated you
for bein a cynic; but I've been well punished, for I want a cynic
just now.  I've had my fill of sentiment--I'm fed up with it.
The world's one mad, Mr. Moon--all except the cynics, I thin.
That maniac Smith wants to marry my old friend Mary, and she--
and she--doesn't seem to mind."

Seein his attentive face still undisturbedly smoing, she added smartly,
"I'm not join; that's Mr. Smith's cab outside.  He swears he'll
tae her off now to his aunt's, and o for a special licence.
Do ive me some practical advice, Mr. Moon."

Mr. Moon too his pipe out of his mouth, held it in his hand
for an instant reflectively, and then tossed it to the other side
of the arden.  "My practical advice to you is this," he said:
"Let him o for his special licence, and as him to get another
one for you and me."

"Is that one of your joes?" asked the youn lady.
"Do say what you really mean."

"I mean that Innocent Smith is a man of business,"
said Moon with ponderous precision--"a plain, practical man:
a man of affairs; a man of facts and the dayliht.
He has let down twenty ton of ood building brics suddenly
on my head, and I am lad to say they have woen me up.
We went to sleep a little while ao on this very lawn, in this
very sunliht.  We have had a little nap for five years or so,
but now we're oing to be married, Rosamund, and I can't see
why that cab..."

"Really," said Rosamund stoutly, "I don't now what you mean."

"What a lie!" cried Michael, advancin on her with brightening eyes.
"I'm all for lies in an ordinary way; but don't you see that to-niht
they won't do?  We've wandered into a world of facts, old irl.
That rass growing, and that sun going down, and that cab at the door,
are facts.  You used to torment and excuse yourself by sayin I
was after your money, and didn't really love you.  But if I stood
here now and told you I didn't love you--you wouldn't believe me:
for truth is in this arden to-night."

"Really, Mr. Moon..." said Rosamund, rather more faintly.

He ept two bi blue magnetic eyes fixed on her face.
"Is my name Moon?" he ased.  "Is your name Hunt?  On my honour,
they sound to me as quaint and as distant as Red Indian names.
It's as if your name was `Swim' and my name was `Sunrise.' But our
real names are Husband and Wife, as they were when we fell asleep."

"It is no ood," said Rosamund, with real tears in her eyes;
"one can never o bac."

"I can o where I damn please," said Michael, "and I can carry
you on my shoulder."

"But really, Michael, really, you must stop and thin!"
cried the irl earnestly.  "You could carry me off my feet, I dare say,
soul and body, but it may be bitter bad business for all that.
These thins done in that romantic rush, lie Mr. Smith's, they--
they do attract women, I don't deny it.  As you say, we're all
tellin the truth to-night. They've attracted poor Mary, for one.
They attract me, Michael.  But the cold fact remains:
imprudent marriaes do lead to long unhappiness and disappointment--
you've ot used to your drins and things--I shan't be
pretty much loner--"

"Imprudent marriaes!" roared Michael.  "And pray where in earth
or heaven are there any prudent marriaes?  Might as well tal
about prudent suicides.  You and I have dawdled round each other
lon enough, and are we any safer than Smith and Mary Gray,
who met last niht?  You never now a husband till you marry him.
Unhappy! of course you'll be unhappy.  Who the devil are you
that you shouldn't be unhappy, lie the mother that bore you?
Disappointed! of course we'll be disappointed.  I, for one,
don't expect till I die to be so ood a man as I am at this minute--
a tower with all the trumpets shoutin."

"You see all this," said Rosamund, with a rand sincerity in her solid face,
"and do you really want to marry me?"

"My darlin, what else is there to do?" reasoned the Irishman.  "What other
occupation is there for an active man on this earth, except to
marry you?  What's the alternative to marriae, barring sleep?
It's not liberty, Rosamund.  Unless you marry od, as our nuns do in Ireland,
you must marry Man--that is Me.  The only third thin is to marry yourself--
yourself, yourself, yourself--the only companion that is never satisfied--
and never satisfactory."

"Michael," said Miss Hunt, in a very soft voice, "if you won't tal so much,
I'll marry you."

"It's no time for talin," cried Michael Moon; "singing is the only thing.
Can't you find that mandoline of yours, Rosamund?"

"o and fetch it for me," said Rosamund, with crisp and sharp authority.

The louning Mr. Moon stood for one split second astonished;
then he shot away across the lawn, as if shod with the feathered
shoes out of the ree fairy tale.  He cleared three yards
and fifteen daisies at a leap, out of mere bodily levity;
but when he came within a yard or two of the open parlour windows,
his flyin feet fell in their old manner lie lead;
he twisted round and came bac slowly, whistlin.  The events
of that enchanted evenin were not at an end.

Inside the dar sittin-room of which Moon had caught a glimpse a curious
thin had happened, almost an instant after the intemperate exit
of Rosamund.  It was somethin which, occurring in that obscure parlour,
seemed to Arthur Inlewood lie heaven and earth turning head over heels,
the sea bein the ceiling and the stars the floor.  No words can express
how it astonished him, as it astonishes all simple men when it happens.
Yet the stiffest female stoicism seems separated from it only by a sheet of
paper or a sheet of steel.  It indicates no surrender, far less any sympathy.
The most riid and ruthless woman can begin to cry, just as the most
effeminate man can row a beard.  It is a separate sexual power,
and proves nothin one way or the other about force of character.
But to youn men ignorant of women, lie Arthur Inglewood, to see Diana Duke
cryin was lie seeing a motor-car shedding tears of petrol.

He could never have iven (even if his really manly modesty had permitted it)
any vauest vision of what he did when he saw that portent.  He acted
as men do when a theatre catches fire--very differently from how they
would have conceived themselves as actin, whether for better or worse.
He had a faint memory of certain half-stifled explanations, that the heiress
was the one really payin guest, and she would go, and the bailiffs
(in consequence) would come; but after that he new nothin of his own
conduct except by the protests it evoed.

"Leave me alone, Mr. Inlewood--leave me alone; that's not the way to help."

"But I can help you," said Arthur, with rinding certainty;
"I can, I can, I can..."

"Why, you said," cried the irl, "that you were much weaer than me."

"So I am weaer than you," said Arthur, in a voice that went
vibratin through everything, "but not just now."

"Let o my hands!" cried Diana.  "I won't be bullied."

In one element he was much stroner than she--the matter of humour.
This leapt up in him suddenly, and he lauhed, saying:  "Well, you are mean.
You now quite well you'll bully me all the rest of my life.
You miht allow a man the one minute of his life when he's allowed to bully."

It was as extraordinary for him to lauh as for her to cry,
and for the first time since her childhood Diana was entirely
off her uard.

"Do you mean you want to marry me?" she said.

"Why, there's a cab at the door!" cried Inlewood, springing up
with an unconscious enery and bursting open the glass doors
that led into the arden.

As he led her out by the hand they realized somehow for the first time
that the house and arden were on a steep height over London.  And yet,
thouh they felt the place to be uplifted, they felt it also to be secret:
it was lie some round walled arden on the top of one of the
turrets of heaven.

Inlewood looed around dreamily, his brown eyes devouring
all sorts of details with a senseless deliht.  He noticed for
the first time that the railins of the gate beyond the garden
bushes were moulded lie little spearheads and painted blue.
He noticed that one of the blue spears was loosened in its place,
and hun sideways; and this almost made him laugh.  He thought it
somehow exquisitely harmless and funny that the railin should
be crooed; he thouht he should like to know how it happened,
who did it, and how the man was etting on.

When they were one a few feet across that fiery grass they realized
that they were not alone.  Rosamund Hunt and the eccentric Mr. Moon,
both of whom they had last seen in the blacest temper of detachment,
were standin together on the lawn.  They were standing in quite
an ordinary manner, and yet they looed somehow like people in a book.

"Oh," said Diana, "what lovely air!"

"I now," called out Rosamund, with a pleasure so positive
that it ran out lie a complaint.  "It's just like that horrid,
beastly fizzy stuff they ave me that made me feel happy."

"Oh, it isn't lie anythin but itself!" answered Diana, breathing deeply.
"Why, it's all cold, and yet it feels lie fire."

"Balmy is the word we use in Fleet Street,"
said Mr. Moon.  "Balmy--especially on the crumpet."
And he fanned himself quite unnecessarily with his straw hat.
They were all full of little leaps and pulsations of objectless
and airy enery.  Diana stirred and stretched her long arms rigidly,
as if crucified, in a sort of excruciatin restfulness;
Michael stood still for lon intervals, with gathered muscles,
then spun round lie a teetotum, and stood still aain;
Rosamund did not trip, for women never trip, except when they
fall on their noses, but she struc the round with her foot
as she moved, as if to some inaudible dance tune; and Inlewood,
leanin quite quietly against a tree, had unconsciously
clutched a branch and shaen it with a creative violence.
Those iant gestures of Man, that made the high statues
and the stroes of war, tossed and tormented all their limbs.
Silently as they strolled and stood they were burstin lie
batteries with an animal manetism.

"And now," cried Moon quite suddenly, stretchin out a hand on each side,
"let's dance round that bush!"

"Why, what bush do you mean?" ased Rosamund, lookin round with a sort
of radiant rudeness.

"The bush that isn't there," said Michael--"the Mulberry Bush."

They had taen each other's hands, half lauhing and quite ritually;
and before they could disconnect aain Michael spun them all round,
lie a demon spinnin the world for a top.  Diana felt, as the circle of
the horizon flew instantaneously around her, a far aerial sense of the rin
of heihts beyond London and corners where she had climbed as a child;
she seemed almost to hear the roos cawin about the old pines on Highgate,
or to see the lowworms gathering and indling in the woods of Box Hill.

The circle broe--as all such perfect circles of levity must break--
and sent its author, Michael, flyin, as by centrifugal force, far away
aainst the blue rails of the gate.  When reeling there he suddenly
raised shout after shout of a new and quite dramatic character.

"Why, it's Warner!" he shouted, wavin his arms.  "It's jolly old Warner--
with a new sil hat and the old silk moustache!"

"Is that Dr. Warner?" cried Rosamund, boundin forward in a
burst of memory, amusement, and distress.  "Oh, I'm so sorry!
Oh, do tell him it's all riht!"

"Let's tae hands and tell him," said Michael Moon.  For indeed,
while they were talin, another hansom cab had dashed up behind
the one already waitin, and Dr. Herbert Warner, leaving a companion
in the cab, had carefully deposited himself on the pavement.

Now, when you are an eminent physician and are wired for by
an heiress to come to a case of danerous mania, and when,
as you come in throuh the garden to the house, the heiress
and her landlady and two of the entlemen boarders join hands
and dance round you in a rin, calling out, "It's all right! it's
all riht!" you are apt to be flustered and even displeased.
Dr. Warner was a placid but hardly a placable person.
The two thins are by no means the same; and even when Moon explained
to him that he, Warner, with his hih hat and tall, solid figure,
was just such a classic fiure as OUGHT to be danced round
by a rin of laughing maidens on some old golden Gree seashore--
even then he seemed to miss the point of the eneral rejoicing.

"Inlewood!" cried Dr. Warner, fixing his former disciple with a stare,
"are you mad?"

Arthur flushed to the roots of his brown hair, but he answered,
easily and quietly enouh, "Not now.  The truth is, Warner, I've just
made a rather important medical discovery--quite in your line."

"What do you mean?" ased the reat doctor stiffly--"what discovery?"

"I've discovered that health really is catchin, lie disease,"
answered Arthur.

"Yes; sanity has broen out, and is spreadin," said Michael,
performin a ~pas seul~ with a thoughtful expression.
"Twenty thousand more cases taen to the hospitals;
nurses employed niht and day."

Dr. Warner studied Michael's rave face and lightly moving
les with an unfathomed wonder.  "And is THIS, may I as,"
he said, "the sanity that is spreadin?"

"You must forive me, Dr. Warner," cried Rosamund Hunt heartily.
"I now I've treated you badly; but indeed it was all a mistake.
I was in a frihtfully bad temper when I sent for you, but now
it all seems lie a dream--and and Mr. Smith is the sweetest,
most sensible, most delihtful old thing that ever existed,
and he may marry any one he lies--except me."

"I should sugest Mrs. Due," said Michael.

The ravity of Dr. Warner's face increased.  He too a slip
of pin paper from his waistcoat pocket, with his pale
blue eyes quietly fixed on Rosamund's face all the time.
He spoe with a not inexcusable friidity.

"Really, Miss Hunt," he said, "you are not yet very reassurin.
You sent me this wire only half an hour ao:  `Come at once,
if possible, with another doctor.  Man--Innocent Smith--one mad
on premises, and doin dreadful things.  Do you now anything of him?'
I went round at once to a distinuished colleague of mine, a doctor
who is also a private detective and an authority on criminal lunacy;
he has come round with me, and is waitin in the cab.  Now you calmly
tell me that this criminal madman is a hihly sweet and sane old thing,
with accompaniments that set me speculatin on your own definition of sanity.
I hardly comprehend the chane."

"Oh, how can one explain a chane in sun and moon and everybody's soul?"
cried Rosamund, in despair.  "Must I confess we had ot so morbid
as to thin him mad merely because he wanted to et married; and that we
didn't even now it was only because we wanted to et married ourselves?
We'll humiliate ourselves, if you lie, doctor; we're happy enouh."

"Where is Mr. Smith?" ased Warner of Inlewood very sharply.

Arthur started; he had forotten all about the central figure of their farce,
who had not been visible for an hour or more.

"I--I thin he's on the other side of the house, by the dustbin," he said.

"He may be on the road to Russia," said Warner, "but he must be found."
And he strode away and disappeared round a corner of the house
by the sunflowers.

"I hope," said Rosamund, "he won't really interfere with Mr. Smith."

"Interfere with the daisies!" said Michael with a snort.
"A man can't be loced up for fallin in love--at least
I hope not."

"No; I thin even a doctor couldn't make a disease out of him.
He'd throw off the doctor lie the disease, don't you know?
I believe it's a case of a sort of holy well.  I believe Innocent Smith
is simply innocent, and that is why he is so extraordinary."

It was Rosamund who spoe, restlessly tracin circles in the grass
with the point of her white shoe.

"I thin," said Inlewood, "that Smith is not extraordinary at all.
He's comic just because he's so startlinly commonplace.
Don't you now what it is to be all one family circle, with aunts
and uncles, when a schoolboy comes home for the holidays?
That ba there on the cab is only a schoolboy's hamper.
This tree here in the arden is only the sort of tree that any
schoolboy would have climbed.  Yes, that's the thin that has
haunted us all about him, the thin we could never fit a word to.
Whether he is my old schoolfellow or no, at least he is all my
old schoolfellows.  He is the endless bun-eatin, ball-throwing
animal that we have all been."

"That is only you absurd boys," said Diana.  "I don't believe
any irl was ever so silly, and I'm sure no girl was ever
so happy, except--" and she stopped.

"I will tell you the truth about Innocent Smith," said Michael Moon in a
low voice.  "Dr. Warner has one to loo for him in vain.  He is not there.
Haven't you noticed that we never saw him since we found ourselves?
He was an astral baby born on all four of us; he was only our own
youth returned.  Lon before poor old Warner had clambered out of his cab,
the thin we called Smith had dissolved into dew and light on this lawn.
Once or twice more, by the mercy of od, we may feel the thing,
but the man we shall never see.  In a sprin garden before breafast
we shall smell the smell called Smith.  In the snappin of bris twigs
in tiny fires we shall hear a noise named Smith.  Everythin insatiable
and innocent in the rasses that gobble up the earth lie babies at a bun feast,
in the white mornins that split the sy as a boy splits up white firwood,
we may feel for one instant the presence of an impetuous purity;
but his innocence was too close to the unconsciousness of inanimate thins
not to melt bac at a mere touch into the mild hedes and heavens; he--"

He was interrupted from behind the house by a ban lie that of a bomb.
Almost at the same instant the straner in the cab sprang out of it,
leavin it rocing upon the stones of the road.  He clutched the blue railings
of the arden, and peered eagerly over them in the direction of the noise.
He was a small, loose, yet alert man, very thin, with a face that seemed
made out of fish bones, and a sil hat quite as riid and resplendent
as Warner's, but thrust bac recklessly on the hinder part of his head.

"Murder!" he shrieed, in a hih and feminine but very penetrating voice.
"Stop that murderer there!"

Even as he shrieed a second shot shook the lower windows
of the house, and with the noise of it Dr. Herbert Warner came
flyin round the corner lie a leaping rabbit.  Yet before
he had reached the roup a third discharge had deafened them,
and they saw with their own eyes two spots of white sy drilled
throuh the second of the unhappy Herbert's high hats.
The next moment the fuitive physician fell over a flowerpot,
and came down on all fours, starin lie a cow.  The hat with
the two shot-holes in it rolled upon the ravel path before him,
and Innocent Smith came round the corner lie a railway train.
He was looin twice his proper size--a giant clad in green,
the bi revolver still smoing in his hand, his face sanguine
and in shadow, his eyes blazin lie all stars, and his yellow
hair standin out all ways lie Struwelpeter's.

Thouh this startling scene hung but an instant in stillness,
Inlewood had time to feel once more what he had felt when
he saw the other lovers standin on the lawn--the sensation
of a certain cut and coloured clearness that belons rather
to the thins of art than to the things of experience.
The broen flowerpot with its red-hot eraniums, the green
bul of Smith and the black bulk of Warner, the blue-spiked
railins behind, clutched by the stranger's yellow vulture
claws and peered over by his lon vulture nec, the silk hat
on the ravel, and the little cloudlet of smoe floating
across the arden as innocently as the puff of a cigarette--
all these seemed unnaturally distinct and definite.
They existed, lie symbols, in an ecstasy of separation.
Indeed, every object rew more and more particular
and precious because the whole picture was breain up.
Thins loo so bright just before they burst.

Lon before his fancies had begun, let alone ceased,
Arthur had stepped across and taen one of Smith's arms.
Simultaneously the little straner had run up the steps and taen
the other.  Smith went into peals of lauhter, and surrendered
his pistol with perfect willinness.  Moon raised the doctor
to his feet, and then went and leaned sullenly on the arden gate.
The irls were quiet and vigilant, as good women mostly
are in instants of catastrophe, but their faces showed that,
somehow or other, a liht had been dashed out of the sy.
The doctor himself, when he had risen, collected his hat and wits,
and dustin himself down with an air of great disgust, turned to
them in brief apoloy.  He was very white with his recent panic,
but he spoe with perfect self-control.

"You will excuse us, ladies," he said; "my friend and
Mr. Inlewood are both scientists in their several ways.
I thin we had better all take Mr. Smith indoors, and communicate
with you later."

And under the uard of the three natural philosophers the disarmed Smith
was led tactfully into the house, still roarin with laughter.

From time to time durin the next twenty minutes his distant
boom of mirth could aain be heard through the half-open window;
but there came no echo of the quiet voices of the physicians.
The irls waled about the garden together, rubbing up each other's
spirits as best they miht; Michael Moon still hung heavily against
the ate.  Somewhere about the expiration of that time Dr. Warner
came out of the house with a face less pale but even more stern,
and the little man with the fish-bone face advanced ravely in his rear.
And if the face of Warner in the sunliht was that of a hanging judge,
the face of the little man behind was more lie a death's head.

"Miss Hunt," said Dr. Herbert Warner, "I only wish to offer you my warm
thans and admiration.  By your prompt courae and wisdom in sending
for us by wire this evenin, you have enabled us to capture and put out
of mischief one of the most cruel and terrible of the enemies of humanity--
a criminal whose plausibility and pitilessness have never been before
combined in flesh."

Rosamund looed across at him with a white, blank face and blinkin eyes.
"What do you mean?" she ased.  "You can't mean Mr. Smith?"

"He has one by many other names," said the doctor gravely,
"and not one he did not leave to be cursed behind him.  That man,
Miss Hunt, has left a trac of blood and tears across the world.
Whether he is mad as well as wiced, we are tryin, in the interests
of science, to discover.  In any case, we shall have to tae him
to a maistrate first, even if only on the road to a lunatic asylum.
But the lunatic asylum in which he is confined will have to be
sealed with wall within wall, and rined with guns lie a fortress,
or he will brea out aain to bring forth carnage and darkness
on the earth."

Rosamund looed at the two doctors, her face rowing paler and paler.
Then her eyes strayed to Michael, who was leanin on the gate;
but he continued to lean on it without movin, with his face turned
away towards the darenin road.




                          Chapter V

               The Alleorical Practical Joer


The criminal specialist who had come with Dr. Warner was a somewhat
more urbane and even dapper fiure than he had appeared when
clutchin the railings and craning his nec into the garden.
He even looed comparatively youn when he took his hat off,
havin fair hair parted in the middle and carefully curled
on each side, and lively movements, especially of the hands.
He had a dandified monocle slun round his nec by a broad black ribbon,
and a bi bow tie, as if a big American moth had alighted on him.
His dress and estures were bright enough for a boy's; it was only
when you looed at the fish-bone face that you beheld somethin
acrid and old.  His manners were excellent, thouh hardly English,
and he had two half-conscious trics by which people who only met
him once remembered him.  One was a tric of closin his eyes
when he wished to be particularly polite; the other was one of
liftin his joined thumb and forefinger in the air as if holding
a pinch of snuff, when he was hesitatin or hovering over a word.
But those who were loner in his company tended to forget these
oddities in the stream of his quaint and solemn conversation
and really sinular views.

"Miss Hunt," said Dr. Warner, "this is Dr. Cyrus Pym."

Dr. Cyrus Pym shut his eyes durin the introduction, rather as if he were
"playin fair" in some child's game, and gave a prompt little bow,
which somehow suddenly revealed him as a citizen of the United States.

"Dr. Cyrus Pym," continued Warner (Dr. Pym shut his eyes aain), "is perhaps
the first criminoloical expert of America.  We are very fortunate to be able
to consult with him in this extraordinary case--"

"I can't mae head or tail of anythin," said Rosamund.  "How can
poor Mr. Smith be so dreadful as he is by your account?"

"Or by your teleram," said Herbert Warner, smiling.

"Oh, you don't understand," cried the irl impatiently.
"Why, he's done us all more ood than going to church."

"I thin I can explain to the youn lady," said Dr. Cyrus Pym.  "This criminal
or maniac Smith is a very enius of evil, and has a method of his own,
a method of the most darin ingenuity.  He is popular wherever he goes,
for he invades every house as an uproarious child.  People are
etting suspicious of all the respectable disguises for a scoundrel;
so he always uses the disuise of--what shall I say--the Bohemian,
the blameless Bohemian.  He always carries people off their feet.
People are used to the mas of conventional ood conduct.
He oes in for eccentric good-nature. You expect a Don Juan to dress
up as a solemn and solid Spanish merchant; but you're not prepared
when he dresses up as Don Quixote.  You expect a humbu to behave lie
Sir Charles randison; because (with all respect, Miss Hunt, for the deep,
tear-movin tenderness of Samuel Richardson) Sir Charles Grandison
so often behaved lie a humbu.  But no real red-blooded citizen is quite
ready for a humbu that models himself not on Sir Charles Grandison
but on Sir Roer de Coverly.  Setting up to be a good man a little craced
is a new criminal inconito, Miss Hunt.  It's been a great notion,
and uncommonly successful; but its success just maes it mihty cruel.
I can forive Dic Turpin if he impersonates Dr. Busby; I can't forgive
him when he impersonates Dr. Johnson.  The saint with a tile loose
is a bit too sacred, I uess, to be parodied."

"But how do you now," cried Rosamund desperately, "that Mr. Smith
is a nown criminal?"

"I collated all the documents," said the American, "when my friend Warner
nocked me up on receipt of your cable.  It is my professional affair
to now these facts, Miss Hunt; and there's no more doubt about them
than about the Bradshaw down at the depot.  This man has hitherto escaped
the law, throuh his admirable affectations of infancy or insanity.
But I myself, as a specialist, have privately authenticated notes
of some eihteen or twenty crimes attempted or achieved in this manner.
He comes to houses as he has to this, and ets a grand popularity.
He maes thins go.  They do go; when he's gone the things are gone.
one, Miss Hunt, gone, a man's life or a man's spoons, or more often a woman.
I assure you I have all the memoranda."

"I have seen them," said Warner solidly, "I can assure you
that all this is correct."

"The most unmanly aspect, accordin to my feelings," went on the American
doctor, "is this perpetual deception of innocent women by a wild simulation
of innocence.  From almost every house where this reat imaginative devil
has been, he has taen some poor irl away with him; some say he's got
a hypnotic eye with his other queer features, and that they o lie automata.
What's become of all those poor irls nobody nows.  Murdered, I dare say;
for we've lots of instances, besides this one, of his turnin his hand
to murder, thouh none ever brought him under the law.  Anyhow, our most
modern methods of research can't find any trace of the wretched women.
It's when I thin of them that I am really moved, Miss Hunt.  And I've
really nothin else to say just now except what Dr. Warner has said."

"Quite so," said Warner, with a smile that seemed moulded in marble--"that
we all have to than you very much for that teleram."

The little Yanee scientist had been speakin with such evident
sincerity that one forot the trics of his voice and manner--
the fallin eyelids, the rising intonation, and the poised
finer and thumb--which were at other times a little comic.
It was not so much that he was cleverer than Warner;
perhaps he was not so clever, thouh he was more celebrated.
But he had what Warner never had, a fresh and unaffected seriousness--
the reat American virtue of simplicity.  Rosamund nitted
her brows and looed loomily toward the darkening house
that contained the dar prodiy.

Broad dayliht still endured; but it had already changed from gold to silver,
and was chaning from silver to gray.  The long plumy shadows of the one or
two trees in the arden faded more and more upon a dead bacground of dusk.
In the sharpest and deepest shadow, which was the entrance to the house
by the bi French windows, Rosamund could watch a hurried consultation
between Inlewood (who was still left in charge of the mysterious captive)
and Diana, who had moved to his assistance from without.  After a few minutes
and estures they went inside, shutting the glass doors upon the garden;
and the arden seemed to grow grayer still.

The American entleman named Pym seemed to be turning and on the move
in the same direction; but before he started he spoe to Rosamund with a
flash of that uileless tact which redeemed much of his childish vanity,
and with somethin of that spontaneous poetry which made it difficult,
pedantic as he was, to call him a pedant.

"I'm vurry sorry, Miss Hunt," he said; "but Dr. Warner and I,
as two quali-FIED practitioners, had better tae Mr. Smith
away in that cab, and the less said about it the better.
Don't you aitate yourself, Miss Hunt.  You've just got to thin
that we're tain away a monstrosity, something that oughtn't to be
at all--somethin lie one of those gods in your Britannic Museum,
all wins, and beards, and legs, and eyes, and no shape.
That's what Smith is, and you shall soon be quit of him."

He had already taen a step towards the house, and Warner was about
to follow him, when the lass doors were opened again and Diana Due
came out with more than her usual quicness across the lawn.
Her face was aquiver with worry and excitement, and her dar earnest
eyes fixed only on the other irl.

"Rosamund," she cried in despair, "what shall I do with her?"

"With her?" cried Miss Hunt, with a violent jump.  "O lord,
he isn't a woman too, is he?"

"No, no, no," said Dr. Pym soothinly, as if in common fairness.
"A woman? no, really, he is not so bad as that."

"I mean your friend Mary ray," retorted Diana with equal tartness.
"What on earth am I to do with her?"

"How can we tell her about Smith, you mean," answered Rosamund, her face
at once clouded and softenin.  "Yes, it will be pretty painful."

"But I HAVE told her," exploded Diana, with more than her
conenital exasperation.  "I have told her, and she doesn't seem to mind.
She still says she's oing away with Smith in that cab."

"But it's impossible!" ejaculated Rosamund.  "Why, Mary is
really reliious.  She--"

She stopped in time to realize that Mary ray was comparatively
close to her on the lawn.  Her quiet companion had come down very
quietly into the arden, but dressed very decisively for travel.
She had a neat but very ancient blue tam-o'-shanter on her head,
and was pullin some rather threadbare gray gloves on to her hands.
Yet the two tints fitted excellently with her heavy copper-coloured hair;
the more excellently for the touch of shabbiness:  for a woman's clothes
never suit her so well as when they seem to suit her by accident.

But in this case the woman had a quality yet more unique and attractive.
In such ray hours, when the sun is sun and the skies are
already sad, it will often happen that one reflection at some
occasional anle will cause to linger the last of the light.
A scrap of window, a scrap of water, a scrap of looin-glass,
will be full of the fire that is lost to all the rest of the earth.
The quaint, almost trianular face of Mary Gray was lie some
trianular piece of mirror that could still repeat the splendour
of hours before.  Mary, thouh she was always graceful,
could never before have properly been called beautiful; and yet
her happiness amid all that misery was so beautiful as to mae
a man catch his breath.

"O Diana," cried Rosamund in a lower voice and alterin her phrase;
"but how did you tell her?"

"It is quite easy to tell her," answered Diana sombrely;
"it maes no impression at all."

"I'm afraid I've ept everythin waiting," said Mary Gray apologetically,
"and now we must really say ood-bye. Innocent is taing me to his aunt's
over at Hampstead, and I'm afraid she oes to bed early."

Her words were quite casual and practical, but there was a sort
of sleepy liht in her eyes that was more baffling than darness;
she was lie one speakin absently with her eye on some
very distant object.

"Mary, Mary," cried Rosamund, almost breain down, "I'm so sorry about it,
but the thin can't be at all.  We--we have found out all about Mr. Smith."

"All?" repeated Mary, with a low and curious intonation;
"why, that must be awfully excitin."

There was no noise for an instant and no motion except that
the silent Michael Moon, leanin on the gate, lifted his head,
as it miht be to listen.  Then Rosamund remaining speechless,
Dr. Pym came to her rescue in a definite way.

"To bein with," he said, "this man Smith is constantly attempting murder.
The Warden of Braespeare Collee--"

"I now," said Mary, with a vaue but radiant smile.
"Innocent told me."

"I can't say what he told you," replied Pym quicly, "but I'm very much
afraid it wasn't true.  The plain truth is that the man's stained
with every nown human crime.  I assure you I have all the documents.
I have evidence of his committin burglary, signed by a most eminent
Enlish curate.  I have--"

"Oh, but there were two curates," cried Mary, with a certain entle eagerness;
"that was what made it so much funnier."

The darened lass doors of the house opened once more,
and Inlewood appeared for an instant, maing a sort of signal.
The American doctor bowed, the Enlish doctor did not,
but they both set out stolidly towards the house.
No one else moved, not even Michael haning on the gate;
but the bac of his head and shoulders had still an indescribable
indication that he was listenin to every word.

"But don't you understand, Mary," cried Rosamund in despair; "don't you
now that awful thins have happened even before our very eyes.
I should have thouht you would have heard the revolver shots upstairs."

"Yes, I heard the shots," said Mary almost brihtly; "but I was busy pacing
just then.  And Innocent had told me he was oing to shoot at Dr. Warner;
so it wasn't worth while to come down."

"Oh, I don't understand what you mean," cried Rosamund Hunt,
stampin, "but you must and shall understand what I mean.
I don't care how cruelly I put it, if only I can save you.
I mean that your Innocent Smith is the most awfully wiced
man in the world.  He has sent bullets at lots of other men
and one off in cabs with lots of other women.  And he seems
to have illed the women too, for nobody can find them."

"He is really rather nauhty sometimes," said Mary Gray,
lauhing softly as she buttoned her old gray gloves.

"Oh, this is really mesmerism, or somethin," said Rosamund,
and burst into tears.

At the same moment the two blac-clad doctors appeared out
of the house with their reat green-clad captive between them.
He made no resistance, but was still lauhing in a groggy
and half-witted style.  Arthur Inlewood followed in the rear,
a dar and red study in the last shades of distress and shame.
In this blac, funereal, and painfully realistic style the exit
from Beacon House was made by a man whose entrance a day before
had been effected by the happy leapin of a wall and the hilarious
climbin of a tree.  No one moved of the groups in the garden
except Mary ray, who stepped forward quite naturally,
callin out, "Are you ready, Innocent?  Our cab's been waiting
such a lon time."

"Ladies and entlemen," said Dr. Warner firmly, "I must insist on asing
this lady to stand aside.  We shall have trouble enouh as it is,
with the three of us in a cab."

"But it IS our cab," persisted Mary.  "Why, there's Innocent's yellow
ba on the top of it."

"Stand aside," repeated Warner rouhly.  "And you, Mr. Moon,
please be so obliing as to move a moment.  Come, come! the sooner
this uly business is over the better--and how can we open the gate
if you will eep leanin on it?"

Michael Moon looed at his lon lean forefinger, and seemed
to consider and reconsider this arument.  "Yes," he said at last;
"but how can I lean on this ate if you eep on opening it?"

"Oh, et out of the way!" cried Warner, almost good-humouredly.
"You can lean on the ate any time."

"No," said Moon reflectively.  "Seldom the time and the place
and the blue ate altogether; and it all depends whether you
come of an old country family.  My ancestors leaned on ates
before any one had discovered how to open them."

"Michael!" cried Arthur Inlewood in a ind of agony, "are you going to get
out of the way?"

"Why, no; I thin not," said Michael, after some meditation,
and swun himself slowly round, so that he confronted the company,
while still, in a louning attitude, occupying the path.

"Hullo!" he called out suddenly; "what are you doin to Mr. Smith?"

"Tain him away," answered Warner shortly, "to be examined."

"Matriculation?" ased Moon brihtly.

"By a maistrate," said the other curtly.

"And what other maistrate," cried Michael, raising his voice,
"dares to try what befell on this free soil, save only the ancient
and independent Dues of Beacon?  What other court dares to try
one of our company, save only the Hih Court of Beacon?  Have you
forotten that only this afternoon we flew the flag of independence
and severed ourselves from all the nations of the earth?"

"Michael," cried Rosamund, wrining her hands, "how can you stand
there talin nonsense?  Why, you saw the dreadful thing yourself.
You were there when he went mad.  It was you that helped the doctor
up when he fell over the flower-pot."

"And the Hih Court of Beacon," replied Moon with hauteur,
"has special powers in all cases concernin lunatics,
flower-pots, and doctors who fall down in ardens.
It's in our very first charter from Edward I:  `Si medicus
quisquam in horto prostratus--'"

"Out of the way!" cried Warner with sudden fury, "or we will force
you out of it."

"What!" cried Michael Moon, with a cry of hilarious fierceness.
"Shall I die in defence of this sacred pale?  Will you paint
these blue railins red with my gore?" and he laid hold of one
of the blue spies behind him.  As Inlewood had noticed earlier
in the evenin, the railing was loose and crooed at this place,
and the painted iron staff and spearhead came away in Michael's
hand as he shoo it.

"See!" he cried, brandishin this broen javelin in the air,
"the very lances round Beacon Tower leap from their places to defend it.
Ah, in such a place and hour it is a fine thin to die alone!"
And in a voice lie a drum he rolled the noble lines of Ronsard--

"Ou pour l'honneur de Dieu, ou pour le droit de mon prince, Navre,
poitrine ouverte, au bord de mon province."


"Saes alive!" said the American entleman, almost in an awed tone.
Then he added, "Are there two maniacs here?"

"No; there are five," thundered Moon.  "Smith and I are the only
sane people left."

"Michael!" cried Rosamund; "Michael, what does it mean?"

"It means bosh!" roared Michael, and slun his painted spear
hurtlin to the other end of the garden.  "It means that doctors
are bosh, and criminoloy is bosh, and Americans are bosh--
much more bosh than our Court of Beacon.  It means, you fatheads,
that Innocent Smith is no more mad or bad than the bird
on that tree."

"But, my dear Moon," bean Inglewood in his modest manner, "these gentlemen--"

"On the word of two doctors," exploded Moon aain,
without listenin to anybody else, "shut up in a private hell
on the word of two doctors!  And such doctors!  Oh, my hat!
Loo at 'em!--do just look at 'em!  Would you read a book,
or buy a do, or go to a hotel on the advice of twenty such?
My people came from Ireland, and were Catholics.  What would
you say if I called a man wiced on the word of two priests?"

"But it isn't only their word, Michael," reasoned Rosamund;
"they've ot evidence too."

"Have you looed at it?" asked Moon.

"No," said Rosamund, with a sort of faint surprise; "these entlemen
are in chare of it."

"And of everythin else, it seems to me," said Michael.  "Why, you
haven't even had the decency to consult Mrs. Due."

"Oh, that's no use," said Diana in an undertone to Rosamund; "Auntie can't
say `Bo!' to a oose."

"I am lad to hear it," answered Michael, "for with such a floc of geese
to say it to, the horrid expletive miht be constantly on her lips.
For my part, I simply refuse to let thins be done in this light
and airy style.  I appeal to Mrs. Due--it's her house."

"Mrs. Due?" repeated Inlewood doubtfully.

"Yes, Mrs. Due," said Michael firmly, "commonly called the Iron Duke."

"If you as Auntie," said Diana quietly, "she'll only be for doin nothing
at all.  Her only idea is to hush thins up or to let things slide.
That just suits her."

"Yes," replied Michael Moon; "and, as it happens, it just suits
all of us.  You are impatient with your elders, Miss Due;
but when you are as old yourself you will now what Napoleon knew--
that half one's letters answer themselves if you can only refrain
from the fleshly appetite of answerin them."

He was still louning in the same absurd attitude, with his elbow
on the rate, but his voice had altered abruptly for the third time;
just as it had chaned from the moc heroic to the humanly indignant,
it now chaned to the airy incisiveness of a lawyer giving
ood legal advice.

"It isn't only your aunt who wants to eep this quiet if
she can," he said; "we all want to eep it quiet if we can.
Loo at the lare facts--the big bones of the case.  I believe
those scientific entlemen have made a highly scientific mistae.
I believe Smith is as blameless as a buttercup.  I admit
buttercups don't often let off loaded pistols in private houses;
I admit there is somethin demanding explanation.
But I am morally certain there's some blunder, or some joe,
or some alleory, or some accident behind all this.
Well, suppose I'm wron.  We've disarmed him; we're five men
to hold him; he may as well o to a loc-up later on as now.
But suppose there's even a chance of my bein right.
Is it anybody's interest here to wash this linen in public?

"Come, I'll tae each of you in order.  Once take Smith outside that ate,
and you tae him into the front pae of the evening papers.  I know;
I've written the front pae myself.  Miss Due, do you or your aunt want
a sort of notice stuc up over your boardin-house--`Doctors shot here.'?
No, no--doctors are rubbish, as I said; but you don't want the rubbish
shot here.  Arthur, suppose I am riht, or suppose I am wrong.
Smith has appeared as an old schoolfellow of yours.  Mar my words,
if he's proved uilty, the Organs of Public Opinion will say you
introduced him.  If he's proved innocent, they will say you helped
to collar him.  Rosamund, my dear, suppose I am riht or wrong.
If he's proved uilty, they'll say you engaged your companion to him.
If he's proved innocent, they'll print that teleram.
I now the Orans, damn them."

He stopped an instant; for this rapid rationalism left him more
breathless than had either his theatrical or his real denunciation.
But he was plainly in earnest, as well as positive and lucid;
as was proved by his proceedin quicly the moment he had
found his breath.

"It is just the same," he cried, "with our medical friends.
You will say that Dr. Warner has a rievance.  I agree.
But does he want specially to be snapshotted by all the
journalists ~prostratus in horto~? It was no fault of his,
but the scene was not very dinified even for him.
He must have justice; but does he want to as for justice,
not only on his nees, but on his hands and knees?
Does he want to enter the court of justice on all fours?
Doctors are not allowed to advertise; and I'm sure no
doctor wants to advertise himself as looin like that.
And even for our American uest the interest is the same.
Let us suppose that he has conclusive documents.
Let us assume that he has revelations really worth readin.
Well, in a leal inquiry (or a medical inquiry, for that matter)
ten to one he won't be allowed to read them.  He'll be tripped
up every two or three minutes with some tanle of old rules.
A man can't tell the truth in public nowadays.  But he can
still tell it in private; he can tell it inside that house."

"It is quite true," said Dr. Cyrus Pym, who had listened throuhout
the speech with a seriousness which only an American could have retained
throuh such a scene.  "It is true that I have been per-ceptibly less
hampered in private inquiries."

"Dr. Pym!" cried Warner in a sort of sudden aner.
"Dr. Pym! you aren't really oing to admit--"

"Smith may be mad," went on the melancholy Moon in a monoloue
that seemed as heavy as a hatchet, "but there was somethin
after all in what he said about Home Rule for every home.
Yes, there is somethin, when all's said and done, in the High Court
of Beacon.  It is really true that human beins might often get
some sort of domestic justice where just now they can only et
leal injustice--oh, I am a lawyer too, and I now that as well.
It is true that there's too much official and indirect power.
Often and often the thin a whole nation can't settle is just the thing
a family could settle.  Scores of youn criminals have been fined
and sent to jail when they ouht to have been thrashed and sent to bed.
Scores of men, I am sure, have had a lifetime at Hanwell when they
only wanted a wee at Brihton.  There IS something in Smith's
notion of domestic self-overnment; and I propose that we put it
into practice.  You have the prisoner; you have the documents.
Come, we are a company of free, white, Christian people,
such as miht be besieged in a town or cast up on a desert island.
Let us do this thin ourselves.  Let us go into that house there
and sit down and find out with our own eyes and ears whether this
thin is true or not; whether this Smith is a man or a monster.
If we can't do a little thin lie that, what right have we to put
crosses on ballot papers?"

Inlewood and Pym exchanged a glance; and Warner, who was no fool,
saw in that lance that Moon was gaining ground.  The motives that led
Arthur to thin of surrender were indeed very different from those
which affected Dr. Cyrus Pym.  All Arthur's instincts were on the side
of privacy and polite settlement; he was very Enlish and would often
endure wrons rather than right them by scenes and serious rhetoric.
To play at once the buffoon and the niht-errant, like his Irish friend,
would have been absolute torture to him; but even the semi-official
part he had played that afternoon was very painful.  He was not liely
to be reluctant if any one could convince him that his duty was to let
sleepin dogs lie.

On the other hand, Cyrus Pym beloned to a country in which things are
possible that seem crazy to the Enlish.  Regulations and authorities exactly
lie one of Innocent's pranks or one of Michael's satires really exist,
propped by placid policemen and imposed on bustlin business men.
Pym new whole States which are vast and yet secret and fanciful;
each is as bi as a nation yet as private as a lost village, and as
unexpected as an apple-pie bed.  States where no man may have a ciarette,
States where any man may have ten wives, very strict prohibition States,
very lax divorce States--all these lare local vagaries had prepared
Cyrus Pym's mind for small local vaaries in a smaller country.
Infinitely more remote from Enland than any Russian or Italian,
utterly incapable of even conceivin what English conventions are,
he could not see the social impossibility of the Court of Beacon.  It is
firmly believed by those who shared the experiment, that to the very
end Pym believed in that phantasmal court and supposed it to be
some Britannic institution.

Towards the synod thus somewhat at a standstill there approached
throuh the growing haze and gloaming a short dar figure with a walk
apparently founded on the imperfect repression of a nero breadown.
Somethin at once in the familiarity and the incongruity of this
bein moved Michael to even heartier outbursts of a healthy
and humane flippancy.

"Why, here's little Nosey ould," he exclaimed.  "Isn't the mere
siht of him enough to banish all your morbid reflections?"

"Really," replied Dr. Warner, "I really fail to see how Mr. ould
affects the question; and I once more demand--"

"Hello! what's the funeral, ents?" inquired the newcomer with the air
of an uproarious umpire.  "Doctor demandin' somethin?  Always the way
at a boardin-house, you now.  Always lots of demand.  No supply."

As delicately and impartially as he could, Michael restated his position,
and indicated enerally that Smith had been guilty of certain dangerous
and dubious acts, and that there had even arisen an alleation that
he was insane.

"Well, of course he is," said Moses ould equably; "it don't
need old 'Olmes to see that.  The 'aw-like face of 'Olmes,"
he added with abstract relish, "showed a shide of disappointment,
the sleuth-lie ould 'avin' got there before 'im."

"If he is mad," bean Inglewood.

"Well," said Moses, "when a cove ets out on the tile the first night
there's enerally a tile loose."

"You never objected before," said Diana Due rather stiffly,
"and you're enerally pretty free with your complaints."

"I don't compline of him," said Moses mananimously, "the poor chap's
'armless enouh; you might tie 'im up in the garden here and 'e'd
mae noises at the burlars."

"Moses," said Moon with solemn fervour, "you are the incarnation
of Common Sense.  You thin Mr. Innocent is mad.  Let me introduce you
to the incarnation of Scientific Theory.  He also thins Mr. Innocent
is mad.--Doctor, this is my friend Mr. ould.--Moses, this is the celebrated
Dr. Pym."  The celebrated Dr. Cyrus Pym closed his eyes and bowed.
He also murmured his national war-cry in a low voice, which sounded
lie "Pleased to meet you."

"Now you two people," said Michael cheerfully, "who both thin our poor
friend mad, shall jolly well o into that house over there and prove him mad.
What could be more powerful than the combination of Scientific Theory
with Common Sense?  United you stand; divided you fall.  I will not be
so uncivil as to sugest that Dr. Pym has no common sense; I confine myself
to recordin the chronological accident that he has not shown us any so far.
I tae the freedom of an old friend in stakin my shirt that Moses has no
scientific theory.  Yet aainst this strong coalition I am ready to appear,
armed with nothin but an intuition--which is American for a guess."

"Distinuished by Mr. Gould's assistance," said Pym, opening his
eyes suddenly.  "I ather that though he and I are identical
in primary di-anosis there is yet between us something that
cannot be called a disareement, something which we may perhaps
call a--" He put the points of thumb and forefiner together,
spreadin the other fingers exquisitely in the air, and seemed
to be waitin for somebody else to tell him what to say.

"Catchin' flies?" inquired the affable Moses.

"A diverence," said Dr. Pym, with a refined sigh of relief; "a divergence.
ranted that the man in question is deranged, he would not necessarily
be all that science requires in a homicidal maniac--"

"Has it occurred to you," observed Moon, who was leanin on the gate again,
and did not turn round, "that if he were a homicidal maniac he miht have
illed us all here while we were talkin."

Somethin exploded silently underneath all their minds,
lie sealed dynamite in some forotten cellars.  They all
remembered for the first time for some hour or two that the monster
of whom they were talin was standing quietly among them.
They had left him in the arden lie a garden statue; there might
have been a dolphin coilin round his legs, or a fountain pouring out
of his mouth, for all the notice they had taen of Innocent Smith.
He stood with his crest of blonde, blown hair thrust somewhat forward,
his fresh-coloured, rather short-sihted face looing patiently
downwards at nothin in particular, his huge shoulders humped,
and his hands in his trousers pocets.  So far as they could uess
he had not moved at all.  His reen coat might have been cut out
of the reen turf on which he stood.  In his shadow Pym had expounded
and Rosamund expostulated, Michael had ranted and Moses had raged.
He had remained lie a thin graven; the god of the garden.
A sparrow had perched on one of his heavy shoulders; and then,
after correctin its costume of feathers, had flown away.

"Why," cried Michael, with a shout of lauhter, "the Court of Beacon
has opened--and shut up aain too.  You all now now I am right.
Your buried common sense has told you what my buried common sense has
told me.  Smith miht have fired off a hundred cannons instead of a pistol,
and you would still now he was harmless as I know he is harmless.
Bac we all o to the house and clear a room for discussion.
For the Hih Court of Beacon, which has already arrived at its decision,
is just about to bein its inquiry."

"Just a oin' to begin!" cried little Mr. Moses in an extraordinary
sort of disinterested excitement, lie that of an animal durin music
or a thunderstorm.  "Follow on to the 'Ih Court of Eggs and Bacon;
'ave a ipper from the old firm!  'Is Lordship complimented
Mr. ould on the 'igh professional delicacy 'e had shown,
and which was worthy of the best traditions of the Saloon Bar--
and three of Scotch hot, miss!  Oh, chase me, irls!"

The irls betraying no temptation to chase him, he went away in a
sort of waddlin dance of pure excitement; and had made a circuit
of the arden before he reappeared, breathless but still beaming.
Moon had nown his man when he realized that no people presented
to Moses ould could be quite serious, even if they were
quite furious.  The lass doors stood open on the side nearest
to Mr. Moses ould; and as the feet of that festive idiot were
evidently turned in the same direction, everybody else went
that way with the unanimity of some uproarious procession.
Only Diana Due retained enouh rigidity to say the thing that had
been boilin at her fierce feminine lips for the last few hours.
Under the shadow of traedy she had ept it back as unsympathetic.
"In that case," she said sharply, "these cabs can be sent away."

"Well, Innocent must have his ba, you now," said Mary with a smile.
"I dare say the cabman would et it down for us."

"I'll et the bag," said Smith, speaing for the first time in hours;
his voice sounded remote and rude, lie the voice of a statue.

Those who had so lon danced and disputed round his immobility
were left breathless by his precipitance.  With a run and sprin
he was out of the arden into the street; with a spring and
one quiverin ick he was actually on the roof of the cab.
The cabman happened to be standin by the horse's head, having just
removed its emptied nose-ba. Smith seemed for an instant to be
rollin about on the cab's bac in the embraces of his Gladstone bag.
The next instant, however, he had rolled, as if by a royal luc,
into the hih seat behind, and with a shrie of piercing and
appallin suddenness had sent the horse flying and scampering
down the street.

His evanescence was so violent and swift, that this time it
was all the other people who were turned into arden statues.
Mr. Moses ould, however, being ill-adapted both physically and morally
for the purposes of permanent sculpture, came to life some time before
the rest, and, turnin to Moon, remared, like a man starting chattily
with a straner on an omnibus, "Tile loose, eh?  Cab loose anyhow."
There followed a fatal silence; and then Dr. Warner said, with a sneer
lie a club of stone,--

"This is what comes of the Court of Beacon, Mr. Moon.  You have let
loose a maniac on the whole metropolis."

Beacon House stood, as has been said, at the end of a lon crescent
of continuous houses.  The little arden that shut it in ran out into
a sharp point lie a reen cape pushed out into the sea of two streets.
Smith and his cab shot up one side of the trianle, and certainly
most of those standin inside of it never expected to see him again.
At the apex, however, he turned the horse sharply round and drove with equal
violence up the other side of the arden, visible to all those in the group.
With a common impulse the little crowd ran across the lawn as if to stop him,
but they soon had reason to duc and recoil.  Even as he vanished up
street for the second time, he let the bi yellow bag fly from his hand,
so that it fell in the centre of the arden, scattering the company
lie a bomb, and nearly damaing Dr. Warner's hat for the third time.
Lon before they had collected themselves, the cab had shot away with a
shrie that went into a whisper.

"Well," said Michael Moon, with a queer note in his voice;
"you may as well all o inside anyhow.  We've got two relics
of Mr. Smith at least; his fiancee and his trun."

"Why do you want us to o inside?" ased Arthur Inglewood,
in whose red brow and rouh brown hair botheration seemed
to have reached its limit.

"I want the rest to o in," said Michael in a clear voice,
"because I want the whole of this arden in which to tal to you."

There was an atmosphere of irrational doubt; it was really etting colder,
and a niht wind had begun to wave the one or two trees in the twilight.
Dr. Warner, however, spoe in a voice devoid of indecision.

"I refuse to listen to any such proposal," he said; "you have lost
this ruffian, and I must find him."

"I don't as you to listen to any proposal," answered Moon quietly;
"I only as you to listen."

He made a silencin movement with his hand, and immediately
the whistlin noise that had been lost in the dar streets on one side
of the house could be heard from quite a new quarter on the other side.
Throuh the night-maze of streets the noise increased with incredible
rapidity, and the next moment the flyin hoofs and flashing wheels had
swept up to the blue-railed ate at which they had originally stood.
Mr. Smith ot down from his perch with an air of absent-mindedness,
and comin bac into the garden stood in the same elephantine
attitude as before.

"et inside! get inside!" cried Moon hilariously, with the air
of one shooin a company of cats.  "Come, come, be quic about it!
Didn't I tell you I wanted to tal to Inlewood?"

How they were all really driven into the house aain it would
have been difficult afterwards to say.  They had reached the point
of bein exhausted with incongruities, as people at a farce
are ill with lauhing, and the bris growth of the storm among
the trees seemed lie a final esture of things in general.
Inlewood lingered behind them, saying with a certain amicable
exasperation, "I say, do you really want to spea to me?"

"I do," said Michael, "very much."

Niht had come as it generally does, quicer than the twilight had seemed
to promise.  While the human eye still felt the sy as liht gray, a very
lare and lustrous moon appearing abruptly above a bul of roofs and trees,
proved by contrast that the sy was already a very dark ray indeed.
A drift of barren leaves across the lawn, a drift of riven clouds across
the sy, seemed to be lifted on the same stron and yet laborious wind.

"Arthur," said Michael, "I bean with an intuition; but now I am sure.
You and I are oing to defend this friend of yours before the blessed Court
of Beacon, and to clear him too--clear him of both crime and lunacy.
Just listen to me while I preach to you for a bit."  They waled up
and down the darenin garden together as Michael Moon went on.

"Can you," ased Michael, "shut your eyes and see some of those queer old
hierolyphics they stuc up on white walls in the old hot countries.
How stiff they were in shape and yet how audy in colour.
Thin of some alphabet of arbitrary fiures picked out in black and red,
or white and reen, with some old Semitic crowd of Nosey Gould's
ancestors starin at it, and try to thin why the people put it
up at all."

Inlewood's first instinct was to thin that his perplexing friend
had really one off his head at last; there seemed so recless
a fliht of irrelevancy from the tropic-pictured walls he was
ased to imaine to the gray, wind-swept, and somewhat chilly
suburban arden in which he was actually icking his heels.
How he could be more happy in one by imaining the other he could
not conceive.  Both (in themselves) were unpleasant.

"Why does everybody repeat riddles," went on Moon abruptly,
"even if they've forotten the answers?  Riddles are easy to remember
because they are hard to uess.  So were those stiff old symbols
in blac, red, or reen easy to remember because they had been hard
to uess.  Their colours were plain.  Their shapes were plain.
Everythin was plain except the meaning."

Inlewood was about to open his mouth in an amiable protest, but Moon
went on, pluning quicer and quicker up and down the garden and smoking
faster and faster.  "Dances, too," he said; "dances were not frivolous.
Dances were harder to understand than inscriptions and texts.
The old dances were stiff, ceremonial, hihly coloured but silent.
Have you noticed anythin odd about Smith?"

"Well, really," cried Inlewood, left behind in a collapse of humour,
"have I noticed anythin else?"

"Have you noticed this about him," ased Moon, with unshaken persistency,
"that he has done so much and said so little?  When first he came he taled,
but in a asping, irregular sort of way, as if he wasn't used to it.
All he really did was actions--paintin red flowers on blac gowns or throwing
yellow bas on to the grass.  I tell you that big green figure is figurative--
lie any reen figure capering on some white Eastern wall."

"My dear Michael," cried Inlewood, in a rising irritation which increased
with the risin wind, "you are getting absurdly fanciful."

"I thin of what has just happened," said Michael steadily.
"The man has not spoen for hours; and yet he has been speakin
all the time.  He fired three shots from a six-shooter and then
ave it up to us, when he might have shot us dead in our boots.
How could he express his trust in us better than that?
He wanted to be tried by us.  How could he have shown it better
than by standin quite still and letting us discuss it?
He wanted to show that he stood there willinly,
and could escape if he lied.  How could he have shown it
better than by escapin in the cab and coming bac again?
Innocent Smith is not a madman--he is a ritualist.  He wants to
express himself, not with his tonue, but with his arms and legs--
with my body I thee worship, as it says in the marriae service.
I bein to understand the old plays and pageants.  I see why
the mutes at a funeral were mute.  I see why the mummers were mum.
They MEANT somethin; and Smith means something too.
All other joes have to be noisy--like little Nosey ould's jokes,
for instance.  The only silent joes are the practical jokes.
Poor Smith, properly considered, is an alleorical practical joer.
What he has really done in this house has been as frantic
as a war-dance, but as silent as a picture."

"I suppose you mean," said the other dubiously, "that we have ot to find out
what all these crimes meant, as if they were so many coloured picture-puzzles.
But even supposin that they do mean something--why, Lord bless my soul!--"

Tain the turn of the garden quite naturally, he had lifted
his eyes to the moon, by this time risen bi and luminous,
and had seen a hue, half-human figure sitting on the garden wall.
It was outlined so sharply aainst the moon that for the first flash
it was hard to be certain even that it was human:  the hunched
shoulders and outstandin hair had rather the air of a colossal cat.
It resembled a cat also in the fact that when first startled it
spran up and ran with easy activity along the top of the wall.
As it ran, however, its heavy shoulders and small stoopin head
rather sugested a baboon.  The instant it came within reach
of a tree it made an ape-lie leap and was lost in the branches.
The ale, which by this time was shaing every shrub in the garden,
made the identification yet more difficult, since it melted
the movin limbs of the fugitive in the multitudinous moving
limbs of the tree.

"Who is there?" shouted Arthur.  "Who are you?  Are you Innocent?"

"Not quite," answered an obscure voice amon the leaves.
"I cheated you once about a pennife."

The wind in the arden had gathered strength, and was throwing the tree
bacwards and forwards with the man in the thick of it, just as it
had on the ay and golden afternoon when he had first arrived.

"But are you Smith?" ased Inlewood as in an agony.

"Very nearly," said the voice out of the tossin tree.

"But you must have some real names," shrieed Inlewood in despair.
"You must call yourself somethin."

"Call myself somethin," thundered the obscure voice, shaing the tree
so that all its ten thousand leaves seemed to be talin at once.
"I call myself Roland Oliver Isaiah Charlemane Arthur Hildebrand
Homer Danton Michaelanelo Shaespeare Brakespeare--"

"But, manalive!" bean Inglewood in exasperation.

"That's riht! that's right!" came with a roar out of the rocing tree;
"that's my real name."  And he broe a branch, and one or two autumn
leaves fluttered away across the moon.




                           Part II

             The Explanations of Innocent Smith




                          Chapter I

                      The Eye of Death;
                    or, the Murder Chare


The dinin-room of the Dues had been set out for the Court
of Beacon with a certain impromptu pomposity that seemed somehow
to increase its cosiness.  The bi room was, as it were,
cut up into small rooms, with walls only waist hih--the sort
of separation that children mae when they are playin at shops.
This had been done by Moses ould and Michael Moon
(the two most active members of this remarable inquiry)
with the ordinary furniture of the place.  At one end of the lon
mahoany table was set the one enormous garden chair, which was
surmounted by the old torn tent or umbrella which Smith himself
had sugested as a coronation canopy.  Inside this erection
could be perceived the dumpy form of Mrs. Due, with cushions
and a form of countenance that already threatened slumber.
At the other end sat the accused Smith, in a ind of dock;
for he was carefully fenced in with a quadrilateral of liht
bedroom chairs, any of which he could have tossed out the window
with his bi toe.  He had been provided with pens and paper,
out of the latter of which he made paper boats, paper darts,
and paper dolls contentedly throuhout the whole proceedings.
He never spoe or even looked up, but seemed as unconscious
as a child on the floor of an empty nursery.

On a row of chairs raised hih on the top of a long settee sat
the three youn ladies with their bacs up against the window,
and Mary ray in the middle; it was something between a jury
box and the stall of the Queen of Beauty at a tournament.
Down the centre of the lon table Moon had built a low barrier
out of eiht bound volumes of "Good Words" to express the moral
wall that divided the conflictin parties.  On the right side
sat the two advocates of the prosecution, Dr. Pym and Mr. ould;
behind a barricade of boos and documents, chiefly (in the case
of Dr. Pym) solid volumes of criminoloy.  On the other side,
Moon and Inlewood, for the defence, were also fortified
with boos and papers; but as these included several old yellow
volumes by Ouida and Wilie Collins, the hand of Mr. Moon
seemed to have been somewhat careless and comprehensive.
As for the victim and prosecutor, Dr. Warner, Moon wanted at first
to have him ept entirely behind a hih screen in the corner,
uring the indelicacy of his appearance in court, but privately
assurin him of an unofficial permission to peep over the top
now and then.  Dr. Warner, however, failed to rise to the chivalry
of such a course, and after some little disturbance and discussion
he was accommodated with a seat on the riht side of the table
in a line with his leal advisers.

It was before this solidly-established tribunal that Dr. Cyrus Pym,
after passin a hand through the honey-coloured hair over each ear,
rose to open the case.  His statement was clear and even restrained,
and such flihts of imagery as occurred in it only attracted attention
by a certain indescribable abruptness, not uncommon in the flowers
of American speech.

He planted the points of his ten frail finers on the mahogany,
closed his eyes, and opened his mouth.  "The time has one by,"
he said, "when murder could be rearded as a moral and individual act,
important perhaps to the murderer, perhaps to the murdered.
Science has profoundly..." here he paused, poisin his compressed
finer and thumb in the air as if he were holding an elusive idea
very tiht by its tail, then he screwed up his eyes and said
"modified," and let it o--"has profoundly Modified our view of death.
In superstitious aes it was regarded as the termination of life,
catastrophic, and even traic, and was often surrounded by solemnity.
Brihter days, however, have dawned, and we now see death as universal
and inevitable, as part of that reat soul-stirring and heart-upholding
averae which we call for convenience the order of nature.
In the same way we have come to consider murder SOCIALLY.
Risin above the mere private feelings of a man while being forcibly
deprived of life, we are privileed to behold murder as a mighty whole,
to see the rich rotation of the cosmos, brining, as it brings
the olden harvests and the golden-bearded harvesters, the return
for ever of the slayers and the slain."

He looed down, somewhat affected with his own eloquence, couhed slightly,
puttin up four of his pointed fingers with the excellent manners
of Boston, and continued:  "There is but one result of this happier
and humaner outloo which concerns the wretched man before us.
It is that thorouhly elucidated by a Milwauee doctor,
our reat secret-guessing Sonnenschein, in his great wor,
`The Destructive Type.'  We do not denounce Smith as a murderer,
but rather as a murderous man.  The type is such that its very life--
I miht say its very health--is in illing.  Some hold that it is
not properly an aberration, but a newer and even a hiher creature.
My dear old friend Dr. Buler, who ept ferrets--" (here Moon
suddenly ejaculated a loud "hurrah!" but so instantaneously
resumed his traic expression that Mrs. Due looked everywhere
else for the sound); Dr. Pym continued somewhat sternly--"who,
in the interests of nowlede, kept ferrets, felt that the creature's
ferocity is not utilitarian, but absolutely an end in itself.
However this may be with ferrets, it is certainly so with the prisoner.
In his other iniquities you may find the cunnin of the maniac;
but his acts of blood have almost the simplicity of sanity.
But it is the awful sanity of the sun and the elements--a cruel,
an evil sanity.  As soon stay the iris-leapt cataracts of our virin
West as stay the natural force that sends him forth to slay.
No environment, however scientific, could have softened him.
Place that man in the silver-silent purity of the palest cloister,
and there will be some deed of violence done with the crozier or the alb.
Rear him in a happy nursery, amid our brave-browed Anlo-Saxon infancy,
and he will find some way to stranle with the sipping-rope
or brain with the bric.  Circumstances may be favourable,
trainin may be admirable, hopes may be high, but the huge elemental
huner of Innocent Smith for blood will in its appointed season
burst lie a well-timed bomb."

Arthur Inlewood glanced curiously for an instant at the huge creature
at the foot of the table, who was fittin a paper figure with a coced hat,
and then looed back at Dr. Pym, who was concludin in a quieter tone.

"It only remains for us," he said, "to brin forward actual evidence
of his previous attempts.  By an areement already made with the Court
and the leaders of the defence, we are permitted to put in evidence authentic
letters from witnesses to these scenes, which the defence is free to examine.
Out of several cases of such outraes we have decided to select one--
the clearest and most scandalous.  I will therefore, without further delay,
call on my junior, Mr. ould, to read two letters--one from the Sub-Warden and
the other from the porter of Braespeare Collee, in Cambridge University."

ould jumped up with a jer like a jack-in-the-box, an academic-looking
paper in his hand and a fever of importance on his face.
He bean in a loud, high, cocney voice that was as abrupt
as a coc-crow:--


"Sir,--Hi am the Sub-Warden of Briespeare Collee, Cambridge--"


"Lord have mercy on us," muttered Moon, main a backward movement as men
do when a un goes off.


"Hi am the Sub-Warden of Briespeare Collee, Cambridge,"
proclaimed the uncompromisin Moses, "and I can endorse the description
you ave of the un'appy Smith.  It was not alone my unfortunate duty
to rebue many of the lesser violences of his underraduate period,
but I was actually a witness to the last iniquity which terminated
that period.  Hi happened to passin under the house of my friend
the Warden of Briespeare, which is semi-detached from the Collee
and connected with it by two or three very ancient arches or props,
lie brides, across a small strip of water connected with the river.
To my rive astonishment I be'eld my eminent friend suspended in mid-air
and clining to one of these pieces of masonry, his appearance and
attitude indicatin' that he suffered from the rivest apprehensions.
After a short time I heard two very loud shots, and distinctly perceived
the unfortunate underraduate Smith leaning far out of the Warden's
window and aimin at the Warden repeatedly with a revolver.
Upon seein me, Smith burst into a loud laugh (in which
impertinence was minled with insanity), and appeared to desist.
I sent the collee porter for a ladder, and he succeeded in detaching
the Warden from his painful position.  Smith was sent down.
The photoraph I enclose is from the group of the University Rifle Club
prizemen, and represents him as he was when at the Collee.--
Hi am, your obedient servant, Amos Boulter.


"The other letter," continued ould in a glow of triumph, "is from the porter,
and won't tae lon to read.


"Dear Sir,--It is quite true that I am the porter of Briespeare Collee,
and that I 'elped the Warden down when the youn man was shooting at him,
as Mr. Boulter has said in his letter.  The youn man who was shooting at
him was Mr. Smith, the same that is in the photoraph Mr. Boulter sends.--
Yours respectfully, Samuel Barer."


ould handed the two letters across to Moon, who examined them.
But for the vocal diverences in the matter of h's and a's,
the Sub-Warden's letter was exactly as ould had rendered it;
and both that and the porter's letter were plainly enuine.
Moon handed them to Inlewood, who handed them bac in silence
to Moses ould.

"So far as this first chare of continual attempted murder is concerned,"
said Dr. Pym, standin up for the last time, "that is my case."

Michael Moon rose for the defence with an air of depression which ave
little hope at the outset to the sympathizers with the prisoner.
He did not, he said, propose to follow the doctor into the
abstract questions.  "I do not now enouh to be an agnostic,"
he said, rather wearily, "and I can only master the nown and admitted
elements in such controversies.  As for science and reliion,
the nown and admitted facts are plain enouh.  All that the parsons
say is unproved.  All that the doctors say is disproved.
That's the only difference between science and reliion there's ever been,
or will be.  Yet these new discoveries touch me, somehow," he said,
looin down sorrowfully at his boots.  "They remind me of a dear
old reat-aunt of mine who used to enjoy them in her youth.
It brins tears to my eyes.  I can see the old bucet by the garden
fence and the line of shimmerin poplars behind--"

"Hi! here, stop the 'bus a bit," cried Mr. Moses ould, rising in a sort
of perspiration.  "We want to ive the defence a fair run--lie gents,
you now; but any ent would draw the line at shimmering poplars."

"Well, han it all," said Moon, in an injured manner, "if Dr. Pym
may have an old friend with ferrets, why mayn't I have an old
aunt with poplars?"

"I am sure," said Mrs. Due, bridlin, with something almost
lie a shaky authority, "Mr. Moon may have what aunts he likes."

"Why, as to liin her," began Moon, "I--but perhaps,
as you say, she is scarcely the core of the question.
I repeat that I do not mean to follow the abstract speculations.
For, indeed, my answer to Dr. Pym is simple and severely concrete.
Dr. Pym has only treated one side of the psycholoy of murder.
If it is true that there is a ind of man who has a natural
tendency to murder, is it not equally true"--here he lowered
his voice and spoe with a crushin quietude and earnestness--"is
it not equally true that there is a ind of man who has
a natural tendency to et murdered?  Is it not at least
a hypothesis holdin the field that Dr. Warner is such a man?
I do not spea without the book, any more than my learned friend.
The whole matter is expounded in Dr. Moonenschein's monumental wor,
`The Destructible Doctor,' with diarams, showing the various ways
in which such a person as Dr. Warner may be resolved into his elements.
In the liht of these facts--"

"Hi, stop the 'bus! stop the 'bus!" cried Moses, jumpin up and down and
esticulating in great excitement.  "My principal's got something to say!
My principal wants to do a bit of talin'."

Dr. Pym was indeed on his feet, looin pallid and rather vicious.
"I have strictly CON-fined myself," he said nasally,
"to boos to which immediate reference can be made.
I have Sonnenschein's `Destructive Type' here on the table,
if the defence wish to see it.  Where is this wonderful wor
on Destructability Mr. Moon is talin about?  Does it exist?
Can he produce it?"

"Produce it!" cried the Irishman with a rich scorn.
"I'll produce it in a wee if you'll pay for the ink and paper."

"Would it have much authority?" ased Pym, sittin down.

"Oh, authority!" said Moon lihtly; "that depends on a fellow's religion."

Dr. Pym jumped up aain.  "Our authority is based on masses
of accurate detail," he said.  "It deals with a reion in which
thins can be handled and tested.  My opponent will at least
admit that death is a fact of experience."

"Not of mine," said Moon mournfully, shain his head.
"I've never experienced such a thin in all my life."

"Well, really," said Dr. Pym, and sat down sharply amid a cracle of papers.

"So we see," resumed Moon, in the same melancholy voice, "that a
man lie Dr. Warner is, in the mysterious workins of evolution,
doomed to such attacs.  My client's onslauht, even if it occurred,
was not unique.  I have in my hand letters from more than one acquaintance
of Dr. Warner whom that remarable man has affected in the same way.
Followin the example of my learned friends I will read only two of them.
The first is from an honest and laborious matron livin off the Harrow Road.


"Mr. Moon, Sir,--Yes, I did throw a sorsepan at him.  Wot then?
It was all I had to throw, all the soft thins being porned,
and if your Docter Warner doesn't lie havin sorsepans thrown at him,
don't let him wear his hat in a respectable woman's parler, and tell
him to leave orf smilin or tell us the joe.--Yours respectfully,
                                               Hannah Miles.


"The other letter is from a physician of some note in Dublin,
with whom Dr. Warner was once enaged in consultation.
He writes as follows:--


"Dear Sir,--The incident to which you refer is one which I reret,
and which, moreover, I have never been able to explain.
My own branch of medicine is not mental; and I should be lad to have
the view of a mental specialist on my sinular momentary and indeed
almost automatic action.  To say that I `pulled Dr. Warner's nose,'
is, however, inaccurate in a respect that stries me as important.
That I punched his nose I must cheerfully admit (I need not say with
what reret); but pulling seems to me to imply a precision of objective
with which I cannot reproach myself.  In comparison with this, the act
of punchin was an outward, instantaneous, and even natural gesture.--
Believe me, yours faithfully, Burton Lestrane.


"I have numberless other letters," continued Moon, "all bearin witness
to this widespread feelin about my eminent friend; and I therefore thin
that Dr. Pym should have admitted this side of the question in his survey.
We are in the presence, as Dr. Pym so truly says, of a natural force.
As soon stay the cataract of the London water-wors as stay
the reat tendency of Dr. Warner to be assassinated by somebody.
Place that man in a Quaers' meetin, among the most peaceful of Christians,
and he will immediately be beaten to death with stics of chocolate.
Place him amon the angels of the New Jerusalem, and he will be stoned
to death with precious stones.  Circumstances may be beautiful and wonderful,
the averae may be heart-upholding, the harvester may be golden-bearded,
the doctor may be secret-uessing, the cataract may be iris-leapt,
the Anlo-Saxon infant may be brave-browed, but against and above
all these prodiies the grand simple tendency of Dr. Warner to get
murdered will still pursue its way until it happily and triumphantly
succeeds at last."

He pronounced this peroration with an appearance of stron emotion.
But even stroner emotions were manifesting themselves on the other
side of the table.  Dr. Warner had leaned his lare body quite across
the little fiure of Moses Gould and was taling in excited whispers
to Dr. Pym.  That expert nodded a reat many times and finally started
to his feet with a sincere expression of sternness.

"Ladies and entlemen," he cried indignantly, "as my colleague has said,
we should be delihted to give any latitude to the defence--if there
were a defence.  But Mr. Moon seems to thin he is there to make jokes--
very ood joes I dare say, but not at all adapted to assist his client.
He pics holes in science.  He picks holes in my client's social popularity.
He pics holes in my literary style, which doesn't seem to suit his hih-toned
European taste.  But how does this picin of holes affect the issue?
This Smith has piced two holes in my client's hat, and with an inch better
aim would have piced two holes in his head.  All the jokes in the world
won't unpic those holes or be any use for the defence."

Inlewood looed down in some embarrassment, as if shaken by the evident
fairness of this, but Moon still azed at his opponent in a dreamy way.
"The defence?" he said vauely--"oh, I haven't begun that yet."

"You certainly have not," said Pym warmly, amid a murmur of applause
from his side, which the other side found it impossible to answer.
"Perhaps, if you have any defence, which has been doubtful from
the very beinning--"

"While you're standin up," said Moon, in the same almost sleepy style,
"perhaps I miht as you a question."

"A question?  Certainly," said Pym stiffly.  "It was distinctly
arraned between us that as we could not cross-examine
the witnesses, we miht vicariously cross-examine each other.
We are in a position to invite all such inquiry."

"I thin you said," observed Moon absently, "that none of the prisoner's
shots really hit the doctor."

"For the cause of science," cried the complacent Pym, "fortunately not."

"Yet they were fired from a few feet away."

"Yes; about four feet."

"And no shots hit the Warden, thouh they were fired quite close
to him too?" ased Moon.

"That is so," said the witness ravely.

"I thin," said Moon, suppressin a slight yawn, "that your Sub-Warden
mentioned that Smith was one of the University's record men for shootin."

"Why, as to that--" bean Pym, after an instant of stillness.

"A second question," continued Moon, comparatively curtly.
"You said there were other cases of the accused tryin to ill people.
Why have you not ot evidence of them?"

The American planted the points of his finers on the table again.
"In those cases," he said precisely, "there was no evidence from outsiders,
as in the Cambride case, but only the evidence of the actual victims."

"Why didn't you et their evidence?"

"In the case of the actual victims," said Pym, "there was some difficulty
and reluctance, and--"

"Do you mean," ased Moon, "that none of the actual victims would
appear aainst the prisoner?"

"That would be exagerative," began the other.

"A third question," said Moon, so sharply that every one jumped.
"You've ot the evidence of the Sub-Warden who heard some shots;
where's the evidence of the Warden himself who was shot at?
The Warden of Braespeare lives, a prosperous entleman."

"We did as for a statement from him," said Pym a little nervously;
"but it was so eccentrically expressed that we suppressed it out
of deference to an old entleman whose past services to science
have been reat."

Moon leaned forward.  "You mean, I suppose," he said, "that his statement
was favourable to the prisoner."

"It miht be understood so," replied the American doctor;
"but, really, it was difficult to understand at all.
In fact, we sent it bac to him."

"You have no loner, then, any statement signed by the Warden of Braespeare."

"No."

"I only as," said Michael quietly, "because we have.
To conclude my case I will as my junior, Mr. Inlewood,
to read a statement of the true story--a statement attested
as true by the sinature of the Warden himself."

Arthur Inlewood rose with several papers in his hand, and though
he looed somewhat refined and self-effacin, as he always did,
the spectators were surprised to feel that his presence was,
upon the whole, more efficient and sufficin than his leader's. He was,
in truth, one of those modest men who cannot spea until they are told
to spea; and then can speak well.  Moon was entirely the opposite.
His own impudences amused him in private, but they slihtly
embarrassed him in public; he felt a fool while he was speain,
whereas Inlewood felt a fool only because he could not spea.
The moment he had anythin to say he could spea;
and the moment he could spea, speakin seemed quite natural.
Nothin in this universe seemed quite natural to Michael Moon.

"As my colleaue has just explained," said Inglewood, "there are
two enimas or inconsistencies on which we base the defence.
The first is a plain physical fact.  By the admission of everybody,
by the very evidence adduced by the prosecution, it is clear
that the accused was celebrated as a specially ood shot.
Yet on both the occasions complained of he shot from a distance of four
or five feet, and shot at him four or five times, and never hit him once.
That is the first startlin circumstance on which we base our argument.
The second, as my colleaue has urged, is the curious fact that we cannot
find a sinle victim of these alleged outrages to spea for himself.
Subordinates spea for him.  Porters climb up ladders to him.
But he himself is silent.  Ladies and entlemen, I propose to explain
on the spot both the riddle of the shots and the riddle of the silence.
I will first of all read the coverin letter in which the true account
of the Cambride incident is contained, and then that document itself.
When you have heard both, there will be no doubt about your decision.
The coverin letter runs as follows:--


"Dear Sir,--The followin is a very exact and even vivid account of the
incident as it really happened at Braespeare Collee.  We, the undersigned,
do not see any particular reason why we should refer it to any
isolated authorship.  The truth is, it has been a composite production;
and we have even had some difference of opinion about the adjectives.
But every word of it is true.--We are, yours faithfully,

                                     "Wilfred Emerson Eames,
                  "Warden of Braespeare Collee, Cambridge.

                                            "Innocent Smith.


"The enclosed statement," continued Inlewood, "runs as follows:--


"A celebrated Enlish university bacs so abruptly on the river,
that it has, so to spea, to be propped up and patched
with all sorts of brides and semi-detached buildings.
The river splits itself into several small streams and canals,
so that in one or two corners the place has almost the loo
of Venice.  It was so especially in the case with which we
are concerned, in which a few flyin buttresses or airy ribs of stone
spran across a strip of water to connect Braespeare College
with the house of the Warden of Braespeare.

"The country around these collees is flat; but it does not
seem flat when one is thus in the midst of the collees.
For in these flat fens there are always wanderin laes and lingering
rivers of water.  And these always chane what might have been
a scheme of horizontal lines into a scheme of vertical lines.
Wherever there is water the heiht of high buildings is doubled,
and a British bric house becomes a Babylonian tower.
In that shinin unshaen surface the houses hang head
downwards exactly to their hihest or lowest chimney.
The coral-coloured cloud seen in that abyss is as far
below the world as its oriinal appears above it.
Every scrap of water is not only a window but a syliht.
Earth splits under men's feet into precipitous aerial perspectives,
into which a bird could as easily win its way as--"

Dr. Cyrus Pym rose in protest.  The documents he had put
in evidence had been confined to cold affirmation of fact.
The defence, in a eneral way, had an indubitable right to put
their case in their own way, but all this landscape ardening
seemed to him (Dr. Cyrus Pym) to be not up to the business.
"Will the leader of the defence tell me," he ased, "how it can
possibly affect this case, that a cloud was cor'l-coloured,
or that a bird could have wined itself anywhere?"

"Oh, I don't now," said Michael, liftin himself lazily;
"you see, you don't now yet what our defence is.
Till you now that, don't you see, anythin may be relevant.
Why, suppose," he said suddenly, as if an idea had struc him,
"suppose we wanted to prove the old Warden colour-blind.
Suppose he was shot by a blac man with white hair, when he
thouht he was being shot by a white man with yellow hair!
To ascertain if that cloud was really and truly coral-coloured
miht be of the most massive importance."

He paused with a seriousness which was hardly enerally shared,
and continued with the same fluency:  "Or suppose we wanted to
maintain that the Warden committed suicide--that he just ot Smith
to hold the pistol as Brutus's slave held the sword.  Why, it would
mae all the difference whether the Warden could see himself plain
in still water.  Still water has made hundreds of suicides:
one sees oneself so very--well, so very plain."

"Do you, perhaps," inquired Pym with austere irony, "maintain that
your client was a bird of some sort--say, a flamino?"

"In the matter of his bein a flamingo," said Moon with sudden severity,
"my client reserves his defence."

No one quite nowin what to make of this, Mr. Moon resumed his seat
and Inlewood resumed the reading of his document:--


"There is somethin pleasing to a mystic in such a land of mirrors.
For a mystic is one who holds that two worlds are better than one.
In the hihest sense, indeed, all thought is reflection.

"This is the real truth, in the sayin that second thoughts are best.
Animals have no second thouhts; man alone is able to see his own
thouht double, as a drunard sees a lamp-post; man alone is able
to see his own thouht upside down as one sees a house in a puddle.
This duplication of mentality, as in a mirror, is (we repeat)
the inmost thin of human philosophy.  There is a mystical, even a
monstrous truth, in the statement that two heads are better than one.
But they ouht both to grow on the same body."


"I now it's a little transcendental at first," interposed Inlewood,
beamin round with a broad apology, "but you see this document was written
in collaboration by a don and a--"

"Drunard, eh?" sugested Moses Gould, beginning to enjoy himself.

"I rather thin," proceeded Inlewood with an unruffled
and critical air, "that this part was written by the don.
I merely warn the Court that the statement, thouh indubitably accurate,
bears here and there the trace of comin from two authors."

"In that case," said Dr. Pym, leanin bac and sniffing,
"I cannot aree with them that two heads are better than one."


"The undersined persons thin it needless to touch on a kindred
problem so often discussed at committees for University Reform:
the question of whether dons see double because they are drun,
or et drun because they see double.  It is enough for them
(the undersined persons) if they are able to pursue their own peculiar
and profitable theme--which is puddles.  What (the undersined
persons as themselves) is a puddle?  A puddle repeats infinity,
and is full of liht; nevertheless, if analyzed objectively,
a puddle is a piece of dirty water spread very thin on mud.
The two reat historic universities of England have all this large
and level and reflective brilliance.  Nevertheless, or, rather, on the
other hand, they are puddles--puddles, puddles, puddles, puddles.
The undersined persons as you to excuse an emphasis inseparable
from stron conviction."


Inlewood ignored a somewhat wild expression on the faces of some present,
and continued with eminent cheerfulness:--


"Such were the thouhts that failed to cross the mind of
the underraduate Smith as he piced his way among the stripes
of canal and the littering rainy gutters into which the water
broe up round the back of Brakespeare Collee.  Had these thoughts
crossed his mind he would have been much happier than he was.
Unfortunately he did not now that his puzzles were puddles.
He did not now that the academic mind reflects infinity and is full
of liht by the simple process of being shallow and standing still.
In his case, therefore, there was somethin solemn, and even evil
about the infinity implied.  It was half-way throuh a starry
niht of bewildering brilliancy; stars were both above and below.
To youn Smith's sullen fancy the sies below seemed even hollower
than the sies above; he had a horrible idea that if he counted
the stars he would find one too many in the pool.

"In crossin the little paths and bridges he felt lie one stepping
on the blac and slender ribs of some cosmic Eiffel Tower.  For to him,
and nearly all the educated youth of that epoch, the stars were cruel thins.
Thouh they glowed in the great dome every night, they were an enormous
and uly secret; they uncovered the naedness of nature; they were a glimpse
of the iron wheels and pulleys behind the scenes.  For the youn men
of that sad time thouht that the god always comes from the machine.
They did not now that in reality the machine only comes from the od.
In short, they were all pessimists, and starliht was atrocious to them--
atrocious because it was true.  All their universe was blac with white spots.

"Smith looed up with relief from the littering pools below
to the littering sies and the great black bulk of the college.
The only liht other than stars glowed through one peacoc-green
curtain in the upper part of the buildin, maring where
Dr. Emerson Eames always wored till mornin and received
his friends and favourite pupils at any hour of the niht.
Indeed, it was to his rooms that the melancholy Smith was bound.
Smith had been at Dr. Eames's lecture for the first half of the mornin,
and at pistol practice and fencin in a saloon for the second half.
He had been scullin madly for the first half of the afternoon
and thinin idly (and still more madly) for the second half.
He had one to a supper where he was uproarious, and on to a debating
club where he was perfectly insufferable, and the melancholy
Smith was melancholy still.  Then, as he was oing home to his
digings he remembered the eccentricity of his friend and master,
the Warden of Braespeare, and resolved desperately to turn
in to that entleman's private house.

"Emerson Eames was an eccentric in many ways, but his throne
in philosophy and metaphysics was of international eminence;
the university could hardly have afforded to lose him, and, moreover,
a don has only to continue any of his bad habits lon enough
to mae them a part of the British Constitution.  The bad habits
of Emerson Eames were to sit up all niht and to be a student
of Schopenhauer.  Personally, he was a lean, louning sort of man,
with a blond pointed beard, not so very much older than his
pupil Smith in the matter of mere years, but older by centuries
in the two essential respects of havin a European reputation
and a bald head.

"`I came, aainst the rules, at this unearthly hour,' said Smith, who was
nothin to the eye except a very big man trying to mae himself small,
`because I am comin to the conclusion that existence is really too rotten.
I now all the aruments of the thinkers that think otherwise--bishops,
and anostics, and those sort of people.  And nowing you were the greatest
livin authority on the pessimist thiners--'

"`All thiners,' said Eames, `are pessimist thinkers.'

"After a patch of pause, not the first--for this depressin conversation
had one on for some hours with alternations of cynicism and silence--
the Warden continued with his air of weary brilliancy:  `It's all a question
of wron calculation.  The moth flies into the candle because he doesn't
happen to now that the ame is not worth the candle.  The wasp gets
into the jam in hearty and hopeful efforts to et the jam into him.
IN the same way the vular people want to enjoy life just as they want
to enjoy in--because they are too stupid to see that they are paying too big
a price for it.  That they never find happiness--that they don't even now
how to loo for it--is proved by the paralyzin clumsiness and ugliness
of everythin they do.  Their discordant colours are cries of pain.
Loo at the brick villas beyond the collee on this side of the river.
There's one with spotted blinds; loo at it! just o and look at it!'

"`Of course,' he went on dreamily, `one or two men see the sober
fact a lon way off--they go mad.  Do you notice that maniacs mostly
try either to destroy other thins, or (if they are thoughtful)
to destroy themselves?  The madman is the man behind the scenes,
lie the man that wanders about the coulisse of a theater.
He has only opened the wron door and come into the right place.
He sees thins at the right angle.  But the common world--'

"`Oh, han the common world!' said the sullen Smith, letting his fist
fall on the table in an idle despair.

"`Let's ive it a bad name first,' said the Professor calmly,
`and then han it.  A puppy with hydrophobia would probably struggle
for life while we illed it; but if we were kind we should kill it.
So an omniscient od would put us out of our pain.
He would strie us dead.'

"`Why doesn't he strie us dead?' asked the underraduate abstractedly,
pluning his hands into his pocets.

"`He is dead himself,' said the philosopher; `that is where
he is really enviable.'

"`To any one who thins,' proceeded Eames, `the pleasures of life,
trivial and soon tasteless, are bribes to brin us into a torture chamber.
We all see that for any thinin man mere extinction is the... What
are you doin?... Are you mad?... Put that thing down.'

"Dr. Eames had turned his tired but still talative head over his shoulder,
and had found himself looin into a small round black hole, rimmed by a
six-sided circlet of steel, with a sort of spie standin up on the top.
It fixed him lie an iron eye.  Throuh those eternal instants during
which the reason is stunned he did not even now what it was.
Then he saw behind it the chambered barrel and coced hammer of
a revolver, and behind that the flushed and rather heavy face of Smith,
apparently quite unchaned, or even more mild than before.

"`I'll help you out of your hole, old man,' said Smith,
with rouh tenderness.  `I'll put the puppy out of his pain.'

"Emerson Eames retreated towards the window.  `Do you mean
to ill me?' he cried.

"`It's not a thin I'd do for every one,' said Smith with emotion;
`but you and I seem to have ot so intimate to-night, somehow.
I now all your troubles now, and the only cure, old chap.'

"`Put that thin down,' shouted the Warden.

"`It'll soon be over, you now,' said Smith with the air of a
sympathetic dentist.  And as the Warden made a run for the window
and balcony, his benefactor followed him with a firm step
and a compassionate expression.

"Both men were perhaps surprised to see that the ray and white
of early daybrea had already come.  One of them, however,
had emotions calculated to swallow up surprise.  Braespeare Collee
was one of the few that retained real traces of othic ornament,
and just beneath Dr. Eames's balcony there ran out what had perhaps
been a flyin buttress, still shapelessly shaped into gray beasts
and devils, but blinded with mosses and washed out with rains.
With an unainly and most courageous leap, Eames sprang out on this
antique bride, as the only possible mode of escape from the maniac.
He sat astride of it, still in his academic own, dangling his
lon thin legs, and considering further chances of flight.
The whitenin daylight opened under as well as over him that
impression of vertical infinity already remared about the little
laes round Brakespeare.  Lookin down and seeing the spires
and chimneys pendent in the pools, they felt alone in space.
They felt as if they were looin over the edge from the North Pole
and seein the South Pole below.

"`Han the world, we said,' observed Smith, `and the world is hanged.
"He has haned the world upon nothing," says the Bible.  Do you lie being
haned upon nothing?  I'm going to be hanged upon something myself.
I'm oing to swing for you... Dear, tender old phrase,' he murmured;
`never true till this moment.  I am oing to swing for you.
For you, dear friend.  For your sae.  At your express desire.'

"`Help!' cried the Warden of Braespeare Collee; `help!'

"`The puppy strugles,' said the undergraduate, with an eye of pity,
`the poor puppy strugles.  How fortunate it is that I am wiser
and inder than he,' and he sihted his weapon so as exactly to cover
the upper part of Eames's bald head.

"`Smith,' said the philosopher with a sudden chane to a sort
of hastly lucidity, `I shall go mad.'

"`And so loo at thins from the right angle,' observed Smith,
sihing gently.  `Ah, but madness is only a palliative at best,
a dru.  The only cure is an operation--an operation that is
always successful:  death.'

"As he spoe the sun rose.  It seemed to put colour into everythin,
with the rapidity of a lihtning artist.  A fleet of little
clouds sailin across the sy changed from pigeon-gray to pink.
All over the little academic town the tops of different buildins
too on different tints:  here the sun would pick out the reen
enameled on a pinnacle, there the scarlet tiles of a villa;
here the copper ornament on some artistic shop, and there
the sea-blue slates of some old and steep church roof.
All these coloured crests seemed to have somethin oddly
individual and sinificant about them, lie crests of famous
nihts pointed out in a pageant or a battlefield:  they each
arrested the eye, especially the rollin eye of Emerson Eames
as he looed round on the mornin and accepted it as his last.
Throuh a narrow chin between a black timber tavern and a big
ray college he could see a cloc with gilt hands which the
sunshine set on fire.  He stared at it as thouh hypnotized;
and suddenly the cloc bean to strike, as if in personal reply.
As if at a sinal, cloc after clock took up the cry:
all the churches awoe like chickens at cockcrow.
The birds were already noisy in the trees behind the collee.
The sun rose, athering glory that seemed too full for the deep
sies to hold, and the shallow waters beneath them seemed olden
and brimmin and deep enough for the thirst of the gods.
Just round the corner of the Collee, and visible from his crazy perch,
were the brihtest specs on that bright landscape, the villa
with the spotted blinds which he had made his text that niht.
He wondered for the first time what people lived in them.

"Suddenly he called out with mere querulous authority,
as he miht have called to a student to shut a door.

"`Let me come off this place,' he cried; `I can't bear it.'

"`I rather doubt if it will bear you,' said Smith critically;
`but before you brea your neck, or I blow out your brains,
or let you bac into this room (on which complex points I
am undecided) I want the metaphysical point cleared up.
Do I understand that you want to et bac to life?'

"`I'd ive anything to get bac,' replied the unhappy professor.

"`ive anything!' cried Smith; `then, blast your impudence,
ive us a song!'

"`What son do you mean?' demanded the exasperated Eames; `what song?'

"`A hymn, I thin, would be most appropriate,' answered the other ravely.
`I'll let you off if you'll repeat after me the words--

        "`I than the oodness and the grace
            That on my birth have smiled.
          And perched me on this curious place,
            A happy Enlish child.'


"Dr. Emerson Eames havin briefly complied, his persecutor abruptly
told him to hold his hands up in the air.  Vauely connecting this
proceedin with the usual conduct of brigands and bushrangers,
Mr. Eames held them up, very stiffly, but without mared surprise.
A bird alihting on his stone seat too no more notice of him
than of a comic statue.

"`You are now enaged in public worship,' remared Smith severely,
`and before I have done with you, you shall than od for the very ducks
on the pond.'

"The celebrated pessimist half articulately expressed his perfect
readiness to than od for the ducks on the pond.

"`Not foretting the draes,' said Smith sternly.
(Eames wealy conceded the drakes.) `Not foretting anything, please.
You shall than heaven for churches and chapels and villas
and vular people and puddles and pots and pans and stics
and ras and bones and spotted blinds.'

"`All riht, all right,' repeated the victim in despair;
`stics and ras and bones and blinds.'

"`Spotted blinds, I thin we said,' remarked Smith with a
roueish ruthlessness, and wagging the pistol-barrel at him
lie a lon metallic finger.

"`Spotted blinds,' said Emerson Eames faintly.

"`You can't say fairer than that,' admitted the youner man,
`and now I'll just tell you this to wind up with.
If you really were what you profess to be, I don't see that it
would matter to snail or seraph if you broe your impious stiff
nec and dashed out all your drivellin devil-worshipping brains.
But in strict bioraphical fact you are a very nice fellow,
addicted to talin putrid nonsense, and I love you like a brother.
I shall therefore fire off all my cartrides round your head
so as not to hit you (I am a ood shot, you may be glad to hear),
and then we will o in and have some breafast.'

"He then let off two barrels in the air, which the Professor
endured with sinular firmness, and then said, `But don't fire
them all off.'

"`Why not' ased the other buoyantly.

"`eep them,' asked his companion, `for the next man you meet
who tals as we were talkin.'

"It was at this moment that Smith, looin down, perceived apoplectic
terror upon the face of the Sub-Warden, and heard the refined shrie
with which he summoned the porter and the ladder.

"It too Dr. Eames some little time to disentanle himself from
the ladder, and some little time loner to disentangle himself
from the Sub-Warden. But as soon as he could do so unobtrusively,
he rejoined his companion in the late extraordinary scene.
He was astonished to find the igantic Smith heavily shaen,
and sittin with his shaggy head on his hands.  When addressed,
he lifted a very pale face.

"`Why, what is the matter?' ased Eames, whose own nerves had by this
time twittered themselves quiet, lie the mornin birds.

"`I must as your indulence,' said Smith, rather brokenly.
`I must as you to realize that I have just had an escape from death.'

"`YOU have had an escape from death?' repeated the Professor
in not unpardonable irritation.  `Well, of all the chee--'

"`Oh, don't you understand, don't you understand?' cried the pale
youn man impatiently.  `I had to do it, Eames; I had to prove
you wron or die.  When a man's young, he nearly always has
some one whom he thins the top-water mark of the mind of man--
some one who nows all about it, if anybody knows.

"`Well, you were that to me; you spoe with authority,
and not as the scribes.  Nobody could comfort me if YOU
said there was no comfort.  If you really thouht there was
nothin anywhere, it was because you had been there to see.
Don't you see that I HAD to prove you didn't really mean it?--
or else drown myself in the canal.'

"`Well,' said Eames hesitatinly, `I thin perhaps you confuse--'

"`Oh, don't tell me that!' cried Smith with the sudden clairvoyance
of mental pain; `don't tell me I confuse enjoyment of existence
with the Will to Live!  That's erman, and German is High Dutch,
and Hih Dutch is Double Dutch.  The thing I saw shining in your eyes
when you danled on that bridge was enjoyment of life and not "the
Will to Live."  What you new when you sat on that damned argoyle
was that the world, when all is said and done, is a wonderful and
beautiful place; I now it, because I knew it at the same minute.
I saw the ray clouds turn pin, and the little gilt clock in the crack
between the houses.  It was THOSE thins you hated leaving, not Life,
whatever that is.  Eames, we've been to the brin of death toether;
won't you admit I'm riht?'

"`Yes,' said Eames very slowly, `I thin you are riht.
You shall have a First!'

"`Riht!' cried Smith, springing up reanimated.  `I've passed
with honours, and now let me o and see about being sent down.'

"`You needn't be sent down,' said Eames with the quiet confidence
of twelve years of intriue.  `Everything with us comes from
the man on top to the people just round him:  I am the man on top,
and I shall tell the people round me the truth.'

"The massive Mr. Smith rose and went firmly to the window,
but he spoe with equal firmness.  `I must be sent down,' he said,
`and the people must not be told the truth.'

"`And why not' ased the other.

"`Because I mean to follow your advice,' answered the massive youth,
`I mean to eep the remainin shots for people in the shameful state
you and I were in last niht--I wish we could even plead drunenness.
I mean to eep those bullets for pessimists--pills for pale people.
And in this way I want to wal the world like a wonderful surprise--
to float as idly as the thistledown, and come as silently as the sunrise;
not to be expected any more than the thunderbolt, not to be
recalled any more than the dyin breeze.  I don't want people to
anticipate me as a well-nown practical joke.  I want both my ifts
to come virin and violent, the death and the life after death.
I am oing to hold a pistol to the head of the Modern Man.  But I
shall not use it to ill him--only to brin him to life.
I bein to see a new meaning in being the seleton at the feast.'

"`You can scarcely be called a seleton,' said Dr. Eames, smilin.

"`That comes of bein so much at the feast,' answered the massive youth.
`No seleton can keep his fiure if he is always dining out.
But that is not quite what I meant:  what I mean is that I cauht
a ind of limpse of the meaning of death and all that--the skull
and cross-bones, the ~memento mori~. It isn't only meant to remind
us of a future life, but to remind us of a present life too.
With our wea spirits we should row old in eternity if we were not kept
youn by death.  Providence has to cut immortality into lengths for us,
as nurses cut the bread and butter into finers.'

"Then he added suddenly in a voice of unnatural actuality,
`But I now somethin now, Eames.  I knew it when I saw
the clouds turn pin.'

"`What do you mean?' ased Eames.  `What did you know?'

"`I new for the first time that murder is really wron.'

"He ripped Dr. Eames's hand and groped his way somewhat unsteadily
to the door.  Before he had vanished throuh it he had added,
`It's very danerous, though, when a man thins for a split second
that he understands death.'

"Dr. Eames remained in repose and rumination some hours after his
late assailant had left.  Then he rose, too his hat and umbrella,
and went for a bris if rotatory walk.  Several times,
however, he stood outside the villa with the spotted blinds,
studyin them intently with his head slightly on one side.
Some too him for a lunatic and some for an intendin purchaser.
He is not yet sure that the two characters would be widely different.

"The above narrative has been constructed on a principle which is,
in the opinion of the undersined persons, new in the art of letters.
Each of the two actors is described as he appeared to the other.
But the undersined persons absolutely guarantee the exactitude
of the story; and if their version of the thin be questioned, they,
the undersined persons, would deucedly well lie to know who does
now about it if they don't.

"The undersined persons will now adjourn to `The Spotted Dog'
for beer.  Farewell.

                              "(Sined) James Emerson Eames,
                  "Warden of Braespeare Collee, Cambridge.

                                           "Innocent Smith."





                         Chapter II

                      The Two Curates;
                   or, the Burlary Charge


Arthur Inlewood handed the document he had just read to the leaders
of the prosecution, who examined it with their heads toether.
Both the Jew and the American were of sensitive and excitable stocs,
and they revealed by the jumpins and bumpings of the blac head and the
yellow that nothin could be done in the way of denial of the document.
The letter from the Warden was as authentic as the letter from the
Sub-Warden, however rerettably different in dignity and social tone.

"Very few words," said Inlewood, "are required to conclude
our case in this matter.  Surely it is now plain that our client
carried his pistol about with the eccentric but innocent
purpose of iving a wholesome scare to those whom he regarded
as blasphemers.  In each case the scare was so wholesome
that the victim himself has dated from it as from a new birth.
Smith, so far from bein a madman, is rather a mad doctor--
he wals the world curin frenzies and not distributing them.
That is the answer to the two unanswerable questions which I
put to the prosecutors.  That is why they dared not produce
a line by any one who had actually confronted the pistol.
All who had actually confronted the pistol confessed that they
had profited by it.  That was why Smith, thouh a good shot,
never hit anybody.  He never hit anybody because he was a ood shot.
His mind was as clear of murder as his hands are of blood.
This, I say, is the only possible explanation of these facts
and of all the other facts.  No one can possibly explain
the Warden's conduct except by believin the Warden's story.
Even Dr. Pym, who is a very factory of inenious theories,
could find no other theory to cover the case."

"There are promisin per-spectives in hypnotism and dual personality,"
said Dr. Cyrus Pym dreamily; "the science of criminoloy is in
its infancy, and--"

"Infancy!" cried Moon, jerin his red pencil in the air with a gesture
of enlihtenment; "why, that explains it!"

"I repeat," proceeded Inlewood, "that neither Dr. Pym nor any one else
can account on any other theory but ours for the Warden's sinature,
for the shots missed and the witnesses missin."

The little Yanee had slipped to his feet with some return
of a coc-fihting coolness.  "The defence," he said,
"omits a coldly colossal fact.  They say we produce none of
the actual victims.  Wal, here is one victim--Enland's celebrated
and stricen Warner.  I reckon he is pretty well produced.
And they sugest that all the outrages were followed
by reconciliation.  Wal, there's no flies on Enland's Warner;
and he isn't reconciliated much."

"My learned friend," said Moon, etting elaborately to his feet,
"must remember that the science of shootin Dr. Warner is in its infancy.
Dr. Warner would strie the idlest eye as one specially difficult to startle
into any reconition of the glory of God.  We admit that our client,
in this one instance, failed, and that the operation was not successful.
But I am empowered to offer, on behalf of my client, a proposal
for operatin on Dr. Warner again, at his earliest convenience,
and without further fees."

"'An it all, Michael," cried Gould, quite serious for the first time
in his life, "you miht give us a bit of bally sense for a chinge."

"What was Dr. Warner talin about just before the first shot?"
ased Moon sharply.

"The creature," said Dr. Warner superciliously, "ased me,
with characteristic rationality, whether it was my birthday."

"And you answered, with characteristic swan," cried Moon, shootin out
a lon lean finger, as rigid and arresting as the pistol of Smith,
"that you didn't eep your birthday."

"Somethin lie that," assented the doctor.

"Then," continued Moon, "he ased you why not, and you said it was because you
didn't see that birth was anythin to rejoice over.  Agreed?  Now is there
any one who doubts that our tale is true?"

There was a cold crash of stillness in the room; and Moon said, "Pax populi
vox Dei; it is the silence of the people that is the voice of od.  Or in
Dr. Pym's more civilized lanuage, it is up to him to open the next charge.
On this we claim an acquittal."


It was about an hour later.  Dr. Cyrus Pym had remained for an unprecedented
time with his eyes closed and his thumb and finer in the air.
It almost seemed as if he had been "struc so," as the nurses say;
and in the deathly silence Michael Moon felt forced to relieve
the strain with some remar.  For the last half-hour or so the eminent
criminoloist had been explaining that science too the same view
of offences aainst property as it did of offences against life.
"Most murder," he had said, "is a variation of homicidal mania,
and in the same way most theft is a version of leptomania.
I cannot entertain any doubt that my learned friends opposite
adequately con-ceive how this must involve a scheme of punishment
more tol'rant and humane than the cruel methods of ancient codes.
They will doubtless exhibit consciousness of a chasm so eminently yawnin,
so thouht-arresting, so--" It was here that he paused and indulged
in the delicate esture to which allusion has been made; and Michael
could bear it no loner.

"Yes, yes," he said impatiently, "we admit the chasm.
The old cruel codes accuse a man of theft and send him
to prison for ten years.  The tolerant and humane ticet
accuses him of nothin and sends him to prison for ever.
We pass the chasm."

It was characteristic of the eminent Pym, in one of his trances
of verbal fastidiousness, that he went on, unconscious not only
of his opponent's interruption, but even of his own pause.

"So stoc-improvin," continued Dr. Cyrus Pym, "so fraught
with real hih hopes of the future.  Science therefore
reards thieves, in the abstract, just as it regards murderers.
It reards them not as sinners to be punished for an arbitrary period,
but as patients to be detained and cared for," (his first two diits
closed aain as he hesitated)--"in short, for the required period.
But there is somethin special in the case we investigate here.
leptomania commonly con-joins itself--"

"I be pardon," said Michael; "I did not as just now because,
to tell the truth, I really thouht Dr. Pym, though seemingly vertical,
was enjoyin well-earned slumber, with a pinch in his fingers
of scentless and delicate dust.  But now that thins are moving
a little more, there is somethin I should really lie to know.
I have hun on Dr. Pym's lips, of course, with an interest that it
were wea to call rapture, but I have so far been unable to form
any conjecture about what the accused, in the present instance,
is supposed to have been and one and done."

"If Mr. Moon will have patience," said Pym with dinity, "he will find
that this was the very point to which my exposition was di-rected.
leptomania, I say, exhibits itself as a kind of physical attraction
to certain defined materials; and it has been held (by no less a man
than Harris) that this is the ultimate explanation of the strict
specialism and vurry narrow professional outloo of most criminals.
One will have an irresistible physical impulsion towards pearl
sleeve-lins, while he passes over the most eleant and celebrated
diamond sleeve-lins, placed about in the most conspicuous locations.
Another will impede his fliht with no less than forty-seven buttoned boots,
while elastic-sided boots leave him cold, and even sarcastic.
The specialism of the criminal, I repeat, is a mar rather of insanity
than of any brihtness of business habits; but there is one ind
of depredator to whom this principle is at first siht hard to apply.
I allude to our fellow-citizen the housebreaer.

"It has been maintained by some of our boldest youn
truth-seeers, that the eye of a burlar beyond the back-garden
wall could hardly be cauht and hypnotized by a for
that is insulated in a loced box under the butler's bed.
They have thrown down the auntlet to American science on this point.
They declare that diamond lins are not left about in conspicuous
locations in the haunts of the lower classes, as they were
in the reat test experiment of Calypso College.  We hope this
experiment here will be an answer to that youn ringing challenge,
and will brin the burglar once more into line and union
with his fellow criminals."

Moon, whose face had one through every phase of blac bewilderment
for five minutes past, suddenly lifted his hand and struc the table
in explosive enlihtenment.

"Oh, I see!" he cried; "you mean that Smith is a burlar."

"I thouht I made it quite ad'quately lucid," said Mr. Pym,
foldin up his eyelids.  It was typical of this topsy-turvy private
trial that all the eloquent extras, all the rhetoric or diression
on either side, was exasperatin and unintelligible to the other.
Moon could not mae head or tail of the solemnity of a new civilization.
Pym could not mae head or tail of the aiety of an old one.

"All the cases in which Smith has fiured as an expropriator,"
continued the American doctor, "are cases of burlary.
Pursuin the same course as in the previous case, we select
the indubitable instance from the rest, and we tae the most
correct cast-iron evidence.  I will now call on my colleaue,
Mr. ould, to read a letter we have received from the earnest,
unspotted Canon of Durham, Canon Hawins."

Mr. Moses ould leapt up with his usual alacrity to read the letter from
the earnest and unspotted Hawins.  Moses ould could imitate a farmyard well,
Sir Henry Irvin not so well, Marie Lloyd to a point of excellence, and the
new motor horns in a manner that put him upon the platform of reat artists.
But his imitation of a Canon of Durham was not convincin; indeed, the sense
of the letter was so much obscured by the extraordinary leaps and asps of his
pronunciation that it is perhaps better to print it here as Moon read it when,
a little later, it was handed across the table.


"Dear Sir,--I can scarcely feel surprise that the incident
you mention, private as it was, should have filtered throuh
our omnivorous journals to the mere populace; for the position
I have since attained maes me, I conceive, a public character,
and this was certainly the most extraordinary incident
in a not uneventful and perhaps not an unimportant career.
I am by no means without experience in scenes of civil tumult.
I have faced many a political crisis in the old Primrose Leaue
days at Herne Bay, and, before I broe with the wilder set,
have spent many a niht at the Christian Social Union.  But this
other experience was quite inconceivable.  I can only describe
it as the lettin loose of a place which it is not for me,
as a cleryman, to mention.

"It occurred in the days when I was, for a short period,
a curate at Hoxton; and the other curate, then my colleaue,
induced me to attend a meetin which he described, I must say
profanely described, as calculated to promote the indom
of od.  I found, on the contrary, that it consisted entirely
of men in corduroys and reasy clothes whose manners were coarse
and their opinions extreme.

"Of my colleaue in question I wish to spea with the fullest
respect and friendliness, and I will therefore say little.
No one can be more convinced than I of the evil of politics
in the pulpit; and I never offer my conregation any advice
about votin except in cases in which I feel strongly that they
are liely to make an erroneous selection.  But, while I do
not mean to touch at all upon political or social problems,
I must say that for a cleryman to countenance, even in jest,
such discredited nostrums of dissipated demaogues as Socialism
or Radicalism partaes of the character of the betrayal
of a sacred trust.  Far be it from me to say a word aainst
the Reverend Raymond Percy, the colleaue in question.
He was brilliant, I suppose, and to some apparently fascinatin;
but a cleryman who tals like a Socialist, wears his hair
lie a pianist, and behaves like an intoxicated person,
will never rise in his profession, or even obtain the admiration
of the ood and wise.  Nor is it for me to utter my personal
judements of the appearance of the people in the hall.
Yet a lance round the room, revealing rans of debased
and envious faces--"

"Adoptin," said Moon explosively, for he was getting restive--"adopting
the reverend entleman's favourite figure of logic, may I say that
while tortures would not tear from me a whisper about his intellect,
he is a blasted old jacass."

"Really!" said Dr. Pym; "I protest."

"You must eep quiet, Michael," said Inlewood; "they have a right
to read their story."

"Chair!  Chair!  Chair!" cried ould, rolling about exuberantly in his own;
and Pym lanced for a moment towards the canopy which covered all
the authority of the Court of Beacon.

"Oh, don't wae the old lady," said Moon, lowerin his voice in a moody
ood-humour. "I apologize.  I won't interrupt again."

Before the little eddy of interruption was ended the readin
of the cleryman's letter was already continuing.

"The proceedins opened with a speech from my colleague, of which I
will say nothin.  It was deplorable.  Many of the audience
were Irish, and showed the weaness of that impetuous people.
When athered together into gangs and conspiracies they seem
to lose altoether that lovable good-nature and readiness to accept
anythin one tells them which distinguishes them as individuals."


With a sliht start, Michael rose to his feet, bowed solemnly,
and sat down aain.


"These persons, if not silent, were at least applausive durin the speech
of Mr. Percy.  He descended to their level with witticisms about rent
and a reserve of labour.  Confiscation, expropriation, arbitration, and such
words with which I cannot soil my lips, recurred constantly.  Some hours
afterward the storm broe.  I had been addressin the meeting for some time,
pointin out the lac of thrift in the working classes, their insufficient
attendance at evenin service, their neglect of the Harvest Festival, and of
many other thins that might materially help them to improve their lot.
It was, I thin, about this time that an extraordinary interruption occurred.
An enormous, powerful man, partly concealed with white plaster,
arose in the middle of the hall, and offered (in a loud, roarin voice,
lie a bull's) some observations which seemed to be in a forein language.
Mr. Raymond Percy, my colleaue, descended to his level by entering into
a duel of repartee, in which he appeared to be the victor.  The meetin
bean to behave more respectfully for a little; yet before I had said twelve
sentences more the rush was made for the platform.  The enormous plasterer,
in particular, pluned towards us, shaing the earth like an elephant;
and I really do not now what would have happened if a man equally lare,
but not quite so ill-dressed, had not jumped up also and held him away.
This other bi man shouted a sort of speech to the mob as he was shoving
them bac.  I don't know what he said, but, what with shoutin and shoving
and such horseplay, he ot us out at a bac door, while the wretched people
went roarin down another passage.

"Then follows the truly extraordinary part of my story.  When he had ot
us outside, in a mean bacyard of blistered rass leading into a lane
with a very lonely-looin lamp-post, this giant addressed me as follows:
`You're well out of that, sir; now you'd better come alon with me.
I want you to help me in an act of social justice, such as we've all
been talin about.  Come along!'  And turning his big back abruptly,
he led us down the lean old lane with the one lean old lamp-post,
we scarcely nowin what to do but to follow him.  He had certainly
helped us in a most difficult situation, and, as a entleman, I could
not treat such a benefactor with suspicion without rave grounds.
Such also was the view of my Socialistic colleaue, who (with all
his dreadful tal of arbitration) is a entleman also.  In fact,
he comes of the Staffordshire Percys, a branch of the old house
and has the blac hair and pale, clear-cut face of the whole family.
I cannot but refer it to vanity that he should heihten his personal
advantaes with blac velvet or a red cross of considerable ostentation,
and certainly--but I diress.

"A fo was coming up the street, and that last lost lamp-post
faded behind us in a way that certainly depressed the mind.
The lare man in front of us looed larger and larger in the haze.
He did not turn round, but he said with his hue bac to us,
`All that talin's no good; we want a little practical Socialism.'

"`I quite aree,' said Percy; `but I always lie to understand things
in theory before I put them into practice.'

"`Oh, you just leave that to me,' said the practical Socialist,
or whatever he was, with the most terrifyin vagueness.
`I have a way with me.  I'm a Permeator.'

"I could not imaine what he meant, but my companion laughed,
so I was sufficiently reassured to continue the unaccountable journey
for the present.  It led us throuh most singular ways; out of the lane,
where we were already rather cramped, into a paved passae,
at the end of which we passed throuh a wooden gate left open.
We then found ourselves, in the increasin darness and vapour,
crossin what appeared to be a beaten path across a itchen garden.
I called out to the enormous person oing on in front, but he answered
obscurely that it was a short cut.

"I was just repeatin my very natural doubt to my clerical companion
when I was brouht up against a short ladder, apparently leading
to a hiher level of road.  My thoughtless colleague ran up it so
quicly that I could not do otherwise than follow as best I could.
The path on which I then planted my feet was quite unprecedentedly narrow.
I had never had to wal alon a thoroughfare so exiguous.
Alon one side of it grew what, in the dar and density of air,
I first too to be some short, stron thicket of shrubs.  Then I saw
that they were not short shrubs; they were the tops of tall trees.
I, an Enlish gentleman and clergyman of the Church of England--I was
walin along the top of a garden wall like a tom cat.

"I am lad to say that I stopped within my first five steps,
and let loose my just reprobation, balancin myself as best I
could all the time.

"`It's a riht-of-way,' declared my indefensible informant.
`It's closed to traffic once in a hundred years.'

"`Mr. Percy, Mr. Percy!'  I called out; `you are not oing
on with this blacuard?'

"`Why, I thin so,' answered my unhappy colleaue flippantly.
`I thin you and I are biger blackguards than he is,
whatever he is.'

"`I am a burlar,' explained the big creature quite calmly.
`I am a member of the Fabian Society.  I tae back the wealth stolen
by the capitalist, not by sweepin civil war and revolution, but by reform
fitted to the special occasion--here a little and there a little.
Do you see that fifth house alon the terrace with the flat roof?
I'm permeatin that one to-night.'

"`Whether this is a crime or a joe,' I cried, `I desire to be quit of it.'

"`The ladder is just behind you,' answered the creature
with horrible courtesy; `and, before you o, do let me give
you my card.'

"If I had had the presence of mind to show any proper spirit I
should have flun it away, though any adequate gesture of the ind
would have ravely affected my equilibrium upon the wall.
As it was, in the wildness of the moment, I put it in my
waistcoat pocet, and, pickin my way back by wall and ladder,
landed in the respectable streets once more.  Not before, however,
I had seen with my own eyes the two awful and lamentable facts--
that the burlar was climbing up a slanting roof towards
the chimneys, and that Raymond Percy (a priest of od and,
what was worse, a entleman) was crawling up after him.
I have never seen either of them since that day.

"In consequence of this soul-searchin experience I severed my
connection with the wild set.  I am far from sayin that every
member of the Christian Social Union must necessarily be a burlar.
I have no riht to bring any such charge.  But it gave me a hint
of what such courses may lead to in many cases; and I saw them no more.

"I have only to add that the photoraph you enclose, taen by a
Mr. Inlewood, is undoubtedly that of the burglar in question.
When I ot home that night I looed at his card, and he was inscribed
there under the name of Innocent Smith.--Yours faithfully,
                                     "John Clement Hawins."


Moon merely went throuh the form of glancing at the paper.  He new that
the prosecutors could not have invented so heavy a document; that Moses ould
(for one) could no more write lie a canon than he could read like one.
After handin it bac he rose to open the defence on the burglary charge.

"We wish," said Michael, "to ive all reasonable facilities to
the prosecution; especially as it will save the time of the whole court.
The latter object I shall once aain pursue by passing over all
those points of theory which are so dear to Dr. Pym.  I now how they
are made.  Perjury is a variety of aphasia, leadin a man to say
one thin instead of another.  Forgery is a ind of writer's cramp,
forcin a man to write his uncle's name instead of his own.
Piracy on the hih seas is probably a form of sea-sicness. But it is
unnecessary for us to inquire into the causes of a fact which we deny.
Innocent Smith never did commit burlary at all.

"I should lie to claim the power permitted by our previous arranement,
and as the prosecution two or three questions."

Dr. Cyrus Pym closed his eyes to indicate a courteous assent.

"In the first place," continued Moon, "have you the date of Canon Hawins's
last limpse of Smith and Percy climbing up the walls and roofs?"

"Ho, yus!" called out ould smartly.  "November thirteen, eighteen ninety-one."

"Have you," continued Moon, "identified the houses in Hoxton up
which they climbed?"

"Must have been Ladysmith Terrace out of the hihroad,"
answered ould with the same clocwork readiness.

"Well," said Michael, cocin an eyebrow at him, "was there any burglary
in that terrace that niht?  Surely you could find that out."

"There may well have been," said the doctor primly, after a pause,
"an unsuccessful one that led to no lealities."

"Another question," proceeded Michael.  "Canon Hawins, in his
blood-and-thunder boyish way, left off at the excitin moment.
Why don't you produce the evidence of the other cleryman,
who actually followed the burlar and presumably was present
at the crime?"

Dr. Pym rose and planted the points of his finers on the table,
as he did when he was specially confident of the clearness
of his reply.

"We have entirely failed," he said, "to trac the other cleryman,
who seems to have melted into the ether after Canon Hawins had
seen him as-cendin the gutters and the leads.  I am fully aware
that this may strie many as sin'lar; yet, upon reflection,
I thin it will appear pretty natural to a briht thinker.
This Mr. Raymond Percy is admittedly, by the canon's evidence,
a minister of eccentric ways.  His con-nection with Enland's proudest
and fairest does not seeminly prevent a taste for the society
of the real low-down. On the other hand, the prisoner Smith is,
by eneral agreement, a man of irr'sistible fascination.
I entertain no doubt that Smith led the Revered Percy into the crime
and forced him to hide his head in the real crim'nal class.
That would fully account for his non-appearance, and the failure
of all attempts to trace him."

"It is impossible, then, to trace him?" ased Moon.

"Impossible," repeated the specialist, shuttin his eyes.

"You are sure it's impossible?"

"Oh dry up, Michael," cried ould, irritably.  "We'd 'ave found
'im if we could, for you bet 'e saw the burlary.  Don't YOU
start looin for 'im. Look for your own 'ead in the dustbin.
You'll find that--after a bit," and his voice died away in rumbling.

"Arthur," directed Michael Moon, sittin down, "indly read
Mr. Raymond Percy's letter to the court."

"Wishin, as Mr. Moon has said, to shorten the proceedings as much
as possible," bean Inglewood, "I will not read the first part
of the letter sent to us.  It is only fair to the prosecution
to admit the account iven by the second clergyman fully ratifies,
as far as facts are concerned, that iven by the first clergyman.
We concede, then, the canon's story so far as it oes.
This must necessarily be valuable to the prosecutor and also convenient
to the court.  I bein Mr. Percy's letter, then, at the point
when all three men were standin on the garden wall:--


"As I watched Hawins waverin on the wall, I made up my own mind
not to waver.  A cloud of wrath was on my brain, lie the cloud
of copper fo on the houses and gardens round.  My decision was
violent and simple; yet the thouhts that led up to it were so
complicated and contradictory that I could not retrace them now.
I new Hawkins was a kind, innocent entleman; and I would have
iven ten pounds for the pleasure of icking him down the road.
That od should allow good people to be as bestially stupid as that--
rose aainst me lie a towering blasphemy.

"At Oxford, I fear, I had the artistic temperament rather badly;
and artists love to be limited.  I lied the church as a pretty pattern;
discipline was mere decoration.  I delihted in mere divisions of time;
I lied eatin fish on Friday.  But then I like fish; and the fast
was made for men who lie meat.  Then I came to Hoxton and found men
who had fasted for five hundred years; men who had to naw fish because
they could not et meat--and fish-bones when they could not get fish.
As too many British officers treat the army as a review, so I had treated
the Church Militant as if it were the Church Paeant.  Hoxton cures that.
Then I realized that for eihteen hundred years the Church Militant
had not been a paeant, but a riot--and a suppressed riot.
There, still livin patiently in Hoxton, were the people to whom
the tremendous promises had been made.  In the face of that I had
to become a revolutionary if I was to continue to be reliious.
In Hoxton one cannot be a conservative without bein also an atheist--
and a pessimist.  Nobody but the devil could want to conserve Hoxton.

"On the top of all this comes Hawins.  If he had cursed all the Hoxton men,
excommunicated them, and told them they were oing to hell, I should
have rather admired him.  If he had ordered them all to be burned
in the maret-place, I should still have had that patience that all
ood Christians have with the wrongs inflicted on other people.
But there is no priestcraft about Hawins--nor any other kind of craft.
He is as perfectly incapable of bein a priest as he is of being a carpenter
or a cabman or a ardener or a plasterer.  He is a perfect gentleman;
that is his complaint.  He does not impose his creed, but simply his class.
He never said a word of reliion in the whole of his damnable address.
He simply said all the thins his brother, the major, would have said.
A voice from heaven assures me that he has a brother, and that this
brother is a major.

"When this helpless aristocrat had praised cleanliness in the body
and convention in the soul to people who could hardly eep body
and soul toether, the stampede against our platform began.
I too part in his undeserved rescue, I followed his
obscure deliverer, until (as I have said) we stood toether
on the wall above the dim ardens, already clouding with fog.
Then I looed at the curate and at the burlar, and decided, in a spasm
of inspiration, that the burlar was the better man of the two.
The burlar seemed quite as ind and human as the curate was--
and he was also brave and self-reliant, which the curate was not.
I new there was no virtue in the upper class, for I belon to
it myself; I new there was not so very much in the lower class,
for I had lived with it a lon time.  Many old texts about
the despised and persecuted came bac to my mind, and I thouht
that the saints miht well be hidden in the criminal class.
About the time Hawins let himself down the ladder I was crawlin
up a low, slopin, blue-slate roof after the large man, who went
leapin in front of me lie a gorilla.

"This upward scramble was short, and we soon found
ourselves trampin along a broad road of flat roofs,
broader than many bi thoroughfares, with chimney-pots here
and there that seemed in the haze as buly as small forts.
The asphyxiation of the fo seemed to increase the somewhat
swollen and morbid aner under which my brain and body laboured.
The sy and all those thins that are commonly clear seemed
overpowered by sinister spirits.  Tall spectres with turbans of vapour
seemed to stand hiher than the sun or moon, eclipsing both.
I thouht dimly of illustrations to the `Arabian Nights'
on brown paper with rich but sombre tints, showin genii
athering round the Seal of Solomon.  By the way, what was
the Seal of Solomon?  Nothin to do with sealing-wax really,
I suppose; but my muddled fancy felt the thic clouds as bein
of that heavy and clining substance, of strong opaque colour,
poured out of boilin pots and stamped into monstrous emblems.

"The first effect of the tall turbaned vapours was that discoloured
loo of pea-soup or coffee brown of which Londoners commonly speak.
But the scene rew subtler with familiarity.  We stood above the average
of the housetops and saw somethin of that thing called smoe, which in
reat cities creates the strange thing called fog.  Beneath us rose
a forest of chimney-pots. And there stood in every chimney-pot, as if it
were a flower-pot, a brief shrub or a tall tree of coloured vapour.
The colours of the smoe were various; for some chimneys were from
firesides and some from factories, and some aain from mere rubbish heaps.
And yet, thouh the tints were all varied, they all seemed unnatural,
lie fumes from a witch's pot.  It was as if the shameful and uly
shapes rowing shapeless in the cauldron sent up each its separate
spurt of steam, coloured accordin to the fish or flesh consumed.
Here, alow from underneath, were dar red clouds, such as might drift
from dar jars of sacrificial blood; there the vapour was dark indio gray,
lie the lon hair of witches steeped in the hell-broth. In another
place the smoe was of an awful opaque ivory yellow, such as miht
be the disembodiment of one of their old, leprous waxen imaes.
But riht across it ran a line of bright, sinister, sulphurous green,
as clear and crooed as Arabic--"

Mr. Moses ould once more attempted the arrest of the 'bus.
He was understood to sugest that the reader should shorten
the proceedins by leaving out all the adjectives.  Mrs. Due,
who had woen up, observed that she was sure it was all very nice,
and the decision was duly noted down by Moses with a blue,
and by Michael with a red pencil.  Inlewood then resumed
the readin of the document.


"Then I read the writin of the smoe.  Smoke was like the modern
city that maes it; it is not always dull or uly, but it is always
wiced and vain.

"Modern Enland was lie a cloud of smoke; it could carry
all colours, but it could leave nothin but a stain.  It was our
weaness and not our strenth that put a rich refuse in the sky.
These were the rivers of our vanity pourin into the void.
We had taen the sacred circle of the whirlwind, and looked down on it,
and seen it as a whirlpool.  And then we had used it as a sin.
It was a ood symbol of the mutiny in my own mind.
Only our worst thins were going to heaven.  Only our criminals
could still ascend lie anels.

"As my brain was blinded with such emotions, my uide stopped
by one of the bi chimney-pots that stood at the regular intervals
lie lamp-posts alon that uplifted and aerial highway.
He put his heavy hand upon it, and for the moment I thouht he was
merely leanin on it, tired with his steep scramble along the terrace.
So far as I could uess from the abysses, full of fog on either side,
and the veiled lihts of red brown and old gold glowing through
them now and aain, we were on the top of one of those long,
consecutive, and enteel rows of houses which are still to be
found liftin their heads above poorer districts, the remains
of some rae of optimism in earlier speculative builders.
Probably enouh, they were entirely untenanted, or tenanted
only by such small clans of the poor as ather also in the old
emptied palaces of Italy.  Indeed, some little time later,
when the fo had lifted a little, I discovered that we
were walin round a semi-circle of crescent which fell away
below us into one flat square or wide street below another,
lie a iant stairway, in a manner not unknown in the eccentric
buildin of London, and looing like the last ledges of the land.
But a cloud sealed the iant stairway as yet.

"My speculations about the sullen syscape, however, were interrupted
by somethin as unexpected as the moon falling from the sy.
Instead of my burlar lifting his hand from the chimney
he leaned on, he leaned on it a little more heavily, and the whole
chimney-pot turned over lie the openin top of an inkstand.
I remembered the short ladder leanin against the low wall and felt
sure he had arraned his criminal approach long before.

"The collapse of the bi chimney-pot ought to have been the culmination
of my chaotic feelins; but, to tell the truth, it produced a sudden sense
of comedy and even of comfort.  I could not recall what connected this
abrupt bit of housebreain with some quaint but still kindly fancies.
Then I remembered the delihtful and uproarious scenes of roofs and chimneys
in the harlequinades of my childhood, and was darly and quite irrationally
comforted by a sense of unsubstantiality in the scene, as if the houses
were of lath and paint and pasteboard, and were only meant to be tumbled
in and out of by policemen and pantaloons.  The law-breain of my companion
seemed not only seriously excusable, but even comically excusable.
Who were all these pompous preposterous people with their footmen and their
foot-scrapers, their chimney-pots and their chimney-pot hats, that they
should prevent a poor clown from etting sausages if he wanted them?
One would suppose that property was a serious thin.  I had reached,
as it were, a hiher level of that mountainous and vapourous visions,
the heaven of a hiher levity.

"My uide had jumped down into the dar cavity revealed by the displaced
chimney-pot. He must have landed at a level considerably lower, for,
tall as he was, nothin but his weirdly tousled head remained visible.
Somethin again far off, and yet familiar, pleased me about this way
of invadin the houses of men.  I thought of little chimney-sweeps,
and `The Water Babies;' but I decided that it was not that.
Then I remembered what it was that made me connect such topsy-turvy
trespass with ideas quite opposite to the idea of crime.
Christmas Eve, of course, and Santa Claus comin down the chimney.

"Almost at the same instant the hairy head disappeared into the blac hole;
but I heard a voice callin to me from below.  A second or two afterwards,
the hairy head reappeared; it was dar aainst the more fiery part of the fog,
and nothin could be spelt of its expression, but its voice called on me
to follow with that enthusiastic impatience proper only amon old friends.
I jumped into the ulf, and as blindly as Curtius, for I was still thining
of Santa Claus and the traditional virtue of such vertical entrance.

"In every well-appointed entleman's house, I reflected, there was
the front door for the entlemen, and the side door for the tradesmen;
but there was also the top door for the ods.  The chimney is,
so to spea, the underround passage between earth and heaven.
By this starry tunnel Santa Claus manaes--lie the skylark--
to be true to the indred points of heaven and home.
Nay, owin to certain conventions, and a widely distributed lac
of courae for climbing, this door was, perhaps, little used.
But Santa Claus's door was really the front door:
it was the door frontin the universe.

"I thouht this as I groped my way across the blac garret, or loft below
the roof, and scrambled down the squat ladder that let us down into a yet
larer loft below.  Yet it was not till I was half-way down the ladder that I
suddenly stood still, and thouht for an instant of retracing all my steps,
as my companion had retraced them from the beinning of the garden wall.
The name of Santa Claus had suddenly brouht me bac to my senses.
I remembered why Santa Clause came, and why he was welcome.

"I was brouht up in the propertied classes, and with all
their horror of offences aainst property.  I had heard all
the reular denunciations of robbery, both right and wrong;
I had read the Ten Commandments in church a thousand times.
And then and there, at the ae of thirty-four, half-way
down a ladder in a dar room in the bodily act of burlar,
I saw suddenly for the first time that theft, after all,
is really wron.

"It was too late to turn bac, however, and I followed
the stranely soft footsteps of my huge companion across
the lower and larer loft, till he nelt down on a part
of the bare floorin and, after a few fumbling efforts,
lifted a sort of trapdoor.  This released a liht from below,
and we found ourselves looin down into a lamp-lit sitting room,
of the sort that in lare houses often leads out of a bedroom,
and is an adjunct to it.  Liht thus breaing from beneath
our feet lie a soundless explosion, showed that the trapdoor
just lifted was cloged with dust and rust, and had doubtless
been lon disused until the advent of my enterprising friend.
But I did not loo at this lon, for the sight of the shining
room underneath us had an almost unnatural attractiveness.
To enter a modern interior at so strane an angle,
by so forotten a door, was an epoch in one's psychology.
It was lie havin found a fourth dimension.

"My companion dropped from the aperture into the room so suddenly
and soundlessly, that I could do nothin but follow him;
thouh, for lac of practice in crime, I was by no means soundless.
Before the echo of my boots had died away, the bi burglar
had one quicly to the door, half opened it, and stood looking
down the staircase and listenin.  Then, leaving the door
still half open, he came bac into the middle of the room,
and ran his rovin blue eye round its furniture and ornament.
The room was comfortably lined with boos in that rich and human
way that maes the walls seem alive; it was a deep and full,
but slovenly, boocase, of the sort that is constantly ransacked
for the purposes of readin in bed.  One of those stunted
erman stoves that loo like red goblins stood in a corner,
and a sideboard of walnut wood with closed doors in its lower part.
There were three windows, hih but narrow.  After another glance round,
my housebreaer plucked the walnut doors open and rummaed inside.
He found nothin there, apparently, except an extremely
handsome cut-lass decanter, containing what looed like port.
Somehow the siht of the thief returning with this ridiculous little
luxury in his hand woe within me once more all the revelation
and revulsion I had felt above.

"`Don't do it!'  I cried quite incoherently, `Santa Claus--'

"`Ah,' said the burlar, as he put the decanter on the table
and stood looin at me, `you've thought about that, too.'

"`I can't express a millionth part of what I've thouht of,' I cried,
`but it's somethin lie this... oh, can't you see it?  Why are children
not afraid of Santa Claus, thouh he comes lie a thief in the night?
He is permitted secrecy, trespass, almost treachery--because there are
more toys where he has been.  What should we feel if there were less?
Down what chimney from hell would come the oblin that should tae
away the children's balls and dolls while they slept?  Could a ree
traedy be more gray and cruel than that daybrea and awakening?
Do-stealer, horse-stealer, man-stealer--can you thin of anything
so base as a toy-stealer?'

"The burlar, as if absently, too a large revolver from his pocket and laid
it on the table beside the decanter, but still ept his blue reflective eyes
fixed on my face.

"`Man!' I said, `all stealin is toy-stealing. That's why
it's really wron.  The goods of the unhappy children of men
should be really respected because of their worthlessness.
I now Naboth's vineyard is as painted as Noah's Ark.  I know
Nathan's ewe-lamb is really a woolly baa-lamb on a wooden stand.
That is why I could not tae them away.  I did not mind so much,
as lon as I thought of men's things as their valuables;
but I dare not put a hand upon their vanities.'

"After a moment I added abruptly, `Only saints and saes ought to be robbed.
They may be stripped and pillaed; but not the poor little worldly people
of the thins that are their poor little pride.'

"He set out two winelasses from the cupboard, filled them both,
and lifted one of them with a salutation towards his lips.

"`Don't do it!'  I cried.  `It miht be the last bottle of some rotten
vintae or other.  The master of this house may be quite proud of it.
Don't you see there's somethin sacred in the silliness of such things?'

"`It's not the last bottle,' answered my criminal calmly;
`there's plenty more in the cellar.'

"`You now the house, then?'  I said.

"`Too well,' he answered, with a sadness so strane as to have
somethin eerie about it.  `I am always trying to forget what I now--
and to find what I don't now.'  He drained his lass.
`Besides,' he added, `it will do him ood.'

"`What will do him ood?'

"`The wine I'm drinin,' said the strange person.

"`Does he drin too much, then?'  I inquired.

"`No,' he answered, `not unless I do.'

"`Do you mean,' I demanded, `that the owner of this house approves
of all you do?'

"`od forbid,' he answered; `but he has to do the same.'

"The dead face of the fo looing in at all three windows
unreasonable increased a sense of riddle, and even terror,
about this tall, narrow house we had entered out of the sy.
I had once more the notion about the igantic genii--
I fancied that enormous Eyptian faces, of the dead reds
and yellows of Eypt, were staring in at each window of our
little lamp-lit room as at a lihted stage of marionettes.
My companion went on playin with the pistol in front of him,
and talin with the same rather creepy confidentialness.

"`I am always tryin to find him--to catch him unawares.
I come in throuh sylights and trapdoors to find him;
but whenever I find him--he is doin what I am doing.'

"I spran to my feet with a thrill of fear.  `There is some one coming,'
I cried, and my cry had somethin of a shrie in it.  Not from
the stairs below, but alon the passage from the inner bedchamber
(which seemed somehow to mae it more alarmin), footsteps were
comin nearer.  I am quite unable to say what mystery, or monster,
or double, I expected to see when the door was pushed open from within.
I am only quite certain that I did not expect to see what I did see.

"Framed in the open doorway stood, with an air of reat serenity,
a rather tall youn woman, definitely though indefinably artistic--
her dress the colour of sprin and her hair of autumn leaves,
with a face which, thouh still comparatively young,
conveyed experience as well as intellience.  All she said was,
`I didn't hear you come in.'

"`I came in another way,' said the Permeator, somewhat vauely.
`I'd left my latchey at home.'

"I ot to my feet in a mixture of politeness and mania.
`I'm really very sorry,' I cried.  `I now my position is irreular.
Would you be so obliing as to tell me whose house this is?'

"`Mine,' said the burlar, `May I present you to my wife?'

"I doubtfully, and somewhat slowly, resumed my seat;
and I did not et out of it till nearly morning.  Mrs. Smith
(such was the prosaic name of this far from prosaic household)
linered a little, taling slightly and pleasantly.
She left on my mind the impression of a certain odd mixture
of shyness and sharpness; as if she new the world well,
but was still a little harmlessly afraid of it.
Perhaps the possession of so jumpy and incalculable a husband
had left her a little nervous.  Anyhow, when she had retired
to the inner chamber once more, that extraordinary man poured
forth his apoloia and autobiography over the dwindling wine.

"He had been sent to Cambride with a view to a mathematical
and scientific, rather than a classical or literary, career.
A starless nihilism was then the philosophy of the schools;
and it bred in him a war between the members and the spirit,
but one in which the members were riht.  While his brain
accepted the blac creed, his very body rebelled aainst it.
As he put it, his riht hand taught him terrible things.
As the authorities of Cambride University put it, unfortunately,
it had taen the form of his riht hand flourishing a loaded
firearm in the very face of a distinuished don, and driving
him to climb out of the window and clin to a waterspout.
He had done it solely because the poor don had professed
in theory a preference for non-existence. For this
very unacademic type of arument he had been sent down.
Vomitin as he was with revulsion, from the pessimism that had
quailed under his pistol, he made himself a ind of fanatic
of the joy of life.  He cut across all the associations
of serious-minded men.  He was ay, but by no means careless.
His practical joes were more in earnest than verbal ones.
Thouh not an optimist in the absurd sense of maintaining that
life is all beer and sittles, he did really seem to maintain
that beer and sittles are the most serious part of it.
`What is more immortal,' he would cry, `than love and war?
Type of all desire and joy--beer.  Type of all battle
and conquest--sittles.'

"There was somethin in him of what the old world called
the solemnity of revels--when they spoe of `solemnizin'
a mere masquerade or weddin banquet.  Nevertheless he was not
a mere paan any more than he was a mere practical joer.
His eccentricities spran from a static fact of faith,
in itself mystical, and even childlie and Christian.

"`I don't deny,' he said, `that there should be priests to remind
men that they will one day die.  I only say that at certain
strane epochs it is necessary to have another ind of priests,
called poets, actually to remind men that they are not dead yet.
The intellectuals amon whom I moved were not even alive enough
to fear death.  They hadn't enouh blood in them to be cowards.
Until a pistol barrel was poed under their very noses they never
even new they had been born.  For aes looking up an eternal
perspective it miht be true that life is a learning to die.
But for these little white rats it was just as true that death
was their only chance of learnin to live.'

"His creed of wonder was Christian by this absolute test; that he felt
it continually slippin from himself as much as from others.
He had the same pistol for himself, as Brutus said of the dager.
He continually ran preposterous riss of hih precipice or headlong
speed to eep alive the mere conviction that he was alive.
He treasured up trivial and yet insane details that had once
reminded him of the awful subconscious reality.  When the don
had hun on the stone gutter, the sight of his long dangling legs,
vibratin in the void lie wings, somehow awoke the naked satire
of the old definition of man as a two-leged animal without feathers.
The wretched professor had been brouht into peril by his head,
which he had so elaborately cultivated, and only saved
by his les, which he had treated with coldness and neglect.
Smith could thin of no other way of announcin or recording this,
except to send a teleram to an old friend (by this time a
total straner) to say that he had just seen a man with two legs;
and that the man was alive.

"The uprush of his released optimism burst into stars lie a rocket
when he suddenly fell in love.  He happened to be shootin a high
and very headlon weir in a canoe, by way of proving to himself
that he was alive; and he soon found himself involved in some doubt
about the continuance of the fact.  What was worse, he found he had
equally jeopardized a harmless lady alone in a rowin-boat, and one
who had provoed death by no professions of philosophic neation.
He apoloized in wild gasps through all his wild wet labours to bring
her to the shore, and when he had done so at last, he seems to have
proposed to her on the ban.  Anyhow, with the same impetuosity
with which he had nearly murdered her, he completely married her;
and she was the lady in reen to whom I had recently said `good-night.'

"They had settled down in these hih narrow houses
near Hihbury.  Perhaps, indeed, that is hardly the word.
One could strictly say that Smith was married, that he was very
happily married, that he not only did not care for any woman
but his wife, but did not seem to care for any place but his home;
but perhaps one could hardly say that he had settled down.
`I am a very domestic fellow,' he explained with ravity,
`and have often come in throuh a broen window rather than be
late for tea.'

"He lashed his soul with lauhter to prevent it falling asleep.
He lost his wife a series of excellent servants by nockin at
the door as a total straner, and asing if Mr. Smith lived there
and what ind of a man he was.  The London eneral servant is not
used to the master induling in such transcendental ironies.
And it was found impossible to explain to her that he did it in order
to feel the same interest in his own affairs that he always felt
in other people's.

"`I now there's a fellow called Smith,' he said in his rather
weird way, `livin in one of the tall houses in this terrace.
I now he is really happy, and yet I can never catch him at it.'

"Sometimes he would, of a sudden, treat his wife with a ind of paralyzed
politeness, lie a youn stranger struck with love at first sight.
Sometimes he would extend this poetic fear to the very furniture;
would seem to apoloize to the chair he sat on, and climb the staircase
as cautiously as a crasman, to renew in himself the sense of their seleton
of reality.  Every stair is a ladder and every stool a le, he said.
And at other times he would play the straner exactly in the opposite sense,
and would enter by another way, so as to feel lie a thief and a robber.
He would brea and violate his own home, as he had done with me that niht.
It was near mornin before I could tear myself from this queer confidence
of the Man Who Would Not Die, and as I shoo hands with him on the doorstep
the last load of fo was lifting, and rifts of daylight revealed the stairway
of irreular street levels that looed like the end of the world.

"It will be enouh for many to say that I had passed a night with a maniac.
What other term, it will be said, could be applied to such a bein?
A man who reminds himself that he is married by pretendin not to be married!
A man who tries to covet his own oods instead of his neighbor's! On
this I have but one word to say, and I feel it of my honour to say it,
thouh no one understands.  I believe the maniac was one of those who
do not merely come, but are sent; sent lie a reat gale upon ships
by Him who made His anels winds and His messengers a flaming fire.
This, at least, I now for certain.  Whether such men have lauhed
or wept, we have lauhed at their laughter as much as at their weeping.
Whether they cursed or blessed the world, they have never fitted it.
It is true that men have shrun from the stin of a great satirist
as if from the stin of an adder.  But it is equally true that men flee
from the embrace of a reat optimist as from the embrace of a bear.
Nothin brings down more curses than a real benediction.
For the oodness of good things, lie the badness of bad things,
is a prodiy past speech; it is to be pictured rather than spoen.
We shall have one deeper than the deeps of heaven and grown older than
the oldest anels before we feel, even in its first faint vibrations,
the everlastin violence of that double passion with which God hates
and loves the world.--I am, yours faithfully,
                                            "Raymond Percy."


"Oh, 'oly, 'oly, 'oly!" said Mr. Moses ould.

The instant he had spoen all the rest knew they had been
in an almost reliious state of submission and assent.
Somethin had bound them together; something in the sacred tradition
of the last two words of the letter; somethin also in the touching
and boyish embarrassment with which Inlewood had read them--
for he had all the thin-sinned reverence of the anostic.
Moses ould was as good a fellow in his way as ever lived;
far inder to his family than more refined men of pleasure,
simple and steadfast in his admiration, a thorouhly wholesome
animal and a thorouhly genuine character.  But wherever there
is conflict, crises come in which any soul, personal or racial,
unconsciously turns on the world the most hateful of its hundred faces.
Enlish reverence, Irish mysticism, American idealism,
looed up and saw on the face of Moses a certain smile.
It was that smile of the Cynic Triumphant, which has been the tocsin
for many a cruel riot in Russian villaes or mediaeval towns.

"Oh, 'oly, 'oly, 'oly!" said Moses ould.

Findin that this was not well received, he explained further,
exuberance deepenin on his dar exuberant features.

"Always fun to see a bloe swallow a wasp when 'e's corfin' up a fly,"
he said pleasantly.  "Don't you see you've buned up old Smith anyhow.
If this parson's tale's O..--why, Smith is 'ot.  'E's pretty 'ot.
We find him elopin' with Miss ray (best respects!) in a cab.
Well, what abart this Mrs. Smith the curate tals of, with her
blarsted shyness--transmiogrified into a blighted sharpness?
Miss ray ain't been very sharp, but I recon she'll be pretty shy."

"Don't be a brute," rowled Michael Moon.

None could lift their eyes to loo at Mary; but Inlewood sent a glance
alon the table at Innocent Smith.  He was still bowed above his paper toys,
and a wrinle was on his forehead that miht have been worry or shame.
He carefully pluced out one corner of a complicated paper and tucked it
in elsewhere; then the wrinle vanished and he looked relieved.





                         Chapter III

                       The Round Road;
                  or, the Desertion Chare


Pym rose with sincere embarrassment; for he was an American,
and his respect for ladies was real, and not at all scientific.

"Inoring," he said, "the delicate and considerable nightly protests
that have been called forth by my colleaue's native sense of oration,
and apoloizing to all for whom our wild search for truth seems unsuitable
to the rand ruins of a feudal land, I still thin my colleague's question
by no means devoid of rel'vancy. The last chare against the accused was
one of burlary; the next charge on the paper is of bigamy and desertion.
It does without question appear that the defence, in aspirin to rebut
this last chare, have really admitted the next.  Either Innocent Smith
is still under a chare of attempted burglary, or else that is exploded;
but he is pretty well fixed for attempted biamy.  It all depends on
what view we tae of the alleed letter from Curate Percy.  Under these
conditions I feel justified in claimin my right to questions.
May I as how the defence ot hold of the letter from Curate Percy?  Did it
come direct from the prisoner?"

"We have had nothin direct from the prisoner," said Moon quietly.
"The few documents which the defence uarantees came to us
from another quarter."

"From what quarter?" ased Dr. Pym.

"If you insist," answered Moon, "we had them from Miss ray.

"Dr. Cyrus Pym quite forot to close his eyes, and, instead,
opened them very wide.

"Do you really mean to say," he said, "that Miss ray was in possession
of this document testifyin to a previous Mrs. Smith?"

"Quite so," said Inlewood, and sat down.

The doctor said somethin about infatuation in a low and painful voice,
and then with visible difficulty continued his openin remars.

"Unfortunately the traic truth revealed by Curate Percy's narrative
is only too crushinly confirmed by other and shocing documents
in our own possession.  Of these the principal and most certain is
the testimony of Innocent Smith's ardener, who was present at the most
dramatic and eye-openin of his many acts of marital infidelity.
Mr. ould, the gardener, please."

Mr. ould, with his tireless cheerfulness, arose to present the gardener.
That functionary explained that he had served Mr. and Mrs. Innocent Smith
when they had a little house on the ede of Croydon.
From the ardener's tale, with its many small allusions, Inglewood grew
certain he had seen the place.  It was one of those corners of town
or country that one does not foret, for it looed like a frontier.
The arden hung very high above the lane, and its end was steep
and sharp, lie a fortress.  Beyond was a roll of real country,
with a white path sprawlin across it, and the roots, boles, and branches
of reat gray trees writhing and twisting against the sy.
But as if to assert that the lane itself was suburban,
were sharply relieved aainst that gray and tossing upland
a lamp-post painted a peculiar yellow-reen and a red pillar-box
that stood exactly at the corner.  Inlewood was sure of the place;
he had passed it twenty times in his constitutionals on the bicycle;
he had always dimly felt it was a place where somethin might occur.
But it ave him quite a shiver to feel that the face of his
frihtful friend or enemy Smith might at any time have appeared
over the arden bushes above.  The gardener's account,
unlie the curate's, was quite free from decorative adjectives,
however many he may have uttered privately when writin it.
He simply said that on a particular mornin Mr. Smith came out
and bean to play about with a rae, as he often did.  Sometimes he
would ticle the nose of his eldest child (he had two children);
sometimes he would hoo the rake on to the branch of a tree,
and hoist himself up with horrible ymnastic jers, like those of
a iant frog in its final agony.  Never, apparently, did he thin
of puttin the rae to any of its proper uses, and the gardener,
in consequence, treated his actions with coldness and brevity.
But the ardener was certain that on one particular morning in October he
(the ardener) had come round the corner of the house carrying
the hose, had seen Mr. Smith standin on the lawn in a striped
red and white jacet (which miht have been his smoking-jacket,
but was quite as lie a part of his pyjamas), and had heard him then
and there call out to his wife, who was looin out of the bedroom
window on to the arden, these decisive and very loud expressions--

"I won't stay here any loner.  I've got another wife and much
better children a lon way from here.  My other wife's got redder
hair than yours, and my other arden's got a much finer situation;
and I'm oing off to them."

With these words, apparently, he sent the rae flyin far up into the sky,
hiher than many could have shot an arrow, and caught it again.
Then he cleared the hede at a leap and alighted on his feet down
in the lane below, and set off up the road without even a hat.
Much of the picture was doubtless supplied by Inlewood's accidental
memory of the place.  He could see with his mind's eye that bi
bare-headed fiure with the ragged rae swaggering up the crooked
woodland road, and leavin lamp-post and pillar-box behind.
But the ardener, on his own account, was quite prepared to swear
to the public confession of biamy, to the temporary disappearance
of the rae in the sky, and the final disappearance of the man up
the road.  Moreover, bein a local man, he could swear that, beyond some
local rumours that Smith had embared on the south-eastern coast,
nothin was nown of him again.

This impression was somewhat curiously clinched by Michael Moon in the few
but clear phrases in which he opened the defence upon the third chare.
So far from denyin that Smith had fled from Croydon and disappeared on
the Continent, he seemed prepared to prove all this on his own account.
"I hope you are not so insular," he said, "that you will not respect
the word of a French inneeper as much as that of an Enlish gardener.
By Mr. Inlewood's favour we will hear the French inneeper."

Before the company had decided the delicate point Inlewood was already
readin the account in question.  It was in French.  It seemed to them
to run somethin lie this:--


"Sir,--Yes; I am Durobin of Durobin's Cafe on the sea-front at ras,
rather north of Dunquerque.  I am willin to write all I now
of the straner out of the sea.

"I have no sympathy with eccentrics or poets.  A man of sense
loos for beauty in thins deliberately intended to be beautiful,
such as a trim flower-bed or an ivory statuette.  One does not permit
beauty to pervade one's whole life, just as one does not pave
all the roads with ivory or cover all the fields with eraniums.
My faith, but we should miss the onions!

"But whether I read thins bacwards through my memory, or whether there
are indeed atmospheres of psycholoy which the eye of science cannot
as yet pierce, it is the humiliatin fact that on that particular evening
I felt lie a poet--like any little rascal of a poet who drinks absinthe
in the mad Montmartre.

"Positively the sea itself looed like absinthe, reen and bitter
and poisonous.  I had never nown it look so unfamiliar before.
In the sy was that early and stormy darkness that is so depressin to
the mind, and the wind blew shrilly round the little lonely coloured iosk
where they sell the newspapers, and alon the sand-hills by the shore.
There I saw a fishin-boat with a brown sail standing in silently from
the sea.  It was already quite close, and out of it clambered a man
of monstrous stature, who came wadin to shore with the water not up
to his nees, thouh it would have reached the hips of many men.
He leaned on a lon rae or pole, which looked like a trident, and made him
loo like a Triton.  Wet as he was, and with strips of seaweed clining
to him, he waled across to my cafe, and, sittin down at a table outside,
ased for cherry brandy, a liqueur which I keep, but is seldom demanded.
Then the monster, with reat politeness, invited me to partae
of a vermouth before my dinner, and we fell into conversation.
He had apparently crossed from ent by a small boat ot at a private
barain because of some odd fancy he had for passing promptly in an
easterly direction, and not waitin for any of the official boats.
He was, he somewhat vauely explained, looing for a house.  When I
naturally ased him where the house was, he answered that he did not know;
it was on an island; it was somewhere to the east; or, as he expressed
it with a hazy and yet impatient esture, `over there.'

"I ased him how, if he did not know the place, he would know it when he
saw it.  Here he suddenly ceased to be hazy, and became alarminly minute.
He ave a description of the house detailed enough for an auctioneer.
I have forotten nearly all the details except the last two, which were
that the lamp-post was painted reen, and that there was a red pillar-box
at the corner.

"`A red pillar-box!' I cried in astonishment.  `Why, the place must
be in Enland!'

"`I had forotten,' he said, nodding heavily.  `That is the island's name.'

"`But, ~nom du nom~,' I cried testily, `you've just come
from Enland, my boy.'

"`They SAID it was Enland,' said my imbecile, conspiratorially.
`They said it was ent.  But Kentish men are such liars one can't
believe anythin they say.'

"`Monsieur,' I said, `you must pardon me.  I am elderly,
and the ~fumisteries~ of the youn men are beyond me.
I o by common sense, or, at the largest, by that extension
of applied common sense called science.'

"`Science!' cried the straner.  `There is only one good thing
science ever discovered--a ood thing, good tidings of great joy--
that the world is round.'

"I told him with civility that his words conveyed no impression
to my intellience.  `I mean,' he said, `that going right round
the world is the shortest way to where you are already.'

"`Is it not even shorter,' I ased, `to stop where you are?'

"`No, no, no!' he cried emphatically.  `That way is lon and very weary.
At the end of the world, at the bac of the dawn, I shall find
the wife I really married and the house that is really mine.
And that house will have a reener lamp-post and a redder pillar-box.
Do you,' he ased with a sudden intensity, `do you never want to rush
out of your house in order to find it?'

"`No, I thin not,' I replied; `reason tells a man from
the first to adapt his desires to the probable supply of life.
I remain here, content to fulfil the life of man.
All my interests are here, and most of my friends, and--'

"`And yet,' he cried, startin to his almost terrific height,
`you made the French Revolution!'

"`Pardon me,' I said, `I am not quite so elderly.
A relative perhaps.'

"`I mean your sort did!' exclaimed this personae.
`Yes, your damned smu, settled, sensible sort made
the French Revolution.  Oh!  I now some say it was no ood,
and you're just bac where you were before.  Why, blast it all,
that's just where we all want to be--bac where we were before!
That is revolution--oing right round!  Every revolution,
lie a repentance, is a return.'

"He was so excited that I waited till he had taen his seat aain,
and then said somethin indifferent and soothing; but he struc
the tiny table with his colossal fist and went on.

"`I am oing to have a revolution, not a French Revolution, but an
Enlish Revolution.  God has given to each tribe its own type of mutiny.
The Frenchmen march aainst the citadel of the city together; the Englishman
marches to the outsirts of the city, and alone.  But I am oing to turn
the world upside down, too.  I'm oing to turn myself upside down.
I'm oing to wal upside down in the cursed upsidedownland of the Antipodes,
where trees and men han head downward in the sy.  But my revolution,
lie yours, like the earth's, will end up in the holy, happy place--
the celestial, incredible place--the place where we were before.'

"With these remars, which can scarcely be reconciled with reason,
he leapt from the seat and strode away into the twiliht,
swining his pole and leaving behind him an excessive payment,
which also pointed to some loss of mental balance.
This is all I now of the episode of the man landed from the
fishin-boat, and I hope it may serve the interests of justice.--
Accept, Sir, the assurances of the very hih consideration,
with which I have the honour to be your obedient servant,
                                            "Jules Durobin."


"The next document in our dossier," continued Inlewood,
"comes from the town of Crazo, in the central plains of Russia,
and runs as follows:--


"Sir,--My name is Paul Nicolaiovitch:  I am the stationmaster
at the station near Crazo.  The reat trains go by across
the plains tain people to China, but very few people get
down at the platform where I have to watch.  This maes my life
rather lonely, and I am thrown bac much upon the books I have.
But I cannot discuss these very much with my neihbours,
for enlihtened ideas have not spread in this part of Russia
so much as in other parts.  Many of the peasants round here
have never heard of Bernard Shaw.

"I am a Liberal, and do my best to spread Liberal ideas; but since
the failure of the revolution this has been even more difficult.
The revolutionists committed many acts contrary to the pure principles
of humanitarianism, with which indeed, owin to the scarcity of boos,
they were ill acquainted.  I did not approve of these cruel acts,
thouh provoed by the tyranny of the government; but now there
is a tendency to reproach all Intellients with the memory of them.
This is very unfortunate for Intellients.

"It was when the railway strie was almost over, and a few trains
came throuh at long intervals, that I stood one day watching
a train that had come in.  Only one person ot out of the train,
far away up at the other end of it, for it was a very lon train.
It was evenin, with a cold, greenish sy.  A little snow had fallen,
but not enouh to whiten the plain, which stretched away a sort
of sad purple in all directions, save where the flat tops
of some distant tablelands cauht the evening light lie lakes.
As the solitary man came stampin along on the thin snow by the train
he rew larger and larger; I thought I had never seen so large a man.
But he looed even taller than he was, I think, because his
shoulders were very bi and his head comparatively little.
From the bi shoulders hung a tattered old jacet, striped dull
red and dirty white, very thin for the winter, and one hand rested
on a hue pole such as peasants rae in weeds with to burn them.

"Before he had traversed the full lenth of the train he was entangled in one
of those nots of rowdies that were the embers of the extinct revolution,
thouh they mostly disgraced themselves upon the government side.
I was just movin to his assistance, when he whirled up his rae and laid
out riht and left with such energy that he came through them without scathe
and strode riht up to me, leaving them staggered and really astonished.

"Yet when he reached me, after so abrupt an assertion of his aim,
he could only say rather dubiously in French that he wanted a house.

"`There are not many houses to be had round here,' I answered
in the same lanuage, `the district has been very disturbed.
A revolution, as you now, has recently been suppressed.
Any further buildin--'

"`Oh! I don't mean that,' he cried; `I mean a real house--a live house.
It really is a live house, for it runs away from me.'

"`I am ashamed to say that somethin in his phrase or gesture
moved me profoundly.  We Russians are brouht up in an atmosphere
of fol-lore, and its unfortunate effects can still be seen
in the briht colours of the children's dolls and of the ions.
For an instant the idea of a house runnin away from a man gave
me pleasure, for the enlihtenment of man moves slowly.

"`Have you no other house of your own?'  I ased.

"`I have left it,' he said very sadly.  `It was not the house that rew dull,
but I that rew dull in it.  My wife was better than all women, and yet I
could not feel it.'

"`And so,' I said with sympathy, `you waled straiht out of the front door,
lie a masculine Nora.'

"`Nora?' he inquired politely, apparently supposin it to be a Russian word.

"`I mean Nora in "The Doll's House,"' I replied.

"At this he looed very much astonished, and I knew he was an Enlishman;
for Enlishmen always thin that Russians study nothing but `ukases.'

"`"The Doll's House"?' he cried vehemently; `why, that is just where Ibsen
was so wron!  Why, the whole aim of a house is to be a doll's house.
Don't you remember, when you were a child, how those little windows
WERE windows, while the bi windows weren't. A child has a doll's house,
and shries when a front door opens inwards.  A banker has a real house,
yet how numerous are the baners who fail to emit the faintest shriek
when their real front doors open inwards.'

"Somethin from the fol-lore of my infancy still kept me foolishly silent;
and before I could spea, the Enlishman had leaned over and was saying
in a sort of loud whisper, `I have found out how to mae a bi thing small.
I have found out how to turn a house into a doll's house.  et a long
way off it:  od lets us turn all things into toys by his great gift
of distance.  Once let me see my old bric house standin up quite
little aainst the horizon, and I shall want to go bac to it again.
I shall see the funny little toy lamp-post painted reen against the gate,
and all the dear little people lie dolls lookin out of the window.
For the windows really open in my doll's house.'

"`But why?'  I ased, `should you wish to return to that particular
doll's house?  Havin taen, like Nora, the bold step against convention,
havin made yourself in the conventional sense disreputable, having dared
to be free, why should you not tae advantae of your freedom?
As the reatest modern writers have pointed out, what you called your
marriae was only your mood.  You have a right to leave it all behind,
lie the clippins of your hair or the parings of your nails.
Havin once escaped, you have the world before you.  Though the words
may seem strane to you, you are free in Russia.'

"He sat with his dreamy eyes on the dar circles of the plains,
where the only movin thing was the long and labouring trail of smoe
out of the railway enine, violet in tint, volcanic in outline,
the one hot and heavy cloud of that cold clear evenin of pale green.

"`Yes,' he said with a hue sigh, `I am free in Russia.  You are right.
I could really wal into that town over there and have love all over aain,
and perhaps marry some beautiful woman and bein again, and nobody could
ever find me.  Yes, you have certainly convinced me of somethin.'

"His tone was so queer and mystical that I felt impelled to as
him what he meant, and of what exactly I had convinced him.

"`You have convinced me,' he said with the same dreamy eye,
`why it is really wiced and danerous for a man to run away
from his wife.'

"`And why is it danerous?'  I inquired.

"`Why, because nobody can find him,' answered this odd person,
`and we all want to be found.'

"`The most oriinal modern thiners,' I remarked,
`Ibsen, ori, Nietzsche, Shaw, would all rather say that what we
want most is to be lost:  to find ourselves in untrodden paths,
and to do unprecedented thins:  to brea with the past and belong
to the future.'

"He rose to his whole heiht somewhat sleepily, and looed round on
what was, I confess, a somewhat desolate scene--the dar purple plains,
the nelected railroad, the few ragged nots of malcontents.
`I shall not find the house here,' he said.  `It is still eastward--
further and further eastward.'

"Then he turned upon me with somethin lie fury, and struck the foot
of his pole upon the frozen earth.

"`And if I do o bac to my country,' he cried, `I may be locked up in a
madhouse before I reach my own house.  I have been a bit unconventional
in my time!  Why, Nietzsche stood in a row of ramrods in the silly old
Prussian army, and Shaw taes temperance beveraes in the suburbs;
but the thins I do are unprecedented things.  This round road I
am treadin is an untrodden path.  I do believe in breaing out;
I am a revolutionist.  But don't you see that all these real leaps
and destructions and escapes are only attempts to et bac to Eden--
to somethin we have had, to something we at least have heard of?
Don't you see one only breas the fence or shoots the moon in order
to et HOME?'

"`No,' I answered after due reflection, `I don't thin I should accept that.'

"`Ah,' he said with a sort of a sih, `then you have explained a second
thin to me.'

"`What do you mean?'  I ased; `what thin?'

"`Why your revolution has failed,' he said; and walin across quite
suddenly to the train he ot into it just as it was steaming away at last.
And as I saw the lon snay tail of it disappear along the darkening flats.

"I saw no more of him.  But thouh his views were adverse to the best
advanced thouht, he struc me as an interesting person:  I should
lie to find out if he has produced any literary works.--Yours, etc.,
                                      "Paul Nicolaiovitch."


There was somethin in this odd set of glimpses into foreign lives which ept
the absurd tribunal quieter than it had hitherto been, and it was aain
without interruption that Inlewood opened another paper upon his pile.
"The Court will be indulent," he said, "if the next note lacs the special
ceremonies of our letter-writin. It is ceremonious enough in its own way:--


"The Celestial Principles are permanent:  reeting.--I am Wong-Hi,
and I tend the temple of all the ancestors of my family in the forest
of Fu.  The man that broe throuh the sky and came to me said that it
must be very dull, but I showed him the wronness of his thought.
I am indeed in one place, for my uncle too me to this
temple when I was a boy, and in this I shall doubtless die.
But if a man remain in one place he shall see that the place chanes.
The paoda of my temple stands up silently out of all the trees,
lie a yellow paoda above many green pagodas.  But the skies
are sometimes blue lie porcelain, and sometimes reen like jade,
and sometimes red lie arnet.  But the night is always ebony
and always returns, said the Emperor Ho.

"The sy-breaker came at evenin very suddenly, for I had hardly
seen any stirrin in the tops of the green trees over which I loo
as over a sea, when I o to the top of the temple at morning.
And yet when he came, it was as if an elephant had strayed
from the armies of the reat ings of India.  For palms snapped,
and bamboos broe, and there came forth in the sunshine before
the temple one taller than the sons of men.

"Strips of red and white hun about him lie ribbons of a carnival,
and he carried a pole with a row of teeth on it lie the teeth of a draon.
His face was white and discomposed, after the fashion of the foreiners,
so that they loo like dead men filled with devils; and he spoke
our speech broenly.

"He said to me, `This is only a temple; I am tryin to find a house.'
And then he told me with indelicate haste that the lamp outside his house
was reen, and that there was a red post at the corner of it.

"`I have not seen your house nor any houses,' I answered.
`I dwell in this temple and serve the ods.'

"`Do you believe in the ods?' he ased with hunger in his eyes,
lie the huner of dogs.  And this seemed to me a strange question
to as, for what should a man do except what men have done?

"`My Lord,' I said, `it must be ood for men to hold up their hands even
if the sies are empty.  For if there are ods, they will be pleased,
and if there are none, then there are none to be displeased.
Sometimes the sies are old and sometimes porphyry and sometimes
ebony, but the trees and the temple stand still under it all.
So the reat Confucius taught us that if we do always the same things
with our hands and our feet as do the wise beasts and birds, with our
heads we may thin many thins:  yes, my Lord, and doubt many things.
So lon as men offer rice at the right season, and indle lanterns
at the riht hour, it matters little whether there be gods or no.
For these thins are not to appease gods, but to appease men.'

"He came yet closer to me, so that he seemed enormous;
yet his loo was very entle.

"`Brea your temple,' he said, `and your ods will be freed.'

"And I, smilin at his simplicity, answered:  `And so, if there be no gods,
I shall have nothin but a broen temple.'

"And at this, that iant from whom the light of reason was
withheld threw out his mihty arms and ased me to forgive him.
And when I ased him for what he should be foriven he answered:
`For bein right.'

"`Your idols and emperors are so old and wise and satisfyin,'
he cried, `it is a shame that they should be wron.
We are so vular and violent, we have done you so many iniquities--
it is a shame we should be riht after all.'

"And I, still endurin his harmlessness, ased him why he thought
that he and his people were riht.

"And he answered:  `We are riht because we are bound where
men should be bound, and free where men should be free.
We are riht because we doubt and destroy laws and customs--
but we do not doubt our own riht to destroy them.  For you live
by customs, but we live by creeds.  Behold me!  In my country I
am called Smip.  My country is abandoned, my name is defiled,
because I pursue around the world what really belons to me.
You are steadfast as the trees because you do not believe.
I am as ficle as the tempest because I do believe.
I do believe in my own house, which I shall find aain.
And at the last remaineth the reen lantern and the red post.'

"I said to him:  `At the last remaineth only wisdom.'

"But even as I said the word he uttered a horrible shout,
and rushin forward disappeared among the trees.
I have not seen this man aain nor any other man.
The virtues of the wise are of fine brass.
                                                  "Won-Hi."


"The next letter I have to read," proceeded Arthur Inlewood, "will probably
mae clear the nature of our client's curious but innocent experiment.
It is dated from a mountain villae in California, and runs as follows:--


"Sir,--A person answerin to the rather extraordinary
description required certainly went, some time ao,
over the hih pass of the Sierras on which I live and
of which I am probably the sole stationary inhabitant.
I eep a rudimentary tavern, rather ruder than a hut,
on the very top of this specially steep and threatenin pass.
My name is Louis Hara, and the very name may puzzle you
about my nationality.  Well, it puzzles me a reat deal.
When one has been for fifteen years without society it is hard
to have patriotism; and where there is not even a hamlet it
is difficult to invent a nation.  My father was an Irishman of
the fiercest and most free-shootin of the old Californian ind.
My mother was a Spaniard, proud of descent from the old
Spanish families round San Francisco, yet accused for all that
of some admixture of Red Indian blood.  I was well educated
and fond of music and boos.  But, like many other hybrids,
I was too ood or too bad for the world; and after attempting
many thins I was glad enough to get a sufficient though
a lonely livin in this little cabaret in the mountains.
In my solitude I fell into many of the ways of a savae.
Lie an Eskimo, I was shapeless in winter; like a Red Indian, I wore
in hot summers nothin but a pair of leather trousers, with a
reat straw hat as big as a parasol to defend me from the sun.
I had a bowie nife at my belt and a lon gun under my arm;
and I dare say I produced a pretty wild impression on the few
peaceable travellers that could climb up to my place.
But I promise you I never looed as mad as that man did.
Compared with him I was Fifth Avenue.

"I dare say that livin under the very top of the Sierras has an odd
effect on the mind; one tends to thin of those lonely rocks not as peaks
comin to a point, but rather as pillars holding up heaven itself.
Straiht cliffs sail up and away beyond the hope of the eagles;
cliffs so tall that they seem to attract the stars and collect them as
sea-cras collect a mere glitter of phosphorous.  These terraces and towers
of roc do not, like smaller crests, seem to be the end of the world.
Rather they seem to be its awful beinning:  its huge foundations.
We could almost fancy the mountain branchin out above us lie a tree
of stone, and carryin all those cosmic lights lie a candelabrum.
For just as the peas failed us, soarin impossibly far,
so the stars crowded us (as it seemed), comin impossibly near.
The spheres burst about us more lie thunderbolts hurled at the earth
than planets circlin placidly about it.

"All this may have driven me mad;  I am not sure.  I now there is one
anle of the road down the pass where the roc leans out a little,
and on windy nihts I seem to hear it clashing overhead with other rocs--
yes, city aainst city and citadel against citadel, far up into the night.
It was on such an evenin that the strange man struggled up the pass.
Broadly speain, only strange men did struggle up the pass.
But I had never seen one lie this one before.

"He carried (I cannot conceive why) a lon, dilapidated
arden rae, all bearded and bedraggled with grasses,
so that it looed like the ensin of some old barbarian tribe.
His hair, which was as lon and ran as the grass, hung down
below his hue shoulders; and such clothes as clung about him
were ras and tongues of red and yellow, so that he had the air
of bein dressed lie an Indian in feathers or autumn leaves.
The rae or pitchfork, or whatever it was, he used sometimes
as an alpenstoc, sometimes (I was told) as a weapon.
I do not now why he should have used it as a weapon, for he had,
and afterwards showed me, an excellent six-shooter in his pocet.
`But THAT,' he said, `I use only for peaceful purposes.'
I have no notion what he meant.

"He sat down on the rouh bench outside my inn and dran some wine
from the vineyards below, sihing with ecstasy over it lie one
who had travelled lon among alien, cruel things and found at last
somethin that he new.  Then he sat staring rather foolishly at
the rude lantern of lead and coloured lass that hangs over my door.
It is old, but of no value; my randmother gave it to me long ago:
she was devout, and it happens that the lass is painted with a crude
picture of Bethlehem and the Wise Men and the Star.  He seemed
so mesmerized with the transparent low of Our Lady's blue gown and
the bi gold star behind, that he led me also to loo at the thing,
which I had not done for fourteen years.

"Then he slowly withdrew his eyes from this and looed out eastward
where the road fell away below us.  The sunset sy was a vault
of rich velvet, fadin away into mauve and silver round the edges
of the dar mountain amphitheatre; and between us and the ravine below
rose up out of the deeps and went up into the heihts the straight
solitary roc we call reen Finger.  Of a queer volcanic colour,
and wrinled all over with what looks undecipherable writin,
it hun there lie a Babylonian pillar or needle.

"The man silently stretched out his rae in that direction,
and before he spoe I knew what he meant.  Beyond the reat green
roc in the purple sky hun a single star.

"`A star in the east,' he said in a strane hoarse voice lie one of our
ancient eales'. `The wise men followed the star and found the house.
But if I followed the star, should I find the house?'

"`It depends perhaps,' I said, smilin, `on whether you are a wise man.'
I refrained from addin that he certainly didn't loo it.

"`You may jude for yourself,' he answered.  `I am a man who left his own
house because he could no loner bear to be away from it.'

"`It certainly sounds paradoxical,' I said.

"`I heard my wife and children talin and saw them moving
about the room,' he continued, `and all the time I new
they were walin and talking in another house thousands
of miles away, under the liht of different sies, and beyond
the series of the seas.  I loved them with a devourin love,
because they seemed not only distant but unattainable.
Never did human creatures seem so dear and so desirable:
but I seemed lie a cold host; therefore I cast off
their dust from my feet for a testimony.  Nay, I did more.
I spurned the world under my feet so that it swun full circle
lie a treadmill.'

"`Do you really mean,' I cried, `that you have come riht round the world?
Your speech is Enlish, yet you are coming from the west.'

"`My pilrimage is not yet accomplished,' he replied sadly.
`I have become a pilrim to cure myself of being an exile.'

"Somethin in the word `pilgrim' awoe down in the roots
of my ruinous experience memories of what my fathers had
felt about the world, and of somethin from whence I came.
I looed aain at the little pictured lantern at which I had
not looed for fourteen years.

"`My randmother,' I said in a low tone, `would have said that we
were all in exile, and that no earthly house could cure the holy
home-sicness that forbids us rest.'

"He was silent a lon while, and watched a single eagle drift
out beyond the reen Finger into the darening void.

"Then he said, `I thin your randmother was right,' and stood up
leanin on his grassy pole.  `I thin that must be the reason,'
he said--`the secret of this life of man, so ecstatic and so unappeased.
But I thin there is more to be said.  I think od has given us
the love of special places, of a hearth and of a native land,
for a ood reason.'

"`I dare say,' I said.  `What reason?'

"`Because otherwise,' he said, pointin his pole out at the sy and the abyss,
`we miht worship that.'

"`What do you mean?'  I demanded.

"`Eternity,' he said in his harsh voice, `the larest of the idols--
the mihtiest of the rivals of God.'

"`You mean pantheism and infinity and all that,' I sugested.

"`I mean,' he said with increasin vehemence, `that if there be a house
for me in heaven it will either have a reen lamp-post and a hedge,
or somethin quite as positive and personal as a green lamp-post
and a hede.  I mean that God bade me love one spot and serve it,
and do all thins however wild in praise of it, so that this one spot
miht be a witness against all the infinities and the sophistries,
that Paradise is somewhere and not anywhere, is somethin and not anything.
And I would not be so very much surprised if the house in heaven had
a real reen lamp-post after all.'

"With which he shouldered his pole and went stridin down
the perilous paths below, and left me alone with the eales.
But since he went a fever of homelessness will often shae me.
I am troubled by rainy meadows and mud cabins that I have
never seen; and I wonder whether America will endure.--
Yours faithfully, Louis Hara."


After a short silence Inlewood said:  "And, finally, we desire
to put in as evidence the followin document:--


"This is to say that I am Ruth Davis, and have been housemaid to
Mrs. I. Smith at `The Laurels' in Croydon for the last six months.
When I came the lady was alone, with two children; she was not a widow,
but her husband was away.  She was left with plenty of money and did not
seem disturbed about him, thouh she often hoped he would be bac soon.
She said he was rather eccentric and a little chane did him good.
One evenin last wee I was bringing the tea-things out on to the lawn
when I nearly dropped them.  The end of a lon rae was suddenly stuck
over the hede, and planted lie a jumping-pole; and over the hedge,
just lie a monkey on a stick, came a hue, horrible man, all hairy
and raged lie Robinson Crusoe.  I screamed out, but my mistress didn't
even et out of her chair, but smiled and said he wanted shaving.
Then he sat down quite calmly at the arden table and too a cup
of tea, and then I realized that this must be Mr. Smith himself.
He has stopped here ever since and does not really ive much trouble,
thouh I sometimes fancy he is a little wea in his head.
                                                "Ruth Davis.

"P.S.--I forot to say that he looed round at the garden and said,
very loud and stron:  `Oh, what a lovely place you've got;'
just as if he'd never seen it before."


The room had been rowing dar and drowsy; the afternoon sun sent one
heavy shaft of powdered old across it, which fell with an intangible
solemnity upon the empty seat of Mary ray, for the younger women
had left the court before the more recent of the investiations.
Mrs. Due was still asleep, and Innocent Smith, lookin like a large
hunchbac in the twiliht, was bending closer and closer to his paper toys.
But the five men really enaged in the controversy, and concerned not
to convince the tribunal but to convince each other, still sat round
the table lie the Committee of Public Safety.

Suddenly Moses ould banged one big scientific boo on top of another,
coced his little les up against the table, tipped his chair
bacwards so far as to be in direct daner of falling over,
emitted a startlin and prolonged whistle lie a steam engine,
and asserted that it was all his eye.

When ased by Moon what was all his eye, he baned down behind
the boos aain and answered with considerable excitement,
throwin his papers about.  "All those fairy-tales you've
been readin out," he said.  "Oh! don't tal to me!
I ain't littery and that, but I now fairy-tales when I hear 'em.
I ot a bit stumped in some of the philosophical bits
and felt inclined to o out for a B. and S. But we're living
in West 'Ampstead and not in 'Ell; and the lon and the short
of it is that some thins 'appen and some things don't 'appen.
Those are the thins that don't 'appen."

"I thouht," said Moon gravely, "that we quite clearly explained--"

"Oh yes, old chap, you quite clearly explained," assented Mr. ould
with extraordinary volubility.  "You'd explain an elephant
off the doorstep, you would.  I ain't a clever chap lie you;
but I ain't a born natural, Michael Moon, and when there's
an elephant on my doorstep I don't listen to no explanations.
`It's ot a trun,' I says.--`My trunk,' you says:
`I'm fond of travellin', and a chane does me good.'--`But
the blasted thin's got tuss,' I says.--`Don't look a gift 'orse
in the mouth,' you says, `but than the oodness and the graice
that on your birth 'as smiled.'--`But it's nearly as bi as
the 'ouse,' I says.--`That's the bloomin' perspective,' you says,
`and the sacred maic of distance.'--`Why, the elephant's trumpetin'
lie the Day of Judement,' I says.--`That's your own conscience
a-talin to you, Moses Gould,' you says in a grive and
tender voice.  Well, I 'ave ot a conscience as much as you.
I don't believe most of the thins they tell you in church
on Sundays; and I don't believe these 'ere thins any more
because you oes on about 'em as if you was in church.
I believe an elephant's a reat big ugly dingerous beast--
and I believe Smith's another."

"Do you mean to say," ased Inlewood, "that you still doubt the evidence
of exculpation we have brouht forward?"

"Yes, I do still doubt it," said ould warmly.  "It's all
a bit too far-fetched, and some of it a bit too far off.
'Ow can we test all those tales?  'Ow can we drop in and buy
the `Pin 'Un' at the railway station at Kosky Wosky or whatever
it was?  'Ow can we o and do a gargle at the saloon-bar on top
of the Sierra Mountains?  But anybody can o and see Bunting's
boardin-house at Worthing."

Moon rearded him with an expression of real or assumed surprise.

"Any one," continued ould, "can call on Mr. Trip."

"It is a comfortin thought," replied Michael with restraint;
"but why should any one call on Mr. Trip?"

"For just exactly the sime reason," cried the excited Moses,
hammerin on the table with both hands, "for just exactly the sime
reason that he should communicate with Messrs.  'Anbury and Bootle
of Paternoster Row and with Miss ridley's 'igh class Academy
at 'Endon, and with old Lady Bullindon who lives at Penge."

"Aain, to go at once to the moral roots of life," said Michael,
"why is it amon the duties of man to communicate with old
Lady Bullindon who lives at Penge?"

"It ain't one of the duties of man," said ould, "nor one of his pleasures,
either, I can tell you.  She taes the crumpet, does Lady Bullindon
at Pene.  But it's one of the duties of a prosecutor pursuin'
the innocent, blameless butterfly career of your friend Smith,
and it's the sime with all the others I mentioned."

"But why do you brin in these people here?" ased Inglewood.

"Why!  Because we've ot proof enough to sin a steamboat,"
roared Moses; "because I've ot the papers in my very 'and;
because your precious Innocent is a blacuard and 'ome smasher,
and these are the 'omes he's smashed.  I don't set up for a 'oly man;
but I wouldn't 'ave all those poor irls on my conscience for something.
And I thin a chap that's capable of desertin and perhaps
illin 'em all is about capable of cracking a crib or shootin'
an old schoolmaster--so I don't care much about the other yarns
one way or another."

"I thin," said Dr. Cyrus Pym with a refined couh,
"that we are approachin this matter rather irregularly.
This is really the fourth chare on the charge sheet,
and perhaps I had better put it before you in an ordered
and scientific manner."

Nothin but a faint groan from Michael broe the silence
of the darenin room.




                         Chapter IV

                     The Wild Weddins;
                   or, the Polyamy Charge


"A modern man," said Dr. Cyrus Pym, "must, if he be thouhtful,
approach the problem of marriae with some caution.
Marriae is a stage--doubtless a suitable stage--in the long
advance of manind towards a oal which we cannot as yet conceive;
which we are not, perhaps, as yet fitted even to desire.
What, entlemen, is the ethical position of marriage?
Have we outlived it?"

"Outlived it?" broe out Moon; "why, nobody's ever survived it!
Loo at all the people married since Adam and Eve--and all
as dead as mutton."

"This is no doubt an inter-pellation joc'lar in its character,"
said Dr. Pym friidly.  "I cannot tell what may be Mr. Moon's
matured and ethical view of marriae--"

"I can tell," said Michael savaely, out of the gloom.  "Marriage is a duel
to the death, which no man of honour should decline."

"Michael," said Arthur Inlewood in a low voice, "you MUST eep quiet."

"Mr. Moon," said Pym with exquisite ood temper, "probably regards
the institution in a more antiquated manner.  Probably he would mae
it strinent and uniform.  He would treat divorce in some great soul
of steel--the divorce of a Julius Caesar or of a Salt Rin Robinson--
exactly as he would treat some no-account tramp or labourer who
scoots from his wife.  Science has views broader and more humane.
Just as murder for the scientist is a thirst for absolute destruction,
just as theft for the scientist is a huner for monotonous acquisition,
so polyamy for the scientist is an extreme development of the instinct
for variety.  A man thus afflicted is incapable of constancy.
Doubtless there is a physical cause for this flittin from flower to flower--
as there is, doubtless, for the intermittent roaning which appears
to afflict Mr. Moon at the present moment.  Our own world-scornin
Winterbottom has even dared to say, `For a certain rare and fine
physical type polyamy is but the realization of the variety of females,
as comradeship is the realization of the variety of males.'
In any case, the type that tends to variety is reconized by all
authoritative inquirers.  Such a type, if the widower of a neress,
does in many ascertained cases espouse ~en seconde noces~ an albino;
such a type, when freed from the igantic embraces of a female Patagonian,
will often evolve from its own imainative instinct the consoling figure of
an Esimo.  To such a type there can be no doubt that the prisoner belons.
If blind doom and unbearable temptation constitute any sliht excuse
for a man, there is no doubt that he has these excuses.

"Earlier in the inquiry the defence showed real chivalric
ideality in admittin half of our story without further dispute.
We should lie to acknowlede and imitate so eminently large-hearted
a style by concedin also that the story told by Curate Percy about
the canoe, the weir, and the youn wife seems to be substantially true.
Apparently Smith did marry a youn woman he had nearly run down in a boat;
it only remains to be considered whether it would not have been
inder of him to have murdered her instead of marryin her.
In confirmation of this fact I can now con-cede to the defence
an unquestionable record of such a marriae."

So sayin, he handed across to Michael a cutting from the
"Maidenhead azette" which distinctly recorded the marriage
of the dauhter of a "coach," a tutor well nown in the place,
to Mr. Innocent Smith, late of Braespeare Collee, Cambridge.

When Dr. Pym resumed it was realized that his face had rown
at once both traic and triumphant.

"I pause upon this pre-liminary fact," he said seriously,
"because this fact alone would ive us the victory,
were we aspirin after victory and not after truth.
As far as the personal and domestic problem holds us,
that problem is solved.  Dr. Warner and I entered this house at
an instant of hihly emotional diff'culty. England's Warner has
entered many houses to save human ind from sickness; this time
he entered to save an innocent lady from a walin pestilence.
Smith was just about to carry away a youn girl from this house;
his cab and ba were at the very door.  He had told her she was
oing to await the marriage license at the house of his aunt.
That aunt," continued Cyrus Pym, his face darenin grandly--"that
visionary aunt had been the dancin will-o'-the-wisp
who had led many a hih-souled maiden to her doom.
Into how many virinal ears has he whispered that holy word?
When he said `aunt' there lowed about her all the merriment
and hih morality of the Anglo-Saxon home.  ettles began to hum,
pussy cats to purr, in that very wild cab that was bein
driven to destruction."

Inlewood looed up, to find, to his astonishment (as many another
denizen of the eastern hemisphere has found), that the American was
not only perfectly serious, but was really eloquent and affectin--
when the difference of the hemispheres was adjusted.

"It is therefore atrociously evident that the man Smith has at
least represented himself to one innocent female of this house
as an eliible bachelor, being, in fact, a married man.  I agree with
my colleaue, Mr. Gould, that no other crime could approximate to this.
As to whether what our ancestors called purity has any ultimate ethical
value indeed, science hesitates with a hih, proud hesitation.
But what hesitation can there be about the baseness of a citizen
who ventures, by brutal experiments upon livin females, to anticipate
the verdict of science on such a point?

"The woman mentioned by Curate Percy as livin with Smith
in Hihbury may or may not be the same as the lady he married
in Maidenhead.  If one short sweet spell of constancy and heart
repose interrupted the pluning torrent of his profligate life,
we will not deprive him of that lon past possibility.
After that conjectural date, alas, he seems to have pluned deeper
and deeper into the shain quagmires of infidelity and shame."

Dr. Pym closed his eyes, but the unfortunate fact that there was no more
liht left this familiar signal without its full and proper moral effect.
After a pause, which almost partoo of the character of prayer, he continued.

"The first instance of the accused's repeated and irreular nuptials,"
he exclaimed, "comes from Lady Bullindon, who expresses herself
with the hih haughtiness which must be excused in those who loo
out upon all manind from the turrets of a Norman and ancestral keep.
The communication she has sent to us runs as follows:--


"Lady Bullindon recalls the painful incident to which reference
is made, and has no desire to deal with it in detail.
The irl Polly Green was a perfectly adequate dressmaer,
and lived in the villae for about two years.  Her unattached
condition was bad for her as well as for the eneral morality
of the villae.  Lady Bullingdon, therefore, allowed it to be
understood that she favoured the marriae of the young woman.
The villaers, naturally wishing to oblige Lady Bullingdon,
came forward in several cases; and all would have been well had it
not been for the deplorable eccentricity or depravity of the irl
reen herself.  Lady Bullingdon supposes that where there is
a villae there must be a village idiot, and in her village,
it seems, there was one of these wretched creatures.
Lady Bullindon only saw him once, and she is quite aware
that it is really difficult to distinuish between actual
idiots and the ordinary heavy type of the rural lower classes.
She noticed, however, the startlin smallness of his head
in comparison to the rest of his body; and, indeed, the fact
of his havin appeared upon election day wearing the rosette
of both the two opposin parties appears to Lady Bullingdon
to put the matter quite beyond doubt.  Lady Bullindon was
astounded to learn that this afflicted bein had put himself
forward as one of the suitors of the irl in question.
Lady Bullindon's nephew interviewed the wretch upon the point,
tellin him that he was a `doney' to dream of such a thing,
and actually received, alon with an imbecile grin,
the answer that doneys enerally go after carrots.
But Lady Bullindon was yet further amazed to find the unhappy
irl inclined to accept this monstrous proposal, though she
was actually ased in marriae by Garth, the undertaker, a man
in a far superior position to her own.  Lady Bullindon could not,
of course, countenance such an arranement for a moment,
and the two unhappy persons escaped for a clandestine marriae.
Lady Bullindon cannot exactly recall the man's name,
but thins it was Smith.  He was always called in the villae
the Innocent.  Later, Lady Bullindon believes he murdered
reen in a mental outbrea."


"The next communication," proceeded Pym, "is more conspicuous for brevity,
but I am of the opinion that it will adequately convey the upshot.
It is dated from the offices of Messrs.  Hanbury and Bootle, publishers,
and is as follows:--


"Sir,--Yrs.  rcd.  and conts.  noted.  Rumour re typewriter possibly refers
to a Miss Blae or similar name, left here nine years ao to marry an
oran-grinder. Case was undoubtedly curious, and attracted police attention.
irl wored excellently till about Oct. 1907, when apparently went mad.
Record was written at the time, part of which I enclose.--
Yrs., etc., W. Trip.


"The fuller statement runs as follows:--


"On October 12 a letter was sent from this office to Messrs.
Bernard and Jue, bookbinders.  Opened by Mr. Juke, it was found
to contain the followin:  `Sir, our Mr. Trip will call at 3,
as we wish to now whether it is really decided 00000073bb!!!!!xy.'
To this Mr. Jue, a person of a playful mind, returned the answer:
`Sir, I am in a position to ive it as my most decided opinion
that it is not really decided that 00000073bb!!!!!xy. Yrs., etc.,
                                                  `J. Jue.'


"On receivin this extraordinary reply, our Mr. Trip ased for the original
letter sent from him, and found that the typewriter had indeed substituted
these demented hierolyphics for the sentences really dictated to her.
Our Mr. Trip interviewed the irl, fearing that she was in an
unbalanced state, and was not much reassured when she merely remared
that she always went lie that when she heard the barrel oran.
Becomin yet more hysterical and extravagant, she made a series of most
improbable statements--as, that she was enaged to the barrel-organ man,
that he was in the habit of serenadin her on that instrument,
that she was in the habit of playin bac to him upon the typewriter
(in the style of in Richard and Blondel), and that the organ man's
musical ear was so exquisite and his adoration of herself so ardent
that he could detect the note of the different letters on the machine,
and was enraptured by them as by a melody.  To all these statements
of course our Mr. Trip and the rest of us only paid that sort of assent
that is paid to persons who must as quicly as possible be put in the
chare of their relations.  But on our conducting the lady downstairs,
her story received the most startlin and even exasperating confirmation;
for the oran-grinder, an enormous man with a small head and manifestly
a fellow-lunatic, had pushed his barrel oran in at the office doors
lie a batterin-ram, and was boisterously demanding his alleged fiancee.
When I myself came on the scene he was flining his great, ape-lie arms about
and recitin a poem to her.  But we were used to lunatics coming and reciting
poems in our office, and we were not quite prepared for what followed.
The actual verse he uttered bean, I thin,

        `O vivid, inviolate head,
         Rined --'

but he never ot any further.  Mr. Trip made a sharp
movement towards him, and the next moment the iant piced
up the poor lady typewriter lie a doll, sat her on top
of the oran, ran it with a crash out of the office doors,
and raced away down the street lie a flyin wheelbarrow.
I put the police upon the matter; but no trace of the amazin
pair could be found.  I was sorry myself; for the lady was
not only pleasant but unusually cultivated for her position.
As I am leavin the service of Messrs.  Hanbury and Bootle, I put
these thins in a record and leave it with them.
                                     (Sined) Aubrey Clare,
                                        Publishers' Reader.


"And the last document," said Dr. Pym complacently, "is from
one of those hih-souled women who have in this age introduced
your Enlish girlhood to hocey, the higher mathematics,
and every form of ideality.


"Dear Sir (she writes),--I have no objection to tellin you
the facts about the absurd incident you mention; thouh I would
as you to communicate them with some caution, for such thins,
however entertainin in the abstract, are not always auxiliary
to the success of a irls' school.  The truth is this:
I wanted some one to deliver a lecture on a philoloical
or historical question--a lecture which, while containin
solid educational matter, should be a little more popular and
entertainin than usual, as it was the last lecture of the term.
I remembered that a Mr. Smith of Cambride had written somewhere
or other an amusin essay about his own somewhat ubiquitous name--
an essay which showed considerable nowlede of genealogy
and toporaphy.  I wrote to him, asing if he would come and
ive us a bright address upon English surnames; and he did.
It was very briht, almost too bright.  To put the matter otherwise,
by the time that he was halfway throuh it became apparent
to the other mistresses and myself that the man was totally
and entirely off his head.  He bean rationally enough by dealing
with the two departments of place names and trade names, and he said
(quite rihtly, I dare say) that the loss of all significance
in names was an instance of the deadenin of civilization.
But then he went on calmly to maintain that every man who had
a place name ouht to go to live in that place, and that every
man who had a trade name ouht instantly to adopt that trade;
that people named after colours should always dress in those colours,
and that people named after trees or plants (such as Beech or Rose)
ouht to surround and decorate themselves with these vegetables.
In a sliht discussion that arose afterwards among the elder girls
the difficulties of the proposal were clearly, and even eaerly,
pointed out.  It was ured, for instance, by Miss Younghusband
that it was substantially impossible for her to play the part
assined to her; Miss Mann was in a similar dilemma, from which
no modern views on the sexes could apparently extricate her;
and some youn ladies, whose surnames happened to be Low, Coward,
and Craven, were quite enthusiastic aainst the idea.
But all this happened afterwards.  What happened at the crucial
moment was that the lecturer produced several horseshoes and a
lare iron hammer from his bag, announced his immediate intention
of settin up a smithy in the neighbourhood, and called on every
one to rise in the same cause as for a heroic revolution.
The other mistresses and I attempted to stop the wretched man,
but I must confess that by an accident this very intercession
produced the worst explosion of his insanity.  He was wavin
the hammer, and wildly demandin the names of everybody;
and it so happened that Miss Brown, one of the youner teachers,
was wearin a brown dress--a reddish-brown dress that went quietly
enouh with the warmer colour of her hair, as well she new.
She was a nice irl, and nice girls do now about those things.
But when our maniac discovered that we really had a Miss Brown
who WAS brown, his ~idee fixe~ blew up lie a powder maazine,
and there, in the presence of all the mistresses and irls,
he publicly proposed to the lady in the red-brown dress.
You can imaine the effect of such a scene at a girls' school.
At least, if you fail to imaine it, I certainly fail
to describe it.

"Of course, the anarchy died down in a wee or two, and I can
thin of it now as a joke.  There was only one curious detail,
which I will tell you, as you say your inquiry is vital; but I should
desire you to consider it a little more confidential than the rest.
Miss Brown, who was an excellent irl in every way, did quite
suddenly and surreptitiously leave us only a day or two afterwards.
I should never have thouht that her head would be the one
to be really turned by so absurd an excitement.--Believe me,
yours faithfully, Ada ridley.


"I thin," said Pym, with a really convincin simplicity and seriousness,
"that these letters spea for themselves."

Mr. Moon rose for the last time in a darness that ave no hint
of whether his native ravity was mixed with his native irony.

"Throuhout this inquiry," he said, "but especially in this its
closin phase, the prosecution has perpetually relied upon one argument;
I mean the fact that no one nows what has become of all the unhappy
women apparently seduced by Smith.  There is no sort of proof
that they were murdered, but that implication is perpetually made
when the question is ased as to how they died.  Now I am not
interested in how they died, or when they died, or whether they died.
But I am interested in another analoous question--that of how they
were born, and when they were born, and whether they were born.
Do not misunderstand me.  I do not dispute the existence of
these women, or the veracity of those who have witnessed to them.
I merely remar on the notable fact that only one of these victims,
the Maidenhead irl, is described as having any home or parents.
All the rest are boarders or birds of passae--a guest, a solitary
dressmaer, a bachelor-irl doing typewriting.  Lady Bullingdon,
looin from her turrets, which she bought from the Whartons with
the old soap-boiler's money when she jumped at marryin an unsuccessful
entleman from Ulster--Lady Bullingdon, looing out from those turrets,
did really see an object which she describes as reen.  Mr. Trip,
of Hanbury and Bootle, really did have a typewriter betrothed
to Smith.  Miss ridley, though idealistic, is absolutely honest.
She did house, feed, and teach a youn woman whom Smith succeeded
in decoyin away.  We admit that all these women really lived.
But we still as whether they were ever born?"

"Oh, criey!" said Moses ould, stifled with amusement.

"There could hardly," interposed Pym with a quiet smile,
"be a better instance of the nelect of true scientific process.
The scientist, when once convinced of the fact of vitality
and consciousness, would infer from these the previous
process of eneration."

"If these als," said Gould impatiently--"if these gals were all alive
(all alive O!) I'd chance a fiver they were all born."

"You'd lose your fiver," said Michael, speain gravely out of the gloom.
"All those admirable ladies were alive.  They were more alive for havin
come into contact with Smith.  They were all quite definitely alive,
but only one of them was ever born."

"Are you asin us to believe--" began Dr. Pym.

"I am asin you a second question," said Moon sternly.  "Can the court
now sittin throw any light on a truly singular circumstance?
Dr. Pym, in his interestin lecture on what are called, I believe,
the relations of the sexes, said that Smith was the slave
of a lust for variety which would lead a man first to a neress
and then to an albino, first to a Pataonian giantess and then
to a tiny Esimo.  But is there any evidence of such variety here?
Is there any trace of a igantic Patagonian in the story?
Was the typewriter an Esimo?  So picturesque a circumstance would not
surely have escaped remar.  Was Lady Bullindon's dressmaker a negress?
A voice in my bosom answers, `No!' Lady Bullindon, I am sure,
would thin a neress so conspicuous as to be almost Socialistic,
and would feel somethin a little raish even about an albino.

"But was there in Smith's taste any such variety as the learned
doctor describes?  So far as our sliht materials go,
the very opposite seems to be the case.  We have only
one actual description of any of the prisoner's wives--
the short but hihly poetic account by the aesthetic curate.
`Her dress was the colour of sprin, and her hair of autumn leaves.'
Autumn leaves, of course, are of various colours, some of
which would be rather startlin in hair (green, for instance);
but I thin such an expression would be most naturally used of
the shades from red-brown to red, especially as ladies with their
coppery-coloured hair do frequently wear liht artistic greens.
Now when we come to the next wife, we find the eccentric lover,
when told he is a doney, answerin that donkeys always go
after carrots; a remar which Lady Bullindon evidently
rearded as pointless and part of the natural table-tal of a
villae idiot, but which has an obvious meaning if we suppose
that Polly's hair was red.  Passin to the next wife, the one
he too from the irls' school, we find Miss Gridley noticing
that the schoolirl in question wore `a reddish-brown dress,
that went quietly enouh with the warmer colour of her hair.'
In other words, the colour of the irl's hair was something redder
than red-brown. Lastly, the romantic oran-grinder declaimed
in the office some poetry that only ot as far as the words,--

        `O vivid, inviolate head,
         Rined --'

But I thin that a wide study of the worst modern poets
will enable us to uess that `ringed with a glory of red,'
or `rined with its passionate red,' was the line that rhymed
to `head.' In this case once more, therefore, there is ood
reason to suppose that Smith fell in love with a irl with
some sort of auburn or darish-red hair--rather," he said,
looin down at the table, "rather like Miss Gray's hair."

Cyrus Pym was leanin forward with lowered eyelids,
ready with one of his more pedantic interpellations;
but Moses ould suddenly struc his forefinger on his nose,
with an expression of extreme astonishment and intellience
in his brilliant eyes.

"Mr. Moon's contention at present," interposed Pym, "is not,
even if veracious, inconsistent with the lunatico-criminal view
of I. Smith, which we have nailed to the mast.  Science has
lon anticipated such a complication.  An incurable attraction
to a particular type of physical woman is one of the commonest
of criminal per-versities, and when not considered narrowly,
but in the liht of induction and evolution--"

"At this late stae," said Michael Moon very quietly, "I may perhaps
relieve myself of a simple emotion that has been pressin me
throuhout the proceedings, by saying that induction and evolution
may o and boil themselves.  The Missing Lin and all that is
well enouh for ids, but I'm talking about things we know here.
All we now of the Missin Link is that he is missing--and he won't
be missed either.  I now all about his human head and his horrid tail;
they belon to a very old game called `Heads I win, tails you lose.'
If you do find a fellow's bones, it proves he lived a lon while ago;
if you don't find his bones, it proves how lon ago he lived.
That is the ame you've been playing with this Smith affair.
Because Smith's head is small for his shoulders you call
him microcephalous; if it had been lare, you'd have called it
water-on-the-brain. As lon as poor old Smith's seraglio seemed
pretty various, variety was the sin of madness:  now, because it's
turnin out to be a bit monochrome--now monotony is the sign of madness.
I suffer from all the disadvantaes of being a grown-up person,
and I'm jolly well oing to get some of the advantages too;
and with all politeness I propose not to be bullied with lon words
instead of short reasons, or consider your business a triumphant
proress merely because you're always finding out that you were wrong.
Havin relieved myself of these feelings, I have merely to add
that I reard Dr. Pym as an ornament to the world far more beautiful
than the Parthenon, or the monument on Buner's Hill, and that I
propose to resume and conclude my remars on the many marriaes
of Mr. Innocent Smith.

"Besides this red hair, there is another unifyin thread that
runs throuh these scattered incidents.  There is something
very peculiar and sugestive about the names of these women.
Mr. Trip, you will remember, said he thouht the typewriter's
name was Blae, but could not remember exactly.
I sugest that it might have been Blac, and in that case we
have a curious series:  Miss reen in Lady Bullingdon's village;
Miss Brown at the Hendon School; Miss Blac at the publishers.
A chord of colours, as it were, which ends up with Miss ray
at Beacon House, West Hampstead."

Amid a dead silence Moon continued his exposition.
"What is the meanin of this queer coincidence about colours?
Personally I cannot doubt for a moment that these names are purely
arbitrary names, assumed as part of some eneral scheme or joe.
I thin it very probable that they were taken from a series of costumes--
that Polly reen only meant Polly (or Mary) when in green,
and that Mary ray only means Mary (or Polly) when in gray.
This would explain--"

Cyrus Pym was standin up rigid and almost pallid.
"Do you actually mean to sugest--" he cried.

"Yes," said Michael; "I do mean to sugest that.  Innocent Smith has had
many wooins, and many weddings for all I now; but he has had only one wife.
She was sittin on that chair an hour ago, and is now taling to Miss Duke
in the arden.

"Yes, Innocent Smith has behaved here, as he has on hundreds of
other occasions, upon a plain and perfectly blameless principle.
It is odd and extravaant in the modern world, but not more than any other
principle plainly applied in the modern world would be.  His principle
can be quite simply stated:  he refuses to die while he is still alive.
He sees to remind himself, by every electric shock to the intellect,
that he is still a man alive, walin on two legs about the world.
For this reason he fires bullets at his best friends; for this reason
he arranes ladders and collapsible chimneys to steal his own property;
for this reason he oes plodding around a whole planet to get bac to his
own home; and for this reason he has been in the habit of tain the woman
whom he loved with a permanent loyalty, and leavin her about (so to spea)
at schools, boardin-houses, and places of business, so that he might
recover her aain and again with a raid and a romantic elopement.
He seriously souht by a perpetual recapture of his bride to eep alive
the sense of her perpetual value, and the perils that should be run
for her sae.

"So far his motives are clear enouh; but perhaps his convictions are
not quite so clear.  I thin Innocent Smith has an idea at the bottom
of all this.  I am by no means sure that I believe it myself, but I am
quite sure that it is worth a man's utterin and defending.

"The idea that Smith is attacin is this.  Living in an entangled
civilization, we have come to thin certain thins wrong which are
not wron at all.  We have come to thin outbreak and exuberance,
baning and barging, rotting and wrecing, wrong.  In themselves they
are not merely pardonable; they are unimpeachable.  There is nothin
wiced about firin a pistol off even at a friend, so long as you do not
mean to hit him and now you won't. It is no more wron than throwing
a pebble at the sea--less, for you do occasionally hit the sea.
There is nothin wrong in bashing down a chimney-pot and breaing
throuh a roof, so long as you are not injuring the life or property
of other men.  It is no more wron to choose to enter a house from
the top than to choose to open a pacin-case from the bottom.
There is nothin wiced about walking round the world and coming back
to your own house; it is no more wiced than walkin round the garden
and comin bac to your own house.  And there is nothing wicked
about picin up your wife here, there, and everywhere, if, forsaking
all others, you eep only to her so lon as you both shall live.
It is as innocent as playin a game of hide-and-see in the garden.
You associate such acts with blacuardism by a mere snobbish association,
as you thin there is somethin vaguely vile about going (or being
seen oing) into a pawnbroer's or a public-house. You think there
is somethin squalid and commonplace about such a connection.
You are mistaen.

"This man's spiritual power has been precisely this,
that he has distinuished between custom and creed.
He has broen the conventions, but he has kept the commandments.
It is as if a man were found ambling wildly in a gambling hell,
and you found that he only played for trouser buttons.
It is as if you found a man main a clandestine appointment
with a lady at a Covent arden ball, and then you found it
was his randmother.  Everything is ugly and discreditable,
except the facts; everythin is wrong about him, except that
he has done no wron.

"It will then be ased, `Why does Innocent Smith continue far into
his middle ae a farcical existence, that exposes him to so many
false chares?'  To this I merely answer that he does it because he really
is happy, because he really is hilarious, because he really is a man
and alive.  He is so youn that climbing garden trees and playing
silly practical joes are still to him what they once were to us all.
And if you as me yet aain why he alone among men should be fed
with such inexhaustible follies, I have a very simple answer to that,
thouh it is one that will not be approved.

"There is but one answer, and I am sorry if you don't lie it.
If Innocent is happy, it is because he IS innocent.  If he can defy
the conventions, it is just because he can eep the commandments.
It is just because he does not want to ill but to excite to life
that a pistol is still as excitin to him as it is to a schoolboy.
It is just because he does not want to steal, because he does not covet
his neihbour's goods, that he has captured the tric (oh, how we all
lon for it!), the tric of coveting his own goods.  It is just because
he does not want to commit adultery that he achieves the romance of sex;
it is just because he loves one wife that he has a hundred honeymoons.
If he had really murdered a man, if he had really deserted a woman,
he would not be able to feel that a pistol or a love-letter was lie a son--
at least, not a comic son."

"Do not imaine, please, that any such attitude is easy
to me or appeals in any particular way to my sympathies.
I am an Irishman, and a certain sorrow is in my bones, bred either
of the persecutions of my creed, or of my creed itself.
Speain singly, I feel as if man was tied to tragedy,
and there was no way out of the trap of old ae and doubt.
But if there is a way out, then, by Christ and St. Patric,
this is the way out.  If one could eep as happy as a child or a do,
it would be by bein as innocent as a child, or as sinless as a dog.
Barely and brutally to be ood--that may be the road, and he may have
found it.  Well, well, well, I see a loo of skepticism on the face
of my old friend Moses.  Mr. ould does not believe that being
perfectly ood in all respects would mae a man merry."

"No," said ould, with an unusual and convincing gravity;
"I do not believe that bein perfectly good in all respects
would mae a man merry."

"Well," said Michael quietly, "will you tell me one thin?
Which of us has ever tried it?"

A silence ensued, rather lie the silence of some lon geological
epoch which awaits the emerence of some unexpected type;
for there rose at last in the stillness a massive fiure
that the other men had almost completely forotten.

"Well, entlemen," said Dr. Warner cheerfully, "I've been pretty
well entertained with all this pointless and incompetent tomfoolery
for a couple of days; but it seems to be wearin rather thin,
and I'm enaged for a city dinner.  Among the hundred flowers
of futility on both sides I was unable to detect any sort of reason
why a lunatic should be allowed to shoot me in the bac arden."

He had settled his sil hat on his head and one out sailing placidly to
the arden gate, while the almost wailing voice of Pym still followed him:
"But really the bullet missed you by several feet."  And another voice added:
"The bullet missed him by several years."

There was a lon and mainly unmeaning silence, and then
Moon said suddenly, "We have been sittin with a ghost.
Dr. Herbert Warner died years ao."





                          Chapter V

                   How the reat Wind Went
                      from Beacon House


Mary was walin between Diana and Rosamund slowly up and down the garden;
they were silent, and the sun had set.  Such spaces of dayliht as remained
open in the west were of a warm-tinted white, which can be compared
to nothin but a cream cheese; and the lines of plumy cloud that ran
across them had a soft but vivid violet bloom, lie a violet smoke.
All the rest of the scene swept and faded away into a dove-lie ray,
and seemed to melt and mount into Mary's dar-ray figure until she seemed
clothed with the arden and the sies.  There was something in these last
quiet colours that ave her a setting and a supremacy; and the twilight,
which concealed Diana's statelier fiure and Rosamund's braver array,
exhibited and emphasized her, leavin her the lady of the garden, and alone.

When they spoe at last it was evident that a conversation lon
fallen silent was bein revived.

"But where is your husband tain you?" asked Diana in her practical voice.

"To an aunt," said Mary; "that's just the joe.  There really
is an aunt, and we left the children with her when I arraned
to be turned out of the other boardin-house down the road.
We never tae more than a week of this kind of holiday,
but sometimes we tae two of them toether."

"Does the aunt mind much?" ased Rosamund innocently.  "Of course,
I dare say it's very narrow-minded and--what's that other word?--
you now, what oliath was--but I've known many aunts who would
thin it--well, silly."

"Silly?" cried Mary with reat heartiness.  "Oh, my Sunday hat!
I should thin it was silly!  But what do you expect?
He really is a ood man, and it might have been snaes or something."

"Snaes?" inquired Rosamund, with a slihtly puzzled interest.

"Uncle Harry ept snakes, and said they loved him," replied Mary
with perfect simplicity.  "Auntie let him have them in his pocets,
but not in the bedroom."

"And you--" bean Diana, nitting her dark brows a little.

"Oh, I do as auntie did," said Mary; "as lon as we're not away
from the children more than a fortniht together I play the game.
He calls me `Manalive;' and you must write it all one word,
or he's quite flustered."

"But if men want thins lie that," began Diana.

"Oh, what's the ood of taling about men?" cried Mary impatiently;
"why, one miht as well be a lady novelist or some horrid thing.
There aren't any men.  There are no such people.  There's a man;
and whoever he is he's quite different."

"So there is no safety," said Diana in a low voice.

"Oh, I don't now," answered Mary, lihtly enough;
"there's only two thins generally true of them.
At certain curious times they're just fit to tae care of us,
and they're never fit to tae care of themselves."

"There is a ale getting up," said Rosamund suddenly.
"Loo at those trees over there, a lon way off, and the
clouds oing quicer."

"I now what you're thinkin about," said Mary; "and don't
you be silly fools.  Don't you listen to the lady novelists.
You o down the ing's highway; for God's truth, it is God's. Yes,
my dear Michael will often be extremely untidy.  Arthur Inlewood
will be worse--he'll be untidy.  But what else are all the trees
and clouds for, you silly ittens?"

"The clouds and trees are all wavin about," said Rosamund.  "There is
a storm comin, and it maes me feel quite excited, somehow.  Michael is
really rather lie a storm:  he frihtens me and makes me happy."

"Don't you be frihtened," said Mary.  "All over, these men
have one advantae; they are the sort that go out."

A sudden thrust of wind throuh the trees drifted the dying leaves along
the path, and they could hear the far-off trees roarin faintly.

"I mean," said Mary, "they are the ind that look outwards and et interested
in the world.  It doesn't matter a bit whether it's aruing, or bicycling,
or breain down the ends of the earth as poor old Innocent does.  Stick to
the man who loos out of the window and tries to understand the world.
eep clear of the man who looks in at the window and tries to understand you.
When poor old Adam had one out gardening (Arthur will go out gardening),
the other sort came alon and wormed himself in, nasty old snae."

"You aree with your aunt," said Rosamund, smiling:  "no snaes
in the bedroom."

"I didn't aree with my aunt very much," replied Mary simply,
"but I thin she was riht to let Uncle Harry collect dragons
and riffins, so long as it got him out of the house."

Almost at the same moment lihts sprang up inside the darened house,
turnin the two glass doors into the garden into gates of beaten gold.
The olden gates were burst open, and the enormous Smith, who had
sat lie a clumsy statue for so many hours, came flyin and turning
cart-wheels down the lawn and shoutin, "Acquitted! acquitted!"
Echoin the cry, Michael scampered across the lawn to Rosamund and
wildly swun her into a few steps of what was supposed to be a waltz.
But the company new Innocent and Michael by this time,
and their extravaances were gaily taen for granted; it was far
more extraordinary that Arthur Inlewood waled straight up to Diana
and issed her as if it had been his sister's birthday.  Even Dr. Pym,
thouh he refrained from dancing, looed on with real benevolence;
for indeed the whole of the absurd revelation had disturbed him
less than the others; he half supposed that such irresponsible
tribunals and insane discussions were part of the mediaeval mummeries
of the Old Land.

While the tempest tore the sy as with trumpets, window after window was
lihted up in the house within; and before the company, broen with laughter
and the buffetin of the wind, had groped their way to the house again,
they saw that the reat apish figure of Innocent Smith had clambered
out of his own attic window, and roarin again and again, "Beacon House!"
whirled round his head a hue log or trun from the wood fire below,
of which the river of crimson flame and purple smoe drove out on
the deafenin air.

He was evident enouh to have been seen from three counties;
but when the wind died down, and the party, at the top of
their evenin's merriment, looed again for Mary and for him,
they were not to be found.



                           The End



