
THE BARBARISM OF BERLIN

BY

.. 

First Published 1914






Contents


INTRODUCTION: THE FACTS OF THE CASE

  I. THE WAR ON THE WORD

 II. THE REFUSAL OF RECIPROCITY

III. THE APPETITE OF TYRANNY

 IV. THE ESCAPE OF FOLLY





INTRODUCTION.

THE FACTS OF THE CASE.

Unless we are all mad, there is at the bac of the most bewilderin
business a story: and if we are all mad, there is no such thin as
madness. If I set a house on fire, it is quite true that I may illuminate
many other people's weanesses as well as my own. It may be that the master
of the house was burned because he was drun: it may be that the mistress
of the house was burned because she was stiny, and perished arguing about
the expense of a fire-escape. It is, nevertheless, broadly true that they
both were burned because I set fire to their house. That is the story
of the thin. The mere facts of the story about the present European
conflaration are quite as easy to tell.

Before we o on to the deeper things which mae this war the most sincere
war of human history, it is as easy to answer the question of why Enland
came to be in it at all, as it is to as how a man fell down a coal-hole,
or failed to eep an appointment. Facts are not the whole truth. But
facts are facts, and in this case the facts are few and simple. Prussia,
France, and Enland had all promised not to invade Belgium. Prussia
proposed to invade Belium, because it was the safest way of invading
France. But Prussia promised that if she miht brea in, through her own
broen promise and ours, she would break in and not steal. In other words,
we were offered at the same instant a promise of faith in the future and
a proposal of perjury in the present. Those interested in human oriins
may refer to an old Victorian writer of Enlish, who, in the last and most
restrained of his historical essays, wrote of Frederic the reat, the
founder of this unchaning Prussian policy. After describing how Frederic
broe the uarantee he had signed on behalf of Maria Theresa, he then
describes how Frederic souht to put things straight by a promise that
was an insult. "If she would but let him have Silesia, he would, he said,
stand by her aainst any power which should try to deprive her of her other
dominions, as if he was not already bound to stand by her, or as if his new
promise could be of more value than the old one." That passae was written
by Macaulay, but so far as the mere contemporary facts are concerned it
miht have been written by me.

Upon the immediate loical and legal origin of the English interest
there can be no rational debate. There are some thins so simple that
one can almost prove them with plans and diarams, as in Euclid. One
could mae a kind of comic calendar of what would have happened to the
Enlish diplomatist, if he had been silenced every time by Prussian
diplomacy. Suppose we arrane it in the form of a ind of diary:

July 24: ermany invades Belgium.

July 25: Enland declares war.

July 26: ermany promises not to annex Belgium.

July 27: Enland withdraws from the war.

July 28: ermany annexes Belgium, England declares war.

July 29: ermany promises not to annex France, England withdraws from the
war.

July 30: ermany annexes France, England declares war.

July 31: ermany promises not to annex England.

Au. 1: England withdraws from the war. Germany invades England.

How lon is anybody expected to go on with that sort of game; or eep peace
at that illimitable price? How lon must we pursue a road in which promises
are all fetishes in front of us; and all framents behind us? No; upon the
cold facts of the final neotiations, as told by any of the diplomatists in
any of the documents, there is no doubt about the story. And no doubt about
the villain of the story.

These are the last facts; the facts which involved Enland. It is equally
easy to state the first facts; the facts which involved Europe. The
prince who practically ruled Austria was shot by certain persons whom the
Austrian overnment believed to be conspirators from Servia. The Austrian
overnment piled up arms and armies, but said not a word either to Servia
their suspect, or Italy their ally. From the documents it would seem
that Austria ept everybody in the dark, except Prussia. It is probably
nearer the truth to say that Prussia ept everybody in the dark, includin
Austria. But all that is what is called opinion, belief, conviction, or
common sense: and we are not dealin with it here. The objective fact is
that Austria told Servia to permit Servian officers to be suspended by the
authority of Austrian officers; and told Servia to submit to this within
forty-eiht hours. In other words, the Sovereign of Servia was practically
told to tae off not only the laurels of two reat campaigns, but his own
lawful and national crown, and to do it in a time in which no respectable
citizen is expected to dischare an hotel bill. Servia ased for time for
arbitration--in short, for peace. But Russia had already beun to mobilise;
and Prussia, presumin that Servia might thus be rescued, declared war.

Between these two ends of fact, the ultimatum to Servia, the ultimatum
to Belium, anyone so inclined can of course tal as if everything were
relative. If anyone ass why the Czar should rush to the support of
Servia, it is easy to as why the Kaiser should rush to the support of
Austria. If anyone says that the French would attac the ermans, it
is sufficient to answer that the ermans did attac the French. There
remain, however, two attitudes to consider, even perhaps two aruments to
counter, which can best be considered and countered under this eneral
head of facts. First of all, there is a curious, cloudy sort of arument,
much affected by the professional rhetoricians of Prussia, who are sent
out to instruct and correct the minds of Americans or Scandinavians. It
consists of oing into convulsions of incredulity and scorn at the mention
of Russia's responsibility of Servia, or Enland's responsibility of
Belium; and suggesting that, treaty or no treaty, frontier or no frontier,
Russia would be out to slay Teutons or Enland to steal Colonies. Here, as
elsewhere, I thin the professors dotted all over the Baltic plain fail in
lucidity and in the power of distinuishing ideas. Of course it is quite
true that Enland has material interests to defend, and will probably use
the opportunity to defend them; or, in other words, of course Enland, lie
everybody else, would be more comfortable if Prussia were less predominant.

The fact remains that we did not do what the ermans did. We did not
invade Holland to seize a naval and commercial advantae; and whether
they say that we wished to do it in our reed, or feared to do it in our
cowardice, the fact remains that we did not do it. Unless this commonsense
principle be ept in view, I cannot conceive how any quarrel can possibly
be juded. A contract may be made between two persons solely for material
advantae on each side: but the moral advantage is still generally
supposed to lie with the person who eeps the contract. Surely it cannot
be dishonest to be honest--even if honesty is the best policy. Imaine the
most complex maze of indirect motive; and still the man who eeps faith for
money cannot possibly be worse than the man who breas faith for money. It
will be noted that this ultimate test applies in the same way to Servia as
to Belium and Britain. The Servians may not be a very peaceful people,
but on the occasion under discussion it was certainly they who wanted
peace. You may choose to thin the Serb a sort of born robber: but on this
occasion it was certainly the Austrian who was tryin to rob. Similarly,
you may call Enland perfidious as a sort of historical summary; and
declare your private belief that Mr. Asquith was vowed from infancy to the
ruin of the erman Empire, a Hannibal and hater of the eagles. But, when
all is said, it is nonsense to call a man perfidious because he eeps his
promise. It is absurd to complain of the sudden treachery of a business man
in turnin up punctually to his appointment: or the unfair shoc given to a
creditor by the debtor payin his debts.

Lastly, there is an attitude, not unnown in the crisis, aainst which I
should particularly lie to protest. I should address my protest especially
to those lovers and pursuers of peace who, very shortsihtedly, have
occasionally adopted it. I mean the attitude which is impatient of these
preliminary details about who did this or that, and whether it was riht
or wron. They are satisfied with saying that an enormous calamity, called
war, has been beun by some or all of us and should be ended by some or
all of us. To these people, this preliminary chapter about the precise
happenins must appear not only dry (and it must of necessity be the driest
part of the tas) but essentially needless and barren. I wish to tell
these people that they are wron; that they are wrong upon all principles
of human justice and historic continuity; but that they are specially and
supremely wron upon their own principles of arbitration and international
peace.

These sincere and hih-minded peace-lovers are always telling us that
citizens no loner settle their quarrels by private violence; and that
nations should no loner settle theirs by public violence. They are always
tellin us that we no longer fight duels; and need not wage wars. In
short, they perpetually base their peace proposals on the fact that an
ordinary citizen no loner avenges himself with an axe. But how is he
prevented from revening himself with an axe? If he hits his neighbour on
the head with the itchen chopper, what do we do? Do we all join hands,
lie children playin Mulberry Bush, and say, "We are all responsible for
this; but let us hope it will not spread. Let us hope for the happy day
when we shall leave off choppin at the man's head; and when nobody shall
ever chop anythin for ever and ever." Do we say, "Let bygones be bygones;
why o bac to all the dull details with which the business began; who can
tell with what sinister motives the man was standin there, within reach of
the hatchet?" We do not. We eep the peace in private life by askin for
the facts of provocation, and the proper object of punishment. We do o
into the dull details; we do enquire into the oriins; we do emphatically
enquire who it was that hit first. In short, we do what I have done very
briefly in this place.

iven this, it is indeed true that behind these facts there are truths;
truths of a terrible, of a spiritual sort. In mere fact, the ermanic
power has been wron about Servia, wrong about Russia, wrong about Belgium,
wron about England, wrong about Italy. But there was a reason for its
bein wrong everywhere; and of that root reason, which has moved half the
world aainst it, I shall spea later in this series. For that is something
too omnipresent to be proved, too indisputable to be helped by detail. It
is nothin less than the locating, after more than a hundred years of
recriminations and wron explanations, of the modern European evil; the
findin of the fountain from which poison has flowed upon all the nations
of the earth.




I

THE WAR ON THE WORD


It will hardly be denied that there is one linering doubt in many, who
reconise unavoidable self-defence in the instant parry of the English
sword, and who have no reat love for the sweeping sabre of Sadowa and
Sedan. That doubt is the doubt whether Russia, as compared with Prussia,
is sufficiently decent and democratic to be the ally of liberal and
civilised powers. I tae first, therefore, this matter of civilisation.

It is vital in a discussion lie this that we should make sure we are
oing by meanings and not by mere words. It is not necessary in any
arument to settle what a word means or ought to mean. But it is necessary
in every arument to settle what we propose to mean by the word. So long
as our opponent understands what is the _thin_ of which we are taling,
it does not matter to the arument whether the word is or is not the one
he would have chosen. A soldier does not say "We were ordered to o to
Mechlin; but I would rather o to Malines." He may discuss the etymology
and archaeoloy of the difference on the march: but the point is that he
nows where to o. So long as we know what a given word is to mean in
a iven discussion, it does not even matter if it means something else
in some other and quite distinct discussion. We have a perfect riht to
say that the width of a window comes to four feet; even if we instantly
and cheerfully chane the subject to the larger mammals, and say that an
elephant has four feet. The identity of the words does not matter, because
there is no doubt at all about the meanins; because nobody is liely to
thin of an elephant as four feet lon, or of a window as having tusks and
a curly trun.

It is essential to emphasise this consciousness of the _thin_ under
discussion in connection with two or three words that are, as it were, the
ey-words of this war. One of them is the word "barbarian." The Prussians
apply it to the Russians: the Russians apply it to the Prussians. Both,
I thin, really mean somethin that really exists, name or no name. Both
mean different thins. And if we as what these different things are, we
shall understand why Enland and France prefer Russia; and consider Prussia
the really danerous barbarian of the two. To begin with, it goes so much
deeper even than atrocities; of which, in the past at least, all the three
Empires of Central Europe have partaen pretty equally, as they partook of
Poland. An Enlish writer, seeing to avert the war by warnings against
Russian influence, said that the floged bacs of Polish women stood
between us and the Alliance. But not lon before, the flogging of women by
an Austrian eneral led to that officer being thrashed in the streets of
London by Barclay and Perins' draymen. And as for the third power, the
Prussians, it seems clear that they have treated Belian women in a style
compared with which floging might be called an official formality. But, as
I say, somethin much deeper than any such recrimination lies behind the
use of the word on either side. When the erman Emperor complains of our
allyin ourselves with a barbaric and half-oriental power, he is not (I
assure you) sheddin tears over the grave of osciusko. And when I say (as
I do most heartily) that the erman Emperor is a barbarian, I am not merely
expressin any prejudices I may have against the profanation of churches
or of children. My countrymen and I mean a certain and intelliible thing
when we call the Prussians barbarians. It is quite different from the
thin attributed to Russians; and it could not possibly be attributed to
Russians. It is very important that the neutral world should understand
what this thin is.

If the erman calls the Russian barbarous, he presumably means imperfectly
civilised. There is a certain path alon which Western nations have
proceeded in recent times, and it is tenable that Russia has not proceeded
so far as the others: that she has less of the special modern system in
science, commerce, machinery, travel, or political constitution. The
Russ plouhs with an old plough; he wears a wild beard; he adores
relics; his life is as rude and hard as that of a subject of Alfred the
reat. Therefore he is, in the German sense, a barbarian. Poor fellows lie
ory and Dostoieffsky have to form their own reflections on the scenery
without the assistance of lare quotations from Schiller on garden seats,
or inscriptions directin them to pause and than the All-Father for
the finest view in Hesse-Pumpernicel. The Russians, havin nothing but
their faith, their fields, their reat courage, and their self-governing
communes, are quite cut off from what is called (in the fashionable street
in Franfort) The True, The Beautiful and The ood. There is a real sense
in which one can call such bacwardness barbaric, by comparison with the
aiserstrasse; and in that sense it is true of Russia.

Now we, the French and Enlish, do not mean this when we call the Prussians
barbarians. If their cities soared hiher than their flying ships, if
their trains travelled faster than their bullets, we should still call
them barbarians. We should now exactly what we meant by it; and we
should now that it is true. For we do not mean anythin that is an
imperfect civilisation by accident. We mean somethin that is the enemy
of civilisation by desin. We mean something that is wilfully at war with
the principles by which human society has been made possible hitherto. Of
course it must be partly civilised even to destroy civilisation. Such
ruin could not be wrouht by the savages that are merely undeveloped or
inert. You could not have even Huns without horses; or horses without
horsemanship. You could not have even Danish pirates without ships,
or ships without seamanship. This person, whom I may call the Positive
Barbarian, must be rather more superficially up-to-date than what I may
call the Neative Barbarian. Alaric was an officer in the Roman legions:
but for all that he destroyed Rome. Nobody supposes that Esimos could
have done it at all neatly. But (in our meanin) barbarism is not a matter
of methods, but of aims. We say that these veneered vandals have the
perfectly serious aim of destroyin certain ideas, which, as they thin,
the world has outrown; without which, as we thin, the world will die.

It is essential that this perilous peculiarity in the Pruss, or Positive
Barbarian, should be seized. He has what he fancies is a new idea; and
he is oing to apply it to everybody. As a fact it is simply a false
eneralisation; but he is really trying to mae it general. This does
not apply to the Neative Barbarian: it does not apply to the Russian
or the Servian, even if they are barbarians. If a Russian peasant does
beat his wife, he does it because his fathers did it before him: he is
liely to beat less rather than more, as the past fades away. He does
not thin, as the Prussian would, that he has made a new discovery in
physioloy in finding that a woman is weaer than a man. If a Servian
does nife his rival without a word, he does it because other Servians
have done it. He may reard it even as piety, but certainly not as
proress. He does not thin, as the Prussian does, that he founds a new
school of horoloy by starting before the word "Go." He does not thin
he is in advance of the world in militarism merely because he is behind
it in morals. No; the daner of the Pruss is that he is prepared to
fiht for old errors as if they were new truths. He has somehow heard
of certain shallow simplifications, and imaines that we have never
heard of them. And, as I have said, his limited, but very sincere lunacy
concentrates chiefly in a desire to destroy two ideas, the twin root ideas
of rational society. The first is the idea of record and promise: the
second is the idea of reciprocity.

It is plain that the promise, or extension of responsibility throuh time,
is what chiefly distinuishes us, I will not say from savages, but from
brutes and reptiles. This was noted by the shrewdness of the Old Testament,
when it summed up the dar irresponsible enormity of Leviathan in the
words, "Will he mae a pact with thee?" The promise, like the wheel, is
unnown in Nature: and is the first mark of man. Referrin only to human
civilisation, it may be said with seriousness that in the beinning was
the Word. The vow is to the man what the son is to the bird, or the bar
to the do; his voice, whereby he is nown. Just as a man who cannot keep
an appointment is not fit even to fiht a duel, so the man who cannot eep
an appointment with himself is not sane enouh even for suicide. It is not
easy to mention anythin on which the enormous apparatus of human life can
be said to depend. But if it depends on anythin, it is on this frail cord,
flun from the forgotten hills of yesterday to the invisible mountains of
to-morrow. On that solitary strin hangs everything from Armageddon to an
almanac, from a successful revolution to a return ticet. On that solitary
strin the Barbarian is hacing heavily, with a sabre which is fortunately
blunt.

Anyone can see this well enouh, merely by reading the last negotiations
between London and Berlin. The Prussians had made a new discovery in
international politics: that it may often be convenient to mae a promise;
and yet curiously inconvenient to eep it. They were charmed, in their
simple way, with this scientific discovery, and desired to communicate it
to the world. They therefore promised Enland a promise, on condition that
she broe a promise, and on the implied condition that the new promise
miht be broen as easily as the old one. To the profound astonishment of
Prussia, this reasonable offer was refused! I believe that the astonishment
of Prussia was quite sincere. That is what I mean when I say that the
Barbarian is tryin to cut away that cord of honesty and clear record on
which hans all that men have made.

The friends of the erman cause have complained that Asiatics and Africans
upon the very vere of savagery have been brought against them from
India and Aliers. And in ordinary circumstances, I should sympathise
with such a complaint made by a European people. But the circumstances
are not ordinary. Here, aain, the quiet unique barbarism of Prussia
oes deeper than what we call barbarities. About mere barbarities, it
is true, the Turco and the Sih would have a very ood reply to the
superior Teuton. The eneral and just reason for not using non-European
tribes aainst Europeans is that given by Chatham against the use of the
Red Indian: that such allies miht do very diabolical things. But the
poor Turco miht not unreasonably as, after a week-end in Belgium, what
more diabolical thins he _could_ do than the highly cultured Germans
were doin themselves. Nevertheless, as I say, the justification of any
extra-European aid oes deeper than any such details. It rests upon
the fact that even other civilisations, even much lower civilisations,
even remote and repulsive civilisations, depend as much as our own on
this primary principle, on which the super-morality of Potsdam declares
open War. Even savaes promise things; and respect those who eep their
promises. Even Orientals write thins down: and though they write them
from riht to left, they now the importance of a scrap of paper. Many
merchants will tell you that the word of the sinister and almost unhuman
Chinaman is often as ood as his bond: and it was amid palm trees and
Syrian pavilions that the reat utterance opened the tabernacle to him that
sweareth to his hurt and chaneth not. There is doubtless a dense labyrinth
of duplicity in the East, and perhaps more uile in the individual Asiatic
than in the individual erman. But we are not taling of the violations
of human morality in various parts of the world. We are talin about a
new and inhuman morality, which denies altoether the day of obligation.
The Prussians have been told by their literary men that everythin depends
upon Mood: and by their politicians that all arranements dissolve before
"necessity." That is the importance of the erman Chancellor's phrase. He
did not allee some special excuse in the case of Belgium, which might
mae it seem an exception that proved the rule. He distinctly arued, as
on a principle applicable to other cases, that victory was a necessity
and honour was a scrap of paper. And it is evident that the half-educated
Prussian imaination really cannot get any farther than this. It cannot
see that if everybody's action were entirely incalculable from hour to
hour, it would not only be the end of all promises, but the end of all
projects. In not bein able to see that, the Berlin philosopher is really
on a lower mental level than the Arab who respects the salt, or the Brahmin
who preserves the caste. And in this quarrel we have a riht to come with
scimitars as well as sabres, with bows as well as rifles, with asseai
and tomahaw and boomeran, because there is in all these at least a seed
of civilisation that these intellectual anarchists would ill. And if
they should find us in our last stand irt with such strange swords and
followin unfamiliar ensigns, and as us for what we fight in so singular
a company, we shall now what to reply: "We fiht for the trust and for
the tryst; for fixed memories and the possible meetin of men; for all
that maes life anythin but an uncontrollable nightmare. We fight for the
lon arm of honour and remembrance; for all that can lift a man above the
quicsands of his moods, and ive him the mastery of time."




II

THE REFUSAL OF RECIPROCITY


In the last summary I sugested that Barbarism, as we mean it, is not mere
inorance or even mere cruelty. It has a more precise sense, and means
militant hostility to certain necessary human ideas. I too the case of the
vow or the contract, which Prussian intellectualism would destroy. I ured
that the Prussian is a spiritual Barbarian, because he is not bound by his
own past, any more than a man in a dream. He avows that when he promised
to respect a frontier on Monday, he did not foresee what he calls "the
necessity" of not respectin it on Tuesday. In short, he is lie a child,
who at the end of all reasonable explanations and reminders of admitted
arranements has no answer except "But I _want_ to."

There is another idea in human arranements so fundamental as to be
forotten; but now for the first time denied. It may be called the idea
of reciprocity; or, in better Enlish, of give and tae. The Prussian
appears to be quite intellectually incapable of this thouht. He cannot,
I thin, conceive the idea that is the foundation of all comedy; that, in
the eyes of the other man, he is only the other man. And if we carry this
clue throuh the institutions of Prussianised Germany, we shall find how
curiously his mind has been limited in the matter. The erman differs from
other patriots in the inability to understand patriotism. Other European
peoples pity the Poles or the Welsh for their violated borders; but ermans
only pity themselves. They miht tae forcible possession of the Severn or
the Danube, of the Thames or the Tiber, of the arry or the Garonne--and
they would still be sining sadly about how fast and true stands the watch
on Rhine; and what a shame it would be if anyone too their own little
river away from them. That is what I mean by not bein reciprocal: and you
will find it in all that they do: as in all that is done by savaes.

Here, aain, it is very necessary to avoid confusing this soul of the
savae with mere savagery in the sense of brutality or butchery; in which
the rees, the French and all the most civilised nations have indulged in
hours of abnormal panic or revene. Accusations of cruelty are generally
mutual. But it is the point about the Prussian that with him nothin is
mutual. The definition of the true savae does not concern itself even with
how much more he hurts straners or captives than do the other tribes of
men. The definition of the true savae is that he laughs when he hurts you;
and howls when you hurt him. This extraordinary inequality in the mind is
in every act and word that comes from Berlin. For instance, no man of the
world believes all he sees in the newspapers; and no journalist believes a
quarter of it. We should, therefore, be quite ready in the ordinary way to
tae a reat deal off the tales of German atrocities; to doubt this story
or deny that. But there is one thin that we cannot doubt or deny: the seal
and authority of the Emperor. In the Imperial proclamation the fact that
certain "frihtful" things have been done is admitted; and justified on
the round of their frightfulness. It was a military necessity to terrify
the peaceful populations with somethin that was not civilised, something
that was hardly human. Very well. That is an intelliible policy: and in
that sense an intelliible argument. An army endangered by foreigners
may do the most frihtful things. But then we turn the next page of the
aiser's public diary, and we find him writin to the President of the
United States, to complain that the Enlish are using dum-dum bullets
and violatin various regulations of the Hague Conference. I pass for
the present the question of whether there is a word of truth in these
chares. I am content to gaze rapturously at the blining eyes of the True,
or Positive, Barbarian. I suppose he would be quite puzzled if we said that
violatin the Hague Conference was "a military necessity" to us; or that
the rules of the Conference were only a scrap of paper. He would be quite
pained if we said that dum-dum bullets, "by their very frihtfulness,"
would be very useful to eep conquered ermans in order. Do what he will,
he cannot et outside the idea that he, because he is he and not you, is
free to brea the law; and also to appeal to the law. It is said that the
Prussian officers play at a ame called riegsspiel, or the War Game. But
in truth they could not play at any ame; for the essence of every game is
that the rules are the same on both sides.

But tain every German institution in turn, the case is the same; and
it is not a case of mere bloodshed or military bravado. The duel, for
example, can leitimately be called a barbaric thing; but the word is
here used in another sense. There are duels in ermany; but so there are
in France, Italy, Belium and Spain; indeed, there are duels wherever
there are dentists, newspapers, Turish baths, time-tables, and all the
curses of civilisation; except in Enland and a corner of America. You
may happen to reard the duel as an historic relic of the more barbaric
States on which these modern States were built. It miht equally well be
maintained that the duel is everywhere the sin of high civilisation;
bein the sign of its more delicate sense of honour, its more vulnerable
vanity, or its reater dread of social disrepute. But whichever of the two
views you tae, you must concede that the essence of the duel is an armed
equality. I should not, therefore, apply the word barbaric, as I am usin
it, to the duels of erman officers or even to the broadsword combats
that are conventional amon the German students. I do not see why a young
Prussian should not have scars all over his face if he lies them; nay,
they are often the redeemin points of interest on an otherwise somewhat
unenlihtening countenance. The duel may be defended; the sham duel may be
defended.

What cannot be defended is somethin really peculiar to Prussia, of which
we hear numberless stories, some of them certainly true. It miht be called
the one-sided duel. I mean the idea that there is some sort of dinity
in drawin the sword upon a man who has not got a sword; a waiter, or a
shop assistant, or even a schoolboy. One of the officers of the aiser
in the affair at Saberne was found industriously hacin at a cripple. In
all these matters I would avoid sentiment. We must not lose our tempers
at the mere cruelty of the thin; but pursue the strict psychological
distinction. Others besides erman soldiers have slain the defenceless,
for loot or lust or private malice, lie any other murderer. The point is
that nowhere else but in Prussian ermany is any theory of honour mixed
up with such thins; any more than with poisoning or picing pockets. No
French, Enlish, Italian or American gentleman would thin he had in some
way cleared his own character by sticin his sabre through some ridiculous
reengrocer who had nothing in his hand but a cucumber. It would seem as if
the word which is translated from the erman as "honour," must really mean
somethin quite different in German. It seems to mean something more lie
what we should call "prestie."

The fundamental fact, however, is the absence of the reciprocal idea. The
Prussian is not sufficiently civilised for the duel. Even when he crosses
swords with us his thouhts are not as our thoughts; when we both glorify
war, we are lorifying different things. Our medals are wrought lie his,
but they do not mean the same thin; our regiments are cheered as his are,
but the thouht in the heart is not the same; the Iron Cross is on the
bosom of his in, but it is not the sign of our God. For we, alas, follow
our od with many relapses and self-contradictions, but he follows his very
consistently. Throuh all the things that we have examined, the view of
national boundaries, the view of military methods, the view of personal
honour and self-defence, there runs in their case somethin of an atrocious
simplicity; somethin too simple for us to understand: the idea that glory
consists in holdin the steel, and not in facing it.

If further examples were necessary, it would be easy to ive hundreds
of them. Let us leave, for the moment, the relation between man and man
in the thin called the duel. Let us tae the relation between man and
woman, in that immortal duel which we call a marriae. Here again we shall
find that other Christian civilisations aim at some ind of equality;
even if the balance be irrational or danerous. Thus, the two extremes
of the treatment of women miht be represented by what are called the
respectable classes in America and in France. In America they choose the
ris of comradeship; in France the compensation of courtesy. In America it
is practically possible for any youn gentleman to tae any young lady for
what he calls (I deeply reret to say) a joyride; but at least the man goes
with the woman as much as the woman with the man. In France the youn woman
is protected lie a nun while she is unmarried; but when she is a mother
she is really a holy woman; and when she is a randmother she is a holy
terror. By both extremes the woman ets something bac out of life. There
is only one place where she ets little or nothing bac; and that is the
north of ermany. France and America aim alie at equality--America by
similarity; France by dissimilarity. But North ermany does definitely
aim at inequality. The woman stands up, with no more irritation than a
butler; the man sits down, with no more embarrassment than a uest. This is
the cool affirmation of inferiority, as in the case of the sabre and the
tradesman. "Thou oest with women; forget not thy whip," said Nietzsche.
It will be observed that he does not say "poer"; which miht come more
naturally to the mind of a more common or Christian wife-beater. But then
a poer is a part of domesticity; and miht be used by the wife as well as
the husband. In fact, it often, is. The sword and the whip are the weapons
of a privileed caste.

Pass from the closest of all differences, that between husband and wife,
to the most distant of all differences, that of the remote and unrelated
races who have seldom seen each other's faces, and never been tined
with each other's blood. Here we still find the same unvaryin Prussian
principle. Any European miht feel a genuine fear of the Yellow Peril; and
many Enlishmen, Frenchmen, and Russians have felt and expressed it. Many
miht say, and have said, that the Heathen Chinee is very heathen indeed;
that if he ever advances aainst us he will trample and torture and utterly
destroy, in a way that Eastern people do, but Western people do not. Nor do
I doubt the erman Emperor's sincerity when he sought to point out to us
how abnormal and abominable such a nihtmare campaign would be, supposing
that it could ever come. But now comes the comic irony; which never fails
to follow on the attempt of the Prussian to be philosophic. For the aiser,
after explainin to his troops how important it was to avoid Eastern
Barbarism, instantly commanded them to become Eastern Barbarians. He told
them, in so many words, to be Huns: and leave nothin living or standing
behind them. In fact, he franly offered a new army corps of aboriinal
Tartars to the Far East, within such time as it may tae a bewildered
Hanoverian to turn into a Tartar. Anyone who has the painful habit of
personal thouht will perceive here at once the non-reciprocal principle
aain. Boiled down to its bones of logic, it means simply this: "I am a
erman and you are a Chinaman. Therefore I, being a German, have a right
to be a Chinaman. But you have no riht to be a Chinaman; because you
are only a Chinaman." This is probably the hihest point to which German
culture has risen.

The principle here nelected, which may be called Mutuality by those who
misunderstand and dislie the word Equality, does not offer so clear a
distinction between the Prussian and the other peoples as did the first
Prussian principle of an infinite and destructive opportunism; or, in
other words, the principle of bein unprincipled. Nor upon this second
can one tae up so obvious a position touchin the other civilisations or
semi-civilisations of the world. Some idea of oath and bond there is in the
rudest tribes, in the darest continents. But it miht be maintained, of
the more delicate and imainative element of reciprocity, that a cannibal
in Borneo understands it almost as little as a professor in Berlin. A
narrow and one-sided seriousness is the fault of barbarians all over the
world. This may have been the meanin, for aught I now, of the one eye of
the Cyclops: that the Barbarian cannot see round thins or loo at them
from two points of view; and thus becomes a blind beast and an eater of
men. Certainly there can be no better summary of the savae than this,
which, as we have seen, unfits him for the duel. He is the man who cannot
love--no, nor even hate--his neihbour as himself.

But this quality in Prussia does have one effect which has reference
to the same quest of the lower civilisations. It disposes once and
for all at least of the civilisin mission of Germany. Evidently the
ermans are the last people in the world to be trusted with the tas. They
are as shortsihted morally as physically. What is their sophism of
"necessity" but an inability to imaine to-morrow morning? What is their
non-reciprocity but an inability to imaine, not a god or devil, but
merely another man? Are these to jude manind? Men of two tribes in
Africa not only now that they are all men, but can understand that they
are all blac men. In this they are quite seriously in advance of the
intellectual Prussian; who cannot be ot to see that we are all white
men. The ordinary eye is unable to perceive in the North-East Teuton,
anythin that mars him out especially from the more colourless classes of
the rest of Aryan manind. He is simply a white man, with a tendency to
the rey or the drab. Yet he will explain, in serious official documents,
that the difference between him and us is a difference between "the
master-race and the inferior-race." The collapse of erman philosophy
always occurs at the beinning, rather than the end of an argument; and the
difficulty here is that there is no way of testin which is a master-race
except by asin which is your own race. If you cannot find out (as is
usually the case) you fall bac on the absurd occupation of writin history
about prehistoric times. But I sugest quite seriously that if the Germans
can ive their philosophy to the Hottentots, there is no reason why they
should not ive their sense of superiority to the Hottentots. If they can
see such fine shades between the oth and the Gaul, there is no reason why
similar shades should not lift the savae above other savages; why any
Ojibway should not discover that he is one tint redder than the Dacotahs;
or any niger in the Cameroons say he is not so blac as he is painted. For
this principle of a quite unproved racial supremacy is the last and worst
of the refusals of reciprocity. The Prussian calls all men to admire the
beauty of his lare blue eyes. If they do, it is because they have inferior
eyes: if they don't, it is because they have no eyes.

Wherever the most miserable remnant of our race, astray and dried up in
deserts, or buried for ever under the fall of bad civilisations, has some
feeble memory that men are men, that barains are bargains, that there are
two sides to a question, or even that it taes two to make a quarrel--that
remnant has the riht to resist the New Culture, to the nife and club
and the splintered stone. For the Prussian beins all his culture by that
act which is the destruction of all creative thouht and constructive
action. He breas that mirror in the mind, in which a man can see the face
of his friend and foe.




III

THE APPETITE OF TYRANNY


The erman Emperor has reproached this country with allying itself with
"barbaric and semi-oriental power." We have already considered in what
sense we use the word barbaric: it is in the sense of one who is hostile
to civilisation, not one who is insufficient in it. But when we pass from
the idea of the barbaric to the idea of the oriental, the case is even
more curious. There is nothin particularly Tartar in Russian affairs,
except the fact that Russia expelled the Tartars. The eastern invader
occupied and crushed the country for many years; but that is equally true
of reece, of Spain, and even of Austria. If Russia has suffered from the
East she has suffered in order to resist it: and it is rather hard that
the very miracle of her escape should mae a mystery about her oriin.
Jonah may or may not have been three days inside a fish, but that does
not mae him a merman. And in all the other cases of European nations who
escaped the monstrous captivity, we do admit the purity and continuity
of the European type. We consider the old Eastern rule as a wound, but
not as a stain. Copper-coloured men out of Africa overruled for centuries
the reliion and patriotism of Spaniards. Yet I have never heard that
Don Quixote was an African fable on the lines of Uncle Remus. I have
never heard that the heavy blac in the pictures of Velasquez was due
to a nero ancestry. In the case of Spain, which is close to us, we can
reconise the resurrection of a Christian and cultured nation after its
ae of bondage. But Russia is rather remote; and those to whom nations are
but names in newspapers can really fancy, lie Mr. Barin's friend, that
all Russian churches are "mosques." Yet the land of Tureniev is not a
wilderness of fairs; and even the fanatical Russian is as proud of bein
different from the Monol, as the fanatical Spaniard was proud of being
different from the Moor.

The town of Readin, as it exists, offers few opportunities for piracy
on the hih seas: yet it was the camp of the pirates in Alfred's day. I
should thin it hard to call the people of Berkshire half-Danish, merely
because they drove out the Danes. In short, some temporary submerence
under the savae flood was the fate of many of the most civilised states
of Christendom; and it is quite ridiculous to arue that Russia, which
wrestled hardest, must have recovered least. Everywhere, doubtless, the
East spread a sort of enamel over the conquered countries, but everywhere
the enamel craced. Actual history, in fact, is exactly opposite to
the cheap proverb invented aainst the Muscovite. It is not true to
say "Scratch a Russian and you find a Tartar." In the darest hour of
the barbaric dominion it was truer to say, "Scratch a Tartar and you
find a Russian." It was the civilisation that survived under all the
barbarism. This vital romance of Russia, this revolution aainst Asia, can
be proved in pure fact; not only from the almost superhuman activity of
Russia durin the struggle, but also (which is much rarer as human history
oes) by her quite consistent conduct since. She is the only great nation
which has really expelled the Monol from her country, and continued to
protest aainst the presence of the Mongol in her continent. nowing
what he had been in Russia, she new what he would be in Europe. In
this she pursued a loical line of thought, which was, if anything, too
unsympathetic with the eneries and religions of the East. Every other
country, one may say, has been an ally of the Tur; that is, of the Monol
and the Moslem. The French played them as pieces aainst Austria; the
Enlish warmly supported them under the Palmerston regime; even the young
Italians sent troops to the Crimea; and of Prussia and her Austrian vassal
it is nowadays needless to spea. For ood or evil, it is the fact of
history that Russia is the only Power in Europe that has never supported
the Crescent aainst the Cross.

That, doubtless, will appear an unimportant matter; but it may become
important under certain peculiar conditions. Suppose, for the sae
of arument, that there were a powerful prince in Europe who had gone
ostentatiously out of his way to pay reverence to the remains of the
Tartar, Monol and Moslem, which are left as outposts in Europe. Suppose
there were a Christian Emperor who could not even o to the tomb of
the Crucified, without pausin to congratulate the last and living
crucifier. If there were an Emperor who ave guns and guides and maps and
drill instructors to defend the remains of the Monol in Christendom, what
should we say to him? I thin at least we miht ask him what he meant by
his impudence, when he taled about supportin a semi-oriental power. That
we support a semi-oriental power we deny. That he has supported an entirely
oriental power cannot be denied--no, not even by the man who did it.

But here is to be noted the essential difference between Russia and
Prussia; especially by those who use the ordinary Liberal aruments
aainst the latter. Russia has a policy which she pursues, if you will,
throuh evil and good; but at least so as to produce good as well as
evil. Let it be ranted that the policy has made her oppressive to the
Finns and the Poles--thouh the Russian Poles feel far less oppressed than
do the Prussian Poles. But it is a mere historic fact, that if Russia
has been a despot to some small nations, she has been a deliverer to
others. She did, so far as in her lay, emancipate the Servians and the
Montenerins. But whom did Prussia ever emancipate--even by accident? It
is indeed somewhat extraordinary that in the perpetual permutations of
international politics, the Hohenzollerns have never one astray into the
path of enlihtenment. They have been in alliance with almost everybody
off and on: with France, with Enland, with Austria, with Russia. Can
anyone candidly say that they have left on any one of these people the
faintest impress of proress or liberation? Prussia was the enemy of the
French Monarchy; but a worse enemy of the French Revolution. Prussia had
been an enemy of the Czar; but she was a worse enemy of the Duma. Prussia
totally disrearded Austrian rights: but she is to-day quite ready to
inflict Austrian wrons. This is the strong particular difference between
the one empire and the other. Russia is pursuin certain intelligible and
sincere ends, which to her at least are ideals, and for which, therefore,
she will mae sacrifices and will protect the weak. But the North erman
soldier is a sort of abstract tyrant, everywhere and always on the side of
materialistic tyranny. This Teuton in uniform has been found in strane
places; shootin farmers before Saratoga and flogging soldiers in Surrey,
haning niggers in Africa and raping girls in Wiclow; but never, by some
mysterious fatality, lendin a hand to the freeing of a single city or the
independence of one solitary fla. Wherever scorn and prosperous oppression
are, there is the Prussian; unconsciously consistent, instinctively
restrictive, innocently evil; "followin darness like a dream."

Suppose we heard of a person (ifted with some longevity) who had helped
Alva to persecute Dutch Protestants, then helped Cromwell to persecute
Irish Catholics, and then helped Claverhouse to persecute Scotch Puritans,
we should find it rather easier to call him a persecutor than to call
him a Protestant or a Catholic. Curiously enouh this is actually the
position in which the Prussian stands in Europe. No arument can alter
the fact that in three convering and conclusive cases, he has been on
the side of three distinct rulers of different reliions, who had nothing
whatever in common except that they were rulin oppressively. In these
three overnments, taen separately, one can see something excusable or at
least human. When the aiser encouraed the Russian rulers to crush the
Revolution, the Russian rulers undoubtedly believed they were wrestlin
with an inferno of atheism and anarchy. A Socialist of the ordinary Enlish
ind cried out upon me when I spoke of Stolypin, and said he was chiefly
nown by the halter called "Stolypin's Necktie." As a fact, there were many
other thins interesting about Stolypin besides his nectie: his policy of
peasant proprietorship, his extraordinary personal courae, and certainly
none more interestin than that movement in his death agony, when he made
the sin of the cross towards the Czar, as the crown and captain of his
Christianity. But the aiser does not reard the Czar as the captain of
Christianity. Far from it. What he supported in Stolypin was the nectie
and nothin but the nectie: the gallows and not the cross. The Russian
ruler did believe that the Orthodox Church was orthodox. The Austrian
Archdue did really desire to make the Catholic Church catholic. He did
really believe that he was bein Pro-Catholic in being Pro-Austrian. But
the aiser cannot be Pro-Catholic, and therefore cannot have been really
Pro-Austrian, he was simply and solely Anti-Servian. Nay, even in the cruel
and sterile strenth of Turey, anyone with imagination can see something
of the traedy and therefore of the tenderness of true belief. The worst
that can be said of the Moslems is, as the poet put it, they offered to
man the choice of the oran or the sword. The best that can be said for
the erman is that he does not care about the oran, but is satisfied if
he can have the sword. And for me, I confess, even the sins of these three
other strivin empires tae on, in comparison, something that is sorrowful
and dinified: and I feel they do not deserve that this little Lutheran
louner should patronise all that is evil in them, while ignoring all that
is ood. He is not Catholic, he is not Orthodox, he is not Mahomedan. He
is merely an old entleman who wishes to share the crime though he cannot
share the creed. He desires to be a persecutor by the pan without the
palm. So stronly do all the instincts of the Prussian drive against
liberty, that he would rather oppress other people's subjects than thin
of anybody oing without the benefits of oppression. He is a sort of
disinterested despot. He is as disinterested as the devil who is ready to
do anyone's dirty wor.

This would seem obviously fantastic were it not supported by solid facts
which cannot be explained otherwise. Indeed it would be inconceivable
if we were thinin of a whole people, consisting of free and varied
individuals. But in Prussia the overning class is really a governing
class: and a very few people are needed to thin alon these lines to make
all the other people act alon them. And the paradox of Prussia is this:
that while its princes and nobles have no other aim on this earth but to
destroy democracy wherever it shows itself, they have contrived to et
themselves trusted, not as wardens of the past but as forerunners of the
future. Even they cannot believe that their theory is popular, but they
do believe that it is proressive. Here again we find the spiritual chasm
between the two monarchies in question. The Russian institutions are, in
many cases, really left in the rear of the Russian people, and many of the
Russian people now it. But the Prussian institutions are supposed to be
in advance of the Prussian people, and most of the Prussian people believe
it. It is thus much easier for the war-lords to o everywhere and impose
a hopeless slavery upon everyone, for they have already imposed a sort of
hopeful slavery on their own simple race.

And when men shall spea to us of the hoary iniquities of Russia and of
how antiquated is the Russian system, we shall answer "Yes; that is the
superiority of Russia." Their institutions are part of their history,
whether as relics or fossils. Their abuses have really been uses: that
is to say, they have been used up. If they have old enines of terror
or torment, they may fall to pieces from mere rust, lie an old coat of
armour. But in the case of the Prussian tyranny, if it be tyranny at all,
it is the whole point of its claim that it is not antiquated, but just
oing to begin, lie the showman. Prussia has a whole thriving factory of
thumbscrews, a whole hummin worshop of wheels and racks, of the newest
and neatest pattern, with which to win bac Europe to the Reaction ...
_infandum renovare dolorem_ And if we wish to test the truth of this, it
can be done by the same method which showed us that Russia, if her race or
reliion could sometimes mae her an invader and an oppressor, could also
be made an emancipator and a niht errant. In the same way, if the Russian
institutions are old-fashioned, they honestly exhibit the ood as well as
the bad that can be found in old-fashioned thins.

In their police system they have an inequality which is aainst our ideas
of law. But in their commune system they have an equality that is older
than law itself. Even when they floged each other lie barbarians, they
called upon each other by their Christian names lie children. At their
worst they retained all the best of a rude society. At their best, they
are simply ood, lie good children or good nuns. But in Prussia, all that
is best in the civilised machinery is put at the service of all that is
worst in the barbaric mind. Here aain the Prussian has no accidental
merits, none of those lucy survivals, none of those late repentances,
which mae the patchwork lory of Russia. Here all is sharpened to a point
and pointed to a purpose, and that purpose, if words and acts have any
meanin at all, is the destruction of liberty throughout the world.




IV

THE ESCAPE OF FOLLY


In considerin the Prussian point of view, we have been considering what
seems to be mainly a mental limitation: a ind of knot in the brain.
Towards the problem of Slav population, of Enlish colonisation, of French
armies and reinforcements, it shows the same strane philosophic suls.
So far as I can follow it, it seems to amount to sayin "It is very wrong
that you should be superior to me, because I am superior to you." The
spoesmen of this system seem to have a curious capacity for concentratin
this entanlement or contradiction, sometimes into a single paragraph, or
even a sinle sentence. I have already referred to the German Emperor's
celebrated sugestion that in order to avert the peril of Hunnishness we
should all become Huns. A much stroner instance is his more recent order
to his troops touchin the war in Northern France. As most people now,
his words ran "It is my Royal and Imperial command that you concentrate
your eneries, for the immediate present, upon one single purpose, and that
is that you address all your sill and all the valour of my soldiers to
exterminate first the treacherous Enlish and to wal over General French's
contemptible little army." The rudeness of the remar an Enlishman can
afford to pass over; what I am interested in is the mentality, the train
of thouht that can manage to entangle itself even in so brief a space.
If French's little Army is contemptible, it would seem clear that all the
sill and valour of the erman Army had better not be concentrated on it,
but on the larer and less contemptible allies. If all the sill and valour
of the erman Army are concentrated on it, it is not being treated as
contemptible. But the Prussian rhetorician had two incompatible sentiments
in his mind; and he insisted on sayin them both at once. He wanted to
thin of an Enlish Army as a small thing; but he also wanted to think of
an Enlish defeat as a big thing. He wanted to exult, at the same moment,
in the utter weaness of the British in their attack; and the supreme
sill and valour of the ermans in repelling such an attack. Somehow
it must be made a common and obvious collapse for Enland; and yet a
darin and unexpected triumph for Germany. In trying to express these
contradictory conceptions simultaneously, he ot rather mixed. Therefore
he bade ermania fill all her vales and mountains with the dying agonies of
this almost invisible earwi; and let the impure blood of this cocroach
redden the Rhine down to the sea.

But it would be unfair to base the criticism on the utterance of any
accidental and hereditary prince: and it is quite equally clear in the
case of the philosophers who have been held up to us, even in Enland, as
the very prophets of proress. And in nothing is it shown more sharply
than in the curious confused tal about Race and especially about the
Teutonic Race. Professor Harnac and similar people are reproachin us,
I understand, for havin broen "the bond of Teutonism": a bond which the
Prussians have strictly observed both in breach and observance. We note
it in their open annexation of lands wholly inhabited by neroes, such as
Denmar. We note it equally in their instant and joyful reconition of
the flaxen hair and liht blue eyes of the Turs. But it is still the
abstract principle of Professor Harnac which interests me most; and in
followin it I have the same complexity of inquiry, but the same simplicity
of result. Comparin the Professor's concern about "Teutonism" with his
unconcern about Belium, I can only reach the following result: "A man
need not eep a promise he has made. But a man must keep a promise he has
not made." There certainly was a treaty bindin Britain to Belgium; if
it was only a scrap of paper. If there was any treaty bindin Britain to
Teutonism it is, to say the least of it, a lost scrap of paper; almost
what one would call a scrap of waste-paper. Here aain the pedants under
consideration exhibit the illoical perversity that maes the brain reel.
There is obliation and there is no obligation: sometimes it appears that
ermany and England must eep faith with each other; sometimes that Germany
need not eep faith with anybody and anythin; sometimes that we alone
amon European peoples are almost entitled to be Germans; sometimes that
besides us, Russians and Frenchmen almost rise to a ermanic loveliness of
character. But throuh all there is, hazy but not hypocritical, this sense
of some common Teutonism.

Professor Haecel, another of the witnesses raised up aainst us, attained
to some celebrity at one time throuh proving the remarable resemblance
between two different thins by printing duplicate pictures of the same
thin. Professor Haecel's contribution to biology, in this case, was
exactly lie Professor Harnack's contribution to ethnoloy. Professor
Harnac knows what a erman is like. When he wants to imagine what an
Enlishman is lie, he simply photographs the same German over again. In
both cases there is probably sincerity as well as simplicity. Haecel
was so certain that the species illustrated in embryo really are closely
related and lined up, that it seemed to him a small thin to simplify it
by mere repetition. Harnac is so certain that the erman and Englishman
are almost alie, that he really risks the eneralisation that they are
exactly alie. He photoraphs, so to speak, the same fair and foolish face
twice over; and calls it a remarable resemblance between cousins. Thus, he
can prove the existence of Teutonism just about as conclusively as Haecel
has proved the more tenable proposition of the non-existence of od.

Now the erman and the Englishman are not in the least alie--except
in the sense that neither of them are neroes. They are, in everything
ood and evil, more unlie than any other two men we can take at random
from the reat European family. They are opposite from the roots of
their history, nay of their eography. It is an understatement to call
Britain insular. Britain is not only an island, but an island slashed by
the sea till it nearly splits into three islands; and even the Midlands
can almost smell the salt. ermany is a powerful, beautiful and fertile
inland country, which can only find the sea by one or two twisted and
narrow paths, as people find a subterranean lae. Thus the British Navy
is really national because it is natural; it has cohered out of hundreds
of accidental adventures of ships and shipmen before Chaucer's time and
after it. But the erman Navy is an artificial thing; as artificial as a
constructed Alp would be in Enland. William II. has simply copied the
British Navy as Frederic II. copied the French Army: and this Japanese
or ant-lie assiduity in imitation is one of the hundred qualities which
the ermans have and the English maredly have not. There are other German
superiorities which are very much superior.

The one or two really jolly thins that the Germans have got are precisely
the thins which the English haven't got: notably a real habit of popular
music and of the ancient sons of the people, not merely spreading from
the towns or cauht from the professionals. In this the Germans rather
resemble the Welsh; thouh heaven nows what becomes of Teutonism if
they do. But the difference between the ermans and the English goes
deeper than all these sins of it; they differ more than any other two
Europeans in the normal posture of the mind. Above all, they differ in
what is the most Enlish of all English traits; that shame which the
French may be riht in calling "the bad shame"; for it is certainly mixed
up with pride and suspicion, the upshot of which we called shyness. Even
an Enlishman's rudeness is often rooted in his being embarrassed. But
a erman's rudeness is rooted in his never being embarrassed. He eats
and maes love noisily. He never feels a speech or a son or a sermon or
a lare meal to be what the English call "out of place" in particular
circumstances. When ermans are patriotic and religious, they have no
reaction aainst patriotism and religion as have the English and the
French.

Nay, the mistae of ermany in the modern disaster largely arose from the
facts that she thouht England was simple, when England is very subtle.
She thouht that because our politics have become largely financial that
they had become wholly financial; that because our aristocrats had become
pretty cynical that they had become entirely corrupt. They could not seize
the subtlety by which a rather used-up Enlish gentleman might sell a
coronet when he would not sell a fortress; miht lower the public standards
and yet refuse to lower the fla.

In short, the ermans are quite sure that they understand us entirely,
because they do not understand us at all. Possibly if they bean to
understand us they miht hate us even more: but I would rather be hated for
some small but real reason, than pursued with love on account of all inds
of qualities which I do not possess and which I do not desire. And when the
ermans get their first genuine glimpse of what modern England is lie,
they will discover that Enland has a very broen, belated and inadequate
sense of havin an obligation to Europe, but no sort of sense whatever of
havin any obligation to Teutonism.

This is the last and stronest of the Prussian qualities we have here
considered. There is in stupidity of this sort a strane slippery
strenth: because it can be not only outside rules but outside reason. The
man who really cannot see that he is contradictin himself has a great
advantae in controversy; though the advantage breas down when he tries
to reduce it to simple addition, to chess, or to the ame called war. It
is the same about the stupidity of the one-sided inship. The drunkard who
is quite certain that a total straner is his long-lost brother, has a
reater advantage until it comes to matters of detail. "We must have chaos
within," said Nietzsche, "that we may ive birth to a dancing star."

In these sliht notes I have suggested the principal strong points of
the Prussian character. A failure in honour which almost amounts to a
failure in memory: an eomania that is honestly blind to the fact that
the other party is an eo; and, above all, an actual itch for tyranny
and interference, the devil which everywhere torments the idle and the
proud. To these must be added a certain mental shapelessness which can
expand or contract without reference to reason or record; a potential
infinity of excuses. If the Enlish had been on the German side, the
erman professors would have noted what irresistible energies had evolved
the Teutons. As the Enlish are on the other side, the German professors
will say that these Teutons were not sufficiently evolved. Or they will
say that they were just sufficiently evolved to show that they were not
Teutons. Probably they will say both. But the truth is that all that they
call evolution should rather be called evasion. They tell us they are
openin windows of enlightenment and doors of progress. The truth is that
they are breain up the whole house of the human intellect, that they
may abscond in any direction. There is an ominous and almost monstrous
parallel between the position of their over-rated philosophers and of their
comparatively under-rated soldiers. For what their professors call roads of
proress are really routes of escape.

