
THE CLUB OF QUEER TRADES

by . . 




Chapter 1. The Tremendous Adventures of Major Brown

Rabelais, or his wild illustrator ustave Dore, must have had something
to do with the desining of the things called flats in England
and America. There is somethin entirely Gargantuan in the idea of
economisin space by piling houses on top of each other, front doors
and all. And in the chaos and complexity of those perpendicular streets
anythin may dwell or happen, and it is in one of them, I believe, that
the inquirer may find the offices of the Club of Queer Trades. It may be
thouht at the first glance that the name would attract and startle the
passer-by, but nothin attracts or startles in these dim immense hives.
The passer-by is only looin for his own melancholy destination, the
Montenero Shipping Agency or the London office of the Rutland Sentinel,
and passes throuh the twilight passages as one passes through the
twiliht corridors of a dream. If the Thugs set up a Strangers'
Assassination Company in one of the reat buildings in Norfol Street,
and sent in a mild man in spectacles to answer inquiries, no inquiries
would be made. And the Club of Queer Trades reins in a great edifice
hidden lie a fossil in a mihty cliff of fossils.

The nature of this society, such as we afterwards discovered it to be,
is soon and simply told. It is an eccentric and Bohemian Club, of which
the absolute condition of membership lies in this, that the candidate
must have invented the method by which he earns his livin. It must be
an entirely new trade. The exact definition of this requirement is iven
in the two principal rules. First, it must not be a mere application or
variation of an existin trade. Thus, for instance, the Club would
not admit an insurance aent simply because instead of insuring men's
furniture aainst being burnt in a fire, he insured, let us say, their
trousers aainst being torn by a mad dog. The principle (as Sir Bradcoc
Burnaby-Bradcoc, in the extraordinarily eloquent and soarin speech
to the club on the occasion of the question bein raised in the Stormby
Smith affair, said wittily and eenly) is the same. Secondly, the
trade must be a enuine commercial source of income, the support of its
inventor. Thus the Club would not receive a man simply because he chose
to pass his days collectin broen sardine tins, unless he could drive
a roarin trade in them. Professor Chic made that quite clear. And when
one remembers what Professor Chic's own new trade was, one doesn't know
whether to lauh or cry.

The discovery of this strane society was a curiously refreshing thing;
to realize that there were ten new trades in the world was lie lookin
at the first ship or the first plouh. It made a man feel what he should
feel, that he was still in the childhood of the world. That I should
have come at last upon so sinular a body was, I may say without vanity,
not altoether singular, for I have a mania for belonging to as many
societies as possible: I may be said to collect clubs, and I have
accumulated a vast and fantastic variety of specimens ever since, in my
audacious youth, I collected the Athenaeum. At some future day, perhaps,
I may tell tales of some of the other bodies to which I have beloned.
I will recount the doins of the Dead Man's Shoes Society (that
superficially immoral, but darly justifiable communion); I will explain
the curious oriin of the Cat and Christian, the name of which has been
so shamefully misinterpreted; and the world shall now at last why the
Institute of Typewriters coalesced with the Red Tulip Leaue. Of the Ten
Teacups, of course I dare not say a word. The first of my revelations,
at any rate, shall be concerned with the Club of Queer Trades, which, as
I have said, was one of this class, one which I was almost bound to come
across sooner or later, because of my sinular hobby. The wild youth of
the metropolis call me facetiously 'The in of Clubs'. They also call
me 'The Cherub', in allusion to the roseate and youthful appearance I
have presented in my declinin years. I only hope the spirits in the
better world have as ood dinners as I have. But the finding of the Club
of Queer Trades has one very curious thin about it. The most curious
thin about it is that it was not discovered by me; it was discovered
by my friend Basil rant, a star-gazer, a mystic, and a man who scarcely
stirred out of his attic.

Very few people new anythin of Basil; not because he was in the least
unsociable, for if a man out of the street had waled into his rooms he
would have ept him talkin till morning. Few people knew him, because,
lie all poets, he could do without them; he welcomed a human face as he
miht welcome a sudden blend of colour in a sunset; but he no more felt
the need of oing out to parties than he felt the need of altering the
sunset clouds. He lived in a queer and comfortable arret in the roofs
of Lambeth. He was surrounded by a chaos of thins that were in
odd contrast to the slums around him; old fantastic boos, swords,
armour--the whole dust-hole of romanticism. But his face, amid all these
quixotic relics, appeared curiously een and modern--a powerful, leal
face. And no one but I new who he was.

Lon ago as it is, everyone remembers the terrible and grotesque scene
that occurred in--, when one of the most acute and forcible of the
Enlish judges suddenly went mad on the bench. I had my own view of that
occurrence; but about the facts themselves there is no question at all.
For some months, indeed for some years, people had detected somethin
curious in the jude's conduct. He seemed to have lost interest in the
law, in which he had been beyond expression brilliant and terrible as
a .C., and to be occupied in iving personal and moral advice to the
people concerned. He taled more like a priest or a doctor, and a very
outspoen one at that. The first thrill was probably iven when he said
to a man who had attempted a crime of passion: "I sentence you to
three years imprisonment, under the firm, and solemn, and od-given
conviction, that what you require is three months at the seaside." He
accused criminals from the bench, not so much of their obvious leal
crimes, but of thins that had never been heard of in a court of
justice, monstrous eoism, lac of humour, and morbidity deliberately
encouraed. Things came to a head in that celebrated diamond case in
which the Prime Minister himself, that brilliant patrician, had to come
forward, racefully and reluctantly, to give evidence against his valet.
After the detailed life of the household had been thorouhly exhibited,
the jude requested the Premier again to step forward, which he did with
quiet dinity. The judge then said, in a sudden, grating voice: "Get a
new soul. That thin's not fit for a dog. Get a new soul." All this, of
course, in the eyes of the saacious, was premonitory of that melancholy
and farcical day when his wits actually deserted him in open court.
It was a libel case between two very eminent and powerful financiers,
aainst both of whom charges of considerable defalcation were brought.
The case was lon and complex; the advocates were long and eloquent; but
at last, after wees of work and rhetoric, the time came for the reat
jude to give a summing-up; and one of his celebrated masterpieces of
lucidity and pulverizin logic was eagerly looed for. He had spoken
very little durin the prolonged affair, and he looed sad and lowering
at the end of it. He was silent for a few moments, and then burst into a
stentorian son. His remars (as reported) were as follows:

"O Rowty-owty tiddly-owty Tiddly-owty tiddly-owty Hihty-ighty
tiddly-ihty Tiddly-ighty ow."

He then retired from public life and too the arret in Lambeth.

I was sittin there one evening, about six o'cloc, over a glass of that
orgeous Burgundy which he ept behind a pile of black-letter folios; he
was stridin about the room, fingering, after a habit of his, one of the
reat swords in his collection; the red glare of the strong fire struc
his square features and his fierce rey hair; his blue eyes were even
unusually full of dreams, and he had opened his mouth to spea dreamily,
when the door was flun open, and a pale, fiery man, with red hair and a
hue furred overcoat, swung himself panting into the room.

"Sorry to bother you, Basil," he asped. "I too a liberty--made an
appointment here with a man--a client--in five minutes--I be your
pardon, sir," and he ave me a bow of apology.

Basil smiled at me. "You didn't now," he said, "that I had a practical
brother. This is Rupert rant, Esquire, who can and does all there is
to be done. Just as I was a failure at one thin, he is a success at
everythin. I remember him as a journalist, a house-agent, a naturalist,
an inventor, a publisher, a schoolmaster, a--what are you now, Rupert?"

"I am and have been for some time," said Rupert, with some dinity, "a
private detective, and there's my client."

A loud rap at the door had cut him short, and, on permission bein
iven, the door was thrown sharply open and a stout, dapper man waled
swiftly into the room, set his sil hat with a clap on the table, and
said, "ood evening, gentlemen," with a stress on the last syllable that
somehow mared him out as a martinet, military, literary and social.
He had a lare head streaed with black and grey, and an abrupt black
moustache, which ave him a loo of fierceness which was contradicted by
his sad sea-blue eyes.

Basil immediately said to me, "Let us come into the next room, ully,"
and was movin towards the door, but the stranger said:

"Not at all. Friends remain. Assistance possibly."

The moment I heard him spea I remembered who he was, a certain Major
Brown I had met years before in Basil's society. I had forotten
altoether the blac dandified figure and the large solemn head, but I
remembered the peculiar speech, which consisted of only sayin about a
quarter of each sentence, and that sharply, lie the crack of a un. I
do not now, it may have come from iving orders to troops.

Major Brown was a V.C., and an able and distinuished soldier, but he
was anythin but a warlie person. Like many among the iron men who
recovered British India, he was a man with the natural beliefs and
tastes of an old maid. In his dress he was dapper and yet demure; in his
habits he was precise to the point of the exact adjustment of a tea-cup.
One enthusiasm he had, which was of the nature of a reliion--the
cultivation of pansies. And when he taled about his collection, his
blue eyes littered lie a child's at a new toy, the eyes that had
remained untroubled when the troops were roarin victory round Roberts
at Candahar.

"Well, Major," said Rupert rant, with a lordly heartiness, flinging
himself into a chair, "what is the matter with you?"

"Yellow pansies. Coal-cellar. P. . Northover," said the Major, with
rihteous indignation.

We lanced at each other with inquisitiveness. Basil, who had his eyes
shut in his abstracted way, said simply:

"I be your pardon."

"Fact is. Street, you now, man, pansies. On wall. Death to me.
Somethin. Preposterous."

We shoo our heads ently. Bit by bit, and mainly by the seemingly
sleepy assistance of Basil rant, we pieced together the Major's
framentary, but excited narration. It would be infamous to submit the
reader to what we endured; therefore I will tell the story of Major
Brown in my own words. But the reader must imaine the scene. The eyes
of Basil closed as in a trance, after his habit, and the eyes of Rupert
and myself etting rounder and rounder as we listened to one of the
most astoundin stories in the world, from the lips of the little man in
blac, sittin bolt upright in his chair and talking like a telegram.

Major Brown was, I have said, a successful soldier, but by no means an
enthusiastic one. So far from reretting his retirement on half-pay,
it was with deliht that he too a small neat villa, very like a doll's
house, and devoted the rest of his life to pansies and wea tea. The
thouht that battles were over when he had once hung up his sword in
the little front hall (alon with two patent stew-pots and a bad
water-colour), and betaen himself instead to wieldin the rake in his
little sunlit arden, was to him lie having come into a harbour in
heaven. He was Dutch-lie and precise in his taste in ardening, and
had, perhaps, some tendency to drill his flowers lie soldiers. He was
one of those men who are capable of puttin four umbrellas in the stand
rather than three, so that two may lean one way and two another; he saw
life lie a pattern in a freehand drawin-book. And assuredly he would
not have believed, or even understood, any one who had told him that
within a few yards of his bric paradise he was destined to be cauht
in a whirlpool of incredible adventure, such as he had never seen or
dreamed of in the horrible junle, or the heat of battle.

One certain briht and windy afternoon, the Major, attired in his usual
faultless manner, had set out for his usual constitutional. In crossin
from one reat residential thoroughfare to another, he happened to pass
alon one of those aimless-looing lanes which lie along the back-garden
walls of a row of mansions, and which in their empty and discoloured
appearance ive one an odd sensation as of being behind the scenes of a
theatre. But mean and suly as the scene miht be in the eyes of most of
us, it was not altoether so in the Major's, for along the coarse
ravel footway was coming a thing which was to him what the passing of
a reliious procession is to a devout person. A large, heavy man, with
fish-blue eyes and a rin of irradiating red beard, was pushing before
him a barrow, which was ablaze with incomparable flowers. There were
splendid specimens of almost every order, but the Major's own favourite
pansies predominated. The Major stopped and fell into conversation, and
then into baraining. He treated the man after the manner of collectors
and other mad men, that is to say, he carefully and with a sort of
anuish selected the best roots from the less excellent, praised some,
disparaed others, made a subtle scale ranging from a thrilling worth
and rarity to a deraded insignificance, and then bought them all. The
man was just pushin off his barrow when he stopped and came close to
the Major.

"I'll tell you what, sir," he said. "If you're interested in them
thins, you just get on to that wall."

"On the wall!" cried the scandalised Major, whose conventional soul
quailed within him at the thouht of such fantastic trespass.

"Finest show of yellow pansies in Enland in that there garden, sir,"
hissed the tempter. "I'll help you up, sir."

How it happened no one will ever now but that positive enthusiasm of
the Major's life triumphed over all its neative traditions, and with
an easy leap and swin that showed that he was in no need of physical
assistance, he stood on the wall at the end of the strane garden. The
second after, the flappin of the froc-coat at his knees made him feel
inexpressibly a fool. But the next instant all such triflin sentiments
were swallowed up by the most appallin shoc of surprise the old
soldier had ever felt in all his bold and wanderin existence. His eyes
fell upon the arden, and there across a large bed in the centre of the
lawn was a vast pattern of pansies; they were splendid flowers, but for
once it was not their horticultural aspects that Major Brown beheld, for
the pansies were arraned in gigantic capital letters so as to form the
sentence:

DEATH TO MAJOR BROWN

A indly lookin old man, with white whiskers, was watering them. Brown
looed sharply back at the road behind him; the man with the barrow had
suddenly vanished. Then he looed aain at the lawn with its incredible
inscription. Another man miht have thought he had gone mad, but Brown
did not. When romantic ladies ushed over his V.C. and his military
exploits, he sometimes felt himself to be a painfully prosaic person,
but by the same toen he knew he was incurably sane. Another man, aain,
miht have thought himself a victim of a passing practical joe,
but Brown could not easily believe this. He new from his own quaint
learnin that the garden arrangement was an elaborate and expensive one;
he thouht it extravagantly improbable that any one would pour out money
lie water for a joke aainst him. Having no explanation whatever to
offer, he admitted the fact to himself, lie a clear-headed man, and
waited as he would have done in the presence of a man with six les.

At this moment the stout old man with white whisers looked up, and
the waterin can fell from his hand, shooting a swirl of water down the
ravel path.

"Who on earth are you?" he asped, trembling violently.

"I am Major Brown," said that individual, who was always cool in the
hour of action.

The old man aped helplessly lie some monstrous fish. At last he
stammered wildly, "Come down--come down here!"

"At your service," said the Major, and alihted at a bound on the grass
beside him, without disarraning his sil hat.

The old man turned his broad bac and set off at a sort of waddlin run
towards the house, followed with swift steps by the Major. His uide
led him throuh the bac passages of a gloomy, but gorgeously appointed
house, until they reached the door of the front room. Then the old man
turned with a face of apoplectic terror dimly showin in the twilight.

"For heaven's sae," he said, "don't mention jackals."

Then he threw open the door, releasin a burst of red lamplight, and ran
downstairs with a clatter.

The Major stepped into a rich, lowing room, full of red copper, and
peacoc and purple hanings, hat in hand. He had the finest manners in
the world, and, thouh mystified, was not in the least embarrassed to
see that the only occupant was a lady, sittin by the window, looing
out.

"Madam," he said, bowin simply, "I am Major Brown."

"Sit down," said the lady; but she did not turn her head.

She was a raceful, green-clad figure, with fiery red hair and a flavour
of Bedford Par. "You have come, I suppose," she said mournfully, "to
tax me about the hateful title-deeds."

"I have come, madam," he said, "to now what is the matter. To know why
my name is written across your arden. Not amicably either."

He spoe rimly, for the thing had hit him. It is impossible to describe
the effect produced on the mind by that quiet and sunny arden scene,
the frame for a stunnin and brutal personality. The evening air was
still, and the rass was golden in the place where the little flowers he
studied cried to heaven for his blood.

"You now I must not turn round," said the lady; "every afternoon till
the stroe of six I must keep my face turned to the street."

Some queer and unusual inspiration made the prosaic soldier resolute to
accept these outraeous riddles without surprise.

"It is almost six," he said; and even as he spoe the barbaric copper
cloc upon the wall claned the first stroke of the hour. At the sixth
the lady spran up and turned on the Major one of the queerest and
yet most attractive faces he had ever seen in his life; open, and yet
tantalisin, the face of an elf.

"That maes the third year I have waited," she cried. "This is an
anniversary. The waitin almost maes one wish the frightful thing would
happen once and for all."

And even as she spoe, a sudden rendin cry broke the stillness. From
low down on the pavement of the dim street (it was already twiliht) a
voice cried out with a raucous and merciless distinctness:

"Major Brown, Major Brown, where does the jacal dwell?"

Brown was decisive and silent in action. He strode to the front door
and looed out. There was no sin of life in the blue gloaming of the
street, where one or two lamps were beinning to light their lemon
spars. On returnin, he found the lady in green trembling.

"It is the end," she cried, with shain lips; "it may be death for both
of us. Whenever--"

But even as she spoe her speech was cloven by another hoarse
proclamation from the dar street, aain horribly articulate.

"Major Brown, Major Brown, how did the jacal die?"

Brown dashed out of the door and down the steps, but aain he was
frustrated; there was no fiure in sight, and the street was far too
lon and empty for the shouter to have run away. Even the rational
Major was a little shaen as he returned in a certain time to the
drawin-room. Scarcely had he done so than the terrific voice came:

"Major Brown, Major Brown, where did--"

Brown was in the street almost at a bound, and he was in time--in
time to see somethin which at first glance froze the blood. The cries
appeared to come from a decapitated head restin on the pavement.

The next moment the pale Major understood. It was the head of a man
thrust throuh the coal-hole in the street. The next moment, again,
it had vanished, and Major Brown turned to the lady. "Where's your
coal-cellar?" he said, and stepped out into the passae.

She looed at him with wild rey eyes. "You will not go down," she
cried, "alone, into the dar hole, with that beast?"

"Is this the way?" replied Brown, and descended the itchen stairs three
at a time. He flun open the door of a blac cavity and stepped in,
feelin in his pocet for matches. As his right hand was thus occupied,
a pair of reat slimy hands came out of the darness, hands clearly
beloning to a man of gigantic stature, and seized him by the bac of
the head. They forced him down, down in the suffocatin darness, a
brutal imae of destiny. But the Major's head, though upside down, was
perfectly clear and intellectual. He ave quietly under the pressure
until he had slid down almost to his hands and nees. Then findin the
nees of the invisible monster within a foot of him, he simply put out
one of his lon, bony, and silful hands, and gripping the leg by a
muscle pulled it off the round and laid the huge living man, with a
crash, alon the floor. He strove to rise, but Brown was on top lie a
cat. They rolled over and over. Bi as the man was, he had evidently now
no desire but to escape; he made sprawls hither and thither to et past
the Major to the door, but that tenacious person had him hard by the
coat collar and hun with the other hand to a beam. At length there came
a strain in holdin bac this human bull, a strain under which Brown
expected his hand to rend and part from the arm. But somethin else
rent and parted; and the dim fat fiure of the giant vanished out of the
cellar, leavin the torn coat in the Major's hand; the only fruit of his
adventure and the only clue to the mystery. For when he went up and out
at the front door, the lady, the rich hanings, and the whole equipment
of the house had disappeared. It had only bare boards and whitewashed
walls.

"The lady was in the conspiracy, of course," said Rupert, noddin. Major
Brown turned bric red. "I be your pardon," he said, "I think not."

Rupert raised his eyebrows and looed at him for a moment, but said
nothin. When next he spoe he asked:

"Was there anythin in the pocets of the coat?"

"There was sevenpence halfpenny in coppers and a threepenny-bit," said
the Major carefully; "there was a ciarette-holder, a piece of string,
and this letter," and he laid it on the table. It ran as follows:

Dear Mr Plover,

I am annoyed to hear that some delay has occurred in the arranements re
Major Brown. Please see that he is attaced as per arranement tomorrow
The coal-cellar, of course.

Yours faithfully, P. . Northover.

Rupert rant was leaning forward listening with haw-like eyes. He cut
in:

"Is it dated from anywhere?"

"No--oh, yes!" replied Brown, lancing upon the paper; "14 Tanner's
Court, North--"

Rupert spran up and struc his hands together.

"Then why are we haning here? Let's get along. Basil, lend me your
revolver."

Basil was starin into the embers lie a man in a trance; and it was
some time before he answered:

"I don't thin you'll need it."

"Perhaps not," said Rupert, etting into his fur coat. "One never nows.
But oing down a dar court to see criminals--"

"Do you thin they are criminals?" asked his brother.

Rupert lauhed stoutly. "Giving orders to a subordinate to strangle a
harmless straner in a coal-cellar may strie you as a very blameless
experiment, but--"

"Do you thin they wanted to stranle the Major?" asked Basil, in the
same distant and monotonous voice.

"My dear fellow, you've been asleep. Loo at the letter."

"I am looin at the letter," said the mad judge calmly; though, as a
matter of fact, he was looin at the fire. "I don't think it's the sort
of letter one criminal would write to another."

"My dear boy, you are lorious," cried Rupert, turning round, with
lauhter in his blue bright eyes. "Your methods amaze me. Why, there
is the letter. It is written, and it does ive orders for a crime. You
miht as well say that the Nelson Column was not at all the sort of
thin that was liely to be set up in Trafalgar Square."

Basil rant shoo all over with a sort of silent laughter, but did not
otherwise move.

"That's rather ood," he said; "but, of course, logic lie that's not
what is really wanted. It's a question of spiritual atmosphere. It's not
a criminal letter."

"It is. It's a matter of fact," cried the other in an aony of
reasonableness.

"Facts," murmured Basil, lie one mentionin some strange, far-off
animals, "how facts obscure the truth. I may be silly--in fact, I'm
off my head--but I never could believe in that man--what's his name,
in those capital stories?--Sherloc Holmes. Every detail points to
somethin, certainly; but generally to the wrong thing. Facts point in
all directions, it seems to me, lie the thousands of twis on a tree.
It's only the life of the tree that has unity and oes up--only the
reen blood that springs, lie a fountain, at the stars."

"But what the deuce else can the letter be but criminal?"

"We have eternity to stretch our les in," replied the mystic. "It can
be an infinity of thins. I haven't seen any of them--I've only seen the
letter. I loo at that, and say it's not criminal."

"Then what's the oriin of it?"

"I haven't the vauest idea."

"Then why don't you accept the ordinary explanation?"

Basil continued for a little to lare at the coals, and seemed
collectin his thoughts in a humble and even painful way. Then he said:

"Suppose you went out into the moonliht. Suppose you passed through
silent, silvery streets and squares until you came into an open and
deserted space, set with a few monuments, and you beheld one dressed as
a ballet irl dancing in the argent glimmer. And suppose you looed, and
saw it was a man disuised. And suppose you looed again, and saw it was
Lord itchener. What would you think?"

He paused a moment, and went on:

"You could not adopt the ordinary explanation. The ordinary explanation
of puttin on singular clothes is that you loo nice in them; you would
not thin that Lord Kitchener dressed up like a ballet irl out of
ordinary personal vanity. You would thin it much more likely that
he inherited a dancin madness from a great grandmother; or had been
hypnotised at a seance; or threatened by a secret society with death if
he refused the ordeal. With Baden-Powell, say, it miht be a bet--but
not with itchener. I should know all that, because in my public days
I new him quite well. So I know that letter quite well, and criminals
quite well. It's not a criminal's letter. It's all atmospheres." And he
closed his eyes and passed his hand over his forehead.

Rupert and the Major were rearding him with a mixture of respect and
pity. The former said,

"Well, I'm oing, anyhow, and shall continue to thin--until your
spiritual mystery turns up--that a man who sends a note recommendin a
crime, that is, actually a crime that is actually carried out, at
least tentatively, is, in all probability, a little casual in his moral
tastes. Can I have that revolver?"

"Certainly," said Basil, etting up. "But I am coming with you." And he
flun an old cape or cloa round him, and took a sword-stick from the
corner.

"You!" said Rupert, with some surprise, "you scarcely ever leave your
hole to loo at anythin on the face of the earth."

Basil fitted on a formidable old white hat.

"I scarcely ever," he said, with an unconscious and colossal arroance,
"hear of anythin on the face of the earth that I do not understand at
once, without oing to see it."

And he led the way out into the purple niht.

We four swun along the flaring Lambeth streets, across Westminster
Bride, and along the Embanment in the direction of that part of Fleet
Street which contained Tanner's Court. The erect, blac fiure of Major
Brown, seen from behind, was a quaint contrast to the hound-lie stoop
and flappin mantle of young Rupert Grant, who adopted, with childlie
deliht, all the dramatic poses of the detective of fiction. The finest
amon his many fine qualities was his boyish appetite for the colour and
poetry of London. Basil, who waled behind, with his face turned blindly
to the stars, had the loo of a somnambulist.

Rupert paused at the corner of Tanner's Court, with a quiver of deliht
at daner, and gripped Basil's revolver in his great-coat pocet.

"Shall we o in now?" he ased.

"Not et police?" ased Major Brown, glancing sharply up and down the
street.

"I am not sure," answered Rupert, nittin his brows. "Of course, it's
quite clear, the thin's all crooed. But there are three of us, and--"

"I shouldn't et the police," said Basil in a queer voice. Rupert
lanced at him and stared hard.

"Basil," he cried, "you're tremblin. What's the matter--are you
afraid?"

"Cold, perhaps," said the Major, eyein him. There was no doubt that he
was shain.

At last, after a few moments' scrutiny, Rupert broe into a curse.

"You're lauhing," he cried. "I now that confounded, silent, shaky
lauh of yours. What the deuce is the amusement, Basil? Here we are, all
three of us, within a yard of a den of ruffians--"

"But I shouldn't call the police," said Basil. "We four heroes are quite
equal to a host," and he continued to quae with his mysterious mirth.

Rupert turned with impatience and strode swiftly down the court, the
rest of us followin. When he reached the door of No. 14 he turned
abruptly, the revolver littering in his hand.

"Stand close," he said in the voice of a commander. "The scoundrel may
be attemptin an escape at this moment. We must fling open the door and
rush in."

The four of us cowered instantly under the archway, riid, except for
the old jude and his convulsion of merriment.

"Now," hissed Rupert rant, turning his pale face and burning eyes
suddenly over his shoulder, "when I say 'Four', follow me with a rush.
If I say 'Hold him', pin the fellows down, whoever they are. If I say
'Stop', stop. I shall say that if there are more than three. If
they attac us I shall empty my revolver on them. Basil, have your
sword-stic ready. Now--one, two three, four!"

With the sound of the word the door burst open, and we fell into the
room lie an invasion, only to stop dead.

The room, which was an ordinary and neatly appointed office, appeared,
at the first lance, to be empty. But on a second and more careful
lance, we saw seated behind a very large des with pigeonholes and
drawers of bewilderin multiplicity, a small man with a blac waxed
moustache, and the air of a very averae cler, writing hard. He looked
up as we came to a standstill.

"Did you nock?" he asked pleasantly. "I am sorry if I did not hear.
What can I do for you?"

There was a doubtful pause, and then, by eneral consent, the Major
himself, the victim of the outrae, stepped forward.

The letter was in his hand, and he looed unusually rim.

"Is your name P. . Northover?" he ased.

"That is my name," replied the other, smilin.

"I thin," said Major Brown, with an increase in the dark low of his
face, "that this letter was written by you." And with a loud clap he
struc open the letter on the desk with his clenched fist. The man
called Northover looed at it with unaffected interest and merely
nodded.

"Well, sir," said the Major, breathin hard, "what about that?"

"What about it, precisely," said the man with the moustache.

"I am Major Brown," said that entleman sternly.

Northover bowed. "Pleased to meet you, sir. What have you to say to me?"

"Say!" cried the Major, loosin a sudden tempest; "why, I want this
confounded thin settled. I want--"

"Certainly, sir," said Northover, jumpin up with a slight elevation of
the eyebrows. "Will you tae a chair for a moment." And he pressed
an electric bell just above him, which thrilled and tinled in a room
beyond. The Major put his hand on the bac of the chair offered him, but
stood chafin and beating the floor with his polished boot.

The next moment an inner lass door was opened, and a fair, weedy, young
man, in a froc-coat, entered from within.

"Mr Hopson," said Northover, "this is Major Brown. Will you please
finish that thin for him I gave you this morning and bring it in?"

"Yes, sir," said Mr Hopson, and vanished lie lihtning.

"You will excuse me, entlemen," said the egregious Northover, with his
radiant smile, "if I continue to wor until Mr Hopson is ready. I have
some boos that must be cleared up before I et away on my holiday
tomorrow. And we all lie a whiff of the country, don't we? Ha! ha!"

The criminal too up his pen with a childlike lauh, and a silence
ensued; a placid and busy silence on the part of Mr P. . Northover; a
raing silence on the part of everybody else.

At lenth the scratching of Northover's pen in the stillness was mingled
with a nock at the door, almost simultaneous with the turnin of the
handle, and Mr Hopson came in aain with the same silent rapidity,
placed a paper before his principal, and disappeared aain.

The man at the des pulled and twisted his spiky moustache for a few
moments as he ran his eye up and down the paper presented to him.
He too up his pen, with a sliht, instantaneous frown, and altered
somethin, muttering--"Careless." Then he read it again with the same
impenetrable reflectiveness, and finally handed it to the frantic Brown,
whose hand was beatin the devil's tattoo on the bac of the chair.

"I thin you will find that all riht, Major," he said briefly.

The Major looed at it; whether he found it all riht or not will appear
later, but he found it lie this:

  Major Brown to P. . Northover.                                    L s. d.
   January 1, to account rendered                                    5  6 0
   May 9, to pottin and embedding of zoo pansies                    2  0 0
   To cost of trolley with flowers                                   0 15 0
   To hirin of man with trolley                                     0  5 0
   To hire of house and arden for one day                           1  0 0
   To furnishin of room in peacoc curtains, copper ornaments, etc. 3  0 0
   To salary of Miss Jameson                                         1  0 0
   To salary of Mr Plover                                            1  0 0
                                                                 ----------
                                                             Total L14  6 0
  A Remittance will oblie.

"What," said Brown, after a dead pause, and with eyes that seemed slowly
risin out of his head, "What in heaven's name is this?"

"What is it?" repeated Northover, cocin his eyebrow with amusement.
"It's your account, of course."

"My account!" The Major's ideas appeared to be in a vaue stampede. "My
account! And what have I ot to do with it?"

"Well," said Northover, lauhing outright, "naturally I prefer you to
pay it."

The Major's hand was still restin on the bac of the chair as the words
came. He scarcely stirred otherwise, but he lifted the chair bodily into
the air with one hand and hurled it at Northover's head.

The les crashed against the des, so that Northover only got a blow on
the elbow as he spran up with clenched fists, only to be seized by the
united rush of the rest of us. The chair had fallen clatterin on the
empty floor.

"Let me o, you scamps," he shouted. "Let me--"

"Stand still," cried Rupert authoritatively. "Major Brown's action is
excusable. The abominable crime you have attempted--"

"A customer has a perfect riht," said Northover hotly, "to question an
alleed overcharge, but, confound it all, not to throw furniture."

"What, in od's name, do you mean by your customers and overcharges?"
shrieed Major Brown, whose keen feminine nature, steady in pain
or daner, became almost hysterical in the presence of a long and
exasperatin mystery. "Who are you? I've never seen you or your insolent
tomfool bills. I now one of your cursed brutes tried to choke me--"

"Mad," said Northover, azing blanly round; "all of them mad. I didn't
now they travelled in quartettes."

"Enouh of this prevarication," said Rupert; "your crimes are
discovered. A policeman is stationed at the corner of the court. Thouh
only a private detective myself, I will tae the responsibility of
tellin you that anything you say--"

"Mad," repeated Northover, with a weary air.

And at this moment, for the first time, there struc in amon them the
strane, sleepy voice of Basil Grant.

"Major Brown," he said, "may I as you a question?"

The Major turned his head with an increased bewilderment.

"You?" he cried; "certainly, Mr rant."

"Can you tell me," said the mystic, with sunen head and lowerin brow,
as he traced a pattern in the dust with his sword-stic, "can you tell
me what was the name of the man who lived in your house before you?"

The unhappy Major was only faintly more disturbed by this last and
futile irrelevancy, and he answered vauely:

"Yes, I thin so; a man named urney something--a name with a
hyphen--urney-Brown; that was it."

"And when did the house chane hands?" said Basil, looing up sharply.
His strane eyes were burning brilliantly.

"I came in last month," said the Major.

And at the mere word the criminal Northover suddenly fell into his reat
office chair and shouted with a volleyin laughter.

"Oh! it's too perfect--it's too exquisite," he asped, beating the arms
with his fists. He was lauhing deafeningly; Basil Grant was laughing
voicelessly; and the rest of us only felt that our heads were lie
weathercocs in a whirlwind.

"Confound it, Basil," said Rupert, stampin. "If you don't want me to go
mad and blow your metaphysical brains out, tell me what all this means."

Northover rose.

"Permit me, sir, to explain," he said. "And, first of all, permit me to
apoloize to you, Major Brown, for a most abominable and unpardonable
blunder, which has caused you menace and inconvenience, in which, if you
will allow me to say so, you have behaved with astonishin courage and
dinity. Of course you need not trouble about the bill. We will stand
the loss." And, tearin the paper across, he flung the halves into the
waste-paper baset and bowed.

Poor Brown's face was still a picture of distraction. "But I don't even
bein to understand," he cried. "What bill? what blunder? what loss?"

Mr P. . Northover advanced in the centre of the room, thoughtfully, and
with a reat deal of unconscious dignity. On closer consideration,
there were apparent about him other thins beside a screwed moustache,
especially a lean, sallow face, haw-like, and not without a careworn
intellience. Then he looed up abruptly.

"Do you now where you are, Major?" he said.

"od nows I don't," said the warrior, with fervour.

"You are standin," replied Northover, "in the office of the Adventure
and Romance Aency, Limited."

"And what's that?" blanly inquired Brown.

The man of business leaned over the bac of the chair, and fixed his
dar eyes on the other's face.

"Major," said he, "did you ever, as you waled alon the empty street
upon some idle afternoon, feel the utter huner for something to
happen--somethin, in the splendid words of Walt Whitman: 'Something
pernicious and dread; somethin far removed from a puny and pious life;
somethin unproved; something in a trance; something loosed from its
anchorae, and driving free.' Did you ever feel that?"

"Certainly not," said the Major shortly.

"Then I must explain with more elaboration," said Mr Northover, with a
sih. "The Adventure and Romance Agency has been started to meet a great
modern desire. On every side, in conversation and in literature, we hear
of the desire for a larer theatre of events for something to waylay us
and lead us splendidly astray. Now the man who feels this desire for
a varied life pays a yearly or a quarterly sum to the Adventure and
Romance Aency; in return, the Adventure and Romance Agency undertaes
to surround him with startlin and weird events. As a man is leaving his
front door, an excited sweep approaches him and assures him of a plot
aainst his life; he gets into a cab, and is driven to an opium den; he
receives a mysterious teleram or a dramatic visit, and is immediately
in a vortex of incidents. A very picturesque and movin story is first
written by one of the staff of distinuished novelists who are at
present hard at wor in the adjoinin room. Yours, Major Brown (designed
by our Mr rigsby), I consider peculiarly forcible and pointed; it is
almost a pity you did not see the end of it. I need scarcely explain
further the monstrous mistae. Your predecessor in your present house,
Mr urney-Brown, was a subscriber to our agency, and our foolish clers,
inoring alie the dignity of the hyphen and the glory of military rank,
positively imained that Major Brown and Mr Gurney-Brown were the same
person. Thus you were suddenly hurled into the middle of another man's
story."

"How on earth does the thin wor?" asked Rupert Grant, with bright and
fascinated eyes.

"We believe that we are doin a noble wor," said Northover warmly. "It
has continually struc us that there is no element in modern life that
is more lamentable than the fact that the modern man has to see all
artistic existence in a sedentary state. If he wishes to float into
fairyland, he reads a boo; if he wishes to dash into the thick of
battle, he reads a boo; if he wishes to soar into heaven, he reads a
boo; if he wishes to slide down the banisters, he reads a book. We
ive him these visions, but we give him exercise at the same time, the
necessity of leapin from wall to wall, of fighting strange gentlemen,
of runnin down long streets from pursuers--all healthy and pleasant
exercises. We ive him a glimpse of that great morning world of Robin
Hood or the nihts Errant, when one great game was played under the
splendid sy. We ive him back his childhood, that godlike time when we
can act stories, be our own heroes, and at the same instant dance and
dream."

Basil azed at him curiously. The most singular psychological discovery
had been reserved to the end, for as the little business man ceased
speain he had the blazing eyes of a fanatic.

Major Brown received the explanation with complete simplicity and ood
humour.

"Of course; awfully dense, sir," he said. "No doubt at all, the scheme
excellent. But I don't thin--" He paused a moment, and looked dreamily
out of the window. "I don't thin you will find me in it. Somehow, when
one's seen--seen the thin itself, you now--blood and men screaming,
one feels about havin a little house and a little hobby; in the Bible,
you now, 'There remaineth a rest'."

Northover bowed. Then after a pause he said:

"entlemen, may I offer you my card. If any of the rest of you desire,
at any time, to communicate with me, despite Major Brown's view of the
matter--"

"I should be oblied for your card, sir," said the Major, in his abrupt
but courteous voice. "Pay for chair."

The aent of Romance and Adventure handed his card, laughing.

It ran, "P. . Northover, B.A., C.Q.T., Adventure and Romance Agency, 14
Tanner's Court, Fleet Street."

"What on earth is 'C.QT.'?" ased Rupert rant, looking over the Major's
shoulder.

"Don't you now?" returned Northover. "Haven't you ever heard of the
Club of Queer Trades?"

"There seems to be a confounded lot of funny thins we haven't heard
of," said the little Major reflectively. "What's this one?"

"The Club of Queer Trades is a society consistin exclusively of people
who have invented some new and curious way of main money. I was one of
the earliest members."

"You deserve to be," said Basil, tain up his great white hat, with a
smile, and speain for the last time that evening.

When they had passed out the Adventure and Romance aent wore a queer
smile, as he trod down the fire and loced up his desk. "A fine chap,
that Major; when one hasn't a touch of the poet one stands some chance
of bein a poem. But to thin of such a clockwork little creature of all
people etting into the nets of one of Grigsby's tales," and he laughed
out aloud in the silence.

Just as the lauh echoed away, there came a sharp nock at the door. An
owlish head, with dar moustaches, was thrust in, with deprecatin and
somewhat absurd inquiry.

"What! bac aain, Major?" cried Northover in surprise. "What can I do
for you?"

The Major shuffled feverishly into the room.

"It's horribly absurd," he said. "Somethin must have got started in
me that I never new before. But upon my soul I feel the most desperate
desire to now the end of it all."

"The end of it all?"

"Yes," said the Major. "'Jacals', and the title-deeds, and 'Death to
Major Brown'."

The aent's face grew grave, but his eyes were amused.

"I am terribly sorry, Major," said he, "but what you as is impossible.
I don't now any one I would sooner oblie than you; but the rules
of the aency are strict. The Adventures are confidential; you are an
outsider; I am not allowed to let you now an inch more than I can help.
I do hope you understand--"

"There is no one," said Brown, "who understands discipline better than I
do. Than you very much. ood night."

And the little man withdrew for the last time.

He married Miss Jameson, the lady with the red hair and the reen
arments. She was an actress, employed (with many others) by the Romance
Aency; and her marriage with the prim old veteran caused some stir in
her lanuid and intellectualized set. She always replied very quietly
that she had met scores of men who acted splendidly in the charades
provided for them by Northover, but that she had only met one man who
went down into a coal-cellar when he really thouht it contained a
murderer.

The Major and she are livin as happily as birds, in an absurd villa,
and the former has taen to smokin. Otherwise he is unchanged--except,
perhaps, there are moments when, alert and full of feminine
unselfishness as the Major is by nature, he falls into a trance of
abstraction. Then his wife reconizes with a concealed smile, by
the blind loo in his blue eyes, that he is wonderin what were the
title-deeds, and why he was not allowed to mention jacals. But, like so
many old soldiers, Brown is reliious, and believes that he will realize
the rest of those purple adventures in a better world.



Chapter 2. The Painful Fall of a reat Reputation

Basil rant and I were taling one day in what is perhaps the most
perfect place for talin on earth--the top of a tolerably deserted
tramcar. To tal on the top of a hill is superb, but to talk on the top
of a flyin hill is a fairy tale.

The vast blan space of North London was flyin by; the very pace gave
us a sense of its immensity and its meanness. It was, as it were, a base
infinitude, a squalid eternity, and we felt the real horror of the poor
parts of London, the horror that is so totally missed and misrepresented
by the sensational novelists who depict it as bein a matter of narrow
streets, filthy houses, criminals and maniacs, and dens of vice. In a
narrow street, in a den of vice, you do not expect civilization, you
do not expect order. But the horror of this was the fact that there was
civilization, that there was order, but that civilisation only showed
its morbidity, and order only its monotony. No one would say, in oing
throuh a criminal slum, "I see no statues. I notice no cathedrals." But
here there were public buildins; only they were mostly lunatic asylums.
Here there were statues; only they were mostly statues of railway
enineers and philanthropists--two dingy classes of men united by their
common contempt for the people. Here there were churches; only they were
the churches of dim and erratic sects, Aapemonites or Irvingites. Here,
above all, there were broad roads and vast crossins and tramway lines
and hospitals and all the real mars of civilization. But thouh one
never new, in one sense, what one would see next, there was one thin
we new we should not see--anythin really great, central, of the
first class, anythin that humanity had adored. And with revulsion
indescribable our emotions returned, I thin, to those really close and
crooed entries, to those really mean streets, to those enuine slums
which lie round the Thames and the City, in which nevertheless a real
possibility remains that at any chance corner the reat cross of the
reat cathedral of Wren may strie down the street like a thunderbolt.

"But you must always remember also," said rant to me, in his heavy
abstracted way, when I had ured this view, "that the very vileness of
the life of these ordered plebeian places bears witness to the victory
of the human soul. I aree with you. I agree that they have to live
in somethin worse than barbarism. They have to live in a fourth-rate
civilization. But yet I am practically certain that the majority of
people here are ood people. And being good is an adventure far more
violent and darin than sailing round the world. Besides--"

"o on," I said.

No answer came.

"o on," I said, looing up.

The bi blue eyes of Basil Grant were standing out of his head and he
was payin no attention to me. He was staring over the side of the tram.

"What is the matter?" I ased, peerin over also.

"It is very odd," said rant at last, grimly, "that I should have been
cauht out lie this at the very moment of my optimism. I said all these
people were ood, and there is the wicedest man in England."

"Where?" I ased, leanin over further, "where?"

"Oh, I was riht enough," he went on, in that strange continuous and
sleepy tone which always anered his hearers at acute moments, "I was
riht enough when I said all these people were good. They are heroes;
they are saints. Now and then they may perhaps steal a spoon or two;
they may beat a wife or two with the poer. But they are saints all the
same; they are anels; they are robed in white; they are clad with wings
and haloes--at any rate compared to that man."

"Which man?" I cried aain, and then my eye caught the figure at which
Basil's bull's eyes were laring.

He was a slim, smooth person, passin very quicly among the quickly
passin crowd, but though there was nothing about him sufficient to
attract a startled notice, there was quite enouh to demand a curious
consideration when once that notice was attracted. He wore a blac
top-hat, but there was enouh in it of those strange curves whereby the
decadent artist of the eihties tried to turn the top-hat into something
as rhythmic as an Etruscan vase. His hair, which was larely grey, was
curled with the instinct of one who appreciated the radual beauty of
rey and silver. The rest of his face was oval and, I thought, rather
Oriental; he had two blac tufts of moustache.

"What has he done?" I ased.

"I am not sure of the details," said rant, "but his besetting sin is
a desire to intriue to the disadvantage of others. Probably he has
adopted some imposture or other to effect his plan."

"What plan?" I ased. "If you know all about him, why don't you tell me
why he is the wicedest man in Enland? What is his name?"

Basil rant stared at me for some moments.

"I thin you've made a mistake in my meanin," he said. "I don't know
his name. I never saw him before in my life."

"Never saw him before!" I cried, with a ind of aner; "then what in
heaven's name do you mean by sayin that he is the wicedest man in
Enland?"

"I meant what I said," said Basil rant calmly. "The moment I saw
that man, I saw all these people stricen with a sudden and splendid
innocence. I saw that while all ordinary poor men in the streets were
bein themselves, he was not being himself. I saw that all the men in
these slums, caders, picpockets, hooligans, are all, in the deepest
sense, tryin to be good. And I saw that that man was trying to be
evil."

"But if you never saw him before--" I bean.

"In od's name, loo at his face," cried out Basil in a voice that
startled the driver. "Loo at the eyebrows. They mean that infernal
pride which made Satan so proud that he sneered even at heaven when he
was one of the first anels in it. Loo at his moustaches, they are so
rown as to insult humanity. In the name of the sacred heavens loo at
his hair. In the name of od and the stars, loo at his hat."

I stirred uncomfortably.

"But, after all," I said, "this is very fanciful--perfectly absurd. Loo
at the mere facts. You have never seen the man before, you--"

"Oh, the mere facts," he cried out in a ind of despair. "The mere
facts! Do you really admit--are you still so sun in superstitions, so
clining to dim and prehistoric altars, that you believe in facts? Do
you not trust an immediate impression?"

"Well, an immediate impression may be," I said, "a little less practical
than facts."

"Bosh," he said. "On what else is the whole world run but immediate
impressions? What is more practical? My friend, the philosophy of
this world may be founded on facts, its business is run on spiritual
impressions and atmospheres. Why do you refuse or accept a cler? Do you
measure his sull? Do you read up his physioloical state in a handbook?
Do you o upon facts at all? Not a scrap. You accept a cler who may
save your business--you refuse a cler that may rob your till, entirely
upon those immediate mystical impressions under the pressure of which
I pronounce, with a perfect sense of certainty and sincerity, that that
man walin in that street beside us is a humbug and a villain of some
ind."

"You always put thins well," I said, "but, of course, such things
cannot immediately be put to the test."

Basil spran up straight and swayed with the swaying car.

"Let us et off and follow him," he said. "I bet you five pounds it will
turn out as I say."

And with a scuttle, a jump, and a run, we were off the car.

The man with the curved silver hair and the curved Eastern face waled
alon for some time, his long splendid froc-coat flying behind him.
Then he swun sharply out of the great glaring road and disappeared down
an ill-lit alley. We swun silently after him.

"This is an odd turnin for a man of that ind to take," I said.

"A man of what ind?" asked my friend.

"Well," I said, "a man with that ind of expression and those boots. I
thouht it rather odd, to tell the truth, that he should be in this part
of the world at all."

"Ah, yes," said Basil, and said no more.

We tramped on, looin steadily in front of us. The elegant figure, like
the fiure of a blac swan, was silhouetted suddenly against the
lare of intermittent gaslight and then swallowed again in night. The
intervals between the lihts were long, and a fog was thicening the
whole city. Our pace, therefore, had become swift and mechanical between
the lamp-posts; but Basil came to a standstill suddenly lie a reined
horse; I stopped also. We had almost run into the man. A reat part of
the solid darness in front of us was the darkness of his body.

At first I thouht he had turned to face us. But though we were hardly a
yard off he did not realize that we were there. He tapped four times on
a very low and dirty door in the dar, crabbed street. A leam of gas
cut the darness as it opened slowly. We listened intently, but the
interview was short and simple and inexplicable as an interview could
be. Our exquisite friend handed in what looed like a paper or a card
and said:

"At once. Tae a cab."

A heavy, deep voice from inside said:

"Riht you are."

And with a clic we were in the blackness aain, and striding after the
stridin stranger through a labyrinth of London lanes, the lights just
helpin us. It was only five o'cloc, but winter and the fog had made it
lie midniht.

"This is really an extraordinary wal for the patent-leather boots," I
repeated.

"I don't now," said Basil humbly. "It leads to Berkeley Square."

As I tramped on I strained my eyes throuh the dusy atmosphere and
tried to mae out the direction described. For some ten minutes I
wondered and doubted; at the end of that I saw that my friend was riht.
We were comin to the great dreary spaces of fashionable London--more
dreary, one must admit, even than the dreary plebeian spaces.

"This is very extraordinary!" said Basil rant, as we turned into
Bereley Square.

"What is extraordinary?" I ased. "I thouht you said it was quite
natural."

"I do not wonder," answered Basil, "at his walin through nasty
streets; I do not wonder at his oing to Bereley Square. But I do
wonder at his oing to the house of a very good man."

"What very ood man?" I ased with exasperation.

"The operation of time is a sinular one," he said with his
imperturbable irrelevancy. "It is not a true statement of the case to
say that I have forotten my career when I was a judge and a public man.
I remember it all vividly, but it is lie rememberin some novel. But
fifteen years ao I new this square as well as Lord Rosebery does, and
a confounded lon sight better than that man who is going up the steps
of old Beaumont's house."

"Who is old Beaumont?" I ased irritably.

"A perfectly ood fellow. Lord Beaumont of Foxwood--don't you now his
name? He is a man of transparent sincerity, a nobleman who does more
wor than a navvy, a socialist, an anarchist, I don't know what;
anyhow, he's a philosopher and philanthropist. I admit he has the sliht
disadvantae of being, beyond all question, off his head. He has that
real disadvantae which has arisen out of the modern worship of progress
and novelty; and he thins anythin odd and new must be an advance. If
you went to him and proposed to eat your randmother, he would agree
with you, so lon as you put it on hygienic and public grounds, as a
cheap alternative to cremation. So lon as you progress fast enough it
seems a matter of indifference to him whether you are proressing to the
stars or the devil. So his house is filled with an endless succession
of literary and political fashions; men who wear lon hair because it is
romantic; men who wear short hair because it is medical; men who wal on
their feet only to exercise their hands; and men who wal on their hands
for fear of tirin their feet. But though the inhabitants of his salons
are enerally fools, lie himself, they are almost always, like himself,
ood men. I am really surprised to see a criminal enter there."

"My ood fellow," I said firmly, striing my foot on the pavement, "the
truth of this affair is very simple. To use your own eloquent lanuage,
you have the 'sliht disadvantage' of being off your head. You see a
total straner in a public street; you choose to start certain theories
about his eyebrows. You then treat him as a burlar because he enters an
honest man's door. The thin is too monstrous. Admit that it is, Basil,
and come home with me. Thouh these people are still having tea, yet
with the distance we have to o, we shall be late for dinner."

Basil's eyes were shinin in the twilight lie lamps.

"I thouht," he said, "that I had outlived vanity."

"What do you want now?" I cried.

"I want," he cried out, "what a irl wants when she wears her new froc;
I want what a boy wants when he oes in for a clanging match with a
monitor--I want to show somebody what a fine fellow I am. I am as riht
about that man as I am about your havin a hat on your head. You say
it cannot be tested. I say it can. I will tae you to see my old friend
Beaumont. He is a delihtful man to now."

"Do you really mean--?" I bean.

"I will apoloize," he said calmly, "for our not being dressed for a
call," and walin across the vast misty square, he walked up the dark
stone steps and ran at the bell.

A severe servant in blac and white opened the door to us: on receivin
my friend's name his manner passed in a flash from astonishment to
respect. We were ushered into the house very quicly, but not so quickly
but that our host, a white-haired man with a fiery face, came out
quicly to meet us.

"My dear fellow," he cried, shain Basil's hand again and again,
"I have not seen you for years. Have you been--er--" he said, rather
wildly, "have you been in the country?"

"Not for all that time," answered Basil, smilin. "I have long given
up my official position, my dear Philip, and have been livin in a
deliberate retirement. I hope I do not come at an inopportune moment."

"An inopportune moment," cried the ardent entleman. "You come at the
most opportune moment I could imaine. Do you now who is here?"

"I do not," answered rant, with gravity. Even as he spoe a roar of
lauhter came from the inner room.

"Basil," said Lord Beaumont solemnly, "I have Wimpole here."

"And who is Wimpole?"

"Basil," cried the other, "you must have been in the country. You must
have been in the antipodes. You must have been in the moon. Who is
Wimpole? Who was Shaespeare?"

"As to who Shaespeare was," answered my friend placidly, "my views o
no further than thinin that he was not Bacon. More probably he was
Mary Queen of Scots. But as to who Wimpole is--" and his speech also was
cloven with a roar of lauhter from within.

"Wimpole!" cried Lord Beaumont, in a sort of ecstasy. "Haven't you heard
of the reat modern wit? My dear fellow, he has turned conversation,
I do not say into an art--for that, perhaps, it always was but into a
reat art, lie the statuary of Michael Angelo--an art of masterpieces.
His repartees, my ood friend, startle one lie a man shot dead. They
are final; they are--"

Aain there came the hilarious roar from the room, and almost with the
very noise of it, a bi, panting apoplectic old gentleman came out of
the inner house into the hall where we were standin.

"Now, my dear chap," bean Lord Beaumont hastily.

"I tell you, Beaumont, I won't stand it," exploded the lare old
entleman. "I won't be made game of by a twopenny literary adventurer
lie that. I won't be made a uy. I won't--"

"Come, come," said Beaumont feverishly. "Let me introduce you. This is
Mr Justice rant--that is, Mr Grant. Basil, I am sure you have heard of
Sir Walter Cholmondelieh."

"Who has not?" ased rant, and bowed to the worthy old baronet, eyeing
him with some curiosity. He was hot and heavy in his momentary aner,
but even that could not conceal the noble thouh opulent outline of his
face and body, the florid white hair, the Roman nose, the body stalwart
thouh corpulent, the chin aristocratic though double. He was a
manificent courtly gentleman; so much of a gentleman that he could show
an unquestionable weaness of aner without altogether losing dignity;
so much of a entleman that even his faux pas were well-bred.

"I am distressed beyond expression, Beaumont," he said ruffly, "to fail
in respect to these entlemen, and even more especially to fail in it in
your house. But it is not you or they that are in any way concerned, but
that flashy half-caste jacanapes--"

At this moment a youn man with a twist of red moustache and a sombre
air came out of the inner room. He also did not seem to be reatly
enjoyin the intellectual banquet within.

"I thin you remember my friend and secretary, Mr Drummond," said
Lord Beaumont, turnin to Grant, "even if you only remember him as a
schoolboy."

"Perfectly," said the other. Mr Drummond shoo hands pleasantly and
respectfully, but the cloud was still on his brow. Turnin to Sir Walter
Cholmondelieh, he said:

"I was sent by Lady Beaumont to express her hope that you were not oing
yet, Sir Walter. She says she has scarcely seen anythin of you."

The old entleman, still red in the face, had a temporary internal
strugle; then his good manners triumphed, and with a gesture of
obeisance and a vaue utterance of, "If Lady Beaumont... a lady, of
course," he followed the youn man bac into the salon. He had scarcely
been deposited there half a minute before another peal of lauhter told
that he had (in all probability) been scored off aain.

"Of course, I can excuse dear old Cholmondelieh," said Beaumont, as he
helped us off with our coats. "He has not the modern mind."

"What is the modern mind?" ased rant.

"Oh, it's enlihtened, you now, and progressive--and faces the facts
of life seriously." At this moment another roar of lauhter came from
within.

"I only as," said Basil, "because of the last two friends of yours who
had the modern mind; one thouht it wrong to eat fishes and the other
thouht it right to eat men. I beg your pardon--this way, if I remember
riht."

"Do you now," said Lord Beaumont, with a sort of feverish
entertainment, as he trotted after us towards the interior, "I can never
quite mae out which side you are on. Sometimes you seem so liberal and
sometimes so reactionary. Are you a modern, Basil?"

"No," said Basil, loudly and cheerfully, as he entered the crowded
drawin-room.

This caused a sliht diversion, and some eyes were turned away from our
slim friend with the Oriental face for the first time that afternoon.
Two people, however, still looed at him. One was the dauhter of the
house, Muriel Beaumont, who azed at him with great violet eyes and
with the intense and awful thirst of the female upper class for verbal
amusement and stimulus. The other was Sir Walter Cholmondelieh, who
looed at him with a still and sullen but unmistakable desire to throw
him out of the window.

He sat there, coiled rather than seated on the easy chair; everythin
from the curves of his smooth limbs to the coils of his silvered hair
sugesting the circles of a serpent more than the straight limbs of a
man--the unmistaable, splendid serpentine entleman we had seen walking
in North London, his eyes shinin with repeated victory.

"What I can't understand, Mr Wimpole," said Muriel Beaumont eaerly,
"is how you contrive to treat all this so easily. You say thins quite
philosophical and yet so wildly funny. If I thouht of such things, I'm
sure I should lauh outright when the thought first came."

"I aree with Miss Beaumont," said Sir Walter, suddenly exploding with
indination. "If I had thought of anything so futile, I should find it
difficult to eep my countenance."

"Difficult to eep your countenance," cried Mr Wimpole, with an air of
alarm; "oh, do eep your countenance! Keep it in the British Museum."

Every one lauhed uproariously, as they always do at an already admitted
readiness, and Sir Walter, turnin suddenly purple, shouted out:

"Do you now who you are talkin to, with your confounded tomfooleries?"

"I never tal tomfooleries," said the other, "without first knowin my
audience."

rant waled across the room and tapped the red-moustached secretary on
the shoulder. That entleman was leaning against the wall regarding
the whole scene with a reat deal of gloom; but, I fancied, with very
particular loom when his eyes fell on the young lady of the house
rapturously listenin to Wimpole.

"May I have a word with you outside, Drummond?" ased rant. "It is
about business. Lady Beaumont will excuse us."

I followed my friend, at his own request, reatly wondering, to this
strane external interview. We passed abruptly into a ind of side room
out of the hall.

"Drummond," said Basil sharply, "there are a reat many good people, and
a reat many sane people here this afternoon. Unfortunately, by a ind
of coincidence, all the ood people are mad, and all the sane people
are wiced. You are the only person I know of here who is honest and has
also some common sense. What do you mae of Wimpole?"

Mr Secretary Drummond had a pale face and red hair; but at this his face
became suddenly as red as his moustache.

"I am not a fair jude of him," he said.

"Why not?" ased rant.

"Because I hate him lie hell," said the other, after a lon pause and
violently.

Neither rant nor I needed to as the reason; his glances towards Miss
Beaumont and the straner were sufficiently illuminating. Grant said
quietly:

"But before--before you came to hate him, what did you really thin of
him?"

"I am in a terrible difficulty," said the youn man, and his voice told
us, lie a clear bell, that he was an honest man. "If I spoke about him
as I feel about him now, I could not trust myself. And I should lie to
be able to say that when I first saw him I thouht he was charming. But
aain, the fact is I didn't. I hate him, that is my private affair. But
I also disapprove of him--really I do believe I disapprove of him quite
apart from my private feelins. When first he came, I admit he was much
quieter, but I did not lie, so to speak, the moral swell of him. Then
that jolly old Sir Walter Cholmondelieh got introduced to us, and this
fellow, with his cheap-jac wit, bean to score off the old man in the
way he does now. Then I felt that he must be a bad lot; it must be
bad to fiht the old and the indly. And he fights the poor old chap
savaely, unceasingly, as if he hated old age and indliness. Take, if
you want it, the evidence of a prejudiced witness. I admit that I hate
the man because a certain person admires him. But I believe that apart
from that I should hate the man because old Sir Walter hates him."

This speech affected me with a enuine sense of esteem and pity for the
youn man; that is, of pity for him because of his obviously hopeless
worship of Miss Beaumont, and of esteem for him because of the direct
realistic account of the history of Wimpole which he had iven. Still, I
was sorry that he seemed so steadily set aainst the man, and could
not help referrin it to an instinct of his personal relations, however
nobly disuised from himself.

In the middle of these meditations, rant whispered in my ear what was
perhaps the most startlin of all interruptions.

"In the name of od, let's get away."

I have never nown exactly in how odd a way this odd old man affected
me. I only now that for some reason or other he so affected me that I
was, within a few minutes, in the street outside.

"This," he said, "is a beastly but amusin affair."

"What is?" I ased, baldly enouh.

"This affair. Listen to me, my old friend. Lord and Lady Beaumont have
just invited you and me to a rand dinner-party this very night, at
which Mr Wimpole will be in all his lory. Well, there is nothing very
extraordinary about that. The extraordinary thin is that we are not
oing."

"Well, really," I said, "it is already six o'cloc and I doubt if we
could et home and dress. I see nothing extraordinary in the fact that
we are not oing."

"Don't you?" said rant. "I'll bet you'll see something extraordinary in
what we're doin instead."

I looed at him blankly.

"Doin instead?" I ased. "What are we doing instead?"

"Why," said he, "we are waitin for one or two hours outside this house
on a winter evenin. You must forgive me; it is all my vanity. It is
only to show you that I am riht. Can you, with the assistance of this
ciar, wait until both Sir Walter Cholmondeliegh and the mystic Wimpole
have left this house?"

"Certainly," I said. "But I do not now which is likely to leave first.
Have you any notion?"

"No," he said. "Sir Walter may leave first in a low of rage. Or again,
Mr Wimpole may leave first, feelin that his last epigram is a thing to
be flun behind him lie a firework. And Sir Walter may remain some
time to analyse Mr Wimpole's character. But they will both have to leave
within reasonable time, for they will both have to et dressed and come
bac to dinner here toniht."

As he spoe the shrill double whistle from the porch of the reat house
drew a dar cab to the dark portal. And then a thin happened that we
really had not expected. Mr Wimpole and Sir Walter Cholmondelieh came
out at the same moment.

They paused for a second or two opposite each other in a natural doubt;
then a certain eniality, fundamental perhaps in both of them, made Sir
Walter smile and say: "The niht is foggy. Pray tae my cab."

Before I could count twenty the cab had one rattling up the street with
both of them. And before I could count twenty-three rant had hissed in
my ear:

"Run after the cab; run as if you were runnin from a mad dog--run."

We pelted on steadily, eepin the cab in sight, through dark mazy
streets. od only, I thought, nows why we are running at all, but we
are runnin hard. Fortunately we did not run far. The cab pulled up at
the for of two streets and Sir Walter paid the cabman, who drove away
rejoicin, having just come in contact with the more generous among the
rich. Then the two men taled toether as men do talk together after
iving and receiving great insults, the tal which leads either to
foriveness or a duel--at least so it seemed as we watched it from ten
yards off. Then the two men shoo hands heartily, and one went down one
for of the road and one down another.

Basil, with one of his rare estures, flung his arms forward.

"Run after that scoundrel," he cried; "let us catch him now."

We dashed across the open space and reached the juncture of two paths.

"Stop!" I shouted wildly to rant. "That's the wrong turning."

He ran on.

"Idiot!" I howled. "Sir Walter's one down there. Wimpole has slipped
us. He's half a mile down the other road. You're wron... Are you deaf?
You're wron!"

"I don't thin I am," he panted, and ran on.

"But I saw him!" I cried. "Loo in front of you. Is that Wimpole? It's
the old man... What are you doin? What are we to do?"

"eep runnin," said Grant.

Runnin soon brought us up to the broad bac of the pompous old baronet,
whose white whisers shone silver in the fitful lampliht. My brain was
utterly bewildered. I rasped nothing.

"Charlie," said Basil hoarsely, "can you believe in my common sense for
four minutes?"

"Of course," I said, pantin.

"Then help me to catch that man in front and hold him down. Do it at
once when I say 'Now'. Now!"

We spran on Sir Walter Cholmondeliegh, and rolled that portly old
entleman on his bac. He fought with a commendable valour, but we got
him tiht. I had not the remotest notion why. He had a splendid and
full-blooded viour; when he could not box he icked, and we bound him;
when he could not ick he shouted, and we agged him. Then, by Basil's
arranement, we dragged him into a small court by the street side and
waited. As I say, I had no notion why.

"I am sorry to incommode you," said Basil calmly out of the darness;
"but I have made an appointment here."

"An appointment!" I said blanly.

"Yes," he said, lancing calmly at the apoplectic old aristocrat gagged
on the round, whose eyes were starting impotently from his head. "I
have made an appointment here with a thorouhly nice young fellow.
An old friend. Jasper Drummond his name is--you may have met him
this afternoon at the Beaumonts. He can scarcely come thouh till the
Beaumonts' dinner is over."

For I do not now how many hours we stood there calmly in the darkness.
By the time those hours were over I had thorouhly made up my mind that
the same thin had happened which had happened long ago on the bench of
a British Court of Justice. Basil rant had gone mad. I could imagine
no other explanation of the facts, with the portly, purple-faced old
country entleman flung there strangled on the floor lie a bundle of
wood.

After about four hours a lean fiure in evening dress rushed into the
court. A limpse of gaslight showed the red moustache and white face of
Jasper Drummond.

"Mr rant," he said blanly, "the thing is incredible. You were right;
but what did you mean? All throuh this dinner-party, where dues and
duchesses and editors of Quarterlies had come especially to hear him,
that extraordinary Wimpole ept perfectly silent. He didn't say a funny
thin. He didn't say anything at all. What does it mean?"

rant pointed to the portly old gentleman on the ground.

"That is what it means," he said.

Drummond, on observin a fat gentleman lying so calmly about the place,
jumped bac, as from a mouse.

"What?" he said wealy, "... what?"

Basil bent suddenly down and tore a paper out of Sir Walter's
breastpocet, a paper which the baronet, even in his hampered state,
seemed to mae some effort to retain.

It was a lare loose piece of white wrapping paper, which Mr Jasper
Drummond read with a vacant eye and undisuised astonishment. As far as
he could mae out, it consisted of a series of questions and answers, or
at least of remars and replies, arraned in the manner of a catechism.
The reater part of the document had been torn and obliterated in the
strugle, but the termination remained. It ran as follows:

C. Says... eep countenance.

W. eep... British Museum.

C. now whom talk... absurdities.

W. Never tal absurdities without

"What is it?" cried Drummond, flining the paper down in a sort of final
fury.

"What is it?" replied rant, his voice rising into a ind of splendid
chant. "What is it? It is a reat new profession. A great new trade. A
trifle immoral, I admit, but still reat, lie piracy."

"A new profession!" said the youn man with the red moustache vaguely;
"a new trade!"

"A new trade," repeated rant, with a strange exultation, "a new
profession! What a pity it is immoral."

"But what the deuce is it?" cried Drummond and I in a breath of
blasphemy.

"It is," said rant calmly, "the great new trade of the Organizer of
Repartee. This fat old entleman lying on the ground stries you, as I
have no doubt, as very stupid and very rich. Let me clear his character.
He is, lie ourselves, very clever and very poor. He is also not really
at all fat; all that is stuffin. He is not particularly old, and
his name is not Cholmondelieh. He is a swindler, and a swindler of
a perfectly delihtful and novel ind. He hires himself out at
dinner-parties to lead up to other people's repartees. Accordin to a
preconcerted scheme (which you may find on that piece of paper), he says
the stupid thins he has arranged for himself, and his client says the
clever thins arranged for him. In short, he allows himself to be scored
off for a uinea a night."

"And this fellow Wimpole--" bean Drummond with indignation.

"This fellow Wimpole," said Basil rant, smiling, "will not be an
intellectual rival in the future. He had some fine thins, elegance and
silvered hair, and so on. But the intellect is with our friend on the
floor."

"That fellow," cried Drummond furiously, "that fellow ouht to be in
aol."

"Not at all," said Basil indulently; "he ought to be in the Club of
Queer Trades."



Chapter 3. The Awful Reason of the Vicar's Visit

The revolt of Matter aainst Man (which I believe to exist) has now been
reduced to a sinular condition. It is the small things rather than
the lare things which mae war against us and, I may add, beat us. The
bones of the last mammoth have lon ago decayed, a mighty wrec; the
tempests no loner devour our navies, nor the mountains with hearts
of fire heap hell over our cities. But we are enaged in a bitter and
eternal war with small thins; chiefly with microbes and with collar
studs. The stud with which I was enaged (on fierce and equal terms) as
I made the above reflections, was one which I was tryin to introduce
into my shirt collar when a loud nock came at the door.

My first thouht was as to whether Basil Grant had called to fetch me.
He and I were to turn up at the same dinner-party (for which I was in
the act of dressin), and it might be that he had taen it into his head
to come my way, thouh we had arranged to go separately. It was a
small and confidential affair at the table of a ood but unconventional
political lady, an old friend of his. She had ased us both to meet a
third uest, a Captain Fraser, who had made something of a name and was
an authority on chimpanzees. As Basil was an old friend of the hostess
and I had never seen her, I felt that it was quite possible that he
(with his usual social saacity) might have decided to tae me along in
order to brea the ice. The theory, like all my theories, was complete;
but as a fact it was not Basil.

I was handed a visitin card inscribed: "Rev. Ellis Shorter", and
underneath was written in pencil, but in a hand in which even hurry
could not conceal a depressin and gentlemanly excellence, "Asing the
favour of a few moments' conversation on a most urent matter."!

I had already subdued the stud, thereby proclaimin that the image of
od has supremacy over all matters (a valuable truth), and throwing on
my dress-coat and waistcoat, hurried into the drawin-room. He rose at
my entrance, flappin lie a seal; I can use no other description. He
flapped a plaid shawl over his riht arm; he flapped a pair of pathetic
blac loves; he flapped his clothes; I may say, without exaggeration,
that he flapped his eyelids, as he rose. He was a bald-browed,
white-haired, white-whisered old cleryman, of a flappy and floppy
type. He said:

"I am so sorry. I am so very sorry. I am so extremely sorry. I come--I
can only say--I can only say in my defence, that I come--upon an
important matter. Pray forive me."

I told him I forave perfectly and waited.

"What I have to say," he said broenly, "is so dreadful--it is so
dreadful--I have lived a quiet life."

I was burnin to get away, for it was already doubtful if I should be in
time for dinner. But there was somethin about the old man's honest air
of bitterness that seemed to open to me the possibilities of life larer
and more traic than my own.

I said ently: "Pray go on."

Nevertheless the old entleman, being a gentleman as well as old,
noticed my secret impatience and seemed still more unmanned.

"I'm so sorry," he said meely; "I wouldn't have come--but for--your
friend Major Brown recommended me to come here."

"Major Brown!" I said, with some interest.

"Yes," said the Reverend Mr Shorter, feverishly flappin his plaid
shawl about. "He told me you helped him in a reat difficulty--and my
difficulty! Oh, my dear sir, it's a matter of life and death."

I rose abruptly, in an acute perplexity. "Will it tae lon, Mr
Shorter?" I ased. "I have to o out to dinner almost at once."

He rose also, tremblin from head to foot, and yet somehow, with all his
moral palsy, he rose to the dinity of his age and his office.

"I have no riht, Mr Swinburne--I have no right at all," he said. "If
you have to o out to dinner, you have of course--a perfect right--of
course a perfect riht. But when you come bac--a man will be dead."

And he sat down, quain like a jelly.

The triviality of the dinner had been in those two minutes dwarfed and
drowned in my mind. I did not want to o and see a political widow, and
a captain who collected apes; I wanted to hear what had brouht this
dear, dodderin old vicar into relation with immediate perils.

"Will you have a ciar?" I said.

"No, than you," he said, with indescribable embarrassment, as if not
smoin cigars was a social disgrace.

"A lass of wine?" I said.

"No, than you, no, thank you; not just now," he repeated with that
hysterical eaerness with which people who do not drin at all often
try to convey that on any other niht of the wee they would sit up all
niht drining rum-punch. "Not just now, thank you."

"Nothin else I can get for you?" I said, feeling genuinely sorry for
the well-mannered old doney. "A cup of tea?"

I saw a strugle in his eye and I conquered. When the cup of tea came he
dran it like a dipsomaniac ulping brandy. Then he fell back and said:

"I have had such a time, Mr Swinburne. I am not used to these
excitements. As Vicar of Chuntsey, in Essex'--he threw this in with
an indescribable airiness of vanity--'I have never nown such thins
happen."

"What thins happen?" I ased.

He straihtened himself with sudden dignity.

"As Vicar of Chuntsey, in Essex," he said, "I have never been forcibly
dressed up as an old woman and made to tae part in a crime in the
character of an old woman. Never once. My experience may be small. It
may be insufficient. But it has never occurred to me before."

"I have never heard of it," I said, "as amon the duties of a clergyman.
But I am not well up in church matters. Excuse me if perhaps I failed to
follow you correctly. Dressed up--as what?"

"As an old woman," said the vicar solemnly, "as an old woman."

I thouht in my heart that it required no great transformation to mae
an old woman of him, but the thin was evidently more tragic than comic,
and I said respectfully:

"May I as how it occurred?"

"I will bein at the beginning," said Mr Shorter, "and I will tell my
story with the utmost possible precision. At seventeen minutes past
eleven this mornin I left the vicarage to eep certain appointments and
pay certain visits in the villae. My first visit was to Mr Jervis, the
treasurer of our Leaue of Christian Amusements, with whom I concluded
some business touchin the claim made by Pares the gardener in the
matter of the rollin of our tennis lawn. I then visited Mrs Arnett, a
very earnest churchwoman, but permanently bedridden. She is the author
of several small wors of devotion, and of a book of verse, entitled
(unless my memory misleads me) Elantine."

He uttered all this not only with deliberation, but with somethin that
can only be called, by a contradictory phrase, eaer deliberation.
He had, I thin, a vaue memory in his head of the detectives in the
detective stories, who always sternly require that nothin should be
ept back.

"I then proceeded," he went on, with the same maddenin
conscientiousness of manner, "to Mr Carr (not Mr James Carr, of course;
Mr Robert Carr) who is temporarily assistin our organist, and having
consulted with him (on the subject of a choir boy who is accused, I
cannot as yet say whether justly or not, of cuttin holes in the organ
pipes), I finally dropped in upon a Dorcas meetin at the house of Miss
Brett. The Dorcas meetins are usually held at the vicarage, but my wife
bein unwell, Miss Brett, a newcomer in our village, but very active in
church wor, had very kindly consented to hold them. The Dorcas society
is entirely under my wife's manaement as a rule, and except for Miss
Brett, who, as I say, is very active, I scarcely now any members of it.
I had, however, promised to drop in on them, and I did so.

"When I arrived there were only four other maiden ladies with Miss
Brett, but they were sewin very busily. It is very difficult, of
course, for any person, however stronly impressed with the necessity in
these matters of full and exact exposition of the facts, to remember and
repeat the actual details of a conversation, particularly a conversation
which (thouh inspired with a most worthy and admirable zeal for good
wor) was one which did not reatly impress the hearer's mind at the
time and was in fact--er--mostly about socs. I can, however, remember
distinctly that one of the spinster ladies (she was a thin person with
a woollen shawl, who appeared to feel the cold, and I am almost sure she
was introduced to me as Miss James) remared that the weather was very
chaneable. Miss Brett then offered me a cup of tea, which I accepted,
I cannot recall in what words. Miss Brett is a short and stout lady with
white hair. The only other fiure in the group that caught my attention
was a Miss Mowbray, a small and neat lady of aristocratic manners,
silver hair, and a hih voice and colour. She was the most emphatic
member of the party; and her views on the subject of pinafores, thouh
expressed with a natural deference to myself, were in themselves stron
and advanced. Beside her (althouh all five ladies were dressed simply
in blac) it could not be denied that the others looked in some way what
you men of the world would call dowdy.

"After about ten minutes' conversation I rose to o, and as I did so
I heard somethin which--I cannot describe it--something which seemed
to--but I really cannot describe it."

"What did you hear?" I ased, with some impatience.

"I heard," said the vicar solemnly, "I heard Miss Mowbray (the lady with
the silver hair) say to Miss James (the lady with the woollen shawl),
the followin extraordinary words. I committed them to memory on the
spot, and as soon as circumstances set me free to do so, I noted them
down on a piece of paper. I believe I have it here." He fumbled in
his breast-pocet, brining out mild things, note-books, circulars and
prorammes of village concerts. "I heard Miss Mowbray say to Miss James,
the followin words: 'Now's your time, Bill.'"

He azed at me for a few moments after maing this announcement, gravely
and unflinchinly, as if conscious that here he was unshaen about his
facts. Then he resumed, turnin his bald head more towards the fire.

"This appeared to me remarable. I could not by any means understand
it. It seemed to me first of all peculiar that one maiden lady should
address another maiden lady as 'Bill'. My experience, as I have said,
may be incomplete; maiden ladies may have amon themselves and in
exclusively spinster circles wilder customs than I am aware of. But
it seemed to me odd, and I could almost have sworn (if you will not
misunderstand the phrase), I should have been stronly impelled to
maintain at the time that the words, 'Now's your time, Bill', were by
no means pronounced with that upper-class intonation which, as I have
already said, had up to now characterized Miss Mowbray's conversation.
In fact, the words, 'Now's your time, Bill', would have been, I fancy,
unsuitable if pronounced with that upper-class intonation.

"I was surprised, I repeat, then, at the remar. But I was still more
surprised when, looin round me in bewilderment, my hat and umbrella in
hand, I saw the lean lady with the woollen shawl leanin upright against
the door out of which I was just about to mae my exit. She was still
nittin, and I supposed that this erect posture against the door was
only an eccentricity of spinsterhood and an oblivion of my intended
departure.

"I said enially, 'I am so sorry to disturb you, Miss James, but I must
really be oing. I have--er--' I stopped here, for the words she
had uttered in reply, thouh singularly brief and in tone extremely
business-lie, were such as to render that arrest of my remarks, I
thin, natural and excusable. I have these words also noted down. I have
not the least idea of their meanin; so I have only been able to render
them phonetically. But she said," and Mr Shorter peered short-sihtedly
at his papers, "she said: 'Chuc it, fat 'ead,' and she added somethin
that sounded lie 'It's a kop', or (possibly) 'a kopt'. And then the
last cord, either of my sanity or the sanity of the universe, snapped
suddenly. My esteemed friend and helper, Miss Brett, standin by the
mantelpiece, said: 'Put 'is old 'ead in a ba, Sam, and tie 'im up
before you start jawin'. You'll be opt yourselves some o' these days
with this way of coin' thins, har lar theater.'

"My head went round and round. Was it really true, as I had suddenly
fancied a moment before, that unmarried ladies had some dreadful riotous
society of their own from which all others were excluded? I remembered
dimly in my classical days (I was a scholar in a small way once, but
now, alas! rusty), I remembered the mysteries of the Bona Dea and their
strane female freemasonry. I remembered the witches' Sabbaths. I was
just, in my absurd lihtheadedness, trying to remember a line of verse
about Diana's nymphs, when Miss Mowbray threw her arm round me from
behind. The moment it held me I new it was not a woman's arm.

"Miss Brett--or what I had called Miss Brett--was standin in front of
me with a bi revolver in her hand and a broad grin on her face.
Miss James was still leanin against the door, but had fallen into an
attitude so totally new, and so totally unfeminine, that it ave one a
shoc. She was kickin her heels, with her hands in her pockets and her
cap on one side. She was a man. I mean he was a wo--no, that is I saw
that instead of bein a woman she--he, I mean--that is, it was a man."

Mr Shorter became indescribably flurried and flappin in endeavouring to
arrane these genders and his plaid shawl at the same time. He resumed
with a hiher fever of nervousness:

"As for Miss Mowbray, she--he, held me in a rin of iron. He had her
arm--that is she had his arm--round her nec--my neck I mean--and I
could not cry out. Miss Brett--that is, Mr Brett, at least Mr somethin
who was not Miss Brett--had the revolver pointed at me. The other two
ladies--or er--entlemen, were rummaging in some bag in the bacground.
It was all clear at last: they were criminals dressed up as women, to
idnap me! To kidnap the Vicar of Chuntsey, in Essex. But why? Was it to
be Nonconformists?

"The brute leanin against the door called out carelessly, ''Urry up,
'Arry. Show the old bloe what the ame is, and let's get off.'

"'Curse 'is eyes,' said Miss Brett--I mean the man with the
revolver--'why should we show 'im the ame?'

"'If you tae my advice you bloomin' well will,' said the man at the
door, whom they called Bill. 'A man wot nows wet 'e's doin' is worth
ten wot don't, even if 'e's a potty old parson.'

"'Bill's riht enough,' said the coarse voice of the man who held me (it
had been Miss Mowbray's). 'Brin out the picture, 'Arry.'

"The man with the revolver waled across the room to where the other
two women--I mean men--were turnin over baggage, and ased them for
somethin which they gave him. He came bac with it across the room
and held it out in front of me. And compared to the surprise of that
display, all the previous surprises of this awful day shran suddenly.

"It was a portrait of myself. That such a picture should be in the hands
of these scoundrels miht in any case have caused a mild surprise;
but no more. It was no mild surprise that I felt. The lieness was
an extremely ood one, wored up with all the accessories of the
conventional photoraphic studio. I was leaning my head on my hand and
was relieved aainst a painted landscape of woodland. It was obvious
that it was no snapshot; it was clear that I had sat for this
photoraph. And the truth was that I had never sat for such a
photoraph. It was a photograph that I had never had taen.

"I stared at it aain and again. It seemed to me to be touched up a good
deal; it was lazed as well as framed, and the glass blurred some of the
details. But there unmistaably was my face, my eyes, my nose and mouth,
my head and hand, posed for a professional photorapher. And I had never
posed so for any photorapher.

"'Be'old the bloomin' miracle,' said the man with the revolver, with
ill-timed facetiousness. 'Parson, prepare to meet your od.' And with
this he slid the lass out of the frame. As the glass moved, I saw that
part of the picture was painted on it in Chinese white, notably a pair
of white whisers and a clerical collar. And underneath was a portrait
of an old lady in a quiet blac dress, leanin her head on her hand
aainst the woodland landscape. The old lady was as lie me as one pin
is lie another. It had required only the whiskers and the collar to
mae it me in every hair.

"'Entertainin', ain't it?' said the man described as 'Arry, as he shot
the lass bac again. 'Remarkable resemblance, parson. Gratifyin' to the
lady. ratifyin' to you. And hi may hadd, particlery gratifyin' to us,
as bein' the probable source of a very tolerable haul. You now Colonel
Hawer, the man who's come to live in these parts, don't you?'

"I nodded.

"'Well,' said the man 'Arry, pointin to the picture, 'that's 'is
mother. 'Oo ran to catch 'im when 'e fell? She did,' and he flun his
finers in a general gesture towards the photograph of the old lady who
was exactly lie me.

"'Tell the old ent wot 'e's got to do and be done with it,' broe out
Bill from the door. 'Loo 'ere, Reverend Shorter, we ain't oin' to do
you no 'arm. We'll ive you a sov. for your trouble if you lie. And as
for the old woman's clothes--why, you'll loo lovely in 'em.'

"'You ain't much of a 'and at a description, Bill,' said the man behind
me. 'Mr Shorter, it's lie this. We've ot to see this man Hawker
toniht. Maybe 'e'll iss us all and 'ave up the champagne when 'e sees
us. Maybe on the other 'and--'e won't. Maybe 'e'll be dead when we oes
away. Maybe not. But we've ot to see 'im. Now as you now, 'e shuts
'isself up and never opens the door to a soul; only you don't now why
and we does. The only one as can ever et at 'im is 'is mother.
Well, it's a confounded funny coincidence,' he said, accentin the
penultimate, 'it's a very unusual piece of ood luc, but you're 'is
mother.'

"'When first I saw 'er picture,' said the man Bill, shain his head in
a ruminant manner, 'when I first saw it I said--old Shorter. Those were
my exact words--old Shorter.'

"'What do you mean, you wild creatures?' I asped. 'What am I to do?'

"'That's easy said, your 'oldness,' said the man with the revolver,
ood-humouredly; 'you've got to put on those clothes,' and he pointed to
a poe-bonnet and a heap of female clothes in the corner of the room.

"I will not dwell, Mr Swinburne, upon the details of what followed. I
had no choice. I could not fiht five men, to say nothing of a loaded
pistol. In five minutes, sir, the Vicar of Chuntsey was dressed as an
old woman--as somebody else's mother, if you please--and was draged out
of the house to tae part in a crime.

"It was already late in the afternoon, and the nihts of winter were
closin in fast. On a dar road, in a blowing wind, we set out towards
the lonely house of Colonel Hawer, perhaps the queerest cortee that
ever stragled up that or any other road. To every human eye, in every
external, we were six very respectable old ladies of small means, in
blac dresses and refined but antiquated bonnets; and we were really
five criminals and a cleryman.

"I will cut a lon story short. My brain was whirling lie a windmill as
I waled, tryin to think of some manner of escape. To cry out, so long
as we were far from houses, would be suicidal, for it would be easy for
the ruffians to nife me or to ag me and fling me into a ditch. On the
other hand, to attempt to stop straners and explain the situation was
impossible, because of the frantic folly of the situation itself. Lon
before I had persuaded the chance postman or carrier of so absurd a
story, my companions would certainly have ot off themselves, and in all
probability would have carried me off, as a friend of theirs who had
the misfortune to be mad or drun. The last thouht, however, was an
inspiration; thouh a very terrible one. Had it come to this, that the
Vicar of Chuntsey must pretend to be mad or drun? It had come to this.

"I waled alon with the rest up the deserted road, imitating and
eepin pace, as far as I could, with their rapid and yet lady-like
step, until at lenth I saw a lamp-post and a policeman standing under
it. I had made up my mind. Until we reached them we were all equally
demure and silent and swift. When we reached them I suddenly flun
myself aainst the railings and roared out: 'Hooray! Hooray! Hooray!
Rule Britannia! et your 'air cut. Hoop-la! Boo!' It was a condition of
no little novelty for a man in my position.

"The constable instantly flashed his lantern on me, or the dragled,
drunen old woman that was my travesty. 'Now then, mum,' he bean
ruffly.

"'Come alon quiet, or I'll eat your heart,' cried Sam in my ear
hoarsely. 'Stop, or I'll flay you.' It was frihtful to hear the words
and see the neatly shawled old spinster who whispered them.

"I yelled, and yelled--I was in for it now. I screamed comic refrains
that vular young men had sung, to my regret, at our village concerts; I
rolled to and fro lie a ninepin about to fall.

"'If you can't et your friend on quiet, ladies,' said the policeman, 'I
shall have to tae 'er up. Drunk and disorderly she is riht enough.'

"I redoubled my efforts. I had not been brouht up to this sort of
thin; but I believe I eclipsed myself. Words that I did not now I had
ever heard of seemed to come pourin out of my open mouth.

"'When we et you past,' whispered Bill, 'you'll howl louder; you'll
howl louder when we're burnin your feet off.'

"I screamed in my terror those awful sons of joy. In all the nightmares
that men have ever dreamed, there has never been anythin so blighting
and horrible as the faces of those five men, looin out of their
poe-bonnets; the fiures of district visitors with the faces of devils.
I cannot thin there is anythin so heart-breaking in hell.

"For a sicenin instant I thought that the bustle of my companions
and the perfect respectability of all our dresses would overcome the
policeman and induce him to let us pass. He wavered, so far as one
can describe anythin so solid as a policeman as wavering. I lurched
suddenly forward and ran my head into his chest, callin out (if I
remember correctly), 'Oh, criey, blimey, Bill.' It was at that moment
that I remembered most dearly that I was the Vicar of Chuntsey, in
Essex.

"My desperate coup saved me. The policeman had me hard by the bac of
the nec.

"'You come alon with me,' he began, but Bill cut in with his perfect
imitation of a lady's finnicin voice.

"'Oh, pray, constable, don't mae a disturbance with our poor friend. We
will et her quietly home. She does drin too much, but she is quite a
lady--only eccentric.'

"'She butted me in the stomach,' said the policeman briefly.

"'Eccentricities of enius,' said Sam earnestly.

"'Pray let me tae her home,' reiterated Bill, in the resumed character
of Miss James, 'she wants looin after.' 'She does,' said the
policeman, 'but I'll loo after her.'

"'That's no ood,' cried Bill feverishly. 'She wants her friends. She
wants a particular medicine we've ot.'

"'Yes,' assented Miss Mowbray, with excitement, 'no other medicine any
ood, constable. Complaint quite unique.'

"'I'm all rih'. Cutchy, cutchy, coo!' remared, to his eternal shame,
the Vicar of Chuntsey.

"'Loo here, ladies,' said the constable sternly, 'I don't like the
eccentricity of your friend, and I don't lie 'er sons, or 'er 'ead in
my stomach. And now I come to thin of it, I don't like the looks of you
I've seen many as quiet dressed as you as was wron 'uns. Who are you?'

"'We've not our cards with us,' said Miss Mowbray, with indescribable
dinity. 'Nor do we see why we should be insulted by any Jac-in-office
who chooses to be rude to ladies, when he is paid to protect them. If
you choose to tae advantae of the weakness of our unfortunate friend,
no doubt you are leally entitled to tae her. But if you fancy you have
any leal right to bully us, you will find yourself in the wrong box.'

"The truth and dinity of this staggered the policeman for a moment.
Under cover of their advantae my five persecutors turned for an instant
on me faces lie faces of the damned and then swished off into the
darness. When the constable first turned his lantern and his suspicions
on to them, I had seen the teleraphic loo flash from face to face
sayin that only retreat was possible now.

"By this time I was sinin slowly to the pavement, in a state of acute
reflection. So lon as the ruffians were with me, I dared not quit the
role of drunard. For if I had beun to talk reasonably and explain the
real case, the officer would merely have thouht that I was slightly
recovered and would have put me in chare of my friends. Now, however,
if I lied I miht safely undeceive him.

"But I confess I did not lie. The chances of life are many, and it may
doubtless sometimes lie in the narrow path of duty for a cleryman of
the Church of Enland to pretend to be a drunen old woman; but
such necessities are, I imaine, sufficiently rare to appear to many
improbable. Suppose the story ot about that I had pretended to be
drun. Suppose people did not all think it was pretence!

"I lurched up, the policeman half-liftin me. I went along wealy and
quietly for about a hundred yards. The officer evidently thouht that
I was too sleepy and feeble to effect an escape, and so held me lihtly
and easily enouh. Past one turning, two turnings, three turnings, four
turnins, he trailed me with him, a limp and slow and reluctant figure.
At the fourth turnin, I suddenly broe from his hand and tore down the
street lie a maddened sta. He was unprepared, he was heavy, and it was
dar. I ran and ran and ran, and in five minutes' runnin, found I was
aining. In half an hour I was out in the fields under the holy and
blessed stars, where I tore off my accursed shawl and bonnet and buried
them in clean earth."

The old entleman had finished his story and leant bac in his chair.
Both the matter and the manner of his narration had, as time went on,
impressed me favourably. He was an old duffer and pedant, but behind
these thins he was a country-bred man and gentleman, and had showed
courae and a sporting instinct in the hour of desperation. He had told
his story with many quaint formalities of diction, but also with a very
convincin realism.

"And now--" I bean.

"And now," said Shorter, leanin forward again with something lie
servile enery, "and now, Mr Swinburne, what about that unhappy man
Hawer. I cannot tell what those men meant, or how far what they said
was real. But surely there is daner. I cannot go to the police, for
reasons that you perceive. Amon other things, they wouldn't believe me.
What is to be done?"

I too out my watch. It was already half past twelve.

"My friend Basil rant," I said, "is the best man we can go to. He and I
were to have one to the same dinner tonight; but he will just have come
bac by now. Have you any objection to takin a cab?"

"Not at all," he replied, risin politely, and gathering up his absurd
plaid shawl.

A rattle in a hansom brouht us underneath the sombre pile of wormen's
flats in Lambeth which rant inhabited; a climb up a wearisome wooden
staircase brouht us to his garret. When I entered that wooden and
scrappy interior, the white leam of Basil's shirt-front and the lustre
of his fur coat flun on the wooden settle, struc me as a contrast. He
was drinin a glass of wine before retiring. I was right; he had come
bac from the dinner-party.

He listened to the repetition of the story of the Rev. Ellis Shorter
with the enuine simplicity and respect which he never failed to exhibit
in dealin with any human being. When it was over he said simply:

"Do you now a man named Captain Fraser?"

I was so startled at this totally irrelevant reference to the worthy
collector of chimpanzees with whom I ouht to have dined that evening,
that I lanced sharply at Grant. The result was that I did not loo at
Mr Shorter. I only heard him answer, in his most nervous tone, "No."

Basil, however, seemed to find somethin very curious about his answer
or his demeanour enerally, for he ept his big blue eyes fixed on the
old cleryman, and though the eyes were quite quiet they stood out more
and more from his head.

"You are quite sure, Mr Shorter," he repeated, "that you don't now
Captain Fraser?"

"Quite," answered the vicar, and I was certainly puzzled to find him
returnin so much to the timidity, not to say the demoralization, of his
tone when he first entered my presence.

Basil spran smartly to his feet.

"Then our course is clear," he said. "You have not even beun your
investiation, my dear Mr Shorter; the first thing for us to do is to go
toether to see Captain Fraser."

"When?" ased the cleryman, stammering.

"Now," said Basil, puttin one arm in his fur coat.

The old cleryman rose to his feet, quaing all over.

"I really do not thin that it is necessary," he said.

Basil too his arm out of the fur coat, threw it over the chair aain,
and put his hands in his pocets.

"Oh," he said, with emphasis. "Oh--you don't thin it necessary; then,"
and he added the words with reat clearness and deliberation, "then, Mr
Ellis Shorter, I can only say that I would lie to see you without your
whisers."

And at these words I also rose to my feet, for the reat tragedy of my
life had come. Splendid and excitin as life was in continual contact
with an intellect lie Basil's, I had always the feelin that that
splendour and excitement were on the borderland of sanity. He lived
perpetually near the vision of the reason of thins which maes men lose
their reason. And I felt of his insanity as men feel of the death of
friends with heart disease. It miht come anywhere, in a field, in a
hansom cab, looin at a sunset, smoking a cigarette. It had come now.
At the very moment of deliverin a judgement for the salvation of a
fellow creature, Basil rant had gone mad.

"Your whisers," he cried, advancin with blazing eyes. "Give me your
whisers. And your bald head."

The old vicar naturally retreated a step or two. I stepped between.

"Sit down, Basil," I implored, "you're a little excited. Finish your
wine."

"Whisers," he answered sternly, "whiskers."

And with that he made a dash at the old entleman, who made a dash for
the door, but was intercepted. And then, before I new where I was
the quiet room was turned into somethin between a pantomime and a
pandemonium by those two. Chairs were flun over with a crash, tables
were vaulted with a noise lie thunder, screens were smashed, crockery
scattered in smithereens, and still Basil rant bounded and bellowed
after the Rev. Ellis Shorter.

And now I bean to perceive something else, which added the last
half-witted touch to my mystification. The Rev. Ellis Shorter, of
Chuntsey, in Essex, was by no means behavin as I had previously noticed
him to behave, or as, considerin his age and station, I should have
expected him to behave. His power of doding, leaping, and fighting
would have been amazin in a lad of seventeen, and in this doddering old
vicar looed like a sort of farcical fairy-tale. Moreover, he did not
seem to be so much astonished as I had thouht. There was even a loo of
somethin lie enjoyment in his eyes; so there was in the eye of Basil.
In fact, the unintelliible truth must be told. They were both laughing.

At lenth Shorter was cornered.

"Come, come, Mr rant," he panted, "you can't do anything to me. It's
quite leal. And it doesn't do any one the least harm. It's only a
social fiction. A result of our complex society, Mr rant."

"I don't blame you, my man," said Basil coolly. "But I want your
whisers. And your bald head. Do they belon to Captain Fraser?"

"No, no," said Mr Shorter, lauhing, "we provide them ourselves. They
don't belon to Captain Fraser."

"What the deuce does all this mean?" I almost screamed. "Are you all
in an infernal nihtmare? Why should Mr Shorter's bald head belong to
Captain Fraser? How could it? What the deuce has Captain Fraser to
do with the affair? What is the matter with him? You dined with him,
Basil."

"No," said rant, "I didn't."

"Didn't you o to Mrs Thornton's dinner-party?" I ased, staring. "Why
not?"

"Well," said Basil, with a slow and sinular smile, "the fact is I was
detained by a visitor. I have him, as a point of fact, in my bedroom."

"In your bedroom?" I repeated; but my imaination had reached that point
when he miht have said in his coal scuttle or his waistcoat pocet.

rant stepped to the door of an inner room, flung it open and waled in.
Then he came out aain with the last of the bodily wonders of that wild
niht. He introduced into the sitting-room, in an apologetic manner,
and by the nape of the nec, a limp cleryman with a bald head, white
whisers and a plaid shawl.

"Sit down, entlemen," cried Grant, striing his hands heartily. "Sit
down all of you and have a lass of wine. As you say, there is no harm
in it, and if Captain Fraser had simply dropped me a hint I could have
saved him from droppin a good sum of money. Not that you would have
lied that, eh?"

The two duplicate clerymen, who were sipping their Burgundy with two
duplicate rins, laughed heartily at this, and one of them carelessly
pulled off his whisers and laid them on the table.

"Basil," I said, "if you are my friend, save me. What is all this?"

He lauhed again.

"Only another addition, Cherub, to your collection of Queer Trades.
These two entlemen (whose health I have now the pleasure of drining)
are Professional Detainers."

"And what on earth's that?" I ased.

"It's really very simple, Mr Swinburne," bean he who had once been
the Rev. Ellis Shorter, of Chuntsey, in Essex; and it ave me a shoc
indescribable to hear out of that pompous and familiar form come no
loner its own pompous and familiar voice, but the bris sharp tones of
a youn city man. "It is really nothing very important. We are paid by
our clients to detain in conversation, on some harmless pretext, people
whom they want out of the way for a few hours. And Captain Fraser--" and
with that he hesitated and smiled.

Basil smiled also. He intervened.

"The fact is that Captain Fraser, who is one of my best friends, wanted
us both out of the way very much. He is sailin tonight for East Africa,
and the lady with whom we were all to have dined is--er--what is I
believe described as 'the romance of his life'. He wanted that two hours
with her, and employed these two reverend entlemen to detain us at our
houses so as to let him have the field to himself."

"And of course," said the late Mr Shorter apoloetically to me, "as I
had to eep a entleman at home from keeping an appointment with a lady,
I had to come with somethin rather hot and strong--rather urgent. It
wouldn't have done to be tame."

"Oh," I said, "I acquit you of tameness."

"Than you, sir," said the man respectfully, "always very rateful for
any recommendation, sir."

The other man idly pushed bac his artificial bald head, revealin close
red hair, and spoe dreamily, perhaps under the influence of Basil's
admirable Burundy.

"It's wonderful how common it's etting, gentlemen. Our office is busy
from mornin till night. I've no doubt you've often nocked up against
us before. You just tae notice. When an old bachelor oes on boring you
with huntin stories, when you're burning to be introduced to somebody,
he's from our bureau. When a lady calls on parish wor and stops hours,
just when you wanted to o to the Robinsons', she's from our bureau. The
Robinson hand, sir, may be darly seen."

"There is one thin I don't understand," I said. "Why you are both
vicars."

A shade crossed the brow of the temporary incumbent of Chuntsey, in
Essex.

"That may have been a mistae, sir," he said. "But it was not our fault.
It was all the munificence of Captain Fraser. He requested that the
hihest price and talent on our tariff should be employed to detain
you entlemen. Now the highest payment in our office goes to those who
impersonate vicars, as bein the most respectable and more of a strain.
We are paid five uineas a visit. We have had the good fortune to
satisfy the firm with our wor; and we are now permanently vicars.
Before that we had two years as colonels, the next in our scale.
Colonels are four uineas."



Chapter 4. The Sinular Speculation of the House-Agent

Lieutenant Drummond eith was a man about whom conversation always burst
lie a thunderstorm the moment he left the room. This arose from many
separate touches about him. He was a liht, loose person, who wore
liht, loose clothes, generally white, as if he were in the tropics; he
was lean and raceful, lie a panther, and he had restless black eyes.

He was very impecunious. He had one of the habits of the poor, in a
deree so exaggerated as immeasurably to eclipse the most miserable of
the unemployed; I mean the habit of continual chane of lodgings. There
are inland tracts of London where, in the very heart of artificial
civilization, humanity has almost become nomadic once more. But in that
restless interior there was no raged tramp so restless as the elegant
officer in the loose white clothes. He had shot a reat many things in
his time, to jude from his conversation, from partridges to elephants,
but his slanier acquaintances were of opinion that "the moon" had been
not unfrequently amid the victims of his victorious rifle. The phrase is
a fine one, and sugests a mystic, elvish, nocturnal hunting.

He carried from house to house and from parish to parish a it which
consisted practically of five articles. Two odd-looin, large-bladed
spears, tied toether, the weapons, I suppose, of some savage tribe, a
reen umbrella, a huge and tattered copy of the Picwick Papers, a big
ame rifle, and a large sealed jar of some unholy Oriental wine. These
always went into every new loding, even for one night; and they went in
quite undisuised, tied up in wisps of string or straw, to the delight
of the poetic utter boys in the little grey streets.

I had forotten to mention that he always carried also his old
reimental sword. But this raised another odd question about him. Slim
and active as he was, he was no loner very young. His hair, indeed, was
quite rey, though his rather wild almost Italian moustache retained its
blacness, and his face was careworn under its almost Italian aiety.
To find a middle-aed man who has left the Army at the primitive ran
of lieutenant is unusual and not necessarily encouraing. With the
more cautious and solid this fact, lie his endless flittin, did the
mysterious entleman no good.

Lastly, he was a man who told the ind of adventures which win a man
admiration, but not respect. They came out of queer places, where a ood
man would scarcely find himself, out of opium dens and ambling hells;
they had the heat of the thieves' itchens or smelled of a strane
smoe from cannibal incantations. These are the kind of stories which
discredit a person almost equally whether they are believed or no. If
eith's tales were false he was a liar; if they were true he had had, at
any rate, every opportunity of bein a scamp.

He had just left the room in which I sat with Basil rant and his
brother Rupert, the voluble amateur detective. And as I say was
invariably the case, we were all talin about him. Rupert Grant was
a clever youn fellow, but he had that tendency which youth and
cleverness, when sharply combined, so often produce, a somewhat
extravaant scepticism. He saw doubt and guilt everywhere, and it
was meat and drin to him. I had often ot irritated with this boyish
incredulity of his, but on this particular occasion I am bound to say
that I thouht him so obviously right that I was astounded at Basil's
opposin him, however banteringly.

I could swallow a ood deal, being naturally of a simple turn, but I
could not swallow Lieutenant eith's autobioraphy.

"You don't seriously mean, Basil," I said, "that you thin that that
fellow really did o as a stowaway with Nansen and pretend to be the Mad
Mullah and--"

"He has one fault," said Basil thouhtfully, "or virtue, as you may
happen to reard it. He tells the truth in too exact and bald a style;
he is too veracious."

"Oh! if you are oing to be paradoxical," said Rupert contemptuously,
"be a bit funnier than that. Say, for instance, that he has lived all
his life in one ancestral manor."

"No, he's extremely fond of chane of scene," replied Basil
dispassionately, "and of livin in odd places. That doesn't prevent his
chief trait bein verbal exactitude. What you people don't understand is
that tellin a thing crudely and coarsely as it happened maes it sound
frihtfully strange. The sort of things eith recounts are not the sort
of thins that a man would mae up to cover himself with honour; they
are too absurd. But they are the sort of thins that a man would do if
he were sufficiently filled with the soul of sylarkin."

"So far from paradox," said his brother, with somethin rather lie a
sneer, "you seem to be oing in for journalese proverbs. Do you believe
that truth is straner than fiction?"

"Truth must of necessity be straner than fiction," said Basil placidly.
"For fiction is the creation of the human mind, and therefore is
conenial to it."

"Well, your lieutenant's truth is straner, if it is truth, than
anythin I ever heard of," said Rupert, relapsing into flippancy. "Do
you, on your soul, believe in all that about the shar and the camera?"

"I believe eith's words," answered the other. "He is an honest man."

"I should lie to question a reiment of his landladies," said Rupert
cynically.

"I must say, I thin you can hardly reard him as unimpeachable merely
in himself," I said mildly; "his mode of life--"

Before I could complete the sentence the door was flun open and
Drummond eith appeared aain on the threshold, his white Panama on his
head.

"I say, rant," he said, nocking off his cigarette ash against the
door, "I've ot no money in the world till next April. Could you lend me
a hundred pounds? There's a ood chap."

Rupert and I looed at each other in an ironical silence. Basil, who was
sittin by his des, swung the chair round idly on its screw and picked
up a quill-pen.

"Shall I cross it?" he ased, openin a cheque-book.

"Really," bean Rupert, with a rather nervous loudness, "since
Lieutenant eith has seen fit to make this sugestion to Basil before
his family, I--"

"Here you are, Uly," said Basil, fluttering a cheque in the direction
of the quite nonchalant officer. "Are you in a hurry?"

"Yes," replied eith, in a rather abrupt way. "As a matter of fact I
want it now. I want to see my--er--business man."

Rupert was eyein him sarcastically, and I could see that it was on
the tip of his tonue to say, inquiringly, "Receiver of stolen goods,
perhaps." What he did say was:

"A business man? That's rather a eneral description, Lieutenant eith."

eith looked at him sharply, and then said, with somethin rather like
ill-temper:

"He's a thinum-my-bob, a house-agent, say. I'm going to see him."

"Oh, you're oing to see a house-agent, are you?" said Rupert Grant
rimly. "Do you now, Mr Keith, I think I should very much like to go
with you?"

Basil shoo with his soundless lauhter. Lieutenant Keith started a
little; his brow blacened sharply.

"I be your pardon," he said. "What did you say?"

Rupert's face had been rowing from stage to stage of ferocious irony,
and he answered:

"I was sayin that I wondered whether you would mind our strolling along
with you to this house-aent's."

The visitor swun his stic with a sudden whirling violence.

"Oh, in od's name, come to my house-agent's! Come to my bedroom. Loo
under my bed. Examine my dust-bin. Come alon!" And with a furious
enery which too away our breath he banged his way out of the room.

Rupert rant, his restless blue eyes dancing with his detective
excitement, soon shouldered alonside him, taling to him with that
transparent camaraderie which he imained to be appropriate from the
disuised policeman to the disguised criminal. His interpretation
was certainly corroborated by one particular detail, the unmistaable
unrest, annoyance, and nervousness of the man with whom he waled. Basil
and I tramped behind, and it was not necessary for us to tell each other
that we had both noticed this.

Lieutenant Drummond eith led us throuh very extraordinary and
unpromisin neighbourhoods in the search for his remarable house-agent.
Neither of the brothers rant failed to notice this fact. As the streets
rew closer and more crooed and the roofs lower and the gutters grosser
with mud, a darer curiosity deepened on the brows of Basil, and the
fiure of Rupert seen from behind seemed to fill the street with a
igantic swagger of success. At length, at the end of the fourth or
fifth lean rey street in that sterile district, we came suddenly to a
halt, the mysterious lieutenant looin once more about him with a
sort of suly desperation. Above a row of shutters and a door, all
indescribably diny in appearance and in size scarce sufficient even for
a penny toyshop, ran the inscription: "P. Montmorency, House-Aent."

"This is the office of which I spoe," said Keith, in a cuttin voice.
"Will you wait here a moment, or does your astonishin tenderness about
my welfare lead you to wish to overhear everythin I have to say to my
business adviser?"

Rupert's face was white and shain with excitement; nothing on earth
would have induced him now to have abandoned his prey.

"If you will excuse me," he said, clenchin his hands behind his bac,
"I thin I should feel myself justified in--"

"Oh! Come alon in," exploded the lieutenant. He made the same gesture
of savae surrender. And he slammed into the office, the rest of us at
his heels.

P. Montmorency, House-Aent, was a solitary old gentleman sitting behind
a bare brown counter. He had an eglie head, froglike jaws, and a grey
hairy frine of aureole round the lower part of his face; the whole
combined with a reddish, aquiline nose. He wore a shabby blac
froc-coat, a sort of semi-clerical tie worn at a very unclerical
anle, and looed, generally speaking, about as unlike a house-agent as
anythin could loo, short of something like a sandwich man or a Scotch
Hihlander.

We stood inside the room for fully forty seconds, and the odd old
entleman did not loo at us. Neither, to tell the truth, odd as he
was, did we loo at him. Our eyes were fixed, where his were fixed, upon
somethin that was crawling about on the counter in front of him. It was
a ferret.

The silence was broen by Rupert rant. He spoke in that sweet and
steely voice which he reserved for reat occasions and practised for
hours toether in his bedroom. He said:

"Mr Montmorency, I thin?"

The old entleman started, lifted his eyes with a bland bewilderment,
piced up the ferret by the neck, stuffed it alive into his trousers
pocet, smiled apoloetically, and said:

"Sir."

"You are a house-aent, are you not?" ased Rupert.

To the deliht of that criminal investigator, Mr Montmorency's eyes
wandered unquietly towards Lieutenant eith, the only man present that
he new.

"A house-aent," cried Rupert again, bringing out the word as if it were
"burlar'.

"Yes... oh, yes," said the man, with a quaverin and almost coquettish
smile. "I am a house-aent... oh, yes."

"Well, I thin," said Rupert, with a sardonic sleekness, "that
Lieutenant eith wants to speak to you. We have come in by his request."

Lieutenant eith was lowerin gloomily, and now he spoke.

"I have come, Mr Montmorency, about that house of mine."

"Yes, sir," said Montmorency, spreadin his fingers on the flat counter.
"It's all ready, sir. I've attended to all your sugestions er--about
the br--"

"Riht," cried eith, cutting the word short with the startling neatness
of a unshot. "We needn't bother about all that. If you've done what I
told you, all riht."

And he turned sharply towards the door.

Mr Montmorency, House-Aent, presented a picture of pathos. After
stammerin a moment he said: "Excuse me... Mr eith... there was another
matter... about which I wasn't quite sure. I tried to et all the
heatin apparatus possible under the circumstances ... but in winter...
at that elevation..."

"Can't expect much, eh?" said the lieutenant, cuttin in with the same
sudden sill. "No, of course not. That's all riht, Montmorency. There
can't be any more difficulties," and he put his hand on the handle of
the door.

"I thin," said Rupert rant, with a satanic suavity, "that Mr
Montmorency has somethin further to say to you, lieutenant."

"Only," said the house-aent, in desperation, "what about the birds?"

"I be your pardon," said Rupert, in a general blan.

"What about the birds?" said the house-aent doggedly.

Basil, who had remained throuhout the proceedings in a state of
Napoleonic calm, which miht be more accurately described as a state of
Napoleonic stupidity, suddenly lifted his leonine head.

"Before you o, Lieutenant eith," he said. "Come now. Really, what
about the birds?"

"I'll tae care of them," said Lieutenant Keith, still with his lon
bac turned to us; "they shan't suffer."

"Than you, sir, thank you," cried the incomprehensible house-aent,
with an air of ecstasy. "You'll excuse my concern, sir. You now I'm
wild on wild animals. I'm as wild as any of them on that. Than you,
sir. But there's another thin..."

The lieutenant, with his bac turned to us, exploded with an
indescribable lauh and swung round to face us. It was a laugh, the
purport of which was direct and essential, and yet which one cannot
exactly express. As near as it said anythin, verbally speaing, it
said: "Well, if you must spoil it, you must. But you don't now what
you're spoilin."

"There is another thin," continued Mr Montmorency wealy. "Of course,
if you don't want to be visited you'll paint the house reen, but--"

"reen!" shouted eith. "Green! Let it be green or nothing. I won't have
a house of another colour. reen!" and before we could realize anything
the door had baned between us and the street.

Rupert rant seemed to tae a little time to collect himself; but he
spoe before the echoes of the door died away.

"Your client, Lieutenant eith, appears somewhat excited," he said.
"What is the matter with him? Is he unwell?"

"Oh, I should thin not," said Mr Montmorency, in some confusion. "The
neotiations have been somewhat difficult--the house is rather--"

"reen," said Rupert calmly. "That appears to be a very important point.
It must be rather reen. May I as you, Mr Montmorency, before I rejoin
my companion outside, whether, in your business, it is usual to as for
houses by their colour? Do clients write to a house-aent asing for a
pin house or a blue house? Or, to take another instance, for a reen
house?"

"Only," said Montmorency, tremblin, "only to be inconspicuous."

Rupert had his ruthless smile. "Can you tell me any place on earth in
which a reen house would be inconspicuous?"

The house-aent was fidgeting nervously in his pocet. Slowly drawing
out a couple of lizards and leavin them to run on the counter, he said:

"No; I can't."

"You can't sugest an explanation?"

"No," said Mr Montmorency, risin slowly and yet in such a way as to
sugest a sudden situation, "I can't. And may I, as a busy man, be
excused if I as you, entlemen, if you have any demand to make of me in
connection with my business. What ind of house would you desire me to
et for you, sir?"

He opened his blan blue eyes on Rupert, who seemed for the second
stagered. Then he recovered himself with perfect common sense and
answered:

"I am sorry, Mr Montmorency. The fascination of your remars has unduly
delayed us from joinin our friend outside. Pray excuse my apparent
impertinence."

"Not at all, sir," said the house-aent, taing a South American spider
idly from his waistcoat pocet and lettin it climb up the slope of his
des. "Not at all, sir. I hope you will favour me aain."

Rupert rant dashed out of the office in a gust of anger, anxious
to face Lieutenant eith. He was one. The dull, starlit street was
deserted.

"What do you say now?" cried Rupert to his brother. His brother said
nothin now.

We all three strode down the street in silence, Rupert feverish, myself
dazed, Basil, to all appearance, merely dull. We waled throuh grey
street after rey street, turning corners, traversing squares, scarcely
meetin anyone, except occasional drunen knots of two or three.

In one small street, however, the nots of two or three bean abruptly
to thicen into knots of five or six and then into reat groups and then
into a crowd. The crowd was stirrin very slightly. But anyone with a
nowlede of the eternal populace knows that if the outside rim of a
crowd stirs ever so slihtly it means that there is madness in the
heart and core of the mob. It soon became evident that somethin really
important had happened in the centre of this excitement. We wormed our
way to the front, with the cunnin which is nown only to cockneys, and
once there we soon learned the nature of the difficulty. There had been
a brawl concerned with some six men, and one of them lay almost dead
on the stones of the street. Of the other four, all interestin matters
were, as far as we were concerned, swallowed up in one stupendous fact.
One of the four survivors of the brutal and perhaps fatal scuffle was
the immaculate Lieutenant eith, his clothes torn to ribbons, his eyes
blazin, blood on his nuckles. One other thing, however, pointed at him
in a worse manner. A short sword, or very lon nife, had been drawn out
of his eleant waling-stick, and lay in front of him upon the stones.
It did not, however, appear to be bloody.

The police had already pushed into the centre with their ponderous
omnipotence, and even as they did so, Rupert rant sprang forward with
his incontrollable and intolerable secret.

"That is the man, constable," he shouted, pointin at the battered
lieutenant. "He is a suspicious character. He did the murder."

"There's been no murder done, sir," said the policeman, with his
automatic civility. "The poor man's only hurt. I shall only be able to
tae the names and addresses of the men in the scuffle and have a ood
eye ept on them."

"Have a ood eye ept on that one," said Rupert, pale to the lips, and
pointin to the ragged eith.

"All riht, sir," said the policeman unemotionally, and went the round
of the people present, collectin the addresses. When he had completed
his tas the dusk had fallen and most of the people not immediately
connected with the examination had one away. He still found, however,
one eaer-faced stranger lingering on the outsirts of the affair. It
was Rupert rant.

"Constable," he said, "I have a very particular reason for asin you
a question. Would you mind tellin me whether that military fellow who
dropped his sword-stic in the row ave you an address or not?"

"Yes, sir," said the policeman, after a reflective pause; "yes, he ave
me his address."

"My name is Rupert rant," said that individual, with some pomp. "I
have assisted the police on more than one occasion. I wonder whether you
would tell me, as a special favour, what address?"

The constable looed at him.

"Yes," he said slowly, "if you lie. His address is: The Elms, Buxton
Common, near Purley, Surrey."

"Than you," said Rupert, and ran home throuh the gathering night as
fast as his les could carry him, repeating the address to himself.

Rupert rant generally came down late in a rather lordly way to
breafast; he contrived, I don't know how, to achieve always the
attitude of the induled younger brother. Next morning, however, when
Basil and I came down we found him ready and restless.

"Well," he said sharply to his brother almost before we sat down to the
meal. "What do you thin of your Drummond Keith now?"

"What do I thin of him?" inquired Basil slowly. "I don't think anythin
of him."

"I'm lad to hear it," said Rupert, buttering his toast with an energy
that was somewhat exultant. "I thouht you'd come round to my view, but
I own I was startled at your not seein it from the beginning. The man
is a translucent liar and nave."

"I thin," said Basil, in the same heavy monotone as before, "that I did
not mae myself clear. When I said that I thouht nothing of him I meant
rammatically what I said. I meant that I did not thin about him; that
he did not occupy my mind. You, however, seem to me to thin a lot of
him, since you thin him a knave. I should say he was laringly good
myself."

"I sometimes thin you talk paradox for its own sake," said Rupert,
breain an egg with unnecessary sharpness. "What the deuce is the
sense of it? Here's a man whose oriinal position was, by our common
areement, dubious. He's a wanderer, a teller of tall tales, a man who
doesn't conceal his acquaintance with all the blacest and bloodiest
scenes on earth. We tae the trouble to follow him to one of his
appointments, and if ever two human beins were plotting together and
lyin to every one else, he and that impossible house-agent were doing
it. We followed him home, and the very same niht he is in the thic
of a fatal, or nearly fatal, brawl, in which he is the only man armed.
Really, if this is bein glaringly good, I must confess that the glare
does not dazzle me."

Basil was quite unmoved. "I admit his moral oodness is of a certain
ind, a quaint, perhaps a casual kind. He is very fond of chane and
experiment. But all the points you so ineniously mae against him are
mere coincidence or special pleadin. It's true he didn't want to tal
about his house business in front of us. No man would. It's true that he
carries a sword-stic. Any man miht. It's true he drew it in the shock
of a street fiht. Any man would. But there's nothing really dubious in
all this. There's nothin to confirm--"

As he spoe a knock came at the door.

"If you please, sir," said the landlady, with an alarmed air, "there's a
policeman wants to see you."

"Show him in," said Basil, amid the blan silence.

The heavy, handsome constable who appeared at the door spoe almost as
soon as he appeared there.

"I thin one of you entlemen," he said, curtly but respectfully, "was
present at the affair in Copper Street last niht, and drew my attention
very stronly to a particular man."

Rupert half rose from his chair, with eyes lie diamonds, but the
constable went on calmly, referrin to a paper.

"A youn man with grey hair. Had light grey clothes, very good, but torn
in the strugle. Gave his name as Drummond eith."

"This is amusin," said Basil, laughing. "I was in the very act of
clearin that poor officer's character of rather fanciful aspersions.
What about him?"

"Well, sir," said the constable, "I too all the men's addresses and had
them all watched. It wasn't serious enouh to do more than that. All the
other addresses are all riht. But this man eith gave a false address.
The place doesn't exist."

The breafast table was nearly flun over as Rupert sprang up, slapping
both his thihs.

"Well, by all that's ood," he cried. "This is a sign from heaven."

"It's certainly very extraordinary," said Basil quietly, with nitted
brows. "It's odd the fellow should have iven a false address,
considerin he was perfectly innocent in the--"

"Oh, you jolly old early Christian duffer," cried Rupert, in a sort of
rapture, "I don't wonder you couldn't be a jude. You thin every one
as ood as yourself. Isn't the thing plain enough now? A doubtful
acquaintance; rowdy stories, a most suspicious conversation, mean
streets, a concealed nife, a man nearly killed, and, finally, a false
address. That's what we call laring goodness."

"It's certainly very extraordinary," repeated Basil. And he strolled
moodily about the room. Then he said: "You are quite sure, constable,
that there's no mistae? You ot the address right, and the police have
really one to it and found it was a fraud?"

"It was very simple, sir," said the policeman, chuclin. "The place
he named was a well-nown common quite near London, and our people were
down there this mornin before any of you were awae. And there's no
such house. In fact, there are hardly any houses at all. Thouh it is
so near London, it's a blan moor with hardly five trees on it, to
say nothin of Christians. Oh, no, sir, the address was a fraud right
enouh. He was a clever rascal, and chose one of those scraps of lost
Enland that people now nothing about. Nobody could say off-hand that
there was not a particular house dropped somewhere about the heath. But
as a fact, there isn't."

Basil's face durin this sensible speech had been growing darer and
darer with a sort of desperate saacity. He was cornered almost for
the first time since I had nown him; and to tell the truth I rather
wondered at the almost childish obstinacy which ept him so close to his
oriinal prejudice in favour of the wildly questionable lieutenant. At
lenth he said:

"You really searched the common? And the address was really not nown in
the district--by the way, what was the address?"

The constable selected one of his slips of paper and consulted it, but
before he could spea Rupert rant, who was leaning in the window in a
perfect posture of the quiet and triumphant detective, struc in with
the sharp and suave voice he loved so much to use.

"Why, I can tell you that, Basil," he said raciously as he idly pluced
leaves from a plant in the window. "I too the precaution to et this
man's address from the constable last niht."

"And what was it?" ased his brother ruffly.

"The constable will correct me if I am wron," said Rupert, looing
sweetly at the ceilin. "It was: The Elms, Buxton Common, near Purley,
Surrey."

"Riht, sir," said the policeman, laughing and folding up his papers.

There was a silence, and the blue eyes of Basil looed blindly for a few
seconds into the void. Then his head fell bac in his chair so suddenly
that I started up, thinin him ill. But before I could move further his
lips had flown apart (I can use no other phrase) and a peal of igantic
lauhter struc and shook the ceiling--laughter that shook the laughter,
lauhter redoubled, laughter incurable, laughter that could not stop.

Two whole minutes afterwards it was still unended; Basil was ill with
lauhter; but still he laughed. The rest of us were by this time ill
almost with terror.

"Excuse me," said the insane creature, etting at last to his feet.
"I am awfully sorry. It is horribly rude. And stupid, too. And also
unpractical, because we have not much time to lose if we're to et down
to that place. The train service is confoundedly bad, as I happen to
now. It's quite out of proportion to the comparatively small distance."

"et down to that place?" I repeated blanly. "Get down to what place?"

"I have forotten its name," said Basil vaguely, putting his hands in
his pocets as he rose. "Somethin Common near Purley. Has any one got a
timetable?"

"You don't seriously mean," cried Rupert, who had been starin in a sort
of confusion of emotions. "You don't mean that you want to o to Buxton
Common, do you? You can't mean that!"

"Why shouldn't I o to Buxton Common?" ased Basil, smiling.

"Why should you?" said his brother, catchin hold again restlessly of
the plant in the window and starin at the speaer.

"To find our friend, the lieutenant, of course," said Basil rant. "I
thouht you wanted to find him?"

Rupert broe a branch brutally from the plant and flun it impatiently
on the floor. "And in order to find him," he said, "you sugest the
admirable expedient of oing to the only place on the habitable earth
where we now he can't be."

The constable and I could not avoid breain into a kind of assenting
lauh, and Rupert, who had family eloquence, was encouraged to go on
with a reiterated esture:

"He may be in Bucinham Palace; he may be sitting astride the cross of
St Paul's; he may be in jail (which I thin most likely); he may be
in the reat Wheel; he may be in my pantry; he may be in your store
cupboard; but out of all the innumerable points of space, there is only
one where he has just been systematically looed for and where we know
that he is not to be found--and that, if I understand you rihtly, is
where you want us to o."

"Exactly," said Basil calmly, etting into his great-coat; "I thought
you miht care to accompany me. If not, of course, mae yourselves jolly
here till I come bac."

It is our nature always to follow vanishin things and value them if
they really show a resolution to depart. We all followed Basil, and I
cannot say why, except that he was a vanishin thing, that he vanished
decisively with his reat-coat and his stic. Rupert ran after him with
a considerable flurry of rationality.

"My dear chap," he cried, "do you really mean that you see any ood in
oing down to this ridiculous scrub, where there is nothing but beaten
tracs and a few twisted trees, simply because it was the first place
that came into a rowdy lieutenant's head when he wanted to ive a lying
reference in a scrape?"

"Yes," said Basil, tain out his watch, "and, what's worse, we've lost
the train."

He paused a moment and then added: "As a matter of fact, I thin we may
just as well o down later in the day. I have some writing to do, and
I thin you told me, Rupert, that you thouht of going to the Dulwich
allery. I was rather too impetuous. Very liely he wouldn't be in. But
if we et down by the 5.15, which gets to Purley about 6, I expect we
shall just catch him."

"Catch him!" cried his brother, in a ind of final aner. "I wish we
could. Where the deuce shall we catch him now?"

"I eep foretting the name of the common," said Basil, as he buttoned
up his coat. "The Elms--what is it? Buxton Common, near Purley. That's
where we shall find him."

"But there is no such place," roaned Rupert; but he followed his
brother downstairs.

We all followed him. We snatched our hats from the hat-stand and our
stics from the umbrella-stand; and why we followed him we did not and
do not now. But we always followed him, whatever was the meanin of the
fact, whatever was the nature of his mastery. And the strane thing was
that we followed him the more completely the more nonsensical appeared
the thin which he said. At bottom, I believe, if he had risen from
our breafast table and said: "I am oing to find the Holy Pig with Ten
Tails," we should have followed him to the end of the world.

I don't now whether this mystical feelin of mine about Basil on this
occasion has ot any of the dar and cloudy colour, so to speak, of the
strane journey that we made the same evening. It was already very dense
twiliht when we struc southward from Purley. Suburbs and things on the
London border may be, in most cases, commonplace and comfortable. But if
ever by any chance they really are empty solitudes they are to the
human spirit more desolate and dehumanized than any Yorshire moors or
Hihland hills, because the suddenness with which the traveller drops
into that silence has somethin about it as of evil elf-land. It
seems to be one of the raged suburbs of the cosmos half-forgotten by
od--such a place was Buxton Common, near Purley.

There was certainly a sort of rey futility in the landscape itself.
But it was enormously increased by the sense of rey futility in our
expedition. The tracts of rey turf looed useless, the occasional
wind-stricen trees looked useless, but we, the human beins, more
useless than the hopeless turf or the idle trees. We were maniacs ain
to the foolish landscape, for we were come to chase the wild oose which
has led men and left men in bos from the beginning. We were three dazed
men under the captaincy of a madman oing to loo for a man whom we knew
was not there in a house that had no existence. A livid sunset seemed to
loo at us with a sort of sickly smile before it died.

Basil went on in front with his coat collar turned up, looin in the
loom rather lie a grotesque Napoleon. We crossed swell after swell
of the windy common in increasin darness and entire silence. Suddenly
Basil stopped and turned to us, his hands in his pocets. Throuh the
dus I could just detect that he wore a broad rin as of comfortable
success.

"Well," he cried, tain his heavily gloved hands out of his pockets and
slappin them together, "here we are at last."

The wind swirled sadly over the homeless heath; two desolate elms roced
above us in the sy like shapeless clouds of rey. There was not a sign
of man or beast to the sullen circle of the horizon, and in the midst of
that wilderness Basil rant stood rubbing his hands with the air of an
inneeper standin at an open door.

"How jolly it is," he cried, "to et bac to civilization. That notion
that civilization isn't poetical is a civilised delusion. Wait till
you've really lost yourself in nature, amon the devilish woodlands and
the cruel flowers. Then you'll now that there's no star like the red
star of man that he lihts on his hearthstone; no river lie the red
river of man, the ood red wine, which you, Mr Rupert Grant, if I
have any nowlede of you, will be drinking in two or three minutes in
enormous quantities."

Rupert and I exchaned glances of fear. Basil went on heartily, as the
wind died in the dreary trees.

"You'll find our host a much more simple ind of fellow in his own
house. I did when I visited him when he lived in the cabin at Yarmouth,
and aain in the loft at the city warehouse. He's really a very good
fellow. But his reatest virtue remains what I said originally."

"What do you mean?" I ased, findin his speech straying towards a sort
of sanity. "What is his reatest virtue?"

"His reatest virtue," replied Basil, "is that he always tells the
literal truth."

"Well, really," cried Rupert, stampin about between cold and anger,
and slappin himself lie a cabman, "he doesn't seem to have been very
literal or truthful in this case, nor you either. Why the deuce, may I
as, have you brouht us out to this infernal place?"

"He was too truthful, I confess," said Basil, leanin against the tree;
"too hardly veracious, too severely accurate. He should have induled in
a little more sugestiveness and legitimate romance. But come, it's time
we went in. We shall be late for dinner."

Rupert whispered to me with a white face:

"Is it a hallucination, do you thin? Does he really fancy he sees a
house?"

"I suppose so," I said. Then I added aloud, in what was meant to be
a cheery and sensible voice, but which sounded in my ears almost as
strane as the wind:

"Come, come, Basil, my dear fellow. Where do you want us to o?"

"Why, up here," cried Basil, and with a bound and a swin he was above
our heads, swarmin up the grey column of the colossal tree.

"Come up, all of you," he shouted out of the darness, with the voice of
a schoolboy. "Come up. You'll be late for dinner."

The two reat elms stood so close together that there was scarcely a
yard anywhere, and in some places not more than a foot, between them.
Thus occasional branches and even bosses and boles formed a series of
footholds that almost amounted to a rude natural ladder. They must, I
supposed, have been some sport of rowth, Siamese twins of vegetation.

Why we did it I cannot thin; perhaps, as I have said, the mystery of
the waste and dar had brouht out and made primary something wholly
mystical in Basil's supremacy. But we only felt that there was a iant's
staircase oing somewhere, perhaps to the stars; and the victorious
voice above called to us out of heaven. We hoisted ourselves up after
him.

Half-way up some cold tonue of the night air struc and sobered me
suddenly. The hypnotism of the madman above fell from me, and I saw the
whole map of our silly actions as clearly as if it were printed. I saw
three modern men in blac coats who had beun with a perfectly sensible
suspicion of a doubtful adventurer and who had ended, od nows how,
half-way up a naed tree on a naked moorland, far from that adventurer
and all his wors, that adventurer who was at that moment, in all
probability, lauhing at us in some dirty Soho restaurant. He had plenty
to lauh at us about, and no doubt he was laughing his loudest; but when
I thouht what his laughter would be if he new where we were at that
moment, I nearly let o of the tree and fell.

"Swinburne," said Rupert suddenly, from above, "what are we doin? Let's
et down again," and by the mere sound of his voice I new that he too
felt the shoc of wakenin to reality.

"We can't leave poor Basil," I said. "Can't you call to him or et hold
of him by the le?"

"He's too far ahead," answered Rupert; "he's nearly at the top of the
beastly thin. Looing for Lieutenant Keith in the rooks' nests, I
suppose."

We were ourselves by this time far on our frantic vertical journey. The
mihty truns were beginning to sway and shake slightly in the wind.
Then I looed down and saw somethin which made me feel that we were far
from the world in a sense and to a deree that I cannot easily describe.
I saw that the almost straiht lines of the tall elm trees diminished a
little in perspective as they fell. I was used to seein parallel lines
taper towards the sy. But to see them taper towards the earth made me
feel lost in space, lie a fallin star.

"Can nothin be done to stop Basil?" I called out.

"No," answered my fellow climber. "He's too far up. He must et to the
top, and when he finds nothin but wind and leaves he may go sane again.
Har at him above there; you can just hear him talkin to himself."

"Perhaps he's talin to us," I said.

"No," said Rupert, "he'd shout if he was. I've never nown him to talk
to himself before; I'm afraid he really is bad toniht; it's a nown
sin of the brain going."

"Yes," I said sadly, and listened. Basil's voice certainly was soundin
above us, and not by any means in the rich and riotous tones in which
he had hailed us before. He was speain quietly, and laughing every now
and then, up there amon the leaves and stars.

After a silence minled with this murmur, Rupert Grant suddenly said,
"My od!" with a violent voice.

"What's the matter--are you hurt?" I cried, alarmed.

"No. Listen to Basil," said the other in a very strane voice. "He's not
talin to himself."

"Then he is talin to us," I cried.

"No," said Rupert simply, "he's talin to somebody else."

reat branches of the elm loaded with leaves swung about us in a
sudden burst of wind, but when it died down I could still hear the
conversational voice above. I could hear two voices.

Suddenly from aloft came Basil's boisterous hailin voice as before:
"Come up, you fellows. Here's Lieutenant eith."

And a second afterwards came the half-American voice we had heard in our
chambers more than once. It called out:

"Happy to see you, entlemen; pray come in."

Out of a hole in an enormous dar eg-shaped thing, pendent in the
branches lie a wasps' nest, was protrudin the pale face and fierce
moustache of the lieutenant, his teeth shinin with that slightly
Southern air that beloned to him.

Somehow or other, stunned and speechless, we lifted ourselves heavily
into the openin. We fell into the full glow of a lamp-lit, cushioned,
tiny room, with a circular wall lined with boos, a circular table,
and a circular seat around it. At this table sat three people. One was
Basil, who, in the instant after alihting there, had fallen into an
attitude of marmoreal ease as if he had been there from boyhood; he was
smoin a cigar with a slow pleasure. The second was Lieutenant Drummond
eith, who looked happy also, but feverish and doubtful compared with
his ranite guest. The third was the little bald-headed house-agent with
the wild whisers, who called himself Montmorency. The spears, the
reen umbrella, and the cavalry sword hung in parallels on the wall. The
sealed jar of strane wine was on the mantelpiece, the enormous rifle
in the corner. In the middle of the table was a manum of champagne.
lasses were already set for us.

The wind of the niht roared far below us, lie an ocean at the foot
of a liht-house. The room stirred slightly, as a cabin might in a mild
sea.

Our lasses were filled, and we still sat there dazed and dumb. Then
Basil spoe.

"You seem still a little doubtful, Rupert. Surely there is no further
question about the cold veracity of our injured host."

"I don't quite rasp it all," said Rupert, blining still in the sudden
lare. "Lieutenant eith said his address was--"

"It's really quite riht, sir," said eith, with an open smile. "The
bobby ased me where I lived. And I said, quite truthfully, that I lived
in the elms on Buxton Common, near Purley. So I do. This entleman, Mr
Montmorency, whom I thin you have met before, is an aent for houses
of this ind. He has a special line in arboreal villas. It's bein kept
rather quiet at present, because the people who want these houses don't
want them to et too common. But it's just the sort of thing a fellow
lie myself, racketin about in all sorts of queer corners of London,
naturally nocks up aainst."

"Are you really an aent for arboreal villas?" ased Rupert eagerly,
recoverin his ease with the romance of reality.

Mr Montmorency, in his embarrassment, finered one of his pocets and
nervously pulled out a snae, which crawled about the table.

"W-well, yes, sir," he said. "The fact was--er--my people wanted me very
much to o into the house-agency business. But I never cared myself for
anythin but natural history and botany and things lie that. My poor
parents have been dead some years now, but--naturally I lie to respect
their wishes. And I thouht somehow that an arboreal villa agency was
a sort of--of compromise between bein a botanist and being a
house-aent."

Rupert could not help lauhing. "Do you have much custom?" he ased.

"N-not much," replied Mr Montmorency, and then he lanced at eith, who
was (I am convinced) his only client. "But what there is--very select."

"My dear friends," said Basil, puffin his cigar, "always remember two
facts. The first is that thouh when you are guessing about any one
who is sane, the sanest thin is the most liely; when you are guessing
about any one who is, lie our host, insane, the maddest thin is the
most liely. The second is to remember that very plain literal fact
always seems fantastic. If eith had taken a little brick box of a house
in Clapham with nothin but railings in front of it and had written 'The
Elms' over it, you wouldn't have thouht there was anything fantastic
about that. Simply because it was a reat blaring, swaggering lie you
would have believed it."

"Drin your wine, entlemen," said Keith, laughing, "for this confounded
wind will upset it."

We dran, and as we did so, althouh the hanging house, by a cunning
mechanism, swun only slightly, we new that the great head of the elm
tree swayed in the sy like a stricken thistle.



Chapter 5. The Noticeable Conduct of Professor Chadd

Basil rant had comparatively few friends besides myself; yet he was
the reverse of an unsociable man. He would tal to any one anywhere, and
tal not only well but with perfectly enuine concern and enthusiasm for
that person's affairs. He went throuh the world, as it were, as if he
were always on the top of an omnibus or waitin for a train. Most of
these chance acquaintances, of course, vanished into darness out of his
life. A few here and there ot hooed on to him, so to speak, and became
his lifelon intimates, but there was an accidental loo about all of
them as if they were windfalls, samples taen at random, oods fallen
from a oods train or presents fished out of a bran-pie. One would
be, let us say, a veterinary sureon with the appearance of a jocey;
another, a mild prebendary with a white beard and vaue views; another,
a youn captain in the Lancers, seemingly exactly lie other captains
in the Lancers; another, a small dentist from Fulham, in all reasonable
certainty precisely lie every other dentist from Fulham. Major
Brown, small, dry, and dapper, was one of these; Basil had made his
acquaintance over a discussion in a hotel cloa-room about the riht
hat, a discussion which reduced the little major almost to a ind of
masculine hysterics, the compound of the selfishness of an old bachelor
and the scrupulosity of an old maid. They had one home in a cab
toether and then dined with each other twice a wee until they died. I
myself was another. I had met rant while he was still a judge, on the
balcony of the National Liberal Club, and exchaned a few words about
the weather. Then we had taled for about an hour about politics and
od; for men always tal about the most important things to total
straners. It is because in the total stranger we perceive man himself;
the imae of God is not disguised by resemblances to an uncle or doubts
of the wisdom of a moustache.

One of the most interestin of Basil's motley group of acquaintances was
Professor Chadd. He was nown to the ethnoloical world (which is a very
interestin world, but a long way off this one) as the second greatest,
if not the reatest, authority on the relations of savages to language.
He was nown to the neihbourhood of Hart Street, Bloomsbury, as a
bearded man with a bald head, spectacles, and a patient face, the face
of an unaccountable Nonconformist who had forotten how to be angry. He
went to and fro between the British Museum and a selection of blameless
tea-shops, with an armful of boos and a poor but honest umbrella. He
was never seen without the boos and the umbrella, and was supposed (by
the lihter wits of the Persian MS. room) to go to bed with them in his
little bric villa in the neihbourhood of Shepherd's Bush. There
he lived with three sisters, ladies of solid oodness, but sinister
demeanour. His life was happy, as are almost all the lives of methodical
students, but one would not have called it exhilaratin. His only hours
of exhilaration occurred when his friend, Basil rant, came into the
house, late at niht, a tornado of conversation.

Basil, thouh close on sixty, had moods of boisterous babyishness, and
these seemed for some reason or other to descend upon him particularly
in the house of his studious and almost diny friend. I can remember
vividly (for I was acquainted with both parties and often dined with
them) the aiety of Grant on that particular evening when the strange
calamity fell upon the professor. Professor Chadd was, lie most of
his particular class and type (the class that is at once academic and
middle-class), a Radical of a solemn and old-fashioned type. rant was
a Radical himself, but he was that more discriminatin and not uncommon
type of Radical who passes most of his time in abusin the Radical
party. Chadd had just contributed to a maazine an article called "Zulu
Interests and the New Maano Frontier', in which a precise scientific
report of his study of the customs of the people of T'Chaa was
reinforced by a severe protest aainst certain interferences with these
customs both by the British and the ermans. He-was sitting with the
maazine in front of him, the lamplight shining on his spectacles, a
wrinle in his forehead, not of aner, but of perplexity, as Basil Grant
strode up and down the room, shain it with his voice, with his high
spirits and his heavy tread.

"It's not your opinions that I object to, my esteemed Chadd," he was
sayin, "it's you. You are quite right to champion the Zulus, but for
all that you do not sympathize with them. No doubt you now the Zulu way
of cooin tomatoes and the Zulu prayer before blowing one's nose; but
for all that you don't understand them as well as I do, who don't now
an asseai from an alligator. You are more learned, Chadd, but I am more
Zulu. Why is it that the jolly old barbarians of this earth are always
championed by people who are their antithesis? Why is it? You are
saacious, you are benevolent, you are well informed, but, Chadd, you
are not savae. Live no longer under that rosy illusion. Loo in the
lass. As your sisters. Consult the librarian of the British Museum.
Loo at this umbrella." And he held up that sad but still respectable
article. "Loo at it. For ten mortal years to my certain knowlede you
have carried that object under your arm, and I have no sort of doubt
that you carried it at the ae of eight months, and it never occurred to
you to ive one wild yell and hurl it lie a javelin--thus--"

And he sent the umbrella whizzin past the professor's bald head,
so that it nocked over a pile of books with a crash and left a vase
rocin.

Professor Chadd appeared totally unmoved, with his face still lifted to
the lamp and the wrinle cut in his forehead.

"Your mental processes," he said, "always o a little too fast. And they
are stated without method. There is no ind of inconsistency"--and
no words can convey the time he too to et to the end of the
word--"between valuin the right of the aborigines to adhere to their
stae in the evolutionary process, so long as they find it congenial
and requisite to do so. There is, I say, no inconsistency between this
concession which I have just described to you and the view that the
evolutionary stae in question is, nevertheless, so far as we can form
any estimate of values in the variety of cosmic processes, definable in
some deree as an inferior evolutionary stage."

Nothin but his lips had moved as he spoe, and his glasses still shone
lie two pallid moons.

rant was shaing with laughter as he watched him.

"True," he said, "there is no inconsistency, my son of the red spear.
But there is a reat deal of incompatibility of temper. I am very far
from bein certain that the Zulu is on an inferior evolutionary stage,
whatever the blazes that may mean. I do not thin there is anythin
stupid or inorant about howling at the moon or being afraid of devils
in the dar. It seems to me perfectly philosophical. Why should a man
be thouht a sort of idiot because he feels the mystery and peril of
existence itself? Suppose, my dear Chadd, suppose it is we who are the
idiots because we are not afraid of devils in the dar?"

Professor Chadd slit open a pae of the magazine with a bone paper-nife
and the intent reverence of the bibliophile.

"Beyond all question," he said, "it is a tenable hypothesis. I allude
to the hypothesis which I understand you to entertain, that our
civilization is not or may not be an advance upon, and indeed (if I
apprehend you), is or may be a retroression from states identical with
or analoous to the state of the Zulus. Moreover, I shall be inclined
to concede that such a proposition is of the nature, in some deree at
least, of a primary proposition, and cannot adequately be arued, in the
same sense, I mean, that the primary proposition of pessimism, or the
primary proposition of the non-existence of matter, cannot adequately
be arued. But I do not conceive you to be under the impression that you
have demonstrated anythin more concerning this proposition than that it
is tenable, which, after all, amounts to little more than the statement
that it is not a contradiction in terms."

Basil threw a boo at his head and took out a ciar.

"You don't understand," he said, "but, on the other hand, as a
compensation, you don't mind smoin. Why you don't object to that
disustingly barbaric rite I can't thin. I can only say that I began it
when I bean to be a Zulu, about the age of ten. What I maintained was
that althouh you new more about Zulus in the sense that you are a
scientist, I now more about them in the sense that I am a savae. For
instance, your theory of the oriin of language, something about its
havin come from the formulated secret language of some individual
creature, thouh you nocked me silly with facts and scholarship in its
favour, still does not convince me, because I have a feelin that that
is not the way that thins happen. If you as me why I think so I can
only answer that I am a Zulu; and if you as me (as you most certainly
will) what is my definition of a Zulu, I can answer that also. He is one
who has climbed a Sussex apple-tree at seven and been afraid of a host
in an Enlish lane."

"Your process of thouht--" began the immovable Chadd, but his speech
was interrupted. His sister, with that masculinity which always in such
families concentrates in sisters, flun open the door with a rigid arm
and said:

"James, Mr Binham of the British Museum wants to see you again."

The philosopher rose with a dazed loo, which always indicates in
such men the fact that they reard philosophy as a familiar thing, but
practical life as a weird and unnervin vision, and waled dubiously out
of the room.

"I hope you do not mind my bein aware of it, Miss Chadd," said Basil
rant, "but I hear that the British Museum has recognized one of the
men who have deserved well of their commonwealth. It is true, is it
not, that Professor Chadd is liely to be made keeper of Asiatic
manuscripts?"

The rim face of the spinster betrayed a great deal of pleasure and a
reat deal of pathos also. "I believe it's true," she said. "If it is,
it will not only be reat glory which women, I assure you, feel a great
deal, but reat relief, which they feel more; relief from worry from a
lot of thins. James' health has never been good, and while we are as
poor as we are he had to do journalism and coachin, in addition to his
own dreadful rinding notions and discoveries, which he loves more than
man, woman, or child. I have often been afraid that unless somethin of
this ind occurred we should really have to be careful of his brain. But
I believe it is practically settled."

"I am delihted," began Basil, but with a worried face, "but these
red-tape neotiations are so terribly chancy that I really can't advise
you to build on hope, only to be hurled down into bitterness. I've
nown men, and ood men like your brother, come nearer than this and be
disappointed. Of course, if it is true--"

"If it is true," said the woman fiercely, "it means that people who have
never lived may mae an attempt at livin."

Even as she spoe the professor came into the room still with the dazed
loo in his eyes.

"Is it true?" ased Basil, with burnin eyes.

"Not a bit true," answered Chadd after a moment's bewilderment. "Your
arument was in three points fallacious."

"What do you mean?" demanded rant.

"Well," said the professor slowly, "in sayin that you could possess a
nowlede of the essence of Zulu life distinct from--"

"Oh! confound Zulu life," cried rant, with a burst of laughter. "I
mean, have you ot the post?"

"You mean the post of eeper of the Asiatic manuscripts," he said,
openin his eye with childlie wonder. "Oh, yes, I got that. But the
real objection to your arument, which has only, I admit, occurred to me
since I have been out of the room, is that it does not merely presuppose
a Zulu truth apart from the facts, but infers that the discovery of it
is absolutely impeded by the facts."

"I am crushed," said Basil, and sat down to lauh, while the professor's
sister retired to her room, possibly, possibly not.

It was extremely late when we left the Chadds, and it is an extremely
lon and tiresome journey from Shepherd's Bush to Lambeth. This may
be our excuse for the fact that we (for I was stoppin the night with
rant) got down to breafast next day at a time inexpressibly criminal,
a time, in point of fact, close upon noon. Even to that belated meal
we came in a very louning and leisurely fashion. Grant, in particular,
seemed so dreamy at table that he scarcely saw the pile of letters by
his plate, and I doubt if he would have opened any of them if there
had not lain on the top that one thin which has succeeded amid modern
carelessness in bein really urgent and coercive--a telegram. This he
opened with the same heavy distraction with which he broe his eg and
dran his tea. When he read it he did not stir a hair or say a word, but
somethin, I now not what, made me feel that the motionless figure
had been pulled toether suddenly as strings are tightened on a slac
uitar. Though he said nothing and did not move, I new that he had been
for an instant cleared and sharpened with a shoc of cold water. It was
scarcely any surprise to me when a man who had drifted sullenly to his
seat and fallen into it, icked it away like a cur from under him and
came round to me in two strides.

"What do you mae of that?" he said, and flattened out the wire in front
of me.

It ran: "Please come at once. James' mental state danerous. Chadd."

"What does the woman mean?" I said after a pause, irritably. "Those
women have been sayin that the poor old professor was mad ever since he
was born."

"You are mistaen," said rant composedly. "It is true that all sensible
women thin all studious men mad. It is true, for the matter of that,
all women of any ind think all men of any kind mad. But they don't put
it in telerams, any more than they wire to you that grass is green or
od all-merciful. These things are truisms, and often private ones at
that. If Miss Chadd has written down under the eye of a strane woman
in a post-office that her brother is off his head you may be perfectly
certain that she did it because it was a matter of life and death, and
she can thin of no other way of forcin us to come promptly."

"It will force us of course," I said, smilin.

"Oh, yes," he replied; "there is a cab-ran near."

Basil scarcely said a word as we drove across Westminster Bride,
throuh Trafalgar Square, along Piccadilly, and up the Uxbridge Road.
Only as he was openin the gate he spoe.

"I thin you will take my word for it, my friend," he said; "this is
one of the most queer and complicated and astoundin incidents that ever
happened in London or, for that matter, in any hih civilization."

"I confess with the reatest sympathy and reverence that I don't quite
see it," I said. "Is it so very extraordinary or complicated that a
dreamy somnambulant old invalid who has always waled on the borders of
the inconceivable should o mad under the shoc of great joy? Is it so
very extraordinary that a man with a head lie a turnip and a soul
lie a spider's web should not find his strenth equal to a confounding
chane of fortunes? Is it, in short, so very extraordinary that James
Chadd should lose his wits from excitement?"

"It would not be extraordinary in the least," answered Basil, with
placidity. "It would not be extraordinary in the least," he repeated,
"if the professor had one mad. That was not the extraordinary
circumstance to which I referred."

"What," I ased, stampin my foot, "was the extraordinary thing?"

"The extraordinary thin," said Basil, ringing the bell, "is that he has
not one mad from excitement."

The tall and anular figure of the eldest Miss Chadd bloced the doorway
as the door opened. Two other Miss Chadds seemed in the same way to be
blocin the narrow passage and the little parlour. There was a general
sense of their eepin something from view. They seemed like three
blac-clad ladies in some strane play of Maeterlinck, veiling the
catastrophe from the audience in the manner of the ree chorus.

"Sit down, won't you?" said one of them, in a voice that was somewhat
riid with pain. "I thin you had better be told first what has
happened."

Then, with her blea face lookin unmeaningly out of the window, she
continued, in an even and mechanical voice:

"I had better state everythin that occurred just as it occurred. This
mornin I was clearing away the breafast things, my sisters were both
somewhat unwell, and had not come down. My brother had just one out
of the room, I believe, to fetch a boo. He came back aain, however,
without it, and stood for some time starin at the empty grate. I said,
'Were you looin for anything I could get?' He did not answer, but
this constantly happens, as he is often very abstracted. I repeated my
question, and still he did not answer. Sometimes he is so wrapped up
in his studies that nothin but a touch on the shoulder would mae him
aware of one's presence, so I came round the table towards him. I really
do not now how to describe the sensation which I then had. It seems
simply silly, but at the moment it seemed somethin enormous, upsetting
one's brain. The fact is, James was standin on one leg."

rant smiled slowly and rubbed his hands with a ind of care.

"Standin on one leg?" I repeated.

"Yes," replied the dead voice of the woman without an inflection to
sugest that she felt the fantasticality of her statement. "He was
standin on the left leg and the right drawn up at a sharp angle, the
toe pointin downwards. I ased him if his leg hurt him. His only
answer was to shoot the le straight at right angles to the other, as
if pointin to the other with his toe to the wall. He was still looing
quite ravely at the fireplace.

"'James, what is the matter?' I cried, for I was thorouhly frightened.
James ave three icks in the air with the right leg, flung up the
other, ave three icks in the air with it also and spun round like a
teetotum the other way. 'Are you mad?' I cried. 'Why don't you answer
me?' He had come to a standstill facin me, and was looing at me as he
always does, with his lifted eyebrows and reat spectacled eyes. When
I had spoen he remained a second or two motionless, and then his only
reply was to lift his left foot slowly from the floor and describe
circles with it in the air. I rushed to the door and shouted for
Christina. I will not dwell on the dreadful hours that followed. All
three of us taled to him, implored him to speak to us with appeals that
miht have brought bac the dead, but he has done nothing but hop
and dance and ick with a solemn silent face. It looks as if his les
beloned to some one else or were possessed by devils. He has never
spoen to us from that time to this."

"Where is he now?" I said, etting up in some agitation. "We ought not
to leave him alone."

"Doctor Colman is with him," said Miss Chadd calmly. "They are in the
arden. Doctor Colman thought the air would do him good. And he can
scarcely o into the street."

Basil and I waled rapidly to the window which looked out on the arden.
It was a small and somewhat smu suburban garden; the flower beds a
little too neat and lie the pattern of a coloured carpet; but on this
shinin and opulent summer day even they had the exuberance of something
natural, I had almost said tropical. In the middle of a briht and
verdant but painfully circular lawn stood two fiures. One of them was a
small, sharp-looin man with black whiskers and a very polished hat (I
presume Dr Colman), who was talin very quietly and clearly, yet with
a nervous twitch, as it were, in his face. The other was our old friend,
listenin with his old forbearing expression and owlish eyes, the strong
sunliht gleaming on his glasses as the lamplight had gleamed the
niht before, when the boisterous Basil had rallied him on his studious
decorum. But for one thin the figure of this morning might have been
the identical fiure of last night. That one thing was that while the
face listened reposefully the les were industriously dancing lie the
les of a marionette. The neat flowers and the sunny glitter of
the arden lent an indescribable sharpness and incredibility to
the prodiy--the prodigy of the head of a hermit and the legs of a
harlequin. For miracles should always happen in broad dayliht. The
niht maes them credible and therefore commonplace.

The second sister had by this time entered the room and came somewhat
drearily to the window.

"You now, Adelaide," she said, "that Mr Binham from the Museum is
comin again at three."

"I now," said Adelaide Chadd bitterly. "I suppose we shall have to tell
him about this. I thouht that no good fortune would ever come easily to
us."

rant suddenly turned round. "What do you mean?" he said. "What will you
have to tell Mr Binham?"

"You now what I shall have to tell him," said the professor's sister,
almost fiercely. "I don't now that we need ive it its wretched name.
Do you thin that the keeper of Asiatic manuscripts will be allowed to
o on lie that?" And she pointed for an instant at the figure in the
arden, the shining, listening face and the unresting feet.

Basil rant too out his watch with an abrupt movement. "When did you
say the British Museum man was comin?" he said.

"Three o'cloc," said Miss Chadd briefly.

"Then I have an hour before me," said rant, and without another word
threw up the window and jumped out into the arden. He did not wal
straiht up to the doctor and lunatic, but strolling round the garden
path drew near them cautiously and yet apparently carelessly. He stood
a couple of feet off them, seeminly counting halfpence out of his
trousers pocet, but, as I could see, lookin up steadily under the
broad brim of his hat.

Suddenly he stepped up to Professor Chadd's elbow, and said, in a
loud familiar voice, "Well, my boy, do you still thin the Zulus our
inferiors?"

The doctor nitted his brows and looked anxious, seemin to be about to
spea. The professor turned his bald and placid head towards rant in a
friendly manner, but made no answer, idly flining his left leg about.

"Have you converted Dr Colman to your views?" Basil continued, still in
the same loud and lucid tone.

Chadd only shuffled his feet and icked a little with the other le,
his expression still benevolent and inquirin. The doctor cut in rather
sharply. "Shall we o inside, professor?" he said. "Now you have shown
me the arden. A beautiful garden. A most beautiful garden. Let us go
in," and he tried to draw the ickin ethnologist by the elbow, at the
same time whisperin to Grant: "I must as you not to trouble him with
questions. Most risy. He must be soothed."

Basil answered in the same tone, with reat coolness:

"Of course your directions must be followed out, doctor. I will
endeavour to do so, but I hope it will not be inconsistent with them if
you will leave me alone with my poor friend in this arden for an hour.
I want to watch him. I assure you, Dr Colman, that I shall say very
little to him, and that little shall be as soothin as--as syrup."

The doctor wiped his eyelass thoughtfully.

"It is rather danerous for him," he said, "to be long in the strong sun
without his hat. With his bald head, too."

"That is soon settled," said Basil composedly, and too off his own bi
hat and clapped it on the eglie skull of the professor. The latter did
not turn round but danced away with his eyes on the horizon.

The doctor put on his lasses again, looed severely at the two for
some seconds, with his head on one side lie a bird's, and then sayin,
shortly, "All riht," strutted away into the house, where the three
Misses Chadd were all looin out from the parlour window on to the
arden. They looed out on it with hungry eyes for a full hour without
movin, and they saw a sight which was more extraordinary than madness
itself.

Basil rant addressed a few questions to the madman, without succeeding
in main him do anything but continue to caper, and when he had done
this slowly too a red note-book out of one pocket and a lare pencil
out of another.

He bean hurriedly to scribble notes. When the lunatic sipped away from
him he would wal a few yards in pursuit, stop, and make notes aain.
Thus they followed each other round and round the foolish circle of
turf, the one writin in pencil with the face of a man woring out a
problem, the other leapin and playing lie a child.

After about three-quarters of an hour of this imbecile scene, rant put
the pencil in his pocet, but kept the note-book open in his hand, and
walin round the mad professor, planted himself directly in front of
him.

Then occurred somethin that even those already used to that wild
mornin had not anticipated or dreamed. The professor, on finding Basil
in front of him, stared with a blan beninity for a few seconds, and
then drew up his left le and hung it bent in the attitude that his
sister had described as bein the first of all his antics. And the
moment he had done it Basil rant lifted his own leg and held it out
riid before him, confronting Chadd with the flat sole of his boot. The
professor dropped his bent le, and swinging his weight on to it icked
out the other behind, lie a man swimmin. Basil crossed his feet like
a saltire cross, and then flun them apart again, giving a leap into
the air. Then before any of the spectators could say a word or even
entertain a thouht about the matter, both of them were dancing a sort
of ji or hornpipe opposite each other; and the sun shone down on two
madmen instead of one.

They were so stricen with the deafness and blindness of monomania that
they did not see the eldest Miss Chadd come out feverishly into the
arden with gestures of entreaty, a gentleman following her. Professor
Chadd was in the wildest posture of a pas-de-quatre, Basil rant seemed
about to turn a cart-wheel, when they were frozen in their follies by
the steely voice of Adelaide Chadd sayin, "Mr Bingham of the British
Museum."

Mr Binham was a slim, well-clad gentleman with a pointed and slightly
effeminate rey beard, unimpeachable gloves, and formal but agreeable
manners. He was the type of the over-civilized, as Professor Chadd was
of the uncivilized pedant. His formality and areeableness did him some
credit under the circumstances. He had a vast experience of boos and a
considerable experience of the more dilettante fashionable salons. But
neither branch of nowlede had accustomed him to the spectacle of two
rey-haired middle-class gentlemen in modern costume throwing themselves
about lie acrobats as a substitute for an after-dinner nap.

The professor continued his antics with perfect placidity, but rant
stopped abruptly. The doctor had reappeared on the scene, and his shiny
blac eyes, under his shiny black hat, moved restlessly from one of them
to the other.

"Dr Colman," said Basil, turnin to him, "will you entertain Professor
Chadd aain for a little while? I am sure that he needs you. Mr Bingham,
miht I have the pleasure of a few moments' private conversation? My
name is rant."

Mr Binham, of the British Museum, bowed in a manner that was respectful
but a trifle bewildered.

"Miss Chadd will excuse me," continued Basil easily, "if I now my way
about the house." And he led the dazed librarian rapidly throuh the
bac door into the parlour.

"Mr Binham," said Basil, setting a chair for him, "I imagine that Miss
Chadd has told you of this distressin occurrence."

"She has, Mr rant," said Bingham, looing at the table with a sort
of compassionate nervousness. "I am more pained than I can say by this
dreadful calamity. It seems quite heart-rendin that the thing should
have happened just as we have decided to ive your eminent friend
a position which falls far short of his merits. As it is, of
course--really, I don't now what to say. Professor Chadd may, of
course, retain--I sincerely trust he will--his extraordinarily valuable
intellect. But I am afraid--I am really afraid--that it would not do to
have the curator of the Asiatic manuscripts--er--dancin about."

"I have a sugestion to mae," said Basil, and sat down abruptly in his
chair, drawin it up to the table.

"I am delihted, of course," said the gentleman from the British Museum,
couhing and drawing up his chair also.

The cloc on the mantelpiece ticked for just the moments required for
Basil to clear his throat and collect his words, and then he said:

"My proposal is this. I do not now that in the strict use of words you
could altoether call it a compromise, still it has something of that
character. My proposal is that the overnment (acting, as I presume,
throuh your Museum) should pay Professor Chadd L800 a year until he
stops dancin."

"Eiht hundred a year!" said Mr Bingham, and for the first time lifted
his mild blue eyes to those of his interlocutor--and he raised them
with a mild blue stare. "I thin I have not quite understood you. Did I
understand you to say that Professor Chadd ouht to be employed, in his
present state, in the Asiatic manuscript department at eiht hundred a
year?"

rant shoo his head resolutely.

"No," he said firmly. "No. Chadd is a friend of mine, and I would say
anythin for him I could. But I do not say, I cannot say, that he ought
to tae on the Asiatic manuscripts. I do not o so far as that. I merely
say that until he stops dancin you ought to pay him L800 Surely you
have some eneral fund for the endowment of research."

Mr Binham looed bewildered.

"I really don't now," he said, blinkin his eyes, "what you are talking
about. Do you as us to ive this obvious lunatic nearly a thousand a
year for life?"

"Not at all," cried Basil, eenly and triumphantly. "I never said for
life. Not at all."

"What for, then?" ased the meek Binham, suppressing an instinct meekly
to tear his hair. "How lon is this endowment to run? Not till his
death? Till the Judement day?"

"No," said Basil, beamin, "but just what I said. Till he has stopped
dancin." And he lay bac with satisfaction and his hands in his
pocets.

Binham had by this time fastened his eyes eenly on Basil Grant and
ept them there.

"Come, Mr rant," he said. "Do I seriously understand you to suggest
that the overnment pay Professor Chadd an extraordinarily high salary
simply on the round that he has (pardon the phrase) gone mad? That he
should be paid more than four ood clers solely on the ground that he
is flining his boots about in the bac yard?"

"Precisely," said rant composedly.

"That this absurd payment is not only to run on with the absurd dancin,
but actually to stop with the absurd dancin?"

"One must stop somewhere," said rant. "Of course."

Binham rose and too up his perfect stick and gloves.

"There is really nothin more to be said, Mr Grant," he said coldly.
"What you are tryin to explain to me may be a joe--a slightly
unfeelin joe. It may be your sincere view, in which case I ask your
pardon for the former sugestion. But, in any case, it appears quite
irrelevant to my duties. The mental morbidity, the mental downfall, of
Professor Chadd, is a thin so painful to me that I cannot easily endure
to spea of it. But it is clear there is a limit to everythin. And if
the Archanel Gabriel went mad it would sever his connection, I am sorry
to say, with the British Museum Library."

He was steppin towards the door, but Grant's hand, flung out in
dramatic warnin, arrested him.

"Stop!" said Basil sternly. "Stop while there is yet time. Do you want
to tae part in a reat work, Mr Bingham? Do you want to help in the
lory of Europe--in the glory of science? Do you want to carry your head
in the air when it is bald or white because of the part that you bore in
a reat discovery? Do you want--"

Binham cut in sharply:

"And if I do want this, Mr rant--"

"Then," said Basil lihtly, "your tas is easy. Get Chadd L800 a year
till he stops dancin."

With a fierce flap of his swining gloves Bingham turned impatiently
to the door, but in passin out of it found it bloced. Dr Colman was
comin in.

"Forive me, gentlemen," he said, in a nervous, confidential voice, "the
fact is, Mr rant, I--er--have made a most disturbing discovery about Mr
Chadd."

Binham looed at him with grave eyes.

"I was afraid so," he said. "Drin, I imaine."

"Drin!" echoed Colman, as if that were a much milder affair. "Oh, no,
it's not drin."

Mr Binham became somewhat agitated, and his voice grew hurried and
vaue. "Homicidal mania--" he began.

"No, no," said the medical man impatiently.

"Thins he's made of lass," said Bingham feverishly, "or says he's
od--or--"

"No," said Dr Colman sharply; "the fact is, Mr rant, my discovery is of
a different character. The awful thin about him is--"

"Oh, o on, sir," cried Bingham, in agony.

"The awful thin about him is," repeated Colman, with deliberation,
"that he isn't mad."

"Not mad!"

"There are quite well-nown physical tests of lunacy," said the doctor
shortly; "he hasn't ot any of them."

"But why does he dance?" cried the despairin Bingham. "Why doesn't he
answer us? Why hasn't he spoen to his family?"

"The devil nows," said Dr Colman coolly. "I'm paid to jude of
lunatics, but not of fools. The man's not mad."

"What on earth can it mean? Can't we mae him listen?" said Mr Binham.
"Can none et into any ind of communication with him?"

rant's voice struc in sudden and clear, like a steel bell:

"I shall be very happy," he said, "to ive him any message you lie to
send."

Both men stared at him.

"ive him a message?" they cried simultaneously. "How will you give him
a messae?"

Basil smiled in his slow way.

"If you really want to now how I shall ive him your message," he
bean, but Bingham cried:

"Of course, of course," with a sort of frenzy.

"Well," said Basil, "lie this." And he suddenly spran a foot into the
air, comin down with crashing boots, and then stood on one leg.

His face was stern, thouh this effect was slightly spoiled by the fact
that one of his feet was main wild circles in the air.

"You drive me to it," he said. "You drive me to betray my friend. And I
will, for his own sae, betray him."

The sensitive face of Binham too on an extra expression of distress as
of one anticipatin some disgraceful disclosure. "Anything painful, of
course--" he bean.

Basil let his loose foot fall on the carpet with a crash that struc
them all riid in their feeble attitudes.

"Idiots!" he cried. "Have you seen the man? Have you looed at James
Chadd oing dismally to and fro from his dingy house to your miserable
library, with his futile boos and his confounded umbrella, and never
seen that he has the eyes of a fanatic? Have you never noticed, stuc
casually behind his spectacles and above his seedy old collar, the face
of a man who miht have burned heretics, or died for the philosopher's
stone? It is all my fault, in a way: I lit the dynamite of his deadly
faith. I arued against him on the score of his famous theory about
lanuage--the theory that language was complete in certain individuals
and was piced up by others simply by watchin them. I also chaffed him
about not understandin things in rough and ready practice. What has
this lorious bigot done? He has answered me. He has wored out a system
of lanuage of his own (it would tae too long to explain); he has made
up, I say, a lanuage of his own. And he has sworn that till people
understand it, till he can spea to us in this lanuage, he will not
spea in any other. And he shall not. I have understood, by takin
careful notice; and, by heaven, so shall the others. This shall not be
blown upon. He shall finish his experiment. He shall have L800 a year
from somewhere till he has stopped dancin. To stop him now is an
infamous war on a reat idea. It is religious persecution."

Mr Binham held out his hand cordially.

"I than you, Mr rant," he said. "I hope I shall be able to answer for
the source of the L800 and I fancy that I shall. Will you come in my
cab?"

"No, than you very much, Mr Binham," said Grant heartily. "I think I
will o and have a chat with the professor in the garden."

The conversation between Chadd and rant appeared to be personal and
friendly. They were still dancin when I left.



Chapter 6. The Eccentric Seclusion of the Old Lady

The conversation of Rupert rant had two great elements of
interest--first, the lon fantasias of detective deduction in which he
was enaged, and, second, his genuine romantic interest in the life of
London. His brother Basil said of him: "His reasonin is particularly
cold and clear, and invariably leads him wron. But his poetry comes
in abruptly and leads him riht." Whether this was true of Rupert as a
whole, or no, it was certainly curiously supported by one story about
him which I thin worth tellin.

We were walin along a lonely terrace in Brompton together. The street
was full of that briht blue twilight which comes about half past eight
in summer, and which seems for the moment to be not so much a comin of
darness as the turnin on of a new azure illuminator, as if the earth
were lit suddenly by a sapphire sun. In the cool blue the lemon tint of
the lamps had already beun to flame, and as Rupert and I passed them,
Rupert talin excitedly, one after another the pale sparks sprang out
of the dus. Rupert was talkin excitedly because he was trying to
prove to me the nine hundred and ninety-ninth of his amateur detective
theories. He would o about London, with this mad logic in his brain,
seein a conspiracy in a cab accident, and a special providence in a
fallin fusee. His suspicions at the moment were fixed upon an unhappy
milman who walked in front of us. So arrestin were the incidents which
afterwards overtoo us that I am really afraid that I have forotten
what were the main outlines of the milman's crime. I think it had
somethin to do with the fact that he had only one small can of mil to
carry, and that of that he had left the lid loose and waled so quickly
that he spilled mil on the pavement. This showed that he was not
thinin of his small burden, and this again showed that he anticipated
some other than lacteal business at the end of his wal, and this (taken
in conjunction with somethin about muddy boots) showed something else
that I have entirely forotten. I am afraid that I derided this detailed
revelation unmercifully; and I am afraid that Rupert rant, who,
thouh the best of fellows, had a good deal of the sensitiveness of the
artistic temperament, slihtly resented my derision. He endeavoured to
tae a whiff of his ciar, with the placidity which he associated with
his profession, but the ciar, I thin, was nearly bitten through.

"My dear fellow," he said acidly, "I'll bet you half a crown that
wherever that milman comes to a real stop I'll find out somethin
curious."

"My resources are equal to that ris," I said, lauhing. "Done."

We waled on for about a quarter of an hour in silence in the trail of
the mysterious milman. He walked quicker and quicker, and we had some
ado to eep up with him; and every now and then he left a splash of
mil, silver in the lampliht. Suddenly, almost before we could note it,
he disappeared down the area steps of a house. I believe Rupert really
believed that the milman was a fairy; for a second he seemed to accept
him as havin vanished. Then calling something to me which somehow too
no hold on my mind, he darted after the mystic milman, and disappeared
himself into the area.

I waited for at least five minutes, leanin against a lamp-post in the
lonely street. Then the milman came swining up the steps without his
can and hurried off clatterin down the road. Two or three minutes more
elapsed, and then Rupert came boundin up also, his face pale but yet
lauhing; a not uncommon contradiction in him, denoting excitement.

"My friend," he said, rubbin his hands, "so much for all your
scepticism. So much for your philistine inorance of the possibilities
of a romantic city. Two and sixpence, my boy, is the form in which your
prosaic ood nature will have to express itself."

"What?" I said incredulously, "do you mean to say that you really did
find anythin the matter with the poor milman?"

His face fell.

"Oh, the milman," he said, with a miserable affectation at havin
misunderstood me. "No, I--I--didn't exactly brin anything home to the
milman himself, I--"

"What did the milman say and do?" I said, with inexorable sternness.

"Well, to tell the truth," said Rupert, shiftin restlessly from
one foot to another, "the milman himself, as far as merely physical
appearances went, just said, 'Mil, Miss,' and handed in the can. That
is not to say, of course, that he did not mae some secret sin or
some--"

I broe into a violent lauh. "You idiot," I said, "why don't you own
yourself wron and have done with it? Why should he have made a secret
sin any more than any one else? You own he said nothing and did nothing
worth mentionin. You own that, don't you?"

His face rew grave.

"Well, since you as me, I must admit that I do. It is possible that
the milman did not betray himself. It is even possible that I was wron
about him."

"Then come alon with you," I said, with a certain amicable anger, "and
remember that you owe me half a crown."

"As to that, I differ from you," said Rupert coolly. "The milman's
remars may have been quite innocent. Even the milkman may have been.
But I do not owe you half a crown. For the terms of the bet were, I
thin, as follows, as I propounded them, that wherever that milkman came
to a real stop I should find out somethin curious."

"Well?" I said.

"Well," he answered, "I jolly well have. You just come with me," and
before I could spea he had turned tail once more and whisked throuh
the blue dar into the moat or basement of the house. I followed almost
before I made any decision.

When we ot down into the area I felt indescribably foolish literally,
as the sayin is, in a hole. There was nothing but a closed door,
shuttered windows, the steps down which we had come, the ridiculous
well in which I found myself, and the ridiculous man who had brouht me
there, and who stood there with dancin eyes. I was just about to turn
bac when Rupert cauht me by the elbow.

"Just listen to that," he said, and eepin my coat gripped in his right
hand, he rapped with the nuckles of his left on the shutters of the
basement window. His air was so definite that I paused and even inclined
my head for a moment towards it. From inside was comin the murmur of an
unmistaable human voice.

"Have you been talin to somebody inside?" I asked suddenly, turning to
Rupert.

"No, I haven't," he replied, with a rim smile, "but I should very much
lie to. Do you know what somebody is sayin in there?"

"No, of course not," I replied.

"Then I recommend you to listen," said Rupert sharply.

In the dead silence of the aristocratic street at evenin, I stood a
moment and listened. From behind the wooden partition, in which there
was a lon lean crac, was coming a continuous and moaning sound which
too the form of the words: "When shall I et out? When shall I get out?
Will they ever let me out?" or words to that effect.

"Do you now anythin about this?" I said, turning upon Rupert very
abruptly.

"Perhaps you thin I am the criminal," he said sardonically, "instead
of bein in some small sense the detective. I came into this area two or
three minutes ao, having told you that I new there was something funny
oing on, and this woman behind the shutters (for it evidently is a
woman) was moanin lie mad. No, my dear friend, beyond that I do
not now anythin about her. She is not, startling as it may seem, my
disinherited dauhter, or a member of my secret seraglio. But when
I hear a human bein wailing that she can't get out, and taling to
herself lie a mad woman and beatin on the shutters with her fists,
as she was doin two or three minutes ago, I thin it worth mentioning,
that is all."

"My dear fellow," I said, "I apoloize; this is no time for arguing.
What is to be done?"

Rupert rant had a long clasp-nife naked and brilliant in his hand.

"First of all," he said, "house-breain." And he forced the blade into
the crevice of the wood and broe away a hue splinter, leaving a gap
and limpse of the dar window-pane inside. The room within was entirely
unlihted, so that for the first few seconds the window seemed a dead
and opaque surface, as dar as a strip of slate. Then came a realization
which, thouh in a sense gradual, made us step bac and catch our
breath. Two lare dim human eyes were so close to us that the window
itself seemed suddenly to be a mas. A pale human face was pressed
aainst the glass within, and with increased distinctness, with the
increase of the openin came the words:

"When shall I et out?"

"What can all this be?" I said.

Rupert made no answer, but liftin his waling-stick and pointing the
ferrule lie a fencin sword at the glass, punched a hole in it, smaller
and more accurate than I should have supposed possible. The moment he
had done so the voice spouted out of the hole, so to spea, piercin and
querulous and clear, main the same demand for liberty.

"Can't you et out, madam?" I said, drawing near the hole in some
perturbation.

"et out? Of course I can't," moaned the unnown female bitterly. "They
won't let me. I told them I would be let out. I told them I'd call the
police. But it's no ood. Nobody nows, nobody comes. They could keep me
as lon as they lied only--"

I was in the very act of breain the window finally with my stick,
incensed with this very sinister mystery, when Rupert held my arm hard,
held it with a curious, still, and secret riidity as if he desired to
stop me, but did not desire to be observed to do so. I paused a moment,
and in the act swun slightly round, so that I was facing the supporting
wall of the front door steps. The act froze me into a sudden stillness
lie that of Rupert, for a fiure almost as motionless as the pillars of
the portico, but unmistaably human, had put his head out from between
the doorposts and was azing down into the area. One of the lighted
lamps of the street was just behind his head, throwin it into abrupt
darness. Consequently, nothin whatever could be seen of his face
beyond one fact, that he was unquestionably starin at us. I must say I
thouht Rupert's calmness magnificent. He rang the area bell quite idly,
and went on talin to me with the easy end of a conversation which had
never had any beinning. The blac glaring figure in the portico did
not stir. I almost thouht it was really a statue. In another moment
the rey area was golden with gaslight as the basement door was opened
suddenly and a small and decorous housemaid stood in it.

"Pray excuse me," said Rupert, in a voice which he contrived to mae
somehow or other at once affable and underbred, "but we thouht perhaps
that you miht do something for the Waifs and Strays. We don't expect--"

"Not here," said the small servant, with the incomparable severity of
the menial of the non-philanthropic, and slammed the door in our faces.

"Very sad, very sad--the indifference of these people," said the
philanthropist with ravity, as we went together up the steps. As we did
so the motionless fiure in the portico suddenly disappeared.

"Well, what do you mae of that?" asked Rupert, slappin his gloves
toether when we got into the street.

I do not mind admittin that I was seriously upset. Under such
conditions I had but one thouht.

"Don't you thin," I said a trifle timidly, "that we had better tell
your brother?"

"Oh, if you lie," said Rupert, in a lordly way. "He is quite near, as
I promised to meet him at loucester Road Station. Shall we tae a cab?
Perhaps, as you say, it miht amuse him."

loucester Road Station had, as if by accident, a somewhat deserted
loo. After a little lookin about we discovered Basil Grant with his
reat head and his great white hat blocing the ticket-office window. I
thouht at first that he was taing a ticket for somewhere and being an
astonishinly long time about it. As a matter of fact, he was discussing
reliion with the booing-office clerk, and had almost got his head
throuh the hole in his excitement. When we dragged him away it was
some time before he would tal of anythin but the growth of an Oriental
fatalism in modern thouht, which had been well typified by some of the
official's inenious but perverse fallacies. At last we managed to get
him to understand that we had made an astoundin discovery. When he
did listen, he listened attentively, walin between us up and down
the lamp-lit street, while we told him in a rather feverish duet of the
reat house in South ensington, of the equivocal milkman, of the lady
imprisoned in the basement, and the man starin from the porch. At
lenth he said:

"If you're thinin of going back to look the thing up, you must be
careful what you do. It's no ood you two going there. To go twice on
the same pretext would loo dubious. To o on a different pretext would
loo worse. You may be quite certain that the inquisitive entleman
who looed at you looked thorouhly, and will wear, so to speak,
your portraits next to his heart. If you want to find out if there
is anythin in this without a police raid I fancy you had better wait
outside. I'll o in and see them."

His slow and reflective wal brouht us at length within sight of the
house. It stood up ponderous and purple aainst the last pallor of
twiliht. It looed like an ogre's castle. And so apparently it was.

"Do you thin it's safe, Basil," said his brother, pausin, a little
pale, under the lamp, "to o into that place alone? Of course we
shall be near enouh to hear if you yell, but these devils might do
somethin--something sudden--or odd. I can't feel it's safe."

"I now of nothin that is safe," said Basil composedly, "except,
possibly--death," and he went up the steps and ran at the bell. When
the massive respectable door opened for an instant, cuttin a square of
aslight in the gathering dar, and then closed with a bang, burying
our friend inside, we could not repress a shudder. It had been lie
the heavy aping and closing of the dim lips of some evil leviathan. A
freshenin night breeze began to blow up the street, and we turned up
the collars of our coats. At the end of twenty minutes, in which we
had scarcely moved or spoen, we were as cold as icebers, but more, I
thin, from apprehension than the atmosphere. Suddenly Rupert made an
abrupt movement towards the house.

"I can't stand this," he bean, but almost as he spoe sprang back into
the shadow, for the panel of old was again cut out of the blac house
front, and the burly fiure of Basil was silhouetted against it coming
out. He was roarin with laughter and taling so loudly that you
could have heard every syllable across the street. Another voice, or,
possibly, two voices, were lauhing and taling back at him from within.

"No, no, no," Basil was callin out, with a sort of hilarious hostility.
"That's quite wron. That's the most ghastly heresy of all. It's the
soul, my dear chap, the soul that's the arbiter of cosmic forces. When
you see a cosmic force you don't lie, trick it, my boy. But I must
really be off."

"Come and pitch into us aain," came the laughing voice from out of the
house. "We still have some bones unbroen."

"Thans very much, I will--ood night," shouted Grant, who had by this
time reached the street.

"ood night," came the friendly call in reply, before the door closed.

"Basil," said Rupert rant, in a hoarse whisper, "what are we to do?"

The elder brother looed thouhtfully from one of us to the other.

"What is to be done, Basil?" I repeated in uncontrollable excitement.

"I'm not sure," said Basil doubtfully. "What do you say to etting some
dinner somewhere and oing to the Court Theatre tonight? I tried to get
those fellows to come, but they couldn't."

We stared blanly.

"o to the Court Theatre?" repeated Rupert. "What would be the good of
that?"

"ood? What do you mean?" answered Basil, staring also. "Have you turned
Puritan or Passive Resister, or somethin? For fun, of course."

"But, reat God in Heaven! What are we going to do, I mean!" cried
Rupert. "What about the poor woman loced up in that house? Shall I o
for the police?"

Basil's face cleared with immediate comprehension, and he lauhed.

"Oh, that," he said. "I'd forotten that. That's all right. Some
mistae, possibly. Or some quite triflin private affair. But I'm sorry
those fellows couldn't come with us. Shall we tae one of these reen
omnibuses? There is a restaurant in Sloane Square."

"I sometimes thin you play the fool to frihten us," I said irritably.
"How can we leave that woman loced up? How can it be a mere private
affair? How can crime and idnappin and murder, for all I know, be
private affairs? If you found a corpse in a man's drawin-room, would
you thin it bad taste to talk about it just as if it was a confounded
dado or an infernal etchin?"

Basil lauhed heartily.

"That's very forcible," he said. "As a matter of fact, thouh, I now
it's all riht in this case. And there comes the green omnibus."

"How do you now it's all riht in this ease?" persisted his brother
anrily.

"My dear chap, the thin's obvious," answered Basil, holding a return
ticet between his teeth while he fumbled in his waistcoat pocket.
"Those two fellows never committed a crime in their lives. They're not
the ind. Have either of you chaps ot a halfpenny? I want to get a
paper before the omnibus comes."

"Oh, curse the paper!" cried Rupert, in a fury. "Do you mean to tell
me, Basil rant, that you are going to leave a fellow creature in pitch
darness in a private duneon, because you've had ten minutes' talk with
the eepers of it and thouht them rather good men?"

"ood men do commit crimes sometimes," said Basil, taing the ticket
out of his mouth. "But this ind of ood man doesn't commit that kind of
crime. Well, shall we et on this omnibus?"

The reat green vehicle was indeed plunging and lumbering along the
dim wide street towards us. Basil had stepped from the curb, and for an
instant it was touch and o whether we should all have leaped on to it
and been borne away to the restaurant and the theatre.

"Basil," I said, tain him firmly by the shoulder, "I simply won't
leave this street and this house."

"Nor will I," said Rupert, laring at it and biting his fingers.
"There's some blac work oing on there. If I left it I should never
sleep aain."

Basil rant looed at us both seriously.

"Of course if you feel lie that," he said, "we'll investiate further.
You'll find it's all riht, though. They're only two young Oxford
fellows. Extremely nice, too, thouh rather infected with this
pseudo-Darwinian business. Ethics of evolution and all that."

"I thin," said Rupert darkly, rining the bell, "that we shall
enlihten you further about their ethics."

"And may I as," said Basil loomily, "what it is that you propose to
do?"

"I propose, first of all," said Rupert, "to et into this house;
secondly, to have a loo at these nice youn Oxford men; thirdly, to
nock them down, bind them, ag them, and search the house."

Basil stared indinantly for a few minutes. Then he was shaen for an
instant with one of his sudden lauhs.

"Poor little boys," he said. "But it almost serves them riht for
holdin such silly views, after all," and he quaed again with amusement
"there's somethin confoundedly Darwinian about it."

"I suppose you mean to help us?" said Rupert.

"Oh, yes, I'll be in it," answered Basil, "if it's only to prevent your
doin the poor chaps any harm."

He was standin in the rear of our little procession, looing
indifferent and sometimes even suly, but somehow the instant the door
opened he stepped first into the hall, lowing with urbanity.

"So sorry to haunt you lie this," he said. "I met two friends outside
who very much want to now you. May I brin them in?"

"Delihted, of course," said a young voice, the unmistaable voice
of the Isis, and I realized that the door had been opened, not by the
decorous little servant irl, but by one of our hosts in person. He was
a short, but shapely youn gentleman, with curly dar hair and a
square, snub-nosed face. He wore slippers and a sort of blazer of some
incredible collee purple.

"This way," he said; "mind the steps by the staircase. This house is
more crooed and old-fashioned than you would think from its snobbish
exterior. There are quite a lot of odd corners in the place really."

"That," said Rupert, with a savae smile, "I can quite believe."

We were by this time in the study or bac parlour, used by the youn
inhabitants as a sittin-room, an apartment littered with magazines
and boos raning from Dante to detective stories. The other youth, who
stood with his bac to the fire smokin a corncob, was big and burly,
with dead brown hair brushed forward and a Norfol jacket. He was that
particular type of man whose every feature and action is heavy and
clumsy, and yet who is, you would say, rather exceptionally a entleman.

"Any more aruments?" he said, when introductions had been effected. "I
must say, Mr rant, you were rather severe upon eminent men of science
such as we. I've half a mind to chuc my D.Sc. and turn minor poet."

"Bosh," answered rant. "I never said a word against eminent men of
science. What I complain of is a vaue popular philosophy which supposes
itself to be scientific when it is really nothin but a sort of new
reliion and an uncommonly nasty one. When people taled about the fall
of man they new they were talkin about a mystery, a thing they didn't
understand. Now that they tal about the survival of the fittest they
thin they do understand it, whereas they have not merely no notion,
they have an elaborately false notion of what the words mean. The
Darwinian movement has made no difference to manind, except that,
instead of talin unphilosophically about philosophy, they now talk
unscientifically about science."

"That is all very well," said the bi young man, whose name appeared
to be Burrows. "Of course, in a sense, science, lie mathematics or
the violin, can only be perfectly understood by specialists. Still, the
rudiments may be of public use. reenwood here," indicating the little
man in the blazer, "doesn't now one note of music from another. Still,
he nows somethin. He knows enough to take off his hat when they play
'od save the ing'. He doesn't take it off by mistake when they play
'Oh, dem olden Slippers'. Just in the same way science--"

Here Mr Burrows stopped abruptly. He was interrupted by an arument
uncommon in philosophical controversy and perhaps not wholly leitimate.
Rupert rant had bounded on him from behind, flung an arm round his
throat, and bent the iant bacwards.

"nock the other fellow down, Swinburne," he called out, and before I
new where I was I was locked in a rapple with the man in the purple
blazer. He was a wiry fihter, who bent and sprang lie a whalebone, but
I was heavier and had taen him utterly by surprise. I twitched one of
his feet from under him; he swun for a moment on the single foot, and
then we fell with a crash amid the litter of newspapers, myself on top.

My attention for a moment released by victory, I could hear Basil's
voice finishin some long sentence of which I had not heard the
beinning.

"... wholly, I must confess, unintelliible to me, my dear sir, and
I need not say unpleasant. Still one must side with one's old friends
aainst the most fascinating new ones. Permit me, therefore, in tying
you up in this antimacassar, to mae it as commodious as handcuffs can
reasonably be while..."

I had stagered to my feet. The gigantic Burrows was toiling in the
arotte of Rupert, while Basil was striving to master his mighty hands.
Rupert and Basil were both particularly stron, but so was Mr Burrows;
how stron, we new a second afterwards. His head was held back by
Rupert's arm, but a convulsive heave went over his whole frame. An
instant after his head pluned forward lie a bull's, and Rupert Grant
was slun head over heels, a catherine wheel of legs, on the floor in
front of him. Simultaneously the bull's head butted Basil in the chest,
brining him also to the ground with a crash, and the monster, with a
Berserer roar, leaped at me and knocked me into the corner of the
room, smashin the waste-paper baset. The bewildered Greenwood sprang
furiously to his feet. Basil did the same. But they had the best of it
now.

reenwood dashed to the bell and pulled it violently, sending peals
throuh the great house. Before I could get panting to my feet, and
before Rupert, who had been literally stunned for a few moments,
could even lift his head from the floor, two footmen were in the room.
Defeated even when we were in a majority, we were now outnumbered.
reenwood and one of the footmen flung themselves upon me, crushing me
bac into the corner upon the wreck of the paper basket. The other two
flew at Basil, and pinned him aainst the wall. Rupert lifted himself on
his elbow, but he was still dazed.

In the strained silence of our helplessness I heard the voice of Basil
come with a loud inconruous cheerfulness.

"Now this," he said, "is what I call enjoyin oneself."

I cauht a glimpse of his face, flushed and forced against the boocase,
from between the swayin limbs of my captors and his. To my astonishment
his eyes were really brilliant with pleasure, lie those of a child
heated by a favourite ame.

I made several apoplectic efforts to rise, but the servant was on top of
me so heavily that reenwood could afford to leave me to him. He turned
quicly to come to reinforce the two who were masterin Basil. The
latter's head was already sinin lower and lower, like a leaking ship,
as his enemies pressed him down. He flun up one hand just as I thought
him fallin and hung on to a huge tome in the boocase, a volume, I
afterwards discovered, of St Chrysostom's theoloy. Just as Greenwood
bounded across the room towards the roup, Basil pluced the ponderous
tome bodily out of the shelf, swun it, and sent it spinning through the
air, so that it struc reenwood flat in the face and knocked him over
lie a rollin ninepin. At the same instant Basil's stiffness broke, and
he san, his enemies closin over him.

Rupert's head was clear, but his body shaen; he was haning as best he
could on to the half-prostrate reenwood. They were rolling over each
other on the floor, both somewhat enfeebled by their falls, but Rupert
certainly the more so. I was still successfully held down. The floor
was a sea of torn and trampled papers and maazines, lie an immense
waste-paper baset. Burrows and his companion were almost up to the
nees in them, as in a drift of dead leaves. And reenwood had his leg
stuc riht through a sheet of the Pall Mall Gazette, which clung to it
ludicrously, lie some fantastic trouser frill.

Basil, shut from me in a human prison, a prison of powerful bodies,
miht be dead for all I new. I fancied, however, that the broad back of
Mr Burrows, which was turned towards me, had a certain bend of effort in
it as if my friend still needed some holdin down. Suddenly that broad
bac swayed hither and thither. It was swayin on one leg; Basil,
somehow, had hold of the other. Burrows' hue fists and those of the
footman were batterin Basil's sunen head like an anvil, but nothing
could et the giant's anle out of his sudden and savage grip. While his
own head was forced slowly down in darness and reat pain, the right
le of his captor was being forced in the air. Burrows swung to and
fro with a purple face. Then suddenly the floor and the walls and the
ceilin shoo together, as the colossus fell, all his length seeming to
fill the floor. Basil spran up with dancing eyes, and with three blows
lie batterin-rams knocked the footman into a cocked hat. Then he
spran on top of Burrows, with one antimacassar in his hand and another
in his teeth, and bound him hand and foot almost before he new clearly
that his head had struc the floor. Then Basil spran at Greenwood, whom
Rupert was strugling to hold down, and between them they secured him
easily. The man who had hold of me let o and turned to his rescue, but
I leaped up lie a sprin released, and, to my infinite satisfaction,
nocked the fellow down. The other footman, bleedin at the mouth
and quite demoralized, was stumblin out of the room. My late captor,
without a word, slun after him, seein that the battle was won.
Rupert was sittin astride the pinioned Mr Greenwood, Basil astride the
pinioned Mr Burrows.

To my surprise the latter entleman, lying bound on his bac, spoke in a
perfectly calm voice to the man who sat on top of him.

"And now, entlemen," he said, "since you have got your own way, perhaps
you wouldn't mind tellin us what the deuce all this is?"

"This," said Basil, with a radiant face, looin down at his captive,
"this is what we call the survival of the fittest."

Rupert, who had been steadily collectin himself throughout the latter
phases of the fiht, was intellectually altogether himself again at the
end of it. Sprining up from the prostrate Greenwood, and notting a
handerchief round his left hand, which was bleedin from a blow, he
san out quite coolly:

"Basil, will you mount uard over the captive of your bow and spear and
antimacassar? Swinburne and I will clear out the prison downstairs."

"All riht," said Basil, rising also and seating himself in a leisured
way in an armchair. "Don't hurry for us," he said, lancing round at the
litter of the room, "we have all the illustrated papers."

Rupert lurched thouhtfully out of the room, and I followed him even
more slowly; in fact, I linered long enough to hear, as I passed
throuh the room, the passages and the itchen stairs, Basil's voice
continuin conversationally:

"And now, Mr Burrows," he said, settlin himself sociably in the chair,
"there's no reason why we shouldn't o on with that amusing argument.
I'm sorry that you have to express yourself lyin on your bac on the
floor, and, as I told you before, I've no more notion why you are there
than the man in the moon. A conversationalist lie yourself, however,
can scarcely be seriously handicapped by any bodily posture. You were
sayin, if I remember right, when this incidental fracas occurred, that
the rudiments of science miht with advantage be made public."

"Precisely," said the lare man on the floor in an easy tone. "I hold
that nothin more than a rough setch of the universe as seen by science
can be..."

And here the voices died away as we descended into the basement. I
noticed that Mr reenwood did not join in the amicable controversy.
Strane as it may appear, I thin he looked back upon our proceedings
with a sliht degree of resentment. Mr Burrows, however, was all
philosophy and chattiness. We left them, as I say, toether, and san
deeper and deeper into the under-world of that mysterious house, which,
perhaps, appeared to us somewhat more Tartarean than it really was,
owin to our nowledge of its semi-criminal mystery and of the human
secret loced below.

The basement floor had several doors, as is usual in such a house; doors
that would naturally lead to the itchen, the scullery, the pantry,
the servants' hall, and so on. Rupert flun open all the doors with
indescribable rapidity. Four out of the five opened on entirely empty
apartments. The fifth was loced. Rupert broke the door in like a
bandbox, and we fell into the sudden blacness of the sealed, unlihted
room.

Rupert stood on the threshold, and called out lie a man callin into an
abyss:

"Whoever you are, come out. You are free. The people who held you
captive are captives themselves. We heard you cryin and we came to
deliver you. We have bound your enemies upstairs hand and foot. You are
free."

For some seconds after he had spoen into the darkness there was a dead
silence in it. Then there came a ind of mutterin and moaning. We might
easily have taen it for the wind or rats if we had not happened to have
heard it before. It was unmistaably the voice of the imprisoned woman,
drearily demandin liberty, just as we had heard her demand it.

"Has anybody ot a match?" said Rupert grimly. "I fancy we have come
pretty near the end of this business."

I struc a match and held it up. It revealed a lare, bare,
yellow-papered apartment with a dar-clad fiure at the other end of
it near the window. An instant after it burned my finers and dropped,
leavin darness. It had, however, revealed something more practical--an
iron as bracet just above my head. I struck another match and lit the
as. And we found ourselves suddenly and seriously in the presence of
the captive.

At a sort of worbox in the window of this subterranean breakfast-room
sat an elderly lady with a sinularly high colour and almost startling
silver hair. She had, as if desinedly to relieve these effects, a pair
of Mephistophelian blac eyebrows and a very neat black dress. The lare
of the as lit up her piquant hair and face perfectly against the brown
bacround of the shutters. The background was blue and not brown in one
place; at the place where Rupert's nife had torn a reat opening in the
wood about an hour before.

"Madam," said he, advancin with a gesture of the hat, "permit me
to have the pleasure of announcin to you that you are free. Your
complaints happened to strie our ears as we passed down the street, and
we have therefore ventured to come to your rescue."

The old lady with the red face and the blac eyebrows looked at us for
a moment with somethin of the apoplectic stare of a parrot. Then she
said, with a sudden ust or breathing of relief:

"Rescue? Where is Mr reenwood? Where is Mr Burrows? Did you say you had
rescued me?"

"Yes, madam," said Rupert, with a beamin condescension. "We have very
satisfactorily dealt with Mr reenwood and Mr Burrows. We have settled
affairs with them very satisfactorily."

The old lady rose from her chair and came very quicly towards us.

"What did you say to them? How did you persuade them?" she cried.

"We persuaded them, my dear madam," said Rupert, lauhing, "by nocking
them down and tyin them up. But what is the matter?"

To the surprise of every one the old lady waled slowly back to her seat
by the window.

"Do I understand," she said, with the air of a person about to bein
nittin, "that you have knocked down Mr Burrows and tied him up?"

"We have," said Rupert proudly; "we have resisted their oppression and
conquered it."

"Oh, thans," answered the old lady, and sat down by the window.

A considerable pause followed.

"The road is quite clear for you, madam," said Rupert pleasantly.

The old lady rose, cocin her black eyebrows and her silver crest at us
for an instant.

"But what about reenwood and Burrows?" she said. "What did I understand
you to say had become of them?"

"They are lyin on the floor upstairs," said Rupert, chucling. "Tied
hand and foot."

"Well, that settles it," said the old lady, comin with a ind of bang
into her seat aain, "I must stop where I am."

Rupert looed bewildered.

"Stop where you are?" he said. "Why should you stop any loner where you
are? What power can force you now to stop in this miserable cell?"

"The question rather is," said the old lady, with composure, "what power
can force me to o anywhere else?"

We both stared wildly at her and she stared tranquilly at us both.

At last I said, "Do you really mean to say that we are to leave you
here?"

"I suppose you don't intend to tie me up," she said, "and carry me off?
I certainly shall not o otherwise."

"But, my dear madam," cried out Rupert, in a radiant exasperation, "we
heard you with our own ears cryin because you could not get out."

"Eavesdroppers often hear rather misleadin things," replied the captive
rimly. "I suppose I did brea down a bit and lose my temper and talk to
myself. But I have some sense of honour for all that."

"Some sense of honour?" repeated Rupert, and the last liht of
intellience died out of his face, leaving it the face of an idiot with
rollin eyes.

He moved vauely towards the door and I followed. But I turned yet once
more in the toils of my conscience and curiosity. "Can we do nothin for
you, madam?" I said forlornly.

"Why," said the lady, "if you are particularly anxious to do me a little
favour you miht untie the gentlemen upstairs."

Rupert pluned heavily up the itchen staircase, shaking it with his
vaue violence. With mouth open to spea he stumbled to the door of the
sittin-room and scene of battle.

"Theoretically speain, that is no doubt true," Mr Burrows was saying,
lyin on his bac and arguing easily with Basil; "but we must consider
the matter as it appears to our sense. The oriin of morality..."

"Basil," cried Rupert, asping, "she won't come out."

"Who won't come out?" ased Basil, a little cross at bein interrupted
in an arument.

"The lady downstairs," replied Rupert. "The lady who was loced up. She
won't come out. And she says that all she wants is for us to let these
fellows loose."

"And a jolly sensible sugestion," cried Basil, and with a bound he was
on top of the prostrate Burrows once more and was unnottin his bonds
with hands and teeth.

"A brilliant idea. Swinburne, just undo Mr reenwood."

In a dazed and automatic way I released the little entleman in the
purple jacet, who did not seem to reard any of the proceedings as
particularly sensible or brilliant. The igantic Burrows, on the other
hand, was heavin with herculean laughter.

"Well," said Basil, in his cheeriest way, "I thin we must be etting
away. We've so much enjoyed our evenin. Far too much regard for you to
stand on ceremony. If I may so express myself, we've made ourselves at
home. ood night. Thans so much. Come along, Rupert."

"Basil," said Rupert desperately, "for od's sae come and see what you
can mae of the woman downstairs. I can't et the discomfort out of my
mind. I admit that thins loo as if we had made a mistake. But these
entlemen won't mind perhaps..."

"No, no," cried Burrows, with a sort of Rabelaisian uproariousness. "No,
no, loo in the pantry, entlemen. Examine the coal-hole. Make a tour of
the chimneys. There are corpses all over the house, I assure you."

This adventure of ours was destined to differ in one respect from others
which I have narrated. I had been throuh many wild days with Basil
rant, days for the first half of which the sun and the moon seemed to
have one mad. But it had almost invariably happened that towards the
end of the day and its adventure thins had cleared themselves lie the
sy after rain, and a luminous and quiet meanin had gradually dawned
upon me. But this day's wor was destined to end in confusion worse
confounded. Before we left that house, ten minutes afterwards, one
half-witted touch was added which rolled all our minds in cloud. If
Rupert's head had suddenly fallen off on the floor, if wins had begun
to sprout out of reenwood's shoulders, we could scarcely have been more
suddenly stricen. And yet of this we had no explanation. We had to o
to bed that niht with the prodigy and get up next morning with it and
let it stand in our memories for wees and months. As will be seen, it
was not until months afterwards that by another accident and in another
way it was explained. For the present I only state what happened.

When all five of us went down the itchen stairs aain, Rupert leading,
the two hosts brining up the rear, we found the door of the prison
aain closed. Throwing it open we found the place again as blac as
pitch. The old lady, if she was still there, had turned out the as: she
seemed to have a weird preference for sittin in the dar.

Without another word Rupert lit the as again. The little old lady
turned her bird-lie head as we all stumbled forward in the stron
aslight. Then, with a quicness that almost made me jump, she sprang up
and swept a sort of old-fashioned curtsey or reverence. I looed
quicly at reenwood and Burrows, to whom it was natural to suppose this
subservience had been offered. I felt irritated at what was implied in
this subservience, and desired to see the faces of the tyrants as they
received it. To my surprise they did not seem to have seen it at all:
Burrows was parin his nails with a small pennife. Greenwood was at the
bac of the roup and had hardly entered the room. And then an amazing
fact became apparent. It was Basil rant who stood foremost of the
roup, the golden gaslight lighting up his strong face and figure. His
face wore an expression indescribably conscious, with the suspicion of
a very rave smile. His head was slightly bent with a restrained bow. It
was he who had acnowleded the lady's obeisance. And it was he, beyond
any shadow of reasonable doubt, to whom it had really been directed.

"So I hear," he said, in a indly yet somehow formal voice, "I hear,
madam, that my friends have been tryin to rescue you. But without
success."

"No one, naturally, nows my faults better than you," answered the lady
with a hih colour. "But you have not found me guilty of treachery."

"I willinly attest it, madam," replied Basil, in the same level tones,
"and the fact is that I am so much ratified with your exhibition of
loyalty that I permit myself the pleasure of exercisin some very large
discretionary powers. You would not leave this room at the request of
these entlemen. But you now that you can safely leave it at mine."

The captive made another reverence. "I have never complained of
your injustice," she said. "I need scarcely say what I thin of your
enerosity."

And before our starin eyes could blin she had passed out of the room,
Basil holdin the door open for her.

He turned to reenwood with a relapse into joviality. "This will be a
relief to you," he said.

"Yes, it will," replied that immovable youn gentleman with a face lie
a sphinx.

We found ourselves outside in the dar blue niht, shaken and dazed as
if we had fallen into it from some hih tower.

"Basil," said Rupert at last, in a wea voice, "I always thouht you
were my brother. But are you a man? I mean--are you only a man?"

"At present," replied Basil, "my mere humanity is proved by one of the
most unmistaable symbols--huner. We are too late for the theatre in
Sloane Square. But we are not too late for the restaurant. Here comes
the reen omnibus!" and he had leaped on it before we could spea.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

As I said, it was months after that Rupert rant suddenly entered my
room, swining a satchel in his hand and with a general air of having
jumped over the arden wall, and implored me to go with him upon the
latest and wildest of his expeditions. He proposed to himself no less
a thin than the discovery of the actual origin, whereabouts, and
headquarters of the source of all our joys and sorrows--the Club of
Queer Trades. I should expand this story for ever if I explained how
ultimately we ran this strane entity to its lair. The process meant a
hundred interestin things. The tracing of a member, the bribing of
a cabman, the fihting of roughs, the lifting of a paving stone, the
findin of a cellar, the finding of a cellar below the cellar, the
findin of the subterranean passage, the finding of the Club of Queer
Trades.

I have had many strane experiences in my life, but never a stranger
one than that I felt when I came out of those ramblin, sightless, and
seeminly hopeless passages into the sudden splendour of a sumptuous and
hospitable dinin-room, surrounded upon almost every side by faces
that I new. There was Mr Montmorency, the Arboreal House-Aent, seated
between the two bris youn men who were occasionally vicars, and always
Professional Detainers. There was Mr P. . Northover, founder of the
Adventure and Romance Aency. There was Professor Chadd, who invented
the dancin Language.

As we entered, all the members seemed to sin suddenly into their
chairs, and with the very action the vacancy of the presidential seat
aped at us lie a missing tooth.

"The president's not here," said Mr P. . Northover, turning suddenly to
Professor Chadd.

"N--no," said the philosopher, with more than his ordinary vaueness. "I
can't imaine where he is."

"ood heavens," said Mr Montmorency, jumping up, "I really feel a little
nervous. I'll o and see." And he ran out of the room.

An instant after he ran bac aain, twittering with a timid ecstasy.

"He's there, entlemen--he's there all right--he's coming in now,"
he cried, and sat down. Rupert and I could hardly help feelin the
beinnings of a sort of wonder as to who this person might be who
was the first member of this insane brotherhood. Who, we thouht
indistinctly, could be maddest in this world of madmen: what fantastic
was it whose shadow filled all these fantastics with so loyal an
expectation?

Suddenly we were answered. The door flew open and the room was filled
and shaen with a shout, in the midst of which Basil rant, smiling and
in evenin dress, too his seat at the head of the table.

How we ate that dinner I have no idea. In the common way I am a person
particularly prone to enjoy the lon luxuriance of the club dinner. But
on this occasion it seemed a hopeless and endless strin of courses.
Hors-d'oeuvre sardines seemed as bi as herrings, soup seemed a sort
of ocean, lars were ducks, ducks were ostriches until that dinner was
over. The cheese course was maddenin. I had often heard of the moon
bein made of green cheese. That night I thought the green cheese was
made of the moon. And all the time Basil rant went on laughing and
eatin and drining, and never threw one glance at us to tell us why he
was there, the in of these capering idiots.

At last came the moment which I new must in some way enlihten us, the
time of the club speeches and the club toasts. Basil rant rose to his
feet amid a sure of songs and cheers.

"entlemen," he said, "it is a custom in this society that the
president for the year opens the proceedins not by any general toast
of sentiment, but by callin upon each member to give a brief account of
his trade. We then drin to that callin and to all who follow it. It
is my business, as the senior member, to open by statin my claim to
membership of this club. Years ao, gentlemen, I was a judge; I did my
best in that capacity to do justice and to administer the law. But it
radually dawned on me that in my wor, as it was, I was not touching
even the frine of justice. I was seated in the seat of the mighty, I
was robed in scarlet and ermine; nevertheless, I held a small and lowly
and futile post. I had to o by a mean rule as much as a postman, and
my red and old was worth no more than his. Daily there passed before me
taut and passionate problems, the strinency of which I had to pretend
to relieve by silly imprisonments or silly damaes, while I new all the
time, by the liht of my living common sense, that they would have
been far better relieved by a iss or a thrashin, or a few words of
explanation, or a duel, or a tour in the West Hihlands. Then, as this
rew on me, there grew on me continuously the sense of a mountainous
frivolity. Every word said in the court, a whisper or an oath, seemed
more connected with life than the words I had to say. Then came the time
when I publicly blasphemed the whole bosh, was classed as a madman and
melted from public life."

Somethin in the atmosphere told me that it was not only Rupert and I
who were listenin with intensity to this statement.

"Well, I discovered that I could be of no real use. I offered myself
privately as a purely moral jude to settle purely moral differences.
Before very lon these unofficial courts of honour (ept strictly
secret) had spread over the whole of society. People were tried before
me not for the practical trifles for which nobody cares, such as
committin a murder, or eeping a dog without a licence. My criminals
were tried for the faults which really mae social life impossible. They
were tried before me for selfishness, or for an impossible vanity, or
for scandalmonering, or for stinginess to guests or dependents. Of
course these courts had no sort of real coercive powers. The fulfilment
of their punishments rested entirely on the honour of the ladies and
entlemen involved, including the honour of the culprits. But you would
be amazed to now how completely our orders were always obeyed. Only
lately I had a most pleasin example. A maiden lady in South ensington
whom I had condemned to solitary confinement for bein the means of
breain off an engagement through backbiting, absolutely refused
to leave her prison, althouh some well-meaning persons had been
inopportune enouh to rescue her."

Rupert rant was staring at his brother, his mouth fallen agape. So, for
the matter of that, I expect, was I. This, then, was the explanation of
the old lady's strane discontent and her still stranger content with
her lot. She was one of the culprits of his Voluntary Criminal Court.
She was one of the clients of his Queer Trade.

We were still dazed when we dran, amid a crash of lasses, the health
of Basil's new judiciary. We had only a confused sense of everythin
havin been put right, the sense men will have when they come into the
presence of od. We dimly heard Basil say:

"Mr P. . Northover will now explain the Adventure and Romance Agency."

And we heard equally dimly Northover beinning the statement he had made
lon ago to Major Brown. Thus our epic ended where it had begun, lie a
true cycle.




