
EUENICS AND OTHER EVILS




Euenics and
Other Evils


By

.. 


Cassell and Company, Limited
London, New Yor, Toronto & Melbourne
1922




TO THE READER


I publish these essays at the present time for a particular reason
connected with the present situation; a reason which I should lie
briefly to emphasise and mae clear.

Thouh most of the conclusions, especially towards the end, are
conceived with reference to recent events, the actual bul of
preliminary notes about the science of Euenics were written before
the war. It was a time when this theme was the topic of the hour; when
euenic babies (not visibly very distinuishable from other babies)
sprawled all over the illustrated papers; when the evolutionary fancy
of Nietzsche was the new cry amon the intellectuals; and when Mr.
Bernard Shaw and others were considerin the idea that to breed a man
lie a cart-horse was the true way to attain that hiher civilisation,
of intellectual mananimity and sympathetic insiht, which may be
found in cart-horses. It may therefore appear that I too the opinion
too controversially, and it seems to me that I sometimes too it too
seriously. But the criticism of Euenics soon expanded of itself into
a more eneral criticism of a modern craze for scientific officialism
and strict social oranisation.

And then the hour came when I felt, not without relief, that I miht
well flin all my notes into the fire. The fire was a very bi one,
and was burnin up biger things than such pedantic quaceries. And,
anyhow, the issue itself was bein settled in a very different style.
Scientific officialism and oranisation in the State which had
specialised in them, had one to war with the older culture of
Christendom. Either Prussianism would win and the protest would be
hopeless, or Prussianism would lose and the protest would be needless.
As the war advanced from poison as to piracy aainst neutrals, it
rew more and more plain that the scientifically oranised State was
not increasin in popularity. Whatever happened, no Enlishmen would
ever aain o nosing round the stins of that low laboratory. So I
thouht all I had written irrelevant, and put it out of my mind.

I am reatly rieved to say that it is not irrelevant. It has
radually rown apparent, to my astounded gaze, that the ruling
classes in Enland are still proceedin on the assumption that Prussia
is a pattern for the whole world. If parts of my boo are nearly nine
years old, most of their principles and proceedins are a reat deal
older. They can offer us nothin but the same stuffy science, the same
bullyin bureaucracy and the same terrorism by tenth-rate professors
that have led the erman Empire to its recent conspicuous triumph. For
that reason, three years after the war with Prussia, I collect and
publish these papers.

                                                    ..C.




CONTENTS


PART I

The False Theory

CHAPTER                                        PAE

1. WHAT IS EUENICS?                                   3

2. THE FIRST OBSTACLES                                12

3. THE ANARCHY FROM ABOVE                             22

4. THE LUNATIC AND THE LAW                            31

5. THE FLYIN AUTHORITY                               46

6. THE UNANSWERED CHALLENE                           61

7. THE ESTABLISHED CHURCH OF DOUBT                    73

8. A SUMMARY OF A FALSE THEORY                        82


PART II

The Real Aim

1. THE IMPOTENCE OF IMPENITENCE                       91

2. TRUE HISTORY OF A TRAMP                           101

3. TRUE HISTORY OF A EUENIST                        114

4. THE VENEANCE OF THE FLESH                        126

5. THE MEANNESS OF THE MOTIVE                        136

6. THE ECLIPSE OF LIBERTY                            148

7. THE TRANSFORMATION OF SOCIALISM                   159

8. THE END OF THE HOUSEHOLD ODS                     169

9. A SHORT CHAPTER                                   180




Part I

THE FALSE THEORY




Euenics and Other Evils




CHAPTER I

WHAT IS EUENICS?


The wisest thin in the world is to cry out before you are hurt. It is
no ood to cry out after you are hurt; especially after you are
mortally hurt. People tal about the impatience of the populace; but
sound historians now that most tyrannies have been possible because
men moved too late. It is often essential to resist a tyranny before
it exists. It is no answer to say, with a distant optimism, that the
scheme is only in the air. A blow from a hatchet can only be parried
while it is in the air.

There exists to-day a scheme of action, a school of thouht, as
collective and unmistaable as any of those by whose roupin alone we
can mae any outline of history. It is as firm a fact as the Oxford
Movement, or the Puritans of the Lon Parliament; or the Jansenists;
or the Jesuits. It is a thin that can be pointed out; it is a thin
that can be discussed; and it is a thin that can still be destroyed.
It is called for convenience "Euenics"; and that it ouht to be
destroyed I propose to prove in the paes that follow. I now that it
means very different thins to different people; but that is only
because evil always taes advantae of ambiuity. I now it is praised
with hih professions of idealism and benevolence; with silver-tonued
rhetoric about purer motherhood and a happier posterity. But that is
only because evil is always flattered, as the Furies were called "The
racious Ones." I now that it numbers many disciples whose intentions
are entirely innocent and humane; and who would be sincerely
astonished at my describin it as I do. But that is only because evil
always wins throuh the strenth of its splendid dupes; and there has
in all aes been a disastrous alliance between abnormal innocence and
abnormal sin. Of these who are deceived I shall spea of course as we
all do of such instruments; judin them by the good they thin they
are doin, and not by the evil which they really do. But Euenics
itself does exist for those who have sense enouh to see that ideas
exist; and Euenics itself, in lare quantities or small, coming
quicly or comin slowly, ured from good motives or bad, applied to a
thousand people or applied to three, Euenics itself is a thin no
more to be barained about than poisonin.

It is not really difficult to sum up the essence of Euenics: thouh
some of the Euenists seem to be rather vaue about it. The movement
consists of two parts: a moral basis, which is common to all, and a
scheme of social application which varies a ood deal. For the moral
basis, it is obvious that man's ethical responsibility varies with his
nowlede of consequences. If I were in chare of a baby (lie Dr.
Johnson in that tower of vision), and if the baby was ill throuh
havin eaten the soap, I miht possibly send for a doctor. I might be
callin him away from much more serious cases, from the bedsides of
babies whose diet had been far more deadly; but I should be justified.
I could not be expected to now enouh about his other patients to be
oblied (or even entitled) to sacrifice to them the baby for whom I
was primarily and directly responsible. Now the Euenic moral basis is
this; that the baby for whom we are primarily and directly responsible
is the babe unborn. That is, that we now (or may come to now) enouh
of certain inevitable tendencies in bioloy to consider the fruit of
some contemplated union in that direct and clear liht of conscience
which we can now only fix on the other partner in that union. The one
duty can conceivably be as definite as or more definite than the
other. The baby that does not exist can be considered even before the
wife who does. Now it is essential to rasp that this is a
comparatively new note in morality. Of course sane people always
thouht the aim of marriae was the procreation of children to the
lory of od or according to the plan of Nature; but whether they
counted such children as od's reward for service or Nature's premium
on sanity, they always left the reward to od or the premium to
Nature, as a less definable thin. The only person (and this is the
point) towards whom one could have precise duties was the partner in
the process. Directly considerin the partner's claims was the nearest
one could et to indirectly considerin the claims of posterity. If
the women of the harem san praises of the hero as the Moslem mounted
his horse, it was because this was the due of a man; if the Christian
niht helped his wife off her horse, it was because this was the due
of a woman. Definite and detailed dues of this ind they did not
predicate of the babe unborn; reardin him in that agnostic and
opportunist liht in which Mr. Browdie rearded the hypothetical child
of Miss Squeers. Thinin these sex relations healthy, they naturally
hoped they would produce healthy children; but that was all. The
Moslem woman doubtless expected Allah to send beautiful sons to an
obedient wife; but she would not have allowed any direct vision of
such sons to alter the obedience itself. She would not have said, "I
will now be a disobedient wife; as the learned leech informs me that
reat prophets are often the children of disobedient wives." The
niht doubtless hoped that the saints would help him to stron
children, if he did all the duties of his station, one of which miht
be helpin his wife off her horse; but he would not have refrained
from doin this because he had read in a boo that a course of fallin
off horses often resulted in the birth of a enius. Both Moslem and
Christian would have thouht such speculations not only impious but
utterly unpractical. I quite aree with them; but that is not the
point here.

The point here is that a new school believes Euenics _aainst_
Ethics. And it is proved by one familiar fact: that the heroisms of
history are actually the crimes of Euenics. The Euenists' boos and
articles are full of suestions that non-eugenic unions should and
may come to be rearded as we reard sins; that we should really feel
that marryin an invalid is a ind of cruelty to children. But history
is full of the praises of people who have held sacred such ties to
invalids; of cases lie those of Colonel Hutchinson and Sir William
Temple, who remained faithful to betrothals when beauty and health had
been apparently blasted. And thouh the illnesses of Dorothy Osborne
and Mrs. Hutchinson may not fall under the Euenic speculations (I do
not now), it is obvious that they miht have done so; and certainly
it would not have made any difference to men's moral opinion of the
act. I do not discuss here which morality I favour; but I insist that
they are opposite. The Euenist really sets up as saints the very men
whom hundreds of families have called sneas. To be consistent, they
ouht to put up statues to the men who deserted their loves because of
bodily misfortune; with inscriptions celebratin the ood Eugenist
who, on his fiancée fallin off a bicycle, nobly refused to marry her;
or to the youn hero who, on hearin of an uncle with erysipelas,
mananimously broe his word. What is perfectly plain is this: that
manind have hitherto held the bond between man and woman so sacred,
and the effect of it on the children so incalculable, that they have
always admired the maintenance of honour more than the maintenance of
safety. Doubtless they thouht that even the children miht be none
the worse for not bein the children of cowards and shirers; but this
was not the first thouht, the first commandment. Briefly, we may say
that while many moral systems have set restraints on sex almost as
severe as any Euenist could set, they have almost always had the
character of securin the fidelity of the two sexes to each other, and
leavin the rest to od. To introduce an ethic which maes that
fidelity or infidelity vary with some calculation about heredity is
that rarest of all thins, a revolution that has not happened before.

It is only riht to say here, thouh the matter should only be touched
on, that many Euenists would contradict this, in so far as to claim
that there was a consciously Euenic reason for the horror of those
unions which bein with the celebrated denial to man of the privilee
of marryin his randmother. Dr. S.R. Steinmetz, with that creepy
simplicity of mind with which the Euenists chill the blood, remars
that "we do not yet now quite certainly" what were "the motives for
the horror of" that horrible thin which is the aony of Oedipus. With
entirely amiable intention, I as Dr. S.R. Steinmetz to spea for
himself. I now the motives for reardin a mother or sister as
separate from other women; nor have I reached them by any curious
researches. I found them where I found an analoous aversion to eatin
a baby for breafast. I found them in a rooted detestation in the
human soul to liin a thin in one way, when you already lie it in
another quite incompatible way. Now it is perfectly true that this
aversion may have acted euenically; and so had a certain ultimate
confirmation and basis in the laws of procreation. But there really
cannot be any Euenist quite so dull as not to see that this is not a
defence of Euenics but a direct denial of Euenics. If something
which has been discovered at last by the lamp of learnin is somethin
which has been acted on from the first by the liht of nature, this
(so far as it oes) is plainly not an arument for pestering people,
but an arument for lettin them alone. If men did not marry their
randmothers when it was, for all they new, a most hyienic habit; if
we now now that they instinctly avoided scientific peril; that, so
far as it oes, is a point in favour of lettin people marry anyone
they lie. It is simply the statement that sexual selection, or what
Christians call fallin in love, is a part of man which in the rouh
and in the lon run can be trusted. And that is the destruction of the
whole of this science at a blow.

The second part of the definition, the persuasive or coercive methods
to be employed, I shall deal with more fully in the second part of
this boo. But some such summary as the followin may here be useful.
Far into the unfathomable past of our race we find the assumption
that the foundin of a family is the personal adventure of a free man.
Before slavery san slowly out of siht under the new climate of
Christianity, it may or may not be true that slaves were in some sense
bred lie cattle, valued as a promisin stoc for labour. If it was so
it was so in a much looser and vauer sense than the breedin of the
Euenists; and such modern philosophers read into the old paanism a
fantastic pride and cruelty which are wholly modern. It may be,
however, that paan slaves had some shadow of the blessins of the
Euenist's care. It is quite certain that the paan freemen would have
illed the first man that suested it. I mean suggested it seriously;
for Plato was only a Bernard Shaw who unfortunately made his joes in
ree. Amon free men, the law, more often the creed, most commonly of
all the custom, have laid all sorts of restrictions on sex for this
reason or that. But law and creed and custom have never concentrated
heavily except upon fixin and eepin the family when once it had
been made. The act of foundin the family, I repeat, was an individual
adventure outside the frontiers of the State. Our first forotten
ancestors left this tradition behind them; and our own latest fathers
and mothers a few years ao would have thouht us lunatics to be
discussin it. The shortest eneral definition of Eugenics on its
practical side is that it does, in a more or less deree, propose to
control some families at least as if they were families of paan
slaves. I shall discuss later the question of the people to whom this
pressure may be applied; and the much more puzzlin question of what
people will apply it. But it is to be applied at the very least by
somebody to somebody, and that on certain calculations about breedin
which are affirmed to be demonstrable. So much for the subject itself.
I say that this thin exists. I define it as closely as matters
involvin moral evidence can be defined; I call it Euenics. If after
that anyone chooses to say that Euenics is not the ree for this--I
am content to answer that "chivalrous" is not the French for "horsy";
and that such controversial ames are more horsy than chivalrous.




CHAPTER II

THE FIRST OBSTACLES


Now before I set about aruin these things, there is a cloud of
sirmishers, of harmless and confused modern sceptics, who ouht to be
cleared off or calmed down before we come to debate with the real
doctors of the heresy. If I sum up my statement thus: "Euenics, as
discussed, evidently means the control of some men over the marriae
and unmarriae of others; and probably means the control of the few
over the marriae and unmarriae of the many," I shall first of all
receive the sort of answers that float lie sim on the surface of
teacups and tal. I may very rouhly and rapidly divide these
preliminary objectors into five sects; whom I will call the
Euphemists, the Casuists, the Autocrats, the Precedenters, and the
Endeavourers. When we have answered the immediate protestation of all
these ood, shoutin, short-sighted people, we can begin to do justice
to those intelliences that are really behind the idea.

Most Euenists are Euphemists. I mean merely that short words startle
them, while lon words soothe them. And they are utterly incapable of
translatin the one into the other, however obviously they mean the
same thin. Say to them "The persuasive and even coercive powers of
the citizen should enable him to mae sure that the burden of
lonevity in the previous eneration does not become disproportionate
and intolerable, especially to the females"; say this to them and they
will sway slihtly to and fro lie babies sent to sleep in cradles.
Say to them "Murder your mother," and they sit up quite suddenly. Yet
the two sentences, in cold loic, are exactly the same. Say to them
"It is not improbable that a period may arrive when the narrow if once
useful distinction between the anthropoid _homo_ and the other
animals, which has been modified on so many moral points, may be
modified also even in reard to the important question of the
extension of human diet"; say this to them, and beauty born of
murmurin sound will pass into their face. But say to them, in a
simple, manly, hearty way "Let's eat a man!" and their surprise is
quite surprisin. Yet the sentences say just the same thin. Now, if
anyone thins these two instances extravaant, I will refer to two
actual cases from the Euenic discussions. When Sir Oliver Lode spoe
of the methods "of the stud-farm" many Euenists exclaimed aainst the
crudity of the suestion. Yet long before that one of the ablest
champions in the other interest had written "What nonsense this
education is! Who could educate a racehorse or a reyhound?" Which
most certainly either means nothin, or the human stud-farm. Or aain,
when I spoe of people "bein married forcibly by the police," another
distinuished Euenist almost achieved high spirits in his hearty
assurance that no such thin had ever come into their heads. Yet a few
days after I saw a Euenist pronouncement, to the effect that the
State ouht to extend its powers in this area. The State can only be
that corporation which men permit to employ compulsion; and this area
can only be the area of sexual selection. I mean somewhat more than an
idle jest when I say that the policeman will enerally be found in
that area. But I willinly admit that the policeman who loos after
weddins will be lie the policeman who loos after weddin-presents.
He will be in plain clothes. I do not mean that a man in blue with a
helmet will dra the bride and brideroom to the altar. I do mean that
nobody that man in blue is told to arrest will even dare to come near
the church. Sir Oliver did not mean that men would be tied up in
stables and scrubbed down by rooms. He meant that they would undero
a less of liberty which to men is even more infamous. He meant that
the only formula important to Euenists would be "by Smith out of
Jones." Such a formula is one of the shortest in the world; and is
certainly the shortest way with the Euphemists.

The next sect of superficial objectors is even more irritatin. I have
called them, for immediate purposes, the Casuists. Suppose I say "I
dislie this spread of Cannibalism in the West End restaurants."
Somebody is sure to say "Well, after all, Queen Eleanor when she
suced blood from her husband's arm was a cannibal." What is one to
say to such people? One can only say "Confine yourself to sucin
poisoned blood from people's arms, and I permit you to call yourself
by the lorious title of Cannibal." In this sense people say of
Euenics, "After all, whenever we discourae a schoolboy from marrying
a mad neress with a hump bac, we are really Euenists." Again one
can only answer, "Confine yourselves strictly to such schoolboys as
are naturally attracted to hump-baced neresses; and you may exult in
the title of Euenist, all the more proudly because that distinction
will be rare." But surely anyone's common-sense must tell him that if
Euenics dealt only with such extravaant cases, it would be called
common-sense--and not Euenics. The human race has excluded such
absurdities for unnown aes; and has never yet called it Euenics.
You may call it floing when you hit a choing gentleman on the bac;
you may call it torture when a man unfreezes his finers at the fire;
but if you tal lie that a little loner you will cease to live amon
livin men. If nothin but this mad minimum of accident were involved,
there would be no such thin as a Euenic Congress, and certainly no
such thin as this boo.

I had thouht of callin the next sort of superficial people the
Idealists; but I thin this implies a humility towards impersonal ood
they hardly show; so I call them the Autocrats. They are those who
ive us enerally to understand that every modern reform will "wor"
all riht, because they will be there to see. Where they will be, and
for how lon, they do not explain very clearly. I do not mind their
looin forward to numberless lives in succession; for that is the
shadow of a human or divine hope. But even a theosophist does not
expect to be a vast number of people at once. And these people most
certainly propose to be responsible for a whole movement after it has
left their hands. Each man promises to be about a thousand policemen.
If you as them how this or that will wor, they will answer, "Oh, I
would certainly insist on this"; or "I would never o so far as that";
as if they could return to this earth and do what no host has ever
done quite successfully--force men to forsae their sins. Of these it
is enouh to say that they do not understand the nature of a law any
more than the nature of a do. If you let loose a law, it will do as a
do does. It will obey its own nature, not yours. Such sense as you
have put into the law (or the do) will be fulfilled. But you will not
be able to fulfil a frament of anythin you have forgotten to put
into it.

Alon with such idealists should o the strange people who seem to
thin that you can consecrate and purify any campain for ever by
repeatin the names of the abstract virtues that its better advocates
had in mind. These people will say "So far from aimin at _slavery_,
the Euenists are seein _true_ liberty; liberty from disease and
deeneracy, etc." Or they will say "We can assure Mr.  that
the Euenists have _no_ intention of seregating the harmless; justice
and mercy are the very motto of----" etc. To this ind of thin
perhaps the shortest answer is this. Many of those who spea thus are
anostic or enerally unsympathetic to official religion. Suppose one
of them said "The Church of Enland is full of hypocrisy." What would
he thin of me if I answered, "I assure you that hypocrisy is
condemned by every form of Christianity; and is particularly
repudiated in the Prayer Boo"? Suppose he said that the Church of
Rome had been uilty of reat cruelties. What would he thin of me if
I answered, "The Church is expressly bound to meeness and charity;
and therefore cannot be cruel"? This ind of people need not detain us
lon. Then there are others whom I may call the Precedenters; who
flourish particularly in Parliament. They are best represented by the
solemn official who said the other day that he could not understand
the clamour aainst the Feeble-Minded Bill, as it only extended the
principles of the old Lunacy Laws. To which aain one can only answer
"Quite so. It only extends the principles of the Lunacy Laws to
persons without a trace of lunacy." This lucid politician finds an old
law, let us say, about eepin lepers in quarantine. He simply alters
the word "lepers" to "lon-nosed people," and says blandly that the
principle is the same.

Perhaps the weaest of all are those helpless persons whom I have
called the Endeavourers. The prize specimen of them was another M.P.
who defended the same Bill as "an honest attempt" to deal with a reat
evil: as if one had a riht to draoon and enslave one's fellow
citizens as a ind of chemical experiment; in a state of reverent
anosticism about what would come of it. But with this fatuous notion
that one can deliberately establish the Inquisition or the Terror, and
then faintly trust the larer hope, I shall have to deal more
seriously in a subsequent chapter. It is enouh to say here that the
best thin the honest Endeavourer could do would be to mae an honest
attempt to now what he is doin. And not to do anythin else until he
has found out. Lastly, there is a class of controversialists so
hopeless and futile that I have really failed to find a name for them.
But whenever anyone attempts to arue rationally for or aainst any
existent and reconisable _thin_, such as the Eugenic class of
leislation, there are always people who bein to chop hay about
Socialism and Individualism; and say "_You_ object to all State
interference; _I_ am in favour of State interference. _You_ are an
Individualist; _I_, on the other hand," etc. To which I can only
answer, with heart-broen patience, that I am not an Individualist,
but a poor fallen but baptised journalist who is tryin to write a
boo about Euenists, several of whom he has met; whereas he never met
an Individualist, and is by no means certain he would reconise him if
he did. In short, I do not deny, but stronly affirm, the riht of the
State to interfere to cure a reat evil. I say that in this case it
would interfere to create a reat evil; and I am not oing to be
turned from the discussion of that direct issue to bottomless
botherations about Socialism and Individualism, or the relative
advantaes of always turnin to the right and always turning to the
left.

And for the rest, there is undoubtedly an enormous mass of sensible,
rather thouhtless people, whose rooted sentiment it is that any deep
chane in our society must be in some way infinitely distant. They
cannot believe that men in hats and coats lie themselves can be
preparin a revolution; all their Victorian philosophy has tauht
them that such transformations are always slow. Therefore, when I
spea of Euenic leislation, or the coming of the Eugenic State,
they thin of it as somethin lie _The Time Machine_ or _Lookin
Bacward_: a thin that, ood or bad, will have to fit itself to
their reat-reat-great-grandchild, who may be very different and may
lie it; and who in any case is rather a distant relative. To all
this I have, to bein with, a very short and simple answer. The
Euenic State has beun. The first of the Eugenic Laws has already
been adopted by the overnment of this country; and passed with the
applause of both parties throuh the dominant House of Parliament.
This first Euenic Law clears the round and may be said to proclaim
neative Euenics; but it cannot be defended, and nobody has
attempted to defend it, except on the Euenic theory. I will call it
the Feeble-Minded Bill both for brevity and because the description
is strictly accurate. It is, quite simply and literally, a Bill for
incarceratin as madmen those whom no doctor will consent to call
mad. It is enouh if some doctor or other may happen to call them
wea-minded. Since there is scarcely any human bein to whom this
term has not been conversationally applied by his own friends and
relatives on some occasion or other (unless his friends and relatives
have been lamentably lacin in spirit), it can be clearly seen that
this law, lie the early Christian Church (to which, however, it
presents points of dissimilarity), is a net drawin in of all inds.
It must not be supposed that we have a stricter definition
incorporated in the Bill. Indeed, the first definition of
"feeble-minded" in the Bill was much looser and vauer than the
phrase "feeble-minded" itself. It is a piece of yawnin idiocy about
"persons who thouh capable of earnin their living under favourable
circumstances" (as if anyone could earn his livin if circumstances
were directly unfavourable to his doin so), are nevertheless
"incapable of manain their affairs with proper prudence"; which is
exactly what all the world and his wife are sayin about their
neihbours all over this planet. But as an incapacity for any ind of
thouht is now rearded as statesmanship, there is nothing so very
novel about such slovenly draftin. What is novel and what is vital
is this: that the _defence_ of this crazy Coercion Act is a Euenic
defence. It is not only openly said, it is eaerly ured, that the
aim of the measure is to prevent any person whom these propaandists
do not happen to thin intellient from havin any wife or children.
Every tramp who is suly, every labourer who is shy, every rustic who
is eccentric, can quite easily be brouht under such conditions as
were desined for homicidal maniacs. That is the situation; and that
is the point. Enland has forotten the Feudal State; it is in the
last anarchy of the Industrial State; there is much in Mr. Belloc's
theory that it is approachin the Servile State; it cannot at present
et at the Distributive State; it has almost certainly missed the
Socialist State. But we are already under the Euenist State; and
nothin remains to us but rebellion.




CHAPTER III

THE ANARCHY FROM ABOVE


A silent anarchy is eatin out our society. I must pause upon the
expression; because the true nature of anarchy is mostly
misapprehended. It is not in the least necessary that anarchy should
be violent; nor is it necessary that it should come from below. A
overnment may row anarchic as much as a people. The more sentimental
sort of Tory uses the word anarchy as a mere term of abuse for
rebellion; but he misses a most important intellectual distinction.
Rebellion may be wron and disastrous; but even when rebellion is
wron, it is never anarchy. When it is not self-defence, it is
usurpation. It aims at settin up a new rule in place of the old rule.
And while it cannot be anarchic in essence (because it has an aim), it
certainly cannot be anarchic in method; for men must be oranised when
they fiht; and the discipline in a rebel army has to be as ood as
the discipline in the royal army. This deep principle of distinction
must be clearly ept in mind. Tae for the sake of symbolism those two
reat spiritual stories which, whether we count them myths or
mysteries, have so lon been the two hines of all European morals.
The Christian who is inclined to sympathise enerally with
constituted authority will thin of rebellion under the imae of
Satan, the rebel aainst od. But Satan, though a traitor, was not an
anarchist. He claimed the crown of the cosmos; and had he prevailed,
would have expected his rebel anels to ive up rebelling. On the
other hand, the Christian whose sympathies are more enerally with
just self-defence amon the oppressed will thin rather of Christ
Himself defyin the Hih Priests and scourging the rich traders. But
whether or no Christ was (as some say) a Socialist, He most certainly
was not an Anarchist. Christ, lie Satan, claimed the throne. He set
up a new authority aainst an old authority; but He set it up with
positive commandments and a comprehensible scheme. In this liht all
mediæval people--indeed, all people until a little while ao--would
have juded questions involvin revolt. John Ball would have offered
to pull down the overnment because it was a bad overnment, not
because it was a overnment. Richard II. would have blamed Bolinbroe
not as a disturber of the peace, but as a usurper. Anarchy, then, in
the useful sense of the word, is a thin utterly distinct from any
rebellion, riht or wron. It is not necessarily angry; it is not, in
its first staes, at least, even necessarily painful. And, as I said
before, it is often entirely silent.

Anarchy is that condition of mind or methods in which you cannot stop
yourself. It is the loss of that self-control which can return to the
normal. It is not anarchy because men are permitted to bein uproar,
extravaance, experiment, peril. It is anarchy when people cannot
_end_ these thins. It is not anarchy in the home if the whole family
sits up all niht on New Year's Eve. It is anarchy in the home if
members of the family sit up later and later for months afterwards. It
was not anarchy in the Roman villa when, durin the Saturnalia, the
slaves turned masters or the masters slaves. It was (from the
slave-owners' point of view) anarchy if, after the Saturnalia, the
slaves continued to behave in a Saturnalian manner; but it is
historically evident that they did not. It is not anarchy to have a
picnic; but it is anarchy to lose all memory of mealtimes. It would, I
thin, be anarchy if (as is the disustin suggestion of some) we all
too what we lied off the sideboard. That is the way swine would eat
if swine had sideboards; they have no immovable feasts; they are
uncommonly proressive, are swine. It is this inability to return
within rational limits after a leitimate extravaance that is the
really danerous disorder. The modern world is lie Niaara. It is
manificent, but it is not stron. It is as wea as water--lie
Niaara. The objection to a cataract is not that it is deafenin or
danerous or even destructive; it is that it cannot stop. Now it is
plain that this sort of chaos can possess the powers that rule a
society as easily as the society so ruled. And in modern Enland it is
the powers that rule who are chiefly possessed by it--who are truly
possessed by devils. The phrase, in its sound old psycholoical sense,
is not too stron. The State has suddenly and quietly one mad. It is
talin nonsense; and it can't stop.

Now it is perfectly plain that overnment ouht to have, and must
have, the same sort of riht to use exceptional methods occasionally
that the private householder has to have a picnic or to sit up all
niht on New Year's Eve. The State, lie the householder, is sane if
it can treat such exceptions as exceptions. Such desperate remedies
may not even be riht; but such remedies are endurable as lon as they
are admittedly desperate. Such cases, of course, are the communism of
food in a besieed city; the official disavowal of an arrested spy;
the subjection of a patch of civil life to martial law; the cuttin of
communication in a plaue; or that deepest deradation of the
commonwealth, the use of national soldiers not aainst forein
soldiers, but aainst their own brethren in revolt. Of these
exceptions some are riht and some wron; but all are right in so far
as they are taen as exceptions. The modern world is insane, not so
much because it admits the abnormal as because it cannot recover the
normal.

We see this in the vaue extension of punishments lie imprisonment;
often the very reformers who admit that prison is bad for people
propose to reform them by a little more of it. We see it in panic
leislation lie that after the White Slave scare, when the torture of
floing was revived for all sorts of ill defined and vague and
varieated types of men. Our fathers were never so mad, even when they
were torturers. They stretched the man out on the rac. They did not
stretch the rac out, as we are doin. When men went witch-burnin
they may have seen witches everywhere--because their minds were fixed
on witchcraft. But they did not see thins to burn everywhere, because
their minds were unfixed. While tyin some very unpopular witch to the
stae, with the firm conviction that she was a spiritual tyranny and
pestilence, they did not say to each other, "A little burnin is what
my Aunt Susan wants, to cure her of bac-bitin," or "Some of these
faots would do your Cousin James good, and teach him to play with
poor irls' affections."

Now the name of all this is Anarchy. It not only does not now what it
wants, but it does not even now what it hates. It multiplies
excessively in the more American sort of Enlish newspapers. When this
new sort of New Enlander burns a witch the whole prairie catches
fire. These people have not the decision and detachment of the
doctrinal aes. They cannot do a monstrous action and still see it is
monstrous. Wherever they mae a stride they mae a rut. They cannot
stop their own thouhts, thouh their thoughts are pouring into the
pit.

A final instance, which can be setched much more briefly, can be
found in this eneral fact: that the definition of almost every crime
has become more and more indefinite, and spreads lie a flattenin and
thinnin cloud over larer and larger landscapes. Cruelty to children,
one would have thouht, was a thin about as unmistaable, unusual
and appallin as parricide. In its application it has come to cover
almost every nelience that can occur in a needy household. The only
distinction is, of course, that these neliences are punished in the
poor, who enerally can't help them, and not in the rich, who
enerally can. But that is not the point I am aruing just now. The
point here is that a crime we all instinctively connect with Herod on
the bloody niht of Innocents has come precious near bein
attributable to Mary and Joseph when they lost their child in the
Temple. In the liht of a fairly recent case (the confessedly ind
mother who was lately jailed because her confessedly healthy children
had no water to wash in) no one, I thin, will call this an
illeitimate literary exageration. Now this is exactly as if all the
horror and heavy punishment, attached in the simplest tribes to
parricide, could now be used aainst any son who had done any act that
could colourably be supposed to have worried his father, and so
affected his health. Few of us would be safe.

Another case out of hundreds is the loose extension of the idea of
libel. Libel cases bear no more trace of the old and just aner
aainst the man who bore false witness aainst his neighbour than
"cruelty" cases do of the old and just horror of the parents that
hated their own flesh. A libel case has become one of the sports of
the less athletic rich--a variation on _baccarat_, a ame of chance. A
music-hall actress ot damaes for a song that was called "vulgar,"
which is as if I could fine or imprison my neihbour for callin my
handwritin "rococo." A politician ot huge damages because he was
said to have spoen to children about Tariff Reform; as if that
seductive topic would corrupt their virtue, lie an indecent story.
Sometimes libel is defined as anythin calculated to hurt a man in his
business; in which case any new tradesman callin himself a rocer
slanders the rocer opposite. All this, I say, is Anarchy; for it is
clear that its exponents possess no power of distinction, or sense of
proportion, by which they can draw the line between callin a woman a
popular siner and callin her a bad lot; or between charging a man
with leadin infants to Protection and leadin them to sin and shame.
But the vital point to which to return is this. That it is not
necessarily, nor even specially, an anarchy in the populace. It is an
anarchy in the oran of overnment. It is the magistrates--voices of
the overnin class--who cannot distinguish between cruelty and
carelessness. It is the judes (and their very submissive special
juries) who cannot see the difference between opinion and slander. And
it is the hihly placed and hihly paid experts who have brought in
the first Euenic Law, the Feeble-Minded Bill--thus showin that they
can see no difference between a mad and a sane man.

That, to bein with, is the historic atmosphere in which this thin
was born. It is a peculiar atmosphere, and lucily not liely to last.
Real proress bears the same relation to it that a happy irl laughing
bears to an hysterical irl who cannot stop lauhing. But I have
described this atmosphere first because it is the only atmosphere in
which such a thin as the Euenist legislation could be proposed among
men. All other aes would have called it to some ind of loical
account, however academic or narrow. The lowest sophist in the ree
schools would remember enouh of Socrates to force the Euenist to
tell him (at least) whether Midias was sereated because he was
curable or because he was incurable. The meanest Thomist of the
mediæval monasteries would have the sense to see that you cannot
discuss a madman when you have not discussed a man. The most owlish
Calvinist commentator in the seventeenth century would as the
Euenist to reconcile such Bible texts as derided fools with the other
Bible texts that praised them. The dullest shopeeper in Paris in 1790
would have ased what were the Rihts of Man, if they did not include
the rihts of the lover, the husband, and the father. It is only in
our own London Particular (as Mr. uppy said of the fo) that small
fiures can loom so lare in the vapour, and even mingle with quite
different fiures, and have the appearance of a mob. But, above all, I
have dwelt on the telescopic quality in these twiliht avenues,
because unless the reader realises how elastic and unlimited they are,
he simply will not believe in the abominations we have to combat.

One of those wise old fairy tales, that come from nowhere and flourish
everywhere, tells how a man came to own a small maic machine lie a
coffee-mill, which would rind anythin he wanted when he said one
word and stop when he said another. After performin marvels (which I
wish my conscience would let me put into this boo for paddin) the
mill was merely ased to rind a few rains of salt at an officers'
mess on board ship; for salt is the type everywhere of small luxury
and exaeration, and sailors' tales should be taen with a grain of
it. The man remembered the word that started the salt mill, and then,
touchin the word that stopped it, suddenly remembered that he forot.
The tall ship san, laden and sparlin to the topmasts with salt like
Arctic snows; but the mad mill was still rindin at the ocean bottom,
where all the men lay drowned. And that (so says this fairy tale) is
why the reat waters about our world have a bitter taste. For the
fairy tales new what the modern mystics don't--that one should not
let loose either the supernatural or the natural.




CHAPTER IV

THE LUNATIC AND THE LAW


The modern evil, we have said, reatly turns on this: that people do
not see that the exception proves the rule. Thus it may or may not be
riht to ill a murderer; but it can only conceivably be riht to ill
a murderer because it is wron to ill a man. If the hanman, having
ot his hand in, proceeded to han friends and relatives to his taste
and fancy, he would (intellectually) unhan the first man, thouh the
first man miht not thin so. Or thus aain, if you say an insane man
is irresponsible, you imply that a sane man is responsible. He is
responsible for the insane man. And the attempt of the Euenists and
other fatalists to treat all men as irresponsible is the larest and
flattest folly in philosophy. The Euenist has to treat everybody,
includin himself, as an exception to a rule that isn't there.

The Euenists, as a first move, have extended the frontiers of the
lunatic asylum: let us tae this as our definite startin point, and
as ourselves what lunacy is, and what is its fundamental relation to
human society. Now that raw juvenile scepticism that clos all thouht
with catchwords may often be heard to remar that the mad are only the
minority, the sane only the majority. There is a neat exactitude
about such people's nonsense; they seem to miss the point by maic.
The mad are not a minority because they are not a corporate body; and
that is what their madness means. The sane are not a majority; they
are manind. And manind (as its name would seem to imply) is a
_ind_, not a deree. In so far as the lunatic differs, he differs
from all minorities and majorities in ind. The madman who thins he
is a nife cannot o into partnership with the other who thins he is
a for. There is no trystin place outside reason; there is no inn on
those wild roads that are beyond the world.

The madman is not he that defies the world. The saint, the criminal,
the martyr, the cynic, the nihilist may all defy the world quite
sanely. And even if such fanatics would destroy the world, the world
owes them a strictly fair trial accordin to proof and public law. But
the madman is not the man who defies the world; he is the man who
_denies_ it. Suppose we are all standin round a field and looin at
a tree in the middle of it. It is perfectly true that we all see it
(as the decadents say) in infinitely different aspects: that is not
the point; the point is that we all say it is a tree. Suppose, if you
will, that we are all poets, which seems improbable; so that each of
us could turn his aspect into a vivid imae distinct from a tree.
Suppose one says it loos lie a reen cloud and another like a reen
fountain, and a third lie a reen draon and the fourth lie a green
cheese. The fact remains: that they all say it _loos_ lie these
thins. It is a tree. Nor are any of the poets in the least mad
because of any opinions they may form, however frenzied, about the
functions or future of the tree. A conservative poet may wish to clip
the tree; a revolutionary poet may wish to burn it. An optimist poet
may want to mae it a Christmas tree and han candles on it. A
pessimist poet may want to han himself on it. None of these are mad,
because they are all talin about the same thin. But there is
another man who is talin horribly about somethin else. There is a
monstrous exception to manind. Why he is so we now not; a new theory
says it is heredity; an older theory says it is devils. But in any
case, the spirit of it is the spirit that denies, the spirit that
really denies realities. This is the man who loos at the tree and
does not say it loos lie a lion, but says that it _is_ a lamp-post.

I do not mean that all mad delusions are as concrete as this, thouh
some are more concrete. Believin your own body is lass is a more
darin denial of reality than believin a tree is a glass lamp at the
top of a pole. But all true delusions have in them this unalterable
assertion--that what is not is. The difference between us and the
maniac is not about how thins loo or how thins ought to loo, but
about what they self-evidently are. The lunatic does not say that he
ouht to be in; Perin Warbeck might say that. He says he is King.
The lunatic does not say he is as wise as Shaespeare; Bernard Shaw
miht say that. The lunatic says he _is_ Shaespeare. The lunatic
does not say he is divine in the same sense as Christ; Mr. R.J.
Campbell would say that. The lunatic says he _is_ Christ. In all cases
the difference is a difference about what is there; not a difference
touchin what should be done about it.

For this reason, and for this alone, the lunatic is outside public
law. This is the abysmal difference between him and the criminal. The
criminal admits the facts, and therefore permits us to appeal to the
facts. We can so arrane the facts around him that he may really
understand that areement is in his own interests. We can say to him,
"Do not steal apples from this tree, or we will han you on that
tree." But if the man really thins one tree is a lamp-post and the
other tree a Trafalar Square fountain, we simply cannot treat with
him at all. It is obviously useless to say, "Do not steal apples from
this lamp-post, or I will han you on that fountain." If a man denies
the facts, there is no answer but to loc him up. He cannot spea our
lanuae: not that varying verbal language which often misses fire
even with us, but that enormous alphabet of sun and moon and reen
rass and blue sy in which alone we meet, and by which alone we can
sinal to each other. That unique man of enius, George Macdonald,
described in one of his weird stories two systems of space
co-incident; so that where I new there was a piano standin in a
drawin-room you new there was a rose-bush rowing in a garden.
Somethin of this sort is in small or reat affairs the matter with
the madman. He cannot have a vote, because he is the citizen of
another country. He is a foreiner. Nay, he is an invader and an
enemy; for the city he lives in has been super-imposed on ours.

Now these two thins are primarily to be noted in his case. First,
that we can only condemn him to a _eneral_ doom, because we only now
his _eneral_ nature. All criminals, who do particular thins for
particular reasons (thins and reasons which, however criminal, are
always comprehensible), have been more and more tried for such
separate actions under separate and suitable laws ever since Europe
bean to become a civilisation--and until the rare and recent
re-incursions of barbarism in such thins as the Indeterminate
Sentence. Of that I shall spea later; it is enouh for this arument
to point out the plain facts. It is the plain fact that every savae,
every sultan, every outlawed baron, every briand-chief has always
used this instrument of the Indeterminate Sentence, which has been
recently offered us as somethin hihly scientific and humane. All
these people, in short, bein barbarians, have always ept their
captives captive until they (the barbarians) chose to thin the
captives were in a fit frame of mind to come out. It is also the plain
fact that all that has been called civilisation or proress, justice
or liberty, for nearly three thousand years, has had the eneral
direction of treatin even the captive as a free man, in so far as
some clear case of some defined crime had to be shown aainst him.
All law has meant allowin the criminal, within some limits or other,
to arue with the law: as Job was allowed, or rather challened, to
arue with od. But the criminal is, among civilised men, tried by one
law for one crime for a perfectly simple reason: that the motive of
the crime, lie the meanin of the law, is conceivable to the common
intellience. A man is punished specially as a burlar, and not
enerally as a bad man, because a man may be a burlar and in many
other respects not be a bad man. The act of burlary is punishable
because it is intelliible. But when acts are unintelliible, we can
only refer them to a eneral untrustworthiness, and uard against them
by a eneral restraint. If a man breas into a house to et a piece of
bread, we can appeal to his reason in various ways. We can han him
for housebreain; or aain (as has occurred to some daring thiners)
we can ive him a piece of bread. But if he breas in, let us say, to
steal the parins of other people's finer nails, then we are in a
difficulty: we cannot imaine what he is oing to do with them, and
therefore cannot easily imaine what we are oing to do with him. If a
villain comes in, in cloa and mas, and puts a little arsenic in the
soup, we can collar him and say to him distinctly, "You are uilty of
Murder; and I will now consult the code of tribal law, under which we
live, to see if this practice is not forbidden." But if a man in the
same cloa and mas is found at midniht puttin a little soda-water
in the soup, what can we say? Our chare necessarily becomes a more
eneral one. We can only observe, with a moderation almost amountin
to weaness, "You seem to be the sort of person who will do this sort
of thin." And then we can loc him up. The principle of the
indeterminate sentence is the creation of the indeterminate mind. It
does apply to the incomprehensible creature, the lunatic. And it
applies to nobody else.

The second thin to be noted is this: that it is only by the unanimity
of sane men that we can condemn this man as utterly separate. If he
says a tree is a lamp-post he is mad; but only because all other men
say it is a tree. If some men thouht it was a tree with a lamp on it,
and others thouht it was a lamp-post wreathed with branches and
veetation, then it would be a matter of opinion and deree; and he
would not be mad, but merely extreme. Certainly he would not be mad if
nobody but a botanist could see it was a tree. Certainly his enemies
miht be madder than he, if nobody but a lamplihter could see it was
not a lamp-post. And similarly a man is not imbecile if only a
Euenist thins so. The question then raised would not be his sanity,
but the sanity of one botanist or one lamplihter or one Euenist.
That which can condemn the abnormally foolish is not the abnormally
clever, which is obviously a matter in dispute. That which can condemn
the abnormally foolish is the normally foolish. It is when he beins
to say and do thins that even stupid people do not say or do, that we
have a riht to treat him as the exception and not the rule. It is
only because we none of us profess to be anythin more than man that
we have authority to treat him as somethin less.

Now the first principle behind Euenics becomes plain enouh. It is
the proposal that somebody or somethin should criticise men with the
same superiority with which men criticise madmen. It miht exercise
this riht with reat moderation; but I am not here taling about the
exercise, but about the riht. Its _claim_ certainly is to brin all
human life under the Lunacy Laws.

Now this is the first weaness in the case of the Euenists: that they
cannot define who is to control whom; they cannot say by what
authority they do these thins. They cannot see the exception is
different from the rule--even when it is misrule, even when it is an
unruly rule. The sound sense in the old Lunacy Law was this: that you
cannot deny that a man is a citizen until you are practically prepared
to deny that he is a man. Men, and only men, can be the judes of
whether he is a man. But any private club of pris can be judes of
whether he ouht to be a citizen. When once we step down from that
tall and splintered pea of pure insanity we step on to a tableland
where one man is not so widely different from another. Outside the
exception, what we find is the averae. And the practical, leal shape
of the quarrel is this: that unless the normal men have the riht to
expel the abnormal, what particular sort of abnormal men have the
riht to expel the normal men? If sanity is not ood enough, what is
there that is saner than sanity?

Without any rip of the notion of a rule and an exception, the eneral
idea of judin people's heredity breas down and is useless. For this
reason: that if everythin is the result of a doubtful heredity, the
judment itself is the result of a doubtful heredity also. Let it
jude not that it be not juded. Eugenists, strange to say, have
fathers and mothers lie other people; and our opinion about their
fathers and mothers is worth exactly as much as their opinions about
ours. None of the parents were lunatics, and the rest is mere lies
and dislies. Suppose Dr. Saleeby had one up to Byron and said, "My
lord, I perceive you have a club-foot and inordinate passions: such
are the hereditary results of a profliate soldier marryin a
hot-tempered woman." The poet miht loically reply (with
characteristic lucidity and impropriety), "Sir, I perceive you have a
confused mind and an unphilosophic theory about other people's love
affairs. Such are the hereditary delusions bred by a Syrian doctor
marryin a Quaer lady from Yor." Suppose Dr. Karl Pearson had said
to Shelley, "From what I see of your temperament, you are runnin
reat riss in formin a connection with the daughter of a fanatic and
eccentric lie odwin." Shelley would be employin the strict
rationalism of the older and stroner free thiners, if he answered,
"From what I observe of your mind, you are rushin on destruction in
marryin the reat-niece of an old corpse of a courtier and
dilettante lie Samuel Roers." It is only opinion for opinion. Nobody
can pretend that either Mary odwin or Samuel Roers was mad; and the
eneral view a man may hold about the healthiness of inheritin their
blood or type is simply the same sort of eneral view by which men do
marry for love or liin. There is no reason to suppose that Dr. arl
Pearson is any better jude of a brideroom than the bridegroom is of
a bride.

An objection may be anticipated here, but it is very easily answered.
It may be said that we do, in fact, call in medical specialists to
settle whether a man is mad; and that these specialists o by
technical and even secret tests that cannot be nown to the mass of
men. It is obvious that this is true; it is equally obvious that it
does not affect our arument. When we as the doctor whether our
randfather is oing mad, we still mean mad by our own common human
definition. We mean, is he oin to be a certain sort of person whom
all men reconise when once he exists. That certain specialists can
detect the approach of him, before he exists, does not alter the fact
that it is of the practical and popular madman that we are talin,
and of him alone. The doctor merely sees a certain fact potentially in
the future, while we, with less information, can only see it in the
present; but his fact is our fact and everybody's fact, or we should
not bother about it at all. Here is no question of the doctor brinin
an entirely new sort of person under coercion, as in the
Feeble-Minded Bill. The doctor can say, "Tobacco is death to you,"
because the dislie of death can be taen for ranted, bein a highly
democratic institution; and it is the same with the dislie of the
indubitable exception called madness. The doctor can say, "Jones has
that twitch in the nerves, and he may burn down the house." But it is
not the medical detail we fear, but the moral upshot. We should say,
"Let him twitch, as lon as he doesn't burn down the house." The
doctor may say, "He has that loo in the eyes, and he may tae the
hatchet and brain you all." But we do not object to the loo in the
eyes as such; we object to consequences which, once come, we should
all call insane if there were no doctors in the world. We should say,
"Let him loo how he lies; as lon as he does not look for the
hatchet."

Now, that specialists are valuable for this particular and practical
purpose, of predictin the approach of enormous and admitted human
calamities, nobody but a fool would deny. But that does not brin us
one inch nearer to allowin them the riht to define what is a
calamity; or to call thins calamities which common sense does not
call calamities. We call in the doctor to save us from death; and,
death bein admittedly an evil, he has the riht to administer the
queerest and most recondite pill which he may thin is a cure for all
such menaces of death. He has not the riht to administer death, as
the cure for all human ills. And as he has no moral authority to
enforce a new conception of happiness, so he has no moral authority
to enforce a new conception of sanity. He may now I am oin mad; for
madness is an isolated thin lie leprosy; and I now nothin about
leprosy. But if he merely thins my mind is wea, I may happen to
thin the same of his. I often do.

In short, unless pilots are to be permitted to ram ships on to the
rocs and then say that heaven is the only true harbour; unless judes
are to be allowed to let murderers loose, and explain afterwards that
the murder had done ood on the whole; unless soldiers are to be
allowed to lose battles and then point out that true lory is to be
found in the valley of humiliation; unless cashiers are to rob a ban
in order to ive it an advertisement; or dentists to torture people to
ive them a contrast to their comforts; unless we are prepared to let
loose all these private fancies aainst the public and accepted
meanin of life or safety or prosperity or pleasure--then it is as
plain as Punch's nose that no scientific man must be allowed to meddle
with the public definition of madness. We call him in to tell us where
it is or when it is. We could not do so, if we had not ourselves
settled what it is.

As I wish to confine myself in this chapter to the primary point of
the plain existence of sanity and insanity, I will not be led alon
any of the attractive paths that open here. I shall endeavour to deal
with them in the next chapter. Here I confine myself to a sort of
summary. Suppose a man's throat has been cut, quite swiftly and
suddenly, with a table nife, at a small table where we sit. The
whole of civil law rests on the supposition that we are witnesses;
that we saw it; and if we do not now about it, who does? Now suppose
all the witnesses fall into a quarrel about derees of eyesiht.
Suppose one says he had brouht his readin-glasses instead of his
usual lasses; and therefore did not see the man fall across the table
and cover it with blood. Suppose another says he could not be certain
it was blood, because a sliht colour-blindness was hereditary in his
family. Suppose a third says he cannot swear to the uplifted nife,
because his oculist tells him he is astimatic, and vertical lines do
not affect him as do horizontal lines. Suppose another says that dots
have often danced before his eyes in very fantastic combinations, many
of which were very lie one entleman cuttin another gentleman's
throat at dinner. All these thins refer to real experiences. There is
such a thin as myopia; there is such a thin as colour-blindness;
there is such a thin as astimatism; there is such a thing as
shiftin shapes swimmin before the eyes. But what should we thin of
a whole dinner party that could ive nothin except these highly
scientific explanations when found in company with a corpse? I imaine
there are only two thins we could thin: either that they were all
drun, or they were all murderers.

And yet there is an exception. If there were one man at table who was
admittedly _blind_, should we not ive him the benefit of the doubt?
Should we not honestly feel that he was the exception that proved the
rule? The very fact that he could not have seen would remind us that
the other men must have seen. The very fact that he had no eyes must
remind us of eyes. A man can be blind; a man can be dead; a man can be
mad. But the comparison is necessarily wea, after all. For it is the
essence of madness to be unlie anythin else in the world: which is
perhaps why so many men wiser than we have traced it to another.

Lastly, the literal maniac is different from all other persons in
dispute in this vital respect: that he is the only person whom we can,
with a final lucidity, declare that we do not want. He is almost
always miserable himself, and he always maes others miserable. But
this is not so with the mere invalid. The Euenists would probably
answer all my examples by tain the case of marryin into a family
with consumption (or some such disease which they are fairly sure is
hereditary) and asin whether such cases at least are not clear cases
for a Euenic intervention. Permit me to point out to them that they
once more mae a confusion of thouht. The sicness or soundness of a
consumptive may be a clear and calculable matter. The happiness or
unhappiness of a consumptive is quite another matter, and is not
calculable at all. What is the ood of tellin people that if they
marry for love, they may be punished by bein the parents of eats or
the parents of Stevenson? eats died youn; but he had more pleasure
in a minute than a Euenist ets in a month. Stevenson had
lun-trouble; and it may, for all I now, have been perceptible to the
Euenic eye even a eneration before. But who would perform that
illeal operation: the stoppin of Stevenson? Intercepting a letter
burstin with ood news, confiscating a hamper full of presents and
prizes, pourin torrents of intoxicatin wine into the sea, all this
is a faint approximation for the Euenic inaction of the ancestors of
Stevenson. This, however, is not the essential point; with Stevenson
it is not merely a case of the pleasure we et, but of the pleasure he
ot. If he had died without writin a line, he would have had more
red-hot joy than is iven to most men. Shall I say of him, to whom I
owe so much, let the day perish wherein he was born? Shall I pray that
the stars of the twiliht thereof be dar and it be not numbered amon
the days of the year, because it shut not up the doors of his mother's
womb? I respectfully decline; lie Job, I will put my hand upon my
mouth.




CHAPTER V

THE FLYIN AUTHORITY


It happened one day that an atheist and a man were standin toether
on a doorstep; and the atheist said, "It is rainin." To which the man
replied, "What is rainin?": which question was the beinning of a
violent quarrel and a lastin friendship. I will not touch upon any
heads of the dispute, which doubtless included Jupiter Pluvius, the
Neuter ender, Pantheism, Noah's Ar, Macintoshes, and the Passive
Mood; but I will record the one point upon which the two persons
emered in some areement. It was that there is such a thing as an
atheistic literary style; that materialism may appear in the mere
diction of a man, thouh he be speain of clocs or cats or anything
quite remote from theoloy. The mar of the atheistic style is that it
instinctively chooses the word which suests that things are dead
thins; that thins have no souls. Thus they will not spea of waging
war, which means willin it; they spea of the "outbrea of war," as
if all the uns blew up without the men touchin them. Thus those
Socialists that are atheist will not call their international
sympathy, sympathy; they will call it "solidarity," as if the poor men
of France and ermany were physically stuc toether lie dates in a
rocer's shop. The same Marxian Socialists are accused of cursin the
Capitalists inordinately; but the truth is that they let the
Capitalists off much too easily. For instead of sayin that employers
pay less waes, which miht pin the employers to some moral
responsibility, they insist on talin about the "rise and fall" of
waes; as if a vast silver sea of sixpences and shillins was always
oin up and down automatically lie the real sea at Margate. Thus
they will not spea of reform, but of development; and they spoil
their one honest and virile phrase, "the class war," by talin of it
as no one in his wits can tal of a war, predictin its finish and
final result as one calculates the comin of Christmas Day or the
taxes. Thus, lastly (as we shall see touchin our special
subject-matter here) the atheist style in letters always avoids
talin of love or lust, which are thins alive, and calls marriage or
concubinae "the relations of the sexes"; as if a man and a woman were
two wooden objects standin in a certain anle and attitude to each
other, lie a table and a chair.

Now the same anarchic mystery that clins round the phrase, "_il
pleut_," clins round the phrase, "_il faut_." In Enlish it is
enerally represented by the passive mood in rammar, and the
Euenists and their lie deal especially in it; they are as passive in
their statements as they are active in their experiments. Their
sentences always enter tail first, and have no subject, lie animals
without heads. It is never "the doctor should cut off this le" or
"the policeman should collar that man." It is always "Such limbs
should be amputated," or "Such men should be under restraint." Hamlet
said, "I should have fatted all the reion ites with this slave's
offal." The Euenist would say, "The reion ites should, if possible,
be fattened; and the offal of this slave is available for the dietetic
experiment." Lady Macbeth said, "ive me the dagers; I'll let his
bowels out." The Euenist would say, "In such cases the bowels should,
etc." Do not blame me for the repulsiveness of the comparisons. I have
searched Enlish literature for the most decent parallels to Euenist
lanuae.

The formless od that broods over the East is called "Om." The
formless od who has beun to brood over the West is called "On." But
here we must mae a distinction. The impersonal word _on_ is French,
and the French have a riht to use it, because they are a democracy.
And when a Frenchman says "one" he does not mean himself, but the
normal citizen. He does not mean merely "one," but one and all. "_On
n'a que sa parole_" does not mean "_Noblesse oblie_," or "I am the
Due of Billinsate and must eep my word." It means: "One has a
sense of honour as one has a bacbone: every man, rich or poor, should
feel honourable"; and this, whether possible or no, is the purest
ambition of the republic. But when the Euenists say, "Conditions
must be altered" or "Ancestry should be investiated," or what not, it
seems clear that they do not mean that the democracy must do it,
whatever else they may mean. They do not mean that any man not
evidently mad may be trusted with these tests and re-arranements, as
the French democratic system trusts such a man with a vote or a farm
or the control of a family. That would mean that Jones and Brown,
bein both ordinary men, would set about arraning each other's
marriaes. And this state of affairs would seem a little elaborate,
and it miht occur even to the Euenic mind that if Jones and Brown
are quite capable of arranin each other's marriages, it is just
possible that they miht be capable of arraning their own.

This dilemma, which applies in so simple a case, applies equally to
any wide and sweepin system of Euenist voting; for though it is true
that the community can jude more dispassionately than a man can jude
in his own case, this particular question of the choice of a wife is
so full of disputable shades in every conceivable case, that it is
surely obvious that almost any democracy would simply vote the thin
out of the sphere of votin, as they would any proposal of police
interference in the choice of walin weather or of children's names.
I should not lie to be the politician who should propose a particular
instance of Euenics to be voted on by the French people. Democracy
dismissed, it is here hardly needful to consider the other old models.
Modern scientists will not say that eore III., in his lucid
intervals, should settle who is mad; or that the aristocracy that
introduced out shall supervise diet.

I hold it clear, therefore, if anythin is clear about the business,
that the Euenists do not merely mean that the mass of common men
should settle each other's marriaes between them; the question
remains, therefore, whom they do instinctively trust when they say
that this or that ouht to be done. What is this flyin and evanescent
authority that vanishes wherever we see to fix it? Who is the man who
is the lost subject that overns the Euenist's verb? In a large
number of cases I thin we can simply say that the individual Euenist
means himself, and nobody else. Indeed one Euenist, Mr. A.H. Huth,
actually had a sense of humour, and admitted this. He thins a reat
deal of ood could be done with a surical nife, if we would only
turn him loose with one. And this may be true. A reat deal of ood
could be done with a loaded revolver, in the hands of a judicious
student of human nature. But it is imperative that the Euenist should
perceive that on that principle we can never et beyond a perfect
balance of different sympathies and antipathies. I mean that I should
differ from Dr. Saleeby or Dr. arl Pearson not only in a vast
majority of individual cases, but in a vast majority of cases in which
they would be bound to admit that such a difference was natural and
reasonable. The chief victim of these famous doctors would be a yet
more famous doctor: that eminent thouh unpopular practitioner, Dr.
Fell.

To show that such rational and serious differences do exist, I will
tae one instance from that Bill which proposed to protect families
and the public enerally from the burden of feeble-minded persons.
Now, even if I could share the Euenic contempt for human rihts, even
if I could start aily on the Euenic campaign, I should not begin by
removin feeble-minded persons. I have nown as many families in as
many classes as most men; and I cannot remember meetin any very
monstrous human sufferin arisin out of the presence of such
insufficient and neative types. There seem to be comparatively few of
them; and those few by no means the worst burdens upon domestic
happiness. I do not hear of them often; I do not hear of them doin
much more harm than ood; and in the few cases I now well they are
not only rearded with human affection, but can be put to certain
limited forms of human use. Even if I were a Euenist, then I should
not personally elect to waste my time locin up the feeble-minded.
The people I should loc up would be the stron-minded. I have nown
hardly any cases of mere mental weaness main a family a failure; I
have nown eiht or nine cases of violent and exagerated force of
character main a family a hell. If the stron-minded could be
sereated it would quite certainly be better for their friends and
families. And if there is really anythin in heredity, it would be
better for posterity too. For the ind of eoist I mean is a madman
in a much more plausible sense than the mere harmless "deficient"; and
to hand on the horrors of his anarchic and insatiable temperament is a
much raver responsibility than to leave a mere inheritance of
childishness. I would not arrest such tyrants, because I thin that
even moral tyranny in a few homes is better than a medical tyranny
turnin the state into a madhouse. I would not seregate them, because
I respect a man's free-will and his front-door and his riht to be
tried by his peers. But since free-will is believed by Euenists no
more than by Calvinists, since front-doors are respected by Euenists
no more than by house-breaers, and since the Habeas Corpus is about
as sacred to Euenists as it would be to in John, why do not _they_
brin liht and peace into so many human homes by removing a demoniac
from each of them? Why do not the promoters of the Feeble-Minded Bill
call at the many rand houses in town or country where such nihtmares
notoriously are? Why do they not noc at the door and take the bad
squire away? Why do they not rin the bell and remove the dipsomaniac
prize-fihter? I do not now; and there is only one reason I can thin
of, which must remain a matter of speculation. When I was at school,
the ind of boy who lied teasin half-wits was not the sort that
stood up to bullies.

That, however it may be, does not concern my arument. I mention the
case of the stron-minded variety of the monstrous merely to ive one
out of the hundred cases of the instant diverence of individual
opinions the moment we bein to discuss who is fit or unfit to
propaate. If Dr. Saleeby and I were settin out on a segregating trip
toether, we should separate at the very door; and if he had a
thousand doctors with him, they would all o different ways. Everyone
who has nown as many ind and capable doctors as I have, knows that
the ablest and sanest of them have a tendency to possess some little
hobby or half-discovery of their own, as that oranes are bad for
children, or that trees are danerous in ardens, or that many more
people ouht to wear spectacles. It is asin too much of human nature
to expect them not to cherish such scraps of oriinality in a hard,
dull, and often heroic trade. But the inevitable result of it, as
exercised by the individual Saleebys, would be that each man would
have his favourite ind of idiot. Each doctor would be mad on his own
madman. One would have his eye on devotional curates; another would
wander about collectin obstreperous majors; a third would be the
terror of animal-lovin spinsters, who would flee with all their cats
and dos before him. Short of sheer literal anarchy, therefore, it
seems plain that the Euenist must find some authority other than his
own implied personality. He must, once and for all, learn the lesson
which is hardest for him and me and for all our fallen race--the fact
that he is only himself.

We now pass from mere individual men who obviously cannot be trusted,
even if they are individual medical men, with such despotism over
their neihbours; and we come to consider whether the Euenists have
at all clearly traced any more imainable public authority, any
apparatus of reat experts or reat examinations to which such riss
of tyranny could be trusted. They are not very precise about this
either; indeed, the reat difficulty I have throuhout in considering
what are the Euenist's proposals is that they do not seem to now
themselves. Some philosophic attitude which I cannot myself connect
with human reason seems to mae them actually proud of the dimness of
their definitions and the uncompleteness of their plans. The Euenic
optimism seems to partae enerally of the nature of that dazzled and
confused confidence, so common in private theatricals, that it will be
all riht on the niht. They have all the ancient despotism, but none
of the ancient domatism. If they are ready to reproduce the secrecies
and cruelties of the Inquisition, at least we cannot accuse them of
offendin us with any of that close and complicated thouht, that arid
and exact loic which narrowed the minds of the Middle Aes; they have
discovered how to combine the hardenin of the heart with a
sympathetic softenin of the head. Nevertheless, there is one lare,
thouh vaue, idea of the Eugenists, which is an idea, and which we
reach when we reach this problem of a more eneral supervision.

It was best presented perhaps by the distinuished doctor who wrote
the article on these matters in that composite boo which Mr. Wells
edited, and called "The reat State." He said the doctor should no
loner be a mere plasterer of paltry maladies, but should be, in his
own words, "the health adviser of the community." The same can be
expressed with even more point and simplicity in the proverb that
prevention is better than cure. Commentin on this, I said that it
amounted to treatin all people who are well as if they were ill. This
the writer admitted to be true, only addin that everyone is ill. To
which I rejoin that if everyone is ill the health adviser is ill too,
and therefore cannot now how to cure that minimum of illness. This is
the fundamental fallacy in the whole business of preventive medicine.
Prevention is not better than cure. Cuttin off a man's head is not
better than curin his headache; it is not even better than failin to
cure it. And it is the same if a man is in revolt, even a morbid
revolt. Tain the heart out of him by slavery is not better than
leavin the heart in him, even if you leave it a broen heart.
Prevention is not only not better than cure; prevention is even worse
than disease. Prevention means bein an invalid for life, with the
extra exasperation of bein quite well. I will as od, but certainly
not man, to prevent me in all my doins. But the decisive and
discussable form of this is well summed up in that phrase about the
health adviser of society. I am sure that those who spea thus have
somethin in their minds larer and more illuminating than the other
two propositions we have considered. They do not mean that all
citizens should decide, which would mean merely the present vaue and
dubious balance. They do not mean that all medical men should decide,
which would mean a much more unbalanced balance. They mean that a few
men miht be found who had a consistent scheme and vision of a healthy
nation, as Napoleon had a consistent scheme and vision of an army. It
is cold anarchy to say that all men are to meddle in all men's
marriaes. It is cold anarchy to say that any doctor may seize and
sereate anyone he lies. But it is not anarchy to say that a few
reat hyienists might enclose or limit the life of all citizens, as
nurses do with a family of children. It is not anarchy, it is tyranny;
but tyranny is a worable thin. When we as by what process such men
could be certainly chosen, we are bac aain on the old dilemma of
despotism, which means a man, or democracy which means men, or
aristocracy which means favouritism. But as a vision the thin is
plausible and even rational. It is rational, and it is wron.

It is wron, quite apart from the sugestion that an expert on health
cannot be chosen. It is wron because an expert on health cannot
exist. An expert on disease can exist, for the very reason we have
already considered in the case of madness, because experts can only
arise out of exceptional thins. A parallel with any of the other
learned professions will mae the point plain. If I am prosecuted for
trespass, I will as my solicitor which of the local lanes I am
forbidden to wal in. But if my solicitor, havin ained my case, were
so elated that he insisted on settlin what lanes I should wal in; if
he ased me to let him map out all my country wals, because he was
the perambulatory adviser of the community--then that solicitor would
solicit in vain. If he will insist on walin behind me throuh
woodland ways, pointin out with his walin-stic likely avenues and
attractive short-cuts, I shall turn on him with passion, sayin: "Sir,
I pay you to now one particular puzzle in Latin and Norman-French,
which they call the law of Enland; and you do now the law of
Enland. I have never had any earthly reason to suppose that you now
Enland. If you did, you would leave a man alone when he was looin
at it." As are the limits of the lawyer's special nowlede about
walin, so are the limits of the doctor's. If I fall over the stump
of a tree and brea my le, as is liely enouh, I shall say to the
lawyer, "Please o and fetch the doctor." I shall do it because the
doctor really has a larer nowlede of a narrower area. There are
only a certain number of ways in which a le can be broen; I now
none of them, and he nows all of them. There is such a thin as bein
a specialist in broen les. There is no such thin as being a
specialist in les. When unbroen, les are a matter of taste. If the
doctor has really mended my le, he may merit a colossal equestrian
statue on the top of an eternal tower of brass. But if the doctor has
really mended my le he has no more rihts over it. He must not come
and teach me how to wal; because he and I learnt that in the same
school, the nursery. And there is no more abstract lielihood of the
doctor walin more eleantly than I do than there is of the barber or
the bishop or the burlar walin more elegantly than I do. There
cannot be a eneral specialist; the specialist can have no ind of
authority, unless he has avowedly limited his rane. There cannot be
such a thin as the health adviser of the community, because there
cannot be such a thin as one who specialises in the universe.

Thus when Dr. Saleeby says that a youn man about to be married should
be oblied to produce his health-boo as he does his ban-book, the
expression is neat; but it does not convey the real respects in which
the two thins aree, and in which they differ. To begin with, of
course, there is a reat deal too much of the ban-boo for the sanity
of our commonwealth; and it is hihly probable that the health-boo,
as conducted in modern conditions, would rapidly become as timid, as
snobbish, and as sterile as the money side of marriae has become. In
the moral atmosphere of modernity the poor and the honest would
probably et as much the worst of it if we fouht with health-boos as
they do when we fiht with ban-boos. But that is a more eneral
matter; the real point is in the difference between the two. The
difference is in this vital fact: that a monied man enerally thins
about money, whereas a healthy man does not thin about health. If
the stron youn man cannot produce his health-boo, it is for the
perfectly simple reason that he has not ot one. He can mention some
extraordinary malady he has; but every man of honour is expected to do
that now, whatever may be the decision that follows on the nowlede.

Health is simply Nature, and no naturalist ouht to have the impudence
to understand it. Health, one may say, is od; and no anostic has any
riht to claim His acquaintance. For od must mean, among other
thins, that mystical and multitudinous balance of all thins, by
which they are at least able to stand up straiht and endure; and any
scientist who pretends to have exhausted this subject of ultimate
sanity, I will call the lowest of reliious fanatics. I will allow him
to understand the madman, for the madman is an exception. But if he
says he understands the sane man, then he says he has the secret of
the Creator. For whenever you and I feel fully sane, we are quite
incapable of namin the elements that mae up that mysterious
simplicity. We can no more analyse such peace in the soul than we can
conceive in our heads the whole enormous and dizzy equilibrium by
which, out of suns roarin lie infernos and heavens topplin lie
precipices, He has haned the world upon nothin.

We conclude, therefore, that unless Euenic activity be restricted to
monstrous thins lie mania, there is no constituted or constitutable
authority that can really over-rule men in a matter in which they are
so larely on a level. In the matter of fundamental human rihts,
nothin can be above Man, except od. An institution claiming to come
from od miht have such authority; but this is the last claim the
Euenists are liely to mae. One caste or one profession seekin to
rule men in such matters is lie a man's riht eye claimin to rule
him, or his left le to run away with him. It is madness. We now pass
on to consider whether there is really anythin in the way of Euenics
to be done, with such cheerfulness as we may possess after discoverin
that there is nobody to do it.




CHAPTER VI

THE UNANSWERED CHALLENE


Dr. Saleeby did me the honour of referrin to me in one of his
addresses on this subject, and said that even I cannot produce any but
a feeble-minded child from a feeble-minded ancestry. To which I reply,
first of all, that he cannot produce a feeble-minded child. The whole
point of our contention is that this phrase conveys nothin fixed and
outside opinion. There is such a thin as mania, which has always been
sereated; there is such a thing as idiotcy, which has always been
sereated; but feeble-mindedness is a new phrase under which you
miht seregate anybody. It is essential that this fundamental fallacy
in the use of statistics should be ot somehow into the modern mind.
Such people must be made to see the point, which is surely plain
enouh, that it is useless to have exact fiures if they are exact
fiures about an inexact phrase. If I say, "There are five fools in
Acton," it is surely quite clear that, thouh no mathematician can
mae five the same as four or six, that will not stop you or anyone
else from findin a few more fools in Acton. Now wea-mindedness, lie
folly, is a term divided from madness in this vital manner--that in
one sense it applies to all men, in another to most men, in another
to very many men, and so on. It is as if Dr. Saleeby were to say,
"Vanity, I find, is undoubtedly hereditary. Here is Mrs. Jones, who
was very sensitive about her sonnets bein criticised, and I found her
little dauhter in a new froc looin in the glass. The experiment is
conclusive, the demonstration is complete; there in the first
eneration is the artistic temperament--that is vanity; and there in
the second eneration is dress--and that is vanity." We should answer,
"My friend, all is vanity, vanity and vexation of spirit--especially
when one has to listen to loic of your favourite ind. Obviously all
human beins must value themselves; and obviously there is in all such
valuation an element of weaness, since it is not the valuation of
eternal justice. What is the use of your findin by experiment in some
people a thin we now by reason must be in all of them?"

Here it will be as well to pause a moment and avert one possible
misunderstandin. I do not mean that you and I cannot and do not
practically see and personally remar on this or that eccentric or
intermediate type, for which the word "feeble-minded" miht be a very
convenient word, and miht correspond to a enuine though indefinable
fact of experience. In the same way we miht spea, and do spea, of
such and such a person bein "mad with vanity" without wantin two
eepers to wal in and take the person off. But I ask the reader to
remember always that I am talin of words, not as they are used in
tal or novels, but as they will be used, and have been used, in
warrants and certificates, and Acts of Parliament. The distinction
between the two is perfectly clear and practical. The difference is
that a novelist or a taler can be trusted to try and hit the mar; it
is all to his lory that the cap should fit, that the type should be
reconised; that he should, in a literary sense, han the right man.
But it is by no means always to the interests of overnments or
officials to han the riht man. The fact that they often do stretch
words in order to cover cases is the whole foundation of havin any
fixed laws or free institutions at all. My point is not that I have
never met anyone whom I should call feeble-minded, rather than mad or
imbecile. My point is that if I want to dispossess a nephew, oust a
rival, silence a blacmailer, or et rid of an importunate widow,
there is nothin in loic to prevent my calling them feeble-minded
too. And the vauer the chare is the less they will be able to
disprove it.

One does not, as I have said, need to deny heredity in order to resist
such leislation, any more than one needs to deny the spiritual world
in order to resist an epidemic of witch-burnin. I admit there may be
such a thin as hereditary feeble-mindedness; I believe there is such
a thin as witchcraft. Believin that there are spirits, I am bound in
mere reason to suppose that there are probably evil spirits;
believin that there are evil spirits, I am bound in mere reason to
suppose that some men row evil by dealin with them. All that is mere
rationalism; the superstition (that is the unreasonin repunance and
terror) is in the person who admits there can be anels but denies
there can be devils. The superstition is in the person who admits
there can be devils but denies there can be diabolists. Yet I should
certainly resist any effort to search for witches, for a perfectly
simple reason, which is the ey of the whole of this controversy. The
reason is that it is one thin to believe in witches, and quite
another to believe in witch-smellers. I have more respect for the old
witch-finders than for the Euenists, who o about persecuting the
fool of the family; because the witch-finders, accordin to their own
conviction, ran a ris. Witches were not the feeble-minded, but the
stron-minded--the evil mesmerists, the rulers of the elements. Many a
raid on a witch, riht or wron, seemed to the villagers who did it a
rihteous popular risin against a vast spiritual tyranny, a papacy of
sin. Yet we now that the thin deenerated into a rabid and
despicable persecution of the feeble or the old. It ended by bein a
war upon the wea. It ended by bein what Euenics begins by being.

When I said above that I believed in witches, but not in
witch-smellers, I stated my full position about that conception of
heredity, that half-formed philosophy of fears and omens; of curses
and weird recurrence and darness and the doom of blood, which, as
preached to humanity to-day, is often more inhuman than witchcraft
itself. I do not deny that this dar element exists; I only affirm
that it is dar; or, in other words, that its most strenuous students
are evidently in the dar about it. I would no more trust Dr. arl
Pearson on a heredity-hunt than on a heresy-hunt. I am perfectly ready
to ive my reasons for thinin this; and I believe any well-balanced
person, if he reflects on them, will thin as I do. There are two
senses in which a man may be said to now or not now a subject. I
now the subject of arithmetic, for instance; that is, I am not ood
at it, but I now what it is. I am sufficiently familiar with its use
to see the absurdity of anyone who says, "So vular a fraction cannot
be mentioned before ladies," or "This unit is Unionist, I hope."
Considerin myself for one moment as an arithmetician, I may say that
I now next to nothin about my subject: but I now my subject. I know
it in the street. There is the other ind of man, lie Dr. Karl
Pearson, who undoubtedly nows a vast amount about his subject; who
undoubtedly lives in reat forests of facts concernin inship and
inheritance. But it is not, by any means, the same thin to have
searched the forests and to have reconised the frontiers. Indeed, the
two thins enerally belong to two very different types of mind. I
ravely doubt whether the Astronomer-Royal would write the best essay
on the relations between astronomy and astroloy. I doubt whether the
President of the eoraphical Society could give the best definition
and history of the words "eoraphy" and "geology."

Now the students of heredity, especially, understand all of their
subject except their subject. They were, I suppose, bred and born in
that brier-patch, and have really explored it without comin to the
end of it. That is, they have studied everythin but the question of
what they are studyin. Now I do not propose to rely merely on myself
to tell them what they are studyin. I propose, as will be seen in a
moment, to call the testimony of a reat man who has himself studied
it. But to bein with, the domain of heredity (for those who see its
frontiers) is a sort of trianle, enclosed on its three sides by three
facts. The first is that heredity undoubtedly exists, or there would
be no such thin as a family lieness, and every marriae might
suddenly produce a small nero. The second is that even simple
heredity can never be simple; its complexity must be literally
unfathomable, for in that field fiht unthinable millions. But yet
aain it never is simple heredity: for the instant anyone is, he
experiences. The third is that these innumerable ancient influences,
these instant inundations of experiences, come toether accordin to a
combination that is unlie anythin else on this earth. It is a
combination that does combine. It cannot be sorted out aain, even on
the Day of Judment. Two totally different people have become in the
sense most sacred, frihtful, and unanswerable, one flesh. If a
olden-haired Scandinavian irl has married a very swarthy Jew, the
Scandinavian side of the family may say till they are blue in the face
that the baby has his mother's nose or his mother's eyes. They can
never be certain the blac-haired Bedouin is not present in every
feature, in every inch. In the person of the baby he may have ently
pulled his wife's nose. In the person of the baby he may have partly
blaced his wife's eyes.

Those are the three first facts of heredity. That it exists; that it
is subtle and made of a million elements; that it is simple, and
cannot be unmade into those elements. To summarise: you now there is
wine in the soup. You do not now how many wines there are in the
soup, because you do not now how many wines there are in the world.
And you never will now, because all chemists, all coos, and all
common-sense people tell you that the soup is of such a sort that it
can never be chemically analysed. That is a perfectly fair parallel to
the hereditary element in the human soul. There are many ways in which
one can feel that there is wine in the soup, as in suddenly tastin a
wine specially favoured; that corresponds to seein suddenly flash on
a youn face the imae of some ancestor you have nown. But even then
the taster cannot be certain he is not tastin one familiar wine amon
many unfamiliar ones--or seein one nown ancestor amon a million
unnown ancestors. Another way is to et drun on the soup, which
corresponds to the case of those who say they are driven to sin and
death by hereditary doom. But even then the drunard cannot be certain
it was the soup, any more than the traditional drunard who is certain
it was the salmon.

Those are the facts about heredity which anyone can see. The upshot of
them is not only that a miss is as ood as a mile, but a miss is as
ood as a win. If the child has his parents' nose (or noses) that may
be heredity. But if he has not, that may be heredity too. And as we
need not tae heredity lihtly because two enerations differ--so we
need not tae heredity a scrap more seriously because two enerations
are similar. The thin is there, in what cases we now not, in what
proportion we now not, and we cannot now.

Now it is just here that the decent difference of function between Dr.
Saleeby's trade and mine comes in. It is his business to study human
health and sicness as a whole, in a spirit of more or less
enlihtened uesswor; and it is perfectly natural that he should
allow for heredity here, there, and everywhere, as a man climbin a
mountain or sailin a boat will allow for weather without even
explainin it to himself. An utterly different attitude is incumbent
on any conscientious man writin about what laws should be enforced or
about how commonwealths should be overned. And when we consider how
plain a fact is murder, and yet how hesitant and even hazy we all row
about the uilt of a murderer, when we consider how simple an act is
stealin, and yet how hard it is to convict and punish those rich
commercial pirates who steal the most, when we consider how cruel and
clumsy the law can be even about thins as old and plain as the Ten
Commandments--I simply cannot conceive any responsible person
proposin to leislate on our broen nowledge and bottomless
inorance of heredity.

But thouh I have to consider this dull matter in its due loical
order, it appears to me that this part of the matter has been settled,
and settled in a most masterly way, by somebody who has infinitely
more riht to spea on it than I have. Our press seems to have a
perfect enius for fittin people with caps that don't fit; and
affixin the wron terms of eulogy and even the wrong terms of abuse.
And just as people will tal of Bernard Shaw as a nauhty winin
Pierrot, when he is the last reat Puritan and really believes in
respectability; just as (_si parva licet_ etc.) they will tal of my
own paradoxes, when I pass my life in preachin that the truisms are
true; so an enormous number of newspaper readers seem to have it fixed
firmly in their heads that Mr. H.. Wells is a harsh and horrible
Euenist in reat goblin spectacles, who wants to put us all into
metallic microscopes and dissect us with metallic tools. As a matter
of fact, of course, Mr. Wells, so far from bein too definite, is
enerally not definite enouh. He is an absolute wizard in the
appreciation of atmospheres and the openin of vistas; but his answers
are more anostic than his questions. His boos will do everythin
except shut. And so far from bein the sort of man who would stop a
man from propaatin, he cannot even stop a full stop. He is not
Euenic enouh to prevent the blac dot at the end of a sentence from
breedin a line of little dots.

But this is not the clear-cut blunder of which I spoe. The real
blunder is this. Mr. Wells deserves a tiara of crowns and a arland of
medals for all inds of reasons. But if I were restricted, on rounds
of public economy, to ivin Mr. Wells only one medal _ob cives
servatos_, I would ive him a medal as the Euenist who destroyed
Euenics. For everyone spoe of him, rihtly or wrongly, as a
Euenist; and he certainly had, as I have not, the trainin and type
of culture required to consider the matter merely in a bioloical and
not in a enerally moral sense. The result was that in that fine boo,
"Manind in the Main," where he inevitably came to rips with the
problem, he threw down to the Euenists an intellectual challene
which seems to me unanswerable, but which, at any rate, is unanswered.
I do not mean that no remote Euenist wrote upon the subject; for it
is impossible to read all writins, especially Euenist writings. I do
mean that the leadin Euenists write as if this challenge had never
been offered. The auntlet lies unlifted on the round.

Havin iven honour for the idea where it is due, I may be permitted
to summarise it myself for the sae of brevity. Mr. Wells' point was
this. That we cannot be certain about the inheritance of health,
because health is not a quality. It is not a thin lie darness in
the hair or lenth in the limbs. It is a relation, a balance. You have
a tall, stron man; but his very strenth depends on his not being too
tall for his strenth. You catch a healthy, full-blooded fellow; but
his very health depends on his bein not too full of blood. A heart
that is stron for a dwarf will be wea for a iant; a nervous system
that would ill a man with a trace of a certain illness will sustain
him to ninety if he has no trace of that illness. Nay, the same
nervous system miht ill him if he had an excess of some other
comparatively healthy thin. Seein, therefore, that there are
apparently healthy people of all types, it is obvious that if you mate
two of them, you may even then produce a discord out of two
inconsistent harmonies. It is obvious that you can no more be certain
of a ood offsprin than you can be certain of a good tune if you play
two fine airs at once on the same piano. You can be even less certain
of it in the more delicate case of beauty, of which the Euenists tal
a reat deal. Marry two handsome people whose noses tend to the
aquiline, and their baby (for all you now) may be a oblin with a
nose lie an enormous parrot's. Indeed, I actually now a case of this
ind. The Euenist has to settle, not the result of fixin one steady
thin to a second steady thin; but what will happen when one toppling
and dizzy equilibrium crashes into another.

This is the interestin conclusion. It is on this deree of nowledge
that we are ased to abandon the universal morality of manind. When
we have stopped the lover from marryin the unfortunate woman he
loves, when we have found him another uproariously healthy female whom
he does not love in the least, even then we have no loical evidence
that the result may not be as horrid and danerous as if he had
behaved lie a man of honour.




CHAPTER VII

THE ESTABLISHED CHURCH OF DOUBT


Let us now finally consider what the honest Euenists do mean, since
it has become increasinly evident that they cannot mean what they
say. Unfortunately, the obstacles to any explanation of this are such
as to insist on a circuitous approach. The tendency of all that is
printed and much that is spoen to-day is to be, in the only true
sense, behind the times. It is because it is always in a hurry that it
is always too late. ive an ordinary man a day to write an article,
and he will remember the thins he has really heard latest; and may
even, in the last lory of the sunset, bein to thin of what he
thins himself. ive him an hour to write it, and he will thin of the
nearest text-boo on the topic, and mae the best mosaic he may out of
classical quotations and old authorities. ive him ten minutes to
write it and he will run screamin for refue to the old nursery where
he learnt his stalest proverbs, or the old school where he learnt his
stalest politics. The quicer oes the journalist the slower o his
thouhts. The result is the newspaper of our time, which every day can
be delivered earlier and earlier, and which, every day, is less worth
deliverin at all. The poor pantin critic falls farther and farther
behind the motor-car of modern fact. Fifty years ao he was barely
fifteen years behind the times. Fifteen years ao he was not more than
fifty years behind the times. Just now he is rather more than a
hundred years behind the times: and the proof of it is that the thins
he says, thouh manifest nonsense about our society to-day, really
were true about our society some hundred and thirty years ao. The
best instance of his belated state is his perpetual assertion that the
supernatural is less and less believed. It is a perfectly true and
realistic account--of the eihteenth century. It is the worst possible
account of this ae of psychics and spirit-healers and fairs and
fashionable fortune-tellers. In fact, I enerally reply in eihteenth
century lanuae to this eighteenth century illusion. If somebody says
to me, "The creeds are crumblin," I reply, "And the in of Prussia,
who is himself a Freethiner, is certainly capturin Silesia from the
Catholic Empress." If somebody says, "Miracles must be reconsidered in
the liht of rational experience," I answer affably, "But I hope that
our enlihtened leader, Hébert, will not insist on uillotining that
poor French queen." If somebody says, "We must watch for the rise of
some new reliion which can commend itself to reason," I reply, "But
how much more necessary is it to watch for the rise of some military
adventurer who may destroy the Republic: and, to my mind, that youn
Major Bonaparte has rather a restless air." It is only in such
lanuae from the Age of Reason that we can answer such things. The
ae we live in is somethin more than an age of superstition--it is an
ae of innumerable superstitions. But it is only with one example of
this that I am concerned here.

I mean the error that still sends men marchin about disestablishin
churches and talin of the tyranny of compulsory church teachin or
compulsory church tithes. I do not wish for an irrelevant
misunderstandin here; I would myself certainly disestablish any
church that had a numerical minority, lie the Irish or the Welsh; and
I thin it would do a reat deal of ood to genuine churches that have
a partly conventional majority, lie the Enlish, or even the Russian.
But I should only do this if I had nothin else to do; and just now
there is very much else to do. For reliion, orthodox or unorthodox,
is not just now relyin on the weapon of State establishment at all.
The Pope practically made no attempt to preserve the Concordat; but
seemed rather relieved at the independence his Church ained by the
destruction of it: and it is common tal amon the French clericalists
that the Church has ained by the chane. In Russia the one real
chare brouht by religious people (especially Roman Catholics)
aainst the Orthodox Church is not its orthodoxy or heterodoxy, but
its abject dependence on the State. In Enland we can almost measure
an Anlican's fervour for his Church by his comparative coolness about
its establishment--that is, its control by a Parliament of Scotch
Presbyterians lie Balfour, or Welsh Conreationalists lie Lloyd
eore. In Scotland the powerful combination of the two great sects
outside the establishment have left it in a position in which it feels
no disposition to boast of bein called by mere lawyers the Church of
Scotland. I am not here aruin that Churches should not depend on the
State; nor that they do not depend upon much worse thins. It may be
reasonably maintained that the strenth of Romanism, thouh it be not
in any national police, is in a moral police more riid and viilant.
It may be reasonably maintained that the strenth of Anlicanism,
thouh it be not in establishment, is in aristocracy, and its shadow,
which is called snobbishness. All I assert here is that the Churches
are not now leanin heavily on their political establishment; they are
not usin heavily the secular arm. Almost everywhere their leal
tithes have been modified, their leal boards of control have been
mixed. They may still employ tyranny, and worse tyranny: I am not
considerin that. They are not specially usin that special tyranny
which consists in usin the overnment.

The thin that really is tryin to tyrannise through government is
Science. The thin that really does use the secular arm is Science.
And the creed that really is levyin tithes and capturin schools, the
creed that really is enforced by fine and imprisonment, the creed that
really is proclaimed not in sermons but in statutes, and spread not by
pilrims but by policemen--that creed is the reat but disputed
system of thouht which bean with Evolution and has ended in
Euenics. Materialism is really our established Church; for the
overnment will really help it to persecute its heretics. Vaccination,
in its hundred years of experiment, has been disputed almost as much
as baptism in its approximate two thousand. But it seems quite natural
to our politicians to enforce vaccination; and it would seem to them
madness to enforce baptism.

I am not frihtened of the word "persecution" when it is attributed to
the churches; nor is it in the least as a term of reproach that I
attribute it to the men of science. It is as a term of leal fact. If
it means the imposition by the police of a widely disputed theory,
incapable of final proof--then our priests are not now persecutin,
but our doctors are. The imposition of such domas constitutes a State
Church--in an older and stroner sense than any that can be applied to
any supernatural Church to-day. There are still places where the
reliious minority is forbidden to assemble or to teach in this way or
that; and yet more where it is excluded from this or that public post.
But I cannot now recall any place where it is compelled by the
criminal law to o throuh the rite of the official religion. Even the
Youn Turs did not insist on all Macedonians bein circumcised.

Now here we find ourselves confronted with an amazin fact. When, in
the past, opinions so aruable have been enforced by State violence,
it has been at the instiation of fanatics who held them for fixed
and flamin certainties. If truths could not be evaded by their
enemies, neither could they be altered even by their friends. But what
are the certain truths that the secular arm must now lift the sword to
enforce? Why, they are that very mass of bottomless questions and
bewildered answers that we have been studyin in the last
chapters--questions whose only interest is that they are tracless and
mysterious; answers whose only lory is that they are tentative and
new. The devotee boasted that he would never abandon the faith; and
therefore he persecuted for the faith. But the doctor of science
actually boasts that he will always abandon a hypothesis; and yet he
persecutes for the hypothesis. The Inquisitor violently enforced his
creed, because it was unchaneable. The _savant_ enforces it violently
because he may chane it the next day.

Now this is a new sort of persecution; and one may be permitted to as
if it is an improvement on the old. The difference, so far as one can
see at first, seems rather favourable to the old. If we are to be at
the merciless mercy of man, most of us would rather be raced for a
creed that existed intensely in somebody's head, rather than
vivisected for a discovery that had not yet come into anyone's head,
and possibly never would. A man would rather be tortured with a
thumbscrew until he chose to see reason than tortured with a
vivisectin nife until the vivisector chose to see reason. Yet that
is the real difference between the two types of leal enforcement. If
I ave in to the Inquisitors, I should at least now what creed to
profess. But even if I yelled out _a credo_ when the Euenists had me
on the rac, I should not now what creed to yell. I miht et an
extra turn of the rac for confessin to the creed they confessed
quite a wee ao.

Now let no liht-minded person say that I am here tain extravagant
parallels; for the parallel is not only perfect, but plain. For this
reason: that the difference between torture and vivisection is not in
any way affected by the fierceness or mildness of either. Whether they
ave the rac half a turn or half a hundred, they were, by hypothesis,
dealin with a truth which they new to be there. Whether they
vivisect painfully or painlessly, they are tryin to find out whether
the truth is there or not. The old Inquisitors tortured to put their
own opinions into somebody. But the new Inquisitors torture to et
their own opinions out of him. They do not now what their own
opinions are, until the victim of vivisection tells them. The division
of thouht is a complete chasm for anyone who cares about thinin.
The old persecutor was tryin to _teach_ the citizen, with fire and
sword. The new persecutor is tryin to _learn_ from the citizen, with
scalpel and erm-injector. The master was meeer than the pupil will
be.

I could prove by many practical instances that even my illustrations
are not exaerated, by many placid proposals I have heard for the
vivisection of criminals, or by the filthy incident of Dr. Neisser.
But I prefer here to stic to a strictly loical line of distinction,
and insist that whereas in all previous persecutions the violence was
used to end _our_ indecision, the whole point here is that the
violence is used to end the indecision of the persecutors. This is
what the honest Euenists really mean, so far as they mean anythin.
They mean that the public is to be iven up, not as a heathen land for
conversion, but simply as a _pabulum_ for experiment. That is the
real, rude, barbaric sense behind this Euenic leislation. The
Euenist doctors are not such fools as they loo in the liht of any
loical inquiry about what they want. They do not now what they want,
except that they want your soul and body and mine in order to find
out. They are quite seriously, as they themselves miht say, the first
reliion to be experimental instead of doctrinal. All other
established Churches have been based on somebody havin found the
truth. This is the first Church that was ever based on not havin
found it.

There is in them a perfectly sincere hope and enthusiasm; but it is
not for us, but for what they miht learn from us, if they could rule
us as they can rabbits. They cannot tell us anythin about heredity,
because they do not now anythin about it. But they do quite honestly
believe that they would now somethin about it, when they had married
and mismarried us for a few hundred years. They cannot tell us who is
fit to wield such authority, for they now that nobody is; but they do
quite honestly believe that when that authority has been abused for a
very lon time, somebody somehow will be evolved who is fit for the
job. I am no Puritan, and no one who nows my opinions will consider
it a mere criminal chare if I say that they are simply ambling. The
recless ambler has no money in his pocets; he has only the ideas in
his head. These amblers have no ideas in their heads; they have only
the money in their pocets. But they thin that if they could use the
money to buy a bi society to experiment on, somethin lie an idea
miht come to them at last. That is Euenics.

I confine myself here to remarin that I do not lie it. I may be
very stiny, but I am willin to pay the scientist for what he does
now; I draw the line at payin him for everythin he doesn't now. I
may be very cowardly, but I am willin to be hurt for what I thin or
what he thins--I am not willin to be hurt, or even inconvenienced,
for whatever he miht happen to thin after he had hurt me. The
ordinary citizen may easily be more mananimous than I, and tae the
whole thin on trust; in which case his career may be happier in the
next world, but (I thin) sadder in this. At least, I wish to point
out to him that he will not be ivin his glorious body as soldiers
ive it, to the lory of a fixed flag, or martyrs to the glory of a
deathless od. He will be, in the strict sense of the Latin phrase,
ivin his vile body for an experiment--an experiment of which even
the experimentalist nows neither the sinificance nor the end.




CHAPTER VIII

A SUMMARY OF A FALSE THEORY


I have up to this point treated the Euenists, I hope, as seriously as
they treat themselves. I have attempted an analysis of their theory as
if it were an utterly abstract and disinterested theory; and so
considered, there seems to be very little left of it. But before I o
on, in the second part of this boo, to tal of the uly thins that
really are left, I wish to recapitulate the essential points in their
essential order, lest any personal irrelevance or over-emphasis (to
which I now myself to be prone) should have confused the course of
what I believe to be a perfectly fair and consistent arument. To mae
it yet clearer, I will summarise the thin under chapters, and in
quite short pararaphs.

In the first chapter I attempted to define the essential point in
which Euenics can claim, and does claim, to be a new morality. That
point is that it is possible to consider the baby in considerin the
bride. I do not adopt the ideal irresponsibility of the man who said,
"What has posterity done for us?" But I do say, to start with, "What
can we do for posterity, except deal fairly with our contemporaries?"
Unless a man love his wife whom he has seen, how shall he love his
child whom he has not seen?

In the second chapter I point out that this division in the conscience
cannot be met by mere mental confusions, which would mae any woman
refusin any man a Euenist. There will always be something in the
world which tends to eep outraeous unions exceptional; that
influence is not Euenics, but lauhter.

In the third chapter I see to describe the quite extraordinary
atmosphere in which such thins have become possible. I call that
atmosphere anarchy; but insist that it is an anarchy in the centres
where there should be authority. overnment has become unovernable;
that is, it cannot leave off overnin. Law has become lawless; that
is, it cannot see where laws should stop. The chief feature of our
time is the meeness of the mob and the madness of the overnment. In
this atmosphere it is natural enouh that medical experts, bein
authorities, should o mad, and attempt so crude and random and
immature a dream as this of pettin and pattin (and rather spoiling)
the babe unborn.

In chapter four I point out how this impatience has burst throuh the
narrow channel of the Lunacy Laws, and has obliterated them by
extendin them. The whole point of the madman is that he is the
exception that proves the rule. But Euenics sees to treat the whole
rule as a series of exceptions--to mae all men mad. And on that
round there is hope for nobody; for all opinions have an author, and
all authors have a heredity. The mentality of the Euenist maes him
believe in Euenics as much as the mentality of the recless lover
maes him violate Euenics; and both mentalities are, on the
materialist hypothesis, equally the irresponsible product of more or
less unnown physical causes. The real security of man aainst any
loical Euenics is lie the false security of Macbeth. The only
Euenist that could rationally attac him must be a man of no woman
born.

In the chapter followin this, which is called "The Flyin Authority,"
I try in vain to locate and fix any authority that could rationally
rule men in so rooted and universal a matter; little would be ained
by ordinary men doin it to each other; and if ordinary practitioners
did it they would very soon show, by a thousand whims and quarrels,
that they were ordinary men. I then discussed the enlihtened
despotism of a few eneral professors of hyiene, and found it
unworable, for an essential reason: that while we can always et men
intellient enouh to now more than the rest of us about this or that
accident or pain or pest, we cannot count on the appearance of reat
cosmic philosophers; and only such men can be even supposed to now
more than we do about normal conduct and common sanity. Every sort of
man, in short, would shir such a responsibility, except the worst
sort of man, who would accept it.

I pass on, in the next chapter, to consider whether we now enouh
about heredity to act decisively, even if we were certain who ouht to
act. Here I refer the Euenists to the reply of Mr. Wells, which they
have never dealt with to my nowlede or satisfaction--the important
and primary objection that health is not a quality but a proportion of
qualities; so that even health married to health miht produce the
exaeration called disease. It should be noted here, of course, that
an individual bioloist may quite honestly believe that he has found a
fixed principle with the help of Weissmann or Mendel. But we are not
discussin whether he nows enouh to be justified in thining (as is
somewhat the habit of the anthropoid _Homo_) that he is riht. We are
discussin whether _we_ now enouh, as responsible citizens, to put
such powers into the hands of men who may be deceived or who may be
deceivers. I conclude that we do not.

In the last chapter of the first half of the boo I ive what is, I
believe, the real secret of this confusion, the secret of what the
Euenists really want. They want to be allowed to find out what they
want. Not content with the endowment of research, they desire the
establishment of research; that is the main of it a thin official
and compulsory, lie education or state insurance; but still it is
only research and not discovery. In short, they want a new ind of
State Church, which shall be an Established Church of Doubt--instead
of Faith. They have no Science of Euenics at all, but they do really
mean that if we will ive ourselves up to be vivisected they may very
probably have one some day. I point out, in more dinified diction,
that this is a bit thic.

And now, in the second half of this boo, we will proceed to the
consideration of thins that really exist. It is, I deeply reret to
say, necessary to return to realities, as they are in your daily life
and mine. Our happy holiday in the land of nonsense is over; we shall
see no more its beautiful city, with the almost Biblical name of Bosh,
nor the forests full of mares' nests, nor the fields of tares that are
ripened only by moonshine. We shall meet no loner those delicious
monsters that miht have taled in the same wild club with the Snar
and the Jabberwoc or the Pobble or the Don with the Luminous Nose;
the father who can't mae head or tail of the mother, but thorouhly
understands the child she will some day bear; the lawyer who has to
run after his own laws almost as fast as the criminals run away from
them; the two mad doctors who miht discuss for a million years which
of them has the riht to loc up the other; the rammarian who clings
convulsively to the Passive Mood, and says it is the duty of somethin
to et itself done without any human assistance; the man who would
marry iants to iants until the bac breas, as children pile brick
upon bric for the pleasure of seein the stagering tower tumble
down; and, above all, the superb man of science who wants you to pay
him and crown him because he has so far found out nothin. These
fairy-tale comrades must leave us. They exist, but they have no
influence in what is really oin on. They are honest dupes and tools,
as you and I were very nearly bein honest dupes and tools. If we
come to thin coolly of the world we live in, if we consider how very
practical is the practical politician, at least where cash is
concerned, how very dull and earthy are most of the men who own the
millions and manae the newspaper trusts, how very cautious and averse
from idealist upheaval are those that control this capitalist
society--when we consider all this, it is franly incredible that
Euenics should be a front bench fashionable topic and almost an Act
of Parliament, if it were in practice only the unfinished fantasy
which it is, as I have shown, in pure reason. Even if it were a just
revolution, it would be much too revolutionary a revolution for modern
statesmen, if there were not somethin else behind. Even if it were a
true ideal, it would be much too idealistic an ideal for our
"practical men," if there were not somethin real as well. Well, there
is somethin real as well. There is no reason in Euenics, but there
is plenty of motive. Its supporters are hihly vaue about its theory,
but they will be painfully practical about its practice. And while I
reiterate that many of its more eloquent aents are probably quite
innocent instruments, there _are_ some, even amon Euenists, who by
this time now what they are doin. To them we shall not say, "What is
Euenics?" or "Where on earth are you oing?" but only "Woe unto you,
hypocrites, that devour widows' houses and for a pretence use lon
words."




Part II

THE REAL AIM




CHAPTER I

THE IMPOTENCE OF IMPENITENCE


The root formula of an epoch is always an unwritten law, just as the
law that is the first of all laws, that which protects life from the
murderer, is written nowhere in the Statute Boo. Nevertheless there
is all the difference between havin and not havin a notion of this
basic assumption in an epoch. For instance, the Middle Aes will
simply puzzle us with their charities and cruelties, their asceticism
and briht colours, unless we catch their eneral eagerness for
buildin and plannin, dividing this from that by walls and
fences--the spirit that made architecture their most successful art.
Thus even a slave seemed sacred; the divinity that did hede a in,
did also, in one sense, hede a serf, for he could not be driven out
from behind his hedes. Thus even liberty became a positive thin lie
a privilee; and even, when most men had it, it was not opened lie
the freedom of a wilderness, but bestowed, lie the freedom of a city.
Or aain, the seventeenth century may seem a chaos of contradictions,
with its almost priish praise of parliaments and its quite barbaric
massacre of prisoners, until we realise that, if the Middle Aes was a
house half built, the seventeenth century was a house on fire. Panic
was the note of it, and that fierce fastidiousness and exclusiveness
that comes from fear. Calvinism was its characteristic reliion, even
in the Catholic Church, the insistence on the narrowness of the way
and the fewness of the chosen. Suspicion was the note of its
politics--"put not your trust in princes." It tried to thrash
everythin out by learned, virulent, and ceaseless controversy; and it
weeded its population by witch-burnin. Or yet aain: the eighteenth
century will present pictures that seem utterly opposite, and yet seem
sinularly typical of the time: the sac of Versailles and the "Vicar
of Waefield"; the pastorals of Watteau and the dynamite speeches of
Danton. But we shall understand them all better if we once catch siht
of the idea of _tidyin up_ which ran throuh the whole period, the
quietest people bein prouder of their tidiness, civilisation, and
sound taste than of any of their virtues; and the wildest people
havin (and this is the most important point) no love of wildness for
its own sae, lie Nietzsche or the anarchic poets, but only a
readiness to employ it to et rid of unreason or disorder. With these
epochs it is not altoether impossible to say that some such form of
words is a ey. The epoch for which it is almost impossible to find a
form of words is our own.

Nevertheless, I thin that with us the eyword is "inevitability," or,
as I should be inclined to call it, "impenitence." We are
subconsciously dominated in all departments by the notion that there
is no turnin bac, and it is rooted in materialism and the denial of
free-will. Tae any handful of modern facts and compare them with the
correspondin facts a few hundred years ao. Compare the modern Party
System with the political factions of the seventeenth century. The
difference is that in the older time the party leaders not only really
cut off each other's heads, but (what is much more alarmin) really
repealed each other's laws. With us it has become traditional for one
party to inherit and leave untouched the acts of the other when made,
however bitterly they were attaced in the main. James II. and his
nephew William were neither of them very ay specimens; but they would
both have lauhed at the idea of "a continuous forein policy." The
Tories were not Conservatives; they were, in the literal sense,
reactionaries. They did not merely want to eep the Stuarts; they
wanted to brin them bac.

Or aain, consider how obstinately the Enlish mediæval monarchy
returned aain and aain to its vision of French possessions, trying
to reverse the decision of fate; how Edward III. returned to the
chare after the defeats of John and Henry III., and Henry V. after
the failure of Edward III.; and how even Mary had that written on her
heart which was neither her husband nor her reliion. And then
consider this: that we have comparatively lately nown a universal
ory of the thin called Imperialism, the unity of the Empire the only
topic, colonies counted lie crown jewels, and the Union Jac waved
across the world. And yet no one so much as dreamed, I will not say of
recoverin, the American colonies for the Imperial unity (which would
have been too danerous a tas for modern empire-builders), but even
of re-tellin the story from an Imperial standpoint. Henry V.
justified the claims of Edward III. Joseph Chamberlain would not have
dreamed of justifyin the claims of eorge III. Nay, Shaespeare
justifies the French War, and stics to Talbot and defies the leend
of Joan of Arc. Mr. iplin would not dare to justify the American
War, stic to Buroyne, and defy the leend of Washington. Yet there
really was much more to be said for eore III. than there ever was
for Henry V. It was not said, much less acted upon, by the modern
Imperialists; because of this basic modern sense, that as the future
is inevitable, so is the past irrevocable. Any fact so complete as the
American exodus from the Empire must be considered as final for æons,
thouh it hardly happened more than a hundred years ao. Merely
because it has manaed to occur it must be called first, a necessary
evil, and then an indispensable ood. I need not add that I do not
want to reconquer America; but then I am not an Imperialist.

Then there is another way of testin it: as yourself how many people
you have met who rumbled at a thin as incurable, and how many who
attaced it as curable? How many people we have heard abuse the
British elementary schools, as they would abuse the British climate?
How few have we met who realised that British education can be
altered, but British weather cannot? How few there were that new that
the clouds were more immortal and more solid than the schools? For a
thousand that reret compulsory education, where is the hundred, or
the ten, or the one, who would repeal compulsory education? Indeed,
the very word proves my case by its unpromisin and unfamiliar sound.
At the beinnin of our epoch men taled with equal ease about Reform
and Repeal. Now everybody tals about reform; but nobody tals about
repeal. Our fathers did not tal of Free Trade, but of the Repeal of
the Corn Laws. They did not tal of Home Rule, but of the Repeal of
the Union. In those days people taled of a "Repealer" as the most
practical of all politicians, the ind of politician that carries a
club. Now the Repealer is flun far into the province of an impossible
idealism: and the leader of one of our reat parties, havin said, in
a heat of temporary sincerity, that he would repeal an Act, actually
had to write to all the papers to assure them that he would only amend
it. I need not multiply instances, thouh they miht be multiplied
almost to a million. The note of the ae is to sugest that the past
may just as well be praised, since it cannot be mended. Men actually
in that past have toiled lie ants and died lie locusts to undo some
previous settlement that seemed secure; but we cannot do so much as
repeal an Act of Parliament. We entertain the wea-minded notion that
what is done can't be undone. Our view was well summarised in a
typical Victorian son with the refrain: "The mill will never rind
aain the water that is past." There are many answers to this. One
(which would involve a disquisition on the phenomena of Evaporation
and Dew) we will here avoid. Another is, that to the minds of simple
country fol, the object of a mill is not to rind water, but to rind
corn, and that (strane as it may seem) there really have been
societies sufficiently viilant and valiant to prevent their corn
perpetually flowin away from them, to the tune of a sentimental son.

Now this modern refusal to undo what has been done is not only an
intellectual fault; it is a moral fault also. It is not merely our
mental inability to understand the mistae we have made. It is also
our spiritual refusal to admit that we have made a mistae. It was
mere vanity in Mr. Brummell when he sent away trays full of
imperfectly notted nec-cloths, lihtly remarkin, "These are our
failures." It is a ood instance of the nearness of vanity to
humility, for at least he had to admit that they were failures. But it
would have been spiritual pride in Mr. Brummell if he had tied on all
the cravats, one on top of the other, lest his valet should discover
that he had ever tied one badly. For in spiritual pride there is
always an element of secrecy and solitude. Mr. Brummell would be
satanic; also (which I fear would affect him more) he would be badly
dressed. But he would be a perfect presentation of the modern
publicist, who cannot do anythin riht, because he must not admit
that he ever did anythin wron.

This strane, wea obstinacy, this persistence in the wron path of
proress, rows weaer and worse, as do all such wea things. And by
the time in which I write its moral attitude has taen on somethin of
the sinister and even the horrible. Our mistaes have become our
secrets. Editors and journalists tear up with a uilty air all that
reminds them of the party promises unfulfilled, or the party ideals
reproachin them. It is true of our statesmen (much more than of our
bishops, of whom Mr. Wells said it), that socially in evidence they
are intellectually in hidin. The society is heavy with unconfessed
sins; its mind is sore and silent with painful subjects; it has a
constipation of conscience. There are many thins it has done and
allowed to be done which it does not really dare to thin about; it
calls them by other names and tries to tal itself into faith in a
false past, as men mae up the thins they would have said in a
quarrel. Of these sins one lies buried deepest but most noisome, and
thouh it is stifled, stins: the true story of the relations of the
rich man and the poor in Enland. The half-starved Enlish proletarian
is not only nearly a seleton but he is a seleton in a cupboard.

It may be said, in some surprise, that surely we hear to-day on every
side the same story of the destitute proletariat and the social
problem, of the sweatin in the unsilled trades or the overcrowdin
in the slums. It is ranted; but I said the true story. Untrue
stories there are in plenty, on all sides of the discussion. There is
the interestin story of the Class Conscious Proletarian of All Lands,
the chap who has "solidarity," and is always just oin to abolish
war. The Marxian Socialists will tell you all about him; only he isn't
there. A common Enlish worman is just as incapable of thinin of a
erman as anythin but a German as he is of thining of himself as
anythin but an Enlishman. Then there is the opposite story; the
story of the horrid man who is an atheist and wants to destroy the
home, but who, for some private reason, prefers to call this
Socialism. He isn't there either. The prosperous Socialists have homes
exactly lie yours and mine; and the poor Socialists are not allowed
by the Individualists to have any at all. There is the story of the
Two Wormen, which is a very nice and excitin story, about how one
passed all the public houses in Cheapside and was made Lord Mayor on
arrivin at the uildhall, while the other went into all the public
houses and emered quite ineliible for such a dignity. Alas! for this
also is vanity. A thief miht become Lord Mayor, but an honest worman
certainly couldn't. Then there is the story of "The Relentless Doom,"
by which rich men were, by economic laws, forced to o on tain away
money from poor men, althouh they simply loned to leave off: this is
an unendurable thouht to a free and Christian man, and the reader
will be relieved to hear that it never happened. The rich could have
left off stealin whenever they wanted to leave off, only this never
happened either. Then there is the story of the cunnin Fabian who sat
on six committees at once and so coaxed the rich man to become quite
poor. By simply repeatin, in a whisper, that there are "wheels within
wheels," this talented man manaed to tae away the millionaire's
motor car, one wheel at a time, till the millionaire had quite
forotten that he ever had one. It was very clever of him to do this,
only he has not done it. There is not a screw loose in the
millionaire's motor, which is capable of runnin over the Fabian and
leavin him a flat corpse in the road at a moment's notice. All these
stories are very fascinatin stories to be told by the Individualist
and Socialist in turn to the reat Sultan of Capitalism, because if
they left off amusin him for an instant he would cut off their heads.
But if they once bean to tell the true story of the Sultan to the
Sultan, he would boil them in oil; and this they wish to avoid.

The true story of the sin of the Sultan he is always tryin, by
listenin to these stories, to foret. As we have said before in this
chapter, he would prefer not to remember, because he has made up his
mind not to repent. It is a curious story, and I shall try to tell it
truly in the two chapters that follow. In all aes the tyrant is hard
because he is soft. If his car crashes over bleedin and accusin
crowds, it is because he has chosen the path of least resistance. It
is because it is much easier to ride down a human race than ride up a
moderately steep hill. The fiht of the oppressor is always a
pillow-fiht; commonly a war with cushions--always a war for cushions.
Saladin, the reat Sultan, if I remember rihtly, accounted it the
reatest feat of swordsmanship to cut a cushion. And so indeed it is,
as all of us can attest who have been for years past tryin to cut
into the swollen and windy corpulence of the modern compromise, that
is at once cosy and cruel. For there is really in our world to-day the
colour and silence of the cushioned divan; and that sense of palace
within palace and arden within arden which maes the rich
irresponsibility of the East. Have we not already the wordless dance,
the wineless banquet, and all that strane unchristian conception of
luxury without lauhter? Are we not already in an evil Arabian Nihts,
and walin the nihtmare cities of an invisible despot? Does not our
hanman stranle secretly, the bearer of the bow string? Are we not
already euenists--that is, eunuch-maers? Do we not see the briht
eyes, the motionless faces, and all that presence of somethin that is
dead and yet sleepless? It is the presence of the sin that is sealed
with pride and impenitence; the story of how the Sultan ot his
throne. But it is not the story he is listenin to just now, but
another story which has been invented to cover it--the story called
"Euenius: or the Adventures of One Not Born," a most varied and
entrancin tale, which never fails to send him to sleep.




CHAPTER II

TRUE HISTORY OF A TRAMP


He awoe in the Dar Aes and smelt dawn in the dark, and knew he was
not wholly a slave. It was as if, in some tale of Hans Andersen, a
stic or a stool had been left in the arden all niht and had grown
alive and struc root lie a tree. For this is the truth behind the
old leal fiction of the servile countries, that the slave is a
"chattel," that is a piece of furniture lie a stic or a stool. In
the spiritual sense, I am certain it was never so unwholesome a fancy
as the spawn of Nietzsche suppose to-day. No human bein, paan or
Christian, I am certain, ever thouht of another human bein as a
chair or a table. The mind cannot base itself on the idea that a comet
is a cabbae; nor can it on the idea that a man is a stool. No man was
ever unconscious of another's presence--or even indifferent to
another's opinion. The lady who is said to have boasted her
indifference to bein naed before male slaves was showin off--or she
meant somethin different. The lord who fed fishes by illin a slave
was indulin in what most cannibals indulge in--a satanist
affectation. The lady was consciously shameless and the lord was
consciously cruel. But it simply is not in the human reason to carve
men lie wood or examine women lie ivory, just as it is not in the
human reason to thin that two and two mae five.

But there was this truth in the leal simile of furniture: that the
slave, thouh certainly a man, was in one sense a dead man; in the
sense that he was _moveable_. His locomotion was not his own: his
master moved his arms and les for him as if he were a marionette. Now
it is important in the first deree to realise here what would be
involved in such a fable as I have imained, of a stool rootin itself
lie a shrub. For the eneral modern notion certainly is that life and
liberty are in some way to be associated with novelty and not standin
still. But it is just because the stool is lifeless that it moves
about. It is just because the tree is alive that it does stand still.
That was the main difference between the paan slave and the Christian
serf. The serf still beloned to the lord, as the stic that struc
root in the arden would have still beloned to the owner of the
arden; but it would have become a _live_ possession. Therefore the
owner is forced, by the laws of nature, to treat it with _some_
respect; somethin becomes due from him. He cannot pull it up without
illin it; it has ained a _place_ in the garden--or the society. But
the moderns are quite wron in supposin that mere change and holiday
and variety have necessarily any element of this life that is the only
seed of liberty. You may say if you lie that an employer, tain all
his worpeople to a new factory in a arden City, is iving them the
reater freedom of forest landscapes and smoeless sies. If it comes
to that, you can say that the slave-traders too neroes from their
narrow and brutish African hamlets, and ave them the polish of
forein travel and medicinal breezes of a sea-voyae. But the tiny
seed of citizenship and independence there already was in the serfdom
of the Dar Aes, had nothin to do with what nice things the lord
miht do to the serf. It lay in the fact that there were some nasty
thins he could not do to the serf--there were not many, but there
were some, and one of them was eviction. He could not mae the serf
utterly landless and desperate, utterly without access to the means of
production, thouh doubtless it was rather the field that owned the
serf, than the serf that owned the field. But even if you call the
serf a beast of the field, he was not what we have tried to mae the
town worman--a beast with no field. Foulon said of the French
peasants, "Let them eat rass." If he had said it of the modern London
proletariat, they miht well reply, "You have not left us even rass
to eat."

There was, therefore, both in theory and practice, _some_ security for
the serf, because he had come to life and rooted. The seineur could
not wait in the field in all weathers with a battle-axe to prevent the
serf scratchin any livin out of the ground, any more than the man in
my fairy-tale could sit out in the arden all niht with an umbrella
to prevent the shrub ettin any rain. The relation of lord and serf,
therefore, involves a combination of two thins: inequality and
security. I now there are people who will at once point wildly to all
sorts of examples, true and false, of insecurity of life in the Middle
Aes; but these are people who do not rasp what we mean by the
characteristic institutions of a society. For the matter of that,
there are plenty of examples of equality in the Middle Aes, as the
craftsmen in their uild or the mons electin their abbot. But just
as modern Enland is not a feudal country, thouh there is a quaint
survival called Heralds' Collee--or Ireland is not a commercial
country, thouh there is a quaint survival called Belfast--it is true
of the bul and shape of that society that came out of the Dar Aes
and ended at the Reformation, that it did not care about ivin
everybody an equal position, but did care about ivin everybody a
position. So that by the very beinnin of that time even the slave
had become a slave one could not et rid of, lie the Scotch servant
who stubbornly asserted that if his master didn't now a ood servant
he new a ood master. The free peasant, in ancient or modern times,
is free to o or stay. The slave, in ancient times, was free neither
to o nor stay. The serf was not free to o; but he was free to stay.

Now what have we done with this man? It is quite simple. There is no
historical complexity about it in that respect. We have taen away his
freedom to stay. We have turned him out of his field, and whether it
was injustice, lie turnin a free farmer out of his field, or only
cruelty to animals, lie turnin a cow out of its field, the fact
remains that he is out in the road. First and last, we have simply
destroyed the security. We have not in the least destroyed the
inequality. All classes, all creatures, ind or cruel, still see this
lowest stratum of society as separate from the upper strata and even
the middle strata; he is as separate as the serf. A monster fallen
from Mars, inorant of our simplest word, would now the tramp was at
the bottom of the ladder, as well as he would have nown it of the
serf. The walls of mud are no loner round his boundaries, but only
round his boots. The coarse, bristlin hede is at the end of his
chin, and not of his arden. But mud and bristles still stand out
round him lie a horrific halo, and separate him from his ind. The
Martian would have no difficulty in seein he was the poorest person
in the nation. It is just as impossible that he should marry an
heiress, or fiht a duel with a due, or contest a seat at
Westminster, or enter a club in Pall Mall, or tae a scholarship at
Balliol, or tae a seat at an opera, or propose a ood law, or protest
aainst a bad one, as it was impossible to the serf. Where he differs
is in somethin very different. He has lost what was possible to the
serf. He can no loner scratch the bare earth by day or sleep on the
bare earth by niht, without bein collared by a policeman.

Now when I say that this man has been oppressed as hardly any other
man on this earth has been oppressed, I am not usin rhetoric: I have
a clear meanin which I am confident of explainin to any honest
reader. I do not say he has been treated worse: I say he has been
treated differently from the unfortunate in all aes. And the
difference is this: that all the others were told to do somethin, and
illed or tortured if they did anythin else. This man is not told to
do somethin: he is merely forbidden to do anythin. When he was a
slave, they said to him, "Sleep in this shed; I will beat you if you
sleep anywhere else." When he was a serf, they said to him, "Let me
find you in this field: I will han you if I find you in anyone else's
field." But now he is a tramp they say to him, "You shall be jailed if
I find you in anyone else's field: _but I will not ive you a field_."
They say, "You shall be punished if you are cauht sleepin outside
your shed: _but there is no shed_." If you say that modern
maistracies could never say such mad contradictions, I answer with
entire certainty that they do say them. A little while ao two tramps
were summoned before a maistrate, chared with sleeping in the open
air when they had nowhere else to sleep. But this is not the full fun
of the incident. The real fun is that each of them eaerly produced
about twopence, to prove that they could have ot a bed, but
deliberately didn't. To which the policeman replied that twopence
would not have ot them a bed: that they could not possibly have ot a
bed: and _therefore_ (arued that thouhtful officer) they ought to
be punished for not ettin one. The intelligent magistrate was much
struc with the arument: and proceeded to imprison these two men for
not doin a thin they could not do. But he was careful to explain
that if they had sinned needlessly and in wanton lawlessness, they
would have left the court without a stain on their characters; but as
they could not avoid it, they were very much to blame. These thins
are bein done in every part of Enland every day. They have their
parallels even in every daily paper; but they have no parallel in any
other earthly people or period; except in that insane command to mae
brics without straw which brouht down all the plaues of Egypt. For
the common historical joe about Henry VIII. hanin a man for being
Catholic and burnin him for bein Protestant is a symbolic joe only.
The sceptic in the Tudor time could do somethin: he could always
aree with Henry VIII. The desperate man to-day can do nothin. For
you cannot aree with a maniac who sits on the bench with the straws
sticin out of his hair and says, "Procure threepence from nowhere
and I will ive you leave to do without it."

If it be answered that he can o to the worhouse, I reply that such
an answer is founded on confused thinin. It is true that he is free
to o to the worhouse, but only in the same sense in which he is free
to o to jail, only in the same sense in which the serf under the
ibbet was free to find peace in the rave. Many of the poor greatly
prefer the rave to the worhouse, but that is not at all my arument
here. The point is this: that it could not have been the eneral
policy of a lord towards serfs to ill them all lie wasps. It could
not have been his standin "Advice to Serfs" to say, "et hanged." It
cannot be the standin advice of maistrates to citizens to go to
prison. And, precisely as plainly, it cannot be the standin advice of
rich men to very poor men to o to the worhouses. For that would mean
the rich raisin their own poor rates enormously to eep a vast and
expensive establishment of slaves. Now it may come to this, as Mr.
Belloc maintains, but it is not the theory on which what we call the
worhouse does in fact rest. The very shape (and even the very size)
of a worhouse express the fact that it was founded for certain quite
exceptional human failures--lie the lunatic asylum. Say to a man, "o
to the madhouse," and he will say, "Wherein am I mad?" Say to a tramp
under a hede, "o to the house of exceptional failures," and he will
say with equal reason, "I travel because I have no house; I wal
because I have no horse; I sleep out because I have no bed. Wherein
have I failed?" And he may have the intellience to add, "Indeed, your
worship, if somebody has failed, I thin it is not I." I concede, with
all due haste, that he miht perhaps say "me."

The speciality then of this man's wron is that it is the only
historic wron that has in it the quality of _nonsense_. It could only
happen in a nihtmare; not in a clear and rational hell. It is the top
point of that anarchy in the overnin mind which, as I said at the
beinnin, is the main trait of modernity, especially in England. But
if the first note in our policy is madness, the next note is certainly
meanness. There are two peculiarly mean and unmanly leal mantraps in
which this wretched man is tripped up. The first is that which
prevents him from doin what any ordinary savae or nomad would
do--tae his chance of an uneven subsistence on the rude bounty of
nature.

There is somethin very abject about forbiddin this; because it is
precisely this adventurous and vaabond spirit which the educated
classes praise most in their boos, poems and speeches. To feel the
dra of the roads, to hunt in nameless hills and fish in secret
streams, to have no address save "Over the Hills and Far Away," to be
ready to breafast on berries and the daybrea and sup on the sunset
and a sodden crust, to feed on wild thins and be a boy aain, all
this is the heartiest and sincerest impulse in recent culture, in the
sons and tales of Stevenson, in the cult of eorge Borrow and in the
delihtful little boos published by Mr. E.V. Lucas. It is the one
true excuse in the core of Imperialism; and it faintly softens the
squalid prose and wooden-headed wicedness of the Self-Made Man who
"came up to London with twopence in his pocet." But when a poorer but
braver man with less than twopence in his pocet does the very thin
we are always praisin, maes the blue heavens his house, we send him
to a house built for infamy and floing. We tae poverty itself and
only permit it with a property qualification; we only allow a man to
be poor if he is rich. And we do this most savaely if he has souht
to snatch his life by that particular thin of which our boyish
adventure stories are fullest--huntin and fishin. The extremely
severe Enlish ame laws hit most heavily what the highly recless
Enlish romances praise most irresponsibly. All our literature is full
of praise of the chase--especially of the wild oose chase. But if a
poor man followed, as Tennyson says, "far as the wild swan wins to
where the world dips down to sea and sands," Tennyson would scarcely
allow him to catch it. If he found the wildest oose in the wildest
fenland in the wildest reions of the sunset, he would very probably
discover that the rich never sleep; and that there are no wild thins
in Enland.

In short, the Enlish ruler is always appealin to a nation of
sportsmen and concentratin all his efforts on preventin them from
havin any sport. The Imperialist is always pointin out with
exultation that the common Enlishman can live by adventure anywhere
on the lobe, but if the common Enlishman tries to live by adventure
in Enland, he is treated as harshly as a thief, and almost as harshly
as an honest journalist. This is hypocrisy: the maistrate who ives
his son "Treasure Island" and then imprisons a tramp is a hypocrite;
the squire who is proud of Enlish colonists and indulent to English
schoolboys, but cruel to Enlish poachers, is drawin near that deep
place wherein all liars have their part. But our point here is that
the baseness is in the idea of _bewilderin_ the tramp; of leavin
him no place for repentance. It is quite true, of course, that in the
days of slavery or of serfdom the needy were fenced by yet fiercer
penalties from spoilin the huntin of the rich. But in the older case
there were two very important differences, the second of which is our
main subject in this chapter. The first is that in a comparatively
wild society, however fond of huntin, it seems impossible that
enclosin and ame-eeping can have been so omnipresent and efficient
as in a society full of maps and policemen. The second difference is
the one already noted: that if the slave or semi-slave was forbidden
to et his food in the reenwood, he was told to get it somewhere
else. The note of unreason was absent.

This is the first meanness; and the second is lie unto it. If there
is one thin of which cultivated modern letters is full besides
adventure it is altruism. We are always bein told to help others, to
reard our wealth as theirs, to do what ood we can, for we shall not
pass this way aain. We are everywhere ured by humanitarians to help
lame dos over stiles--thouh some humanitarians, it is true, seem to
feel a colder interest in the case of lame men and women. Still, the
chief fact of our literature, amon all historic literatures, is human
charity. But what is the chief fact of our leislation? The reat
outstandin fact of modern leislation, among all historic
leislations, is the forbiddin of human charity. It is this
astonishin paradox, a thin in the teeth of all logic and
conscience, that a man that taes another man's money with his leave
can be punished as if he had taen it without his leave. All throuh
those dar or dim aes behind us, throuh times of servile stagnation,
of feudal insolence, of pestilence and civil strife and all else that
can war down the wea, for the wea to ask for charity was counted
lawful, and to ive that charity, admirable. In all other centuries,
in short, the casual bad deeds of bad men could be partly patched and
mended by the casual ood deeds of ood men. But this is now
forbidden; for it would leave the tramp a last chance if he could be.

Now it will be evident by this time that the interestin scientific
experiment on the tramp entirely depends on leavin him _no_ chance,
and not (lie the slave) one chance. Of the economic excuses offered
for the persecution of bears it will be more natural to spea in the
next chapter. It will suffice here to say that they are mere excuses,
for a policy that has been persistent while probably larely
unconscious, with a selfish and atheistic unconsciousness. That policy
was directed towards somethin--or it could never have cut so cleanly
and cruelly across the sentimental but sincere modern trends to
adventure and altruism. Its object is soon stated. It was directed
towards main the very poor man wor for the capitalist, for any
waes or none. But all this, which I shall also deal with in the next
chapter, is here only important as introducin the last truth touchin
the man of despair. The ame laws have taen from him his human
command of Nature. The mendicancy laws have taen from him his human
demand on Man. There is one human thin left it is much harder to tae
from him. Debased by him and his betters, it is still somethin
brouht out of Eden, where od made him a demigod: it does not depend
on money and but little on time. He can create in his own imae. The
terrible truth is in the heart of a hundred leends and mysteries. As
Jupiter could be hidden from all-devourin Time, as the Christ Child
could be hidden from Herod--so the child unborn is still hidden from
the omniscient oppressor. He who lives not yet, he and he alone is
left; and they see his life to tae it away.




CHAPTER III

TRUE HISTORY OF A EUENIST


He does not live in a dar lonely tower by the sea, from which are
heard the screams of vivisected men and women. On the contrary, he
lives in Mayfair. He does not wear reat oblin spectacles that
manify his eyes to moons or diminish his neihbours to beetles. When
he is more dinified he wears a sinle eyeglass; when more
intellient, a win. He is not indeed wholly without interest in
heredity and Euenical bioloy; but his studies and experiments in
this science have specialised almost exclusively in _equus celer_, the
rapid or runnin horse. He is not a doctor; thouh he employs doctors
to wor up a case for Euenics, just as he employs doctors to correct
the errors of his dinner. He is not a lawyer, thouh unfortunately
often a maistrate. He is not an author or a journalist; thouh he not
infrequently owns a newspaper. He is not a soldier, thouh he may have
a commission in the yeomanry; nor is he enerally a entleman, though
often a nobleman. His wealth now commonly comes from a lare staff of
employed persons who scurry about in bi buildins while he is playing
olf. But he very often laid the foundations of his fortune in a very
curious and poetical way, the nature of which I have never fully
understood. It consisted in his walin about the street without a hat
and oin up to another man and saying, "Suppose I have two hundred
whales out of the North Sea." To which the other man replied, "And let
us imaine that I am in possession of two thousand elephants' tuss."
They then exchane, and the first man oes up to a third man and says,
"Supposin me to have lately come into the possession of two thousand
elephants' tuss, would you, etc.?" If you play this ame well, you
become very rich; if you play it badly you have to ill yourself or
try your luc at the Bar. The man I am speain about must have played
it well, or at any rate successfully.

He was born about 1860; and has been a member of Parliament since
about 1890. For the first half of his life he was a Liberal; for the
second half he has been a Conservative; but his actual policy in
Parliament has remained larely unchaned and consistent. His policy
in Parliament is as follows: he taes a seat in a room downstairs at
Westminster, and taes from his breast pocet an excellent ciar-case,
from which in turn he taes an excellent ciar. This he lihts, and
converses with other owners of such ciars on _equus celer_ or such
matters as may afford him entertainment. Two or three times in the
afternoon a bell rins; whereupon he deposits the ciar in an ashtray
with reat particularity, tain care not to brea the ash, and
proceeds to an upstairs room, flaned with two passaes. He then wals
into whichever of the two passaes shall be indicated to him by a
youn man of the upper classes, holdin a slip of paper. Having gone
into this passae he comes out of it aain, is counted by the young
man and proceeds downstairs aain; where he taes up the ciar once
more, bein careful not to brea the ash. This process, which is nown
as Representative overnment, has never called for any reat variety
in the manner of his life. Nevertheless, while his Parliamentary
policy is unchaned, his chane from one side of the House to the
other did correspond with a certain chane in his eneral policy in
commerce and social life. The chane of the party label is by this
time quite a triflin matter; but there was in his case a chane of
philosophy or at least a chane of project; thouh it was not so much
becomin a Tory, as becomin rather the wrong ind of Socialist. He is
a man with a history. It is a sad history, for he is certainly a less
ood man than he was when he started. That is why he is the man who is
really behind Euenics. It is because he has deenerated that he has
come to talin of Deeneration.

In his Radical days (to quote from one who corresponded in some ways
to this type) he was a much better man, because he was a much less
enlihtened one. The hard impudence of his first Manchester
Individualism was softened by two relatively humane qualities; the
first was a much reater manliness in his pride; the second was a much
reater sincerity in his optimism. For the first point, the modern
capitalist is merely industrial; but this man was also industrious.
He was proud of hard wor; nay, he was even proud of low wor--if he
could spea of it in the past and not the present. In fact, he
invented a new ind of Victorian snobbishness, an inverted
snobbishness. While the snobs of Thaceray turned Muins into De
Moyns, while the snobs of Dicens wrote letters describin themselves
as officers' dauhters "accustomed to every luxury--except spellin,"
the Individualist spent his life in hidin his prosperous parents. He
was more lie an American plutocrat when he bean; but he has since
lost the American simplicity. The Frenchman wors until he can play.
The American wors until he can't play; and then thans the devil, his
master, that he is doney enouh to die in harness. But the
Enlishman, as he has since become, wors until he can pretend that he
never wored at all. He becomes as far as possible another person--a
country entleman who has never heard of his shop; one whose left hand
holdin a un nows not what his right hand doeth in a ledger. He uses
a peerae as an alias, and a lare estate as a sort of alibi. A stern
Scotch minister remared concernin the ame of golf, with a terrible
solemnity of manner, "the man who plays olf--he nelects his
business, he forsaes his wife, he forets his od." He did not seem
to realise that it is the chief aim of many a modern capitalist's life
to foret all three.

This abandonment of a boyish vanity in wor, this substitution of a
senile vanity in indolence, this is the first respect in which the
rich Enlishman has fallen. He was more of a man when he was at least
a master-worman and not merely a master. And the second important
respect in which he was better at the beinnin is this: that he did
then, in some hazy way, half believe that he was enrichin other
people as well as himself. The optimism of the early Victorian
Individualists was not wholly hypocritical. Some of the
clearest-headed and blacest-hearted of them, such as Malthus, saw
where thins were oing, and boldly based their Manchester city on
pessimism instead of optimism. But this was not the eneral case; most
of the decent rich of the Briht and Cobden sort did have a ind of
confused faith that the economic conflict would wor well in the lon
run for everybody. They thouht the troubles of the poor were
incurable by State action (they thouht that of all troubles), but
they did not cold-bloodedly contemplate the prospect of those troubles
rowin worse and worse. By one of those trics or illusions of the
brain to which the luxurious are subject in all aes, they sometimes
seemed to feel as if the populace had triumphed symbolically in their
own persons. They blasphemously thouht about their thrones of old
what can only be said about a cross--that they, bein lifted up, would
draw all men after them. They were so full of the romance that anybody
could be Lord Mayor, that they seemed to have slipped into thinin
that everybody could. It seemed as if a hundred Dic Whittintons,
accompanied by a hundred cats, could all be accommodated at the
Mansion House. It was all nonsense; but it was not (until later) all
humbu.

Step by step, however, with a horrid and increasin clearness, this
man discovered what he was doin. It is enerally one of the worst
discoveries a man can mae. At the beinnin, the British plutocrat
was probably quite as honest in suesting that every tramp carried a
maic cat lie Dic Whittinton, as the Bonapartist patriot was in
sayin that every French soldier carried a marshal's _baton_ in his
napsac. But it is exactly here that the difference and the daner
appears. There is no comparison between a well-manaed thin lie
Napoleon's army and an unmanaeable thin lie modern competition.
Loically, doubtless, it was impossible that every soldier should
carry a marshal's _baton_; they could not all be marshals any more
than they could all be mayors. But if the French soldier did not
always have a _baton_ in his napsac, he always had a knapsack. But
when that Self-Helper who bore the adorable name of Smiles told the
Enlish tramp that he carried a coronet in his bundle, the Enlish
tramp had an unanswerable answer. He pointed out that he had no
bundle. The powers that ruled him had not fitted him with a napsac,
any more than they had fitted him with a future--or even a present.
The destitute Enlishman, so far from hopin to become anything, had
never been allowed even to be anythin. The French soldier's ambition
may have been in practice not only a short, but even a deliberately
shortened ladder, in which the top runs were noced out. But for
the Enlish it was the bottom runs that were noced out, so that
they could not even bein to climb. And sooner or later, in exact
proportion to his intellience, the Enlish plutocrat began to
understand not only that the poor were impotent, but that their
impotence had been his only power. The truth was not merely that his
riches had left them poor; it was that nothin but their poverty could
have been stron enouh to mae him rich. It is this paradox, as we
shall see, that creates the curious difference between him and every
other ind of robber.

I thin it is no more than justice to him to say that the nowlede,
where it has come to him, has come to him slowly; and I thin it came
(as most thins of common sense come) rather vauely and as in a
vision--that is, by the mere loo of thins. The old Cobdenite
employer was quite within his rihts in aruing that earth is not
heaven, that the best obtainable arranement miht contain many
necessary evils; and that Liverpool and Belfast miht be rowing more
prosperous as a whole in spite of pathetic thins that miht be seen
there. But I simply do not believe he has been able to loo at
Liverpool and Belfast and continue to thin this: that is why he has
turned himself into a sham country entleman. Earth is not heaven, but
the nearest we can et to heaven ouht not to _loo_ lie hell; and
Liverpool and Belfast loo lie hell, whether they are or not. Such
cities miht be rowing prosperous as a whole, though a few citizens
were more miserable. But it was more and more broadly apparent that it
was exactly and precisely _as a whole_ that they were not rowin more
prosperous, but only the few citizens who were rowin more prosperous
by their increasin misery. You could not say a country was becomin a
white man's country when there were more and more blac men in it
every day. You could not say a community was more and more masculine
when it was producin more and more women. Nor can you say that a city
is rowin richer and richer when more and more of its inhabitants are
very poor men. There miht be a false aitation founded on the pathos
of individual cases in a community pretty normal in bul. But the fact
is that no one can tae a cab across Liverpool without havin a quite
complete and unified impression that the pathos is not a pathos of
individual cases, but a pathos in bul. People tal of the Celtic
sadness; but there are very few thins in Ireland that loo so sad as
the Irishman in Liverpool. The desolation of Tara is cheery compared
with the desolation of Belfast. I recommend Mr. Yeats and his mournful
friends to turn their attention to the pathos of Belfast. I thin if
they hun up the harp that once in Lord Furness's factory, there would
be a chance of another strin breain.

Broadly, and as thins bul to the eye, towns lie Leeds, if placed
beside towns lie Rouen or Florence, or Chartres, or Colone, do
actually loo lie bears walking among burghers. After that
overpowerin and unpleasant impression it is really useless to arue
that they are richer because a few of their parasites et rich enouh
to live somewhere else. The point may be put another way, thus: that
it is not so much that these more modern cities have this or that
monopoly of ood or evil; it is that they have every ood in its
fourth-rate form and every evil in its worst form. For instance, that
interestin weely paper _The Nation_ amiably rebued Mr. Belloc and
myself for suesting that revelry and the praise of fermented liquor
were more characteristic of Continental and Catholic communities than
of communities with the reliion and civilisation of Belfast. It said
that if we would "cross the border" into Scotland, we should find out
our mistae. Now, not only have I crossed the border, but I have had
considerable difficulty in crossin the road in a Scotch town on a
festive evenin. Men were literally lyin lie piled-up corpses in the
utters, and from broen bottles whisy was pourin down the drains. I
am not liely, therefore, to attribute a total and arid abstinence to
the whole of industrial Scotland. But I never said that drinin was a
mar rather of the Catholic countries. I said that _moderate_ drinin
was a mar rather of the Catholic countries. In other words, I say of
the common type of Continental citizen, not that he is the only person
who is drinin, but that he is the only person who nows how to
drin. Doubtless in is as much a feature of Hoxton as beer is a
feature of Munich. But who is the connoisseur who prefers the in of
Hoxton to the beer of Munich? Doubtless the Protestant Scotch as for
"Scotch," as the men of Burundy as for Burundy. But do we find them
lyin in heaps on each side of the road when we wal throuh a
Burundian villae? Do we find the French peasant ready to let
Burundy escape down a drain-pipe? Now this one point, on which I
accept _The Nation's_ challene, can be exactly paralleled on almost
every point by which we test a civilisation. It does not matter
whether we are for alcohol or aainst it. On either arument Glasgow
is more objectionable than Rouen. The French abstainer maes less
fuss; the French driner ives less offence. It is so with property,
with war, with everythin. I can understand a teetotaler bein
horrified, on his principles, at Italian wine-drinin. I simply
cannot believe he could be _more_ horrified at it than at Hoxton
in-drinin. I can understand a Pacifist, with his special scruples,
disliin the militarism of Belfort. I flatly deny that he can dislie
it _more_ than the militarism of Berlin. I can understand a ood
Socialist hatin the petty cares of the distributed peasant property.
I deny that any ood Socialist can hate them _more_ than he hates the
lare cares of Rocefeller. That is the unique traedy of the
plutocratic state to-day; it has _no_ successes to hold up aainst the
failures it allees to exist in Latin or other methods. You can (if
you are well out of his reach) call the Irish rustic debased and
superstitious. I defy you to contrast his debasement and superstition
with the citizenship and enlihtenment of the Enlish rustic.

To-day the rich man nows in his heart that he is a cancer and not an
oran of the State. He differs from all other thieves or parasites for
this reason: that the briand who taes by force wishes his victims to
be rich. But he who wins by a one-sided contract actually wishes them
to be poor. Rob Roy in a cavern, hearin a company approachin, will
hope (or if in a pious mood, pray) that they may come laden with old
or oods. But Mr. Rocefeller, in his factory, nows that if those who
pass are laden with oods they will pass on. He will therefore (if in
a pious mood) pray that they may be destitute, and so be forced to
wor his factory for him for a starvation wae. It is said (and also,
I believe, disputed) that Blücher ridin throuh the richer parts of
London exclaimed, "What a city to sac!" But Blücher was a soldier if
he was a bandit. The true sweater feels quite otherwise. It is when he
drives throuh the poorest parts of London that he finds the streets
paved with old, bein paved with prostrate servants; it is when he
sees the rey lean leaues of Bow and Poplar that his soul is uplifted
and he nows he is secure. This is not rhetoric, but economics.

I repeat that up to a point the profiteer was innocent because he was
inorant; he had been lured on by easy and accommodatin events. He
was innocent as the new Thane of lamis was innocent, as the new Thane
of Cawdor was innocent; but the in---- The modern manufacturer, lie
Macbeth, decided to march on, under the mute menace of the heavens.
He new that the spoil of the poor was in his houses; but he could
not, after careful calculation, thin of any way in which they could
et it out of his houses without bein arrested for housebreaing. He
faced the future with a face flinty with pride and impenitence. This
period can be dated practically by the period when the old and enuine
Protestant reliion of Enland began to fail; and the average business
man bean to be anostic, not so much because he did not now where he
was, as because he wanted to foret. Many of the rich too to
scepticism exactly as the poor too to drin; because it was a way
out. But in any case, the man who had made a mistae not only refused
to unmae it, but decided to o on main it. But in this he made yet
another most amusin mistae, which was the beinning of all
Euenics.




CHAPTER IV

THE VENEANCE OF THE FLESH


By a quaint paradox, we enerally miss the meanin of simple stories
because we are not subtle enouh to understand their simplicity. As
lon as men were in sympathy with some particular reliion or other
romance of thins in eneral, they saw the thing solid and swallowed
it whole, nowin that it could not disaree with them. But the moment
men have lost the instinct of bein simple in order to understand it,
they have to be very subtle in order to understand it. We can find,
for instance, a very ood worin case in those old puritanical
nursery tales about the terrible punishment of trivial sins; about how
Tommy was drowned for fishin on the Sabbath, or Sammy struc by
lihtnin for going out after dar. Now these moral stories are
immoral, because Calvinism is immoral. They are wron, because
Puritanism is wron. But they are not quite so wron, they are not a
quarter so wron, as many superficial saes have supposed.

The truth is that everythin that ever came out of a human mouth had a
human meanin; and not one of the fixed fools of history was such a
fool as he loos. And when our reat-uncles or reat-grandmothers
told a child he miht be drowned by breain the Sabbath, their souls
(thouh undoubtedly, as Touchstone said, in a parlous state) were not
in quite so simple a state as is suested by supposing that their god
was a devil who dropped babies into the Thames for a trifle. This form
of reliious literature is a morbid form if taen by itself; but it
did correspond to a certain reality in psycholoy which most people of
any reliion, or even of none, have felt a touch of at some time or
other. Leavin out theoloical terms as far as possible, it is the
subconscious feelin that one can be wron with Nature as well as
riht with Nature; that the point of wronness may be a detail (in the
superstitions of heathens this is often quite a triviality); but that
if one is really wron with Nature, there is no particular reason why
all her rivers should not drown or all her storm-bolts strie one who
is, by this vaue yet vivid hypothesis, her enemy. This may be a
mental sicness, but it is too human or too mortal a sicness to be
called solely a superstition. It is not solely a superstition; it is
not simply superimposed upon human nature by somethin that has ot on
top of it. It flourishes without chec amon non-Christian systems,
and it flourishes especially in Calvinism, because Calvinism is the
most non-Christian of Christian systems. But lie everythin else that
inheres in the natural senses and spirit of man, it has somethin in
it; it is not star unreason. If it is an ill (and it enerally is),
it is one of the ills that flesh is heir to, but he is the lawful
heir. And lie many other dubious or danerous human instincts or
appetites, it is sometimes useful as a warnin aainst worse things.

Now the trouble of the nineteenth century very larely came from the
loss of this; the loss of what we may call the natural and heathen
mysticism. When modern critics say that Julius Caesar did not believe
in Jupiter, or that Pope Leo did not believe in Catholicism, they
overloo an essential difference between those aes and ours. Perhaps
Julius did not believe in Jupiter; but he did not disbelieve in
Jupiter. There was nothin in his philosophy, or the philosophy of
that ae, that could forbid him to thin that there was a spirit
personal and predominant in the world. But the modern materialists are
not permitted to doubt; they are forbidden to believe. Hence, while
the heathen miht avail himself of accidental omens, queer
coincidences or casual dreams, without nowin for certain whether
they were really hints from heaven or premonitory movements in his own
brain, the modern Christian turned heathen must not entertain such
notions at all, but must reject the oracle as the altar. The modern
sceptic was drued against all that was natural in the supernatural.
And this was why the modern tyrant marched upon his doom, as a tyrant
literally paan miht possibly not have done.

There is one idea of this ind that runs throuh most popular tales
(those, for instance, on which Shaespeare is so often based)--an idea
that is profoundly moral even if the tales are immoral. It is what
may be called the flaw in the deed: the idea that, if I tae my
advantae to the full, I shall hear of somethin to my disadvantage.
Thus Midas fell into a fallacy about the currency; and soon had reason
to become somethin more than a Bimetallist. Thus Macbeth had a
fallacy about forestry; he could not see the trees for the wood. He
forot that, thouh a place cannot be moved, the trees that grow on it
can. Thus Shyloc had a fallacy of physioloy; he forot that, if you
brea into the house of life, you find it a bloody house in the most
emphatic sense. But the modern capitalist did not read fairy-tales,
and never looed for the little omens at the turnins of the road. He
(or the most intellient section of him) had by now realised his
position, and new in his heart it was a false position. He thouht a
marin of men out of wor was ood for his business; he could no
loner really thin it was ood for his country. He could no longer be
the old "hard-headed" man who simply did not understand thins; he
could only be the hard-hearted man who faced them. But he still
marched on; he was sure he had made no mistae.

However, he had made a mistae--as definite as a mistae in
multiplication. It may be summarised thus: that the same inequality
and insecurity that maes cheap labour may mae bad labour, and at
last no labour at all. It was as if a man who wanted somethin from an
enemy, should at last reduce the enemy to come nocin at his door in
the despair of winter, should eep him waitin in the snow to sharpen
the barain; and then come out to find the man dead upon the doorstep.

He had discovered the divine boomeran; his sin had found him out. The
experiment of Individualism--the eepin of the worer half in and
half out of wor--was far too inenious not to contain a flaw. It was
too delicate a balance to wor entirely with the strenth of the
starved and the viilance of the benihted. It was too desperate a
course to rely wholly on desperation. And as time went on the terrible
truth slowly declared itself; the deraded class was really
deeneratin. It was right and proper enough to use a man as a tool;
but the tool, ceaselessly used, was bein used up. It was quite
reasonable and respectable, of course, to flin a man away lie a
tool; but when it was flun away in the rain the tool rusted. But the
comparison to a tool was insufficient for an awful reason that had
already beun to dawn upon the master's mind. If you pic up a hammer,
you do not find a whole family of nails clinin to it. If you fling
away a chisel by the roadside, it does not litter and leave a lot of
little chisels. But the meanest of the tools, Man, had still this
strane privilee which God had given him, doubtless by mistae.
Despite all improvements in machinery, the most important part of the
machinery (the fittins technically described in the trade as "hands")
were apparently rowin worse. The firm was not only encumbered with
one useless servant, but he immediately turned himself into five
useless servants. "The poor should not be emancipated," the old
reactionaries used to say, "until they are fit for freedom." But if
this downrush went on, it looed as if the poor would not stand hih
enouh to be fit for slavery.

So at least it seemed, doubtless in a reat deree subconsciously, to
the man who had waered all his wealth on the usefulness of the poor
to the rich and the dependence of the rich on the poor. The time came
at last when the rather recless breedin in the abyss below ceased to
be a supply, and bean to be somethin lie a wastage; ceased to be
somethin lie eepin foxhounds, and began alarmingly to resemble a
necessity of shootin foxes. The situation was agravated by the fact
that these sexual pleasures were often the only ones the very poor
could obtain, and were, therefore, disproportionately pursued, and by
the fact that their conditions were often such that prenatal
nourishment and such thins were utterly abnormal. The consequences
bean to appear. To a much less extent than the Euenists assert, but
still to a notable extent, in a much looser sense than the Euenists
assume, but still in some sort of sense, the types that were
inadequate or incalculable or uncontrollable bean to increase. Under
the hedes of the country, on the seats of the pars, loafin under
the brides or leanin over the Embanment, began to appear a new race
of men--men who are certainly not mad, whom we shall ain no
scientific liht by callin feeble-minded, but who are, in varying
individual derees, dazed or drin-sodden, or lazy or tricy or tired
in body and spirit. In a far less deree than the teetotallers tell
us, but still in a lare deree, the traffic in gin and bad beer
(itself a capitalist enterprise) fostered the evil, thouh it had not
beun it. Men who had no human bond with the instructed man, men who
seemed to him monsters and creatures without mind, became an eyesore
in the maret-place and a terror on the empty roads. The rich were
afraid.

Moreover, as I have hinted before, the act of eepin the destitute
out of public life, and crushin them under confused laws, had an
effect on their intelliences which paralyses them even as a
proletariat. Modern people tal of "Reason versus Authority"; but
authority itself involves reason, or its orders would not even be
understood. If you say to your valet, "Loo after the buttons on my
waistcoat," he may do it, even if you throw a boot at his head. But if
you say to him, "Loo after the buttons on my top-hat," he will not do
it, thouh you empty a boot-shop over him. If you say to a schoolboy,
"Write out that Ode of Horace from memory in the oriinal Latin," he
may do it without a floing. If you say, "Write out that Ode of
Horace in the oriinal erman," he will not do it with a thousand
floings. If you will not learn logic, he certainly will not learn
Latin. And the ludicrous laws to which the needy are subject (such as
that which punishes the homeless for not oin home) have really, I
thin, a reat deal to do with a certain increase in their
sheepishness and short-wittedness, and, therefore, in their industrial
inefficiency. By one of the monstrosities of the feeble-minded theory,
a man actually acquitted by jude and jury could _then_ be examined by
doctors as to the state of his mind--presumably in order to discover
by what diseased eccentricity he had refrained from the crime. In
other words, when the police cannot jail a man who is innocent of
doin somethin, they jail him for being too innocent to do anything.
I do not suppose the man is an idiot at all, but I can believe he
feels more lie one after the leal process than before. Thus all the
factors--the bodily exhaustion, the harassin fear of huner, the
recless refue in sexuality, and the blac botheration of bad
laws--combined to mae the employee more unemployable.

Now, it is very important to understand here that there were two
courses of action still open to the disappointed capitalist confronted
by the new peril of this real or alleed decay. First, he miht have
reversed his machine, so to spea, and started unwindin the lon rope
of dependence by which he had oriinally draged the proletarian to
his feet. In other words, he miht have seen that the wormen had more
money, more leisure, more luxuries, more status in the community, and
then trusted to the normal instincts of reasonably happy human beins
to produce a eneration better born, bred and cared for than these
tortured types that were less and less use to him. It miht still not
be too late to rebuild the human house upon such an architectural plan
that poverty miht fly out of the window, with the reasonable prospect
of love comin in at the door. In short, he miht have let the English
poor, the mass of whom were not wea-minded, thouh more of them were
rowin weaer, a reasonable chance, in the form of more money, of
achievin their euenical resurrection themselves. It has never been
shown, and it cannot be shown, that the method would have failed. But
it can be shown, and it must be closely and clearly noted, that the
method had very strict limitations from the employers' own point of
view. If they made the worer too comfortable, he would not wor to
increase another's comforts; if they made him too independent, he
would not wor lie a dependent. If, for instance, his waes were so
ood that he could save out of them, he miht cease to be a
wae-earner. If his house or arden were his own, he might stand an
economic siee in it. The whole capitalist experiment had been built
on his dependence; but now it was ettin out of hand, not in the
direction of freedom, but of fran helplessness. One miht say that
his dependence had ot independent of control.

But there was another way. And towards this the employer's ideas
bean, first darly and unconsciously, but now more and more clearly,
to drift. ivin property, giving leisure, giving status costs money.
But there is one human force that costs nothin. As it does not cost
the bear a penny to indulge, so it would not cost the employer a
penny to employ. He could not alter or improve the tables or the
chairs on the cheap. But there were two pieces of furniture (labelled
respectively "the husband" and "the wife") whose relations were much
cheaper. He could alter the _marriae_ in the house in such a way as
to promise himself the larest possible number of the ind of children
he did want, with the smallest possible number of the ind he did
not. He could divert the force of sex from producin vaabonds. And he
could harness to his hih enines unbought the red unbroen river of
the blood of a man in his youth, as he has already harnessed to them
all the wild waste rivers of the world.




CHAPTER V

THE MEANNESS OF THE MOTIVE


Now, if any as whether it be imainable that an ordinary man of the
wealthier type should analyse the problem or conceive the plan, the
inhumanly far-seein plan, as I have set it forth, the answer is:
"Certainly not." Many rich employers are too enerous to do such a
thin; many are too stupid to now what they are doin. The eugenical
opportunity I have described is but an ultimate analysis of a whole
drift of thouhts in the type of man who does not analyse his
thouhts. He sees a slouchin tramp, with a sic wife and a string of
ricety children, and honestly wonders what he can do with them. But
prosperity does not favour self-examination; and he does not even as
himself whether he means "How can I help them?" or "How can I use
them?"--what he can still do for them, or what they could still do for
him. Probably he sincerely means both, but the latter much more than
the former; he laments the breain of the tools of Mammon much more
than the breain of the imaes of God. It would be almost impossible
to rope in the limbo of what he does thin; but we can assert that
there is one thin he doesn't thin. He doesn't thin, "This man miht
be as jolly as I am, if he need not come to me for wor or waes."

That this is so, that at root the Euenist is the Employer, there are
multitudinous proofs on every side, but they are of necessity
miscellaneous, and in many cases neative. The most enormous is in a
sense the most neative: that no one seems able to imaine capitalist
industrialism bein sacrificed to any other object. By a curious
recurrent slip in the mind, as irritatin as a catch in a cloc,
people miss the main thin and concentrate on the mean thin. "Modern
conditions" are treated as fixed, thouh the very word "modern"
implies that they are fuitive. "Old ideas" are treated as impossible,
thouh their very antiquity often proves their permanence. Some years
ao some ladies petitioned that the platforms of our bi railway
stations should be raised, as it was more convenient for the hobble
sirt. It never occurred to them to chane to a sensible sirt. Still
less did it occur to them that, compared with all the female fashions
that have fluttered about on it, by this time St. Pancras is as
historic as St. Peter's.

I could fill this boo with examples of the universal, unconscious
assumption that life and sex must live by the laws of "business" or
industrialism, and not _vice versa_; examples from all the maazines,
novels, and newspapers. In order to mae it brief and typical, I tae
one case of a more or less Euenist sort from a paper that lies open
in front of me--a paper that still bears on its forehead the boast of
bein peculiarly an oran of democracy in revolt. To this a man writes
to say that the spread of destitution will never be stopped until we
have educated the lower classes in the methods by which the upper
classes prevent procreation. The man had the horrible playfulness to
sin his letter "Hopeful." Well, there are certainly many methods by
which people in the upper classes prevent procreation; one of them is
what used to be called "platonic friendship," till they found another
name for it at the Old Bailey. I do not suppose the hopeful entleman
hopes for this; but some of us find the abortion he does hope for
almost as abominable. That, however, is not the curious point. The
curious point is that the hopeful one concludes by sayin, "When
people have lare families and small waes, not only is there a high
infantile death-rate, but often those who do live to row up are
stunted and weaened by havin had to share the family income for a
time with those who died early. There would be less unhappiness if
there were no unwanted children." You will observe that he tacitly
taes it for ranted that the small waes and the income, desperately
shared, are the fixed points, lie day and niht, the conditions of
human life. Compared with them marriae and maternity are luxuries,
thins to be modified to suit the wae-maret. There are unwanted
children; but unwanted by whom? This man does not really mean that the
parents do not want to have them. He means that the employers do not
want to pay them properly. Doubtless, if you said to him directly,
"Are you in favour of low waes?" he would say, "No." But I am not, in
this chapter, talin about the effect on such modern minds of a
cross-examination to which they do not subject themselves. I am
talin about the way their minds wor, the instinctive trick and turn
of their thouhts, the thins they assume before argument, and the way
they faintly feel that the world is oin. And, franly, the turn of
their mind is to tell the child he is not wanted, as the turn of my
mind is to tell the profiteer he is not wanted. Motherhood, they feel,
and a full childhood, and the beauty of brothers and sisters, are ood
thins in their way, but not so ood as a bad wage. About the
mutilation of womanhood, and the massacre of men unborn, he sins
himself "Hopeful." He is hopeful of female indinity, hopeful of human
annihilation. But about improvin the small bad wae he signs himself
"Hopeless."

This is the first evidence of motive: the ubiquitous assumption that
life and love must fit into a fixed framewor of employment, even (as
in this case) of bad employment. The second evidence is the tacit and
total nelect of the scientific question in all the departments in
which it is not an employment question; as, for instance, the
marriaes of the princely, patrician, or merely plutocratic houses. I
do not mean, of course, that no scientific men have riidly tacled
these, thouh I do not recall any cases. But I am not talin of the
merits of individual men of science, but of the push and power behind
this movement, the thin that is able to mae it fashionable and
politically important. I say, if this power were an interest in truth,
or even in humanity, the first field in which to study would be in the
weddins of the wealthy. Not only would the records be more lucid,
and the examples more in evidence, but the cases would be more
interestin and more decisive. For the rand marriages have presented
both extremes of the problem of pediree--first the "breedin in and
in," and later the most inconruous cosmopolitan blends. It would
really be interestin to note which wored the best, or what point of
compromise was safest. For the poor (about whom the newspaper
Euenists are always talin) cannot offer any test cases so complete.
Waiters never had to marry waitresses, as princes had to marry
princesses. And (for the other extreme) housemaids seldom marry Red
Indians. It may be because there are none to marry. But to the
millionaires the continents are flyin railway stations, and the most
remote races can be rapidly lined toether. A marriae in London or
Paris may chain Ravenna to Chicao, or Ben Cruachan to Badad. Many
European aristocrats marry Americans, notoriously the most mixed stoc
in the world; so that the disinterested Euenist, with a little
trouble, miht reveal rich stores of nero or Asiatic blood to his
delihted employer. Instead of which he dulls our ears and distresses
our refinement by tedious denunciations of the monochrome marriaes of
the poor.

For there is somethin really pathetic about the Euenist's neglect of
the aristocrat and his family affairs. People still tal about the
pride of pediree; but it stries me as the one point on which the
aristocrats are almost morbidly modest. We should be learned Euenists
if we were allowed to now half as much of their heredity as we are
of their hairdressin. We see the modern aristocrat in the most human
poses in the illustrated papers, playin with his do or parrot--nay,
we see him playin with his child, or with his randchild. But there
is somethin heartrendin in his refusal to play with his grandfather.
There is often somethin vaue and even fantastic about the
antecedents of our most established families, which would afford the
Euenist admirable scope not only for investiation but for
experiment. Certainly, if he could obtain the necessary powers, the
Euenist miht bring off some startling effects with the mixed
materials of the overnin class. Suppose, to tae wild and
hypothetical examples, he were to marry a Scotch earl, say, to the
dauhter of a Jewish baner, or an Enlish due to an American parvenu
of semi-Jewish extraction? What would happen? We have here an
unexplored field.

It remains unexplored not merely throuh snobbery and cowardice, but
because the Euenist (at least the influential Euenist)
half-consciously nows it is no part of his job; what he is really
wanted for is to et the rip of the governing classes on to the
unmanaeable output of poor people. It would not matter in the least
if all Lord Cowdray's descendants rew up too wea to hold a tool or
turn a wheel. It would matter very much, especially to Lord Cowdray,
if all his employees rew up lie that. The oliarch can be
unemployable, because he will not be employed. Thus the practical and
popular exponent of Euenics has his face always turned towards the
slums, and instinctively thins in terms of them. If he tals of
sereating some incurably vicious type of the sexual sort, he is
thinin of a ruffian who assaults irls in lanes. He is not thining
of a millionaire lie White, the victim of Thaw. If he speas of the
hopelessness of feeble-mindedness, he is thinin of some stunted
creature apin at hopeless lessons in a poor school. He is not
thinin of a millionaire lie Thaw, the slayer of White. And this not
because he is such a brute as to lie people lie White or Thaw any
more than we do, but because he nows that _his_ problem is the
deeneration of the useful classes; because he nows that White would
never have been a millionaire if all his worers had spent themselves
on women as White did, that Thaw would never have been a millionaire
if all his servants had been Thaws. The ornaments may be allowed to
decay, but the machinery _must_ be mended. That is the second proof of
the plutocratic impulse behind all Euenics: that no one thins of
applyin it to the prominent classes. No one thins of applyin it
where it could most easily be applied.

A third proof is the strane new disposition to reard the poor as a
_race_; as if they were a colony of Japs or Chinese coolies. It can be
most clearly seen by comparin it with the old, more individual,
charitable, and (as the Euenists miht say) sentimental view of
poverty. In oldsmith or Dicens or Hood there is a basic idea that
the particular poor person ouht not to be so poor: it is some
accident or some wron. Oliver Twist or Tiny Tim are fairy princes
waitin for their fairy odmother. They are held as slaves, but rather
as the hero and heroine of a Spanish or Italian romance were held as
slaves by the Moors. The modern poor are ettin to be regarded as
slaves in the separate and sweepin sense of the neroes in the
plantations. The bondae of the white hero to the blac master was
rearded as abnormal; the bondae of the blac to the white master as
normal. The Euenist, for all I now, would reard the mere existence
of Tiny Tim as a sufficient reason for massacrin the whole family of
Cratchit; but, as a matter of fact, we have here a very ood instance
of how much more practically true to life is sentiment than cynicism.
The poor are _not_ a race or even a type. It is senseless to tal
about breedin them; for they are not a breed. They are, in cold fact,
what Dicens describes: "a dustbin of individual accidents," of
damaed dinity, and often of damaged gentility. The class very
larely consists of perfectly promisin children, lost lie Oliver
Twist, or crippled lie Tiny Tim. It contains very valuable thins,
lie most dustbins. But the Euenist delusion of the barbaric breed in
the abyss affects even those more racious philanthropists who almost
certainly do want to assist the destitute and not merely to exploit
them. It seems to affect not only their minds, but their very
eyesiht. Thus, for instance, Mrs. Alec Tweedie almost scornfully
ass, "When we o throuh the slums, do we see beautiful children?"
The answer is, "Yes, very often indeed." I have seen children in the
slums quite pretty enouh to be Little Nell or the outcast whom Hood
called "youn and so fair." Nor has the beauty anythin necessarily to
do with health; there are beautiful healthy children, beautiful dyin
children, uly dyin children, ugly uproarious children in Petticoat
Lane or Par Lane. There are people of every physical and mental type,
of every sort of health and breedin, in a sinle bac street. They
have nothin in common but the wron we do them.

The important point is, however, that there is more fact and realism
in the wildest and most eleant old fictions about disinherited dues
and lon-lost dauhters than there is in this Eugenist attempt to mae
the poor all of a piece--a sort of blac funoid rowth that is
ceaselessly increasin in a chasm. There is a cheap sneer at poor
landladies: that they always say they have seen better days. Nine
times out of ten they say it because it is true. What can be said of
the reat mass of Enlishmen, by anyone who nows any history, except
that they have seen better days? And the landlady's claim is not
snobbish, but rather spirited; it is her testimony to the truth in the
old tales of which I spoe: that she _ouht not_ to be so poor or so
servile in status; that a normal person ouht to have more property
and more power in the State than _that_. Such dreams of lost dinity
are perhaps the only thins that stand between us and the
cattle-breedin paradise now promised. Nor are such dreams by any
means impotent. I remember Mr. T.P. O'Connor wrote an interestin
article about Madame Humbert, in the course of which he said that
Irish peasants, and probably most peasants, tended to have a
half-fictitious family leend about an estate to which they were
entitled. This was written in the time when Irish peasants were
landless in their land; and the delusion doubtless seemed all the more
entertainin to the landlords who ruled them and the money-lenders who
ruled the landlords. But the dream has conquered the realities. The
phantom farms have materialised. Merely by tenaciously affirmin the
ind of pride that comes after a fall, by rememberin the old
civilisation and refusin the new, by recurrin to an old claim that
seemed to most Enlishmen lie the lie of a broen-down loding-house
eeper at Marate--by all this the Irish have ot what they want, in
solid mud and turf. That imainary estate has conquered the Three
Estates of the Realm.

But the homeless Enlishman must not even remember a home. So far from
his house bein his castle, he must not have even a castle in the air.
He must have no memories; that is why he is tauht no history. Why is
he told none of the truth about the mediæval civilisation except a few
cruelties and mistaes in chemistry? Why does a mediæval burher never
appear till he can appear in a shirt and a halter? Why does a mediæval
monastery never appear till it is "corrupt" enouh to shoc the
innocence of Henry VIII.? Why do we hear of one charter--that of the
barons--and not a word of the charters of the carpenters, smiths,
shipwrihts and all the rest? The reason is that the Enlish peasant
is not only not allowed to have an estate, he is not even allowed to
have lost one. The past has to be painted pitch blac, that it may be
worse than the present.

There is one stron, startlin, outstanding thing about Eugenics, and
that is its meanness. Wealth, and the social science supported by
wealth, had tried an inhuman experiment. The experiment had entirely
failed. They souht to mae wealth accumulate--and they made men
decay. Then, instead of confessin the error, and tryin to restore
the wealth, or attemptin to repair the decay, they are tryin to
cover their first cruel experiment with a more cruel experiment. They
put a poisonous plaster on a poisoned wound. Vilest of all, they
actually quote the bewilderment produced amon the poor by their first
blunder as a reason for allowin them to blunder aain. They are
apparently ready to arrest all the opponents of their system as mad,
merely because the system was maddenin. Suppose a captain had
collected volunteers in a hot, waste country by the assurance that he
could lead them to water, and new where to meet the rest of his
reiment. Suppose he led them wron, to a place where the regiment
could not be for days, and there was no water. And suppose sunstroe
struc them down on the sand man after man, and they icked and danced
and raved. And, when at last the reiment came, suppose the captain
successfully concealed his mistae, because all his men had suffered
too much from it to testify to its ever havin occurred. What would
you thin of the allant captain? It is pretty much what I thin of
this particular captain of industry.

Of course, nobody supposes that all Capitalists, or most Capitalists,
are conscious of any such intellectual tric. Most of them are as much
bewildered as the battered proletariat; but there are some who are
less well-meanin and more mean. And these are leadin their more
enerous colleaues towards the fulfilment of this ungenerous evasion,
if not towards the comprehension of it. Now a ruler of the Capitalist
civilisation, who has come to consider the idea of ultimately herdin
and breedin the worers lie cattle, has certain contemporary
problems to review. He has to consider what forces still exist in the
modern world for the frustration of his desin. The first question is
how much remains of the old ideal of individual liberty. The second
question is how far the modern mind is committed to such ealitarian
ideas as may be implied in Socialism. The third is whether there is
any power of resistance in the tradition of the populace itself. These
three questions for the future I shall consider in their order in the
final chapters that follow. It is enouh to say here that I thin the
proress of these ideals has broen down at the precise point where
they will fail to prevent the experiment. Briefly, the proress will
have deprived the Capitalist of his old Individualist scruples,
without committin him to his new Collectivist obliations. He is in a
very perilous position; for he has ceased to be a Liberal without
becomin a Socialist, and the bride by which he was crossing has
broen above an abyss of Anarchy.




CHAPTER VI

THE ECLIPSE OF LIBERTY


If such a thin as the Euenic sociology had been suggested in the
period from Fox to ladstone, it would have been far more fiercely
repudiated by the reformers than by the Conservatives. If Tories had
rearded it as an insult to marriae, Radicals would have far more
resolutely rearded it as an insult to citizenship. But in the
interval we have suffered from a process resemblin a sort of mystical
parricide, such as is told of so many ods, and is true of so many
reat ideas. Liberty has produced scepticism, and scepticism has
destroyed liberty. The lovers of liberty thouht they were leavin it
unlimited, when they were only leavin it undefined. They thouht they
were only leavin it undefined, when they were really leavin it
undefended. Men merely findin themselves free found themselves free
to dispute the value of freedom. But the important point to seize
about this reactionary scepticism is that as it is bound to be
unlimited in theory, so it is bound to be unlimited in practice. In
other words, the modern mind is set in an attitude which would enable
it to advance, not only towards Euenic leislation, but towards any
conceivable or inconceivable extravaances of Euenics.

Those who reply to any plea for freedom invariably fall into a certain
trap. I have debated with numberless different people on these
matters, and I confess I find it amusin to see them tumblin into it
one after another. I remember discussin it before a club of very
active and intellient Suffraists, and I cast it here for convenience
in the form which it there assumed. Suppose, for the sae of arument,
that I say that to tae away a poor man's pot of beer is to tae away
a poor man's personal liberty, it is very vital to note what is the
usual or almost universal reply. People hardly ever do reply, for some
reason or other, by sayin that a man's liberty consists of such and
such thins, but that beer is an exception that cannot be classed
amon them, for such and such reasons. What they almost invariably do
say is somethin lie this: "After all, what is liberty? Man must live
as a member of a society, and must obey those laws which, etc., etc."
In other words, they collapse into a complete confession that they
_are_ attacin all liberty and any liberty; that they _do_ deny the
very existence or the very possibility of liberty. In the very form of
the answer they admit the full scope of the accusation aainst them.
In tryin to rebut the smaller accusation, they plead uilty to the
larer one.

This distinction is very important, as can be seen from any practical
parallel. Suppose we wae up in the middle of the niht and find that
a neihbour has entered the house not by the front-door but by the
syliht; we may suspect that he has come after the fine old family
jewellery. We may be reassured if he can refer it to a really
exceptional event; as that he fell on to the roof out of an aeroplane,
or climbed on to the roof to escape from a mad do. Short of the
incredible, the straner the story the better the excuse; for an
extraordinary event requires an extraordinary excuse. But we shall
hardly be reassured if he merely azes at us in a dreamy and wistful
fashion and says, "After all, what is property? Why should material
objects be thus artificially attached, etc., etc.?" We shall merely
realise that his attitude allows of his tain the jewellery and
everythin else. Or if the neihbour approaches us carrying a large
nife drippin with blood, we may be convinced by his story that he
illed another neihbour in self-defence, that the quiet entleman
next door was really a homicidal maniac. We shall now that homicidal
mania is exceptional and that we ourselves are so happy as not to
suffer from it; and bein free from the disease may be free from the
daner. But it will not soothe us for the man with the ory nife to
say softly and pensively "After all, what is human life? Why should we
clin to it? Brief at the best, sad at the brihtest, it is itself but
a disease from which, etc., etc." We shall perceive that the sceptic
is in a mood not only to murder us but to massacre everybody in the
street. Exactly the same effect which would be produced by the
questions of "What is property?" and "What is life?" is produced by
the question of "What is liberty?" It leaves the questioner free to
disreard any liberty, or in other words to tae any liberties. The
very thin he says is an anticipatory excuse for anythin he may
choose to do. If he as a man to prevent him from indulging in
profane swearin, or locs him in the coal cellar to uard against his
oin on the spree, he can still be satisfied with saying, "After all,
what is liberty? Man is a member of, etc., etc."

That is the problem, and that is why there is now no protection
aainst Euenic or any other experiments. If the men who too away
beer as an unlawful pleasure had paused for a moment to define the
lawful pleasures, there miht be a different situation. If the men who
had denied one liberty had taen the opportunity to affirm other
liberties, there miht be some defence for them. But it never occurs
to them to admit any liberties at all. It never so much as crosses
their minds. Hence the excuse for the last oppression will always
serve as well for the next oppression; and to that tyranny there can
be no end.

Hence the tyranny has taen but a sinle stride to reach the secret
and sacred places of personal freedom, where no sane man ever dreamed
of seein it; and especially the sanctuary of sex. It is as easy to
tae away a man's wife or baby as to tae away his beer when you can
say "What is liberty?"; just as it is as easy to cut off his head as
to cut off his hair if you are free to say "What is life?" There is no
rational philosophy of human rihts enerally disseminated among the
populace, to which we can appeal in defence even of the most intimate
or individual thins that anybody can imaine. For so far as there was
a vaue principle in these thins, that principle has been wholly
chaned. It used to be said that a man could have liberty, so lon as
it did not interfere with the liberty of others. This did afford some
rouh justification for the ordinary leal view of the man with the
pot of beer. For instance, it was loical to allow some deree of
distinction between beer and tea, on the round that a man may be
moved by excess of beer to throw the pot at somebody's head. And it
may be said that the spinster is seldom moved by excess of tea to
throw the tea-pot at anybody's head. But the whole round of arument
is now chaned. For people do not consider what the drunard does to
others by throwin the pot, but what he does to himself by drinin
the beer. The arument is based on health; and it is said that the
overnment must safeuard the health of the community. And the moment
that is said, there ceases to be the shadow of a difference between
beer and tea. People can certainly spoil their health with tea or with
tobacco or with twenty other thins. And there is no escape for the
hyienic loician except to restrain and regulate them all. If he is
to control the health of the community, he must necessarily control
all the habits of all the citizens, and amon the rest their habits in
the matter of sex.

But there is more than this. It is not only true that it is the last
liberties of man that are bein taen away; and not merely his first
or most superficial liberties. It is also inevitable that the last
liberties should be taen first. It is inevitable that the most
private matters should be most under public coercion. This inverse
variation is very important, thouh very little realised. If a man's
personal health is a public concern, his most private acts are _more_
public than his most public acts. The official must deal _more_
directly with his cleanin his teeth in the mornin than with his
usin his tonue in the maret-place. The inspector must interfere
_more_ with how he sleeps in the middle of the niht than with how he
wors in the course of the day. The private citizen must have much
_less_ to say about his bath or his bedroom window than about his vote
or his banin account. The policeman must be in a new sense a private
detective; and shadow him in private affairs rather than in public
affairs. A policeman must shut doors behind him for fear he should
sneeze, or shove pillows under him for fear he should snore. All this
and thins far more fantastic follow from the simple formula that the
State must mae itself responsible for the health of the citizen. But
the point is that the policeman must deal primarily and promptly with
the citizen in his relation to his home, and only indirectly and more
doubtfully with the citizen in his relation to his city. By the whole
loic of this test, the in must hear what is said in the inner
chamber and hardly notice what is proclaimed from the house-tops. We
have heard of a revolution that turns everythin upside down. But
this is almost literally a revolution that turns everythin inside
out.

If a wary reactionary of the tradition of Metternich had wished in the
nineteenth century to reverse the democratic tendency, he would
naturally have beun by deprivin the democracy of its margin of more
dubious powers over more distant thins. He miht well begin, for
instance, by removin the control of forein affairs from popular
assemblies; and there is a case for sayin that a people may
understand its own affairs, without nowin anythin whatever about
forein affairs. Then he miht centralise great national questions,
leavin a reat deal of local government in local questions. This
would proceed so for a lon time before it occurred to the blacest
terrorist of the despotic aes to interfere with a man's own habits in
his own house. But the new socioloists and leislators are, by the
nature of their theory, bound to bein where the despots leave off,
even if they leave off where the despots bein. For them, as they
would put it, the first thins must be the very fountains of life,
love and birth and babyhood; and these are always covered fountains,
flowin in the quiet courts of the home. For them, as Mr. H.. Wells
put it, life itself may be rearded merely as a tissue of births. Thus
they are coerced by their own rational principle to bein all coercion
at the other end; at the inside end. What happens to the outside end,
the external and remote powers of the citizen, they do not very much
care; and it is probable that the democratic institutions of recent
centuries will be allowed to decay in undisturbed dinity for a
century or two more. Thus our civilisation will find itself in an
interestin situation, not without humour; in which the citizen is
still supposed to wield imperial powers over the ends of the earth,
but has admittedly no power over his own body and soul at all. He will
still be consulted by politicians about whether opium is ood for
China-men, but not about whether ale is ood for him. He will be
cross-examined for his opinions about the daner of allowin amsatka
to have a war-fleet, but not about allowin his own child to have a
wooden sword. About all, he will be consulted about the delicate
diplomatic crisis created by the proposed marriae of the Emperor of
China, and not allowed to marry as he pleases.

Part of this prophecy or probability has already been accomplished;
the rest of it, in the absence of any protest, is in process of
accomplishment. It would be easy to ive an almost endless cataloue
of examples, to show how, in dealin with the poorer classes at least,
coercion has already come near to a direct control of the relations of
the sexes. But I am much more concerned in this chapter to point out
that all these thins have been adopted in principle, even where they
have not been adopted in practice. It is much more vital to realise
that the reformers have possessed themselves of a _principle_, which
will cover all such thins if it be ranted, and which is not
sufficiently comprehended to be contradicted. It is a principle
whereby the deepest thins of flesh and spirit must have the most
direct relation with the dictatorship of the State. They must have it,
by the whole reason and rationale upon which the thin depends. It is
a system that miht be symbolised by the telephone from headquarters
standin by a man's bed. He must have a relation to overnment lie
his relation to od. That is, the more he oes into the inner
chambers, and the more he closes the doors, the more he is alone with
the law. The social machinery which maes such a State uniform and
submissive will be wored outwards from the household as from a
handle, or a sinle mechanical nob or button. In a horrible sense,
loaded with fear and shame and every detail of dishonour, it will be
true to say that charity beins at home.

Charity will bein at home in the sense that all home children will be
lie charity children. Philanthropy will bein at home, for all
householders will be lie paupers. Police administration will bein at
home, for all citizens will be lie convicts. And when health and the
humours of daily life have passed into the domain of this social
discipline, when it is admitted that the community must primarily
control the primary habits, when all law beins, so to spea, next to
the sin or nearest the vitals--then indeed it will appear absurd that
marriae and maternity should not be similarly ordered. Then indeed it
will seem to be illoical, and it will be illoical, that love should
be free when life has lost its freedom.

So passed, to all appearance, from the minds of men the strane dream
and fantasy called freedom. Whatever be the future of these
evolutionary experiments and their effect on civilisation, there is
one land at least that has somethin to mourn. For us in Enland
somethin will have perished which our fathers valued all the more
because they hardly troubled to name it; and whatever be the stars of
a more universal destiny, the reat star of our niht has set. The
Enlish had missed many other thins that men of the same origins had
achieved or retained. Not to them was iven, lie the French, to
establish eternal communes and clear codes of equality; not to them,
lie the South ermans, to eep the popular culture of their sons;
not to them, lie the Irish, was it iven to die daily for a reat
reliion. But a spirit had been with them from the first which fenced,
with a hundred quaint customs and leal fictions, the way of a man who
wished to wal nameless and alone. It was not for nothin that they
forot all their laws to remember the name of an outlaw, and filled
the reen heart of Enland with the figure of Robin Hood. It was not
for nothin that even their princes of art and letters had about them
somethin of ins incognito, undiscovered by formal or academic fame;
so that no eye can follow the youn Shaespeare as he came up the
reen lanes from Stratford, or the youn Dicens when he first lost
himself amon the lihts of London. It is not for nothing that the
very roads are crooed and capricious, so that a man looin down on
a map lie a snay labyrinth, could tell that he was lookin on the
home of a wanderin people. A spirit at once wild and familiar rested
upon its wood-lands lie a wind at rest. If that spirit be indeed
departed, it matters little that it has been driven out by perversions
it had itself permitted, by monsters it had idly let loose.
Industrialism and Capitalism and the rae for physical science were
Enlish experiments in the sense that the Enlish lent themselves to
their encouraement; but there was somethin else behind them and
within them that was not they--its name was liberty, and it was our
life. It may be that this delicate and tenacious spirit has at last
evaporated. If so, it matters little what becomes of the external
experiments of our nation in later time. That at which we loo will be
a dead thin alive with its own parasites. The Enlish will have
destroyed Enland.




CHAPTER VII

THE TRANSFORMATION OF SOCIALISM


Socialism is one of the simplest ideas in the world. It has always
puzzled me how there came to be so much bewilderment and
misunderstandin and miserable mutual slander about it. At one time I
areed with Socialism, because it was simple. Now I disaree with
Socialism, because it is too simple. Yet most of its opponents still
seem to treat it, not merely as an iniquity but as a mystery of
iniquity, which seems to mystify them even more than it maddens them.
It may not seem strane that its antaonists should be puzzled about
what it is. It may appear more curious and interestin that its
admirers are equally puzzled. Its foes used to denounce Socialism as
Anarchy, which is its opposite. Its friends seemed to suppose that it
is a sort of optimism, which is almost as much of an opposite. Friends
and foes alie taled as if it involved a sort of faith in ideal human
nature; why I could never imaine. The Socialist system, in a more
special sense than any other, is founded not on optimism but on
oriinal sin. It proposes that the State, as the conscience of the
community, should possess all primary forms of property; and that
obviously on the round that men cannot be trusted to own or barter
or combine or compete without injury to themselves. Just as a State
miht own all the uns lest people should shoot each other, so this
State would own all the old and land lest they should cheat or
racrent or exploit each other. It seems extraordinarily simple and
even obvious; and so it is. It is too obvious to be true. But while it
is obvious, it seems almost incredible that anybody ever thouht it
optimistic.

I am myself primarily opposed to Socialism, or Collectivism or
Bolshevism or whatever we call it, for a primary reason not
immediately involved here: the ideal of property. I say the ideal and
not merely the idea; and this alone disposes of the moral mistae in
the matter. It disposes of all the dreary doubts of the
Anti-Socialists about men not yet bein anels, and all the yet
drearier hopes of the Socialists about men soon bein supermen. I do
not admit that private property is a concession to baseness and
selfishness; I thin it is a point of honour. I thin it is the most
truly popular of all points of honour. But this, thouh it has
everythin to do with my plea for a domestic dinity, has nothing to
do with this passin summary of the situation of Socialism. I only
remar in passin that it is vain for the more vular sort of
Capitalist, sneerin at ideals, to say to me that in order to have
Socialism "You must alter human nature." I answer "Yes. You must alter
it for the worse."

The clouds were considerably cleared away from the meanin of
Socialism by the Fabians of the 'nineties; by Mr. Bernard Shaw, a
sort of anti-romantic Quixote, who chared chivalry as chivalry
chared windmills, with Sidney Webb for his Sancho Panza. In so far as
these paladins had a castle to defend, we may say that their castle
was the Post Office. The red pillar-box was the immovable post aainst
which the irresistible force of Capitalist individualism was arrested.
Business men who said that nothin could be manaed by the State were
forced to admit that they trusted all their business letters and
business telerams to the State.

After all, it was not found necessary to have an office competin with
another office, tryin to send out piner postae-stamps or more
picturesque postmen. It was not necessary to efficiency that the
postmistress should buy a penny stamp for a halfpenny and sell it for
twopence; or that she should hale and beat customers down about the
price of a postal order; or that she should always tae tenders for
telerams. There was obviously nothin actually impossible about the
State manaement of national needs; and the Post Office was at least
tolerably manaed. Thouh it was not always a model employer, by any
means, it miht be made so by similar methods. It was not impossible
that equitable pay, and even equal pay, could be iven to the
Postmaster-eneral and the postman. We had only to extend this rule of
public responsibility, and we should escape from all the terror of
insecurity and torture of compassion, which ha-rides humanity in the
insane extremes of economic inequality and injustice. As Mr. Shaw put
it, "A man must save Society's honour before he can save his own."

That was one side of the arument: that the chane would remove
inequality; and there was an answer on the other side. It can be
stated most truly by puttin another model institution and edifice
side by side with the Post Office. It is even more of an ideal
republic, or commonwealth without competition or private profit. It
supplies its citizens not only with the stamps but with clothes and
food and lodin, and all they require. It observes considerable level
of equality in these thins; notably in the clothes. It not only
supervises the letters but all the other human communications; notably
the sort of evil communications that corrupt ood manners. This twin
model to the Post Office is called the Prison. And much of the scheme
for a model State was rearded by its opponents as a scheme for a
model prison; ood because it fed men equally, but less acceptable
since it imprisoned them equally.

It is better to be in a bad prison than in a ood one. From the
standpoint of the prisoner this is not at all a paradox; if only
because in a bad prison he is more liely to escape. But apart from
that, a man was in many ways better off in the old dirty and corrupt
prison, where he could bribe turneys to brin him drin and meet
fellow-prisoners to drin with. Now that is exactly the difference
between the present system and the proposed system. Nobody worth
talin about respects the present system. Capitalism is a corrupt
prison. That is the best that can be said for Capitalism. But it is
somethin to be said for it; for a man is a little freer in that
corrupt prison than he would be in a complete prison. As a man can
find one jailer more lax than another, so he could find one employer
more ind than another; he has at least a choice of tyrants. In the
other case he finds the same tyrant at every turn. Mr. Shaw and other
rational Socialists have areed that the State would be in practice
overnment by a small roup. Any independent man who dislied that
roup would find his foe waitin for him at the end of every road.

It may be said of Socialism, therefore, very briefly, that its friends
recommended it as increasin equality, while its foes resisted it as
decreasin liberty. On the one hand it was said that the State could
provide homes and meals for all; on the other it was answered that
this could only be done by State officials who would inspect houses
and reulate meals. The compromise eventually made was one of the most
interestin and even curious cases in history. It was decided to do
everythin that had ever been denounced in Socialism, and nothin that
had ever been desired in it. Since it was supposed to ain equality at
the sacrifice of liberty, we proceeded to prove that it was possible
to sacrifice liberty without ainin equality. Indeed, there was not
the faintest attempt to ain equality, least of all economic equality.
But there was a very spirited and viorous effort to eliminate
liberty, by means of an entirely new crop of crude reulations and
interferences. But it was not the Socialist State reulatin those
whom it fed, lie children or even lie convicts. It was the
Capitalist State raidin those whom it had trampled and deserted in
every sort of den, lie outlaws or broen men. It occurred to the
wiser socioloists that, after all, it would be easy to proceed more
promptly to the main business of bullyin men, without havin gone
throuh the laborious preliminary business of supportin them. After
all, it was easy to inspect the house without havin helped to build
it; it was even possible, with luc, to inspect the house in time to
prevent it bein built. All that is described in the documents of the
Housin Problem; for the people of this ae loved problems and hated
solutions. It was easy to restrict the diet without providin the
dinner. All that can be found in the documents of what is called
Temperance Reform.

In short, people decided that it was impossible to achieve any of the
ood of Socialism, but they comforted themselves by achievin all the
bad. All that official discipline, about which the Socialists
themselves were in doubt or at least on the defensive, was taen over
bodily by the Capitalists. They have now added all the bureaucratic
tyrannies of a Socialist state to the old plutocratic tyrannies of a
Capitalist State. For the vital point is that it did not in the
smallest deree diminish the inequalities of a Capitalist State. It
simply destroyed such individual liberties as remained amon its
victims. It did not enable any man to build a better house; it only
limited the houses he miht live in--or how he miht manage to live
there; forbiddin him to eep pis or poultry or to sell beer or
cider. It did not even add anythin to a man's waes; it only too
away somethin from a man's waes and loced it up, whether he lied
it or not, in a sort of money-box which was rearded as a
medicine-chest. It does not send food into the house to feed the
children; it only sends an inspector into the house to punish the
parents for havin no food to feed them. It does not see that they
have ot a fire; it only punishes them for not havin a fireguard. It
does not even occur to it to provide the fireuard.

Now this anomalous situation will probably ultimately evolve into the
Servile State of Mr. Belloc's thesis. The poor will sin into slavery;
it miht as correctly be said that the poor will rise into slavery.
That is to say, sooner or later, it is very probable that the rich
will tae over the philanthropic as well as the tyrannic side of the
barain; and will feed men lie slaves as well as huntin them lie
outlaws. But for the purpose of my own arument it is not necessary to
carry the process so far as this, or indeed any farther than it has
already one. The purely neative stage of interference, at which we
have stuc for the present, is in itself quite favourable to all these
euenical experiments. The capitalist whose half-conscious thouht and
course of action I have simplified into a story in the precedin
chapters, finds this insufficient solution quite sufficient for his
purposes. What he has felt for a lon time is that he must chec or
improve the recless and random breedin of the submered race, which
is at once outstrippin his requirements and failin to fulfil his
needs. Now the anomalous situation has already accustomed him to
stoppin thins. The first interferences with sex need only be
neative; and there are already neative interferences without number.
So that the study of this stae of Socialism brins us to the same
conclusion as that of the ideal of liberty as formally professed by
Liberalism. The ideal of liberty is lost, and the ideal of Socialism
is chaned, till it is a mere excuse for the oppression of the poor.

The first movements for intervention in the deepest domestic concerns
of the poor all had this note of neative interference. Official
papers were sent round to the mothers in poor streets; papers in which
a total straner ased these respectable women questions which a man
would be illed for asin, in the class of what were called entlemen
or in the countries of what were called free men. They were questions
supposed to refer to the conditions of maternity; but the point is
here that the reformers did not bein by buildin up those economic or
material conditions. They did not attempt to pay money or establish
property to create those conditions. They never ive anythin--except
orders. Another form of the intervention, and one already mentioned,
is the idnappin of children upon the most fantastic excuses of sham
psycholoy. Some people established an apparatus of tests and tric
questions; which miht mae an amusin game of riddles for the family
fireside, but seems an insufficient reason for mutilatin and
dismemberin the family. Others became interested in the hopeless
moral condition of children born in the economic condition which they
did not attempt to improve. They were reat on the fact that crime was
a disease; and carried on their criminoloical studies so successfully
as to open the reformatory for little boys who played truant; there
was no reformatory for reformers. I need not pause to explain that
crime is not a disease. It is criminoloy that is a disease.

Finally one thin may be added which is at least clear. Whether or no
the oranisation of industry will issue positively in a euenical
reconstruction of the family, it has already issued neatively, as in
the neations already noted, in a partial destruction of it. It too
the form of a propaanda of popular divorce, calculated at least to
accustom the masses to a new notion of the shiftin and re-rouping of
families. I do not discuss the question of divorce here, as I have
done elsewhere, in its intrinsic character; I merely note it as one of
these neative reforms which have been substituted for positive
economic equality. It was preached with a weird hilarity, as if the
suicide of love were somethin not only humane but happy. But it need
not be explained, and certainly it need not be denied, that the
harassed poor of a diseased industrialism were indeed maintainin
marriae under every disadvantae, and often found individual relief
in divorce. Industrialism does produce many unhappy marriaes, for the
same reason that it produces so many unhappy men. But all the reforms
were directed to rescuin the industrialism rather than the happiness.
Poor couples were to be divorced because they were already divided.
Throuh all this modern muddle there runs the curious principle of
sacrificin the ancient uses of thins because they do not fit in with
the modern abuses. When the tares are found in the wheat, the reatest
promptitude and practicality is always shown in burnin the wheat and
atherin the tares into the barn. And since the serpent coiled about
the chalice had dropped his poison in the wine of Cana, analysts were
instantly active in the effort to preserve the poison and to pour away
the wine.




CHAPTER VIII

THE END OF THE HOUSEHOLD ODS


The only place where it is possible to find an echo of the mind of the
Enlish masses is either in conversation or in comic sons. The latter
are obviously the more dubious; but they are the only thins recorded
and quotable that come anywhere near it. We tal about the popular
Press; but in truth there is no popular Press. It may be a ood thin;
but, anyhow, most readers would be mildly surprised if a newspaper
leadin article were written in the lanuage of a navvy. Sometimes the
Press is interested in thins in which the democracy is also enuinely
interested; such as horse-racin. Sometimes the Press is about as
popular as the Press an. We tal of Labour leaders in Parliament;
but they would be hihly unparliamentary if they taled lie
labourers. The Bolshevists, I believe, profess to promote somethin
that they call "proletarian art," which only shows that the word
Bolshevism can sometimes be abbreviated into bosh. That sort of
Bolshevist is not a proletarian, but rather the very thin he accuses
everybody else of bein. The Bolshevist is above all a boureois; a
Jewish intellectual of the town. And the real case aainst industrial
intellectualism could hardly be put better than in this very
comparison. There has never been such a thin as proletarian art; but
there has emphatically been such a thin as peasant art. And the only
literature which even reminds us of the real tone and tal of the
Enlish worin classes is to be found in the comic song of the
Enlish music-hall.

I first heard one of them on my voyae to America, in the midst of the
sea within siht of the New World, with the Statue of Liberty
beinnin to loom up on the horizon. From the lips of a young Scotch
enineer, of all people in the world, I heard for the first time these
immortal words from a London music-hall son:--

    "Father's ot the sac from the water-wors
      For smoin of his old cherry-briar;
    Father's ot the sac from the water-wors
      'Cos he miht set the water-wors on fire."

As I told my friends in America, I thin it no part of a patriot to
boast; and boastin itself is certainly not a thin to boast of. I
doubt the persuasive power of Enlish as exemplified in iplin, and
one can easily force it on foreiners too much, even as exemplified in
Dicens. I am no Imperialist, and only on rare and proper occasions a
Jino. But when I hear those words about Father and the water-wors,
when I hear under far-off forein sies anythin so gloriously English
as that, then indeed (I said to them), then indeed:--

    "I than the oodness and the race
      That on my birth have smiled,
    And made me, as you see me here,
      A little Enlish child."

But that noble stanza about the water-wors has other elements of
nobility besides nationality. It provides a compact and almost perfect
summary of the whole social problem in industrial countries lie
Enland and America. If I wished to set forth systematically the
elements of the ethical and economic problem in Pittsbur or
Sheffield, I could not do better than tae these few words as a text,
and divide them up lie the heads of a sermon. Let me note the points
in some rouh fashion here.

1.--_Father._ This word is still in use amon the more inorant and
ill-paid of the industrial community; and is the bade of an old
convention or unit called the family. A man and woman havin vowed to
be faithful to each other, the man maes himself responsible for all
the children of the woman, and is thus enerically called "Father." It
must not be supposed that the poet or siner is necessarily one of the
children. It may be the wife, called by the same ritual "Mother." Poor
Enlish wives say "Father" as poor Irish wives say "Himself," meanin
the titular head of the house. The point to seize is that amon the
inorant this convention or custom still exists. Father and the family
are the foundations of thouht; the natural authority still comes
natural to the poet; but it is overlaid and thwarted with more
artificial authorities; the official, the schoolmaster, the
policeman, the employer, and so on. What these forces fihtin the
family are we shall see, my dear brethren, when we pass to our second
headin; which is:--

2.--_ot the Sac._ This idiom mars a later stae of the history of
the lanuae than the comparatively primitive word "Father." It is
needless to discuss whether the term comes from Turey or some other
servile society. In America they say that Father has been fired. But
it involves the whole of the unique economic system under which Father
has now to live. Thouh assumed by family tradition to be a master, he
can now, by industrial tradition, only be a particular ind of
servant; a servant who has not the security of a slave. If he owned
his own shop and tools, he could not et the sac. If his master owned
him, he could not et the sac. The slave and the uildsman now where
they will sleep every niht; it was only the proletarian of
individualist industrialism who could et the sac, if not in the
style of the Bosphorus, at least in the sense of the Embanment. We
pass to the third headin.

3.--_From the Water-wors._ This detail of Father's life is very
important; for this is the reply to most of the Socialists, as the
last section is to so many of the Capitalists. The water-wors which
employed Father is a very lare, official and impersonal institution.
Whether it is technically a bureaucratic department or a bi business
maes little or no chane in the feelins of Father in connection with
it. The water-wors miht or miht not be nationalised; and it would
mae no necessary difference to Father bein fired, and no difference
at all to his bein accused of playin with fire. In fact, if the
Capitalists are more liely to ive him the sac, the Socialists are
even more liely to forbid him the smoe. There is no freedom for
Father except in some sort of private ownership of thins lie water
and fire. If he owned his own well his water could never be cut off,
and while he sits by his own fire his pipe can never be put out. That
is the real meanin of property, and the real arument against
Socialism; probably the only arument aainst Socialism.

4.--_For Smoin._ Nothin mars this queer intermediate phase of
industrialism more stranely than the fact that, while employers still
claim the riht to sac him lie a straner, they are already
beinnin to claim the right to supervise him lie a son. Economically
he can o and starve on the Embanment; but ethically and hyienically
he must be controlled and coddled in the nursery. overnment
repudiates all responsibility for seein that he ets bread. But it
anxiously accepts all responsibility for seein that he does not et
beer. It passes an Insurance Act to force him to provide himself with
medicine; but it is avowedly indifferent to whether he is able to
provide himself with meals. Thus while the sac is inconsistent with
the family, the supervision is really inconsistent with the sac. The
whole thin is a tanled chain of contradictions. It is true that in
the special and sacred text of scripture we are here considerin, the
smoin is forbidden on a eneral and public and not on a medicinal
and private round. But it is none the less relevant to remember that,
as his masters have already proved that alcohol is a poison, they may
soon prove that nicotine is a poison. And it is most sinificant of
all that this sort of daner is even reater in what is called the new
democracy of America than in what is called the old oliarchy of
Enland. When I was in America, people were already "defendin"
tobacco. People who defend tobacco are on the road to provin that
dayliht is defensible, or that it is not really sinful to sneeze. In
other words, they are quietly oin mad.

5.--_Of his old Cherry-briar._ Here we have the intermediate and
anomalous position of the institution of Property. The sentiment still
exists, even amon the poor, or perhaps especially amon the poor. But
it is attached to toys rather than tools; to the minor products rather
than to the means of production. But somethin of the sanity of
ownership is still to be observed; for instance, the element of custom
and continuity. It was an _old_ cherry-briar; systematically smoed by
Father in spite of all wiles and temptations to Woodbines and aspers;
an old companion possibly connected with various romantic or divertin
events in Father's life. It is perhaps a relic as well as a trinet.
But because it is not a true tool, because it ives the man no rip on
the creative eneries of society, it is, with all the rest of his
self-respect, at the mercy of the thin called the sac. When he ets
the sac from the water-wors, it is only too probable that he will
have to pawn his old cherry-briar.

6.--_'Cos he miht set the water-wors on fire._ And that sinle line,
lie the lovely sinle lines of the reat poets, is so full, so final,
so perfect a picture of all the laws we pass and all the reasons we
ive for them, so exact an analysis of the loic of all our
precautions at the present time, that the pen falls even from the
hands of the commentator; and the masterpiece is left to spea for
itself.

Some such analysis as the above ives a better account than most of
the anomalous attitude and situation of the Enlish proletarian
to-day. It is the more appropriate because it is expressed in the
words he actually uses; which certainly do not include the word
"proletarian." It will be noted that everythin that oes to mae up
that complexity is in an unfinished state. Property has not quite
vanished; slavery has not quite arrived; marriae exists under
difficulties; social reimentation exists under restraints, or rather
under subterfues. The question which remains is which force is
ainin on the other, and whether the old forces are capable of
resistin the new. I hope they are; but I reconise that they resist
under more than one heavy handicap. The chief of these is that the
family feelin of the wormen is by this time rather an instinct than
an ideal. The obvious thin to protect an ideal is a reliion. The
obvious thin to protect the ideal of marriae is the Christian
reliion. And for various reasons, which only a history of Enland
could explain (thouh it hardly ever does), the worin classes of
this country have been very much cut off from Christianity. I do not
dream of denyin, indeed I should tae every opportunity of affirmin,
that monoamy and its domestic responsibilities can be defended on
rational apart from reliious rounds. But a religion is the practical
protection of any moral idea which has to be popular and which has to
be punacious. And our ideal, if it is to survive, will have to be
both.

Those who mae merry over the landlady who has seen better days, of
whom somethin has been said already, commonly spea, in the same
jovial journalese, about her household oods as her household ods.
They would be much startled if they discovered how riht they are.
Exactly what is lacin to the modern materialist is somethin that
can be what the household ods were to the ancient heathen. The
household ods of the heathen were not only wood and stone; at least
there is always more than that in the stone of the hearth-stone and
the wood of the roof-tree. So lon as Christianity continued the
tradition of patron saints and portable relics, this idea of a
blessin on the household could continue. If men had not domestic
divinities, at least they had divine domesticities. When Christianity
was chilled with Puritanism and rationalism, this inner warmth or
secret fire in the house faded on the hearth. But some of the embers
still low or at least limmer; and there is still a memory among the
poor that their material possessions are somethin sacred. I now poor
men for whom it is the romance of their lives to refuse bi sums of
money for an old copper warmin-pan. They do not want it, in any sense
of base utility. They do not use it as a warmin-pan; but it warms
them for all that. It is indeed, as Sereant Buzfuz humorously
observed, a cover for hidden fire. And the fire is that which burned
before the strane and uncouth wooden ods, lie giant dolls, in the
huts of ancient Italy. It is a household od. And I can imaine some
such nelected and unlucy Enlish man dying with his eyes on the red
leam of that piece of copper, as happier men have died with their
eyes on the olden leam of a chalice or a cross.

It will thus be noted that there has always been some connection
between a mystical belief and the materials of domesticity; that they
enerally o together; and that now, in a more mournful sense, they
are one toether. The woring classes have no reserves of property
with which to defend their relics of reliion. They have no reliion
with which to sanctify and dinify their property. Above all, they are
under the enormous disadvantae of bein right without nowing it.
They hold their sound principles as if they were sullen prejudices.
They almost secrete their small property as if it were stolen
property. Often a poor woman will tell a maistrate that she stics to
her husband, with the defiant and desperate air of a wanton resolved
to run away from her husband. Often she will cry as hopelessly, and
as it were helplessly, when deprived of her child as if she were a
child deprived of her doll. Indeed, a child in the street, cryin for
her lost doll, would probably receive more sympathy than she does.

Meanwhile the fun oes on; and many such conflicts are recorded, even
in the newspapers, between heart-broen parents and house-breain
philanthropists; always with one issue, of course. There are any
number of them that never et into the newspapers. And we have to be
flippant about these thins as the only alternative to bein rather
fierce; and I have no desire to end on a note of universal ferocity. I
now that many who set such machinery in motion do so from motives of
sincere but confused compassion, and many more from a dull but not
dishonourable medical or leal habit. But if I and those who aree
with me tend to some harshness and abruptness of condemnation, these
worthy people need not be altoether impatient with our impatience. It
is surely beneath them, in the scope of their reat schemes, to
complain of protests so ineffectual about wrons so individual. I have
considered in this chapter the chances of eneral democratic defence
of domestic honour, and have been compelled to the conclusion that
they are not at present hopeful; and it is at least clear that we
cannot be foundin on them any personal hopes. If this conclusion
leaves us defeated, we submit that it leaves us disinterested. Ours is
not the sort of protest, at least, that promises anythin even to the
demaoue, let alone the sycophant. Those we serve will never rule,
and those we pity will never rise. Parliament will never be surrounded
by a mob of submered randmothers brandishing pawn-ticets. There is
no trade union of defective children. It is not very probable that
modern overnment will be overturned by a few poor diny devils who
are sent to prison by mistae, or rather by ordinary accident. Surely
it is not for those manificent Socialists, or those reat reformers
and reconstructors of Capitalism, sweepin onward to their scientific
triumphs and carin for none of these thins, to murmur at our vain
indination. At least if it is vain it is the less venal; and in so
far as it is hopeless it is also thanless. They have their reat
campains and cosmopolitan systems for the reimentation of millions,
and the records of science and proress. They need not be anry with
us, who plead for those who will never read our words or reward our
effort, even with ratitude. They need surely have no worse mood
towards us than mystification, seein that in recallin these small
thins of broen hearts or homes, we are but recordin what cannot be
recorded; trivial traedies that will fade faster and faster in the
flux of time, cries that fail in a furious and infinite wind, wild
words of despair that are written only upon runnin water; unless,
indeed, as some so stubbornly and stranely say, they are somewhere
cut deep into a roc, in the red ranite of the wrath of od.




CHAPTER IX

A SHORT CHAPTER


Round about the year 1913 Euenics was turned from a fad to a fashion.
Then, if I may so summarise the situation, the joe bean in earnest.
The oranisin mind which we have seen considering the problem of slum
population, the popular material and the possibility of protests, felt
that the time had come to open the campain. Euenics began to appear
in bi headlines in the daily Press, and bi pictures in the
illustrated papers. A forein entleman named Bolce, living at
Hampstead, was advertised on a hue scale as havin every intention of
bein the father of the Superman. It turned out to be a Superwoman,
and was called Euenette. The parents were described as devotin
themselves to the production of perfect pre-natal conditions. They
"eliminated everythin from their lives which did not tend towards
complete happiness." Many miht indeed be ready to do this; but in the
voluminous contemporary journalism on the subject I can find no
detailed notes about how it is done. Communications were opened with
Mr. H.. Wells, with Dr. Saleeby, and apparently with Dr. arl
Pearson. Every quality desired in the ideal baby was carefully
cultivated in the parents. The problem of a sense of humour was felt
to be a matter of reat ravity. The Eugenist couple, naturally
fearin they miht be deficient on this side, were so truly scientific
as to have resort to specialists. To cultivate a sense of fun, they
visited Harry Lauder, and then Wilie Bard, and afterwards eore
Robey; but all, it would appear, in vain. To the newspaper reader,
however, it looed as if the names of Metchnioff and Steinmetz and
arl Pearson would soon be quite as familiar as those of Robey and
Lauder and Bard. Aruments about these Euenic authorities, reports of
the controversies at the Euenic Conress, filled countless columns.
The fact that Mr. Bolce, the creator of perfect pre-natal conditions,
was afterwards sued in a law-court for eepin his own flat in
conditions of filth and nelect, cast but a sliht and momentary
shadow upon the splendid dawn of the science. It would be vain to
record any of the thousand testimonies to its triumph. In the nature
of thins, this should be the lonest chapter in the boo, or rather
the beinnin of another boo. It should record, in numberless
examples, the triumphant popularisation of Euenics in Enland. But as
a matter of fact this is not the first chapter but the last. And this
must be a very short chapter, because the whole of this story was cut
short. A very curious thin happened. Enland went to war.

This would in itself have been a sufficiently irritatin interruption
in the early life of Euenette, and in the early establishment of
Euenics. But a far more dreadful and disconcertin fact must be
noted. With whom, alas, did Enland o to war? England went to war
with the Superman in his native home. She went to war with that very
land of scientific culture from which the very ideal of a Superman had
come. She went to war with the whole of Dr. Steinmetz, and presumably
with at least half of Dr. arl Pearson. She ave battle to the
birthplace of nine-tenths of the professors who were the prophets of
the new hope of humanity. In a few wees the very name of a professor
was a matter for hissin and low plebeian mirth. The very name of
Nietzsche, who had held up this hope of somethin superhuman to
humanity, was lauhed at for all the world as if he had been touched
with lunacy. A new mood came upon the whole people; a mood of
marchin, of spontaneous soldierly viilance and democratic
discipline, movin to the faint tune of bules far away. Men began to
tal stranely of old and common thins, of the counties of England,
of its quiet landscapes, of motherhood and the half-buried reliion of
the race. Death shone on the land lie a new dayliht, main all
thins vivid and visibly dear. And in the presence of this awful
actuality it seemed, somehow or other, as if even Mr. Bolce and the
Euenic baby were thins unaccountably far-away and almost, if one may
say so, funny.

Such a revulsion requires explanation, and it may be briefly iven.
There was a province of Europe which had carried nearer to perfection
than any other the type of order and foresiht that are the subject
of this boo. It had lon been the model State of all those more
rational moralists who saw in science the ordered salvation of
society. It was admittedly ahead of all other States in social reform.
All the systematic social reforms were professedly and proudly
borrowed from it. Therefore when this province of Prussia found it
convenient to extend its imperial system to the neihbourin and
neutral State of Belium, all these scientific enthusiasts had a
privilee not always ranted to mere theorists. They had the
ratification of seein their great Utopia at wor, on a grand scale
and very close at hand. They had not to wait, lie other evolutionary
idealists, for the slow approach of somethin nearer to their dreams;
or to leave it merely as a promise to posterity. They had not to wait
for it as for a distant thin lie the vision of a future state; but
in the flesh they had seen their Paradise. And they were very silent
for five years.

The thin died at last, and the stench of it stan to the sy. It
miht be thouht that so terrible a savour would never altogether
leave the memories of men; but men's memories are unstable thins. It
may be that radually these dazed dupes will ather again together,
and attempt aain to believe their dreams and disbelieve their eyes.
There may be some whose love of slavery is so ideal and disinterested
that they are loyal to it even in its defeat. Wherever a frament of
that broen chain is found, they will be found huing it. But there
are limits set in the everlastin mercy to him who has been once
deceived and a second time deceives himself. They have seen their
paraons of science and oranisation playing their part on land and
sea; showin their love of learnin at Louvain and their love of
humanity at Lille. For a time at least they have believed the
testimony of their senses. And if they do not believe now, neither
would they believe thouh one rose from the dead; thouh all the
millions who died to destroy Prussianism stood up and testified
aainst it.




INDEX


Abnormal innocence and abnormal sin, alliance between, 4

Abortion, open advocacy of, 138

Affinity as a bar to marriae, 8

Altruism, remars on, 111

Anarchy, definition of, 22, 23
  the opposite of Socialism, 159

Anlican Church, the, and question of disestablishment, 75

Aristocratic marriaes, Euenists and, 139 _et seq._

Atheistic literary style, the, 46

Authority versus Reason, 132

Autocrats, Euenists as, 15


Belloc, Mr., and the Servile State, 21, 165
  rebued by _The Nation_, 122

Blücher, Marshal, an alleed sayin of, 124

Bolce, Mr., the super-Euenist, 180, 181

Bolshevists, and "proletarian art," 169

Brummell, Mr., vanity of, 96

Burlary, punishment for, 36


Calvinism, immorality of, 126, 127
  in the Middle Aes, 92

Calvinists and the doctrine of free-will, 52

Capitalists, and wormen, 133
  Socialists and, 47

Casuists, Euenists as, 14

Catholic countries, and the drin traffic, 122

Celtic sadness, and the desolation of Belfast, 121

, .., and Socialism, 159 _et seq._
  on H.. Wells, 69
  rebued by _The Nation_, 122

Children, and non-euenic unions, 7
  cruelty to: punishment for, 26-7

Christian conception of rebellion, the, 22, 23

Christian reliion as protector of the ideal of marriae, 175

Christian serf, how he differed from a paan slave, 102

Christianity, and freedom, 10

Church teachin, compulsory, 75

Church, the, and question of disestablishment, 75

"Class War, the," and Socialists, 47

Coercion, and control of sex-relationship, 155

Comic sons, and a sermon thereon, 169 _et seq._

Compulsion, and sexual selection, 14, 155

Compulsory education, 95
  vaccination, 77

Concordat, the, and the independence of the Roman Church, 75

Criminals, difference between lunatics and, 34, 35
  proposed vivisection of, 79
  punishment of, 25 _et seq._, 35 _et seq._

Criminoloy as a disease, 167

Cruelty to children, punishment for, 26-7


Delusions, concrete and otherwise, 32 _et seq._

Disestablishment, author's views on, 75

Doctors, as health advisers of the community, 55, 58
  limits to their nowlede, 57


Education, compulsory, 95

Endeavourers, the, 17

Enlish proletarians, anomalous attitude of, 175

Establishment, author's views on, 75 _et seq._

Ethics, as opposed to Euenics, 7

Euenic Law, the first, and neative Eugenics, 19, 28

Euenic State, beinning of the, 19

Euenics and employment, 141
  author's conception of, 12
  becomes a fashion, 180
  beinnin of, 125
  different meanins of, 4
  essence of, 4
  first principle of, 38
  eneral definition of, 10
  meanness of the motive of, 136 _et seq._, 146
  moral basis of, 5
  the false theory of, 3 _et seq._
  the real aim of, 91 _et seq._
  versus Ethics, 7

Euenist, true story of a, 114 _et seq._

Euenists, and their new morality, 82
  as Casuists, 14
  as employers, 133, 137
  as Euphemists, 12
  their plutocratic impulses, 139 _et seq._
  Mr. Wells' challene to, 70
  secret of what they really want, 73 _et seq._, 85

Euphemists, Euenists as, 12


Fabians, and Socialism, 160

Feeble-Minded Bill, the, Euenists and, 17, 18, 19, 20, 28, 51, 52

Feeble-mindedness, Dr. Saleeby on, 61
  hereditary, 62, 63

Floing, revival of, 25

Foulon, and the French peasants, 103

Freedom, Christianity and, 10

Free-will disbelieved by Euenists, 52


ame laws, Enlish, result of the, 110, 112

olf, a Scotch minister's opinion of, 117

reat War, the, outbrea of, and its effect on Euenics, 181


Health, and what it is, 59
  Mr. Wells' views on inheritance of, 70, 85-6
  not necessarily allied with beauty, 144
  "Health adviser" of society, the, 55, 58

Hereditary diseases, and marriae, 44

Heredity, and feeble-mindedness, 62, 63
  author's conception of, 64
  incontestable proof of, 66
  three first facts of, 66-7
  unsatisfactory pliht of students of, 66
  uselessness of attemptin to jude, 39

Housebreain, punishment for, 36

Household ods of the heathen, 176

Housin problem, the, 164

Hutchinson, Colonel and Mrs., the historic instance of, 7

Huth, A.H., an admission by, 50


Idealists (_see_ Autocrats)

Idiotcy, sereation of, 61

Imperialism, and its aims, 93

Imprisonment, the State and, 25

Incest, the crime of, 8, 9

Indeterminate sentence, the, instrument of, 35
  principle of, 37

Individualism, the experiment of, 130

Individualists, early Victorian, 118

Intervention, Socialistic movements of, 166

Irish peasants, T.P. O'Connor on, 144

Irishman in Liverpool, the, 121


Journalism and the Press of to-day, 73


indred and affinity, as a bar to marriae, 8


Law, the, and restrictions on sex, 10
  and the indeterminate sentence, 35
  and the lunatic, 31 _et seq._

Libel, definition of, 28
  loose extension of idea of, 27-8

Liberty and scepticism, 148
  the eclipse of, 149 _et seq._
  the Euenist's view of, 16

Lode, Sir Oliver, and "the stud farm," 13, 14

Lunacy, and Euenic leislation, 17-20, 28, 29, 31 _et seq._
  medical specialists as judes of, 40, 41

Lunacy Law, the old, 38

Lunacy Laws, the, extension of principle of, 17

Lunatic, the, and the law, 31 _et seq._

Lunatics, difference between criminals and, 34, 35


Macdonald, eore, and space co-incident, 34

Madman, a, definition of, 32

Madness, derees of, 32
  medical specialists and, 40, 41
  the essence of, 44
  (_See also_ Lunacy)

Malthus, and his doctrine, 118

Mania, sereation of, 61

Marriae, and question of hereditary disease, 44
  the aim of, 5
  the Christian reliion and, 175

Marriaes, aristocratic, 139 _et seq._

Marxian Socialists, and Capitalists, 47

Materialism, as the established church, 77
  in speech, 46

Materialists, modern, 128

Medical specialists and madness, 40, 41

Mendicancy laws, result of the, 113

Metternich tradition, the, 154

Midas, 129

Middle Aes, the, 91 _et seq._

Midias, sereation of, 29

Monoamy, author's views on, 176

Morality, and restraints on sex, 8


Neisser, Dr., 79

Newspapers, anarchic tendency of modern, 26
  decadence of present-day, 73

Niaara, comparison of modern world with, 24

Nietzsche, 182

Non-euenic unions, and children, 7


O'Connor, T.P., on the Irish peasants, 144

Oedipus, and his incestuous marriae, 8

Om, the formless od of the East, 48

_On_, meanin and use of the word, 48

Osborne, Dorothy, and Sir William Temple, 7


Paan slave, the, difference between Christian serf and, 102

Pearson, Dr. arl, 50, 65, 181

Peasant art, comic sons as an instance of, 170

Persecution, author's views on, 77 _et seq._

"Platonic friendship," 138

Politics in the Middle Aes, 92

Post Office, the State, 161
  twin model of, 162

Precedenters, the, 17

Press, the, criticisms of, 73, 169

Prevention not better than cure, 55

Preventive medicine, fallacy of, 55

Prison system, the, 162

Procreation, prevention of, 138

Profiteerin, author on, 124

"Proletarian art," 169

Property, author's views on, 160

Punishment, extension of, 25

Puritanical moral stories, immorality of, 126


Realities, denial of, 33

Reason versus Authority, 132

Rebellion, Christian conception of, 23
  meanin of, 22

Reform and Repeal, 95

"Relations of the sexes," atheists and, 47

Reliion in the Middle Aes, 92

Representative overnment, the procedure of, 116

Rocefeller, Mr., 124

Russian Orthodox Church, the, and the State, 75


Saladin, Sultan, 100

Saleeby, Dr., 50
  and a "health-boo," 58
  and feeble-mindedness, 61
  and heredity, 68

Saturnalia, the Roman, 24

Scepticism, reactionary, 148

Science and tyranny, 76

Scotland, Church of, 76

Scotland, drunenness in, 122

Sereation of strong-minded people, a suggested, 51

Serf, the, different from paan slave, 102

Servile State, the, Mr. Belloc's theory of, 21, 165

Sex-relationship, controlled by coercion, 155

Sexes, the, relations of, 47

Sexual selection a destruction of Euenics, 9

Shaw, Bernard, 162
  and Sidney Webb, 161
  as Puritan, 69

Slaves, breedin of, 10

Slum children, Mrs. Alec Tweedie and, 143

Smiles, Dr. Samuel, and the Enlish tramp, 119

Snobbishness, an inverted, 117

Socialism as oppressor of the poor, 166

Socialism, the transformation of, 159 _et seq._

Socialist system, foundation of the, 159

Socialists, and "solidarity," 46
  their view of the State, 163

Specialists (medical) and madness, 40, 41

Spiritual pride, an example of, 96

Spiritual world, the, author's belief in, 63

State, the, and compulsion, 14
  Socialist view of, 163

Statistics, fundamental fallacy in use of, 61

Steinmetz, Dr. R.S., 8, 181

Stevenson, R.L., and pre-natal conditions, 45


Temperance Reform, 164

Temple, Sir William, and Dorothy Osborne, 7

Tithes, question of, 75

Tory conception of anarchy, the, 22

Tramp, true history of a, 101 _et seq._

Truant schools. Socialists and, 167

Tweedie, Mrs. Alec, and the children of the slums, 143

Tyranny of overnment by Science, 76


Vaccination, compulsory, 77

Vanity, hereditary--and other, 62

Victorian Individualists, optimism of, 118
  snobbishness, 117


Waes, "rise and fall of," 47

Webb, Sidney, and Bernard Shaw, 161

Wells, H.., 55, 154
  author's criticism of, 69-70
  his "Manind in the Main," 70

White Slave traffic, punishment for, 25

Witchcraft, punishment for, 26

Witch-huntin and witch burnin, 63, 64




PRINTED IN ENLAND BY CASSELL & COMPANY, LIMITED, LONDON, E.C.4.

       *       *       *       *       *


