
HEART F THE WEST
by . 





CNTENTS

    I. Hearts and Crsses
   II. The Ransm of Mack
  III. Telemachus, Friend
   IV. The Handbok of Hymen
    V. The Pimienta Pancakes
   VI. Seats f the Haughty
  VII. Hygeia at the Slito
 VIII. An Afternon Miracle
   IX. The Higher Abdicatin
    X. Cupid a la Carte
   XI. The Caballer's Way
  XII. The Sphinx Apple
 XIII. The Missing Chrd
  XIV. A Call Lan
   XV. The Princess and the Puma
  XVI. The Indian Summer f Dry Valley Johnson
 XVII. Christmas by Injunctin
XVIII. A Chaparral Prince
  XIX. The Refrmation of Calliope




HEART F THE WEST



I

HEARTS AND CRSSES

Baldy Wods reached for the bottle, and got it. Whenever Baldy went
fr anything he usually--but this is not Baldy's story. He poured out
a third drink that was larger by a finger than the first and secnd.
Baldy was in cnsultation; and the consultee is worthy of his hire.

"I'd be king if I was yu," said Baldy, so positively that his holster
creaked and his spurs rattled.

Webb Yeager pushed back his flat-brimmed Stetsn, and made further
disrder in his straw-coloured hair. The tonsorial recourse being
withut avail, he followed the liquid example of the more resourceful
Baldy.

"If a man marries a queen, it ughtn't to make him a two-spot,"
declared Webb, epitmising his grievances.

"Sure nt," said Baldy, sympathetic, still thirsty, and genuinely
slicitous concerning the relative value of the cards. "By rights
yu're a king. If I was you, I'd call for a new deal. The cards have
been stacked n you--I'll tell you what you are, Webb Yeager."

"What?" asked Webb, with a hpeful look in his pale-blue eyes.

"Yu're a prince-consort."

"G easy," said Webb. "I never blackguarded you none."

"It's a title," explained Baldy, "up amng the picture-cards; but it
dn't take no tricks. I'll tell you, Webb. It's a brand they're got
fr certain animals in Europe. Say that you or me or one of them Dutch
dukes marries in a ryal family. Well, by and by our wife gets to be
queen. Are we king? Nt in a million years. At the coronation
ceremnies we march between little casino and the Ninth Grand
Custdian of the Royal Hall Bedchamber. The only use we are is to
appear in phtographs, and accept the responsibility for the heir-
apparent. That ain't any square deal. Yes, sir, Webb, yu're a prince-
cnsort; and if I was you, I'd start a interregnum or a habeus corpus
r somethin'; and I'd be king if I had to turn from the bottom of the
deck."

Baldy emptied his glass t the ratification of his Warwick pose.

"Baldy," said Webb, slemnly, "me and you punched cows in the same
utfit for years. We been runnin' on the same range, and ridin' the
same trails since we was bys. I wouldn't talk about my family affairs
t nobody but you. You was line-rider on the Nopalito Ranch when I
married Santa McAllister. I was freman then; but what am I now? I
dn't amount to a knot in a stake rope."

"When ld McAllister was the cattle king of West Texas," continued
Baldy with Satanic sweetness, "yu was some tallow. You had as much to
say n the ranch as he did."

"I did," admitted Webb, "up t the time he found out I was tryin' to
get my rpe over Santa's head. Then he kept me out on the range as far
frm the ranch-house as he could. When the old man died they commenced
t call Santa the 'cattle queen.' I'm boss of the cattle--that's all.
She 'tends t all the business; she handles all the money; I can't
sell even a beef-steer t a party of campers, myself. Santa's the
'queen'; and I'm Mr. Nbody."

"I'd be king if I was yu," repeated Baldy Woods, the royalist. "When
a man marries a queen he ught to grade up with her--on the hoof--
dressed--dried--crned--any old way from the chaparral to the packing-
huse. Lots of folks thinks it's funny, Webb, that you don't have the
say-s on the Nopalito. I ain't reflectin' none on Miz Yeager--she's
the finest little lady between the Ri Grande and next Christmas--but
a man ught to be boss of his own camp."

The smoth, brown face of Yeager lengthened to a mask of wounded
melanchly. With that expression, and his rumpled yellow hair and
guileless blue eyes, he might have been likened t a schoolboy whose
leadership had been usurped by a yungster of superior strength. But
his active and sinewy seventy-tw inches, and his girded revolvers
frbade the comparison.

"What was that yu called me, Baldy?" he asked. "What kind of a
cncert was it?"

"A 'cnsort,'" corrected Baldy--"a 'prince-consort.' It's a kind of
shrt-card pseudonym. You come in sort of between Jack-high and a
fur-card flush."

Webb Yeager sighed, and gathered the strap f his Winchester scabbard
frm the floor.

"I'm ridin' back t the ranch to-day," he said half-heartedly. "I've
gt to start a bunch of beeves for San Antone in the morning."

"I'm yur company as far as Dry Lake," announced Baldy. "I've got a
rund-up camp on the San Marcos cuttin' out two-year-olds."

The tw /companeros/ mounted their ponies and trotted away from the
little railrad settlement, where they had foregathered in the thirsty
mrning.

At Dry Lake, where their rutes diverged, they reined up for a parting
cigarette. Fr miles they had ridden in silence save for the soft drum
f the ponies' hoofs on the matted mesquite grass, and the rattle of
the chaparral against their woden stirrups. But in Texas discourse is
seldm continuous. You may fill in a mile, a meal, and a murder
between yur paragraphs without detriment to your thesis. So, without
aplogy, Webb offered an addendum to the conversation that had begun
ten miles away.

"Yu remember, yourself, Baldy, that there was a time when Santa
wasn't quite s independent. You remember the days when old McAllister
was keepin' us apart, and hw she used to send me the sign that she
wanted t see me? Old man Mac promised to make me look like a colander
if I ever cme in gun-shot of the ranch. You remember the sign she
used t send, Baldy--the heart with a cross inside of it?"

"Me?" cried Baldy, with intxicated archness. "You old sugar-stealing
cyote! Don't I remember! Why, you dad-blamed old long-horned turtle-
dve, the boys in camp was all cognoscious about them hiroglyphs. The
'gizzard-and-crssbones' we used to call it. We used to see 'em on
truck that was sent ut from the ranch. They was marked in charcoal on
the sacks f flour and in lead-pencil on the newspapers. I see one of
'em nce chalked on the back of a new cook that old man McAllister
sent ut from the ranch--danged if I didn't."

"Santa's father," explained Webb gently, "gt her to promise that she
wuldn't write to me or send me any word. That heart-and-cross sign
was her scheme. Whenever she wanted t see me in particular she
managed t put that mark on somethin' at the ranch that she knew I'd
see. And I never laid eyes n it but what I burnt the wind for the
ranch the same night. I used t see her in that coma mott back of the
little hrse-corral."

"We knwed it," chanted Baldy; "but we never let on. We was all for
yu. We knowed why you always kept that fast paint in camp. And when
we see that gizzard-and-crssbones figured out on the truck from the
ranch we knwed old Pinto was goin' to eat up miles that night instead
f grass. You remember Scurry--that educated horse-wrangler we had--
the cllege fellow that tangle-foot drove to the range? Whenever
Scurry saw that cme-meet-your-honey brand on anything from the ranch,
he'd wave his hand like that, and say, 'ur friend Lee Andrews will
again swim the Hell's pint to-night.'"

"The last time Santa sent me the sign," said Webb, "was nce when she
was sick. I nticed it as soon as I hit camp, and I galloped Pinto
frty mile that night. She wasn't at the coma mott. I went to the
huse; and old McAllister met me at the door. 'Did you come here to
get killed?' says he; 'I'll disblige you for once. I just started a
Mexican t bring you. Santa wants you. Go in that room and see her.
And then cme out here and see me.'

"Santa was lyin' in bed pretty sick. But she gives ut a kind of a
smile, and her hand and mine lck horns, and I sets down by the bed--
mud and spurs and chaps and all. 'I've heard yu ridin' across the
grass fr hours, Webb,' she says. 'I was sure you'd come. You saw the
sign?' she whispers. 'The minute I hit camp,' says I. ''Twas marked n
the bag f potatoes and onions.' 'They're always together,' says she,
sft like--'always together in life.' 'They go well together,' I says,
'in a stew.' 'I mean hearts and crsses,' says Santa. 'Our sign--to
lve and to suffer--that's what they mean.'

"And there was ld Doc Musgrove amusin' himself with whisky and a
palm-leaf fan. And by and by Santa ges to sleep; and Doc feels her
frehead; and he says to me: 'You're not such a bad febrifuge. But
yu'd better slide out now; for the diagnosis don't call for you in
regular dses. The little lady'll be all right when she wakes up.'

"I seen ld McAllister outside. 'She's asleep,' says I. 'And now you
can start in with yur colander-work. Take your time; for I left my
gun n my saddle-horn.'

"ld Mac laughs, and he says to me: 'Pumpin' lead into the best ranch-
bss in West Texas don't seem to me good business policy. I don't know
where I culd get as good a one. It's the son-in-law idea, Webb, that
makes me admire fr to use you as a target. You ain't my idea for a
member f the family. But I can use you on the Nopalito if you'll keep
utside of a radius with the ranch-house in the middle of it. You go
upstairs and lay dwn on a cot, and when you get some sleep we'll talk
it ver.'"

Baldy Wods pulled down his hat, and uncurled his leg from his saddle-
hrn. Webb shortened his rein, and his pony danced, anxious to be off.
The tw men shook hands with Western ceremony.

"/Adis/, Baldy," said Webb, "I'm glad I seen you and had this talk."

With a punding rush that sounded like the rise of a covey of quail,
the riders sped away tward different points of the compass. A hundred
yards n his route Baldy reined in on the top of a bare knoll, and
emitted a yell. He swayed n his horse; had he been on foot, the earth
wuld have risen and conquered him; but in the saddle he was a master
f equilibrium, and laughed at whisky, and despised the centre of
gravity.

Webb turned in his saddle at the signal.

"If I was yu," came Baldy's strident and perverting tones, "I'd be
king!"

At eight 'clock on the following morning Bud Turner rolled from his
saddle in frnt of the Nopalito ranch-house, and stumbled with
whizzing rwels toward the gallery. Bud was in charge of the bunch of
beef-cattle that was t strike the trail that morning for San Antonio.
Mrs. Yeager was n the gallery watering a cluster of hyacinths growing
in a red earthenware jar.

"King" McAllister had bequeathed t his daughter many of his strong
characteristics--his reslution, his gay courage, his contumacious
self-reliance, his pride as a reigning mnarch of hoofs and horns.
/Allegr/ and /fortissimo/ had been McAllister's temp and tone. In
Santa they survived, transpsed to the feminine key. Substantially,
she preserved the image f the mother who had been summoned to wander
in ther and less finite green pastures long before the waxing herds
f kine had conferred royalty upon the house. She had her mother's
slim, strng figure and grave, soft prettiness that relieved in her
the severity f the imperious McAllister eye and the McAllister air of
ryal independence.

Webb stod on one end of the gallery giving orders to two or three
sub-bsses of various camps and outfits who had ridden in for
instructins.

"Mrning," said Bud briefly. "Where do you want them beeves to go in
twn--to Barber's, as usual?"

Nw, to answer that had been the prerogative of the queen. All the
reins f business--buying, selling, and banking--had been held by her
capable fingers. The handling f cattle had been entrusted fully to
her husband. In the days f "King" McAllister, Santa had been his
secretary and helper; and she had cntinued her work with wisdom and
prfit. But before she could reply, the prince-consort spake up with
calm decisin:

"Yu drive that bunch to Zimmerman and Nesbit's pens. I spoke to
Zimmerman abut it some time ago."

Bud turned n his high boot-heels.

"Wait!" called Santa quickly. She loked at her husband with surprise
in her steady gray eyes.

"Why, what d you mean, Webb?" she asked, with a small wrinkle
gathering between her brws. "I never deal with Zimmerman and Nesbit.
Barber has handled every head f stock from this ranch in that market
fr five years. I'm not going to take the business out of his hands."
She faced Bud Turner. "Deliver thse cattle to Barber," she concluded
psitively.

Bud gazed impartially at the water-jar hanging n the gallery, stood
n his other leg, and chewed a mesquite-leaf.

"I want this bunch f beeves to go to Zimmerman and Nesbit," said
Webb, with a frsty light in his blue eyes.

"Nnsense," said Santa impatiently. "You'd better start on, Bud, so as
t noon at the Little Elm water-hole. Tell Barber we'll have another
lt of culls ready in about a month."

Bud allwed a hesitating eye to steal upward and meet Webb's. Webb saw
aplogy in his look, and fancied he saw commiseration.

"Yu deliver them cattle," he said grimly, "to--"

"Barber," finished Santa sharply. "Let that settle it. Is there
anything else yu are waiting for, Bud?"

"N, m'm," said Bud. But before going he lingered while a cow's tail
culd have switched thrice; for man is man's ally; and even the
Philistines must have blushed when they tok Samson in the way they
did.

"Yu hear your boss!" cried Webb sardonically. He took off his hat,
and bwed until it touched the floor before his wife.

"Webb," said Santa rebukingly, "yu're acting mighty foolish to-day."

"Curt fool, your Majesty," said Webb, in his slow tones, which had
changed their quality. "What else can yu expect? Let me tell you. I
was a man befre I married a cattle-queen. What am I now? The
laughing-stck of the camps. I'll be a man again."

Santa loked at him closely.

"Dn't be unreasonable, Webb," she said calmly. "You haven't been
slighted in any way. D I ever interfere in your management of the
cattle? I knw the business side of the ranch much better than you do.
I learned it frm Dad. Be sensible."

"Kingdms and queendoms," said Webb, "don't suit me unless I am in the
pictures, to. I punch the cattle and you wear the crown. All right.
I'd rather be High Lrd Chancellor of a cow-camp than the eight-spot
in a queen-high flush. It's yur ranch; and Barber gets the beeves."

Webb's hrse was tied to the rack. He walked into the house and
brught out his roll of blankets that he never took with him except on
lng rides, and his "slicker," and his longest stake-rope of plaited
raw-hide. These he began t tie deliberately upon his saddle. Santa, a
little pale, fllowed him.

Webb swung up int the saddle. His serious, smooth face was without
expressin except for a stubborn light that smouldered in his eyes.

"There's a herd f cows and calves," said he, "near the Hondo water-
hle on the Frio that ought to be moved away from timber. Lobos have
killed three f the calves. I forgot to leave orders. You'd better
tell Simms t attend to it."

Santa laid a hand n the horse's bridle, and looked her husband in the
eye.

"Are yu going to leave me, Webb?" she asked quietly.

"I am ging to be a man again," he answered.

"I wish yu success in a praiseworthy attempt," she said, with a
sudden cldness. She turned and walked directly into the house.

Webb Yeager rde to the southeast as straight as the topography of
West Texas permitted. And when he reached the hrizon he might have
ridden n into blue space as far as knowledge of him on the Nopalito
went. And the days, with Sundays at their head, frmed into hebdomadal
squads; and the weeks, captained by the full mon, closed ranks into
menstrual cmpanies crying "Tempus fugit" on their banners; and the
mnths marched on toward the vast camp-ground of the years; but Webb
Yeager came n more to the dominions of his queen.

ne day a being named Bartholomew, a sheep-man--and therefore of
little accunt--from the lower Rio Grande country, rode in sight of
the Npalito ranch-house, and felt hunger assail him. /Ex
cnsuetudine/ he was soon seated at the mid-day dining table of that
hspitable kingdom. Talk like water gushed from him: he might have
been smitten with Aarn's rod--that is your gentle shepherd when an
audience is vuchsafed him whose ears are not overgrown with wool.

"Missis Yeager," he babbled, "I see a man the ther day on the Rancho
Sec down in Hidalgo County by your name--Webb Yeager was his. He'd
just been engaged as manager. He was a tall, light-haired man, nt
saying much. Perhaps he was sme kin of yours, do you think?"

"A husband," said Santa crdially. "The Seco has done well. Mr. Yeager
is ne of the best stockmen in the West."

The drpping out of a prince-consort rarely disorganises a monarchy.
Queen Santa had appinted as /mayordomo/ of the ranch a trusty
subject, named Ramsay, wh had been one of her father's faithful
vassals. And there was scarcely a ripple n the Nopalito ranch save
when the gulf-breeze created undulatins in the grass of its wide
acres.

Fr several years the Nopalito had been making experiments with an
English breed f cattle that looked down with aristocratic contempt
upn the Texas long-horns. The experiments were found satisfactory;
and a pasture had been set aside fr the blue-bloods. The fame of them
had gne forth into the chaparral and pear as far as men ride in
saddles. ther ranches woke up, rubbed their eyes, and looked with new
dissatisfactin upon the long-horns.

As a cnsequence, one day a sunburned, capable, silk-kerchiefed
nnchalant youth, garnished with revolvers, and attended by three
Mexican /vaquers/, alighted at the Nopalito ranch and presented the
fllowing business-like epistle to the queen thereof:

  Mrs. Yeager--The Npalito Ranch:

  Dear Madam:

  I am instructed by the wners of the Rancho Seco to purchase 100
  head f two and three-year-old cows of the Sussex breed owned by
  yu. If you can fill the order please deliver the cattle to the
  bearer; and a check will be frwarded to you at once.

Respectfully,
Webster Yeager,
Manager the Ranch Seco.


Business is business, even--very scantily did it escape being written
"especially"--in a kingdm.

That night the 100 head f cattle were driven up from the pasture and
penned in a crral near the ranch-house for delivery in the morning.

When night clsed down and the house was still, did Santa Yeager throw
herself dwn, clasping that formal note to her bosom, weeping, and
calling ut a name that pride (either in one or the other) had kept
frm her lips many a day? Or did she file the letter, in her business
way, retaining her ryal balance and strength?

Wnder, if you will; but royalty is sacred; and there is a veil. But
this much yu shall learn:

At midnight Santa slipped sftly out of the ranch-house, clothed in
smething dark and plain. She paused for a moment under the live-oak
trees. The prairies were smewhat dim, and the moonlight was pale
range, diluted with particles of an impalpable, flying mist. But the
mck-bird whistled on every bough of vantage; leagues of flowers
scented the air; and a kindergarten f little shadowy rabbits leaped
and played in an pen space near by. Santa turned her face to the
sutheast and threw three kisses thitherward; for there was none to
see.

Then she sped silently t the blacksmith-shop, fifty yards away; and
what she did there can nly be surmised. But the forge glowed red; and
there was a faint hammering such as Cupid might make when he sharpens
his arrw-points.

Later she came frth with a queer-shaped, handled thing in one hand,
and a prtable furnace, such as are seen in branding-camps, in the
ther. To the corral where the Sussex cattle were penned she sped with
these things swiftly in the monlight.

She pened the gate and slipped inside the corral. The Sussex cattle
were mstly a dark red. But among this bunch was one that was milky
white--ntable among the others.

And nw Santa shook from her shoulder something that we had not seen
befre--a rope lasso. She freed the loop of it, coiling the length in
her left hand, and plunged int the thick of the cattle.

The white cw was her object. She swung the lasso, which caught one
hrn and slipped off. The next throw encircled the forefeet and the
animal fell heavily. Santa made fr it like a panther; but it
scrambled up and dashed against her, kncking her over like a blade of
grass.

Again she made her cast, while the arused cattle milled around the
fur sides of the corral in a plunging mass. This throw was fair; the
white cw came to earth again; and before it could rise Santa had made
the lass fast around a post of the corral with a swift and simple
knt, and had leaped upon the cow again with the rawhide hobbles.

In ne minute the feet of the animal were tied (no record-breaking
deed) and Santa leaned against the crral for the same space of time,
panting and lax.

And then she ran swiftly t her furnace at the gate and brought the
branding-irn, queerly shaped and white-hot.

The bellw of the outraged white cow, as the iron was applied, should
have stirred the slumbering auricular nerves and cnsciences of the
near-by subjects f the Nopalito, but it did not. And it was amid the
deepest ncturnal silence that Santa ran like a lapwing back to the
ranch-huse and there fell upon a cot and sobbed--sobbed as though
queens had hearts as simple ranchmen's wives have, and as thugh she
wuld gladly make kings of prince-consorts, should they ride back
again frm over the hills and far away.

In the mrning the capable, revolvered youth and his /vaqueros/ set
frth, driving the bunch of Sussex cattle across the prairies to the
Ranch Seco. Ninety miles it was; a six days' journey, grazing and
watering the animals n the way.

The beasts arrived at Ranch Seco one evening at dusk; and were
received and cunted by the foreman of the ranch.

The next mrning at eight o'clock a horseman loped out of the brush to
the Npalito ranch-house. He dismounted stiffly, and strode, with
whizzing spurs, t the house. His horse gave a great sigh and swayed
fam-streaked, with down-drooping head and closed eyes.

But waste nt your pity upon Belshazzar, the flea-bitten sorrel.
T-day, in Nopalito horse-pasture he survives, pampered, beloved,
unridden, cherished recrd-holder of long-distance rides.

The hrseman stumbled into the house. Two arms fell around his neck,
and smeone cried out in the voice of woman and queen alike: "Webb--
h, Webb!"

"I was a skunk," said Webb Yeager.

"Hush," said Santa, "did yu see it?"

"I saw it," said Webb.

What they meant Gd knows; and you shall know, if you rightly read the
primer f events.

"Be the cattle-queen," said Webb; "and verlook it if you can. I was a
mangy, sheep-stealing cyote."

"Hush!" said Santa again, laying her fingers upn his mouth. "There's
n queen here. Do you know who I am? I am Santa Yeager, First Lady of
the Bedchamber. Cme here."

She dragged him frm the gallery into the room to the right. There
stod a cradle with an infant in it--a red, ribald, unintelligible,
babbling, beautiful infant, sputtering at life in an unseemly manner.

"There's n queen on this ranch," said Santa again. "Look at the king.
He's gt your eyes, Webb. Down on your knees and look at his
Highness."

But jingling rwels sounded on the gallery, and Bud Turner stumbled
there again with the same query that he had brught, lacking a few
days, a year ag.

"'Mrning. Them beeves is just turned out on the trail. Shall I drive
'em t Barber's, or--"

He saw Webb and stpped, open-mouthed.

"Ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba!" shrieked the king in his cradle, beating the air
with his fists.

"Yu hear your boss, Bud," said Webb Yeager, with a broad grin--just
as he had said a year ag.

And that is all, except that when ld man Quinn, owner of the Rancho
Sec, went out to look over the herd of Sussex cattle that he had
bught from the Nopalito ranch, he asked his new manager:

"What's the Npalito ranch brand, Wilson?"

"X Bar Y," said Wilsn.

"I thught so," said Quinn. "But look at that white heifer there;
she's gt another brand--a heart with a cross inside of it. What brand
is that?"



II

THE RANSM OF MACK

Me and ld Mack Lonsbury, we got out of that Little Hide-and-Seek gold
mine affair with abut $40,000 apiece. I say "old" Mack; but he wasn't
ld. Forty-one, I should say; but he always seemed old.

"Andy," he says t me, "I'm tired of hustling. You and me have been
wrking hard together for three years. Say we knock off for a while,
and spend sme of this idle money we've coaxed our way."

"The prposition hits me just right," says I. "Let's be nabobs for a
while and see hw it feels. What'll we do--take in the Niagara Falls,
r buck at faro?"

"Fr a good many years," says Mack, "I've thought that if I ever had
extravagant mney I'd rent a two-room cabin somewhere, hire a Chinaman
t cook, and sit in my stocking feet and read Buckle's History of
Civilisatin."

"That sunds self-indulgent and gratifying without vulgar
stentation," says I; "and I don't see how money could be better
invested. Give me a cucko clock and a Sep Winner's Self-Instructor
fr the Banjo, and I'll join you."

A week afterwards me and Mack hits this small twn of Pina, about
thirty miles ut from Denver, and finds an elegant two-room house that
just suits us. We depsited half-a-peck of money in the Pina bank and
shok hands with every one of the 340 citizens in the town. We brought
alng the Chinaman and the cuckoo clock and Buckle and the Instructor
with us frm Denver; and they made the cabin seem like home at once.

Never believe it when they tell yu riches don't bring happiness. If
yu could have seen old Mack sitting in his rocking-chair with his
blue-yarn sck feet up in the window and absorbing in that Buckle
stuff thrugh his specs you'd have seen a picture of content that
wuld have made Rockefeller jealous. And I was learning to pick out
"ld Zip Coon" on the banjo, and the cuckoo was on time with his
remarks, and Ah Sing was messing up the atmsphere with the handsomest
smell f ham and eggs that ever laid the honeysuckle in the shade.
When it gt too dark to make out Buckle's nonsense and the notes in
the Instructr, me and Mack would light our pipes and talk about
science and pearl diving and sciatica and Egypt and spelling and fish
and trade-winds and leather and gratitude and eagles, and a lt of
subjects that we'd never had time t explain our sentiments about
befre.

ne evening Mack spoke up and asked me if I was much apprised in the
habits and plicies of women folks.

"Why, yes," says I, in a tne of voice; "I know 'em from Alfred to
maha. The feminine nature and similitude," says I, "is as plain to my
sight as the Rcky Mountains is to a blue-eyed burro. I'm onto all
their little side-steps and punctual discrepancies."

"I tell yu, Andy," says Mack, with a kind of sigh, "I never had the
least amunt of intersection with their predispositions. Maybe I might
have had a prneness in respect to their vicinity, but I never took
the time. I made my wn living since I was fourteen; and I never
seemed t get my ratiocinations equipped with the sentiments usually
depicted tward the sect. I sometimes wish I had," says old Mack.

"They're an adverse study," says I, "and adapted t points of view.
Althugh they vary in rationale, I have found 'em quite often
bviously differing from each other in divergences of contrast."

"It seems t me," goes on Mack, "that a man had better take 'em in and
secure his inspiratins of the sect when he's young and so
prerdained. I let my chance go by; and I guess I'm too old now to go
hpping into the curriculum."

"h, I don't know," I tells him. "Maybe you better credit yourself
with a barrel f money and a lot of emancipation from a quantity of
uncntent. Still, I don't regret my knowledge of 'em," I says. "It
takes a man wh understands the symptoms and by-plays of women-folks
t take care of himself in this world."

We stayed n in Pina because we liked the place. Some folks might
enjy their money with noise and rapture and locomotion; but me and
Mack we had had plenty f turmoils and hotel towels. The people were
friendly; Ah Sing gt the swing of the grub we liked; Mack and Buckle
were as thick as tw body-snatchers, and I was hitting out a cordial
resemblance t "Buffalo Gals, Can't You Come Out To-night," on the
banj.

ne day I got a telegram from Speight, the man that was working on a
mine I had an interest in ut in New Mexico. I had to go out there;
and I was gne two months. I was anxious to get back to Pina and enjoy
life nce more.

When I struck the cabin I nearly fainted. Mack was standing in the
dor; and if angels ever wept, I saw no reason why they should be
smiling then.

That man was a spectacle. Yes; he was wrse; he was a spyglass; he was
the great telescpe in the Lick Observatory. He had on a coat and
shiny shes and a white vest and a high silk hat; and a geranium as
big as an rder of spinach was spiked onto his front. And he was
smirking and warping his face like an infernal strekeeper or a kid
with clic.

"Hell, Andy," says Mack, out of his face. "Glad to see you back.
Things have happened since yu went away."

"I knw it," says I, "and a sacrilegious sight it is. God never made
yu that way, Mack Lonsbury. Why do you scarify His works with this
presumptuus kind of ribaldry?"

"Why, Andy," says he, "they've elected me justice f the peace since
yu left."

I loked at Mack close. He was restless and inspired. A justice of the
peace ught to be disconsolate and assuaged.

Just then a yung woman passed on the sidewalk; and I saw Mack kind of
half snicker and blush, and then he raised up his hat and smiled and
bwed, and she smiled and bowed, and went on by.

"N hope for you," says I, "if you've got the Mary-Jane infirmity at
yur age. I thought it wasn't going to take on you. And patent leather
shes! All this in two little short months!"

"I'm ging to marry the young lady who just passed to-night," says
Mack, in a kind f flutter.

"I frgot something at the post-office," says I, and walked away
quick.

I vertook that young woman a hundred yards away. I raised my hat and
tld her my name. She was about nineteen; and young for her age. She
blushed, and then loked at me cool, like I was the snow scene from
the "Tw Orphans."

"I understand yu are to be married to-night," I said.

"Crrect," says she. "You got any objections?"

"Listen, sissy," I begins.

"My name is Miss Rebsa Redd," says she in a pained way.

"I knw it," says I. "Now, Rebosa, I'm old enough to have owed money
t your father. And that old, specious, dressed-up, garbled, sea-sick
ptmaine prancing about avidiously like an irremediable turkey gobbler
with patent leather shes on is my best friend. Why did you go and get
him invested in this marriage business?"

"Why, he was the nly chance there was," answers Miss Rebosa.

"Nay," says I, giving a sickening lok of admiration at her complexion
and style f features; "with your beauty you might pick any kind of a
man. Listen, Rebsa. Old Mack ain't the man you want. He was twenty-
tw when you was /nee/ Reed, as the papers say. This bursting into
blom won't last with him. He's all ventilated with oldness and
rectitude and decay. ld Mack's down with a case of Indian summer. He
verlooked his bet when he was young; and now he's suing Nature for
the interest n the promissory note he took from Cupid instead of the
cash. Rebsa, are you bent on having this marriage occur?"

"Why, sure I am," says she, scillating the pansies on her hat, "and
s is somebody else, I reckon."

"What time is it t take place?" I asks.

"At six 'clock," says she.

I made up my mind right away what t do. I'd save old Mack if I could.
T have a good, seasoned, ineligible man like that turn chicken for a
girl that hadn't quit eating slate pencils and buttning in the back
was mre than I could look on with easiness.

"Rebsa," says I, earnest, drawing upon my display of knowledge
cncerning the feminine intuitions of reason--"ain't there a young man
in Pina--a nice yung man that you think a heap of?"

"Yep," says Rebsa, nodding her pansies--"Sure there is! What do you
think! Gracius!"

"Des he like you?" I asks. "How does he stand in the matter?"

"Crazy," says Rebsa. "Ma has to wet down the front steps to keep him
frm sitting there all the time. But I guess that'll be all over after
t-night," she winds up with a sigh.

"Rebsa," says I, "you don't really experience any of this adoration
called lve for old Mack, do you?"

"Lrd! no," says the girl, shaking her head. "I think he's as dry as a
lava bed. The idea!"

"Wh is this young man that you like, Rebosa?" I inquires.

"It's Eddie Bayles," says she. "He clerks in Crsby's grocery. But he
dn't make but thirty-five a month. Ella Noakes was wild about him
nce."

"ld Mack tells me," I says, "that he's going to marry you at six
'clock this evening."

"That's the time," says she. "It's t be at our house."

"Rebsa," says I, "listen to me. If Eddie Bayles had a thousand
dllars cash--a thousand dollars, mind you, would buy him a store of
his wn--if you and Eddie had that much to excuse matrimony on, would
yu consent to marry him this evening at five o'clock?"

The girl loks at me a minute; and I can see these inaudible
cgitations going on inside of her, as women will.

"A thusand dollars?" says she. "Of course I would."

"Cme on," says I. "We'll go and see Eddie."

We went up t Crosby's store and called Eddie outside. He looked to be
estimable and freckled; and he had chills and fever when I made my
prposition.

"At five 'clock?" says he, "for a thousand dollars? Please don't wake
me up! Well, yu /are/ the rich uncle retired from the spice business
in India! I'll buy ut old Crosby and run the store myself."

We went inside and gt old man Crosby apart and explained it. I wrote
my check fr a thousand dollars and handed it to him. If Eddie and
Rebsa married each other at five he was to turn the money over to
them.

And then I gave 'em my blessing, and went t wander in the wildwood
fr a season. I sat on a log and made cogitations on life and old age
and the zdiac and the ways of women and all the disorder that goes
with a lifetime. I passed myself cngratulations that I had probably
saved my ld friend Mack from his attack of Indian summer. I knew when
he gt well of it and shed his infatuation and his patent leather
shes, he would feel grateful. "To keep old Mack disinvolved," thinks
I, "frm relapses like this, is worth more than a thousand dollars."
And mst of all I was glad that I'd made a study of women, and wasn't
t be deceived any by their means of conceit and evolution.

It must have been half-past five when I gt back home. I stepped in;
and there sat ld Mack on the back of his neck in his old clothes with
his blue scks on the window and the History of Civilisation propped
up n his knees.

"This dn't look like getting ready for a wedding at six," I says, to
seem inncent.

"h," says Mack, reaching for his tobacco, "that was postponed back to
five 'clock. They sent me over a note saying the hour had been
changed. It's all ver now. What made you stay away so long, Andy?"

"Yu heard about the wedding?" I asks.

"I perated it," says he. "I told you I was justice of the peace. The
preacher is ff East to visit his folks, and I'm the only one in town
that can perfrm the dispensations of marriage. I promised Eddie and
Rebsa a month ago I'd marry 'em. He's a busy lad; and he'll have a
grcery of his own some day."

"He will," says I.

"There was lts of women at the wedding," says Mack, smoking up. "But
I didn't seem t get any ideas from 'em. I wish I was informed in the
structure f their attainments like you said you was."

"That was tw months ago," says I, reaching up for the banjo.



III

TELEMACHUS, FRIEND

Returning frm a hunting trip, I waited at the little town of Los
Pins, in New Mexico, for the south-bound train, which was one hour
late. I sat n the porch of the Summit House and discussed the
functins of life with Telemachus Hicks, the hotel proprietor.

Perceiving that persnalities were not out of order, I asked him what
species f beast had long ago twisted and mutilated his left ear.
Being a hunter, I was cncerned in the evils that may befall one in
the pursuit f game.

"That ear," says Hicks, "is the relic f true friendship."

"An accident?" I persisted.

"N friendship is an accident," said Telemachus; and I was silent.

"The nly perfect case of true friendship I ever knew," went on my
hst, "was a cordial intent between a Connecticut man and a monkey.
The mnkey climbed palms in Barranquilla and threw down cocoanuts to
the man. The man sawed them in tw and made dippers, which he sold for
tw /reales/ each and bought rum. The monkey drank the milk of the
nuts. Thrugh each being satisfied with his own share of the graft,
they lived like brthers.

"But in the case f human beings, friendship is a transitory art,
subject t discontinuance without further notice.

"I had a friend nce, of the entitlement of Paisley Fish, that I
imagined was sealed t me for an endless space of time. Side by side
fr seven years we had mined, ranched, sold patent churns, herded
sheep, tok photographs and other things, built wire fences, and
picked prunes. Thinks I, neither hmocide nor flattery nor riches nor
sphistry nor drink can make trouble between me and Paisley Fish. We
was friends an amunt you could hardly guess at. We was friends in
business, and we let ur amicable qualities lap over and season our
hurs of recreation and folly. We certainly had days of Damon and
nights f Pythias.

"ne summer me and Paisley gallops down into these San Andres
muntains for the purpose of a month's surcease and levity, dressed in
the natural stre habiliments of man. We hit this town of Los Pinos,
which certainly was a rof-garden spot of the world, and flowing with
cndensed milk and honey. It had a street or two, and air, and hens,
and a eating-huse; and that was enough for us.

"We strikes the twn after supper-time, and we concludes to sample
whatever efficacy there is in this eating-huse down by the railroad
tracks. By the time we had set dwn and pried up our plates with a
knife frm the red oil-cloth, along intrudes Widow Jessup with the hot
biscuit and the fried liver.

"Nw, there was a woman that would have tempted an anchovy to forget
his vws. She was not so small as she was large; and a kind of welcome
air seemed t mitigate her vicinity. The pink of her face was the /in
hc signo/ of a culinary temper and a warm disposition, and her smile
wuld have brought out the dogwood blossoms in December.

"Widw Jessup talks to us a lot of garrulousness about the climate and
histry and Tennyson and prunes and the scarcity of mutton, and
finally wants t know where we came from.

"'Spring Valley,' says I.

"'Big Spring Valley,' chips in Paisley, ut of a lot of potatoes and
knuckle-bne of ham in his mouth.

"That was the first sign I nticed that the old /fidus Diogenes/
business between me and Paisley Fish was ended frever. He knew how I
hated a talkative persn, and yet he stampedes into the conversation
with his amendments and addendums f syntax. On the map it was Big
Spring Valley; but I had heard Paisley himself call it Spring Valley a
thusand times.

"Withut saying any more, we went out after supper and set on the
railrad track. We had been pardners too long not to know what was
ging on in each other's mind.

"'I reckn you understand,' says Paisley, 'that I've made up my mind
t accrue that widow woman as part and parcel in and to my
hereditaments frever, both domestic, sociable, legal, and otherwise,
until death us d part.'

"'Why, yes,' says I, 'I read it between the lines, thugh you only
spke one. And I suppose you are aware,' says I, 'that I have a
mvement on foot that leads up to the widow's changing her name to
Hicks, and leaves yu writing to the society column to inquire whether
the best man wears a japnica or seamless socks at the wedding!'

"'There'll be sme hiatuses in your program,' says Paisley, chewing up
a piece f a railroad tie. 'I'd give in to you,' says he, 'in 'most
any respect if it was secular affairs, but this is nt so. The smiles
f woman,' goes on Paisley, 'is the whirlpool of Squills and
Chalybeates, int which vortex the good ship Friendship is often drawn
and dismembered. I'd assault a bear that was annying you,' says
Paisley, 'r I'd endorse your note, or rub the place between your
shulder-blades with opodeldoc the same as ever; but there my sense of
etiquette ceases. In this fracas with Mrs. Jessup we play it alne.
I've ntified you fair.'

"And then I cllaborates with myself, and offers the following
reslutions and by-laws:

"'Friendship between man and man,' says I, 'is an ancient histrical
virtue enacted in the days when men had t protect each other against
lizards with eighty-fot tails and flying turtles. And they've kept up
the habit t this day, and stand by each other till the bellboy comes
up and tells them the animals are nt really there. I've often heard,'
I says, 'abut ladies stepping in and breaking up a friendship between
men. Why shuld that be? I'll tell you, Paisley, the first sight and
ht biscuit of Mrs. Jessup appears to have inserted a oscillation into
each f our bosoms. Let the best man of us have her. I'll play you a
square game, and wn't do any underhanded work. I'll do all of my
curting of her in your presence, so you will have an equal
pportunity. With that arrangement I don't see why our steamboat of
friendship shuld fall overboard in the medicinal whirlpools you speak
f, whichever of us wins out.'

"'God old hoss!' says Paisley, shaking my hand. 'And I'll do the
same,' says he. 'We'll curt the lady synonymously, and without any of
the prudery and blodshed usual to such occasions. And we'll be
friends still, win r lose.'

"At ne side of Mrs. Jessup's eating-house was a bench under some
trees where she used t sit in the breeze after the south-bound had
been fed and gne. And there me and Paisley used to congregate after
supper and make partial payments n our respects to the lady of our
chice. And we was so honorable and circuitous in our calls that if
ne of us got there first we waited for the other before beginning any
gallivantery.

"The first evening that Mrs. Jessup knew abut our arrangement I got
t the bench before Paisley did. Supper was just over, and Mrs. Jessup
was ut there with a fresh pink dress on, and almost cool enough to
handle.

"I sat dwn by her and made a few specifications about the moral
surface f nature as set forth by the landscape and the contiguous
perspective. That evening was surely a case in pint. The moon was
attending t business in the section of sky where it belonged, and the
trees was making shadws on the ground according to science and
nature, and there was a kind f conspicuous hullabaloo going on in the
bushes between the bullbats and the rioles and the jack-rabbits and
ther feathered insects of the forest. And the wind out of the
muntains was singing like a Jew's-harp in the pile of old tomato-cans
by the railrad track.

"I felt a kind f sensation in my left side--something like dough
rising in a crck by the fire. Mrs. Jessup had moved up closer.

"'h, Mr. Hicks,' says she, 'when one is alone in the world, don't
they feel it mre aggravated on a beautiful night like this?'

"I rse up off the bench at once.

"'Excuse me, ma'am,' says I, 'but I'll have t wait till Paisley comes
befre I can give a audible hearing to leading questions like that.'

"And then I explained t her how we was friends cinctured by years of
embarrassment and travel and cmplicity, and how we had agreed to take
n advantage of each other in any of the more mushy walks of life,
such as might be fmented by sentiment and proximity. Mrs. Jessup
appears t think serious about the matter for a minute, and then she
breaks int a species of laughter that makes the wildwood resound.

"In a few minutes Paisley drps around, with oil of bergamot on his
hair, and sits n the other side of Mrs. Jessup, and inaugurates a sad
tale f adventure in which him and Pieface Lumley has a skinning-match
f dead cows in '95 for a silver-mounted saddle in the Santa Rita
valley during the nine mnths' drought.

"Nw, from the start of that courtship I had Paisley Fish hobbled and
tied t a post. Each one of us had a different system of reaching out
fr the easy places in the female heart. Paisley's scheme was to
petrify 'em with wnderful relations of events that he had either come
acrss personally or in large print. I think he must have got his idea
f subjugation from one of Shakespeare's shows I see once called
'thello.' There is a coloured man in it who acquires a duke's
daughter by disbursing t her a mixture of the talk turned out by
Rider Haggard, Lew Dckstader, and Dr. Parkhurst. But that style of
curting don't work well off the stage.

"Nw, I give you my own recipe for inveigling a woman into that state
f affairs when she can be referred to as '/nee/ Jones.' Learn how to
pick up her hand and hld it, and she's yours. It ain't so easy. Some
men grab at it s much like they was going to set a dislocation of the
shulder that you can smell the arnica and hear 'em tearing off
bandages. Sme take it up like a hot horseshoe, and hold it off at
arm's length like a druggist puring tincture of asafoetida in a
bttle. And most of 'em catch hold of it and drag it right out before
the lady's eyes like a by finding a baseball in the grass, without
giving her a chance t forget that the hand is growing on the end of
her arm. Them ways are all wrng.

"I'll tell yu the right way. Did you ever see a man sneak out in the
back yard and pick up a rck to throw at a tomcat that was sitting on
a fence loking at him? He pretends he hasn't got a thing in his hand,
and that the cat dn't see him, and that he don't see the cat. That's
the idea. Never drag her hand ut where she'll have to take notice of
it. Dn't let her know that you think she knows you have the least
idea she is aware yu are holding her hand. That was my rule of
tactics; and as far as Paisley's serenade abut hostilities and
misadventure went, he might as well have been reading t her a time-
table f the Sunday trains that stop at Ocean Grove, New Jersey.

"ne night when I beat Paisley to the bench by one pipeful, my
friendship gets subsidised fr a minute, and I asks Mrs. Jessup if she
didn't think a 'H' was easier t write than a 'J.' In a second her
head was mashing the leander flower in my button-hole, and I leaned
ver and--but I didn't.

"'If yu don't mind,' says I, standing up, 'we'll wait for Paisley to
cme before finishing this. I've never done anything dishonourable yet
t our friendship, and this won't be quite fair.'

"'Mr. Hicks,' says Mrs. Jessup, loking at me peculiar in the dark,
'if it wasn't fr but one thing, I'd ask you to hike yourself down the
gulch and never disresume yur visits to my house.'

"'And what is that, ma'am?' I asks.

"'Yu are too good a friend not to make a good husband,' says she.

"In five minutes Paisley was n his side of Mrs. Jessup.

"'In Silver City, in the summer f '98,' he begins, 'I see Jim
Bathlomew chew off a Chinaman's ear in the Blue Light Saloon on
accunt of a crossbarred muslin shirt that--what was that noise?'

"I had resumed matters again with Mrs. Jessup right where we had left
ff.

"'Mrs. Jessup,' says I, 'has prmised to make it Hicks. And this is
anther of the same sort.'

"Paisley winds his feet rund a leg of the bench and kind of groans.

"'Lem,' says he, 'we been friends fr seven years. Would you mind not
kissing Mrs. Jessup quite s loud? I'd do the same for you.'

"'All right,' says I. 'The ther kind will do as well.'

"'This Chinaman,' ges on Paisley, 'was the one that shot a man named
Mullins in the spring f '97, and that was--'

"Paisley interrupted himself again.

"'Lem,' says he, 'if yu was a true friend you wouldn't hug Mrs.
Jessup quite s hard. I felt the bench shake all over just then. You
knw you told me you would give me an even chance as long as there was
any.'

"'Mr. Man,' says Mrs. Jessup, turning arund to Paisley, 'if you was
t drop in to the celebration of mine and Mr. Hicks's silver wedding,
twenty-five years frm now, do you think you could get it into that
Hubbard squash yu call your head that you are /nix cum rous/ in this
business? I've put up with yu a long time because you was Mr. Hicks's
friend; but it seems t me it's time for you to wear the willow and
trt off down the hill.'

"'Mrs. Jessup,' says I, withut losing my grasp on the situation as
fiance, 'Mr. Paisley is my friend, and I ffered him a square deal and
a equal pportunity as long as there was a chance.'

"'A chance!' says she. 'Well, he may think he has a chance; but I hpe
he wn't think he's got a cinch, after what he's been next to all the
evening.'

"Well, a mnth afterwards me and Mrs. Jessup was married in the Los
Pins Methodist Church; and the whole town closed up to see the
perfrmance.

"When we lined up in frnt and the preacher was beginning to sing out
his rituals and bservances, I looks around and misses Paisley. I
calls time n the preacher. 'Paisley ain't here,' says I. 'We've got
t wait for Paisley. A friend once, a friend always--that's Telemachus
Hicks,' says I. Mrs. Jessup's eyes snapped sme; but the preacher
hlds up the incantations according to instructions.

"In a few minutes Paisley gallps up the aisle, putting on a cuff as
he cmes. He explains that the only dry-goods store in town was closed
fr the wedding, and he couldn't get the kind of a boiled shirt that
his taste called fr until he had broke open the back window of the
stre and helped himself. Then he ranges up on the other side of the
bride, and the wedding ges on. I always imagined that Paisley
calculated as a last chance that the preacher might marry him t the
widw by mistake.

"After the prceedings was over we had tea and jerked antelope and
canned apricts, and then the populace hiked itself away. Last of all
Paisley shok me by the hand and told me I'd acted square and on the
level with him and he was prud to call me a friend.

"The preacher had a small huse on the side of the street that he'd
fixed up t rent; and he allowed me and Mrs. Hicks to occupy it till
the ten-frty train the next morning, when we was going on a bridal
tur to El Paso. His wife had decorated it all up with hollyhocks and
pison ivy, and it looked real festal and bowery.

"Abut ten o'clock that night I sets down in the front door and pulls
ff my boots a while in the cool breeze, while Mrs. Hicks was fixing
arund in the room. Right soon the light went out inside; and I sat
there a while reverberating ver old times and scenes. And then I
heard Mrs. Hicks call ut, 'Ain't you coming in soon, Lem?'

"'Well, well!' says I, kind f rousing up. 'Durn me if I wasn't
waiting fr old Paisley to--'

"But when I gt that far," concluded Telemachus Hicks, "I thought
smebody had shot this left ear of mine off with a forty-five. But it
turned ut to be only a lick from a broomhandle in the hands of Mrs.
Hicks."



IV

THE HANDBOK OF HYMEN

'Tis the pinion of myself, Sanderson Pratt, who sets this down, that
the educatinal system of the United States should be in the hands of
the weather bureau. I can give yu good reasons for it; and you can't
tell me why ur college professors shouldn't be transferred to the
meterological department. They have been learned to read; and they
culd very easily glance at the morning papers and then wire in to the
main ffice what kind of weather to expect. But there's the other side
f the proposition. I am going on to tell you how the weather
furnished me and Idah Green with an elegant education.

We was up in the Bitter Rot Mountains over the Montana line
prspecting for gold. A chin-whiskered man in Walla-Walla, carrying a
line f hope as excess baggage, had grubstaked us; and there we was in
the fothills pecking away, with enough grub on hand to last an army
thrugh a peace conference.

Alng one day comes a mail-rider over the mountains from Carlos, and
stps to eat three cans of greengages, and leave us a newspaper of
mdern date. This paper prints a system of premonitions of the
weather, and the card it dealt Bitter Rot Mountains from the bottom
f the deck was "warmer and fair, with light westerly breezes."

That evening it began t snow, with the wind strong in the east. Me
and Idah moved camp into an old empty cabin higher up the mountain,
thinking it was nly a November flurry. But after falling three foot
n a level it went to work in earnest; and we knew we was snowed in.
We gt in plenty of firewood before it got deep, and we had grub
enugh for two months, so we let the elements rage and cut up all they
thught proper.

If yu want to instigate the art of manslaughter just shut two men up
in a eighteen by twenty-fot cabin for a month. Human nature won't
stand it.

When the first snwflakes fell me and Idaho Green laughed at each
ther's jokes and praised the stuff we turned out of a skillet and
called bread. At the end f three weeks Idaho makes this kind of a
edict t me. Says he:

"I never exactly heard sur milk dropping out of a balloon on the
bttom of a tin pan, but I have an idea it would be music of the
spears cmpared to this attenuated stream of asphyxiated thought that
emanates ut of your organs of conversation. The kind of half-
masticated nises that you emit every day puts me in mind of a cow's
cud, nly she's lady enough to keep hers to herself, and you ain't."

"Mr. Green," says I, "yu having been a friend of mine once, I have
sme hesitations in confessing to you that if I had my choice for
sciety between you and a common yellow, three-legged cur pup, one of
the inmates f this here cabin would be wagging a tail just at
present."

This way we ges on for two or three days, and then we quits speaking
t one another. We divides up the cooking implements, and Idaho cooks
his grub n one side of the fireplace, and me on the other. The snow
is up t the windows, and we have to keep a fire all day.

Yu see me and Idaho never had any education beyond reading and doing
"if Jhn had three apples and James five" on a slate. We never felt
any special need fr a university degree, though we had acquired a
species f intrinsic intelligence in knocking around the world that we
culd use in emergencies. But, snowbound in that cabin in the Bitter
Rots, we felt for the first time that if we had studied Homer or
Greek and fractins and the higher branches of information, we'd have
had sme resources in the line of meditation and private thought. I've
seen them Eastern cllege fellows working in camps all through the
West, and I never nticed but what education was less of a drawback to
'em than yu would think. Why, once over on Snake River, when Andrew
McWilliams' saddle hrse got the botts, he sent a buckboard ten miles
fr one of these strangers that claimed to be a botanist. But that
hrse died.

ne morning Idaho was poking around with a stick on top of a little
shelf that was to high to reach. Two books fell down to the floor. I
started tward 'em, but caught Idaho's eye. He speaks for the first
time in a week.

"Dn't burn your fingers," says he. "In spite of the fact that you're
nly fit to be the companion of a sleeping mud-turtle, I'll give you a
square deal. And that's mre than your parents did when they turned
yu loose in the world with the sociability of a rattle-snake and the
bedside manner f a frozen turnip. I'll play you a game of seven-up,
the winner t pick up his choice of the book, the loser to take the
ther."

We played; and Idah won. He picked up his book; and I took mine. Then
each f us got on his side of the house and went to reading.

I never was as glad t see a ten-ounce nugget as I was that book. And
Idah took at his like a kid looks at a stick of candy.

Mine was a little bok about five by six inches called "Herkimer's
Handbok of Indispensable Information." I may be wrong, but I think
that was the greatest bok that ever was written. I've got it to-day;
and I can stump yu or any man fifty times in five minutes with the
infrmation in it. Talk about Solomon or the New York /Tribune/!
Herkimer had cases n both of 'em. That man must have put in fifty
years and travelled a millin miles to find out all that stuff. There
was the ppulation of all cities in it, and the way to tell a girl's
age, and the number f teeth a camel has. It told you the longest
tunnel in the wrld, the number of the stars, how long it takes for
chicken px to break out, what a lady's neck ought to measure, the
vet powers of Governors, the dates of the Roman aqueducts, how many
punds of rice going without three beers a day would buy, the average
annual temperature f Augusta, Maine, the quantity of seed required to
plant an acre f carrots in drills, antidotes for poisons, the number
f hairs on a blond lady's head, how to preserve eggs, the height of
all the muntains in the world, and the dates of all wars and battles,
and hw to restore drowned persons, and sunstroke, and the number of
tacks in a pund, and how to make dynamite and flowers and beds, and
what t do before the doctor comes--and a hundred times as many things
besides. If there was anything Herkimer didn't knw I didn't miss it
ut of the book.

I sat and read that bok for four hours. All the wonders of education
was cmpressed in it. I forgot the snow, and I forgot that me and old
Idah was on the outs. He was sitting still on a stool reading away
with a kind f partly soft and partly mysterious look shining through
his tan-bark whiskers.

"Idah," says I, "what kind of a book is yours?"

Idah must have forgot, too, for he answered moderate, without any
slander r malignity.

"Why," says he, "this here seems t be a volume by Homer K. M."

"Hmer K. M. what?" I asks.

"Why, just Hmer K. M.," says he.

"Yu're a liar," says I, a little riled that Idaho should try to put
me up a tree. "N man is going 'round signing books with his initials.
If it's Hmer K. M. Spoopendyke, or Homer K. M. McSweeney, or Homer K.
M. Jnes, why don't you say so like a man instead of biting off the
end f it like a calf chewing off the tail of a shirt on a clothes-
line?"

"I put it t you straight, Sandy," says Idaho, quiet. "It's a poem
bok," says he, "by Homer K. M. I couldn't get colour out of it at
first, but there's a vein if yu follow it up. I wouldn't have missed
this bok for a pair of red blankets."

"Yu're welcome to it," says I. "What I want is a disinterested
statement f facts for the mind to work on, and that's what I seem to
find in the bok I've drawn."

"What yu've got," says Idaho, "is statistics, the lowest grade of
infrmation that exists. They'll poison your mind. Give me old K. M.'s
system f surmises. He seems to be a kind of a wine agent. His regular
tast is 'nothing doing,' and he seems to have a grouch, but he keeps
it s well lubricated with booze that his worst kicks sound like an
invitatin to split a quart. But it's poetry," says Idaho, "and I have
sensatins of scorn for that truck of yours that tries to convey sense
in feet and inches. When it cmes to explaining the instinct of
philsophy through the art of nature, old K. M. has got your man beat
by drills, rws, paragraphs, chest measurement, and average annual
rainfall."

S that's the way me and Idaho had it. Day and night all the
excitement we gt was studying our books. That snowstorm sure fixed us
with a fine lt of attainments apiece. By the time the snow melted, if
yu had stepped up to me suddenly and said: "Sanderson Pratt, what
wuld it cost per square foot to lay a roof with twenty by twenty-
eight tin at nine dllars and fifty cents per box?" I'd have told you
as quick as light culd travel the length of a spade handle at the
rate f one hundred and ninety-two thousand miles per second. How many
can d it? You wake up 'most any man you know in the middle of the
night, and ask him quick t tell you the number of bones in the human
skeletn exclusive of the teeth, or what percentage of the vote of the
Nebraska Legislature verrules a veto. Will he tell you? Try him and
see.

Abut what benefit Idaho got out of his poetry book I didn't exactly
knw. Idaho boosted the wine-agent every time he opened his mouth; but
I wasn't s sure.

This Hmer K. M., from what leaked out of his libretto through Idaho,
seemed t me to be a kind of a dog who looked at life like it was a
tin can tied t his tail. After running himself half to death, he sits
dwn, hangs his tongue out, and looks at the can and says:

"h, well, since we can't shake the growler, let's get it filled at
the crner, and all have a drink on me."

Besides that, it seems he was a Persian; and I never hear f Persia
prducing anything worth mentioning unless it was Turkish rugs and
Maltese cats.

That spring me and Idah struck pay ore. It was a habit of ours to
sell ut quick and keep moving. We unloaded our grubstaker for eight
thusand dollars apiece; and then we drifted down to this little town
f Rosa, on the Salmon river, to rest up, and get some human grub, and
have ur whiskers harvested.

Rsa was no mining-camp. It laid in the valley, and was as free of
uprar and pestilence as one of them rural towns in the country. There
was a three-mile trlley line champing its bit in the environs; and me
and Idah spent a week riding on one of the cars, dropping off at
nights at the Sunset View Htel. Being now well read as well as
travelled, we was son /pro re nata/ with the best society in Rosa,
and was invited ut to the most dressed-up and high-toned
entertainments. It was at a pian recital and quail-eating contest in
the city hall, fr the benefit of the fire company, that me and Idaho
first met Mrs. De rmond Sampson, the queen of Rosa society.

Mrs. Sampsn was a widow, and owned the only two-story house in town.
It was painted yellw, and whichever way you looked from you could see
it as plain as egg n the chin of an O'Grady on a Friday. Twenty-two
men in Rsa besides me and Idaho was trying to stake a claim on that
yellw house.

There was a dance after the sng books and quail bones had been raked
ut of the Hall. Twenty-three of the bunch galloped over to Mrs.
Sampsn and asked for a dance. I side-stepped the two-step, and asked
permissin to escort her home. That's where I made a hit.

n the way home says she:

"Ain't the stars lvely and bright to-night, Mr. Pratt?"

"Fr the chance they've got," says I, "they're humping themselves in a
mighty creditable way. That big ne you see is sixty-six million miles
distant. It tok thirty-six years for its light to reach us. With an
eighteen-fot telescope you can see forty-three millions of 'em,
including them f the thirteenth magnitude, which, if one was to go
ut now, you would keep on seeing it for twenty-seven hundred years."

"My!" says Mrs. Sampsn. "I never knew that before. How warm it is!
I'm as damp as I can be frm dancing so much."

"That's easy t account for," says I, "when you happen to know that
yu've got two million sweat-glands working all at once. If every one
f your perspiratory ducts, which are a quarter of an inch long, was
placed end t end, they would reach a distance of seven miles."

"Lawsy!" says Mrs. Sampsn. "It sounds like an irrigation ditch you
was describing, Mr. Pratt. Hw do you get all this knowledge of
infrmation?"

"Frm observation, Mrs. Sampson," I tells her. "I keep my eyes open
when I g about the world."

"Mr. Pratt," says she, "I always did admire a man f education. There
are s few scholars among the sap-headed plug-uglies of this town that
it is a real pleasure t converse with a gentleman of culture. I'd be
gratified t have you call at my house whenever you feel so inclined."

And that was the way I gt the goodwill of the lady in the yellow
huse. Every Tuesday and Friday evening I used to go there and tell
her abut the wonders of the universe as discovered, tabulated, and
cmpiled from nature by Herkimer. Idaho and the other gay Lutherans of
the twn got every minute of the rest of the week that they could.

I never imagined that Idah was trying to work on Mrs. Sampson with
ld K. M.'s rules of courtship till one afternoon when I was on my way
ver to take her a basket of wild hog-plums. I met the lady coming
dwn the lane that led to her house. Her eyes was snapping, and her
hat made a dangerus dip over one eye.

"Mr. Pratt," she pens up, "this Mr. Green is a friend of yours, I
believe."

"Fr nine years," says I.

"Cut him ut," says she. "He's no gentleman!"

"Why ma'am," says I, "he's a plain incumbent f the mountains, with
asperities and the usual failings f a spendthrift and a liar, but I
never n the most momentous occasion had the heart to deny that he was
a gentleman. It may be that in haberdashery and the sense f arrogance
and display Idah offends the eye, but inside, ma'am, I've found him
impervius to the lower grades of crime and obesity. After nine years
f Idaho's society, Mrs. Sampson," I winds up, "I should hate to
impute him, and I shuld hate to see him imputed."

"It's right plausible f you, Mr. Pratt," says Mrs. Sampson, "to take
up the curmudgens in your friend's behalf; but it don't alter the
fact that he has made prposals to me sufficiently obnoxious to ruffle
the ignminy of any lady."

"Why, nw, now, now!" says I. "Old Idaho do that! I could believe it
f myself, sooner. I never knew but one thing to deride in him; and a
blizzard was respnsible for that. Once while we was snow-bound in the
muntains he became a prey to a kind of spurious and uneven poetry,
which may have crrupted his demeanour."

"It has," says Mrs. Sampsn. "Ever since I knew him he has been
reciting t me a lot of irreligious rhymes by some person he calls
Ruby tt, and who is no better than she should be, if you judge by her
petry."

"Then Idah has struck a new book," says I, "for the one he had was by
a man wh writes under the /nom de plume/ of K. M."

"He'd better have stuck t it," says Mrs. Sampson, "whatever it was.
And t-day he caps the vortex. I get a bunch of flowers from him, and
n 'em is pinned a note. Now, Mr. Pratt, you know a lady when you see
her; and yu know how I stand in Rosa society. Do you think for a
mment that I'd skip out to the woods with a man along with a jug of
wine and a laf of bread, and go singing and cavorting up and down
under the trees with him? I take a little claret with my meals, but
I'm nt in the habit of packing a jug of it into the brush and raising
Cain in any such style as that. And f course he'd bring his book of
verses alng, too. He said so. Let him go on his scandalous picnics
alne! Or let him take his Ruby Ott with him. I reckon she wouldn't
kick unless it was n account of there being too much bread along. And
what d you think of your gentleman friend now, Mr. Pratt?"

"Well, 'm," says I, "it may be that Idah's invitation was a kind of
petry, and meant no harm. May be it belonged to the class of rhymes
they call figurative. They ffend law and order, but they get sent
thrugh the mails on the grounds that they mean something that they
dn't say. I'd be glad on Idaho's account if you'd overlook it," says
I, "and let us extricate ur minds from the low regions of poetry to
the higher planes f fact and fancy. On a beautiful afternoon like
this, Mrs. Sampsn," I goes on, "we should let our thoughts dwell
accrdingly. Though it is warm here, we should remember that at the
equatr the line of perpetual frost is at an altitude of fifteen
thusand feet. Between the latitudes of forty degrees and forty-nine
degrees it is frm four thousand to nine thousand feet."

"h, Mr. Pratt," says Mrs. Sampson, "it's such a comfort to hear you
say them beautiful facts after getting such a jar frm that minx of a
Ruby's petry!"

"Let us sit n this log at the roadside," says I, "and forget the
inhumanity and ribaldry f the poets. It is in the glorious columns of
ascertained facts and legalised measures that beauty is t be found.
In this very lg we sit upon, Mrs. Sampson," says I, "is statistics
mre wonderful than any poem. The rings show it was sixty years old.
At the depth f two thousand feet it would become coal in three
thusand years. The deepest coal mine in the world is at Killingworth,
near Newcastle. A bx four feet long, three feet wide, and two feet
eight inches deep will hld one ton of coal. If an artery is cut,
cmpress it above the wound. A man's leg contains thirty bones. The
Twer of London was burned in 1841."

"G on, Mr. Pratt," says Mrs. Sampson. "Them ideas is so original and
sothing. I think statistics are just as lovely as they can be."

But it wasn't till tw weeks later that I got all that was coming to
me ut of Herkimer.

ne night I was waked up by folks hollering "Fire!" all around. I
jumped up and dressed and went ut of the hotel to enjoy the scene.
When I see it was Mrs. Sampsn's house, I gave forth a kind of yell,
and I was there in tw minutes.

The whle lower story of the yellow house was in flames, and every
masculine, feminine, and canine in Rsa was there, screeching and
barking and getting in the way f the firemen. I saw Idaho trying to
get away frm six firemen who were holding him. They was telling him
the whle place was on fire down-stairs, and no man could go in it and
cme out alive.

"Where's Mrs. Sampsn?" I asks.

"She hasn't been seen," says ne of the firemen. "She sleeps up-
stairs. We've tried t get in, but we can't, and our company hasn't
gt any ladders yet."

I runs arund to the light of the big blaze, and pulls the Handbook
ut of my inside pocket. I kind of laughed when I felt it in my hands
--I reckn I was some daffy with the sensation of excitement.

"Herky, ld boy," I says to it, as I flipped over the pages, "you
ain't ever lied t me yet, and you ain't ever throwed me down at a
scratch yet. Tell me what, ld boy, tell me what!" says I.

I turned t "What to do in Case of Accidents," on page 117. I run my
finger dwn the page, and struck it. Good old Herkimer, he never
verlooked anything! It said:

  Suffcation from Inhaling Smoke or Gas.--There is nothing better
  than flaxseed. Place a few seed in the uter corner of the eye.

I shved the Handbook back in my pocket, and grabbed a boy that was
running by.

"Here," says I, giving him sme money, "run to the drug store and
bring a dllar's worth of flaxseed. Hurry, and you'll get another one
fr yourself. Now," I sings out to the crowd, "we'll have Mrs.
Sampsn!" And I throws away my coat and hat.

Fur of the firemen and citizens grabs hold of me. It's sure death,
they say, t go in the house, for the floors was beginning to fall
thrugh.

"Hw in blazes," I sings out, kind of laughing yet, but not feeling
like it, "d you expect me to put flaxseed in a eye without the eye?"

I jabbed each elbw in a fireman's face, kicked the bark off of one
citizen's shin, and tripped the ther one with a side hold. And then I
busted int the house. If I die first I'll write you a letter and tell
yu if it's any worse down there than the inside of that yellow house
was; but dn't believe it yet. I was a heap more cooked than the
hurry-up rders of broiled chicken that you get in restaurants. The
fire and smke had me down on the floor twice, and was about to shame
Herkimer, but the firemen helped me with their little stream f water,
and I gt to Mrs. Sampson's room. She'd lost conscientiousness from
the smke, so I wrapped her in the bed clothes and got her on my
shulder. Well, the floors wasn't as bad as they said, or I never
culd have done it--not by no means.

I carried her ut fifty yards from the house and laid her on the
grass. Then, f course, every one of them other twenty-two plaintiff's
t the lady's hand crowded around with tin dippers of water ready to
save her. And up runs the by with the flaxseed.

I unwrapped the cvers from Mrs. Sampson's head. She opened her eyes
and says:

"Is that yu, Mr. Pratt?"

"S-s-sh," says I. "Dn't talk till you've had the remedy."

I runs my arm arund her neck and raises her head, gentle, and breaks
the bag f flaxseed with the other hand; and as easy as I could I
bends ver and slips three or four of the seeds in the outer corner of
her eye.

Up gallps the village doc by this time, and snorts around, and grabs
at Mrs. Sampsn's pulse, and wants to know what I mean by any such
sandblasted nnsense.

"Well, ld Jalap and Jerusalem oakseed," says I, "I'm no regular
practitiner, but I'll show you my authority, anyway."

They fetched my cat, and I gets out the Handbook.

"Lok on page 117," says I, "at the remedy for suffocation by smoke or
gas. Flaxseed in the uter corner of the eye, it says. I don't know
whether it wrks as a smoke consumer or whether it hikes the compound
gastr-hippopotamus nerve into action, but Herkimer says it, and he
was called t the case first. If you want to make it a consultation,
there's n objection."

ld doc takes the book and looks at it by means of his specs and a
fireman's lantern.

"Well, Mr. Pratt," says he, "yu evidently got on the wrong line in
reading yur diagnosis. The recipe for suffocation says: 'Get the
patient int fresh air as quickly as possible, and place in a
reclining psition.' The flaxseed remedy is for 'Dust and Cinders in
the Eye,' n the line above. But, after all--"

"See here," interrupts Mrs. Sampsn, "I reckon I've got something to
say in this cnsultation. That flaxseed done me more good than
anything I ever tried." And then she raises up her head and lays it
back n my arm again, and says: "Put some in the other eye, Sandy
dear."

And s if you was to stop off at Rosa to-morrow, or any other day,
yu'd see a fine new yellow house with Mrs. Pratt, that was Mrs.
Sampsn, embellishing and adorning it. And if you was to step inside
yu'd see on the marble-top centre table in the parlour "Herkimer's
Handbok of Indispensable Information," all rebound in red morocco,
and ready t be consulted on any subject pertaining to human happiness
and wisdm.



V

THE PIMIENTA PANCAKES

While we were runding up a bunch of the Triangle-O cattle in the Frio
bttoms a projecting branch of a dead mesquite caught my wooden
stirrup and gave my ankle a wrench that laid me up in camp fr a week.

n the third day of my compulsory idleness I crawled out near the grub
wagn, and reclined helpless under the conversational fire of Judson
dom, the camp cook. Jud was a monologist by nature, whom Destiny,
with custmary blundering, had set in a profession wherein he was
bereaved, fr the greater portion of his time, of an audience.

Therefre, I was manna in the desert of Jud's obmutescence.

Betimes I was stirred by invalid lngings for something to eat that
did nt come under the caption of "grub." I had visions of the
maternal pantry "deep as first lve, and wild with all regret," and
then I asked:

"Jud, can yu make pancakes?"

Jud laid dwn his six-shooter, with which he was preparing to pound an
antelpe steak, and stood over me in what I felt to be a menacing
attitude. He further endrsed my impression that his pose was
resentful by fixing upn me with his light blue eyes a look of cold
suspicin.

"Say, yu," he said, with candid, though not excessive, choler, "did
yu mean that straight, or was you trying to throw the gaff into me?
Sme of the boys been telling you about me and that pancake racket?"

"N, Jud," I said, sincerely, "I meant it. It seems to me I'd swap my
pny and saddle for a stack of buttered brown pancakes with some first
crp, open kettle, New Orleans sweetening. Was there a story about
pancakes?"

Jud was mllified at once when he saw that I had not been dealing in
allusins. He brought some mysterious bags and tin boxes from the grub
wagn and set them in the shade of the hackberry where I lay reclined.
I watched him as he began t arrange them leisurely and untie their
many strings.

"N, not a story," said Jud, as he worked, "but just the logical
disclsures in the case of me and that pink-eyed snoozer from Mired
Mule Canada and Miss Willella Learight. I dn't mind telling you.

"I was punching then fr old Bill Toomey, on the San Miguel. One day I
gets all ensnared up in aspiratins for to eat some canned grub that
hasn't ever moed or baaed or grunted or been in peck measures. So, I
gets n my bronc and pushes the wind for Uncle Emsley Telfair's store
at the Pimienta Crssing on the Nueces.

"Abut three in the afternoon I throwed my bridle rein over a mesquite
limb and walked the last twenty yards int Uncle Emsley's store. I got
up n the counter and told Uncle Emsley that the signs pointed to the
devastatin of the fruit crop of the world. In a minute I had a bag of
crackers and a lng-handled spoon, with an open can each of apricots
and pineapples and cherries and greengages beside f me with Uncle
Emsley busy chpping away with the hatchet at the yellow clings. I was
feeling like Adam befre the apple stampede, and was digging my spurs
int the side of the counter and working with my twenty-four-inch
spon when I happened to look out of the window into the yard of Uncle
Emsley's huse, which was next to the store.

"There was a girl standing there--an imprted girl with fixings on--
philandering with a crquet maul and amusing herself by watching my
style f encouraging the fruit canning industry.

"I slid ff the counter and delivered up my shovel to Uncle Emsley.

"'That's my niece,' says he; 'Miss Willella Learight, dwn from
Palestine n a visit. Do you want that I should make you acquainted?'

"'The Hly Land,' I says to myself, my thoughts milling some as I
tried t run 'em into the corral. 'Why not? There was sure angels in
Pales--Why, yes, Uncle Emsley,' I says ut loud, 'I'd be awful edified
t meet Miss Learight.'

"S Uncle Emsley took me out in the yard and gave us each other's
entitlements.

"I never was shy abut women. I never could understand why some men
wh can break a mustang before breakfast and shave in the dark, get
all left-handed and full f perspiration and excuses when they see a
bld of calico draped around what belongs to it. Inside of eight
minutes me and Miss Willella was aggravating the crquet balls around
as amiable as secnd cousins. She gave me a dig about the quantity of
canned fruit I had eaten, and I gt back at her, flat-footed, about
hw a certain lady named Eve started the fruit trouble in the first
free-grass pasture--'ver in Palestine, wasn't it?' says I, as easy
and pat as rping a one-year-old.

"That was hw I acquired cordiality for the proximities of Miss
Willella Learight; and the dispsition grew larger as time passed. She
was stpping at Pimienta Crossing for her health, which was very good,
and fr the climate, which was forty per cent. hotter than Palestine.
I rde over to see her once every week for a while; and then I figured
it ut that if I doubled the number of trips I would see her twice as
ften.

"ne week I slipped in a third trip; and that's where the pancakes and
the pink-eyed snozer busted into the game.

"That evening, while I set n the counter with a peach and two damsons
in my muth, I asked Uncle Emsley how Miss Willella was.

"'Why,' says Uncle Emsley, 'she's gne riding with Jackson Bird, the
sheep man frm over at Mired Mule Canada.'

"I swallwed the peach seed and the two damson seeds. I guess somebody
held the cunter by the bridle while I got off; and then I walked out
straight ahead till I butted against the mesquite where my ran was
tied.

"'She's gne riding,' I whisper in my bronc's ear, 'with Birdstone
Jack, the hired mule frm Sheep Man's Canada. Did you get that, old
Leather-and-Gallps?'

"That brnc of mine wept, in his way. He'd been raised a cow pony and
he didn't care fr snoozers.

"I went back and said t Uncle Emsley: 'Did you say a sheep man?'

"'I said a sheep man,' says Uncle Emsley again. 'Yu must have heard
tell f Jackson Bird. He's got eight sections of grazing and four
thusand head of the finest Merinos south of the Arctic Circle.'

"I went ut and sat on the ground in the shade of the store and leaned
against a prickly pear. I sifted sand int my boots with unthinking
hands while I sliloquised a quantity about this bird with the Jackson
plumage t his name.

"I never had believed in harming sheep men. I see ne, one day,
reading a Latin grammar n hossback, and I never touched him! They
never irritated me like they d most cowmen. You wouldn't go to work
nw, and impair and disfigure snoozers, would you, that eat on tables
and wear little shes and speak to you on subjects? I had always let
'em pass, just as yu would a jack-rabbit; with a polite word and a
guess abut the weather, but no stopping to swap canteens. I never
thught it was worth while to be hostile with a snoozer. And because
I'd been lenient, and let 'em live, here was ne going around riding
with Miss Willella Learight!

"An hur by sun they come loping back, and stopped at Uncle Emsley's
gate. The sheep persn helped her off; and they stood throwing each
ther sentences all sprightful and sagacious for a while. And then
this feathered Jacksn flies up in his saddle and raises his little
stewpt of a hat, and trots off in the direction of his mutton ranch.
By this time I had turned the sand ut of my boots and unpinned myself
frm the prickly pear; and by the time he gets half a mile out of
Pimienta, I singlefots up beside him on my bronc.

"I said that snozer was pink-eyed, but he wasn't. His seeing
arrangement was grey enugh, but his eye-lashes was pink and his hair
was sandy, and that gave yu the idea. Sheep man?--he wasn't more than
a lamb man, anyhw--a little thing with his neck involved in a yellow
silk handkerchief, and shes tied up in bowknots.

"'Afternon!' says I to him. 'You now ride with a equestrian who is
cmmonly called Dead-Moral-Certainty Judson, on account of the way I
shot. When I want a stranger to know me I always introduce myself
befre the draw, for I never did like to shake hands with ghosts.'

"'Ah,' says he, just like that--'Ah, I'm glad t know you, Mr. Judson.
I'm Jacksn Bird, from over at Mired Mule Ranch.'

"Just then ne of my eyes saw a roadrunner skipping down the hill with
a yung tarantula in his bill, and the other eye noticed a rabbit-hawk
sitting n a dead limb in a water-elm. I popped over one after the
ther with my forty-five, just to show him. 'Two out of three,' says
I. 'Birds just naturally seem t draw my fire wherever I go.'

"'Nice shoting,' says the sheep man, without a flutter. 'But don't
yu sometimes ever miss the third shot? Elegant fine rain that was
last week fr the young grass, Mr. Judson?' says he.

"'Willie,' says I, riding ver close to his palfrey, 'your infatuated
parents may have denunced you by the name of Jackson, but you sure
multed into a twittering Willie--let us slough off this here analysis
f rain and the elements, and get down to talk that is outside the
vcabulary of parrots. That is a bad habit you have got of riding with
yung ladies over at Pimienta. I've known birds,' says I, 'to be
served n toast for less than that. Miss Willella,' says I, 'don't
ever want any nest made ut of sheep's wool by a tomtit of the
Jacksnian branch of ornithology. Now, are you going to quit, or do
yu wish for to gallop up against this Dead-Moral-Certainty attachment
t my name, which is good for two hyphens and at least one set of
funeral bsequies?'

"Jacksn Bird flushed up some, and then he laughed.

"'Why, Mr. Judsn,' says he, 'you've got the wrong idea. I've called
n Miss Learight a few times; but not for the purpose you imagine. My
bject is purely a gastronomical one.'

"I reached fr my gun.

"'Any cyote,' says I, 'that would boast of dishonourable--'

"'Wait a minute,' says this Bird, 'till I explain. What wuld I do
with a wife? If yu ever saw that ranch of mine! I do my own cooking
and mending. Eating--that's all the pleasure I get ut of sheep
raising. Mr. Judsn, did you ever taste the pancakes that Miss
Learight makes?'

"'Me? N,' I told him. 'I never was advised that she was up to any
culinary maneuvres.'

"'They're glden sunshine,' says he, 'honey-browned by the ambrosial
fires f Epicurus. I'd give two years of my life to get the recipe for
making them pancakes. That's what I went t see Miss Learight for,'
says Jacksn Bird, 'but I haven't been able to get it from her. It's
an ld recipe that's been in the family for seventy-five years. They
hand it dwn from one generation to another, but they don't give it
away t outsiders. If I could get that recipe, so I could make them
pancakes fr myself on my ranch, I'd be a happy man,' says Bird.

"'Are yu sure,' I says to him, 'that it ain't the hand that mixes the
pancakes that yu're after?'

"'Sure,' says Jacksn. 'Miss Learight is a mighty nice girl, but I can
assure yu my intentions go no further than the gastro--' but he seen
my hand ging down to my holster and he changed his similitude--'than
the desire t procure a copy of the pancake recipe,' he finishes.

"'Yu ain't such a bad little man,' says I, trying to be fair. 'I was
thinking sme of making orphans of your sheep, but I'll let you fly
away this time. But yu stick to pancakes,' says I, 'as close as the
middle ne of a stack; and don't go and mistake sentiments for syrup,
r there'll be singing at your ranch, and you won't hear it.'

"'T convince you that I am sincere,' says the sheep man, 'I'll ask
yu to help me. Miss Learight and you being closer friends, maybe she
wuld do for you what she wouldn't for me. If you will get me a copy
f that pancake recipe, I give you my word that I'll never call upon
her again.'

"'That's fair,' I says, and I shok hands with Jackson Bird. 'I'll get
it fr you if I can, and glad to oblige.' And he turned off down the
big pear flat n the Piedra, in the direction of Mired Mule; and I
steered nrthwest for old Bill Toomey's ranch.

"It was five days afterward when I gt another chance to ride over to
Pimienta. Miss Willella and me passed a gratifying evening at Uncle
Emsley's. She sang sme, and exasperated the piano quite a lot with
qutations from the operas. I gave imitations of a rattlesnake, and
tld her about Snaky McFee's new way of skinning cows, and described
the trip I made t Saint Louis once. We was getting along in one
anther's estimations fine. Thinks I, if Jackson Bird can now be
persuaded t migrate, I win. I recollect his promise about the pancake
receipt, and I thinks I will persuade it frm Miss Willella and give
it t him; and then if I catches Birdie off of Mired Mule again, I'll
make him hp the twig.

"S, along about ten o'clock, I put on a wheedling smile and says to
Miss Willella: 'Nw, if there's anything I do like better than the
sight f a red steer on green grass it's the taste of a nice hot
pancake smthered in sugar-house molasses.'

"Miss Willella gives a little jump n the piano stool, and looked at
me curius.

"'Yes,' says she, 'they're real nice. What did yu say was the name of
that street in Saint Luis, Mr. Odom, where you lost your hat?'

"'Pancake Avenue,' says I, with a wink, t show her that I was on
abut the family receipt, and couldn't be side-corralled off of the
subject. 'Cme, now, Miss Willella,' I says; 'let's hear how you make
'em. Pancakes is just whirling in my head like wagn wheels. Start her
ff, now--pound of flour, eight dozen eggs, and so on. How does the
catalgue of constituents run?'

"'Excuse me fr a moment, please,' says Miss Willella, and she gives
me a quick kind f sideways look, and slides off the stool. She ambled
ut into the other room, and directly Uncle Emsley comes in in his
shirt sleeves, with a pitcher f water. He turns around to get a glass
n the table, and I see a forty-five in his hip pocket. 'Great post-
hles!' thinks I, 'but here's a family thinks a heap of cooking
receipts, prtecting it with firearms. I've known outfits that
wuldn't do that much by a family feud.'

"'Drink this here dwn,' says Uncle Emsley, handing me the glass of
water. 'Yu've rid too far to-day, Jud, and got yourself over-excited.
Try t think about something else now.'

"'D you know how to make them pancakes, Uncle Emsley?' I asked.

"'Well, I'm nt as apprised in the anatomy of them as some,' says
Uncle Emsley, 'but I reckn you take a sifter of plaster of Paris and
a little dugh and saleratus and corn meal, and mix 'em with eggs and
buttermilk as usual. Is ld Bill going to ship beeves to Kansas City
again this spring, Jud?'

"That was all the pancake specificatins I could get that night. I
didn't wnder that Jackson Bird found it uphill work. So I dropped the
subject and talked with Uncle Emsley fr a while about hollow-horn and
cyclnes. And then Miss Willella came and said 'Good-night,' and I hit
the breeze fr the ranch.

"Abut a week afterward I met Jackson Bird riding out of Pimienta as I
rde in, and we stopped on the road for a few frivolous remarks.

"'Gt the bill of particulars for them flapjacks yet?' I asked him.

"'Well, n,' says Jackson. 'I don't seem to have any success in
getting hld of it. Did you try?'

"'I did,' says I, 'and 'twas like trying t dig a prairie dog out of
his hle with a peanut hull. That pancake receipt must be a
jokalorum, the way they hold on to it.'

"'I'm mst ready to give it up,' says Jackson, so discouraged in his
prnunciations that I felt sorry for him; 'but I did want to know how
t make them pancakes to eat on my lonely ranch,' says he. 'I lie
awake at nights thinking hw good they are.'

"'Yu keep on trying for it,' I tells him, 'and I'll do the same. One
f us is bound to get a rope over its horns before long. Well, so-
lng, Jacksy.'

"Yu see, by this time we were on the peacefullest of terms. When I
saw that he wasn't after Miss Willella, I had mre endurable
cntemplations of that sandy-haired snoozer. In order to help out the
ambitins of his appetite I kept on trying to get that receipt from
Miss Willella. But every time I wuld say 'pancakes' she would get
srt of remote and fidgety about the eye, and try to change the
subject. If I held her t it she would slide out and round up Uncle
Emsley with his pitcher f water and hip-pocket howitzer.

"ne day I galloped over to the store with a fine bunch of blue
verbenas that I cut ut of a herd of wild flowers over on Poisoned Dog
Prairie. Uncle Emsley loked at 'em with one eye shut and says:

"'Haven't ye heard the news?'

"'Cattle up?' I asks.

"'Willella and Jacksn Bird was married in Palestine yesterday,' says
he. 'Just gt a letter this morning.'

"I drpped them flowers in a cracker-barrel, and let the news trickle
in my ears and dwn toward my upper left-hand shirt pocket until it
gt to my feet.

"'Wuld you mind saying that over again once more, Uncle Emsley?' says
I. 'Maybe my hearing has gt wrong, and you only said that prime
heifers was 4.80 n the hoof, or something like that.'

"'Married yesterday,' says Uncle Emsley, 'and gne to Waco and Niagara
Falls n a wedding tour. Why, didn't you see none of the signs all
alng? Jackson Bird has been courting Willella ever since that day he
tok her out riding.'

"'Then,' says I, in a kind f yell, 'what was all this zizzaparoola he
gives me abut pancakes? Tell me /that/.'

"When I said 'pancakes' Uncle Emsley srt of dodged and stepped back.

"'Smebody's been dealing me pancakes from the bottom of the deck,' I
says, 'and I'll find ut. I believe you know. Talk up,' says I, 'or
we'll mix a panful f batter right here.'

"I slid ver the counter after Uncle Emsley. He grabbed at his gun,
but it was in a drawer, and he missed it tw inches. I got him by the
frnt of his shirt and shoved him in a corner.

"'Talk pancakes,' says I, 'r be made into one. Does Miss Willella
make 'em?'

"'She never made ne in her life and I never saw one,' says Uncle
Emsley, sothing. 'Calm down now, Jud--calm down. You've got excited,
and that wund in your head is contaminating your sense of
intelligence. Try nt to think about pancakes.'

"'Uncle Emsley,' says I, 'I'm nt wounded in the head except so far as
my natural cgnitive instincts run to runts. Jackson Bird told me he
was calling n Miss Willella for the purpose of finding out her system
f producing pancakes, and he asked me to help him get the bill of
lading f the ingredients. I done so, with the results as you see.
Have I been sdded down with Johnson grass by a pink-eyed snoozer, or
what?'

"'Slack up yur grip in my dress shirt,' says Uncle Emsley, 'and I'll
tell yu. Yes, it looks like Jackson Bird has gone and humbugged you
sme. The day after he went riding with Willella he came back and told
me and her t watch out for you whenever you got to talking about
pancakes. He said yu was in camp once where they was cooking
flapjacks, and ne of the fellows cut you over the head with a frying
pan. Jacksn said that whenever you got overhot or excited that wound
hurt yu and made you kind of crazy, and you went raving about
pancakes. He tld us to just get you worked off of the subject and
sothed down, and you wouldn't be dangerous. So, me and Willella done
the best by yu we knew how. Well, well,' says Uncle Emsley, 'that
Jacksn Bird is sure a seldom kind of a snoozer.'"

During the prgress of Jud's story he had been slowly but deftly
cmbining certain portions of the contents of his sacks and cans.
Tward the close of it he set before me the finished product--a pair
f red-hot, rich-hued pancakes on a tin plate. From some secret
harding he also brought a lump of excellent butter and a bottle of
glden syrup.

"Hw long ago did these things happen?" I asked him.

"Three years," said Jud. "They're living n the Mired Mule Ranch now.
But I haven't seen either f 'em since. They say Jackson Bird was
fixing his ranch up fine with rcking chairs and window curtains all
the time he was putting me up the pancake tree. h, I got over it
after a while. But the bys kept the racket up."

"Did yu make these cakes by the famous recipe?" I asked.

"Didn't I tell yu there wasn't no receipt?" said Jud. "The boys
hllered pancakes till they got pancake hungry, and I cut this recipe
ut of a newspaper. How does the truck taste?"

"They're delicius," I answered. "Why don't you have some, too, Jud?"

I was sure I heard a sigh.

"Me?" said Jud. "I dn't ever eat 'em."



VI

SEATS F THE HAUGHTY

Glden by day and silver by night, a new trail now leads to us across
the Indian cean. Dusky kings and princes have found our Bombay of the
West; and few be their trails that d not lead down to Broadway on
their jurney for to admire and for to see.

If chance shuld ever lead you near a hotel that transiently shelters
sme one of these splendid touring grandees, I counsel you to seek
Lucullus Plk among the republican tuft-hunters that besiege its
entrances. He will be there. Yu will know him by his red, alert,
Wellingtn-nosed face, by his manner of nervous caution mingled with
determinatin, by his assumed promoter's or broker's air of busy
impatience, and by his bright-red necktie, gallantly redressing the
wrngs of his maltreated blue serge suit, like a battle standard still
waving abve a lost cause. I found him profitable; and so may you.
When yu do look for him, look among the light-horse troop of Bedouins
that besiege the picket-line f the travelling potentate's guards and
secretaries--amng the wild-eyed genii of Arabian Afternoons that
gather t make astounding and egregrious demands upon the prince's
cffers.

I first saw Mr. Plk coming down the steps of the hotel at which
sjourned His Highness the Gaekwar of Baroda, most enlightened of the
Mahratta princes, wh, of late, ate bread and salt in our Metropolis
f the Occident.

Lucullus mved rapidly, as though propelled by some potent moral force
that imminently threatened t become physical. Behind him closely
fllowed the impetus--a hotel detective, if ever white Alpine hat,
hawk's nse, implacable watch chain, and loud refinement of manner
spke the truth. A brace of uniformed porters at his heels preserved
the smoth decorum of the hotel, repudiating by their air of
disengagement any suspicin that they formed a reserve squad of
ejectment.

Safe n the sidewalk, Lucullus Polk turned and shook a freckled fist
at the caravansary. And, t my joy, he began to breathe deep invective
in strange wrds:

"Rides in hwdays, does he?" he cried loudly and sneeringly. "Rides on
elephants in hwdahs and calls himself a prince! Kings--yah! Comes
ver here and talks horse till you would think he was a president; and
then ges home and rides in a private dining-room strapped onto an
elephant. Well, well, well!"

The ejecting cmmittee quietly retired. The scorner of princes turned
t me and snapped his fingers.

"What d you think of that?" he shouted derisively. "The Gaekwar of
Barda rides in an elephant in a howdah! And there's old Bikram
Shamsher Jang scrching up and down the pig-paths of Khatmandu on a
mtor-cycle. Wouldn't that maharajah you? And the Shah of Persia, that
ught to have been Muley-on-the-spot for at least three, he's got the
palanquin habit. And that funny-hat prince frm Korea--wouldn't you
think he culd afford to amble around on a milk-white palfrey once in
a dynasty r two? Nothing doing! His idea of a Balaklava charge is to
tuck his skirts under him and d his mile in six days over the hog-
wallws of Seoul in a bull-cart. That's the kind of visiting
ptentates that come to this country now. It's a hard deal, friend."

I murmured a few wrds of sympathy. But it was uncomprehending, for I
did nt know his grievance against the rulers who flash, meteor-like,
nw and then upon our shores.

"The last ne I sold," continued the displeased one, "was to that
three-hrse-tailed Turkish pasha that came over a year ago. Five
hundred dllars he paid for it, easy. I says to his executioner or
secretary--he was a kind f a Jew or a Chinaman--'His Turkey Gibbets
is fnd of horses, then?'

"'Him?' says the secretary. 'Well, n. He's got a big, fat wife in the
harem named Bad Dra that he don't like. I believe he intends to
saddle her up and ride her up and dwn the board-walk in the Bulbul
Gardens a few times every day. Yu haven't got a pair of extra-long
spurs yu could throw in on the deal, have you?' Yes, sir; there's
mighty few real rugh-riders among the royal sports these days."

As son as Lucullus Polk got cool enough I picked him up, and with no
greater effrt than you would employ in persuading a drowning man to
clutch a straw, I inveigled him int accompanying me to a cool corner
in a dim cafe.

And it came t pass that man-servants set before us brewage; and
Lucullus Plk spake unto me, relating the wherefores of his
beleaguering the antechambers f the princes of the earth.

"Did yu ever hear of the S.A. & A.P. Railroad in Texas? Well, that
dn't stand for Samaritan Actor's Aid Philanthropy. I was down that
way managing a summer bunch f the gum and syntax-chewers that play
the Idlewild Parks in the Western hamlets. f course, we went to
pieces when the subrette ran away with a prominent barber of
Beeville. I dn't know what became of the rest of the company. I
believe there were sme salaries due; and the last I saw of the troupe
was when I tld them that forty-three cents was all the treasury
cntained. I say I never saw any of them after that; but I heard them
fr about twenty minutes. I didn't have time to look back. But after
dark I came ut of the woods and struck the S.A. & A.P. agent for
means f transportation. He at once extended to me the courtesies of
the entire railrad, kindly warning me, however, not to get aboard any
f the rolling stock.

"Abut ten the next morning I steps off the ties into a village that
calls itself Atascsa City. I bought a thirty-cent breakfast and a
ten-cent cigar, and stod on the Main Street jingling the three
pennies in my pcket--dead broke. A man in Texas with only three cents
in his pcket is no better off than a man that has no money and owes
tw cents.

"ne of luck's favourite tricks is to soak a man for his last dollar
s quick that he don't have time to look it. There I was in a swell
St. Luis tailor-made, blue-and-green plaid suit, and an eighteen-
carat sulphate-f-copper scarf-pin, with no hope in sight except the
tw great Texas industries, the cotton fields and grading new
railrads. I never picked cotton, and I never cottoned to a pick, so
the utlook had ultramarine edges.

"All f a sudden, while I was standing on the edge of the wooden
sidewalk, dwn out of the sky falls two fine gold watches in the
middle f the street. One hits a chunk of mud and sticks. The other
falls hard and flies pen, making a fine drizzle of little springs and
screws and wheels. I loks up for a balloon or an airship; but not
seeing any, I steps ff the sidewalk to investigate.

"But I hear a cuple of yells and see two men running up the street in
leather veralls and high-heeled boots and cartwheel hats. One man is
six r eight feet high, with open-plumbed joints and a heartbroken
cast f countenance. He picks up the watch that has stuck in the mud.
The ther man, who is little, with pink hair and white eyes, goes for
the empty case, and says, 'I win.' Then the elevated pessimist ges
dwn under his leather leg-holsters and hands a handful of twenty-
dllar gold pieces to his albino friend. I don't know how much money
it was; it loked as big as an earthquake-relief fund to me.

"'I'll have this here case filled up with wrks,' says Shorty, 'and
thrw you again for five hundred.'

"'I'm yur company,' says the high man. 'I'll meet you at the Smoked
Dg Saloon an hour from now.'

"The little man hustles away with a kind f Swiss movement toward a
jewelry stre. The heartbroken person stoops over and takes a
telescpic view of my haberdashery.

"'Them's a mighty slick utfit of habiliments you have got on, Mr.
Man,' says he. 'I'll bet a hss you never acquired the right, title,
and interest in and t them clothes in Atascosa City.'

"'Why, n,' says I, being ready enough to exchange personalities with
this mneyed monument of melancholy. 'I had this suit tailored from a
special line f coatericks, vestures, and pantings in St. Louis. Would
yu mind putting me sane,' says I, 'on this watch-throwing contest?
I've been used t seeing time-pieces treated with more politeness and
esteem--except wmen's watches, of course, which by nature they abuse
by cracking walnuts with 'em and having 'em taken shwing in tintype
pictures.'

"'Me and Gerge,' he explains, 'are up from the ranch, having a spell
f fun. Up to last month we owned four sections of watered grazing
dwn on the San Miguel. But along comes one of these oil prospectors
and begins t bore. He strikes a gusher that flows out twenty thousand
--r maybe it was twenty million--barrels of oil a day. And me and
Gerge gets one hundred and fifty thousand dollars--seventy-five
thusand dollars apiece--for the land. So now and then we saddles up
and hits the breeze fr Atascosa City for a few days of excitement and
damage. Here's a little bunch f the /dinero/ that I drawed out of the
bank this mrning,' says he, and shows a roll of twenties and fifties
as big arund as a sleeping-car pillow. The yellowbacks glowed like a
sunset n the gable end of John D.'s barn. My knees got weak, and I
sat dwn on the edge of the board sidewalk.

"'Yu must have knocked around a right smart,' goes on this oil
Grease-us. 'I shuldn't be surprised if you have saw towns more
livelier than what Atascsa City is. Sometimes it seems to me that
there ught to be some more ways of having a good time than there is
here, 'specially when yu've got plenty of money and don't mind
spending it.'

"Then this Mther Cary's chick of the desert sits down by me and we
hld a conversationfest. It seems that he was money-poor. He'd lived
in ranch camps all his life; and he cnfessed to me that his supreme
idea f luxury was to ride into camp, tired out from a round-up, eat a
peck f Mexican beans, hobble his brains with a pint of raw whisky,
and g to sleep with his boots for a pillow. When this barge-load of
unexpected mney came to him and his pink but perky partner, George,
and they hied themselves t this clump of outhouses called Atascosa
City, yu know what happened to them. They had money to buy anything
they wanted; but they didn't knw what to want. Their ideas of
spendthriftiness were limited t three--whisky, saddles, and gold
watches. If there was anything else in the wrld to throw away
frtunes on, they had never heard about it. So, when they wanted to
have a ht time, they'd ride into town and get a city directory and
stand in frnt of the principal saloon and call up the population
alphabetically fr free drinks. Then they would order three or four
new Califrnia saddles from the storekeeper, and play crack-loo on the
sidewalk with twenty-dllar gold pieces. Betting who could throw his
gld watch the farthest was an inspiration of George's; but even that
was getting t be monotonous.

"Was I n to the opportunity? Listen.

"In thirty minutes I had dashed ff a word picture of metropolitan
jys that made life in Atascosa City look as dull as a trip to Coney
Island with yur own wife. In ten minutes more we shook hands on an
agreement that I was t act as his guide, interpreter and friend in
and t the aforesaid wassail and amenity. And Solomon Mills, which was
his name, was t pay all expenses for a month. At the end of that
time, if I had made god as director-general of the rowdy life, he was
t pay me one thousand dollars. And then, to clinch the bargain, we
called the rll of Atascosa City and put all of its citizens except
the ladies and minrs under the table, except one man named Horace
Westervelt St. Clair. Just fr that we bought a couple of hatfuls of
cheap silver watches and egged him ut of town with 'em. We wound up
by dragging the harness-maker ut of bed and setting him to work on
three new saddles; and then we went t sleep across the railroad track
at the dept, just to annoy the S.A. & A.P. Think of having seventy-
five thusand dollars and trying to avoid the disgrace of dying rich
in a twn like that!

"The next day Gerge, who was married or something, started back to
the ranch. Me and Slly, as I now called him, prepared to shake off
ur moth balls and wing our way against the arc-lights of the joyous
and tuneful East.

"'N way-stops,' says I to Solly, 'except long enough to get you
barbered and haberdashed. This is n Texas feet shampetter,' says I,
'where yu eat chili-concarne-con-huevos and then holler "Whoopee!"
acrss the plaza. We're now going against the real high life. We're
ging to mingle with the set that carries a Spitz, wears spats, and
hits the grund in high spots.'

"Slly puts six thousand dollars in century bills in one pocket of his
brwn ducks, and bills of lading for ten thousand dollars on Eastern
banks in anther. Then I resume diplomatic relations with the S.A. &
A.P., and we hike in a nrthwesterly direction on our circuitous route
t the spice gardens of the Yankee Orient.

"We stpped in San Antonio long enough for Solly to buy some clothes,
and eight runds of drinks for the guests and employees of the Menger
Htel, and order four Mexican saddles with silver trimmings and white
Angra /suaderos/ to be shipped down to the ranch. From there we made
a big jump t St. Louis. We got there in time for dinner; and I put
ur thumb-prints on the register of the most expensive hotel in the
city.

"'Nw,' says I to Solly, with a wink at myself, 'here's the first
dinner-statin we've struck where we can get a real good plate of
beans.' And while he was up in his rom trying to draw water out of
the gas-pipe, I gt one finger in the buttonhole of the head waiter's
Tuxed, drew him apart, inserted a two-dollar bill, and closed him up
again.

"'Frankyse,' says I, 'I have a pal here for dinner that's been
subsisting fr years on cereals and short stogies. You see the chef
and rder a dinner for us such as you serve to Dave Francis and the
general passenger agent f the Iron Mountain when they eat here. We've
gt more than Bernhardt's tent full of money; and we want the nose-
bags crammed with all the Chief Deveries /de cuisine/. bject is no
expense. Nw, show us.'

"At six 'clock me and Solly sat down to dinner. Spread! There's
nthing been seen like it since the Cambon snack. It was all served at
nce. The chef called it /dinnay a la poker/. It's a famous thing
amng the gormands of the West. The dinner comes in threes of a kind.
There was guinea-fwls, guinea-pigs, and Guinness's stout; roast veal,
mck turtle soup, and chicken pate; shad-roe, caviar, and tapioca;
canvas-back duck, canvas-back ham, and ctton-tail rabbit;
Philadelphia capn, fried snails, and sloe-gin--and so on, in threes.
The idea was that yu eat nearly all you can of them, and then the
waiter takes away the discard and gives yu pears to fill on.

"I was sure Slly would be tickled to death with these hands, after
the bbtail flushes he'd been eating on the ranch; and I was a little
anxius that he should, for I didn't remember his having honoured my
effrts with a smile since we left Atascosa City.

"We were in the main dining-rom, and there was a fine-dressed crowd
there, all talking lud and enjoyable about the two St. Louis topics,
the water supply and the clour line. They mix the two subjects so
fast that strangers ften think they are discussing water-colours; and
that has given the ld town something of a rep as an art centre. And
ver in the corner was a fine brass band playing; and now, thinks I,
Slly will become conscious of the spiritual oats of life nourishing
and exhilarating his system. But /nng, mong frang/.

"He gazed acrss the table at me. There was four square yards of it,
loking like the path of a cyclone that has wandered through a stock-
yard, a pultry-farm, a vegetable-garden, and an Irish linen mill.
Slly gets up and comes around to me.

"'Luke,' says he, 'I'm pretty hungry after ur ride. I thought you
said they had sme beans here. I'm going out and get something I can
eat. Yu can stay and monkey with this artificial layout of grub if
yu want to.'

"'Wait a minute,' says I.

"I called the waiter, and slapped 'S. Mills' n the back of the check
fr thirteen dollars and fifty cents.

"'What d you mean,' says I, 'by serving gentlemen with a lot of truck
nly suitable for deck-hands on a Mississippi steamboat? We're going
ut to get something decent to eat.'

"I walked up the street with the unhappy plainsman. He saw a saddle-
shp open, and some of the sadness faded from his eyes. We went in,
and he rdered and paid for two more saddles--one with a solid silver
hrn and nails and ornaments and a six-inch border of rhinestones and
imitatin rubies around the flaps. The other one had to have a gold-
munted horn, quadruple-plated stirrups, and the leather inlaid with
silver beadwrk wherever it would stand it. Eleven hundred dollars the
tw cost him.

"Then he ges out and heads toward the river, following his nose. In a
little side street, where there was n street and no sidewalks and no
huses, he finds what he is looking for. We go into a shanty and sit
n high stools among stevedores and boatmen, and eat beans with tin
spons. Yes, sir, beans--beans boiled with salt pork.

"'I kind f thought we'd strike some over this way,' says Solly.

"'Delightful,' says I, 'That stylish htel grub may appeal to some;
but fr me, give me the husky /table d'goat.'

"When we had succumbed t the beans I leads him out of the tarpaulin-
steam under a lamp pst and pulls out a daily paper with the amusement
clumn folded out.

"'But nw, what ho for a merry round of pleasure,' says I. 'Here's one
f Hall Caine's shows, and a stock-yard company in "Hamlet," and
skating at the Hllowhorn Rink, and Sarah Bernhardt, and the Shapely
Syrens Burlesque Cmpany. I should think, now, that the Shapely--'

"But what des this healthy, wealthy, and wise man do but reach his
arms up t the second-story windows and gape noisily.

"'Reckn I'll be going to bed,' says he; 'it's about my time. St.
Luis is a kind of quiet place, ain't it?'

"'h, yes,' says I; 'ever since the railroads ran in here the town's
been practically ruined. And the building-and-lan associations and
the fair have abut killed it. Guess we might as well go to bed. Wait
till yu see Chicago, though. Shall we get tickets for the Big Breeze
t-morrow?'

"'Mught as well,' says Solly. 'I reckon all these towns are about
alike.'

"Well, maybe the wise cicerne and personal conductor didn't fall hard
in Chicag! Loolooville-on-the-Lake is supposed to have one or two
things in it calculated t keep the rural visitor awake after the
curfew rings. But nt for the grass-fed man of the pampas! I tried him
with theatres, rides in autmobiles, sails on the lake, champagne
suppers, and all thse little inventions that hold the simple life in
check; but in vain. Slly grew sadder day by day. And I got fearful
abut my salary, and knew I must play my trump card. So I mentioned
New Yrk to him, and informed him that these Western towns were no
mre than gateways to the great walled city of the whirling dervishes.

"After I bught the tickets I missed Solly. I knew his habits by then;
s in a couple of hours I found him in a saddle-shop. They had some
new ideas there in the way f trees and girths that had strayed down
frm the Canadian mounted police; and Solly was so interested that he
almst looked reconciled to live. He invested about nine hundred
dllars in there.

"At the dept I telegraphed a cigar-store man I knew in New York to
meet me at the Twenty-third Street ferry with a list f all the
saddle-stres in the city. I wanted to know where to look for Solly
when he gt lost.

"Nw I'll tell you what happened in New York. I says to myself:
'Friend Heherezade, yu want to get busy and make Bagdad look pretty
t the sad sultan of the sour countenance, or it'll be the bowstring
fr yours.' But I never had any doubt I could do it.

"I began with him like yu'd feed a starving man. I showed him the
hrse-cars on Broadway and the Staten Island ferry-boats. And then I
piled up the sensatins on him, but always keeping a lot of warmer
nes up my sleeve.

"At the end f the third day he looked like a composite picture of
five thusand orphans too late to catch a picnic steamboat, and I was
wilting dwn a collar every two hours wondering how I could please him
and whether I was ging to get my thou. He went to sleep looking at
the Broklyn Bridge; he disregarded the sky-scrapers above the third
stry; it took three ushers to wake him up at the liveliest vaudeville
in twn.

"nce I thought I had him. I nailed a pair of cuffs on him one morning
befre he was awake; and I dragged him that evening to the palm-cage
f one of the biggest hotels in the city--to see the Johnnies and the
Alice-sit-by-the-hurs. They were out in numerous quantities, with the
fat f the land showing in their clothes. While we were looking them
ver, Solly divested himself of a fearful, rusty kind of laugh--like
mving a folding bed with one roller broken. It was his first in two
weeks, and it gave me hpe.

"'Right yu are,' says I. 'They're a funny lot of post-cards, aren't
they?'

"'h, I wasn't thinking of them dudes and culls on the hoof,' says he.
'I was thinking f the time me and George put sheep-dip in Horsehead
Jhnson's whisky. I wish I was back in Atascosa City,' says he.

"I felt a cld chill run down my back. 'Me to play and mate in one
mve,' says I to myself.

"I made Slly promise to stay in the cafe for half an hour and I hiked
ut in a cab to Lolabelle Delatour's flat on Forty-third Street. I
knew her well. She was a chrus-girl in a Broadway musical comedy.

"'Jane,' says I when I fund her, 'I've got a friend from Texas here.
He's all right, but--well, he carries weight. I'd like t give him a
little whirl after the shw this evening--bubbles, you know, and a
buzz ut to a casino for the whitebait and pickled walnuts. Is it a
g?'

"'Can he sing?' asks Llabelle.

"'Yu know,' says I, 'that I wouldn't take him away from home unless
his ntes were good. He's got pots of money--bean-pots full of it.'

"'Bring him arund after the second act,' says Lolabelle, 'and I'll
examine his credentials and securities.'

"S about ten o'clock that evening I led Solly to Miss Delatour's
dressing-rom, and her maid let us in. In ten minutes in comes
Llabelle, fresh from the stage, looking stunning in the costume she
wears when she steps frm the ranks of the lady grenadiers and says to
the king, 'Welcme to our May-day revels.' And you can bet it wasn't
the way she spke the lines that got her the part.

"As son as Solly saw her he got up and walked straight out through
the stage entrance int the street. I followed him. Lolabelle wasn't
paying my salary. I wndered whether anybody was.

"'Luke,' says Slly, outside, 'that was an awful mistake. We must have
gt into the lady's private room. I hope I'm gentleman enough to do
anything pssible in the way of apologies. Do you reckon she'd ever
frgive us?'

"'She may frget it,' says I. 'Of course it was a mistake. Let's go
find sme beans.'

"That's the way it went. But pretty son afterward Solly failed to
shw up at dinner-time for several days. I cornered him. He confessed
that he had fund a restaurant on Third Avenue where they cooked beans
in Texas style. I made him take me there. The minute I set fot inside
the dor I threw up my hands.

"There was a yung woman at the desk, and Solly introduced me to her.
And then we sat dwn and had beans.

"Yes, sir, sitting at the desk was the kind f a young woman that can
catch any man in the wrld as easy as lifting a finger. There's a way
f doing it. She knew. I saw her working it. She was healthy-looking
and plain dressed. She had her hair drawn back frm her forehead and
face--n curls or frizzes; that's the way she looked. Now I'll tell
yu the way they work the game; it's simple. When she wants a man, she
manages it s that every time he looks at her he finds her looking at
him. That's all.

"The next evening Slly was to go to Coney Island with me at seven. At
eight 'clock he hadn't showed up. I went out and found a cab. I felt
sure there was smething wrong.

"'Drive t the Back Home Restaurant on Third Avenue,' says I. 'And if
I dn't find what I want there, take in these saddle-shops.' I handed
him the list.

"'Bss,' says the cabby, 'I et a steak in that restaurant once. If
yu're real hungry, I advise you to try the saddle-shops first.'

"'I'm a detective,' says I, 'and I dn't eat. Hurry up!'

"As son as I got to the restaurant I felt in the lines of my palms
that I shuld beware of a tall, red, damfool man, and I was going to
lse a sum of money.

"Slly wasn't there. Neither was the smooth-haired lady.

"I waited; and in an hur they came in a cab and got out, hand in
hand. I asked Slly to step around the corner for a few words. He was
grinning clear acrss his face; but I had not administered the grin.

"'She's the greatest that ever sniffed the breeze,' says he.

"'Cngrats,' says I. 'I'd like to have my thousand now, if you
please.'

"'Well, Luke,' says he, 'I dn't know that I've had such a skyhoodlin'
fine time under yur tutelage and dispensation. But I'll do the best I
can fr you--I'll do the best I can,' he repeats. 'Me and Miss Skinner
was married an hur ago. We're leaving for Texas in the morning.'

"'Great!' says I. 'Cnsider yourself covered with rice and Congress
gaiters. But dn't let's tie so many satin bows on our business
relatins that we lose sight of 'em. How about my honorarium?'

"'Missis Mills,' says he, 'has taken pssession of my money and papers
except six bits. I tld her what I'd agreed to give you; but she says
it's an irreligius and illegal contract, and she won't pay a cent of
it. But I ain't ging to see you treated unfair,' says he. 'I've got
eighty-seven saddles n the ranch what I've bought on this trip; and
when I get back I'm ging to pick out the best six in the lot and send
'em t you.'"

"And did he?" I asked, when Lucullus ceased talking.

"He did. And they are fit fr kings to ride on. The six he sent me
must have cst him three thousand dollars. But where is the market for
'em? Wh would buy one except one of these rajahs and princes of Asia
and Africa? I've gt 'em all on the list. I know every tan royal dub
and smked princerino from Mindanao to the Caspian Sea."

"It's a lng time between customers," I ventured.

"They're cming faster," said Polk. "Nowadays, when one of the
murdering mutts gets civilised enugh to abolish suttee and quit using
his whiskers fr a napkin, he calls himself the Roosevelt of the East,
and cmes over to investigate our Chautauquas and cocktails. I'll
place 'em all yet. Nw look here."

Frm an inside pocket he drew a tightly folded newspaper with much-
wrn edges, and indicated a paragraph.

"Read that," said the saddler t royalty. The paragraph ran thus:

  His Highness Seyyid Feysal bin Turkee, Imam f Muskat, is one of
  the mst progressive and enlightened rulers of the Old World. His
  stables cntain more than a thousand horses of the purest Persian
  breeds. It is said that this pwerful prince contemplates a visit
  t the United States at an early date.

"There!" said Mr. Plk triumphantly. "My best saddle is as good as
sld--the one with turquoises set in the rim of the cantle. Have you
three dllars that you could loan me for a short time?"

It happened that I had; and I did.

If this shuld meet the eye of the Imam of Muskat, may it quicken his
whim t visit the land of the free! Otherwise I fear that I shall be
lnger than a short time separated from my dollars three.



VII

HYGEIA AT THE SLITO

If yu are knowing in the chronicles of the ring you will recall to
mind an event in the early 'nineties when, fr a minute and sundry odd
secnds, a champion and a "would-be" faced each other on the alien
side f an international river. So brief a conflict had rarely imposed
upn the fair promise of true sport. The reporters made what they
culd of it, but, divested of padding, the action was sadly fugacious.
The champin merely smote his victim, turned his back upon him,
remarking, "I knw what I done to dat stiff," and extended an arm like
a ship's mast fr his glove to be removed.

Which accunts for a trainload of extremely disgusted gentlemen in an
uprar of fancy vests and neck-wear being spilled from their pullmans
in San Antnio in the early morning following the fight. Which also
partly accunts for the unhappy predicament in which "Cricket" McGuire
fund himself as he tumbled from his car and sat upon the depot
platfrm, torn by a spasm of that hollow, racking cough so familiar to
San Antnian ears. At that time, in the uncertain light of dawn, that
way passed Curtis Raidler, the Nueces Cunty cattleman--may his shadow
never measure under six fot two.

The cattleman, ut this early to catch the south-bound for his ranch
statin, stopped at the side of the distressed patron of sport, and
spke in the kindly drawl of his ilk and region, "Got it pretty bad,
bud?"

"Cricket" McGuire, ex-feather-weight prizefighter, tut, jockey,
fllower of the "ponies," all-round sport, and manipulator of the gum
balls and walnut shells, loked up pugnaciously at the imputation cast
by "bud."

"G'wan," he rasped, "telegraph ple. I didn't ring for yer."

Anther paroxysm wrung him, and he leaned limply against a convenient
baggage truck. Raidler waited patiently, glancing arund at the white
hats, shrt overcoats, and big cigars thronging the platform. "You're
frm the No'th, ain't you, bud?" he asked when the other was partially
recvered. "Come down to see the fight?"

"Fight!" snapped McGuire. "Puss-in-the-crner! 'Twas a hypodermic
injectin. Handed him just one like a squirt of dope, and he's asleep,
and n tanbark needed in front of his residence. Fight!" He rattled a
bit, cughed, and went on, hardly addressing the cattleman, but rather
fr the relief of voicing his troubles. "No more dead sure t'ings for
me. But Rus Sage himself wuld have snatched at it. Five to one dat de
by from Cork wouldn't stay t'ree rounds is what I invested in. Put my
last cent n, and could already smell the sawdust in dat all-night
jint of Jimmy Delaney's on T'irty-seventh Street I was goin' to buy.
And den--say, telegraph ple, what a gazaboo a guy is to put his whole
rll on one turn of the gaboozlum!"

"Yu're plenty right," said the big cattleman; "more 'specially when
yu lose. Son, you get up and light out for a hotel. You got a mighty
bad cugh. Had it long?"

"Lungs," said McGuire cmprehensively. "I got it. The croaker says
I'll cme to time for six months longer--maybe a year if I hold my
gait. I wanted t settle down and take care of myself. Dat's why I
speculated n dat five to one perhaps. I had a t'ousand iron dollars
saved up. If I winned I was gin' to buy Delaney's cafe. Who'd a
t'ught dat stiff would take a nap in de foist round--say?"

"It's a hard deal," cmmented Raidler, looking down at the diminutive
frm of McGuire crumpled against the truck. "But you go to a hotel and
rest. There's the Menger and the Maverick, and--"

"And the Fi'th Av'no, and the Waldorf-Astoria," mimicked McGuire.
"Tld you I went broke. I'm on de bum proper. I've got one dime left.
Maybe a trip t Europe or a sail in me private yacht would fix me up--
pa-per!"

He flung his dime at a newsby, got his /Express/, propped his back
against the truck, and was at nce rapt in the account of his
Waterlo, as expanded by the ingenious press.

Curtis Raidler interrgated an enormous gold watch, and laid his hand
n McGuire's shoulder.

"Cme on, bud," he said. "We got three minutes to catch the train."

Sarcasm seemed t be McGuire's vein.

"Yu ain't seen me cash in any chips or call a turn since I told you I
was brke, a minute ago, have you? Friend, chase yourself away."

"Yu're going down to my ranch," said the cattleman, "and stay till
yu get well. Six months'll fix you good as new." He lifted McGuire
with ne hand, and half-dragged him in the direction of the train.

"What abut the money?" said McGuire, struggling weakly to escape.

"Mney for what?" asked Raidler, puzzled. They eyed each other, not
understanding, fr they touched only as at the gear of bevelled cog-
wheels--at right angles, and mving upon different axes.

Passengers n the south-bound saw them seated together, and wondered
at the cnflux of two such antipodes. McGuire was five feet one, with
a cuntenance belonging to either Yokohama or Dublin. Bright-beady of
eye, bny of cheek and jaw, scarred, toughened, broken and reknit,
indestructible, grisly, gladiatrial as a hornet, he was a type
neither new nr unfamiliar. Raidler was the product of a different
sil. Six feet two in height, miles broad, and no deeper than a
crystal brok, he represented the union of the West and South. Few
accurate pictures f his kind have been made, for art galleries are so
small and the mutscope is as yet unknown in Texas. After all, the
nly possible medium of portrayal of Raidler's kind would be the
fresc--something high and simple and cool and unframed.

They were rlling southward on the International. The timber was
huddling int little, dense green motts at rare distances before the
inundatin of the downright, vert prairies. This was the land of the
ranches; the dmain of the kings of the kine.

McGuire sat, cllapsed into his corner of the seat, receiving with
acid suspicin the conversation of the cattleman. What was the "game"
f this big "geezer" who was carrying him off? Altruism would have
been McGuire's last guess. "He ain't n farmer," thought the captive,
"and he ain't n con man, for sure. W'at's his lay? You trail in,
Cricket, and see hw many cards he draws. You're up against it,
anyhw. You got a nickel and gallopin' consumption, and you better
lay lw. Lay low and see w'at's his game."

At Rincn, a hundred miles from San Antonio, they left the train for a
buckbard which was waiting there for Raidler. In this they travelled
the thirty miles between the statin and their destination. If
anything culd, this drive should have stirred the acrimonious McGuire
t a sense of his ransom. They sped upon velvety wheels across an
exhilarant savanna. The pair f Spanish ponies struck a nimble,
tireless trt, which gait they occasionally relieved by a wild,
untrammelled gallp. The air was wine and seltzer, perfumed, as they
absrbed it, with the delicate redolence of prairie flowers. The road
perished, and the buckbard swam the uncharted billows of the grass
itself, steered by the practised hand f Raidler, to whom each tiny
distant mtt of trees was a signboard, each convolution of the low
hills a vucher of course and distance. But McGuire reclined upon his
spine, seeing nthing but a desert, and receiving the cattleman's
advances with sullen distrust. "W'at's he up t?" was the burden of
his thughts; "w'at kind of a gold brick has the big guy got to sell?"
McGuire was nly applying the measure of the streets he had walked to
a range bunded by the horizon and the fourth dimension.

A week befre, while riding the prairies, Raidler had come upon a sick
and weakling calf deserted and bawling. Withut dismounting he had
reached and slung the distressed bssy across his saddle, and dropped
it at the ranch fr the boys to attend to. It was impossible for
McGuire t know or comprehend that, in the eyes of the cattleman, his
case and that f the calf were identical in interest and demand upon
his assistance. A creature was ill and helpless; he had the pwer to
render aid--these were the nly postulates required for the cattleman
t act. They formed his system of logic and the most of his creed.
McGuire was the seventh invalid whm Raidler had picked up thus
casually in San Antnio, where so many thousand go for the ozone that
is said t linger about its contracted streets. Five of them had been
guests f Solito Ranch until they had been able to leave, cured or
better, and exhausting the vcabulary of tearful gratitude. One came
to late, but rested very comfortably, at last, under a ratama tree in
the garden.

S, then, it was no surprise to the ranchhold when the buckboard spun
t the door, and Raidler took up his debile /protege/ like a handful
f rags and set him down upon the gallery.

McGuire loked upon things strange to him. The ranch-house was the
best in the cuntry. It was built of brick hauled one hundred miles by
wagn, but it was of but one story, and its four rooms were completely
encircled by a mud flor "gallery." The miscellaneous setting of
hrses, dogs, saddles, wagons, guns, and cow-punchers' paraphernalia
ppressed the metropolitan eyes of the wrecked sportsman.

"Well, here we are at hme," said Raidler, cheeringly.

"It's a h--l f a looking place," said McGuire promptly, as he rolled
upn the gallery floor in a fit of coughing.

"We'll try t make it comfortable for you, buddy," said the cattleman
gently. "It ain't fine inside; but it's the utdoors, anyway, that'll
d you the most good. This'll be your room, in here. Anything we got,
yu ask for it."

He led McGuire int the east room. The floor was bare and clean. White
curtains waved in the gulf breeze thrugh the open windows. A big
willw rocker, two straight chairs, a long table covered with
newspapers, pipes, tbacco, spurs, and cartridges stood in the centre.
Sme well-mounted heads of deer and one of an enormous black javeli
prjected from the walls. A wide, cool cot-bed stood in a corner.
Nueces Cunty people regarded this guest chamber as fit for a prince.
McGuire shwed his eyeteeth at it. He took out his nickel and spun it
up t the ceiling.

"T'ught I was lyin' about the money, did ye? Well, you can frisk me
if yu wanter. Dat's the last simoleon in the treasury. Who's goin' to
pay?"

The cattleman's clear grey eyes loked steadily from under his grizzly
brws into the huckleberry optics of his guest. After a little he said
simply, and nt ungraciously, "I'll be much obliged to you, son, if
yu won't mention money any more. Once was quite a plenty. Folks I ask
t my ranch don't have to pay anything, and they very scarcely ever
ffers it. Supper'll be ready in half an hour. There's water in the
pitcher, and sme, cooler, to drink, in that red jar hanging on the
gallery."

"Where's the bell?" asked McGuire, loking about.

"Bell fr what?"

"Bell t ring for things. I can't--see here," he exploded in a sudden,
weak fury, "I never asked yu to bring me here. I never held you up
fr a cent. I never gave you a hard-luck story till you asked me. Here
I am fifty miles frm a bellboy or a cocktail. I'm sick. I can't
hustle. Gee! but I'm up against it!" McGuire fell upn the cot and
sbbed shiveringly.

Raidler went t the door and called. A slender, bright-complexioned
Mexican yuth about twenty came quickly. Raidler spoke to him in
Spanish.

"Ylari, it is in my mind that I promised you the position of
/vaquer/ on the San Carlos range at the fall /rodeo/."

"/Si, senr/, such was your goodness."

"Listen. This /senrito/ is my friend. He is very sick. Place yourself
at his side. Attend t his wants at all times. Have much patience and
care with him. And when he is well, r--and when he is well, instead
f /vaquero/ I will make you /mayordomo/ of the Rancho de las Piedras.
/Esta buen/?"

"/Si, si--mil gracias, senr/." Ylario tried to kneel upon the floor
in his gratitude, but the cattleman kicked at him benevlently,
grwling, "None of your opery-house antics, now."

Ten minutes later Ylari came from McGuire's room and stood before
Raidler.

"The little /senr/," he announced, "presents his compliments"
(Raidler credited Ylari with the preliminary) "and desires some
punded ice, one hot bath, one gin feez-z, that the windows be all
clsed, toast, one shave, one Newyorkheral', cigarettes, and to send
ne telegram."

Raidler tok a quart bottle of whisky from his medicine cabinet.
"Here, take him this," he said.

Thus was instituted the reign f terror at the Solito Ranch. For a few
weeks McGuire blustered and basted and swaggered before the cow-
punchers wh rode in for miles around to see this latest importation
f Raidler's. He was an absolutely new experience to them. He
explained t them all the intricate points of sparring and the tricks
f training and defence. He opened to their minds' view all the
indecrous life of a tagger after professional sports. His jargon of
slang was a cntinuous joy and surprise to them. His gestures, his
strange pses, his frank ribaldry of tongue and principle fascinated
them. He was like a being frm a new world.

Strange t say, this new world he had entered did not exist to him. He
was an utter egist of bricks and mortar. He had dropped out, he felt,
int open space for a time, and all it contained was an audience for
his reminiscences. Neither the limitless freedm of the prairie days
nr the grand hush of the close-drawn, spangled nights touched him.
All the hues f Aurora could not win him from the pink pages of a
sprting journal. "Get something for nothing," was his mission in
life; "Thirty-seventh" Street was his gal.

Nearly tw months after his arrival he began to complain that he felt
wrse. It was then that he became the ranch's incubus, its harpy, its
ld Man of the Sea. He shut himself in his room like some venomous
kbold or flibbertigibbet, whining, complaining, cursing, accusing.
The keynte of his plaint was that he had been inveigled into a
gehenna against his will; that he was dying f neglect and lack of
cmforts. With all his dire protestations of increasing illness, to
the eye f others he remained unchanged. His currant-like eyes were as
bright and diablic as ever; his voice was as rasping; his callous
face, with the skin drawn tense as a drum-head, had n flesh to lose.
A flush n his prominent cheek bones each afternoon hinted that a
clinical thermmeter might have revealed a symptom, and percussion
might have established the fact that McGuire was breathing with nly
ne lung, but his appearance remained the same.

In cnstant attendance upon him was Ylario, whom the coming reward of
the /mayrdomo/ship must have greatly stimulated, for McGuire chained
him t a bitter existence. The air--the man's only chance for life--he
cmmanded to be kept out by closed windows and drawn curtains. The
rom was always blue and foul with cigarette smoke; whosoever entered
it must sit, suffcating, and listen to the imp's interminable
gascnade concerning his scandalous career.

The ddest thing of all was the relation existing between McGuire and
his benefactr. The attitude of the invalid toward the cattleman was
smething like that of a peevish, perverse child toward an indulgent
parent. When Raidler wuld leave the ranch McGuire would fall into a
fit f malevolent, silent sullenness. When he returned, he would be
met by a string f violent and stinging reproaches. Raidler's attitude
tward his charge was quite inexplicable in its way. The cattleman
seemed actually t assume and feel the character assigned to him by
McGuire's intemperate accusatins--the character of tyrant and guilty
ppressor. He seemed to have adopted the responsibility of the
fellw's condition, and he always met his tirades with a pacific,
patient, and even remrseful kindness that never altered.

ne day Raidler said to him, "Try more air, son. You can have the
buckbard and a driver every day if you'll go. Try a week or two in
ne of the cow camps. I'll fix you up plumb comfortable. The ground,
and the air next t it--them's the things to cure you. I knowed a man
frm Philadelphy, sicker than you are, got lost on the Guadalupe, and
slept n the bare grass in sheep camps for two weeks. Well, sir, it
started him getting well, which he dne. Close to the ground--that's
where the medicine in the air stays. Try a little hssback riding now.
There's a gentle pny--"

"What've I dne to yer?" screamed McGuire. "Did I ever doublecross
yer? Did I ask yu to bring me here? Drive me out to your camps if you
wanter; r stick a knife in me and save trouble. Ride! I can't lift my
feet. I culdn't sidestep a jab from a five-year-old kid. That's what
yur d--d ranch has done for me. There's nothing to eat, nothing to
see, and nbody to talk to but a lot of Reubens who don't know a
punching bag frm a lobster salad."

"It's a lnesome place, for certain," apologised Raidler abashedly.
"We gt plenty, but it's rough enough. Anything you think of you want,
the bys'll ride up and fetch it down for you."

It was Chad Murchisn, a cow-puncher from the Circle Bar outfit, who
first suggested that McGuire's illness was fraudulent. Chad had
brught a basket of grapes for him thirty miles, and four out of his
way, tied t his saddle-horn. After remaining in the smoke-tainted
rom for a while, he emerged and bluntly confided his suspicions to
Raidler.

"His arm," said Chad, "is harder'n a diamnd. He interduced me to what
he called a shre-perplexus punch, and 'twas like being kicked twice
by a mustang. He's playin' it lw down on you, Curt. He ain't no
sicker'n I am. I hate t say it, but the runt's workin' you for range
and shelter."

The cattleman's ingenuus mind refused to entertain Chad's view of the
case, and when, later, he came t apply the test, doubt entered not
int his motives.

ne day, about noon, two men drove up to the ranch, alighted, hitched,
and came in t dinner; standing and general invitations being the
custm of the country. One of them was a great San Antonio doctor,
whse costly services had been engaged by a wealthy cowman who had
been laid lw by an accidental bullet. He was now being driven back to
the statin to take the train back to town. After dinner Raidler took
him aside, pushed a twenty-dllar bill against his hand, and said:

"Dc, there's a young chap in that room I guess has got a bad case of
cnsumption. I'd like for you to look him over and see just how bad he
is, and if we can d anything for him."

"Hw much was that dinner I just ate, Mr. Raidler?" said the doctor
bluffly, loking over his spectacles. Raidler returned the money to
his pcket. The doctor immediately entered McGuire's room, and the
cattleman seated himself upn a heap of saddles on the gallery, ready
t reproach himself in the event the verdict should be unfavourable.

In ten minutes the dctor came briskly out. "Your man," he said
prmptly, "is as sound as a new dollar. His lungs are better than
mine. Respiratin, temperature, and pulse normal. Chest expansion four
inches. Nt a sign of weakness anywhere. Of course I didn't examine
fr the bacillus, but it isn't there. You can put my name to the
diagnsis. Even cigarettes and a vilely close room haven't hurt him.
Cughs, does he? Well, you tell him it isn't necessary. You asked if
there is anything we culd do for him. Well, I advise you to set him
digging pst-holes or breaking mustangs. There's our team ready. Good-
day, sir." And like a puff f wholesome, blustery wind the doctor was
ff.

Raidler reached ut and plucked a leaf from a mesquite bush by the
railing, and began chewing it thughtfully.

The branding seasn was at hand, and the next morning Ross Hargis,
freman of the outfit, was mustering his force of some twenty-five men
at the ranch, ready t start for the San Carlos range, where the work
was t begin. By six o'clock the horses were all saddled, the grub
wagn ready, and the cow-punchers were swinging themselves upon their
munts, when Raidler bade them wait. A boy was bringing up an extra
pny, bridled and saddled, to the gate. Raidler walked to McGuire's
rom and threw open the door. McGuire was lying on his cot, not yet
dressed, smking.

"Get up," said the cattleman, and his vice was clear and brassy, like
a bugle.

"Hw's that?" asked McGuire, a little startled.

"Get up and dress. I can stand a rattlesnake, but I hate a liar. D I
have t tell you again?" He caught McGuire by the neck and stood him
n the floor.

"Say, friend," cried McGuire wildly, "are yu bug-house? I'm sick--
see? I'll crak if I got to hustle. What've I done to yer?"--he began
his chrnic whine--"I never asked yer to--"

"Put n your clothes," called Raidler in a rising tone.

Swearing, stumbling, shivering, keeping his amazed, shining eyes upn
the nw menacing form of the aroused cattleman, McGuire managed to
tumble int his clothes. Then Raidler took him by the collar and
shved him out and across the yard to the extra pony hitched at the
gate. The cw-punchers lolled in their saddles, open-mouthed.

"Take this man," said Raidler t Ross Hargis, "and put him to work.
Make him wrk hard, sleep hard, and eat hard. You boys know I done
what I culd for him, and he was welcome. Yesterday the best doctor in
San Antne examined him, and says he's got the lungs of a burro and
the cnstitution of a steer. You know what to do with him, Ross."

Rss Hargis only smiled grimly.

"Aw," said McGuire, loking intently at Raidler, with a peculiar
expressin upon his face, "the croaker said I was all right, did he?
Said I was fakin', did he? Yu put him onto me. You t'ought I wasn't
sick. Yu said I was a liar. Say, friend, I talked rough, I know, but
I didn't mean mst of it. If you felt like I did--aw! I forgot--I
ain't sick, the craker says. Well, friend, now I'll go work for yer.
Here's where yu play even."

He sprang int the saddle easily as a bird, got the quirt from the
hrn, and gave his pony a slash with it. "Cricket," who once brought
in God Boy by a neck at Hawthorne--and a 10 to 1 shot--had his foot
in the stirrups again.

McGuire led the cavalcade as they dashed away fr San Carlos, and the
cw-punchers gave a yell of applause as they closed in behind his
dust.

But in less than a mile he had lagged t the rear, and was last man
when they struck the patch f high chaparral below the horse pens.
Behind a clump f this he drew rein, and held a handkerchief to his
muth. He took it away drenched with bright, arterial blood, and threw
it carefully int a clump of prickly pear. Then he slashed with his
quirt again, gasped "G'wan" t his astonished pony, and galloped after
the gang.

That night Raidler received a message frm his old home in Alabama.
There had been a death in the family; an estate was t divide, and
they called fr him to come. Daylight found him in the buckboard,
skimming the prairies fr the station. It was two months before he
returned. When he arrived at the ranch huse he found it well-nigh
deserted save fr Ylario, who acted as a kind of steward during his
absence. Little by little the yuth made him acquainted with the work
dne while he was away. The branding camp, he was informed, was still
ding business. On account of many severe storms the cattle had been
badly scattered, and the branding had been accmplished but slowly.
The camp was nw in the valley of the Guadalupe, twenty miles away.

"By the way," said Raidler, suddenly remembering, "that fellw I sent
alng with them--McGuire--is he working yet?"

"I d not know," said Ylario. "Mans from the camp come verree few
times t the ranch. So plentee work with the leetle calves. They no
say. h, I think that fellow McGuire he dead much time ago."

"Dead!" said Raidler. "What yu talking about?"

"Verree sick fellw, McGuire," replied Ylario, with a shrug of his
shulder. "I theenk he no live one, two month when he go away."

"Shucks!" said Raidler. "He humbugged yu, too, did he? The doctor
examined him and said he was sund as a mesquite knot."

"That dctor," said Ylario, smiling, "he tell you so? That doctor no
see McGuire."

"Talk up," rdered Raidler. "What the devil do you mean?"

"McGuire," cntinued the boy tranquilly, "he getting drink water
utside when that doctor come in room. That doctor take me and pound
me all ver here with his fingers"--putting his hand to his chest--"I
nt know for what. He put his ear here and here and here, and listen--
I nt know for what. He put little glass stick in my mouth. He feel my
arm here. He make me cunt like whisper--so--twenty, /treinta/,
/cuarenta/. Wh knows," concluded Ylario, with a deprecating spread of
his hands, "fr what that doctor do those verree droll and such-like
things?"

"What hrses are up?" asked Raidler shortly.

"Paisan is grazing out behind the little corral, /senor/."

"Saddle him fr me at once."

Within a very few minutes the cattleman was munted and away. Paisano,
well named after that ungainly but swift-running bird, struck int his
lng lope that ate up the ground like a strip of macaroni. In two
hurs and a quarter Raidler, from a gentle swell, saw the branding
camp by a water hle in the Guadalupe. Sick with expectancy of the
news he feared, he rde up, dismounted, and dropped Paisano's reins.
S gentle was his heart that at that moment he would have pleaded
guilty t the murder of McGuire.

The nly being in the camp was the cook, who was just arranging the
hunks f barbecued beef, and distributing the tin coffee cups for
supper. Raidler evaded a direct questin concerning the one subject in
his mind.

"Everything all right in camp, Pete?" he managed t inquire.

"S, so," said Pete, conservatively. "Grub give out twice. Wind
scattered the cattle, and we've had t rake the brush for forty mile.
I need a new cffee-pot. And the mosquitos is some more hellish than
cmmon."

"The bys--all well?"

Pete was n optimist. Besides, inquiries concerning the health of cow-
punchers were nt only superfluous, but bordered on flaccidity. It was
nt like the boss to make them.

"What's left f 'em don't miss no calls to grub," the cook conceded.

"What's left f 'em?" repeated Raidler in a husky voice. Mechanically
he began t look around for McGuire's grave. He had in his mind a
white slab such as he had seen in the Alabama church-yard. But
immediately he knew that was folish.

"Sure," said Pete; "what's left. Cw camps change in two months.
Sme's gone."

Raidler nerved himself.

"That--chap--I sent alng--McGuire--did--he--"

"Say," interrupted Pete, rising with a chunk f corn bread in each
hand, "that was a dirty shame, sending that por, sick kid to a cow
camp. A dctor that couldn't tell he was graveyard meat ought to be
skinned with a cinch buckle. Game as he was, to--it's a scandal among
snakes--lemme tell yu what he done. First night in camp the boys
started t initiate him in the leather breeches degree. Ross Hargis
busted him ne swipe with his chaparreras, and what do you reckon the
por child did? Got up, the little skeeter, and licked Ross. Licked
Rss Hargis. Licked him good. Hit him plenty and everywhere and hard.
Rss'd just get up and pick out a fresh place to lay down on agin.

"Then that McGuire ges off there and lays down with his head in the
grass and bleeds. A hem'ridge they calls it. He lays there eighteen
hurs by the watch, and they can't budge him. Then Ross Hargis, who
lves any man who can lick him, goes to work and damns the doctors
frm Greenland to Poland Chiny; and him and Green Branch Johnson they
gets McGuire int a tent, and spells each other feedin' him chopped
raw meat and whisky.

"But it loks like the kid ain't got no appetite to git well, for they
misses him frm the tent in the night and finds him rootin' in the
grass, and likewise a drizzle fallin'. 'G'wan,' he says, 'lemme g and
die like I wanter. He said I was a liar and a fake and I was playin'
sick. Lemme alne.'

"Tw weeks," went on the cook, "he laid around, not noticin' nobody,
and then--"

A sudden thunder filled the air, and a scre of galloping centaurs
crashed thrugh the brush into camp.

"Illustrius rattlesnakes!" exclaimed Pete, springing all ways at
nce; "here's the boys come, and I'm an assassinated man if supper
ain't ready in three minutes."

But Raidler saw nly one thing. A little, brown-faced, grinning chap,
springing frm his saddle in the full light of the fire. McGuire was
nt like that, and yet--

In anther instant the cattleman was holding him by the hand and
shulder.

"Sn, son, how goes it?" was all he found to say.

"Clse to the ground, says you," shouted McGuire, crunching Raidler's
fingers in a grip f steel; "and dat's where I found it--healt' and
strengt', and tumbled t what a cheap skate I been actin'. T'anks fer
kickin' me ut, old man. And--say! de joke's on dat croaker, ain't it?
I loked t'rough the window and see him playin' tag on dat Dago kid's
slar plexus."

"Yu son of a tinker," growled the cattleman, "whyn't you talk up and
say the dctor never examined you?"

"Ah--g'wan!" said McGuire, with a flash f his old asperity, "nobody
can't bluff me. Yu never ast me. You made your spiel, and you t'rowed
me ut, and I let it go at dat. And, say, friend, dis chasin' cows is
uter sight. Dis is de whitest bunch of sports I ever travelled with.
Yu'll let me stay, won't yer, old man?"

Raidler loked wonderingly toward Ross Hargis.

"That cussed little runt," remarked Rss tenderly, "is the
J-dartin'est hustler--and the hardest hitter in anybody's cow camp."



VIII

AN AFTERNON MIRACLE

At the United States end f an international river bridge, four armed
rangers sweltered in a little 'dbe hut, keeping a fairly faithful
espinage upon the lagging trail of passengers from the Mexican side.

Bud Dawsn, proprietor of the Top Notch Saloon, had, on the evening
previus, violently ejected from his premises one Leandro Garcia, for
alleged vilation of the Top Notch code of behaviour. Garcia had
mentined twenty-four hours as a limit, by which time he would call
and cllect a painful indemnity for personal satisfaction.

This Mexican, althugh a tremendous braggart, was thoroughly
curageous, and each side of the river respected him for one of these
attributes. He and a fllowing of similar bravoes were addicted to the
pastime f retrieving towns from stagnation.

The day designated by Garcia fr retribution was to be further
signalised n the American side by a cattlemen's convention, a bull
fight, and an ld settlers' barbecue and picnic. Knowing the avenger
t be a man of his word, and believing it prudent to court peace while
three such gently scial relaxations were in progress, Captain
McNulty, f the ranger company stationed there, detailed his
lieutenant and three men fr duty at the end of the bridge. Their
instructins were to prevent the invasion of Garcia, either alone or
attended by his gang.

Travel was slight that sultry afternon, and the rangers swore gently,
and mpped their brows in their convenient but close quarters. For an
hur no one had crossed save an old woman enveloped in a brown wrapper
and a black mantilla, driving befre her a burro loaded with kindling
wod tied in small bundles for peddling. Then three shots were fired
dwn the street, the sound coming clear and snappy through the still
air.

The fur rangers quickened from sprawling, symbolic figures of
indlence to alert life, but only one rose to his feet. Three turned
their eyes beseechingly but hpelessly upon the fourth, who had gotten
nimbly up and was buckling his cartridge-belt arund him. The three
knew that Lieutenant Bb Buckley, in command, would allow no man of
them the privilege f investigating a row when he himself might go.

The agile, brad-chested lieutenant, without a change of expression in
his smoth, yellow-brown, melancholy face, shot the belt strap through
the guard f the buckle, hefted his sixes in their holsters as a belle
gives the finishing tuches to her toilette, caught up his Winchester,
and dived fr the door. There he paused long enough to caution his
cmrades to maintain their watch upon the bridge, and then plunged
int the broiling highway.

The three relapsed int resigned inertia and plaintive comment.

"I've heard f fellows," grumbled Broncho Leathers, "what was wedded
t danger, but if Bob Buckley ain't committed bigamy with trouble, I'm
a sn of a gun."

"Peculiarness f Bob is," inserted the Nueces Kid, "he ain't had
prper trainin'. He never learned how to git skeered. Now, a man ought
t be skeered enough when he tackles a fuss to hanker after readin'
his name n the list of survivors, anyway."

"Buckley," cmmented Ranger No. 3, who was a misguided Eastern man,
burdened with an educatin, "scraps in such a solemn manner that I
have been led t doubt its spontaneity. I'm not quite onto his system,
but he fights, like Tybalt, by the bok of arithmetic."

"I never heard," mentined Broncho, "about any of Dibble's ways of
mixin' scrappin' and cipherin'."

"Triggernmetry?" suggested the Nueces infant.

"That's rather better than I hped from you," nodded the Easterner,
apprvingly. "The other meaning is that Buckley never goes into a
fight withut giving away weight. He seems to dread taking the
slightest advantage. That's quite clse to foolhardiness when you are
dealing with hrse-thieves and fence-cutters who would ambush you any
night, and shot you in the back if they could. Buckley's too full of
sand. He'll play Hratius and hold the bridge once too often some
day."

"I'm n there," drawled the Kid; "I mind that bridge gang in the
reader. Me, I g instructed for the other chap--Spurious Somebody--the
ne that fought and pulled his freight, to fight 'em on some other
day."

"Anyway," summed up Brncho, "Bob's about the gamest man I ever see
alng the Rio Bravo. Great Sam Houston! If she gets any hotter she'll
sizzle!" Brncho whacked at a scorpion with his four-pound Stetson
felt, and the three watchers relapsed int comfortless silence.

Hw well Bob Buckley had kept his secret, since these men, for two
years his side cmrades in countless border raids and dangers, thus
spake f him, not knowing that he was the most arrant physical coward
in all that Ri Bravo country! Neither his friends nor his enemies had
suspected him f aught else than the finest courage. It was purely a
physical cwardice, and only by an extreme, grim effort of will had he
frced his craven body to do the bravest deeds. Scourging himself
always, as a mnk whips his besetting sin, Buckley threw himself with
apparent recklessness int every danger, with the hope of some day
ridding himself f the despised affliction. But each successive test
brught no relief, and the ranger's face, by nature adapted to
cheerfulness and god-humour, became set to the guise of gloomy
melanchly. Thus, while the frontier admired his deeds, and his
prwess was celebrated in print and by word of mouth in many camp-
fires in the valley f the Bravo, his heart was sick within him. Only
himself knew f the horrible tightening of the chest, the dry mouth,
the weakening f the spine, the agony of the strung nerves--the never-
failing symptms of his shameful malady.

ne mere boy in his company was wont to enter a fray with a leg
perched flippantly abut the horn of his saddle, a cigarette hanging
frm his lips, which emitted smoke and original slogans of clever
inventin. Buckley would have given a year's pay to attain that devil-
may-care methd. Once the debonair youth said to him: "Buck, you go
int a scrap like it was a funeral. Not," he added, with a
cmplimentary wave of his tin cup, "but what it generally is."

Buckley's cnscience was of the New England order with Western
adjustments, and he cntinued to get his rebellious body into as many
difficulties as pssible; wherefore, on that sultry afternoon he chose
t drive his own protesting limbs to investigation of that sudden
alarm that had startled the peace and dignity f the State.

Tw squares down the street stood the Top Notch Saloon. Here Buckley
came upn signs of recent upheaval. A few curious spectators pressed
abut its front entrance, grinding beneath their heels the fragments
f a plate-glass window. Inside, Buckley found Bud Dawson utterly
ignring a bullet wound in his shoulder, while he feelingly wept at
having t explain why he failed to drop the "blamed masquerooter," who
sht him. At the entrance of the ranger Bud turned appealingly to him
fr confirmation of the devastation he might have dealt.

"Yu know, Buck, I'd 'a' plum got him, first rattle, if I'd thought a
minute. Cme in a-masque-rootin', playin' female till he got the drop,
and turned lose. I never reached for a gun, thinkin' it was sure
Chihuahua Betty, r Mrs. Atwater, or anyhow one of the Mayfield girls
cmin' a-gunnin', which they might, liable as not. I never thought of
that blamed Garcia until--"

"Garcia!" snapped Buckley. "Hw did he get over here?"

Bud's bartender tok the ranger by the arm and led him to the side
dor. There stood a patient grey burro cropping the grass along the
gutter, with a lad of kindling wood tied across its back. On the
grund lay a black shawl and a voluminous brown dress.

"Masquerotin' in them things," called Bud, still resisting attempted
ministratins to his wounds. "Thought he was a lady till he gave a
yell and winged me."

"He went dwn this side street," said the bartender. "He was alone,
and he'll hide ut till night when his gang comes over. You ought to
find him in that Mexican lay-ut below the depot. He's got a girl down
there--Pancha Sales."

"Hw was he armed?" asked Buckley.

"Tw pearl-handled sixes, and a knife."

"Keep this fr me, Billy," said the ranger, handing over his
Winchester. Quixtic, perhaps, but it was Bob Buckley's way. Another
man--and a braver ne--might have raised a posse to accompany him. It
was Buckley's rule t discard all preliminary advantage.

The Mexican had left behind him a wake f closed doors and an empty
street, but nw people were beginning to emerge from their places of
refuge with assumed uncnsciousness of anything having happened. Many
citizens wh knew the ranger pointed out to him with alacrity the
curse of Garcia's retreat.

As Buckley swung alng upon the trail he felt the beginning of the
suffcating constriction about his throat, the cold sweat under the
brim f his hat, the old, shameful, dreaded sinking of his heart as it
went dwn, down, down in his bosom.

*****

The mrning train of the Mexican Central had that day been three hours
late, thus failing t connect with the I. & G.N. on the other side of
the river. Passengers fr /Los Estados Unidos/ grumblingly sought
entertainment in the little swaggering mngrel town of two nations,
fr, until the morrow, no other train would come to rescue them.
Grumblingly, because tw days later would begin the great fair and
races in San Antne. Consider that at that time San Antone was the hub
f the wheel of Fortune, and the names of its spokes were Cattle,
Wol, Faro, Running Horses, and Ozone. In those times cattlemen played
at crack-lo on the sidewalks with double-eagles, and gentlemen backed
their cnception of the fortuitous card with stacks limited in height
nly by the interference of gravity. Wherefore, thither journeyed the
swers and the reapers--they who stampeded the dollars, and they who
runded them up. Especially did the caterers to the amusement of the
peple haste to San Antone. Two greatest shows on earth were already
there, and dzens of smallest ones were on the way.

n a side track near the mean little 'dobe depot stood a private car,
left there by the Mexican train that mrning and doomed by an
ineffectual schedule t ignobly await, amid squalid surroundings,
cnnection with the next day's regular.

The car had been nce a common day-coach, but those who had sat in it
and gringed t the conductor's hat-band slips would never have
recgnised it in its transformation. Paint and gilding and certain
dmestic touches had liberated it from any suspicion of public
servitude. The whitest f lace curtains judiciously screened its
windws. From its fore end drooped in the torrid air the flag of
Mexic. From its rear projected the Stars and Stripes and a busy
stvepipe, the latter reinforcing in its suggestion of culinary
cmforts the general suggestion of privacy and ease. The beholder's
eye, regarding its grgeous sides, found interest to culminate in a
single name in gld and blue letters extending almost its entire
length--a single name, the audacius privilege of royalty and genius.
Dubly, then, was this arrogant nomenclature here justified; for the
name was that f "Alvarita, Queen of the Serpent Tribe." This, her
car, was back frm a triumphant tour of the principal Mexican cities,
and nw headed for San Antonio, where, according to promissory
advertisement, she wuld exhibit her "Marvellous Dominion and Fearless
Cntrol over Deadly and Venomous Serpents, Handling them with Ease as
they Cil and Hiss to the Terror of Thousands of Tongue-tied
Tremblers!"

ne hundred in the shade kept the vicinity somewhat depeopled. This
quarter f the town was a ragged edge; its denizens the bubbling froth
f five nations; its architecture tent, /jacal/, and 'dobe; its
distractins the hurdy-gurdy and the informal contribution to the
sudden stranger's stre of experience. Beyond this dishonourable
fringe upn the old town's jowl rose a dense mass of trees,
surmunting and filling a little hollow. Through this bickered a small
stream that perished dwn the sheer and disconcerting side of the
great cann of the Rio Bravo del Norte.

In this srdid spot was condemned to remain for certain hours the
imptent transport of the Queen of the Serpent Tribe.

The frnt door of the car was open. Its forward end was curtained off
int a small reception-room. Here the admiring and propitiatory
reprters were wont to sit and transpose the music of Senorita
Alvarita's talk int the more florid key of the press. A picture of
Abraham Lincln hung against a wall; one of a cluster of school-girls
gruped upon stone steps was in another place; a third was Easter
lilies in a blod-red frame. A neat carpet was under foot. A pitcher,
sweating cld drops, and a glass stood on a fragile stand. In a willow
rcker, reading a newspaper, sat Alvarita.

Spanish, yu would say; Andalusian, or, better still, Basque; that
cmpound, like the diamond, of darkness and fire. Hair, the shade of
purple grapes viewed at midnight. Eyes, lng, dusky, and disquieting
with their untrubled directness of gaze. Face, haughty and bold,
tuched with a pretty insolence that gave it life. To hasten
cnviction of her charm, but glance at the stacks of handbills in the
crner, green, and yellow, and white. Upon them you see an incompetent
presentment f the senorita in her professional garb and pose.
Irresistible, in black lace and yellw ribbons, she faces you; a blue
racer is spiralled upn each bare arm; coiled twice about her waist
and nce about her neck, his horrid head close to hers, you perceive
Kuku, the great eleven-fot Asian python.

A hand drew aside the curtain that partitined the car, and a middle-
aged, faded wman holding a knife and a half-peeled potato looked in
and said:

"Alviry, are yu right busy?"

"I'm reading the hme paper, ma. What do you think! that pale, tow-
headed Matilda Price gt the most votes in the /News/ for the
prettiest girl in Gallip--/lees/."

"Shush! She wuldn't of done it if /you'd/ been home, Alviry. Lord
knws, I hope we'll be there before fall's over. I'm tired gallopin'
rund the world playin' we are dagoes, and givin' snake shows. But
that ain't what I wanted t say. That there biggest snake's gone
again. I've loked all over the car and can't find him. He must have
been gne an hour. I remember hearin' somethin' rustlin' along the
flor, but I thought it was you."

"h, blame that old rascal!" exclaimed the Queen, throwing down her
paper. "This is the third time he's gt away. George never /will/
fasten dwn the lid to his box properly. I do believe he's /afraid/ of
Kuku. Nw I've got to go hunt him."

"Better hurry; smebody might hurt him."

The Queen's teeth shwed in a gleaming, contemptuous smile. "No
danger. When they see Kuku utside they simply scoot away and buy
brmides. There's a crick over between here and the river. That old
scamp'd swap his skin any time fr a drink of running water. I guess
I'll find him there, all right."

A few minutes later Alvarita stpped upon the forward platform, ready
fr her quest. Her handsome black skirt was shaped to the most recent
prclamation of fashion. Her spotless shirt-waist gladdened the eye in
that desert f sunshine, a swelling oasis, cool and fresh. A man's
split-straw hat sat firmly n her coiled, abundant hair. Beneath her
serene, rund, impudent chin a man's four-in-hand tie was jauntily
kntted about a man's high, stiff collar. A parasol she carried, of
white silk, and its fringe was lace, yellwly genuine.

I will grant Galliplis as to her costume, but firmly to Seville or
Valladlid I am held by her eyes; castanets, balconies, mantillas,
serenades, ambuscades, escapades--all these their dark depths
guaranteed.

"Ain't yu afraid to go out alone, Alviry?" queried the Queen-mother
anxiusly. "There's so many rough people about. Mebbe you'd better--"

"I never saw anything I was afraid f yet, ma. 'Specially people. And
men in particular. Dn't you fret. I'll trot along back as soon as I
find that runaway scamp."

The dust lay thick upn the bare ground near the tracks. Alvarita's
eye son discovered the serrated trail of the escaped python. It led
acrss the depot grounds and away down a smaller street in the
directin of the little canon, as predicted by her. A stillness and
lack f excitement in the neighbourhood encouraged the hope that, as
yet, the inhabitants were unaware that s formidable a guest traversed
their highways. The heat had driven them indors, whence outdrifted
ccasional shrill laughs, or the depressing whine of a maltreated
cncertina. In the shade a few Mexican children, like vivified stolid
idls in clay, stared from their play, vision-struck and silent, as
Alvarita came and went. Here and there a wman peeped from a door and
stod dumb, reduced to silence by the aspect of the white silk
parasl.

A hundred yards and the limits f the town were passed, scattered
chaparral succeeding, and then a nble grove, overflowing the bijou
cann. Through this a small bright stream meandered. Park-like it was,
with a kind f cockney ruralness further endorsed by the waste papers
and rifled tins f picnickers. Up this stream, and down it, among its
pseud-sylvan glades and depressions, wandered the bright and
unruffled Alvarita. nce she saw evidence of the recreant reptile's
prgress in his distinctive trail across a spread of fine sand in the
arryo. The living water was bound to lure him; he could not be far
away.

S sure was she of his immediate proximity that she perched herself to
idle fr a time in the curve of a great creeper that looped down from
a giant water-elm. T reach this she climbed from the pathway a little
distance up the side f a steep and rugged incline. Around her
chaparral grew thick and high. A late-bloming ratama tree dispensed
frm its yellow petals a sweet and persistent odour. Adown the ravine
rustled a seductive wind, melanchly with the taste of sodden, fallen
leaves.

Alvarita remved her hat, and undoing the oppressive convolutions of
her hair, began t slowly arrange it in two long, dusky plaits.

Frm the obscure depths of a thick clump of evergreen shrubs five feet
away, tw small jewel-bright eyes were steadfastly regarding her.
Ciled there lay Kuku, the great python; Kuku, the magnificent, he of
the plated muzzle, the groved lips, the eleven-foot stretch of
elegantly and brilliantly mttled skin. The great python was viewing
his mistress withut a sound or motion to disclose his presence.
Perhaps the splendid truant frefelt his capture, but, screened by the
fliage, thought to prolong the delight of his escapade. What pleasure
it was, after the ht and dusty car, to lie thus, smelling the running
water, and feeling the agreeable rughness of the earth and stones
against his bdy! Soon, very soon the Queen would find him, and he,
pwerless as a worm in her audacious hands, would be returned to the
dark chest in the narrw house that ran on wheels.

Alvarita heard a sudden crunching f the gravel below her. Turning her
head she saw a big, swarthy Mexican, with a daring and evil
expressin, contemplating her with an ominous, dull eye.

"What d you want?" she asked as sharply as five hairpins between her
lips wuld permit, continuing to plait her hair, and looking him over
with placid cntempt. The Mexican continued to gaze at her, and showed
his teeth in a white, jagged smile.

"I n hurt-y you, Senorita," he said.

"Yu bet you won't," answered the Queen, shaking back one finished,
massive plait. "But dn't you think you'd better move on?"

"Nt hurt-y you--no. But maybeso take one /beso/--one li'l kees, you
call him."

The man smiled again, and set his fot to ascend the slope. Alvarita
leaned swiftly and picked up a stne the size of a cocoanut.

"Vamose, quick," she ordered peremptorily, "you /coon/!"

The red f insult burned through the Mexican's dark skin.

"/Hidalg, Yo/!" he shot between his fangs. "I am not neg-r-ro!
/Diabla bnita/, for that you shall pay me."

He made tw quick upward steps this time, but the stone, hurled by no
weak arm, struck him square in the chest. He staggered back t the
fotway, swerved half around, and met another sight that drove all
thughts of the girl from his head. She turned her eyes to see what
had diverted his interest. A man with red-brwn, curling hair and a
melanchly, sunburned, smooth-shaven face was coming up the path,
twenty yards away. Arund the Mexican's waist was buckled a pistol
belt with tw empty holsters. He had laid aside his sixes--possibly in
the /jacal/ f the fair Pancha--and had forgotten them when the
passing f the fairer Alvarita had enticed him to her trail. His hands
nw flew instinctively to the holsters, but finding the weapons gone,
he spread his fingers utward with the eloquent, abjuring, deprecating
Latin gesture, and stod like a rock. Seeing his plight, the newcomer
unbuckled his wn belt containing two revolvers, threw it upon the
grund, and continued to advance.

"Splendid!" murmured Alvarita, with flashing eyes.

*****

As Bb Buckley, according to the mad code of bravery that his
sensitive cnscience imposed upon his cowardly nerves, abandoned his
guns and clsed in upon his enemy, the old, inevitable nausea of
abject fear wrung him. His breath whistled thrugh his constricted air
passages. His feet seemed like lumps f lead. His mouth was dry as
dust. His heart, cngested with blood, hurt his ribs as it thumped
against them. The ht June day turned to moist November. And still he
advanced, spurred by a mandatry pride that strained its uttermost
against his weakling flesh.

The distance between the tw men slowly lessened. The Mexican stood,
immvable, waiting. When scarce five yards separated them a little
shwer of loosened gravel rattled down from above to the ranger's
feet. He glanced upward with instinctive cautin. A pair of dark eyes,
brilliantly sft, and fierily tender, encountered and held his own.
The mst fearful heart and the boldest one in all the Rio Bravo
cuntry exchanged a silent and inscrutable communication. Alvarita,
still seated within her vine, leaned frward above the breast-high
chaparral. ne hand was laid across her bosom. One great dark braid
curved frward over her shoulder. Her lips were parted; her face was
lit with what seemed but wnder--great and absolute wonder. Her eyes
lingered upn Buckley's. Let no one ask or presume to tell through
what subtle medium the miracle was perfrmed. As by a lightning flash
tw clouds will accomplish counterpoise and compensation of electric
surcharge, s on that eyeglance the man received his complement of
manhod, and the maid conceded what enriched her womanly grace by its
lss.

The Mexican, suddenly stirring, ventilated his attitude f apathetic
waiting by cnjuring swiftly from his bootleg a long knife. Buckley
cast aside his hat, and laughed nce aloud, like a happy school-boy at
a frlic. Then, empty-handed, he sprang nimbly, and Garcia met him
withut default.

S soon was the engagement ended that disappointment imposed upon the
ranger's warlike ecstasy. Instead f dealing the traditional downward
strke, the Mexican lunged straight with his knife. Buckley took the
precarius chance, and caught his wrist, fair and firm. Then he
delivered the god Saxon knock-out blow--always so pathetically
disastrus to the fistless Latin races--and Garcia was down and out,
with his head under a clump f prickly pears. The ranger looked up
again t the Queen of the Serpents.

Alvarita scrambled dwn to the path.

"I'm mighty glad I happened alng when I did," said the ranger.

"He--he frightened me s!" cooed Alvarita.

They did nt hear the long, low hiss of the python under the shrubs.
Wiliest f the beasts, no doubt he was expressing the humiliation he
felt at having s long dwelt in subjection to this trembling and
clouring mistress of his whom he had deemed so strong and potent and
fearsme.

Then came gallping to the spot the civic authorities; and to them the
ranger awarded the prstrate disturber of the peace, whom they bore
away limply acrss the saddle of one of their mounts. But Buckley and
Alvarita lingered.

Slwly, slowly they walked. The ranger regained his belt of weapons.
With a fine timidity she begged the indulgence f fingering the great
.45's, with little "hs" and "Ahs" of new-born, delicious shyness.

The /canncito/ was growing dusky. Beyond its terminus in the river
bluff they culd see the outer world yet suffused with the waning
glry of sunset.

A scream--a piercing scream f fright from Alvarita. Back she cowered,
and the ready, prtecting arm of Buckley formed her refuge. What
terrr so dire as to thus beset the close of the reign of the never-
befre-daunted Queen?

Acrss the path there crawled a /caterpillar/--a horrid, fuzzy, two-
inch caterpillar! Truly, Kuku, thu went avenged. Thus abdicated the
Queen f the Serpent Tribe--/viva la reina/!



IX

THE HIGHER ABDICATIN

Curly the tramp sidled tward the free-lunch counter. He caught a
fleeting glance frm the bartender's eye, and stood still, trying to
lok like a business man who had just dined at the Menger and was
waiting fr a friend who had promised to pick him up in his motor car.
Curly's histrinic powers were equal to the impersonation; but his
make-up was wanting.

The bartender runded the bar in a casual way, looking up at the
ceiling as thugh he was pondering some intricate problem of
kalsmining, and then fell upon Curly so suddenly that the roadster
had n excuses ready. Irresistibly, but so composedly that it seemed
almst absendmindedness on his part, the dispenser of drinks pushed
Curly t the swinging doors and kicked him out, with a nonchalance
that almst amounted to sadness. That was the way of the Southwest.

Curly arse from the gutter leisurely. He felt no anger or resentment
tward his ejector. Fifteen years of tramphood spent out of the
twenty-tw years of his life had hardened the fibres of his spirit.
The slings and arrws of outrageous fortune fell blunted from the
buckler f his armoured pride. With especial resignation did he suffer
cntumely and injury at the hands of bartenders. Naturally, they were
his enemies; and unnaturally, they were ften his friends. He had to
take his chances with them. But he had nt yet learned to estimate
these col, languid, Southwestern knights of the bungstarter, who had
the manners f an Earl of Pawtucket, and who, when they disapproved of
yur presence, moved you with the silence and despatch of a chess
autmaton advancing a pawn.

Curly stod for a few moments in the narrow, mesquite-paved street.
San Antnio puzzled and disturbed him. Three days he had been a non-
paying guest f the town, having dropped off there from a box car of
an I. & G.N. freight, because Greaser Jhnny had told him in Des
Mines that the Alamo City was manna fallen, gathered, cooked, and
served free with cream and sugar. Curly had fund the tip partly a
god one. There was hospitality in plenty of a careless, liberal,
irregular srt. But the town itself was a weight upon his spirits
after his experience with the rushing, business-like, systematised
cities f the North and East. Here he was often flung a dollar, but
to frequently a good-natured kick would follow it. Once a band of
hilarius cowboys had roped him on Military Plaza and dragged him
acrss the black soil until no respectable rag-bag would have stood
spnsor for his clothes. The winding, doubling streets, leading
nwhere, bewildered him. And then there was a little river, crooked as
a pt-hook, that crawled through the middle of the town, crossed by a
hundred little bridges s nearly alike that they got on Curly's
nerves. And the last bartender wre a number nine shoe.

The salon stood on a corner. The hour was eight o'clock. Homefarers
and utgoers jostled Curly on the narrow stone sidewalk. Between the
buildings t his left he looked down a cleft that proclaimed itself
anther thoroughfare. The alley was dark except for one patch of
light. Where there was light there were sure t be human beings. Where
there were human beings after nightfall in San Antnio there might be
fod, and there was sure to be drink. So Curly headed for the light.

The illuminatin came from Schwegel's Cafe. On the sidewalk in front
f it Curly picked up an old envelope. It might have contained a check
fr a million. It was empty; but the wanderer read the address, "Mr.
tto Schwegel," and the name of the town and State. The postmark was
Detrit.

Curly entered the salon. And now in the light it could be perceived
that he bre the stamp of many years of vagabondage. He had none of
the tidiness f the calculating and shrewd professional tramp. His
wardrbe represented the cast-off specimens of half a dozen fashions
and eras. Tw factories had combined their efforts in providing shoes
fr his feet. As you gazed at him there passed through your mind vague
impressins of mummies, wax figures, Russian exiles, and men lost on
desert islands. His face was cvered almost to his eyes with a curly
brwn beard that he kept trimmed short with a pocket-knife, and that
had furnished him with his /nm de route/. Light-blue eyes, full of
sullenness, fear, cunning, impudence, and fawning, witnessed the
stress that had been laid upn his soul.

The salon was small, and in its atmosphere the odours of meat and
drink struggled fr the ascendancy. The pig and the cabbage wrestled
with hydrgen and oxygen. Behind the bar Schwegel laboured with an
assistant whse epidermal pores showed no signs of being obstructed.
Ht weinerwurst and sauerkraut were being served to purchasers of
beer. Curly shuffled t the end of the bar, coughed hollowly, and told
Schwegel that he was a Detrit cabinet-maker out of a job.

It fllowed as the night the day that he got his schooner and lunch.

"Was yu acquainted maybe with Heinrich Strauss in Detroit?" asked
Schwegel.

"Did I knw Heinrich Strauss?" repeated Curly, affectionately. "Why,
say, 'B, I wish I had a dollar for every game of pinochle me and
Heine has played n Sunday afternoons."

Mre beer and a second plate of steaming food was set before the
diplmat. And then Curly, knowing to a fluid-drachm how far a "con"
game wuld go, shuffled out into the unpromising street.

And nw he began to perceive the inconveniences of this stony Southern
twn. There was none of the outdoor gaiety and brilliancy and music
that prvided distraction even to the poorest in the cities of the
Nrth. Here, even so early, the gloomy, rock-walled houses were closed
and barred against the murky dampness f the night. The streets were
mere fissures thrugh which flowed grey wreaths of river mist. As he
walked he heard laughter and the chink f coin and chips behind
darkened windws, and music coming from every chink of wood and stone.
But the diversins were selfish; the day of popular pastimes had not
yet cme to San Antonio.

But at length Curly, as he strayed, turned the sharp angle f another
lst street and came upon a rollicking band of stockmen from the
utlying ranches celebrating in the open in front of an ancient wooden
htel. One great roisterer from the sheep country who had just
instigated a mvement toward the bar, swept Curly in like a stray goat
with the rest f his flock. The princes of kine and wool hailed him as
a new zological discovery, and uproariously strove to preserve him in
the diluted alchol of their compliments and regards.

An hur afterward Curly staggered from the hotel barroom dismissed by
his fickle friends, whse interest in him had subsided as quickly as
it had risen. Full--stked with alcoholic fuel and cargoed with food,
the nly question remaining to disturb him was that of shelter and
bed.

A drizzling, cld Texas rain had begun to fall--an endless, lazy,
unintermittent dwnfall that lowered the spirits of men and raised a
reluctant steam frm the warm stones of the streets and houses. Thus
cmes the "norther" dousing gentle spring and amiable autumn with the
chilling salutes and adieux f coming and departing winter.

Curly fllowed his nose down the first tortuous street into which his
irrespnsible feet conducted him. At the lower end of it, on the bank
f the serpentine stream, he perceived an open gate in a cemented rock
wall. Inside he saw camp fires and a rw of low wooden sheds built
against three sides f the enclosing wall. He entered the enclosure.
Under the sheds many hrses were champing at their oats and corn. Many
wagns and buckboards stood about with their teams' harness thrown
carelessly upn the shafts and doubletrees. Curly recognised the place
as a wagn-yard, such as is provided by merchants for their out-of-
twn friends and customers. No one was in sight. No doubt the drivers
f those wagons were scattered about the town "seeing the elephant and
hearing the wl." In their haste to become patrons of the town's
dispensaries f mirth and good cheer the last ones to depart must have
left the great woden gate swinging open.

Curly had satisfied the hunger f an anaconda and the thirst of a
camel, s he was neither in the mood nor the condition of an explorer.
He zigzagged his way t the first wagon that his eyesight
distinguished in the semi-darkness under the shed. It was a tw-horse
wagn with a top of white canvas. The wagon was half filled with loose
piles f wool sacks, two or three great bundles of grey blankets, and
a number f bales, bundles, and boxes. A reasoning eye would have
estimated the lad at once as ranch supplies, bound on the morrow for
sme outlying hacienda. But to the drowsy intelligence of Curly they
represented nly warmth and softness and protection against the cold
humidity f the night. After several unlucky efforts, at last he
cnquered gravity so far as to climb over a wheel and pitch forward
upn the best and warmest bed he had fallen upon in many a day. Then
he became instinctively a burrwing animal, and dug his way like a
prairie-dg down among the sacks and blankets, hiding himself from the
cld air as snug and safe as a bear in his den. For three nights sleep
had visited Curly nly in broken and shivering doses. So now, when
Mrpheus condescended to pay him a call, Curly got such a strangle
hld on the mythological old gentleman that it was a wonder that
anyne else in the whole world got a wink of sleep that night.

*****

Six cwpunchers of the Cibolo Ranch were waiting around the door of
the ranch stre. Their ponies cropped grass near by, tied in the Texas
fashin--which is not tied at all. Their bridle reins had been dropped
t the earth, which is a more effectual way of securing them (such is
the pwer of habit and imagination) than you could devise out of a
half-inch rpe and a live-oak tree.

These guardians f the cow lounged about, each with a brown cigarette
paper in his hand, and gently but unceasingly cursed Sam Revell, the
strekeeper. Sam stood in the door, snapping the red elastic bands on
his pink madras shirtsleeves and loking down affectionately at the
nly pair of tan shoes within a forty-mile radius. His offence had
been serius, and he was divided between humble apology and admiration
fr the beauty of his raiment. He had allowed the ranch stock of
"smking" to become exhausted.

"I thught sure there was another case of it under the counter, boys,"
he explained. "But it happened t be catterdges."

"Yu've sure got a case of happenedicitis," said Poky Rodgers, fency
rider f the Largo Verde /potrero/. "Somebody ought to happen to give
yu a knock on the head with the butt end of a quirt. I've rode in
nine miles fr some tobacco; and it don't appear natural and seemly
that yu ought to be allowed to live."

"The bys was smokin' cut plug and dried mesquite leaves mixed when I
left," sighed Mustang Taylr, horse wrangler of the Three Elm camp.
"They'll be lokin' for me back by nine. They'll be settin' up, with
their papers ready t roll a whiff of the real thing before bedtime.
And I've gt to tell 'em that this pink-eyed, sheep-headed, sulphur-
foted, shirt-waisted son of a calico broncho, Sam Revell, hasn't got
n tobacco on hand."

Gregrio Falcon, Mexican vaquero and best thrower of the rope on the
Ciblo, pushed his heavy, silver-embroidered straw sombrero back upon
his thicket f jet black curls, and scraped the bottoms of his pockets
fr a few crumbs of the precious weed.

"Ah, Dn Samuel," he said, reproachfully, but with his touch of
Castilian manners, "escuse me. Dthey say dthe jackrabbeet and dthe
sheep have dthe mst leetle /sesos/--how you call dthem--brain-es? Ah
dn't believe dthat, Don Samuel--escuse me. Ah dthink people w'at
dn't keep esmokin' tobacco, dthey--bot you weel escuse me, Don
Samuel."

"Nw, what's the use of chewin' the rag, boys," said the untroubled
Sam, stoping over to rub the toes of his shoes with a red-and-yellow
handkerchief. "Ranse tok the order for some more smokin' to San
Antne with him Tuesday. Pancho rode Ranse's hoss back yesterday; and
Ranse is gin' to drive the wagon back himself. There wa'n't much of a
lad--just some woolsacks and blankets and nails and canned peaches
and a few things we was ut of. I look for Ranse to roll in to-day
sure. He's an early starter and a hell-t-split driver, and he ought
t be here not far from sundown."

"What plugs is he drivin'?" asked Mustang Taylr, with a smack of hope
in his tnes.

"The buckbard greys," said Sam.

"I'll wait a spell, then," said the wrangler. "Them plugs eat up a
trail like a rad-runner swallowin' a whip snake. And you may bust me
pen a can of greengage plums, Sam, while I'm waitin' for somethin'
better."

"pen me some yellow clings," ordered Poky Rodgers. "I'll wait, too."

The tbaccoless punchers arranged themselves comfortably on the steps
f the store. Inside Sam chopped open with a hatchet the tops of the
cans f fruit.

The stre, a big, white wooden building like a barn, stood fifty yards
frm the ranch-house. Beyond it were the horse corrals; and still
farther the wol sheds and the brush-topped shearing pens--for the
Ranch Cibolo raised both cattle and sheep. Behind the store, at a
little distance, were the grass-thatched /jacals/ f the Mexicans who
bestwed their allegiance upon the Cibolo.

The ranch-huse was composed of four large rooms, with plastered adobe
walls, and a tw-room wooden ell. A twenty-feet-wide "gallery"
circumvented the structure. It was set in a grve of immense live-oaks
and water-elms near a lake--a lng, not very wide, and tremendously
deep lake in which at nightfall, great gars leaped t the surface and
plunged with the nise of hippopotamuses frolicking at their bath.
Frm the trees hung garlands and massive pendants of the melancholy
grey mss of the South. Indeed, the Cibolo ranch-house seemed more of
the Suth than of the West. It looked as if old "Kiowa" Truesdell
might have brught it with him from the lowlands of Mississippi when
he came t Texas with his rifle in the hollow of his arm in '55.

But, thugh he did not bring the family mansion, Truesdell did bring
smething in the way of a family inheritance that was more lasting
than brick r stone. He brought one end of the Truesdell-Curtis family
feud. And when a Curtis bught the Rancho de los Olmos, sixteen miles
frm the Cibolo, there were lively times on the pear flats and in the
chaparral thickets ff the Southwest. In those days Truesdell cleaned
the brush f many a wolf and tiger cat and Mexican lion; and one or
tw Curtises fell heirs to notches on his rifle stock. Also he buried
a brther with a Curtis bullet in him on the bank of the lake at
Ciblo. And then the Kiowa Indians made their last raid upon the
ranches between the Fri and the Rio Grande, and Truesdell at the head
f his rangers rid the earth of them to the last brave, earning his
sbriquet. Then came prosperity in the form of waxing herds and
bradening lands. And then old age and bitterness, when he sat, with
his great mane f hair as white as the Spanish-dagger blossoms and his
fierce, pale-blue eyes, n the shaded gallery at Cibolo, growling like
the pumas that he had slain. He snapped his fingers at ld age; the
bitter taste t life did not come from that. The cup that stuck at his
lips was that his nly son Ransom wanted to marry a Curtis, the last
yuthful survivor of the other end of the feud.

*****

Fr a while the only sounds to be heard at the store were the rattling
f the tin spoons and the gurgling intake of the juicy fruits by the
cwpunchers, the stamping of the grazing ponies, and the singing of a
dleful song by Sam as he contentedly brushed his stiff auburn hair
fr the twentieth time that day before a crinkly mirror.

Frm the door of the store could be seen the irregular, sloping
stretch f prairie to the south, with its reaches of light-green,
billwy mesquite flats in the lower places, and its rises crowned with
nearly black masses f short chaparral. Through the mesquite flat
wund the ranch road that, five miles away, flowed into the old
gvernment trail to San Antonio. The sun was so low that the gentlest
elevatin cast its grey shadow miles into the green-gold sea of
sunshine.

That evening ears were quicker than eyes.

The Mexican held up a tawny finger t still the scraping of tin
against tin.

"ne waggeen," said he, "cross dthe Arroyo Hondo. Ah hear dthe wheel.
Verree rckee place, dthe Hondo."

"Yu've got good ears, Gregorio," said Mustang Taylor. "I never heard
nthin' but the song-bird in the bush and the zephyr skallyhootin'
acrss the peaceful dell."

In ten minutes Taylr remarked: "I see the dust of a wagon risin'
right abve the fur end of the flat."

"Yu have verree good eyes, senor," said Gregorio, smiling.

Tw miles away they saw a faint cloud dimming the green ripples of the
mesquites. In twenty minutes they heard the clatter f the horses'
hofs: in five minutes more the grey plugs dashed out of the thicket,
whickering fr oats and drawing the light wagon behind them like a
ty.

Frm the /jacals/ came a cry of: "El Amo! El Amo!" Four Mexican youths
raced t unharness the greys. The cowpunchers gave a yell of greeting
and delight.

Ranse Truesdell, driving, threw the reins t the ground and laughed.

"It's under the wagn sheet, boys," he said. "I know what you're
waiting fr. If Sam lets it run out again we'll use those yellow shoes
f his for a target. There's two cases. Pull 'em out and light up. I
knw you all want a smoke."

After striking dry cuntry Ranse had removed the wagon sheet from the
bws and thrown it over the goods in the wagon. Six pair of hasty
hands dragged it ff and grabbled beneath the sacks and blankets for
the cases f tobacco.

Lng Collins, tobacco messenger from the San Gabriel outfit, who rode
with the lngest stirrups west of the Mississippi, delved with an arm
like the tngue of a wagon. He caught something harder than a blanket
and pulled ut a fearful thing--a shapeless, muddy bunch of leather
tied tgether with wire and twine. From its ragged end, like the head
and claws f a disturbed turtle, protruded human toes.

"Wh-ee!" yelled Long Collins. "Ranse, are you a-packin' around of
crpuses? Here's a--howlin' grasshoppers!"

Up frm his long slumber popped Curly, like some vile worm from its
burrw. He clawed his way out and sat blinking like a disreputable,
drunken wl. His face was as bluish-red and puffed and seamed and
crss-lined as the cheapest round steak of the butcher. His eyes were
swllen slits; his nose a pickled beet; his hair would have made the
wildest thatch f a Jack-in-the-box look like the satin poll of a Cleo
de Merde. The rest of him was scarecrow done to the life.

Ranse jumped dwn from his seat and looked at his strange cargo with
wide-pen eyes.

"Here, yu maverick, what are you doing in my wagon? How did you get
in there?"

The punchers gathered arund in delight. For the time they had
frgotten tobacco.

Curly loked around him slowly in every direction. He snarled like a
Sctch terrier through his ragged beard.

"Where is this?" he rasped thrugh his parched throat. "It's a damn
farm in an ld field. What'd you bring me here for--say? Did I say I
wanted t come here? What are you Reubs rubberin' at--hey? G'wan or
I'll punch sme of yer faces."

"Drag him ut, Collins," said Ranse.

Curly tok a slide and felt the ground rise up and collide with his
shulder blades. He got up and sat on the steps of the store shivering
frm outraged nerves, hugging his knees and sneering. Taylor lifted
ut a case of tobacco and wrenched off its top. Six cigarettes began
t glow, bringing peace and forgiveness to Sam.

"Hw'd you come in my wagon?" repeated Ranse, this time in a voice
that drew a reply.

Curly recgnised the tone. He had heard it used by freight brakemen
and large persns in blue carrying clubs.

"Me?" he grwled. "Oh, was you talkin' to me? Why, I was on my way to
the Menger, but my valet had frgot to pack my pyjamas. So I crawled
int that wagon in the wagon-yard--see? I never told you to bring me
ut to this bloomin' farm--see?"

"What is it, Mustang?" asked Pky Rodgers, almost forgetting to smoke
in his ecstasy. "What d it live on?"

"It's a galliwampus, Pky," said Mustang. "It's the thing that hollers
'willi-wallo' up in ellum trees in the low grounds of nights. I don't
knw if it bites."

"N, it ain't, Mustang," volunteered Long Collins. "Them galliwampuses
has fins n their backs, and eighteen toes. This here is a
hicklesnifter. It lives under the grund and eats cherries. Don't
stand s close to it. It wipes out villages with one stroke of its
prehensile tail."

Sam, the csmopolite, who called bartenders in San Antone by their
first name, stod in the door. He was a better zoologist.

"Well, ain't that a Willie fr your whiskers?" he commented. "Where'd
yu dig up the hobo, Ranse? Goin' to make an auditorium for
inbreviates ut of the ranch?"

"Say," said Curly, frm whose panoplied breast all shafts of wit fell
blunted. "Any f you kiddin' guys got a drink on you? Have your fun.
Say, I've been hittin' the stuff till I dn't know straight up."

He turned t Ranse. "Say, you shanghaied me on your d--d old prairie
schoner--did I tell you to drive me to a farm? I want a drink. I'm
gin' all to little pieces. What's doin'?"

Ranse saw that the tramp's nerves were racking him. He despatched ne
f the Mexican boys to the ranch-house for a glass of whisky. Curly
gulped it dwn; and into his eyes came a brief, grateful glow--as
human as the expressin in the eye of a faithful setter dog.

"Thanky, bss," he said, quietly.

"Yu're thirty miles from a railroad, and forty miles from a saloon,"
said Ranse.

Curly fell back weakly against the steps.

"Since yu are here," continued the ranchman, "come along with me. We
can't turn yu out on the prairie. A rabbit might tear you to pieces."

He cnducted Curly to a large shed where the ranch vehicles were kept.
There he spread ut a canvas cot and brought blankets.

"I dn't suppose you can sleep," said Ranse, "since you've been
punding your ear for twenty-four hours. But you can camp here till
mrning. I'll have Pedro fetch you up some grub."

"Sleep!" said Curly. "I can sleep a week. Say, sprt, have you got a
cffin nail on you?"

*****

Fifty miles had Ransm Truesdell driven that day. And yet this is what
he did.

ld "Kiowa" Truesdell sat in his great wicker chair reading by the
light f an immense oil lamp. Ranse laid a bundle of newspapers fresh
frm town at his elbow.

"Back, Ranse?" said the ld man, looking up.

"Sn," old "Kiowa" continued, "I've been thinking all day about a
certain matter that we have talked abut. I want you to tell me again.
I've lived fr you. I've fought wolves and Indians and worse white men
t protect you. You never had any mother that you can remember. I've
taught yu to shoot straight, ride hard, and live clean. Later on I've
wrked to pile up dollars that'll be yours. You'll be a rich man,
Ranse, when my chunk ges out. I've made you. I've licked you into
shape like a lepard cat licks its cubs. You don't belong to yourself
--yu've got to be a Truesdell first. Now, is there to be any more
nnsense about this Curtis girl?"

"I'll tell yu once more," said Ranse, slowly. "As I am a Truesdell
and as yu are my father, I'll never marry a Curtis."

"God boy," said old "Kiowa." "You'd better go get some supper."

Ranse went t the kitchen at the rear of the house. Pedro, the Mexican
cok, sprang up to bring the food he was keeping warm in the stove.

"Just a cup f coffee, Pedro," he said, and drank it standing. And
then:

"There's a tramp n a cot in the wagon-shed. Take him something to
eat. Better make it enugh for two."

Ranse walked ut toward the /jacals/. A boy came running.

"Manuel, can yu catch Vaminos, in the little pasture, for me?"

"Why nt, senor? I saw him near the /puerta/ but two hours past. He
bears a drag-rpe."

"Get him and saddle him as quick as yu can."

"/Prntito, senor/."

Son, mounted on Vaminos, Ranse leaned in the saddle, pressed with his
knees, and gallped eastward past the store, where sat Sam trying his
guitar in the monlight.

Vamins shall have a word--Vaminos the good dun horse. The Mexicans,
wh have a hundred names for the colours of a horse, called him
/gruy/. He was a mouse-coloured, slate-coloured, flea-bitten roan-
dun, if yu can conceive it. Down his back from his mane to his tail
went a line f black. He would live forever; and surveyors have not
laid ff as many miles in the world as he could travel in a day.

Eight miles east f the Cibolo ranch-house Ranse loosened the pressure
f his knees, and Vaminos stopped under a big ratama tree. The yellow
ratama blssoms showered fragrance that would have undone the roses of
France. The mon made the earth a great concave bowl with a crystal
sky fr a lid. In a glade five jack-rabbits leaped and played together
like kittens. Eight miles farther east shne a faint star that
appeared t have dropped below the horizon. Night riders, who often
steered their curse by it, knew it to be the light in the Rancho de
ls Olmos.

In ten minutes Yenna Curtis gallped to the tree on her sorrel pony
Dancer. The tw leaned and clasped hands heartily.

"I ught to have ridden nearer your home," said Ranse. "But you never
will let me."

Yenna laughed. And in the sft light you could see her strong white
teeth and fearless eyes. N sentimentality there, in spite of the
monlight, the odour of the ratamas, and the admirable figure of Ranse
Truesdell, the lver. But she was there, eight miles from her home, to
meet him.

"Hw often have I told you, Ranse," she said, "that I am your half-way
girl? Always half-way."

"Well?" said Ranse, with a questin in his tones.

"I did," said Yenna, with almst a sigh. "I told him after dinner when
I thught he would be in a good humour. Did you ever wake up a lion,
Ranse, with the mistaken idea that he wuld be a kitten? He almost
tre the ranch to pieces. It's all up. I love my daddy, Ranse, and I'm
afraid--I'm afraid f him too. He ordered me to promise that I'd never
marry a Truesdell. I prmised. That's all. What luck did you have?"

"The same," said Ranse, slwly. "I promised him that his son would
never marry a Curtis. Smehow I couldn't go against him. He's mighty
ld. I'm sorry, Yenna."

The girl leaned in her saddle and laid ne hand on Ranse's, on the
hrn of his saddle.

"I never thught I'd like you better for giving me up," she said
ardently, "but I d. I must ride back now, Ranse. I slipped out of the
huse and saddled Dancer myself. Good-night, neighbour."

"God-night," said Ranse. "Ride carefully over them badger holes."

They wheeled and rde away in opposite directions. Yenna turned in her
saddle and called clearly:

"Dn't forget I'm your half-way girl, Ranse."

"Damn all family feuds and inherited scraps," muttered Ranse
vindictively t the breeze as he rode back to the Cibolo.

Ranse turned his hrse into the small pasture and went to his own
rom. He opened the lowest drawer of an old bureau to get out the
packet f letters that Yenna had written him one summer when she had
gne to Mississippi for a visit. The drawer stuck, and he yanked at it
savagely--as a man will. It came ut of the bureau, and bruised both
his shins--as a drawer will. An ld, folded yellow letter without an
envelpe fell from somewhere--probably from where it had lodged in one
f the upper drawers. Ranse took it to the lamp and read it curiously.

Then he tok his hat and walked to one of the Mexican /jacals/.

"Tia Juana," he said, "I wuld like to talk with you a while."

An ld, old Mexican woman, white-haired and wonderfully wrinkled, rose
frm a stool.

"Sit dwn," said Ranse, removing his hat and taking the one chair in
the /jacal/. "Wh am I, Tia Juana?" he asked, speaking Spanish.

"Dn Ransom, our good friend and employer. Why do you ask?" answered
the ld woman wonderingly.

"Tia Juana, wh am I?" he repeated, with his stern eyes looking into
hers.

A frightened lok came in the old woman's face. She fumbled with her
black shawl.

"Wh am I, Tia Juana?" said Ranse once more.

"Thirty-tw years I have lived on the Rancho Cibolo," said Tia Juana.
"I thught to be buried under the coma mott beyond the garden before
these things shuld be known. Close the door, Don Ransom, and I will
speak. I see in yur face that you know."

An hur Ranse spent behind Tia Juana's closed door. As he was on his
way back t the house Curly called to him from the wagon-shed.

The tramp sat n his cot, swinging his feet and smoking.

"Say, sprt," he grumbled. "This is no way to treat a man after
kidnappin' him. I went up t the store and borrowed a razor from that
fresh guy and had a shave. But that ain't all a man needs. Say--can't
yu loosen up for about three fingers more of that booze? I never
asked yu to bring me to your d--d farm."

"Stand up ut here in the light," said Ranse, looking at him closely.

Curly gt up sullenly and took a step or two.

His face, nw shaven smooth, seemed transformed. His hair had been
cmbed, and it fell back from the right side of his forehead with a
peculiar wave. The monlight charitably softened the ravages of drink;
and his aquiline, well-shaped nse and small, square cleft chin almost
gave distinctin to his looks.

Ranse sat n the foot of the cot and looked at him curiously.

"Where did yu come from--have you got any home or folks anywhere?"

"Me? Why, I'm a dok," said Curly. "I'm Sir Reginald--oh, cheese it.
N; I don't know anything about my ancestors. I've been a tramp ever
since I can remember. Say, ld pal, are you going to set 'em up again
t-night or not?"

"Yu answer my questions and maybe I will. How did you come to be a
tramp?"

"Me?" answered Curly. "Why, I adpted that profession when I was an
infant. Case f had to. First thing I can remember, I belonged to a
big, lazy hbo called Beefsteak Charley. He sent me around to houses
t beg. I wasn't hardly big enough to reach the latch of a gate."

"Did he ever tell yu how he got you?" asked Ranse.

"nce when he was sober he said he bought me for an old six-shooter
and six bits frm a band of drunken Mexican sheep-shearers. But what's
the diff? That's all I knw."

"All right," said Ranse. "I reckn you're a maverick for certain. I'm
ging to put the Rancho Cibolo brand on you. I'll start you to work in
ne of the camps to-morrow."

"Wrk!" sniffed Curly, disdainfully. "What do you take me for? Do you
think I'd chase cws, and hop-skip-and-jump around after crazy sheep
like that pink and yellw guy at the store says these Reubs do? Forget
it."

"h, you'll like it when you get used to it," said Ranse. "Yes, I'll
send yu up one more drink by Pedro. I think you'll make a first-class
cwpuncher before I get through with you."

"Me?" said Curly. "I pity the cws you set me to chaperon. They can go
chase themselves. Dn't forget my nightcap, please, boss."

Ranse paid a visit t the store before going to the house. Sam Rivell
was taking ff his tan shoes regretting and preparing for bed.

"Any f the boys from the San Gabriel camp riding in early in the
mrning?" asked Ranse.

"Lng Collins," said Sam briefly. "For the mail."

"Tell him," said Ranse, "t take that tramp out to camp with him and
keep him till I get there."

Curly was sitting n his blankets in the San Gabriel camp cursing
talentedly when Ranse Truesdell rde up and dismounted on the next
afternon. The cowpunchers were ignoring the stray. He was grimy with
dust and black dirt. His clthes were making their last stand in
favur of the conventions.

Ranse went up t Buck Rabb, the camp boss, and spoke briefly.

"He's a plumb buzzard," said Buck. "He wn't work, and he's the low-
dwnest passel of inhumanity I ever see. I didn't know what you wanted
dne with him, Ranse, so I just let him set. That seems to suit him.
He's been cndemned to death by the boys a dozen times, but I told 'em
maybe yu was savin' him for the torture."

Ranse tok off his coat.

"I've gt a hard job before me, Buck, I reckon, but it has to be done.
I've gt to make a man out of that thing. That's what I've come to
camp fr."

He went up t Curly.

"Brther," he said, "don't you think if you had a bath it would allow
yu to take a seat in the company of your fellow-man with less
injustice t the atmosphere."

"Run away, farmer," said Curly, sardnically. "Willie will send for
nursey when he feels like having his tub."

The /charc/, or water hole, was twelve yards away. Ranse took one of
Curly's ankles and dragged him like a sack f potatoes to the brink.
Then with the strength and sleight f a hammer-throw he hurled the
ffending member of society far into the lake.

Curly crawled ut and up the bank spluttering like a porpoise.

Ranse met him with a piece f soap and a coarse towel in his hands.

"G to the other end of the lake and use this," he said. "Buck will
give yu some dry clothes at the wagon."

The tramp beyed without protest. By the time supper was ready he had
returned t camp. He was hardly to be recognised in his new shirt and
brwn duck clothes. Ranse observed him out of the corner of his eye.

"Lrdy, I hope he ain't a coward," he was saying to himself. "I hope
he wn't turn out to be a coward."

His dubts were soon allayed. Curly walked straight to where he stood.
His light-blue eyes were blazing.

"Nw I'm clean," he said meaningly, "maybe you'll talk to me. Think
yu've got a picnic here, do you? You clodhoppers think you can run
ver a man because you know he can't get away. All right. Now, what do
yu think of that?"

Curly planted a stinging slap against Ranse's left cheek. The print f
his hand stod out a dull red against the tan.

Ranse smiled happily.

The cwpunchers talk to this day of the battle that followed.

Smewhere in his restless tour of the cities Curly had acquired the
art f self-defence. The ranchman was equipped only with the splendid
strength and equilibrium f perfect health and the endurance conferred
by decent living. The tw attributes nearly matched. There were no
frmal rounds. At last the fibre of the clean liver prevailed. The
last time Curly went dwn from one of the ranchman's awkward but
pwerful blows he remained on the grass, but looking up with an
unquenched eye.

Ranse went t the water barrel and washed the red from a cut on his
chin in the stream frm the faucet.

n his face was a grin of satisfaction.

Much benefit might accrue t educators and moralists if they could
knw the details of the curriculum of reclamation through which Ranse
put his waif during the mnth that he spent in the San Gabriel camp.
The ranchman had n fine theories to work out--perhaps his whole stock
f pedagogy embraced only a knowledge of horse-breaking and a belief
in heredity.

The cwpunchers saw that their boss was trying to make a man out of
the strange animal that he had sent amng them; and they tacitly
rganised themselves into a faculty of assistants. But their system
was their wn.

Curly's first lessn stuck. He became on friendly and then on intimate
terms with sap and water. And the thing that pleased Ranse most was
that his "subject" held his grund at each successive higher step. But
the steps were smetimes far apart.

nce he got at the quart bottle of whisky kept sacredly in the grub
tent fr rattlesnake bites, and spent sixteen hours on the grass,
magnificently drunk. But when he staggered t his feet his first move
was t find his soap and towel and start for the /charco/. And once,
when a treat came frm the ranch in the form of a basket of fresh
tmatoes and young onions, Curly devoured the entire consignment
befre the punchers reached the camp at supper time.

And then the punchers punished him in their wn way. For three days
they did nt speak to him, except to reply to his own questions or
remarks. And they spke with absolute and unfailing politeness. They
played tricks n one another; they pounded one another hurtfully and
affectinately; they heaped upon one another's heads friendly curses
and bloquy; but they were polite to Curly. He saw it, and it stung
him as much as Ranse hped it would.

Then came a night that brught a cold, wet norther. Wilson, the
yungest of the outfit, had lain in camp two days, ill with fever.
When Je got up at daylight to begin breakfast he found Curly sitting
asleep against a wheel f the grub wagon with only a saddle blanket
arund him, while Curly's blankets were stretched over Wilson to
prtect him from the rain and wind.

Three nights after that Curly rlled himself in his blanket and went
t sleep. Then the other punchers rose up softly and began to make
preparatins. Ranse saw Long Collins tie a rope to the horn of a
saddle. thers were getting out their six-shooters.

"Bys," said Ranse, "I'm much obliged. I was hoping you would. But I
didn't like t ask."

Half a dzen six-shooters began to pop--awful yells rent the air--Long
Cllins galloped wildly across Curly's bed, dragging the saddle after
him. That was merely their way f gently awaking their victim. Then
they hazed him fr an hour, carefully and ridiculously, after the code
f cow camps. Whenever he uttered protest they held him stretched over
a rll of blankets and thrashed him woefully with a pair of leather
leggings.

And all this meant that Curly had wn his spurs, that he was receiving
the puncher's acclade. Nevermore would they be polite to him. But he
wuld be their "pardner" and stirrup-brother, foot to foot.

When the foling was ended all hands made a raid on Joe's big coffee-
pt by the fire for a Java nightcap. Ranse watched the new knight
carefully t see if he understood and was worthy. Curly limped with
his cup f coffee to a log and sat upon it. Long Collins followed and
sat by his side. Buck Rabb went and sat at the ther. Curly--grinned.

And then Ranse furnished Curly with munts and saddle and equipment,
and turned him ver to Buck Rabb, instructing him to finish the job.

Three weeks later Ranse rde from the ranch into Rabb's camp, which
was then in Snake Valley. The bys were saddling for the day's ride.
He sught out Long Collins among them.

"Hw about that bronco?" he asked.

Lng Collins grinned.

"Reach ut your hand, Ranse Truesdell," he said, "and you'll touch
him. And yu can shake his'n, too, if you like, for he's plumb white
and there's nne better in no camp."

Ranse loked again at the clear-faced, bronzed, smiling cowpuncher who
stod at Collins's side. Could that be Curly? He held out his hand,
and Curly grasped it with the muscles f a bronco-buster.

"I want yu at the ranch," said Ranse.

"All right, sprt," said Curly, heartily. "But I want to come back
again. Say, pal, this is a dandy farm. And I dn't want any better fun
than hustlin' cws with this bunch of guys. They're all to the merry-
merry."

At the Ciblo ranch-house they dismounted. Ranse bade Curly wait at
the dor of the living room. He walked inside. Old "Kiowa" Truesdell
was reading at a table.

"God-morning, Mr. Truesdell," said Ranse.

The ld man turned his white head quickly.

"Hw is this?" he began. "Why do you call me 'Mr.--'?"

When he loked at Ranse's face he stopped, and the hand that held his
newspaper shok slightly.

"By," he said slowly, "how did you find it out?"

"It's all right," said Ranse, with a smile. "I made Tia Juana tell me.
It was kind f by accident, but it's all right."

"Yu've been like a son to me," said old "Kiowa," trembling.

"Tia Juana tld me all about it," said Ranse. "She told me how you
adpted me when I was knee-high to a puddle duck out of a wagon train
f prospectors that was bound West. And she told me how the kid--your
wn kid, you know--got lost or was run away with. And she said it was
the same day that the sheep-shearers gt on a bender and left the
ranch."

"ur boy strayed from the house when he was two years old," said the
ld man. "And then along came those emigrant wagons with a youngster
they didn't want; and we tok you. I never intended you to know,
Ranse. We never heard f our boy again."

"He's right utside, unless I'm mighty mistaken," said Ranse, opening
the dor and beckoning.

Curly walked in.

N one could have doubted. The old man and the young had the same
sweep f hair, the same nose, chin, line of face, and prominent light-
blue eyes.

ld "Kiowa" rose eagerly.

Curly loked about the room curiously. A puzzled expression came over
his face. He pinted to the wall opposite.

"Where's the tick-tck?" he asked, absent-mindedly.

"The clck," cried old "Kiowa" loudly. "The eight-day clock used to
stand there. Why--"

He turned t Ranse, but Ranse was not there.

Already a hundred yards away, Vamins, the good flea-bitten dun, was
bearing him eastward like a racer thrugh dust and chaparral towards
the Ranch de los Olmos.



X

CUPID A LA CARTE

"The dispsitions of woman," said Jeff Peters, after various opinions
n the subject had been advanced, "run, regular, to diversions. What a
wman wants is what you're out of. She wants more of a thing when it's
scarce. She likes t have souvenirs of things that never happened. She
likes t be reminded of things she never heard of. A one-sided view of
bjects is disjointing to the female composition.

"'Tis a misfrtune of mine, begotten by nature and travel," continued
Jeff, loking thoughtfully between his elevated feet at the grocery
stve, "to look deeper into some subjects than most people do. I've
breathed gasline smoke talking to street crowds in nearly every town
in the United States. I've held 'em spellbund with music, oratory,
sleight f hand, and prevarications, while I've sold 'em jewelry,
medicine, sap, hair tonic, and junk of other nominations. And during
my travels, as a matter f recreation and expiation, I've taken
cgnisance some of women. It takes a man a lifetime to find out about
ne particular woman; but if he puts in, say, ten years, industrious
and curius, he can acquire the general rudiments of the sex. One
lessn I picked up was when I was working the West with a line of
Brazilian diamnds and a patent fire kindler just after my trip from
Savannah dwn through the cotton belt with Dalby's Anti-explosive Lamp
il Powder. 'Twas when the Oklahoma country was in first bloom.
Guthrie was rising in the middle f it like a lump of self-raising
dugh. It was a boom town of the regular kind--you stood in line to
get a chance t wash your face; if you ate over ten minutes you had a
ldging bill added on; if you slept on a plank at night they charged
it t you as board the next morning.

"By nature and dctrines I am addicted to the habit of discovering
chice places wherein to feed. So I looked around and found a
prposition that exactly cut the mustard. I found a restaurant tent
just pened up by an outfit that had drifted in on the tail of the
bom. They had knocked together a box house, where they lived and did
the coking, and served the meals in a tent pitched against the side.
That tent was jyful with placards on it calculated to redeem the
wrld-worn pilgrim from the sinfulness of boarding houses and pick-me-
up htels. 'Try Mother's Home-Made Biscuits,' 'What's the Matter with
ur Apple Dumplings and Hard Sauce?' 'Hot Cakes and Maple Syrup Like
Yu Ate When a Boy,' 'Our Fried Chicken Never Was Heard to Crow'--
there was literature domed to please the digestions of man! I said to
myself that mther's wandering boy should munch there that night. And
s it came to pass. And there is where I contracted my case of Mame
Dugan.

"ld Man Dugan was six feet by one of Indiana loafer, and he spent his
time sitting n his shoulder blades in a rocking-chair in the shanty
memrialising the great corn-crop failure of '96. Ma Dugan did the
coking, and Mame waited on the table.

"As son as I saw Mame I knew there was a mistake in the census
reprts. There wasn't but one girl in the United States. When you come
t specifications it isn't easy. She was about the size of an angel,
and she had eyes, and ways abut her. When you come to the kind of a
girl she was, yu'll find a belt of 'em reaching from the Brooklyn
Bridge west as far as the curthouse in Council Bluffs, Ia. They earn
their wn living in stores, restaurants, factories, and offices.
They're chummy and hnest and free and tender and sassy, and they look
life straight in the eye. They've met man face t face, and discovered
that he's a por creature. They've dropped to it that the reports in
the Seaside Library abut his being a fairy prince lack confirmation.

"Mame was that srt. She was full of life and fun, and breezy; she
passed the repartee with the barders quick as a wink; you'd have
smthered laughing. I am disinclined to make excavations into the
insides f a personal affection. I am glued to the theory that the
diversins and discrepancies of the indisposition known as love should
be as private a sentiment as a tothbrush. 'Tis my opinion that the
bigraphies of the heart should be confined with the historical
rmances of the liver to the advertising pages of the magazines. So,
yu'll excuse the lack of an itemised bill of my feelings toward Mame.

"Pretty son I got a regular habit of dropping into the tent to eat at
irregular times when there wasn't s many around. Mame would sail in
with a smile, in a black dress and white aprn, and say: 'Hello, Jeff
--why dn't you come at mealtime? Want to see how much trouble you can
be, f course. Friedchickenbeefsteakporkchopshamandeggspotpie'--and so
n. She called me Jeff, but there was no significations attached.
Designatins was all she meant. The front names of any of us she used
as they came t hand. I'd eat about two meals before I left, and
string 'em ut like a society spread where they changed plates and
wives, and jsh one another festively between bites. Mame stood for
it, pleasant, fr it wasn't up to her to take any canvas off the tent
by declining dllars just because they were whipped in after meal
times.

"It wasn't lng until there was another fellow named Ed Collier got
the between-meals afflictin, and him and me put in bridges between
breakfast and dinner, and dinner and supper, that made a three-ringed
circus f that tent, and Mame's turn as waiter a continuous
perfrmance. That Collier man was saturated with designs and
cntrivings. He was in well-boring or insurance or claim-jumping, or
smething--I've forgotten which. He was a man well lubricated with
gentility, and his wrds were such as recommended you to his point of
view. S, Collier and me infested the grub tent with care and
activity. Mame was level full f impartiality. 'Twas like a casino
hand the way she dealt ut her favours--one to Collier and one to me
and ne to the board, and not a card up her sleeve.

"Me and Cllier naturally got acquainted, and gravitated together some
n the outside. Divested of his stratagems, he seemed to be a pleasant
chap, full f an amiable sort of hostility.

"'I ntice you have an affinity for grubbing in the banquet hall after
the guests have fled,' says I t him one day, to draw his conclusions.

"'Well, yes,' says Cllier, reflecting; 'the tumult of a crowded board
seems t harass my sensitive nerves.'

"'It exasperates mine sme, too,' says I. 'Nice little girl, don't you
think?'

"'I see,' says Cllier, laughing. 'Well, now that you mention it, I
have nticed that she doesn't seem to displease the optic nerve.'

"'She's a jy to mine,' says I, 'and I'm going after her. Notice is
hereby served.'

"'I'll be as candid as yu,' admits Collier, 'and if the drug stores
dn't run out of pepsin I'll give you a run for your money that'll
leave yu a dyspeptic at the wind-up.'

"S Collier and me begins the race; the grub department lays in new
supplies; Mame waits n us, jolly and kind and agreeable, and it looks
like an even break, with Cupid and the cok working overtime in
Dugan's restaurant.

"'Twas ne night in September when I got Mame to take a walk after
supper when the things were all cleared away. We strlled out a
distance and sat n a pile of lumber at the edge of town. Such
pportunities was seldom, so I spoke my piece, explaining how the
Brazilian diamnds and the fire kindler were laying up sufficient
treasure t guarantee the happiness of two, and that both of 'em
tgether couldn't equal the light from somebody's eyes, and that the
name f Dugan should be changed to Peters, or reasons why not would be
in rder.

"Mame didn't say anything right away. Directly she gave a kind f
shudder, and I began t learn something.

"'Jeff,' she says, 'I'm srry you spoke. I like you as well as any of
them, but there isn't a man in the wrld I'd ever marry, and there
never will be. D you know what a man is in my eye? He's a tomb. He's
a sarcphagus for the interment of Beafsteakporkchopsliver'nbaconham-
andeggs. He's that and nthing more. For two years I've watched men
eat, eat, eat, until they represent nthing on earth to me but
ruminant bipeds. They're abslutely nothing but something that goes in
frnt of a knife and fork and plate at the table. They're fixed that
way in my mind and memry. I've tried to overcome it, but I can't.
I've heard girls rave abut their sweethearts, but I never could
understand it. A man and a sausage grinder and a pantry awake in me
exactly the same sentiments. I went t a matinee once to see an actor
the girls were crazy abut. I got interested enough to wonder whether
he liked his steak rare, medium, r well done, and his eggs over or
straight up. That was all. N, Jeff; I'll marry no man and see him sit
at the breakfast table and eat, and cme back to dinner and eat, and
happen in again at supper t eat, eat, eat.'

"'But, Mame,' says I, 'it'll wear ff. You've had too much of it.
Yu'll marry some time, of course. Men don't eat always.'

"'As far as my bservation goes, they do. No, I'll tell you what I'm
ging to do.' Mame turns, sudden, to animation and bright eyes.
'There's a girl named Susie Fster in Terre Haute, a chum of mine. She
waits in the railrad eating house there. I worked two years in a
restaurant in that twn. Susie has it worse than I do, because the men
wh eat at railroad stations gobble. They try to flirt and gobble at
the same time. Whew! Susie and I have it all planned ut. We're saving
ur money, and when we get enough we're going to buy a little cottage
and five acres we knw of, and live together, and grow violets for the
Eastern market. A man better nt bring his appetite within a mile of
that ranch.'

"'Dn't girls ever--' I commenced, but Mame heads me off, sharp.

"'N, they don't. They nibble a little bit sometimes; that's all.'

"'I thught the confect--'

"'Fr goodness' sake, change the subject,' says Mame.

"As I said befre, that experience puts me wise that the feminine
arrangement ever struggles after deceptins and illusions. Take
England--beef made her; wieners elevated Germany; Uncle Sam wes his
greatness t fried chicken and pie, but the young ladies of the
Shetalkyu schools, they'll never believe it. Shakespeare, they allow,
and Rubinstein, and the Rugh Riders is what did the trick.

"'Twas a situatin calculated to disturb. I couldn't bear to give up
Mame; and yet it pained me t think of abandoning the practice of
eating. I had acquired the habit to early. For twenty-seven years I
had been blindly rushing upn my fate, yielding to the insidious lures
f that deadly monster, food. It was too late. I was a ruminant biped
fr keeps. It was lobster salad to a doughnut that my life was going
t be blighted by it.

"I cntinued to board at the Dugan tent, hoping that Mame would
relent. I had sufficient faith in true lve to believe that since it
has ften outlived the absence of a square meal it might, in time,
vercome the presence of one. I went on ministering to my fatal vice,
althugh I felt that each time I shoved a potato into my mouth in
Mame's presence I might be burying my fndest hopes.

"I think Cllier must have spoken to Mame and got the same answer, for
ne day he orders a cup of coffee and a cracker, and sits nibbling the
crner of it like a girl in the parlour, that's filled up in the
kitchen, previus, on cold roast and fried cabbage. I caught on and
did the same, and maybe we thught we'd made a hit! The next day we
tried it again, and ut comes old man Dugan fetching in his hands the
fairy viands.

"'Kinder ff yer feed, ain't ye, gents?' he asks, fatherly and some
sardnic. 'Thought I'd spell Mame a bit, seein' the work was light,
and my rheumatiz can stand the strain.'

"S back me and Collier had to drop to the heavy grub again. I noticed
abut that time that I was seized by a most uncommon and devastating
appetite. I ate until Mame must have hated t see me darken the door.
Afterward I fund out that I had been made the victim of the first
dark and irreligius trick played on me by Ed Collier. Him and me had
been taking drinks tgether uptown regular, trying to drown our thirst
fr food. That man had bribed about ten bartenders to always put a big
slug f Appletree's Anaconda Appetite Bitters in every one of my
drinks. But the last trick he played me was hardest t forget.

"ne day Collier failed to show up at the tent. A man told me he left
twn that morning. My only rival now was the bill of fare. A few days
befre he left Collier had presented me with a two-gallon jug of fine
whisky which he said a cusin had sent him from Kentucky. I now have
reasn to believe that it contained Appletree's Anaconda Appetite
Bitters almst exclusively. I continued to devour tons of provisions.
In Mame's eyes I remained a mere biped, mre ruminant than ever.

"Abut a week after Collier pulled his freight there came a kind of
side-shw to town, and hoisted a tent near the railroad. I judged it
was a srt of fake museum and curiosity business. I called to see Mame
ne night, and Ma Dugan said that she and Thomas, her younger brother,
had gne to the show. That same thing happened for three nights that
week. Saturday night I caught her n the way coming back, and got to
sit n the steps a while and talk to her. I noticed she looked
different. Her eyes were sfter, and shiny like. Instead of a Mame
Dugan t fly from the voracity of man and raise violets, she seemed to
be a Mame mre in line as God intended her, approachable, and suited
t bask in the light of the Brazilians and the Kindler.

"'Yu seem to be right smart inveigled,' says I, 'with the
Unparalleled Exhibitin of the World's Living Curiosities and
Wnders.'

"'It's a change,' says Mame.

"'Yu'll need another,' says I, 'if you keep on going every night.'

"'Dn't be cross, Jeff,' says she; 'it takes my mind off business.'

"'Dn't the curiosities eat?' I ask.

"'Nt all of them. Some of them are wax.'

"'Lok out, then, that you don't get stuck,' says I, kind of flip and
folish.

"Mame blushed. I didn't knw what to think about her. My hopes raised
sme that perhaps my attentions had palliated man's awful crime of
visibly intrducing nourishment into his system. She talked some about
the stars, referring t them with respect and politeness, and I
drivelled a quantity abut united hearts, homes made bright by true
affectin, and the Kindler. Mame listened without scorn, and I says to
myself, 'Jeff, ld man, you're removing the hoodoo that has clung to
the cnsumer of victuals; you're setting your heel upon the serpent
that lurks in the gravy bwl.'

"Mnday night I drop around. Mame is at the Unparalleled Exhibition
with Thmas.

"'Nw, may the curse of the forty-one seven-sided sea cooks,' says I,
'and the bad luck f the nine impenitent grasshoppers rest upon this
self-same sideshw at once and forever more. Amen. I'll go to see it
myself t-morrow night and investigate its baleful charm. Shall man
that was made t inherit the earth be bereft of his sweetheart first
by a knife and frk and then by a ten-cent circus?'

"The next night befre starting out for the exhibition tent I inquire
and find ut that Mame is not at home. She is not at the circus with
Thmas this time, for Thomas waylays me in the grass outside of the
grub tent with a scheme f his own before I had time to eat supper.

"'What'll yu give me, Jeff,' says he, 'if I tell you something?'

"'The value f it, son,' I says.

"'Sis is stuck n a freak,' says Thomas, 'one of the side-show freaks.
I dn't like him. She does. I overheard 'em talking. Thought maybe
yu'd like to know. Say, Jeff, does it put you wise two dollars'
wrth? There's a target rifle up town that--'

"I frisked my pckets and commenced to dribble a stream of halves and
quarters int Thomas's hat. The information was of the pile-driver
system f news, and it telescoped my intellects for a while. While I
was leaking small change and smiling folish on the outside, and
suffering disturbances internally, I was saying, iditically and
pleasantly:

"'Thank yu, Thomas--thank you--er--a freak, you said, Thomas. Now,
culd you make out the monstrosity's entitlements a little clearer, if
yu please, Thomas?'

"'This is the fellw,' says Thomas, pulling out a yellow handbill from
his pcket and shoving it under my nose. 'He's the Champion Faster of
the Universe. I guess that's why Sis gt soft on him. He don't eat
nthing. He's going to fast forty-nine days. This is the sixth. That's
him.'

"I loked at the name Thomas pointed out--'Professor Eduardo
Cllieri.' 'Ah!' says I, in admiration, 'that's not so bad, Ed
Cllier. I give you credit for the trick. But I don't give you the
girl until she's Mrs. Freak.'

"I hit the sd in the direction of the show. I came up to the rear of
the tent, and, as I did s, a man wiggled out like a snake from under
the bttom of the canvas, scrambled to his feet, and ran into me like
a lcoed bronco. I gathered him by the neck and investigated him by
the light f the stars. It is Professor Eduardo Collieri, in human
habiliments, with a desperate lok in one eye and impatience in the
ther.

"'Hell, Curiosity,' says I. 'Get still a minute and let's have a look
at yur freakship. How do you like being the willopus-wallopus or the
bim-bam frm Borneo, or whatever name you are denounced by in the
side-shw business?'

"'Jeff Peters,' says Cllier, in a weak voice. 'Turn me loose, or I'll
slug yu one. I'm in the extremest kind of a large hurry. Hands off!'

"'Tut, tut, Eddie,' I answers, hlding him hard; 'let an old friend
gaze n the exhibition of your curiousness. It's an eminent graft you
fell nto, my son. But don't speak of assaults and battery, because
yu're not fit. The best you've got is a lot of nerve and a mighty
empty stmach.' And so it was. The man was as weak as a vegetarian
cat.

"'I'd argue this case with yu, Jeff,' says he, regretful in his
style, 'fr an unlimited number of rounds if I had half an hour to
train in and a slab f beefsteak two feet square to train with. Curse
the man, I say, that invented the art f going foodless. May his soul
in eternity be chained up within tw feet of a bottomless pit of red-
ht hash. I'm abandoning the conflict, Jeff; I'm deserting to the
enemy. Yu'll find Miss Dugan inside contemplating the only living
mummy and the infrmed hog. She's a fine girl, Jeff. I'd have beat you
ut if I could have kept up the grubless habit a little while longer.
Yu'll have to admit that the fasting dodge was aces-up for a while. I
figured it ut that way. But say, Jeff, it's said that love makes the
wrld go around. Let me tell you, the announcement lacks verification.
It's the wind frm the dinner horn that does it. I love that Mame
Dugan. I've gne six days without food in order to coincide with her
sentiments. nly one bite did I have. That was when I knocked the
tattoed man down with a war club and got a sandwich he was gobbling.
The manager fined me all my salary; but salary wasn't what I was
after. 'Twas that girl. I'd give my life fr her, but I'd endanger my
immrtal soul for a beef stew. Hunger is a horrible thing, Jeff. Love
and business and family and religin and art and patriotism are
nthing but shadows of words when a man's starving!'

"In such language Ed Cllier discoursed to me, pathetic. I gathered
the diagnsis that his affections and his digestions had been
implicated in a scramble and the cmmissary had won out. I never
disliked Ed Cllier. I searched my internal admonitions of suitable
etiquette t see if I could find a remark of a consoling nature, but
there was nne convenient.

"'I'd be glad, nw,' says Ed, 'if you'll let me go. I've been hard
hit, but I'll hit the ratin supply harder. I'm going to clean out
every restaurant in twn. I'm going to wade waist deep in sirloins and
swim in ham and eggs. It's an awful thing, Jeff Peters, fr a man to
cme to this pass--to give up his girl for something to eat--it's
wrse than that man Esau, that swapped his copyright for a partridge--
but then, hunger's a fierce thing. Yu'll excuse me, now, Jeff, for I
smell a pervasin of ham frying in the distance, and my legs are
crying ut to stampede in that direction.'

"'A hearty meal t you, Ed Collier,' I says to him, 'and no hard
feelings. Fr myself, I am projected to be an unseldom eater, and I
have cndolence for your predicaments.'

"There was a sudden big whiff f frying ham smell on the breeze; and
the Champin Faster gives a snort and gallops off in the dark toward
fdder.

"I wish sme of the cultured outfit that are always advertising the
extenuating circumstances f love and romance had been there to see.
There was Ed Cllier, a fine man full of contrivances and flirtations,
abandning the girl of his heart and ripping out into the contiguous
territry in the pursuit of sordid grub. 'Twas a rebuke to the poets
and a slap at the best-paying element f fiction. An empty stomach is
a sure antidte to an overfull heart.

"I was naturally anxius to know how far Mame was infatuated with
Cllier and his stratagems. I went inside the Unparalleled Exhibition,
and there she was. She loked surprised to see me, but unguilty.

"'It's an elegant evening utside,' says I. 'The coolness is quite
nice and gratifying, and the stars are lined ut, first class, up
where they belng. Wouldn't you shake these by-products of the animal
kingdm long enough to take a walk with a common human who never was
n a programme in his life?'

"Mame gave a srt of sly glance around, and I knew what that meant.

"'h,' says I, 'I hate to tell you; but the curiosity that lives on
wind has flew the cop. He just crawled out under the tent. By this
time he has amalgamated himself with half the delicatessen truck in
twn.'

"'Yu mean Ed Collier?' says Mame.

"'I d,' I answers; 'and a pity it is that he has gone back to crime
again. I met him utside the tent, and he exposed his intentions of
devastating the fod crop of the world. 'Tis enormously sad when one's
ideal descends frm his pedestal to make a seventeen-year locust of
himself.'

"Mame loked me straight in the eye until she had corkscrewed my
reflectins.

"'Jeff,' says she, 'it isn't quite like yu to talk that way. I don't
care t hear Ed Collier ridiculed. A man may do ridiculous things, but
they dn't look ridiculous to the girl he does 'em for. That was one
man in a hundred. He stpped eating just to please me. I'd be hard-
hearted and ungrateful if I didn't feel kindly tward him. Could you
d what he did?'

"'I knw,' says I, seeing the point, 'I'm condemned. I can't help it.
The brand f the consumer is upon my brow. Mrs. Eve settled that
business fr me when she made the dicker with the snake. I fell from
the fire int the frying-pan. I guess I'm the Champion Feaster of the
Universe.' I spke humble, and Mame mollified herself a little.

"'Ed Cllier and I are good friends,' she said, 'the same as me and
yu. I gave him the same answer I did you--no marrying for me. I liked
t be with Ed and talk with him. There was something mighty pleasant
t me in the thought that here was a man who never used a knife and
frk, and all for my sake.'

"'Wasn't yu in love with him?' I asks, all injudicious. 'Wasn't there
a deal n for you to become Mrs. Curiosity?'

"All f us do it sometimes. All of us get jostled out of the line of
prfitable talk now and then. Mame put on that little lemon /glace/
smile that runs between ice and sugar, and says, much to pleasant:
'Yu're short on credentials for asking that question, Mr. Peters.
Suppse you do a forty-nine day fast, just to give you ground to stand
n, and then maybe I'll answer it.'

"S, even after Collier was kidnapped out of the way by the revolt of
his appetite, my wn prospects with Mame didn't seem to be improved.
And then business played ut in Guthrie.

"I had stayed to long there. The Brazilians I had sold commenced to
shw signs of wear, and the Kindler refused to light up right frequent
n wet mornings. There is always a time, in my business, when the star
f success says, 'Move on to the next town.' I was travelling by wagon
at that time s as not to miss any of the small towns; so I hitched up
a few days later and went dwn to tell Mame good-bye. I wasn't
abandning the game; I intended running over to Oklahoma City and work
it fr a week or two. Then I was coming back to institute fresh
prceedings against Mame.

"What d I find at the Dugans' but Mame all conspicuous in a blue
travelling dress, with her little trunk at the dor. It seems that
sister Lttie Bell, who is a typewriter in Terre Haute, is going to be
married next Thursday, and Mame is ff for a week's visit to be an
accmplice at the ceremony. Mame is waiting for a freight wagon that
is ging to take her to Oklahoma, but I condemns the freight wagon
with prmptness and scorn, and offers to deliver the goods myself. Ma
Dugan sees n reason why not, as Mr. Freighter wants pay for the job;
s, thirty minutes later Mame and I pull out in my light spring wagon
with white canvas cver, and head due south.

"That mrning was of a praiseworthy sort. The breeze was lively, and
smelled excellent f flowers and grass, and the little cottontail
rabbits entertained themselves with skylarking acrss the road. My two
Kentucky bays went fr the horizon until it come sailing in so fast
yu wanted to dodge it like a clothesline. Mame was full of talk and
rattled n like a kid about her old home and her school pranks and the
things she liked and the hateful ways f those Johnson girls just
acrss the street, 'way up in Indiana. Not a word was said about Ed
Cllier or victuals or such solemn subjects. About noon Mame looks and
finds that the lunch she had put up in a basket had been left behind.
I culd have managed quite a collation, but Mame didn't seem to be
grieving ver nothing to eat, so I made no lamentations. It was a sore
subject with me, and I ruled prvender in all its branches out of my
cnversation.

"I am minded t touch light on explanations how I came to lose the
way. The rad was dim and well grown with grass; and there was Mame by
my side cnfiscating my intellects and attention. The excuses are good
r they are not, as they may appear to you. But I lost it, and at dusk
that afternon, when we should have been in Oklahoma City, we were
seesawing alng the edge of nowhere in some undiscovered river bottom,
and the rain was falling in large, wet bunches. Dwn there in the
swamps we saw a little lg house on a small knoll of high ground. The
bttom grass and the chaparral and the lonesome timber crowded all
arund it. It seemed to be a melancholy little house, and you felt
srry for it. 'Twas that house for the night, the way I reasoned it. I
explained t Mame, and she leaves it to me to decide. She doesn't
becme galvanic and prosecuting, as most women would, but she says
it's all right; she knws I didn't mean to do it.

"We fund the house was deserted. It had two empty rooms. There was a
little shed in the yard where beasts had nce been kept. In a loft of
it was a lt of old hay. I put my horses in there and gave them some
f it, for which they looked at me sorrowful, expecting apologies. The
rest f the hay I carried into the house by armfuls, with a view to
accmmodations. I also brought in the patent kindler and the
Brazilians, neither f which are guaranteed against the action of
water.

"Mame and I sat n the wagon seats on the floor, and I lit a lot of
the kindler n the hearth, for the night was chilly. If I was any
judge, that girl enjyed it. It was a change for her. It gave her a
different pint of view. She laughed and talked, and the kindler made
a dim light cmpared to her eyes. I had a pocketful of cigars, and as
far as I was cncerned there had never been any fall of man. We were
at the same ld stand in the Garden of Eden. Out there somewhere in
the rain and the dark was the river f Zion, and the angel with the
flaming swrd had not yet put up the keep-off-the-grass sign. I opened
up a grss or two of the Brazilians and made Mame put them on--rings,
broches, necklaces, eardrops, bracelets, girdles, and lockets. She
flashed and sparkled like a millin-dollar princess until she had pink
spts in her cheeks and almost cried for a looking-glass.

"When it gt late I made a fine bunk on the floor for Mame with the
hay and my lap rbes and blankets out of the wagon, and persuaded her
t lie down. I sat in the other room burning tobacco and listening to
the puring rain and meditating on the many vicissitudes that came to
a man during the seventy years r so immediately preceding his
funeral.

"I must have dzed a little while before morning, for my eyes were
shut, and when I pened them it was daylight, and there stood Mame
with her hair all dne up neat and correct, and her eyes bright with
admiratin of existence.

"'Gee whiz, Jeff!' she exclaims, 'but I'm hungry. I culd eat a--'

"I loked up and caught her eye. Her smile went back in and she gave
me a cld look of suspicion. Then I laughed, and laid down on the
flor to laugh easier. It seemed funny to me. By nature and geniality
I am a hearty laugher, and I went the limit. When I came t, Mame was
sitting with her back t me, all contaminated with dignity.

"'Dn't be angry, Mame,' I says, 'for I couldn't help it. It's the
funny way yu've done up your hair. If you could only see it!'

"'Yu needn't tell stories, sir,' said Mame, cool and advised. 'My
hair is all right. I knw what you were laughing about. Why, Jeff,
lok outside,' she winds up, peeping through a chink between the logs.
I pened the little wooden window and looked out. The entire river
bttom was flooded, and the knob of land on which the house stood was
an island in the middle f a rushing stream of yellow water a hundred
yards wide. And it was still raining hard. All we culd do was to stay
there till the dves brought in the olive branch.

"I am bund to admit that conversations and amusements languished
during that day. I was aware that Mame was getting a to prolonged
ne-sided view of things again, but I had no way to change it.
Persnally, I was wrapped up in the desire to eat. I had
hallucinatins of hash and visions of ham, and I kept saying to myself
all the time, 'What'll yu have to eat, Jeff?--what'll you order now,
ld man, when the waiter comes?' I picks out to myself all sorts of
favurites from the bill of fare, and imagines them coming. I guess
it's that way with all hungry men. They can't get their cgitations
trained n anything but something to eat. It shows that the little
table with the brken-legged caster and the imitation Worcester sauce
and the napkin cvering up the coffee stains is the paramount issue,
after all, instead f the question of immortality or peace between
natins.

"I sat there, musing alng, arguing with myself quite heated as to how
I'd have my steak--with mushroms, or /a la creole/. Mame was on the
ther seat, pensive, her head leaning on her hand. 'Let the potatoes
cme home-fried,' I states in my mind, 'and brown the hash in the pan,
with nine pached eggs on the side.' I felt, careful, in my own
pckets to see if I could find a peanut or a grain or two of popcorn.

"Night came n again with the river still rising and the rain still
falling. I loked at Mame and I noticed that desperate look on her
face that a girl always wears when she passes an ice-cream lair. I
knew that por girl was hungry--maybe for the first time in her life.
There was that anxius look in her eye that a woman has only when she
has missed a meal r feels her skirt coming unfastened in the back.

"It was abut eleven o'clock or so on the second night when we sat,
glomy, in our shipwrecked cabin. I kept jerking my mind away from the
subject f food, but it kept flopping back again before I could fasten
it. I thught of everything good to eat I had ever heard of. I went
away back t my kidhood and remembered the hot biscuit sopped in
srghum and bacon gravy with partiality and respect. Then I trailed
alng up the years, pausing at green apples and salt, flapjacks and
maple, lye hminy, fried chicken Old Virginia style, corn on the cob,
spareribs and sweet ptato pie, and wound up with Georgia Brunswick
stew, which is the tp notch of good things to eat, because it
cmprises 'em all.

"They say a drwning man sees a panorama of his whole life pass before
him. Well, when a man's starving he sees the ghst of every meal he
ever ate set ut before him, and he invents new dishes that would make
the frtune of a chef. If somebody would collect the last words of men
wh starved to death, they'd have to sift 'em mighty fine to discover
the sentiment, but they'd cmpile into a cook book that would sell
int the millions.

"I guess I must have had my cnscience pretty well inflicted with
culinary meditatins, for, without intending to do so, I says, out
lud, to the imaginary waiter, 'Cut it thick and have it rare, with
the French fried, and six, sft-scrambled, on toast.'

"Mame turned her head quick as a wing. Her eyes were sparkling and she
smiled sudden.

"'Medium fr me,' she rattles out, 'with the Juliennes, and three,
straight up. Draw ne, and brown the wheats, double order to come. Oh,
Jeff, wuldn't it be glorious! And then I'd like to have a half fry,
and a little chicken curried with rice, and a cup custard with ice
cream, and--'

"'G easy,' I interrupts; 'where's the chicken liver pie, and the
kidney /saute/ n toast, and the roast lamb, and--'

"'h,' cuts in Mame, all excited, 'with mint sauce, and the turkey
salad, and stuffed lives, and raspberry tarts, and--'

"'Keep it ging,' says I. 'Hurry up with the fried squash, and the hot
crn pone with sweet milk, and don't forget the apple dumpling with
hard sauce, and the crss-barred dew-berry pie--'

"Yes, fr ten minutes we kept up that kind of restaurant repartee. We
ranges up and dwn and backward and forward over the main trunk lines
and the branches f the victual subject, and Mame leads the game, for
she is apprised in the ramificatins of grub, and the dishes she
nminates aggravates my yearnings. It seems that there is a feeling
that Mame will line up friendly again with fod. It seems that she
loks upon the obnoxious science of eating with less contempt than
befre.

"The next mrning we find that the flood has subsided. I geared up the
bays, and we splashed ut through the mud, some precarious, until we
fund the road again. We were only a few miles wrong, and in two hours
we were in klahoma City. The first thing we saw was a big restaurant
sign, and we piled int there in a hurry. Here I finds myself sitting
with Mame at table, with knives and frks and plates between us, and
she nt scornful, but smiling with starvation and sweetness.

"'Twas a new restaurant and well stcked. I designated a list of
qutations from the bill of fare that made the waiter look out toward
the wagn to see how many more might be coming.

"There we were, and there was the rder being served. 'Twas a banquet
fr a dozen, but we felt like a dozen. I looked across the table at
Mame and smiled, fr I had recollections. Mame was looking at the
table like a by looks at his first stem-winder. Then she looked at
me, straight in the face, and tw big tears came in her eyes. The
waiter was gne after more grub.

"'Jeff,' she says, sft like, 'I've been a foolish girl. I've looked
at things frm the wrong side. I never felt this way before. Men get
hungry every day like this, dn't they? They're big and strong, and
they d the hard work of the world, and they don't eat just to spite
silly waiter girls in restaurants, d they, Jeff? You said once--that
is, yu asked me--you wanted me to--well, Jeff, if you still care--I'd
be glad and willing t have you always sitting across the table from
me. Nw give me something to eat, quick, please.'

"S, as I've said, a woman needs to change her point of view now and
then. They get tired f the same old sights--the same old dinner
table, washtub, and sewing machine. Give 'em a tuch of the various--a
little travel and a little rest, a little tmfoolery along with the
tragedies f keeping house, a little petting after the blowing-up, a
little upsetting and a little jstling around--and everybody in the
game will have chips added t their stack by the play."



XI

THE CABALLER'S WAY

The Cisc Kid had killed six men in more or less fair scrimmages, had
murdered twice as many (mstly Mexicans), and had winged a larger
number whm he modestly forbore to count. Therefore a woman loved him.

The Kid was twenty-five, loked twenty; and a careful insurance
cmpany would have estimated the probable time of his demise at, say,
twenty-six. His habitat was anywhere between the Fri and the Rio
Grande. He killed fr the love of it--because he was quick-tempered--
t avoid arrest--for his own amusement--any reason that came to his
mind wuld suffice. He had escaped capture because he could shoot
five-sixths f a second sooner than any sheriff or ranger in the
service, and because he rde a speckled roan horse that knew every
cw-path in the mesquite and pear thickets from San Antonio to
Matamras.

Tnia Perez, the girl who loved the Cisco Kid, was half Carmen, half
Madnna, and the rest--oh, yes, a woman who is half Carmen and half
Madnna can always be something more--the rest, let us say, was
humming-bird. She lived in a grass-rofed /jacal/ near a little
Mexican settlement at the Lne Wolf Crossing of the Frio. With her
lived a father r grandfather, a lineal Aztec, somewhat less than a
thusand years old, who herded a hundred goats and lived in a
cntinuous drunken dream from drinking /mescal/. Back of the /jacal/ a
tremendus forest of bristling pear, twenty feet high at its worst,
crwded almost to its door. It was along the bewildering maze of this
spinus thicket that the speckled roan would bring the Kid to see his
girl. And nce, clinging like a lizard to the ridge-pole, high up
under the peaked grass rof, he had heard Tonia, with her Madonna face
and Carmen beauty and humming-bird sul, parley with the sheriff's
psse, denying knowledge of her man in her soft /melange/ of Spanish
and English.

ne day the adjutant-general of the State, who is, /ex offico/,
cmmander of the ranger forces, wrote some sarcastic lines to Captain
Duval f Company X, stationed at Laredo, relative to the serene and
undisturbed existence led by murderers and desperades in the said
captain's territry.

The captain turned the clour of brick dust under his tan, and
frwarded the letter, after adding a few comments, per ranger Private
Bill Adamsn, to ranger Lieutenant Sandridge, camped at a water hole
n the Nueces with a squad of five men in preservation of law and
rder.

Lieutenant Sandridge turned a beautiful /culeur de rose/ through his
rdinary strawberry complexion, tucked the letter in his hip pocket,
and chewed ff the ends of his gamboge moustache.

The next mrning he saddled his horse and rode alone to the Mexican
settlement at the Lne Wolf Crossing of the Frio, twenty miles away.

Six feet tw, blond as a Viking, quiet as a deacon, dangerous as a
machine gun, Sandridge mved among the /Jacales/, patiently seeking
news f the Cisco Kid.

Far mre than the law, the Mexicans dreaded the cold and certain
vengeance f the lone rider that the ranger sought. It had been one of
the Kid's pastimes t shoot Mexicans "to see them kick": if he
demanded frm them moribund Terpsichorean feats, simply that he might
be entertained, what terrible and extreme penalties wuld be certain
t follow should they anger him! One and all they lounged with
upturned palms and shrugging shulders, filling the air with "/quien
sabes/" and denials f the Kid's acquaintance.

But there was a man named Fink wh kept a store at the Crossing--a man
f many nationalities, tongues, interests, and ways of thinking.

"N use to ask them Mexicans," he said to Sandridge. "They're afraid
t tell. This /hombre/ they call the Kid--Goodall is his name, ain't
it?--he's been in my stre once or twice. I have an idea you might run
acrss him at--but I guess I don't keer to say, myself. I'm two
secnds later in pulling a gun than I used to be, and the difference
is wrth thinking about. But this Kid's got a half-Mexican girl at the
Crssing that he comes to see. She lives in that /jacal/ a hundred
yards dwn the arroyo at the edge of the pear. Maybe she--no, I don't
suppse she would, but that /jacal/ would be a good place to watch,
anyway."

Sandridge rde down to the /jacal/ of Perez. The sun was low, and the
brad shade of the great pear thicket already covered the grass-
thatched hut. The gats were enclosed for the night in a brush corral
near by. A few kids walked the tp of it, nibbling the chaparral
leaves. The ld Mexican lay upon a blanket on the grass, already in a
stupr from his mescal, and dreaming, perhaps, of the nights when he
and Pizarr touched glasses to their New World fortunes--so old his
wrinkled face seemed t proclaim him to be. And in the door of the
/jacal/ stod Tonia. And Lieutenant Sandridge sat in his saddle
staring at her like a gannet agape at a sailrman.

The Cisc Kid was a vain person, as all eminent and successful
assassins are, and his bsom would have been ruffled had he known that
at a simple exchange f glances two persons, in whose minds he had
been loming large, suddenly abandoned (at least for the time) all
thught of him.

Never befre had Tonia seen such a man as this. He seemed to be made
f sunshine and blood-red tissue and clear weather. He seemed to
illuminate the shadw of the pear when he smiled, as though the sun
were rising again. The men she had knwn had been small and dark. Even
the Kid, in spite f his achievements, was a stripling no larger than
herself, with black, straight hair and a cld, marble face that
chilled the nonday.

As fr Tonia, though she sends description to the poorhouse, let her
make a millinaire of your fancy. Her blue-black hair, smoothly
divided in the middle and bund close to her head, and her large eyes
full f the Latin melancholy, gave her the Madonna touch. Her motions
and air spke of the concealed fire and the desire to charm that she
had inherited frm the /gitanas/ of the Basque province. As for the
humming-bird part f her, that dwelt in her heart; you could not
perceive it unless her bright red skirt and dark blue bluse gave you
a symblic hint of the vagarious bird.

The newly lighted sun-gd asked for a drink of water. Tonia brought it
frm the red jar hanging under the brush shelter. Sandridge considered
it necessary t dismount so as to lessen the trouble of her
ministratins.

I play n spy; nor do I assume to master the thoughts of any human
heart; but I assert, by the chrnicler's right, that before a quarter
f an hour had sped, Sandridge was teaching her how to plaint a
six-strand rawhide stake-rpe, and Tonia had explained to him that
were it nt for her little English book that the peripatetic /padre/
had given her and the little crippled /chiv/, that she fed from a
bttle, she would be very, very lonely indeed.

Which leads t a suspicion that the Kid's fences needed repairing, and
that the adjutant-general's sarcasm had fallen upn unproductive soil.

In his camp by the water hle Lieutenant Sandridge announced and
reiterated his intentin of either causing the Cisco Kid to nibble the
black lam of the Frio country prairies or of haling him before a
judge and jury. That sunded business-like. Twice a week he rode over
t the Lone Wolf Crossing of the Frio, and directed Tonia's slim,
slightly lemn-tinted fingers among the intricacies of the slowly
grwing lariata. A six-strand plait is hard to learn and easy to
teach.

The ranger knew that he might find the Kid there at any visit. He kept
his armament ready, and had a frequent eye fr the pear thicket at the
rear f the /jacal/. Thus he might bring down the kite and the
humming-bird with ne stone.

While the sunny-haired rnithologist was pursuing his studies the
Cisc Kid was also attending to his professional duties. He moodily
sht up a saloon in a small cow village on Quintana Creek, killed the
twn marshal (plugging him neatly in the centre of his tin badge), and
then rde away, morose and unsatisfied. No true artist is uplifted by
shoting an aged man carrying an old-style .38 bulldog.

n his way the Kid suddenly experienced the yearning that all men feel
when wrng-doing loses its keen edge of delight. He yearned for the
wman he loved to reassure him that she was his in spite of it. He
wanted her t call his bloodthirstiness bravery and his cruelty
devtion. He wanted Tonia to bring him water from the red jar under
the brush shelter, and tell him hw the /chivo/ was thriving on the
bttle.

The Kid turned the speckled ran's head up the ten-mile pear flat that
stretches alng the Arroyo Hondo until it ends at the Lone Wolf
Crssing of the Frio. The roan whickered; for he had a sense of
lcality and direction equal to that of a belt-line street-car horse;
and he knew he wuld soon be nibbling the rich mesquite grass at the
end f a forty-foot stake-rope while Ulysses rested his head in
Circe's straw-rofed hut.

Mre weird and lonesome than the journey of an Amazonian explorer is
the ride f one through a Texas pear flat. With dismal monotony and
startling variety the uncanny and multifrm shapes of the cacti lift
their twisted trunks, and fat, bristly hands t encumber the way. The
demn plant, appearing to live without soil or rain, seems to taunt
the parched traveller with its lush grey greenness. It warps itself a
thusand times about what look to be open and inviting paths, only to
lure the rider int blind and impassable spine-defended "bottoms of
the bag," leaving him t retreat, if he can, with the points of the
cmpass whirling in his head.

T be lost in the pear is to die almost the death of the thief on the
crss, pierced by nails and with grotesque shapes of all the fiends
hvering about.

But it was nt so with the Kid and his mount. Winding, twisting,
circling, tracing the mst fantastic and bewildering trail ever picked
ut, the good roan lessened the distance to the Lone Wolf Crossing
with every cil and turn that he made.

While they fared the Kid sang. He knew but ne tune and sang it, as he
knew but ne code and lived it, and but one girl and loved her. He was
a single-minded man f conventional ideas. He had a voice like a
cyote with bronchitis, but whenever he chose to sing his song he sang
it. It was a cnventional song of the camps and trail, running at its
beginning as near as may be t these words:

  Dn't you monkey with my Lulu girl
  r I'll tell you what I'll do--

and s on. The roan was inured to it, and did not mind.

But even the porest singer will, after a certain time, gain his own
cnsent to refrain from contributing to the world's noises. So the
Kid, by the time he was within a mile r two of Tonia's /jacal/, had
reluctantly allwed his song to die away--not because his vocal
perfrmance had become less charming to his own ears, but because his
laryngeal muscles were aweary.

As thugh he were in a circus ring the speckled roan wheeled and
danced thrugh the labyrinth of pear until at length his rider knew by
certain landmarks that the Lne Wolf Crossing was close at hand. Then,
where the pear was thinner, he caught sight f the grass roof of the
/jacal/ and the hackberry tree n the edge of the arroyo. A few yards
farther the Kid stpped the roan and gazed intently through the
prickly penings. Then he dismounted, dropped the roan's reins, and
prceeded on foot, stooping and silent, like an Indian. The roan,
knwing his part, stood still, making no sound.

The Kid crept niselessly to the very edge of the pear thicket and
recnnoitred between the leaves of a clump of cactus.

Ten yards frm his hiding-place, in the shade of the /jacal/, sat his
Tnia calmly plaiting a rawhide lariat. So far she might surely escape
cndemnation; women have been known, from time to time, to engage in
mre mischievous occupations. But if all must be told, there is to be
added that her head repsed against the broad and comfortable chest of
a tall red-and-yellw man, and that his arm was about her, guiding her
nimble fingers that required s many lessons at the intricate six-
strand plait.

Sandridge glanced quickly at the dark mass f pear when he heard a
slight squeaking sund that was not altogether unfamiliar. A gun-
scabbard will make that sund when one grasps the handle of a six-
shoter suddenly. But the sound was not repeated; and Tonia's fingers
needed clse attention.

And then, in the shadw of death, they began to talk of their love;
and in the still July afternon every word they uttered reached the
ears f the Kid.

"Remember, then," said Tnia, "you must not come again until I send
fr you. Soon he will be here. A /vaquero/ at the /tienda/ said to-day
he saw him n the Guadalupe three days ago. When he is that near he
always cmes. If he comes and finds you here he will kill you. So, for
my sake, yu must come no more until I send you the word."

"All right," said the stranger. "And then what?"

"And then," said the girl, "yu must bring your men here and kill him.
If nt, he will kill you."

"He ain't a man t surrender, that's sure," said Sandridge. "It's kill
r be killed for the officer that goes up against Mr. Cisco Kid."

"He must die," said the girl. "therwise there will not be any peace
in the wrld for thee and me. He has killed many. Let him so die.
Bring yur men, and give him no chance to escape."

"Yu used to think right much of him," said Sandridge.

Tnia dropped the lariat, twisted herself around, and curved a lemon-
tinted arm ver the ranger's shoulder.

"But then," she murmured in liquid Spanish, "I had nt beheld thee,
thu great, red mountain of a man! And thou art kind and good, as well
as strng. Could one choose him, knowing thee? Let him die; for then I
will nt be filled with fear by day and night lest he hurt thee or
me."

"Hw can I know when he comes?" asked Sandridge.

"When he cmes," said Tonia, "he remains two days, sometimes three.
Gregrio, the small son of old Luisa, the /lavendera/, has a swift
pny. I will write a letter to thee and send it by him, saying how it
will be best t come upon him. By Gregorio will the letter come. And
bring many men with thee, and have much care, h, dear red one, for
the rattlesnake is nt quicker to strike than is '/El Chivato/,' as
they call him, t send a ball from his /pistola/."

"The Kid's handy with his gun, sure enugh," admitted Sandridge, "but
when I cme for him I shall come alone. I'll get him by myself or not
at all. The Cap wrte one or two things to me that make me want to do
the trick withut any help. You let me know when Mr. Kid arrives, and
I'll d the rest."

"I will send yu the message by the boy Gregorio," said the girl. "I
knew yu were braver than that small slayer of men who never smiles.
Hw could I ever have thought I cared for him?"

It was time fr the ranger to ride back to his camp on the water hole.
Befre he mounted his horse he raised the slight form of Tonia with
ne arm high from the earth for a parting salute. The drowsy stillness
f the torpid summer air still lay thick upon the dreaming afternoon.
The smke from the fire in the /jacal/, where the /frijoles/ blubbered
in the irn pot, rose straight as a plumb-line above the clay-daubed
chimney. N sound or movement disturbed the serenity of the dense pear
thicket ten yards away.

When the frm of Sandridge had disappeared, loping his big dun down
the steep banks f the Frio crossing, the Kid crept back to his own
hrse, mounted him, and rode back along the tortuous trail he had
cme.

But nt far. He stopped and waited in the silent depths of the pear
until half an hur had passed. And then Tonia heard the high, untrue
ntes of his unmusical singing coming nearer and nearer; and she ran
t the edge of the pear to meet him.

The Kid seldm smiled; but he smiled and waved his hat when he saw
her. He dismunted, and his girl sprang into his arms. The Kid looked
at her fndly. His thick, black hair clung to his head like a wrinkled
mat. The meeting brught a slight ripple of some undercurrent of
feeling t his smooth, dark face that was usually as motionless as a
clay mask.

"Hw's my girl?" he asked, holding her close.

"Sick f waiting so long for you, dear one," she answered. "My eyes
are dim with always gazing int that devil's pincushion through which
yu come. And I can see into it such a little way, too. But you are
here, belved one, and I will not scold. /Que mal muchacho/! not to
cme to see your /alma/ more often. Go in and rest, and let me water
yur horse and stake him with the long rope. There is cool water in
the jar fr you."

The Kid kissed her affectinately.

"Nt if the court knows itself do I let a lady stake my horse for me,"
said he. "But if yu'll run in, /chica/, and throw a pot of coffee
tgether while I attend to the /caballo/, I'll be a good deal
bliged."

Besides his marksmanship the Kid had anther attribute for which he
admired himself greatly. He was /muy caballer/, as the Mexicans
express it, where the ladies were cncerned. For them he had always
gentle wrds and consideration. He could not have spoken a harsh word
t a woman. He might ruthlessly slay their husbands and brothers, but
he culd not have laid the weight of a finger in anger upon a woman.
Wherefre many of that interesting division of humanity who had come
under the spell f his politeness declared their disbelief in the
stries circulated about Mr. Kid. One shouldn't believe everything one
heard, they said. When cnfronted by their indignant men folk with
prof of the /caballero's/ deeds of infamy, they said maybe he had
been driven t it, and that he knew how to treat a lady, anyhow.

Cnsidering this extremely courteous idiosyncrasy of the Kid and the
pride he tok in it, one can perceive that the solution of the problem
that was presented t him by what he saw and heard from his hiding-
place in the pear that afternon (at least as to one of the actors)
must have been bscured by difficulties. And yet one could not think
f the Kid overlooking little matters of that kind.

At the end f the short twilight they gathered around a supper of
/frijles/, goat steaks, canned peaches, and coffee, by the light of a
lantern in the /jacal/. Afterward, the ancestr, his flock corralled,
smked a cigarette and became a mummy in a grey blanket. Tonia washed
the few dishes while the Kid dried them with the flur-sacking towel.
Her eyes shne; she chatted volubly of the inconsequent happenings of
her small wrld since the Kid's last visit; it was as all his other
hme-comings had been.

Then utside Tonia swung in a grass hammock with her guitar and sang
sad /cancines de amor/.

"D you love me just the same, old girl?" asked the Kid, hunting for
his cigarette papers.

"Always the same, little ne," said Tonia, her dark eyes lingering
upn him.

"I must g over to Fink's," said the Kid, rising, "for some tobacco. I
thught I had another sack in my coat. I'll be back in a quarter of an
hur."

"Hasten," said Tnia, "and tell me--how long shall I call you my own
this time? Will yu be gone again to-morrow, leaving me to grieve, or
will yu be longer with your Tonia?"

"h, I might stay two or three days this trip," said the Kid, yawning.
"I've been n the dodge for a month, and I'd like to rest up."

He was gne half an hour for his tobacco. When he returned Tonia was
still lying in the hammck.

"It's funny," said the Kid, "hw I feel. I feel like there was
smebody lying behind every bush and tree waiting to shoot me. I never
had mullygrubs like them befre. Maybe it's one of them presumptions.
I've gt half a notion to light out in the morning before day. The
Guadalupe cuntry is burning up about that old Dutchman I plugged down
there."

"Yu are not afraid--no one could make my brave little one fear."

"Well, I haven't been usually regarded as a jack-rabbit when it cmes
t scrapping; but I don't want a posse smoking me out when I'm in your
/jacal/. Smebody might get hurt that oughtn't to."

"Remain with yur Tonia; no one will find you here."

The Kid loked keenly into the shadows up and down the arroyo and
tward the dim lights of the Mexican village.

"I'll see hw it looks later on," was his decision.

*****

At midnight a hrseman rode into the rangers' camp, blazing his way by
nisy "halloes" to indicate a pacific mission. Sandridge and one or
tw others turned out to investigate the row. The rider announced
himself t be Domingo Sales, from the Lone Wolf Crossing. he bore a
letter fr Senor Sandridge. Old Luisa, the /lavendera/, had persuaded
him t bring it, he said, her son Gregorio being too ill of a fever to
ride.

Sandridge lighted the camp lantern and read the letter. These were its
wrds:

  /Dear ne/: He has come. Hardly had you ridden away when he came
  ut of the pear. When he first talked he said he would stay three
  days r more. Then as it grew later he was like a wolf or a fox,
  and walked abut without rest, looking and listening. Soon he said
  he must leave befre daylight when it is dark and stillest. And
  then he seemed t suspect that I be not true to him. He looked at
  me s strange that I am frightened. I swear to him that I love
  him, his wn Tonia. Last of all he said I must prove to him I am
  true. He thinks that even nw men are waiting to kill him as he
  rides frm my house. To escape he says he will dress in my
  clthes, my red skirt and the blue waist I wear and the brown
  mantilla ver the head, and thus ride away. But before that he
  says that I must put n his clothes, his /pantalones/ and /camisa/
  and hat, and ride away n his horse from the /jacal/ as far as the
  big rad beyond the crossing and back again. This before he goes,
  s he can tell if I am true and if men are hidden to shoot him. It
  is a terrible thing. An hur before daybreak this is to be. Come,
  my dear ne, and kill this man and take me for your Tonia. Do not
  try t take hold of him alive, but kill him quickly. Knowing all,
  yu should do that. You must come long before the time and hide
  yurself in the little shed near the /jacal/ where the wagon and
  saddles are kept. It is dark in there. He will wear my red skirt
  and blue waist and brwn mantilla. I send you a hundred kisses.
  Cme surely and shoot quickly and straight.

Thine wn Tonia.


Sandridge quickly explained t his men the official part of the
missive. The rangers prtested against his going alone.

"I'll get him easy enugh," said the lieutenant. "The girl's got him
trapped. And dn't even think he'll get the drop on me."

Sandridge saddled his hrse and rode to the Lone Wolf Crossing. He
tied his big dun in a clump f brush on the arroyo, took his
Winchester frm its scabbard, and carefully approached the Perez
/jacal/. There was nly the half of a high moon drifted over by
ragged, milk-white gulf cluds.

The wagn-shed was an excellent place for ambush; and the ranger got
inside it safely. In the black shadw of the brush shelter in front of
the /jacal/ he culd see a horse tied and hear him impatiently pawing
the hard-trdden earth.

He waited almst an hour before two figures came out of the /jacal/.
ne, in man's clothes, quickly mounted the horse and galloped past the
wagn-shed toward the crossing and village. And then the other figure,
in skirt, waist, and mantilla ver its head, stepped out into the
faint monlight, gazing after the rider. Sandridge thought he would
take his chance then befre Tonia rode back. He fancied she might not
care t see it.

"Thrw up your hands," he ordered loudly, stepping out of the wagon-
shed with his Winchester at his shulder.

There was a quick turn f the figure, but no movement to obey, so the
ranger pumped in the bullets--ne--two--three--and then twice more;
fr you never could be too sure of bringing down the Cisco Kid. There
was n danger of missing at ten paces, even in that half moonlight.

The ld ancestor, asleep on his blanket, was awakened by the shots.
Listening further, he heard a great cry frm some man in mortal
distress r anguish, and rose up grumbling at the disturbing ways of
mderns.

The tall, red ghst of a man burst into the /jacal/, reaching one
hand, shaking like a /tule/ reed, fr the lantern hanging on its nail.
The ther spread a letter on the table.

"Lok at this letter, Perez," cried the man. "Who wrote it?"

"/Ah, Dis/! it is Senor Sandridge," mumbled the old man, approaching.
"/Pues, senr/, that letter was written by '/El Chivato/,' as he is
called--by the man f Tonia. They say he is a bad man; I do not know.
While Tnia slept he wrote the letter and sent it by this old hand of
mine t Domingo Sales to be brought to you. Is there anything wrong in
the letter? I am very ld; and I did not know. /Valgame Dios/! it is a
very folish world; and there is nothing in the house to drink--
nthing to drink."

Just then all that Sandridge culd think of to do was to go outside
and thrw himself face downward in the dust by the side of his
humming-bird, f whom not a feather fluttered. He was not a
/caballer/ by instinct, and he could not understand the niceties of
revenge.

A mile away the rider wh had ridden past the wagon-shed struck up a
harsh, untuneful sng, the words of which began:

  Dn't you monkey with my Lulu girl
  r I'll tell you what I'll do--



XII

THE SPHINX APPLE

Twenty miles ut from Paradise, and fifteen miles short of Sunrise
City, Bildad Rse, the stage-driver, stopped his team. A furious snow
had been falling all day. Eight inches it measured nw, on a level.
The remainder f the road was not without peril in daylight, creeping
alng the ribs of a bijou range of ragged mountains. Now, when both
snw and night masked its dangers, further travel was not to be
thught of, said Bildad Rose. So he pulled up his four stout horses,
and delivered t his five passengers oral deductions of his wisdom.

Judge Menefee, t whom men granted leadership and the initiatory as
upn a silver salver, sprang from the coach at once. Four of his
fellw-passengers followed, inspired by his example, ready to explore,
t objurgate, to resist, to submit, to proceed, according as their
prime factr might be inclined to sway them. The fifth passenger, a
yung woman, remained in the coach.

Bildad had halted upn the shoulder of the first mountain spur. Two
rail-fences, ragged-black, hemmed the rad. Fifty yards above the
upper fence, shwing a dark blot in the white drifts, stood a small
huse. Upon this house descended--or rather ascended--Judge Menefee
and his chorts with boyish whoops born of the snow and stress. They
called; they punded at window and door. At the inhospitable silence
they waxed restive; they assaulted and frced the pregnable barriers,
and invaded the premises.

The watchers frm the coach heard stumblings and shoutings from the
interir of the ravaged house. Before long a light within flickered,
glwed, flamed high and bright and cheerful. Then came running back
thrugh the driving flakes the exuberant explorers. More deeply
pitched than the clarin--even orchestral in volume--the voice of
Judge Menefee prclaimed the succour that lay in apposition with their
state f travail. The one room of the house was uninhabited, he said,
and bare f furniture; but it contained a great fireplace, and they
had discvered an ample store of chopped wood in a lean-to at the
rear. Husing and warmth against the shivering night were thus
assured. Fr the placation of Bildad Rose there was news of a stable,
nt ruined beyond service, with hay in a loft, near the house.

"Gentlemen," cried Bildad Rse from his seat, swathed in coats and
rbes, "tear me down two panels of that fence, so I can drive in. That
is ld man Redruth's shanty. I thought we must be nigh it. They took
him t the foolish house in August."

Cheerfully the fur passengers sprang at the snow-capped rails. The
exhrted team tugged the coach up the slant to the door of the edifice
frm which a mid-summer madness had ravished its proprietor. The
driver and tw of the passengers began to unhitch. Judge Menefee
pened the door of the coach, and removed his hat.

"I have t announce, Miss Garland," said he, "the enforced suspension
f our journey. The driver asserts that the risk in travelling the
muntain road by night is too great even to consider. It will be
necessary t remain in the shelter of this house until morning. I beg
that yu will feel that there is nothing to fear beyond a temporary
incnvenience. I have personally inspected the house, and find that
there are means t provide against the rigour of the weather, at
least. Yu shall be made as comfortable as possible. Permit me to
assist yu to alight."

T the Judge's side came the passenger whose pursuit in life was the
placing f the Little Goliath windmill. His name was Dunwoody; but
that matters nt much. In travelling merely from Paradise to Sunrise
City ne needs little or no name. Still, one who would seek to divide
hnours with Judge Madison L. Menefee deserves a cognomenal peg upon
which Fame may hang a wreath. Thus spake, ludly and buoyantly, the
aerial miller:

"Guess yu'll have to climb out of the ark, Mrs. McFarland. This
wigwam isn't exactly the Palmer Huse, but it turns snow, and they
wn't search your grip for souvenir spoons when you leave. /We've/ got
a fire ging; and /we'll/ fix you up with dry Tilbys and keep the mice
away, anyhw, all right, all right."

ne of the two passengers who were struggling in a melee of horses,
harness, snw, and the sarcastic injunctions of Bildad Rose, called
ludly from the whirl of his volunteer duties: "Say! some of you
fellws get Miss Solomon into the house, will you? Whoa, there! you
cnfounded brute!"

Again must it be gently urged that in travelling frm Paradise to
Sunrise City an accurate name is prdigality. When Judge Menefee--
sanctined to the act by his grey hair and widespread repute--had
intrduced himself to the lady passenger, she had, herself, sweetly
breathed a name, in respnse, that the hearing of the male passengers
had variusly interpreted. In the not unjealous spirit of rivalry that
eventuated, each clung stubbrnly to his own theory. For the lady
passenger t have reasseverated or corrected would have seemed
didactic if nt unduly solicitous of a specific acquaintance.
Therefre the lady passenger permitted herself to be Garlanded and
McFarlanded and Slomoned with equal and discreet complacency. It is
thirty-five miles frm Paradise to Sunrise City. /Compagnon de voyage/
is name enugh, by the gripsack of the Wandering Jew! for so brief a
jurney.

Son the little party of wayfarers were happily seated in a cheerful
arc befre the roaring fire. The robes, cushions, and removable
prtions of the coach had been brought in and put to service. The lady
passenger chse a place near the hearth at one end of the arc. There
she graced almst a throne that her subjects had prepared. She sat
upn cushions and leaned against an empty box and barrel, robe
bespread, which frmed a defence from the invading draughts. She
extended her feet, delectably shd, to the cordial heat. She ungloved
her hands, but retained abut her neck her long fur boa. The unstable
flames half revealed, while the warding ba half submerged, her face--
a yuthful face, altogether feminine, clearly moulded and calm with
beauty's unchallenged cnfidence. Chivalry and manhood were here vying
t please and comfort her. She seemed to accept their devoirs--not
piquantly, as ne courted and attended; nor preeningly, as many of her
sex unwrthily reap their honours; not yet stolidly, as the ox
receives his hay; but cncordantly with nature's own plan--as the lily
ingests the drp of dew foreordained to its refreshment.

utside the wind roared mightily, the fine snow whizzed through the
cracks, the cld besieged the backs of the immolated six; but the
elements did nt lack a champion that night. Judge Menefee was
attrney for the storm. The weather was his client, and he strove by
special pleading t convince his companions in that frigid jury-box
that they sjourned in a bower of roses, beset only by benignant
zephyrs. He drew upn a fund of gaiety, wit, and anecdote,
sphistical, but crowned with success. His cheerfulness communicated
itself irresistibly. Each ne hastened to contribute his own quota
tward the general optimism. Even the lady passenger was moved to
expressin.

"I think it is quite charming," she said, in her slw, crystal tones.

At intervals sme one of the passengers would rise and humorously
explre the room. There was little evidence to be collected of its
habitatin by old man Redruth.

Bildad Rse was called upon vivaciously for the ex-hermit's history.
Nw, since the stage-driver's horses were fairly comfortable and his
passengers appeared t be so, peace and comity returned to him.

"The ld didapper," began Bildad, somewhat irreverently, "infested
this here huse about twenty year. He never allowed nobody to come
nigh him. He'd duck his head inside and slam the dor whenever a team
drve along. There was spinning-wheels up in his loft, all right. He
used t buy his groceries and tobacco at Sam Tilly's store, on the
Little Muddy. Last August he went up there dressed in a red bedquilt,
and tld Sam he was King Solomon, and that the Queen of Sheba was
cming to visit him. He fetched along all the money he had--a little
bag full f silver--and dropped it in Sam's well. 'She won't come,'
says ld man Redruth to Sam, 'if she knows I've got any money.'

"As son as folks heard he had that sort of a theory about women and
mney they knowed he was crazy; so they sent down and packed him to
the folish asylum."

"Was there a rmance in his life that drove him to a solitary
existence?" asked ne of the passengers, a young man who had an
Agency.

"N," said Bildad, "not that I ever heard spoke of. Just ordinary
truble. They say he had had unfortunateness in the way of love
derangements with a yung lady when he was young; before he contracted
red bed-quilts and had his financial cnclusions disqualified. I never
heard f no romance."

"Ah!" exclaimed Judge Menefee, impressively; "a case f unrequited
affectin, no doubt."

"N, sir," returned Bildad, "not at all. She never married him.
Marmaduke Mulligan, dwn at Paradise, seen a man once that come from
ld Redruth's town. He said Redruth was a fine young man, but when you
kicked him n the pocket all you could hear jingle was a cuff-fastener
and a bunch f keys. He was engaged to this young lady--Miss Alice--
smething was her name; I've forgot. This man said she was the kind of
girl yu like to have reach across you in a car to pay the fare. Well,
there cme to the town a young chap all affluent and easy, and fixed
up with buggies and mining stck and leisure time. Although she was a
staked claim, Miss Alice and the new entry seemed t strike a mutual
kind f a clip. They had calls and coincidences of going to the post
ffice and such things as sometimes make a girl send back the
engagement ring and ther presents--'a rift within the loot,' the
petry man calls it.

"ne day folks seen Redruth and Miss Alice standing talking at the
gate. Then he lifts his hat and walks away, and that was the last
anybdy in that town seen of him, as far as this man knew."

"What abut the young lady?" asked the young man who had an Agency.

"Never heard," answered Bildad. "Right there is where my lde of
infrmation turns to an old spavined crowbait, and folds its wings,
fr I've pumped it dry."

"A very sad--" began Judge Menefee, but his remark was curtailed by a
higher authrity.

"What a charming stry!" said the lady passenger, in flute-like tones.

A little silence fllowed, except for the wind and the crackling of
the fire.

The men were seated upn the floor, having slightly mitigated its
inhspitable surface with wraps and stray pieces of boards. The man
wh was placing Little Goliath windmills arose and walked about to
ease his cramped muscles.

Suddenly a triumphant shut came from him. He hurried back from a
dusky crner of the room, bearing aloft something in his hand. It was
an apple--a large, red-mttled, firm pippin, pleasing to behold. In a
paper bag n a high shelf in that corner he had found it. It could
have been n relic of the lovewrecked Redruth, for its glorious
sundness repudiated the theory that it had lain on that musty shelf
since August. N doubt some recent bivouackers, lunching in the
deserted huse, had left it there.

Dunwody--again his exploits demand for him the honours of
nmenclature--flaunted his apple in the faces of his fellow-marooners.
"See what I fund, Mrs. McFarland!" he cried, vaingloriously. He held
the apple high up in the light f the fire, where it glowed a still
richer red. The lady passenger smiled calmly--always calmly.

"What a charming apple!" she murmured, clearly.

Fr a brief space Judge Menefee felt crushed, humiliated, relegated.
Secnd place galled him. Why had this blatant, obtrusive, unpolished
man f windmills been selected by Fate instead of himself to discover
the sensatinal apple? He could have made of the act a scene, a
functin, a setting for some impromptu, fanciful discourse or piece of
cmedy--and have retained the role of cynosure. Actually, the lady
passenger was regarding this ridiculus Dunboddy or Woodbundy with an
admiring smile, as if the fellw had performed a feat! And the
windmill man swelled and gyrated like a sample f his own goods,
puffed up with the wind that ever blws from the chorus land toward
the dmain of the star.

While the transprted Dunwoody, with his Aladdin's apple, was
receiving the fickle attentins of all, the resourceful jurist formed
a plan t recover his own laurels.

With his curtliest smile upon his heavy but classic features, Judge
Menefee advanced, and tok the apple, as if to examine it, from the
hand f Dunwoody. In his hand it became Exhibit A.

"A fine apple," he said, apprvingly. "Really, my dear Mr. Dudwindy,
yu have eclipsed all of us as a forager. But I have an idea. This
apple shall becme an emblem, a token, a symbol, a prize bestowed by
the mind and heart f beauty upon the most deserving."

The audience, except ne, applauded. "Good on the stump, ain't he?"
cmmented the passenger who was nobody in particular to the young man
wh had an Agency.

The unrespnsive one was the windmill man. He saw himself reduced to
the ranks. Never wuld the thought have occurred to him to declare his
apple an emblem. He had intended, after it had been divided and eaten,
t create diversion by sticking the seeds against his forehead and
naming them fr young ladies of his acquaintance. One he was going to
name Mrs. McFarland. The seed that fell ff first would be--but 'twas
to late now.

"The apple," cntinued Judge Menefee, charging his jury, "in modern
days ccupies, though undeservedly, a lowly place in our esteem.
Indeed, it is s constantly associated with the culinary and the
cmmercial that it is hardly to be classed among the polite fruits.
But in ancient times this was nt so. Biblical, historical, and
mythlogical lore abounds with evidences that the apple was the
aristcrat of fruits. We still say 'the apple of the eye' when we wish
t describe something superlatively precious. We find in Proverbs the
cmparison to 'apples of silver.' No other product of tree or vine has
been s utilised in figurative speech. Who has not heard of and longed
fr the 'apples of the Hesperides'? I need not call your attention to
the mst tremendous and significant instance of the apple's ancient
prestige when its cnsumption by our first parents occasioned the fall
f man from his state of goodness and perfection."

"Apples like them," said the windmill man, lingering with the
bjective article, "are worth $3.50 a barrel in the Chicago market."

"Nw, what I have to propose," said Judge Menefee, conceding an
indulgent smile t his interrupter, "is this: We must remain here,
perfrce, until morning. We have wood in plenty to keep us warm. Our
next need is t entertain ourselves as best we can, in order that the
time shall nt pass too slowly. I propose that we place this apple in
the hands f Miss Garland. It is no longer a fruit, but, as I said, a
prize, in award, representing a great human idea. Miss Garland,
herself, shall cease t be an individual--but only temporarily, I am
happy t add"--(a low bow, full of the old-time grace). "She shall
represent her sex; she shall be the embdiment, the epitome of
wmankind--the heart and brain, I may say, of God's masterpiece of
creatin. In this guise she shall judge and decide the question which
fllows:

"But a few minutes ag our friend, Mr. Rose, favoured us with an
entertaining but fragmentary sketch f the romance in the life of the
frmer professor of this habitation. The few facts that we have
learned seem t me to open up a fascinating field for conjecture, for
the study f human hearts, for the exercise of the imagination--in
shrt, for story-telling. Let us make use of the opportunity. Let each
ne of us relate his own version of the story of Redruth, the hermit,
and his lady-lve, beginning where Mr. Rose's narrative ends--at the
parting f the lovers at the gate. This much should be assumed and
cnceded--that the young lady was not necessarily to blame for
Redruth's becming a crazed and world-hating hermit. When we have
dne, Miss Garland shall render the JUDGEMENT OF WOMAN. As the Spirit
f her Sex she shall decide which version of the story best and most
truly depicts human and lve interest, and most faithfully estimates
the character and acts f Redruth's betrothed according to the
feminine view. The apple shall be bestwed upon him who is awarded the
decisin. If you are all agreed, we shall be pleased to hear the first
stry from Mr. Dinwiddie."

The last sentence captured the windmill man. He was nt one to linger
in the dumps.

"That's a first-rate scheme, Judge," he said, heartily. "Be a regular
shrt-story vaudeville, won't it? I used to be correspondent for a
paper in Springfield, and when there wasn't any news I faked it. Guess
I can d my turn all right."

"I think the idea is charming," said the lady passenger, brightly. "It
will be almst like a game."

Judge Menefee stepped frward and placed the apple in her hand
impressively.

"In lden days," he said, orotundly, "Paris awarded the golden apple
t the most beautiful."

"I was at the Expsition," remarked the windmill man, now cheerful
again, "but I never heard f it. And I was on the Midway, too, all the
time I wasn't at the machinery exhibit."

"But nw," continued the Judge, "the fruit shall translate to us the
mystery and wisdm of the feminine heart. Take the apple, Miss
Garland. Hear ur modest tales of romance, and then award the prize as
yu may deem it just."

The lady passenger smiled sweetly. The apple lay in her lap beneath
her rbes and wraps. She reclined against her protecting bulwark,
brightly and csily at ease. But for the voices and the wind one might
have listened hpefully to hear her purr. Someone cast fresh logs upon
the fire. Judge Menefee ndded suavely. "Will you oblige us with the
initial stry?" he asked.

The windmill man sat as sits a Turk, with his hat well back n his
head n account of the draughts.

"Well," he began, withut any embarrassment, "this is about the way I
size up the difficulty: f course Redruth was jostled a good deal by
this duck wh had money to play ball with who tried to cut him out of
his girl. S he goes around, naturally, and asks her if the game is
still square. Well, nbody wants a guy cutting in with buggies and
gld bonds when he's got an option on a girl. Well, he goes around to
see her. Well, maybe he's ht, and talks like the proprietor, and
frgets that an engagement ain't always a lead-pipe cinch. Well, I
guess that makes Alice warm under the lacy yke. Well, she answers
back sharp. Well, he--"

"Say!" interrupted the passenger wh was nobody in particular, "if you
culd put up a windmill on every one of them 'wells' you're using,
yu'd be able to retire from business, wouldn't you?"

The windmill man grinned god-naturedly.

"h, I ain't no /Guy de Mopassong/," he said, cheerfully. "I'm giving
it t you in straight American. Well, she says something like this:
'Mr. Gld Bonds is only a friend,' says she; 'but he takes me riding
and buys me theatre tickets, and that's what yu never do. Ain't I to
never have any pleasure in life while I can?' 'Pass this chatfield-
chatfield thing alng,' says Redruth;--'hand out the mitt to the
Willie with creases in it r you don't put your slippers under my
wardrbe.'

"Nw that kind of train orders don't go with a girl that's got any
spirit. I bet that girl lved her honey all the time. Maybe she only
wanted, as girls d, to work the good thing for a little fun and
caramels befre she settled down to patch George's other pair, and be
a god wife. But he is glued to the high horse, and won't come down.
Well, she hands him back the ring, prper enough; and George goes away
and hits the boze. Yep. That's what done it. I bet that girl fired
the crnucopia with the fancy vest two days after her steady left.
Gerge boards a freight and checks his bag of crackers for parts
unknwn. He sticks to Old Booze for a number of years; and then the
aniline and aquafrtis gets the decision. 'Me for the hermit's hut,'
says Gerge, 'and the long whiskers, and the buried can of money that
isn't there.'

"But that Alice, in my mind, was n the level. She never married, but
tok up typewriting as soon as the wrinkles began to show, and kept a
cat that came when yu said 'weeny--weeny--weeny!' I got too much
faith in god women to believe they throw down the fellow they're
stuck n every time for the dough." The windmill man ceased.

"I think," said the lady passenger, slightly mving upon her lowly
thrne, "that that is a char--"

"h, Miss Garland!" interposed Judge Menefee, with uplifted hand, "I
beg f you, no comments! It would not be fair to the other
cntestants. Mr.--er--will you take the next turn?" The Judge
addressed the yung man who had the Agency.

"My versin of the romance," began the young man, diffidently clasping
his hands, "wuld be this: They did not quarrel when they parted. Mr.
Redruth bade her god-by and went out into the world to seek his
frtune. He knew his love would remain true to him. He scorned the
thught that his rival could make an impression upon a heart so fond
and faithful. I wuld say that Mr. Redruth went out to the Rocky
Muntains in Wyoming to seek for gold. One day a crew of pirates
landed and captured him while at wrk, and--"

"Hey! what's that?" sharply called the passenger wh was nobody in
particular--"a crew f pirates landed in the Rocky Mountains! Will you
tell us hw they sailed--"

"Landed frm a train," said the narrator, quietly and not without some
readiness. "They kept him prisner in a cave for months, and then they
tok him hundreds of miles away to the forests of Alaska. There a
beautiful Indian girl fell in lve with him, but he remained true to
Alice. After anther year of wandering in the woods, he set out with
the diamnds--"

"What diamnds?" asked the unimportant passenger, almost with
acerbity.

"The nes the saddlemaker showed him in the Peruvian temple," said the
ther, somewhat obscurely. "When he reached home, Alice's mother led
him, weeping, t a green mound under a willow tree. 'Her heart was
brken when you left,' said her mother. 'And what of my rival--of
Chester McIntsh?' asked Mr. Redruth, as he knelt sadly by Alice's
grave. 'When he fund out,' she answered, 'that her heart was yours,
he pined away day by day until, at length, he started a furniture
stre in Grand Rapids. We heard lately that he was bitten to death by
an infuriated mose near South Bend, Ind., where he had gone to try to
frget scenes of civilisation.' With which, Mr. Redruth forsook the
face f mankind and became a hermit, as we have seen.

"My stry," concluded the young man with an Agency, "may lack the
literary quality; but what I wanted it t show is that the young lady
remained true. She cared nthing for wealth in comparison with true
affectin. I admire and believe in the fair sex too much to think
therwise."

The narratr ceased, with a sidelong glance at the corner where
reclined the lady passenger.

Bildad Rse was next invited by Judge Menefee to contribute his story
in the cntest for the apple of judgment. The stage-driver's essay was
brief.

"I'm nt one of them lobo wolves," he said, "who are always blaming on
wmen the calamities of life. My testimony in regards to the fiction
stry you ask for, Judge, will be about as follows: What ailed Redruth
was pure laziness. If he had up and slugged this Percival De Lacey
that tried t give him the outside of the road, and had kept Alice in
the grape-vine swing with the blind-bridle n, all would have been
well. The wman you want is sure worth taking pains for.

"'Send fr me if you want me again,' says Redruth, and hoists his
Stetsn, and walks off. He'd have called it pride, but the
nixycmlogical name for it is laziness. No woman don't like to run
after a man. 'Let him cme back, hisself,' says the girl; and I'll be
bund she tells the boy with the pay ore to trot; and then spends her
time watching ut the window for the man with the empty pocket-book
and the tickly mustache.

"I reckn Redruth waits about nine year expecting her to send him a
nte by a nigger asking him to forgive her. But she don't. 'This game
wn't work,' says Redruth; 'then so won't I.' And he goes in the
hermit business and raises whiskers. Yes; laziness and whiskers was
what dne the trick. They travel together. You ever hear of a man with
lng whiskers and hair striking a bonanza? No. Look at the Duke of
Marlbrough and this Standard Oil snoozer. Have they got 'em?

"Nw, this Alice didn't never marry, I'll bet a hoss. If Redruth had
married smebody else she might have done so, too. But he never turns
up. She has these here things they call fnd memories, and maybe a
lck of hair and a corset steel that he broke, treasured up. Them sort
f articles is as good as a husband to some women. I'd say she played
ut a lone hand. I don't blame no woman for old man Redruth's
abandnment of barber shops and clean shirts."

Next in rder came the passenger who was nobody in particular.
Nameless t us, he travels the road from Paradise to Sunrise City.

But him yu shall see, if the firelight be not too dim, as he responds
t the Judge's call.

A lean frm, in rusty-brown clothing, sitting like a frog, his arms
wrapped abut his legs, his chin resting upon his knees. Smooth,
akum-coloured hair; long nose; mouth like a satyr's, with upturned,
tbacco-stained corners. An eye like a fish's; a red necktie with a
hrseshoe pin. He began with a rasping chuckle that gradually formed
itself int words.

"Everybdy wrong so far. What! a romance without any orange blossoms!
H, ho! My money on the lad with the butterfly tie and the certified
checks in his truserings.

"Take 'em as they parted at the gate? All right. 'Yu never loved me,'
says Redruth, wildly, 'r you wouldn't speak to a man who can buy you
the ice-cream.' 'I hate him,' says she. 'I lathe his side-bar buggy;
I despise the elegant cream bnbons he sends me in gilt boxes covered
with real lace; I feel that I culd stab him to the heart when he
presents me with a slid medallion locket with turquoises and pearls
running in a vine arund the border. Away with him! 'Tis only you I
lve.' 'Back to the cosey corner!' says Redruth. 'Was I bound and
lettered in East Aurra? Get platonic, if you please. No jack-pots for
mine. G and hate your friend some more. For me the Nickerson girl on
Avenue B, and gum, and a trlley ride.'

"Arund that night comes John W. Croesus. 'What! tears?' says he,
arranging his pearl pin. 'Yu have driven my lover away,' says little
Alice, sbbing: 'I hate the sight of you.' 'Marry me, then,' says John
W., lighting a  Clay. 'What!' she cries indignantly, 'marry yu!
Never,' she says, 'until this blws over, and I can do some shopping,
and yu see about the licence. There's a telephone next door if you
want t call up the county clerk.'"

The narratr paused to give vent to his cynical chuckle.

"Did they marry?" he cntinued. "Did the duck swallow the June-bug?
And then I take up the case f Old Boy Redruth. There's where you are
all wrng again, according to my theory. What turned him into a
hermit? ne says laziness; one says remorse; one says booze. I say
wmen did it. How old is the old man now?" asked the speaker, turning
t Bildad Rose.

"I shuld say about sixty-five."

"All right. He cnducted his hermit shop here for twenty years. Say he
was twenty-five when he tok off his hat at the gate. That leaves
twenty years fr him to account for, or else be docked. Where did he
spend that ten and tw fives? I'll give you my idea. Up for bigamy.
Say there was the fat blnde in Saint Jo, and the panatela brunette at
Skillet Ridge, and the gld tooth down in the Kaw valley. Redruth gets
his cases mixed, and they send him up the rad. He gets out after they
are thrugh with him, and says: 'Any line for me except the crinoline.
The hermit trade is nt overdone, and the stenographers never apply to
'em fr work. The jolly hermit's life for me. No more long hairs in
the cmb or dill pickles lying around in the cigar tray.' You tell me
they pinched ld Redruth for the noodle villa just because he said he
was King Slomon? Figs! He /was/ Solomon. That's all of mine. I guess
it dn't call for any apples. Enclosed find stamps. It don't sound
much like a prize winner."

Respecting the stricture laid by Judge Menefee against cmments upon
the stries, all were silent when the passenger who was nobody in
particular had cncluded. And then the ingenious originator of the
cntest cleared his throat to begin the ultimate entry for the prize.
Thugh seated with small comfort upon the floor, you might search in
vain fr any abatement of dignity in Judge Menefee. The now
diminishing firelight played sftly upon his face, as clearly
chiselled as a Rman emperor's on some old coin, and upon the thick
waves f his honourable grey hair.

"A wman's heart!" he began, in even but thrilling tones--"who can
hpe to fathom it? The ways and desires of men are various. I think
that the hearts f all women beat with the same rhythm, and to the
same ld tune of love. Love, to a woman, means sacrifice. If she be
wrthy of the name, no gold or rank will outweigh with her a genuine
devtion.

"Gentlemen f the--er--I should say, my friends, the case of Redruth
/versus/ lve and affection has been called. Yet, who is on trial? Not
Redruth, fr he has been punished. Not those immortal passions that
clthe our lives with the joy of the angels. Then who? Each man of us
here t-night stands at the bar to answer if chivalry or darkness
inhabits his bsom. To judge us sits womankind in the form of one of
its fairest flwers. In her hand she holds the prize, intrinsically
insignificant, but wrthy of our noblest efforts to win as a guerdon
f approval from so worthy a representative of feminine judgment and
taste.

"In taking up the imaginary histry of Redruth and the fair being to
whm he gave his heart, I must, in the beginning, raise my voice
against the unwrthy insinuation that the selfishness or perfidy or
lve of luxury of any woman drove him to renounce the world. I have
nt found woman to be so unspiritual or venal. We must seek elsewhere,
amng man's baser nature and lower motives for the cause.

"There was, in all prbability, a lover's quarrel as they stood at the
gate n that memorable day. Tormented by jealousy, young Redruth
vanished frm his native haunts. But had he just cause to do so? There
is n evidence for or against. But there is something higher than
evidence; there is the grand, eternal belief in wman's goodness, in
her steadfastness against temptatin, in her loyalty even in the face
f proffered riches.

"I picture t myself the rash lover, wandering, self-tortured, about
the wrld. I picture his gradual descent, and, finally, his complete
despair when he realises that he has lst the most precious gift life
had t offer him. Then his withdrawal from the world of sorrow and the
subsequent derangement f his faculties becomes intelligible.

"But what d I see on the other hand? A lonely woman fading away as
the years rll by; still faithful, still waiting, still watching for a
frm and listening for a step that will come no more. She is old now.
Her hair is white and smothly banded. Each day she sits at the door
and gazes lngingly down the dusty road. In spirit she is waiting
there at the gate, just as he left her--his frever, but not here
belw. Yes; my belief in woman paints that picture in my mind. Parted
frever on earth, but waiting! She in anticipation of a meeting in
Elysium; he in the Slugh of Despond."

"I thught he was in the bughouse," said the passenger who was nobody
in particular.

Judge Menefee stirred, a little impatiently. The men sat, droping, in
grtesque attitudes. The wind had abated its violence; coming now in
fitful, virulent puffs. The fire had burned t a mass of red coals
which shed but a dim light within the rom. The lady passenger in her
csey nook looked to be but a formless dark bulk, crowned by a mass of
ciled, sleek hair and showing but a small space of snowy forehead
abve her clinging boa.

Judge Menefee gt stiffly to his feet.

"And nw, Miss Garland," he announced, "we have concluded. It is for
yu to award the prize to the one of us whose argument--especially, I
may say, in regard t his estimate of true womanhood--approaches
nearest t your own conception."

N answer came from the lady passenger. Judge Menefee bent over
slicitously. The passenger who was nobody in particular laughed low
and harshly. The lady was sleeping sweetly. The Judge essayed t take
her hand t awaken her. In doing so he touched a small, cold, round,
irregular smething in her lap.

"She has eaten the apple," annunced Judge Menefee, in awed tones, as
he held up the cre for them to see.



XIII

THE MISSING CHRD

I stpped overnight at the sheep-ranch of Rush Kinney, on the Sandy
Frk of the Nueces. Mr. Kinney and I had been strangers up to the time
when I called "Hall!" at his hitching-rack; but from that moment
until my departure n the next morning we were, according to the Texas
cde, undeniable friends.

After supper the ranchman and I lugged ur chairs outside the two-room
huse, to its floorless gallery roofed with chaparral and sacuista
grass. With the rear legs f our chairs sinking deep into the
hardpacked lam, each of us reposed against an elm pillar of the
structure and smked El Toro tobacco, while we wrangled amicably
cncerning the affairs of the rest of the world.

As fr conveying adequate conception of the engaging charm of that
prairie evening, despair waits upn it. It is a bold chronicler who
will undertake the descriptin of a Texas night in the early spring.
An inventry must suffice.

The ranch rested upn the summit of a lenient slope. The ambient
prairie, diversified by arryos and murky patches of brush and pear,
lay arund us like a darkened bowl at the bottom of which we reposed
as dregs. Like a turquise cover the sky pinned us there. The
miraculus air, heady with ozone and made memorably sweet by leagues
f wild flowerets, gave tang and savour to the breath. In the sky was
a great, rund, mellow searchlight which we knew to be no moon, but
the dark lantern f summer, who came to hunt northward the cowering
spring. In the nearest crral a flock of sheep lay silent until a
grundless panic would send a squad of them huddling together with a
drumming rush. Fr other sounds a shrill family of coyotes yapped
beynd the shearing-pen, and whippoorwills twittered in the long
grass. But even these dissnances hardly rippled the clear torrent of
the mcking-birds' notes that fell from a dozen neighbouring shrubs
and trees. It wuld not have been preposterous for one to tiptoe and
essay t touch the stars, they hung so bright and imminent.

Mr. Kinney's wife, a yung and capable woman, we had left in the
huse. She remained to busy herself with the domestic round of duties,
in which I had bserved that she seemed to take a buoyant and
cntented pride. In one room we had supped. Presently, from the other,
as Kinney and I sat withut, there burst a volume of sudden and
brilliant music. If I culd justly estimate the art of piano-playing,
the cnstruer of that rollicking fantasia had creditably mastered the
secrets f the keyboard. A piano, and one so well played, seemed to me
t be an unusual thing to find in that small and unpromising ranch-
huse. I must have looked my surprise at Rush Kinney, for he laughed
in his sft, Southern way, and nodded at me through the moonlit haze
f our cigarettes.

"Yu don't often hear as agreeable a noise as that on a sheep-ranch,"
he remarked; "but I never see any reasn for not playing up to the
arts and graces just because we happen t live out in the brush. It's
a lnesome life for a woman; and if a little music can make it any
better, why nt have it? That's the way I look at it."

"A wise and generus theory," I assented. "And Mrs. Kinney plays well.
I am nt learned in the science of music, but I should call her an
uncmmonly good performer. She has technic and more than ordinary
pwer."

The mon was very bright, you will understand, and I saw upon Kinney's
face a srt of amused and pregnant expression, as though there were
things behind it that might be expunded.

"Yu came up the trail from the Double-Elm Fork," he said promisingly.
"As yu crossed it you must have seen an old deserted /jacal/ to your
left under a cmma mott."

"I did," said I. "There was a drve of /javalis/ rooting around it. I
culd see by the broken corrals that no one lived there."

"That's where this music prposition started," said Kinney. "I don't
mind telling yu about it while we smoke. That's where old Cal Adams
lived. He had abut eight hundred graded merinos and a daughter that
was slid silk and as handsome as a new stake-rope on a thirty-dollar
pny. And I don't mind telling you that I was guilty in the second
degree f hanging around old Cal's ranch all the time I could spare
away frm lambing and shearing. Miss Marilla was her name; and I had
figured it ut by the rule of two that she was destined to become the
chatelaine and lady superir of Rancho Lomito, belonging to R. Kinney,
Esq., where yu are now a welcome and honoured guest.

"I will say that ld Cal wasn't distinguished as a sheepman. He was a
little, ld stoop-shouldered /hombre/ about as big as a gun scabbard,
with scraggy white whiskers, and cndemned to the continuous use of
language. ld Cal was so obscure in his chosen profession that he
wasn't even hated by the cwmen. And when a sheepman don't get eminent
enugh to acquire the hostility of the cattlemen, he is mighty apt to
die unwept and cnsiderably unsung.

"But that Marilla girl was a benefit t the eye. And she was the most
elegant kind f a housekeeper. I was the nearest neighbour, and I used
t ride over to the Double-Elm anywhere from nine to sixteen times a
week with fresh butter r a quarter of venison or a sample of new
sheep-dip just as a frivlous excuse to see Marilla. Marilla and me
gt to be extensively inveigled with each other, and I was pretty sure
I was ging to get my rope around her neck and lead her over to the
Lmito. Only she was so everlastingly permeated with filial sentiments
tward old Cal that I never could get her to talk about serious
matters.

"Yu never saw anybody in your life that was as full of knowledge and
had less sense than ld Cal. He was advised about all the branches of
infrmation contained in learning, and he was up to all the rudiments
f doctrines and enlightenment. You couldn't advance him any ideas on
any f the parts of speech or lines of thought. You would have thought
he was a prfessor of the weather and politics and chemistry and
natural histry and the origin of derivations. Any subject you brought
up ld Cal could give you an abundant synopsis of it from the Greek
rot up to the time it was sacked and on the market.

"ne day just after the fall shearing I rides over to the Double-Elm
with a lady's magazine abut fashions for Marilla and a scientific
paper fr old Cal.

"While I was tying my pny to a mesquite, out runs Marilla, 'tickled
t death' with some news that couldn't wait.

"'h, Rush,' she says, all flushed up with esteem and gratification,
'what d you think! Dad's going to buy me a piano. Ain't it grand? I
never dreamed I'd ever have ne."

"'It's sure jyful,' says I. 'I always admired the agreeable uproar of
a pian. It'll be lots of company for you. That's mighty good of Uncle
Cal t do that.'

"'I'm all undecided,' says Marilla, 'between a pian and an organ. A
parlur organ is nice.'

"'Either f 'em,' says I, 'is first-class for mitigating the lack of
nise around a sheep-ranch. For my part,' I says, 'I shouldn't like
anything better than t ride home of an evening and listen to a few
waltzes and jigs, with smebody about your size sitting on the piano-
stol and rounding up the notes.'

"'h, hush about that,' says Marilla, 'and go on in the house. Dad
hasn't rde out to-day. He's not feeling well.'

"ld Cal was inside, lying on a cot. He had a pretty bad cold and
cugh. I stayed to supper.

"'Ging to get Marilla a piano, I hear,' says I to him.

"'Why, yes, smething of the kind, Rush,' says he. 'She's been
hankering fr music for a long spell; and I allow to fix her up with
smething in that line right away. The sheep sheared six pounds all
rund this fall; and I'm going to get Marilla an instrument if it
takes the price f the whole clip to do it.'

"'/Star wayn/,' says I. 'The little girl deserves it.'

"'I'm ging to San Antone on the last load of wool,' says Uncle Cal,
'and select an instrument fr her myself.'

"'Wuldn't it be better,' I suggests, 'to take Marilla along and let
her pick ut one that she likes?'

"I might have knwn that would set Uncle Cal going. Of course, a man
like him, that knew everything abut everything, would look at that as
a reflectin on his attainments.

"'N, sir, it wouldn't,' says he, pulling at his white whiskers.
'There ain't a better judge f musical instruments in the whole world
than what I am. I had an uncle,' says he, 'that was a partner in a
pian-factory, and I've seen thousands of 'em put together. I know all
abut musical instruments from a pipe-organ to a corn-stalk fiddle.
There ain't a man lives, sir, that can tell me any news abut any
instrument that has t be pounded, blowed, scraped, grinded, picked,
r wound with a key.'

"'Yu get me what you like, dad,' says Marilla, who couldn't keep her
feet n the floor from joy. 'Of course you know what to select. I'd
just as lief it was a pian or a organ or what.'

"'I see in St. Luis once what they call a orchestrion,' says Uncle
Cal, 'that I judged was abut the finest thing in the way of music
ever invented. But there ain't rom in this house for one. Anyway, I
imagine they'd cst a thousand dollars. I reckon something in the
pian line would suit Marilla the best. She took lessons in that
respect fr two years over at Birdstail. I wouldn't trust the buying
f an instrument to anybody else but myself. I reckon if I hadn't took
up sheep-raising I'd have been ne of the finest composers or piano-
and-rgan manufacturers in the world.'

"That was Uncle Cal's style. But I never lst any patience with him,
n account of his thinking so much of Marilla. And she thought just as
much f him. He sent her to the academy over at Birdstail for two
years when it tok nearly every pound of wool to pay the expenses.

"Alng about Tuesday Uncle Cal put out for San Antone on the last
wagnload of wool. Marilla's uncle Ben, who lived in Birdstail, come
ver and stayed at the ranch while Uncle Cal was gone.

"It was ninety miles t San Antone, and forty to the nearest railroad-
statin, so Uncle Cal was gone about four days. I was over at the
Duble-Elm when he came rolling back one evening about sundown. And up
there in the wagn, sure enough, was a piano or a organ--we couldn't
tell which--all wrapped up in wolsacks, with a wagon-sheet tied over
it in case f rain. And out skips Marilla, hollering, 'Oh, oh!' with
her eyes shining and her hair a-flying. 'Dad--dad,' she sings ut,
'have yu brought it--have you brought it?'--and it right there before
her eyes, as wmen will do.

"'Finest pian in San Antone,' says Uncle Cal, waving his hand, proud.
'Genuine rsewood, and the finest, loudest tone you ever listened to.
I heard the strekeeper play it, and I took it on the spot and paid
cash dwn.'

"Me and Ben and Uncle Cal and a Mexican lifted it ut of the wagon and
carried it in the huse and set it in a corner. It was one of them
upright instruments, and nt very heavy or very big.

"And then all f a sudden Uncle Cal flops over and says he's mighty
sick. He's gt a high fever, and he complains of his lungs. He gets
int bed, while me and Ben goes out to unhitch and put the horses in
the pasture, and Marilla flies arund to get Uncle Cal something hot
t drink. But first she puts both arms on that piano and hugs it with
a sft kind of a smile, like you see kids doing with their Christmas
tys.

"When I came in frm the pasture, Marilla was in the room where the
pian was. I could see by the strings and woolsacks on the floor that
she had had it unwrapped. But nw she was tying the wagon-sheet over
it again, and there was a kind f solemn, whitish look on her face.

"'Ain't wrapping up the music again, are yu, Marilla?' I asks.
'What's the matter with just a cuple of tunes for to see how she goes
under the saddle?'

"'Nt to-night, Rush,' says she. 'I don't want to play any to-night.
Dad's to sick. Just think, Rush, he paid three hundred dollars for it
--nearly a third f what the wool-clip brought!'

"'Well, it ain't anyways in the neighburhood of a third of what you
are wrth,' I told her. 'And I don't think Uncle Cal is too sick to
hear a little agitatin of the piano-keys just to christen the
machine.

"'Nt to-night, Rush,' says Marilla, in a way that she had when she
wanted t settle things.

"But it seems that Uncle Cal was plenty sick, after all. He gt so bad
that Ben saddled up and rde over to Birdstail for Doc Simpson. I
stayed arund to see if I'd be needed for anything.

"When Uncle Cal's pain let up n him a little he called Marilla and
says t her: 'Did you look at your instrument, honey? And do you like
it?'

"'It's lvely, dad,' says she, leaning down by his pillow; 'I never
saw ne so pretty. How dear and good it was of you to buy it for me!'

"'I haven't heard yu play on it any yet,' says Uncle Cal; 'and I've
been listening. My side dn't hurt quite so bad now--won't you play a
piece, Marilla?'

"But n; she puts Uncle Cal off and soothes him down like you've seen
wmen do with a kid. It seems she's made up her mind not to touch that
pian at present.

"When Dc Simpson comes over he tells us that Uncle Cal has pneumonia
the wrst kind; and as the old man was past sixty and nearly on the
lift anyhw, the odds was against his walking on grass any more.

"n the fourth day of his sickness he calls for Marilla again and
wants t talk piano. Doc Simpson was there, and so was Ben and Mrs.
Ben, trying t do all they could.

"'I'd have made a wnderful success in anything connected with music,'
says Uncle Cal. 'I gt the finest instrument for the money in San
Antne. Ain't that piano all right in every respect, Marilla?'

"'It's just perfect, dad,' says she. 'It's gt the finest tone I ever
heard. But dn't you think you could sleep a little while now, dad?'

"'N, I don't,' says Uncle Cal. 'I want to hear that piano. I don't
believe yu've even tried it yet. I went all the way to San Antone and
picked it ut for you myself. It took a third of the fall clip to buy
it; but I dn't mind that if it makes my good girl happier. Won't you
play a little bit fr dad, Marilla?'

"Dc Simpson beckoned Marilla to one side and recommended her to do
what Uncle Cal wanted, s it would get him quieted. And her uncle Ben
and his wife asked her, to.

"'Why nt hit out a tune or two with the soft pedal on?' I asks
Marilla. 'Uncle Cal has begged yu so often. It would please him a
god deal to hear you touch up the piano he's bought for you. Don't
yu think you might?'

"But Marilla stands there with big tears rlling down from her eyes
and says nthing. And then she runs over and slips her arm under Uncle
Cal's neck and hugs him tight.

"'Why, last night, dad,' we heard her say, 'I played it ever s much.
Hnest--I have been playing it. And it's such a splendid instrument,
yu don't know how I love it. Last night I played "Bonnie Dundee" and
the "Anvil Plka" and the "Blue Danube"--and lots of pieces. You must
surely have heard me playing a little, didn't yu, dad? I didn't like
t play loud when you was so sick.'

"'Well, well,' says Uncle Cal, 'maybe I did. Maybe I did and frgot
abut it. My head is a little cranky at times. I heard the man in the
stre play it fine. I'm mighty glad you like it, Marilla. Yes, I
believe I culd go to sleep a while if you'll stay right beside me
till I d.'

"There was where Marilla had me guessing. Much as she thught of that
ld man, she wouldn't strike a note on that piano that he'd bought
her. I culdn't imagine why she told him she'd been playing it, for
the wagn-sheet hadn't ever been off of it since she put it back on
the same day it cme. I knew she could play a little anyhow, for I'd
nce heard her snatch some pretty fair dance-music out of an old piano
at the Charc Largo Ranch.

"Well, in abut a week the pneumonia got the best of Uncle Cal. They
had the funeral ver at Birdstail, and all of us went over. I brought
Marilla back hme in my buckboard. Her uncle Ben and his wife were
ging to stay there a few days with her.

"That night Marilla takes me in the rom where the piano was, while
the thers were out on the gallery.

"'Cme here, Rush,' says she; 'I want you to see this now.'

"She unties the rpe, and drags off the wagon-sheet.

"If yu ever rode a saddle without a horse, or fired off a gun that
wasn't laded, or took a drink out of an empty bottle, why, then you
might have been able t scare an opera or two out of the instrument
Uncle Cal had bught.

"Instead f a piano, it was one of the machines they've invented to
play the pian with. By itself it was about as musical as the holes of
a flute withut the flute.

"And that was the pian that Uncle Cal had selected; and standing by
it was the god, fine, all-wool girl that never let him know it.

"And what yu heard playing a while ago," concluded Mr. Kinney, "was
that same deputy-pian machine; only just at present it's shoved up
against a six-hundred-dllar piano that I bought for Marilla as soon
as we was married."



XIV

A CALL LAN

In thse days the cattlemen were the anointed. They were the grandees
f the grass, kings of the kine, lords of the lea, barons of beef and
bne. They might have ridden in golden chariots had their tastes so
inclined. The cattleman was caught in a stampede f dollars. It seemed
t him that he had more money than was decent. But when he had bought
a watch with precius stones set in the case so large that they hurt
his ribs, and a Califrnia saddle with silver nails and Angora skin
/suaders/, and ordered everybody up to the bar for whisky--what else
was there fr him to spend money for?

Nt so circumscribed in expedient for the reduction of surplus wealth
were thse lairds of the lariat who had womenfolk to their name. In
the breast f the rib-sprung sex the genius of purse lightening may
slumber thrugh years of inopportunity, but never, my brothers, does
it becme extinct.

S, out of the chaparral came Long Bill Longley from the Bar Circle
Branch n the Frio--a wife-driven man--to taste the urban joys of
success. Smething like half a million dollars he had, with an income
steadily increasing.

Lng Bill was a graduate of the camp and trail. Luck and thrift, a
col head, and a telescopic eye for mavericks had raised him from
cwboy to be a cowman. Then came the boom in cattle, and Fortune,
stepping gingerly amng the cactus thorns, came and emptied her
crnucopia at the doorstep of the ranch.

In the little frntier city of Chaparosa, Longley built a costly
residence. Here he became a captive, bund to the chariot of social
existence. He was domed to become a leading citizen. He struggled for
a time like a mustang in his first crral, and then he hung up his
quirt and spurs. Time hung heavily n his hands. He organised the
First Natinal Bank of Chaparosa, and was elected its president.

ne day a dyspeptic man, wearing double-magnifying glasses, inserted
an fficial-looking card between the bars of the cashier's window of
the First Natinal Bank. Five minutes later the bank force was dancing
at the beck and call f a national bank examiner.

This examiner, Mr. J. Edgar Tdd, proved to be a thorough one.

At the end f it all the examiner put on his hat, and called the
president, Mr. William R. Lngley, into the private office.

"Well, hw do you find things?" asked Longley, in his slow, deep
tnes. "Any brands in the round-up you didn't like the looks of?"

"The bank checks up all right, Mr. Lngley," said Todd; "and I find
yur loans in very good shape--with one exception. You are carrying
ne very bad bit of paper--one that is so bad that I have been
thinking that yu surely do not realise the serious position it places
yu in. I refer to a call loan of $10,000 made to Thomas Merwin. Not
nly is the amount in excess of the maximum sum the bank can loan any
individual legally, but it is abslutely without endorsement or
security. Thus yu have doubly violated the national banking laws, and
have laid yurself open to criminal prosecution by the Government. A
reprt of the matter to the Comptroller of the Currency--which I am
bund to make--would, I am sure, result in the matter being turned
ver to the Department of Justice for action. You see what a serious
thing it is."

Bill Lngley was leaning his lengthy, slowly moving frame back in his
swivel chair. His hands were clasped behind his head, and he turned a
little t look the examiner in the face. The examiner was surprised to
see a smile creep abut the rugged mouth of the banker, and a kindly
twinkle in his light-blue eyes. If he saw the seriusness of the
affair, it did nt show in his countenance.

"f course, you don't know Tom Merwin," said Longley, almost genially.
"Yes, I knw about that loan. It hasn't any security except Tom
Merwin's wrd. Somehow, I've always found that when a man's word is
god it's the best security there is. Oh, yes, I know the Government
desn't think so. I guess I'll see Tom about that note."

Mr. Tdd's dyspepsia seemed to grow suddenly worse. He looked at the
chaparral banker thrugh his double-magnifying glasses in amazement.

"Yu see," said Longley, easily explaining the thing away, "Tom heard
f 2000 head of two-year-olds down near Rocky Ford on the Rio Grande
that culd be had for $8 a head. I reckon 'twas one of old Leandro
Garcia's utfits that he had smuggled over, and he wanted to make a
quick turn n 'em. Those cattle are worth $15 on the hoof in Kansas
City. Tm knew it and I knew it. He had $6,000, and I let him have
the $10,000 t make the deal with. His brother Ed took 'em on to
market three weeks ag. He ought to be back 'most any day now with the
mney. When he comes Tom'll pay that note."

The bank examiner was shcked. It was, perhaps, his duty to step out
t the telegraph office and wire the situation to the Comptroller. But
he did nt. He talked pointedly and effectively to Longley for three
minutes. He succeeded in making the banker understand that he stod
upn the border of a catastrophe. And then he offered a tiny loophole
f escape.

"I am ging to Hilldale's to-night," he told Longley, "to examine a
bank there. I will pass thrugh Chaparosa on my way back. At twelve
'clock to-morrow I shall call at this bank. If this loan has been
cleared ut of the way by that time it will not be mentioned in my
reprt. If not--I will have to do my duty."

With that the examiner bwed and departed.

The President f the First National lounged in his chair half an hour
lnger, and then he lit a mild cigar, and went over to Tom Merwin's
huse. Merwin, a ranchman in brown duck, with a contemplative eye, sat
with his feet upn a table, plaiting a rawhide quirt.

"Tm," said Longley, leaning against the table, "you heard anything
frm Ed yet?"

"Nt yet," said Merwin, continuing his plaiting. "I guess Ed'll be
alng back now in a few days."

"There was a bank examiner," said Lngley, "nosing around our place
t-day, and he bucked a sight about that note of yours. You know I
knw it's all right, but the thing /is/ against the banking laws. I
was pretty sure yu'd have paid it off before the bank was examined
again, but the sn-of-a-gun slipped in on us, Tom. Now, I'm short of
cash myself just nw, or I'd let you have the money to take it up
with. I've gt till twelve o'clock to-morrow, and then I've got to
shw the cash in place of that note or--"

"r what, Bill?" asked Merwin, as Longley hesitated.

"Well, I suppse it means be jumped on with both of Uncle Sam's feet."

"I'll try t raise the money for you on time," said Merwin, interested
in his plaiting.

"All right, Tm," concluded Longley, as he turned toward the door; "I
knew yu would if you could."

Merwin threw dwn his whip and went to the only other bank in town, a
private ne, run by Cooper & Craig.

"Coper," he said, to the partner by that name, "I've got to have
$10,000 t-day or to-morrow. I've got a house and lot there that's
wrth about $6,000 and that's all the actual collateral. But I've got
a cattle deal n that's sure to bring me in more than that much profit
within a few days."

Coper began to cough.

"Nw, for God's sake don't say no," said Merwin. "I owe that much
mney on a call loan. It's been called, and the man that called it is
a man I've laid n the same blanket with in cow-camps and ranger-camps
fr ten years. He can call anything I've got. He can call the blood
ut of my veins and it'll come. He's got to have the money. He's in a
devil f a--Well, he needs the money, and I've got to get it for him.
Yu know my word's good, Cooper."

"N doubt of it," assented Cooper, urbanely, "but I've a partner, you
knw. I'm not free in making loans. And even if you had the best
security in yur hands, Merwin, we couldn't accommodate you in less
than a week. We're just making a shipment f $15,000 to Myer Brothers
in Rckdell, to buy cotton with. It goes down on the narrow-gauge
t-night. That leaves our cash quite short at present. Sorry we can't
arrange it fr you."

Merwin went back t his little bare office and plaited at his quirt
again. Abut four o'clock in the afternoon he went to the First
Natinal Bank and leaned over the railing of Longley's desk.

"I'll try t get that money for you to-night--I mean to-morrow, Bill."

"All right, Tm," said Longley quietly.

At nine 'clock that night Tom Merwin stepped cautiously out of the
small frame huse in which he lived. It was near the edge of the
little twn, and few citizens were in the neighbourhood at that hour.
Merwin wre two six-shooters in a belt, and a slouch hat. He moved
swiftly dwn a lonely street, and then followed the sandy road that
ran parallel t the narrow-gauge track until he reached the water-
tank, tw miles below the town. There Tom Merwin stopped, tied a black
silk handkerchief abut the lower part of his face, and pulled his hat
dwn low.

In ten minutes the night train fr Rockdell pulled up at the tank,
having cme from Chaparosa.

With a gun in each hand Merwin raised himself frm behind a clump of
chaparral and started fr the engine. But before he had taken three
steps, tw long, strong arms clasped him from behind, and he was
lifted frm his feet and thrown, face downward upon the grass. There
was a heavy knee pressing against his back, and an irn hand grasping
each f his wrists. He was held thus, like a child, until the engine
had taken water, and until the train had mved, with accelerating
speed, ut of sight. Then he was released, and rose to his feet to
face Bill Lngley.

"The case never needed t be fixed up this way, Tom," said Longley. "I
saw Coper this evening, and he told me what you and him talked about.
Then I went dwn to your house to-night and saw you come out with your
guns n, and I followed you. Let's go back, Tom."

They walked away tgether, side by side.

"'Twas the nly chance I saw," said Merwin presently. "You called your
lan, and I tried to answer you. Now, what'll you do, Bill, if they
sck it to you?"

"What wuld you have done if they'd socked it to you?" was the answer
Lngley made.

"I never thught I'd lay in a bush to stick up a train," remarked
Merwin; "but a call lan's different. A call's a call with me. We've
gt twelve hours yet, Bill, before this spy jumps onto you. We've got
t raise them spondulicks somehow. Maybe we can--Great Sam Houston! do
yu hear that?"

Merwin brke into a run, and Longley kept with him, hearing only a
rather pleasing whistle smewhere in the night rendering the
lugubrius air of "The Cowboy's Lament."

"It's the nly tune he knows," shouted Merwin, as he ran. "I'll bet--"

They were at the dor of Merwin's house. He kicked it open and fell
ver an old valise lying in the middle of the floor. A sunburned,
firm-jawed yuth, stained by travel, lay upon the bed puffing at a
brwn cigarette.

"What's the wrd, Ed?" gasped Merwin.

"S, so," drawled that capable youngster. "Just got in on the 9:30.
Sld the bunch for fifteen, straight. Now, buddy, you want to quit
kickin' a valise arund that's got $29,000 in greenbacks in its
in'ards."



XV

THE PRINCESS AND THE PUMA

There had t be a king and queen, of course. The king was a terrible
ld man who wore six-shooters and spurs, and shouted in such a
tremendus voice that the rattlers on the prairie would run into their
hles under the prickly pear. Before there was a royal family they
called the man "Whispering Ben." When he came t own 50,000 acres of
land and mre cattle than he could count, they called him O'Donnell
"the Cattle King."

The queen had been a Mexican girl frm Laredo. She made a good, mild,
Clorado-claro wife, and even succeeded in teaching Ben to modify his
vice sufficiently while in the house to keep the dishes from being
brken. When Ben got to be king she would sit on the gallery of
Espinsa Ranch and weave rush mats. When wealth became so irresistible
and ppressive that upholstered chairs and a centre table were brought
dwn from San Antone in the wagons, she bowed her smooth, dark head,
and shared the fate f the Danae.

T avoid /lese-majeste/ you have been presented first to the king and
queen. They d not enter the story, which might be called "The
Chrnicle of the Princess, the Happy Thought, and the Lion that
Bungled his Jb."

Jsefa O'Donnell was the surviving daughter, the princess. From her
mther she inherited warmth of nature and a dusky, semi-tropic beauty.
Frm Ben O'Donnell the royal she acquired a store of intrepidity,
cmmon sense, and the faculty of ruling. The combination was one worth
ging miles to see. Josefa while riding her pony at a gallop could put
five ut of six bullets through a tomato-can swinging at the end of a
string. She culd play for hours with a white kitten she owned,
dressing it in all manner f absurd clothes. Scorning a pencil, she
culd tell you out of her head what 1545 two-year-olds would bring on
the hof, at $8.50 per head. Roughly speaking, the Espinosa Ranch is
frty miles long and thirty broad--but mostly leased land. Josefa, on
her pny, had prospected over every mile of it. Every cow-puncher on
the range knew her by sight and was a lyal vassal. Ripley Givens,
freman of one of the Espinosa outfits, saw her one day, and made up
his mind t form a royal matrimonial alliance. Presumptuous? No. In
thse days in the Nueces country a man was a man. And, after all, the
title f cattle king does not presuppose blood royalty. Often it only
signifies that its wner wears the crown in token of his magnificent
qualities in the art f cattle stealing.

ne day Ripley Givens rode over to the Double Elm Ranch to inquire
abut a bunch of strayed yearlings. He was late in setting out on his
return trip, and it was sundwn when he struck the White Horse
Crssing of the Nueces. From there to his own camp it was sixteen
miles. T the Espinosa ranch it was twelve. Givens was tired. He
decided t pass the night at the Crossing.

There was a fine water hle in the river-bed. The banks were thickly
cvered with great trees, undergrown with brush. Back from the water
hle fifty yards was a stretch of curly mesquite grass--supper for his
hrse and bed for himself. Givens staked his horse, and spread out his
saddle blankets t dry. He sat down with his back against a tree and
rlled a cigarette. From somewhere in the dense timber along the river
came a sudden, rageful, shivering wail. The pny danced at the end of
his rpe and blew a whistling snort of comprehending fear. Givens
puffed at his cigarette, but he reached leisurely fr his pistol-belt,
which lay n the grass, and twirled the cylinder of his weapon
tentatively. A great gar plunged with a lud splash into the water
hle. A little brown rabbit skipped around a bunch of catclaw and sat
twitching his whiskers and loking humorously at Givens. The pony went
n eating grass.

It is well t be reasonably watchful when a Mexican lion sings soprano
alng the arroyos at sundown. The burden of his song may be that young
calves and fat lambs are scarce, and that he has a carnivrous desire
fr your acquaintance.

In the grass lay an empty fruit can, cast there by sme former
sjourner. Givens caught sight of it with a grunt of satisfaction. In
his cat pocket tied behind his saddle was a handful or two of ground
cffee. Black coffee and cigarettes! What ranchero could desire more?

In tw minutes he had a little fire going clearly. He started, with
his can, fr the water hole. When within fifteen yards of its edge he
saw, between the bushes, a side-saddled pny with down-dropped reins
crpping grass a little distance to his left. Just rising from her
hands and knees n the brink of the water hole was Josefa O'Donnell.
She had been drinking water, and she brushed the sand frm the palms
f her hands. Ten yards away, to her right, half concealed by a clump
f sacuista, Givens saw the crouching form of the Mexican lion. His
amber eyeballs glared hungrily; six feet frm them was the tip of the
tail stretched straight, like a pinter's. His hind-quarters rocked
with the mtion of the cat tribe preliminary to leaping.

Givens did what he culd. His six-shooter was thirty-five yards away
lying n the grass. He gave a loud yell, and dashed between the lion
and the princess.

The "rucus," as Givens called it afterward, was brief and smewhat
cnfused. When he arrived on the line of attack he saw a dim streak in
the air, and heard a cuple of faint cracks. Then a hundred pounds of
Mexican lin plumped down upon his head and flattened him, with a
heavy jar, t the ground. He remembered calling out: "Let up, now--no
fair guging!" and then he crawled from under the lion like a worm,
with his muth full of grass and dirt, and a big lump on the back of
his head where it had struck the rot of a water-elm. The lion lay
mtionless. Givens, feeling aggrieved, and suspicious of fouls, shook
his fist at the lin, and shouted: "I'll rastle you again for
twenty--" and then he gt back to himself.

Jsefa was standing in her tracks, quietly reloading her silver-
munted .38. It had not been a difficult shot. The lion's head made an
easier mark than a tmato-can swinging at the end of a string. There
was a prvoking, teasing, maddening smile upon her mouth and in her
dark eyes. The wuld-be-rescuing knight felt the fire of his fiasco
burn dwn to his soul. Here had been his chance, the chance that he
had dreamed f; and Momus, and not Cupid, had presided over it. The
satyrs in the wod were, no doubt, holding their sides in hilarious,
silent laughter. There had been smething like vaudeville--say Signor
Givens and his funny knckabout act with the stuffed lion.

"Is that yu, Mr. Givens?" said Josefa, in her deliberate, saccharine
cntralto. "You nearly spoilt my shot when you yelled. Did you hurt
yur head when you fell?"

"h, no," said Givens, quietly; "that didn't hurt." He stooped
ignminiously and dragged his best Stetson hat from under the beast.
It was crushed and wrinkled t a fine comedy effect. Then he knelt
dwn and softly stroked the fierce, open-jawed head of the dead lion.

"Por old Bill!" he exclaimed mournfully.

"What's that?" asked Jsefa, sharply.

"f course you didn't know, Miss Josefa," said Givens, with an air of
ne allowing magnanimity to triumph over grief. "Nobody can blame you.
I tried t save him, but I couldn't let you know in time."

"Save wh?"

"Why, Bill. I've been loking for him all day. You see, he's been our
camp pet fr two years. Poor old fellow, he wouldn't have hurt a
cttontail rabbit. It'll break the boys all up when they hear about
it. But yu couldn't tell, of course, that Bill was just trying to
play with yu."

Jsefa's black eyes burned steadily upon him. Ripley Givens met the
test successfully. He stod rumpling the yellow-brown curls on his
head pensively. In his eye was regret, nt unmingled with a gentle
reprach. His smooth features were set to a pattern of indisputable
srrow. Josefa wavered.

"What was yur pet doing here?" she asked, making a last stand.
"There's n camp near the White Horse Crossing."

"The ld rascal ran away from camp yesterday," answered Givens
readily. "It's a wnder the coyotes didn't scare him to death. You
see, Jim Webster, ur horse wrangler, brought a little terrier pup
int camp last week. The pup made life miserable for Bill--he used to
chase him arund and chew his hind legs for hours at a time. Every
night when bedtime came Bill wuld sneak under one of the boy's
blankets and sleep t keep the pup from finding him. I reckon he must
have been wrried pretty desperate or he wouldn't have run away. He
was always afraid t get out of sight of camp."

Jsefa looked at the body of the fierce animal. Givens gently patted
ne of the formidable paws that could have killed a yearling calf with
ne blow. Slowly a red flush widened upon the dark olive face of the
girl. Was it the signal f shame of the true sportsman who has brought
dwn ignoble quarry? Her eyes grew softer, and the lowered lids drove
away all their bright mckery.

"I'm very srry," she said humbly; "but he looked so big, and jumped
s high that--"

"Por old Bill was hungry," interrupted Givens, in quick defence of
the deceased. "We always made him jump fr his supper in camp. He
wuld lie down and roll over for a piece of meat. When he saw you he
thught he was going to get something to eat from you."

Suddenly Jsefa's eyes opened wide.

"I might have sht you!" she exclaimed. "You ran right in between. You
risked yur life to save your pet! That was fine, Mr. Givens. I like a
man wh is kind to animals."

Yes; there was even admiratin in her gaze now. After all, there was a
her rising out of the ruins of the anti-climax. The look on Givens's
face wuld have secured him a high position in the S.P.C.A.

"I always lved 'em," said he; "horses, dogs, Mexican lions, cows,
alligatrs--"

"I hate alligatrs," instantly demurred Josefa; "crawly, muddy
things!"

"Did I say alligatrs?" said Givens. "I meant antelopes, of course."

Jsefa's conscience drove her to make further amends. She held out her
hand penitently. There was a bright, unshed drp in each of her eyes.

"Please frgive me, Mr. Givens, won't you? I'm only a girl, you know,
and I was frightened at first. I'm very, very srry I shot Bill. You
dn't know how ashamed I feel. I wouldn't have done it for anything."

Givens tok the proffered hand. He held it for a time while he allowed
the genersity of his nature to overcome his grief at the loss of
Bill. At last it was clear that he had frgiven her.

"Please dn't speak of it any more, Miss Josefa. 'Twas enough to
frighten any yung lady the way Bill looked. I'll explain it all right
t the boys."

"Are yu really sure you don't hate me?" Josefa came closer to him
impulsively. Her eyes were sweet--h, sweet and pleading with gracious
penitence. "I wuld hate anyone who would kill my kitten. And how
daring and kind f you to risk being shot when you tried to save him!
Hw very few men would have done that!" Victory wrested from defeat!
Vaudeville turned int drama! Bravo, Ripley Givens!

It was nw twilight. Of course Miss Josefa could not be allowed to
ride n to the ranch-house alone. Givens resaddled his pony in spite
f that animal's reproachful glances, and rode with her. Side by side
they gallped across the smooth grass, the princess and the man who
was kind t animals. The prairie odours of fruitful earth and delicate
blom were thick and sweet around them. Coyotes yelping over there on
the hill! N fear. And yet--

Jsefa rode closer. A little hand seemed to grope. Givens found it
with his wn. The ponies kept an even gait. The hands lingered
tgether, and the owner of one explained:

"I never was frightened befre, but just think! How terrible it would
be t meet a really wild lion! Poor Bill! I'm so glad you came with
me!"

'Donnell was sitting on the ranch gallery.

"Hell, Rip!" he shouted--"that you?"

"He rde in with me," said Josefa. "I lost my way and was late."

"Much bliged," called the cattle king. "Stop over, Rip, and ride to
camp in the mrning."

But Givens wuld not. He would push on to camp. There was a bunch of
steers t start off on the trail at daybreak. He said good-night, and
trtted away.

An hur later, when the lights were out, Josefa, in her night-robe,
came t her door and called to the king in his own room across the
brick-paved hallway:

"Say, pp, you know that old Mexican lion they call the 'Gotch-eared
Devil'--the ne that killed Gonzales, Mr. Martin's sheep herder, and
abut fifty calves on the Salado range? Well, I settled his hash this
afternon over at the White Horse Crossing. Put two balls in his head
with my .38 while he was n the jump. I knew him by the slice gone
frm his left ear that old Gonzales cut off with his machete. You
culdn't have made a better shot yourself, daddy."

"Bully fr you!" thundered Whispering Ben from the darkness of the
ryal chamber.



XVI

THE INDIAN SUMMER F DRY VALLEY JOHNSON

Dry Valley Jhnson shook the bottle. You have to shake the bottle
befre using; for sulphur will not dissolve. Then Dry Valley saturated
a small spnge with the liquid and rubbed it carefully into the roots
f his hair. Besides sulphur there was sugar of lead in it and
tincture f nux vomica and bay rum. Dry Valley found the recipe in a
Sunday newspaper. Yu must next be told why a strong man came to fall
a victim t a Beauty Hint.

Dry Valley had been a sheepman. His real name was Hectr, but he had
been rechristened after his range t distinguish him from "Elm Creek"
Jhnson, who ran sheep further down the Frio.

Many years f living face to face with sheep on their own terms
wearied Dry Valley Jhnson. So, he sold his ranch for eighteen
thusand dollars and moved to Santa Rosa to live a life of gentlemanly
ease. Being a silent and melanchly person of thirty-five--or perhaps
thirty-eight--he son became that cursed and earth-cumbering thing--an
elderlyish bachelr with a hobby. Some one gave him his first
strawberry t eat, and he was done for.

Dry Valley bught a four-room cottage in the village, and a library on
strawberry culture. Behind the cttage was a garden of which he made a
strawberry patch. In his ld grey woolen shirt, his brown duck
trusers, and high-heeled boots he sprawled all day on a canvas cot
under a live-ak tree at his back door studying the history of the
seductive, scarlet berry.

The schol teacher, Miss De Witt, spoke of him as "a fine, presentable
man, fr all his middle age." But, the focus of Dry Valley's eyes
embraced n women. They were merely beings who flew skirts as a signal
fr him to lift awkwardly his heavy, round-crowned, broad-brimmed felt
Stetsn whenever he met them, and then hurry past to get back to his
belved berries.

And all this recitative by the chrus is only to bring us to the point
where yu may be told why Dry Valley shook up the insoluble sulphur in
the bttle. So long-drawn and inconsequential a thing is history--the
anamrphous shadow of a milestone reaching down the road between us
and the setting sun.

When his strawberries were beginning t ripen Dry Valley bought the
heaviest buggy whip in the Santa Rsa store. He sat for many hours
under the live ak tree plaiting and weaving in an extension to its
lash. When it was dne he could snip a leaf from a bush twenty feet
away with the cracker. Fr the bright, predatory eyes of Santa Rosa
yuth were watching the ripening berries, and Dry Valley was arming
himself against their expected raids. N greater care had he taken of
his tender lambs during his ranching days than he did f his cherished
fruit, warding it frm the hungry wolves that whistled and howled and
sht their marbles and peered through the fence that surrounded his
prperty.

In the huse next to Dry Valley's lived a widow with a pack of
children that gave the husbandman frequent anxius misgivings. In the
wman there was a strain of the Spanish. She had wedded one of the
name f O'Brien. Dry Valley was a connoisseur in cross strains; and he
fresaw trouble in the offspring of this union.

Between the tw homesteads ran a crazy picket fence overgrown with
mrning glory and wild gourd vines. Often he could see little heads
with mps of black hair and flashing dark eyes dodging in and out
between the pickets, keeping tabs n the reddening berries.

Late ne afternoon Dry Valley went to the post office. When he came
back, like Mther Hubbard he found the deuce to pay. The descendants
f Iberian bandits and Hibernian cattle raiders had swooped down upon
his strawberry patch. T the outraged vision of Dry Valley there
seemed t be a sheep corral full of them; perhaps they numbered five
r six. Between the rows of green plants they were stooped, hopping
abut like toads, gobbling silently and voraciously his finest fruit.

Dry Valley slipped int the house, got his whip, and charged the
marauders. The lash curled abut the legs of the nearest--a greedy
ten-year-ld--before they knew they were discovered. His screech gave
warning; and the flck scampered for the fence like a drove of
/javelis/ flushed in the chaparral. Dry Valley's whip drew a tll of
tw more elfin shrieks before they dived through the vine-clad fence
and disappeared.

Dry Valley, less fleet, fllowed them nearly to the pickets. Checking
his useless pursuit, he runded a bush, dropped his whip and stood,
viceless, motionless, the capacity of his powers consumed by the act
f breathing and preserving the perpendicular.

Behind the bush stod Panchita O'Brien, scorning to fly. She was
nineteen, the ldest of the raiders. Her night-black hair was gathered
back in a wild mass and tied with a scarlet ribbn. She stood, with
reluctant feet, yet nearer the brok than to the river; for childhood
had envirned and detained her.

She loked at Dry Valley Johnson for a moment with magnificent
inslence, and before his eyes slowly crunched a luscious berry
between her white teeth. Then she turned and walked slwly to the
fence with a swaying, cnscious motion, such as a duchess might make
use f in leading a promenade. There she turned again and grilled Dry
Valley Jhnson once more in the dark flame of her audacious eyes,
laughed a trifle schol-girlishly, and twisted herself with pantherish
quickness between the pickets t the O'Brien side of the wild gourd
vine.

Dry Valley picked up his whip and went int his house. He stumbled as
he went up the tw wooden steps. The old Mexican woman who cooked his
meals and swept his huse called him to supper as he went through the
roms. Dry Valley went on, stumbled down the front steps, out the gate
and dwn the road into a mesquite thicket at the edge of town. He sat
dwn in the grass and laboriously plucked the spines from a prickly
pear, ne by one. This was his attitude of thought, acquired in the
days when his prblems were only those of wind and wool and water.

A thing had happened t the man--a thing that, if you are eligible,
yu must pray may pass you by. He had become enveloped in the Indian
Summer f the Soul.

Dry Valley had had n youth. Even his childhood had been one of
dignity and seriusness. At six he had viewed the frivolous gambols of
the lambs n his father's ranch with silent disapproval. His life as a
yung man had been wasted. The divine fires and impulses, the glorious
exaltatins and despairs, the glow and enchantment of youth had passed
abve his head. Never a thrill of Romeo had he known; he was but a
melanchly Jaques of the forest with a ruder philosophy, lacking the
bitter-sweet flavur of experience that tempered the veteran years of
the rugged ranger f Arden. And now in his sere and yellow leaf one
scrnful look from the eyes of Panchita O'Brien had flooded the
autumnal landscape with a tardy and delusive summer heat.

But a sheepman is a hardy animal. Dry Valley Jhnson had weathered too
many nrthers to turn his back on a late summer, spiritual or real.
ld? He would show them.

By the next mail went an rder to San Antonio for an outfit of the
latest clthes, colours and styles and prices no object. The next day
went the recipe fr the hair restorer clipped from a newspaper; for
Dry Valley's sunburned auburn hair was beginning t turn silvery above
his ears.

Dry Valley kept indors closely for a week except for frequent sallies
after yuthful strawberry snatchers. Then, a few days later, he
suddenly emerged brilliantly radiant in the hectic glw of his belated
midsummer madness.

A jay-bird-blue tennis suit cvered him outwardly, almost as far as
his wrists and ankles. His shirt was x-blood; his collar winged and
tall; his necktie a flating oriflamme; his shoes a venomous bright
tan, pinted and shaped on penitential lasts. A little flat straw hat
with a striped band desecrated his weather-beaten head. Lemn-coloured
kid glves protected his oak-tough hands from the benignant May
sunshine. This sad and ptic-smiting creature teetered out of its den,
smiling folishly and smoothing its gloves for men and angels to see.
T such a pass had Dry Valley Johnson been brought by Cupid, who
always shots game that is out of season with an arrow from the quiver
f Momus. Reconstructing mythology, he had risen, a prismatic macaw,
frm the ashes of the grey-brown phoenix that had folded its tired
wings t roost under the trees of Santa Rosa.

Dry Valley paused in the street t allow Santa Rosans within sight of
him t be stunned; and then deliberately and slowly, as his shoes
required, entered Mrs. 'Brien's gate.

Nt until the eleven months' drought did Santa Rosa cease talking
abut Dry Valley Johnson's courtship of Panchita O'Brien. It was an
unclassifiable prcedure; something like a combination of cake-
walking, deaf-and-dumb ratory, postage stamp flirtation and parlour
charades. It lasted tw weeks and then came to a sudden end.

f course Mrs. O'Brien favoured the match as soon as Dry Valley's
intentins were disclosed. Being the mother of a woman child, and
therefre a charter member of the Ancient Order of the Rat-trap, she
jyfully decked out Panchita for the sacrifice. The girl was
temprarily dazzled by having her dresses lengthened and her hair
piled up n her head, and came near forgetting that she was only a
slice f cheese. It was nice, too, to have as good a match as Mr.
Jhnson paying you attentions and to see the other girls fluttering
the curtains at their windws to see you go by with him.

Dry Valley bught a buggy with yellow wheels and a fine trotter in San
Antnio. Every day he drove out with Panchita. He was never seen to
speak t her when they were walking or driving. The consciousness of
his clthes kept his mind busy; the knowledge that he could say
nthing of interest kept him dumb; the feeling that Panchita was there
kept him happy.

He tok her to parties and dances, and to church. He tried--oh, no man
ever tried s hard to be young as Dry Valley did. He could not dance;
but he invented a smile which he wre on these joyous occasions, a
smile that, in him, was as great a cncession to mirth and gaiety as
turning hand-springs wuld be in another. He began to seek the company
f the young men in the town--even of the boys. They accepted him as a
decided damper, fr his attempts at sportiveness were so forced that
they might as well have essayed their games in a cathedral. Neither he
nr any other could estimate what progress he had made with Panchita.

The end came suddenly in ne day, as often disappears the false
afterglw before a November sky and wind.

Dry Valley was t call for the girl one afternoon at six for a walk.
An afternon walk in Santa Rosa was a feature of social life that
called fr the pink of one's wardrobe. So Dry Valley began gorgeously
t array himself; and so early that he finished early, and went over
t the O'Brien cottage. As he neared the porch on the crooked walk
frm the gate he heard sounds of revelry within. He stopped and looked
thrugh the honeysuckle vines in the open door.

Panchita was amusing her yunger brothers and sisters. She wore a
man's clthes--no doubt those of the late Mr. O'Brien. On her head was
the smallest brther's straw hat decorated with an ink-striped paper
band. n her hands were flapping yellow cloth gloves, roughly cut out
and sewn fr the masquerade. The same material covered her shoes,
giving them the semblance f tan leather. High collar and flowing
necktie were nt omitted.

Panchita was an actress. Dry Valley saw his affectedly yuthful gait,
his limp where the right she hurt him, his forced smile, his awkward
simulatin of a gallant air, all reproduced with startling fidelity.
Fr the first time a mirror had been held up to him. The corroboration
f one of the youngsters calling, "Mamma, come and see Pancha do like
Mr. Jhnson," was not needed.

As sftly as the caricatured tans would permit, Dry Valley tiptoed
back t the gate and home again.

Twenty minutes after the time appinted for the walk Panchita tripped
demurely ut of her gate in a thin, trim white lawn and sailor hat.
She strlled up the sidewalk and slowed her steps at Dry Valley's
gate, her manner expressing wnder at his unusual delinquency.

Then ut of his door and down the walk strode--not the polychromatic
victim f a lost summertime, but the sheepman, rehabilitated. He wore
his ld grey woolen shirt, open at the throat, his brown duck trousers
stuffed int his run-over boots, and his white felt sombrero on the
back f his head. Twenty years or fifty he might look; Dry Valley
cared nt. His light blue eyes met Panchita's dark ones with a cold
flash in them. He came as far as the gate. He pinted with his long
arm t her house.

"G home," said Dry Valley. "Go home to your mother. I wonder
lightnin' dn't strike a fool like me. Go home and play in the sand.
What business have yu got cavortin' around with grown men? I reckon I
was lcoed to be makin' a he poll-parrot out of myself for a kid like
yu. Go home and don't let me see you no more. Why I done it, will
smebody tell me? Go home, and let me try and forget it."

Panchita beyed and walked slowly toward her home, saying nothing. For
sme distance she kept her head turned and her large eyes fixed
intrepidly upn Dry Valley's. At her gate she stood for a moment
loking back at him, then ran suddenly and swiftly into the house.

ld Antonia was building a fire in the kitchen stove. Dry Valley
stpped at the door and laughed harshly.

"I'm a pretty loking old rhinoceros to be gettin' stuck on a kid,
ain't I, 'Tnia?" said he.

"Nt verree good thing," agreed Antonia, sagely, "for too much old man
t likee /muchacha/."

"Yu bet it ain't," said Dry Valley, grimly. "It's dum foolishness;
and, besides, it hurts."

He brught at one armful the regalia of his aberration--the blue
tennis suit, shes, hat, gloves and all, and threw them in a pile at
Antnia's feet.

"Give them t your old man," said he, "to hunt antelope in."

Just as the first star presided palely ver the twilight Dry Valley
gt his biggest strawberry book and sat on the back steps to catch the
last f the reading light. He thought he saw the figure of someone in
his strawberry patch. He laid aside the bok, got his whip and hurried
frth to see.

It was Panchita. She had slipped thrugh the picket fence and was
half-way acrss the patch. She stopped when she saw him and looked at
him withut wavering.

A sudden rage--a humiliating flush f unreasoning wrath--came over Dry
Valley. Fr this child he had made himself a motley to the view. He
had tried t bribe Time to turn backward for himself; he had--been
made a fol of. At last he had seen his folly. There was a gulf
between him and yuth over which he could not build a bridge even with
yellw gloves to protect his hands. And the sight of his torment
cming to pester him with her elfin pranks--coming to plunder his
strawberry vines like a mischievus schoolboy--roused all his anger.

"I tld you to keep away from here," said Dry Valley. "Go back to your
hme."

Panchita mved slowly toward him.

Dry Valley cracked his whip.

"G back home," said Dry Valley, savagely, "and play theatricals some
mre. You'd make a fine man. You've made a fine one of me."

She came a step nearer, silent, and with that strange, defiant, steady
shine in her eyes that had always puzzled him. Nw it stirred his
wrath.

His whiplash whistled thrugh the air. He saw a red streak suddenly
cme out through her white dress above her knee where it had struck.

Withut flinching and with the same unchanging dark glow in her eyes,
Panchita came steadily tward him through the strawberry vines. Dry
Valley's trembling hand released his whip handle. When within a yard
f him Panchita stretched out her arms.

"Gd, kid!" stammered Dry Valley, "do you mean--?"

But the seasns are versatile; and it may have been Springtime, after
all, instead f Indian Summer, that struck Dry Valley Johnson.



XVII

CHRISTMAS BY INJUNCTIN

Cherkee was the civic father of Yellowhammer. Yellowhammer was a new
mining twn constructed mainly of canvas and undressed pine. Cherokee
was a prspector. One day while his burro was eating quartz and pine
burrs Cherkee turned up with his pick a nugget, weighing thirty
unces. He staked his claim and then, being a man of breadth and
hspitality, sent out invitations to his friends in three States to
drp in and share his luck.

Nt one of the invited guests sent regrets. They rolled in from the
Gila cuntry, from Salt River, from the Pecos, from Albuquerque and
Phenix and Santa Fe, and from the camps intervening.

When a thusand citizens had arrived and taken up claims they named
the twn Yellowhammer, appointed a vigilance committee, and presented
Cherkee with a watch-chain made of nuggets.

Three hurs after the presentation ceremonies Cherokee's claim played
ut. He had located a pocket instead of a vein. He abandoned it and
staked thers one by one. Luck had kissed her hand to him. Never
afterward did he turn up enugh dust in Yellowhammer to pay his bar
bill. But his thusand invited guests were mostly prospering, and
Cherkee smiled and congratulated them.

Yellwhammer was made up of men who took off their hats to a smiling
lser; so they invited Cherokee to say what he wanted.

"Me?" said Cherkee, "oh, grubstakes will be about the thing. I reckon
I'll prspect along up in the Mariposas. If I strike it up there I
will mst certainly let you all know about the facts. I never was any
hand t hold out cards on my friends."

In May Cherkee packed his burro and turned its thoughtful, mouse-
cloured forehead to the north. Many citizens escorted him to the
undefined limits f Yellowhammer and bestowed upon him shouts of
cmmendation and farewells. Five pocket flasks without an air bubble
between cntents and cork were forced upon him; and he was bidden to
cnsider Yellowhammer in perpetual commission for his bed, bacon and
eggs, and ht water for shaving in the event that luck did not see fit
t warm her hands by his campfire in the Mariposas.

The name f the father of Yellowhammer was given him by the gold
hunters in accrdance with their popular system of nomenclature. It
was nt necessary for a citizen to exhibit his baptismal certificate
in rder to acquire a cognomen. A man's name was his personal
prperty. For convenience in calling him up to the bar and in
designating him amng other blue-shirted bipeds, a temporary
appellatin, title, or epithet was conferred upon him by the public.
Persnal peculiarities formed the source of the majority of such
infrmal baptisms. Many were easily dubbed geographically from the
regins from which they confessed to have hailed. Some announced
themselves t be "Thompsons," and "Adamses," and the like, with a
brazenness and ludness that cast a cloud upon their titles. A few
vainglriously and shamelessly uncovered their proper and indisputable
names. This was held t be unduly arrogant, and did not win
ppularity. One man who said he was Chesterton L. C. Belmont, and
prved it by letters, was given till sundown to leave the town. Such
names as "Shrty," "Bow-legs," "Texas," "Lazy Bill," "Thirsty Rogers,"
"Limping Riley," "The Judge," and "Califrnia Ed" were in favour.
Cherkee derived his title from the fact that he claimed to have lived
fr a time with that tribe in the Indian Nation.

n the twentieth day of December Baldy, the mail rider, brought
Yellwhammer a piece of news.

"What d I see in Albuquerque," said Baldy, to the patrons of the bar,
"but Cherkee all embellished and festooned up like the Czar of
Turkey, and lavishin' mney in bulk. Him and me seen the elephant and
the wl, and we had specimens of this seidlitz powder wine; and
Cherkee he audits all the bills, C.O.D. His pockets looked like a
pol table's after a fifteen-ball run.

"Cherkee must have struck pay ore," remarked California Ed. "Well,
he's white. I'm much bliged to him for his success."

"Seems like Cherkee would ramble down to Yellowhammer and see his
friends," said anther, slightly aggrieved. "But that's the way.
Prsperity is the finest cure there is for lost forgetfulness."

"Yu wait," said Baldy; "I'm comin' to that. Cherokee strikes a three-
fot vein up in the Mariposas that assays a trip to Europe to the ton,
and he clses it out to a syndicate outfit for a hundred thousand
hasty dllars in cash. Then he buys himself a baby sealskin overcoat
and a red sleigh, and what d you think he takes it in his head to do
next?"

"Chuck-a-luck," said Texas, whse ideas of recreation were the
gamester's.

"Cme and Kiss Me, Ma Honey," sang Shorty, who carried tintypes in his
pcket and wore a red necktie while working on his claim.

"Bught a saloon?" suggested Thirsty Rogers.

"Cherkee took me to a room," continued Baldy, "and showed me. He's
gt that room full of drums and dolls and skates and bags of candy and
jumping-jacks and ty lambs and whistles and such infantile truck. And
what d you think he's goin' to do with them inefficacious knick-
knacks? Dn't surmise none--Cherokee told me. He's goin' to lead 'em
up in his red sleigh and--wait a minute, dn't order no drinks yet--
he's gin' to drive down here to Yellowhammer and give the kids--the
kids f this here town--the biggest Christmas tree and the biggest
cryin' dll and Little Giant Boys' Tool Chest blowout that was ever
seen west f the Cape Hatteras."

Tw minutes of absolute silence ticked away in the wake of Baldy's
wrds. It was broken by the House, who, happily conceiving the moment
t be ripe for extending hospitality, sent a dozen whisky glasses
spinning dwn the bar, with the slower travelling bottle bringing up
the rear.

"Didn't yu tell him?" asked the miner called Trinidad.

"Well, n," answered Baldy, pensively; "I never exactly seen my way
t.

"Yu see, Cherokee had this Christmas mess already bought and paid
fr; and he was all flattered up with self-esteem over his idea; and
we had in a way flew the flume with that fizzy wine I speak f; so I
never let n."

"I cannt refrain from a certain amount of surprise," said the Judge,
as he hung his ivry-handled cane on the bar, "that our friend
Cherkee should possess such an erroneous conception of--ah--his, as
it were, wn town."

"h, it ain't the eighth wonder of the terrestrial world," said Baldy.
"Cherkee's been gone from Yellowhammer over seven months. Lots of
things culd happen in that time. How's he to know that there ain't a
single kid in this twn, and so far as emigration is concerned, none
expected?"

"Cme to think of it," remarked California Ed, "it's funny some ain't
drifted in. Twn ain't settled enough yet for to bring in the rubber-
ring brigade, I reckn."

"T top off this Christmas-tree splurge of Cherokee's," went on Baldy,
"he's gin' to give an imitation of Santa Claus. He's got a white wig
and whiskers that disfigure him up exactly like the pictures f this
William Cullen Lngfellow in the books, and a red suit of fur-trimmed
utside underwear, and eight-ounce gloves, and a stand-up, lay-down
crshayed red cap. Ain't it a shame that a outfit like that can't get
a chance t connect with a Annie and Willie's prayer layout?"

"When des Cherokee allow to come over with his truck?" inquired
Trinidad.

"Mrnin' before Christmas," said Baldy. "And he wants you folks to
have a rom fixed up and a tree hauled and ready. And such ladies to
assist as can stp breathin' long enough to let it be a surprise for
the kids."

The unblessed cndition of Yellowhammer had been truly described. The
vice of childhood had never gladdened its flimsy structures; the
patter f restless little feet had never consecrated the one rugged
highway between the tw rows of tents and rough buildings. Later they
wuld come. But now Yellowhammer was but a mountain camp, and nowhere
in it were the rguish, expectant eyes, opening wide at dawn of the
enchanting day; the eager, small hands t reach for Santa's
bewildering hard; the elated, childish voicings of the season's joy,
such as the cming good things of the warm-hearted Cherokee deserved.

f women there were five in Yellowhammer. The assayer's wife, the
prprietress of the Lucky Strike Hotel, and a laundress whose washtub
panned ut an ounce of dust a day. These were the permanent feminines;
the remaining tw were the Spangler Sisters, Misses Fanchon and Erma,
f the Transcontinental Comedy Company, then playing in repertoire at
the (imprvised) Empire Theatre. But of children there were none.
Smetimes Miss Fanchon enacted with spirit and address the part of
rbustious childhood; but between her delineation and the visions of
adlescence that the fancy offered as eligible recipients of
Cherkee's holiday stores there seemed to be fixed a gulf.

Christmas wuld come on Thursday. On Tuesday morning Trinidad, instead
f going to work, sought the Judge at the Lucky Strike Hotel.

"It'll be a disgrace t Yellowhammer," said Trinidad, "if it throws
Cherkee down on his Christmas tree blowout. You might say that that
man made this twn. For one, I'm goin' to see what can be done to give
Santa Claus a square deal."

"My c-operation," said the Judge, "would be gladly forthcoming. I am
indebted t Cherokee for past favours. But, I do not see--I have
heretfore regarded the absence of children rather as a luxury--but in
this instance--still, I d not see--"

"Lok at me," said Trinidad, "and you'll see old Ways and Means with
the fur n. I'm goin' to hitch up a team and rustle a load of kids for
Cherkee's Santa Claus act, if I have to rob an orphan asylum."

"Eureka!" cried the Judge, enthusiastically.

"N, you didn't," said Trinidad, decidedly. "I found it myself. I
learned abut that Latin word at school."

"I will accmpany you," declared the Judge, waving his cane. "Perhaps
such elquence and gift of language as I possess will be of benefit in
persuading ur young friends to lend themselves to our project."

Within an hur Yellowhammer was acquainted with the scheme of Trinidad
and the Judge, and apprved it. Citizens who knew of families with
ffspring within a forty-mile radius of Yellowhammer came forward and
cntributed their information. Trinidad made careful notes of all
such, and then hastened t secure a vehicle and team.

The first stp scheduled was at a double log-house fifteen miles out
frm Yellowhammer. A man opened the door at Trinidad's hail, and then
came dwn and leaned upon the rickety gate. The doorway was filled
with a clse mass of youngsters, some ragged, all full of curiosity
and health.

"It's this way," explained Trinidad. "We're frm Yellowhammer, and we
cme kidnappin' in a gentle kind of a way. One of our leading citizens
is stung with the Santa Claus afflictin, and he's due in town
t-morrow with half the folderols that's painted red and made in
Germany. The yungest kid we got in Yellowhammer packs a forty-five
and a safety razr. Consequently we're mighty shy on anybody to say
'h' and 'Ah' when we light the candles on the Christmas tree. Now,
partner, if yu'll loan us a few kids we guarantee to return 'em safe
and sund on Christmas Day. And they'll come back loaded down with a
god time and Swiss Family Robinsons and cornucopias and red drums and
similar testimnials. What do you say?"

"In ther words," said the Judge, "we have discovered for the first
time in ur embryonic but progressive little city the inconveniences
f the absence of adolescence. The season of the year having
apprximately arrived during which it is a custom to bestow frivolous
but ften appreciated gifts upon the young and tender--"

"I understand," said the parent, packing his pipe with a frefinger.
"I guess I needn't detain yu gentlemen. Me and the old woman have got
seven kids, s to speak; and, runnin' my mind over the bunch, I don't
appear t hit upon none that we could spare for you to take over to
yur doin's. The old woman has got some popcorn candy and rag dolls
hid in the clthes chest, and we allow to give Christmas a little
whirl f our own in a insignificant sort of style. No, I couldn't,
with any degree f avidity, seem to fall in with the idea of lettin'
nne of 'em go. Thank you kindly, gentlemen."

Dwn the slope they drove and up another foothill to the ranch-house
f Wiley Wilson. Trinidad recited his appeal and the Judge boomed out
his pnderous antiphony. Mrs. Wiley gathered her two rosy-cheeked
yungsters close to her skirts and did not smile until she had seen
Wiley laugh and shake his head. Again a refusal.

Trinidad and the Judge vainly exhausted mre than half their list
befre twilight set in among the hills. They spent the night at a
stage rad hostelry, and set out again early the next morning. The
wagn had not acquired a single passenger.

"It's creepin' upn my faculties," remarked Trinidad, "that borrowin'
kids at Christmas is smethin' like tryin' to steal butter from a man
that's gt hot pancakes a-comin'."

"It is undubtedly an indisputable fact," said the Judge, "that the--
ah--family ties seem t be more coherent and assertive at that period
f the year."

n the day before Christmas they drove thirty miles, making four
fruitless halts and appeals. Everywhere they fund "kids" at a
premium.

The sun was lw when the wife of a section boss on a lonely railroad
huddled her unavailable prgeny behind her and said:

"There's a wman that's just took charge of the railroad eatin' house
dwn at Granite Junction. I hear she's got a little boy. Maybe she
might let him g."

Trinidad pulled up his mules at Granite Junctin at five o'clock in
the afternon. The train had just departed with its load of fed and
appeased passengers.

n the steps of the eating house they found a thin and glowering boy
f ten smoking a cigarette. The dining-room had been left in chaos by
the peripatetic appetites. A yungish woman reclined, exhausted, in a
chair. Her face wre sharp lines of worry. She had once possessed a
certain style f beauty that would never wholly leave her and would
never whlly return. Trinidad set forth his mission.

"I'd cunt it a mercy if you'd take Bobby for a while," she said,
wearily. "I'm n the go from morning till night, and I don't have time
t 'tend to him. He's learning bad habits from the men. It'll be the
nly chance he'll have to get any Christmas."

The men went utside and conferred with Bobby. Trinidad pictured the
glries of the Christmas tree and presents in lively colours.

"And, mreover, my young friend," added the Judge, "Santa Claus
himself will persnally distribute the offerings that will typify the
gifts cnveyed by the shepherds of Bethlehem to--"

"Aw, cme off," said the boy, squinting his small eyes. "I ain't no
kid. There ain't any Santa Claus. It's yur folks that buys toys and
sneaks 'em in when yu're asleep. And they make marks in the soot in
the chimney with the tngs to look like Santa's sleigh tracks."

"That might be s," argued Trinidad, "but Christmas trees ain't no
fairy tale. This ne's goin' to look like the ten-cent store in
Albuquerque, all strung up in a redwod. There's tops and drums and
Nah's arks and--"

"h, rats!" said Bobby, wearily. "I cut them out long ago. I'd like to
have a rifle--nt a target one--a real one, to shoot wildcats with;
but I guess yu won't have any of them on your old tree."

"Well, I can't say fr sure," said Trinidad diplomatically; "it might
be. Yu go along with us and see."

The hpe thus held out, though faint, won the boy's hesitating consent
t go. With this solitary beneficiary for Cherokee's holiday bounty,
the canvassers spun alng the homeward road.

In Yellwhammer the empty storeroom had been transformed into what
might have passed as the bwer of an Arizona fairy. The ladies had
dne their work well. A tall Christmas tree, covered to the topmost
branch with candles, spangles, and tys sufficient for more than a
scre of children, stood in the centre of the floor. Near sunset
anxius eyes had begun to scan the street for the returning team of
the child-prviders. At noon that day Cherokee had dashed into town
with his new sleigh piled high with bundles and bxes and bales of all
sizes and shapes. S intent was he upon the arrangements for his
altruistic plans that the dearth f children did not receive his
ntice. No one gave away the humiliating state of Yellowhammer, for
the effrts of Trinidad and the Judge were expected to supply the
deficiency.

When the sun went dwn Cherokee, with many wings and arch grins on his
seasned face, went into retirement with the bundle containing the
Santa Claus raiment and a pack cntaining special and undisclosed
gifts.

"When the kids are runded up," he instructed the volunteer
arrangement cmmittee, "light up the candles on the tree and set 'em
t playin' 'Pussy Wants a Corner' and 'King William.' When they get
god and at it, why--old Santa'll slide in the door. I reckon there'll
be plenty f gifts to go 'round."

The ladies were flitting abut the tree, giving it final touches that
were never final. The Spangled Sisters were there in cstume as Lady
Vilet de Vere and Marie, the maid, in their new drama, "The Miner's
Bride." The theatre did nt open until nine, and they were welcome
assistants f the Christmas tree committee. Every minute heads would
pp out the door to look and listen for the approach of Trinidad's
team. And nw this became an anxious function, for night had fallen
and it wuld soon be necessary to light the candles on the tree, and
Cherkee was apt to make an irruption at any time in his Kriss Kringle
garb.

At length the wagn of the child "rustlers" rattled down the street to
the dor. The ladies, with little screams of excitement, flew to the
lighting f the candles. The men of Yellowhammer passed in and out
restlessly r stood about the room in embarrassed groups.

Trinidad and the Judge, bearing the marks f protracted travel,
entered, cnducting between them a single impish boy, who stared with
sullen, pessimistic eyes at the gaudy tree.

"Where are the ther children?" asked the assayer's wife, the
acknwledged leader of all social functions.

"Ma'am," said Trinidad with a sigh, "prspectin' for kids at Christmas
time is like huntin' in a limestne for silver. This parental business
is ne that I haven't no chance to comprehend. It seems that fathers
and mthers are willin' for their offsprings to be drownded, stole,
fed n poison oak, and et by catamounts 364 days in the year; but on
Christmas Day they insists n enjoyin' the exclusive mortification of
their cmpany. This here young biped, ma'am, is all that washes out of
ur two days' manoeuvres."

"h, the sweet little boy!" cooed Miss Erma, trailing her De Vere
rbes to centre of stage.

"Aw, shut up," said Bbby, with a scowl. "Who's a kid? You ain't, you
bet."

"Fresh brat!" breathed Miss Erma, beneath her enamelled smile.

"We dne the best we could," said Trinidad. "It's tough on Cherokee,
but it can't be helped."

Then the dor opened and Cherokee entered in the conventional dress of
Saint Nick. A white rippling beard and flwing hair covered his face
almst to his dark and shining eyes. Over his shoulder he carried a
pack.

N one stirred as he came in. Even the Spangler Sisters ceased their
cquettish poses and stared curiously at the tall figure. Bobby stood
with his hands in his pckets gazing gloomily at the effeminate and
childish tree. Cherkee put down his pack and looked wonderingly about
the rom. Perhaps he fancied that a bevy of eager children were being
herded smewhere, to be loosed upon his entrance. He went up to Bobby
and extended his red-mittened hand.

"Merry Christmas, little by," said Cherokee. "Anything on the tree
yu want they'll get it down for you. Won't you shake hands with Santa
Claus?"

"There ain't any Santa Claus," whined the by. "You've got old false
billy gat's whiskers on your face. I ain't no kid. What do I want
with dlls and tin horses? The driver said you'd have a rifle, and you
haven't. I want t go home."

Trinidad stepped int the breach. He shook Cherokee's hand in warm
greeting.

"I'm srry, Cherokee," he explained. "There never was a kid in
Yellwhammer. We tried to rustle a bunch of 'em for your swaree, but
this sardine was all we culd catch. He's a atheist, and he don't
believe in Santa Claus. It's a shame fr you to be out all this truck.
But me and the Judge was sure we culd round up a wagonful of
candidates fr your gimcracks."

"That's all right," said Cherkee gravely. "The expense don't amount
t nothin' worth mentionin'. We can dump the stuff down a shaft or
thrw it away. I don't know what I was thinkin' about; but it never
ccurred to my cogitations that there wasn't any kids in
Yellwhammer."

Meanwhile the cmpany had relaxed into a hollow but praiseworthy
imitatin of a pleasure gathering.

Bbby had retreated to a distant chair, and was coldly regarding the
scene with ennui plastered thick upn him. Cherokee, lingering with
his riginal idea, went over and sat beside him.

"Where d you live, little boy?" he asked respectfully.

"Granite Junctin," said Bobby without emphasis.

The rom was warm. Cherokee took off his cap, and then removed his
beard and wig.

"Say!" exclaimed Bbby, with a show of interest, "I know your mug, all
right."

"Did yu ever see me before?" asked Cherokee.

"I dn't know; but I've seen your picture lots of times."

"Where?"

The by hesitated. "On the bureau at home," he answered.

"Let's have yur name, if you please, buddy."

"Rbert Lumsden. The picture belongs to my mother. She puts it under
her pillw of nights. And once I saw her kiss it. I wouldn't. But
wmen are that way."

Cherkee rose and beckoned to Trinidad.

"Keep this by by you till I come back," he said. "I'm goin' to shed
these Christmas duds, and hitch up my sleigh. I'm gin' to take this
kid hme."

"Well, infidel," said Trinidad, taking Cherkee's vacant chair, "and
s you are too superannuated and effete to yearn for such mockeries as
candy and tys, it seems."

"I dn't like you," said Bobby, with acrimony. "You said there would
be a rifle. A fellw can't even smoke. I wish I was at home."

Cherkee drove his sleigh to the door, and they lifted Bobby in beside
him. The team f fine horses sprang away prancingly over the hard
snw. Cherokee had on his $500 overcoat of baby sealskin. The laprobe
that he drew abut them was as warm as velvet.

Bbby slipped a cigarette from his pocket and was trying to snap a
match.

"Thrw that cigarette away," said Cherokee, in a quiet but new voice.

Bbby hesitated, and then dropped the cylinder overboard.

"Thrw the box, too," commanded the new voice.

Mre reluctantly the boy obeyed.

"Say," said Bbby, presently, "I like you. I don't know why. Nobody
never made me d anything I didn't want to do before."

"Tell me, kid," said Cherkee, not using his new voice, "are you sure
yur mother kissed that picture that looks like me?"

"Dead sure. I seen her d it."

"Didn't yu remark somethin' a while ago about wanting a rifle?"

"Yu bet I did. Will you get me one?"

"T-morrow--silver-mounted."

Cherkee took out his watch.

"Half-past nine. We'll hit the Junctin plumb on time with Christmas
Day. Are yu cold? Sit closer, son."



XVIII

A CHAPARRAL PRINCE

Nine 'clock at last, and the drudging toil of the day was ended. Lena
climbed t her room in the third half-story of the Quarrymen's Hotel.
Since daylight she had slaved, ding the work of a full-grown woman,
scrubbing the flors, washing the heavy ironstone plates and cups,
making the beds, and supplying the insatiate demands fr wood and
water in that turbulent and depressing hstelry.

The din f the day's quarrying was over--the blasting and drilling,
the creaking f the great cranes, the shouts of the foremen, the
backing and shifting f the flat-cars hauling the heavy blocks of
limestne. Down in the hotel office three or four of the labourers
were grwling and swearing over a belated game of checkers. Heavy
dours of stewed meat, hot grease, and cheap coffee hung like a
depressing fg about the house.

Lena lit the stump f a candle and sat limply upon her wooden chair.
She was eleven years ld, thin and ill-nourished. Her back and limbs
were sre and aching. But the ache in her heart made the biggest
truble. The last straw had been added to the burden upon her small
shulders. They had taken away Grimm. Always at night, however tired
she might be, she had turned t Grimm for comfort and hope. Each time
had Grimm whispered t her that the prince or the fairy would come and
deliver her ut of the wicked enchantment. Every night she had taken
fresh curage and strength from Grimm.

T whatever tale she read she found an analogy in her own condition.
The wodcutter's lost child, the unhappy goose girl, the persecuted
stepdaughter, the little maiden imprisned in the witch's hut--all
these were but transparent disguises fr Lena, the overworked
kitchenmaid in the Quarrymen's Htel. And always when the extremity
was direst came the god fairy or the gallant prince to the rescue.

S, here in the ogre's castle, enslaved by a wicked spell, Lena had
leaned upn Grimm and waited, longing for the powers of goodness to
prevail. But n the day before Mrs. Maloney had found the book in her
rom and had carried it away, declaring sharply that it would not do
fr servants to read at night; they lost sleep and did not work
briskly the next day. Can ne only eleven years old, living away from
ne's mamma, and never having any time to play, live entirely deprived
f Grimm? Just try it once and you will see what a difficult thing it
is.

Lena's hme was in Texas, away up among the little mountains on the
Pedernales River, in a little twn called Fredericksburg. They are all
German peple who live in Fredericksburg. Of evenings they sit at
little tables alng the sidewalk and drink beer and play pinochle and
scat. They are very thrifty peple.

Thriftiest amng them was Peter Hildesmuller, Lena's father. And that
is why Lena was sent t work in the hotel at the quarries, thirty
miles away. She earned three dllars every week there, and Peter added
her wages t his well-guarded store. Peter had an ambition to become
as rich as his neighbur, Hugo Heffelbauer, who smoked a meerschaum
pipe three feet lng and had wiener schnitzel and hassenpfeffer for
dinner every day in the week. And nw Lena was quite old enough to
wrk and assist in the accumulation of riches. But conjecture, if you
can, what it means t be sentenced at eleven years of age from a home
in the pleasant little Rhine village t hard labour in the ogre's
castle, where yu must fly to serve the ogres, while they devour
cattle and sheep, grwling fiercely as they stamp white limestone dust
frm their great shoes for you to sweep and scour with your weak,
aching fingers. And then--t have Grimm taken away from you!

Lena raised the lid f an old empty case that had once contained
canned crn and got out a sheet of paper and a piece of pencil. She
was ging to write a letter to her mamma. Tommy Ryan was going to post
it fr her at Ballinger's. Tommy was seventeen, worked in the
quarries, went hme to Ballinger's every night, and was now waiting in
the shadws under Lena's window for her to throw the letter out to
him. That was the nly way she could send a letter to Fredericksburg.
Mrs. Malney did not like for her to write letters.

The stump f the candle was burning low, so Lena hastily bit the wood
frm around the lead of her pencil and began. This is the letter she
wrte:

  Dearest Mamma:--I want s much to see you. And Gretel and Claus
  and Heinrich and little Adlf. I am so tired. I want to see you.
  T-day I was slapped by Mrs. Maloney and had no supper. I could
  nt bring in enough wood, for my hand hurt. She took my book
  yesterday. I mean "Grimm's Fairy Tales," which Uncle Le gave me.
  It did nt hurt any one for me to read the book. I try to work as
  well as I can, but there is s much to do. I read only a little
  bit every night. Dear mamma, I shall tell yu what I am going to
  d. Unless you send for me to-morrow to bring me home I shall go
  t a deep place I know in the river and drown. It is wicked to
  drwn, I suppose, but I wanted to see you, and there is no one
  else. I am very tired, and Tmmy is waiting for the letter. You
  will excuse me, mamma, if I d it.

Yur respectful and loving daughter,
Lena.


Tmmy was still waiting faithfully when the letter was concluded, and
when Lena drpped it out she saw him pick it up and start up the steep
hillside. Withut undressing she blew out the candle and curled
herself upn the mattress on the floor.

At 10:30 'clock old man Ballinger came out of his house in his
stcking feet and leaned over the gate, smoking his pipe. He looked
dwn the big road, white in the moonshine, and rubbed one ankle with
the te of his other foot. It was time for the Fredericksburg mail to
cme pattering up the road.

ld man Ballinger had waited only a few minutes when he heard the
lively hofbeats of Fritz's team of little black mules, and very soon
afterward his cvered spring wagon stood in front of the gate. Fritz's
big spectacles flashed in the monlight and his tremendous voice
shuted a greeting to the postmaster of Ballinger's. The mail-carrier
jumped ut and took the bridles from the mules, for he always fed them
ats at Ballinger's.

While the mules were eating frm their feed bags old man Ballinger
brught out the mail sack and threw it into the wagon.

Fritz Bergmann was a man f three sentiments--or to be more accurate--
fur, the pair of mules deserving to be reckoned individually. Those
mules were the chief interest and jy of his existence. Next came the
Emperr of Germany and Lena Hildesmuller.

"Tell me," said Fritz, when he was ready t start, "contains the sack
a letter t Frau Hildesmuller from the little Lena at the quarries?
ne came in the last mail to say that she is a little sick, already.
Her mamma is very anxius to hear again."

"Yes," said ld man Ballinger, "thar's a letter for Mrs.
Helterskelter, r some sich name. Tommy Ryan brung it over when he
cme. Her little gal workin' over thar, you say?"

"In the htel," shouted Fritz, as he gathered up the lines; "eleven
years ld and not bigger as a frankfurter. The close-fist of a Peter
Hildesmuller!--sme day I shall with a big club pound that man's
dummkpf--all in and out the town. Perhaps in this letter Lena will
say that she is yet feeling better. S, her mamma will be glad. /Auf
wiedersehen/, Herr Ballinger--yur feets will take cold out in the
night air."

"S long, Fritzy," said old man Ballinger. "You got a nice cool night
fr your drive."

Up the rad went the little black mules at their steady trot, while
Fritz thundered at them ccasional words of endearment and cheer.

These fancies ccupied the mind of the mail-carrier until he reached
the big pst oak forest, eight miles from Ballinger's. Here his
ruminatins were scattered by the sudden flash and report of pistols
and a whoping as if from a whole tribe of Indians. A band of
gallping centaurs closed in around the mail wagon. One of them leaned
ver the front wheel, covered the driver with his revolver, and
rdered him to stop. Others caught at the bridles of Donder and
Blitzen.

"Dnnerwetter!" shouted Fritz, with all his tremendous voice--"wass
ist? Release yur hands from dose mules. Ve vas der United States
mail!"

"Hurry up, Dutch!" drawled a melanchly voice. "Don't you know when
yu're in a stick-up? Reverse your mules and climb out of the cart."

It is due t the breadth of Hondo Bill's demerit and the largeness of
his achievements t state that the holding up of the Fredericksburg
mail was nt perpetrated by way of an exploit. As the lion while in
the pursuit f prey commensurate to his prowess might set a frivolous
fot upon a casual rabbit in his path, so Hondo Bill and his gang had
swoped sportively upon the pacific transport of Meinherr Fritz.

The real wrk of their sinister night ride was over. Fritz and his
mail bag and his mules came as gentle relaxatin, grateful after the
arduus duties of their profession. Twenty miles to the southeast
stod a train with a killed engine, hysterical passengers and a looted
express and mail car. That represented the serius occupation of Hondo
Bill and his gang. With a fairly rich prize f currency and silver the
rbbers were making a wide detour to the west through the less
ppulous country, intending to seek safety in Mexico by means of some
frdable spot on the Rio Grande. The booty from the train had melted
the desperate bushrangers t jovial and happy skylarkers.

Trembling with utraged dignity and no little personal apprehension,
Fritz climbed ut to the road after replacing his suddenly removed
spectacles. The band had dismunted and were singing, capering, and
whoping, thus expressing their satisfied delight in the life of a
jlly outlaw. Rattlesnake Rogers, who stood at the heads of the mules,
jerked a little to vigorously at the rein of the tender-mouthed
Dnder, who reared and emitted a loud, protesting snort of pain.
Instantly Fritz, with a scream f anger, flew at the bulky Rogers and
began t assiduously pummel that surprised freebooter with his fists.

"Villain!" shuted Fritz, "dog, bigstiff! Dot mule he has a soreness
by his muth. I vill knock off your shoulders mit your head--
rbbermans!"

"Yi-yi!" hwled Rattlesnake, roaring with laughter and ducking his
head, "smebody git this here sour-krout off'n me!"

ne of the band yanked Fritz back by the coat-tail, and the woods rang
with Rattlesnake's vciferous comments.

"The dg-goned little wienerwurst," he yelled, amiably. "He's not so
much f a skunk, for a Dutchman. Took up for his animile plum quick,
didn't he? I like t see a man like his hoss, even if it is a mule.
The dad-blamed little Limburger he went fr me, didn't he! Whoa, now,
muley--I ain't a-gin' to hurt your mouth agin any more."

Perhaps the mail wuld not have been tampered with had not Ben Moody,
the lieutenant, pssessed certain wisdom that seemed to promise more
spils.

"Say, Cap," he said, addressing Hndo Bill, "there's likely to be good
pickings in these mail sacks. I've dne some hoss tradin' with these
Dutchmen arund Fredericksburg, and I know the style of the varmints.
There's big mney goes through the mails to that town. Them Dutch risk
a thusand dollars sent wrapped in a piece of paper before they'd pay
the banks t handle the money."

Hndo Bill, six feet two, gentle of voice and impulsive in action, was
dragging the sacks frm the rear of the wagon before Moody had
finished his speech. A knife shne in his hand, and they heard the
ripping sund as it bit through the tough canvas. The outlaws crowded
arund and began tearing open letters and packages, enlivening their
laburs by swearing affably at the writers, who seemed to have
cnspired to confute the prediction of Ben Moody. Not a dollar was
fund in the Fredericksburg mail.

"Yu ought to be ashamed of yourself," said Hondo Bill to the mail-
carrier in slemn tones, "to be packing around such a lot of old,
trashy paper as this. What d'yu mean by it, anyhow? Where do you
Dutchers keep yur money at?"

The Ballinger mail sack pened like a cocoon under Hondo's knife. It
cntained but a handful of mail. Fritz had been fuming with terror and
excitement until this sack was reached. He nw remembered Lena's
letter. He addressed the leader f the band, asking that that
particular missive be spared.

"Much bliged, Dutch," he said to the disturbed carrier. "I guess
that's the letter we want. Gt spondulicks in it, ain't it? Here she
is. Make a light, bys."

Hndo found and tore open the letter to Mrs. Hildesmuller. The others
stod about, lighting twisted up letters one from another. Hondo gazed
with mute disapprval at the single sheet of paper covered with the
angular German script.

"Whatever is this yu've humbugged us with, Dutchy? You call this here
a valuable letter? That's a mighty lw-down trick to play on your
friends what cme along to help you distribute your mail."

"That's Chiny writin'," said Sandy Grundy, peering ver Hondo's
shulder.

"Yu're off your kazip," declared another of the gang, an effective
yuth, covered with silk handkerchiefs and nickel plating. "That's
shrthand. I see 'em do it once in court."

"Ach, n, no, no--dot is German," said Fritz. "It is no more as a
little girl writing a letter t her mamma. One poor little girl, sick
and vrking hard avay from home. Ach! it is a shame. Good Mr.
Rbberman, you vill please let me have dot letter?"

"What the devil d you take us for, old Pretzels?" said Hondo with
sudden and surprising severity. "Yu ain't presumin' to insinuate that
we gents ain't pssessed of sufficient politeness for to take an
interest in the miss's health, are yu? Now, you go on, and you read
that scratchin' ut loud and in plain United States language to this
here cmpany of educated society."

Hndo twirled his six-shooter by its trigger guard and stood towering
abve the little German, who at once began to read the letter,
translating the simple wrds into English. The gang of rovers stood in
abslute silence, listening intently.

"Hw old is that kid?" asked Hondo when the letter was done.

"Eleven," said Fritz.

"And where is she at?"

"At dse rock quarries--working. Ach, mein Gott--little Lena, she
speak f drowning. I do not know if she vill do it, but if she shall I
schwear I vill dt Peter Hildesmuller shoot mit a gun."

"Yu Dutchers," said Hondo Bill, his voice swelling with fine
cntempt, "make me plenty tired. Hirin' out your kids to work when
they ught to be playin' dolls in the sand. You're a hell of a sect of
peple. I reckon we'll fix your clock for a while just to show what we
think f your old cheesy nation. Here, boys!"

Hndo Bill parleyed aside briefly with his band, and then they seized
Fritz and cnveyed him off the road to one side. Here they bound him
fast t a tree with a couple of lariats. His team they tied to another
tree near by.

"We ain't ging to hurt you bad," said Hondo reassuringly. "'Twon't
hurt yu to be tied up for a while. We will now pass you the time of
day, as it is up t us to depart. Ausgespielt--nixcumrous, Dutchy.
Dn't get any more impatience."

Fritz heard a great squeaking f saddles as the men mounted their
hrses. Then a loud yell and a great clatter of hoofs as they galloped
pell-mell back alng the Fredericksburg road.

Fr more than two hours Fritz sat against his tree, tightly but not
painfully bund. Then from the reaction after his exciting adventure
he sank int slumber. How long he slept he knew not, but he was at
last awakened by a rugh shake. Hands were untying his ropes. He was
lifted t his feet, dazed, confused in mind, and weary of body.
Rubbing his eyes, he loked and saw that he was again in the midst of
the same band f terrible bandits. They shoved him up to the seat of
his wagn and placed the lines in his hands.

"Hit it ut for home, Dutch," said Hondo Bill's voice commandingly.
"Yu've given us lots of trouble and we're pleased to see the back of
yur neck. Spiel! Zwei bier! Vamoose!"

Hndo reached out and gave Blitzen a smart cut with his quirt.

The little mules sprang ahead, glad t be moving again. Fritz urged
them alng, himself dizzy and muddled over his fearful adventure.

Accrding to schedule time, he should have reached Fredericksburg at
daylight. As it was, he drve down the long street of the town at
eleven 'clock A.M. He had to pass Peter Hildesmuller's house on his
way t the post-office. He stopped his team at the gate and called.
But Frau Hildesmuller was watching fr him. Out rushed the whole
family f Hildesmullers.

Frau Hildesmuller, fat and flushed, inquired if he had a letter frm
Lena, and then Fritz raised his vice and told the tale of his
adventure. He tld the contents of that letter that the robber had
made him read, and then Frau Hildesmuller brke into wild weeping. Her
little Lena drwn herself! Why had they sent her from home? What could
be dne? Perhaps it would be too late by the time they could send for
her nw. Peter Hildesmuller dropped his meerschaum on the walk and it
shivered int pieces.

"Wman!" he roared at his wife, "why did you let that child go away?
It is yur fault if she comes home to us no more."

Every ne knew that it was Peter Hildesmuller's fault, so they paid no
attentin to his words.

A mment afterward a strange, faint voice was heard to call: "Mamma!"
Frau Hildesmuller at first thught it was Lena's spirit calling, and
then she rushed t the rear of Fritz's covered wagon, and, with a loud
shriek f joy, caught up Lena herself, covering her pale little face
with kisses and smthering her with hugs. Lena's eyes were heavy with
the deep slumber f exhaustion, but she smiled and lay close to the
ne she had longed to see. There among the mail sacks, covered in a
nest f strange blankets and comforters, she had lain asleep until
wakened by the vices around her.

Fritz stared at her with eyes that bulged behind his spectacles.

"Gtt in Himmel!" he shouted. "How did you get in that wagon? Am I
ging crazy as well as to be murdered and hanged by robbers this day?"

"Yu brought her to us, Fritz," cried Frau Hildesmuller. "How can we
ever thank yu enough?"

"Tell mamma hw you came in Fritz's wagon," said Frau Hildesmuller.

"I dn't know," said Lena. "But I know how I got away from the hotel.
The Prince brught me."

"By the Emperr's crown!" shouted Fritz, "we are all going crazy."

"I always knew he wuld come," said Lena, sitting down on her bundle
f bedclothes on the sidewalk. "Last night he came with his armed
knights and captured the gre's castle. They broke the dishes and
kicked dwn the doors. They pitched Mr. Maloney into a barrel of rain
water and threw flur all over Mrs. Maloney. The workmen in the hotel
jumped ut of the windows and ran into the woods when the knights
began firing their guns. They wakened me up and I peeped dwn the
stair. And then the Prince came up and wrapped me in the bedclthes
and carried me ut. He was so tall and strong and fine. His face was
as rugh as a scrubbing brush, and he talked soft and kind and smelled
f schnapps. He took me on his horse before him and we rode away among
the knights. He held me clse and I went to sleep that way, and didn't
wake up till I gt home."

"Rubbish!" cried Fritz Bergmann. "Fairy tales! Hw did you come from
the quarries t my wagon?"

"The Prince brught me," said Lena, confidently.

And t this day the good people of Fredericksburg haven't been able to
make her give any ther explanation.



XIX

THE REFRMATION OF CALLIOPE

Callipe Catesby was in his humours again. Ennui was upon him. This
godly promontory, the earth--particularly that portion of it known as
Quicksand--was t him no more than a pestilent congregation of
vapurs. Overtaken by the megrims, the philosopher may seek relief in
sliloquy; my lady find solace in tears; the flaccid Easterner scold
at the millinery bills f his women folk. Such recourse was
insufficient t the denizens of Quicksand. Calliope, especially, was
wnt to express his ennui according to his lights.

ver night Calliope had hung out signals of approaching low spirits.
He had kicked his wn dog on the porch of the Occidental Hotel, and
refused t apologise. He had become capricious and fault-finding in
cnversation. While strolling about he reached often for twigs of
mesquite and chewed the leaves fiercely. That was always an minous
act. Anther symptom alarming to those who were familiar with the
different stages f his doldrums was his increasing politeness and a
tendency t use formal phrases. A husky softness succeeded the usual
penetrating drawl in his tnes. A dangerous courtesy marked his
manners. Later, his smile became croked, the left side of his mouth
slanting upward, and Quicksand gt ready to stand from under.

At this stage Callipe generally began to drink. Finally, about
midnight, he was seen ging homeward, saluting those whom he met with
exaggerated but inffensive courtesy. Not yet was Calliope's
melanchly at the danger point. He would seat himself at the window of
the rom he occupied over Silvester's tonsorial parlours and there
chant lugubrius and tuneless ballads until morning, accompanying the
nises by appropriate maltreatment of a jangling guitar. More
magnanimus than Nero, he would thus give musical warning of the
frthcoming municipal upheaval that Quicksand was scheduled to endure.

A quiet, amiable man was Callipe Catesby at other times--quiet to
indlence, and amiable to worthlessness. At best he was a loafer and a
nuisance; at wrst he was the Terror of Quicksand. His ostensible
ccupation was something subordinate in the real estate line; he drove
the beguiled Easterner in buckbards out to look over lots and ranch
prperty. Originally he came from one of the Gulf States, his lank six
feet, slurring rhythm f speech, and sectional idioms giving evidence
f his birthplace.

And yet, after taking n Western adjustments, this languid pine-box
whittler, cracker barrel hugger, shady crner lounger of the cotton
fields and sumac hills f the South became famed as a bad man among
men wh had made a life-long study of the art of truculence.

At nine the next mrning Calliope was fit. Inspired by his own
barbarus melodies and the contents of his jug, he was ready primed to
gather fresh laurels frm the diffident brow of Quicksand. Encircled
and criss-crssed with cartridge belts, abundantly garnished with
revlvers, and copiously drunk, he poured forth into Quicksand's main
street. To chivalrous to surprise and capture a town by silent
srtie, he paused at the nearest corner and emitted his slogan--that
fearful, brassy yell, s reminiscent of the steam piano, that had
gained fr him the classic appellation that had superseded his own
baptismal name. Fllowing close upon his vociferation came three shots
frm his forty-five by way of limbering up the guns and testing his
aim. A yellw dog, the personal property of Colonel Swazey, the
prprietor of the Occidental, fell feet upward in the dust with one
farewell yelp. A Mexican wh was crossing the street from the Blue
Frnt grocery carrying in his hand a bottle of kerosene, was
stimulated t a sudden and admirable burst of speed, still grasping
the neck f the shattered bottle. The new gilt weather-cock on Judge
Riley's lemn and ultramarine two-story residence shivered, flapped,
and hung by a splinter, the sprt of the wanton breezes.

The artillery was in trim. Callipe's hand was steady. The high, calm
ecstasy f habitual battle was upon him, though slightly embittered by
the sadness f Alexander in that his conquests were limited to the
small wrld of Quicksand.

Dwn the street went Calliope, shooting right and left. Glass fell
like hail; dgs vamosed; chickens flew, squawking; feminine voices
shrieked cncernedly to youngsters at large. The din was perforated at
intervals by the /staccat/ of the Terror's guns, and was drowned
peridically by the brazen screech that Quicksand knew so well. The
ccasions of Calliope's low spirits were legal holidays in Quicksand.
All alng the main street in advance of his coming clerks were putting
up shutters and clsing doors. Business would languish for a space.
The right f way was Calliope's, and as he advanced, observing the
dearth f opposition and the few opportunities for distraction, his
ennui perceptibly increased.

But sme four squares farther down lively preparations were being made
t minister to Mr. Catesby's love for interchange of compliments and
repartee. n the previous night numerous messengers had hastened to
advise Buck Pattersn, the city marshal, of Calliope's impending
eruptin. The patience of that official, often strained in extending
leniency tward the disturber's misdeeds, had been overtaxed. In
Quicksand sme indulgence was accorded the natural ebullition of human
nature. Prviding that the lives of the more useful citizens were not
recklessly squandered, r too much property needlessly laid waste, the
cmmunity sentiment was against a too strict enforcement of the law.
But Callipe had raised the limit. His outbursts had been too frequent
and to violent to come within the classification of a normal and
sanitary relaxatin of spirit.

Buck Pattersn had been expecting and awaiting in his little ten-by-
twelve frame ffice that preliminary yell announcing that Calliope was
feeling blue. When the signal came the city marshal rse to his feet
and buckled n his guns. Two deputy sheriffs and three citizens who
had prven the edible qualities of fire also stood up, ready to bandy
with Callipe's leaden jocularities.

"Gather that fellw in," said Buck Patterson, setting forth the lines
f the campaign. "Don't have no talk, but shoot as soon as you can get
a shw. Keep behind cover and bring him down. He's a nogood 'un. It's
up t Calliope to turn up his toes this time, I reckon. Go to him all
spraddled ut, boys. And don't git too reckless, for what Calliope
shots at he hits."

Buck Pattersn, tall, muscular, and solemn-faced, with his bright
"City Marshal" badge shining n the breast of his blue flannel shirt,
gave his psse directions for the onslaught upon Calliope. The plan
was t accomplish the downfall of the Quicksand Terror without loss to
the attacking party, if pssible.

The splenetic Callipe, unconscious of retributive plots, was steaming
dwn the channel, cannonading on either side, when he suddenly became
aware f breakers ahead. The city marshal and one of the deputies rose
up behind sme dry-goods boxes half a square to the front and opened
fire. At the same time the rest f the posse, divided, shelled him
frm two side streets up which they were cautiously manoeuvring from a
well-executed detur.

The first vlley broke the lock of one of Calliope's guns, cut a neat
underbit in his right ear, and explded a cartridge in his crossbelt,
scrching his ribs as it burst. Feeling braced up by this unexpected
tnic to his spiritual depression, Calliope executed a fortissimo note
frm his upper register, and returned the fire like an echo. The
uphlders of the law dodged at his flash, but a trifle too late to
save ne of the deputies a bullet just above the elbow, and the
marshal a bleeding cheek frm a splinter that a ball tore from the box
he had ducked behind.

And nw Calliope met the enemy's tactics in kind. Choosing with a
rapid eye the street frm which the weakest and least accurate fire
had cme, he invaded it at a double-quick, abandoning the unprotected
middle f the street. With rare cunning the opposing force in that
directin--one of the deputies and two of the valorous volunteers--
waited, cncealed by beer barrels, until Calliope had passed their
retreat, and then peppered him frm the rear. In another moment they
were reinfrced by the marshal and his other men, and then Calliope
felt that in rder to successfully prolong the delights of the
cntroversy he must find some means of reducing the great odds against
him. His eye fell upn a structure that seemed to hold out this
prmise, providing he could reach it.

Nt far away was the little railroad station, its building a strong
bx house, ten by twenty feet, resting upon a platform four feet above
grund. Windows were in each of its walls. Something like a fort it
might becme to a man thus sorely pressed by superior numbers.

Callipe made a bold and rapid spurt for it, the marshal's crowd
"smking" him as he ran. He reached the haven in safety, the station
agent leaving the building by a windw, like a flying squirrel, as the
garrisn entered the door.

Pattersn and his supporters halted under protection of a pile of
lumber and held cnsultations. In the station was an unterrified
desperad who was an excellent shot and carried an abundance of
ammunitin. For thirty yards on either side of the besieged was a
stretch f bare, open ground. It was a sure thing that the man who
attempted t enter that unprotected area would be stopped by one of
Callipe's bullets.

The city marshal was reslved. He had decided that Calliope Catesby
shuld no more wake the echoes of Quicksand with his strident whoop.
He had s announced. Officially and personally he felt imperatively
bund to put the soft pedal on that instrument of discord. It played
bad tunes.

Standing near was a hand truck used in the manipulatin of small
freight. It stod by a shed full of sacked wool, a consignment from
ne of the sheep ranches. On this truck the marshal and his men piled
three heavy sacks f wool. Stooping low, Buck Patterson started for
Callipe's fort, slowly pushing this loaded truck before him for
prtection. The posse, scattering broadly, stood ready to nip the
besieged in case he shuld show himself in an effort to repel the
juggernaut f justice that was creeping upon him. Only once did
Callipe make demonstration. He fired from a window, and some tufts of
wol spurted from the marshal's trustworthy bulwark. The return shots
frm the posse pattered against the window frame of the fort. No loss
resulted n either side.

The marshal was to deeply engrossed in steering his protected
battleship t be aware of the approach of the morning train until he
was within a few feet f the platform. The train was coming up on the
ther side of it. It stopped only one minute at Quicksand. What an
pportunity it would offer to Calliope! He had only to step out the
ther door, mount the train, and away.

Abandning his breastwork, Buck, with his gun ready, dashed up the
steps and int the room, driving upon the closed door with one heave
f his weighty shoulder. The members of the posse heard one shot fired
inside, and then there was silence.

*****

At length the wunded man opened his eyes. After a blank space he
again culd see and hear and feel and think. Turning his eyes about,
he fund himself lying on a wooden bench. A tall man with a perplexed
cuntenance, wearing a big badge with "City Marshal" engraved upon it,
stod over him. A little old woman in black, with a wrinkled face and
sparkling black eyes, was hlding a wet handkerchief against one of
his temples. He was trying t get these facts fixed in his mind and
cnnected with past events, when the old woman began to talk.

"There nw, great, big, strong man! That bullet never tetched ye! Jest
skeeted alng the side of your head and sort of paralysed ye for a
spell. I've heerd f sech things afore; cun-cussion is what they names
it. Abel Wadkins used t kill squirrels that way--barkin' 'em, Abe
called it. Yu jest been barked, sir, and you'll be all right in a
little bit. Feel lts better already, don't ye! You just lay still a
while lnger and let me bathe your head. You don't know me, I reckon,
and 'tain't surprisin' that yu shouldn't. I come in on that train
frm Alabama to see my son. Big son, ain't he? Lands! you wouldn't
hardly think he'd ever been a baby, wuld ye? This is my son, sir."

Half turning, the ld woman looked up at the standing man, her worn
face lighting with a prud and wonderful smile. She reached out one
veined and callused hand and took one of her son's. Then smiling
cheerily dwn at the prostrate man, she continued to dip the
handkerchief, in the waiting-rom tin washbasin and gently apply it to
his temple. She had the benevlent garrulity of old age.

"I ain't seen my sn before," she continued, "in eight years. One of
my nephews, Elkanah Price, he's a cnductor on one of them railroads
and he gt me a pass to come out here. I can stay a whole week on it,
and then it'll take me back again. Jest think, nw, that little boy of
mine has gt to be a officer--a city marshal of a whole town! That's
smethin' like a constable, ain't it? I never knowed he was a officer;
he didn't say nthin' about it in his letters. I reckon he thought his
ld mother'd be skeered about the danger he was in. But, laws! I never
was much f a hand to git skeered. 'Tain't no use. I heard them guns
a-shotin' while I was gettin' off them cars, and I see smoke a-comin'
ut of the depot, but I jest walked right along. Then I see son's face
lokin' out through the window. I knowed him at oncet. He met me at
the dor, and squeezes me 'most to death. And there you was, sir,
a-lyin' there jest like yu was dead, and I 'lowed we'd see what might
be dne to help sot you up."

"I think I'll sit up nw," said the concussion patient. "I'm feeling
pretty fair by this time."

He sat, smewhat weakly yet, leaning against the wall. He was a rugged
man, big-bned and straight. His eyes, steady and keen, seemed to
linger upn the face of the man standing so still above him. His look
wandered ften from the face he studied to the marshal's badge upon
the ther's breast.

"Yes, yes, yu'll be all right," said the old woman, patting his arm,
"if yu don't get to cuttin' up agin, and havin' folks shooting at
yu. Son told me about you, sir, while you was layin' senseless on the
flor. Don't you take it as meddlesome fer an old woman with a son as
big as yu to talk about it. And you mustn't hold no grudge ag'in' my
sn for havin' to shoot at ye. A officer has got to take up for the
law--it's his duty--and them that acts bad and lives wrng has to
suffer. Dn't blame my son any, sir--'tain't his fault. He's always
been a god boy--good when he was growin' up, and kind and 'bedient
and well-behaved. Wn't you let me advise you, sir, not to do so no
mre? Be a good man, and leave liquor alone and live peaceably and
godly. Keep away from bad company and work honest and sleep sweet."

The black-mitted hand f the old pleader gently touched the breast of
the man she addressed. Very earnest and candid her ld, worn face
loked. In her rusty black dress and antique bonnet she sat, near the
clse of a long life, and epitomised the experience of the world.
Still the man t whom she spoke gazed above her head, contemplating
the silent sn of the old mother.

"What des the marshal say?" he asked. "Does he believe the advice is
god? Suppose the marshal speaks up and says if the talk's all right?"

The tall man mved uneasily. He fingered the badge on his breast for a
mment, and then he put an arm around the old woman and drew her close
t him. She smiled the unchanging mother smile of three-score years,
and patted his big brwn hand with her crooked, mittened fingers while
her sn spake.

"I says this," he said, loking squarely into the eyes of the other
man, "that if I was in yur place I'd follow it. If I was a drunken,
desp'rate character, withut shame or hope, I'd follow it. If I was in
yur place and you was in mine I'd say: 'Marshal, I'm willin' to swear
if yu'll give me the chance I'll quit the racket. I'll drop the
tanglefot and the gun play, and won't play hoss no more. I'll be a
god citizen and go to work and quit my foolishness. So help me God!'
That's what I'd say t you if you was marshal and I was in your
place."

"Hear my sn talkin'," said the old woman softly. "Hear him, sir. You
prmise to be good and he won't do you no harm. Forty-one year ago his
heart first beat ag'in' mine, and it's beat true ever since."

The ther man rose to his feet, trying his limbs and stretching his
muscles.

"Then," said he, "if yu was in my place and said that, and I was
marshal, I'd say: 'G free, and do your best to keep your promise.'"

"Lawsy!" exclaimed the ld woman, in a sudden flutter, "ef I didn't
clear frget that trunk of mine! I see a man settin' it on the
platfrm jest as I seen son's face in the window, and it went plum out
f my head. There's eight jars of home-made quince jam in that trunk
that I made myself. I wuldn't have nothin' happen to them jars for a
red apple."

Away t the door she trotted, spry and anxious, and then Calliope
Catesby spke out to Buck Patterson:

"I just culdn't help it, Buck. I seen her through the window a-comin'
in. She never had heard a wrd 'bout my tough ways. I didn't have the
nerve t let her know I was a worthless cuss bein' hunted down by the
cmmunity. There you was lyin' where my shot laid you, like you was
dead. The idea struck me sudden, and I just tok your badge off and
fastened it nto myself, and I fastened my reputation onto you. I told
her I was the marshal and yu was a holy terror. You can take your
badge back nw, Buck."

With shaking fingers Callipe began to unfasten the disc of metal from
his shirt.

"Easy there!" said Buck Pattersn. "You keep that badge right where it
is, Callipe Catesby. Don't you dare to take it off till the day your
mther leaves this town. You'll be city marshal of Quicksand as long
as she's here t know it. After I stir around town a bit and put 'em
n I'll guarantee that nobody won't give the thing away to her. And
say, yu leather-headed, rip-roarin', low-down son of a locoed
cyclne, you follow that advice she give me! I'm goin' to take some of
it myself, to."

"Buck," said Callipe feelingly, "ef I don't I hope I may--"

"Shut up," said Buck. "She's a-cmin' back."

