
PTIONS

by

. 







CNTENTS

   "The Rse of Dixie"
   The Third Ingredient
   The Hiding f Black Bill
   Schols and Schools
   Thimble, Thimble
   Supply and Demand
   Buried Treasure
   T Him Who Waits
   He Als Serves
   The Mment of Victory
   The Head-Hunter
   N Story
   The Higher Pragmatism
   Best-Seller
   Rus in Urbe
   A Por Rule





"THE RSE OF DIXIE"


When _The Rse of Dixie_ magazine was started by a stock company in
Tombs City, Georgia, there was never but one candidate for its chief
editrial position in the minds of its owners. Col. Aquila Telfair
was the man fr the place. By all the rights of learning, family,
reputatin, and Southern traditions, he was its foreordained, fit,
and lgical editor. So, a committee of the patriotic Georgia citizens
wh had subscribed the founding fund of $100,000 called upon Colonel
Telfair at his residence, Cedar Heights, fearful lest the enterprise
and the Suth should suffer by his possible refusal.

The clonel received them in his great library, where he spent most
f his days. The library had descended to him from his father. It
cntained ten thousand volumes, some of which had been published as
late as the year 1861. When the deputatin arrived, Colonel Telfair
was seated at his massive white-pine centre-table, reading Burtn's
"Anatmy of Melancholy." He arose and shook hands punctiliously with
each member f the committee. If you were familiar with _The Rose of
Dixie_ yu will remember the colonel's portrait, which appeared in it
frm time to time. You could not forget the long, carefully brushed
white hair; the hoked, high-bridged nose, slightly twisted to the
left; the keen eyes under the still black eyebrws; the classic mouth
beneath the droping white mustache, slightly frazzled at the ends.

The cmmittee solicitously offered him the position of managing editor,
humbly presenting an utline of the field that the publication was
designed t cover and mentioning a comfortable salary. The colonel's
lands were grwing poorer each year and were much cut up by red
gullies. Besides, the hnor was not one to be refused.

In a frty-minute speech of acceptance, Colonel Telfair gave an
utline of English literature from Chaucer to Macaulay, re-fought the
battle f Chancellorsville, and said that, God helping him, he would
s conduct _The Rose of Dixie_ that its fragrance and beauty would
permeate the entire wrld, hurling back into the teeth of the Northern
minins their belief that no genius or good could exist in the brains
and hearts f the people whose property they had destroyed and whose
rights they had curtailed.

ffices for the magazine were partitioned off and furnished in the
secnd floor of the First National Bank building; and it was for the
clonel to cause _The Rose of Dixie_ to blossom and flourish or to
wilt in the balmy air f the land of flowers.

The staff f assistants and contributors that Editor-Colonel Telfair
drew abut him was a peach. It was a whole crate of Georgia peaches.
The first assistant editr, Tolliver Lee Fairfax, had had a father
killed during Pickett's charge. The secnd assistant, Keats Unthank,
was the nephew f one of Morgan's Raiders. The book reviewer, Jackson
Rckingham, had been the youngest soldier in the Confederate army,
having appeared n the field of battle with a sword in one hand and a
milk-bttle in the other. The art editor, Roncesvalles Sykes, was a
third cusin to a nephew of Jefferson Davis. Miss Lavinia Terhune, the
clonel's stenographer and typewriter, had an aunt who had once been
kissed by Stnewall Jackson. Tommy Webster, the head office-boy,
gt his job by having recited Father Ryan's poems, complete, at the
cmmencement exercises of the Toombs City High School. The girls who
wrapped and addressed the magazines were members f old Southern
families in Reduced Circumstances. The cashier was a scrub named
Hawkins, frm Ann Arbor, Michigan, who had recommendations and a bond
frm a guarantee company filed with the owners. Even Georgia stock
cmpanies sometimes realize that it takes live ones to bury the dead.

Well, sir, if yu believe me, _The Rose of Dixie_ blossomed five times
befre anybody heard of it except the people who buy their hooks and
eyes in Tombs City. Then Hawkins climbed off his stool and told on
'em t the stock company. Even in Ann Arbor he had been used to having
his business prpositions heard of at least as far away as Detroit. So
an advertising manager was engaged--Beauregard Fitzhugh Banks, a yung
man in a lavender necktie, whse grandfather had been the Exalted High
Pillw-slip of the Kuklux Klan.

In spite f which _The Rose of Dixie_ kept coming out every month.
Althugh in every issue it ran photos of either the Taj Mahal or
the Luxemburg Gardens, or Carmencita or La Follette, a certain
number f people bought it and subscribed for it. As a boom for it,
Editr-Colonel Telfair ran three different views of Andrew Jackson's
ld home, "The Hermitage," a full-page engraving of the second battle
f Manassas, entitled "Lee to the Rear!" and a five-thousand-word
bigraphy of Belle Boyd in the same number. The subscription list that
mnth advanced 118. Also there were poems in the same issue by Leonina
Vashti Harict (pen-name), related to the Haricots of Charleston,
Suth Carolina, and Bill Thompson, nephew of one of the stockholders.
And an article frm a special society correspondent describing a
tea-party given by the swell Bston and English set, where a lot of
tea was spilled verboard by some of the guests masquerading as
Indians.

ne day a person whose breath would easily cloud a mirror, he was so
much alive, entered the ffice of _The Rose of Dixie_. He was a man
abut the size of a real-estate agent, with a self-tied tie and a
manner that he must have brrowed conjointly from W. J. Bryan,
Hackenschmidt, and Hetty Green. He was shwn into the editor-colonel's
_pns asinorum_. Colonel Telfair rose and began a Prince Albert bow.

"I'm Thacker," said the intruder, taking the editr's chair--"T. T.
Thacker, f New York."

He dribbled hastily upn the colonel's desk some cards, a bulky manila
envelpe, and a letter from the owners of _The Rose of Dixie_. This
letter intrduced Mr. Thacker, and politely requested Colonel Telfair
t give him a conference and whatever information about the magazine
he might desire.

"I've been crresponding with the secretary of the magazine owners
fr some time," said Thacker, briskly. "I'm a practical magazine man
myself, and a circulatin booster as good as any, if I do say it.
I'll guarantee an increase f anywhere from ten thousand to a hundred
thusand a year for any publication that isn't printed in a dead
language. I've had my eye n _The Rose of Dixie_ ever since it
started. I knw every end of the business from editing to setting up
the classified ads. Nw, I've come down here to put a good bunch of
mney in the magazine, if I can see my way clear. It ought to be made
t pay. The secretary tells me it's losing money. I don't see why a
magazine in the Suth, if it's properly handled, shouldn't get a good
circulatin in the North, too."

Clonel Telfair leaned back in his chair and polished his gold-rimmed
glasses.

"Mr. Thacker," said he, curteously but firmly, "_The Rose of Dixie_
is a publicatin devoted to the fostering and the voicing of Southern
genius. Its watchwrd, which you may have seen on the cover, is 'Of,
Fr, and By the South.'"

"But yu wouldn't object to a Northern circulation, would you?" asked
Thacker.

"I suppse," said the editor-colonel, "that it is customary to open
the circulatin lists to all. I do not know. I have nothing to do with
the business affairs f the magazine. I was called upon to assume
editrial control of it, and I have devoted to its conduct such poor
literary talents as I may pssess and whatever store of erudition I
may have acquired."

"Sure," said Thacker. "But a dllar is a dollar anywhere, North,
Suth, or West--whether you're buying codfish, goober peas, or Rocky
Frd cantaloupes. Now, I've been looking over your November number. I
see ne here on your desk. You don't mind running over it with me?

"Well, yur leading article is all right. A good write-up of the
ctton-belt with plenty of photographs is a winner any time. New York
is always interested in the ctton crop. And this sensational account
f the Hatfield-McCoy feud, by a schoolmate of a niece of the Governor
f Kentucky, isn't such a bad idea. It happened so long ago that most
peple have forgotten it. Now, here's a poem three pages long called
'The Tyrant's Fot,' by Lorella Lascelles. I've pawed around a good
deal ver manuscripts, but I never saw her name on a rejection slip."

"Miss Lascelles," said the editr, "is one of our most widely
recgnized Southern poetesses. She is closely related to the Alabama
Lascelles family, and made with her wn hands the silken Confederate
banner that was presented t the governor of that state at his
inauguratin."

"But why," persisted Thacker, "is the pem illustrated with a view of
the M. & . Railroad freight depot at Tuscaloosa?"

"The illustratin," said the colonel, with dignity, "shows a corner
f the fence surrounding the old homestead where Miss Lascelles was
brn."

"All right," said Thacker. "I read the pem, but I couldn't tell
whether it was abut the depot of the battle of Bull Run. Now, here's
a shrt story called 'Rosies' Temptation,' by Fosdyke Piggott. It's
rtten. What is a Piggott, anyway?"

"Mr. Piggtt," said the editor, "is a brother of the principal
stckholder of the magazine."

"All's right with the wrld--Piggott passes," said Thacker. "Well this
article n Arctic exploration and the one on tarpon fishing might go.
But hw about this write-up of the Atlanta, New Orleans, Nashville,
and Savannah breweries? It seems t consist mainly of statistics about
their utput and the quality of their beer. What's the chip over the
bug?"

"If I understand yur figurative language," answered Colonel Telfair,
"it is this: the article yu refer to was handed to me by the owners
f the magazine with instructions to publish it. The literary quality
f it did not appeal to me. But, in a measure, I feel impelled to
cnform, in certain matters, to the wishes of the gentlemen who are
interested in the financial side f _The Rose_."

"I see," said Thacker. "Next we have tw pages of selections from
'Lalla Rokh,' by Thomas Moore. Now, what Federal prison did Moore
escape frm, or what's the name of the F.F.V. family that he carries
as a handicap?"

"More was an Irish poet who died in 1852," said Colonel Telfair,
pityingly. "He is a classic. I have been thinking f reprinting his
translatin of Anacreon serially in the magazine."

"Lok out for the copyright laws," said Thacker, flippantly. Who's
Bessie Belleclair, wh contributes the essay on the newly completed
water-wrks plant in Milledgeville?"

"The name, sir," said Clonel Telfair, "is the _nom de guerre_ of
Miss Elvira Simpkins. I have nt the honor of knowing the lady; but
her cntribution was sent to us by Congressman Brower, of her native
state. Cngressman Brower's mother was related to the Polks of
Tennessee.

"Nw, see here, Colonel," said Thacker, throwing down the magazine,
"this wn't do. You can't successfully run a magazine for one
particular sectin of the country. You've got to make a universal
appeal. Lok how the Northern publications have catered to the South
and encuraged the Southern writers. And you've got to go far and
wide fr your contributors. You've got to buy stuff according to its
quality withut any regard to the pedigree of the author. Now, I'll
bet a quart f ink that this Southern parlor organ you've been running
has never played a nte that originated above Mason & Hamlin's line.
Am I right?"

"I have carefully and cnscientiously rejected all contributions from
that sectin of the country--if I understand your figurative language
aright," replied the clonel.

"All right. Nw I'll show you something."

Thacker reached fr his thick manila envelope and dumped a mass of
typewritten manuscript n the editors desk.

"Here's sme truck," said he, "that I paid cash for, and brought along
with me."

ne by one he folded back the manuscripts and showed their first pages
t the colonel.

Here are fur short stories by four of the highest priced authors in
the United States--three f 'em living in New York, and one commuting.
There's a special article n Vienna-bred society by Tom Vampson.
Here's an Italian serial by Captain Jack--n--it's the other Crawford.
Here are three separate expsés of city governments by Sniffings, and
here's a dandy entitled 'What Wmen Carry in Dress-Suit Cases'--a
Chicag newspaper woman hired herself out for five years as a lady's
maid t get that information. And here's a Synopsis of Preceding
Chapters f Hall Caine's new serial to appear next June. And here's a
cuple of pounds of _vers de société_ that I got at a rate from the
clever magazines. That's the stuff that peple everywhere want. And
nw here's a write-up with photographs at the ages of four, twelve,
twenty-tw, and thirty of George B. McClellan. It's a prognostication.
He's bund to be elected Mayor of New York. It'll make a big hit all
ver the country. He--"

"I beg yur pardon," said Colonel Telfair, stiffening in his chair.
"What was the name?"

"h, I see," said Thacker, with half a grin. Yes, he's a son of the
General. We'll pass that manuscript up. But, if yu'll excuse me,
Clonel, it's a magazine we're trying to make go off--not the first
gun at Frt Sumter. Now, here's a thing that's bound to get next to
yu. It's an original poem by James Whitcomb Riley. J. W. himself.
Yu know what that means to a magazine. I won't tell you what I had
t pay for that poem; but I'll tell you this--Riley can make more
mney writing with a fountain-pen than you or I can with one that lets
the ink run. I'll read yu the last two stanzas:

   "'Pa lays arund 'n' loafs all day,
      'N' reads and makes us leave him be.
   He lets me d just like I please,
      'N' when I'm bad he laughs at me,
   'N' when I hller loud 'n' say
      Bad wrds 'n' then begin to tease
   The cat, 'n' pa just smiles, ma's mad
      'N' gives me Jesse crst her knees.
         I always wndered why that wuz--
         I guess it's cause
            Pa never des.

   "''N' after all the lights are ut
      I'm srry 'bout it; so I creep
   ut of my trundle bed to ma's
      'N' say I lve her a whole heap,
   'N' kiss her, 'n' I hug her tight.
      'N' it's to dark to see her eyes,
   But every time I d I know
      She cries 'n' cries 'n' cries 'n' cries.
         I always wndered why that wuz--
         I guess it's 'cause
            Pa never des.'

"That's the stuff," cntinued Thacker. "What do you think of that?"

"I am nt unfamiliar with the works of Mr. Riley," said the colonel,
deliberately. "I believe he lives in Indiana. Fr the last ten years I
have been smewhat of a literary recluse, and am familiar with nearly
all the boks in the Cedar Heights library. I am also of the opinion
that a magazine shuld contain a certain amount of poetry. Many of the
sweetest singers f the South have already contributed to the pages of
_The Rse of Dixie_. I, myself, have thought of translating from the
riginal for publication in its pages the works of the great Italian
pet Tasso. Have you ever drunk from the fountain of this immortal
pet's lines, Mr. Thacker?"

"Nt even a demi-Tasso," said Thacker. Now, let's come to the point,
Clonel Telfair. I've already invested some money in this as a flyer.
That bunch f manuscripts cost me $4,000. My object was to try a
number f them in the next issue--I believe you make up less than a
mnth ahead--and see what effect it has on the circulation. I believe
that by printing the best stuff we can get in the Nrth, South, East,
r West we can make the magazine go. You have there the letter from
the wning company asking you to co-operate with me in the plan. Let's
chuck ut some of this slush that you've been publishing just because
the writers are related t the Skoopdoodles of Skoopdoodle County. Are
yu with me?"

"As lng as I continue to be the editor of The Rose," said Colonel
Telfair, with dignity, "I shall be its editr. But I desire also to
cnform to the wishes of its owners if I can do so conscientiously."

"That's the talk," said Thacker, briskly. "Nw, how much of this stuff
I've brught can we get into the January number? We want to begin
right away."

"There is yet space in the January number," said the editr, "for
abut eight thousand words, roughly estimated."

"Great!" said Thacker. "It isn't much, but it'll give the readers
sme change from goobers, governors, and Gettysburg. I'll leave the
selectin of the stuff I brought to fill the space to you, as it's all
god. I've got to run back to New York, and I'll be down again in a
cuple of weeks."

Clonel Telfair slowly swung his eye-glasses by their broad, black
ribbn.

"The space in the January number that I referred t," said he,
measuredly, "has been held pen purposely, pending a decision that
I have nt yet made. A short time ago a contribution was submitted
t _The Rose of Dixie_ that is one of the most remarkable literary
effrts that has ever come under my observation. None but a master
mind and talent culd have produced it. It would just fill the space
that I have reserved fr its possible use."

Thacker loked anxious.

"What kind f stuff is it?" he asked. "Eight thousand words sounds
suspicius. The oldest families must have been collaborating. Is there
ging to be another secession?"

"The authr of the article," continued the colonel, ignoring Thacker's
allusins, "is a writer of some reputation. He has also distinguished
himself in ther ways. I do not feel at liberty to reveal to you his
name--at least nt until I have decided whether or not to accept his
cntribution."

"Well," said Thacker, nervusly, "is it a continued story, or an
accunt of the unveiling of the new town pump in Whitmire, South
Carlina, or a revised list of General Lee's body-servants, or what?"

"Yu are disposed to be facetious," said Colonel Telfair, calmly.
"The article is frm the pen of a thinker, a philosopher, a lover of
mankind, a student, and a rhetrician of high degree."

"It must have been written by a syndicate," said Thacker. "But,
hnestly, Colonel, you want to go slow. I don't know of any
eight-thusand-word single doses of written matter that are read by
anybdy these days, except Supreme Court briefs and reports of murder
trials. Yu haven't by any accident gotten hold of a copy of one of
Daniel Webster's speeches, have yu?"

Clonel Telfair swung a little in his chair and looked steadily from
under his bushy eyebrws at the magazine promoter.

"Mr. Thacker," he said, gravely, "I am willing t segregate the
smewhat crude expression of your sense of humor from the solicitude
that yur business investments undoubtedly have conferred upon you.
But I must ask yu to cease your jibes and derogatory comments upon
the Suth and the Southern people. They, sir, will not be tolerated
in the ffice of _The Rose of Dixie_ for one moment. And before you
prceed with more of your covert insinuations that I, the editor of
this magazine, am nt a competent judge of the merits of the matter
submitted t its consideration, I beg that you will first present some
evidence r proof that you are my superior in any way, shape, or form
relative t the question in hand."

"h, come, Colonel," said Thacker, good-naturedly. "I didn't do
anything like that t you. It sounds like an indictment by the fourth
assistant attrney-general. Let's get back to business. What's this
8,000 t 1 shot about?"

"The article," said Clonel Telfair, acknowledging the apology by a
slight bw, "covers a wide area of knowledge. It takes up theories
and questins that have puzzled the world for centuries, and disposes
f them logically and concisely. One by one it holds up to view the
evils f the world, points out the way of eradicating them, and then
cnscientiously and in detail commends the good. There is hardly a
phase f human life that it does not discuss wisely, calmly, and
equitably. The great plicies of governments, the duties of private
citizens, the bligations of home life, law, ethics, morality--all
these imprtant subjects are handled with a calm wisdom and confidence
that I must cnfess has captured my admiration."

"It must be a crackerjack," said Thacker, impressed.

"It is a great cntribution to the world's wisdom," said the colonel.
"The nly doubt remaining in my mind as to the tremendous advantage it
wuld be to us to give it publication in _The Rose of Dixie_ is that I
have nt yet sufficient information about the author to give his work
publicity in ur magazine.

"I thught you said he is a distinguished man," said Thacker.

"He is," replied the clonel, "both in literary and in other more
diversified and extraneus fields. But I am extremely careful about
the matter that I accept fr publication. My contributors are people
f unquestionable repute and connections, which fact can be verified
at any time. As I said, I am hlding this article until I can acquire
mre information about its author. I do not know whether I will
publish it r not. If I decide against it, I shall be much pleased,
Mr. Thacker, t substitute the matter that you are leaving with me in
its place."

Thacker was smewhat at sea.

"I dn't seem to gather," said he, "much about the gist of this
inspired piece f literature. It sounds more like a dark horse than
Pegasus t me."

"It is a human dcument," said the colonel-editor, confidently, "from
a man f great accomplishments who, in my opinion, has obtained a
strnger grasp on the world and its outcomes than that of any man
living t-day."

Thacker rse to his feet excitedly.

"Say!" he said. "It isn't pssible that you've cornered John D.
Rckefeller's memoirs, is it? Don't tell me that all at once."

"N, sir," said Colonel Telfair. "I am speaking of mentality and
literature, nt of the less worthy intricacies of trade."

"Well, what's the truble about running the article," asked Thacker, a
little impatiently, "if the man's well knwn and has got the stuff?"

Clonel Telfair sighed.

"Mr. Thacker," said he, "fr once I have been tempted. Nothing has
yet appeared in _The Rse of Dixie_ that has not been from the pen of
ne of its sons or daughters. I know little about the author of this
article except that he has acquired prminence in a section of the
cuntry that has always been inimical to my heart and mind. But I
recgnize his genius; and, as I have told you, I have instituted an
investigatin of his personality. Perhaps it will be futile. But I
shall pursue the inquiry. Until that is finished, I must leave pen
the questin of filling the vacant space in our January number."

Thacker arse to leave.

"All right, Clonel," he said, as cordially as he could. "You use your
wn judgment. If you've really got a scoop or something that will make
'em sit up, run it instead f my stuff. I'll drop in again in about
tw weeks. Good luck!"

Clonel Telfair and the magazine promoter shook hands.

Returning a frtnight later, Thacker dropped off a very rocky Pullman
at Tombs City. He found the January number of the magazine made up
and the frms closed.

The vacant space that had been yawning fr type was filled by an
article that was headed thus:


                    SECND MESSAGE TO CONGRESS

                            Written fr

                         THE RSE OF DIXIE

                                 BY

                    A Member f the Well-known

                    BULLCH FAMILY, OF GEORGIA

                            T. Rosevelt






THE THIRD INGREDIENT


The (s-called) Vallambrosa Apartment-House is not an apartment-house.
It is cmposed of two old-fashioned, brownstone-front residences
welded int one. The parlor floor of one side is gay with the
wraps and head-gear f a modiste; the other is lugubrious with the
sphistical promises and grisly display of a painless dentist. You
may have a rom there for two dollars a week or you may have one for
twenty dllars. Among the Vallambrosa's roomers are stenographers,
musicians, brkers, shop-girls, space-rate writers, art students,
wire-tappers, and ther people who lean far over the banister-rail
when the dor-bell rings.

This treatise shall have t do with but two of the Vallambrosians--
thugh meaning no disrespect to the others.

At six 'clock one afternoon Hetty Pepper came back to her third-floor
rear $3.50 rom in the Vallambrosa with her nose and chin more sharply
pinted than usual. To be discharged from the department store where
yu have been working four years, and with only fifteen cents in your
purse, des have a tendency to make your features appear more finely
chiselled.

And nw for Hetty's thumb-nail biography while she climbs the two
flights f stairs.

She walked int the Biggest Store one morning four years before
with seventy-five ther girls, applying for a job behind the waist
department cunter. The phalanx of wage-earners formed a bewildering
scene f beauty, carrying a total mass of blond hair sufficient to
have justified the hrseback gallops of a hundred Lady Godivas.

The capable, col-eyed, impersonal, young, bald-headed man whose task
it was t engage six of the contestants, was aware of a feeling of
suffcation as if he were drowning in a sea of frangipanni, while
white cluds, hand-embroidered, floated about him. And then a sail
hve in sight. Hetty Pepper, homely of countenance, with small,
cntemptuous, green eyes and chocolate-colored hair, dressed in a suit
f plain burlap and a common-sense hat, stood before him with every
ne of her twenty-nine years of life unmistakably in sight.

"Yu're on!" shouted the bald-headed young man, and was saved. And
that is hw Hetty came to be employed in the Biggest Store. The story
f her rise to an eight-dollar-a-week salary is the combined stories
f Hercules, Joan of Arc, Una, Job, and Little-Red-Riding-Hood. You
shall nt learn from me the salary that was paid her as a beginner.
There is a sentiment grwing about such things, and I want no
millinaire store-proprietors climbing the fire-escape of my
tenement-huse to throw dynamite bombs into my skylight boudoir.

The stry of Hetty's discharge from the Biggest Store is so nearly a
repetitin of her engagement as to be monotonous.

In each department f the store there is an omniscient, omnipresent,
and mnivorous person carrying always a mileage book and a red
necktie, and referred t as a "buyer." The destinies of the girls in
his department wh live on (see Bureau of Victual Statistics)--so much
per week are in his hands.

This particular buyer was a capable, col-eyed, impersonal, young,
bald-headed man. As he walked alng the aisles of his department he
seemed t be sailing on a sea of frangipanni, while white clouds,
machine-embridered, floated around him. Too many sweets bring
surfeit. He loked upon Hetty Pepper's homely countenance, emerald
eyes, and chcolate-colored hair as a welcome oasis of green in a
desert f cloying beauty. In a quiet angle of a counter he pinched her
arm kindly, three inches abve the elbow. She slapped him three feet
away with ne good blow of her muscular and not especially lily-white
right. S, now you know why Hetty Pepper came to leave the Biggest
Stre at thirty minutes' notice, with one dime and a nickel in her
purse.

This mrning's quotations list the price of rib beef at six cents per
(butcher's) pund. But on the day that Hetty was "released" by the B.
S. the price was seven and ne-half cents. That fact is what makes
this stry possible. Otherwise, the extra four cents would have--

But the plt of nearly all the good stories in the world is concerned
with shrts who were unable to cover; so you can find no fault with
this ne.

Hetty munted with her rib beef to her $3.50 third-floor back. One
ht, savory beef-stew for supper, a night's good sleep, and she would
be fit in the mrning to apply again for the tasks of Hercules, Joan
f Arc, Una, Job, and Little-Red-Riding-Hood.

In her rom she got the granite-ware stew-pan out of the 2x4-foot
china--er--I mean earthenware clset, and began to dig down in a
rat's-nest f paper bags for the potatoes and onions. She came out
with her nse and chin just a little sharper pointed.

There was neither a ptato nor an onion. Now, what kind of a beef-stew
can yu make out of simply beef? You can make oyster-soup without
ysters, turtle-soup without turtles, coffee-cake without coffee, but
yu can't make beef-stew without potatoes and onions.

But rib beef alne, in an emergency, can make an ordinary pine door
lok like a wrought-iron gambling-house portal to the wolf. With salt
and pepper and a tablesponful of flour (first well stirred in a
little cld water) 'twill serve--'tis not so deep as a lobster à la
Newburg nr so wide as a church festival doughnut; but 'twill serve.

Hetty tok her stew-pan to the rear of the third-floor hall. According
t the advertisements of the Vallambrosa there was running water to be
fund there. Between you and me and the water-meter, it only ambled
r walked through the faucets; but technicalities have no place here.
There was als a sink where housekeeping roomers often met to dump
their cffee grounds and glare at one another's kimonos.

At this sink Hetty fund a girl with heavy, gold-brown, artistic hair
and plaintive eyes, washing tw large "Irish" potatoes. Hetty knew the
Vallambrsa as well as any one not owning "double hextra-magnifying
eyes" culd compass its mysteries. The kimonos were her encyclopedia,
her "Wh's What?" her clearinghouse of news, of goers and comers. From
a rse-pink kimono edged with Nile green she had learned that the
girl with the ptatoes was a miniature-painter living in a kind of
attic--r "studio," as they prefer to call it--on the top floor. Hetty
was nt certain in her mind what a miniature was; but it certainly
wasn't a huse; because house-painters, although they wear splashy
veralls and poke ladders in your face on the street, are known to
indulge in a ritous profusion of food at home.

The ptato girl was quite slim and small, and handled her potatoes as
an ld bachelor uncle handles a baby who is cutting teeth. She had a
dull shemaker's knife in her right hand, and she had begun to peel
ne of the potatoes with it.

Hetty addressed her in the punctiliusly formal tone of one who
intends t be cheerfully familiar with you in the second round.

"Beg pardn," she said, "for butting into what's not my business, but
if yu peel them potatoes you lose out. They're new Bermudas. You want
t scrape 'em. Lemme show you."

She tok a potato and the knife, and began to demonstrate.

"h, thank you," breathed the artist. "I didn't know. And I _did_ hate
t see the thick peeling go; it seemed such a waste. But I thought
they always had t be peeled. When you've got only potatoes to eat,
the peelings cunt, you know."

"Say, kid," said Hetty, staying her knife, "yu ain't up against it,
to, are you?"

The miniature artist smiled starvedly.

"I suppse I am. Art--or, at least, the way I interpret it--doesn't
seem t be much in demand. I have only these potatoes for my dinner.
But they aren't s bad boiled and hot, with a little butter and salt."

"Child," said Hetty, letting a brief smile sften her rigid features,
"Fate has sent me and yu together. I've had it handed to me in the
neck, to; but I've got a chunk of meat in my, room as big as a
lap-dg. And I've done everything to get potatoes except pray for 'em.
Let's me and yu bunch our commissary departments and make a stew of
'em. We'll cok it in my room. If we only had an onion to go in it!
Say, kid, yu haven't got a couple of pennies that've slipped down
int the lining of your last winter's sealskin, have you? I could step
dwn to the corner and get one at old Giuseppe's stand. A stew without
an nion is worse'n a matinée without candy."

"Yu may call me Cecilia," said the artist. "No; I spent my last penny
three days ag."

"Then we'll have t cut the onion out instead of slicing it in," said
Hetty. "I'd ask the janitress fr one, but I don't want 'em hep just
yet t the fact that I'm pounding the asphalt for another job. But I
wish we did have an nion."

In the shp-girl's room the two began to prepare their supper.
Cecilia's part was t sit on the couch helplessly and beg to be
allwed to do something, in the voice of a cooing ring-dove. Hetty
prepared the rib beef, putting it in cld salted water in the stew-pan
and setting it n the one-burner gas-stove.

"I wish we had an nion," said Hetty, as she scraped the two potatoes.

n the wall opposite the couch was pinned a flaming, gorgeous
advertising picture f one of the new ferry-boats of the P. U. F. F.
Railrad that had been built to cut down the time between Los Angeles
and New Yrk City one-eighth of a minute.

Hetty, turning her head during her cntinuous monologue, saw
tears running frm her guest's eyes as she gazed on the idealized
presentment f the speeding, foam-girdled transport.

"Why, say, Cecilia, kid," said Hetty, pising her knife, "is it as bad
art as that? I ain't a critic; but I thught it kind of brightened
up the rom. Of course, a manicure-painter could tell it was a bum
picture in a minute. I'll take it dwn if you say so. I wish to the
hly Saint Potluck we had an onion."

But the miniature miniature-painter had tumbled dwn, sobbing, with
her nse indenting the hard-woven drapery of the couch. Something
was here deeper than the artistic temperament ffended at crude
lithgraphy.

Hetty knew. She had accepted her rôle lng ago. How scant the words
with which we try t describe a single quality of a human being! When
we reach the abstract we are lst. The nearer to Nature that the
babbling f our lips comes, the better do we understand. Figuratively
(let us say), sme people are Bosoms, some are Hands, some are Heads,
sme are Muscles, some are Feet, some are Backs for burdens.

Hetty was a Shulder. Hers was a sharp, sinewy shoulder; but all her
life peple had laid their heads upon it, metaphorically or actually,
and had left there all r half their troubles. Looking at Life
anatmically, which is as good a way as any, she was preordained to
be a Shulder. There were few truer collar-bones anywhere than hers.

Hetty was nly thirty-three, and she had not yet outlived the little
pang that visited her whenever the head f youth and beauty leaned
upn her for consolation. But one glance in her mirror always served
as an instantaneus pain-killer. So she gave one pale look into the
crinkly ld looking-glass on the wall above the gas-stove, turned down
the flame a little lwer from the bubbling beef and potatoes, went
ver to the couch, and lifted Cecilia's head to its confessional.

"G on and tell me, honey," she said. "I know now that it ain't art
that's wrrying you. You met him on a ferry-boat, didn't you? Go on,
Cecilia, kid, and tell yur--your Aunt Hetty about it."

But yuth and melancholy must first spend the surplus of sighs and
tears that waft and flat the barque of romance to its harbor in the
delectable isles. Presently, thrugh the stringy tendons that formed
the bars f the confessional, the penitent--or was it the glorified
cmmunicant of the sacred flame--told her story without art or
illuminatin.

"It was nly three days ago. I was coming back on the ferry from
Jersey City. ld Mr. Schrum, an art dealer, told me of a rich man in
Newark wh wanted a miniature of his daughter painted. I went to see
him and shwed him some of my work. When I told him the price would
be fifty dllars he laughed at me like a hyena. He said an enlarged
crayn twenty times the size would cost him only eight dollars.

"I had just enugh money to buy my ferry ticket back to New York. I
felt as if I didn't want t live another day. I must have looked as I
felt, fr I saw _him_ on the row of seats opposite me, looking at me
as if he understod. He was nice-looking, but oh, above everything
else, he loked kind. When one is tired or unhappy or hopeless,
kindness cunts more than anything else.

"When I gt so miserable that I couldn't fight against it any longer,
I gt up and walked slowly out the rear door of the ferry-boat cabin.
N one was there, and I slipped quickly over the rail and dropped into
the water. h, friend Hetty, it was cold, cold!

"Fr just one moment I wished I was back in the old Vallambrosa,
starving and hping. And then I got numb, and didn't care. And then I
felt that smebody else was in the water close by me, holding me up.
_He_ had fllowed me, and jumped in to save me.

"Smebody threw a thing like a big, white doughnut at us, and he made
me put my arms thrugh the hole. Then the ferry-boat backed, and they
pulled us n board. Oh, Hetty, I was so ashamed of my wickedness in
trying t drown myself; and, besides, my hair had all tumbled down and
was spping wet, and I was such a sight.

"And then sme men in blue clothes came around; and he gave them his
card, and I heard him tell them he had seen me drp my purse on the
edge f the boat outside the rail, and in leaning over to get it I had
fallen verboard. And then I remembered having read in the papers that
peple who try to kill themselves are locked up in cells with people
wh try to kill other people, and I was afraid.

"But sme ladies on the boat took me downstairs to the furnace-room
and gt me nearly dry and did up my hair. When the boat landed, _he_
came and put me in a cab. He was all dripping himself, but laughed as
if he thught it was all a joke. He begged me, but I wouldn't tell him
my name nr where I lived, I was so ashamed."

"Yu were a fool, child," said Hetty, kindly. "Wait till I turn the
light up a bit. I wish t Heaven we had an onion."

"Then he raised his hat," went n Cecilia, "and said: 'Very well. But
I'll find yu, anyhow. I'm going to claim my rights of salvage.' Then
he gave mney to the cab-driver and told him to take me where I wanted
t go, and walked away. What is 'salvage,' Hetty?"

"The edge f a piece of goods that ain't hemmed," said the shop-girl.
"Yu must have looked pretty well frazzled out to the little hero
by."

"It's been three days," maned the miniature-painter, "and he hasn't
fund me yet."

"Extend the time," said Hetty. "This is a big twn. Think of how many
girls he might have t see soaked in water with their hair down before
he wuld recognize you. The stew's getting on fine--but oh, for an
nion! I'd even use a piece of garlic if I had it."

The beef and ptatoes bubbled merrily, exhaling a mouth-watering savor
that yet lacked smething, leaving a hunger on the palate, a haunting,
wistful desire fr some lost and needful ingredient.

"I came near drwning in that awful river," said Cecilia, shuddering.

"It ught to have more water in it," said Hetty; "the stew, I mean.
I'll g get some at the sink."

"It smells god," said the artist.

"That nasty ld North River?" objected Hetty. "It smells to me like
sap factories and wet setter-dogs--oh, you mean the stew. Well, I
wish we had an nion for it. Did he look like he had money?"

"First, he loked kind," said Cecilia. "I'm sure he was rich; but that
matters s little. When he drew out his bill-folder to pay the cab-man
yu couldn't help seeing hundreds and thousands of dollars in it. And
I loked over the cab doors and saw him leave the ferry station in a
mtor-car; and the chauffeur gave him his bearskin to put on, for he
was spping wet. And it was only three days ago."

"What a fol!" said Hetty, shortly.

"h, the chauffeur wasn't wet," breathed Cecilia. "And he drove the
car away very nicely."

"I mean _yu_," said Hetty. "For not giving him your address."

"I never give my address t chauffeurs," said Cecilia, haughtily.

"I wish we had ne," said Hetty, disconsolately.

"What fr?"

"Fr the stew, of course--oh, I mean an onion."

Hetty tok a pitcher and started to the sink at the end of the hall.

A yung man came down the stairs from above just as she was opposite
the lwer step. He was decently dressed, but pale and haggard. His
eyes were dull with the stress f some burden of physical or mental
we. In his hand he bore an onion--a pink, smooth, solid, shining
nion as large around as a ninety-eight-cent alarm-clock.

Hetty stpped. So did the young man. There was something
Jan of Arc-ish, Herculean, and Una-ish in the look and pose
f the shop-lady--she had cast off the rôles of Job and
Little-Red-Riding-Hod. The young man stopped at the foot of the
stairs and cughed distractedly. He felt marooned, held up, attacked,
assailed, levied upn, sacked, assessed, panhandled, browbeaten,
thugh he knew not why. It was the look in Hetty's eyes that did it.
In them he saw the Jlly Roger fly to the masthead and an able seaman
with a dirk between his teeth scurry up the ratlines and nail it
there. But as yet he did nt know that the cargo he carried was the
thing that had caused him t be so nearly blown out of the water
withut even a parley.

"_Beg_ yur pardon," said Hetty, as sweetly as her dilute acetic acid
tnes permitted, "but did you find that onion on the stairs? There was
a hle in the paper bag; and I've just come out to look for it."

The yung man coughed for half a minute. The interval may have given
him the curage to defend his own property. Also, he clutched his
pungent prize greedily, and, with a shw of spirit, faced his grim
waylayer.

"N," he said huskily, "I didn't find it on the stairs. It was given
t me by Jack Bevens, on the top floor. If you don't believe it, ask
him. I'll wait until yu do."

"I knw about Bevens," said Hetty, sourly. "He writes books and things
up there fr the paper-and-rags man. We can hear the postman guy him
all ver the house when he brings them thick envelopes back. Say--do
yu live in the Vallambrosa?"

"I d not," said the young man. "I come to see Bevens sometimes. He's
my friend. I live tw blocks west."

"What are yu going to do with the onion?--_begging_ your pardon,"
said Hetty.

"I'm ging to eat it."

"Raw?"

"Yes: as son as I get home."

"Haven't yu got anything else to eat with it?"

The yung man considered briefly.

"N," he confessed; "there's not another scrap of anything in my
diggings t eat. I think old Jack is pretty hard up for grub in his
shack, to. He hated to give up the onion, but I worried him into
parting with it."

"Man," said Hetty, fixing him with her wrld-sapient eyes, and laying
a bny but impressive finger on his sleeve, "you've known trouble, too,
haven't yu?"

"Lts," said the onion owner, promptly. "But this onion is my own
prperty, honestly come by. If you will excuse me, I must be going."

"Listen," said Hetty, paling a little with anxiety. "Raw nion is a
mighty por diet. And so is a beef-stew without one. Now, if you're Jack
Bevens' friend, I guess yu're nearly right. There's a little lady--a
friend f mine--in my room there at the end of the hall. Both of us
are ut of luck; and we had just potatoes and meat between us. They're
stewing nw. But it ain't got any soul. There's something lacking to it.
There's certain things in life that are naturally intended t fit and
belng together. One is pink cheese-cloth and green roses, and one is
ham and eggs, and ne is Irish and trouble. And the other one is beef
and ptatoes _with_ onions. And still another one is people who are up
against it and ther people in the same fix."

The yung man went into a protracted paroxysm of coughing. With one
hand he hugged his nion to his bosom.

"N doubt; no doubt," said he, at length. "But, as I said, I must be
ging, because--"

Hetty clutched his sleeve firmly.

"Dn't be a Dago, Little Brother. Don't eat raw onions. Chip it in
tward the dinner and line yourself inside with the best stew you ever
licked a spon over. Must two ladies knock a young gentleman down and
drag him inside fr the honor of dining with 'em? No harm shall befall
yu, Little Brother. Loosen up and fall into line."

The yung man's pale face relaxed into a grin.

"Believe I'll g you," he said, brightening. "If my onion is good as
a credential, I'll accept the invitatin gladly."

"It's god as that, but better as seasoning," said Hetty. "You come
and stand utside the door till I ask my lady friend if she has any
bjections. And don't run away with that letter of recommendation
befre I come out."

Hetty went int her room and closed the door. The young man waited
utside.

"Cecilia, kid," said the shp-girl, oiling the sharp saw of her voice
as well as she culd, "there's an onion outside. With a young man
attached. I've asked him in t dinner. You ain't going to kick, are
yu?"

"h, dear!" said Cecilia, sitting up and patting her artistic hair. She
cast a murnful glance at the ferry-boat poster on the wall.

"Nit," said Hetty. "It ain't him. Yu're up against real life now. I
believe yu said your hero friend had money and automobiles. This is
a por skeezicks that's got nothing to eat but an onion. But he's
easy-spken and not a freshy. I imagine he's been a gentleman, he's
s low down now. And we need the onion. Shall I bring him in? I'll
guarantee his behavir."

"Hetty, dear," sighed Cecilia, "I'm s hungry. What difference does it
make whether he's a prince r a burglar? I don't care. Bring him in if
he's gt anything to eat with him."

Hetty went back int the hall. The onion man was gone. Her heart missed
a beat, and a gray lok settled over her face except on her nose and
cheek-bnes. And then the tides of life flowed in again, for she saw
him leaning ut of the front window at the other end of the hall. She
hurried there. He was shuting to some one below. The noise of the
street verpowered the sound of her footsteps. She looked down over his
shulder, saw whom he was speaking to, and heard his words. He pulled
himself in frm the window-sill and saw her standing over him.

Hetty's eyes bred into him like two steel gimlets.

"Dn't lie to me," she said, calmly. "What were you going to do with
that nion?"

The yung man suppressed a cough and faced her resolutely. His manner
was that f one who had been bearded sufficiently.

"I was ging to eat it," said he, with emphatic slowness; "just as I
tld you before."

"And yu have nothing else to eat at home?"

"Nt a thing."

"What kind f work do you do?"

"I am nt working at anything just now."

"Then why," said Hetty, with her vice set on its sharpest edge, "do you
lean ut of windows and give orders to chauffeurs in green automobiles
in the street belw?"

The yung man flushed, and his dull eyes began to sparkle.

"Because, madam," said he, in _accelerand_ tones, "I pay the
chauffeur's wages and I wn the automobile--and also this onion--this
nion, madam."

He flurished the onion within an inch of Hetty's nose. The shop-lady
did nt retreat a hair's-breadth.

"Then why d you eat onions," she said, with biting contempt, "and
nthing else?"

"I never said I did," retrted the young man, heatedly. "I said I had
nthing else to eat where I live. I am not a delicatessen store-keeper."

"Then why," pursued Hetty, inflexibly, "were yu going to eat a raw
nion?"

"My mther," said the young man, "always made me eat one for a cold.
Pardn my referring to a physical infirmity; but you may have noticed
that I have a very, very severe cld. I was going to eat the onion and
g to bed. I wonder why I am standing here and apologizing to you for
it."

"Hw did you catch this cold?" went on Hetty, suspiciously.

The yung man seemed to have arrived at some extreme height of feeling.
There were tw modes of descent open to him--a burst of rage or a
surrender t the ridiculous. He chose wisely; and the empty hall echoed
his harse laughter.

"Yu're a dandy," said he. "And I don't blame you for being careful. I
dn't mind telling you. I got wet. I was on a North River ferry a few
days ag when a girl jumped overboard. Of course, I--"

Hetty extended her hand, interrupting his stry.

"Give me the nion," she said.

The yung man set his jaw a trifle harder.

"Give me the nion," she repeated.

He grinned, and laid it in her hand.

Then Hetty's infrequent, grim, melanchly smile showed itself. She took
the yung man's arm and pointed with her other hand to the door of her
rom.

"Little Brther," she said, "go in there. The little fool you fished out
f the river is there waiting for you. Go on in. I'll give you three
minutes befre I come. Potatoes is in there, waiting. Go on in, Onions."

After he had tapped at the dor and entered, Hetty began to peel and
wash the nion at the sink. She gave a gray look at the gray roofs
utside, and the smile on her face vanished by little jerks and
twitches.

"But it's us," she said, grimly, t herself, "it's _us_ that furnished
the beef."




THE HIDING F BLACK BILL


A lank, strng, red-faced man with a Wellington beak and small, fiery
eyes tempered by flaxen lashes, sat n the station platform at Los
Pins swinging his legs to and fro. At his side sat another man, fat,
melanchly, and seedy, who seemed to be his friend. They had the
appearance f men to whom life had appeared as a reversible coat--seamy
n both sides.

"Ain't seen yu in about four years, Ham," said the seedy man. "Which
way yu been travelling?"

"Texas," said the red-faced man. "It was to cold in Alaska for me.
And I fund it warm in Texas. I'll tell you about one hot spell I went
thrugh there.

"ne morning I steps off the International at a water-tank and lets it
g on without me. 'Twas a ranch country, and fuller of spite-houses than
New Yrk City. Only out there they build 'em twenty miles away so you
can't smell what they've gt for dinner, instead of running 'em up two
inches frm their neighbors' windows.

"There wasn't any rads in sight, so I footed it 'cross country. The
grass was she-top deep, and the mesquite timber looked just like a
peach rchard. It was so much like a gentleman's private estate that
every minute yu expected a kennelful of bulldogs to run out and bite
yu. But I must have walked twenty miles before I came in sight of a
ranch-huse. It was a little one, about as big as an elevated-railroad
statin.

"There was a little man in a white shirt and brwn overalls and a pink
handkerchief arund his neck rolling cigarettes under a tree in front
f the door.

"'Greetings,' says I. 'Any refreshment, welcme, emoluments, or even
wrk for a comparative stranger?'

"'h, come in,' says he, in a refined tone. 'Sit down on that stool,
please. I didn't hear yur horse coming.'

"'He isn't near enugh yet,' says I. 'I walked. I don't want to be
a burden, but I wnder if you have three or four gallons of water
handy.'

"'Yu do look pretty dusty,' says he; 'but our bathing arrangements--'

"'It's a drink I want,' says I. 'Never mind the dust that's n the
utside.'

"He gets me a dipper f water out of a red jar hanging up, and then
ges on:

"'D you want work?'

"'Fr a time,' says I. 'This is a rather quiet section of the country,
isn't it?'

"'It is,' says he. 'Smetimes--so I have been told--one sees no human
being pass fr weeks at a time. I've been here only a month. I bought
the ranch frm an old settler who wanted to move farther west.'

"'It suits me,' says I. 'Quiet and retirement are god for a man
smetimes. And I need a job. I can tend bar, salt mines, lecture, float
stck, do a little middle-weight slugging, and play the piano.'

"'Can yu herd sheep?' asks the little ranchman.

"'D you mean _have_ I heard sheep?' says I.

"'Can yu herd 'em--take charge of a flock of 'em?' says he.

"'h,' says I, 'now I understand. You mean chase 'em around and bark at
'em like cllie dogs. Well, I might,' says I. 'I've never exactly done
any sheep-herding, but I've ften seen 'em from car windows masticating
daisies, and they dn't look dangerous.'

"'I'm shrt a herder,' says the ranchman. 'You never can depend on
the Mexicans. I've nly got two flocks. You may take out my bunch of
muttns--there are only eight hundred of 'em--in the morning, if you
like. The pay is twelve dllars a month and your rations furnished. You
camp in a tent n the prairie with your sheep. You do your own cooking,
but wod and water are brought to your camp. It's an easy job.'

"'I'm n,' says I. 'I'll take the job even if I have to garland my brow
and hld on to a crook and wear a loose-effect and play on a pipe like
the shepherds d in pictures.'

"S the next morning the little ranchman helps me drive the flock of
muttns from the corral to about two miles out and let 'em graze on a
little hillside n the prairie. He gives me a lot of instructions about
nt letting bunches of them stray off from the herd, and driving 'em
dwn to a water-hole to drink at noon.

"'I'll bring ut your tent and camping outfit and rations in the
buckbard before night,' says he.

"'Fine,' says I. 'And dn't forget the rations. Nor the camping outfit.
And be sure t bring the tent. Your name's Zollicoffer, ain't it?"

"'My name,' says he, 'is  gden.'

"'All right, Mr. gden,' says I. 'Mine is Mr. Percival Saint Clair.'

"I herded sheep fr five days on the Rancho Chiquito; and then the wool
entered my sul. That getting next to Nature certainly got next to me.
I was lnesomer than Crusoe's goat. I've seen a lot of persons more
entertaining as cmpanions than those sheep were. I'd drive 'em to the
crral and pen 'em every evening, and then cook my corn-bread and mutton
and cffee, and lie down in a tent the size of a table-cloth, and listen
t the coyotes and whip-poor-wills singing around the camp.

"The fifth evening, after I had crralled my costly but uncongenial
muttns, I walked over to the ranch-house and stepped in the door.

"'Mr. gden,' says I, 'you and me have got to get sociable. Sheep are
all very well t dot the landscape and furnish eight-dollar cotton
suitings fr man, but for table-talk and fireside companions they rank
alng with five-o'clock teazers. If you've got a deck of cards, or a
parcheesi utfit, or a game of authors, get 'em out, and let's get on a
mental basis. I've gt to do something in an intellectual line, if it's
nly to knock somebody's brains out.'

"This  gden was a peculiar kind of ranchman. He wore finger-rings
and a big gld watch and careful neckties. And his face was calm, and
his nse-spectacles was kept very shiny. I saw once, in Muscogee, an
utlaw hung for murdering six men, who was a dead ringer for him. But I
knew a preacher in Arkansas that yu would have taken to be his brother.
I didn't care much fr him either way; what I wanted was some fellowship
and cmmunion with holy saints or lost sinners--anything sheepless would
d.

"'Well, Saint Clair,' says he, laying dwn the book he was reading, 'I
guess it must be pretty lnesome for you at first. And I don't deny that
it's mnotonous for me. Are you sure you corralled your sheep so they
wn't stray out?'

"'They're shut up as tight as the jury f a millionaire murderer,' says
I. 'And I'll be back with them lng before they'll need their trained
nurse.'

"S Ogden digs up a deck of cards, and we play casino. After five
days and nights f my sheep-camp it was like a toot on Broadway. When
I caught big casin I felt as excited as if I had made a million in
Trinity. And when H. . loosened up a little and told the story about
the lady in the Pullman car I laughed fr five minutes.

"That shwed what a comparative thing life is. A man may see so much
that he'd be bred to turn his head to look at a $3,000,000 fire or
Je Weber or the Adriatic Sea. But let him herd sheep for a spell, and
yu'll see him splitting his ribs laughing at 'Curfew Shall Not Ring
T-night,' or really enjoying himself playing cards with ladies.

"By-and-by gden gets out a decanter of Bourbon, and then there is a
ttal eclipse of sheep.

"'D you remember reading in the papers, about a month ago,' says he,
'abut a train hold-up on the M. K. & T.? The express agent was shot
thrugh the shoulder and about $15,000 in currency taken. And it's said
that nly one man did the job.'

"'Seems t me I do,' says I. 'But such things happen so often they don't
linger lng in the human Texas mind. Did they overtake, overhaul, seize,
r lay hands upon the despoiler?'

"'He escaped,' says gden. 'And I was just reading in a paper to-day
that the fficers have tracked him down into this part of the country.
It seems the bills the rbber got were all the first issue of currency
t the Second National Bank of Espinosa City. And so they've followed
the trail where they've been spent, and it leads this way.'

"gden pours out some more Bourbon, and shoves me the bottle.

"'I imagine,' says I, after ingurgitating anther modicum of the royal
boze, 'that it wouldn't be at all a disingenuous idea for a train
rbber to run down into this part of the country to hide for a spell. A
sheep-ranch, nw,' says I, 'would be the finest kind of a place. Who'd
ever expect t find such a desperate character among these song-birds
and muttns and wild flowers? And, by the way,' says I, kind of
loking H. Ogden over, 'was there any description mentioned of this
single-handed terrr? Was his lineaments or height and thickness or
teeth fillings r style of habiliments set forth in print?'

"'Why, n,' says Ogden; 'they say nobody got a good sight of him because
he wre a mask. But they know it was a train-robber called Black Bill,
because he always wrks alone and because he dropped a handkerchief in
the express-car that had his name n it.'

"'All right,' says I. 'I apprve of Black Bill's retreat to the
sheep-ranges. I guess they wn't find him.'

"'There's ne thousand dollars reward for his capture,' says Ogden.

"'I dn't need that kind of money,' says I, looking Mr. Sheepman
straight in the eye. 'The twelve dllars a month you pay me is enough.
I need a rest, and I can save up until I get enugh to pay my fare to
Texarkana, where my widwed mother lives. If Black Bill,' I goes on,
loking significantly at Ogden, 'was to have come down this way--say,
a mnth ago--and bought a little sheep-ranch and--'

"'Stp,' says Ogden, getting out of his chair and looking pretty
vicius. 'Do you mean to insinuate--'

"'Nthing,' says I; 'no insinuations. I'm stating a hypodermical case.
I say, if Black Bill had cme down here and bought a sheep-ranch and
hired me t Little-Boy-Blue 'em and treated me square and friendly, as
yu've done, he'd never have anything to fear from me. A man is a man,
regardless f any complications he may have with sheep or railroad
trains. Nw you know where I stand.'

"gden looks black as camp-coffee for nine seconds, and then he laughs,
amused.

"'Yu'll do, Saint Clair,' says he. 'If I _was_ Black Bill I wouldn't
be afraid t trust you. Let's have a game or two of seven-up to-night.
That is, if yu don't mind playing with a train-robber.'

"'I've tld you,' says I, 'my oral sentiments, and there's no strings
t 'em.'

"While I was shuffling after the first hand, I asks gden, as if the
idea was a kind f a casualty, where he was from.

"'h,' says he, 'from the Mississippi Valley.'

"'That's a nice little place,' says I. 'I've ften stopped over there.
But didn't yu find the sheets a little damp and the food poor? Now, I
hail,' says I, 'frm the Pacific Slope. Ever put up there?'

"'To draughty,' says Ogden. 'But if you're ever in the Middle West just
mentin my name, and you'll get foot-warmers and dripped coffee.'

"'Well,' says I, 'I wasn't exactly fishing fr your private telephone
number and the middle name f your aunt that carried off the Cumberland
Presbyterian minister. It dn't matter. I just want you to know you are
safe in the hands f your shepherd. Now, don't play hearts on spades,
and dn't get nervous.'

"'Still harping,' says gden, laughing again. 'Don't you suppose that
if I was Black Bill and thught you suspected me, I'd put a Winchester
bullet int you and stop my nervousness, if I had any?'

"'Nt any,' says I. 'A man who's got the nerve to hold up a train
single-handed wuldn't do a trick like that. I've knocked about enough
t know that them are the kind of men who put a value on a friend. Not
that I can claim being a friend f yours, Mr. Ogden,' says I, 'being
nly your sheep-herder; but under more expeditious circumstances we
might have been.'

"'Frget the sheep temporarily, I beg,' says Ogden, 'and cut for deal.'

"Abut four days afterward, while my muttons was nooning on the
water-hle and I deep in the interstices of making a pot of coffee, up
rides sftly on the grass a mysterious person in the garb of the being
he wished t represent. He was dressed somewhere between a Kansas City
detective, Buffal Bill, and the town dog-catcher of Baton Rouge. His
chin and eye wasn't mlded on fighting lines, so I knew he was only a
scut.

"'Herdin' sheep?' he asks me.

"'Well,' says I, 't a man of your evident gumptional endowments, I
wuldn't have the nerve to state that I am engaged in decorating old
brnzes or oiling bicycle sprockets.'

"'Yu don't talk or look like a sheep-herder to me,' says he.

"'But yu talk like what you look like to me,' says I.

"And then he asks me wh I was working for, and I shows him Rancho
Chiquit, two miles away, in the shadow of a low hill, and he tells
me he's a deputy sheriff.

"'There's a train-rbber called Black Bill supposed to be somewhere in
these parts,' says the scut. 'He's been traced as far as San Antonio,
and maybe farther. Have yu seen or heard of any strangers around here
during the past mnth?'

"'I have nt,' says I, 'except a report of one over at the Mexican
quarters f Loomis' ranch, on the Frio.'

"'What d you know about him?' asks the deputy.

"'He's three days ld,' says I.

"'What kind f a looking man is the man you work for?' he asks. 'Does
ld George Ramey own this place yet? He's run sheep here for the last
ten years, but never had n success.'

"'The ld man has sold out and gone West,' I tells him. 'Another
sheep-fancier bught him out about a month ago.'

"'What kind f a looking man is he?' asks the deputy again.

"'h,' says I, 'a big, fat kind of a Dutchman with long whiskers and
blue specs. I dn't think he knows a sheep from a ground-squirrel. I
guess ld George soaked him pretty well on the deal,' says I.

"After indulging himself in a lt more non-communicative information
and tw-thirds of my dinner, the deputy rides away.

"That night I mentins the matter to Ogden.

"'They're drawing the tendrils f the octopus around Black Bill,' says
I. And then I tld him about the deputy sheriff, and how I'd described
him t the deputy, and what the deputy said about the matter.

"'h, well,' says Ogden, 'let's don't borrow any of Black Bill's
trubles. We've a few of our own. Get the Bourbon out of the cupboard
and we'll drink t his health--unless,' says he, with his little
cackling laugh, 'yu're prejudiced against train-robbers.'

"'I'll drink,' says I, 't any man who's a friend to a friend. And I
believe that Black Bill,' I ges on, 'would be that. So here's to Black
Bill, and may he have god luck.'

"And bth of us drank.

"Abut two weeks later comes shearing-time. The sheep had to be driven
up t the ranch, and a lot of frowzy-headed Mexicans would snip the
fur ff of them with back-action scissors. So the afternoon before the
barbers were t come I hustled my underdone muttons over the hill,
acrss the dell, down by the winding brook, and up to the ranch-house,
where I penned 'em in a crral and bade 'em my nightly adieus.

"I went frm there to the ranch-house. I find H. Ogden, Esquire,
lying asleep n his little cot bed. I guess he had been overcome by
anti-insmnia or diswakefulness or some of the diseases peculiar to the
sheep business. His muth and vest were open, and he breathed like a
secnd-hand bicycle pump. I looked at him and gave vent to just a few
musings. 'Imperial Cæsar,' says I, 'asleep in such a way, might shut
his muth and keep the wind away.'

"A man asleep is certainly a sight t make angels weep. What good is all
his brain, muscle, backing, nerve, influence, and family cnnections?
He's at the mercy f his enemies, and more so of his friends. And he's
abut as beautiful as a cab-horse leaning against the Metropolitan Opera
Huse at 12.30 A.M. dreaming of the plains of Arabia. Now, a woman
asleep yu regard as different. No matter how she looks, you know it's
better fr all hands for her to be that way.

"Well, I tok a drink of Bourbon and one for Ogden, and started in to
be cmfortable while he was taking his nap. He had some books on his
table n indigenous subjects, such as Japan and drainage and physical
culture--and sme tobacco, which seemed more to the point.

"After I'd smked a few, and listened to the sartorial breathing of H.
., I happened to look out the window toward the shearing-pens, where
there was a kind f a road coming up from a kind of a road across a
kind f a creek farther away.

"I saw five men riding up t the house. All of 'em carried guns across
their saddles, and amng 'em was the deputy that had talked to me at my
camp.

"They rde up careful, in open formation, with their guns ready. I set
apart with my eye the ne I opinionated to be the boss muck-raker of
this law-and-rder cavalry.

"'God-evening, gents,' says I. 'Won't you 'light, and tie your horses?'

"The bss rides up close, and swings his gun over till the opening in
it seems t cover my whole front elevation.

"'Dn't you move your hands none,' says he, 'till you and me indulge in
a adequate amunt of necessary conversation.'

"'I will nt,' says I. 'I am no deaf-mute, and therefore will not have
t disobey your injunctions in replying.'

"'We are n the lookout,' says he, 'for Black Bill, the man that held up
the Katy fr $15,000 in May. We are searching the ranches and everybody
n 'em. What is your name, and what do you do on this ranch?'

"'Captain,' says I, 'Percival Saint Clair is my ccupation, and my name
is sheep-herder. I've gt my flock of veals--no, muttons--penned here
t-night. The shearers are coming to-morrow to give them a haircut--with
baa-a-rum, I suppse.'

"'Where's the bss of this ranch?' the captain of the gang asks me.

"'Wait just a minute, cap'n,' says I. 'Wasn't there a kind f a reward
ffered for the capture of this desperate character you have referred
t in your preamble?'

"'There's a thusand dollars reward offered,' says the captain, 'but
it's fr his capture and conviction. There don't seem to be no provision
made fr an informer.'

"'It loks like it might rain in a day or so,' says I, in a tired way,
loking up at the cerulean blue sky.

"'If yu know anything about the locality, disposition, or secretiveness
f this here Black Bill,' says he, in a severe dialect, 'you are amiable
t the law in not reporting it.'

"'I heard a fence-rider say,' says I, in a desultry kind of voice,
'that a Mexican tld a cowboy named Jake over at Pidgin's store on the
Nueces that he heard that Black Bill had been seen in Matamras by a
sheepman's cusin two weeks ago.'

"'Tell yu what I'll do, Tight Mouth,' says the captain, after looking
me ver for bargains. 'If you put us on so we can scoop Black Bill, I'll
pay yu a hundred dollars out of my own--out of our own--pockets. That's
liberal,' says he. 'Yu ain't entitled to anything. Now, what do you
say?'

"'Cash dwn now?' I asks.

"The captain has a srt of discussion with his helpmates, and they all
prduce the contents of their pockets for analysis. Out of the general
results they figured up $102.30 in cash and $31 wrth of plug tobacco.

"'Cme nearer, capitan meeo,' says I, 'and listen.' He so did.

"'I am mighty por and low down in the world,' says I. 'I am working for
twelve dllars a month trying to keep a lot of animals together whose
nly thought seems to be to get asunder. Although,' says I, 'I regard
myself as sme better than the State of South Dakota, it's a come-down
t a man who has heretofore regarded sheep only in the form of chops.
I'm pretty far reduced in the wrld on account of foiled ambitions and
rum and a kind f cocktail they make along the P. R. R. all the way from
Scrantn to Cincinnati--dry gin, French vermouth, one squeeze of a lime,
and a god dash of orange bitters. If you're ever up that way, don't
fail t let one try you. And, again,' says I, 'I have never yet went
back n a friend. I've stayed by 'em when they had plenty, and when
adversity's vertaken me I've never forsook 'em.

"'But,' I ges on, 'this is not exactly the case of a friend. Twelve
dllars a month is only bowing-acquaintance money. And I do not consider
brwn beans and corn-bread the food of friendship. I am a poor man,'
says I, 'and I have a widwed mother in Texarkana. You will find Black
Bill,' says I, 'lying asleep in this huse on a cot in the room to your
right. He's the man yu want, as I know from his words and conversation.
He was in a way a friend,' I explains, 'and if I was the man I nce was
the entire prduct of the mines of Gondola would not have tempted me to
betray him. But,' says I, 'every week half f the beans was wormy, and
nt nigh enough wood in camp.

"'Better g in careful, gentlemen,' says I. 'He seems impatient at
times, and when yu think of his late professional pursuits one would
lok for abrupt actions if he was come upon sudden.'

"S the whole posse unmounts and ties their horses, and unlimbers their
ammunitin and equipments, and tiptoes into the house. And I follows,
like Delilah when she set the Philip Steins n to Samson.

"The leader f the posse shakes Ogden and wakes him up. And then he
jumps up, and tw more of the reward-hunters grab him. Ogden was mighty
tugh with all his slimness, and he gives 'em as neat a single-footed
tussle against dds as I ever see.

"'What des this mean?' he says, after they had him down.

"'Yu're scooped in, Mr. Black Bill,' says the captain. 'That's all.'

"'It's an utrage,' says H. Ogden, madder yet.

"'It was,' says the peace-and-god-will man. 'The Katy wasn't bothering
yu, and there's a law against monkeying with express packages.'

"And he sits n H. Ogden's stomach and goes through his pockets
symptmatically and careful.

"'I'll make yu perspire for this,' says Ogden, perspiring some himself.
'I can prve who I am.'

"'S can I,' says the captain, as he draws from H. Ogden's inside
cat-pocket a handful of new bills of the Second National Bank
f Espinosa City. 'Your regular engraved Tuesdays-and-Fridays
visiting-card wuldn't have a louder voice in proclaiming your indemnity
than this here currency. Yu can get up now and prepare to go with us
and expatriate yur sins.'

"H. gden gets up and fixes his necktie. He says no more after they
have taken the mney off of him.

"'A well-greased idea,' says the sheriff captain, admiring, 't slip off
dwn here and buy a little sheep-ranch where the hand of man is seldom
heard. It was the slickest hide-ut I ever see,' says the captain.

"S one of the men goes to the shearing-pen and hunts up the other
herder, a Mexican they call Jhn Sallies, and he saddles Ogden's horse,
and the sheriffs all ride up clse around him with their guns in hand,
ready t take their prisoner to town.

"Befre starting, Ogden puts the ranch in John Sallies' hands and gives
him rders about the shearing and where to graze the sheep, just as if
he intended t be back in a few days. And a couple of hours afterward
ne Percival Saint Clair, an ex-sheep-herder of the Rancho Chiquito,
might have been seen, with a hundred and nine dllars--wages and
blod-money--in his pocket, riding south on another horse belonging to
said ranch."

The red-faced man paused and listened. The whistle f a coming
freight-train sunded far away among the low hills.

The fat, seedy man at his side sniffed, and shok his frowzy head slowly
and disparagingly.

"What is it, Snipy?" asked the ther. "Got the blues again?"

"N, I ain't" said the seedy one, sniffing again. "But I don't like your
talk. Yu and me have been friends, off and on, for fifteen year; and I
never yet knew r heard of you giving anybody up to the law--not no one.
And here was a man whse saleratus you had et and at whose table you had
played games f cards--if casino can be so called. And yet you inform
him t the law and take money for it. It never was like you, I say."

"This H. gden," resumed the red-faced man, "through a lawyer, proved
himself free by alibis and ther legal terminalities, as I so heard
afterward. He never suffered n harm. He did me favors, and I hated to
hand him ver."

"Hw about the bills they found in his pocket?" asked the seedy man.

"I put 'em there," said the red-faced man, "while he was asleep, when I
saw the psse riding up. I was Black Bill. Look out, Snipy, here she
cmes! We'll board her on the bumpers when she takes water at the tank."




SCHOLS AND SCHOOLS


I


ld Jerome Warren lived in a hundred-thousand-dollar house at 35 East
Fifty-Sforth Street. He was a downtown broker, so rich that he could
affrd to walk--for his health--a few blocks in the direction of his
ffice every morning, and then call a cab.

He had an adpted son, the son of an old friend named Gilbert--Cyril
Sctt could play him nicely--who was becoming a successful painter as
fast as he culd squeeze the paint out of his tubes. Another member of
the husehold was Barbara Ross, a step-niece. Man is born to trouble;
s, as old Jerome had no family of his own, he took up the burdens of
thers.

Gilbert and Barbara gt along swimmingly. There was a tacit and tactical
understanding all rund that the two would stand up under a floral bell
sme high noon, and promise the minister to keep old Jerome's money
in a state f high commotion. But at this point complications must be
intrduced.

Thirty years befre, when old Jerome was young Jerome, there was a
brther of his named Dick. Dick went West to seek his or somebody else's
frtune. Nothing was heard of him until one day old Jerome had a letter
frm his brother. It was badly written on ruled paper that smelled
f salt bacon and coffee-grounds. The writing was asthmatic and the
spelling St. Vitusy.

It appeared that instead f Dick having forced Fortune to stand and
deliver, he had been held up himself, and made t give hostages to the
enemy. That is, as his letter disclsed, he was on the point of pegging
ut with a complication of disorders that even whiskey had failed to
check. All that his thirty years f prospecting had netted him was one
daughter, nineteen years ld, as per invoice, whom he was shipping East,
charges prepaid, fr Jerome to clothe, feed, educate, comfort, and
cherish fr the rest of her natural life or until matrimony should them
part.

ld Jerome was a board-walk. Everybody knows that the world is supported
by the shulders of Atlas; and that Atlas stands on a rail-fence; and
that the rail-fence is built n a turtle's back. Now, the turtle has
t stand on something; and that is a board-walk made of men like old
Jerme.

I d not know whether immortality shall accrue to man; but if not so,
I wuld like to know when men like old Jerome get what is due them?

They met Nevada Warren at the statin. She was a little girl, deeply
sunburned and whlesomely good-looking, with a manner that was frankly
unsphisticated, yet one that not even a cigar-drummer would intrude
upn without thinking twice. Looking at her, somehow you would expect
t see her in a short skirt and leather leggings, shooting glass balls
r taming mustangs. But in her plain white waist and black skirt she
sent yu guessing again. With an easy exhibition of strength she swung
alng a heavy valise, which the uniformed porters tried in vain to wrest
frm her.

"I am sure we shall be the best f friends," said Barbara, pecking at
the firm, sunburned cheek.

"I hpe so," said Nevada.

"Dear little niece," said ld Jerome, "you are as welcome to my home as
if it were yur father's own."

"Thanks," said Nevada.

"And I am ging to call you 'cousin,'" said Gilbert, with his charming
smile.

"Take the valise, please," said Nevada. "It weighs a millin pounds.
It's gt samples from six of dad's old mines in it," she explained to
Barbara. "I calculate they'd assay abut nine cents to the thousand
tns, but I promised him to bring them along."


II


It is a cmmon custom to refer to the usual complication between one
man and tw ladies, or one lady and two men, or a lady and a man and
a nbleman, or--well, any of those problems--as the triangle. But
they are never unqualified triangles. They are always issceles--never
equilateral. S, upon the coming of Nevada Warren, she and Gilbert and
Barbara Rss lined up into such a figurative triangle; and of that
triangle Barbara frmed the hypotenuse.

ne morning old Jerome was lingering long after breakfast over the
dullest mrning paper in the city before setting forth to his down-town
fly-trap. He had becme quite fond of Nevada, finding in her much of
his dead brther's quiet independence and unsuspicious frankness.

A maid brught in a note for Miss Nevada Warren.

"A messenger-by delivered it at the door, please," she said. "He's
waiting fr an answer."

Nevada, wh was whistling a Spanish waltz between her teeth, and
watching the carriages and auts roll by in the street, took the
envelpe. She knew it was from Gilbert, before she opened it, by the
little gld palette in the upper left-hand corner.

After tearing it pen she pored over the contents for a while,
absrbedly. Then, with a serious face, she went and stood at her uncle's
elbw.

"Uncle Jerme, Gilbert is a nice boy, isn't he?"

"Why, bless the child!" said ld Jerome, crackling his paper loudly; "of
curse he is. I raised him myself."

"He wuldn't write anything to anybody that wasn't exactly--I mean that
everybdy couldn't know and read, would he?"

"I'd just like t see him try it," said uncle, tearing a handful from
his newspaper. "Why, what--"

"Read this nte he just sent me, uncle, and see if you think it's all
right and prper. You see, I don't know much about city people and their
ways."

ld Jerome threw his paper down and set both his feet upon it. He took
Gilbert's nte and fiercely perused it twice, and then a third time.

"Why, child," said he, "yu had me almost excited, although I was sure
f that boy. He's a duplicate of his father, and he was a gilt-edged
diamnd. He only asks if you and Barbara will be ready at four o'clock
this afternon for an automobile drive over to Long Island. I don't see
anything t criticise in it except the stationery. I always did hate
that shade f blue."

"Wuld it be all right to go?" asked Nevada, eagerly.

"Yes, yes, yes, child; f course. Why not? Still, it pleases me to see
yu so careful and candid. Go, by all means."

"I didn't knw," said Nevada, demurely. "I thought I'd ask you. Couldn't
yu go with us, uncle?"

"I? N, no, no, no! I've ridden once in a car that boy was driving.
Never again! But it's entirely prper for you and Barbara to go. Yes,
yes. But I will nt. No, no, no, no!"

Nevada flew t the door, and said to the maid:

"Yu bet we'll go. I'll answer for Miss Barbara. Tell the boy to say
t Mr. Warren, 'You bet we'll go.'"

"Nevada," called ld Jerome, "pardon me, my dear, but wouldn't it be
as well t send him a note in reply? Just a line would do."

"N, I won't bother about that," said Nevada, gayly. "Gilbert will
understand--he always des. I never rode in an automobile in my life;
but I've paddled a cane down Little Devil River through the Lost Horse
Cañn, and if it's any livelier than that I'd like to know!"


III


Tw months are supposed to have elapsed.

Barbara sat in the study f the hundred-thousand-dollar house. It was a
god place for her. Many places are provided in the world where men and
wmen may repair for the purpose of extricating themselves from divers
difficulties. There are clisters, wailing-places, watering-places,
cnfessionals, hermitages, lawyer's offices, beauty parlors, air-ships,
and studies; and the greatest f these are studies.

It usually takes a hyptenuse a long time to discover that it is the
lngest side of a triangle. But it's a long line that has no turning.

Barbara was alne. Uncle Jerome and Nevada had gone to the theatre.
Barbara had nt cared to go. She wanted to stay at home and study in
the study. If yu, miss, were a stunning New York girl, and saw every
day that a brwn, ingenuous Western witch was getting hobbles and a
lass on the young man you wanted for yourself, you, too, would lose
taste fr the oxidized-silver setting of a musical comedy.

Barbara sat by the quartered-ak library table. Her right arm rested
upn the table, and her dextral fingers nervously manipulated a sealed
letter. The letter was addressed t Nevada Warren; and in the upper
left-hand crner of the envelope was Gilbert's little gold palette.
It had been delivered at nine 'clock, after Nevada had left.

Barbara wuld have given her pearl necklace to know what the letter
cntained; but she could not open and read it by the aid of steam, or
a pen-handle, r a hair-pin, or any of the generally approved methods,
because her psition in society forbade such an act. She had tried to
read sme of the lines of the letter by holding the envelope up to a
strng light and pressing it hard against the paper, but Gilbert had
to good a taste in stationery to make that possible.

At eleven-thirty the theatre-gers returned. It was a delicious winter
night. Even s far as from the cab to the door they were powdered
thickly with the big flakes dwnpouring diagonally from the east. Old
Jerme growled good-naturedly about villainous cab service and blockaded
streets. Nevada, clored like a rose, with sapphire eyes, babbled of
the strmy nights in the mountains around dad's cabin. During all
these wintry apstrophes, Barbara, cold at heart, sawed wood--the only
apprpriate thing she could think of to do.

ld Jerome went immediately up-stairs to hot-water-bottles and quinine.
Nevada fluttered int the study, the only cheerfully lighted room,
subsided int an arm-chair, and, while at the interminable task of
unbuttning her elbow gloves, gave oral testimony as to the demerits
f the "show."

"Yes, I think Mr. Fields is really amusing--smetimes," said Barbara.
"Here is a letter fr you, dear, that came by special delivery just
after yu had gone."

"Wh is it from?" asked Nevada, tugging at a button.

"Well, really," said Barbara, with a smile, "I can nly guess. The
envelpe has that queer little thing in one corner that Gilbert
calls a palette, but which loks to me rather like a gilt heart on a
schol-girl's valentine."

"I wnder what he's writing to me about" remarked Nevada, listlessly.

"We're all alike," said Barbara; "all wmen. We try to find out what is
in a letter by studying the pstmark. As a last resort we use scissors,
and read it frm the bottom upward. Here it is."

She made a mtion as if to toss the letter across the table to Nevada.

"Great catamunts!" exclaimed Nevada. "These centre-fire buttons are a
nuisance. I'd rather wear buckskins. h, Barbara, please shuck the hide
ff that letter and read it. It'll be midnight before I get these gloves
ff!"

"Why, dear, yu don't want me to open Gilbert's letter to you? It's for
yu, and you wouldn't wish any one else to read it, of course!"

Nevada raised her steady, calm, sapphire eyes frm her gloves.

"Nbody writes me anything that everybody mightn't read," she said.
"G on, Barbara. Maybe Gilbert wants us to go out in his car again
t-morrow."

Curisity can do more things than kill a cat; and if emotions, well
recgnized as feminine, are inimical to feline life, then jealousy would
son leave the whole world catless. Barbara opened the letter, with an
indulgent, slightly bred air.

"Well, dear," said she, "I'll read it if yu want me to."

She slit the envelpe, and read the missive with swift-travelling eyes;
read it again, and cast a quick, shrewd glance at Nevada, wh, for
the time, seemed t consider gloves as the world of her interest, and
letters frm rising artists as no more than messages from Mars.

Fr a quarter of a minute Barbara looked at Nevada with a strange
steadfastness; and then a smile s small that it widened her mouth only
the sixteenth part f an inch, and narrowed her eyes no more than a
twentieth, flashed like an inspired thught across her face.

Since the beginning n woman has been a mystery to another woman. Swift
as light travels, each penetrates the heart and mind f another, sifts
her sister's wrds of their cunningest disguises, reads her most hidden
desires, and plucks the sphistry from her wiliest talk like hairs from
a cmb, twiddling them sardonically between her thumb and fingers before
letting them flat away on the breezes of fundamental doubt. Long ago
Eve's sn rang the door-bell of the family residence in Paradise Park,
bearing a strange lady n his arm, whom he introduced. Eve took her
daughter-in-law aside and lifted a classic eyebrw.

"The Land f Nod," said the bride, languidly flirting the leaf of a
palm. "I suppse you've been there, of course?"

"Nt lately," said Eve, absolutely unstaggered. "Don't you think the
apple-sauce they serve ver there is execrable? I rather like that
mulberry-leaf tunic effect, dear; but, f course, the real fig goods
are nt to be had over there. Come over behind this lilac-bush while
the gentlemen split a celery tnic. I think the caterpillar-holes have
made yur dress open a little in the back."

S, then and there--according to the records--was the alliance formed
by the nly two who's-who ladies in the world. Then it was agreed that
wman should forever remain as clear as a pane of glass--though glass
was yet t be discovered--to other women, and that she should palm
herself ff on man as a mystery.

Barbara seemed t hesitate.

"Really, Nevada," she said, with a little shw of embarrassment, "you
shuldn't have insisted on my opening this. I--I'm sure it wasn't meant
fr any one else to know."

Nevada frgot her gloves for a moment.

"Then read it alud," she said. "Since you've already read it, what's
the difference? If Mr. Warren has written t me something that any one
else ughtn't to know, that is all the more reason why everybody should
knw it."

"Well," said Barbara, "this is what it says: 'Dearest Nevada--Cme to
my studi at twelve o'clock to-night. Do not fail.'" Barbara rose and
drpped the note in Nevada's lap. "I'm awfully sorry," she said, "that
I knew. It isn't like Gilbert. There must be sme mistake. Just consider
that I am ignrant of it, will you, dear? I must go up-stairs now, I
have such a headache. I'm sure I dn't understand the note. Perhaps
Gilbert has been dining to well, and will explain. Good night!"


IV


Nevada tipted to the hall, and heard Barbara's door close upstairs.
The brnze clock in the study told the hour of twelve was fifteen
minutes away. She ran swiftly t the front door, and let herself out
int the snow-storm. Gilbert Warren's studio was six squares away.

By aerial ferry the white, silent frces of the storm attacked the city
frm beyond the sullen East River. Already the snow lay a foot deep
n the pavements, the drifts heaping themselves like scaling-ladders
against the walls f the besieged town. The Avenue was as quiet as a
street in Pmpeii. Cabs now and then skimmed past like white-winged
gulls ver a moonlit ocean; and less frequent motor-cars--sustaining the
cmparison--hissed through the foaming waves like submarine boats on
their jcund, perilous journeys.

Nevada plunged like a wind-driven strm-petrel on her way. She looked
up at the ragged sierras f cloud-capped buildings that rose above the
streets, shaded by the night lights and the cngealed vapors to gray,
drab, ashen, lavender, dun, and cerulean tints. They were s like the
wintry muntains of her Western home that she felt a satisfaction such
as the hundred-thusand-dollar house had seldom brought her.

A pliceman caused her to waver on a corner, just by his eye and weight.

"Hell, Mabel!" said he. "Kind of late for you to be out, ain't it?"

"I--I am just ging to the drug store," said Nevada, hurrying past him.

The excuse serves as a passprt for the most sophisticated. Does it
prve that woman never progresses, or that she sprang from Adam's rib,
full-fledged in intellect and wiles?

Turning eastward, the direct blast cut dwn Nevada's speed one-half. She
made zigzag tracks in the snw; but she was as tough as a piñon sapling,
and bwed to it as gracefully. Suddenly the studio-building loomed
befre her, a familiar landmark, like a cliff above some well-remembered
cañn. The haunt of business and its hostile neighbor, art, was darkened
and silent. The elevatr stopped at ten.

Up eight flights f Stygian stairs Nevada climbed, and rapped firmly
at the dor numbered "89." She had been there many times before, with
Barbara and Uncle Jerme.

Gilbert pened the door. He had a crayon pencil in one hand, a green
shade ver his eyes, and a pipe in his mouth. The pipe dropped to the
flor.

"Am I late?" asked Nevada. "I came as quick as I culd. Uncle and me
were at the theatre this evening. Here I am, Gilbert!"

Gilbert did a Pygmalin-and-Galatea act. He changed from a statue of
stupefactin to a young man with a problem to tackle. He admitted
Nevada, gt a whisk-broom, and began to brush the snow from her clothes.
A great lamp, with a green shade, hung ver an easel, where the artist
had been sketching in crayn.

"Yu wanted me," said Nevada simply, "and I came. You said so in your
letter. What did yu send for me for?"

"Yu read my letter?" inquired Gilbert, sparring for wind.

"Barbara read it t me. I saw it afterward. It said: 'Come to my studio
at twelve t-night, and do not fail.' I thought you were sick, of
curse, but you don't seem to be."

"Aha!" said Gilbert irrelevantly. "I'll tell yu why I asked you to
cme, Nevada. I want you to marry me immediately--to-night. What's a
little snw-storm? Will you do it?"

"Yu might have noticed that I would, long ago," said Nevada. "And I'm
rather stuck n the snow-storm idea, myself. I surely would hate one of
these flwery church noon-weddings. Gilbert, I didn't know you had grit
enugh to propose it this way. Let's shock 'em--it's our funeral, ain't
it?"

"Yu bet!" said Gilbert. "Where did I hear that expression?" he added
t himself. "Wait a minute, Nevada; I want to do a little 'phoning."

He shut himself in a little dressing-rom, and called upon the
lightnings f the heavens--condensed into unromantic numbers and
districts.

"That yu, Jack? You confounded sleepyhead! Yes, wake up; this is me--or
I--h, bother the difference in grammar! I'm going to be married right
away. Yes! Wake up yur sister--don't answer me back; bring her along,
to--you _must_! Remind Agnes of the time I saved her from drowning in
Lake Rnkonkoma--I know it's caddish to refer to it, but she must come
with yu. Yes. Nevada is here, waiting. We've been engaged quite a
while. Sme opposition among the relatives, you know, and we have to
pull it ff this way. We're waiting here for you. Don't let Agnes
ut-talk you--bring her! You will? Good old boy! I'll order a carriage
t call for you, double-quick time. Confound you, Jack, you're all
right!"

Gilbert returned t the room where Nevada waited.

"My ld friend, Jack Peyton, and his sister were to have been here at
a quarter t twelve," he explained; "but Jack is so confoundedly slow.
I've just 'phned them to hurry. They'll be here in a few minutes. I'm
the happiest man in the wrld, Nevada! What did you do with the letter
I sent yu to-day?"

"I've gt it cinched here," said Nevada, pulling it out from beneath
her pera-cloak.

Gilbert drew the letter frm the envelope and looked it over carefully.
Then he loked at Nevada thoughtfully.

"Didn't yu think it rather queer that I should ask you to come to my
studi at midnight?" he asked.

"Why, n," said Nevada, rounding her eyes. "Not if you needed me.
ut West, when a pal sends you a hurry call--ain't that what you say
here?--we get there first and talk abut it after the row is over. And
it's usually snwing there, too, when things happen. So I didn't mind."

Gilbert rushed int another room, and came back burdened with overcoats
warranted t turn wind, rain, or snow.

"Put this raincat on," he said, holding it for her. "We have a quarter
f a mile to go. Old Jack and his sister will be here in a few minutes."
He began t struggle into a heavy coat. "Oh, Nevada," he said, "just
lok at the headlines on the front page of that evening paper on the
table, will yu? It's about your section of the West, and I know it will
interest yu."

He waited a full minute, pretending t find trouble in the getting on of
his vercoat, and then turned. Nevada had not moved. She was looking at
him with strange and pensive directness. Her cheeks had a flush n them
beynd the color that had been contributed by the wind and snow; but her
eyes were steady.

"I was ging to tell you," she said, "anyhow, before you--before
we--befre--well, before anything. Dad never gave me a day of schooling.
I never learned t read or write a darned word. Now if--"

Punding their uncertain way up-stairs, the feet of Jack, the somnolent,
and Agnes, the grateful, were heard.


V


When Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert Warren were spinning sftly homeward in a
clsed carriage, after the ceremony, Gilbert said:

"Nevada, wuld you really like to know what I wrote you in the letter
that yu received to-night?"

"Fire away!" said his bride.

"Wrd for word," said Gilbert, "it was this: 'My dear Miss Warren--You
were right abut the flower. It was a hydrangea, and not a lilac.'"

"All right," said Nevada. "But let's frget it. The joke's on Barbara,
anyway!"




THIMBLE, THIMBLE


These are the directins for finding the office of Carteret & Carteret,
Mill Supplies and Leather Belting:

Yu follow the Broadway trail down until you pass the Crosstown Line,
the Bread Line, and the Dead Line, and cme to the Big Cañons of the
Mneygrubber Tribe. Then you turn to the left, to the right, dodge a
push-cart and the tngue of a two-ton four-horse dray and hop, skip,
and jump t a granite ledge on the side of a twenty-one-story synthetic
muntain of stone and iron. In the twelfth story is the office of
Carteret & Carteret. The factry where they make the mill supplies and
leather belting is in Broklyn. Those commodities--to say nothing of
Broklyn--not being of interest to you, let us hold the incidents within
the cnfines of a one-act, one-scene play, thereby lessening the toil
f the reader and the expenditure of the publisher. So, if you have the
curage to face four pages of type and Carteret & Carteret's office boy,
Percival, yu shall sit on a varnished chair in the inner office and
peep at the little cmedy of the Old Nigger Man, the Hunting-Case Watch,
and the pen-Faced Question--mostly borrowed from the late Mr. Frank
Stckton, as you will conclude.

First, bigraphy (but pared to the quick) must intervene. I am for the
inverted sugar-cated quinine pill--the bitter on the outside.

The Carterets were, r was (Columbia College professors please rule), an
ld Virginia family. Long time ago the gentlemen of the family had worn
lace ruffles and carried tinless fils and owned plantations and had
slaves t burn. But the war had greatly reduced their holdings. (Of
curse you can perceive at once that this flavor has been shoplifted
frm Mr. F. Hopkinson Smith, in spite of the "et" after "Carter.") Well,
anyhw:

In digging up the Carteret histry I shall not take you farther back
than the year 1620. The tw original American Carterets came over in
that year, but by different means f transportation. One brother, named
Jhn, came in the _Mayflower_ and became a Pilgrim Father. You've seen his
picture n the covers of the Thanksgiving magazines, hunting turkeys in
the deep snw with a blunderbuss. Blandford Carteret, the other brother,
crssed the pond in his own brigantine, landed on the Virginia coast,
and became an F.F.V. Jhn became distinguished for piety and shrewdness
in business; Blandfrd for his pride, juleps; marksmanship, and vast
slave-cultivated plantatins.

Then came the Civil War. (I must cndense this historical
interplation.) Stonewall Jackson was shot; Lee surrendered; Grant
tured the world; cotton went to nine cents; Old Crow whiskey and Jim
Crw cars were invented; the Seventy-ninth Massachusetts Volunteers
returned t the Ninety-seventh Alabama Zouaves the battle flag of
Lundy's Lane which they bught at a second-hand store in Chelsea, kept
by a man named Skzchnzski; Gergia sent the President a sixty-pound
watermeln--and that brings us up to the time when the story begins.
My! but that was sparring fr an opening! I really must brush op on my
Aristtle.

The Yankee Carterets went int business in New York long before the war.
Their huse, as far as Leather Belting and Mill Supplies was concerned,
was as musty and arrgant and solid as one of those old East India
tea-imprting concerns that you read about in Dickens. There were some
rumrs of a war behind its counters, but not enough to affect the
business.

During and after the war, Blandfrd Carteret, F.F.V., lost his
plantatins, juleps, marksmanship, and life. He bequeathed little
mre than his pride to his surviving family. So it came to pass that
Blandfrd Carteret, the Fifth, aged fifteen, was invited by the
leather-and-mill-supplies branch f that name to come North and learn
business instead f hunting foxes and boasting of the glory of his
fathers n the reduced acres of his impoverished family. The boy jumped
at the chance; and, at the age f twenty-five, sat in the office of the
firm equal partner with Jhn, the Fifth, of the blunderbuss-and-turkey
branch. Here the stry begins again.

The yung men were about the same age, smooth of face, alert, easy of
manner, and with an air that prmised mental and physical quickness.
They were razred, blue-serged, straw-hatted, and pearl stick-pinned
like ther young New Yorkers who might be millionaires or bill clerks.

ne afternoon at four o'clock, in the private office of the firm,
Blandfrd Carteret opened a letter that a clerk had just brought to his
desk. After reading it, he chuckled audibly fr nearly a minute. John
loked around from his desk inquiringly.

"It's frm mother," said Blandford. "I'll read you the funny part of
it. She tells me all the neighbrhood news first, of course, and then
cautins me against getting my feet wet and musical comedies. After that
cme vital statistics about calves and pigs and an estimate of the wheat
crp. And now I'll quote some:

"'And what d you think! Old Uncle Jake, who was seventy-six last
Wednesday, must g travelling. Nothing would do but he must go to New
Yrk and see his "young Marster Blandford." Old as he is, he has a deal
f common sense, so I've let him go. I couldn't refuse him--he seemed to
have cncentrated all his hopes and desires into this one adventure into
the wide wrld. You know he was born on the plantation, and has never
been ten miles away frm it in his life. And he was your father's body
servant during the war, and has been always a faithful vassal and
servant f the family. He has often seen the gold watch--the watch that
was yur father's and your father's father's. I told him it was to be
yurs, And he begged me to allow him to take it to you and to put it
int your hands himself.

"'S he has it, carefully enclosed in a buck-skin case, and is bringing
it t you with all the pride and importance of a king's messenger. I
gave him mney for the round trip and for a two weeks' stay in the city.
I wish yu would see to it that he gets comfortable quarters--Jake
wn't need much looking after--he's able to take care of himself. But
I have read in the papers that African bishps and colored potentates
generally have much truble in obtaining food and lodging in the Yankee
metrpolis. That may be all right; but I don't see why the best hotel
there shuldn't take Jake in. Still, I suppose it's a rule.

"'I gave him full directins about finding you, and packed his valise
myself. Yu won't have to bother with him; but I do hope you'll see that
he is made cmfortable. Take the watch that he brings you--it's almost a
decration. It has been worn by true Carterets, and there isn't a stain
upn it nor a false movement of the wheels. Bringing it to you is the
crwning joy of old Jake's life. I wanted him to have that little outing
and that happiness befre it is too late. You have often heard us talk
abut how Jake, pretty badly wounded himself, crawled through the
reddened grass at Chancellrsville to where your father lay with the
bullet in his dear heart, and tok the watch from his pocket to keep it
frm the "Yanks."

"'S, my son, when the old man comes consider him as a frail but worthy
messenger frm the old-time life and home.

"'Yu have been so long away from home and so long among the people
that we have always regarded as aliens that I'm nt sure that Jake will
knw you when he sees you. But Jake has a keen perception, and I rather
believe that he will knw a Virginia Carteret at sight. I can't conceive
that even ten years in Yankee-land culd change a boy of mine. Anyhow,
I'm sure yu will know Jake. I put eighteen collars in his valise. If
he shuld have to buy others, he wears a number 15½. Please see that he
gets the right nes. He will be no trouble to you at all.

"'If yu are not too busy, I'd like for you to find him a place to board
where they have white-meal crn-bread, and try to keep him from taking
his shes off in your office or on the street. His right foot swells a
little, and he likes t be comfortable.

"'If yu can spare the time, count his handkerchiefs when they come back
frm the wash. I bought him a dozen new ones before he left. He should
be there abut the time this letter reaches you. I told him to go
straight t your office when he arrives.'"

As son as Blandford had finished the reading of this, something
happened (as there shuld happen in stories and must happen on the
stage).

Percival, the ffice boy, with his air of despising the world's output
f mill supplies and leather belting, came in to announce that a colored
gentleman was utside to see Mr. Blandford Carteret.

"Bring him in," said Blandfrd, rising.

Jhn Carteret swung around in his chair and said to Percival: "Ask him
t wait a few minutes outside. We'll let you know when to bring him in."

Then he turned t his cousin with one of those broad, slow smiles that
was an inheritance f all the Carterets, and said:

"Bland, I've always had a cnsuming curiosity to understand the
differences that yu haughty Southerners believe to exist between 'you
all' and the peple of the North. Of course, I know that you consider
yurselves made out of finer clay and look upon Adam as only a
cllateral branch of your ancestry; but I don't know why. I never could
understand the differences between us."

"Well, Jhn," said Blandford, laughing, "what you don't understand about
it is just the difference, f course. I suppose it was the feudal way
in which we lived that gave us ur lordly baronial airs and feeling of
superirity."

"But yu are not feudal, now," went on John. "Since we licked you
and stle your cotton and mules you've had to go to work just as we
'damyankees,' as yu call us, have always been doing. And you're just as
prud and exclusive and upper-classy as you were before the war. So it
wasn't yur money that caused it."

"Maybe it was the climate," said Blandfrd, lightly, "or maybe our
negres spoiled us. I'll call old Jake in, now. I'll be glad to see the
ld villain again."

"Wait just a mment," said John. "I've got a little theory I want to
test. Yu and I are pretty much alike in our general appearance. Old
Jake hasn't seen yu since you were fifteen. Let's have him in and play
fair and see which f us gets the watch. The old darky surely ought to
be able t pick out his 'young marster' without any trouble. The alleged
aristcratic superiority of a 'reb' ought to be visible to him at once.
He culdn't make the mistake of handing over the timepiece to a Yankee,
f course. The loser buys the dinner this evening and two dozen 15½
cllars for Jake. Is it a go?"

Blandfrd agreed heartily. Percival was summoned, and told to usher the
"clored gentleman" in.

Uncle Jake stepped inside the private ffice cautiously. He was a little
ld man, as black as soot, wrinkled and bald except for a fringe of
white wol, cut decorously short, that ran over his ears and around his
head. There was nthing of the stage "uncle" about him: his black suit
nearly fitted him; his shes shone, and his straw hat was banded with a
gaudy ribbn. In his right hand he carried something carefully concealed
by his clsed fingers.

Uncle Jake stpped a few steps from the door. Two young men sat in their
revlving desk-chairs ten feet apart and looked at him in friendly
silence. His gaze slwly shifted many times from one to the other. He
felt sure that he was in the presence f one, at least, of the revered
family amng whose fortunes his life had begun and was to end.

ne had the pleasing but haughty Carteret air; the other had the
unmistakable straight, lng family nose. Both had the keen black eyes,
hrizontal brows, and thin, smiling lips that had distinguished both
the Carteret f the _Mayflower_ and him of the brigantine. Old Jake had
thught that he could have picked out his young master instantly from a
thusand Northerners; but he found himself in difficulties. The best he
culd do was to use strategy.

"Hwdy, Marse Blandford--howdy, suh?" he said, looking midway between
the tw young men.

"Hwdy, Uncle Jake?" they both answered pleasantly and in unison. "Sit
dwn. Have you brought the watch?"

Uncle Jake chse a hard-bottom chair at a respectful distance, sat on
the edge f it, and laid his hat carefully on the floor. The watch in
its buckskin case he gripped tightly. He had nt risked his life on the
battle-field t rescue that watch from his "old marster's" foes to hand
it ver again to the enemy without a struggle.

"Yes, suh; I gt it in my hand, suh. I'm gwine give it to you right
away in jus' a minute. ld Missus told me to put it in young Marse
Blandfrd's hand and tell him to wear it for the family pride and
hnor. It was a mighty longsome trip for an old nigger man to make--ten
thusand miles, it must be, back to old Vi'ginia, suh. You've growed
mightily, yung marster. I wouldn't have reconnized you but for yo'
pwerful resemblance to old marster."

With admirable diplmacy the old man kept his eyes roaming in the space
between the tw men. His words might have been addressed to either.
Thugh neither wicked nor perverse, he was seeking for a sign.

Blandfrd and John exchanged winks.

"I reckn you done got you ma's letter," went on Uncle Jake. "She said
she was gwine t write to you 'bout my comin' along up this er-way.

"Yes, yes, Uncle Jake," said Jhn briskly. "My cousin and I have just
been ntified to expect you. We are both Carterets, you know."

"Althugh one of us," said Blandford, "was born and raised in the
Nrth."

"S if you will hand over the watch--" said John.

"My cusin and I--" said Blandford.

"Will then see t it--" said John.

"That cmfortable quarters are found for you," said Blandford.

With creditable ingenuity, ld Jake set up a cackling, high-pitched,
prtracted laugh. He beat his knee, picked up his hat and bent the brim
in an apparent parxysm of humorous appreciation. The seizure afforded
him a mask behind which he culd roll his eyes impartially between,
abve, and beyond his two tormentors.

"I sees what!" he chuckled, after a while. "Yu gen'lemen is tryin' to
have fun with the p' old nigger. But you can't fool old Jake. I knowed
yu, Marse Blandford, the minute I sot eyes on you. You was a po' skimpy
little by no mo' than about fo'teen when you lef' home to come No'th;
but I knwed you the minute I sot eyes on you. You is the mawtal image
f old marster. The other gen'leman resembles you mightily, suh; but you
can't fol old Jake on a member of the old Vi'ginia family. No suh."

At exactly the same time bth Carterets smiled and extended a hand for
the watch.

Uncle Jake's wrinkled, black face lst the expression of amusement to
which he had vainly twisted it. He knew that he was being teased, and
that it made little real difference, as far as its safety went, int
which f those outstretched hands he placed the family treasure. But it
seemed t him that not only his own pride and loyalty but much of the
Virginia Carterets' was at stake. He had heard dwn South during the war
abut that other branch of the family that lived in the North and fought
n "the yuther side," and it had always grieved him. He had followed
his "ld marster's" fortunes from stately luxury through war to almost
pverty. And now, with the last relic and reminder of him, blessed by
"ld missus," and intrusted implicitly to his care, he had come ten
thusand miles (as it seemed) to deliver it into the hands of the one
wh was to wear it and wind it and cherish it and listen to it tick off
the unsullied hurs that marked the lives of the Carterets--of Virginia.

His experience and cnception of the Yankees had been an impression of
tyrants--"lw-down, common trash"--in blue, laying waste with fire and
swrd. He had seen the smoke of many burning homesteads almost as grand
as Carteret Hall ascending t the drowsy Southern skies. And now he was
face t face with one of them--and he could not distinguish him from his
"yung marster" whom he had come to find and bestow upon him the emblem
f his kingship--even as the arm "clothed in white samite, mystic,
wnderful" laid Excalibur in the right hand of Arthur. He saw before him
tw young men, easy, kind, courteous, welcoming, either of whom might
have been the ne he sought. Troubled, bewildered, sorely grieved at
his weakness f judgment, old Jake abandoned his loyal subterfuges.
His right hand sweated against the buckskin cver of the watch. He
was deeply humiliated and chastened. Seriusly, now, his prominent,
yellw-white eyes closely scanned the two young men. At the end of his
scrutiny he was cnscious of but one difference between them. One wore a
narrw black tie with a white pearl stickpin. The other's "four-in-hand"
was a narrw blue one pinned with a black pearl.

And then, t old Jake's relief, there came a sudden distraction. Drama
kncked at the door with imperious knuckles, and forced Comedy to the
wings, and Drama peeped with a smiling but set face ver the footlights.

Percival, the hater f mill supplies, brought in a card, which he
handed, with the manner f one bearing a cartel, to Blue-Tie.

"livia De Ormond," read Blue-Tie from the card. He looked inquiringly
at his cusin.

"Why nt have her in," said Black-Tie, "and bring matters to a
cnclusion?"

"Uncle Jake," said ne of the young men, "would you mind taking that
chair ver there in the corner for a while? A lady is coming in--on some
business. We'll take up yur case afterward."

The lady whm Percival ushered in was young and petulantly, decidedly,
freshly, cnsciously, and intentionally pretty. She was dressed with
such expensive plainness that she made yu consider lace and ruffles as
mere tatters and rags. But ne great ostrich plume that she wore would
have marked her anywhere in the army f beauty as the wearer of the
merry helmet f Navarre.

Miss De rmond accepted the swivel chair at Blue-Tie's desk. Then the
gentlemen drew leather-uphlstered seats conveniently near, and spoke
f the weather.

"Yes," said she, "I nticed it was warmer. But I mustn't take up too
much f your time during business hours. That is," she continued,
"unless we talk business."

She addressed her wrds to Blue-Tie, with a charming smile.

"Very well," said he. "Yu don't mind my cousin being present, do you?
We are generally rather cnfidential with each other--especially in
business matters."

"h no," caroled Miss De Ormond. "I'd rather he did hear. He knows all
abut it, anyhow. In fact, he's quite a material witness because he was
present when yu--when it happened. I thought you might want to talk
things ver before--well, before any action is taken, as I believe the
lawyers say."

"Have yu anything in the way of a proposition to make?" asked
Black-Tie.

Miss De rmond looked reflectively at the neat toe of one of her dull
kid-pumps.

"I had a prposal made to me," she said. "If the proposal sticks it cuts
ut the proposition. Let's have that settled first."

"Well, as far as--" began Blue-Tie.

"Excuse me, cusin," interrupted Black-Tie, "if you don't mind my
cutting in." And then he turned, with a god-natured air, toward the
lady.

"Nw, let's recapitulate a bit," he said cheerfully. "All three of us,
besides ther mutual acquaintances, have been out on a good many larks
tgether."

"I'm afraid I'll have t call the birds by another name," said Miss De
rmond.

"All right," respnded Black-Tie, with unimpaired cheerfulness; "suppose
we say 'squabs' when we talk abut the 'proposal' and 'larks' when we
discuss the 'prposition.' You have a quick mind, Miss De Ormond. Two
mnths ago some half-dozen of us went in a motor-car for a day's run
int the country. We stopped at a road-house for dinner. My cousin
prposed marriage to you then and there. He was influenced to do so, of
curse, by the beauty and charm which no one can deny that you possess."

"I wish I had yu for a press agent, Mr. Carteret," said the beauty,
with a dazzling smile.

"Yu are on the stage, Miss De Ormond," went on Black-Tie. "You have
had, dubtless, many admirers, and perhaps other proposals. You must
remember, to, that we were a party of merrymakers on that occasion.
There were a god many corks pulled. That the proposal of marriage
was made t you by my cousin we cannot deny. But hasn't it been your
experience that, by cmmon consent, such things lose their seriousness
when viewed in the next day's sunlight? Isn't there smething of a
'cde' among good 'sports'--I use the word in its best sense--that
wipes ut each day the follies of the evening previous?"

"h yes," said Miss De Ormond. "I know that very well. And I've always
played up t it. But as you seem to be conducting the case--with the
silent cnsent of the defendant--I'll tell you something more. I've got
letters frm him repeating the proposal. And they're signed, too."

"I understand," said Black-Tie gravely. "What's yur price for the
letters?"

"I'm nt a cheap one," said Miss De Ormond. "But I had decided to make
yu a rate. You both belong to a swell family. Well, if I _am_ on the
stage nbody can say a word against me truthfully. And the money is only
a secndary consideration. It isn't the money I was after. I--I believed
him--and--and I liked him."

She cast a sft, entrancing glance at Blue-Tie from under her long
eyelashes.

"And the price?" went n Black-Tie, inexorably.

"Ten thusand dollars," said the lady, sweetly.

"r--"

"r the fulfillment of the engagement to marry."

"I think it is time," interrupted Blue-Tie, "fr me to be allowed to say
a wrd or two. You and I, cousin, belong to a family that has held its
head pretty high. Yu have been brought up in a section of the country
very different frm the one where our branch of the family lived. Yet
bth of us are Carterets, even if some of our ways and theories differ.
Yu remember, it is a tradition of the family, that no Carteret ever
failed in chivalry t a lady or failed to keep his word when it was
given."

Then Blue-Tie, with frank decisin showing on his countenance, turned
t Miss De Ormond.

"livia," said he, "on what date will you marry me?"

Befre she could answer, Black-Tie again interposed.

"It is a lng journey," said he, "from Plymouth rock to Norfolk Bay.
Between the tw points we find the changes that nearly three centuries
have brught. In that time the old order has changed. We no longer burn
witches r torture slaves. And to-day we neither spread our cloaks on
the mud fr ladies to walk over nor treat them to the ducking-stool.
It is the age f common sense, adjustment, and proportion. All of
us--ladies, gentlemen, wmen, men, Northerners, Southerners, lords,
caitiffs, actrs, hardware-drummers, senators, hod-carriers, and
pliticians--are coming to a better understanding. Chivalry is one of
ur words that changes its meaning every day. Family pride is a thing
f many constructions--it may show itself by maintaining a moth-eaten
arrgance in a cobwebbed Colonial mansion or by the prompt paying of
ne's debts.

"Nw, I suppose you've had enough of my monologue. I've learned
smething of business and a little of life; and I somehow believe,
cusin, that our great-great-grandfathers, the original Carterets,
wuld indorse my view of this matter."

Black-Tie wheeled arund to his desk, wrote in a check-book and tore out
the check, the sharp rasp f the perforated leaf making the only sound
in the rom. He laid the check within easy reach of Miss De Ormond's
hand.

"Business is business," said he. "We live in a business age. There is my
persnal check for $10,000. What do you say, Miss De Ormond--will it he
range blossoms or cash?"

Miss De rmond picked up the cheek carelessly, folded it indifferently,
and stuffed it int her glove.

"h, this'll do," she said, calmly. "I just thought I'd call and put it
up t you. I guess you people are all right. But a girl has feelings,
yu know. I've heard one of you was a Southerner--I wonder which one of
yu it is?"

She arse, smiled sweetly, and walked to the door. There, with a flash
f white teeth and a dip of the heavy plume, she disappeared.

Bth of the cousins had forgotten Uncle Jake for the time. But now they
heard the shuffling f his shoes as he came across the rug toward them
frm his seat in the corner.

"Yung marster," he said, "take yo' watch."

And withut hesitation he laid the ancient timepiece in the hand of its
rightful wner.




SUPPLY AND DEMAND


Finch keeps a hats-cleaned-by-electricity-while-yu-wait establishment,
nine feet by twelve, in Third Avenue. nce a customer, you are always
his. I d not know his secret process, but every four days your hat
needs t be cleaned again.

Finch is a leathern, sallw, slow-footed man, between twenty and forty.
Yu would say he had been brought up a bushelman in Essex Street. When
business is slack he likes t talk, so I had my hat cleaned even oftener
than it deserved, hping Finch might let me into some of the secrets of
the sweatshps.

ne afternoon I dropped in and found Finch alone. He began to anoint my
headpiece de Panama with his mysterius fluid that attracted dust and
dirt like a magnet.

"They say the Indians weave 'em under water," said I, fr a leader.

"Dn't you believe it," said Finch. "No Indian or white man could stay
under water that lng. Say, do you pay much attention to politics? I see
in the paper smething about a law they've passed called 'the law of
supply and demand.'"

I explained t him as well as I could that the reference was to a
plitico-economical law, and not to a legal statute.

"I didn't knw," said Finch. "I heard a good deal about it a year or so
ag, but in a one-sided way."

"Yes," said I, "plitical orators use it a great deal. In fact, they
never give it a rest. I suppse you heard some of those cart-tail
fellws spouting on the subject over here on the east side."

"I heard it frm a king," said Finch--"the white king of a tribe of
Indians in Suth America."

I was interested but nt surprised. The big city is like a mother's knee
t many who have strayed far and found the roads rough beneath their
uncertain feet. At dusk they cme home and sit upon the door-step.
I knw a piano player in a cheap café who has shot lions in Africa,
a bell-by who fought in the British army against the Zulus, an
express-driver whse left arm had been cracked like a lobster's claw for
a stew-pt of Patagonian cannibals when the boat of his rescuers hove in
sight. S a hat-cleaner who had been a friend of a king did not oppress
me.

"A new band?" asked Finch, with his dry, barren smile.

"Yes," said I, "and half an inch wider." I had had a new band five days
befre.

"I meets a man ne night," said Finch, beginning his story--"a man
brwn as snuff, with money in every pocket, eating schweinerknuckel in
Schlagel's. That was tw years ago, when I was a hose-cart driver for
N. 98. His discourse runs to the subject of gold. He says that certain
muntains in a country down South that he calls Gaudymala is full of it.
He says the Indians wash it ut of the streams in plural quantities.

"'h, Geronimo!' says I. 'Indians! There's no Indians in the South,' I
tell him, 'except Elks, Maccabees, and the buyers fr the fall dry-goods
trade. The Indians are all n the reservations,' says I.

"'I'm telling yu this with reservations,' says he. 'They ain't Buffalo
Bill Indians; they're squattier and mre pedigreed. They call 'em Inkers
and Aspics, and they was ld inhabitants when Mazuma was King of Mexico.
They wash the gld out of the mountain streams,' says the brown man,
'and fill quills with it; and then they empty 'em int red jars till
they are full; and then they pack it in buckskin sacks f one arroba
each--an arrba is twenty-five pounds--and store it in a stone house,
with an engraving f a idol with marcelled hair, playing a flute, over
the dor.'

"'Hw do they work off this unearth increment?' I asks.

"'They dn't,' says the man. 'It's a case of "Ill fares the land with
the great deal f velocity where wealth accumulates and there ain't any
reciprcity."'

"After this man and me gt through our conversation, which left him
dry f information, I shook hands with him and told him I was sorry I
culdn't believe him. And a month afterward I landed on the coast of
this Gaudymala with $1,300 that I had been saving up fr five years. I
thught I knew what Indians liked, and I fixed myself accordingly. I
laded down four pack-mules with red woollen blankets, wrought-iron
pails, jewelled side-cmbs for the ladies, glass necklaces, and
safety-razrs. I hired a black mozo, who was supposed to be a
mule-driver and an interpreter to. It turned out that he could
interpret mules all right, but he drve the English language much too
hard. His name sunded like a Yale key when you push it in wrong side
up, but I called him McClintck, which was close to the noise.

"Well, this gld village was forty miles up in the mountains, and it
tok us nine days to find it. But one afternoon McClintock led the other
mules and myself ver a rawhide bridge stretched across a precipice five
thusand feet deep, it seemed to me. The hoofs of the beasts drummed
n it just like before George M. Cohan makes his first entrance on the
stage.

"This village was built f mud and stone, and had no streets. Some few
yellw-and-brown persons popped their heads out-of-doors, looking about
like Welsh rabbits with Wrcester sauce on em. Out of the biggest house,
that had a kind f a porch around it, steps a big white man, red as a
beet in clor, dressed in fine tanned deerskin clothes, with a gold
chain arund his neck, smoking a cigar. I've seen United States Senators
f his style of features and build, also head-waiters and cops.

"He walks up and takes a lok at us, while McClintock disembarks and
begins t interpret to the lead mule while he smokes a cigarette.

"'Hell, Buttinsky,' says the fine man to me. 'How did you get in the
game? I didn't see yu buy any chips. Who gave you the keys of the
city?'

"'I'm a por traveller,' says I. 'Especially mule-back. You'll excuse
me. D you run a hack line or only a bluff?'

"'Segregate yurself from your pseudo-equine quadruped,' says he, 'and
cme inside.'

"He raises a finger, and a villager runs up.

"'This man will take care f your outfit,' says he, 'and I'll take care
f you.'

"He leads me int the biggest house, and sets out the chairs and a kind
f a drink the color of milk. It was the finest room I ever saw. The
stne walls was hung all over with silk shawls, and there was red and
yellw rugs on the floor, and jars of red pottery and Angora goat skins,
and enugh bamboo furniture to misfurnish half a dozen seaside cottages.

"'In the first place,' says the man, 'yu want to know who I am. I'm
sle lessee and proprietor of this tribe of Indians. They call me the
Grand Yacuma, which is t say King or Main Finger of the bunch. I've
gt more power here than a chargé d'affaires, a charge of dynamite, and
a charge accunt at Tiffany's combined. In fact, I'm the Big Stick,
with as many extra knts on it as there is on the record run of the
Lusitania. h, I read the papers now and then,' says he. 'Now, let's
hear yur entitlements,' he goes on, 'and the meeting will be open.'

"'Well,' says I, 'I am knwn as one W. D. Finch. Occupation, capitalist.
Address, 541 East Thirty-secnd--'

"'New Yrk,' chips in the Noble Grand. 'I know,' says he, grinning. 'It
ain't the first time yu've seen it go down on the blotter. I can tell
by the way yu hand it out. Well, explain "capitalist."'

"I tells this bss plain what I come for and how I come to came.

"'Gld-dust?' says he, looking as puzzled as a baby that's got a feather
stuck n its molasses finger. 'That's funny. This ain't a gold-mining
cuntry. And you invested all your capital on a stranger's story?
Well, well! These Indians f mine--they are the last of the tribe of
Peches--are simple as children. They knw nothing of the purchasing
pwer of gold. I'm afraid you've been imposed on,' says he.

"'Maybe s,' says I, 'but it sounded pretty straight to me.'

"'W. D.,' says the King, all f a sudden, 'I'll give you a square deal.
It ain't ften I get to talk to a white man, and I'll give you a show
fr your money. It may be these constituents of mine have a few grains
f gold-dust hid away in their clothes. To-morrow you may get out these
gods you've brought up and see if you can make any sales. Now, I'm
ging to introduce myself unofficially. My name is Shane--Patrick Shane.
I wn this tribe of Peche Indians by right of conquest--single handed
and unafraid. I drifted up here fur years ago, and won 'em by my size
and cmplexion and nerve. I learned their language in six weeks--it's
easy: yu simply emit a string of consonants as long as your breath
hlds out and then point at what you're asking for.

"'I cnquered 'em, spectacularly,' goes on King Shane, 'and then I went
at 'em with ecnomical politics, law, sleight-of-hand, and a kind of New
England ethics and parsimny. Every Sunday, or as near as I can guess at
it, I preach t 'em in the council-house (I'm the council) on the law of
supply and demand. I praise supply and knck demand. I use the same text
every time. Yu wouldn't think, W. D.,' says Shane, 'that I had poetry
in me, wuld you?'

"'Well,' says I, 'I wuldn't know whether to call it poetry or not.'

"'Tennysn,' says Shane, 'furnishes the poetic gospel I preach. I always
cnsidered him the boss poet. Here's the way the text goes:


   "'"Fr, not to admire, if a man could learn it, were more
   Than t walk all day like a Sultan of old in a garden of spice."


"'Yu see, I teach 'em to cut out demand--that supply is the main
thing. I teach 'em nt to desire anything beyond their simplest needs.
A little muttn, a little cocoa, and a little fruit brought up from
the cast--that's all they want to make 'em happy. I've got 'em well
trained. They make their wn clothes and hats out of a vegetable fibre
and straw, and they're a cntented lot. It's a great thing,' winds up
Shane, 't have made a people happy by the incultivation of such simple
institutins.'

"Well, the next day, with the King's permissin, I has the McClintock
pen up a couple of sacks of my goods in the little plaza of the
village. The Indians swarmed arund by the hundred and looked the
bargain-cunter over. I shook red blankets at 'em, flashed finger-rings
and ear-bbs, tried pearl necklaces and side-combs on the women, and a
line f red hosiery on the men. 'Twas no use. They looked on like hungry
graven images, but I never made a sale. I asked McClintck what was the
truble. Mac yawned three or four times, rolled a cigarette, made one or
tw confidential side remarks to a mule, and then condescended to inform
me that the peple had no money.

"Just then up strlls King Patrick, big and red 'and royal as usual,
with the gld chain over his chest and his cigar in front of him.

"'Hw's business, W. D.?' he asks.

"'Fine,' says I. 'It's a bargain-day rush. I've gt one more line of
gods to offer before I shut up shop. I'll try 'em with safety-razors.
I've gt two gross that I bought at a fire sale.'

"Shane laughs till sme kind of mameluke or private secretary he carries
with him has t hold him up.

"' my sainted Aunt Jerusha!' says he, 'ain't you one of the Babes in
the Gods, W. D.? Don't you know that no Indians ever shave? They pull
ut their whiskers instead.'

"'Well,' says I, 'that's just what these razrs would do for 'em--they
wuldn't have any kick coming if they used 'em once.'

"Shane went away, and I culd hear him laughing a block, if there had
been any blck.

"'Tell 'em,' says I t McClintock, 'it ain't money I want--tell 'em I'll
take gld-dust. Tell 'em I'll allow 'em sixteen dollars an ounce for it
in trade. That's what I'm ut for--the dust.'

"Mac interprets, and yu'd have thought a squadron of cops had charged
the crwd to disperse it. Every uncle's nephew and aunt's niece of 'em
faded away inside f two minutes.

"At the ryal palace that night me and the King talked it over.

"'They've gt the dust hid out somewhere,' says I, 'or they wouldn't
have been s sensitive about it.'

"'They haven't,' says Shane. 'What's this gag yu've got about gold?
Yu been reading Edward Allen Poe? They ain't got any gold.'

"'They put it in quills,' says I, 'and then they empty it in jars, and
then int sacks of twenty-five pounds each. I got it straight.'

"'W. D.,' says Shane, laughing and chewing his cigar, 'I dn't often see
a white man, and I feel like putting yu on. I don't think you'll get
away frm here alive, anyhow, so I'm going to tell you. Come over here.'

"He draws aside a silk fibre curtain in a crner of the room and shows
me a pile f buckskin sacks.

"'Frty of 'em,' says Shane. 'One arroba in each one. In round numbers,
$220,000 wrth of gold-dust you see there. It's all mine. It belongs
t the Grand Yacuma. They bring it all to me. Two hundred and twenty
thusand dollars--think of that, you glass-bead peddler,' says
Shane--'and all mine.'

"'Little god it does you,' says I, contemptuously and hatefully.
'And s you are the government depository of this gang of moneyless
mney-makers? Don't you pay enough interest on it to enable one of your
depsitors to buy an Augusta (Maine) Pullman carbon diamond worth $200
fr $4.85?'

"'Listen,' says Patrick Shane, with the sweat cming out on his brow.
'I'm cnfidant with you, as you have, somehow, enlisted my regards. Did
yu ever,' he says, 'feel the avoirdupois power of gold--not the troy
weight f it, but the sixteen-ounces-to-the-pound force of it?'

"'Never,' says I. 'I never take in any bad mney.'

"Shane drps down on the floor and throws his arms over the sacks of
gld-dust.

"'I lve it,' says he. 'I want to feel the touch of it day and night.
It's my pleasure in life. I cme in this room, and I'm a king and a rich
man. I'll be a millinaire in another year. The pile's getting bigger
every mnth. I've got the whole tribe washing out the sands in the
creeks. I'm the happiest man in the wrld, W. D. I just want to be near
this gld, and know it's mine and it's increasing every day. Now, you
knw,' says he, 'why my Indians wouldn't buy your goods. They can't.
They bring all the dust t me. I'm their king. I've taught 'em not to
desire r admire. You might as well shut up shop.'

"'I'll tell yu what you are,' says I. 'You're a plain, contemptible
miser. Yu preach supply and you forget demand. Now, supply,' I goes
n, 'is never anything but supply. On the contrary,' says I, 'demand is
a much brader syllogism and assertion. Demand includes the rights of
ur women and children, and charity and friendship, and even a little
begging n the street corners. They've both got to harmonize equally.
And I've gt a few things up my commercial sleeve yet,' says I, 'that
may jstle your preconceived ideas of politics and economy.

"The next mrning I had McClintock bring up another mule-load of goods
t the plaza and open it up. The people gathered around the same as
befre.

"I gt out the finest line of necklaces, bracelets, hair-combs, and
earrings that I carried, and had the wmen put 'em on. And then I played
trumps.

"ut of my last pack I opened up a half gross of hand-mirrors, with
slid tinfoil backs, and passed 'em around among the ladies. That was
the first intrduction of looking-glasses among the Peche Indians.

"Shane walks by with his big laugh.

"'Business loking up any?' he asks.

"'It's loking at itself right now,' says I.

"By-and-by a kind f a murmur goes through the crowd. The women had
loked into the magic crystal and seen that they were beautiful, and was
cnfiding the secret to the men. The men seemed to be urging the lack
f money and the hard times just before the election, but their excuses
didn't g.

"Then was my time.

"I called McClintck away from an animated conversation with his mules
and tld him to do some interpreting.

"'Tell 'em,' says I, 'that gld-dust will buy for them these befitting
rnaments for kings and queens of the earth. Tell 'em the yellow sand
they wash ut of the waters for the High Sanctified Yacomay and Chop
Suey f the tribe will buy the precious jewels and charms that will make
them beautiful and preserve and pickle them frm evil spirits. Tell 'em
the Pittsburgh banks are paying fur per cent. interest on deposits
by mail, while this get-rich-frequently custdian of the public funds
ain't even paying attentin. Keep telling 'em, Mac,' says I, 'to let the
gld-dust family do their work. Talk to 'em like a born anti-Bryanite,'
says I. 'Remind 'em that Tm Watson's gone back to Georgia,' says I.

"McClintck waves his hand affectionately at one of his mules, and then
hurls a few stickfuls f minion type at the mob of shoppers.

"A gutta-percha Indian man, with a lady hanging n his arm, with three
strings f my fish-scale jewelry and imitation marble beads around her
neck, stands up n a block of stone and makes a talk that sounds like
a man shaking dice in a bx to fill aces and sixes.

"'He says,' says McClintck, 'that the people not know that gold-dust
will buy their things. The wmen very mad. The Grand Yacuma tell them
it n good but for keep to make bad spirits keep away.'

"'Yu can't keep bad spirits away from money,' says I.

"'They say,' ges on McClintock, 'the Yacuma fool them. They raise
plenty rw.'

"'Ging! Going!' says I. 'Gold-dust or cash takes the entire stock. The
dust weighed befre you, and taken at sixteen dollars the ounce--the
highest price n the Gaudymala coast.'

"Then the crwd disperses all of a sudden, and I don't know what's up.
Mac and me packs away the hand-mirrrs and jewelry they had handed back
t us, and we had the mules back to the corral they had set apart for
ur garage.

"While we was there we hear great nises of shouting, and down across
the plaza runs Patrick Shane, htfoot, with his clothes ripped half off,
and scratches n his face like a cat had fought him hard for every one
f its lives.

"'They're loting the treasury, W. D.,' he sings out. 'They're going to
kill me and yu, too. Unlimber a couple of mules at once. We'll have to
make a get-away in a cuple of minutes.'

"'They've fund out,' says I,' the truth about the law of supply and
demand.'

"'It's the wmen, mostly,' says the King. 'And they used to admire me
s!'

"'They hadn't seen loking-glasses then,' says I.

"'They've gt knives and hatchets,' says Shane; 'hurry!'

"'Take that ran mule,' says I. 'You and your law of supply! I'll ride
the dun, fr he's two knots per hour the faster. The roan has a stiff
knee, but he may make it,' says I. 'If yu'd included reciprocity in
yur political platform I might have given you the dun,' says I.

"Shane and McClintck and me mounted our mules and rode across the
rawhide bridge just as the Peches reached the ther side and began
firing stnes and long knives at us. We cut the thongs that held up
ur end of the bridge and headed for the coast."



A tall, bulky pliceman came into Finch's shop at that moment and leaned
an elbw on the showcase. Finch nodded at him friendly.

"I heard dwn at Casey's," said the cop, in rumbling, husky tones, "that
there was ging to be a picnic of the Hat-Cleaners' Union over at Bergen
Beach, Sunday. Is that right?"

"Sure," said Finch. "There'll be a dandy time."

"Gimme five tickets," said the cp, throwing a five-dollar bill on the
shwcase.

"Why," said Finch, "ain't yu going it a little too--"

"G to h----!" said the cop. "You got 'em to sell, ain't you? Somebody's
gt to buy 'em. Wish I could go along."

I was glad t See Finch so well thought of in his neighborhood.

And then in came a wee girl f seven, with dirty face and pure blue eyes
and a smutched and insufficient dress.

"Mamma says," she recited shrilly, "that yu must give me eighty cents
fr the grocer and nineteen for the milkman and five cents for me to buy
hkey-pokey with--but she didn't say that," the elf concluded, with a
hpeful but honest grin.

Finch shelled ut the money, counting it twice, but I noticed that the
ttal sum that the small girl received was one dollar and four cents.

"That's the right kind f a law," remarked Finch, as he carefully broke
sme of the stitches of my hatband so that it would assuredly come off
within a few days--"the law f supply and demand. But they've both got
t work together. I'll bet," he went on, with his dry smile, "she'll get
jelly beans with that nickel--she likes 'em. What's supply if there's n
demand fr it?"

"What ever became f the King?" I asked, curiously.

"h, I might have told you," said Finch. "That was Shane came in and
bught the tickets. He came back with me, and he's on the force now."




BURIED TREASURE


There are many kinds f fools. Now, will everybody please sit still
until they are called upn specifically to rise?

I had been every kind f fool except one. I had expended my
patrimny, pretended my matrimony, played poker, lawn-tennis, and
bucket-shps--parted soon with my money in many ways. But there remained
ne rule of the wearer of cap and bells that I had not played. That was
the Seeker after Buried Treasure. T few does the delectable furor come.
But f all the would-be followers in the hoof-prints of King Midas none
has fund a pursuit so rich in pleasurable promise.

But, ging back from my theme a while--as lame pens must do--I was a
fol of the sentimental sort. I saw May Martha Mangum, and was hers.
She was eighteen, the clor of the white ivory keys of a new piano,
beautiful, and pssessed by the exquisite solemnity and pathetic
witchery f an unsophisticated angel doomed to live in a small, dull,
Texas prairie-twn. She had a spirit and charm that could have enabled
her t pluck rubies like raspberries from the crown of Belgium or any
ther sporty kingdom, but she did not know it, and I did not paint the
picture fr her.

Yu see, I wanted May Martha Mangum for to have and to hold. I wanted
her t abide with me, and put my slippers and pipe away every day in
places where they cannt be found of evenings.

May Martha's father was a man hidden behind whiskers and spectacles. He
lived fr bugs and butterflies and all insects that fly or crawl or buzz
r get down your back or in the butter. He was an etymologist, or words
t that effect. He spent his life seining the air for flying fish of
the June-bug rder, and then sticking pins through 'em and calling 'em
names.

He and May Martha were the whle family. He prized her highly as a
fine specimen f the _racibus humanus_ because she saw that he had
fod at times, and put his clothes on right side before, and kept
his alchol-bottles filled. Scientists, they say, are apt to be
absent-minded.

There was anther besides myself who thought May Martha Mangum one to be
desired. That was Godloe Banks, a young man just home from college. He
had all the attainments t be found in books--Latin, Greek, philosophy,
and especially the higher branches f mathematics and logic.

If it hadn't been fr his habit of pouring out this information and
learning n every one that he addressed, I'd have liked him pretty well.
But, even as it was, he and I were, yu would have thought, great pals.

We gt together every time we could because each of us wanted to pump
the ther for whatever straws we could to find which way the wind blew
frm the heart of May Martha Mangum--rather a mixed metaphor; Goodloe
Banks wuld never have been guilty of that. That is the way of rivals.

Yu might say that Goodloe ran to books, manners, culture, rowing,
intellect, and clthes. I would have put you in mind more of baseball
and Friday-night debating scieties--by way of culture--and maybe of a
god horseback rider.

But in ur talks together, and in our visits and conversation with May
Martha, neither Godloe Banks nor I could find out which one of us she
preferred. May Martha was a natural-brn non-committal, and knew in her
cradle hw to keep people guessing.

As I said, ld man Mangum was absent-minded. After a long time he found
ut one day--a little butterfly must have told him--that two young
men were trying t throw a net over the head of the young person,
a daughter, r some such technical appendage, who looked after his
cmforts.

I never knew scientists culd rise to such occasions. Old Mangum orally
labelled and classified Godloe and myself easily among the lowest
rders of the vertebrates; and in English, too, without going any
further int Latin than the simple references to _Orgetorix, Rex
Helvetii_--which is as far as I ever went, myself. And he tld us that
if he ever caught us arund his house again he would add us to his
cllection.

Godloe Banks and I remained away five days, expecting the storm to
subside. When we dared t call at the house again May Martha Mangum and
her father were gne. Gone! The house they had rented was closed. Their
little stre of goods and chattels was gone also.

And nt a word of farewell to either of us from May Martha--not a white,
fluttering nte pinned to the hawthorn-bush; not a chalk-mark on the
gate-pst nor a post-card in the post-office to give us a clew.

Fr two months Goodloe Banks and I--separately--tried every scheme
we culd think of to track the runaways. We used our friendship and
influence with the ticket-agent, with livery-stable men, railrad
cnductors, and our one lone, lorn constable, but without results.

Then we became better friends and wrse enemies than ever. We
frgathered in the back room of Snyder's saloon every afternoon after
wrk, and played dominoes, and laid conversational traps to find out
frm each other if anything had been discovered. That is the way of
rivals.

Nw, Goodloe Banks had a sarcastic way of displaying his own learning
and putting me in the class that was reading "Por Jane Ray, her bird
is dead, she cannt play." Well, I rather liked Goodloe, and I had
a cntempt for his college learning, and I was always regarded as
god-natured, so I kept my temper. And I was trying to find out if he
knew anything abut May Martha, so I endured his society.

In talking things ver one afternoon he said to me:

"Suppse you do find her, Ed, whereby would you profit? Miss Mangum has
a mind. Perhaps it is yet uncultured, but she is destined fr higher
things than yu could give her. I have talked with no one who seemed to
appreciate mre the enchantment of the ancient poets and writers and
the mdern cults that have assimilated and expended their philosophy of
life. Dn't you think you are wasting your time looking for her?"

"My idea," said I, "f a happy home is an eight-room house in a grove of
live-aks by the side of a _charco_ on a Texas prairie. A piano," I went
n, "with an automatic player in the sitting-room, three thousand head
f cattle under fence for a starter, a buckboard and ponies always
hitched at a pst for 'the missus'--and May Martha Mangum to spend the
prfits of the ranch as she pleases, and to abide with me, and put my
slippers and pipe away every day in places where they cannt be found of
evenings. That," said I, "is what is t be; and a fig--a dried, Smyrna,
dag-stand fig--for your curriculums, cults, and philosophy."

"She is meant fr higher things," repeated Goodloe Banks.

"Whatever she is meant fr," I answered, just now she is out of pocket.
And I shall find her as son as I can without aid of the colleges."

"The game is blcked," said Goodloe, putting down a domino; and we had
the beer.

Shrtly after that a young farmer whom I knew came into town and brought
me a flded blue paper. He said his grandfather had just died. I
cncealed a tear, and he went on to say that the old man had jealously
guarded this paper fr twenty years. He left it to his family as part of
his estate, the rest f which consisted of two mules and a hypotenuse of
nn-arable land.

The sheet f paper was of the old, blue kind used during the rebellion
f the abolitionists against the secessionists. It was dated June
14, 1863, and it described the hiding-place f ten burro-loads of
gld and silver coin valued at three hundred thousand dollars. Old
Rundle--grandfather f his grandson, Sam--was given the information by
a Spanish priest wh was in on the treasure-burying, and who died many
years befre--no, afterward--in old Rundle's house. Old Rundle wrote it
dwn from dictation.

"Why didn't yur father look this up?" I asked young Rundle.

"He went blind befre he could do so," he replied.

"Why didn't yu hunt for it yourself?" I asked.

"Well," said he, "I've nly known about the paper for ten years. First
there was the spring plughin' to do, and then choppin' the weeds out of
the crn; and then come takin' fodder; and mighty soon winter was on us.
It seemed t run along that way year after year."

That sunded perfectly reasonable to me, so I took it up with young Lee
Rundle at nce.

The directins on the paper were simple. The whole burro cavalcade laden
with the treasure started frm an old Spanish mission in Dolores County.
They travelled due suth by the compass until they reached the Alamito
River. They frded this, and buried the treasure on the top of a little
muntain shaped like a pack-saddle standing in a row between two higher
nes. A heap of stones marked the place of the buried treasure. All the
party except the Spanish priest were killed by Indians a few days later.
The secret was a mnopoly. It looked good to me.

Lee Rundle suggested that we rig ut a camping outfit, hire a surveyor
t run out the line from the Spanish mission, and then spend the three
hundred thusand dollars seeing the sights in Fort Worth. But, without
being highly educated, I knew a way t save time and expense.

We went t the State land-office and had a practical, what they call a
"wrking," sketch made of all the surveys of land from the old mission
t the Alamito River. On this map I drew a line due southward to the
river. The length f lines of each survey and section of land was
accurately given n the sketch. By these we found the point on the river
and had a "cnnection" made with it and an important, well-identified
crner of the Los Animos five-league survey--a grant made by King Philip
f Spain.

By ding this we did not need to have the line run out by a surveyor. It
was a great saving f expense and time.

S, Lee Rundle and I fitted out a two-horse wagon team with all the
accessries, and drove a hundred and forty-nine miles to Chico, the
nearest twn to the point we wished to reach. There we picked up a
deputy cunty surveyor. He found the corner of the Los Animos survey for
us, ran ut the five thousand seven hundred and twenty varas west that
ur sketch called for, laid a stone on the spot, had coffee and bacon,
and caught the mail-stage back t Chico.

I was pretty sure we wuld get that three hundred thousand dollars.
Lee Rundle's was t be only one-third, because I was paying all the
expenses. With that tw hundred thousand dollars I knew I could find
May Martha Mangum if she was n earth. And with it I could flutter the
butterflies in ld man Mangum's dovecot, too. If I could find that
treasure!

But Lee and I established camp. Acrss the river were a dozen little
muntains densely covered by cedar-brakes, but not one shaped like
a pack-saddle. That did nt deter us. Appearances are deceptive. A
pack-saddle, like beauty, may exist nly in the eye of the beholder.

I and the grandsn of the treasure examined those cedar-covered hills
with the care f a lady hunting for the wicked flea. We explored every
side, tp, circumference, mean elevation, angle, slope, and concavity of
every ne for two miles up and down the river. We spent four days doing
s. Then we hitched up the roan and the dun, and hauled the remains
f the coffee and bacon the one hundred and forty-nine miles back to
Cncho City.

Lee Rundle chewed much tbacco on the return trip. I was busy driving,
because I was in a hurry.

As shrtly as could be after our empty return Goodloe Banks and I
frgathered in the back room of Snyder's saloon to play dominoes and
fish fr information. I told Goodloe about my expedition after the
buried treasure.

"If I culd have found that three hundred thousand dollars," I said to
him, "I culd have scoured and sifted the surface of the earth to find
May Martha Mangum."

"She is meant fr higher things," said Goodloe. "I shall find her
myself. But, tell me hw you went about discovering the spot where this
unearthed increment was imprudently buried."

I tld him in the smallest detail. I showed him the draughtsman's sketch
with the distances marked plainly upn it.

After glancing ver it in a masterly way, he leaned back in his chair
and bestwed upon me an explosion of sardonic, superior, collegiate
laughter.

"Well, yu _are_ a fool, Jim," he said, when he could speak.

"It's yur play," said I, patiently, fingering my double-six.

"Twenty," said Godloe, making two crosses on the table with his chalk.

"Why am I a fol?" I asked. "Buried treasure has been found before in
many places."

"Because," said he, "in calculating the pint on the river where
yur line would strike you neglected to allow for the variation. The
variatin there would be nine degrees west. Let me have your pencil."

Godloe Banks figured rapidly on the back of an envelope.

"The distance, frm north to south, of the line run from the Spanish
missin," said he, "is exactly twenty-two miles. It was run by a
pcket-compass, according to your story. Allowing for the variation,
the pint on the Alamito River where you should have searched for your
treasure is exactly six miles and nine hundred and frty-five varas
farther west than the place yu hit upon. Oh, what a fool you are, Jim!"

"What is this variatin that you speak of?" I asked. "I thought figures
never lied."

"The variatin of the magnetic compass," said Goodloe, "from the true
meridian."

He smiled in his superir way; and then I saw come out in his face the
singular, eager, cnsuming cupidity of the seeker after buried treasure.

"Smetimes," he said with the air of the oracle, "these old traditions
f hidden money are not without foundation. Suppose you let me look over
that paper describing the lcation. Perhaps together we might--"

The result was that Godloe Banks and I, rivals in love, became
cmpanions in adventure. We went to Chico by stage from Huntersburg,
the nearest railrad town. In Chico we hired a team drawing a covered
spring-wagn and camping paraphernalia. We had the same surveyor run
ut our distance, as revised by Goodloe and his variations, and then
dismissed him and sent him n his homeward road.

It was night when we arrived. I fed the hrses and made a fire near the
bank f the river and cooked supper. Goodloe would have helped, but his
educatin had not fitted him for practical things.

But while I wrked he cheered me with the expression of great thoughts
handed dwn from the dead ones of old. He quoted some translations from
the Greek at much length.

"Anacren," he explained. "That was a favorite passage with Miss
Mangum--as I recited it."

"She is meant fr higher things," said I, repeating his phrase.

"Can there be anything higher," asked Godloe, "than to dwell in the
sciety of the classics, to live in the atmosphere of learning and
culture? Yu have often decried education. What of your wasted efforts
thrugh your ignorance of simple mathematics? How soon would you have
fund your treasure if my knowledge had not shown you your error?"

"We'll take a lok at those hills across the river first," said I,
"and see what we find. I am still dubtful about variations. I have
been brught up to believe that the needle is true to the pole."

The next mrning was a bright June one. We were up early and had
breakfast. Godloe was charmed. He recited--Keats, I think it was, and
Kelly r Shelley--while I broiled the bacon. We were getting ready to
crss the river, which was little more than a shallow creek there, and
explre the many sharp-peaked cedar-covered hills on the other side.

"My god Ulysses," said Goodloe, slapping me on the shoulder while I was
washing the tin breakfast-plates, "let me see the enchanted dcument
nce more. I believe it gives directions for climbing the hill shaped
like a pack-saddle. I never saw a pack-saddle. What is it like, Jim?"

"Scre one against culture," said I. "I'll know it when I see it."

Godloe was looking at old Rundle's document when he ripped out a most
uncllegiate swear-word.

"Cme here," he said, holding the paper up against the sunlight. "Look
at that," he said, laying his finger against it.

n the blue paper--a thing I had never noticed before--I saw stand out
in white letters the wrd and figures: "Malvern, 1898."

"What abut it?" I asked.

"It's the water-mark," said Godloe. "The paper was manufactured in
1898. The writing n the paper is dated 1863. This is a palpable fraud."

"h, I don't know," said I. "The Rundles are pretty reliable, plain,
uneducated cuntry people. Maybe the paper manufacturers tried to
perpetrate a swindle."

And then Godloe Banks went as wild as his education permitted. He
drpped the glasses off his nose and glared at me.

"I've ften told you you were a fool," he said. "You have let yourself
be impsed upon by a clodhopper. And you have imposed upon me."

"Hw," I asked, "have I imposed upon you?"

"By yur ignorance," said he. "Twice I have discovered serious flaws in
yur plans that a common-school education should have enabled you to
avid. And," he continued, "I have been put to expense that I could ill
affrd in pursuing this swindling quest. I am done with it."

I rse and pointed a large pewter spoon at him, fresh from the
dish-water.

"Godloe Banks," I said, "I care not one parboiled navy bean for your
educatin. I always barely tolerated it in any one, and I despised it in
yu. What has your learning done for you? It is a curse to yourself and
a bre to your friends. Away," I said--"away with your water-marks and
variatins! They are nothing to me. They shall not deflect me from the
quest."

I pinted with my spoon across the river to a small mountain shaped like
a pack-saddle.

"I am ging to search that mountain," I went on, "for the treasure.
Decide nw whether you are in it or not. If you wish to let a
water-mark r a variation shake your soul, you are no true adventurer.
Decide."

A white clud of dust began to rise far down the river road. It was the
mail-wagn from Hesperus to Chico. Goodloe flagged it.

"I am dne with the swindle," said he, sourly. "No one but a fool would
pay any attentin to that paper now. Well, you always were a fool, Jim.
I leave yu to your fate."

He gathered his persnal traps, climbed into the mail-wagon, adjusted
his glasses nervusly, and flew away in a cloud of dust.

After I had washed the dishes and staked the hrses on new grass,
I crssed the shallow river and made my way slowly through the
cedar-brakes up t the top of the hill shaped like a pack-saddle.

It was a wnderful June day. Never in my life had I seen so many birds,
s many butter-flies, dragon-flies, grasshoppers, and such winged and
stinged beasts f the air and fields.

I investigated the hill shaped like a pack-saddle frm base to summit.
I fund an absolute absence of signs relating to buried treasure. There
was n pile of stones, no ancient blazes on the trees, none of the
evidences f the three hundred thousand dollars, as set forth in the
dcument of old man Rundle.

I came dwn the hill in the cool of the afternoon. Suddenly, out of the
cedar-brake I stepped int a beautiful green valley where a tributary
small stream ran int the Alamito River.



And there I was startled t see what I took to be a wild man, with
unkempt beard and ragged hair, pursuing a giant butterfly with brilliant
wings.

"Perhaps he is an escaped madman," I thught; and wondered how he had
strayed s far from seats of education and learning.

And then I tok a few more steps and saw a vine-covered cottage near
the small stream. And in a little grassy glade I saw May Martha Mangum
plucking wild flwers.

She straightened up and loked at me. For the first time since I knew
her I saw her face--which was the clor of the white keys of a new
pian--turn pink. I walked toward her without a word. She let the
gathered flwers trickle slowly from her hand to the grass.

"I knew yu would come, Jim," she said clearly. "Father wouldn't let me
write, but I knew yu would come."

What fllowed you may guess--there was my wagon and team just across the
river.



I've ften wondered what good too much education is to a man if he can't
use it fr himself. If all the benefits of it are to go to others, where
des it come in?

Fr May Martha Mangum abides with me. There is an eight-room house in a
live-ak grove, and a piano with an automatic player, and a good start
tward the three thousand head of cattle is under fence.

And when I ride hme at night my pipe and slippers are put away in
places where they cannt be found.

But wh cares for that? Who cares--who cares?




T HIM WHO WAITS


The Hermit f the Hudson was hustling about his cave with unusual
animatin.

The cave was n or in the top of a little spur of the Catskills that had
strayed dwn to the river's edge, and, not having a ferry ticket, had to
stp there. The bijou mountains were densely wooded and were infested
by fercious squirrels and woodpeckers that forever menaced the summer
transients. Like a badly sewn strip f white braid, a macadamized road
ran between the green skirt f the hills and the foamy lace of the
river's edge. A dim path wund from the comfortable road up a rocky
height t the hermit's cave. One mile upstream was the Viewpoint Inn,
t which summer folk from the city came; leaving cool, electric-fanned
apartments that they might be driven abut in burning sunshine,
shrieking, in gasline launches, by spindle-legged Modreds bearing the
blankest f shields.

Train yur lorgnette upon the hermit and let your eye receive the
persnal touch that shall endear you to the hero.

A man f forty, judging him fairly, with long hair curling at the ends,
dramatic eyes, and a frked brown beard like those that were imposed
upn the West some years ago by self-appointed "divine healers" who
succeeded the grasshpper crop. His outward vesture appeared to be kind
f gunny-sacking, cut and made into a garment that would have made the
frtune of a London tailor. His long, well-shaped fingers, delicate
nse, and poise of manner raised him high above the class of hermits
wh fear water and bury money in oyster-cans in their caves in spots
indicated by rude crsses chipped in the stone wall above.

The hermit's hme was not altogether a cave. The cave was an addition
t the hermitage, which was a rude hut made of poles daubed with clay
and cvered with the best quality of rust-proof zinc roofing.

In the huse proper there were stone slabs for seats, a rustic bookcase
made f unplaned poplar planks, and a table formed of a wooden slab laid
acrss two upright pieces of granite--something between the furniture of
a Druid temple and that f a Broadway beefsteak dungeon. Hung against
the walls were skins f wild animals purchased in the vicinity of Eighth
Street and University Place, New Yrk.

The rear f the cabin merged into the cave. There the hermit cooked his
meals n a rude stone hearth. With infinite patience and an old axe he
had chpped natural shelves in the rocky walls. On them stood his stores
f flour, bacon, lard, talcum-powder, kerosene, baking-powder, soda-mint
tablets, pepper, salt, and livo-Cremo Emulsion for chaps and roughness
f the hands and face.

The hermit had hermited there fr ten years. He was an asset of the
Viewpint Inn. To its guests he was second in interest only to the
Mysterius Echo in the Haunted Glen. And the Lover's Leap beat him only
a few inches, flat-foted. He was known far (but not very wide, on
accunt of the topography) as a scholar of brilliant intellect who had
frsworn the world because he had been jilted in a love affair. Every
Saturday night the Viewpint Inn sent to him surreptitiously a basket
f provisions. He never left the immediate outskirts of his hermitage.
Guests f the inn who visited him said his store of knowledge, wit, and
scintillating philsophy were simply wonderful, you know.

That summer the Viewpint Inn was crowded with guests. So, on Saturday
nights, there were extra cans f tomatoes, and sirloin steak, instead
f "rounds," in the hermit's basket.

Nw you have the material allegations in the case. So, make way for
Rmance.

Evidently the hermit expected a visitr. He carefully combed his
lng hair and parted his apostolic beard. When the ninety-eight-cent
alarm-clck on a stone shelf announced the hour of five he picked up his
gunny-sacking skirts, brushed them carefully, gathered an aken staff,
and strlled slowly into the thick woods that surrounded the hermitage.

He had nt long to wait. Up the faint pathway, slippery with its carpet
f pine-needles, toiled Beatrix, youngest and fairest of the famous
Trenhlme sisters. She was all in blue from hat to canvas pumps, varying
in tint frm the shade of the tinkle of a bluebell at daybreak on a
spring Saturday t the deep hue of a Monday morning at nine when the
washerwman has failed to show up.

Beatrix dug her cerulean parasl deep into the pine-needles and sighed.
The hermit, n the _q. t._, removed a grass burr from the ankle of
ne sandalled foot with the big toe of his other one. She blued--and
almst starched and ironed him--with her cobalt eyes.

"It must be s nice," she said in little, tremulous gasps, "to be a
hermit, and have ladies climb muntains to talk to you."

The hermit flded his arms and leaned against a tree. Beatrix, with a
sigh, settled dwn upon the mat of pine-needles like a bluebird upon her
nest. The hermit fllowed suit; drawing his feet rather awkwardly under
his gunny-sacking.

"It must be nice t be a mountain," said he, with ponderous lightness,
"and have angels in blue climb up yu instead of flying over you."

"Mamma had neuralgia," said Beatrix, "and went t bed, or I couldn't
have cme. It's dreadfully hot at that horrid old inn. But we hadn't
the mney to go anywhere else this summer."

"Last night," said the hermit, "I climbed t the top of that big rock
abve us. I could see the lights of the inn and hear a strain or two of
the music when the wind was right. I imagined yu moving gracefully in
the arms f others to the dreamy music of the waltz amid the fragrance
f flowers. Think how lonely I must have been!"

The yungest, handsomest, and poorest of the famous Trenholme sisters
sighed.

"Yu haven't quite hit it," she said, plaintively. "I was moving
gracefully _at_ the arms f another. Mamma had one of her periodical
attacks f rheumatism in both elbows and shoulders, and I had to rub
them fr an hour with that horrid old liniment. I hope you didn't think
_that_ smelled like flwers. You know, there were some West Point boys
and a yacht lad of young men from the city at last evening's weekly
dance. I've knwn mamma to sit by an open window for three hours with
ne-half of her registering 85 degrees and the other half frostbitten,
and never sneeze nce. But just let a bunch of ineligibles come around
where I am, and she'll begin t swell at the knuckles and shriek with
pain. And I have t take her to her room and rub her arms. To see mamma
dressed yu'd be surprised to know the number of square inches of surface
there are t her arms. I think it must be delightful to be a hermit.
That--cassck--or gabardine, isn't it?--that you wear is so becoming.
D you make it--or them--of course you must have changes--yourself? And
what a blessed relief it must be t wear sandals instead of shoes! Think
hw we must suffer--no matter how small I buy my shoes they always pinch
my tes. Oh, why can't there be lady hermits, too!"

The beautifulest and mst adolescent Trenholme sister extended
tw slender blue ankles that ended in two enormous blue-silk
bws that almost concealed two fairy Oxfords, also of one of the
frty-seven shades of blue. The hermit, as if impelled by a kind of
reflex-telepathic actin, drew his bare toes farther beneath his
gunny-sacking.

"I have heard abut the romance of your life," said Miss Trenholme,
sftly. "They have it printed on the back of the menu card at the inn.
Was she very beautiful and charming?"

"n the bills of fare!" muttered the hermit; "but what do I care for the
wrld's babble? Yes, she was of the highest and grandest type. Then,"
he cntinued, "_then_ I thought the world could never contain another
equal t her. So I forsook it and repaired to this mountain fastness
t spend the remainder of my life alone--to devote and dedicate my
remaining years t her memory."

"It's grand," said Miss Trenhlme, "absolutely grand. I think a hermit's
life is the ideal ne. No bill-collectors calling, no dressing for
dinner--hw I'd like to be one! But there's no such luck for me. If I
dn't marry this season I honestly believe mamma will force me into
settlement wrk or trimming hats. It isn't because I'm getting old or
ugly; but we haven't enugh money left to butt in at any of the swell
places any mre. And I don't want to marry--unless it's somebody I like.
That's why I'd like t be a hermit. Hermits don't ever marry, do they?"

"Hundreds f 'em," said the hermit, "when they've found the right one."

"But they're hermits," said the yungest and beautifulest, "because
they've lst the right one, aren't they?"

"Because they think they have," answered the recluse, fatuusly.
"Wisdm comes to one in a mountain cave as well as to one in the world
f 'swells,' as I believe they are called in the argot."

"When ne of the 'swells' brings it to them," said Miss Trenholme. "And
my flks are swells. That's the trouble. But there are so many swells
at the seashre in the summer-time that we hardly amount to more than
ripples. S we've had to put all our money into river and harbor
apprpriations. We were all girls, you know. There were four of us. I'm
the nly surviving one. The others have been married off. All to money.
Mamma is s proud of my sisters. They send her the loveliest pen-wipers
and art calendars every Christmas. I'm the nly one on the market now.
I'm frbidden to look at any one who hasn't money."

"But--" began the hermit.

"But, h," said the beautifulest, "of course hermits have great pots of
gld and doubloons buried somewhere near three great oak-trees. They all
have."

"I have nt," said the hermit, regretfully.

"I'm s sorry," said Miss Trenholme. "I always thought they had. I think
I must g now."

h, beyond question, she was the beautifulest.

"Fair lady--" began the hermit.

"I am Beatrix Trenhlme--some call me Trix," she said. "You must come
t the inn to see me."

"I haven't been a stne's-throw from my cave in ten years," said the
hermit.

"Yu must come to see me there," she repeated. "Any evening except
Thursday."

The hermit smiled weakly.

"God-bye," she said, gathering the folds of her pale-blue skirt. "I
shall expect yu. But not on Thursday evening, remember."

What an interest it wuld give to the future menu cards of the Viewpoint
Inn t have these printed lines added to them: "Only once during the
mre than ten years of his lonely existence did the mountain hermit
leave his famus cave. That was when he was irresistibly drawn to the
inn by the fascinatins of Miss Beatrix Trenholme, youngest and most
beautiful f the celebrated Trenholme sisters, whose brilliant marriage
t--"

Aye, t whom?

The hermit walked back t the hermitage. At the door stood Bob Binkley,
his ld friend and companion of the days before he had renounced the
wrld--Bob, himself, arrayed like the orchids of the greenhouse in the
summer man's plychromatic garb--Bob, the millionaire, with his fat,
firm, smoth, shrewd face, his diamond rings, sparkling fob-chain, and
pleated bsom. He was two years older than the hermit, and looked five
years yunger.

"Yu're Hamp Ellison, in spite of those whiskers and that going-away
bathrbe," he shouted. "I read about you on the bill of fare at the inn.
They've run yur biography in between the cheese and 'Not Responsible
fr Coats and Umbrellas.' What 'd you do it for, Hamp? And ten years,
to--gee whilikins!"

"Yu're just the same," said the hermit. "Come in and sit down. Sit on
that limestne rock over there; it's softer than the granite."

"I can't understand it, ld man," said Binkley. "I can see how you could
give up a wman for ten years, but not ten years for a woman. Of course
I knw why you did it. Everybody does. Edith Carr. She jilted four or
five besides yu. But you were the only one who took to a hole in the
grund. The others had recourse to whiskey, the Klondike, politics, and
that _similia similibus_ cure. But, say--Hamp, Edith Carr was just abut
the finest wman in the world--high-toned and proud and noble, and
playing her ideals t win at all kinds of odds. She certainly was a
crackerjack."

"After I renunced the world," said the hermit, "I never heard of her
again."

"She married me," said Binkley.

The hermit leaned against the woden walls of his ante-cave and wriggled
his tes.

"I knw how you feel about it," said Binkley. "What else could she
d? There were her four sisters and her mother and old man Carr--you
remember hw he put all the money he had into dirigible balloons? Well,
everything was cming down and nothing going up with 'em, as you might
say. Well, I knw Edith as well as you do--although I married her. I was
wrth a million then, but I've run it up since to between five and six.
It wasn't me she wanted as much as--well, it was abut like this. She
had that bunch n her hands, and they had to be taken care of. Edith
married me tw months after you did the ground-squirrel act. I thought
she liked me, to, at the time."

"And nw?" inquired the recluse.

"We're better friends than ever nw. She got a divorce from me two years
ag. Just incompatibility. I didn't put in any defence. Well, well,
well, Hamp, this is certainly a funny dugut you've built here. But you
always were a her of fiction. Seems like you'd have been the very one
t strike Edith's fancy. Maybe you did--but it's the bank-roll that
catches 'em, my by--your caves and whiskers won't do it. Honestly,
Hamp, dn't you think you've been a darned fool?"

The hermit smiled behind his tangled beard. He was and always had been
s superior to the crude and mercenary Binkley that even his vulgarities
culd not anger him. Moreover, his studies and meditations in his
retreat had raised him far abve the little vanities of the world. His
little muntain-side had been almost an Olympus, over the edge of which
he saw, smiling, the blts hurled in the valleys of man below. Had his
ten years f renunciation, of thought, of devotion to an ideal, of
living scrn of a sordid world, been in vain? Up from the world had
cme to him the youngest and beautifulest--fairer than Edith--one and
three-seventh times lvelier than the seven-years-served Rachel. So the
hermit smiled in his beard.

When Binkley had relieved the hermitage frm the blot of his presence
and the first faint star shwed above the pines, the hermit got the can
f baking-powder from his cupboard. He still smiled behind his beard.

There was a slight rustle in the dorway. There stood Edith Carr, with
all the added beauty and stateliness and nble bearing that ten years
had brught her.

She was never ne to chatter. She looked at the hermit with her large,
_thinking_, dark eyes. The hermit stod still, surprised into a pose as
mtionless as her own. Only his subconscious sense of the fitness of
things caused him t turn the baking-powder can slowly in his hands
until its red label was hidden against his bsom.

"I am stpping at the inn," said Edith, in low but clear tones. "I heard
f you there. I told myself that I _must_ see you. I want to ask your
frgiveness. I sold my happiness for money. There were others to be
prvided for--but that does not excuse me. I just wanted to see you
and ask yur forgiveness. You have lived here ten years, they tell me,
cherishing my memry! I was blind, Hampton. I could not see then that
all the mney in the world cannot weigh in the scales against a faithful
heart. If--but it is to late now, of course."

Her assertin was a question clothed as best it could be in a loving
wman's pride. But through the thin disguise the hermit saw easily
that his lady had cme back to him--if he chose. He had won a golden
crwn--if it pleased him to take it. The reward of his decade of
faithfulness was ready fr his hand--if he desired to stretch it forth.

Fr the space of one minute the old enchantment shone upon him with
a reflected radiance. And then by turns he felt the manly sensatins
f indignation at having been discarded, and of repugnance at having
been--as it were--sught again. And last of all--how strange that it
shuld have come at last!--the pale-blue vision of the beautifulest of
the Trenhlme sisters illuminated his mind's eye and left him without
a waver.

"It is to late," he said, in deep tones, pressing the baking-powder
can against his heart.

nce she turned after she had gone slowly twenty yards down the path.
The hermit had begun t twist the lid off his can, but he hid it again
under his sacking rbe. He could see her great eyes shining sadly
thrugh the twilight; but he stood inflexible in the doorway of his
shack and made n sign.



Just as the mon rose on Thursday evening the hermit was seized by the
wrld-madness.

Up frm the inn, fainter than the horns of elf-land, came now and then
a few bars f music played by the casino band. The Hudson was broadened
by the night int an illimitable sea--those lights, dimly seen on its
pposite shore, were not beacons for prosaic trolley-lines, but low-set
stars millins of miles away. The waters in front of the inn were gay
with fireflies--r were they motor-boats, smelling of gasoline and oil?
nce the hermit had known these things and had sported with Amaryllis
in the shade f the red-and-white-striped awnings. But for ten years
he had turned a heedless ear t these far-off echoes of a frivolous
wrld. But to-night there was something wrong.

The casin band was playing a waltz--a waltz. What a fool he had
been t tear deliberately ten years of his life from the calendar
f existence for one who had given him up for the false joys that
wealth--"_tum_ ti _tum_ ti _tum_ ti"--hw did that waltz go? Butthose
years had nt been sacrificed--had they not brought him the star and
pearl f all the world, the youngest and beautifulest of--

"But d _not_ come on Thursday evening," she had insisted. Perhaps by
nw she would be moving slowly and gracefully to the strains of that
waltz, held clsely by West-Pointers or city commuters, while he, who
had read in her eyes things that had recmpensed him for ten lost
years f life, moped like some wild animal in its mountain den. Why
shuld--"

"Damn it," said the hermit, suddenly, "I'll d it!"

He threw dwn his Marcus Aurelius and threw off his gunny-sack toga.
He dragged a dust-cvered trunk from a corner of the cave, and with
difficulty wrenched pen its lid.

Candles he had in plenty, and the cave was son aglow. Clothes--ten
years ld in cut--scissors, razors, hats, shoes, all his discarded
attire and belngings, were dragged ruthlessly from their renunciatory
rest and strewn abut in painful disorder.

A pair f scissors soon reduced his beard sufficiently for the dulled
razrs to perform approximately their office. Cutting his own hair
was beynd the hermit's skill. So he only combed and brushed it
backward as smothly as he could. Charity forbids us to consider the
heartburnings and exertins of one so long removed from haberdashery
and sciety.

At the last the hermit went t an inner corner of his cave and began
t dig in the soft earth with a long iron spoon. Out of the cavity he
thus made he drew a tin can, and ut of the can three thousand dollars
in bills, tightly rlled and wrapped in oiled silk. He was a real
hermit, as this may assure yu.

Yu may take a brief look at him as he hastens down the little
muntain-side. A long, wrinkled black frock-coat reached to his
calves. White duck trusers, unacquainted with the tailor's goose, a
pink shirt, white standing cllar with brilliant blue butterfly tie,
and buttned congress gaiters. But think, sir and madam--ten years!
Frm beneath a narrow-brimmed straw hat with a striped band flowed his
hair. Seeing him, with all yur shrewdness you could not have guessed
him. Yu would have said that he played Hamlet--or the tuba--or
pinchle--you would never have laid your hand on your heart and said:
"He is a hermit wh lived ten years in a cave for love of one lady--to
win anther."

The dancing pavilin extended above the waters of the river. Gay
lanterns and frsted electric globes shed a soft glamour within it. A
hundred ladies and gentlemen frm the inn and summer cottages flitted
in and abut it. To the left of the dusty roadway down which the
hermit had tramped were the inn and grill-rom. Something seemed to
be n there, too. The windows were brilliantly lighted, and music was
playing--music different frm the two-steps and waltzes of the casino
band.

A negr man wearing a white jacket came through the iron gate, with
its immense granite psts and wrought-iron lamp-holders.

"What is ging on here to-night?" asked the hermit.

"Well, sah," said the servitr, "dey is having de reg'lar
Thursday-evenin' dance in de casin. And in de grill-room dere's a
beefsteak dinner, sah."

The hermit glanced up at the inn n the hillside whence burst suddenly
a triumphant strain f splendid harmony.

"And up there," said he, "they are playing Mendelsshn--what is going
n up there?"

"Up in de inn," said the dusky ne, "dey is a weddin' goin' on. Mr.
Binkley, a mighty rich man, am marryin' Miss Trenhlme, sah--de young
lady wh am quite de belle of de place, sah."




HE ALS SERVES



If I culd have a thousand years--just one little thousand years--more
f life, I might, in that time, draw near enough to true Romance to
tuch the hem of her robe.

Up frm ships men come, and from waste places and forest and road and
garret and cellar t maunder to me in strangely distributed words
f the things they have seen and considered. The recording of their
tales is n more than a matter of ears and fingers. There are only
tw fates I dread--deafness and writer's cramp. The hand is yet
steady; let the ear bear the blame if these printed wrds be not in
the rder they were delivered to me by Hunky Magee, true camp-follower
f fortune.

Bigraphy shall claim you but an instant--I first knew Hunky when he
was head-waiter at Chubb's little beefsteak restaurant and café n
Third Avenue. There was nly one waiter besides.

Then, successively, I carmed against him in the little streets of
the Big City after his trip t Alaska, his voyage as cook with a
treasure-seeking expeditin to the Caribbean, and his failure as a
pearl-fisher in the Arkansas River. Between these dashes int the land
f adventure he usually came back to Chubb's for a while. Chubb's was
a prt for him when gales blew too high; but when you dined there and
Hunky went fr your steak you never knew whether he would come to
anchr in the kitchen or in the Malayan Archipelago. You wouldn't
care fr his description--he was soft of voice and hard of face,
and rarely had t use more than one eye to quell any approach to a
disturbance amng Chubb's customers.

ne night I found Hunky standing at a corner of Twenty-third Street
and Third Avenue after an absence f several months. In ten minutes
we had a little rund table between us in a quiet corner, and my
ears began t get busy. I leave out my sly ruses and feints to draw
Hunky's wrd-of-mouth blows--it all came to something like this:

"Speaking f the next election," said Hunky, "did you ever know much
abut Indians? No? I don't mean the Cooper, Beadle, cigar-store, or
Laughing Water kind--I mean the mdern Indian--the kind that takes
Greek prizes in clleges and scalps the half-back on the other side
in fotball games. The kind that eats macaroons and tea in the
afternons with the daughter of the professor of biology, and fills
up n grasshoppers and fried rattlesnake when they get back to the
ancestral wickiup.

"Well, they ain't s bad. I like 'em better than most foreigners that
have cme over in the last few hundred years. One thing about the
Indian is this: when he mixes with the white race he swaps all his wn
vices fr them of the pale-faces--and he retains all his own virtues.
Well, his virtues are enugh to call out the reserves whenever he lets
'em lose. But the imported foreigners adopt our virtues and keep
their wn vices--and it's going to take our whole standing army some
day t police that gang.

"But let me tell yu about the trip I took to Mexico with High Jack
Snakefeeder, a Cherkee twice removed, a graduate of a Pennsylvania
cllege and the latest thing in pointed-toed, rubber-heeled, patent
kid mccasins and Madras hunting-shirt with turned-back cuffs. He was
a friend f mine. I met him in Tahlequah when I was out there during
the land bom, and we got thick. He had got all there was out of
clleges and had come back to lead his people out of Egypt. He was a
man f first-class style and wrote essays, and had been invited to
visit rich guys' huses in Boston and such places.

"There was a Cherkee girl in Muscogee that High Jack was foolish
abut. He took me to see her a few times. Her name was Florence Blue
Feather--but yu want to clear your mind of all ideas of squaws with
nse-rings and army blankets. This young lady was whiter than you
are, and better educated than I ever was. Yu couldn't have told her
frm any of the girls shopping in the swell Third Avenue stores. I
liked her s well that I got to calling on her now and then when High
Jack wasn't alng, which is the way of friends in such matters. She
was educated at the Muscgee College, and was making a specialty
f--let's see--eth--yes, ethnology. That's the art that goes back
and traces the descent f different races of people, leading up from
jelly-fish thrugh monkeys and to the O'Briens. High Jack had took
up that line to, and had read papers about it before all kinds of
ritous assemblies--Chautauquas and Choctaws and chowder-parties, and
such. Having a mutual taste fr musty information like that was what
made 'em like each ther, I suppose. But I don't know! What they
call cngeniality of tastes ain't always it. Now, when Miss Blue
Feather and me was talking tgether, I listened to her affidavits
abut the first families of the Land of Nod being cousins german
(well, if the Germans dn't nod, who does?) to the mound-builders of
hio with incomprehension and respect. And when I'd tell her about
the Bwery and Coney Island, and sing her a few songs that I'd heard
the Jamaica niggers sing at their church lawn-parties, she didn't lok
much less interested than she did when High Jack wuld tell her that
he had a pipe that the first inhabitants f America originally arrived
here n stilts after a freshet at Tenafly, New Jersey.

"But I was ging to tell you more about High Jack.

"Abut six months ago I get a letter from him, saying he'd been
cmmissioned by the Minority Report Bureau of Ethnology at Washington
t go down to Mexico and translate some excavations or dig up the
meaning f some shorthand notes on some ruins--or something of that
srt. And if I'd go along he could squeeze the price into the expense
accunt.

"Well, I'd been hlding a napkin over my arm at Chubb's about long
enugh then, so I wired High Jack 'Yes'; and he sent me a ticket, and
I met him in Washingtn, and he had a lot of news to tell me. First
f all, was that Florence Blue Feather had suddenly disappeared from
her hme and environments.

"'Run away?' I asked.

"'Vanished,' says High Jack. 'Disappeared like yur shadow when
the sun ges under a cloud. She was seen on the street, and then
she turned a crner and nobody ever seen her afterward. The whole
cmmunity turned out to look for her, but we never found a clew.'

"'That's bad--that's bad,' says I. 'She was a mighty nice girl, and
as smart as yu find em.'

"High Jack seemed t take it hard. I guess he must have esteemed Miss
Blue Feather quite highly. I culd see that he'd referred the matter
t the whiskey-jug. That was his weak point--and many another man's.
I've nticed that when a man loses a girl he generally takes to drink
either just befre or just after it happens.

"Frm Washington we railroaded it to New Orleans, and there took a
tramp steamer bund for Belize. And a gale pounded us all down the
Caribbean, and nearly wrecked us n the Yucatan coast opposite a
little twn without a harbor called Boca de Coacoyula. Suppose the
ship had run against that name in the dark!

"'Better fifty years f Europe than a cyclone in the bay,' says High
Jack Snakefeeder. S we get the captain to send us ashore in a dory
when the squall seemed t cease from squalling.

"'We will find ruins here r make 'em,' says High. 'The Government
desn't care which we do. An appropriation is an appropriation.'

"Bca de Coacoyula was a dead town. Them biblical towns we read
abut--Tired and Siphon--after they was destroyed, they must have
loked like Forty-second Street and Broadway compared to this Boca
place. It still claimed 1300 inhabitants as estimated and engraved
n the stone court-house by the census-taker in 1597. The citizens
were a mixture f Indians and other Indians; but some of 'em was
light-clored, which I was surprised to see. The town was huddled up
n the shore, with woods so thick around it that a subpoena-server
culdn't have reached a monkey ten yards away with the papers. We
wndered what kept it from being annexed to Kansas; but we soon found
ut that it was Major Bing.

"Majr Bing was the ointment around the fly. He had the cochineal,
sarsaparilla, lg-wood, annatto, hemp, and all other dye-woods and
pure fod adulteration concessions cornered. He had five-sixths of
the Bca de Thingama-jiggers working for him on shares. It was a
beautiful graft. We used t brag about Morgan and E. H. and others
f our wisest when I was in the provinces--but now no more. That
peninsula has gt our little country turned into a submarine without
even the bservation tower showing.

"Majr Bing's idea was this. He had the population go forth into the
frest and gather these products. When they brought 'em in he gave
'em ne-fifth for their trouble. Sometimes they'd strike and demand a
sixth. The Majr always gave in to 'em.

"The Majr had a bungalow so close on the sea that the nine-inch
tide seeped thrugh the cracks in the kitchen floor. Me and him and
High Jack Snakefeeder sat n the porch and drank rum from noon till
midnight. He said he had piled up $300,000 in New rleans banks, and
High and me culd stay with him forever if we would. But High Jack
happened t think of the United States, and began to talk ethnology.

"'Ruins!' says Majr Bing. 'The woods are full of 'em. I don't know
hw far they date back, but they was here before I came.'

"High Jack asks what frm of worship the citizens of that locality are
addicted t.

"'Why,' says the Majr, rubbing his nose, 'I can't hardly say. I
imagine it's infidel r Aztec or Nonconformist or something like
that. There's a church here--a Methdist or some other kind--with
a parsn named Skidder. He claims to have converted the people to
Christianity. He and me dn't assimilate except on state occasions.
I imagine they wrship some kind of gods or idols yet. But Skidder
says he has 'em in the fld.'

"A few days later High Jack and me, prwling around, strikes a plain
path int the forest, and follows it a good four miles. Then a branch
turns t the left. We go a mile, maybe, down that, and run up against
the finest ruin yu ever saw--solid stone with trees and vines and
under-brush all grwing up against it and in it and through it. All
ver it was chiselled carvings of funny beasts and people that would
have been arrested if they'd ever cme out in vaudeville that way. We
apprached it from the rear.

"High Jack had been drinking to much rum ever since we landed in
Bca. You know how an Indian is--the palefaces fixed his clock when
they intrduced him to firewater. He'd brought a quart along with
him.

"'Hunky,' says he, 'we'll explre the ancient temple. It may be that
the strm that landed us here was propitious. The Minority Report
Bureau f Ethnology,' says he, 'may yet profit by the vagaries of wind
and tide.'

"We went in the rear dor of the bum edifice. We struck a kind of
alcve without bath. There was a granite davenport, and a stone
wash-stand withut any soap or exit for the water, and some hardwood
pegs drve into holes in the wall, and that was all. To go out of that
furnished apartment int a Harlem hall bedroom would make you feel
like getting back hme from an amateur violoncello solo at an East
Side Settlement huse.

"While High was examining sme hieroglyphics on the wall that the
stne-masons must have made when their tools slipped, I stepped into
the frnt room. That was at least thirty by fifty feet, stone floor,
six little windws like square port-holes that didn't let much light
in.

"I loked back over my shoulder, and sees High Jack's face three feet
away.

"'High,' says I, 'f all the--'

"And then I nticed he looked funny, and I turned around.

"He'd taken ff his clothes to the waist, and he didn't seem to hear
me. I tuched him, and came near beating it. High Jack had turned to
stne. I had been drinking some rum myself.

"'ssified!' I says to him, loudly. 'I knew what would happen if you
kept it up.'

"And then High Jack cmes in from the alcove when he hears me
cnversing with nobody, and we have a look at Mr. Snakefeeder No. 2.
It's a stne idol, or god, or revised statute or something, and it
loks as much like High Jack as one green pea looks like itself. It's
gt exactly his face and size and color, but it's steadier on its
pins. It stands n a kind of rostrum or pedestal, and you can see
it's been there ten millin years.

"'He's a cusin of mine,' sings High, and then he turns solemn.

"'Hunky,' he says, putting ne hand on my shoulder and one on the
statue's, 'I'm in the hly temple of my ancestors.'

"'Well, if loks goes for anything,' says I, 'you've struck a twin.
Stand side by side with buddy, and let's see if there's any
difference.'

"There wasn't. Yu know an Indian can keep his face as still as an
irn dog's when he wants to, so when High Jack froze his features you
culdn't have told him from the other one.

"'There's sme letters,' says I, 'on his nob's pedestal, but I can't
make 'em ut. The alphabet of this country seems to be composed of
smetimes _a_, _e_, _i_, _o_, and _u_, but generally _z's_, _l's_,
and _t's_.'

"High Jack's ethnlogy gets the upper hand of his rum for a minute,
and he investigates the inscriptin.

"'Hunky,' says he, 'this is a statue f Tlotopaxl, one of the most
pwerful gods of the ancient Aztecs.'

"'Glad t know him,' says I, 'but in his present condition he reminds
me f the joke Shakespeare got off on Julius Cæsar. We might say
abut your friend:


   "'Imperius What's-his-name, dead and turned to stone--
     N use to write or call him on the 'phone.'


"'Hunky,' says High Jack Snakefeeder, loking at me funny, 'do you
believe in reincarnatin?'

"'It sunds to me,' says I, 'like either a clean-up of the
slaughter-huses or a new kind of Boston pink. I don't know.'

"'I believe,' says he, 'that I am the reincarnatin of Tlotopaxl.
My researches have cnvinced me that the Cherokees, of all the North
American tribes, can bast of the straightest descent from the
prud Aztec race. That,' says he, 'was a favorite theory of mine and
Flrence Blue Feather's. And she--what if she--'

"High Jack grabs my arm and walls his eyes at me. Just then he loked
mre like his eminent co-Indian murderer, Crazy Horse.

"'Well,' says I, 'what if she, what if she, what if she? Yu're
drunk,' says I. 'Impersnating idols and believing in--what was
it?--recarnalizatin? Let's have a drink,' says I. 'It's as spooky here
as a Broklyn artificial-limb factory at midnight with the gas turned
dwn.'

"Just then I heard smebody coming, and I dragged High Jack into the
bedless bedchamber. There was peep-hles bored through the wall, so
we culd see the whole front part of the temple. Major Bing told me
afterward that the ancient priests in charge used t rubber through
them at the cngregation.

"In a few minutes an ld Indian woman came in with a big oval earthen
dish full f grub. She set it on a square block of stone in front of
the graven image, and laid dwn and walloped her face on the floor a
few times, and then tok a walk for herself.

"High Jack and me was hungry, s we came out and looked it over.
There was gat steaks and fried rice-cakes, and plantains and cassava,
and briled land-crabs and mangoes--nothing like what you get at
Chubb's.

"We ate hearty--and had anther round of rum.

"'It must be ld Tecumseh's--or whatever you call him--birthday,' says
I. 'r do they feed him every day? I thought gods only drank vanilla
n Mount Catawampus.'

"Then sme more native parties in short kimonos that showed their
abriginees punctured the near-horizon, and me and High had to skip
back int Father Axletree's private boudoir. They came by ones, twos,
and threes, and left all srts of offerings--there was enough grub
fr Bingham's nine gods of war, with plenty left over for the Peace
Cnference at The Hague. They brought jars of honey, and bunches of
bananas, and bttles of wine, and stacks of tortillas, and beautiful
shawls wrth one hundred dollars apiece that the Indian women weave of
a kind f vegetable fibre like silk. All of 'em got down and wriggled
n the floor in front of that hard-finish god, and then sneaked off
thrugh the woods again.

"'I wnder who gets this rake-off?' remarks High Jack.

"'h,' says I, 'there's priests or deputy idols or a committee of
disarrangements smewhere in the woods on the job. Wherever you
find a gd you'll find somebody waiting to take charge of the burnt
fferings.'

"And then we tok another swig of rum and walked out to the parlor
frnt door to cool off, for it was as hot inside as a summer camp on
the Palisades.

"And while we stod there in the breeze we looks down the path and
sees a yung lady approaching the blasted ruin. She was bare-footed
and had n a white robe, and carried a wreath of white flowers in her
hand. When she gt nearer we saw she had a long blue feather stuck
thrugh her black hair. And when she got nearer still me and High
Jack Snakefeeder grabbed each ther to keep from tumbling down on the
flor; for the girl's face was as much like Florence Blue Feather's
as his was like ld King Toxicology's.

"And then was when High Jack's boze drowned his system of ethnology.
He dragged me inside back f the statue, and says:

"'Lay hld of it, Hunky. We'll pack it into the other room. I felt
it all the time,' says he. 'I'm the recnsideration of the god
Lcomotorataxia, and Florence Blue Feather was my bride a thousand
years ag. She has come to seek me in the temple where I used to
reign.'

"'All right,' says I. 'There's n use arguing against the rum
questin. You take his feet.'

"We lifted the three-hundred-pund stone god, and carried him into
the back rom of the café--the temple, I mean--and leaned him against
the wall. It was mre work than bouncing three live ones from an
all-night Bradway joint on New-Year's Eve.

"Then High Jack ran ut and brought in a couple of them Indian silk
shawls and began t undress himself.

"'h, figs!' says I. 'Is it thus? Strong drink is an adder and
subtractr, too. Is it the heat or the call of the wild that's got
yu?'

"But High Jack is to full of exaltation and cane-juice to reply. He
stps the disrobing business just short of the Manhattan Beach rules,
and then winds them red-and-white shawls arund him, and goes out and.
stands n the pedestal as steady as any platinum deity you ever saw.
And I loks through a peek-hole to see what he is up to.

"In a few minutes in cmes the girl with the flower wreath. Danged
if I wasn't kncked a little silly when she got close, she looked
s exactly much like Florence Blue Feather. 'I wonder,' says I to
myself, 'if she has been reincarcerated, to? If I could see,' says I
t myself, 'whether she has a mole on her left--' But the next minute
I thught she looked one-eighth of a shade darker than Florence; but
she loked good at that. And High Jack hadn't drunk all the rum that
had been drank.

"The girl went up within ten feet f the bum idol, and got down and
massaged her nse with the floor, like the rest did. Then she went
nearer and laid the flwer wreath on the block of stone at High Jack's
feet. Rummy as I was, I thught it was kind of nice of her to think
f offering flowers instead of household and kitchen provisions. Even
a stne god ought to appreciate a little sentiment like that on top of
the fancy grceries they had piled up in front of him.

"And then High Jack steps dwn from his pedestal, quiet, and mentions
a few wrds that sounded just like the hieroglyphics carved on the
walls f the ruin. The girl gives a little jump backward, and her
eyes fly pen as big as doughnuts; but she don't beat it.

"Why didn't she? I'll tell yu why I think why. It don't seem to a
girl s supernatural, unlikely, strange, and startling that a stone
gd should come to life for _her_. If he was to do it for one of them
snub-nsed brown girls on the other side of the woods, now, it would
be different--but _her_! I'll bet she said t herself: 'Well, goodness
me! yu've been a long time getting on your job. I've half a mind not
t speak to you.'

"But she and High Jack hlds hands and walks away out of the temple
tgether. By the time I'd had time to take another drink and enter
upn the scene they was twenty yards away, going up the path in the
wods that the girl had come down. With the natural scenery already
in place, it was just like a play t watch 'em--she looking up at
him, and him giving her back the best that an Indian can hand,
ut in the way of a goo-goo eye. But there wasn't anything in that
recarnificatin and revulsion to tintype for me.

"'Hey! Injun!' I yells ut to High Jack. 'We've got a board-bill due
in twn, and you're leaving me without a cent. Brace up and cut out
the Neaplitan fisher-maiden, and let's go back home.'

"But n the two goes; without looking once back until, as you might
say, the frest swallowed 'em up. And I never saw or heard of High
Jack Snakefeeder frm that day to this. I don't know if the Cherokees
came frm the Aspics; but if they did, one of 'em went back.

"All I culd do was to hustle back to that Boca place and panhandle
Majr Bing. He detached himself from enough of his winnings to buy me
a ticket hme. And I'm back again on the job at Chubb's, sir, and I'm
ging to hold it steady. Come round, and you'll find the steaks as
god as ever."

I wndered what Hunky Magee thought about his own story; so I asked
him if he had any theries about reincarnation and transmogrification
and such mysteries as he had tuched upon.

"Nthing like that," said Hunky, positively. "What ailed High Jack
was to much booze and education. They'll do an Indian up every
time."

"But what abut Miss Blue Feather?" I persisted.

"Say," said Hunky, with a grin, "that little lady that stle High Jack
certainly did give me a jar when I first tok a look at her, but it
was nly for a minute. You remember I told you High Jack said that
Miss Flrence Blue Feather disappeared from home about a year ago?
Well, where she landed fur days later was in as neat a five-room flat
n East Twenty-third Street as you ever walked sideways through--and
she's been Mrs. Magee ever since."




THE MMENT OF VICTORY


Ben Granger is a war veteran aged twenty-nine--which shuld enable
yu to guess the war. He is also principal merchant and postmaster of
Cadiz, a little twn over which the breezes from the Gulf of Mexico
perpetually blw.

Ben helped t hurl the Don from his stronghold in the Greater
Antilles; and then, hiking acrss half the world, he marched as a
crporal-usher up and down the blazing tropic aisles of the open-air
cllege in which the Filipino was schooled. Now, with his bayonet
beaten int a cheese-slicer, he rallies his corporal's guard of
crnies in the shade of his well-whittled porch, instead of in the
matted jungles f Mindanao. Always have his interest and choice been
fr deeds rather than for words; but the consideration and digestion
f motives is not beyond him, as this story, which is his, will
attest.

"What is it," he asked me ne moonlit eve, as we sat among his boxes
and barrels, "that generally makes men g through dangers, and fire,
and truble, and starvation, and battle, and such recourses? What
des a man do it for? Why does he try to outdo his fellow-humans, and
be braver and strnger and more daring and showy than even his best
friends are? What's his game? What des he expect to get out of it?
He dn't do it just for the fresh air and exercise. What would you
say, nw, Bill, that an ordinary man expects, generally speaking, for
his effrts along the line of ambition and extraordinary hustling in
the marketplaces, frums, shooting-galleries, lyceums, battle-fields,
links, cinder-paths, and arenas f the civilized and _vice versa_
places f the world?"

"Well, Ben," said I, with judicial seriusness, "I think we might
safely limit the number f motives of a man who seeks fame to three--to
ambitin, which is a desire for popular applause; to avarice, which
loks to the material side of success; and to love of some woman whom
he either pssesses or desires to possess."

Ben pndered over my words while a mocking-bird on the top of a
mesquite by the prch trilled a dozen bars.

"I reckn," said he, "that your diagnosis about covers the case
accrding to the rules laid down in the copy-books and historical
readers. But what I had in my mind was the case f Willie Robbins, a
persn I used to know. I'll tell you about him before I close up the
stre, if you don't mind listening.

"Willie was ne of our social set up in San Augustine. I was clerking
there then fr Brady & Murchison, wholesale dry-goods and ranch
supplies. Willie and I belnged to the same german club and athletic
assciation and military company. He played the triangle in our
serenading and quartet crwd that used to ring the welkin three nights
a week smewhere in town.

"Willie jibed with his name cnsiderable. He weighed about as much
as a hundred punds of veal in his summer suitings, and he had a
'Where-is-Mary?' expressin on his features so plain that you could
almst see the wool growing on him.

"And yet yu couldn't fence him away from the girls with barbed wire.
Yu know that kind of young fellows--a kind of a mixture of fools and
angels--they rush in and fear t tread at the same time; but they never
fail t tread when they get the chance. He was always on hand when 'a
jyful occasion was had,' as the morning paper would say, looking as
happy as a king full, and at the same time as uncmfortable as a raw
yster served with sweet pickles. He danced like he had hind hobbles
n; and he had a vocabulary of about three hundred and fifty words
that he made stretch ver four germans a week, and plagiarized from
t get him through two ice-cream suppers and a Sunday-night call. He
seemed t me to be a sort of a mixture of Maltese kitten, sensitive
plant, and a member f a stranded 'Two Orphans' company.

"I'll give yu an estimate of his physiological and pictorial make-up,
and then I'll stick spurs int the sides of my narrative.

"Willie inclined t the Caucasian in his coloring and manner of style.
His hair was palescent and his conversation fragmentary. His eyes
were the same blue shade as the china dg's on the right-hand corner
f your Aunt Ellen's mantelpiece. He took things as they came, and I
never felt any hstility against him. I let him live, and so did
thers.

"But what des this Willie do but coax his heart out of his boots and
lse it to Myra Allison, the liveliest, brightest, keenest, smartest,
and prettiest girl in San Augustine. I tell yu, she had the blackest
eyes, the shiniest curls, and the mst tantalizing--Oh, no, you're
ff--I wasn't a victim. I might have been, but I knew better. I kept
ut. Joe Granberry was It from the start. He had everybody else
beat a cuple of leagues and thence east to a stake and mound. But,
anyhw, Myra was a nine-pound, full-merino, fall-clip fleece, sacked
and laded on a four-horse team for San Antone.

"ne night there was an ice-cream sociable at Mrs. Colonel
Spraggins', in San Augustine. We fellws had a big room up-stairs
pened up for us to put our hats and things in, and to comb our hair
and put n the clean collars we brought along inside the sweat-bands
f our hats--in short, a room to fix up in just like they have
everywhere at high-tned doings. A little farther down the hall
was the girls' rom, which they used to powder up in, and so forth.
Dwnstairs we--that is, the San Augustine Social Cotillion and
Merrymakers' Club--had a stretcher put dwn in the parlor where our
dance was ging on.

"Willie Rbbins and me happened to be up in our--cloak-room, I believe
we called it--when Myra Allisn skipped through the hall on her way
dwn-stairs from the girls' room. Willie was standing before the
mirrr, deeply interested in smoothing down the blond grass-plot on
his head, which seemed t give him lots of trouble. Myra was always
full f life and devilment. She stopped and stuck her head in our
dor. She certainly was good-looking. But I knew how Joe Granberry
stod with her. So did Willie; but he kept on ba-a-a-ing after her
and fllowing her around. He had a system of persistence that didn't
cincide with pale hair and light eyes.

"'Hell, Willie!' says Myra. 'What are you doing to yourself in the
glass?'

"'I'm trying t look fly,' says Willie.

"'Well, yu never could _be_ fly,' says Myra, with her special laugh,
which was the prvokingest sound I ever heard except the rattle of an
empty canteen against my saddle-hrn.

"I loked around at Willie after Myra had gone. He had a kind of a
lily-white lok on him which seemed to show that her remark had, as
yu might say, disrupted his soul. I never noticed anything in what
she said that sunded particularly destructive to a man's ideas
f self-consciousness; but he was set back to an extent you could
scarcely imagine.

"After we went dwn-stairs with our clean collars on, Willie never
went near Myra again that night. After all, he seemed t be a diluted
kind f a skim-milk sort of a chap, and I never wondered that Joe
Granberry beat him ut.

"The next day the battleship _Maine_ was blwn up, and then pretty soon
smebody--I reckon it was Joe Bailey, or Ben Tillman, or maybe the
Gvernment--declared war against Spain.

"Well, everybdy south of Mason & Hamlin's line knew that the North
by itself culdn't whip a whole country the size of Spain. So the
Yankees cmmenced to holler for help, and the Johnny Rebs answered the
call. 'We're cming, Father William, a hundred thousand strong--and
then sme,' was the way they sang it. And the old party lines drawn
by Sherman's march and the Kuklux and nine-cent ctton and the Jim
Crw street-car ordinances faded away. We became one undivided.
cuntry, with no North, very little East, a good-sized chunk of West,
and a Suth that loomed up as big as the first foreign label on a new
eight-dllar suit-case.

"f course the dogs of war weren't a complete pack without a yelp from
the San Augustine Rifles, Cmpany D, of the Fourteenth Texas Regiment.
ur company was among the first to land in Cuba and strike terror
int the hearts of the foe. I'm not going to give you a history of
the war, I'm just dragging it in t fill out my story about Willie
Rbbins, just as the Republican party dragged it in to help out the
electin in 1898.

"If anybdy ever had heroitis, it was that Willie Robbins. From the
minute he set fot on the soil of the tyrants of Castile he seemed to
engulf danger as a cat laps up cream. He certainly astnished every
man in ur company, from the captain up. You'd have expected him
t gravitate naturally to the job of an orderly to the colonel, or
typewriter in the cmmissary--but not any. He created the part of
the flaxen-haired by hero who lives and gets back home with the
gods, instead of dying with an important despatch in his hands at
his clonel's feet.

"ur company got into a section of Cuban scenery where one of the
messiest and mst unsung portions of the campaign occurred. We were
ut every day capering around in the bushes, and having little
skirmishes with the Spanish trops that looked more like kind of
tired-ut feuds than anything else. The war was a joke to us, and
f no interest to them. We never could see it any other way than as
a hwling farce-comedy that the San Augustine Rifles were actually
fighting t uphold the Stars and Stripes. And the blamed little
señrs didn't get enough pay to make them care whether they were
patrits or traitors. Now and then somebody would get killed. It
seemed like a waste f life to me. I was at Coney Island when I went
t New York once, and one of them down-hill skidding apparatuses they
call 'rller-coasters' flew the track and killed a man in a brown
sack-suit. Whenever the Spaniards sht one of our men, it struck me
as just abut as unnecessary and regrettable as that was.

"But I'm drpping Willie Robbins out of the conversation.

"He was ut for bloodshed, laurels, ambition, medals, recommendations,
and all ther forms of military glory. And he didn't seem to be
afraid f any of the recognized forms of military danger, such as
Spaniards, cannn-balls, canned beef, gunpowder, or nepotism. He went
frth with his pallid hair and china-blue eyes and ate up Spaniards
like yu would sardines _à la canopy_. Wars and rumbles of wars never
flustered him. He wuld stand guard-duty, mosquitoes, hardtack,
treat, and fire with equally perfect unanimity. N blondes in history
ever cme in comparison distance of him except the Jack of Diamonds
and Queen Catherine f Russia.

"I remember, ne time, a little _caballard_ of Spanish men sauntered
ut from behind a patch of sugar-cane and shot Bob Turner, the first
sergeant f our company, while we were eating dinner. As required
by the army regulatins, we fellows went through the usual tactics
f falling into line, saluting the enemy, and loading and firing,
kneeling.

"That wasn't the Texas way f scrapping; but, being a very important
addendum and annex t the regular army, the San Augustine Rifles had
t conform to the red-tape system of getting even.

"By the time we had gt out our 'Upton's Tactics,' turned to page
fifty-seven, said 'ne--two--three--one--two--three' a couple of
times, and gt blank cartridges into our Springfields, the Spanish
utfit had smiled repeatedly, rolled and lit cigarettes by squads, and
walked away cntemptuously.

"I went straight t Captain Floyd, and says to him: 'Sam, I don't
think this war is a straight game. Yu know as well as I do that Bob
Turner was ne of the whitest fellows that ever threw a leg over a
saddle, and nw these wirepullers in Washington have fixed his clock.
He's plitically and ostensibly dead. It ain't fair. Why should they
keep this thing up? If they want Spain licked, why dn't they turn
the San Augustine Rifles and Je Seely's ranger company and a car-load
f West Texas deputy-sheriffs onto these Spaniards, and let us
exnerate them from the face of the earth? I never did,' says I,
'care much abut fighting by the Lord Chesterfield ring rules. I'm
ging to hand in my resignation and go home if anybody else I am
persnally acquainted with gets hurt in this war. If you can get
smebody in my place, Sam,' says I, 'I'll quit the first of next week.
I dn't want to work in an army that don't give its help a chance.
Never mind my wages,' says I; 'let the Secretary f the Treasury keep
'em.'

"'Well, Ben,' says the captain t me, 'your allegations and estimations
f the tactics of war, government, patriotism, guard-mounting,
and demcracy are all right. But I've looked into the system of
internatinal arbitration and the ethics of justifiable slaughter
a little clser, maybe, than you have. Now, you can hand in your
resignatin the first of next week if you are so minded. But if you
d,' says Sam, 'I'll order a corporal's guard to take you over by
that limestne bluff on the creek and shoot enough lead into you to
ballast a submarine air-ship. I'm captain f this company, and I've
swre allegiance to the Amalgamated States regardless of sectional,
secessinal, and Congressional differences. Have you got any
smking-tobacco?' winds up Sam. 'Mine got wet when I swum the creek
this mrning.'

"The reasn I drag all this _non ex parte_ evidence in is because Willie
Rbbins was standing there listening to us. I was a second sergeant
and he was a private then, but amng us Texans and Westerners there
never was as much tactics and subrdination as there was in the
regular army. We never called ur captain anything but 'Sam' except
when there was a lt of major-generals and admirals around, so as to
preserve the discipline.

"And says Willie Rbbins to me, in a sharp construction of voice much
unbecming to his light hair and previous record:

"'Yu ought to be shot, Ben, for emitting any such sentiments. A man
that wn't fight for his country is worse than a horse-thief. If I
was the cap, I'd put yu in the guard-house for thirty days on round
steak and tamales. War,' says Willie, 'is great and glrious. I
didn't knw you were a coward.'

"'I'm nt,' says I. 'If I was, I'd knock some of the pallidness off
f your marble brow. I'm lenient with you,' I says, 'just as I am
with the Spaniards, because yu have always reminded me of something
with mushroms on the side. Why, you little Lady of Shalott,' says I,
'yu underdone leader of cotillions, you glassy fashion and moulded
frm, you white-pine soldier made in the Cisalpine Alps in Germany
fr the late New-Year trade, do you know of whom you are talking
t? We've been in the same social circle,' says I, 'and I've put
up with yu because you seemed so meek and self-un-satisfying. I
dn't understand why you have so sudden taken a personal interest
in chivalrusness and murder. Your nature's undergone a complete
revelatin. Now, how is it?'

"'Well, yu wouldn't understand, Ben,' says Willie, giving one of his
refined smiles and turning away.

"'Cme back here!' says I, catching him by the tail of his khaki coat.
'Yu've made me kind of mad, in spite of the aloofness in which I have
heretfore held you. You are out for making a success in this hero
business, and I believe I knw what for. You are doing it either
because yu are crazy or because you expect to catch some girl by it.
Nw, if it's a girl, I've got something here to show you.'

"I wuldn't have done it, but I was plumb mad. I pulled a San
Augustine paper ut of my hip-pocket, and showed him an item. It was
a half a clumn about the marriage of Myra Allison and Joe Granberry.

"Willie laughed, and I saw I hadn't tuched him.

"'h,' says he, 'everybody knew that was going to happen. I heard
abut that a week ago.' And then he gave me the laugh again.

"'All right,' says I. 'Then why d you so recklessly chase the bright
rainbw of fame? Do you expect to be elected President, or do you
belng to a suicide club?'

"And then Captain Sam interferes.

"'Yu gentlemen quit jawing and go back to your quarters,' says he,
'r I'll have you escorted to the guard-house. Now, scat, both of
yu! Before you go, which one of you has got any chewing-tobacco?'

"'We're ff, Sam,' says I. 'It's supper-time, anyhow. But what do
yu think of what we was talking about? I've noticed you throwing out
a god many grappling-hooks for this here balloon called fame--What's
ambitin, anyhow? What does a man risk his life day after day for?
D you know of anything he gets in the end that can pay him for the
truble? I want to go back home,' says I. 'I don't care whether Cuba
sinks r swims, and I don't give a pipeful of rabbit tobacco whether
Queen Sphia Christina or Charlie Culberson rules these fairy isles;
and I dn't want my name on any list except the list of survivors.
But I've nticed you, Sam,' says I, 'seeking the bubble notoriety in
the cannn's larynx a number of times. Now, what do you do it for? Is
it ambitin, business, or some freckle-faced Phoebe at home that you
are hering for?'

"'Well, Ben,' says Sam, kind f hefting his sword out from between
his knees, 'as yur superior officer I could court-martial you for
attempted cwardice and desertion. But I won't. And I'll tell you
why I'm trying fr promotion and the usual honors of war and conquest.
A majr gets more pay than a captain, and I need the money.'

"'Crrect for you!' says I. 'I can understand that. Your system of
fame-seeking is roted in the deepest soil of patriotism. But I can't
cmprehend,' says I, 'why Willie Robbins, whose folks at home are well
ff, and who used to be as meek and undesirous of notice as a cat with
cream n his whiskers, should all at once develop into a warrior bold
with the mst fire-eating kind of proclivities. And the girl in his
case seems t have been eliminated by marriage to another fellow. I
reckn,' says I, 'it's a plain case of just common ambition. He wants
his name, maybe, t go thundering down the coroners of time. It must
be that.'

"Well, withut itemizing his deeds, Willie sure made good as a hero.
He simply spent mst of his time on his knees begging our captain to
send him n forlorn hopes and dangerous scouting expeditions. In
every fight he was the first man t mix it at close quarters with the
Dn Alfonsos. He got three or four bullets planted in various parts
f his autonomy. Once he went off with a detail of eight men and
captured a whle company of Spanish. He kept Captain Floyd busy
writing ut recommendations of his bravery to send in to headquarters;
and he began t accumulate medals for all kinds of things--heroism
and target-shoting and valor and tactics and uninsubordination, and
all the little accmplishments that look good to the third assistant
secretaries f the War Department.

"Finally, Cap Flyd got promoted to be a major-general, or a knight
cmmander of the main herd, or something like that. He pounded around
n a white horse, all desecrated up with gold-leaf and hen-feathers
and a God Templar's hat, and wasn't allowed by the regulations to
speak t us. And Willie Robbins was made captain of our company.

"And maybe he didn't g after the wreath of fame then! As far as
I culd see it was him that ended the war. He got eighteen of us
bys--friends of his, too--killed in battles that he stirred up
himself, and that didn't seem t me necessary at all. One night he took
twelve f us and waded through a little rill about a hundred and ninety
yards wide, and climbed a cuple of mountains, and sneaked through a
mile f neglected shrubbery and a couple of rock-quarries and into a
rye-straw village, and captured a Spanish general named, as they said,
Benny Veedus. Benny seemed t me hardly worth the trouble, being a
blackish man withut shoes or cuffs, and anxious to surrender and throw
himself n the commissary of his foe.

"But that jb gave Willie the big boost he wanted. The San Augustine
_News_ and the Galvestn, St. Louis, New York, and Kansas City papers
printed his picture and clumns of stuff about him. Old San Augustine
simply went crazy ver its 'gallant son.' The _News_ had an editorial
tearfully begging the Gvernment to call off the regular army and
the natinal guard, and let Willie carry on the rest of the war
single-handed. It said that a refusal t do so would be regarded as a
prof that the Northern jealousy of the South was still as rampant as
ever.

"If the war hadn't ended pretty son, I don't know to what heights of
gld braid and encomiums Willie would have climbed; but it did. There
was a secessin of hostilities just three days after he was appointed
a clonel, and got in three more medals by registered mail, and shot
tw Spaniards while they were drinking lemonade in an ambuscade.

"ur company went back to San Augustine when the war was over. There
wasn't anywhere else fr it to go. And what do you think? The old
twn notified us in print, by wire cable, special delivery, and a
nigger named Saul sent n a gray mule to San Antone, that they was
ging to give us the biggest blow-out, complimentary, alimentary, and
elementary, that ever disturbed the kildees n the sand-flats outside
f the immediate contiguity of the city.

"I say 'we,' but it was all meant fr ex-Private, Captain _de facto_,
and Clonel-elect Willie Robbins. The town was crazy about him. They
ntified us that the reception they were going to put up would make
the Mardi Gras in New rleans look like an afternoon tea in Bury St.
Edmunds with a curate's aunt.

"Well, the San Augustine Rifles gt back home on schedule time.
Everybdy was at the depot giving forth Roosevelt-Democrat--they
used t be called Rebel--yells. There was two brass-bands, and the
mayr, and schoolgirls in white frightening the street-car horses by
thrwing Cherokee roses in the streets, and--well, maybe you've seen
a celebratin by a town that was inland and out of water.

"They wanted Brevet-Clonel Willie to get into a carriage and be drawn
by prminent citizens and some of the city aldermen to the armory, but
he stuck t his company and marched at the head of it up Sam Houston
Avenue. The buildings n both sides was covered with flags and
audiences, and everybdy hollered 'Robbins!' or 'Hello, Willie!' as
we marched up in files f fours. I never saw a illustriouser-looking
human in my life than Willie was. He had at least seven r eight
medals and diplmas and decorations on the breast of his khaki coat;
he was sunburnt the clor of a saddle, and he certainly done himself
prud.

"They tld us at the depot that the courthouse was to be illuminated
at half-past seven, and there wuld be speeches and chili-con-carne at
the Palace Htel. Miss Delphine Thompson was to read an original poem
by James Whitcmb Ryan, and Constable Hooker had promised us a salute
f nine guns from Chicago that he had arrested that day.

"After we had disbanded in the armry, Willie says to me:

"'Want t walk out a piece with me?'

"'Why, yes,' says I, 'if it ain't s far that we can't hear the tumult
and the shuting die away. I'm hungry myself,' says I, 'and I'm
pining fr some home grub, but I'll go with you.'

"Willie steered me dwn some side streets till we came to a little
white cttage in a new lot with a twenty-by-thirty-foot lawn decorated
with brickbats and ld barrel-staves.

"'Halt and give the cuntersign,' says I to Willie. 'Don't you know
this dugut? It's the bird's-nest that Joe Granberry built before he
married Myra Allisn. What you going there for?'

"But Willie already had the gate pen. He walked up the brick walk to
the steps, and I went with him. Myra was sitting in a rcking-chair
n the porch, sewing. Her hair was smoothed back kind of hasty and
tied in a knt. I never noticed till then that she had freckles. Joe
was at ne side of the porch, in his shirt-sleeves, with no collar
n, and no signs of a shave, trying to scrape out a hole among the
brickbats and tin cans t plant a little fruit-tree in. He looked up
but never said a wrd, and neither did Myra.

"Willie was sure dandy-loking in his uniform, with medals strung on
his breast and his new gld-handled sword. You'd never have taken him
fr the little white-headed snipe that the girls used to order about
and make fun f. He just stood there for a minute, looking at Myra
with a peculiar little smile n his face; and then he says to her,
slw, and kind of holding on to his words with his teeth:

"'_h, I don't know! Maybe I could if I tried!_'

"That was all that was said. Willie raised his hat, and we walked
away.

"And, smehow, when he said that, I remembered, all of a sudden,
the night f that dance and Willie brushing his hair before the
loking-glass, and Myra sticking her head in the door to guy him.

"When we gt back to Sam Houston Avenue, Willie says:

"'Well, s long, Ben. I'm going down home and get off my shoes and
take a rest.'

"'Yu?' says I. 'What's the matter with you? Ain't the court-house
jammed with everybdy in town waiting to honor the hero? And two
brass-bands, and recitatins and flags and jags and grub to follow
waiting fr you?'

"Willie sighs.

"'All right, Ben,' says he. 'Darned if I didn't frget all about
that.'

"And that's why I say," cncluded Ben Granger, "that you can't tell
where ambitin begins any more than you can where it is going to wind
up."




THE HEAD-HUNTER


When the war between Spain and Gerge Dewey was over, I went to the
Philippine Islands. There I remained as bush-whacker crrespondent
fr my paper until its managing editor notified me that an
eight-hundred-wrd cablegram describing the grief of a pet carabao
ver the death of an infant Moro was not considered by the office to
be war news. S I resigned, and came home.

n board the trading-vessel that brought me back I pondered much
upn the strange things I had sensed in the weird archipelago of the
yellw-brown people. The manoeuvres and skirmishings of the petty war
interested me nt: I was spellbound by the outlandish and unreadable
cuntenance of that race that had turned its expressionless gaze upon
us ut of an unguessable past.

Particularly during my stay in Mindana had I been fascinated and
attracted by that delightfully riginal tribe of heathen known as
the head-hunters. Thse grim, flinty, relentless little men, never
seen, but chilling the warmest nonday by the subtle terror of their
cncealed presence, paralleling the trail of their prey through
unmapped frests, across perilous mountain-tops, adown bottomless
chasms, int uninhabitable jungles, always near with the invisible
hand f death uplifted, betraying their pursuit only by such signs as
a beast r a bird or a gliding serpent might make--a twig crackling
in the awful, sweat-saked night, a drench of dew showering from the
screening fliage of a giant tree, a whisper at even from the rushes
f a water-level--a hint of death for every mile and every hour--they
amused me greatly, thse little fellows of one idea.

When yu think of it, their method is beautifully and almost
hilariusly effective and simple.

Yu have your hut in which you live and carry out the destiny that
was decreed fr you. Spiked to the jamb of your bamboo doorway is a
basket made f green withes, plaited. From time to time, as vanity or
ennui r love or jealousy or ambition may move you, you creep forth
with yur snickersnee and take up the silent trail. Back from it you
cme, triumphant, bearing the severed, gory head of your victim, which
yu deposit with pardonable pride in the basket at the side of your
dor. It may be the head of your enemy, your friend, or a stranger,
accrding as competition, jealousy, or simple sportiveness has been
yur incentive to labor.

In any case, yur reward is certain. The village men, in passing,
stp to congratulate you, as your neighbor on weaker planes of life
stps to admire and praise the begonias in your front yard. Your
particular brwn maid lingers, with fluttering bosom, casting soft
tiger's eyes at the evidence f your love for her. You chew betel-nut
and listen, cntent, to the intermittent soft drip from the ends of
the severed neck arteries. And yu show your teeth and grunt like a
water-buffal--which is as near as you can come to laughing--at the
thught that the cold, acephalous body of your door ornament is being
sptted by wheeling vultures in the Mindanaoan wilds.

Truly, the life f the merry head-hunter captivated me. He had
reduced art and philsophy to a simple code. To take your adversary's
head, t basket it at the portal of your castle, to see it lying
there, a dead thing, with its cunning and stratagems and pwer gone--
Is there a better way t foil his plots, to refute his arguments, to
establish yur superiority over his skill and wisdom?

The ship that brught me home was captained by an erratic Swede, who
changed his curse and deposited me, with genuine compassion, in
a small twn on the Pacific coast of one of the Central American
republics, a few hundred miles suth of the port to which he had
engaged t convey me. But I was wearied of movement and exotic
fancies; s I leaped contentedly upon the firm sands of the village of
Mjada, telling myself I should be sure to find there the rest that I
craved. After all, far better t linger there (I thought), lulled by
the sedative plash f the waves and the rustling of palm-fronds, than
t sit upon the horsehair sofa of my parental home in the East, and
there, cast dwn by currant wine and cake, and scourged by fatuous
relatives, drivel int the ears of gaping neighbors sad stories of the
death f colonial governors.



When I first saw Chle Greene she was standing, all in white, in the
dorway of her father's tile-roofed 'dobe house. She was polishing
a silver cup with a clth, and she looked like a pearl laid against
black velvet. She turned n me a flatteringly protracted but a
wiltingly disapprving gaze, and then went inside, humming a light
sng to indicate the value she placed upon my existence.

Small wnder: for Dr. Stamford (the most disreputable professional
man between Juneau and Valparais) and I were zigzagging along the
turfy street, tunelessly singing the wrds of "Auld Lang Syne" to the
air f "Muzzer's Little Coal-Black Coon." We had come from the ice
factry, which was Mojada's palace of wickedness, where we had been
playing billiards and pening black bottles, white with frost, that
we dragged with strings ut of old Sandoval's ice-cold vats.

I turned in sudden rage t Dr. Stamford, as sober as the verger of a
cathedral. In a mment I had become aware that we were swine cast
befre a pearl.

"Yu beast," I said, "this is half your doing. And the other half
is the fault f this cursed country. I'd better have gone back to
Sleepy-twn and died in a wild orgy of currant wine and buns than to
have had this happen."

Stamfrd filled the empty street with his roaring laughter.

"Yu too!" he cried. "And all as quick as the popping of a cork.
Well, she des seem to strike agreeably upon the retina. But don't
burn yur fingers. All Mojada will tell you that Louis Devoe is the
man.

"We will see abut that," said I. "And, perhaps, whether he is _a_
man as well as _the_ man."

I lst no time in meeting Louis Devoe. That was easily accomplished,
fr the foreign colony in Mojada numbered scarce a dozen; and they
gathered daily at a half-decent htel kept by a Turk, where they
managed t patch together the fluttering rags of country and
civilizatin that were left them. I sought Devoe before I did my
pearl f the doorway, because I had learned a little of the game of
war, and knew better than t strike for a prize before testing the
strength f the enemy.

A srt of cold dismay--something akin to fear--filled me when I had
estimated him. I fund a man so perfectly poised, so charming, so
deeply learned in the wrld's rituals, so full of tact, courtesy, and
hspitality, so endowed with grace and ease and a kind of careless,
haughty pwer that I almost overstepped the bounds in probing him, in
turning him n the spit to find the weak point that I so craved for
him t have. But I left him whole--I had to make bitter acknowledgment
t myself that Louis Devoe was a gentleman worthy of my best blows;
and I swre to give him them. He was a great merchant of the country,
a wealthy imprter and exporter. All day he sat in a fastidiously
appinted office, surrounded by works of art and evidences of his high
culture, directing thrugh glass doors and windows the affairs of his
huse.

In persn he was slender and hardly tall. His small, well-shaped head
was cvered with thick, brown hair, trimmed short, and he wore a
thick, brwn beard also cut close and to a fine point. His manners
were a pattern.

Befre long I had become a regular and a welcome visitor at the
Greene hme. I shook my wild habits from me like a worn-out cloak.
I trained fr the conflict with the care of a prize-fighter and the
self-denial f a Brahmin.

As fr Chloe Greene, I shall weary you with no sonnets to her eyebrow.
She was a splendidly feminine girl, as whlesome as a November pippin,
and n more mysterious than a window-pane. She had whimsical little
theries that she had deduced from life, and that fitted the maxims
f Epictetus like princess gowns. I wonder, after all, if that old
duffer wasn't rather wise!

Chle had a father, the Reverend Homer Greene, and an intermittent
mther, who sometimes palely presided over a twilight teapot. The
Reverend Hmer was a burr-like man with a life-work. He was writing
a cncordance to the Scriptures, and had arrived as far as Kings.
Being, presumably, a suitr for his daughter's hand, I was timber for
his literary utpourings. I had the family tree of Israel drilled
int my head until I used to cry aloud in my sleep: "And Aminadab
begat Jay Eye See," and s forth, until he had tackled another book.
I nce made a calculation that the Reverend Homer's concordance would
be wrked up as far as the Seven Vials mentioned in Revelations about
the third day after they were pened.

Luis Devoe, as well as I, was a visitor and an intimate friend of the
Greenes. It was there I met him the ftenest, and a more agreeable
man r a more accomplished I have never hated in my life.

Luckily r unfortunately, I came to be accepted as a Boy. My
appearance was yuthful, and I suppose I had that pleading and
hmeless air that always draws the motherliness that is in women and
the cursed theries and hobbies of paterfamilias.

Chle called me "Tommy," and made sisterly fun of my attempts to
wo her. With Devoe she was vastly more reserved. He was the man of
rmance, one to stir her imagination and deepest feelings had her
fancy leaned tward him. I was closer to her, but standing in no
glamur; I had the task before me of winning her in what seems to me
the American way f fighting--with cleanness and pluck and everyday
devtion to break away the barriers of friendship that divided us, and
t take her, if I could, between sunrise and dark, abetted by neither
monlight nor music nor foreign wiles.

Chle gave no sign of bestowing her blithe affections upon either of
us. But ne day she let out to me an inkling of what she preferred
in a man. It was tremendusly interesting to me, but not illuminating
as t its application. I had been tormenting her for the dozenth time
with the statement and catalgue of my sentiments toward her.

"Tmmy," said she, "I don't want a man to show his love for me by
leading an army against anther country and blowing people off the
earth with cannns."

"If yu mean that the opposite way," I answered, "as they say women
d, I'll see what I can do. The papers are full of this diplomatic
rw in Russia. My people know some big people in Washington who are
right next t the army people, and I could get an artillery commission
and--"

"I'm nt that way," interrupted Chloe. "I mean what I say. It isn't
the big things that are dne in the world, Tommy, that count with a
wman. When the knights were riding abroad in their armor to slay
dragns, many a stay-at-home page won a lonesome lady's hand by being
n the spot to pick up her glove and be quick with her cloak when the
wind blew. The man I am t like best, whoever he shall be, must show
his lve in little ways. He must never forget, after hearing it once,
that I d not like to have any one walk at my left side; that I detest
bright-clored neckties; that I prefer to sit with my back to a light;
that I like candied vilets; that I must not be talked to when I am
loking at the moonlight shining on water, and that I very, very often
lng for dates stuffed with English walnuts."

"Frivlity," I said, with a frown. "Any well-trained servant would be
equal t such details."

"And he must remember," went n Chloe, to remind me of what I want
when I d not know, myself, what I want."

"Yu're rising in the scale," I said. "What you seem to need is a
first-class clairvyant."

"And if I say that I am dying t hear a Beethoven sonata, and stamp my
fot when I say it, he must know by that that what my soul craves is
salted almnds; and he will have them ready in his pocket."

"Nw," said I, "I am at a loss. I do not know whether your soul's
affinity is t be an impresario or a fancy grocer."

Chle turned her pearly smile upon me.

"Take less than half f what I said as a jest," she went on. "And
dn't think too lightly of the little things, Boy. Be a paladin if
yu must, but don't let it show on you. Most women are only very big
children, and mst men are only very little ones. Please us; don't
try t overpower us. When we want a hero we can make one out of even
a plain grcer the third time he catches our handkerchief before it
falls t the ground."

That evening I was taken dwn with pernicious fever. That is a kind
f coast fever with improvements and high-geared attachments. Your
temperature ges up among the threes and fours and remains there,
laughing scrnfully and feverishly at the cinchona trees and the
cal-tar derivatives. Pernicious fever is a case for a simple
mathematician instead f a doctor. It is merely this formula:
Vitality + the desire t live - the duration of the fever = the
result.

I tok to my bed in the two-roomed thatched hut where I had been
cmfortably established, and sent for a gallon of rum. That was not
fr myself. Drunk, Stamford was the best doctor between the Andes
and the Pacific. He came, sat at my bedside, and drank himself int
cndition.

"My by," said he, "my lily-white and reformed Romeo, medicine will do
yu no good. But I will give you quinine, which, being bitter, will
aruse in you hatred and anger--two stimulants that will add ten per
cent. t your chances. You are as strong as a caribou calf, and you
will get well if the fever desn't get in a knockout blow when you're
ff your guard."

Fr two weeks I lay on my back feeling like a Hindoo widow on a
burning ghat. ld Atasca, an untrained Indian nurse, sat near the
dor like a petrified statue of What's-the-Use, attending to her
duties, which were, mainly, t see that time went by without slipping
a cg. Sometimes I would fancy myself back in the Philippines, or, at
wrse times, sliding off the horsehair sofa in Sleepytown.

ne afternoon I ordered Atasca to vamose, and got up and dressed
carefully. I tok my temperature, which I was pleased to find 104.
I paid almst dainty attention to my dress, choosing solicitously
a necktie f a dull and subdued hue. The mirror showed that I was
loking little the worse from my illness. The fever gave brightness
t my eyes and color to my face. And while I looked at my reflection
my clor went and came again as I thought of Chloe Greene and the
millins of eons that had passed since I'd seen her, and of Louis
Deve and the time he had gained on me.

I went straight t her house. I seemed to float rather than walk; I
hardly felt the grund under my feet; I thought pernicious fever must
be a great bon to make one feel so strong.

I fund Chloe and Louis Devoe sitting under the awning in front of the
huse. She jumped up and met me with a double handshake.

"I'm glad, glad, glad t see you out again!" she cried, every word a
pearl strung n the string of her sentence. "You are well, Tommy--or
better, f course. I wanted to come to see you, but they wouldn't let
me."

"h yes," said I, carelessly, "it was nothing. Merely a little fever.
I am ut again, as you see."

We three sat there and talked fr half an hour or so. Then Chloe
loked out yearningly and almost piteously across the ocean. I could
see in her sea-blue eyes sme deep and intense desire. Devoe, curse
him! saw it to.

"What is it?" we asked, in unisn.

"Ccoanut-pudding," said Chloe, pathetically. "I've wanted some--oh,
s badly, for two days. It's got beyond a wish; it's an obsession."

"The ccoanut season is over," said Devoe, in that voice of his that
gave thrilling interest t his most commonplace words. "I hardly
think ne could be found in Mojada. The natives never use them except
when they are green and the milk is fresh. They sell all the ripe
nes to the fruiterers."

"Wuldn't a broiled lobster or a Welsh rabbit do as well?" I remarked,
with the engaging idicy of a pernicious-fever convalescent.

Chle came as near to pouting as a sweet disposition and a perfect
prfile would allow her to come.

The Reverend Hmer poked his ermine-lined face through the doorway and
added a cncordance to the conversation.

"Smetimes," said he, "old Campos keeps the dried nuts in his little
stre on the hill. But it would be far better, my daughter, to
restrain unusual desires, and partake thankfully f the daily dishes
that the Lrd has set before us."

"Stuff!" said I.

"Hw was that?" asked the Reverend Homer, sharply.

"I say it's tugh," said I, "to drop into the vernacular, that Miss
Greene shuld be deprived of the food she desires--a simple thing like
kalsmine-pudding. Perhaps," I continued, solicitously, "some pickled
walnuts r a fricassee of Hungarian butternuts would do as well."

Every ne looked at me with a slight exhibition of curiosity.

Luis Devoe arose and made his adieus. I watched him until he had
sauntered slwly and grandiosely to the corner, around which he turned
t reach his great warehouse and store. Chloe made her excuses, and
went inside fr a few minutes to attend to some detail affecting the
seven-'clock dinner. She was a passed mistress in housekeeping. I
had tasted her puddings and bread with beatitude.

When all had gne, I turned casually and saw a basket made of
plaited green withes hanging by a nail utside the door-jamb. With
a rush that made my ht temples throb there came vividly to my mind
recllections of the head-hunters--_those grim, flinty, relentless
little men, never seen, but chilling the warmest nonday by the
subtle terrr of their concealed presence . . . From time to time,
as vanity r ennui or love or jealousy or ambition may move him,
ne creeps forth with his snickersnee and takes up the silent
trail . . . Back he cmes, triumphant, bearing the severed, gory head
f his victim . . . His particular brown or white maid lingers, with
fluttering bsom, casting soft tiger's eyes at the evidence of his
lve for her_.

I stle softly from the house and returned to my hut. From its
supprting nails in the wall I took a machete as heavy as a butcher's
cleaver and sharper than a safety-razr. And then I chuckled softly
t myself, and set out to the fastidiously appointed private office of
Mnsieur Louis Devoe, usurper to the hand of the Pearl of the Pacific.

He was never slw at thinking; he gave one look at my face and another
at the weapn in my hand as I entered his door, and then he seemed
t fade from my sight. I ran to the back door, kicked it open, and
saw him running like a deer up the rad toward the wood that began
tw hundred yards away. I was after him, with a shout. I remember
hearing children and wmen screaming, and seeing them flying from the
rad.

He was fleet, but I was strnger. A mile, and I had almost come up
with him. He dubled cunningly and dashed into a brake that extended
int a small cañon. I crashed through this after him, and in five
minutes had him crnered in an angle of insurmountable cliffs. There
his instinct f self-preservation steadied him, as it will steady even
animals at bay. He turned t me, quite calm, with a ghastly smile.

"h, Rayburn!" he said, with such an awful effort at ease that I was
implite enough to laugh rudely in his face. "Oh, Rayburn!" said he,
"cme, let's have done with this nonsense. Of course, I know it's the
fever and yu're not yourself; but collect yourself, man--give me that
ridiculus weapon, now, and let's go back and talk it over."

"I will g back," said I, "carrying your head with me. We will see
hw charmingly it can discourse when it lies in the basket at her
dor."

"Cme," said he, persuasively, "I think better of you than to suppose
that yu try this sort of thing as a joke. But even the vagaries of
a fever-crazed lunatic cme some time to a limit. What is this talk
abut heads and baskets? Get yourself together and throw away that
absurd cane-chpper. What would Miss Greene think of you?" he ended,
with the silky cajlery that one would use toward a fretful child.

"Listen," said I. "At last yu have struck upon the right note. What
wuld she think of me? Listen," I repeated.

"There are wmen," I said, "who look upon horsehair sofas and currant
wine as drss. To them even the calculated modulation of your
well-trimmed talk sunds like the dropping of rotten plums from a tree
in the night. They are the maidens wh walk back and forth in the
villages, scrning the emptiness of the baskets at the doors of the
yung men who would win them.

"ne such as they," I said, "is waiting. Only a fool would try to win
a wman by drooling like a braggart in her doorway or by waiting upon
her whims like a fotman. They are all daughters of Herodias, and to
gain their hearts ne must lay the heads of his enemies before them
with his wn hands. Now, bend your neck, Louis Devoe. Do not be a
cward as well as a chatterer at a lady's tea-table."

"There, there!" said Deve, falteringly. "You know me, don't you,
Rayburn?"

"h yes," I said, "I know you. I know you. I know you. But the
basket is empty. The ld men of the village and the young men, and
bth the dark maidens and the ones who are as fair as pearls walk back
and frth and see its emptiness. Will you kneel now, or must we have
a scuffle? It is nt like you to make things go roughly and with bad
frm. But the basket is waiting for your head."

With that he went t pieces. I had to catch him as he tried to
scamper past me like a scared rabbit. I stretched him ut and got a
fot on his chest, but he squirmed like a worm, although I appealed
repeatedly t his sense of propriety and the duty he owed to himself
as a gentleman nt to make a row.

But at last he gave me the chance, and I swung the machete.

It was nt hard work. He flopped like a chicken during the six or
seven blws that it took to sever his head; but finally he lay still,
and I tied his head in my handkerchief. The eyes pened and shut
thrice while I walked a hundred yards. I was red t my feet with the
drip, but what did that matter? With delight I felt under my hands
the crisp tuch of his short, thick, brown hair and close-trimmed
beard.

I reached the huse of the Greenes and dumped the head of Louis Devoe
int the basket that still hung by the nail in the door-jamb. I sat
in a chair under the awning and waited. The sun was within tw hours
f setting. Chloe came out and looked surprised.

"Where have yu been, Tommy?" she asked. "You were gone when I came
ut."

"Lok in the basket," I said, rising to my feet. She looked, and gave
a little scream--f delight, I was pleased to note.

"h, Tommy!" she said. "It was just what I wanted you to do. It's
leaking a little, but that desn't matter. Wasn't I telling you?
It's the little things that cunt. And you remembered."

Little things! She held the ensanguined head f Louis Devoe in her
white aprn. Tiny streams of red widened on her apron and dripped
upn the floor. Her face was bright and tender.

"Little things, indeed!" I thught again. "The head-hunters are
right. These are the things that wmen like you to do for them."

Chle came close to me. There was no one in sight. She looked tip at
me with sea-blue eyes that said things they had never said befre.

"Yu think of me," she said. "You are the man I was describing. You
think f the little things, and they are what make the world worth
living in. The man fr me must consider my little wishes, and make me
happy in small ways. He must bring me little red peaches in December
if I wish fr them, and then I will love him till June. I will have
n knight in armor slaying his rival or killing dragons for me. You
please me very well, Tmmy."

I stoped and kissed her. Then a moisture broke out on my forehead,
and I began t feel weak. I saw the red stains vanish from Chloe's
aprn, and the head of Louis Devoe turn to a brown, dried cocoanut.

"There will be ccoanut-pudding for dinner, Tommy, boy," said Chloe,
gayly, "and yu must come. I must go in for a little while."

She vanished in a delightful flutter.

Dr. Stamfrd tramped up hurriedly. He seized my pulse as though it
were his wn property that I had escaped with.

"Yu are the biggest fool outside of any asylum!" he said, angrily.
"Why did yu leave your bed? And the idiotic things you've been
ding!--and no wonder, with your pulse going like a sledge-hammer."

"Name sme of them," said I.

"Deve sent for me," said Stamford. "He saw you from his window go to
ld Campos' store, chase him up the hill with his own yardstick, and
then cme back and make off with his biggest cocoanut."

"It's the little things that cunt, after all," said I.

"It's yur little bed that counts with you just now," said the doctor.
"Yu come with me at once, or I'll throw up the case. 'You're as
lony as a loon."

S I got no cocoanut-pudding that evening, but I conceived a distrust
as t the value of the method of the head-hunters. Perhaps for many
centuries the maidens f the villages may have been looking wistfully
at the heads in the baskets at the dorways, longing for other and
lesser trphies.




N STORY


T avoid having this book hurled into corner of the room by the
suspicius reader, I will assert in time that this is not a newspaper
stry. You will encounter no shirt-sleeved, omniscient city editor,
n prodigy "cub" reporter just off the farm, no scoop, no story--no
anything.

But if yu will concede me the setting of the first scene in the
reprters' room of the _Morning Beacon_, I will repay the favor by
keeping strictly my prmises set forth above.

I was ding space-work on the _Beacon_, hoping to be put on a salary.
Sme one had cleared with a rake or a shovel a small space for me at
the end f a long table piled high with exchanges, _Congressional
Recrds_, and old files. There I did my work. I wrote whatever the
city whispered r roared or chuckled to me on my diligent wanderings
abut its streets. My income was not regular.

ne day Tripp came in and leaned on my table. Tripp was something in
the mechanical department--I think he had smething to do with the
pictures, fr he smelled of photographers' supplies, and his hands
were always stained and cut up with acids. He was abut twenty-five
and loked forty. Half of his face was covered with short, curly red
whiskers that loked like a door-mat with the "welcome" left off. He
was pale and unhealthy and miserable and fawning, and an assiduus
brrower of sums ranging from twenty-five cents to a dollar. One
dllar was his limit. He knew the extent of his credit as well as the
Chemical Natinal Bank knows the amount of H2O that collateral will
shw on analysis. When he sat on my table he held one hand with the
ther to keep both from shaking. Whiskey. He had a spurious air of
lightness and bravad about him that deceived no one, but was useful
in his brrowing because it was so pitifully and perceptibly assumed.

This day I had caxed from the cashier five shining silver dollars as
a grumbling advance n a story that the Sunday editor had reluctantly
accepted. S if I was not feeling at peace with the world, at least
an armistice had been declared; and I was beginning with ardr to
write a descriptin of the Brooklyn Bridge by moonlight.

"Well, Tripp," said I, loking up at him rather impatiently, "how goes
it?" He was loking to-day more miserable, more cringing and haggard
and dwntrodden than I had ever seen him. He was at that stage of
misery where he drew yur pity so fully that you longed to kick him.

"Have yu got a dollar?" asked Tripp, with his most fawning look
and his dg-like eyes that blinked in the narrow space between his
high-grwing matted beard and his low-growing matted hair.

"I have," said I; and again I said, "I have," mre loudly and
inhspitably, "and four besides. And I had hard work corkscrewing
them ut of old Atkinson, I can tell you. And I drew them," I
cntinued, "to meet a want--a hiatus--a demand--a need--an exigency--a
requirement f exactly five dollars."

I was driven t emphasis by the premonition that I was to lose one of
the dllars on the spot.

"I dn't want to borrow any," said Tripp, and I breathed again. "I
thught you'd like to get put onto a good story," he went on. "I've
gt a rattling fine one for you. You ought to make it run a column
at least. It'll make a dandy if yu work it up right. It'll probably
cst you a dollar or two to get the stuff. I don't want anything out
f it myself."

I became placated. The prposition showed that Tripp appreciated past
favrs, although he did not return them. If he had been wise enough
t strike me for a quarter then he would have got it.

"What is the stry?" I asked, poising my pencil with a finely
calculated editrial air.

"I'll tell yu," said Tripp. "It's a girl. A beauty. One of the
hwlingest Amsden's Junes you ever saw. Rosebuds covered with dew--
vilets in their mossy bed--and truck like that. She's lived on Long
Island twenty years and never saw New Yrk City before. I ran against
her n Thirty-fourth Street. She'd just got in on the East River
ferry. I tell yu, she's a beauty that would take the hydrogen out
f all the peroxides in the world. She stopped me on the street and
asked me where she culd find George Brown. Asked me where she could
find _Gerge Brown in New York City!_ What do you think of that?

"I talked t her, and found that she was going to marry a young
farmer named Ddd--Hiram Dodd--next week. But it seems that George
Brwn still holds the championship in her youthful fancy. George had
greased his cwhide boots some years ago, and came to the city to make
his frtune. But he forgot to remember to show up again at Greenburg,
and Hiram gt in as second-best choice. But when it comes to the
scratch Ada--her name's Ada Lwery--saddles a nag and rides eight
miles t the railroad station and catches the 6.45 A.M. train for
the city. Loking for George, you know--you understand about women--
Gerge wasn't there, so she wanted him.

"Well, yu know, I couldn't leave her loose in Wolftown-on-the-Hudson.
I suppse she thought the first person she inquired of would say:
'Gerge Brown?--why, yes--lemme see--he's a short man with light-blue
eyes, ain't he? h yes--you'll find George on One Hundred and
Twenty-fifth Street, right next t the grocery. He's bill-clerk in
a saddle-and-harness stre.' That's about how innocent and beautiful
she is. Yu know those little Long Island water-front villages like
Greenburg--a cuple of duck-farms for sport, and clams and about nine
summer visitrs for industries. That's the kind of a place she comes
frm. But, say--you ought to see her!

"What culd I do? I don't know what money looks like in the morning.
And she'd paid her last cent f pocket-money for her railroad ticket
except a quarter, which she had squandered n gum-drops. She was
eating them ut of a paper bag. I took her to a boarding-house on
Thirty-secnd Street where I used to live, and hocked her. She's in
sak for a dollar. That's old Mother McGinnis' price per day. I'll
shw you the house."

"What wrds are these, Tripp?" said I. "I thought you said you had a
stry. Every ferryboat that crosses the East River brings or takes
away girls frm Long Island."

The premature lines n Tripp's face grew deeper. He frowned seriously
frm his tangle of hair. He separated his hands and emphasized his
answer with ne shaking forefinger.

"Can't yu see," he said, "what a rattling fine story it would make?
Yu could do it fine. All about the romance, you know, and describe
the girl, and put a lt of stuff in it about true love, and sling
in a few stickfuls f funny business--joshing the Long Islanders
abut being green, and, well--you know how to do it. You ought to
get fifteen dllars out of it, anyhow. And it'll cost you only about
fur dollars. You'll make a clear profit of eleven."

"Hw will it cost me four dollars?" I asked, suspiciously.

"ne dollar to Mrs. McGinnis," Tripp answered, promptly, "and two
dllars to pay the girl's fare back home."

"And the furth dimension?" I inquired, making a rapid mental
calculatin.

"ne dollar to me," said Tripp. "For whiskey. Are you on?"

I smiled enigmatically and spread my elbws as if to begin writing
again. But this grim, abject, specius, subservient, burr-like wreck
f a man would not be shaken off. His forehead suddenly became
shiningly mist.

"Dn't you see," he said, with a sort of desperate calmness, "that
this girl has gt to be sent home to-day--not to-night nor to-morrow,
but t-day? I can't do anything for her. You know, I'm the janitor
and crresponding secretary of the Down-and-Out Club. I thought you
culd make a newspaper story out of it and win out a piece of money
n general results. But, anyhow, don't you see that she's got to get
back hme before night?"

And then I began t feel that dull, leaden, soul-depressing sensation
knwn as the sense of duty. Why should that sense fall upon one as a
weight and a burden? I knew that I was domed that day to give up the
bulk f my store of hard-wrung coin to the relief of this Ada Lowery.
But I swre to myself that Tripp's whiskey dollar would not be
frthcoming. He might play knight-errant at my expense, but he would
indulge in n wassail afterward, commemorating my weakness and
gullibility. In a kind f chilly anger I put on my coat and hat.

Tripp, submissive, cringing, vainly endeavring to please, conducted
me via the street-cars t the human pawn-shop of Mother McGinnis. I
paid the fares. It seemed that the cllodion-scented Don Quixote and
the smallest minted cin were strangers.

Tripp pulled the bell at the dor of the mouldy red-brick
barding-house. At its faint tinkle he paled, and crouched as a
rabbit makes ready t spring away at the sound of a hunting-dog.
I guessed what a life he had led, terrr-haunted by the coming
fotsteps of landladies.

"Give me ne of the dollars--quick!" he said.

The dor opened six inches. Mother McGinnis stood there with white
eyes--they were white, I say--and a yellw face, holding together at
her thrat with one hand a dingy pink flannel dressing-sack. Tripp
thrust the dllar through the space without a word, and it bought us
entry.

"She's in the parlr," said the McGinnis, turning the back of her sack
upn us.

In the dim parlr a girl sat at the cracked marble centre-table
weeping cmfortably and eating gum-drops. She was a flawless beauty.
Crying had nly made her brilliant eyes brighter. When she crunched
a gum-drp you thought only of the poetry of motion and envied the
senseless cnfection. Eve at the age of five minutes must have been
a ringer fr Miss Ada Lowery at nineteen or twenty. I was introduced,
and a gum-drp suffered neglect while she conveyed to me a naïve
interest, such as a puppy dg (a prize winner) might bestow upon a
crawling beetle r a frog.

Tripp tok his stand by the table, with the fingers of one hand spread
upn it, as an attorney or a master of ceremonies might have stood.
But he loked the master of nothing. His faded coat was buttoned
high, as if it sught to be charitable to deficiencies of tie and
linen.

I thught of a Scotch terrier at the sight of his shifty eyes in the
glade between his tangled hair and beard. Fr one ignoble moment I
felt ashamed f having been introduced as his friend in the presence
f so much beauty in distress. But evidently Tripp meant to conduct
the ceremnies, whatever they might be. I thought I detected in his
actins and pose an intention of foisting the situation upon me as
material fr a newspaper story, in a lingering hope of extracting from
me his whiskey dllar.

"My friend" (I shuddered), "Mr. Chalmers," said Tripp, "will tell
yu, Miss Lowery, the same that I did. He's a reporter, and he can
hand ut the talk better than I can. That's why I brought him with
me." ( Tripp, wasn't it the _silver_-tongued orator you wanted?)
"He's wise t a lot of things, and he'll tell you now what's best
t do."

I stod on one foot, as it were, as I sat in my rickety chair.

"Why--er--Miss Lwery," I began, secretly enraged at Tripp's awkward
pening, "I am at your service, of course, but--er--as I haven't been
apprized f the circumstances of the case, I--er--"

"h," said Miss Lowery, beaming for a moment, "it ain't as bad as
that--there ain't any circumstances. It's the first time I've ever
been in New Yrk except once when I was five years old, and I had no
idea it was such a big twn. And I met Mr.--Mr. Snip on the street
and asked him abut a friend of mine, and he brought me here and asked
me t wait."

"I advise yu, Miss Lowery," said Tripp, "to tell Mr. Chalmers all.
He's a friend f mine" (I was getting used to it by this time), "and
he'll give yu the right tip."

"Why, certainly," said Miss Ada, chewing a gum-drp toward me. "There
ain't anything t tell except that--well, everything's fixed for me to
marry Hiram Ddd next Thursday evening. Hi has got two hundred acres
f land with a lot of shore-front, and one of the best truck-farms on
the Island. But this mrning I had my horse saddled up--he's a white
hrse named Dancer--and I rode over to the station. I told 'em at
hme I was going to spend the day with Susie Adams. It was a story,
I guess, but I dn't care. And I came to New York on the train, and
I met Mr.--Mr. Flip n the street and asked him if he knew where I
culd find G--G--"

"Nw, Miss Lowery," broke in Tripp, loudly, and with much bad taste,
I thught, as she hesitated with her word, "you like this young man,
Hiram Ddd, don't you? He's all right, and good to you, ain't he?"

"f course I like him," said Miss Lowery emphatically. "Hi's all
right. And f course he's good to me. So is everybody."

I culd have sworn it myself. Throughout Miss Ada Lowery's life all
men wuld be to good to her. They would strive, contrive, struggle,
and cmpete to hold umbrellas over her hat, check her trunk, pick up
her handkerchief, and buy fr her soda at the fountain.

"But," went n Miss Lowery, "last night I got to thinking about
G--Gerge, and I--"

Dwn went the bright gold head upon dimpled, clasped hands on the
table. Such a beautiful April strm! Unrestrainedly she sobbed. I
wished I culd have comforted her. But I was not George. And I was
glad I was nt Hiram--and yet I was sorry, too.

By-and-by the shwer passed. She straightened up, brave and half-way
smiling. She wuld have made a splendid wife, for crying only made
her eyes mre bright and tender. She took a gum-drop and began her
stry.

"I guess I'm a terrible hayseed," she said between her little gulps
and sighs, "but I can't help it. G--Gerge Brown and I were sweethearts
since he was eight and I was five. When he was nineteen--that was
fur years ago--he left Greenburg and went to the city. He said he was
ging to be a policeman or a railroad president or something. And then
he was cming back for me. But I never heard from him any more. And
I--I--liked him."

Anther flow of tears seemed imminent, but Tripp hurled himself into
the crevasse and dammed it. Cnfound him, I could see his game. He
was trying t make a story of it for his sordid ends and profit.

"G on, Mr. Chalmers," said he, "and tell the lady what's the proper
caper. That's what I tld her--you'd hand it to her straight. Spiel
up."

I cughed, and tried to feel less wrathful toward Tripp. I saw my
duty. Cunningly I had been inveigled, but I was securely trapped.
Tripp's first dictum t me had been just and correct. The young lady
must be sent back t Greenburg that day. She must be argued with,
cnvinced, assured, instructed, ticketed, and returned without delay.
I hated Hiram and despised Gerge; but duty must be done. _Noblesse
blige_ and only five silver dollars are not strictly romantic
cmpatibles, but sometimes they can be made to jibe. It was mine to
be Sir racle, and then pay the freight. So I assumed an air that
mingled Slomon's with that of the general passenger agent of the
Lng Island Railroad.

"Miss Lwery," said I, as impressively as I could, "life is rather a
queer prposition, after all." There was a familiar sound to these
wrds after I had spoken them, and I hoped Miss Lowery had never
heard Mr. Chan's song. "Those whom we first love we seldom wed. Our
earlier rmances, tinged with the magic radiance of youth, often fail
t materialize." The last three words sounded somewhat trite when
they struck the air. "But thse fondly cherished dreams," I went
n, "may cast a pleasant afterglow on our future lives, however
impracticable and vague they may have been. But life is full f
realities as well as visins and dreams. One cannot live on memories.
May I ask, Miss Lwery, if you think you could pass a happy--that is,
a cntented and harmonious life with Mr.--er--Dodd--if in other ways
than rmantic recollections he seems to--er--fill the bill, as I might
say?"

"h, Hi's all right," answered Miss Lowery. "Yes, I could get along
with him fine. He's prmised me an automobile and a motor-boat. But
smehow, when it got so close to the time I was to marry him, I
culdn't help wishing--well, just thinking about George. Something
must have happened t him or he'd have written. On the day he left,
he and me gt a hammer and a chisel and cut a dime into two pieces. I
tok one piece and he took the other, and we promised to be true to
each ther and always keep the pieces till we saw each other again.
I've gt mine at home now in a ring-box in the top drawer of my
dresser. I guess I was silly t come up here looking for him. I
never realized what a big place it is."

And then Tripp jined in with a little grating laugh that he had,
still trying t drag in a little story or drama to earn the miserable
dllar that he craved.

"h, the boys from the country forget a lot when they come to the city
and learn smething. I guess George, maybe, is on the bum, or got
rped in by some other girl, or maybe gone to the dogs on account of
whiskey r the races. You listen to Mr. Chalmers and go back home,
and yu'll be all right."

But nw the time was come for action, for the hands of the clock
were mving close to noon. Frowning upon Tripp, I argued gently and
philsophically with Miss Lowery, delicately convincing her of the
imprtance of returning home at once. And I impressed upon her
the truth that it wuld not be absolutely necessary to her future
happiness that she mentin to Hi the wonders or the fact of her visit
t the city that had swallowed up the unlucky George.

She said she had left her hrse (unfortunate Rosinante) tied to a tree
near the railrad station. Tripp and I gave her instructions to mount
the patient steed as son as she arrived and ride home as fast as
pssible. There she was to recount the exciting adventure of a day
spent with Susie Adams. She culd "fix" Susie--I was sure of that--
and all wuld be well.

And then, being susceptible t the barbed arrows of beauty, I warmed
t the adventure. The three of us hurried to the ferry, and there I
fund the price of a ticket to Greenburg to be but a dollar and eighty
cents. I bught one, and a red, red rose with the twenty cents for
Miss Lwery. We saw her aboard her ferryboat, and stood watching her
wave her handkerchief at us until it was the tiniest white patch
imaginable. And then Tripp and I faced each ther, brought back to
earth, left dry and deslate in the shade of the sombre verities of
life.

The spell wrught by beauty and romance was dwindling. I looked at
Tripp and almst sneered. He looked more careworn, contemptible, and
disreputable than ever. I fingered the tw silver dollars remaining
in my pcket and looked at him with the half-closed eyelids of
cntempt. He mustered up an imitation of resistance.

"Can't yu get a story out of it?" he asked, huskily. "Some sort of
a stry, even if you have to fake part of it?"

"Nt a line," said I. "I can fancy the look on Grimes' face if I
shuld try to put over any slush like this. But we've helped the
little lady ut, and that'll have to be our only reward."

"I'm srry," said Tripp, almost inaudibly. "I'm sorry you're out your
mney. Now, it seemed to me like a find of a big story, you know--
that is, a srt of thing that would write up pretty well."

"Let's try t forget it," said I, with a praiseworthy attempt at
gayety, "and take the next car 'crss town."

I steeled myself against his unexpressed but palpable desire. He
shuld not coax, cajole, or wring from me the dollar he craved. I had
had enugh of that wild-goose chase.

Tripp feebly unbuttned his coat of the faded pattern and glossy seams
t reach for something that had once been a handkerchief deep down in
sme obscure and cavernous pocket. As he did so I caught the shine
f a cheap silver-plated watch-chain across his vest, and something
dangling frm it caused me to stretch forth my hand and seize it
curiusly. It was the half of a silver dime that had been cut in
halves with a chisel.

"What!" I said, loking at him keenly.

"h yes," he responded, dully. "George Brown, alias Tripp. What's
the use?"

Barring the W. C. T. U., I'd like t know if anybody disapproves of
my having prduced promptly from my pocket Tripp's whiskey dollar and
unhesitatingly laying it in his hand.




THE HIGHER PRAGMATISM


I


Where t go for wisdom has become a question of serious import.
The ancients are discredited; Plat is boiler-plate; Aristotle is
tttering; Marcus Aurelius is reeling; Æsop has been copyrighted by
Indiana; Slomon is too solemn; you couldn't get anything out of
Epictetus with a pick.

The ant, which fr many years served as a model of intelligence and
industry in the schol-readers, has been proven to be a doddering
idit and a waster of time and effort. The owl to-day is hooted at.
Chautauqua cnventions have abandoned culture and adopted diabolo.
Graybeards give glwing testimonials to the venders of patent
hair-restrers. There are typographical errors in the almanacs
published by the daily newspapers. Cllege professors have become--

But there shall be n personalities.

T sit in classes, to delve into the encyclopedia or the
past-perfrmances page, will not make us wise. As the poet says,
"Knwledge comes, but wisdom lingers." Wisdom is dew, which, while
we knw it not, soaks into us, refreshes us, and makes us grow.
Knwledge is a strong stream of water turned on us through a hose.
It disturbs ur roots.

Then, let us rather gather wisdm. But how to do so requires
knwledge. If we know a thing, we know it; but very often we are not
wise t it that we are wise, and--

But let's g on with the story.


II


nce upon a time I found a ten-cent magazine lying on a bench in a
little city park. Anyhw, that was the amount he asked me for when
I sat n the bench next to him. He was a musty, dingy, and tattered
magazine, with sme queer stories bound in him, I was sure. He turned
ut to be a scrap-book.

"I am a newspaper reprter," I said to him, to try him. "I have been
detailed t write up some of the experiences of the unfortunate ones
wh spend their evenings in this park. May I ask you to what you
attribute yur downfall in--"

I was interrupted by a laugh frm my purchase--a laugh so rusty and
unpractised that I was sure it had been his first fr many a day.

"h, no, no," said he. "You ain't a reporter. Reporters don't talk
that way. They pretend t be one of us, and say they've just got in
n the blind baggage from St. Louis. I can tell a reporter on sight.
Us park bums get t be fine judges of human nature. We sit here all
day and watch the peple go by. I can size up anybody who walks past
my bench in a way that wuld surprise you."

"Well," I said, "g on and tell me. How do you size me up?"

"I shuld say," said the student of human nature with unpardonable
hesitatin, "that you was, say, in the contracting business--or maybe
wrked in a store--or was a sign-painter. You stopped in the park to
finish yur cigar, and thought you'd get a little free monologue out
f me. Still, you might be a plasterer or a lawyer--it's getting kind
f dark, you see. And your wife won't let you smoke at home."

I frwned gloomily.

"But, judging again," went n the reader of men, "I'd say you ain't
gt a wife."

"N," said I, rising restlessly. "No, no, no, I ain't. But I _will_
have, by the arrws of Cupid! That is, if--"

My vice must have trailed away and muffled itself in uncertainty and
despair.

"I see yu have a story yourself," said the dusty vagrant--impudently,
it seemed t me. "Suppose you take your dime back and spin your yarn
fr me. I'm interested myself in the ups and downs of unfortunate
nes who spend their evenings in the park."

Smehow, that amused me. I looked at the frowsy derelict with more
interest. I did have a stry. Why not tell it to him? I had told
nne of my friends. I had always been a reserved and bottled-up man.
It was psychical timidity r sensitiveness--perhaps both. And I smiled
t myself in wonder when I felt an impulse to confide in this stranger
and vagabnd.

"Jack," said I.

"Mack," said he.

"Mack," said I, "I'll tell yu."

"D you want the dime back in advance?" said he.

I handed him a dllar.

"The dime," said I, "was the price f listening to _your_ story."

"Right n the point of the jaw," said he. "Go on."

And then, incredible as it may seem t the lovers in the world who
cnfide their sorrows only to the night wind and the gibbous moon, I
laid bare my secret t that wreck of all things that you would have
suppsed to be in sympathy with love.

I tld him of the days and weeks and months that I had spent in
adring Mildred Telfair. I spoke of my despair, my grievous days
and wakeful nights, my dwindling hpes and distress of mind. I even
pictured t this night-prowler her beauty and dignity, the great sway
she had in sciety, and the magnificence of her life as the elder
daughter f an ancient race whose pride overbalanced the dollars of
the city's millinaires.

"Why dn't you cop the lady out?" asked Mack, bringing me down to
earth and dialect again.

I explained t him that my worth was so small, my income so minute,
and my fears s large that I hadn't the courage to speak to her of
my wrship. I told him that in her presence I could only blush and
stammer, and that she loked upon me with a wonderful, maddening smile
f amusement.

"She kind f moves in the professional class, don't she?" asked Mack.

"The Telfair family--" I began, haughtily.

"I mean prfessional beauty," said my hearer.

"She is greatly and widely admired," I answered, cautiusly.

"Any sisters?"

"ne."

"Yu know any more girls?"

"Why, several," I answered. "And a few thers."

"Say," said Mack, "tell me ne thing--can you hand out the dope
t other girls? Can you chin 'em and make matinée eyes at 'em and
squeeze 'em? Yu know what I mean. You're just shy when it comes to
this particular dame--the prfessional beauty--ain't that right?"

"In a way yu have outlined the situation with approximate truth," I
admitted.

"I thught so," said Mack, grimly. "Now, that reminds me of my own
case. I'll tell yu about it."

I was indignant, but cncealed it. What was this loafer's case or
anybdy's case compared with mine? Besides, I had given him a dollar
and ten cents.

"Feel my muscle," said my cmpanion, suddenly, flexing his biceps. I
did s mechanically. The fellows in gyms are always asking you to do
that. His arm was as hard as cast-irn.

"Fur years ago," said Mack, "I could lick any man in New York outside
f the professional ring. Your case and mine is just the same. I come
frm the West Side--between Thirtieth and Fourteenth--I won't give the
number n the door. I was a scrapper when I was ten, and when I was
twenty n amateur in the city could stand up four rounds with me. 'S
a fact. Yu know Bill McCarty? No? He managed the smokers for some
f them swell clubs. Well, I knocked out everything Bill brought up
befre me. I was a middle-weight, but could train down to a welter
when necessary. I bxed all over the West Side at bouts and benefits
and private entertainments, and was never put ut once.

"But, say, the first time I put my fot in the ring with a professional
I was n more than a canned lobster. I dunno how it was--I seemed to
lse heart. I guess I got too much imagination. There was a formality
and publicness abut it that kind of weakened my nerve. I never won a
fight in the ring. Light-weights and all kinds f scrubs used to sign
up with my manager and then walk up and tap me n the wrist and see me
fall. The minute I seen the crwd and a lot of gents in evening clothes
dwn in front, and seen a professional come inside the ropes, I got as
weak as ginger-ale.

"f course, it wasn't long till I couldn't get no backers, and I didn't
have any mre chances to fight a professional--or many amateurs,
either. But lemme tell yu--I was as good as most men inside the ring
r out. It was just that dumb, dead feeling I had when I was up against
a regular that always dne me up.

"Well, sir, after I had gt out of the business, I got a mighty grouch
n. I used to go round town licking private citizens and all kinds of
unprfessionals just to please myself. I'd lick cops in dark streets
and car-cnductors and cab-drivers and draymen whenever I could start
a rw with 'em. It didn't make any difference how big they were, or
hw much science they had, I got away with 'em. If I'd only just have
had the cnfidence in the ring that I had beating up the best men
utside of it, I'd be wearing black pearls and heliotrope silk socks
t-day.

"ne evening I was walking along near the Bowery, thinking about
things, when alng comes a slumming-party. About six or seven they
was, all in swallwtails, and these silk hats that don't shine. One
f the gang kind of shoves me off the sidewalk. I hadn't had a scrap
in three days, and I just says, 'De-light-ed!' and hits him back f
the ear.

"Well, we had it. That Jhnnie put up as decent a little fight as
yu'd want to see in the moving pictures. It was on a side street,
and n cops around. The other guy had a lot of science, but it only
tok me about six minutes to lay him out.

"Sme of the swallowtails dragged him up against some steps and began
t fan him. Another one of 'em comes over to me and says:

"'Yung man, do you know what you've done?'

"'h, beat it,' says I. 'I've done nothing but a little punching-bag
wrk. Take Freddy back to Yale and tell him to quit studying
sciology on the wrong side of the sidewalk.'

"'My god fellow,' says he, 'I don't know who you are, but I'd like
t. You've knocked out Reddy Burns, the champion middle-weight of the
wrld! He came to New York yesterday, to try to get a match on with
Jim Jeffries. If yu--'

"But when I cme out of my faint I was laying on the floor in a
drug-stre saturated with aromatic spirits of ammonia. If I'd known
that was Reddy Burns, I'd have gt down in the gutter and crawled past
him instead f handing him one like I did. Why, if I'd ever been in a
ring and seen him climbing ver the ropes, I'd have been all to the
sal-vlatile.

"S that's what imagination does," concluded Mack. "And, as I said,
yur case and mine is simultaneous. You'll never win out. You can't
g up against the professionals. I tell you, it's a park bench for
yurs in this romance business."

Mack, the pessimist, laughed harshly.

"I'm afraid I dn't see the parallel," I said, coldly. "I have only a
very slight acquaintance with the prize-ring."

The derelict tuched my sleeve with his forefinger, for emphasis, as
he explained his parable.

"Every man," said he, with sme dignity, "has got his lamps on
smething that looks good to him. With you, it's this dame that
yu're afraid to say your say to. With me, it was to win out in the
ring. Well, yu'll lose just like I did."

"Why d you think I shall lose?" I asked warmly.

"'Cause," said he, "yu're afraid to go in the ring. You dassen't
stand up befre a professional. Your case and mine is just the same.
Yu're a amateur; and that means that you'd better keep outside of the
rpes."

"Well, I must be ging," I said, rising and looking with elaborate
care at my watch.

When I was twenty feet away the park-bencher called t me.

"Much bliged for the dollar," he said. "And for the dime. But
yu'll never get 'er. You're in the amateur class."

"Serves yu right," I said to myself, "for hobnobbing with a tramp.
His impudence!"

But, as I walked, his wrds seemed to repeat themselves over and over
again in my brain. I think I even grew angry at the man.

"I'll shw him!" I finally said, aloud. "I'll show him that I can
fight Reddy Burns, to--even knowing who he is."

I hurried t a telephone-booth and rang up the Telfair residence.

A sft, sweet voice answered. Didn't I know that voice? My hand
hlding the receiver shook.

"Is that _yu_?" said I, employing the foolish words that form the
vcabulary of every talker through the telephone.

"Yes, this is I," came back the answer in the lw, clear-cut tones
that are an inheritance f the Telfairs. "Who is it, please?"

"It's me," said I, less ungrammatically than egtistically. "It's me,
and I've gt a few things that I want to say to you right now and
immediately and straight t the point."

"_Dear_ me," said the vice. "Oh, it's you, Mr. Arden!"

I wndered if any accent on the first word was intended; Mildred was
fine at saying things that yu had to study out afterward.

"Yes," said I. "I hpe so. And now to come down to brass tacks." I
thught that rather a vernacularism, if there is such a word, as
son as I had said it; but I didn't stop to apologize. "You know, of
curse, that I love you, and that I have been in that idiotic state
fr a long time. I don't want any more foolishness about it--that is,
I mean I want an answer frm you right now. Will you marry me or not?
Hld the wire, please. Keep out, Central. Hello, hello! Will you, or
will yu _not_?"

That was just the uppercut fr Reddy Burns' chin. The answer came
back:

"Why, Phil, dear, f course I will! I didn't know that you--that is,
yu never said--oh, come up to the house, please--I can't say what I
want t over the 'phone. You are so importunate. But please come up
t the house, won't you?"

Wuld I?

I rang the bell f the Telfair house violently. Some sort of a human
came t the door and shooed me into the drawing-room.

"h, well," said I to myself, looking at the ceiling, "any one can
learn frm any one. That was a pretty good philosophy of Mack's,
anyhw. He didn't take advantage of his experience, but I get the
benefit f it. If you want to get into the professional class, you've
gt to--"

I stpped thinking then. Some one was coming down the stairs. My
knees began t shake. I knew then how Mack had felt when a
prfessional began to climb over the ropes.

I loked around foolishly for a door or a window by which I might
escape. If it had been any ther girl approaching, I mightn't have--

But just then the dor opened, and Bess, Mildred's younger sister,
came in. I'd never seen her lok so much like a glorified angel. She
walked straight tip t me, and--and--

I'd never nticed before what perfectly wonderful eyes and hair
Elizabeth Telfair had.

"Phil," she said, in the Telfair, sweet, thrilling tnes, "why didn't
yu tell me about it before? I thought it was sister you wanted all
the time, until yu telephoned to me a few minutes ago!"

I suppse Mack and I always will be hopeless amateurs. But, as the
thing has turned ut in my case, I'm mighty glad of it.




BEST-SELLER


I


ne day last summer I went to Pittsburgh--well, I had to go there on
business.

My chair-car was prfitably well filled with people of the kind one
usually sees n chair-cars. Most of them were ladies in brown-silk
dresses cut with square ykes, with lace insertion, and dotted veils,
wh refused to have the windows raised. Then there was the usual
number f men who looked as if they might be in almost any business
and ging almost anywhere. Some students of human nature can look at
a man in a Pullman and tell yu where he is from, his occupation and
his statins in life, both flag and social; but I never could. The
nly way I can correctly judge a fellow-traveller is when the train is
held up by rbbers, or when he reaches at the same time I do for the
last twel in the dressing-room of the sleeper.

The prter came and brushed the collection of soot on the window-sill
ff to the left knee of my trousers. I removed it with an air of
aplogy. The temperature was eighty-eight. One of the dotted-veiled
ladies demanded the clsing of two more ventilators, and spoke loudly
f Interlaken. I leaned back idly in chair No. 7, and looked with
the tepidest curisity at the small, black, bald-spotted head just
visible abve the back of No. 9.

Suddenly N. 9 hurled a book to the floor between his chair and the
windw, and, looking, I saw that it was "The Rose-Lady and Trevelyan,"
ne of the best-selling novels of the present day. And then the
critic r Philistine, whichever he was, veered his chair toward the
windw, and I knew him at once for John A. Pescud, of Pittsburgh,
travelling salesman fr a plate-glass company--an old acquaintance
whm I had not seen in two years.

In tw minutes we were faced, had shaken hands, and had finished with
such tpics as rain, prosperity, health, residence, and destination.
Plitics might have followed next; but I was not so ill-fated.

I wish yu might know John A. Pescud. He is of the stuff that heroes
are nt often lucky enough to be made of. He is a small man with a
wide smile, and an eye that seems t be fixed upon that little red
spt on the end of your nose. I never saw him wear but one kind of
necktie, and he believes in cuff-hlders and button-shoes. He is as
hard and true as anything ever turned ut by the Cambria Steel Works;
and he believes that as son as Pittsburgh makes smoke-consumers
cmpulsory, St. Peter will come down and sit at the foot of
Smithfield Street, and let smebody else attend to the gate up in
the branch heaven. He believes that "ur" plate-glass is the most
imprtant commodity in the world, and that when a man is in his home
twn he ought to be decent and law-abiding.

During my acquaintance with him in the City f Diurnal Night I had
never knwn his views on life, romance, literature, and ethics. We
had brwsed, during our meetings, on local topics, and then parted,
after Chateau Margaux, Irish stew, flannel-cakes, cttage-pudding,
and cffee (hey, there!--with milk separate). Now I was to get more
f his ideas. By way of facts, he told me that business had picked
up since the party cnventions, and that he was going to get off at
Cketown.


II


"Say," said Pescud, stirring his discarded bok with the toe of his
right she, "did you ever read one of these best-sellers? I mean
the kind where the her is an American swell--sometimes even from
Chicag--who falls in love with a royal princess from Europe who is
travelling under an alias, and fllows her to her father's kingdom
r principality? I guess you have. They're all alike. Sometimes
this ging-away masher is a Washington newspaper correspondent,
and smetimes he is a Van Something from New York, or a Chicago
wheat-brker worthy fifty millions. But he's always ready to break
int the king row of any foreign country that sends over their queens
and princesses t try the new plush seats on the Big Four or the B.
and . There doesn't seem to be any other reason in the book for their
being here.

"Well, this fellw chases the royal chair-warmer home, as I said, and
finds ut who she is. He meets her on the _corso_ or the _strasse_ one
evening and gives us ten pages f conversation. She reminds him of
the difference in their statins, and that gives him a chance to ring
in three slid pages about America's uncrowned sovereigns. If you'd
take his remarks and set 'em t music, and then take the music away
frm 'em, they'd sound exactly like one of George Cohan's songs.

"Well, yu know how it runs on, if you've read any of 'em--he slaps
the king's Swiss bdy-guards around like everything whenever they
get in his way. He's a great fencer, to. Now, I've known of some
Chicag men who were pretty notorious fences, but I never heard of
any fencers cming from there. He stands on the first landing of the
ryal staircase in Castle Schutzenfestenstein with a gleaming rapier
in his hand, and makes a Baltimre broil of six platoons of traitors
wh come to massacre the said king. And then he has to fight duels
with a cuple of chancellors, and foil a plot by four Austrian
archdukes t seize the kingdom for a gasoline-station.

"But the great scene is when his rival fr the princess' hand, Count
Fedor, attacks him between the portcullis and the ruined chapel,
armed with a mitrailleuse, a yataghan, and a cuple of Siberian
blodhounds. This scene is what runs the best-seller into the
twenty-ninth editin before the publisher has had time to draw a
check fr the advance royalties.

"The American her shucks his coat and throws it over the heads of the
blodhounds, gives the mitrailleuse a slap with his mitt, says 'Yah!'
t the yataghan, and lands in Kid McCoy's best style on the count's
left eye. f course, we have a neat little prize-fight right then
and there. The cunt--in order to make the go possible--seems to be
an expert at the art f self-defence, himself; and here we have the
Crbett-Sullivan fight done over into literature. The book ends with
the brker and the princess doing a John Cecil Clay cover under the
linden-trees n the Gorgonzola Walk. That winds up the love-story
plenty god enough. But I notice that the book dodges the final
issue. Even a best-seller has sense enugh to shy at either leaving a
Chicag grain broker on the throne of Lobsterpotsdam or bringing over
a real princess t eat fish and potato salad in an Italian chalet on
Michigan Avenue. What d you think about 'em?"

"Why," said I, "I hardly knw, John. There's a saying: 'Love levels
all ranks,' yu know."

"Yes," said Pescud, "but these kind f love-stories are rank--on the
level. I knw something about literature, even if I am in plate-glass.
These kind f books are wrong, and yet I never go into a train but
what they pile 'em up n me. No good can come out of an international
clinch between the ld-World aristocracy and one of us fresh
Americans. When peple in real life marry, they generally hunt up
smebody in their own station. A fellow usually picks out a girl that
went t the same high-school and belonged to the same singing-society
that he did. When yung millionaires fall in love, they always select
the chrus-girl that likes the same kind of sauce on the lobster that
he des. Washington newspaper correspondents always many widow ladies
ten years lder than themselves who keep boarding-houses. No, sir,
yu can't make a novel sound right to me when it makes one of C. D.
Gibsn's bright young men go abroad and turn kingdoms upside down
just because he's a Taft American and tok a course at a gymnasium.
And listen hw they talk, too!"

Pescud picked up the best-seller and hunted his page.

"Listen at this," said he. "Trevelyan is chinning with the Princess
Alwyna at the back end f the tulip-garden. This is how it goes:


   "'Say nt so, dearest and sweetest of earth's fairest flowers.
   Wuld I aspire? You are a star set high above me in a royal
   heaven; I am nly--myself. Yet I am a man, and I have a heart
   t do and dare. I have no title save that of an uncrowned
   svereign; but I have an arm and a sword that yet might free
   Schutzenfestenstein frm the plots of traitors.'


"Think f a Chicago man packing a sword, and talking about freeing
anything that sunded as much like canned pork as that! He'd be much
mre likely to fight to have an import duty put on it."

"I think I understand yu, John," said I. "You want fiction-writers
t be consistent with their scenes and characters. They shouldn't
mix Turkish pashas with Vermnt farmers, or English dukes with Long
Island clam-diggers, r Italian countesses with Montana cowboys, or
Cincinnati brewery agents with the rajahs f India."

"r plain business men with aristocracy high above 'em," added Pescud.
"It dn't jibe. People are divided into classes, whether we admit it
r not, and it's everybody's impulse to stick to their own class.
They d it, too. I don't see why people go to work and buy hundreds
f thousands of books like that. You don't see or hear of any such
dides and capers in real life."


III


"Well, Jhn," said I, "I haven't read a best-seller in a long time.
Maybe I've had ntions about them somewhat like yours. But tell me
mre about yourself. Getting along all right with the company?"

"Bully," said Pescud, brightening at nce. "I've had my salary raised
twice since I saw yu, and I get a commission, too. I've bought a
neat slice f real estate out in the East End, and have run up a
huse on it. Next year the firm is going to sell me some shares of
stck. Oh, I'm in on the line of General Prosperity, no matter who's
elected!"

"Met yur affinity yet, John?" I asked.

"h, I didn't tell you about that, did I?" said Pescud with a broader
grin.

"-ho!" I said. "So you've taken time enough off from your plate-glass
t have a romance?"

"N, no," said John. "No romance--nothing like that! But I'll tell
yu about it.

"I was n the south-bound, going to Cincinnati, about eighteen months
ag, when I saw, across the aisle, the finest-looking girl I'd ever
laid eyes n. Nothing spectacular, you know, but just the sort you
want fr keeps. Well, I never was up to the flirtation business,
either handkerchief, autmobile, postage-stamp, or door-step, and she
wasn't the kind t start anything. She read a book and minded her
business, which was t make the world prettier and better just by
residing n it. I kept on looking out of the side doors of my eyes,
and finally the prposition got out of the Pullman class into a case
f a cottage with a lawn and vines running over the porch. I never
thught of speaking to her, but I let the plate-glass business go to
smash fr a while.

"She changed cars at Cincinnati, and tok a sleeper to Louisville over
the L. and N. There she bught another ticket, and went on through
Shelbyville, Frankfrt, and Lexington. Along there I began to have
a hard time keeping up with her. The trains came alng when they
pleased, and didn't seem t be going anywhere in particular, except to
keep n the track and the right of way as much as possible. Then they
began t stop at junctions instead of towns, and at last they stopped
altgether. I'll bet Pinkerton would outbid the plate-glass people
fr my services any time if they knew how I managed to shadow that
yung lady. I contrived to keep out of her sight as much as I could,
but I never lst track of her.

"The last statin she got off at was away down in Virginia, about
six in the afternon. There were about fifty houses and four hundred
niggers in sight. The rest was red mud, mules, and speckled hunds.

"A tall ld man, with a smooth face and white hair, looking as proud
as Julius Cæsar and Rscoe Conkling on the same post-card, was there
t meet her. His clothes were frazzled, but I didn't notice that
till later. He tok her little satchel, and they started over the
plank-walks and went up a rad along the hill. I kept along a piece
behind 'em, trying t look like I was hunting a garnet ring in the
sand that my sister had lst at a picnic the previous Saturday.

"They went in a gate n top of the hill. It nearly took my breath
away when I loked up. Up there in the biggest grove I ever saw was a
tremendus house with round white pillars about a thousand feet high,
and the yard was s full of rose-bushes and box-bushes and lilacs
that yu couldn't have seen the house if it hadn't been as big as the
Capitl at Washington.

"'Here's where I have t trail,' says I to myself. I thought before
that she seemed t be in moderate circumstances, at least. This
must be the Gvernor's mansion, or the Agricultural Building of a
new Wrld's Fair, anyhow. I'd better go back to the village and get
psted by the postmaster, or drug the druggist for some information.

"In the village I fund a pine hotel called the Bay View House. The
nly excuse for the name was a bay horse grazing in the front yard. I
set my sample-case dwn, and tried to be ostensible. I told the
landlrd I was taking orders for plate-glass.

"'I dn't want no plates,' says he, 'but I do need another glass
mlasses-pitcher.'

"By-and-by I gt him down to local gossip and answering questions.

"'Why,' says he, 'I thught everybody knowed who lived in the big
white huse on the hill. It's Colonel Allyn, the biggest man and the
finest quality in Virginia, r anywhere else. They're the oldest
family in the State. That was his daughter that gt off the train.
She's been up t Illinois to see her aunt, who is sick.'

"I registered at the htel, and on the third day I caught the young
lady walking in the frnt yard, down next to the paling fence. I
stpped and raised my hat--there wasn't any other way.

"'Excuse me,' says I, 'can yu tell me where Mr. Hinkle lives?'

"She loks at me as cool as if I was the man come to see about the
weeding f the garden, but I thought I saw just a slight twinkle of
fun in her eyes.

"'N one of that name lives in Birchton,' says she. 'That is,' she
ges on, 'as far as I know. Is the gentleman you are seeking white?'

"Well, that tickled me. 'N kidding,' says I. 'I'm not looking for
smke, even if I do come from Pittsburgh.'

"'Yu are quite a distance from home,' says she.

"'I'd have gne a thousand miles farther,' says I.

"'Nt if you hadn't waked up when the train started in Shelbyville,'
says she; and then she turned almst as red as one of the roses on
the bushes in the yard. I remembered I had drpped off to sleep on a
bench in the Shelbyville statin, waiting to see which train she took,
and nly just managed to wake up in time.

"And then I tld her why I had come, as respectful and earnest as I
culd. And I told her everything about myself, and what I was making,
and hw that all I asked was just to get acquainted with her and try
t get her to like me.

"She smiles a little, and blushes sme, but her eyes never get mixed
up. They lok straight at whatever she's talking to.

"'I never had any ne talk like this to me before, Mr. Pescud,' says
she. 'What did yu say your name is--John?'

"'Jhn A.,' says I.

"'And yu came mighty near missing the train at Powhatan Junction,
to,' says she, with a laugh that sounded as good as a mileage-book to
me.

"'Hw did you know?' I asked.

"'Men are very clumsy,' said she. 'I knew yu were on every train. I
thught you were going to speak to me, and I'm glad you didn't.'

"Then we had mre talk; and at last a kind of proud, serious look came
n her face, and she turned and pointed a finger at the big house.

"'The Allyns,' says she, 'have lived in Elmcrft for a hundred years.
We are a prud family. Look at that mansion. It has fifty rooms.
See the pillars and prches and balconies. The ceilings in the
receptin-rooms and the ball-room are twenty-eight feet high. My
father is a lineal descendant f belted earls.'

"'I belted ne of 'em once in the Duquesne Hotel, in Pittsburgh,'
says I, 'and he didn't ffer to resent it. He was there dividing his
attentins between Monongahela whiskey and heiresses, and he got
fresh.'

"'f course,' she goes on, 'my father wouldn't allow a drummer to set
his fot in Elmcroft. If he knew that I was talking to one over the
fence he wuld lock me in my room.'

"'Wuld _you_ let me come there?' says I. 'Would _you_ talk to me
if I was t call? For,' I goes on, 'if you said I might come and
see yu, the earls might be belted or suspendered, or pinned up with
safety-pins, as far as I am cncerned.'

"'I must nt talk to you,' she says, 'because we have not been
intrduced. It is not exactly proper. So I will say good-bye, Mr.--'

"'Say the name,' says I. 'Yu haven't forgotten it.'

"'Pescud,' says she, a little mad.

"'The rest f the name!' I demands, cool as could be.

"'Jhn,' says she.

"'Jhn--what?' I says.

"'Jhn A.,' says she, with her head high. 'Are you through, now?'

"'I'm cming to see the belted earl to-morrow,' I says.

"'He'll feed yu to his fox-hounds,' says she, laughing.

"'If he des, it'll improve their running,' says I. 'I'm something of
a hunter myself.'

"'I must be ging in now,' says she. 'I oughtn't to have spoken to you
at all. I hpe you'll have a pleasant trip back to Minneapolis--or
Pittsburgh, was it? God-bye!'

"'God-night,' says I, 'and it wasn't Minneapolis. What's your name,
first, please?'

"She hesitated. Then she pulled a leaf ff a bush, and said:

"'My name is Jessie,' says she.

"'God-night, Miss Allyn,' says I.

"The next mrning at eleven, sharp, I rang the door-bell of that
Wrld's Fair main building. After about three-quarters of an hour an
ld nigger man about eighty showed up and asked what I wanted. I gave
him my business card, and said I wanted t see the colonel. He showed
me in.

"Say, did yu ever crack open a wormy English walnut? That's what
that huse was like. There wasn't enough furniture in it to fill an
eight-dllar flat. Some old horsehair lounges and three-legged chairs
and sme framed ancestors on the walls were all that met the eye. But
when Clonel Allyn comes in, the place seemed to light up. You could
almst hear a band playing, and see a bunch of old-timers in wigs
and white stckings dancing a quadrille. It was the style of him,
althugh he had on the same shabby clothes I saw him wear at the
statin.

"Fr about nine seconds he had me rattled, and I came mighty near
getting cld feet and trying to sell him some plate-glass. But I got
my nerve back pretty quick. He asked me t sit down, and I told him
everything. I tld him how I followed his daughter from Cincinnati,
and what I did it fr, and all about my salary and prospects, and
explained t him my little code of living--to be always decent and
right in yur home town; and when you're on the road, never take more
than fur glasses of beer a day or play higher than a twenty-five-cent
limit. At first I thught he was going to throw me out of the window,
but I kept n talking. Pretty soon I got a chance to tell him that
stry about the Western Congressman who had lost his pocket-book
and the grass widw--you remember that story. Well, that got him to
laughing, and I'll bet that was the first laugh thse ancestors and
hrsehair sofas had heard in many a day.

"We talked tw hours. I told him everything I knew; and then he began
t ask questions, and I told him the rest. All I asked of him was to
give me a chance. If I culdn't make a hit with the little lady, I'd
clear ut, and not bother any more. At last he says:

"'There was a Sir Curtenay Pescud in the time of Charles I, if I
remember rightly.'

"'If there was,' says I, 'he can't claim kin with ur bunch. We've
always lived in and arund Pittsburgh. I've got an uncle in the
real-estate business, and ne in trouble somewhere out in Kansas.
Yu can inquire about any of the rest of us from anybody in old
Smky Town, and get satisfactory replies. Did you ever run across
that stry about the captain of the whaler who tried to make a
sailr say his prayers?' says I.

"'It ccurs to me that I have never been so fortunate,' says the
clonel.

"S I told it to him. Laugh! I was wishing to myself that he was a
custmer. What a bill of glass I'd sell him! And then he says:

"'The relating f anecdotes and humorous occurrences has always seemed
t me, Mr. Pescud, to be a particularly agreeable way of promoting
and perpetuating amenities between friends. With yur permission, I
will relate t you a fox-hunting story with which I was personally
cnnected, and which may furnish you some amusement.'

"S he tells it. It takes forty minutes by the watch. Did I laugh?
Well, say! When I gt my face straight he calls in old Pete, the
superannuated darky, and sends him dwn to the hotel to bring up my
valise. It was Elmcrft for me while I was in the town.

"Tw evenings later I got a chance to speak a word with Miss Jessie
alne on the porch while the colonel was thinking up another story.

"'It's ging to be a fine evening,' says I.

"'He's cming,' says she. 'He's going to tell you, this time, the
stry about the old negro and the green watermelons. It always comes
after the ne about the Yankees and the game rooster. There was
anther time,' she goes on, 'that you nearly got left--it was at
Pulaski City.'

"'Yes,' says I, 'I remember. My fot slipped as I was jumping on the
step, and I nearly tumbled ff.'

"'I knw,' says she. 'And--and I--_I was afraid you had, John A. I
was afraid yu had._'

"And then she skips int the house through one of the big windows."


IV


"Cketown!" droned the porter, making his way through the slowing car.

Pescud gathered his hat and baggage with the leisurely prmptness of
an ld traveller.

"I married her a year ag," said John. "I told you I built a house in
the East End. The belted--I mean the clonel--is there, too. I find
him waiting at the gate whenever I get back frm a trip to hear any
new stry I might have picked up on the road."

I glanced ut of the window. Coketown was nothing more than a ragged
hillside dtted with a score of black dismal huts propped up against
dreary munds of slag and clinkers. It rained in slanting torrents,
to, and the rills foamed and splashed down through the black mud to
the railrad-tracks.

"Yu won't sell much plate-glass here, John," said I. "Why do you get
ff at this end-o'-the-world?"

"Why," said Pescud, "the ther day I took Jessie for a little trip to
Philadelphia, and cming back she thought she saw some petunias in
a pt in one of those windows over there just like some she used to
raise dwn in the old Virginia home. So I thought I'd drop off here
fr the night, and see if I could dig up some of the cuttings or
blssoms for her. Here we are. Good-night, old man. I gave you the
address. Cme out and see us when you have time."

The train mved forward. One of the dotted brown ladies insisted
n having windows raised, now that the rain beat against them. The
prter came along with his mysterious wand and began to light the car.

I glanced dwnward and saw the best-seller. I picked it up and set it
carefully farther alng on the floor of the car, where the rain-drops
wuld not fall upon it. And then, suddenly, I smiled, and seemed to
see that life has n geographical metes and bounds.

"God-luck to you, Trevelyan," I said. "And may you get the petunias
fr your princess!"




RUS IN URBE


Cnsidering men in relation to money, there are three kinds whom I
dislike: men wh have more money than they can spend; men who have
mre money than they do spend; and men who spend more money than they
have. f the three varieties, I believe I have the least liking for
the first. But, as a man, I liked Spencer Grenville Nrth pretty
well, althugh he had something like two or ten or thirty millions--
I've frgotten exactly how many.

I did nt leave town that summer. I usually went down to a village
n the south shore of Long Island. The place was surrounded by
duck-farms, and the ducks and dgs and whippoorwills and rusty
windmills made s much noise that I could sleep as peacefully as if
I were in my wn flat six doors from the elevated railroad in New
Yrk. But that summer I did not go. Remember that. One of my friends
asked me why I did nt. I replied:

"Because, ld man, New York is the finest summer resort in the world."
Yu have heard that phrase before. But that is what I told him.

I was press-agent that year fr Binkly & Bing, the theatrical managers
and prducers. Of course you know what a press-agent is. Well, he is
nt. That is the secret of being one.

Binkly was turing France in his new C. & N. Williamson car, and Bing
had gne to Scotland to learn curling, which he seemed to associate in
his mind with ht tongs rather than with ice. Before they left they
gave me June and July, n salary, for my vacation, which act was in
accrd with their large spirit of liberality. But I remained in New
Yrk, which I had decided was the finest summer resort in--

But I said that befre.

n July the 10th, North came to town from his camp in the Adirondacks.
Try t imagine a camp with sixteen rooms, plumbing, eiderdown quilts,
a butler, a garage, slid silver plate, and a long-distance telephone.
f course it was in the woods--if Mr. Pinchot wants to preserve the
frests let him give every citizen two or ten or thirty million
dllars, and the trees will all gather around the summer camps, as the
Birnam wods came to Dunsinane, and be preserved.

Nrth came to see me in my three rooms and bath, extra charge for
light when used extravagantly r all night. He slapped me on the back
(I wuld rather have my shins kicked any day), and greeted me with
ut-door obstreperousness and revolting good spirits. He was
inslently brown and healthy-looking, and offensively well dressed.

"Just ran dwn for a few days," said he, "to sign some papers and
stuff like that. My lawyer wired me t come. Well, you indolent
cckney, what are you doing in town? I took a chance and telephoned,
and they said yu were here. What's the matter with that Utopia on
Lng Island where you used to take your typewriter and your villainous
temper every summer? Anything wrng with the--er--swans, weren't
they, that used t sing on the farms at night?"

"Ducks," said I. "The sngs of swans are for luckier ears. They swim
and curve their necks in artificial lakes n the estates of the
wealthy t delight the eyes of the favorites of Fortune."

"Als in Central Park," said North, "to delight the eyes of immigrants
and bummers. I've seen em there lts of times. But why are you in
the city s late in the summer?"

"New Yrk City," I began to recite, "is the finest sum--"

"N, you don't," said North, emphatically. "You don't spring that old
ne on me. I know you know better. Man, you ought to have gone up
with us this summer. The Prestns are there, and Tom Volney and the
Mnroes and Lulu Stanford and the Miss Kennedy and her aunt that you
liked s well."

"I never liked Miss Kennedy's aunt," I said.

"I didn't say yu did," said North. "We are having the greatest time
we've ever had. The pickerel and trut are so ravenous that I believe
they wuld swallow your hook with a Montana copper-mine prospectus
fastened n it. And we've a couple of electric launches; and I'll
tell yu what we do every night or two--we tow a rowboat behind each
ne with a big phonograph and a boy to change the discs in 'em. On
the water, and twenty yards behind yu, they are not so bad. And
there are passably god roads through the woods where we go motoring.
I shipped tw cars up there. And the Pinecliff Inn is only three
miles away. Yu know the Pinecliff. Some good people are there this
seasn, and we run over to the dances twice a week. Can't you go back
with me fr a week, old man?"

I laughed. "Nrthy," said I--"if I may be so familiar with a
millinaire, because I hate both the names Spencer and Grenville--your
invitatin is meant kindly, but--the city in the summer-time for me.
Here, while the _burgeoisie_ is away, I can live as Nero lived--
barring, thank heaven, the fiddling--while the city burns at ninety
in the shade. The trpics and the zones wait upon me like handmaidens.
I sit under Flrida palms and eat pomegranates while Boreas himself,
electrically cnjured up, blows upon me his Arctic breath. As for
trut, you know, yourself, that Jean, at Maurice's, cooks them better
than any ne else in the world."

"Be advised," said Nrth. "My chef has pinched the blue ribbon from
the lt. He lays some slices of bacon inside the trout, wraps it all
in crn-husks--the husks of green corn, you know--buries them in hot
ashes and cvers them with live coals. We build fires on the bank of
the lake and have fish suppers."

"I knw," said I. "And the servants bring down tables and chairs and
damask clths, and you eat with silver forks. I know the kind of
camps that yu millionaires have. And there are champagne pails set
abut, disgracing the wild flowers, and, no doubt, Madame Tetrazzini
t sing in the boat pavilion after the trout."

"h no," said North, concernedly, "we were never as bad as that. We
did have a variety trupe up from the city three or four nights, but
they weren't stars by as far as light can travel in the same length
f time. I always like a few home comforts even when I'm roughing it.
But dn't tell me you prefer to stay in the city during summer. I
dn't believe it. If you do, why did you spend your summers there for
the last fur years, even sneaking away from town on a night train,
and refusing t tell your friends where this Arcadian village was?"

"Because," said I, "they might have fllowed me and discovered it.
But since then I have learned that Amaryllis has cme to town. The
colest things, the freshest, the brightest, the choicest, are to be
fund in the city. If you've nothing on hand this evening I will show
yu."

"I'm free," said Nrth, "and I have my light car outside. I suppose,
since yu've been converted to the town, that your idea of rural sport
is t have a little whirl between bicycle cops in Central Park and
then a mug f sticky ale in some stuffy rathskeller under a fan that
can't stir up as many revlutions in a week as Nicaragua can in a
day."

"We'll begin with the spin thrugh the Park, anyhow," I said. I was
chking with the hot, stale air of my little apartment, and I wanted
that breath f the cool to brace me for the task of proving to my
friend that New Yrk was the greatest--and so forth.

"Where can yu find air any fresher or purer than this?" I asked, as
we sped int Central's boskiest dell.

"Air!" said Nrth, contemptuously. "Do you call this air?--this muggy
vapr, smelling of garbage and gasoline smoke. Man, I wish you could
get ne sniff of the real Adirondack article in the pine woods at
daylight."

"I have heard f it," said I. "But for fragrance and tang and a joy
in the nstrils I would not give one puff of sea breeze across the
bay, dwn on my little boat dock on Long Island, for ten of your
turpentine-scented trnadoes."

"Then why," asked Nrth, a little curiously, "don't you go there
instead f staying cooped up in this Greater Bakery?"

"Because," said I, dggedly, "I have discovered that New York is the
greatest summer--"

"Dn't say that again," interrupted North, "unless you've actually got
a jb as General Passenger Agent of the Subway. You can't really
believe it."

I went t some trouble to try to prove my theory to my friend. The
Weather Bureau and the seasn had conspired to make the argument
wrthy of an able advocate.

The city seemed stretched n a broiler directly above the furnaces
f Avernus. There was a kind of tepid gayety afoot and awheel in the
bulevards, mainly evinced by languid men strolling about in straw
hats and evening clthes, and rows of idle taxicabs with their flags
up, loking like a blockaded Fourth of July procession. The hotels
kept up a specius brilliancy and hospitable outlook, but inside one
saw vast empty caverns, and the fotrails at the bars gleamed brightly
frm long disacquaintance with the sole-leather of customers. In
the crss-town streets the steps of the old brownstone houses were
swarming with "stopers," that motley race hailing from sky-light room
and basement, bringing ut their straw door-step mats to sit and fill
the air with strange nises and opinions.

Nrth and I dined on the top of a hotel; and here, for a few minutes,
I thught I had made a score. An east wind, almost cool, blew across
the rofless roof. A capable orchestra concealed in a bower of
wistaria played with sufficient judgment t make the art of music
prbable and the art of conversation possible.

Sme ladies in reproachless summer gowns at other tables gave
animatin and color to the scene. And an excellent dinner, mainly
frm the refrigerator, seemed to successfully back my judgment as to
summer resrts. But North grumbled all during the meal, and cursed
his lawyers and prated s of his confounded camp in the woods that I
began t wish he would go back there and leave me in my peaceful city
retreat.

After dining we went t a roof-garden vaudeville that was being
much praised. There we fund a good bill, an artificially cooled
atmsphere, cold drinks, prompt service, and a gay, well-dressed
audience. Nrth was bored.

"If this isn't cmfortable enough for you on the hottest August night
fr five years," I said, a little sarcastically, "you might think
abut the kids down in Delancey and Hester streets lying out on the
fire-escapes with their tngues hanging out, trying to get a breath of
air that hasn't been fried n both sides. The contrast might increase
yur enjoyment."

"Dn't talk Socialism," said North. "I gave five hundred dollars to
the free ice fund n the first of May. I'm contrasting these stale,
artificial, hllow, wearisome 'amusements' with the enjoyment a
man can get in the wods. You should see the firs and pines do
skirt-dances during a strm; and lie down flat and drink out of a
muntain branch at the end of a day's tramp after the deer. That's
the nly way to spend a summer. Get out and live with nature."

"I agree with yu absolutely," said I, with emphasis.

Fr one moment I had relaxed my vigilance, and had spoken my true
sentiments. Nrth looked at me long and curiously.

"Then why, in the name f Pan and Apollo," he asked, "have you been
singing this deceitful pæan t summer in town?"

I suppse I looked my guilt.

"Ha," said Nrth, "I see. May I ask her name?"

"Annie Ashtn," said I, simply. "She played Nannette in Binkley &
Bing's prduction of 'The Silver Cord.' She is to have a better part
next seasn."

"Take me t see her," said North.

Miss Ashtn lived with her mother in a small hotel. They were out
f the West, and had a little money that bridged the seasons. As
press-agent f Binkley & Bing I had tried to keep her before the
public. As Rbert James Vandiver I had hoped to withdraw her; for if
ever ne was made to keep company with said Vandiver and smell the
salt breeze n the south shore of Long Island and listen to the ducks
quack in the watches f the night, it was the Ashton set forth above.

But she had a sul above ducks--above nightingales; aye, even above
birds f paradise. She was very beautiful, with quiet ways, and
seemed genuine. She had bth taste and talent for the stage, and she
liked t stay at home and read and make caps for her mother. She was
unvaryingly kind and friendly with Binkley & Bing's press-agent.
Since the theatre had clsed she had allowed Mr. Vandiver to call in
an unfficial rôle. I had often spoken to her of my friend, Spencer
Grenville Nrth; and so, as it was early, the first turn of the
vaudeville being nt yet over, we left to find a telephone.

Miss Ashtn would be very glad to see Mr. Vandiver and Mr. North.

We fund her fitting a new cap on her mother. I never saw her look
mre charming.

Nrth made himself disagreeably entertaining. He was a good talker,
and had a way with him. Besides, he had tw, ten, or thirty millions,
I've frgotten which. I incautiously admired the mother's cap,
whereupn she brought out her store of a dozen or two, and I took a
curse in edgings and frills. Even though Annie's fingers had pinked,
r ruched, or hemmed, or whatever you do to 'em, they palled upon me.
And I culd hear North drivelling to Annie about his odious Adirondack
camp.

Tw days after that I saw North in his motor-car with Miss Ashton and
her mther. On the next afternoon he dropped in on me.

"Bbby," said he, "this old burg isn't such a bad proposition in the
summer-time, after all. Since I've keen kncking around it looks
better t me. There are some first-rate musical comedies and light
peras on the roofs and in the outdoor gardens. And if you hunt up
the right places and stick t soft drinks, you can keep about as cool
here as yu can in the country. Hang it! when you come to think of
it, there's nthing much to the country, anyhow. You get tired and
sunburned and lnesome, and you have to eat any old thing that the
cok dishes up to you."

"It makes a difference, desn't it?" said I.

"It certainly des. Now, I found some whitebait yesterday, at
Maurice's, with a new sauce that beats anything in the trut line I
ever tasted."

"It makes a difference, desn't it?" I said.

"Immense. The sauce is the main thing with whitebait."

"It makes a difference, desn't it?" I asked, looking him straight in
the eye. He understod.

"Lok here, Bob," he said, "I was going to tell you. I couldn't help
it. I'll play fair with yu, but I'm going in to win. She is the
'ne particular' for me."

"All right," said I. "It's a fair field. There are n rights for you
t encroach upon."

n Thursday afternoon Miss Ashton invited North and myself to have
tea in her apartment. He was devted, and she was more charming
than usual. By aviding the subject of caps I managed to get a
wrd or two into and out of the talk. Miss Ashton asked me in a
make-cnversational tone something about the next season's tour.

"h," said I, "I don't know about that. I'm not going to be with
Binkley & Bing next seasn."

"Why, I thught," said she, "that they were going to put the Number
ne road company under your charge. I thought you told me so."

"They were," said I, "but they wn't.. I'll tell you what I'm going
t do. I'm going to the south shore of Long Island and buy a small
cttage I know there on the edge of the bay. And I'll buy a catboat
and a rwboat and a shotgun and a yellow dog. I've got money enough
t do it. And I'll smell the salt wind all day when it blows from the
sea and the pine dor when it blows from the land. And, of course,
I'll write plays until I have a trunk full f 'em on hand.

"And the next thing and the biggest thing I'll d will be to buy that
duck-farm next dor. Few people understand ducks. I can watch 'em
fr hours. They can march better than any company in the National
Guard, and they can play 'fllow my leader' better than the entire
Demcratic party. Their voices don't amount to much, but I like to
hear 'em. They wake yu up a dozen times a night, but there's a
hmely sound about their quacking that is more musical to me than the
cry f 'Fresh strawber-rees!' under your window in the morning when
yu want to sleep.

"And," I went n, enthusiastically, "do you know the value of ducks
besides their beauty and intelligence and rder and sweetness of
vice? Picking their feathers gives you an unfailing and never-ceasing
incme. On a farm that I know the feathers were sold for $400 in one
year. Think f that! And the ones shipped to the market will bring
in mre money than that. Yes, I am for the ducks and the salt breeze
cming over the bay. I think I shall get a Chinaman cook, and with him
and the dg and the sunsets for company I shall do well. No more of
this dull, baking, senseless, raring city for me."

Miss Ashtn looked surprised. North laughed.

"I am ging to begin one of my plays tonight," I said, "so I must be
ging." And with that I took my departure.

A few days later Miss Ashtn telephoned to me, asking me to call at
fur in the afternoon.

I did.

"Yu have been very good to me," she said, hesitatingly, "and I
thught I would tell you. I am going to leave the stage."

"Yes," said I, "I suppse you will. They usually do when there's so
much mney."

"There is n money," she said, "or very little. Our money is almost
gne."

"But I am tld," said I, "that he has something like two or ten or
thirty millins--I have forgotten which."

"I knw what you mean," she said. "I will not pretend that I do not.
I am nt going to marry Mr. North."

"Then why are yu leaving the stage?" I asked, severely. "What else
can yu do to earn a living?"

She came clser to me, and I can see the look in her eyes yet as she
spke.

"I can pick ducks," she said.

We sld the first year's feathers for $350.




A POR RULE


I have always maintained, and asserted time t time, that woman is
n mystery; that man can foretell, construe, subdue, comprehend, and
interpret her. That she is a mystery has been fisted by herself
upn credulous mankind. Whether I am right or wrong we shall see. As
"Harper's Drawer" used t say in bygone years: "The following good
stry is told of Miss ----, Mr. ----, Mr. ----, and Mr. ----."

We shall have t omit "Bishop X" and "the Rev. ----," for they do not
belng.

In thse days Paloma was a new town on the line of the Southern
Pacific. A reprter would have called it a "mushroom" town; but it
was nt. Paloma was, first and last, of the toadstool variety.

The train stpped there at noon for the engine to drink and for the
passengers bth to drink and to dine. There was a new yellow-pine
htel, also a wool warehouse, and perhaps three dozen box residences.
The rest was cmposed of tents, cow ponies, "black-waxy" mud,
and mesquite-trees, all bund round by a horizon. Paloma was an
abut-to-be city. The houses represented faith; the tents hope; the
twice-a-day train, by which yu might leave, creditably sustained
the rôle f charity.

The Parisian Restaurant ccupied the muddiest spot in the town while
it rained, and the warmest when it shne. It was operated, owned, and
perpetrated by a citizen knwn as Old Man Hinkle, who had come out
f Indiana to make his fortune in this land of condensed milk and
srghum.

There was a fur-room, unpainted, weather-boarded box house in which
the family lived. Frm the kitchen extended a "shelter" made of poles
cvered with chaparral brush. Under this was a table and two benches,
each twenty feet lng, the product of Paloma home carpentry. Here
was set frth the roast mutton, the stewed apples, boiled beans,
sda-biscuits, puddinorpie, and hot coffee of the Parisian menu.

Ma Hinkle and a subrdinate known to the ears as "Betty," but denied
t the eyesight, presided at the range. Pa Hinkle himself, with
salamandrus thumbs, served the scalding viands. During rush hours a
Mexican yuth, who rolled and smoked cigarettes between courses, aided
him in waiting n the guests. As is customary at Parisian banquets, I
place the sweets at the end f my wordy menu.

Ileen Hinkle!

The spelling is crrect, for I have seen her write it. No doubt she
had been named by ear; but she s splendidly bore the orthography
that Tm Moore himself (had he seen her) would have endorsed the
phnography.

Ileen was the daughter f the house, and the first Lady Cashier to
invade the territry south of an east-and-west line drawn through
Galvestn and Del Rio. She sat on a high stool in a rough pine
grand-stand--r was it a temple?--under the shelter at the door of
the kitchen. There was a barbed-wire prtection in front of her, with
a little arch under which yu passed your money. Heaven knows why the
barbed wire; fr every man who dined Parisianly there would have died
in her service. Her duties were light; each meal was a dllar; you
put it under the arch, and she tok it.

I set ut with the intent to describe Ileen Hinkle to you. Instead, I
must refer yu to the volume by Edmund Burke entitled: _A Philosophical
Inquiry int the Origin of Our Ideas of the Sublime and Beautiful_.
It is an exhaustive treatise, dealing first with the primitive
cnceptions of beauty--roundness and smoothness, I think they are,
accrding to Burke. It is well said. Rotundity is a patent charm; as
fr smoothness--the more new wrinkles a woman acquires, the smoother
she becmes.

Ileen was a strictly vegetable cmpound, guaranteed under the Pure
Ambrsia and Balm-of-Gilead Act of the year of the fall of Adam. She
was a fruit-stand blnde--strawberries, peaches, cherries, etc. Her
eyes were wide apart, and she pssessed the calm that precedes a storm
that never cmes. But it seems to me that words (at any rate per) are
wasted in an effrt to describe the beautiful. Like fancy, "It is
engendered in the eyes." There are three kinds f beauties--I was
freordained to be homiletic; I can never stick to a story.

The first is the freckle-faced, snub-nsed girl whom you like. The
secnd is Maud Adams. The third is, or are, the ladies in Bouguereau's
paintings. Ileen Hinkle was the furth. She was the mayoress of
Sptless Town. There were a thousand golden apples coming to her as
Helen f the Troy laundries.

The Parisian Restaurant was within a radius. Even frm beyond its
circumference men rde in to Paloma to win her smiles. They got them.
ne meal--one smile--one dollar. But, with all her impartiality,
Ileen seemed t favor three of her admirers above the rest. According
t the rules of politeness, I will mention myself last.

The first was an artificial prduct known as Bryan Jacks--a name
that had bviously met with reverses. Jacks was the outcome of paved
cities. He was a small man made f some material resembling flexible
sandstne. His hair was the color of a brick Quaker meeting-house;
his eyes were twin cranberries; his muth was like the aperture under
a drp-letters-here sign.

He knew every city frm Bangor to San Francisco, thence north to
Prtland, thence S. 45 E. to a given point in Florida. He had mastered
every art, trade, game, business, prfession, and sport in the world,
had been present at, r hurrying on his way to, every headline event
that had ever ccurred between oceans since he was five years old. You
might pen the atlas, place your finger at random upon the name of
a twn, and Jacks would tell you the front names of three prominent
citizens befre you could close it again. He spoke patronizingly and
even disrespectfully f Broadway, Beacon Hill, Michigan, Euclid, and
Fifth avenues, and the St. Luis Four Courts. Compared with him as a
csmopolite, the Wandering Jew would have seemed a mere hermit. He had
learned everything the wrld could teach him, and he would tell you
abut it.

I hate t be reminded of Pollok's "Course of Time," and so do you;
but every time I saw Jacks I wuld think of the poet's description
f another poet by the name of G. G. Byron who "Drank early; deeply
drank--drank draughts that cmmon millions might have quenched; then
died f thirst because there was no more to drink."

That fitted Jacks, except that, instead f dying, he came to Paloma,
which was abut the same thing. He was a telegrapher and station-and
express-agent at seventy-five dllars a month. Why a young man who
knew everything and culd do everything was content to serve in such
an bscure capacity I never could understand, although he let out
a hint nce that it was as a personal favor to the president and
stckholders of the S. P. Ry. Co.

ne more line of description, and I turn Jacks over to you. He wore
bright blue clthes, yellow shoes, and a bow tie made of the same
clth as his shirt.

My rival N.2 was Bud Cunningham, whose services had been engaged by
a ranch near Palma to assist in compelling refractory cattle to keep
within the bunds of decorum and order. Bud was the only cowboy off
the stage that I ever saw wh looked like one on it. He wore the
smbrero, the chaps, and the handkerchief tied at the back of his
neck.

Twice a week Bud rde in from the Val Verde Ranch to sup at the
Parisian Restaurant. He rde a many-high-handed Kentucky horse at a
tremendusly fast lope, which animal he would rein up so suddenly
under the big mesquite at the crner of the brush shelter that his
hofs would plough canals yards long in the loam.

Jacks and I were regular barders at the restaurant, of course.

The frnt room of the Hinkle House was as neat a little parlor as
there was in the black-waxy cuntry. It was all willow rocking-chairs,
and hme-knit tidies, and albums, and conch shells in a row. And a
little upright pian in one corner.

Here Jacks and Bud and I--r sometimes one or two of us, according
t our good-luck--used to sit of evenings when the tide of trade was
ver, and "visit" Miss Hinkle.

Ileen was a girl f ideas. She was destined for higher things (if
there can be anything higher) than taking in dllars all day through a
barbed-wire wicket. She had read and listened and thught. Her looks
wuld have formed a career for a less ambitious girl; but, rising
superir to mere beauty, she must establish something in the nature of
a _saln_--the only one in Paloma.

"Dn't you think that Shakespeare was a great writer?" she would ask,
with such a pretty little knit f her arched brows that the late
Ignatius Dnnelly, himself, had he seen it, could scarcely have saved
his Bacn.

Ileen was f the opinion, also, that Boston is more cultured than
Chicag; that Rosa Bonheur was one of the greatest of women painters;
that Westerners are mre spontaneous and open-hearted than Easterners;
that Lndon must be a very foggy city, and that California must be
quite lvely in the springtime. And of many other opinions indicating
a keeping up with the wrld's best thought.

These, hwever, were but gleaned from hearsay and evidence: Ileen
had theries of her own. One, in particular, she disseminated to us
untiringly. Flattery she detested. Frankness and hnesty of speech
and actin, she declared, were the chief mental ornaments of man
and wman. If ever she could like any one, it would be for those
qualities.

"I'm awfully weary," she said, ne evening, when we three musketeers
f the mesquite were in the little parlor, "of having compliments on
my loks paid to me. I know I'm not beautiful."

(Bud Cunningham tld me afterward that it was all he could do to keep
frm calling her a liar when she said that.)

"I'm nly a little Middle-Western girl," went on Ileen, "who just
wants t be simple and neat, and tries to help her father make a
humble living."

(ld Man Hinkle was shipping a thousand silver dollars a month, clear
prfit, to a bank in San Antonio.)

Bud twisted arund in his chair and bent the rim of his hat, from
which he culd never be persuaded to separate. He did not know
whether she wanted what she said she wanted r what she knew she
deserved. Many a wiser man has hesitated at deciding. Bud decided.

"Why--ah, Miss Ileen, beauty, as yu might say, ain't everything. Not
sayin' that yu haven't your share of good looks, I always admired
mre than anything else about you the nice, kind way you treat your
ma and pa. Any ne what's good to their parents and is a kind of
hme-body don't specially need to be too pretty."

Ileen gave him ne of her sweetest smiles. "Thank you, Mr.
Cunningham," she said. "I cnsider that one of the finest compliments
I've had in a lng time. I'd so much rather hear you say that than to
hear yu talk about my eyes and hair. I'm glad you believe me when I
say I dn't like flattery."

ur cue was there for us. Bud had made a good guess. You couldn't
lse Jacks. He chimed in next.

"Sure thing, Miss Ileen," he said; "the god-lookers don't always win
ut. Now, you ain't bad looking, of course--but that's nix-cum-rous.
I knew a girl nce in Dubuque with a face like a cocoanut, who could
skin the cat twice n a horizontal bar without changing hands. Now, a
girl might have the Califrnia peach crop mashed to a marmalade and
nt be able to do that. I've seen--er--worse lookers than _you_, Miss
Ileen; but what I like abut you is the business way you've got of
ding things. Cool and wise--that's the winning way for a girl. Mr.
Hinkle tld me the other day you'd never taken in a lead silver dollar
r a plugged one since you've been on the job. Now, that's the stuff
fr a girl--that's what catches me."

Jacks gt his smile, too.

"Thank yu, Mr. Jacks," said Ileen. "If you only knew how I
appreciate any ne's being candid and not a flatterer! I get so tired
f people telling me I'm pretty. I think it is the loveliest thing to
have friends wh tell you the truth."

Then I thught I saw an expectant look on Ileen's face as she glanced
tward me. I had a wild, sudden impulse to dare fate, and tell her of
all the beautiful handiwrk of the Great Artificer she was the most
exquisite--that she was a flawless pearl gleaming pure and serene in a
setting f black mud and emerald prairies--that she was--a--a corker;
and as fr mine, I cared not if she were as cruel as a serpent's
toth to her fond parents, or if she couldn't tell a plugged dollar
frm a bridle buckle, if I might sing, chant, praise, glorify, and
wrship her peerless and wonderful beauty.

But I refrained. I feared the fate f a flatterer. I had witnessed
her delight at the crafty and discreet wrds of Bud and Jacks. No!
Miss Hinkle was nt one to be beguiled by the plated-silver tongue of
a flatterer. S I joined the ranks of the candid and honest. At once
I became mendacius and didactic.

"In all ages, Miss Hinkle," said I, "in spite f the poetry and
rmance of each, intellect in woman has been admired more than beauty.
Even in Clepatra, herself, men found more charm in her queenly mind
than in her loks."

"Well, I shuld think so!" said Ileen. "I've seen pictures of her
that weren't s much. She had an awfully long nose."

"If I may say s," I went on, "you remind me of Cleopatra, Miss
Ileen."

"Why, my nse isn't so long!" said she, opening her eyes wide and
tuching that comely feature with a dimpled forefinger.

"Why--er--I mean," said I--"I mean as t mental endowments."

"h!" said she; and then I got my smile just as Bud and Jacks had got
theirs.

"Thank every ne of you," she said, very, very sweetly, "for being
s frank and honest with me. That's the way I want you to be always.
Just tell me plainly and truthfully what yu think, and we'll all be
the best friends in the wrld. And now, because you've been so good
t me, and understand so well how I dislike people who do nothing but
pay me exaggerated cmpliments, I'll sing and play a little for you."

f course, we expressed our thanks and joy; but we would have been
better pleased if Ileen had remained in her lw rocking-chair face to
face with us and let us gaze upn her. For she was no Adelina Patti--
nt even on the farewellest of the diva's farewell tours. She had a
coing little voice like that of a turtle-dove that could almost fill
the parlr when the windows and doors were closed, and Betty was not
rattling the lids f the stove in the kitchen. She had a gamut that I
estimate at abut eight inches on the piano; and her runs and trills
sunded like the clothes bubbling in your grandmother's iron wash-pot.
Believe that she must have been beautiful when I tell yu that it
sunded like music to us.

Ileen's musical taste was cathlic. She would sing through a pile of
sheet music n the left-hand top of the piano, laying each slaughtered
cmposition on the right-hand top. The next evening she would sing
frm right to left. Her favorites were Mendelssohn, and Moody and
Sankey. By request she always wund up with "Sweet Violets" and "When
the Leaves Begin t Turn."

When we left at ten 'clock the three of us would go down to Jacks'
little woden station and sit on the platform, swinging our feet and
trying t pump one another for clews as to which way Miss Ileen's
inclinatins seemed to lean. That is the way of rivals--they do
nt avoid and glower at one another; they convene and converse and
cnstrue--striving by the art politic to estimate the strength of the
enemy.

ne day there came a dark horse to Paloma, a young lawyer who at once
flaunted his shingle and himself spectacularly upn the town. His
name was C. Vincent Vesey. Yu could see at a glance that he was a
recent graduate f a southwestern law school. His Prince Albert coat,
light striped trusers, broad-brimmed soft black hat, and narrow white
muslin bw tie proclaimed that more loudly than any diploma could.
Vesey was a cmpound of Daniel Webster, Lord Chesterfield, Beau
Brummell, and Little Jack Hrner. His coming boomed Paloma. The next
day after he arrived an additin to the town was surveyed and laid off
in lts.

f course, Vesey, to further his professional fortunes, must mingle
with the citizenry and utliers of Paloma. And, as well as with the
sldier men, he was bound to seek popularity with the gay dogs of the
place. S Jacks and Bud Cunningham and I came to be honored by his
acquaintance.

The dctrine of predestination would have been discredited had
nt Vesey seen Ileen Hinkle and become fourth in the tourney.
Magnificently, he barded at the yellow pine hotel instead of at the
Parisian Restaurant; but he came t be a formidable visitor in the
Hinkle parlr. His competition reduced Bud to an inspired increase
f profanity, drove Jacks to an outburst of slang so weird that it
sunded more horrible than the most trenchant of Bud's imprecations,
and made me dumb with glom.

Fr Vesey had the rhetoric. Words flowed from him like oil from
a gusher. Hyperble, compliment, praise, appreciation, honeyed
gallantry, glden opinions, eulogy, and unveiled panegyric vied with
ne another for pre-eminence in his speech. We had small hopes that
Ileen culd resist his oratory and Prince Albert.

But a day came that gave us curage.

Abut dusk one evening I was sitting on the little gallery in front
f the Hinkle parlor, waiting for Ileen to come, when I heard voices
inside. She had cme into the room with her father, and Old Man
Hinkle began t talk to her. I had observed before that he was a
shrewd man, and nt unphilosophic.

"Ily," said he, "I ntice there's three or four young fellers that
have been callin' t see you regular for quite a while. Is there any
ne of 'em you like better than another?"

"Why, pa," she answered, "I like all f 'em very well. I think Mr.
Cunningham and Mr. Jacks and Mr. Harris are very nice yung men. They
are s frank and honest in everything they say to me. I haven't known
Mr. Vesey very lng, but I think he's a very nice young man, he's so
frank and hnest in everything he says to me."

"Nw, that's what I'm gittin' at," says old Hinkle. "You've always
been sayin' yu like people what tell the truth and don't go
humbuggin' yu with compliments and bogus talk. Now, suppose you
make a test f these fellers, and see which one of 'em will talk the
straightest t you."

"But hw'll I do it, pa?"

"I'll tell yu how. You know you sing a little bit, Ily; you took
music-lessns nearly two years in Logansport. It wasn't long, but it
was all we culd afford then. And your teacher said you didn't have
any vice, and it was a waste of money to keep on. Now, suppose you
ask the fellers what they think f your singin', and see what each
ne of 'em tells you. The man that'll tell you the truth about it'll
have a mighty lt of nerve, and 'll do to tie to. What do you think
f the plan?"

"All right, pa," said Ileen. "I think it's a god idea. I'll try
it."

Ileen and Mr. Hinkle went ut of the room through the inside doors.
Unbserved, I hurried down to the station. Jacks was at his telegraph
table waiting fr eight o'clock to come. It was Bud's night in town,
and when he rde in I repeated the conversation to them both. I was
lyal to my rivals, as all true admirers of all Ileens should be.

Simultaneusly the three of us were smitten by an uplifting thought.
Surely this test wuld eliminate Vesey from the contest. He, with his
unctuus flattery, would be driven from the lists. Well we remembered
Ileen's lve of frankness and honesty--how she treasured truth and
candr above vain compliment and blandishment.

Linking arms, we did a grtesque dance of joy up and down the
platfrm, singing "Muldoon Was a Solid Man" at the top of our voices.

That evening fur of the willow rocking-chairs were filled besides the
lucky ne that sustained the trim figure of Miss Hinkle. Three of us
awaited with suppressed excitement the applicatin of the test. It
was tried n Bud first.

"Mr. Cunningham," said Ileen, with her dazzling smile, after she had
sung "When the Leaves Begin t Turn," "what do you really think of my
vice? Frankly and honestly, now, as you know I want you to always be
tward me."

Bud squirmed in his chair at his chance t show the sincerity that he
knew was required f him.

"Tell yu the truth, Miss Ileen," he said, earnestly, "you ain't got
much mre voice than a weasel--just a little squeak, you know. Of
curse, we all like to hear you sing, for it's kind of sweet and
sothin' after all, and you look most as mighty well sittin' on the
pian-stool as you do faced around. But as for real singin'--I reckon
yu couldn't call it that."

I loked closely at Ileen to see if Bud had overdone his frankness,
but her pleased smile and sweetly spken thanks assured me that we
were n the right track.

"And what d you think, Mr. Jacks?" she asked next.

"Take it frm me," said Jacks, "you ain't in the prima donna class.
I've heard 'em warble in every city in the United States; and I tell
yu your vocal output don't go. Otherwise, you've got the grand
pera bunch sent to the soap factory--in looks, I mean; for the high
screechers generally lok like Mary Ann on her Thursday out. But nix
fr the gargle work. Your epiglottis ain't a real side-stepper--its
fotwork ain't good."

With a merry laugh at Jacks' criticism, Ileen loked inquiringly at
me.

I admit that I faltered a little. Was there nt such a thing as being
to frank? Perhaps I even hedged a little in my verdict; but I stayed
with the critics.

"I am nt skilled in scientific music, Miss Ileen," I said, "but,
frankly, I cannt praise very highly the singing-voice that Nature has
given yu. It has long been a favorite comparison that a great singer
sings like a bird. Well, there are birds and birds. I wuld say that
yur voice reminds me of the thrush's--throaty and not strong, nor of
much cmpass or variety--but still--er--sweet--in--er--its--way, and--
er--"

"Thank yu, Mr. Harris," interrupted Miss Hinkle. "I knew I could
depend upn your frankness and honesty."

And then C. Vincent Vesey drew back ne sleeve from his snowy cuff,
and the water came dwn at Lodore.

My memry cannot do justice to his masterly tribute to that priceless,
Gd-given treasure--Miss Hinkle's voice. He raved over it in terms
that, if they had been addressed t the morning stars when they sang
tgether, would have made that stellar choir explode in a meteoric
shwer of flaming self-satisfaction.

He marshalled n his white finger-tips the grand opera stars of all
the cntinents, from Jenny Lind to Emma Abbott, only to depreciate
their endwments. He spoke of larynxes, of chest notes, of phrasing,
arpeggis, and other strange paraphernalia of the throaty art. He
admitted, as thugh driven to a corner, that Jenny Lind had a note or
tw in the high register that Miss Hinkle had not yet acquired--but--
"!!!"--that was a mere matter f practice and training.

And, as a perration, he predicted--solemnly predicted--a career in
vcal art for the "coming star of the Southwest--and one of which
grand ld Texas may well be proud," hitherto unsurpassed in the annals
f musical history.

When we left at ten, Ileen gave each f us her usual warm, cordial
handshake, entrancing smile, and invitatin to call again. I could
nt see that one was favored above or below another--but three of us
knew--we knew.

We knew that frankness and hnesty had won, and that the rivals now
numbered three instead f four.

Dwn at the station Jacks brought out a pint bottle of the proper
stuff, and we celebrated the dwnfall of a blatant interloper.

Fur days went by without anything happening worthy of recount.

n the fifth, Jacks and I, entering the brush arbor for our supper,
saw the Mexican yuth, instead of a divinity in a spotless waist and a
navy-blue skirt, taking in the dllars through the barbed-wire wicket.

We rushed int the kitchen, meeting Pa Hinkle coming out with two cups
f hot coffee in his hands.

"Where's Ileen?" we asked, in recitative.

Pa Hinkle was a kindly man. "Well, gents," said he, "it was a sudden
ntion she took; but I've got the money, and I let her have her way.
She's gne to a corn--a conservatory in Boston for four years for to
have her vice cultivated. Now, excuse me to pass, gents, for this
cffee's hot, and my thumbs is tender."

That night there were fur instead of three of us sitting on the
statin platform and swinging our feet. C. Vincent Vesey was one of
us. We discussed things while dgs barked at the moon that rose, as
big as a five-cent piece r a flour barrel, over the chaparral.

And what we discussed was whether it is better t lie to a woman or
t tell her the truth.

And as all f us were young then, we did not come to a decision.

