
SIXES AND SEVENS

by

. 







CNTENTS

       I. THE LAST F THE TROUBADOURS
      II. THE SLEUTHS
     III. WITCHES' LAVES
      IV. THE PRIDE F THE CITIES
       V. HLDING UP A TRAIN
      VI. ULYSSES AND THE DGMAN
     VII. THE CHAMPIN OF THE WEATHER
    VIII. MAKES THE WHLE WORLD KIN
      IX. AT ARMS WITH MRPHEUS
       X. A GHST OF A CHANCE
      XI. JIMMY HAYES AND MURIEL
     XII. THE DOR OF UNREST
    XIII. THE DUPLICITY F HARGRAVES
     XIV. LET ME FEEL YUR PULSE
      XV. CTOBER AND JUNE
     XVI. THE CHURCH WITH AN VERSHOT-WHEEL
    XVII. NEW YRK BY CAMP FIRE LIGHT
   XVIII. THE ADVENTURES F SHAMROCK JOLNES
     XIX. THE LADY HIGHER UP
      XX. THE GREATER CNEY
     XXI. LAW AND RDER
    XXII. TRANSFRMATION OF MARTIN BURNEY
   XXIII. THE CALIPH AND THE CAD
    XXIV. THE DIAMND OF KALI
     XXV. THE DAY WE CELEBRATE




I

THE LAST F THE TROUBADOURS


Inexrably Sam Galloway saddled his pony. He was going away from the
Ranch Altito at the end of a three-months' visit. It is not to be
expected that a guest shuld put up with wheat coffee and biscuits
yellw-streaked with saleratus for longer than that. Nick Napoleon,
the big Negr man cook, had never been able to make good biscuits.
nce before, when Nick was cooking at the Willow Ranch, Sam had been
frced to fly from his _cuisine_, after only a six-weeks' sojourn.

n Sam's face was an expression of sorrow, deepened with regret and
slightly tempered by the patient frgiveness of a connoisseur who
cannt be understood. But very firmly and inexorably he buckled his
saddle-cinches, loped his stake-rope and hung it to his saddle-horn,
tied his slicker and cat on the cantle, and looped his quirt on his
right wrist. The Merrydews (huseholders of the Rancho Altito), men,
wmen, children, and servants, vassals, visitors, employés, dogs, and
casual callers were gruped in the "gallery" of the ranch house, all
with faces set t the tune of melancholy and grief. For, as the coming
f Sam Galloway to any ranch, camp, or cabin between the rivers Frio
r Bravo del Norte aroused joy, so his departure caused mourning and
distress.

And then, during abslute silence, except for the bumping of a hind
elbw of a hound dog as he pursued a wicked flea, Sam tenderly and
carefully tied his guitar acrss his saddle on top of his slicker and
cat. The guitar was in a green duck bag; and if you catch the
significance f it, it explains Sam.

Sam Gallway was the Last of the Troubadours. Of course you know about
the trubadours. The encyclopædia says they flourished between the
eleventh and the thirteenth centuries. What they flurished doesn't
seem clear--yu may be pretty sure it wasn't a sword: maybe it was a
fiddlebw, or a forkful of spaghetti, or a lady's scarf. Anyhow, Sam
Gallway was one of 'em.

Sam put n a martyred expression as he mounted his pony. But the
expressin on his face was hilarious compared with the one on his
pny's. You see, a pony gets to know his rider mighty well, and it is
nt unlikely that cow ponies in pastures and at hitching racks had
ften guyed Sam's pony for being ridden by a guitar player instead of
by a rllicking, cussing, all-wool cowboy. No man is a hero to his
saddle-hrse. And even an escalator in a department store might be
excused fr tripping up a troubadour.

h, I know I'm one; and so are you. You remember the stories you
memrize and the card tricks you study and that little piece on the
pian--how does it go?--ti-tum-te-tum-ti-tum--those little Arabian Ten
Minute Entertainments that yu furnish when you go up to call on your
rich Aunt Jane. Yu should know that _omnæ personæ in tres partes
divisæ sunt_. Namely: Barns, Troubadours, and Workers. Barons have no
inclinatin to read such folderol as this; and Workers have no time:
s I know you must be a Troubadour, and that you will understand Sam
Gallway. Whether we sing, act, dance, write, lecture, or paint, we
are nly troubadours; so let us make the worst of it.

The pny with the Dante Alighieri face, guided by the pressure of
Sam's knees, bre that wandering minstrel sixteen miles southeastward.
Nature was in her mst benignant mood. League after league of
delicate, sweet flwerets made fragrant the gently undulating
prairie. The east wind tempered the spring warmth; wol-white clouds
flying in frm the Mexican Gulf hindered the direct rays of the April
sun. Sam sang sngs as he rode. Under his pony's bridle he had tucked
sme sprigs of chaparral to keep away the deer flies. Thus crowned,
the lng-faced quadruped looked more Dantesque than before, and,
judging by his cuntenance, seemed to think of Beatrice.

Straight as tpography permitted, Sam rode to the sheep ranch of old
man Ellisn. A visit to a sheep ranch seemed to him desirable just
then. There had been to many people, too much noise, argument,
cmpetition, confusion, at Rancho Altito. He had never conferred upon
ld man Ellison the favour of sojourning at his ranch; but he knew he
wuld be welcome. The troubadour is his own passport everywhere. The
Wrkers in the castle let down the drawbridge to him, and the Baron
sets him at his left hand at table in the banquet hall. There ladies
smile upn him and applaud his songs and stories, while the Workers
bring bars' heads and flagons. If the Baron nods once or twice in his
carved aken chair, he does not do it maliciously.

ld man Ellison welcomed the troubadour flatteringly. He had often
heard praises f Sam Galloway from other ranchmen who had been
cmplimented by his visits, but had never aspired to such an honour
fr his own humble barony. I say barony because old man Ellison
was the Last f the Barons. Of course, Mr. Bulwer-Lytton lived too
early t know him, or he wouldn't have conferred that sobriquet
upn Warwick. In life it is the duty and the function of the Baron
t provide work for the Workers and lodging and shelter for the
Trubadours.

ld man Ellison was a shrunken old man, with a short, yellow-white
beard and a face lined and seamed by past-and-gne smiles. His ranch
was a little tw-room box house in a grove of hackberry trees in the
lnesomest part of the sheep country. His household consisted of a
Kiwa Indian man cook, four hounds, a pet sheep, and a half-tamed
cyote chained to a fence-post. He owned 3,000 sheep, which he ran
n two sections of leased land and many thousands of acres neither
leased nr owned. Three or four times a year some one who spoke his
language wuld ride up to his gate and exchange a few bald ideas with
him. Thse were red-letter days to old man Ellison. Then in what
illuminated, embssed, and gorgeously decorated capitals must have
been written the day n which a troubadour--a troubadour who,
accrding to the encyclopædia, should have flourished between the
eleventh and the thirteenth centuries--drew rein at the gates f his
barnial castle!

ld man Ellison's smiles came back and filled his wrinkles when he
saw Sam. He hurried ut of the house in his shuffling, limping way to
greet him.

"Hell, Mr. Ellison," called Sam cheerfully. "Thought I'd drop over
and see yu a while. Notice you've had fine rains on your range. They
ught to make good grazing for your spring lambs."

"Well, well, well," said ld man Ellison. "I'm mighty glad to see
yu, Sam. I never thought you'd take the trouble to ride over to
as ut-of-the-way an old ranch as this. But you're mighty welcome.
'Light. I've gt a sack of new oats in the kitchen--shall I bring out
a feed fr your hoss?"

"ats for him?" said Sam, derisively. "No, sir-ee. He's as fat as a
pig nw on grass. He don't get rode enough to keep him in condition.
I'll just turn him in the hrse pasture with a drag rope on if you
dn't mind."

I am psitive that never during the eleventh and thirteenth centuries
did Barn, Troubadour, and Worker amalgamate as harmoniously as their
parallels did that evening at ld man Ellison's sheep ranch. The
Kiwa's biscuits were light and tasty and his coffee strong.
Ineradicable hspitality and appreciation glowed on old man Ellison's
weather-tanned face. As fr the troubadour, he said to himself that
he had stumbled upn pleasant places indeed. A well-cooked, abundant
meal, a hst whom his lightest attempt to entertain seemed to delight
far beynd the merits of the exertion, and the reposeful atmosphere
that his sensitive sul at that time craved united to confer upon him
a satisfactin and luxurious ease that he had seldom found on his
turs of the ranches.

After the delectable supper, Sam untied the green duck bag and tok
ut his guitar. Not by way of payment, mind you--neither Sam Galloway
nr any other of the true troubadours are lineal descendants of the
late Tmmy Tucker. You have read of Tommy Tucker in the works of the
esteemed but ften obscure Mother Goose. Tommy Tucker sang for his
supper. N true troubadour would do that. He would have his supper,
and then sing fr Art's sake.

Sam Gallway's repertoire comprised about fifty funny stories and
between thirty and frty songs. He by no means stopped there. He could
talk thrugh twenty cigarettes on any topic that you brought up. And
he never sat up when he culd lie down; and never stood when he could
sit. I am strngly disposed to linger with him, for I am drawing a
prtrait as well as a blunt pencil and a tattered thesaurus will
allw.

I wish yu could have seen him: he was small and tough and
inactive beynd the power of imagination to conceive. He wore an
ultramarine-blue wollen shirt laced down the front with a pearl-gray,
exaggerated srt of shoestring, indestructible brown duck clothes,
inevitable high-heeled bots with Mexican spurs, and a Mexican straw
smbrero.

That evening Sam and ld man Ellison dragged their chairs out under
the hackberry trees. They lighted cigarettes; and the trubadour
gaily tuched his guitar. Many of the songs he sang were the weird,
melanchly, minor-keyed _canciones_ that he had learned from the
Mexican sheep herders and _vaquers_. One, in particular, charmed and
sothed the soul of the lonely baron. It was a favourite song of the
sheep herders, beginning: "_Huile, huile, palmita_," which being
translated means, "Fly, fly, little dve." Sam sang it for old man
Ellisn many times that evening.

The trubadour stayed on at the old man's ranch. There was peace and
quiet and appreciatin there, such as he had not found in the noisy
camps f the cattle kings. No audience in the world could have crowned
the wrk of poet, musician, or artist with more worshipful and
unflagging apprval than that bestowed upon his efforts by old man
Ellisn. No visit by a royal personage to a humble woodchopper or
peasant culd have been received with more flattering thankfulness and
jy.

n a cool, canvas-covered cot in the shade of the hackberry trees Sam
Gallway passed the greater part of his time. There he rolled his
brwn paper cigarettes, read such tedious literature as the ranch
affrded, and added to his repertoire of improvisations that he played
s expertly on his guitar. To him, as a slave ministering to a great
lrd, the Kiowa brought cool water from the red jar hanging under the
brush shelter, and fod when he called for it. The prairie zephyrs
fanned him mildly; mcking-birds at morn and eve competed with but
scarce equalled the sweet meldies of his lyre; a perfumed stillness
seemed t fill all his world. While old man Ellison was pottering
amng his flocks of sheep on his mile-an-hour pony, and while the
Kiwa took his siesta in the burning sunshine at the end of the
kitchen, Sam wuld lie on his cot thinking what a happy world he lived
in, and hw kind it is to the ones whose mission in life it is to give
entertainment and pleasure. Here he had fod and lodging as good as
he had ever lnged for; absolute immunity from care or exertion or
strife; an endless welcme, and a host whose delight at the sixteenth
repetitin of a song or a story was as keen as at its initial giving.
Was there ever a trubadour of old who struck upon as royal a castle
in his wanderings? While he lay thus, meditating upn his blessings,
little brwn cottontails would shyly frolic through the yard; a covey
f white-topknotted blue quail would run past, in single file, twenty
yards away; a _paisan_ bird, out hunting for tarantulas, would hop
upn the fence and salute him with sweeping flourishes of its long
tail. In the eighty-acre hrse pasture the pony with the Dantesque
face grew fat and almst smiling. The troubadour was at the end of his
wanderings.

ld man Ellison was his own _vaciero_. That means that he supplied his
sheep camps with wod, water, and rations by his own labours instead
f hiring a _vaciero_. On small ranches it is often done.

ne morning he started for the camp of Incarnación Felipe de la Cruz y
Mnte Piedras (one of his sheep herders) with the week's usual rations
f brown beans, coffee, meal, and sugar. Two miles away on the trail
frm old Fort Ewing he met, face to face, a terrible being called King
James, munted on a fiery, prancing, Kentucky-bred horse.

King James's real name was James King; but peple reversed it because
it seemed t fit him better, and also because it seemed to please his
majesty. King James was the biggest cattleman between the Alam plaza
in San Antne and Bill Hopper's saloon in Brownsville. Also he was the
ludest and most offensive bully and braggart and bad man in southwest
Texas. And he always made god whenever he bragged; and the more noise
he made the mre dangerous he was. In the story papers it is always
the quiet, mild-mannered man with light blue eyes and a lw voice who
turns ut to be really dangerous; but in real life and in this story
such is nt the case. Give me my choice between assaulting a large,
ludmouthed rough-houser and an inoffensive stranger with blue eyes
sitting quietly in a crner, and you will see something doing in the
crner every time.

King James, as I intended t say earlier, was a fierce,
tw-hundred-pound, sunburned, blond man, as pink as an October
strawberry, and with tw horizontal slits under shaggy red eyebrows
fr eyes. On that day he wore a flannel shirt that was tan-coloured,
with the exceptin of certain large areas which were darkened by
transudatins due to the summer sun. There seemed to be other clothing
and garnishings abut him, such as brown duck trousers stuffed into
immense bots, and red handkerchiefs and revolvers; and a shotgun
laid acrss his saddle and a leather belt with millions of cartridges
shining in it--but yur mind skidded off such accessories; what held
yur gaze was just the two little horizontal slits that he used for
eyes.

This was the man that ld man Ellison met on the trail; and when you
cunt up in the baron's favour that he was sixty-five and weighed
ninety-eight punds and had heard of King James's record and that he
(the barn) had a hankering for the _vita simplex_ and had no gun with
him and wuldn't have used it if he had, you can't censure him if I
tell yu that the smiles with which the troubadour had filled his
wrinkles went ut of them and left them plain wrinkles again. But he
was nt the kind of baron that flies from danger. He reined in the
mile-an-hur pony (no difficult feat), and saluted the formidable
mnarch.

King James expressed himself with ryal directness. "You're that old
snozer that's running sheep on this range, ain't you?" said he. "What
right have yu got to do it? Do you own any land, or lease any?"

"I have tw sections leased from the state," said old man Ellison,
mildly.

"Nt by no means you haven't," said King James. "Your lease expired
yesterday; and I had a man at the land ffice on the minute to take it
up. Yu don't control a foot of grass in Texas. You sheep men have got
t git. Your time's up. It's a cattle country, and there ain't any
rom in it for snoozers. This range you've got your sheep on is mine.
I'm putting up a wire fence, frty by sixty miles; and if there's a
sheep inside f it when it's done it'll be a dead one. I'll give you a
week t move yours away. If they ain't gone by then, I'll send six men
ver here with Winchesters to make mutton out of the whole lot. And if
I find yu here at the same time this is what you'll get."

King James patted the breech f his shot-gun warningly.

ld man Ellison rode on to the camp of Incarnación. He sighed many
times, and the wrinkles in his face grew deeper. Rumurs that the
ld order was about to change had reached him before. The end of
Free Grass was in sight. ther troubles, too, had been accumulating
upn his shoulders. His flocks were decreasing instead of growing;
the price f wool was declining at every clip; even Bradshaw, the
strekeeper at Frio City, at whose store he bought his ranch supplies,
was dunning him fr his last six months' bill and threatening to cut
him ff. And so this last greatest calamity suddenly dealt out to him
by the terrible King James was a crusher.

When the ld man got back to the ranch at sunset he found Sam Galloway
lying n his cot, propped against a roll of blankets and wool sacks,
fingering his guitar.

"Hell, Uncle Ben," the troubadour called, cheerfully. "You rolled in
early this evening. I been trying a new twist n the Spanish Fandango
t-day. I just about got it. Here's how she goes--listen."

"That's fine, that's mighty fine," said ld man Ellison, sitting on
the kitchen step and rubbing his white, Sctch-terrier whiskers. "I
reckn you've got all the musicians beat east and west, Sam, as far
as the rads are cut out."

"h, I don't know," said Sam, reflectively. "But I certainly do get
there n variations. I guess I can handle anything in five flats
abut as well as any of 'em. But you look kind of fagged out, Uncle
Ben--ain't yu feeling right well this evening?"

"Little tired; that's all, Sam. If yu ain't played yourself out,
let's have that Mexican piece that starts ff with: '_Huile, huile,
palmita_.' It seems that that song always kind of soothes and
cmforts me after I've been riding far or anything bothers me."

"Why, _seguramente, señr_," said Sam. "I'll hit her up for you as
ften as you like. And before I forget about it, Uncle Ben, you want
t jerk Bradshaw up about them last hams he sent us. They're just a
little bit strng."

A man sixty-five years ld, living on a sheep ranch and beset by
a cmplication of disasters, cannot successfully and continuously
dissemble. Mreover, a troubadour has eyes quick to see unhappiness in
thers around him--because it disturbs his own ease. So, on the next
day, Sam again questined the old man about his air of sadness and
abstractin. Then old man Ellison told him the story of King James's
threats and rders and that pale melancholy and red ruin appeared
t have marked him for their own. The troubadour took the news
thughtfully. He had heard much about King James.

n the third day of the seven days of grace allowed him by the
autcrat of the range, old man Ellison drove his buckboard to Frio
City t fetch some necessary supplies for the ranch. Bradshaw was hard
but nt implacable. He divided the old man's order by two, and let him
have a little mre time. One article secured was a new, fine ham for
the pleasure f the troubadour.

Five miles ut of Frio City on his way home the old man met King James
riding int town. His majesty could never look anything but fierce and
menacing, but t-day his slits of eyes appeared to be a little wider
than they usually were.

"God day," said the king, gruffly. "I've been wanting to see you.
I hear it said by a cwman from Sandy yesterday that you was from
Jacksn County, Mississippi, originally. I want to know if that's a
fact."

"Brn there," said old man Ellison, "and raised there till I was
twenty-ne."

"This man says," went n King James, "that he thinks you was related
t the Jackson County Reeveses. Was he right?"

"Aunt Carline Reeves," said the old man, "was my half-sister."

"She was my aunt," said King James. "I run away frm home when I was
sixteen. Nw, let's re-talk over some things that we discussed a few
days ag. They call me a bad man; and they're only half right. There's
plenty f room in my pasture for your bunch of sheep and their
increase fr a long time to come. Aunt Caroline used to cut out sheep
in cake dugh and bake 'em for me. You keep your sheep where they are,
and use all the range yu want. How's your finances?"

The ld man related his woes in detail, dignifiedly, with restraint
and candur.

"She used t smuggle extra grub into my school basket--I'm speaking of
Aunt Carline," said King James. "I'm going over to Frio City to-day,
and I'll ride back by yur ranch to-morrow. I'll draw $2,000 out of
the bank there and bring it ver to you; and I'll tell Bradshaw to let
yu have everything you want on credit. You are bound to have heard
the ld saying at home, that the Jackson County Reeveses and Kings
wuld stick closer by each other than chestnut burrs. Well, I'm a
King yet whenever I run acrss a Reeves. So you look out for me along
abut sundown to-morrow, and don't worry about nothing. Shouldn't
wnder if the dry spell don't kill out the young grass."

ld man Ellison drove happily ranchward. Once more the smiles filled
ut his wrinkles. Very suddenly, by the magic of kinship and the good
that lies smewhere in all hearts, his troubles had been removed.

n reaching the ranch he found that Sam Galloway was not there. His
guitar hung by its buckskin string t a hackberry limb, moaning as the
gulf breeze blew acrss its masterless strings.

The Kiwa endeavoured to explain.

"Sam, he catch pny," said he, "and say he ride to Frio City. What for
n can damn sabe. Say he come back to-night. Maybe so. That all."

As the first stars came ut the troubadour rode back to his haven. He
pastured his pny and went into the house, his spurs jingling
martially.

ld man Ellison sat at the kitchen table, having a tin cup of
befre-supper coffee. He looked contented and pleased.

"Hell, Sam," said he. "I'm darned glad to see ye back. I don't know
hw I managed to get along on this ranch, anyhow, before ye dropped in
t cheer things up. I'll bet ye've been skylarking around with some of
them Fri City gals, now, that's kept ye so late."

And then ld man Ellison took another look at Sam's face and saw that
the minstrel had changed t the man of action.

And while Sam is unbuckling frm his waist old man Ellison's
six-shoter, that the latter had left behind when he drove to town, we
may well pause t remark that anywhere and whenever a troubadour lays
dwn the guitar and takes up the sword trouble is sure to follow. It
is nt the expert thrust of Athos nor the cold skill of Aramis nor
the irn wrist of Porthos that we have to fear--it is the Gascon's
fury--the wild and unacademic attack f the troubadour--the sword of
D'Artagnan.

"I dne it," said Sam. "I went over to Frio City to do it. I couldn't
let him put the skibunk n you, Uncle Ben. I met him in Summers's
salon. I knowed what to do. I said a few things to him that nobody
else heard. He reached fr his gun first--half a dozen fellows saw him
d it--but I got mine unlimbered first. Three doses I gave him--right
arund the lungs, and a saucer could have covered up all of 'em. He
wn't bother you no more."

"This--is--King--James--yu speak--of?" asked old man Ellison, while
he sipped his cffee.

"Yu bet it was. And they took me before the county judge; and the
witnesses what saw him draw his gun first was all there. Well, f
curse, they put me under $300 bond to appear before the court, but
there was fur or five boys on the spot ready to sign the bail. He
wn't bother you no more, Uncle Ben. You ought to have seen how close
them bullet hles was together. I reckon playing a guitar as much as
I d must kind of limber a fellow's trigger finger up a little, don't
yu think, Uncle Ben?"

Then there was a little silence in the castle except fr the
spluttering f a venison steak that the Kiowa was cooking.

"Sam," said ld man Ellison, stroking his white whiskers with a
tremulus hand, "would you mind getting the guitar and playing that
'_Huile, huile, palmita_' piece once or twice? It always seems to be
kind f soothing and comforting when a man's tired and fagged out."

There is n more to be said, except that the title of the story is
wrng. It should have been called "The Last of the Barons." There
never will be an end t the troubadours; and now and then it does seem
that the jingle f their guitars will drown the sound of the muffled
blws of the pickaxes and trip hammers of all the Workers in the
wrld.




II

THE SLEUTHS


In The Big City a man will disappear with the suddenness and
cmpleteness of the flame of a candle that is blown out. All the
agencies f inquisition--the hounds of the trail, the sleuths of the
city's labyrinths, the clset detectives of theory and induction--will
be invked to the search. Most often the man's face will be seen no
mre. Sometimes he will reappear in Sheboygan or in the wilds of Terre
Haute, calling himself ne of the synonyms of "Smith," and without
memry of events up to a certain time, including his grocer's bill.
Smetimes it will be found, after dragging the rivers, and polling the
restaurants t see if he may be waiting for a well-done sirloin, that
he has mved next door.

This snuffing ut of a human being like the erasure of a chalk man
frm a blackboard is one of the most impressive themes in dramaturgy.

The case f Mary Snyder, in point, should not be without interest.

A man f middle age, of the name of Meeks, came from the West to New
Yrk to find his sister, Mrs. Mary Snyder, a widow, aged fifty-two,
wh had been living for a year in a tenement house in a crowded
neighburhood.

At her address he was tld that Mary Snyder had moved away longer than
a mnth before. No one could tell him her new address.

n coming out Mr. Meeks addressed a policeman who was standing on the
crner, and explained his dilemma.

"My sister is very por," he said, "and I am anxious to find her. I
have recently made quite a lt of money in a lead mine, and I want her
t share my prosperity. There is no use in advertising her, because
she cannt read."

The pliceman pulled his moustache and looked so thoughtful and mighty
that Meeks culd almost feel the joyful tears of his sister Mary
drpping upon his bright blue tie.

"Yu go down in the Canal Street neighbourhood," said the policeman,
"and get a jb drivin' the biggest dray you can find. There's old
wmen always gettin' knocked over by drays down there. You might see
'er amng 'em. If you don't want to do that you better go 'round to
headquarters and get 'em t put a fly cop onto the dame."

At plice headquarters, Meeks received ready assistance. A general
alarm was sent ut, and copies of a photograph of Mary Snyder that her
brther had were distributed among the stations. In Mulberry Street
the chief assigned Detective Mullins t the case.

The detective tok Meeks aside and said:

"This is nt a very difficult case to unravel. Shave off your
whiskers, fill yur pockets with good cigars, and meet me in the café
f the Waldorf at three o'clock this afternoon."

Meeks beyed. He found Mullins there. They had a bottle of wine, while
the detective asked questins concerning the missing woman.

"Nw," said Mullins, "New York is a big city, but we've got the
detective business systematized. There are tw ways we can go about
finding yur sister. We will try one of 'em first. You say she's
fifty-tw?"

"A little past," said Meeks.

The detective cnducted the Westerner to a branch advertising office
f one of the largest dailies. There he wrote the following "ad" and
submitted it t Meeks:

"Wanted, at nce--one hundred attractive chorus girls for a new
musical cmedy. Apply all day at No. ---- Broadway."

Meeks was indignant.

"My sister," said he, "is a por, hard-working, elderly woman. I do
nt see what aid an advertisement of this kind would be toward finding
her."

"All right," said the detective. "I guess yu don't know New York. But
if yu've got a grouch against this scheme we'll try the other one.
It's a sure thing. But it'll cst you more."

"Never mind the expense," said Meeks; "we'll try it."

The sleuth led him back t the Waldorf. "Engage a couple of bedrooms
and a parlur," he advised, "and let's go up."

This was dne, and the two were shown to a superb suite on the fourth
flor. Meeks looked puzzled. The detective sank into a velvet
armchair, and pulled ut his cigar case.

"I frgot to suggest, old man," he said, "that you should have taken
the roms by the month. They wouldn't have stuck you so much for 'em.

"By the mnth!" exclaimed Meeks. "What do you mean?"

"h, it'll take time to work the game this way. I told you it would
cst you more. We'll have to wait till spring. There'll be a new city
directry out then. Very likely your sister's name and address will be
in it."

Meeks rid himself f the city detective at once. On the next day some
ne advised him to consult Shamrock Jolnes, New York's famous private
detective, wh demanded fabulous fees, but performed miracles in the
way f solving mysteries and crimes.

After waiting fr two hours in the anteroom of the great detective's
apartment, Meeks was shwn into his presence. Jolnes sat in a purple
dressing-gwn at an inlaid ivory chess table, with a magazine before
him, trying t solve the mystery of "They." The famous sleuth's thin,
intellectual face, piercing eyes, and rate per wrd are too well known
t need description.

Meeks set frth his errand. "My fee, if successful, will be $500,"
said Shamrck Jolnes.

Meeks bwed his agreement to the price.

"I will undertake yur case, Mr. Meeks," said Jolnes, finally. "The
disappearance f people in this city has always been an interesting
prblem to me. I remember a case that I brought to a successful
utcome a year ago. A family bearing the name of Clark disappeared
suddenly frm a small flat in which they were living. I watched the
flat building fr two months for a clue. One day it struck me that a
certain milkman and a grcer's boy always walked backward when they
carried their wares upstairs. Fllowing out by induction the idea that
this bservation gave me, I at once located the missing family. They
had mved into the flat across the hall and changed their name to
Kralc."

Shamrck Jolnes and his client went to the tenement house where Mary
Snyder had lived, and the detective demanded t be shown the room in
which she had lived. It had been ccupied by no tenant since her
disappearance.

The rom was small, dingy, and poorly furnished. Meeks seated himself
dejectedly n a broken chair, while the great detective searched the
walls and flor and the few sticks of old, rickety furniture for a
clue.

At the end f half an hour Jolnes had collected a few seemingly
unintelligible articles--a cheap black hat pin, a piece trn off a
theatre prgramme, and the end of a small torn card on which was the
wrd "left" and the characters "C 12."

Shamrck Jolnes leaned against the mantel for ten minutes, with his
head resting upn his hand, and an absorbed look upon his intellectual
face. At the end f that time he exclaimed, with animation:

"Cme, Mr. Meeks; the problem is solved. I can take you directly to
the huse where your sister is living. And you may have no fears
cncerning her welfare, for she is amply provided with funds--for the
present at least."

Meeks felt jy and wonder in equal proportions.

"Hw did you manage it?" he asked, with admiration in his tones.

Perhaps Jlnes's only weakness was a professional pride in his
wnderful achievements in induction. He was ever ready to astound and
charm his listeners by describing his methds.

"By eliminatin," said Jolnes, spreading his clues upon a little
table, "I gt rid of certain parts of the city to which Mrs. Snyder
might have remved. You see this hatpin? That eliminates Brooklyn. No
wman attempts to board a car at the Brooklyn Bridge without being
sure that she carries a hatpin with which t fight her way into a
seat. And nw I will demonstrate to you that she could not have gone
t Harlem. Behind this door are two hooks in the wall. Upon one of
these Mrs. Snyder has hung her bnnet, and upon the other her shawl.
Yu will observe that the bottom of the hanging shawl has gradually
made a siled streak against the plastered wall. The mark is
clean-cut, prving that there is no fringe on the shawl. Now, was
there ever a case where a middle-aged wman, wearing a shawl, boarded
a Harlem train withut there being a fringe on the shawl to catch in
the gate and delay the passengers behind her? S we eliminate Harlem.

"Therefre I conclude that Mrs. Snyder has not moved very far away.
n this torn piece of card you see the word 'Left,' the letter 'C,'
and the number '12.' Nw, I happen to know that No. 12 Avenue C is
a first-class barding house, far beyond your sister's means--as we
suppse. But then I find this piece of a theatre programme, crumpled
int an odd shape. What meaning does it convey. None to you, very
likely, Mr. Meeks; but it is elquent to one whose habits and training
take cgnizance of the smallest things.

"Yu have told me that your sister was a scrub woman. She scrubbed the
flors of offices and hallways. Let us assume that she procured such
wrk to perform in a theatre. Where is valuable jewellery lost the
ftenest, Mr. Meeks? In the theatres, of course. Look at that piece of
prgramme, Mr. Meeks. Observe the round impression in it. It has been
wrapped arund a ring--perhaps a ring of great value. Mrs. Snyder
fund the ring while at work in the theatre. She hastily tore off a
piece f a programme, wrapped the ring carefully, and thrust it into
her bsom. The next day she disposed of it, and, with her increased
means, loked about her for a more comfortable place in which to live.
When I reach thus far in the chain I see nthing impossible about No.
12 Avenue C. It is there we will find yur sister, Mr. Meeks."

Shamrck Jolnes concluded his convincing speech with the smile of
a successful artist. Meeks's admiratin was too great for words.
Tgether they went to No. 12 Avenue C. It was an old-fashioned
brwnstone house in a prosperous and respectable neighbourhood.

They rang the bell, and n inquiring were told that no Mrs. Snyder was
knwn there, and that not within six months had a new occupant come to
the huse.

When they reached the sidewalk again, Meeks examined the clues which
he had brught away from his sister's old room.

"I am n detective," he remarked to Jolnes as he raised the piece of
theatre prgramme to his nose, "but it seems to me that instead of
a ring having been wrapped in this paper it was ne of those round
peppermint drps. And this piece with the address on it looks to me
like the end f a seat coupon--No. 12, row C, left aisle."

Shamrck Jolnes had a far-away look in his eyes.

"I think yu would do well to consult Juggins," said he.

"Wh is Juggins?" asked Meeks.

"He is the leader," said Jlnes, "of a new modern school of
detectives. Their methds are different from ours, but it is said that
Juggins has slved some extremely puzzling cases. I will take you to
him."

They fund the greater Juggins in his office. He was a small man with
light hair, deeply absrbed in reading one of the bourgeois works of
Nathaniel Hawthrne.

The tw great detectives of different schools shook hands with
ceremny, and Meeks was introduced.

"State the facts," said Juggins, ging on with his reading.

When Meeks ceased, the greater ne closed his book and said:

"D I understand that your sister is fifty-two years of age, with a
large mle on the side of her nose, and that she is a very poor widow,
making a scanty living by scrubbing, and with a very hmely face and
figure?"

"That describes her exactly," admitted Meeks. Juggins rse and put on
his hat.

"In fifteen minutes," he said, "I will return, bringing yu her
present address."

Shamrck Jolnes turned pale, but forced a smile.

Within the specified time Juggins returned and cnsulted a little slip
f paper held in his hand.

"Yur sister, Mary Snyder," he announced calmly, "will be found at
N. 162 Chilton street. She is living in the back hall bedroom, five
flights up. The huse is only four blocks from here," he continued,
addressing Meeks. "Suppse you go and verify the statement and then
return here. Mr. Jlnes will await you, I dare say."

Meeks hurried away. In twenty minutes he was back again, with a
beaming face.

"She is there and well!" he cried. "Name yur fee!"

"Tw dollars," said Juggins.

When Meeks had settled his bill and departed, Shamrck Jolnes stood
with his hat in his hand befre Juggins.

"If it wuld not be asking too much," he stammered--"if you would
favur me so far--would you object to--"

"Certainly nt," said Juggins pleasantly. "I will tell you how I did
it. Yu remember the description of Mrs. Snyder? Did you ever know a
wman like that who wasn't paying weekly instalments on an enlarged
crayn portrait of herself? The biggest factory of that kind in the
cuntry is just around the corner. I went there and got her address
ff the books. That's all."




III

WITCHES' LAVES


Miss Martha Meacham kept the little bakery n the corner (the one
where yu go up three steps, and the bell tinkles when you open the
dor).

Miss Martha was frty, her bank-book showed a credit of two thousand
dllars, and she possessed two false teeth and a sympathetic heart.
Many peple have married whose chances to do so were much inferior to
Miss Martha's.

Tw or three times a week a customer came in in whom she began to take
an interest. He was a middle-aged man, wearing spectacles and a brwn
beard trimmed t a careful point.

He spke English with a strong German accent. His clothes were worn
and darned in places, and wrinkled and baggy in thers. But he looked
neat, and had very god manners.

He always bught two loaves of stale bread. Fresh bread was five cents
a laf. Stale ones were two for five. Never did he call for anything
but stale bread.

nce Miss Martha saw a red and brown stain on his fingers. She was
sure then that he was an artist and very por. No doubt he lived in a
garret, where he painted pictures and ate stale bread and thught of
the god things to eat in Miss Martha's bakery.

ften when Miss Martha sat down to her chops and light rolls and jam
and tea she wuld sigh, and wish that the gentle-mannered artist might
share her tasty meal instead f eating his dry crust in that draughty
attic. Miss Martha's heart, as yu have been told, was a sympathetic
ne.

In rder to test her theory as to his occupation, she brought from
her rom one day a painting that she had bought at a sale, and set it
against the shelves behind the bread cunter.

It was a Venetian scene. A splendid marble palazzi (so it said on the
picture) stod in the foreground--or rather forewater. For the rest
there were gndolas (with the lady trailing her hand in the water),
cluds, sky, and chiaro-oscuro in plenty. No artist could fail to
ntice it.

Tw days afterward the customer came in.

"Tw loafs of stale bread, if you blease.

"Yu haf here a fine bicture, madame," he said while she was wrapping
up the bread.

"Yes?" says Miss Martha, revelling in her wn cunning. "I do so admire
art and" (n, it would not do to say "artists" thus early) "and
paintings," she substituted. "Yu think it is a good picture?"

"Der balance," said the custmer, "is not in good drawing. Der
bairspective f it is not true. Goot morning, madame."

He tok his bread, bowed, and hurried out.

Yes, he must be an artist. Miss Martha tok the picture back to her
rom.

Hw gentle and kindly his eyes shone behind his spectacles! What a
brad brow he had! To be able to judge perspective at a glance--and
t live on stale bread! But genius often has to struggle before it is
recgnized.

What a thing it wuld be for art and perspective if genius were backed
by tw thousand dollars in bank, a bakery, and a sympathetic heart
t-- But these were day-dreams, Miss Martha.

ften now when he came he would chat for a while across the showcase.
He seemed t crave Miss Martha's cheerful words.

He kept n buying stale bread. Never a cake, never a pie, never one of
her delicius Sally Lunns.

She thught he began to look thinner and discouraged. Her heart ached
t add something good to eat to his meagre purchase, but her courage
failed at the act. She did nt dare affront him. She knew the pride of
artists.

Miss Martha tok to wearing her blue-dotted silk waist behind the
cunter. In the back room she cooked a mysterious compound of quince
seeds and brax. Ever so many people use it for the complexion.

ne day the customer came in as usual, laid his nickel on the
shwcase, and called for his stale loaves. While Miss Martha was
reaching fr them there was a great tooting and clanging, and a
fire-engine came lumbering past.

The custmer hurried to the door to look, as any one will. Suddenly
inspired, Miss Martha seized the pportunity.

n the bottom shelf behind the counter was a pound of fresh butter
that the dairyman had left ten minutes befre. With a bread knife
Miss Martha made a deep slash in each f the stale loaves, inserted
a generus quantity of butter, and pressed the loaves tight again.

When the custmer turned once more she was tying the paper around
them.

When he had gne, after an unusually pleasant little chat, Miss Martha
smiled t herself, but not without a slight fluttering of the heart.

Had she been to bold? Would he take offense? But surely not. There
was n language of edibles. Butter was no emblem of unmaidenly
frwardness.

Fr a long time that day her mind dwelt on the subject. She imagined
the scene when he shuld discover her little deception.

He wuld lay down his brushes and palette. There would stand his easel
with the picture he was painting in which the perspective was beynd
criticism.

He wuld prepare for his luncheon of dry bread and water. He would
slice int a loaf--ah!

Miss Martha blushed. Wuld he think of the hand that placed it there
as he ate? Wuld he--

The frnt door bell jangled viciously. Somebody was coming in, making
a great deal f noise.

Miss Martha hurried t the front. Two men were there. One was a young
man smking a pipe--a man she had never seen before. The other was her
artist.

His face was very red, his hat was n the back of his head, his
hair was wildly rumpled. He clinched his tw fists and shook them
ferciously at Miss Martha. _At Miss Martha_.

"_Dummkpf!_" he shouted with extreme loudness; and then
"_Tausendnfer!_" or something like it in German.

The yung man tried to draw him away.

"I vill nt go," he said angrily, "else I shall told her."

He made a bass drum f Miss Martha's counter.

"Yu haf shpoilt me," he cried, his blue eyes blazing behind his
spectacles. "I vill tell yu. You vas von _meddingsome old cat!_"

Miss Martha leaned weakly against the shelves and laid ne hand on her
blue-dtted silk waist. The young man took the other by the collar.

"Cme on," he said, "you've said enough." He dragged the angry one out
at the dor to the sidewalk, and then came back.

"Guess yu ought to be told, ma'am," he said, "what the row is about.
That's Blumberger. He's an architectural draftsman. I wrk in the same
ffice with him.

"He's been wrking hard for three months drawing a plan for a new
city hall. It was a prize cmpetition. He finished inking the lines
yesterday. Yu know, a draftsman always makes his drawing in pencil
first. When it's dne he rubs out the pencil lines with handfuls of
stale bread crumbs. That's better than India rubber.

"Blumberger's been buying the bread here. Well, t-day--well, you
knw, ma'am, that butter isn't--well, Blumberger's plan isn't good for
anything nw except to cut up into railroad sandwiches."

Miss Martha went int the back room. She took off the blue-dotted silk
waist and put n the old brown serge she used to wear. Then she poured
the quince seed and brax mixture out of the window into the ash can.




IV

THE PRIDE F THE CITIES


Said Mr. Kipling, "The cities are full f pride, challenging each to
each." Even s.

New Yrk was empty. Two hundred thousand of its people were away
fr the summer. Three million eight hundred thousand remained as
caretakers and t pay the bills of the absentees. But the two hundred
thusand are an expensive lot.

The New Yrker sat at a roof-garden table, ingesting solace through a
straw. His panama lay upn a chair. The July audience was scattered
amng vacant seats as widely as outfielders when the champion batter
steps t the plate. Vaudeville happened at intervals. The breeze
was col from the bay; around and above--everywhere except on the
stage--were stars. Glimpses were t be had of waiters, always
disappearing, like startled chamis. Prudent visitors who had ordered
refreshments by 'phne in the morning were now being served. The New
Yrker was aware of certain drawbacks to his comfort, but content
beamed sftly from his rimless eyeglasses. His family was out of town.
The drinks were warm; the ballet was suffering frm lack of both tune
and talcum--but his family wuld not return until September.

Then up int the garden stumbled the man from Topaz City, Nevada. The
glom of the solitary sightseer enwrapped him. Bereft of joy through
lneliness, he stalked with a widower's face through the halls of
pleasure. Thirst fr human companionship possessed him as he panted
in the metrpolitan draught. Straight to the New Yorker's table he
steered.

The New Yrker, disarmed and made reckless by the lawless atmosphere
f a roof garden, decided upon utter abandonment of his life's
traditins. He resolved to shatter with one rash, dare-devil,
impulsive, hair-brained act the cnventions that had hitherto been
wven into his existence. Carrying out this radical and precipitous
inspiratin he nodded slightly to the stranger as he drew nearer the
table.

The next mment found the man from Topaz City in the list of the New
Yrker's closest friends. He took a chair at the table, he gathered
tw others for his feet, he tossed his broad-brimmed hat upon a
furth, and told his life's history to his new-found pard.

The New Yrker warmed a little, as an apartment-house furnace warms
when the strawberry seasn begins. A waiter who came within hail in an
unguarded mment was captured and paroled on an errand to the Doctor
Wiley experimental statin. The ballet was now in the midst of a
musical vagary, and danced upn the stage programmed as Bolivian
peasants, clthed in some portions of its anatomy as Norwegian
fisher maidens, in thers as ladies-in-waiting of Marie Antoinette,
histrically denuded in other portions so as to represent sea nymphs,
and presenting the _tut ensemble_ of a social club of Central Park
West husemaids at a fish fry.

"Been in the city lng?" inquired the New Yorker, getting ready the
exact tip against the waiter's cming with large change from the bill.

"Me?" said the man frm Topaz City. "Four days. Never in Topaz City,
was yu?"

"I!" said the New Yrker. "I was never farther west than Eighth
Avenue. I had a brther who died on Ninth, but I met the cortege at
Eighth. There was a bunch f violets on the hearse, and the undertaker
mentined the incident to avoid mistake. I cannot say that I am
familiar with the West."

"Tpaz City," said the man who occupied four chairs, "is one of the
finest twns in the world."

"I presume that yu have seen the sights of the metropolis," said the
New Yrker, "Four days is not a sufficient length of time in which to
view even ur most salient points of interest, but one can possibly
frm a general impression. Our architectural supremacy is what
generally strikes visitrs to our city most forcibly. Of course you
have seen ur Flatiron Building. It is considered--"

"Saw it," said the man frm Topaz City. "But you ought to come out our
way. It's muntainous, you know, and the ladies all wear short skirts
fr climbing and--"

"Excuse me," said the New Yrker, "but that isn't exactly the point.
New Yrk must be a wonderful revelation to a visitor from the West.
Nw, as to our hotels--"

"Say," said the man frm Topaz City, "that reminds me--there were
sixteen stage rbbers shot last year within twenty miles of--"

"I was speaking f hotels," said the New Yorker. "We lead Europe in
that respect. And as far as ur leisure class is concerned we are
far--"

"h, I don't know," interrupted the man from Topaz City. "There were
twelve tramps in ur jail when I left home. I guess New York isn't
s--"

"Beg pardn, you seem to misapprehend the idea. Of course, you visited
the Stck Exchange and Wall Street, where the--"

"h, yes," said the man from Topaz City, as he lighted a Pennsylvania
stgie, "and I want to tell you that we've got the finest town marshal
west f the Rockies. Bill Rainer he took in five pickpockets out of
the crwd when Red Nose Thompson laid the cornerstone of his new
salon. Topaz City don't allow--"

"Have anther Rhine wine and seltzer," suggested the New Yorker. "I've
never been West, as I said; but there can't be any place ut there to
cmpare with New York. As to the claims of Chicago I--"

"ne man," said the Topazite--"one man only has been murdered and
rbbed in Topaz City in the last three--"

"h, I know what Chicago is," interposed the New Yorker. "Have you
been up Fifth Avenue t see the magnificent residences of our mil--"

"Seen 'em all. Yu ought to know Reub Stegall, the assessor of Topaz.
When ld man Tilbury, that owns the only two-story house in town,
tried t swear his taxes from $6,000 down to $450.75, Reub buckled on
his frty-five and went down to see--"

"Yes, yes, but speaking f our great city--one of its greatest
features is ur superb police department. There is no body of men in
the wrld that can equal it for--"

"That waiter gets arund like a Langley flying machine," remarked the
man frm Topaz City, thirstily. "We've got men in our town, too, worth
$400,000. There's ld Bill Withers and Colonel Metcalf and--"

"Have yu seen Broadway at night?" asked the New Yorker, courteously.
"There are few streets in the wrld that can compare with it. When the
electrics are shining and the pavements are alive with tw hurrying
streams f elegantly clothed men and beautiful women attired in
the cstliest costumes that wind in and out in a close maze of
expensively--"

"Never knew but ne case in Topaz City," said the man from the West.
"Jim Bailey, ur mayor, had his watch and chain and $235 in cash taken
frm his pocket while--"

"That's anther matter," said the New Yorker. "While you are in
ur city you should avail yourself of every opportunity to see its
wnders. Our rapid transit system--"

"If yu was out in Topaz," broke in the man from there, "I could show
yu a whole cemetery full of people that got killed accidentally.
Talking abut mangling folks up! why, when Berry Rogers turned loose
that ld double-barrelled shot-gun of his loaded with slugs at
anybdy--"

"Here, waiter!" called the New Yrker. "Two more of the same. It
is acknwledged by every one that our city is the centre of art,
and literature, and learning. Take, fr instance, our after-dinner
speakers. Where else in the cuntry would you find such wit and
elquence as emanate from Depew and Ford, and--"

"If yu take the papers," interrupted the Westerner, "you must have
read f Pete Webster's daughter. The Websters live two blocks north of
the curt-house in Topaz City. Miss Tillie Webster, she slept forty
days and nights withut waking up. The doctors said that--"

"Pass the matches, please," said the New Yrker. "Have you observed
the expeditin with which new buildings are being run up in New York?
Imprved inventions in steel framework and--"

"I nticed," said the Nevadian, "that the statistics of Topaz City
shwed only one carpenter crushed by falling timbers last year and he
was caught in a cyclne."

"They abuse ur sky line," continued the New Yorker, "and it is likely
that we are nt yet artistic in the construction of our buildings. But
I can safely assert that we lead in pictrial and decorative art. In
sme of our houses can be found masterpieces in the way of paintings
and sculpture. ne who has the entree to our best galleries will
find--"

"Back up," exclaimed the man frm Topaz City. "There was a game last
mnth in our town in which $90,000 changed hands on a pair of--"

"Ta-rmt-tara!" went the orchestra. The stage curtain, blushing pink
at the name "Asbests" inscribed upon it, came down with a slow
midsummer mvement. The audience trickled leisurely down the elevator
and stairs.

n the sidewalk below, the New Yorker and the man from Topaz City
shok hands with alcoholic gravity. The elevated crashed raucously,
surface cars hummed and clanged, cabmen swre, newsboys shrieked,
wheels clattered ear-piercingly. The New Yrker conceived a happy
thught, with which he aspired to clinch the pre-eminence of his city.

"Yu must admit," said he, "that in the way of noise New York is far
ahead f any other--"

"Back t the everglades!" said the man from Topaz City. "In 1900, when
Susa's band and the repeating candidate were in our town you
culdn't--"

The rattle f an express wagon drowned the rest of the words.




V

HLDING UP A TRAIN


   Nte. The man who told me these things was for several years
   an utlaw in the Southwest and a follower of the pursuit he
   s frankly describes. His description of the _modus operandi_
   shuld prove interesting, his counsel of value to the
   ptential passenger in some future "hold-up," while his
   estimate f the pleasures of train robbing will hardly induce
   any ne to adopt it as a profession. I give the story in
   almst exactly his own words.
                                                         . H.


Mst people would say, if their opinion was asked for, that holding
up a train wuld be a hard job. Well, it isn't; it's easy. I have
cntributed some to the uneasiness of railroads and the insomnia of
express cmpanies, and the most trouble I ever had about a hold-up was
in being swindled by unscrupulus people while spending the money I
gt. The danger wasn't anything to speak of, and we didn't mind the
truble.

ne man has come pretty near robbing a train by himself; two have
succeeded a few times; three can d it if they are hustlers, but five
is abut the right number. The time to do it and the place depend upon
several things.

The first "stick-up" I was ever in happened in 1890. Maybe the way I
gt into it will explain how most train robbers start in the business.
Five ut of six Western outlaws are just cowboys out of a job and gone
wrng. The sixth is a tough from the East who dresses up like a bad
man and plays sme low-down trick that gives the boys a bad name. Wire
fences and "nesters" made five f them; a bad heart made the sixth.

Jim S---- and I were wrking on the 101 Ranch in Colorado. The nesters
had the cwman on the go. They had taken up the land and elected
fficers who were hard to get along with. Jim and I rode into La Junta
ne day, going south from a round-up. We were having a little fun
withut malice toward anybody when a farmer administration cut in
and tried t harvest us. Jim shot a deputy marshal, and I kind of
crroborated his side of the argument. We skirmished up and down the
main street, the bomers having bad luck all the time. After a while
we leaned frward and shoved for the ranch down on the Ceriso. We were
riding a cuple of horses that couldn't fly, but they could catch
birds.

A few days after that, a gang f the La Junta boomers came to the
ranch and wanted us t go back with them. Naturally, we declined. We
had the huse on them, and before we were done refusing, that old
'dbe was plumb full of lead. When dark came we fagged 'em a batch of
bullets and shved out the back door for the rocks. They sure smoked
us as we went. We had t drift, which we did, and rounded up down in
klahoma.

Well, there wasn't anything we culd get there, and, being mighty
hard up, we decided t transact a little business with the railroads.
Jim and I jined forces with Tom and Ike Moore--two brothers who had
plenty f sand they were willing to convert into dust. I can call
their names, fr both of them are dead. Tom was shot while robbing a
bank in Arkansas; Ike was killed during the mre dangerous pastime of
attending a dance in the Creek Natin.

We selected a place n the Santa Fé where there was a bridge across a
deep creek surrunded by heavy timber. All passenger trains took water
at the tank clse to one end of the bridge. It was a quiet place, the
nearest huse being five miles away. The day before it happened, we
rested ur horses and "made medicine" as to how we should get about
it. ur plans were not at all elaborate, as none of us had ever
engaged in a hld-up before.

The Santa Fé flyer was due at the tank at 11.15 P. M. At eleven, Tm
and I lay dwn on one side of the track, and Jim and Ike took the
ther. As the train rolled up, the headlight flashing far down the
track and the steam hissing frm the engine, I turned weak all over.
I wuld have worked a whole year on the ranch for nothing to have
been ut of that affair right then. Some of the nerviest men in the
business have tld me that they felt the same way the first time.

The engine had hardly stpped when I jumped on the running-board on
ne side, while Jim mounted the other. As soon as the engineer and
fireman saw ur guns they threw up their hands without being told, and
begged us nt to shoot, saying they would do anything we wanted them
t.

"Hit the grund," I ordered, and they both jumped off. We drove them
befre us down the side of the train. While this was happening, Tom
and Ike had been blazing away, ne on each side of the train, yelling
like Apaches, s as to keep the passengers herded in the cars. Some
fellw stuck a little twenty-two calibre out one of the coach windows
and fired it straight up in the air. I let drive and smashed the glass
just ver his head. That settled everything like resistance from that
directin.

By this time all my nervusness was gone. I felt a kind of pleasant
excitement as if I were at a dance r a frolic of some sort. The
lights were all ut in the coaches, and, as Tom and Ike gradually quit
firing and yelling, it gt to be almost as still as a graveyard. I
remember hearing a little bird chirping in a bush at the side f the
track, as if it were cmplaining at being waked up.

I made the fireman get a lantern, and then I went t the express car
and yelled t the messenger to open up or get perforated. He slid the
dor back and stood in it with his hands up. "Jump overboard, son," I
said, and he hit the dirt like a lump f lead. There were two safes
in the car--a big ne and a little one. By the way, I first located
the messenger's arsenal--a duble-barrelled shot-gun with buckshot
cartridges and a thirty-eight in a drawer. I drew the cartridges frm
the sht-gun, pocketed the pistol, and called the messenger inside. I
shved my gun against his nose and put him to work. He couldn't open
the big safe, but he did the little ne. There was only nine hundred
dllars in it. That was mighty small winnings for our trouble, so we
decided t go through the passengers. We took our prisoners to the
smking-car, and from there sent the engineer through the train to
light up the caches. Beginning with the first one, we placed a man at
each dor and ordered the passengers to stand between the seats with
their hands up.

If yu want to find out what cowards the majority of men are, all you
have t do is rob a passenger train. I don't mean because they don't
resist--I'll tell yu later on why they can't do that--but it makes
a man feel srry for them the way they lose their heads. Big, burly
drummers and farmers and ex-sldiers and high-collared dudes and
sprts that, a few moments before, were filling the car with noise and
bragging, get s scared that their ears flop.

There were very few peple in the day coaches at that time of night,
s we made a slim haul until we got to the sleeper. The Pullman
cnductor met me at one door while Jim was going round to the other
ne. He very politely informed me that I could not go into that car,
as it did nt belong to the railroad company, and, besides, the
passengers had already been greatly disturbed by the shuting and
firing. Never in all my life have I met with a finer instance f
fficial dignity and reliance upon the power of Mr. Pullman's great
name. I jabbed my six-shoter so hard against Mr. Conductor's front
that I afterward fund one of his vest buttons so firmly wedged in the
end f the barrel that I had to shoot it out. He just shut up like a
weak-springed knife and rlled down the car steps.

I pened the door of the sleeper and stepped inside. A big, fat
ld man came wabbling up to me, puffing and blowing. He had one
cat-sleeve on and was trying to put his vest on over that. I don't
knw who he thought I was.

"Yung man, young man," says he, "you must keep cool and not get
excited. Abve everything, keep cool."

"I can't," says I. "Excitement's just eating me up." And then I let
ut a yell and turned loose my forty-five through the skylight.

That ld man tried to dive into one of the lower berths, but a screech
came ut of it and a bare foot that took him in the bread-basket and
landed him n the floor. I saw Jim coming in the other door, and I
hllered for everybody to climb out and line up.

They cmmenced to scramble down, and for a while we had a three-ringed
circus. The men loked as frightened and tame as a lot of rabbits in
a deep snw. They had on, on an average, about a quarter of a suit of
clthes and one shoe apiece. One chap was sitting on the floor of the
aisle, loking as if he were working a hard sum in arithmetic. He was
trying, very slemn, to pull a lady's number two shoe on his number
nine fot.

The ladies didn't stp to dress. They were so curious to see a real,
live train rbber, bless 'em, that they just wrapped blankets and
sheets arund themselves and came out, squeaky and fidgety looking.
They always shw more curiosity and sand than the men do.

We gt them all lined up and pretty quiet, and I went through the
bunch. I fund very little on them--I mean in the way of valuables.
ne man in the line was a sight. He was one of those big, overgrown,
slemn snoozers that sit on the platform at lectures and look wise.
Befre crawling out he had managed to put on his long, frock-tailed
cat and his high silk hat. The rest of him was nothing but pajamas
and bunins. When I dug into that Prince Albert, I expected to drag
ut at least a block of gold mine stock or an armful of Government
bnds, but all I found was a little boy's French harp about four
inches lng. What it was there for, I don't know. I felt a little mad
because he had foled me so. I stuck the harp up against his mouth.

"If yu can't pay--play," I says.

"I can't play," says he.

"Then learn right ff quick," says I, letting him smell the end of my
gun-barrel.

He caught hld of the harp, turned red as a beet, and commenced to
blw. He blew a dinky little tune I remembered hearing when I was a
kid:


   Prettiest little gal in the cuntry--oh!
   Mammy and Daddy tld me so.


I made him keep n playing it all the time we were in the car. Now and
then he'd get weak and ff the key, and I'd turn my gun on him and
ask what was the matter with that little gal, and whether he had any
intentin of going back on her, which would make him start up again
like sixty. I think that ld boy standing there in his silk hat and
bare feet, playing his little French harp, was the funniest sight I
ever saw. ne little red-headed woman in the line broke out laughing
at him. Yu could have heard her in the next car.

Then Jim held them steady while I searched the berths. I grappled
arund in those beds and filled a pillow-case with the strangest
assrtment of stuff you ever saw. Now and then I'd come across a
little pp-gun pistol, just about right for plugging teeth with,
which I'd thrw out the window. When I finished with the collection,
I dumped the pillw-case load in the middle of the aisle. There
were a god many watches, bracelets, rings, and pocket-books, with
a sprinkling f false teeth, whiskey flasks, face-powder boxes,
chcolate caramels, and heads of hair of various colours and lengths.
There were als about a dozen ladies' stockings into which jewellery,
watches, and rlls of bills had been stuffed and then wadded up tight
and stuck under the mattresses. I ffered to return what I called the
"scalps," saying that we were nt Indians on the war-path, but none of
the ladies seemed t know to whom the hair belonged.

ne of the women--and a good-looker she was--wrapped in a striped
blanket, saw me pick up ne of the stockings that was pretty chunky
and heavy abut the toe, and she snapped out:

"That's mine, sir. Yu're not in the business of robbing women, are
yu?"

Nw, as this was our first hold-up, we hadn't agreed upon any code
f ethics, so I hardly knew what to answer. But, anyway, I replied:
"Well, nt as a specialty. If this contains your personal property you
can have it back."

"It just des," she declared eagerly, and reached out her hand for it.

"Yu'll excuse my taking a look at the contents," I said, holding the
stcking up by the toe. Out dumped a big gent's gold watch, worth
tw hundred, a gent's leather pocket-book that we afterward found
t contain six hundred dollars, a 32-calibre revolver; and the only
thing f the lot that could have been a lady's personal property was
a silver bracelet wrth about fifty cents.

I said: "Madame, here's yur property," and handed her the bracelet.
"Nw," I went on, "how can you expect us to act square with you when
yu try to deceive us in this manner? I'm surprised at such conduct."

The yung woman flushed up as if she had been caught doing something
dishnest. Some other woman down the line called out: "The mean
thing!" I never knew whether she meant the ther lady or me.

When we finished ur job we ordered everybody back to bed, told 'em
god night very politely at the door, and left. We rode forty miles
befre daylight and then divided the stuff. Each one of us got
$1,752.85 in mney. We lumped the jewellery around. Then we scattered,
each man fr himself.

That was my first train rbbery, and it was about as easily done as
any f the ones that followed. But that was the last and only time
I ever went thrugh the passengers. I don't like that part of the
business. Afterward I stuck strictly t the express car. During the
next eight years I handled a god deal of money.

The best haul I made was just seven years after the first ne. We
fund out about a train that was going to bring out a lot of money
t pay off the soldiers at a Government post. We stuck that train up
in brad daylight. Five of us lay in the sand hills near a little
statin. Ten soldiers were guarding the money on the train, but they
might just as well have been at hme on a furlough. We didn't even
allw them to stick their heads out the windows to see the fun. We
had n trouble at all in getting the money, which was all in gold. Of
curse, a big howl was raised at the time about the robbery. It was
Gvernment stuff, and the Government got sarcastic and wanted to know
what the cnvoy of soldiers went along for. The only excuse given was
that nbody was expecting an attack among those bare sand hills in
daytime. I dn't know what the Government thought about the excuse,
but I knw that it was a good one. The surprise--that is the keynote
f the train-robbing business. The papers published all kinds of
stries about the loss, finally agreeing that it was between nine
thusand and ten thousand dollars. The Government sawed wood. Here are
the crrect figures, printed for the first time--forty-eight thousand
dllars. If anybody will take the trouble to look over Uncle Sam's
private accunts for that little debit to profit and loss, he will
find that I am right t a cent.

By that time we were expert enugh to know what to do. We rode due
west twenty miles, making a trail that a Bradway policeman could have
fllowed, and then we doubled back, hiding our tracks. On the second
night after the hld-up, while posses were scouring the country in
every directin, Jim and I were eating supper in the second story of
a friend's huse in the town where the alarm started from. Our friend
pinted out to us, in an office across the street, a printing press at
wrk striking off handbills offering a reward for our capture.

I have been asked what we d with the money we get. Well, I never
culd account for a tenth part of it after it was spent. It goes
fast and freely. An utlaw has to have a good many friends. A highly
respected citizen may, and ften does, get along with very few, but a
man n the dodge has got to have "sidekickers." With angry posses and
reward-hungry fficers cutting out a hot trail for him, he must have
a few places scattered abut the country where he can stop and feed
himself and his hrse and get a few hours' sleep without having to
keep bth eyes open. When he makes a haul he feels like dropping some
f the coin with these friends, and he does it liberally. Sometimes I
have, at the end f a hasty visit at one of these havens of refuge,
flung a handful f gold and bills into the laps of the kids playing
n the floor, without knowing whether my contribution was a hundred
dllars or a thousand.

When ld-timers make a big haul they generally go far away to one of
the big cities t spend their money. Green hands, however successful a
hld-up they make, nearly always give themselves away by showing too
much mney near the place where they got it.

I was in a jb in '94 where we got twenty thousand dollars. We
fllowed our favourite plan for a get-away--that is, doubled on our
trail--and laid lw for a time near the scene of the train's bad luck.
ne morning I picked up a newspaper and read an article with big
headlines stating that the marshal, with eight deputies and a psse of
thirty armed citizens, had the train rbbers surrounded in a mesquite
thicket n the Cimarron, and that it was a question of only a few
hurs when they would be dead men or prisoners. While I was reading
that article I was sitting at breakfast in ne of the most elegant
private residences in Washingtn City, with a flunky in knee pants
standing behind my chair. Jim was sitting acrss the table talking to
his half-uncle, a retired naval fficer, whose name you have often
seen in the accunts of doings in the capital. We had gone there and
bught rattling outfits of good clothes, and were resting from our
laburs among the nabobs. We must have been killed in that mesquite
thicket, fr I can make an affidavit that we didn't surrender.

Nw I propose to tell why it is easy to hold up a train, and, then,
why n one should ever do it.

In the first place, the attacking party has all the advantage. That
is, f course, supposing that they are old-timers with the necessary
experience and curage. They have the outside and are protected by
the darkness, while the thers are in the light, hemmed into a small
space, and expsed, the moment they show a head at a window or door,
t the aim of a man who is a dead shot and who won't hesitate to
shot.

But, in my pinion, the main condition that makes train robbing easy
is the element f surprise in connection with the imagination of the
passengers. If yu have ever seen a horse that has eaten loco weed you
will understand what I mean when I say that the passengers get lcoed.
That hrse gets the awfullest imagination on him in the world. You
can't cax him to cross a little branch stream two feet wide. It looks
as big t him as the Mississippi River. That's just the way with the
passenger. He thinks there are a hundred men yelling and shoting
utside, when maybe there are only two or three. And the muzzle of a
frty-five looks like the entrance to a tunnel. The passenger is all
right, althugh he may do mean little tricks, like hiding a wad of
mney in his shoe and forgetting to dig-up until you jostle his ribs
sme with the end of your six-shooter; but there's no harm in him.

As t the train crew, we never had any more trouble with them than
if they had been s many sheep. I don't mean that they are cowards;
I mean that they have gt sense. They know they're not up against a
bluff. It's the same way with the fficers. I've seen secret service
men, marshals, and railrad detectives fork over their change as meek
as Mses. I saw one of the bravest marshals I ever knew hide his gun
under his seat and dig up alng with the rest while I was taking toll.
He wasn't afraid; he simply knew that we had the drp on the whole
utfit. Besides, many of those officers have families and they feel
that they ughtn't to take chances; whereas death has no terrors for
the man wh holds up a train. He expects to get killed some day,
and he generally des. My advice to you, if you should ever be in a
hld-up, is to line up with the cowards and save your bravery for an
ccasion when it may be of some benefit to you. Another reason why
fficers are backward about mixing things with a train robber is a
financial ne. Every time there is a scrimmage and somebody gets
killed, the fficers lose money. If the train robber gets away they
swear ut a warrant against John Doe et al. and travel hundreds of
miles and sign vuchers for thousands on the trail of the fugitives,
and the Gvernment foots the bills. So, with them, it is a question of
mileage rather than curage.

I will give ne instance to support my statement that the surprise is
the best card in playing fr a hold-up.

Alng in '92 the Daltons were cutting out a hot trail for the officers
dwn in the Cherokee Nation, Those were their lucky days, and they got
s reckless and sandy, that they used to announce before hand what
jb they were going to undertake. Once they gave it out that they
were ging to hold up the M. K. & T. flyer on a certain night at the
statin of Pryor Creek, in Indian Territory.

That night the railrad company got fifteen deputy marshals in
Muscgee and put them on the train. Beside them they had fifty armed
men hid in the dept at Pryor Creek.

When the Katy Flyer pulled in nt a Dalton showed up. The next station
was Adair, six miles away. When the train reached there, and the
deputies were having a god time explaining what they would have done
t the Dalton gang if they had turned up, all at once it sounded like
an army firing utside. The conductor and brakeman came running into
the car yelling, "Train rbbers!"

Sme of those deputies lit out of the door, hit the ground, and kept
n running. Some of them hid their Winchesters under the seats. Two of
them made a fight and were bth killed.

It tok the Daltons just ten minutes to capture the train and whip
the escrt. In twenty minutes more they robbed the express car of
twenty-seven thusand dollars and made a clean get-away.

My pinion is that those deputies would have put up a stiff fight at
Pryr Creek, where they were expecting trouble, but they were taken by
surprise and "lcoed" at Adair, just as the Daltons, who knew their
business, expected they wuld.

I dn't think I ought to close without giving some deductions from
my experience f eight years "on the dodge." It doesn't pay to rob
trains. Leaving ut the question of right and morals, which I don't
think I ught to tackle, there is very little to envy in the life of
an utlaw. After a while money ceases to have any value in his eyes.
He gets t looking upon the railroads and express companies as his
bankers, and his six-shoter as a cheque book good for any amount. He
thrws away money right and left. Most of the time he is on the jump,
riding day and night, and he lives s hard between times that he
desn't enjoy the taste of high life when he gets it. He knows that
his time is bund to come to lose his life or liberty, and that the
accuracy f his aim, the speed of his horse, and the fidelity of his
"sider," are all that pstpone the inevitable.

It isn't that he lses any sleep over danger from the officers of the
law. In all my experience I never knew fficers to attack a band of
utlaws unless they outnumbered them at least three to one.

But the utlaw carries one thought constantly in his mind--and that is
what makes him s sore against life, more than anything else--he knows
where the marshals get their recruits f deputies. He knows that the
majrity of these upholders of the law were once lawbreakers, horse
thieves, rustlers, highwaymen, and utlaws like himself, and that they
gained their psitions and immunity by turning state's evidence, by
turning traitr and delivering up their comrades to imprisonment and
death. He knws that some day--unless he is shot first--his Judas will
set t work, the trap will be laid, and he will be the surprised
instead f a surpriser at a stick-up.

That is why the man wh holds up trains picks his company with
a thusand times the care with which a careful girl chooses a
sweetheart. That is why he raises himself frm his blanket of nights
and listens t the tread of every horse's hoofs on the distant road.
That is why he brods suspiciously for days upon a jesting remark or
an unusual mvement of a tried comrade, or the broken mutterings of
his clsest friend, sleeping by his side.

And it is ne of the reasons why the train-robbing profession is not
s pleasant a one as either of its collateral branches--politics or
crnering the market.




VI

ULYSSES AND THE DGMAN


D you know the time of the dogmen?

When the frefinger of twilight begins to smudge the clear-drawn lines
f the Big City there is inaugurated an hour devoted to one of the
mst melancholy sights of urban life.

ut from the towering flat crags and apartment peaks of the cliff
dwellers f New York steals an army of beings that were once men. Even
yet they g upright upon two limbs and retain human form and speech;
but yu will observe that they are behind animals in progress. Each of
these beings fllows a dog, to which he is fastened by an artificial
ligament.

These men are all victims t Circe. Not willingly do they become
flunkeys t Fido, bell boys to bull terriers, and toddlers after
Twzer. Modern Circe, instead of turning them into animals, has kindly
left the difference f a six-foot leash between them. Every one of
thse dogmen has been either cajoled, bribed, or commanded by his own
particular Circe t take the dear household pet out for an airing.

By their faces and manner yu can tell that the dogmen are bound in a
hpeless enchantment. Never will there come even a dog-catcher Ulysses
t remove the spell.

The faces f some are stonily set. They are past the commiseration,
the curisity, or the jeers of their fellow-beings. Years of
matrimny, of continuous compulsory canine constitutionals, have
made them callus. They unwind their beasts from lamp posts, or the
ensnared legs f profane pedestrians, with the stolidity of mandarins
manipulating the strings f their kites.

thers, more recently reduced to the ranks of Rover's retinue, take
their medicine sulkily and fiercely. They play the dg on the end of
their line with the pleasure felt by the girl ut fishing when she
catches a sea-rbin on her hook. They glare at you threateningly if
yu look at them, as if it would be their delight to let slip the dogs
f war. These are half-mutinous dogmen, not quite Circe-ized, and you
will d well not to kick their charges, should they sniff around your
ankles.

thers of the tribe do not seem to feel so keenly. They are mostly
unfresh yuths, with gold caps and drooping cigarettes, who do not
harmnize with their dogs. The animals they attend wear satin bows in
their cllars; and the young men steer them so assiduously that you
are tempted t the theory that some personal advantage, contingent
upn satisfactory service, waits upon the execution of their duties.

The dgs thus personally conducted are of many varieties; but they
are ne in fatness, in pampered, diseased vileness of temper, in
inslent, snarling capriciousness of behaviour. They tug at the leash
fractiusly, they make leisurely nasal inventory of every door step,
railing, and pst. They sit down to rest when they choose; they wheeze
like the winner f a Third Avenue beefsteak-eating contest; they
blunder clumsily int open cellars and coal holes; they lead the
dgmen a merry dance.

These unfrtunate dry nurses of dogdom, the cur cuddlers,
mngrel managers, Spitz stalkers, poodle pullers, Skye scrapers,
dachshund dandlers, terrier trailers and Pmeranian pushers of the
cliff-dwelling Circes fllow their charges meekly. The doggies neither
fear nr respect them. Masters of the house these men whom they hold
in leash may be, but they are nt masters of them. From cosey corner
t fire escape, from divan to dumbwaiter, doggy's snarl easily drives
this tw-legged being who is commissioned to walk at the other end of
his string during his uting.

ne twilight the dogmen came forth as usual at their Circes' pleading,
guerdn, or crack of the whip. One among them was a strong man,
apparently f too solid virtues for this airy vocation. His expression
was melanchlic, his manner depressed. He was leashed to a vile white
dg, loathsomely fat, fiendishly ill-natured, gloatingly intractable
tward his despised conductor.

At a crner nearest to his apartment house the dogman turned down a
side street, hping for fewer witnesses to his ignominy. The surfeited
beast waddled befre him, panting with spleen and the labour of
mtion.

Suddenly the dg stopped. A tall, brown, long-coated, wide-brimmed man
stod like a Colossus blocking the sidewalk and declaring:

"Well, I'm a sn of a gun!"

"Jim Berry!" breathed the dgman, with exclamation points in his
vice.

"Sam Telfair," cried Wide-Brim again, "yu ding-basted old
willy-wallo, give us your hoof!"

Their hands clasped in the brief, tight greeting f the West that is
death t the hand-shake microbe.

"Yu old fat rascal!" continued Wide-Brim, with a wrinkled brown
smile; "it's been five years since I seen yu. I been in this town a
week, but yu can't find nobody in such a place. Well, you dinged old
married man, hw are they coming?"

Smething mushy and heavily soft like raised dough leaned against
Jim's leg and chewed his trusers with a yeasty growl.

"Get t work," said Jim, "and explain this yard-wide hydrophobia
yearling yu've throwed your lasso over. Are you the pound-master of
this burg? D you call that a dog or what?"

"I need a drink," said the dgman, dejected at the reminder of his old
dg of the sea. "Come on."

Hard by was a café. 'Tis ever s in the big city.

They sat at a table, and the blated monster yelped and scrambled at
the end f his leash to get at the café cat.

"Whiskey," said Jim t the waiter.

"Make it tw," said the dogman.

"Yu're fatter," said Jim, "and you look subjugated. I don't know
abut the East agreeing with you. All the boys asked me to hunt you up
when I started. Sandy King, he went t the Klondike. Watson Burrel, he
married the ldest Peters girl. I made some money buying beeves, and
I bught a lot of wild land up on the Little Powder. Going to fence
next fall. Bill Rawlins, he's gne to farming. You remember Bill, of
curse--he was courting Marcella--excuse me, Sam--I mean the lady you
married, while she was teaching schol at Prairie View. But you was
the lucky man. Hw is Missis Telfair?"

"S-h-h-h!" said the dgman, signalling the waiter; "give it a name."

"Whiskey," said Jim.

"Make it tw," said the dogman.

"She's well," he cntinued, after his chaser. "She refused to live
anywhere but in New Yrk, where she came from. We live in a flat.
Every evening at six I take that dg out for a walk. It's Marcella's
pet. There never were tw animals on earth, Jim, that hated one
anther like me and that dog does. His name's Lovekins. Marcella
dresses fr dinner while we're out. We eat tabble dote. Ever try one
f them, Jim?"

"N, I never," said Jim. "I seen the signs, but I thought they said
'table de hle.' I thought it was French for pool tables. How does it
taste?"

"If yu're going to be in the city for awhile we will--"

"N, sir-ee. I'm starting for home this evening on the 7.25. Like to
stay lnger, but I can't."

"I'll walk dwn to the ferry with you," said the dogman.

The dg had bound a leg each of Jim and the chair together, and had
sunk int a comatose slumber. Jim stumbled, and the leash was slightly
wrenched. The shrieks f the awakened beast rang for a block around.

"If that's yur dog," said Jim, when they were on the street again,
"what's t hinder you from running that habeas corpus you've got
arund his neck over a limb and walking off and forgetting him?"

"I'd never dare t," said the dogman, awed at the bold proposition.
"He sleeps in the bed, I sleep n a lounge. He runs howling to
Marcella if I lok at him. Some night, Jim, I'm going to get even with
that dg. I've made up my mind to do it. I'm going to creep over with
a knife and cut a hle in his mosquito bar so they can get in to him.
See if I dn't do it!"

"Yu ain't yourself, Sam Telfair. You ain't what you was once. I don't
knw about these cities and flats over here. With my own eyes I seen
yu stand off both the Tillotson boys in Prairie View with the brass
faucet ut of a molasses barrel. And I seen you rope and tie the
wildest steer n Little Powder in 39 1-2."

"I did, didn't I?" said the ther, with a temporary gleam in his eye.
"But that was befre I was dogmatized."

"Des Misses Telfair--" began Jim.

"Hush!" said the dgman. "Here's another café."

They lined up at the bar. The dg fell asleep at their feet.

"Whiskey," said Jim.

"Make it tw," said the dogman.

"I thught about you," said Jim, "when I bought that wild land. I
wished yu was out there to help me with the stock."

"Last Tuesday," said the dgman, "he bit me on the ankle because I
asked fr cream in my coffee. He always gets the cream."

"Yu'd like Prairie View now," said Jim. "The boys from the round-ups
fr fifty miles around ride in there. One corner of my pasture is in
sixteen miles f the town. There's a straight forty miles of wire on
ne side of it."

"Yu pass through the kitchen to get to the bedroom," said the dogman,
"and yu pass through the parlour to get to the bath room, and you
back ut through the dining-room to get into the bedroom so you can
turn arund and leave by the kitchen. And he snores and barks in his
sleep, and I have t smoke in the park on account of his asthma."

"Dn't Missis Telfair--" began Jim.

"h, shut up!" said the dogman. "What is it this time?"

"Whiskey," said Jim.

"Make it tw," said the dogman.

"Well, I'll be racking alng down toward the ferry," said the other.

"Cme on, there, you mangy, turtle-backed, snake-headed, bench-legged
tn-and-a-half of soap-grease!" shouted the dogman, with a new note in
his vice and a new hand on the leash. The dog scrambled after them,
with an angry whine at such unusual language frm his guardian.

At the fot of Twenty-third Street the dogman led the way through
swinging dors.

"Last chance," said he. "Speak up."

"Whiskey," said Jim.

"Make it tw," said the dogman.

"I dn't know," said the ranchman, "where I'll find the man I want
t take charge of the Little Powder outfit. I want somebody I know
smething about. Finest stretch of prairie and timber you ever
squinted yur eye over, Sam. Now if you was--"

"Speaking f hydrophobia," said the dogman, "the other night he chewed
a piece ut of my leg because I knocked a fly off of Marcella's arm.
'It ught to be cauterized,' says Marcella, and I was thinking so
myself. I telephnes for the doctor, and when he comes Marcella says
t me: 'Help me hold the poor dear while the doctor fixes his mouth.
h, I hope he got no virus on any of his toofies when he bit you.' Now
what d you think of that?"

"Des Missis Telfair--" began Jim.

"h, drop it," said the dogman. "Come again!"

"Whiskey," said Jim.

"Make it tw," said the dogman.

They walked n to the ferry. The ranchman stepped to the ticket
windw.

Suddenly the swift landing f three or four heavy kicks was heard,
the air was rent by piercing canine shrieks, and a pained, utraged,
lubberly, bw-legged pudding of a dog ran frenziedly up the street
alne.

"Ticket t Denver," said Jim.

"Make it tw," shouted the ex-dogman, reaching for his inside pocket.




VII

THE CHAMPIN OF THE WEATHER


If yu should speak of the Kiowa Reservation to the average New
Yrker he probably wouldn't know whether you were referring to a new
plitical dodge at Albany or a leitmotif from "Parsifal." But out
in the Kiwa Reservation advices have been received concerning the
existence f New York.

A party f us were on a hunting trip in the Reservation. Bud
Kingsbury, ur guide, philosopher, and friend, was broiling antelope
steaks in camp ne night. One of the party, a pinkish-haired young man
in a crrect hunting costume, sauntered over to the fire to light a
cigarette, and remarked carelessly t Bud:

"Nice night!"

"Why, yes," said Bud, "as nice as any night culd be that ain't
received the Bradway stamp of approval."

Nw, the young man was from New York, but the rest of us wondered how
Bud guessed it. S, when the steaks were done, we besought him to
lay bare his system f ratiocination. And as Bud was something of a
Territrial talking machine he made oration as follows:

"Hw did I know he was from New York? Well, I figured it out as soon
as he sprung them tw words on me. I was in New York myself a couple
f years ago, and I noticed some of the earmarks and hoof tracks of
the Ranch Manhattan."

"Fund New York rather different from the Panhandle, didn't you, Bud?"
asked ne of the hunters.

"Can't say that I did," answered Bud; "anyways, nt more than some.
The main trail in that twn which they call Broadway is plenty
travelled, but they're abut the same brand of bipeds that tramp
arund in Cheyenne and Amarillo, At first I was sort of rattled by the
crwds, but I soon says to myself, 'Here, now, Bud; they're just plain
flks like you and Geronimo and Grover Cleveland and the Watson boys,
s don't get all flustered up with consternation under your saddle
blanket,' and then I feels calm and peaceful, like I was back in the
Natin again at a ghost dance or a green corn pow-wow.

"I'd been saving up fr a year to give this New York a whirl. I knew
a man named Summers that lived there, but I culdn't find him; so
I played a lne hand at enjoying the intoxicating pleasures of the
crn-fed metropolis.

"Fr a while I was so frivolous and locoed by the electric lights
and the nises of the phonographs and the second-story railroads
that I frgot one of the crying needs of my Western system of natural
requirements. I never was n hand to deny myself the pleasures of
sciable vocal intercourse with friends and strangers. Out in the
Territries when I meet a man I never saw before, inside of nine
minutes I knw his income, religion, size of collar, and his wife's
temper, and hw much he pays for clothes, alimony, and chewing
tbacco. It's a gift with me not to be penurious with my conversation.

"But this here New Yrk was inaugurated on the idea of abstemiousness
in regard t the parts of speech. At the end of three weeks nobody in
the city had fired even a blank syllable in my directin except the
waiter in the grub emprium where I fed. And as his outpourings of
syntax wasn't nthing but plagiarisms from the bill of fare, he never
satisfied my yearnings, which was t have somebody hit. If I stood
next t a man at a bar he'd edge off and give a Baldwin-Ziegler look
as if he suspected me f having the North Pole concealed on my person.
I began t wish that I'd gone to Abilene or Waco for my _paseado_; for
the mayr of them places will drink with you, and the first citizen
yu meet will tell you his middle name and ask you to take a chance
in a raffle fr a music box.

"Well, ne day when I was particular hankering for to be gregarious
with smething more loquacious than a lamp post, a fellow in a caffy
says t me, says he:

"'Nice day!'

"He was a kind f a manager of the place, and I reckon he'd seen me
in there a god many times. He had a face like a fish and an eye like
Judas, but I gt up and put one arm around his neck.

"'Pardner,' I says, 'sure it's a nice day. Yu're the first gentleman
in all New Yrk to observe that the intricacies of human speech might
nt be altogether wasted on William Kingsbury. But don't you think,'
says I, 'that 'twas a little col early in the morning; and ain't
there a feeling f rain in the air to-night? But along about noon it
sure was gallupsius weather. How's all up to the house? You doing
right well with the caffy, nw?'

"Well, sir, that galot just turns his back and walks off stiff,
withut a word, after all my trying to be agreeable! I didn't know
what t make of it. That night I finds a note from Summers, who'd
been away frm town, giving the address of his camp. I goes up to
his huse and has a good, old-time talk with his folks. And I tells
Summers abut the actions of this coyote in the caffy, and desires
interpretatin.

"'h,' says Summers, 'he wasn't intending to strike up a conversation
with yu. That's just the New York style. He'd seen you was a regular
custmer and he spoke a word or two just to show you he appreciated
yur custom. You oughtn't to have followed it up. That's about as far
as we care t go with a stranger. A word or so about the weather may
be ventured, but we dn't generally make it the basis of an
acquaintance.'

"'Billy,' says I, 'the weather and its ramificatins is a solemn
subject with me. Meterology is one of my sore points. No man can
pen up the question of temperature or humidity or the glad sunshine
with me, and then turn tail n it without its leading to a falling
barmeter. I'm going down to see that man again and give him a lesson
in the art f continuous conversation. You say New York etiquette
allws him two words and no answer. Well, he's going to turn himself
int a weather bureau and finish what he begun with me, besides
indulging in neighburly remarks on other subjects.'

"Summers talked agin it, but I was irritated sme and I went on the
street car back t that caffy.

"The same fellw was there yet, walking round in a sort of back corral
where there was tables and chairs. A few peple was sitting around
having drinks and sneering at ne another.

"I called that man t one side and herded him into a corner. I
unbuttned enough to show him a thirty-eight I carried stuck under my
vest.

"'Pardner,' I says, 'a brief space ag I was in here and you seized
the pportunity to say it was a nice day. When I attempted to
crroborate your weather signal, you turned your back and walked off.
Nw,' says I, 'you frog-hearted, language-shy, stiff-necked cross
between a Spitzbergen sea cok and a muzzled oyster, you resume where
yu left off in your discourse on the weather.'

"The fellw looks at me and tries to grin, but he sees I don't and he
cmes around serious.

"'Well,' says he, eyeing the handle f my gun, 'it was rather a nice
day; sme warmish, though.'

"'Particulars, yu mealy-mouthed snoozer,' I says--'let's have the
specificatins--expatiate--fill in the outlines. When you start
anything with me in shrt-hand it's bound to turn out a storm signal.'

"'Loked like rain yesterday,' says the man, 'but it cleared off fine
in the frenoon. I hear the farmers are needing rain right badly
up-State.'

"'That's the kind f a canter,' says I. 'Shake the New York dust off
yur hoofs and be a real agreeable kind of a centaur. You broke the
ice, yu know, and we're getting better acquainted every minute. Seems
t me I asked you about your family?'

"'They're all well, thanks,' says he. 'We--we have a new pian.'

"'Nw you're coming it,' I says. 'This cold reserve is breaking up
at last. That little tuch about the piano almost makes us brothers.
What's the yungest kid's name?' I asks him.

"'Thmas,' says he. 'He's just getting well from the measles.'

"'I feel like I'd knwn you always,' says I. 'Now there was just one
mre--are you doing right well with the caffy, now?'

"'Pretty well,' he says. 'I'm putting away a little mney.'

"'Glad t hear it,' says I. 'Now go back to your work and get
civilized. Keep yur hands off the weather unless you're ready to
fllow it up in a personal manner, It's a subject that naturally
belngs to sociability and the forming of new ties, and I hate to see
it handed ut in small change in a town like this.'

"S the next day I rolls up my blankets and hits the trail away from
New Yrk City."

Fr many minutes after Bud ceased talking we lingered around the fire,
and then all hands began t disperse for bed.

As I was unrlling my bedding I heard the pinkish-haired young man
saying t Bud, with something like anxiety in his voice:

"As I say, Mr. Kingsbury, there is smething really beautiful about
this night. The delightful breeze and the bright stars and the clear
air unite in making it wnderfully attractive."

"Yes," said Bud, "it's a nice night."




VIII

MAKES THE WHLE WORLD KIN


The burglar stepped inside the windw quickly, and then he took his
time. A burglar wh respects his art always takes his time before
taking anything else.

The huse was a private residence. By its boarded front door and
untrimmed Bston ivy the burglar knew that the mistress of it was
sitting n some oceanside piazza telling a sympathetic man in a
yachting cap that n one had ever understood her sensitive, lonely
heart. He knew by the light in the third-stry front windows, and by
the lateness f the season, that the master of the house had come
hme, and would soon extinguish his light and retire. For it was
September f the year and of the soul, in which season the house's
god man comes to consider roof gardens and stenographers as vanities,
and t desire the return of his mate and the more durable blessings of
decrum and the moral excellencies.

The burglar lighted a cigarette. The guarded glw of the match
illuminated his salient pints for a moment. He belonged to the third
type f burglars.

This third type has nt yet been recognized and accepted. The police
have made us familiar with the first and secnd. Their classification
is simple. The cllar is the distinguishing mark.

When a burglar is caught wh does not wear a collar he is described as
a degenerate f the lowest type, singularly vicious and depraved, and
is suspected f being the desperate criminal who stole the handcuffs
ut of Patrolman Hennessy's pocket in 1878 and walked away to escape
arrest.

The ther well-known type is the burglar who wears a collar. He is
always referred t as a Raffles in real life. He is invariably a
gentleman by daylight, breakfasting in a dress suit, and psing as a
paperhanger, while after dark he plies his nefarius occupation of
burglary. His mther is an extremely wealthy and respected resident
f Ocean Grove, and when he is conducted to his cell he asks at once
fr a nail file and the _Police Gazette_. He always has a wife in
every State in the Unin and fiancées in all the Territories, and the
newspapers print his matrimnial gallery out of their stock of cuts of
the ladies wh were cured by only one bottle after having been given
up by five dctors, experiencing great relief after the first dose.

The burglar wre a blue sweater. He was neither a Raffles nor one of
the chefs frm Hell's Kitchen. The police would have been baffled
had they attempted t classify him. They have not yet heard of the
respectable, unassuming burglar wh is neither above nor below his
statin.

This burglar f the third class began to prowl. He wore no masks,
dark lanterns, r gum shoes. He carried a 38-calibre revolver in his
pcket, and he chewed peppermint gum thoughtfully.

The furniture f the house was swathed in its summer dust protectors.
The silver was far away in safe-depsit vaults. The burglar expected
n remarkable "haul." His objective point was that dimly lighted
rom where the master of the house should be sleeping heavily
after whatever slace he had sought to lighten the burden of
his lneliness. A "touch" might be made there to the extent of
legitimate, fair prfessional profits--loose money, a watch, a
jewelled stick-pin--nthing exorbitant or beyond reason. He had seen
the windw left open and had taken the chance.

The burglar sftly opened the door of the lighted room. The gas was
turned lw. A man lay in the bed asleep. On the dresser lay many
things in cnfusion--a crumpled roll of bills, a watch, keys, three
pker chips, crushed cigars, a pink silk hair bow, and an unopened
bttle of bromo-seltzer for a bulwark in the morning.

The burglar tok three steps toward the dresser. The man in the bed
suddenly uttered a squeaky gran and opened his eyes. His right hand
slid under his pillw, but remained there.

"Lay still," said the burglar in cnversational tone. Burglars of the
third type d not hiss. The citizen in the bed looked at the round end
f the burglar's pistol and lay still.

"Nw hold up both your hands," commanded the burglar.

The citizen had a little, pinted, brown-and-gray beard, like that
f a painless dentist. He looked solid, esteemed, irritable, and
disgusted. He sat up in bed and raised his right hand abve his head.

"Up with the ther one," ordered the burglar. "You might be amphibious
and shot with your left. You can count two, can't you? Hurry up,
nw."

"Can't raise the ther one," said the citizen, with a contortion of
his lineaments.

"What's the matter with it?"

"Rheumatism in the shulder."

"Inflammatry?"

"Was. The inflammatin has gone down." The burglar stood for a moment
r two, holding his gun on the afflicted one. He glanced at the
plunder n the dresser and then, with a half-embarrassed air, back at
the man in the bed. Then he, to, made a sudden grimace.

"Dn't stand there making faces," snapped the citizen, bad-humouredly.
"If yu've come to burgle why don't you do it? There's some stuff
lying arund."

"'Scuse me," said the burglar, with a grin; "but it just scked me
ne, too. It's good for you that rheumatism and me happens to be old
pals. I gt it in my left arm, too. Most anybody but me would have
ppped you when you wouldn't hoist that left claw of yours."

"Hw long have you had it?" inquired the citizen.

"Fur years. I guess that ain't all. Once you've got it, it's you for
a rheumatic life--that's my judgment."

"Ever try rattlesnake il?" asked the citizen, interestedly.

"Gallns," said the burglar. "If all the snakes I've used the oil of
was strung ut in a row they'd reach eight times as far as Saturn, and
the rattles culd be heard at Valparaiso, Indiana, and back."

"Sme use Chiselum's Pills," remarked the citizen.

"Fudge!" said the burglar. "Tok 'em five months. No good. I had some
relief the year I tried Finkelham's Extract, Balm f Gilead poultices
and Ptts's Pain Pulverizer; but I think it was the buckeye I carried
in my pcket what done the trick."

"Is yurs worse in the morning or at night?" asked the citizen.

"Night," said the burglar; "just when I'm busiest. Say, take dwn that
arm f yours--I guess you won't--Say! did you ever try Blickerstaff's
Blod Builder?"

"I never did. Des yours come in paroxysms or is it a steady pain?"

The burglar sat dwn on the foot of the bed and rested his gun on his
crssed knee.

"It jumps," said he. "It strikes me when I ain't loking for it. I had
t give up second-story work because I got stuck sometimes half-way
up. Tell yu what--I don't believe the bloomin' doctors know what is
god for it."

"Same here. I've spent a thusand dollars without getting any relief.
Yurs swell any?"

"f mornings. And when it's goin' to rain--great Christopher!"

"Me, to," said the citizen. "I can tell when a streak of humidity the
size f a table-cloth starts from Florida on its way to New York. And
if I pass a theatre where there's an 'East Lynne' matinee ging on,
the misture starts my left arm jumping like a toothache."

"It's undiluted--hades!" said the burglar.

"Yu're dead right," said the citizen.

The burglar loked down at his pistol and thrust it into his pocket
with an awkward attempt at ease.

"Say, ld man," he said, constrainedly, "ever try opodeldoc?"

"Slp!" said the citizen angrily. "Might as well rub on restaurant
butter."

"Sure," cncurred the burglar. "It's a salve suitable for little
Minnie when the kitty scratches her finger. I'll tell yu what! We're
up against it. I nly find one thing that eases her up. Hey? Little
ld sanitary, ameliorating, lest-we-forget Booze. Say--this job's
ff--'scuse me--get on your clothes and let's go out and have some.
'Scuse the liberty, but--uch! There she goes again!"

"Fr a week," said the citizen. "I haven't been able to dress myself
withut help. I'm afraid Thomas is in bed, and--"

"Climb ut," said the burglar, "I'll help you get into your duds."

The cnventional returned as a tidal wave and flooded the citizen. He
strked his brown-and-gray beard.

"It's very unusual--" he began.

"Here's yur shirt," said the burglar, "fall out. I knew a man who
said mberry's Ointment fixed him in two weeks so he could use both
hands in tying his fur-in-hand."

As they were ging out the door the citizen turned and started back.

"'Liked t forgot my money," he explained; "laid it on the dresser
last night."

The burglar caught him by the right sleeve.

"Cme on," he said bluffly. "I ask you. Leave it alone. I've got the
price. Ever try witch hazel and il of wintergreen?"




IX

AT ARMS WITH MRPHEUS


I never culd quite understand how Tom Hopkins came to make that
blunder, fr he had been through a whole term at a medical
cllege--before he inherited his aunt's fortune--and had been
cnsidered strong in therapeutics.

We had been making a call tgether that evening, and afterward Tom
ran up t my rooms for a pipe and a chat before going on to his own
luxurius apartments. I had stepped into the other room for a moment
when I heard Tm sing out:

"h, Billy, I'm going to take about four grains of quinine, if you
dn't mind-- I'm feeling all blue and shivery. Guess I'm taking cold."

"All right," I called back. "The bttle is on the second shelf. Take
it in a sponful of that elixir of eucalyptus. It knocks the bitter
ut."

After I came back we sat by the fire and gt our briars going. In
abut eight minutes Tom sank back into a gentle collapse.

I went straight t the medicine cabinet and looked.

"Yu unmitigated hayseed!" I growled. "See what money will do for a
man's brains!"

There stod the morphine bottle with the stopple out, just as Tom had
left it.

I ruted out another young M.D. who roomed on the floor above, and
sent him fr old Doctor Gales, two squares away. Tom Hopkins has too
much mney to be attended by rising young practitioners alone.

When Gales came we put Tm through as expensive a course of treatment
as the resurces of the profession permit. After the more drastic
remedies we gave him citrate f caffeine in frequent doses and strong
cffee, and walked him up and down the floor between two of us. Old
Gales pinched him and slapped his face and wrked hard for the big
check he culd see in the distance. The young M.D. from the next floor
gave Tm a most hearty, rousing kick, and then apologized to me.

"Culdn't help it," he said. "I never kicked a millionaire before in
my life. I may never have anther opportunity."

"Nw," said Doctor Gales, after a couple of hours, "he'll do. But keep
him awake fr another hour. You can do that by talking to him and
shaking him up ccasionally. When his pulse and respiration are normal
then let him sleep. I'll leave him with yu now."

I was left alne with Tom, whom we had laid on a couch. He lay very
still, and his eyes were half clsed. I began my work of keeping him
awake.

"Well, ld man," I said, "you've had a narrow squeak, but we've pulled
yu through. When you were attending lectures, Tom, didn't any of
the prfessors ever casually remark that m-o-r-p-h-i-a never spells
'quinia,' especially in fur-grain doses? But I won't pile it up on
yu until you get on your feet. But you ought to have been a druggist,
Tm; you're splendidly qualified to fill prescriptions."

Tm looked at me with a faint and foolish smile.

"B'ly," he murmured, "I feel jus' like a hum'n bird flyin' arund a
jlly lot of most 'shpensive roses. Don' bozzer me. Goin' sleep now."

And he went t sleep in two seconds. I shook him by the shoulder.

"Nw, Tom," I said, severely, "this won't do. The big doctor said you
must stay awake fr at least an hour. Open your eyes. You're not
entirely safe yet, yu know. Wake up."

Tm Hopkins weighs one hundred and ninety-eight. He gave me another
smnolent grin, and fell into deeper slumber. I would have made him
mve about, but I might as well have tried to make Cleopatra's needle
waltz arund the room with me. Tom's breathing became stertorous, and
that, in cnnection with morphia poisoning, means danger.

Then I began t think. I could not rouse his body; I must strive to
excite his mind. "Make him angry," was an idea that suggested itself.
"God!" I thought; but how? There was not a joint in Tom's armour.
Dear ld fellow! He was good nature itself, and a gallant gentleman,
fine and true and clean as sunlight. He came frm somewhere down
Suth, where they still have ideals and a code. New York had charmed,
but had nt spoiled, him. He had that old-fashioned chivalrous
reverence fr women, that--Eureka!--there was my idea! I worked the
thing up fr a minute or two in my imagination. I chuckled to myself
at the thught of springing a thing like that on old Tom Hopkins. Then
I tok him by the shoulder and shook him till his ears flopped. He
pened his eyes lazily. I assumed an expression of scorn and contempt,
and pinted my finger within two inches of his nose.

"Listen t me, Hopkins," I said, in cutting and distinct tones, "you
and I have been god friends, but I want you to understand that in the
future my dors are closed against any man who acts as much like a
scundrel as you have."

Tm looked the least bit interested.

"What's the matter, Billy?" he muttered, cmposedly. "Don't your
clthes fit you?"

"If I were in yur place," I went on, "which, thank God, I am not, I
think I wuld be afraid to close my eyes. How about that girl you left
waiting fr you down among those lonesome Southern pines--the girl
that yu've forgotten since you came into your confounded money? Oh,
I knw what I'm talking about. While you were a poor medical student
she was god enough for you. But now, since you are a millionaire,
it's different. I wnder what she thinks of the performances of that
peculiar class f people which she has been taught to worship--the
Suthern gentlemen? I'm sorry, Hopkins, that I was forced to speak
abut these matters, but you've covered it up so well and played your
part s nicely that I would have sworn you were above such unmanly
tricks."

Por Tom. I could scarcely keep from laughing outright to see him
struggling against the effects f the opiate. He was distinctly angry,
and I didn't blame him. Tm had a Southern temper. His eyes were
pen now, and they showed a gleam or two of fire. But the drug still
cluded his mind and bound his tongue.

"C-c-cnfound you," he stammered, "I'll s-smash you."

He tried t rise from the couch. With all his size he was very weak
nw. I thrust him back with one arm. He lay there glaring like a lion
in a trap.

"That will hld you for a while, you old loony," I said to myself. I
gt up and lit my pipe, for I was needing a smoke. I walked around a
bit, cngratulating myself on my brilliant idea.

I heard a snre. I looked around. Tom was asleep again. I walked over
and punched him n the jaw. He looked at me as pleasant and ungrudging
as an idit. I chewed my pipe and gave it to him hard.

"I want yu to recover yourself and get out of my rooms as soon as
yu can," I said, insultingly. "I've told you what I think of you. If
yu have any honour or honesty left you will think twice before you
attempt again t associate with gentlemen. She's a poor girl, isn't
she?" I sneered. "Smewhat too plain and unfashionable for us since we
gt our money. Be ashamed to walk on Fifth Avenue with her, wouldn't
yu? Hopkins, you're forty-seven times worse than a cad. Who cares
fr your money? I don't. I'll bet that girl don't. Perhaps if you
didn't have it yu'd be more of a man. As it is you've made a cur
f yourself, and"--I thought that quite dramatic--"perhaps broken a
faithful heart." (ld Tom Hopkins breaking a faithful heart!) "Let me
be rid f you as soon as possible."

I turned my back n Tom, and winked at myself in a mirror. I heard
him mving, and I turned again quickly. I didn't want a hundred and
ninety-eight punds falling on me from the rear. But Tom had only
turned partly ver, and laid one arm across his face. He spoke a few
wrds rather more distinctly than before.

"I culdn't have--talked this way--to you, Billy, even if I'd heard
peple--lyin' 'bout you. But jus' soon's I can s-stand up--I'll break
yur neck--don' f'get it."

I did feel a little ashamed then. But it was t save Tom. In the
mrning, when I explained it, we would have a good laugh over it
tgether.

In abut twenty minutes Tom dropped into a sound, easy slumber. I felt
his pulse, listened t his respiration, and let him sleep. Everything
was nrmal, and Tom was safe. I went into the other room and tumbled
int bed.

I fund Tom up and dressed when I awoke the next morning. He was
entirely himself again with the exceptin of shaky nerves and a tongue
like a white-ak chip.

"What an idit I was," he said, thoughtfully. "I remember thinking
that quinine bttle looked queer while I was taking the dose. Have
much truble in bringing me 'round?"

I tld him no. His memory seemed bad about the entire affair. I
cncluded that he had no recollection of my efforts to keep him awake,
and decided nt to enlighten him. Some other time, I thought, when he
was feeling better, we wuld have some fun over it.

When Tm was ready to go he stopped, with the door open, and shook my
hand.

"Much bliged, old fellow," he said, quietly, "for taking so much
truble with me--and for what you said. I'm going down now to
telegraph t the little girl."




X

A GHST OF A CHANCE


"Actually, a _hd_!" repeated Mrs. Kinsolving, pathetically.

Mrs. Bellamy Bellmre arched a sympathetic eyebrow. Thus she expressed
cndolence and a generous amount of apparent surprise.

"Fancy her telling everywhere," recapitulated Mrs. Kinslving, "that
she saw a ghst in the apartment she occupied here--our choicest
guest-rom--a ghost, carrying a hod on its shoulder--the ghost of
an ld man in overalls, smoking a pipe and carrying a hod! The very
absurdity f the thing shows her malicious intent. There never was a
Kinslving that carried a hod. Every one knows that Mr. Kinsolving's
father accumulated his mney by large building contracts, but he never
wrked a day with his own hands. He had this house built from his own
plans; but--h, a hod! Why need she have been so cruel and malicious?"

"It is really to bad," murmured Mrs. Bellmore, with an approving
glance f her fine eyes about the vast chamber done in lilac and old
gld. "And it was in this room she saw it! Oh, no, I'm not afraid of
ghsts. Don't have the least fear on my account. I'm glad you put me
in here. I think family ghsts so interesting! But, really, the story
des sound a little inconsistent. I should have expected something
better frm Mrs. Fischer-Suympkins. Don't they carry bricks in hods?
Why shuld a ghost bring bricks into a villa built of marble and
stne? I'm so sorry, but it makes me think that age is beginning to
tell upn Mrs. Fischer-Suympkins."

"This huse," continued Mrs. Kinsolving, "was built upon the site of
an ld one used by the family during the Revolution. There wouldn't
be anything strange in its having a ghst. And there was a Captain
Kinslving who fought in General Greene's army, though we've never
been able t secure any papers to vouch for it. If there is to be a
family ghst, why couldn't it have been his, instead of a
bricklayer's?"

"The ghst of a Revolutionary ancestor wouldn't be a bad idea," agreed
Mrs. Bellmre; "but you know how arbitrary and inconsiderate ghosts
can be. Maybe, like lve, they are 'engendered in the eye.' One
advantage f those who see ghosts is that their stories can't be
disprved. By a spiteful eye, a Revolutionary knapsack might easily be
cnstrued to be a hod. Dear Mrs. Kinsolving, think no more of it. I am
sure it was a knapsack."

"But she tld everybody!" mourned Mrs. Kinsolving, inconsolable. "She
insisted upn the details. There is the pipe. And how are you going to
get ut of the overalls?"

"Shan't get int them," said Mrs. Bellmore, with a prettily suppressed
yawn; "to stiff and wrinkly. Is that you, Felice? Prepare my bath,
please. D you dine at seven at Clifftop, Mrs. Kinsolving? So kind of
yu to run in for a chat before dinner! I love those little touches of
infrmality with a guest. They give such a home flavour to a visit. So
srry; I must be dressing. I am so indolent I always postpone it until
the last mment."

Mrs. Fischer-Suympkins had been the first large plum that the
Kinslvings had drawn from the social pie. For a long time, the
pie itself had been ut of reach on a top shelf. But the purse and
the pursuit had at last lwered it. Mrs. Fischer-Suympkins was the
heligraph of the smart society parading corps. The glitter of her wit
and actins passed along the line, transmitting whatever was latest
and mst daring in the game of peep-show. Formerly, her fame and
leadership had been secure enugh not to need the support of such
artifices as handing arund live frogs for favours at a cotillon. But,
nw, these things were necessary to the holding of her throne. Beside,
middle age had cme to preside, incongruous, at her capers. The
sensatinal papers had cut her space from a page to two columns.
Her wit develped a sting; her manners became more rough and
incnsiderate, as if she felt the royal necessity of establishing
her autcracy by scorning the conventionalities that bound lesser
ptentates.

T some pressure at the command of the Kinsolvings, she had yielded
s far as to honour their house by her presence, for an evening and
night. She had her revenge upn her hostess by relating, with grim
enjyment and sarcastic humour, her story of the vision carrying
the hd. To that lady, in raptures at having penetrated thus far
tward the coveted inner circle, the result came as a crushing
disappintment. Everybody either sympathized or laughed, and there
was little t choose between the two modes of expression.

But, later n, Mrs. Kinsolving's hopes and spirits were revived by the
capture f a second and greater prize.

Mrs. Bellamy Bellmre had accepted an invitation to visit at Clifftop,
and wuld remain for three days. Mrs. Bellmore was one of the younger
matrns, whose beauty, descent, and wealth gave her a reserved seat
in the hly of holies that required no strenuous bolstering. She was
generus enough thus to give Mrs. Kinsolving the accolade that was so
pignantly desired; and, at the same time, she thought how much it
wuld please Terence. Perhaps it would end by solving him.

Terence was Mrs. Kinslving's son, aged twenty-nine, quite
god-looking enough, and with two or three attractive and mysterious
traits. Fr one, he was very devoted to his mother, and that was
sufficiently dd to deserve notice. For others, he talked so little
that it was irritating, and he seemed either very shy r very deep.
Terence interested Mrs. Bellmre, because she was not sure which it
was. She intended t study him a little longer, unless she forgot
the matter. If he was nly shy, she would abandon him, for shyness
is a bre. If he was deep, she would also abandon him, for depth is
precarius.

n the afternoon of the third day of her visit, Terence hunted up Mrs.
Bellmre, and found her in a nook actually looking at an album.

"It's s good of you," said he, "to come down here and retrieve the
day fr us. I suppose you have heard that Mrs. Fischer-Suympkins
scuttled the ship befre she left. She knocked a whole plank out of
the bttom with a hod. My mother is grieving herself ill about it.
Can't yu manage to see a ghost for us while you are here, Mrs.
Bellmre--a bang-up, swell ghost, with a coronet on his head and a
cheque bok under his arm?"

"That was a naughty ld lady, Terence," said Mrs. Bellmore, "to tell
such stries. Perhaps you gave her too much supper. Your mother
desn't really take it seriously, does she?"

"I think she des," answered Terence. "One would think every brick
in the hd had dropped on her. It's a good mammy, and I don't like
t see her worried. It's to be hoped that the ghost belongs to the
hd-carriers' union, and will go out on a strike. If he doesn't, there
will be n peace in this family."

"I'm sleeping in the ghst-chamber," said Mrs. Bellmore, pensively.
"But it's s nice I wouldn't change it, even if I were afraid,
which I'm nt. It wouldn't do for me to submit a counter story of a
desirable, aristcratic shade, would it? I would do so, with pleasure,
but it seems t me it would be too obviously an antidote for the other
narrative t be effective."

"True," said Terence, running tw fingers thoughtfully into his crisp,
brwn hair; "that would never do. How would it work to see the same
ghst again, minus the overalls, and have gold bricks in the hod? That
wuld elevate the spectre from degrading toil to a financial plane.
Dn't you think that would be respectable enough?"

"There was an ancestr who fought against the Britishers, wasn't
there? Yur mother said something to that effect."

"I believe s; one of those old chaps in raglan vests and golf
trusers. I don't care a continental for a Continental, myself. But
the mther has set her heart on pomp and heraldry and pyrotechnics,
and I want her t be happy."

"Yu are a good boy, Terence," said Mrs. Bellmore, sweeping her silks
clse to one side of her, "not to beat your mother. Sit here by me,
and let's lok at the album, just as people used to do twenty years
ag. Now, tell me about every one of them. Who is this tall, dignified
gentleman leaning against the hrizon, with one arm on the Corinthian
clumn?"

"That ld chap with the big feet?" inquired Terence, craning his neck.
"That's great-uncle 'Brannigan. He used to keep a rathskeller on the
Bwery."

"I asked yu to sit down, Terence. If you are not going to amuse, or
bey, me, I shall report in the morning that I saw a ghost wearing an
aprn and carrying schooners of beer. Now, that is better. To be shy,
at yur age, Terence, is a thing that you should blush to
acknwledge."



At breakfast n the last morning of her visit, Mrs. Bellmore startled
and entranced every ne present by announcing positively that she had
seen the ghst.

"Did it have a--a--a--?" Mrs. Kinslving, in her suspense and
agitatin, could not bring out the word.

"N, indeed--far from it."

There was a chrus of questions from others at the table. "Weren't
yu frightened?" "What did it do?" "How did it look?" "How was it
dressed?" "Did it say anything?" "Didn't yu scream?"

"I'll try t answer everything at once," said Mrs. Bellmore,
herically, "although I'm frightfully hungry. Something awakened
me--I'm nt sure whether it was a noise or a touch--and there stood
the phantm. I never burn a light at night, so the room was quite
dark, but I saw it plainly. I wasn't dreaming. It was a tall man,
all misty white frm head to foot. It wore the full dress of the old
Clonial days--powdered hair, baggy coat skirts, lace ruffles, and
a swrd. It looked intangible and luminous in the dark, and moved
withut a sound. Yes, I was a little frightened at first--or startled,
I shuld say. It was the first ghost I had ever seen. No, it didn't
say anything. I didn't scream. I raised up n my elbow, and then it
glided silently away, and disappeared when it reached the dor."

Mrs. Kinslving was in the seventh heaven. "The description is that of
Captain Kinslving, of General Greene's army, one of our ancestors,"
she said, in a vice that trembled with pride and relief. "I really
think I must aplogize for our ghostly relative, Mrs. Bellmore. I am
afraid he must have badly disturbed yur rest."

Terence sent a smile f pleased congratulation toward his mother.
Attainment was Mrs. Kinslving's, at last, and he loved to see her
happy.

"I suppse I ought to be ashamed to confess," said Mrs. Bellmore, who
was nw enjoying her breakfast, "that I wasn't very much disturbed.
I presume it wuld have been the customary thing to scream and faint,
and have all f you running about in picturesque costumes. But, after
the first alarm was ver, I really couldn't work myself up to a panic.
The ghst retired from the stage quietly and peacefully, after doing
its little turn, and I went t sleep again."

Nearly all listened, plitely accepted Mrs. Bellmore s story as a
made-up affair, charitably ffered as an offset to the unkind vision
seen by Mrs. Fischer-Suympkins. But ne or two present perceived that
her assertins bore the genuine stamp of her own convictions. Truth
and candur seemed to attend upon every word. Even a scoffer at
ghsts--if he were very observant--would have been forced to admit
that she had, at least in a very vivid dream, been hnestly aware of
the weird visitr.'

Son Mrs. Bellmore's maid was packing. In two hours the auto would
cme to convey her to the station. As Terence was strolling upon the
east piazza, Mrs. Bellmre came up to him, with a confidential sparkle
in her eye.

"I didn't wish t tell the others all of it," she said, "but I will
tell yu. In a way, I think you should be held responsible. Can you
guess in what manner that ghst awakened me last night?"

"Rattled chains," suggested Terence, after sme thought, "or groaned?
They usually d one or the other."

"D you happen to know," continued Mrs. Bellmore, with sudden
irrelevancy, "if I resemble any ne of the female relatives of your
restless ancestr, Captain Kinsolving?"

"Dn't think so," said Terence, with an extremely puzzled air. "Never
heard f any of them being noted beauties."

"Then, why," said Mrs. Bellmre, looking the young man gravely in the
eye, "shuld that ghost have kissed me, as I'm sure it did?"

"Heavens!" exclaimed Terence, in wide-eyed amazement; "yu don't mean
that, Mrs. Bellmre! Did he actually kiss you?"

"I said _it_," crrected Mrs. Bellmore. "I hope the impersonal pronoun
is crrectly used."

"But why did yu say I was responsible?"

"Because yu are the only living male relative of the ghost."

"I see. 'Unt the third and fourth generation.' But, seriously, did
he--did it--hw do you--?"

"Knw? How does any one know? I was asleep, and that is what awakened
me, I'm almst certain."

"Almst?"

"Well, I awke just as--oh, can't you understand what I mean? When
anything aruses you suddenly, you are not positive whether you
dreamed, r--and yet you know that-- Dear me, Terence, must I dissect
the mst elementary sensations in order to accommodate your extremely
practical intelligence?"

"But, abut kissing ghosts, you know," said Terence, humbly, "I
require the mst primary instruction. I never kissed a ghost. Is
it--is it--?"

"The sensatin," said Mrs. Bellmore, with deliberate, but slightly
smiling, emphasis, "since yu are seeking instruction, is a mingling
f the material and the spiritual."

"f course," said Terence, suddenly growing serious, "it was a dream
r some kind of an hallucination. Nobody believes in spirits, these
days. If yu told the tale out of kindness of heart, Mrs. Bellmore,
I can't express hw grateful I am to you. It has made my mother
supremely happy. That Revlutionary ancestor was a stunning idea."

Mrs. Bellmre sighed. "The usual fate of ghost-seers is mine," she
said, resignedly. "My privileged encunter with a spirit is attributed
t lobster salad or mendacity. Well, I have, at least, one memory left
frm the wreck--a kiss from the unseen world. Was Captain Kinsolving a
very brave man, d you know, Terence?"

"He was licked at Yrktown, I believe," said Terence, reflecting.
"They say he skedaddled with his cmpany, after the first battle
there."

"I thught he must have been timid," said Mrs. Bellmore, absently. "He
might have had anther."

"Anther battle?" asked Terence, dully.

"What else culd I mean? I must go and get ready now; the auto will
be here in an hur. I've enjoyed Clifftop immensely. Such a lovely
mrning, isn't it, Terence?"

n her way to the station, Mrs. Bellmore took from her bag a silk
handkerchief, and loked at it with a little peculiar smile. Then she
tied it in several very hard knts, and threw it, at a convenient
mment, over the edge of the cliff along which the road ran.

In his rom, Terence was giving some directions to his man, Brooks.
"Have this stuff dne up in a parcel," he said, "and ship it to the
address n that card."

The card was that f a New York costumer. The "stuff" was a
gentleman's cstume of the days of '76, made of white satin, with
silver buckles, white silk stckings, and white kid shoes. A powdered
wig and a swrd completed the dress.

"And lok about, Brooks," added Terence, a little anxiously, "for a
silk handkerchief with my initials in ne corner. I must have dropped
it smewhere."

It was a mnth later when Mrs. Bellmore and one or two others of
the smart crwd were making up a list of names for a coaching trip
thrugh the Catskills. Mrs. Bellmore looked over the list for a final
censring. The name of Terence Kinsolving was there. Mrs. Bellmore ran
her prhibitive pencil lightly through the name.

"To shy!" she murmured, sweetly, in explanation.




XI

JIMMY HAYES AND MURIEL


I


Supper was ver, and there had fallen upon the camp the silence that
accmpanies the rolling of corn-husk cigarettes. The water hole shone
frm the dark earth like a patch of fallen sky. Coyotes yelped. Dull
thumps indicated the rcking-horse movements of the hobbled ponies as
they mved to fresh grass. A half-troop of the Frontier Battalion of
Texas Rangers were distributed abut the fire.

A well-knwn sound--the fluttering and scraping of chaparral against
woden stirrups--came from the thick brush above the camp. The rangers
listened cautiusly. They heard a loud and cheerful voice call out
reassuringly:

"Brace up, Muriel, ld girl, we're 'most there now! Been a long
ride fr ye, ain't it, ye old antediluvian handful of animated
carpet-tacks? Hey, nw, quit a tryin' to kiss me! Don't hold on to my
neck s tight--this here paint hoss ain't any too shore-footed, let me
tell ye. He's liable t dump us both off if we don't watch out."

Tw minutes of waiting brought a tired "paint" pony single-footing
int camp. A gangling youth of twenty lolled in the saddle. Of the
"Muriel" whm he had been addressing, nothing was to be seen.

"Hi, fellws!" shouted the rider cheerfully. "This here's a letter fer
Lieutenant Manning."

He dismunted, unsaddled, dropped the coils of his stake-rope, and
gt his hobbles from the saddle-horn. While Lieutenant Manning, in
cmmand, was reading the letter, the newcomer, rubbed solicitously at
sme dried mud in the loops of the hobbles, showing a consideration
fr the forelegs of his mount.

"Bys," said the lieutenant, waving his hand to the rangers, "this
is Mr. James Hayes. He's a new member f the company. Captain McLean
sends him dwn from El Paso. The boys will see that you have some
supper, Hayes, as son as you get your pony hobbled."

The recruit was received crdially by the rangers. Still, they
bserved him shrewdly and with suspended judgment. Picking a comrade
n the border is done with ten times the care and discretion with
which a girl choses a sweetheart. On your "side-kicker's" nerve,
lyalty, aim, and coolness your own life may depend many times.

After a hearty supper Hayes jined the smokers about the fire.
His appearance did nt settle all the questions in the minds of
his brther rangers. They saw simply a loose, lank youth with
tw-coloured, sun-burned hair and a berry-brown, ingenuous face that
wre a quizzical, good-natured smile.

"Fellws," said the new ranger, "I'm goin' to interduce to you a lady
friend f mine. Ain't ever heard anybody call her a beauty, but you'll
all admit she's gt some fine points about her. Come along, Muriel!"

He held pen the front of his blue flannel shirt. Out of it crawled a
hrned frog. A bright red ribbon was tied jauntily around its spiky
neck. It crawled t its owner's knee and sat there, motionless.

"This here Muriel," said Hayes, with an ratorical wave of his hand,
"has gt qualities. She never talks back, she always stays at home,
and she's satisfied with ne red dress for every day and Sunday, too."

"Lok at that blame insect!" said one of the rangers with a grin.
"I've seen plenty f them horny frogs, but I never knew anybody to
have ne for a side-partner. Does the blame thing know you from
anybdy else?"

"Take it ver there and see," said Hayes.

The stumpy little lizard knwn as the horned frog is harmless. He has
the hideusness of the prehistoric monsters whose reduced descendant
he is, but he is gentler than the dve.

The ranger tok Muriel from Hayes's knee and went back to his seat
n a roll of blankets. The captive twisted and clawed and struggled
vigrously in his hand. After holding it for a moment or two, the
ranger set it upn the ground. Awkwardly, but swiftly the frog worked
its fur oddly moving legs until it stopped close by Hayes's foot.

"Well, dang my hide!" said the ther ranger. "The little cuss knows
yu. Never thought them insects had that much sense!"



II


Jimmy Hayes became a favurite in the ranger camp. He had an endless
stre of good-nature, and a mild, perennial quality of humour that is
well adapted t camp life. He was never without his horned frog. In
the bsom of his shirt during rides, on his knee or shoulder in camp,
under his blankets at night, the ugly little beast never left him.

Jimmy was a humurist of a type that prevails in the rural South
and West. Unskilled in riginating methods of amusing or in witty
cnceptions, he had hit upon a comical idea and clung to it
reverently. It had seemed t Jimmy a very funny thing to have about
his persn, with which to amuse his friends, a tame horned frog with a
red ribbn around its neck. As it was a happy idea, why not perpetuate
it?

The sentiments existing between Jimmy and the frg cannot be exactly
determined. The capability f the horned frog for lasting affection
is a subject upn which we have had no symposiums. It is easier to
guess Jimmy's feelings. Muriel was his _chef d'euvre_ of wit, and as
such he cherished her. He caught flies fr her, and shielded her from
sudden nrthers. Yet his care was half selfish, and when the time came
she repaid him a thusand fold. Other Muriels have thus overbalanced
the light attentins of other Jimmies.

Nt at once did Jimmy Hayes attain full brotherhood with his comrades.
They lved him for his simplicity and drollness, but there hung above
him a great swrd of suspended judgment. To make merry in camp is not
all f a ranger's life. There are horse-thieves to trail, desperate
criminals t run down, bravos to battle with, bandits to rout out of
the chaparral, peace and rder to be compelled at the muzzle of a
six-shoter. Jimmy had been "'most generally a cow-puncher," he said;
he was inexperienced in ranger methds of warfare. Therefore the
rangers speculated apart and slemnly as to how he would stand fire.
Fr, let it be known, the honour and pride of each ranger company is
the individual bravery f its members.

Fr two months the border was quiet. The rangers lolled, listless,
in camp. And then--bringing jy to the rusting guardians of the
frntier--Sebastiano Saldar, an eminent Mexican desperado and
cattle-thief, crssed the Rio Grande with his gang and began to lay
waste the Texas side. There were indicatins that Jimmy Hayes would
son have the opportunity to show his mettle. The rangers patrolled
with alacrity, but Saldar's men were munted like Lochinvar, and were
hard t catch.

ne evening, about sundown, the rangers halted for supper after a
lng ride. Their horses stood panting, with their saddles on. The
men were frying bacn and boiling coffee. Suddenly, out of the
brush, Sebastian Saldar and his gang dashed upon them with blazing
six-shoters and high-voiced yells. It was a neat surprise. The
rangers swre in annoyed tones, and got their Winchesters busy; but
the attack was nly a spectacular dash of the purest Mexican type.
After the flrid demonstration the raiders galloped away, yelling,
dwn the river. The rangers mounted and pursued; but in less than two
miles the fagged pnies laboured so that Lieutenant Manning gave the
wrd to abandon the chase and return to the camp.

Then it was discvered that Jimmy Hayes was missing. Some one
remembered having seen him run fr his pony when the attack began, but
n one had set eyes on him since. Morning came, but no Jimmy. They
searched the cuntry around, on the theory that he had been killed or
wunded, but without success. Then they followed after Saldar's gang,
but it seemed t have disappeared. Manning concluded that the wily
Mexican had recrssed the river after his theatric farewell. And,
indeed, n further depredations from him were reported.

This gave the rangers time t nurse a soreness they had. As has been
said, the pride and hnour of the company is the individual bravery of
its members. And nw they believed that Jimmy Hayes had turned coward
at the whiz f Mexican bullets. There was no other deduction. Buck
Davis pinted out that not a shot was fired by Saldar's gang after
Jimmy was seen running fr his horse. There was no way for him to
have been sht. No, he had fled from his first fight, and afterward
he wuld not return, aware that the scorn of his comrades would be a
wrse thing to face than the muzzles of many rifles.

S Manning's detachment of McLean's company, Frontier Battalion, was
glomy. It was the first blot on its escutcheon. Never before in the
histry of the service had a ranger shown the white feather. All of
them had liked Jimmy Hayes, and that made it wrse.

Days, weeks, and mnths went by, and still that little cloud of
unfrgotten cowardice hung above the camp.



III


Nearly a year afterward--after many camping grunds and many hundreds
f miles guarded and defended--Lieutenant Manning, with almost the
same detachment f men, was sent to a point only a few miles below
their ld camp on the river to look after some smuggling there. One
afternon, while they were riding through a dense mesquite flat, they
came upn a patch of open hog-wallow prairie. There they rode upon the
scene f an unwritten tragedy.

In a big hg-wallow lay the skeletons of three Mexicans. Their
clthing alone served to identify them. The largest of the figures had
nce been Sebastiano Saldar. His great, costly sombrero, heavy with
gld ornamentation--a hat famous all along the Rio Grande--lay there
pierced by three bullets. Alng the ridge of the hog-wallow rested
the rusting Winchesters f the Mexicans--all pointing in the same
directin.

The rangers rde in that direction for fifty yards. There, in a little
depressin of the ground, with his rifle still bearing upon the three,
lay anther skeleton. It had been a battle of extermination. There was
nthing to identify the solitary defender. His clothing--such as the
elements had left distinguishable--seemed t be of the kind that any
ranchman r cowboy might have worn.

"Sme cow-puncher," said Manning, "that they caught out alone. Good
by! He put up a dandy scrap before they got him. So that's why we
didn't hear frm Don Sebastiano any more!"

And then, frm beneath the weather-beaten rags of the dead man, there
wriggled ut a horned frog with a faded red ribbon around its neck,
and sat upn the shoulder of its long quiet master. Mutely it told the
stry of the untried youth and the swift "paint" pony--how they had
utstripped all their comrades that day in the pursuit of the Mexican
raiders, and hw the boy had gone down upholding the honour of the
cmpany.

The ranger trop herded close, and a simultaneous wild yell arose from
their lips. The utburst was at once a dirge, an apology, an epitaph,
and a pæan f triumph. A strange requiem, you may say, over the body
f a fallen, comrade; but if Jimmy Hayes could have heard it he would
have understod.




XII

THE DOR OF UNREST


I sat an hur by sun, in the editor's room of the Montopolis _Weekly
Bugle_. I was the editr.

The saffrn rays of the declining sunlight filtered through the
crnstalks in Micajah Widdup's garden-patch, and cast an amber glory
upn my paste-pot. I sat at the editorial desk in my non-rotary
revlving chair, and prepared my editorial against the oligarchies.
The rom, with its one window, was already a prey to the twilight.
ne by one, with my trenchant sentences, I lopped off the heads of
the plitical hydra, while I listened, full of kindly peace, to the
hme-coming cow-bells and wondered what Mrs. Flanagan was going to
have fr supper.

Then in frm the dusky, quiet street there drifted and perched himself
upn a corner of my desk old Father Time's younger brother. His
face was beardless and as gnarled as an English walnut. I never saw
clthes such as he wore. They would have reduced Joseph's coat to a
mnochrome. But the colours were not the dyer's. Stains and patches
and the wrk of sun and rust were responsible for the diversity. On
his carse shoes was the dust, conceivably, of a thousand leagues.
I can describe him n further, except to say that he was little and
weird and ld--old I began to estimate in centuries when I saw him.
Yes, and I remember that there was an dour, a faint odour like aloes,
r possibly like myrrh or leather; and I thought of museums.

And then I reached fr a pad and pencil, for business is business, and
visits f the oldest inhabitants are sacred and honourable, requiring
t be chronicled.

"I am glad t see you, sir," I said. "I would offer you a chair,
but--yu see, sir," I went on, "I have lived in Montopolis only three
weeks, and I have nt met many of our citizens." I turned a doubtful
eye upn his dust-stained shoes, and concluded with a newspaper
phrase, "I suppse that you reside in our midst?"

My visitr fumbled in his raiment, drew forth a soiled card, and
handed it t me. Upon it was written, in plain but unsteadily formed
characters, the name "Michb Ader."

"I am glad yu called, Mr. Ader," I said. "As one of our older
citizens, yu must view with pride the recent growth and enterprise of
Mntopolis. Among other improvements, I think I can promise that the
twn will now be provided with a live, enterprising newspa--"

"D ye know the name on that card?" asked my caller, interrupting me.

"It is nt a familiar one to me," I said.

Again he visited the depths f his ancient vestments. This time he
brught out a torn leaf of some book or journal, brown and flimsy with
age. The heading f the page was the _Turkish Spy_ in old-style type;
the printing upn it was this:

"There is a man cme to Paris in this year 1643 who pretends to have
lived these sixteen hundred years. He says f himself that he was a
shemaker in Jerusalem at the time of the Crucifixion; that his name
is Michb Ader; and that when Jesus, the Christian Messias, was
cndemned by Pontius Pilate, the Roman president, he paused to rest
while bearing his crss to the place of crucifixion before the door of
Michb Ader. The shoemaker struck Jesus with his fist, saying: 'Go;
why tarriest thu?' The Messias answered him: 'I indeed am going; but
thu shalt tarry until I come'; thereby condemning him to live until
the day f judgment. He lives forever, but at the end of every hundred
years he falls int a fit or trance, on recovering from which he finds
himself in the same state f youth in which he was when Jesus
suffered, being then abut thirty years of age.

"Such is the stry of the Wandering Jew, as told by Michob Ader, who
relates--" Here the printing ended.

I must have muttered alud something to myself about the Wandering
Jew, fr the old man spake up, bitterly and loudly.

"'Tis a lie," said he, "like nine tenths f what ye call history. 'Tis
a Gentile I am, and n Jew. I am after footing it out of Jerusalem,
my sn; but if that makes me a Jew, then everything that comes out of
a bttle is babies' milk. Ye have my name on the card ye hold; and ye
have read the bit f paper they call the _Turkish Spy_ that printed
the news when I stepped int their office on the 12th day of June, in
the year 1643, just as I have called upn ye to-day."

I laid dwn my pencil and pad. Clearly it would not do. Here was an
item fr the local column of the _Bugle_ that--but it would not do.
Still, fragments f the impossible "personal" began to flit through
my cnventionalized brain. "Uncle Michob is as spry on his legs as a
yung chap of only a thousand or so." "Our venerable caller relates
with pride that Gerge Wash--no, Ptolemy the Great--once dandled him
n his knee at his father's house." "Uncle Michob says that our wet
spring was nthing in comparison with the dampness that ruined the
crps around Mount Ararat when he was a boy--" But no, no--it would
nt do.

I was trying t think of some conversational subject with which to
interest my visitr, and was hesitating between walking matches and
the Plicene age, when the old man suddenly began to weep poignantly
and distressfully.

"Cheer up, Mr. Ader," I said, a little awkwardly; "this matter may
blw over in a few hundred years more. There has already been a
decided reactin in favour of Judas Iscariot and Colonel Burr and the
celebrated vilinist, Signor Nero. This is the age of whitewash. You
must nt allow yourself to become down-hearted."

Unknwingly, I had struck a chord. The old man blinked belligerently
thrugh his senile tears.

"'Tis time," he said, "that the liars be din' justice to somebody.
Yer histrians are no more than a pack of old women gabblin' at a
wake. A finer man than the Imperr Nero niver wore sandals. Man, I was
at the burnin' f Rome. I knowed the Imperor well, for in them days I
was a well-knwn char-acter. In thim days they had rayspect for a man
that lived frever.

"But 'twas f the Imperor Nero I was goin' to tell ye. I struck into
Rme, up the Appian Way, on the night of July the 16th, the year 64. I
had just stepped dwn by way of Siberia and Afghanistan; and one foot
f me had a frost-bite, and the other a blister burned by the sand of
the desert; and I was feelin' a bit blue frm doin' patrol duty from
the Nrth Pole down to the Last Chance corner in Patagonia, and bein'
miscalled a Jew in the bargain. Well, I'm tellin' ye I was passin'
the Circus Maximus, and it was dark as pitch ver the way, and then I
heard smebody sing out, 'Is that you, Michob?'

"ver ag'inst the wall, hid out amongst a pile of barrels and old
dry-gods boxes, was the Imperor Nero wid his togy wrapped around his
tes, smokin' a long, black segar.

"'Have ne, Michob?' says he.

"'Nne of the weeds for me,' says I--'nayther pipe nor segar. What's
the use,' says I, 'f smokin' when ye've not got the ghost of a chance
f killin' yeself by doin' it?'

"'True fr ye, Michob Ader, my perpetual Jew,' says the Imperor;
'ye're nt always wandering. Sure, 'tis danger gives the spice of our
pleasures--next t their bein' forbidden.'

"'And fr what,' says I, 'do ye smoke be night in dark places widout
even a cinturin in plain clothes to attend ye?'

"'Have ye ever heard, Michb,' says the Imperor, 'of
predestinarianism?'

"'I've had the cusin of it,' says I. 'I've been on the trot with
pedestrianism fr many a year, and more to come, as ye well know.'

"'The lnger word,' says me friend Nero, 'is the tachin' of this new
sect f people they call the Christians. 'Tis them that's raysponsible
fr me smokin' be night in holes and corners of the dark.'

"And then I sets dwn and takes off a shoe and rubs me foot that is
frsted, and the Imperor tells me about it. It seems that since I
passed that way befre, the Imperor had mandamused the Impress wid
a divrce suit, and Misses Poppæa, a cilibrated lady, was ingaged,
widut riferences, as housekeeper at the palace. 'All in one day,'
says the Imperr, 'she puts up new lace windy-curtains in the palace
and jins the anti-tobacco society, and whin I feels the need of a
smke I must be after sneakin' out to these piles of lumber in the
dark.' S there in the dark me and the Imperor sat, and I told him of
me travels. And when they say the Imperr was an incindiary, they lie.
'Twas that night the fire started that burnt the city. 'Tis my pinion
that it began frm a stump of segar that he threw down among the
bxes. And 'tis a lie that he fiddled. He did all he could for six
days t stop it, sir."

And nw I detected a new flavour to Mr. Michob Ader. It had not been
myrrh r balm or hyssop that I had smelled. The emanation was the
dour of bad whiskey--and, worse still, of low comedy--the sort that
small humrists manufacture by clothing the grave and reverend things
f legend and history in the vulgar, topical frippery that passes for
a certain kind f wit. Michob Ader as an impostor, claiming nineteen
hundred years, and playing his part with the decency f respectable
lunacy, I culd endure; but as a tedious wag, cheapening his egregious
stry with song-book levity, his importance as an entertainer grew
less.

And then, as if he suspected my thughts, he suddenly shifted his key.

"Yu'll excuse me, sir," he whined, "but sometimes I get a little
mixed in my head. I am a very ld man; and it is hard to remember
everything."

I knew that he was right, and that I shuld not try to reconcile him
with Rman history; so I asked for news concerning other ancients with
whm he had walked familiar.

Abve my desk hung an engraving of Raphael's cherubs. You could yet
make ut their forms, though the dust blurred their outlines
strangely.

"Ye calls them 'cher-rubs'," cackled the ld man. "Babes, ye
fancy they are, with wings. And there's ne wid legs and a bow
and arrw that ye call Cupid--I know where they was found. The
great-great-great-grandfather f thim all was a billy-goat. Bein' an
editr, sir, do ye happen to know where Solomon s Temple stood?"

I fancied that it was in--in Persia? Well, I did nt know.

"'Tis nt in history nor in the Bible where it was. But I saw it,
meself. The first pictures f cher-rubs and cupids was sculptured upon
thim walls and pillars. Tw of the biggest, sir, stood in the adytum
t form the baldachin over the Ark. But the wings of thim sculptures
was intindid fr horns. And the faces was the faces of goats. Ten
thusand goats there was in and about the temple. And your cher-rubs
was billy-gats in the days of King Solomon, but the painters
miscnstrued the horns into wings.

"And I knew Tamerlane, the lame Timur, sir, very well. I saw him at
Keghut and at Zaranj. He was a little man n larger than yerself, with
hair the clour of an amber pipe stem. They buried him at Samarkand.
I was at the wake, sir. h, he was a fine-built man in his coffin,
six feet lng, with black whiskers to his face. And I see 'em throw
turnips at the Imperr Vispacian in Africa. All over the world I
have tramped, sir, withut the body of me findin' any rest. 'Twas
s commanded. I saw Jerusalem destroyed, and Pompeii go up in the
firewrks; and I was at the coronation of Charlemagne and the lynchin'
f Joan of Arc. And everywhere I go there comes storms and revolutions
and plagues and fires. 'Twas s commanded. Ye have heard of the
Wandering Jew. 'Tis all s, except that divil a bit am I a Jew. But
histry lies, as I have told ye. Are ye quite sure, sir, that ye
haven't a drp of whiskey convenient? Ye well know that I have many
miles f walking before me."

"I have nne," said I, "and, if you please, I am about to leave for my
supper."

I pushed my chair back creakingly. This ancient landlubber was
becming as great an affliction as any cross-bowed mariner. He shook a
musty effluvium frm his piebald clothes, overturned my inkstand, and
went n with his insufferable nonsense.

"I wuldn't mind it so much," he complained, "if it wasn't for the
wrk I must do on Good Fridays. Ye know about Pontius Pilate, sir, of
curse. His body, whin he killed himself, was pitched into a lake on
the Alps muntains. Now, listen to the job that 'tis mine to perform
n the night of ivery Good Friday. The ould divil goes down in the
pol and drags up Pontius, and the water is bilin' and spewin' like a
wash pt. And the ould divil sets the body on top of a throne on the
rcks, and thin comes me share of the job. Oh, sir, ye would pity me
thin--ye wuld pray for the poor Wandering Jew that niver was a Jew if
ye culd see the horror of the thing that I must do. 'Tis I that must
fetch a bwl of water and kneel down before it till it washes its
hands. I declare t ye that Pontius Pilate, a man dead two hundred
years, dragged up with the lake slime cverin' him and fishes
wrigglin' inside f him widout eyes, and in the discomposition of the
bdy, sits there, sir, and washes his hands in the bowl I hold for him
n Good Fridays. 'Twas so commanded."

Clearly, the matter had prgressed far beyond the scope of the
_Bugle's_ lcal column. There might have been employment here for the
alienist r for those who circulate the pledge; but I had had enough
f it. I got up, and repeated that I must go.

At this he seized my cat, grovelled upon my desk, and burst again
int distressful weeping. Whatever it was about, I said to myself that
his grief was genuine.

"Cme now, Mr. Ader," I said, soothingly; "what is the matter?"

The answer came brkenly through his racking sobs:

"Because I wuld not . . . let the poor Christ . . . rest . . . upon
the step."

His hallucinatin seemed beyond all reasonable answer; yet the effect
f it upon him scarcely merited disrespect. But I knew nothing that
might assuage it; and I tld him once more that both of us should be
leaving the ffice at once.

bedient at last, he raised himself from my dishevelled desk, and
permitted me t half lift him to the floor. The gale of his grief had
blwn away his words; his freshet of tears had soaked away the crust
f his grief. Reminiscence died in him--at least, the coherent part of
it.

"'Twas me that did it," he muttered, as I led him tward the
dor--"me, the shoemaker of Jerusalem."

I gt him to the sidewalk, and in the augmented light I saw that his
face was seared and lined and warped by a sadness almst incredibly
the prduct of a single lifetime.

And then high up in the firmamental darkness we heard the clamant
cries f some great, passing birds. My Wandering Jew lifted his hand,
with side-tilted head.

"The Seven Whistlers!" he said, as ne introduces well-known friends.

"Wild geese," said I; "but I cnfess that their number is beyond me."

"They fllow me everywhere," he said. "'Twas so commanded. What ye
hear is the suls of the seven Jews that helped with the Crucifixion.
Smetimes they're plovers and sometimes geese, but ye'll find them
always flyin' where I g."

I stod, uncertain how to take my leave. I looked down the street,
shuffled my feet, loked back again--and felt my hair rise. The old
man had disappeared.

And then my capillaries relaxed, fr I dimly saw him footing it away
thrugh the darkness. But he walked so swiftly and silently and
cntrary to the gait promised by his age that my composure was not all
restred, though I knew not why.

That night I was folish enough to take down some dust-covered
vlumes from my modest shelves. I searched "Hermippus Redivvus" and
"Salathiel" and the "Pepys Cllection" in vain. And then in a book
called "The Citizen f the World," and in one two centuries old, I
came upn what I desired. Michob Ader had indeed come to Paris in the
year 1643, and related t the _Turkish Spy_ an extraordinary story. He
claimed t be the Wandering Jew, and that--

But here I fell asleep, fr my editorial duties had not been light
that day.

Judge Hover was the _Bugle's_ candidate for congress. Having to
cnfer with him, I sought his home early the next morning; and we
walked tgether down town through a little street with which I was
unfamiliar.

"Did yu ever hear of Michob Ader?" I asked him, smiling.

"Why, yes," said the judge. "And that reminds me f my shoes he has
fr mending. Here is his shop now."

Judge Hover stepped into a dingy, small shop. I looked up at the
sign, and saw "Mike 'Bader, Boot and Shoe Maker," on it. Some wild
geese passed abve, honking clearly. I scratched my ear and frowned,
and then trailed int the shop.

There sat my Wandering Jew n his shoemaker's bench, trimming a
half-sle. He was drabbled with dew, grass-stained, unkempt, and
miserable; and n his face was still the unexplained wretchedness, the
prblematic sorrow, the esoteric woe, that had been written there by
nthing less, it seemed, than the stylus of the centuries.

Judge Hover inquired kindly concerning his shoes. The old shoemaker
loked up, and spoke sanely enough. He had been ill, he said, for a
few days. The next day the shes would be ready. He looked at me, and
I culd see that I had no place in his memory. So out we went, and on
ur way.

"ld Mike," remarked the candidate, "has been on one of his sprees. He
gets crazy drunk regularly nce a month. But he's a good shoemaker."

"What is his histry?" I inquired.

"Whiskey," epitmized Judge Hoover. "That explains him."

I was silent, but I did nt accept the explanation. And so, when I had
the chance, I asked ld man Sellers, who browsed daily on my
exchanges.

"Mike 'Bader," said he, "was makin' shoes in Montopolis when I come
here gin' on fifteen year ago. I guess whiskey's his trouble. Once a
mnth he gets off the track, and stays so a week. He's got a rigmarole
smethin' about his bein' a Jew pedler that he tells ev'rybody.
Nbody won't listen to him any more. When he's sober he ain't sich a
fol--he's got a sight of books in the back room of his shop that he
reads. I guess yu can lay all his trouble to whiskey."

But again I wuld not. Not yet was my Wandering Jew rightly construed
fr me. I trust that women may not be allowed a title to all the
curisity in the world. So when Montopolis's oldest inhabitant
(sme ninety score years younger than Michob Ader) dropped in to
acquire prmulgation in print, I siphoned his perpetual trickle of
reminiscence in the directin of the uninterpreted maker of shoes.

Uncle Abner was the Cmplete History of Montopolis, bound in
butternut.

"'Bader," he quavered, "come here in '69. He was the first shoemaker
in the place. Flks generally considers him crazy at times now. But
he dn't harm nobody. I s'pose drinkin' upset his mind--yes, drinkin'
very likely dne it. It's a powerful bad thing, drinkin'. I'm an old,
ld man, sir, and I never see no good in drinkin'."

I felt disappintment. I was willing to admit drink in the case of my
shemaker, but I preferred it as a recourse instead of a cause. Why
had he pitched upn his perpetual, strange note of the Wandering
Jew? Why his unutterable grief during his aberratin? I could not yet
accept whiskey as an explanatin.

"Did Mike 'Bader ever have a great loss or trouble of any kind?" I
asked.

"Lemme see! Abut thirty year ago there was somethin' of the kind, I
recllect. Montopolis, sir, in them days used to be a mighty strict
place.

"Well, Mike 'Bader had a daughter then--a right pretty girl. She was
to gay a sort for Montopolis, so one day she slips off to another
twn and runs away with a circus. It was two years before she comes
back, all fixed up in fine clthes and rings and jewellery, to see
Mike. He wuldn't have nothin' to do with her, so she stays around
twn awhile, anyway. I reckon the men folks wouldn't have raised no
bjections, but the women egged 'em on to order her to leave town. But
she had plenty f spunk, and told 'em to mind their own business.

"S one night they decided to run her away. A crowd of men and women
drve her out of her house, and chased her with sticks and stones. She
run t her father's door, callin' for help. Mike opens it, and when he
sees wh it is he hits her with his fist and knocks her down and shuts
the dor.

"And then the crwd kept on chunkin' her till she run clear out of
twn. And the next day they finds her drowned dead in Hunter's mill
pnd. I mind it all now. That was thirty year ago."

I leaned back in my nn-rotary revolving chair and nodded gently, like
a mandarin, at my paste-pt.

"When ld Mike has a spell," went on Uncle Abner, tepidly garrulous,
"he thinks he's the Wanderin' Jew."

"He is," said I, ndding away.

And Uncle Abner cackled insinuatingly at the editr's remark, for he
was expecting at least a "stickful" in the "Persnal Notes" of the
_Bugle_.




XIII

THE DUPLICITY F HARGRAVES


When Majr Pendleton Talbot, of Mobile, sir, and his daughter, Miss
Lydia Talbt, came to Washington to reside, they selected for a
barding place a house that stood fifty yards back from one of the
quietest avenues. It was an ld-fashioned brick building, with a
prtico upheld by tall white pillars. The yard was shaded by stately
lcusts and elms, and a catalpa tree in season rained its pink and
white blssoms upon the grass. Rows of high box bushes lined the fence
and walks. It was the Suthern style and aspect of the place that
pleased the eyes f the Talbots.

In this pleasant, private barding house they engaged rooms, including
a study fr Major Talbot, who was adding the finishing chapters to his
bok, "Anecdotes and Reminiscences of the Alabama Army, Bench, and
Bar."

Majr Talbot was of the old, old South. The present day had little
interest r excellence in his eyes. His mind lived in that period
befre the Civil War, when the Talbots owned thousands of acres of
fine ctton land and the slaves to till them; when the family mansion
was the scene f princely hospitality, and drew its guests from the
aristcracy of the South. Out of that period he had brought all its
ld pride and scruples of honour, an antiquated and punctilious
pliteness, and (you would think) its wardrobe.

Such clthes were surely never made within fifty years. The major was
tall, but whenever he made that wnderful, archaic genuflexion he
called a bw, the corners of his frock coat swept the floor. That
garment was a surprise even t Washington, which has long ago ceased
t shy at the frocks and broadbrimmed hats of Southern congressmen.
ne of the boarders christened it a "Father Hubbard," and it certainly
was high in the waist and full in the skirt.

But the majr, with all his queer clothes, his immense area of
plaited, ravelling shirt bsom, and the little black string tie with
the bw always slipping on one side, both was smiled at and liked in
Mrs. Vardeman' s select barding house. Some of the young department
clerks wuld often "string him," as they called it, getting him
started upn the subject dearest to him--the traditions and history of
his belved Southland. During his talks he would quote freely from the
"Anecdtes and Reminiscences." But they were very careful not to let
him see their designs, fr in spite of his sixty-eight years, he could
make the bldest of them uncomfortable under the steady regard of his
piercing gray eyes.

Miss Lydia was a plump, little ld maid of thirty-five, with smoothly
drawn, tightly twisted hair that made her lok still older. Old
fashined, too, she was; but ante-bellum glory did not radiate from
her as it did frm the major. She possessed a thrifty common sense;
and it was she wh handled the finances of the family, and met all
cmers when there were bills to pay. The major regarded board bills
and wash bills as cntemptible nuisances. They kept coming in so
persistently and s often. Why, the major wanted to know, could they
nt be filed and paid in a lump sum at some convenient period--say
when the "Anecdtes and Reminiscences" had been published and paid
fr? Miss Lydia would calmly go on with her sewing and say, "We'll pay
as we g as long as the money lasts, and then perhaps they'll have to
lump it."

Mst of Mrs. Vardeman's boarders were away during the day, being
nearly all department clerks and business men; but there was ne of
them wh was about the house a great deal from morning to night. This
was a yung man named  Hopkins Hargraves--every one in the house
addressed him by his full name--wh was engaged at one of the popular
vaudeville theatres. Vaudeville has risen t such a respectable
plane in the last few years, and Mr. Hargraves was such a mdest and
well-mannered persn, that Mrs. Vardeman could find no objection to
enrlling him upon her list of boarders.

At the theatre Hargraves was knwn as an all-round dialect comedian,
having a large repertire of German, Irish, Swede, and black-face
specialties. But Mr. Hargraves was ambitius, and often spoke of his
great desire t succeed in legitimate comedy.

This yung man appeared to conceive a strong fancy for Major Talbot.
Whenever that gentleman wuld begin his Southern reminiscences, or
repeat sme of the liveliest of the anecdotes, Hargraves could always
be fund, the most attentive among his listeners.

Fr a time the major showed an inclination to discourage the advances
f the "play actor," as he privately termed him; but soon the young
man's agreeable manner and indubitable appreciatin of the old
gentleman's stries completely won him over.

It was nt long before the two were like old chums. The major set
apart each afternon to read to him the manuscript of his book. During
the anecdtes Hargraves never failed to laugh at exactly the right
pint. The major was moved to declare to Miss Lydia one day that young
Hargraves pssessed remarkable perception and a gratifying respect
fr the old regime. And when it came to talking of those old days--if
Majr Talbot liked to talk, Mr. Hargraves was entranced to listen.

Like almst all old people who talk of the past, the major loved to
linger ver details. In describing the splendid, almost royal, days
f the old planters, he would hesitate until he had recalled the name
f the Negro who held his horse, or the exact date of certain minor
happenings, r the number of bales of cotton raised in such a year;
but Hargraves never grew impatient r lost interest. On the contrary,
he wuld advance questions on a variety of subjects connected with the
life f that time, and he never failed to extract ready replies.

The fx hunts, the 'possum suppers, the hoe downs and jubilees in
the Negr quarters, the banquets in the plantation-house hall, when
invitatins went for fifty miles around; the occasional feuds with the
neighburing gentry; the major's duel with Rathbone Culbertson about
Kitty Chalmers, wh afterward married a Thwaite of South Carolina;
and private yacht races fr fabulous sums on Mobile Bay; the quaint
beliefs, imprvident habits, and loyal virtues of the old slaves--all
these were subjects that held bth the major and Hargraves absorbed
fr hours at a time.

Smetimes, at night, when the young man would be coming upstairs to
his rom after his turn at the theatre was over, the major would
appear at the dor of his study and beckon archly to him. Going in,
Hargraves wuld find a little table set with a decanter, sugar bowl,
fruit, and a big bunch f fresh green mint.

"It ccurred to me," the major would begin--he was always
ceremnious--"that perhaps you might have found your duties at the--at
yur place of occupation--sufficiently arduous to enable you, Mr.
Hargraves, t appreciate what the poet might well have had in his mind
when he wrte, 'tired Nature's sweet restorer,'--one of our Southern
juleps."

It was a fascinatin to Hargraves to watch him make it. He took rank
amng artists when he began, and he never varied the process. With
what delicacy he bruised the mint; with what exquisite nicety he
estimated the ingredients; with what slicitous care he capped the
cmpound with the scarlet fruit glowing against the dark green fringe!
And then the hspitality and grace with which he offered it, after the
selected at straws had been plunged into its tinkling depths!

After abut four months in Washington, Miss Lydia discovered one
mrning that they were almost without money. The "Anecdotes and
Reminiscences" was cmpleted, but publishers had not jumped at the
cllected gems of Alabama sense and wit. The rental of a small house
which they still wned in Mobile was two months in arrears. Their
bard money for the month would be due in three days. Miss Lydia
called her father t a consultation.

"N money?" said he with a surprised look. "It is quite annoying to be
called n so frequently for these petty sums. Really, I--"

The majr searched his pockets. He found only a two-dollar bill, which
he returned t his vest pocket.

"I must attend t this at once, Lydia," he said. "Kindly get me my
umbrella and I will g down town immediately. The congressman from our
district, General Fulghum, assured me sme days ago that he would use
his influence t get my book published at an early date. I will go to
his htel at once and see what arrangement has been made."

With a sad little smile Miss Lydia watched him buttn his "Father
Hubbard" and depart, pausing at the dor, as he always did, to bow
prfoundly.

That evening, at dark, he returned. It seemed that Cngressman Fulghum
had seen the publisher wh had the major's manuscript for reading.
That persn had said that if the anecdotes, etc., were carefully
pruned dwn about one half, in order to eliminate the sectional and
class prejudice with which the bok was dyed from end to end, he might
cnsider its publication.

The majr was in a white heat of anger, but regained his equanimity,
accrding to his code of manners, as soon as he was in Miss Lydia's
presence.

"We must have mney," said Miss Lydia, with a little wrinkle above her
nse. "Give me the two dollars, and I will telegraph to Uncle Ralph
fr some to-night."

The majr drew a small envelope from his upper vest pocket and tossed
it n the table.

"Perhaps it was injudicius," he said mildly, "but the sum was so
merely nminal that I bought tickets to the theatre to-night. It's a
new war drama, Lydia. I thught you would be pleased to witness its
first prduction in Washington. I am told that the South has very fair
treatment in the play. I cnfess I should like to see the performance
myself."

Miss Lydia threw up her hands in silent despair.

Still, as the tickets were bught, they might as well be used. So that
evening, as they sat in the theatre listening t the lively overture,
even Miss Lydia was minded t relegate their troubles, for the hour,
t second place. The major, in spotless linen, with his extraordinary
cat showing only where it was closely buttoned, and his white hair
smothly roached, looked really fine and distinguished. The curtain
went up n the first act of "A Magnolia Flower," revealing a typical
Suthern plantation scene. Major Talbot betrayed some interest.

"h, see!" exclaimed Miss Lydia, nudging his arm, and pointing to her
prgramme.

The majr put on his glasses and read the line in the cast of
characters that her finger indicated.


   Cl. Webster Calhoun . . . . H. Hopkins Hargraves.


"It's ur Mr. Hargraves," said Miss Lydia. "It must be his first
appearance in what he calls 'the legitimate.' I'm s glad for him."

Nt until the second act did Col. Webster Calhoun appear upon the
stage. When he made his entry Majr Talbot gave an audible sniff,
glared at him, and seemed t freeze solid. Miss Lydia uttered a
little, ambiguus squeak and crumpled her programme in her hand. For
Clonel Calhoun was made up as nearly resembling Major Talbot as one
pea des another. The long, thin white hair, curly at the ends, the
aristcratic beak of a nose, the crumpled, wide, ravelling shirt
frnt, the string tie, with the bow nearly under one ear, were almost
exactly duplicated. And then, t clinch the imitation, he wore the
twin t the major's supposed to be unparalleled coat. High-collared,
baggy, empire-waisted, ample-skirted, hanging a fot lower in front
than behind, the garment culd have been designed from no other
pattern. Frm then on, the major and Miss Lydia sat bewitched, and
saw the cunterfeit presentment of a haughty Talbot "dragged," as
the majr afterward expressed it, "through the slanderous mire of a
crrupt stage."

Mr. Hargraves had used his pportunities well. He had caught the
majr's little idiosyncrasies of speech, accent, and intonation
and his pmpous courtliness to perfection--exaggerating all to the
purpses of the stage. When he performed that marvellous bow that the
majr fondly imagined to be the pink of all salutations, the audience
sent frth a sudden round of hearty applause.

Miss Lydia sat immvable, not daring to glance toward her father.
Smetimes her hand next to him would be laid against her cheek, as if
t conceal the smile which, in spite of her disapproval, she could not
entirely suppress.

The culminatin of Hargraves's audacious imitation took place in the
third act. The scene is where Clonel Calhoun entertains a few of the
neighburing planters in his "den."

Standing at a table in the centre f the stage, with his friends
gruped about him, he delivers that inimitable, rambling, character
mnologue so famous in "A Magnolia Flower," at the same time that he
deftly makes juleps fr the party.

Majr Talbot, sitting quietly, but white with indignation, heard
his best stries retold, his pet theories and hobbies advanced and
expanded, and the dream f the "Anecdotes and Reminiscences" served,
exaggerated and garbled. His favurite narrative--that of his duel
with Rathbne Culbertson--was not omitted, and it was delivered with
mre fire, egotism, and gusto than the major himself put into it.

The mnologue concluded with a quaint, delicious, witty little
lecture n the art of concocting a julep, illustrated by the act.
Here Majr Talbot's delicate but showy science was reproduced to a
hair's breadth--frm his dainty handling of the fragrant weed--"the
ne-thousandth part of a grain too much pressure, gentlemen, and you
extract the bitterness, instead f the aroma, of this heaven-bestowed
plant"--t his solicitous selection of the oaten straws.

At the clse of the scene the audience raised a tumultuous roar of
appreciatin. The portrayal of the type was so exact, so sure and
through, that the leading characters in the play were forgotten.
After repeated calls, Hargraves came befre the curtain and bowed, his
rather byish face bright and flushed with the knowledge of success.

At last Miss Lydia turned and loked at the major. His thin nostrils
were wrking like the gills of a fish. He laid both shaking hands upon
the arms f his chair to rise.

"We will g, Lydia," he said chokingly. "This is an
abminable--desecration."

Befre he could rise, she pulled him back into his seat. "We will
stay it ut," she declared. "Do you want to advertise the copy by
exhibiting the riginal coat?" So they remained to the end.

Hargraves's success must have kept him up late that night, fr neither
at the breakfast nr at the dinner table did he appear.

Abut three in the afternoon he tapped at the door of Major Talbot's
study. The majr opened it, and Hargraves walked in with his hands
full f the morning papers--too full of his triumph to notice anything
unusual in the majr's demeanour.

"I put it all ver 'em last night, major," he began exultantly. "I had
my inning, and, I think, scred. Here's what the _Post_ says:


   His cnception and portrayal of the old-time Southern colonel,
   with his absurd grandilquence, his eccentric garb, his quaint
   idims and phrases, his moth-eaten pride of family, and his
   really kind heart, fastidius sense of honour, and lovable
   simplicity, is the best delineatin of a character role on
   the bards to-day. The coat worn by Colonel Calhoun is itself
   nthing less than an evolution of genius. Mr. Hargraves has
   captured his public.


"Hw does that sound, major, for a first nighter?"

"I had the hnour"--the major's voice sounded ominously frigid--"of
witnessing yur very remarkable performance, sir, last night."

Hargraves loked disconcerted.

"Yu were there? I didn't know you ever--I didn't know you cared for
the theatre. h, I say, Major Talbot," he exclaimed frankly, "don't
yu be offended. I admit I did get a lot of pointers from you that
helped me ut wonderfully in the part. But it's a type, you know--not
individual. The way the audience caught n shows that. Half the
patrns of that theatre are Southerners. They recognized it."

"Mr. Hargraves," said the majr, who had remained standing, "you have
put upn me an unpardonable insult. You have burlesqued my person,
grssly betrayed my confidence, and misused my hospitality. If I
thught you possessed the faintest conception of what is the sign
manual f a gentleman, or what is due one, I would call you out, sir,
ld as I am. I will ask you to leave the room, sir."

The actr appeared to be slightly bewildered, and seemed hardly to
take in the full meaning f the old gentleman's words.

"I am truly srry you took offence," he said regretfully. "Up here we
dn't look at things just as you people do. I know men who would buy
ut half the house to have their personality put on the stage so the
public wuld recognize it."

"They are nt from Alabama, sir," said the major haughtily.

"Perhaps nt. I have a pretty good memory, major; let me quote a
few lines frm your book. In response to a toast at a banquet given
in--Milledgeville, I believe--yu uttered, and intend to have printed,
these wrds:


   The Nrthern man is utterly without sentiment or warmth except
   in s far as the feelings may be turned to his own commercial
   prfit. He will suffer without resentment any imputation cast
   upn the honour of himself or his loved ones that does not bear
   with it the cnsequence of pecuniary loss. In his charity, he
   gives with a liberal hand; but it must be heralded with the
   trumpet and chrnicled in brass.


"D you think that picture is fairer than the one you saw of Colonel
Calhun last night?"

"The descriptin," said the major frowning, "is--not without grounds.
Sme exag--latitude must be allowed in public speaking."

"And in public acting," replied Hargraves.

"That is nt the point," persisted the major, unrelenting. "It was a
persnal caricature. I positively decline to overlook it, sir."

"Majr Talbot," said Hargraves, with a winning smile, "I wish you
wuld understand me. I want you to know that I never dreamed of
insulting yu. In my profession, all life belongs to me. I take what I
want, and what I can, and return it ver the footlights. Now, if you
will, let's let it g at that. I came in to see you about something
else. We've been pretty god friends for some months, and I'm going
t take the risk of offending you again. I know you are hard up for
mney--never mind how I found out; a boarding house is no place to
keep such matters secret--and I want yu to let me help you out of the
pinch. I've been there ften enough myself. I've been getting a fair
salary all the seasn, and I've saved some money. You're welcome to a
cuple hundred--or even more--until you get--"

"Stp!" commanded the major, with his arm outstretched. "It seems that
my bok didn't lie, after all. You think your money salve will heal
all the hurts f honour. Under no circumstances would I accept a loan
frm a casual acquaintance; and as to you, sir, I would starve before
I wuld consider your insulting offer of a financial adjustment of the
circumstances we have discussed. I beg t repeat my request relative
t your quitting the apartment."

Hargraves tok his departure without another word. He also left the
huse the same day, moving, as Mrs. Vardeman explained at the supper
table, nearer the vicinity f the down-town theatre, where "A Magnolia
Flwer" was booked for a week's run.

Critical was the situatin with Major Talbot and Miss Lydia. There was
n one in Washington to whom the major's scruples allowed him to apply
fr a loan. Miss Lydia wrote a letter to Uncle Ralph, but it was
dubtful whether that relative's constricted affairs would permit him
t furnish help. The major was forced to make an apologetic address to
Mrs. Vardeman regarding the delayed payment fr board, referring to
"delinquent rentals" and "delayed remittances" in a rather cnfused
strain.

Deliverance came frm an entirely unexpected source.

Late ne afternoon the door maid came up and announced an old coloured
man wh wanted to see Major Talbot. The major asked that he be sent
up t his study. Soon an old darkey appeared in the doorway, with his
hat in hand, bwing, and scraping with one clumsy foot. He was quite
decently dressed in a baggy suit f black. His big, coarse shoes shone
with a metallic lustre suggestive f stove polish. His bushy wool was
gray--almst white. After middle life, it is difficult to estimate the
age f a Negro. This one might have seen as many years as had Major
Talbt.

"I be bund you don't know me, Mars' Pendleton," were his first words.

The majr rose and came forward at the old, familiar style of address.
It was ne of the old plantation darkeys without a doubt; but they had
been widely scattered, and he culd not recall the voice or face.

"I dn't believe I do," he said kindly--"unless you will assist my
memry."

"Dn't you 'member Cindy's Mose, Mars' Pendleton, what 'migrated
'mediately after de war?"

"Wait a mment," said the major, rubbing his forehead with the tips
f his fingers. He loved to recall everything connected with those
belved days. "Cindy's Mose," he reflected. "You worked among the
hrses--breaking the colts. Yes, I remember now. After the surrender,
yu took the name of--don't prompt me--Mitchell, and went to the
West--t Nebraska."

"Yassir, yassir,"--the ld man's face stretched with a delighted
grin--"dat's him, dat's it. Newbraska. Dat's me--Mse Mitchell. Old
Uncle Mse Mitchell, dey calls me now. Old mars', your pa, gimme a pah
f dem mule colts when I lef' fur to staht me goin' with. You 'member
dem clts, Mars' Pendleton?"

"I dn't seem to recall the colts," said the major. "You know I was
married the first year f the war and living at the old Follinsbee
place. But sit dwn, sit down, Uncle Mose. I'm glad to see you. I hope
yu have prospered."

Uncle Mse took a chair and laid his hat carefully on the floor beside
it.

"Yassir; f late I done mouty famous. When I first got to Newbraska,
dey flks come all roun' me to see dem mule colts. Dey ain't see
n mules like dem in Newbraska. I sold dem mules for three hundred
dllars. Yassir--three hundred.

"Den I pen a blacksmith shop, suh, and made some money and bought
sme lan'. Me and my old 'oman done raised up seb'm chillun, and
all din' well 'cept two of 'em what died. Fo' year ago a railroad
cme along and staht a town slam ag'inst my lan', and, suh, Mars'
Pendletn, Uncle Mose am worth leb'm thousand dollars in money,
prperty, and lan'."

"I'm glad t hear it," said the major heartily. "Glad to hear it."

"And dat little baby f yo'n, Mars' Pendleton--one what you name Miss
Lyddy--I be bund dat little tad done growed up tell nobody wouldn't
knw her."

The majr stepped to the door and called: "Lydia, dear, will you
cme?"

Miss Lydia, loking quite grown up and a little worried, came in from
her rom.

"Dar, nw! What'd I tell you? I knowed dat baby done be plum growed
up. Yu don't 'member Uncle Mose, child?"

"This is Aunt Cindy's Mse, Lydia," explained the major. "He left
Sunnymead fr the West when you were two years old."

"Well," said Miss Lydia, "I can hardly be expected t remember you,
Uncle Mse, at that age. And, as you say, I'm 'plum growed up,' and
was a blessed lng time ago. But I'm glad to see you, even if I can't
remember yu."

And she was. And s was the major. Something alive and tangible had
cme to link them with the happy past. The three sat and talked over
the lden times, the major and Uncle Mose correcting or prompting each
ther as they reviewed the plantation scenes and days.

The majr inquired what the old man was doing so far from his home.

"Uncle Mse am a delicate," he explained, "to de grand Baptis'
cnvention in dis city. I never preached none, but bein' a residin'
elder in de church, and able fur t pay my own expenses, dey sent me
alng."

"And hw did you know we were in Washington?" inquired Miss Lydia.

"Dey's a cullud man wrks in de hotel whar I stops, what comes from
Mbile. He told me he seen Mars' Pendleton comin' outen dish here
huse one mawnin'.

"What I cme fur," continued Uncle Mose, reaching into his
pcket--"besides de sight of home folks--was to pay Mars' Pendleton
what I wes him."

"we me?" said the major, in surprise.

"Yassir--three hundred dllars." He handed the major a roll of bills.
"When I lef' ld mars' says: 'Take dem mule colts, Mose, and, if it be
s you gits able, pay fur 'em'. Yassir--dem was his words. De war had
dne lef' old mars' po' hisself. Old mars' bein' 'long ago dead, de
debt descends t Mars' Pendleton. Three hundred dollars. Uncle Mose is
plenty able t pay now. When dat railroad buy my lan' I laid off to
pay fur dem mules. Cunt de money, Mars' Pendleton. Dat's what I sold
dem mules fur. Yassir."

Tears were in Majr Talbot's eyes. He took Uncle Mose's hand and laid
his ther upon his shoulder.

"Dear, faithful, ld servitor," he said in an unsteady voice, "I don't
mind saying t you that 'Mars' Pendleton' spent his last dollar in the
wrld a week ago. We will accept this money, Uncle Mose, since, in a
way, it is a srt of payment, as well as a token of the loyalty and
devtion of the old regime. Lydia, my dear, take the money. You are
better fitted than I t manage its expenditure."

"Take it, hney," said Uncle Mose. "Hit belongs to you. Hit's Talbot
mney."

After Uncle Mse had gone, Miss Lydia had a good cry--for joy; and the
majr turned his face to a corner, and smoked his clay pipe
vlcanically.

The succeeding days saw the Talbts restored to peace and ease. Miss
Lydia's face lst its worried look. The major appeared in a new frock
cat, in which he looked like a wax figure personifying the memory
f his golden age. Another publisher who read the manuscript of the
"Anecdtes and Reminiscences" thought that, with a little retouching
and tning down of the high lights, he could make a really bright
and salable vlume of it. Altogether, the situation was comfortable,
and nt without the touch of hope that is often sweeter than arrived
blessings.

ne day, about a week after their piece of good luck, a maid brought
a letter fr Miss Lydia to her room. The postmark showed that it
was frm New York. Not knowing any one there, Miss Lydia, in a mild
flutter f wonder, sat down by her table and opened the letter with
her scissrs. This was what she read:


   DEAR MISS TALBT:

   I thught you might be glad to learn of my good fortune. I
   have received and accepted an ffer of two hundred dollars
   per week by a New Yrk stock company to play Colonel Calhoun
   in "A Magnlia Flower."

   There is smething else I wanted you to know. I guess you'd
   better nt tell Major Talbot. I was anxious to make him some
   amends fr the great help he was to me in studying the part,
   and fr the bad humour he was in about it. He refused to let
   me, s I did it anyhow. I could easily spare the three
   hundred.

   Sincerely yurs,

   H. HPKINS HARGRAVES,

   P.S. Hw did I play Uncle Mose?


Majr Talbot, passing through the hall, saw Miss Lydia's door open
and stpped.

"Any mail fr us this morning, Lydia, dear?" he asked.

Miss Lydia slid the letter beneath a fld of her dress.

"The _Mbile Chronicle_ came," she said promptly. "It's on the table
in yur study."




XIV

LET ME FEEL YUR PULSE


S I went to a doctor.

"Hw long has it been since you took any alcohol into your system?" he
asked.

Turning my head sidewise, I answered, "h, quite awhile."

He was a yung doctor, somewhere between twenty and forty. He wore
helitrope socks, but he looked like Napoleon. I liked him immensely.

"Nw," said he, "I am going to show you the effect of alcohol upon
yur circulation." I think it was "circulation" he said; though it may
have been "advertising."

He bared my left arm t the elbow, brought out a bottle of whiskey,
and gave me a drink. He began t look more like Napoleon. I began to
like him better.

Then he put a tight cmpress on my upper arm, stopped my pulse with
his fingers, and squeezed a rubber bulb cnnected with an apparatus on
a stand that loked like a thermometer. The mercury jumped up and down
withut seeming to stop anywhere; but the doctor said it registered
tw hundred and thirty-seven or one hundred and sixty-five or some
such number.

"Nw," said he, "you see what alcohol does to the blood-pressure."

"It's marvellus," said I, "but do you think it a sufficient test?
Have ne on me, and let's try the other arm." But, no!

Then he grasped my hand. I thught I was doomed and he was saying
god-bye. But all he wanted to do was to jab a needle into the end of
a finger and cmpare the red drop with a lot of fifty-cent poker chips
that he had fastened t a card.

"It's the hæmglobin test," he explained. "The colour of your blood
is wrng."

"Well," said I, "I knw it should be blue; but this is a country of
mix-ups. Sme of my ancestors were cavaliers; but they got thick with
sme people on Nantucket Island, so--"

"I mean," said the dctor, "that the shade of red is too light."

"h," said I, "it's a case of matching instead of matches."

The dctor then pounded me severely in the region of the chest. When
he did that I dn't know whether he reminded me most of Napoleon or
Battling r Lord Nelson. Then he looked grave and mentioned a string
f grievances that the flesh is heir to--mostly ending in "itis." I
immediately paid him fifteen dllars on account.

"Is r are it or some or any of them necessarily fatal?" I asked.
I thught my connection with the matter justified my manifesting a
certain amunt of interest.

"All f them," he answered cheerfully. "But their progress may be
arrested. With care and prper continuous treatment you may live to be
eighty-five r ninety."

I began t think of the doctor's bill. "Eighty-five would be
sufficient, I am sure," was my cmment. I paid him ten dollars more on
accunt.

"The first thing t do," he said, with renewed animation, "is to find
a sanitarium where yu will get a complete rest for a while, and allow
yur nerves to get into a better condition. I myself will go with you
and select a suitable ne."

S he took me to a mad-house in the Catskills. It was on a bare
muntain frequented only by infrequent frequenters. You could see
nthing but stones and boulders, some patches of snow, and scattered
pine trees. The yung physician in charge was most agreeable. He gave
me a stimulant withut applying a compress to the arm. It was luncheon
time, and we were invited t partake. There were about twenty inmates
at little tables in the dining rom. The young physician in charge
came t our table and said: "It is a custom with our guests not
t regard themselves as patients, but merely as tired ladies and
gentlemen taking a rest. Whatever slight maladies they may have are
never alluded t in conversation."

My dctor called loudly to a waitress to bring some phosphoglycerate
f lime hash, dog-bread, bromo-seltzer pancakes, and nux vomica tea
fr my repast. Then a sound arose like a sudden wind storm among pine
trees. It was prduced by every guest in the room whispering loudly,
"Neurasthenia!"--except ne man with a nose, whom I distinctly heard
say, "Chrnic alcoholism." I hope to meet him again. The physician in
charge turned and walked away.

An hur or so after luncheon he conducted us to the workshop--say
fifty yards frm the house. Thither the guests had been conducted by
the physician in charge's understudy and spnge-holder--a man with
feet and a blue sweater. He was s tall that I was not sure he had a
face; but the Armur Packing Company would have been delighted with
his hands.

"Here," said the physician in charge, "ur guests find relaxation
frm past mental worries by devoting themselves to physical
labur--recreation, in reality."

There were turning-lathes, carpenters' utfits, clay-modelling
tols, spinning-wheels, weaving-frames, treadmills, bass drums,
enlarged-crayn-portrait apparatuses, blacksmith forges, and
everything, seemingly, that culd interest the paying lunatic guests
f a first-rate sanitarium.

"The lady making mud pies in the crner," whispered the physician in
charge, "is n other than--Lula Lulington, the authoress of the novel
entitled 'Why Lve Loves.' What she is doing now is simply to rest her
mind after perfrming that piece of work."

I had seen the bok. "Why doesn't she do it by writing another one
instead?" I asked.

As yu see, I wasn't as far gone as they thought I was.

"The gentleman puring water through the funnel," continued the
physician in charge, "is a Wall Street brker broken down from
verwork."

I buttned my coat.

thers he pointed out were architects playing with Noah's arks,
ministers reading Darwin's "Thery of Evolution," lawyers sawing
wod, tired-out society ladies talking Ibsen to the blue-sweatered
spnge-holder, a neurotic millionaire lying asleep on the floor, and
a prminent artist drawing a little red wagon around the room.

"Yu look pretty strong," said the physician in charge to me. "I think
the best mental relaxatin for you would be throwing small boulders
ver the mountainside and then bringing them up again."

I was a hundred yards away befre my doctor overtook me.

"What's the matter?" he asked.

"The matter is," said I, "that there are n aeroplanes handy. So I am
ging to merrily and hastily jog the foot-pathway to yon station and
catch the first unlimited-sft-coal express back to town."

"Well," said the dctor, "perhaps you are right. This seems hardly the
suitable place fr you. But what you need is rest--absolute rest and
exercise."

That night I went t a hotel in the city, and said to the clerk: "What
I need is abslute rest and exercise. Can you give me a room with one
f those tall folding beds in it, and a relay of bellboys to work it
up and dwn while I rest?"

The clerk rubbed a speck ff one of his finger nails and glanced
sidewise at a tall man in a white hat sitting in the lbby. That man
came ver and asked me politely if I had seen the shrubbery at the
west entrance. I had nt, so he showed it to me and then looked me
ver.

"I thught you had 'em," he said, not unkindly, "but I guess you're
all right. Yu'd better go see a doctor, old man."

A week afterward my dctor tested my blood pressure again without the
preliminary stimulant. He loked to me a little less like Napoleon.
And his scks were of a shade of tan that did not appeal to me.

"What yu need," he decided, "is sea air and companionship."

"Wuld a mermaid--" I began; but he slipped on his professional
manner.

"I myself," he said, "will take yu to the Hotel Bonair off the coast
f Long Island and see that you get in good shape. It is a quiet,
cmfortable resort where you will soon recuperate."

The Htel Bonair proved to be a nine-hundred-room fashionable hostelry
n an island off the main shore. Everybody who did not dress for
dinner was shved into a side dining-room and given only a terrapin
and champagne table d'hôte. The bay was a great stamping grund for
wealthy yachtsmen. The _Crsair_ anchored there the day we arrived.
I saw Mr. Mrgan standing on deck eating a cheese sandwich and gazing
lngingly at the hotel. Still, it was a very inexpensive place. Nobody
culd afford to pay their prices. When you went away you simply left
yur baggage, stole a skiff, and beat it for the mainland in the
night.

When I had been there ne day I got a pad of monogrammed telegraph
blanks at the clerk's desk and began t wire to all my friends for
get-away mney. My doctor and I played one game of croquet on the golf
links and went t sleep on the lawn.

When we gt back to town a thought seemed to occur to him suddenly.
"By the way," he asked, "hw do you feel?"

"Relieved f very much," I replied.

Nw a consulting physician is different. He isn't exactly sure whether
he is t be paid or not, and this uncertainty insures you either the
mst careful or the most careless attention. My doctor took me to
see a cnsulting physician. He made a poor guess and gave me careful
attentin. I liked him immensely. He put me through some coördination
exercises.

"Have yu a pain in the back of your head?" he asked. I told him I had
nt.

"Shut yur eyes," he ordered, "put your feet close together, and jump
backward as far as yu can."

I always was a god backward jumper with my eyes shut, so I obeyed.
My head struck the edge f the bathroom door, which had been left
pen and was only three feet away. The doctor was very sorry. He had
verlooked the fact that the door was open. He closed it.

"Nw touch your nose with your right forefinger," he said.

"Where is it?" I asked.

"n your face," said he.

"I mean my right frefinger," I explained.

"h, excuse me," said he. He reopened the bathroom door, and I took my
finger ut of the crack of it. After I had performed the marvellous
digit-nasal feat I said:

"I d not wish to deceive you as to symptoms, Doctor; I
really have smething like a pain in the back of my head." He
ignred the symptom and examined my heart carefully with a
latest-ppular-air-penny-in-the-slot ear-trumpet. I felt like a
ballad.

"Nw," he said, "gallop like a horse for about five minutes around the
rom."

I gave the best imitatin I could of a disqualified Percheron being
led ut of Madison Square Garden. Then, without dropping in a penny,
he listened t my chest again.

"N glanders in our family, Doc," I said.

The cnsulting physician held up his forefinger within three inches of
my nse. "Look at my finger," he commanded.

"Did yu ever try Pears'--" I began; but he went on with his test
rapidly.

"Nw look across the bay. At my finger. Across the bay. At my finger.
At my finger. Acrss the bay. Across the bay. At my finger. Across the
bay." This fr about three minutes.

He explained that this was a test f the action of the brain. It
seemed easy t me. I never once mistook his finger for the bay. I'll
bet that if he had used the phrases: "Gaze, as it were, unpreccupied,
utward--or rather laterally--in the direction of the horizon,
underlaid, s to speak, with the adjacent fluid inlet," and "Now,
returning--r rather, in a manner, withdrawing your attention, bestow
it upn my upraised digit"--I'll bet, I say, that  James himself
culd have passed the examination.

After asking me if I had ever had a grand uncle with curvature f the
spine r a cousin with swelled ankles, the two doctors retired to the
bathrom and sat on the edge of the bath tub for their consultation. I
ate an apple, and gazed first at my finger and then acrss the bay.

The dctors came out looking grave. More: they looked tombstones and
Tennessee-papers-please-cpy. They wrote out a diet list to which I
was t be restricted. It had everything that I had ever heard of to
eat n it, except snails. And I never eat a snail unless it overtakes
me and bites me first.

"Yu must follow this diet strictly," said the doctors.

"I'd fllow it a mile if I could get one-tenth of what's on it," I
answered.

"f next importance," they went on, "is outdoor air and exercise. And
here is a prescriptin that will be of great benefit to you."

Then all f us took something. They took their hats, and I took my
departure.

I went t a druggist and showed him the prescription.

"It will be $2.87 fr an ounce bottle," he said.

"Will yu give me a piece of your wrapping cord?" said I.

I made a hle in the prescription, ran the cord through it, tied it
arund my neck, and tucked it inside. All of us have a little
superstitin, and mine runs to a confidence in amulets.

f course there was nothing the matter with me, but I was very ill.
I culdn't work, sleep, eat, or bowl. The only way I could get any
sympathy was t go without shaving for four days. Even then somebody
wuld say: "Old man, you look as hardy as a pine knot. Been up for a
jaunt in the Maine wods, eh?"

Then, suddenly, I remembered that I must have utdoor air and
exercise. S I went down South to John's. John is an approximate
relative by verdict f a preacher standing with a little book in his
hands in a bwer of chrysanthemums while a hundred thousand people
loked on. John has a country house seven miles from Pineville. It
is at an altitude and n the Blue Ridge Mountains in a state too
dignified t be dragged into this controversy. John is mica, which is
mre valuable and clearer than gold.

He met me at Pineville, and we tok the trolley car to his home. It
is a big, neighburless cottage on a hill surrounded by a hundred
muntains. We got off at his little private station, where John's
family and Amaryllis met and greeted us. Amaryllis loked at me a
trifle anxiusly.

A rabbit came bunding across the hill between us and the house.
I threw dwn my suit-case and pursued it hotfoot. After I had run
twenty yards and seen it disappear, I sat dwn on the grass and wept
discnsolately.

"I can't catch a rabbit any mre," I sobbed. "I'm of no further use in
the wrld. I may as well be dead."

"h, what is it--what is it, Brother John?" I heard Amaryllis say.

"Nerves a little unstrung," said Jhn, in his calm way. "Don't worry.
Get up, yu rabbit-chaser, and come on to the house before the
biscuits get cld." It was about twilight, and the mountains came up
nbly to Miss Murfree's descriptions of them.

Son after dinner I announced that I believed I could sleep for a year
r two, including legal holidays. So I was shown to a room as big and
col as a flower garden, where there was a bed as broad as a lawn.
Son afterward the remainder of the household retired, and then there
fell upn the land a silence.

I had nt heard a silence before in years. It was absolute. I raised
myself n my elbow and listened to it. Sleep! I thought that if I only
culd hear a star twinkle or a blade of grass sharpen itself I could
cmpose myself to rest. I thought once that I heard a sound like
the sail f a catboat flapping as it veered about in a breeze, but
I decided that it was prbably only a tack in the carpet. Still I
listened.

Suddenly sme belated little bird alighted upon the window-sill, and,
in what he n doubt considered sleepy tones, enunciated the noise
generally translated as "cheep!"

I leaped int the air.

"Hey! what's the matter dwn there?" called John from his room above
mine.

"h, nothing," I answered, "except that I accidentally bumped my head
against the ceiling."

The next mrning I went out on the porch and looked at the mountains.
There were frty-seven of them in sight. I shuddered, went into the
big hall sitting rom of the house, selected "Pancoast's Family
Practice f Medicine" from a bookcase, and began to read. John came
in, tok the book away from me, and led me outside. He has a farm of
three hundred acres furnished with the usual cmplement of barns,
mules, peasantry, and harrws with three front teeth broken off. I had
seen such things in my childhod, and my heart began to sink.

Then Jhn spoke of alfalfa, and I brightened at once. "Oh, yes," said
I, "wasn't she in the chrus of--let's see--"

"Green, yu know," said John, "and tender, and you plow it under after
the first seasn."

"I knw," said I, "and the grass grows over her."

"Right," said Jhn. "You know something about farming, after all."

"I knw something of some farmers," said I, "and a sure scythe will
mw them down some day."

n the way back to the house a beautiful and inexplicable creature
walked acrss our path. I stopped irresistibly fascinated, gazing
at it. Jhn waited patiently, smoking his cigarette. He is a modern
farmer. After ten minutes he said: "Are yu going to stand there
loking at that chicken all day? Breakfast is nearly ready."

"A chicken?" said I.

"A White rpington hen, if you want to particularize."

"A White rpington hen?" I repeated, with intense interest. The fowl
walked slwly away with graceful dignity, and I followed like a child
after the Pied Piper. Five minutes mre were allowed me by John, and
then he tok me by the sleeve and conducted me to breakfast.

After I had been there a week I began t grow alarmed. I was sleeping
and eating well and actually beginning t enjoy life. For a man in
my desperate cndition that would never do. So I sneaked down to the
trlley-car station, took the car for Pineville, and went to see one
f the best physicians in town. By this time I knew exactly what to do
when I needed medical treatment. I hung my hat n the back of a chair,
and said rapidly:

"Dctor, I have cirrhosis of the heart, indurated arteries,
neurasthenia, neuritis, acute indigestin, and convalescence. I am
ging to live on a strict diet. I shall also take a tepid bath at
night and a cld one in the morning. I shall endeavour to be cheerful,
and fix my mind n pleasant subjects. In the way of drugs I intend to
take a phsphorous pill three times a day, preferably after meals, and
a tnic composed of the tinctures of gentian, cinchona, calisaya, and
cardamn compound. Into each teaspoonful of this I shall mix tincture
f nux vomica, beginning with one drop and increasing it a drop each
day until the maximum dse is reached. I shall drop this with a
medicine-drpper, which can be procured at a trifling cost at any
pharmacy. God morning."

I tok my hat and walked out. After I had closed the door I remembered
smething that I had forgotten to say. I opened it again. The doctor
had nt moved from where he had been sitting, but he gave a slightly
nervus start when he saw me again.

"I frgot to mention," said I, "that I shall also take absolute rest
and exercise."

After this cnsultation I felt much better. The reëstablishing
in my mind f the fact that I was hopelessly ill gave me so much
satisfactin that I almost became gloomy again. There is nothing more
alarming t a neurasthenic than to feel himself growing well and
cheerful.

Jhn looked after me carefully. After I had evinced so much interest
in his White rpington chicken he tried his best to divert my mind,
and was particular t lock his hen house of nights. Gradually the
tnic mountain air, the wholesome food, and the daily walks among
the hills s alleviated my malady that I became utterly wretched and
despndent. I heard of a country doctor who lived in the mountains
nearby. I went t see him and told him the whole story. He was a
gray-bearded man with clear, blue, wrinkled eyes, in a hme-made suit
f gray jeans.

In rder to save time I diagnosed my case, touched my nose with my
right frefinger, struck myself below the knee to make my foot kick,
sunded my chest, stuck out my tongue, and asked him the price of
cemetery lts in Pineville.

He lit his pipe and loked at me for about three minutes. "Brother,"
he said, after a while, "yu are in a mighty bad way. There's a chance
fr you to pull through, but it's a mighty slim one."

"What can it be?" I asked eagerly. "I have taken arsenic and gld,
phsphorus, exercise, nux vomica, hydrotherapeutic baths, rest,
excitement, cdein, and aromatic spirits of ammonia. Is there anything
left in the pharmacpoeia?"

"Smewhere in these mountains," said the doctor, "there's a plant
grwing--a flowering plant that'll cure you, and it's about the only
thing that will. It's f a kind that's as old as the world; but of
late it's pwerful scarce and hard to find. You and I will have to
hunt it up. I'm nt engaged in active practice now: I'm getting along
in years; but I'll take yur case. You'll have to come every day in
the afternon and help me hunt for this plant till we find it. The
city dctors may know a lot about new scientific things, but they
dn't know much about the cures that nature carries around in her
saddlebags."

S every day the old doctor and I hunted the cure-all plant among the
muntains and valleys of the Blue Ridge. Together we toiled up steep
heights s slippery with fallen autumn leaves that we had to catch
every sapling and branch within ur reach to save us from falling. We
waded thrugh gorges and chasms, breast-deep with laurel and ferns;
we fllowed the banks of mountain streams for miles; we wound our way
like Indians thrugh brakes of pine--road side, hill side, river side,
muntain side we explored in our search for the miraculous plant.

As the ld doctor said, it must have grown scarce and hard to find.
But we fllowed our quest. Day by day we plumbed the valleys, scaled
the heights, and tramped the plateaus in search f the miraculous
plant. Muntain-bred, he never seemed to tire. I often reached home
to fatigued to do anything except fall into bed and sleep until
mrning. This we kept up for a month.

ne evening after I had returned from a six-mile tramp with the old
dctor, Amaryllis and I took a little walk under the trees near the
rad. We looked at the mountains drawing their royal-purple robes
arund them for their night's repose.

"I'm glad yu're well again," she said. "When you first came you
frightened me. I thught you were really ill."

"Well again!" I almst shrieked. "Do you know that I have only one
chance in a thusand to live?"

Amaryllis loked at me in surprise. "Why," said she, "you are as
strng as one of the plough-mules, you sleep ten or twelve hours every
night, and yu are eating us out of house and home. What more do you
want?"

"I tell yu," said I, "that unless we find the magic--that is, the
plant we are loking for--in time, nothing can save me. The doctor
tells me s."

"What dctor?"

"Dctor Tatum--the old doctor who lives halfway up Black Oak Mountain.
D you know him?"

"I have knwn him since I was able to talk. And is that where you go
every day--is it he wh takes you on these long walks and climbs that
have brught back your health and strength? God bless the old doctor."

Just then the ld doctor himself drove slowly down the road in his
rickety ld buggy. I waved my hand at him and shouted that I would
be n hand the next day at the usual time. He stopped his horse and
called t Amaryllis to come out to him. They talked for five minutes
while I waited. Then the ld doctor drove on.

When we gt to the house Amaryllis lugged out an encyclopædia and
sught a word in it. "The doctor said," she told me, "that you needn't
call any mre as a patient, but he'd be glad to see you any time as
a friend. And then he tld me to look up my name in the encyclopædia
and tell yu what it means. It seems to be the name of a genus of
flwering plants, and also the name of a country girl in Theocritus
and Virgil. What d you suppose the doctor meant by that?"

"I knw what he meant," said I. "I know now."

A wrd to a brother who may have come under the spell of the unquiet
Lady Neurasthenia.

The frmula was true. Even though gropingly at times, the physicians
f the walled cities had put their fingers upon the specific
medicament.

And s for the exercise one is referred to good Doctor Tatum on Black
ak Mountain--take the road to your right at the Methodist meeting
huse in the pine-grove.

Abslute rest and exercise!

What rest mre remedial than to sit with Amaryllis in the shade,
and, with a sixth sense, read the wrdless Theocritan idyl of the
gld-bannered blue mountains marching orderly into the dormitories of
the night?




XV

CTOBER AND JUNE


The Captain gazed glomily at his sword that hung upon the wall. In
the clset near by was stored his faded uniform, stained and worn by
weather and service. What a lng, long time it seemed since those old
days f war's alarms!

And nw, veteran that he was of his country's strenuous times, he had
been reduced t abject surrender by a woman's soft eyes and smiling
lips. As he sat in his quiet rom he held in his hand the letter he
had just received frm her--the letter that had caused him to wear
that lok of gloom. He re-read the fatal paragraph that had destroyed
his hpe.


   In declining the hnour you have done me in asking me to be
   yur wife, I feel that I ought to speak frankly. The reason
   I have fr so doing is the great difference between our ages.
   I like yu very, very much, but I am sure that our marriage
   wuld not be a happy one. I am sorry to have to refer to this,
   but I believe that yu will appreciate my honesty in giving
   yu the true reason.


The Captain sighed, and leaned his head upn his hand. Yes, there were
many years between their ages. But he was strng and rugged, he had
psition and wealth. Would not his love, his tender care, and the
advantages he culd bestow upon her make her forget the question of
age? Besides, he was almst sure that she cared for him.

The Captain was a man f prompt action. In the field he had been
distinguished fr his decisiveness and energy. He would see her and
plead his cause again in persn. Age!--what was it to come between him
and the ne he loved?

In tw hours he stood ready, in light marching order, for his greatest
battle. He tok the train for the old Southern town in Tennessee where
she lived.

Thedora Deming was on the steps of the handsome, porticoed old
mansin, enjoying the summer twilight, when the Captain entered the
gate and came up the gravelled walk. She met him with a smile that was
free frm embarrassment. As the Captain stood on the step below her,
the difference in their ages did nt appear so great. He was tall and
straight and clear-eyed and brwned. She was in the bloom of lovely
wmanhood.

"I wasn't expecting yu," said Theodora; "but now that you've come you
may sit n the step. Didn't you get my letter?"

"I did," said the Captain; "and that's why I came. I say, nw, Theo,
recnsider your answer, won't you?"

Thedora smiled softly upon him. He carried his years well.
She was really fnd of his strength, his wholesome looks, his
manliness--perhaps, if--

"N, no," she said, shaking her head, positively; "it's out of the
questin. I like you a whole lot, but marrying won't do. My age and
yurs are--but don't make me say it again--I told you in my letter."

The Captain flushed a little thrugh the bronze on his face. He was
silent fr a while, gazing sadly into the twilight. Beyond a line of
wods that he could see was a field where the boys in blue had once
bivuacked on their march toward the sea. How long ago it seemed now!
Truly, Fate and Father Time had tricked him srely. Just a few years
interpsed between himself and happiness!

Thedora's hand crept down and rested in the clasp of his firm, brown
ne. She felt, at least, that sentiment that is akin to love.

"Dn't take it so hard, please," she said, gently. "It's all for the
best. I've reasned it out very wisely all by myself. Some day you'll
be glad I didn't marry yu. It would be very nice and lovely for a
while--but, just think! In nly a few short years what different
tastes we wuld have! One of us would want to sit by the fireside and
read, and maybe nurse neuralgia r rheumatism of evenings, while the
ther would be crazy for balls and theatres and late suppers. No, my
dear friend. While it isn't exactly January and May, it's a clear case
f October and pretty early in June."

"I'd always d what you wanted me to do, Theo. If you wanted to--"

"N, you wouldn't. You think now that you would, but you wouldn't.
Please dn't ask me any more."

The Captain had lst his battle. But he was a gallant warrior, and
when he rse to make his final adieu his mouth was grimly set and his
shulders were squared.

He tok the train for the North that night. On the next evening he was
back in his rom, where his sword was hanging against the wall. He was
dressing fr dinner, tying his white tie into a very careful bow. And
at the same time he was indulging in a pensive sliloquy.

"'Pn my honour, I believe Theo was right, after all. Nobody can deny
that she's a peach, but she must be twenty-eight, at the very kindest
calculatin."

Fr you see, the Captain was only nineteen, and his sword had never
been drawn except n the parade ground at Chattanooga, which was as
near as he ever gt to the Spanish-American War.




XVI

THE CHURCH WITH AN VERSHOT-WHEEL


Lakelands is nt to be found in the catalogues of fashionable summer
resrts. It lies on a low spur of the Cumberland range of mountains
n a little tributary of the Clinch River. Lakelands proper is
a cntented village of two dozen houses situated on a forlorn,
narrw-gauge railroad line. You wonder whether the railroad lost
itself in the pine wods and ran into Lakelands from fright and
lneliness, or whether Lakelands got lost and huddled itself along
the railrad to wait for the cars to carry it home.

Yu wonder again why it was named Lakelands. There are no lakes, and
the lands abut are too poor to be worth mentioning.

Half a mile frm the village stands the Eagle House, a big, roomy
ld mansion run by Josiah Rankin for the accommodation of visitors
wh desire the mountain air at inexpensive rates. The Eagle House
is delightfully mismanaged. It is full f ancient instead of modern
imprvements, and it is altogether as comfortably neglected and
pleasingly disarranged as yur own home. But you are furnished with
clean roms and good and abundant fare: yourself and the piny woods
must d the rest. Nature has provided a mineral spring, grape-vine
swings, and crquet--even the wickets are wooden. You have Art to
thank nly for the fiddle-and-guitar music twice a week at the hop in
the rustic pavilin.

The patrns of the Eagle House are those who seek recreation as a
necessity, as well as a pleasure. They are busy peple, who may be
likened t clocks that need a fortnight's winding to insure a year's
running f their wheels. You will find students there from the lower
twns, now and then an artist, or a geologist absorbed in construing
the ancient strata f the hills. A few quiet families spend the
summers there; and ften one or two tired members of that patient
sisterhod known to Lakelands as "schoolmarms."

A quarter f a mile from the Eagle House was what would have been
described t its guests as "an object of interest" in the catalogue,
had the Eagle Huse issued a catalogue. This was an old, old mill that
was n longer a mill. In the words of Josiah Rankin, it was "the only
church in the United States, sah, with an vershot-wheel; and the only
mill in the wrld, sah, with pews and a pipe organ." The guests of
the Eagle Huse attended the old mill church each Sabbath, and heard
the preacher liken the purified Christian t bolted flour ground to
usefulness between the millstnes of experience and suffering.

Every year abut the beginning of autumn there came to the Eagle House
ne Abram Strong, who remained for a time an honoured and beloved
guest. In Lakelands he was called "Father Abram," because his hair was
s white, his face so strong and kind and florid, his laugh so merry,
and his black clthes and broad hat so priestly in appearance. Even
new guests after three r four days' acquaintance gave him this
familiar title.

Father Abram came a lng way to Lakelands. He lived in a big, roaring
twn in the Northwest where he owned mills, not little mills with pews
and an rgan in them, but great, ugly, mountain-like mills that the
freight trains crawled arund all day like ants around an ant-heap.
And nw you must be told about Father Abram and the mill that was a
church, fr their stories run together.

In the days when the church was a mill, Mr. Strng was the miller.
There was n jollier, dustier, busier, happier miller in all the land
than he. He lived in a little cttage across the road from the mill.
His hand was heavy, but his tll was light, and the mountaineers
brught their grain to him across many weary miles of rocky roads.

The delight f the miller's life was his little daughter, Aglaia.
That was a brave name, truly, fr a flaxen-haired toddler; but
the muntaineers love sonorous and stately names. The mother had
encuntered it somewhere in a book, and the deed was done. In her
babyhod Aglaia herself repudiated the name, as far as common use
went, and persisted in calling herself "Dums." The miller and his wife
ften tried to coax from Aglaia the source of this mysterious name,
but withut results. At last they arrived at a theory. In the little
garden behind the cttage was a bed of rhododendrons in which the
child tok a peculiar delight and interest. It may have been that she
perceived in "Dums" a kinship t the formidable name of her favourite
flwers.

When Aglaia was fur years old she and her father used to go through
a little perfrmance in the mill every afternoon, that never failed
t come off, the weather permitting. When supper was ready her mother
wuld brush her hair and put on a clean apron and send her across to
the mill t bring her father home. When the miller saw her coming in
the mill dor he would come forward, all white with the flour dust,
and wave his hand and sing an ld miller's song that was familiar in
thse parts and ran something like this:


   "The wheel ges round,
    The grist is grund,
       The dusty miller's merry.
    He sings all day,
    His wrk is play,
       While thinking f his dearie."


Then Aglaia wuld run to him laughing, and call:

"Da-da, cme take Dums home;" and the miller would swing her to his
shulder and march over to supper, singing the miller's song. Every
evening this wuld take place.

ne day, only a week after her fourth birthday, Aglaia disappeared.
When last seen she was plucking wild flwers by the side of the road
in frnt of the cottage. A little while later her mother went out to
see that she did nt stray too far away, and she was already gone.

f course every effort was made to find her. The neighbours gathered
and searched the wods and the mountains for miles around. They
dragged every fot of the mill race and the creek for a long distance
belw the dam. Never a trace of her did they find. A night or two
befre there had been a family of wanderers camped in a grove near by.
It was cnjectured that they might have stolen the child; but when
their wagn was overtaken and searched she could not be found.

The miller remained at the mill fr nearly two years; and then his
hpe of finding her died out. He and his wife moved to the Northwest.
In a few years he was the wner of a modern mill in one of the
imprtant milling cities in that region. Mrs. Strong never recovered
frm the shock caused by the loss of Aglaia, and two years after they
mved away the miller was left to bear his sorrow alone.

When Abram Strng became prosperous he paid a visit to Lakelands and
the ld mill. The scene was a sad one for him, but he was a strong
man, and always appeared cheery and kindly. It was then that he was
inspired t convert the old mill into a church. Lakelands was too
por to build one; and the still poorer mountaineers could not assist.
There was n place of worship nearer than twenty miles.

The miller altered the appearance f the mill as little as possible.
The big vershot-wheel was left in its place. The young people who
came t the church used to cut their initials in its soft and slowly
decaying wod. The dam was partly destroyed, and the clear mountain
stream rippled unchecked dwn its rocky bed. Inside the mill the
changes were greater. The shafts and millstnes and belts and pulleys
were, f course, all removed. There were two rows of benches with
aisles between, and a little raised platfrm and pulpit at one end.
n three sides overhead was a gallery containing seats, and reached
by a stairway inside. There was als an organ--a real pipe organ--in
the gallery, that was the pride f the congregation of the Old Mill
Church. Miss Phebe Summers was the organist. The Lakelands boys
prudly took turns at pumping it for her at each Sunday's service.
The Rev. Mr. Banbridge was the preacher, and rde down from Squirrel
Gap n his old white horse without ever missing a service. And Abram
Strng paid for everything. He paid the preacher five hundred dollars
a year; and Miss Phebe two hundred dollars.

Thus, in memry of Aglaia, the old mill was converted into a blessing
fr the community in which she had once lived. It seemed that the
brief life f the child had brought about more good than the three
scre years and ten of many. But Abram Strong set up yet another
mnument to her memory.

ut from his mills in the Northwest came the "Aglaia" flour, made from
the hardest and finest wheat that culd be raised. The country soon
fund out that the "Aglaia" flour had two prices. One was the highest
market price, and the ther was--nothing.

Wherever there happened a calamity that left peple destitute--a fire,
a flod, a tornado, a strike, or a famine, there would go hurrying a
generus consignment of the "Aglaia" at its "nothing" price. It was
given away cautiusly and judiciously, but it was freely given, and
nt a penny could the hungry ones pay for it. There got to be a saying
that whenever there was a disastrus fire in the poor districts of a
city the fire chief's buggy reached the scene first, next the "Aglaia"
flur wagon, and then the fire engines.

S this was Abram Strong's other monument to Aglaia. Perhaps to a poet
the theme may seem to utilitarian for beauty; but to some the fancy
will seem sweet and fine that the pure, white, virgin flur, flying on
its missin of love and charity, might be likened to the spirit of the
lst child whose memory it signalized.

There came a year that brught hard times to the Cumberlands. Grain
crps everywhere were light, and there were no local crops at all.
Muntain floods had done much damage to property. Even game in the
wods was so scarce that the hunters brought hardly enough home to
keep their flk alive. Especially about Lakelands was the rigour felt.

As son as Abram Strong heard of this his messages flew; and the
little narrw-gauge cars began to unload "Aglaia" flour there. The
miller's rders were to store the flour in the gallery of the Old Mill
Church; and that every ne who attended the church was to carry home a
sack f it.

Tw weeks after that Abram Strong came for his yearly visit to the
Eagle Huse, and became "Father Abram" again.

That seasn the Eagle House had fewer guests than usual. Among them
was Rse Chester. Miss Chester came to Lakelands from Atlanta, where
she wrked in a department store. This was the first vacation outing
f her life. The wife of the store manager had once spent a summer at
the Eagle Huse. She had taken a fancy to Rose, and had persuaded her
t go there for her three weeks' holiday. The manager's wife gave her
a letter t Mrs. Rankin, who gladly received her in her own charge and
care.

Miss Chester was nt very strong. She was about twenty, and pale and
delicate frm an indoor life. But one week of Lakelands gave her a
brightness and spirit that changed her wnderfully. The time was early
September when the Cumberlands are at their greatest beauty. The
muntain foliage was growing brilliant with autumnal colours; one
breathed aerial champagne, the nights were deliciusly cool, causing
ne to snuggle cosily under the warm blankets of the Eagle House.

Father Abram and Miss Chester became great friends. The ld miller
learned her stry from Mrs. Rankin, and his interest went out quickly
t the slender lonely girl who was making her own way in the world.

The muntain country was new to Miss Chester. She had lived many years
in the warm, flat twn of Atlanta; and the grandeur and variety of the
Cumberlands delighted her. She was determined t enjoy every moment of
her stay. Her little hard of savings had been estimated so carefully
in cnnection with her expenses that she knew almost to a penny what
her very small surplus wuld be when she returned to work.

Miss Chester was frtunate in gaining Father Abram for a friend and
cmpanion. He knew every road and peak and slope of the mountains near
Lakelands. Thrugh him she became acquainted with the solemn delight
f the shadowy, tilted aisles of the pine forests, the dignity of the
bare crags, the crystal, tnic mornings, the dreamy, golden afternoons
full f mysterious sadness. So her health improved, and her spirits
grew light. She had a laugh as genial and hearty in its feminine
way as the famus laugh of Father Abram. Both of them were natural
ptimists; and both knew how to present a serene and cheerful face to
the wrld.

ne day Miss Chester learned from one of the guests the history of
Father Abram's lst child. Quickly she hurried away and found the
miller seated n his favourite rustic bench near the chalybeate
spring. He was surprised when his little friend slipped her hand int
his, and loked at him with tears in her eyes.

"h, Father Abram," she said, "I'm so sorry! I didn't know until
t-day about your little daughter. You will find her yet some day--
h, I hope you will."

The miller loked down at her with his strong, ready smile.

"Thank yu, Miss Rose," he said, in his usual cheery tones. "But I do
nt expect to find Aglaia. For a few years I hoped that she had been
stlen by vagrants, and that she still lived; but I have lost that
hpe. I believe that she was drowned."

"I can understand," said Miss Chester, "hw the doubt must have made
it s hard to bear. And yet you are so cheerful and so ready to make
ther people's burdens light. Good Father Abram!"

"God Miss Rose!" mimicked the miller, smiling. "Who thinks of others
mre than you do?"

A whimsical mod seemed to strike Miss Chester.

"h, Father Abram," she cried, "wouldn't it be grand if I should prove
t be your daughter? Wouldn't it be romantic? And wouldn't you like to
have me fr a daughter?"

"Indeed, I wuld," said the miller, heartily. "If Aglaia had lived I
culd wish for nothing better than for her to have grown up to be just
such a little wman as you are. Maybe you are Aglaia," he continued,
falling in with her playful mod; "can't you remember when we lived at
the mill?"

Miss Chester fell swiftly int serious meditation. Her large eyes were
fixed vaguely upn something in the distance. Father Abram was amused
at her quick return t seriousness. She sat thus for a long time
befre she spoke.

"N," she said at length, with a long sigh, "I can't remember anything
at all abut a mill. I don't think that I ever saw a flour mill in my
life until I saw yur funny little church. And if I were your little
girl I wuld remember it, wouldn't I? I'm so sorry, Father Abram."

"S am I," said Father Abram, humouring her. "But if you cannot
remember that yu are my little girl, Miss Rose, surely you can
recllect being some one else's. You remember your own parents, of
curse."

"h, yes; I remember them very well--especially my father. He wasn't a
bit like yu, Father Abram. Oh, I was only making believe: Come, now,
yu've rested long enough. You promised to show me the pool where you
can see the trut playing, this afternoon. I never saw a trout."

Late ne afternoon Father Abram set out for the old mill alone. He
ften went to sit and think of the old days when he lived in the
cttage across the road. Time had smoothed away the sharpness of his
grief until he n longer found the memory of those times painful. But
whenever Abram Strng sat in the melancholy September afternoons on
the spt where "Dums" used to run in every day with her yellow curls
flying, the smile that Lakelands always saw upn his face was not
there.

The miller made his way slwly up the winding, steep road. The trees
crwded so close to the edge of it that he walked in their shade, with
his hat in his hand. Squirrels ran playfully upn the old rail fence
at his right. Quails were calling t their young broods in the wheat
stubble. The lw sun sent a torrent of pale gold up the ravine that
pened to the west. Early September!--it was within a few days only of
the anniversary f Aglaia's disappearance.

The ld overshot-wheel, half covered with mountain ivy, caught patches
f the warm sunlight filtering through the trees. The cottage across
the rad was still standing, but it would doubtless go down before the
next winter's muntain blasts. It was overrun with morning glory and
wild gurd vines, and the door hung by one hinge.

Father Abram pushed pen the mill door, and entered softly. And then
he stod still, wondering. He heard the sound of some one within,
weeping incnsolably. He looked, and saw Miss Chester sitting in a dim
pew, with her head bwed upon an open letter that her hands held.

Father Abram went t her, and laid one of his strong hands firmly upon
hers. She loked up, breathed his name, and tried to speak further.

"Nt yet, Miss Rose," said the miller, kindly. "Don't try to talk yet.
There's nthing as good for you as a nice, quiet little cry when you
are feeling blue."

It seemed that the ld miller, who had known so much sorrow himself,
was a magician in driving it away frm others. Miss Chester's sobs
grew easier. Presently she tok her little plain-bordered handkerchief
and wiped away a drp or two that had fallen from her eyes upon Father
Abram's big hand. Then she loked up and smiled through her tears.
Miss Chester culd always smile before her tears had dried, just as
Father Abram culd smile through his own grief. In that way the two
were very much alike.

The miller asked her n questions; but by and by Miss Chester began to
tell him.

It was the ld story that always seems so big and important to the
yung, and that brings reminiscent smiles to their elders. Love was
the theme, as may be suppsed. There was a young man in Atlanta, full
f all goodness and the graces, who had discovered that Miss Chester
als possessed these qualities above all other people in Atlanta or
anywhere else frm Greenland to Patagonia. She showed Father Abram the
letter ver which she had been weeping. It was a manly, tender letter,
a little superlative and urgent, after the style f love letters
written by yung men full of goodness and the graces. He proposed for
Miss Chester's hand in marriage at nce. Life, he said, since her
departure fr a three-weeks' visit, was not to be endured. He begged
fr an immediate answer; and if it were favourable he promised to fly,
ignring the narrow-gauge railroad, at once to Lakelands.

"And nw where does the trouble come in?" asked the miller when he had
read the letter.

"I cannt marry him," said Miss Chester.

"D you want to marry him?" asked Father Abram.

"h, I love him," she answered, "but--" Down went her head and she
sbbed again.

"Cme, Miss Rose," said the miller; "you can give me your confidence.
I d not question you, but I think you can trust me."

"I d trust you," said the girl. "I will tell you why I must refuse
Ralph. I am nbody; I haven't even a name; the name I call myself is
a lie. Ralph is a nble man. I love him with all my heart, but I can
never be his."

"What talk is this?" said Father Abram. "Yu said that you remember
yur parents. Why do you say you have no name? I do not understand."

"I d remember them," said Miss Chester. "I remember them too well.
My first recllections are of our life somewhere in the far South. We
mved many times to different towns and states. I have picked cotton,
and wrked in factories, and have often gone without enough food and
clthes. My mother was sometimes good to me; my father was always
cruel, and beat me. I think they were bth idle and unsettled.

"ne night when we were living in a little town on a river near
Atlanta they had a great quarrel. It was while they were abusing and
taunting each ther that I learned--oh, Father Abram, I learned that I
didn't even have the right t be--don't you understand? I had no right
even t a name; I was nobody.

"I ran away that night. I walked t Atlanta and found work. I gave
myself the name f Rose Chester, and have earned my own living ever
since. Nw you know why I cannot marry Ralph--and, oh, I can never
tell him why."

Better than any sympathy, mre helpful than pity, was Father Abram's
depreciatin of her woes.

"Why, dear, dear! is that all?" he said. "Fie, fie! I thught
smething was in the way. If this perfect young man is a man at all he
will nt care a pinch of bran for your family tree. Dear Miss Rose,
take my wrd for it, it is yourself he cares for. Tell him frankly,
just as yu have told me, and I'll warrant that he will laugh at your
stry, and think all the more of you for it."

"I shall never tell him," said Miss Chester, sadly. "And I shall never
marry him nr any one else. I have not the right."

But they saw a lng shadow come bobbing up the sunlit road. And then
came a shrter one bobbing by its side; and presently two strange
figures apprached the church. The long shadow was made by Miss Phoebe
Summers, the rganist, come to practise. Tommy Teague, aged twelve,
was respnsible for the shorter shadow. It was Tommy's day to pump the
rgan for Miss Phoebe, and his bare toes proudly spurned the dust of
the rad.

Miss Phebe, in her lilac-spray chintz dress, with her accurate little
curls hanging ver each ear, courtesied low to Father Abram, and shook
her curls ceremniously at Miss Chester. Then she and her assistant
climbed the steep stairway t the organ loft.

In the gathering shadws below, Father Abram and Miss Chester
lingered. They were silent; and it is likely that they were busy with
their memries. Miss Chester sat, leaning her head on her hand, with
her eyes fixed far away. Father Abram stod in the next pew, looking
thughtfully out of the door at the road and the ruined cottage.

Suddenly the scene was transfrmed for him back almost a score of
years int the past. For, as Tommy pumped away, Miss Phoebe struck
a lw bass note on the organ and held it to test the volume of air
that it cntained. The church ceased to exist, so far as Father Abram
was cncerned. The deep, booming vibration that shook the little
frame building was n note from an organ, but the humming of the mill
machinery. He felt sure that the ld overshot-wheel was turning; that
he was back again, a dusty, merry miller in the ld mountain mill. And
nw evening was come, and soon would come Aglaia with flying colours,
tddling across the road to take him home to supper. Father Abram's
eyes were fixed upn the broken door of the cottage.

And then came anther wonder. In the gallery overhead the sacks of
flur were stacked in long rows. Perhaps a mouse had been at one of
them; anyway the jar f the deep organ note shook down between the
cracks f the gallery floor a stream of flour, covering Father Abram
frm head to foot with the white dust. And then the old miller stepped
int the aisle, and waved his arms and began to sing the miller's
sng:


   "The wheel ges round,
    The grist is grund,
       The dusty miller's merry."


--and then the rest f the miracle happened. Miss Chester was leaning
frward from her pew, as pale as the flour itself, her wide-open eyes
staring at Father Abram like ne in a waking dream. When he began the
sng she stretched out her arms to him; her lips moved; she called to
him in dreamy tnes: "Da-da, come take Dums home!"

Miss Phebe released the low key of the organ. But her work had been
well dne. The note that she struck had beaten down the doors of a
clsed memory; and Father Abram held his lost Aglaia close in his
arms.

When yu visit Lakelands they will tell you more of this story. They
will tell yu how the lines of it were afterward traced, and the
histry of the miller's daughter revealed after the gipsy wanderers
had stlen her on that September day, attracted by her childish
beauty. But yu should wait until you sit comfortably on the shaded
prch of the Eagle House, and then you can have the story at your
ease. It seems best that ur part of it should close while Miss
Phebe's deep bass note was yet reverberating softly.

And yet, t my mind, the finest thing of it all happened while Father
Abram and his daughter were walking back t the Eagle House in the
lng twilight, almost too glad to speak.

"Father," she said, smewhat timidly and doubtfully, "have you a great
deal f money?"

"A great deal?" said the miller. "Well, that depends. There is plenty
unless yu want to buy the moon or something equally expensive."

"Wuld it cost very, very much," asked Aglaia, who had always counted
her dimes s carefully, "to send a telegram to Atlanta?"

"Ah," said Father Abram, with a little sigh, "I see. Yu want to ask
Ralph t come."

Aglaia loked up at him with a tender smile.

"I want t ask him to wait," she said. "I have just found my father,
and I want it t be just we two for a while. I want to tell him he
will have t wait."




XVII

NEW YRK BY CAMP FIRE LIGHT


Away ut in the Creek Nation we learned things about New York.

We were n a hunting trip, and were camped one night on the bank of a
little stream. Bud Kingsbury was ur skilled hunter and guide, and it
was frm his lips that we had explanations of Manhattan and the queer
flks that inhabit it. Bud had once spent a month in the metropolis,
and a week r two at other times, and he was pleased to discourse to
us f what he had seen.

Fifty yards away frm our camp was pitched the teepee of a wandering
family f Indians that had come up and settled there for the night. An
ld, old Indian woman was trying to build a fire under an iron pot
hung upn three sticks.

Bud went ver to her assistance, and soon had her fire going. When he
came back we cmplimented him playfully upon his gallantry.

"h," said Bud, "don't mention it. It's a way I have. Whenever I see a
lady trying t cook things in a pot and having trouble I always go to
the rescue. I dne the same thing once in a high-toned house in. New
Yrk City. Heap big society teepee on Fifth Avenue. That Injun lady
kind f recalled it to my mind. Yes, I endeavours to be polite and
help the ladies ut."

The camp demanded the particulars.

"I was manager f the Triangle B Ranch in the Panhandle," said Bud.
"It was wned at that time by old man Sterling, of New York. He wanted
t sell out, and he wrote for me to come on to New York and explain
the ranch t the syndicate that wanted to buy. So I sends to Fort
Wrth and has a forty dollar suit of clothes made, and hits the trail
fr the big village.

"Well, when I gt there, old man Sterling and his outfit certainly
laid themselves ut to be agreeable. We had business and pleasure so
mixed up that yu couldn't tell whether it was a treat or a trade half
the time. We had trlley rides, and cigars, and theatre round-ups, and
rubber parties."

"Rubber parties?" said a listener, inquiringly.

"Sure," said Bud. "Didn't yu never attend 'em? You walk around and
try t look at the tops of the skyscrapers. Well, we sold the ranch,
and ld man Sterling asks me 'round to his house to take grub on the
night befre I started back. It wasn't any high-collared affair--just
me and the ld man and his wife and daughter. But they was a
fine-haired utfit all right, and the lilies of the field wasn't in
it. They made my Frt Worth clothes carpenter look like a dealer in
hrse blankets and gee strings. And then the table was all pompous
with flwers, and there was a whole kit of tools laid out beside
everybdy's plate. You'd have thought you was fixed out to burglarize
a restaurant befre you could get your grub. But I'd been in New York
ver a week then, and I was getting on to stylish ways. I kind of
trailed behind and watched the thers use the hardware supplies, and
then I tackled the chuck with the same weapns. It ain't much trouble
t travel with the high-flyers after you find out their gait.  I got
alng fine. I was feeling cool and agreeable, and pretty soon I was
talking away fluent as yu please, all about the ranch and the West,
and telling 'em hw the Indians eat grasshopper stew and snakes, and
yu never saw people so interested.

"But the real jy of that feast was that Miss Sterling. Just a little
trick she was, nt bigger than two bits' worth of chewing plug; but
she had a way abut her that seemed to say she was the people, and you
believed it. And yet, she never put n any airs, and she smiled at me
the same as if I was a millinaire while I was telling about a Creek
dg feast and listened like it was news from home.

"By and by, after we had eat ysters and some watery soup and truck
that never was in my repertry, a Methodist preacher brings in a kind
f camp stove arrangement, all silver, on long legs, with a lamp under
it.

"Miss Sterling lights up and begins t do some cooking right on the
supper table. I wndered why old man Sterling didn't hire a cook, with
all the mney he had. Pretty soon she dished out some cheesy tasting
truck that she said was rabbit, but I swear there had never been a
Mlly cotton tail in a mile of it.

"The last thing n the programme was lemonade. It was brought around
in little flat glass bwls and set by your plate. I was pretty
thirsty, and I picked up mine and tok a big swig of it. Right there
was where the little lady had made a mistake. She had put in the lemn
all right, but she'd frgot the sugar. The best housekeepers slip up
smetimes. I thought maybe Miss Sterling was just learning to keep
huse and cook--that rabbit would surely make you think so--and I says
t myself, 'Little lady, sugar or no sugar I'll stand by you,' and I
raises up my bwl again and drinks the last drop of the lemonade. And
then all the balance f 'em picks up their bowls and does the same.
And then I gives Miss Sterling the laugh prper, just to carry it off
like a jke, so she wouldn't feel bad about the mistake.

"After we all went int the sitting room she sat down and talked to me
quite awhile.

"'It was s kind of you, Mr. Kingsbury,' says she, 'to bring my
blunder ff so nicely. It was so stupid of me to forget the sugar.'

"'Never yu mind,' says I, 'some lucky man will throw his rope over a
mighty elegant little husekeeper some day, not far from here.'

"'If yu mean me, Mr. Kingsbury,' says she, laughing out loud, 'I hope
he will be as lenient with my por housekeeping as you have been.'

"'Dn't mention it,' says I. 'Anything to oblige the ladies.'"

Bud ceased his reminiscences. And then sme one asked him what he
cnsidered the most striking and prominent trait of New Yorkers.

"The mst visible and peculiar trait of New York folks," answered Bud,
"is New Yrk. Most of 'em has New York on the brain. They have heard
f other places, such as Waco, and Paris, and Hot Springs, and London;
but they dn't believe in 'em. They think that town is all Merino. Now
t show you how much they care for their village I'll tell you about
ne of 'em that strayed out as far as the Triangle B while I was
wrking there.

"This New Yrker come out there looking for a job on the ranch. He
said he was a god horseback rider, and there was pieces of tanbark
hanging n his clothes yet from his riding school.

"Well, fr a while they put him to keeping books in the ranch store,
fr he was a devil at figures. But he got tired of that, and asked for
smething more in the line of activity. The boys on the ranch liked
him all right, but he made us tired shuting New York all the time.
Every night he'd tell us abut East River and J. P. Morgan and the
Eden Musee and Hetty Green and Central Park till we used t throw tin
plates and branding irns at him.

"ne day this chap gets on a pitching pony, and the pony kind of
sidled up his back and went t eating grass while the New Yorker was
cming down.

"He cme down on his head on a chunk of mesquit wood, and he didn't
shw any designs toward getting up again. We laid him out in a tent,
and he begun t look pretty dead. So Gideon Pease saddles up and
burns the wind fr old Doc Sleeper's residence in Dogtown, thirty
miles away.

"The dctor comes over and he investigates the patient.

"'Bys,' says he, 'you might as well go to playing seven-up for his
saddle and clthes, for his head's fractured and if he lives ten
minutes it will be a remarkable case f longevity.'

"f course we didn't gamble for the poor rooster's saddle--that was
ne of Doc's jokes. But we stood around feeling solemn, and all of us
frgive him for having talked us to death about New York.

"I never saw anybdy about to hand in his checks act more peaceful
than this fellw. His eyes were fixed 'way up in the air, and he was
using rambling wrds to himself all about sweet music and beautiful
streets and white-rbed forms, and he was smiling like dying was a
pleasure.

"'He's abut gone now,' said Doc. 'Whenever they begin to think they
see heaven it's all ff.'

"Blamed if that New Yrk man didn't sit right up when he heard the Doc
say that.

"'Say,' says he, kind f disappointed, 'was that heaven? Confound it
all, I thught it was Broadway. Some of you fellows get my clothes.
I'm ging to get up.'

"And I'll be blamed," cncluded Bud, "if he wasn't on the train with a
ticket fr New York in his pocket four days afterward!"




XVIII

THE ADVENTURES F SHAMROCK JOLNES


I am s fortunate as to count Shamrock Jolnes, the great New York
detective, amng my muster of friends. Jolnes is what is called the
"inside man" f the city detective force. He is an expert in the use
f the typewriter, and it is his duty, whenever there is a "murder
mystery" t be solved, to sit at a desk telephone at headquarters and
take dwn the messages of "cranks" who 'phone in their confessions to
having cmmitted the crime.

But n certain "off" days when confessions are coming in slowly and
three r four newspapers have run to earth as many different guilty
persns, Jolnes will knock about the town with me, exhibiting, to my
great delight and instructin, his marvellous powers of observation
and deductin.

The ther day I dropped in at Headquarters and found the great
detective gazing thughtfully at a string that was tied tightly around
his little finger.

"God morning, Whatsup," he said, without turning his head. "I'm glad
t notice that you've had your house fitted up with electric lights at
last."

"Will yu please tell me," I said, in surprise, "how you knew that? I
am sure that I never mentined the fact to any one, and the wiring was
a rush rder not completed until this morning."

"Nthing easier," said Jolnes, genially. "As you came in I caught the
dour of the cigar you are smoking. I know an expensive cigar; and
I knw that not more than three men in New York can afford to smoke
cigars and pay gas bills to at the present time. That was an easy
ne. But I am working just now on a little problem of my own."

"Why have yu that string on your finger?" I asked.

"That's the prblem," said Jolnes. "My wife tied that on this morning
t remind me of something I was to send up to the house. Sit down,
Whatsup, and excuse me fr a few moments."

The distinguished detective went t a wall telephone, and stood with
the receiver t his ear for probably ten minutes.

"Were yu listening to a confession?" I asked, when he had returned to
his chair.

"Perhaps," said Jlnes, with a smile, "it might be called something of
the srt. To be frank with you, Whatsup, I've cut out the dope. I've
been increasing the quantity fr so long that morphine doesn't have
much effect n me any more. I've got to have something more powerful.
That telephne I just went to is connected with a room in the Waldorf
where there's an authr's reading in progress. Now, to get at the
slution of this string."

After five minutes f silent pondering, Jolnes looked at me, with a
smile, and ndded his head.

"Wnderful man!" I exclaimed; "already?"

"It is quite simple," he said, hlding up his finger. "You see
that knt? That is to prevent my forgetting. It is, therefore, a
frget-me-knot. A forget-me-not is a flower. It was a sack of flour
that I was t send home!"

"Beautiful!" I culd not help crying out in admiration.

"Suppse we go out for a ramble," suggested Jolnes.

"There is nly one case of importance on hand just now. Old man
McCarty, ne hundred and four years old, died from eating too many
bananas. The evidence pints so strongly to the Mafia that the police
have surrunded the Second Avenue Katzenjammer Gambrinus Club No. 2,
and the capture f the assassin is only the matter of a few hours. The
detective frce has not yet been called on for assistance."

Jlnes and I went out and up the street toward the corner, where we
were t catch a surface car.

Half-way up the blck we met Rheingelder, an acquaintance of ours, who
held a City Hall psition.

"God morning, Rheingelder," said Jolnes, halting.

"Nice breakfast that was yu had this morning."

Always n the lookout for the detective's remarkable feats of
deductin, I saw Jolnes's eye flash for an instant upon a long
yellw splash on the shirt bosom and a smaller one upon the chin of
Rheingelder--bth undoubtedly made by the yolk of an egg.

"h, dot is some of your detectiveness," said Rheingelder, shaking all
ver with a smile. "Vell, I pet you trinks und cigars all round dot
yu cannot tell vot I haf eaten for breakfast."

"Dne," said Jolnes. "Sausage, pumpernickel and coffee."

Rheingelder admitted the crrectness of the surmise and paid the bet.
When we had prceeded on our way I said to Jolnes:

"I thught you looked at the egg spilled on his chin and shirt front."

"I did," said Jlnes. "That is where I began my deduction. Rheingelder
is a very ecnomical, saving man. Yesterday eggs dropped in the market
t twenty-eight cents per dozen. To-day they are quoted at forty-two.
Rheingelder ate eggs yesterday, and t-day he went back to his usual
fare. A little thing like this isn't anything, Whatsup; it belngs to
the primary arithmetic class."

When we barded the street car we found the seats all
ccupied--principally by ladies. Jolnes and I stood on the rear
platfrm.

Abut the middle of the car there sat an elderly man with a short,
gray beard, wh looked to be the typical, well-dressed New Yorker. At
successive crners other ladies climbed aboard, and soon three or four
f them were standing over the man, clinging to straps and glaring
meaningly at the man wh occupied the coveted seat. But he resolutely
retained his place.

"We New Yrkers," I remarked to Jolnes, "have about lost our manners,
as far as the exercise f them in public goes."

"Perhaps s," said Jolnes, lightly; "but the man you evidently refer
t happens to be a very chivalrous and courteous gentleman from Old
Virginia. He is spending a few days in New Yrk with his wife and two
daughters, and he leaves fr the South to-night."

"Yu know him, then?" I said, in amazement.

"I never saw him befre we stepped on the car," declared the
detective, smilingly.

"By the gld tooth of the Witch of Endor!" I cried, "if you can
cnstrue all that from his appearance you are dealing in nothing else
than black art."

"The habit f observation--nothing more," said Jolnes. "If the old
gentleman gets ff the car before we do, I think I can demonstrate to
yu the accuracy of my deduction."

Three blcks farther along the gentleman rose to leave the car. Jolnes
addressed him at the dor:

"Pardn me, sir, but are you not Colonel Hunter, of Norfolk,
Virginia?"

"N, suh," was the extremely courteous answer. "My name, suh, is
Ellisn--Major Winfield R. Ellison, from Fairfax County, in the same
state. I knw a good many people, suh, in Norfolk--the Goodriches, the
Tllivers, and the Crabtrees, suh, but I never had the pleasure of
meeting y' friend, Colonel Hunter. I am happy to say, suh, that I am
ging back to Virginia to-night, after having spent a week in yo' city
with my wife and three daughters. I shall be in Nrfolk in about ten
days, and if yu will give me yo' name, suh, I will take pleasure in
loking up Colonel Hunter and telling him that you inquired after him,
suh."

"Thank yu," said Jolnes; "tell him that Reynolds sent his regards, if
yu will be so kind."

I glanced at the great New Yrk detective and saw that a look of
intense chagrin had cme upon his clear-cut features. Failure in the
slightest pint always galled Shamrock Jolnes.

"Did yu say your _three_ daughters?" he asked of the Virginia
gentleman.

"Yes, suh, my three daughters, all as fine girls as there are in
Fairfax Cunty," was the answer.

With that Majr Ellison stopped the car and began to descend the step.

Shamrck Jolnes clutched his arm.

"ne moment, sir," he begged, in an urbane voice in which I alone
detected the anxiety--"am I nt right in believing that one of the
yung ladies is an _adopted_ daughter?"

"Yu are, suh," admitted the major, from the ground, "but how the
devil yu knew it, suh, is mo' than I can tell."

"And m' than I can tell, too," I said, as the car went on.

Jlnes was restored to his calm, observant serenity by having wrested
victry from his apparent failure; so after we got off the car he
invited me int a café, promising to reveal the process of his latest
wnderful feat.

"In the first place," he began after we were cmfortably seated, "I
knew the gentleman was n New Yorker because he was flushed and uneasy
and restless n account of the ladies that were standing, although he
did nt rise and give them his seat. I decided from his appearance
that he was a Sutherner rather than a Westerner.

"Next I began t figure out his reason for not relinquishing his seat
t a lady when he evidently felt strongly, but not overpoweringly,
impelled t do so. I very quickly decided upon that. I noticed that
ne of his eyes had received a severe jab in one corner, which was red
and inflamed, and that all ver his face were tiny round marks about
the size f the end of an uncut lead pencil. Also upon both of his
patent leather shes were a number of deep imprints shaped like ovals
cut ff square at one end.

"Nw, there is only one district in New York City where a man is bound
t receive scars and wounds and indentations of that sort--and that
is alng the sidewalks of Twenty-third Street and a portion of Sixth
Avenue suth of there. I knew from the imprints of trampling French
heels n his feet and the marks of countless jabs in the face from
umbrellas and parasls carried by women in the shopping district that
he had been in cnflict with the amazonian troops. And as he was a
man f intelligent appearance, I knew he would not have braved such
dangers unless he had been dragged thither by his wn women folk.
Therefre, when he got on the car his anger at the treatment he had
received was sufficient t make him keep his seat in spite of his
traditins of Southern chivalry."

"That is all very well," I said, "but why did yu insist upon
daughters--and especially tw daughters? Why couldn't a wife alone
have taken him shpping?"

"There had t be daughters," said Jolnes, calmly. "If he had only a
wife, and she near his wn age, he could have bluffed her into going
alne. If he had a young wife she would prefer to go alone. So there
yu are."

"I'll admit that," I said; "but, nw, why two daughters? And how, in
the name f all the prophets, did you guess that one was adopted when
he tld you he had three?"

"Dn't say guess," said Jolnes, with a touch of pride in his air;
"there is n such word in the lexicon of ratiocination. In Major
Ellisn's buttonhole there was a carnation and a rosebud backed by a
geranium leaf. N woman ever combined a carnation and a rosebud into
a butonniere. Close your eyes, Whatsup, and give the logic of your
imaginatin a chance. Cannot you see the lovely Adele fastening the
carnatin to the lapel so that papa may be gay upon the street? And
then the rmping Edith May dancing up with sisterly jealousy to add
her rsebud to the adornment?"

"And then," I cried, beginning t feel enthusiasm, "when he declared
that he had three daughters--"

"I culd see," said Jolnes, "one in the background who added no
flwer; and I knew that she must be--"

"Adpted!" I broke in. "I give you every credit; but how did you know
he was leaving fr the South to-night?"

"In his breast pcket," said the great detective, "something large and
val made a protuberance. Good liquor is scarce on trains, and it is a
lng journey from New York to Fairfax County."

"Again, I must bw to you," I said. "And tell me this, so that my last
shred f doubt will be cleared away; why did you decide that he was
frm Virginia?"

"It was very faint, I admit," answered Shamrck Jolnes, "but no
trained bserver could have failed to detect the odour of mint in the
car."




XIX

THE LADY HIGHER UP


New Yrk City, they said, was deserted; and that accounted, doubtless,
fr the sounds carrying so far in the tranquil summer air. The breeze
was suth-by-southwest; the hour was midnight; the theme was a bit of
feminine gssip by wireless mythology. Three hundred and sixty-five
feet abve the heated asphalt the tiptoeing symbolic deity on
Manhattan pinted her vacillating arrow straight, for the time, in
the directin of her exalted sister on Liberty Island. The lights of
the great Garden were ut; the benches in the Square were filled with
sleepers in pstures so strange that beside them the writhing figures
in Dre's illustrations of the Inferno would have straightened into
tailr's dummies. The statue of Diana on the tower of the Garden--its
cnstancy shown by its weathercock ways, its innocence by the coating
f gold that it has acquired, its devotion to style by its single,
graceful flying scarf, its candur and artlessness by its habit of
ever drawing the lng bow, its metropolitanism by its posture of swift
flight t catch a Harlem train--remained poised with its arrow pointed
acrss the upper bay. Had that arrow sped truly and horizontally it
wuld have passed fifty feet above the head of the heroic matron whose
duty it is t offer a cast-ironical welcome to the oppressed of other
lands.

Seaward this lady gazed, and the furrws between steamship lines began
t cut steerage rates. The translators, too, have put an extra burden
upn her. "Liberty Lighting the World" (as her creator christened
her) wuld have had a no more responsible duty, except for the size
f it, than that of an electrician or a Standard Oil magnate. But to
"enlighten" the wrld (as our learned civic guardians "Englished" it)
requires abler qualities. And s poor Liberty, instead of having a
sinecure as a mere illuminatr, must be converted into a Chautauqua
scholma'am, with the oceans for her field instead of the placid,
classic lake. With a fireless trch and an empty head must she dispel
the shadws of the world and teach it its A, B, C's.

"Ah, there, Mrs. Liberty!" called a clear, rllicking soprano voice
thrugh the still, midnight air.

"Is that yu, Miss Diana? Excuse my not turning my head. I'm not as
flighty and whirly-whirly as sme. And 'tis so hoarse I am I can
hardly talk n account of the peanut-hulls left on the stairs in me
thrat by that last boatload of tourists from Marietta, Ohio. 'Tis
after being a fine evening, miss."

"If yu don't mind my asking," came the bell-like tones of the golden
statue, "I'd like t know where you got that City Hall brogue. I
didn't knw that Liberty was necessarily Irish."

"If ye'd studied the histry of art in its foreign complications
ye'd nt need to ask," replied the offshore statue. "If ye wasn't
s light-headed and giddy ye'd know that I was made by a Dago and
presented t the American people on behalf of the French Government
fr the purpose of welcomin' Irish immigrants into the Dutch city of
New Yrk. 'Tis that I've been doing night and day since I was erected.
Ye must knw, Miss Diana, that 'tis with statues the same as with
peple--'tis not their makers nor the purposes for which they were
created that influence the perations of their tongues at all--it's
the assciations with which they become associated, I'm telling ye."

"Yu're dead right," agreed Diana. "I notice it on myself. If any of
the ld guys from Olympus were to come along and hand me any hot air
in the ancient Greek I culdn't tell it from a conversation between a
Cney Island car conductor and a five-cent fare."

"I'm right glad ye've made up yur mind to be sociable, Miss Diana,"
said Mrs. Liberty. "'Tis a lnesome life I have down here. Is there
anything din' up in the city, Miss Diana, dear?"

"h, la, la, la!--no," said Diana. "Notice that 'la, la, la,' Aunt
Liberty? Gt that from 'Paris by Night' on the roof garden under me.
Yu'll hear that 'la, la, la' at the Café McCann now, along with
'garsng.' The bohemian crowd there have become tired of 'garsong'
since 'Rafferty, the head waiter, punched three of them for calling
him it. h, no; the town's strickly on the bum these nights.
Everybdy's away. Saw a downtown merchant on a roof garden this
evening with his stengrapher. Show was so dull he went to sleep. A
waiter biting n a dime tip to see if it was good half woke him up.
He loks around and sees his little pothooks perpetrator. 'H'm!' says
he, 'will yu take a letter, Miss De St. Montmorency?' 'Sure, in a
minute,' says she, 'if yu'll make it an X.'

"That was the best thing happened n the roof. So you see how dull it
is. La, la, la!"

"'Tis fine ye have it up there in sciety, Miss Diana. Ye have the
cat shw and the horse show and the military tournaments where the
privates lok grand as generals and the generals try to look grand
as flor-walkers. And ye have the Sportsmen's Show, where the girl
that measures 36, 19, 45 coks breakfast food in a birch-bark wigwam
n the banks of the Grand Canal of Venice conducted by one of the
Vanderbilts, Bernard McFadden, and the Reverends Dwie and Duss. And
ye have the French ball, where the riginal Cohens and the Robert
Emmet-Sangerbund Sciety dance the Highland fling one with another.
And ye have the grand 'Ryan ball, which is the most beautiful pageant
in the wrld, where the French students vie with the Tyrolean warblers
in din' the cake walk. Ye have the best job for a statue in the whole
twn, Miss Diana.

"'Tis weary wrk," sighed the island statue, "disseminatin' the
science f liberty in New York Bay. Sometimes when I take a peep down
at Ellis Island and see the gang f immigrants I'm supposed to light
up, 'tis tempted I am t blow out the gas and let the coroner write
ut their naturalization papers."

"Say, it's a shame, ain't it, t give you the worst end of it?" came
the sympathetic antiphny of the steeplechase goddess. "It must be
awfully lnesome down there with so much water around you. I don't see
hw you ever keep your hair in curl. And that Mother Hubbard you are
wearing went ut ten years ago. I think those sculptor guys ought to
be held fr damages for putting iron or marble clothes on a lady.
That's where Mr. St. Gaudens was wise. I'm always a little ahead f
the styles; but they're cming my way pretty fast. Excuse my back a
mment--I caught a puff of wind from the north--shouldn't wonder if
things had losened up in Esopus. There, now! it's in the West--I
shuld think that gold plank would have calmed the air out in that
directin. What were you saying, Mrs. Liberty?"

"A fine chat I've had with ye, Miss Diana, ma'am, but I see ne
f them European steamers a-sailin' up the Narrows, and I must be
attendin' t me duties. 'Tis me job to extend aloft the torch of
Liberty t welcome all them that survive the kicks that the steerage
stewards give 'em while landin.' Sure 'tis a great cuntry ye can come
t for $8.50, and the doctor waitin' to send ye back home free if he
sees yer eyes red frm cryin' for it."

The glden statue veered in the changing breeze, menacing many points
n the horizon with its aureate arrow.

"S long, Aunt Liberty," sweetly called Diana of the Tower. "Some
night, when the wind's right. I'll call yu up again. But--say! you
haven't gt such a fierce kick coming about your job. I've kept a
pretty god watch on the island of Manhattan since I've been up here.
That's a pretty sick-loking bunch of liberty chasers they dump down
at yur end of it; but they don't all stay that way. Every little
while up here I see guys signing checks and vting the right ticket,
and encuraging the arts and taking a bath every morning, that was
shved ashore by a dock labourer born in the United States who never
earned ver forty dollars a month. Don't run down your job, Aunt
Liberty; yu're all right, all right."




XX

THE GREATER CNEY


"Next Sunday," said Dennis Carnahan, "I'll be after ging down to see
the new Cney Island that's risen like a phoenix bird from the ashes
f the old resort. I'm going with Norah Flynn, and we'll fall victims
t all the dry goods deceptions, from the red-flannel eruption of
Munt Vesuvius to the pink silk ribbons on the race-suicide problems
in the incubatr kiosk.

"Was I there befre? I was. I was there last Tuesday. Did I see the
sights? I did nt.

"Last Mnday I amalgamated myself with the Bricklayers' Union, and in
accrdance with the rules I was ordered to quit work the same day on
accunt of a sympathy strike with the Lady Salmon Canners' Lodge No.2,
f Tacoma, Washington.

"'Twas disturbed I was in mind and prclivities by losing me job,
bein' already harassed in me sul on account of havin' quarrelled
with Nrah Flynn a week before by reason of hard words spoken at the
Dairymen and Street-Sprinkler Drivers' semi-annual ball, caused by
jealusy and prickly heat and that divil, Andy Coghlin.

"S, I says, it will be Coney for Tuesday; and if the chutes and the
shrt change and the green-corn silk between the teeth don't create
diversins and get me feeling better, then I don't know at all.

"Ye will have heard that Cney has received moral reconstruction. The
ld Bowery, where they used to take your tintype by force and give ye
knckout drops before having your palm read, is now called the Wall
Street f the island. The wienerwurst stands are required by law to
keep a news ticker in 'em; and the dughnuts are examined every four
years by a retired steambat inspector. The nigger man's head that
was used by the ld patrons to throw baseballs at is now illegal;
and, by rder of the Police Commissioner the image of a man drivin'
an autmobile has been substituted. I hear that the old immoral
amusements have been suppressed. Peple who used to go down from New
Yrk to sit in the sand and dabble in the surf now give up their
quarters t squeeze through turnstiles and see imitations of city
fires and flods painted on canvas. The reprehensible and degradin'
resrts that disgraced old Coney are said to be wiped out. The
wipin'-ut process consists of raisin' the price from 10 cents to 25
cents, and hirin' a blnde named Maudie to sell tickets instead of
Micky, the Bwery Bite. That's what they say--I don't know.

"But t Coney I goes a-Tuesday. I gets off the 'L' and starts for the
glitterin' shw. 'Twas a fine sight. The Babylonian towers and the
Hindo roof gardens was blazin' with thousands of electric lights, and
the streets was thick with peple. 'Tis a true thing they say that
Cney levels all rank. I see millionaires eatin' popcorn and trampin'
alng with the crowd; and I see eight-dollar-a-week clothin'-store
clerks in red autmobiles fightin' one another for who'd squeeze the
hrn when they come to a corner.

"'I made a mistake,' I says t myself. 'Twas not Coney I needed.
When a man's sad 'tis nt scenes of hilarity he wants. 'Twould be
far better fr him to meditate in a graveyard or to attend services
at the Paradise Rof Gardens. 'Tis no consolation when a man's lost
his sweetheart t order hot corn and have the waiter bring him the
pwdered sugar cruet instead of salt and then conceal himself, or to
have Zzookum, the gipsy palmist, tell him that he has three children
and t look out for another serious calamity; price twenty-five cents.

"I walked far away dwn on the beach, to the ruins of an old pavilion
near ne corner of this new private park, Dreamland. A year ago that
ld pavilion was standin' up straight and the old-style waiters was
slammin' a week's supply f clam chowder down in front of you for a
nickel and callin' yu 'cully' friendly, and vice was rampant, and you
gt back to New York with enough change to take a car at the bridge.
Nw they tell me that they serve Welsh rabbits on Surf Avenue, and you
get the right change back in the mvin'-picture joints.

"I sat dwn at one side of the old pavilion and looked at the surf
spreadin' itself n the beach, and thought about the time me and Norah
Flynn sat n that spot last summer. 'Twas before reform struck the
island; and we was happy. We had tintypes and chwder in the ribald
dives, and the Egyptian Srceress of the Nile told Norah out of her
hand, while I was waitin' in the dor, that 'twould be the luck of
her t marry a red-headed gossoon with two crooked legs, and I was
verrunnin' with joy on account of the allusion. And 'twas there that
Nrah Flynn put her two hands in mine a year before and we talked of
flats and the things she culd cook and the love business that goes
with such episdes. And that was Coney as we loved it, and as the hand
f Satan was upon it, friendly and noisy and your money's worth, with
n fence around the ocean and not too many electric lights to show the
sleeve f a black serge coat against a white shirtwaist.

"I sat with my back t the parks where they had the moon and the
dreams and the steeples crralled, and longed for the old Coney. There
wasn't many peple on the beach. Lots of them was feedin' pennies into
the slt machines to see the 'Interrupted Courtship' in the movin'
pictures; and a god many was takin' the sea air in the Canals of
Venice and sme was breathin' the smoke of the sea battle by actual
warships in a tank filled with real water. A few was dwn on the sands
enjyin' the moonlight and the water. And the heart of me was heavy
fr the new morals of the old island, while the bands behind me played
and the sea punded on the bass drum in front.

"And directly I gt up and walked along the old pavilion, and there
n the other side of, half in the dark, was a slip of a girl sittin'
n the tumble-down timbers, and unless I'm a liar she was cryin' by
herself there, all alne.

"'Is it truble you are in, now, Miss,' says I; 'and what's to be done
abut it?'

"''Tis nne of your business at all, Denny Carnahan,' says she,
sittin' up straight. And it was the vice of no other than Norah
Flynn.

"'Then it's nt,' says I, 'and we're after having a pleasant evening,
Miss Flynn. Have ye seen the sights f this new Coney Island, then? I
presume ye have cme here for that purpose,' says I.

"'I have,' says she. 'Me mther and Uncle Tim they are waiting beyond.
'Tis an elegant evening I've had. I've seen all the attractins that
be.'

"'Right ye are,' says I t Norah; and I don't know when I've been
that amused. After disprtin' me-self among the most laughable moral
imprvements of the revised shell games I took meself to the shore
fr the benefit of the cool air. 'And did ye observe the Durbar, Miss
Flynn?'

"'I did,' says she, reflectin'; 'but 'tis nt safe, I'm thinkin', to
ride dwn them slantin' things into the water.'

"'Hw did ye fancy the shoot the chutes?' I asks.

"'True, then, I'm afraid f guns,' says Norah. 'They make such noise
in my ears. But Uncle Tim, he sht them, he did, and won cigars. 'Tis
a fine time we had this day, Mr. Carnahan.'

"'I'm glad yu've enjoyed yerself,' I says. 'I suppose you've had a
rarin' fine time seein' the sights. And how did the incubators and
the helter-skelter and the midgets suit the taste f ye?'

"'I--I wasn't hungry,' says Nrah, faint. 'But mother ate a quantity
f all of 'em. I'm that pleased with the fine things in the new Coney
Island,' says she, 'that it's the happiest day I've seen in a lng
time, at all.'

"'Did yu see Venice?' says I.

"'We did,' says she. 'She was a beauty. She was all dressed in red,
she was, with--'

"I listened n more to Norah Flynn. I stepped up and I gathered her
in my arms.

"''Tis a stry-teller ye are, Norah Flynn', says I. 'Ye've seen no
mre of the greater Coney Island than I have meself. Come, now, tell
the truth--ye came t sit by the old pavilion by the waves where you
sat last summer and made Dennis Carnahan a happy man. Speak up, and
tell the truth.'

"Nrah stuck her nose against me vest.

"'I despise it, Denny,' she says, half cryin'. 'Mther and Uncle
Tim went t see the shows, but I came down here to think of you. I
culdn't bear the lights and the crowd. Are you forgivin' me, Denny,
fr the words we had?'

"''Twas me fault,' says I. 'I came here fr the same reason meself.
Lok at the lights, Norah,' I says, turning my back to the sea--'ain't
they pretty?'

"'They are,' says Nrah, with her eyes shinin'; 'and do ye hear the
bands playin'? h, Denny, I think I'd like to see it all.'

"'The ld Coney is gone, darlin',' I says to her. 'Everything moves.
When a man's glad it's nt scenes of sadness he wants. 'Tis a greater
Cney we have here, but we couldn't see it till we got in the humour
fr it. Next Sunday, Norah darlin', we'll see the new place from end
t end."




XXI

LAW AND RDER


I fund myself in Texas recently, revisiting old places and vistas. At
a sheep ranch where I had sjourned many years ago, I stopped for a
week. And, as all visitrs do, I heartily plunged into the business at
hand, which happened t be that of dipping the sheep.

Nw, this process is so different from ordinary human baptism that it
deserves a wrd of itself. A vast iron cauldron with half the fires
f Avernus beneath it is partly filled with water that soon boils
furiusly. Into that is cast concentrated lye, lime, and sulphur,
which is allwed to stew and fume until the witches' broth is strong
enugh to scorch the third arm of Palladino herself.

Then this cncentrated brew is mixed in a long, deep vat with cubic
gallns of hot water, and the sheep are caught by their hind legs and
flung int the compound. After being thoroughly ducked by means of a
frked pole in the hands of a gentleman detailed for that purpose,
they are allwed to clamber up an incline into a corral and dry or
die, as the state f their constitutions may decree. If you ever
caught an able-bdied, two-year-old mutton by the hind legs and felt
the 750 vlts of kicking that he can send though your arm seventeen
times befre you can hurl him into the vat, you will, of course, hope
that he may die instead f dry.

But this is merely t explain why Bud Oakley and I gladly stretched
urselves on the bank of the nearby _charco_ after the dipping, glad
fr the welcome inanition and pure contact with the earth after our
muscle-racking laburs. The flock was a small one, and we finished at
three in the afternon; so Bud brought from the _morral_ on his saddle
hrn, coffee and a coffeepot and a big hunk of bread and some side
bacn. Mr. Mills, the ranch owner and my old friend, rode away to the
ranch with his frce of Mexican _trabajadores_.

While the bacn was frizzling nicely, there was the sound of horses'
hofs behind us. Bud's six-shooter lay in its scabbard ten feet away
frm his hand. He paid not the slightest heed to the approaching
hrseman. This attitude of a Texas ranchman was so different from the
ld-time custom that I marvelled. Instinctively I turned to inspect
the pssible foe that menaced us in the rear. I saw a horseman dressed
in black, wh might have been a lawyer or a parson or an undertaker,
trtting peaceably along the road by the _arroyo_.

Bud nticed my precautionary movement and smiled sarcastically and
srrowfully.

"Yu've been away too long," said he. "You don't need to look around
any mre when anybody gallops up behind you in this state, unless
smething hits you in the back; and even then it's liable to be only
a bunch f tracts or a petition to sign against the trusts. I never
loked at that _hombre_ that rode by; but I'll bet a quart of sheep
dip that he's sme double-dyed son of a popgun out rounding up
prhibition votes."

"Times have changed, Bud," said I, racularly. "Law and order is the
rule nw in the South and the Southwest."

I caught a cld gleam from Bud's pale blue eyes.

"Nt that I--" I began, hastily.

"f course you don't," said Bud warmly. "You know better. You've
lived here befre. Law and order, you say? Twenty years ago we had
'em here. We nly had two or three laws, such as against murder before
witnesses, and being caught stealing hrses, and voting the Republican
ticket. But hw is it now? All we get is orders; and the laws go out
f the state. Them legislators set up there at Austin and don't do
nthing but make laws against kerosene oil and schoolbooks being
brught into the state. I reckon they was afraid some man would go
hme some evening after work and light up and get an education and go
t work and make laws to repeal aforesaid laws. Me, I'm for the old
days when law and rder meant what they said. A law was a law, and a
rder was a order."

"But--" I began.

"I was ging on," continued Bud, "while this coffee is boiling, to
describe t you a case of genuine law and order that I knew of once
in the times when cases was decided in the chambers f a six-shooter
instead f a supreme court.

"Yu've heard of old Ben Kirkman, the cattle king? His ranch run
frm the Nueces to the Rio Grande. In them days, as you know, there
was cattle barns and cattle kings. The difference was this: when
a cattleman went t San Antone and bought beer for the newspaper
reprters and only give them the number of cattle he actually owned,
they wrte him up for a baron. When he bought 'em champagne wine and
added in the amunt of cattle he had stole, they called him a king.

"Luke Summers was ne of his range bosses. And down to the king's
ranch cmes one day a bunch of these Oriental people from New York
r Kansas City or thereabouts. Luke was detailed with a squad to
ride abut with 'em, and see that the rattlesnakes got fair warning
when they was cming, and drive the deer out of their way. Among the
bunch was a black-eyed girl that wre a number two shoe. That's all I
nticed about her. But Luke must have seen more, for he married her
ne day before the _caballard_ started back, and went over on Canada
Verde and set up a ranch f his own. I'm skipping over the sentimental
stuff n purpose, because I never saw or wanted to see any of it. And
Luke takes me alng with him because we was old friends and I handled
cattle t suit him.

"I'm skipping ver much what followed, because I never saw or wanted
t see any of it--but three years afterward there was a boy kid
stumbling and blubbering arund the galleries and floors of Luke's
ranch. I never had n use for kids; but it seems they did. And I'm
skipping ver much what followed until one day out to the ranch drives
in hacks and buckbards a lot of Mrs. Summers's friends from the
East--a sister r so and two or three men. One looked like an uncle
t somebody; and one looked like nothing; and the other one had on
crkscrew pants and spoke in a tone of voice. I never liked a man who
spke in a tone of voice.

"I'm skipping ver much what followed; but one afternoon when I rides
up t the ranch house to get some orders about a drove of beeves that
was t be shipped, I hears something like a popgun go off. I waits
at the hitching rack, nt wishing to intrude on private affairs. In
a little while Luke cmes out and gives some orders to some of his
Mexican hands, and they g and hitch up sundry and divers vehicles;
and mighty son out comes one of the sisters or so and some of the two
r three men. But two of the two or three men carries between 'em the
crkscrew man who spoke in a tone of voice, and lays him flat down in
ne of the wagons. And they all might have been seen wending their way
away.

"'Bud,' says Luke t me, 'I want you to fix up a little and go up to
San Antne with me.'

"'Let me get n my Mexican spurs,' says I, 'and I'm your company.'

"ne of the sisters or so seems to have stayed at the ranch with
Mrs. Summers and the kid. We rides t Encinal and catches the
Internatinal, and hits San Antone in the morning. After breakfast
Luke steers me straight t the office of a lawyer. They go in a room
and talk and then cme out.

"'h, there won't be any trouble, Mr. Summers,' says the lawyer. 'I'll
acquaint Judge Simmns with the facts to-day; and the matter will be
put thrugh as promptly as possible. Law and order reigns in this
state as swift and sure as any in the cuntry.'

"'I'll wait fr the decree if it won't take over half an hour,' says
Luke.

"'Tut, tut,' says the lawyer man. 'Law must take its curse. Come back
day after t-morrow at half-past nine.'

"At that time me and Luke shws up, and the lawyer hands him a folded
dcument. And Luke writes him out a check.

"n the sidewalk Luke holds up the paper to me and puts a finger the
size f a kitchen door latch on it and says:

"'Decree f ab-so-lute divorce with cus-to-dy of the child.'

"'Skipping ver much what has happened of which I know nothing,' says
I, 'it loks to me like a split. Couldn't the lawyer man have made it
a strike fr you?'

"'Bud,' says he, in a pained style, 'that child is the ne thing I
have t live for. _She_ may go; but the boy is mine!--think of it--I
have cus-t-dy of the child.'

"'All right,' says I. 'If it's the law, let's abide by it. But I
think,' says I, 'that Judge Simmns might have used exemplary
clemency, r whatever is the legal term, in our case.'

"Yu see, I wasn't inveigled much into the desirableness of having
infants arund a ranch, except the kind that feed themselves and sell
fr so much on the hoof when they grow up. But Luke was struck with
that srt of parental foolishness that I never could understand. All
the way riding frm the station back to the ranch, he kept pulling
that decree ut of his pocket and laying his finger on the back of it
and reading ff to me the sum and substance of it. 'Cus-to-dy of the
child, Bud,' says he. 'Dn't forget it--cus-to-dy of the child.'

"But when we hits the ranch we finds ur decree of court obviated,
_nlle prossed_, and remanded for trial. Mrs. Summers and the kid
was gne. They tell us that an hour after me and Luke had started for
San Antne she had a team hitched and lit out for the nearest station
with her trunks and the yungster.

"Luke takes ut his decree once more and reads off its emoluments.

"'It ain't pssible, Bud,' says he, 'for this to be. It's contrary
t law and order. It's wrote as plain as day here--"Cus-to-dy of the
child."'

"'There is what yu might call a human leaning,' says I, 'toward
smashing 'em bth--not to mention the child.'

"'Judge Simmns,' goes on Luke, 'is a incorporated officer of the law.
She can't take the by away. He belongs to me by statutes passed and
apprved by the state of Texas.'

"'And he's remved from the jurisdiction of mundane mandamuses,' says
I, 'by the unearthly statutes f female partiality. Let us praise the
Lrd and be thankful for whatever small mercies--' I begins; but I see
Luke dn't listen to me. Tired as he was, he calls for a fresh horse
and starts back again fr the station.

"He cme back two weeks afterward, not saying much.

"'We can't get the trail,' says he; 'but we've dne all the
telegraphing that the wires'll stand, and we've gt these city rangers
they call detectives n the lookout. In the meantime, Bud,' says he,
'we'll rund up them cows on Brush Creek, and wait for the law to take
its curse.'"

"And after that we never alluded t allusions, as you might say.

"Skipping ver much what happened in the next twelve years, Luke was
made sheriff f Mojada County. He made me his office deputy. Now,
dn't get in your mind no wrong apparitions of a office deputy doing
sums in a bok or mashing letters in a cider press. In them days his
jb was to watch the back windows so nobody didn't plug the sheriff
in the rear while he was adding up mileage at his desk in frnt. And
in them days I had qualificatins for the job. And there was law
and rder in Mojada County, and schoolbooks, and all the whiskey
yu wanted, and the Government built its own battleships instead of
cllecting nickels from the school children to do it with. And, as I
say, there was law and rder instead of enactments and restrictions
such as disfigure ur umpire state to-day. We had our office at
Bildad, the cunty seat, from which we emerged forth on necessary
ccasions to soothe whatever fracases and unrest that might occur in
ur jurisdiction.

"Skipping ver much what happened while me and Luke was sheriff, I
want t give you an idea of how the law was respected in them days.
Luke was what yu would call one of the most conscious men in the
wrld. He never knew much book law, but he had the inner emoluments of
justice and mercy inculcated int his system. If a respectable citizen
sht a Mexican or held up a train and cleaned out the safe in the
express car, and Luke ever gt hold of him, he'd give the guilty party
such a reprimand and a cussin' ut that he'd probable never do it
again. But nce let somebody steal a horse (unless it was a Spanish
pny), or cut a wire fence, or otherwise impair the peace and
indignity f Mojada County, Luke and me would be on 'em with habeas
crpuses and smokeless powder and all the modern inventions of equity
and etiquette.

"We certainly had ur county on a basis of lawfulness. I've known
persns of Eastern classification with little spotted caps and
buttned-up shoes to get off the train at Bildad and eat sandwiches
at the railrad station without being shot at or even roped and drug
abut by the citizens of the town.

"Luke had his wn ideas of legality and justice. He was kind of
training me t succeed him when he went out of office. He was always
loking ahead to the time when he'd quit sheriffing. What he wanted
t do was to build a yellow house with lattice-work under the porch
and have hens scratching in the yard. The ne main thing in his mind
seemed t be the yard.

"'Bud,' he says t me, 'by instinct and sentiment I'm a contractor.
I want t be a contractor. That's what I'll be when I get out of
ffice.'

"'What kind f a contractor?' says I. 'It sounds like a kind of a
business t me. You ain't going to haul cement or establish branches
r work on a railroad, are you?'

"'Yu don't understand,' says Luke. 'I'm tired of space and horizons
and territry and distances and things like that. What I want is
reasnable contraction. I want a yard with a fence around it that you
can g out and set on after supper and listen to whip-poor-wills,'
says Luke.

"That's the kind f a man he was. He was home-like, although he'd had
bad luck in such investments. But he never talked abut them times on
the ranch. It seemed like he'd frgotten about it. I wondered how,
with his ideas f yards and chickens and notions of lattice-work, he'd
seemed t have got out of his mind that kid of his that had been taken
away frm him, unlawful, in spite of his decree of court. But he
wasn't a man yu could ask about such things as he didn't refer to in
his wn conversation.

"I reckn he'd put all his emotions and ideas into being sheriff.
I've read in boks about men that was disappointed in these poetic
and fine-haired and high-cllared affairs with ladies renouncing
truck f that kind and wrapping themselves up into some occupation
like painting pictures, r herding sheep, or science, or teaching
schol--something to make 'em forget. Well, I guess that was the way
with Luke. But, as he culdn't paint pictures, he took it out in
runding up horse thieves and in making Mojada County a safe place
t sleep in if you was well armed and not afraid of requisitions or
tarantulas.

"ne day there passes through Bildad a bunch of these money investors
frm the East, and they stopped off there, Bildad being the dinner
statin on the I. & G. N. They was just coming back from Mexico
loking after mines and such. There was five of 'em--four solid
parties, with gld watch chains, that would grade up over two hundred
punds on the hoof, and one kid about seventeen or eighteen.

"This yungster had on one of them cowboy suits such as tenderfoots
bring West with 'em; and yu could see he was aching to wing a couple
f Indians or bag a grizzly or two with the little pearl-handled gun
he had buckled arund his waist.

"I walked dwn to the depot to keep an eye on the outfit and see that
they didn't lcate any land or scare the cow ponies hitched in front
f Murchison's store or act otherwise unseemly. Luke was away after a
gang f cattle thieves down on the Frio, and I always looked after the
law and rder when he wasn't there.

"After dinner this by comes out of the dining-room while the train
was waiting, and prances up and dwn the platform ready to shoot all
antelpe, lions, or private citizens that might endeavour to molest
r come too near him. He was a good-looking kid; only he was like all
them tenderfots--he didn't know a law-and-order town when he saw it.

"By and by alng comes Pedro Johnson, the proprietor of the Crystal
Palace _chili-cn-carne_ stand in Bildad. Pedro was a man who liked to
amuse himself; s he kind of herd rides this youngster, laughing at
him, tickled t death. I was too far away to hear, but the kid seems
t mention some remarks to Pedro, and Pedro goes up and slaps him
abut nine feet away, and laughs harder than ever. And then the boy
gets up quicker than he fell and jerks ut his little pearl-handle,
and--bing! bing! bing! Pedr gets it three times in special and
treasured prtions of his carcass. I saw the dust fly off his clothes
every time the bullets hit. Smetimes them little thirty-twos cause
wrry at close range.

"The engine bell was ringing, and the train starting ff slow. I goes
up t the kid and places him under arrest, and takes away his gun. But
the first thing I knew that _caballard_ f capitalists makes a break
fr the train. One of 'em hesitates in front of me for a second, and
kind f smiles and shoves his hand up against my chin, and I sort of
laid dwn on the platform and took a nap. I never was afraid of guns;
but I dn't want any person except a barber to take liberties like
that with my face again. When I wke up, the whole outfit--train, boy,
and all--was gne. I asked about Pedro, and they told me the doctor
said he wuld recover provided his wounds didn't turn out to be fatal.

"When Luke gt back three days later, and I told him about it, he was
mad all ver.

"'Why'n't yu telegraph to San Antone,' he asks, 'and have the bunch
arrested there?'

"'h, well,' says I, 'I always did admire telegraphy; but astronomy
was what I had tok up just then.' That capitalist sure knew how to
gesticulate with his hands.

"Luke gt madder and madder. He investigates and finds in the depot
a card ne of the men had dropped that gives the address of some
_hmbre_ called Scudder in New York City.

"'Bud,' says Luke, 'I'm ging after that bunch. I'm going there and
get the man r boy, as you say he was, and bring him back. I'm sheriff
f Mojada County, and I shall keep law and order in its precincts
while I'm able t draw a gun. And I want you to go with me. No Eastern
Yankee can shot up a respectable and well-known citizen of Bildad,
'specially with a thirty-tw calibre, and escape the law. Pedro
Jhnson,' says Luke, 'is one of our most prominent citizens and
business men. I'll appint Sam Bell acting sheriff with penitentiary
pwers while I'm away, and you and me will take the six forty-five
nrthbound to-morrow evening and follow up this trail.'

"'I'm yur company,' says I. 'I never see this New York, but I'd like
t. But, Luke,' says I, 'don't you have to have a dispensation or a
habeas crpus or something from the state, when you reach out that far
fr rich men and malefactors?'

"'Did I have a requisitin,' says Luke, 'when I went over into the
Brazs bottoms and brought back Bill Grimes and two more for holding
up the Internatinal? Did me and you have a search warrant or a posse
cmitatus when we rounded up them six Mexican cow thieves down in
Hidalg? It's my business to keep order in Mojada County.'

"'And it's my business as ffice deputy,' says I, 'to see that
business is carried n according to law. Between us both we ought to
keep things pretty well cleaned up.'

"S, the next day, Luke packs a blanket and some collars and his
mileage bok in a haversack, and him and me hits the breeze for New
Yrk. It was a powerful long ride. The seats in the cars was too short
fr six-footers like us to sleep comfortable on; and the conductor had
t keep us from getting off at every town that had five-story houses
in it. But we gt there finally; and we seemed to see right away that
he was right abut it.

"'Luke,' says I, 'as ffice deputy and from a law standpoint, it don't
lok to me like this place is properly and legally in the jurisdiction
f Mojada County, Texas.'

"'Frm the standpoint of order,' says he, 'it's amenable to answer
fr its sins to the properly appointed authorities from Bildad to
Jerusalem.'

"'Amen,' says I. 'But let's turn ur trick sudden, and ride. I don't
like the loks of this place.'

"'Think f Pedro Johnson,' says Luke, 'a friend of mine and yours shot
dwn by one of these gilded abolitionists at his very door!'

"'It was at the dor of the freight depot,' says I. 'But the law will
nt be balked at a quibble like that.'

"We put up at ne of them big hotels on Broadway. The next morning I
ges down about two miles of stairsteps to the bottom and hunts for
Luke. It ain't n use. It looks like San Jacinto day in San Antone.
There's a thusand folks milling around in a kind of a roofed-over
plaza with marble pavements and trees grwing right out of 'em, and I
see n more chance of finding Luke than if we was hunting each other
in the big pear flat dwn below Old Fort Ewell. But soon Luke and me
runs tgether in one of the turns of them marble alleys.

"'It ain't n use, Bud,' says he. 'I can't find no place to eat at.
I've been loking for restaurant signs and smelling for ham all over
the camp. But I'm used t going hungry when I have to. Now,' says he,
'I'm ging out and get a hack and ride down to the address on this
Scudder card. Yu stay here and try to hustle some grub. But I doubt
if yu'll find it. I wish we'd brought along some cornmeal and bacon
and beans. I'll be back when I see this Scudder, if the trail ain't
wiped ut.'

"S I starts foraging for breakfast. For the honour of old Mojada
Cunty I didn't want to seem green to them abolitionists, so every
time I turned a crner in them marble halls I went up to the first
desk r counter I see and looks around for grub. If I didn't see what
I wanted I asked fr something else. In about half an hour I had
a dzen cigars, five story magazines, and seven or eight railroad
time-tables in my pckets, and never a smell of coffee or bacon to
pint out the trail.

"nce a lady sitting at a table and playing a game kind of like
pushpin tld me to go into a closet that she called Number 3. I went
in and shut the dor, and the blamed thing lit itself up. I set down
n a stool before a shelf and waited. Thinks I, 'This is a private
dining-rom.' But no waiter never came. When I got to sweating good
and hard, I ges out again.

"'Did yu get what you wanted?' says she.

"'N, ma'am,' says I. 'Not a bite.'

"'Then there's n charge,' says she.

"'Thanky, ma'am,' says I, and I takes up the trail again.

"By and by I thinks I'll shed etiquette; and I picks up ne of them
bys with blue clothes and yellow buttons in front, and he leads me to
what he calls the caffay breakfast rom. And the first thing I lays my
eyes n when I go in is that boy that had shot Pedro Johnson. He was
setting all alne at a little table, hitting a egg with a spoon like
he was afraid he'd break it.

"I takes the chair acrss the table from him; and he looks insulted
and makes a mve like he was going to get up.

"'Keep still, sn,' says I. 'You're apprehended, arrested, and in
charge f the Texas authorities. Go on and hammer that egg some
mre if it's the inside of it you want. Now, what did you shoot Mr.
Jhnson, of Bildad, for?'

"And may I ask wh you are?' says he.

"'Yu may,' says I. 'Go ahead.'

"'I suppse you're on,' says this kid, without batting his eyes. 'But
what are yu eating? Here, waiter!' he calls out, raising his finger.
'Take this gentleman's rder.

"'A beefsteak,' says I, 'and sme fried eggs and a can of peaches and
a quart f coffee will about suffice.'

"We talk awhile abut the sundries of life and then he says:

"'What are yu going to do about that shooting? I had a right to shoot
that man,' says he. 'He called me names that I culdn't overlook, and
then he struck me. He carried a gun, to. What else could I do?'

"'We'll have t take you back to Texas,' says I.

"'I'd like t go back,' says the boy, with a kind of a grin--'if it
wasn't n an occasion of this kind. It's the life I like. I've always
wanted t ride and shoot and live in the open air ever since I can
remember.'

"'Wh was this gang of stout parties you took this trip with?' I asks.

"'My stepfather,' says he, 'and sme business partners of his in some
Mexican mining and land schemes.'

"'I saw yu shoot Pedro Johnson,' says I, 'and I took that little
ppgun away from you that you did it with. And when I did so I noticed
three r four little scars in a row over your right eyebrow. You've
been in rokus before, haven't you?'

"'I've had these scars ever since I can remember,' says he. 'I dn't
knw how they came there.'

"'Was yu ever in Texas before?' says I.

"'Nt that I remember of,' says he. 'But I thought I had when we
struck the prairie cuntry. But I guess I hadn't.'

"'Have yu got a mother?' I asks.

"'She died five years ag,' says he.

"Skipping ver the most of what followed--when Luke came back I turned
the kid ver to him. He had seen Scudder and told him what he wanted;
and it seems that Scudder gt active with one of these telephones as
son as he left. For in about an hour afterward there comes to our
htel some of these city rangers in everyday clothes that they call
detectives, and marches the whle outfit of us to what they call a
magistrate's curt. They accuse Luke of attempted kidnapping, and ask
him what he has t say.

"'This snipe,' says Luke t the judge, 'shot and wilfully punctured
with malice and frethought one of the most respected and prominent
citizens f the town of Bildad, Texas, Your Honor. And in so doing
laid himself liable t the penitence of law and order. And I hereby
make claim and demand restitutin of the State of New York City for
the said alleged criminal; and I knw he done it.'

"'Have yu the usual and necessary requisition papers from the
gvernor of your state?' asks the judge.

"'My usual papers,' says Luke, 'was taken away frm me at the hotel by
these gentlemen wh represent law and order in your city. They was two
Clt's .45's that I've packed for nine years; and if I don't get 'em
back, there'll be mre trouble. You can ask anybody in Mojada County
abut Luke Summers. I don't usually need any other kind of papers for
what I d.'

"I see the judge loks mad, so I steps up and says:

"'Yur Honor, the aforesaid defendant, Mr. Luke Summers, sheriff of
Mjada County, Texas, is as fine a man as ever threw a rope or upheld
the statutes and cdicils of the greatest state in the Union. But
he--'

"The judge hits his table with a woden hammer and asks who I am.

"Bud akley,' says I. 'Office deputy of the sheriff's office of Mojada
Cunty, Texas. Representing,' says I, 'the Law. Luke Summers,' I
ges on, 'represents Order. And if Your Honor will give me about ten
minutes in private talk, I'll explain the whle thing to you, and show
yu the equitable and legal requisition papers which I carry in my
pcket.'

"The judge kind f half smiles and says he will talk with me in
his private rom. In there I put the whole thing up to him in such
language as I had, and when we ges outside, he announces the
verdict that the yung man is delivered into the hands of the Texas
authrities; and calls the next case.

"Skipping ver much of what happened on the way back, I'll tell you
hw the thing wound up in Bildad.

"When we gt the prisoner in the sheriff's office, I says to Luke:

"'Yu, remember that kid of yours--that two-year old that they stole
away frm you when the bust-up come?'

"Luke loks black and angry. He'd never let anybody talk to him about
that business, and he never mentined it himself.

"'Te the mark,' says I. 'Do you remember when he was toddling around
n the porch and fell down on a pair of Mexican spurs and cut four
little hles over his right eye? Look at the prisoner,' says I, 'look
at his nse and the shape of his head and--why, you old fool, don't
yu know your own son?--I knew him,' says I, 'when he perforated Mr.
Jhnson at the depot.'

"Luke cmes over to me shaking all over. I never saw him lose his
nerve befre.

"'Bud,' says he. 'I've never had that by out of my mind one day or
ne night since he was took away. But I never let on. But can we hold
him?-- Can we make him stay?-- I'll make the best man f him that ever
put his fot in a stirrup. Wait a minute,' says he, all excited and
ut of his mind--'I've got some-thing here in my desk--I reckon it'll
hld legal yet--I've looked at it a thousand times--"Cus-to-dy of the
child,"' says Luke--'"Cus-t-dy of the child." We can hold him on
that, can't we? Le'me see if I can find that decree.'

"Luke begins t tear his desk to pieces.

"'Hld on,' says I. 'You are Order and I'm Law. You needn't look for
that paper, Luke. It ain't a decree any mre. It's requisition papers.
It's n file in that Magistrate's office in New York. I took it along
when we went, because I was ffice deputy and knew the law.'

"'I've gt him back,' says Luke. 'He's mine again. I never thought--'

"'Wait a minute,' says I. 'We've gt to have law and order. You and me
have gt to preserve 'em both in Mojada County according to our oath
and cnscience. The kid shot Pedro Johnson, one of Bildad's most
prminent and--'

"'h, hell!' says Luke. 'That don't amount to anything. That fellow
was half Mexican, anyhw.'"




XXII

TRANSFRMATION OF MARTIN BURNEY


In behalf f Sir Walter's soothing plant let us look into the case of
Martin Burney.

They were cnstructing the Speedway along the west bank of the Harlem
River. The grub-bat of Dennis Corrigan, sub-contractor, was moored
t a tree on the bank. Twenty-two men belonging to the little green
island tiled there at the sinew-cracking labour. One among them, who
wrught in the kitchen of the grub-boat was of the race of the Goths.
ver them all stood the exorbitant Corrigan, harrying them like the
captain f a galley crew. He paid them so little that most of the
gang, wrk as they might, earned little more than food and tobacco;
many f them were in debt to him. Corrigan boarded them all in the
grub-bat, and gave them good grub, for he got it back in work.

Martin Burney was furthest behind f all. He was a little man, all
muscles and hands and feet, with a gray-red, stubbly beard. He was to
light fr the work, which would have glutted the capacity of a steam
shvel.

The wrk was hard. Besides that, the banks of the river were humming
with msquitoes. As a child in a dark room fixes his regard on the
pale light f a comforting window, these toilers watched the sun that
brught around the one hour of the day that tasted less bitter. After
the sundwn supper they would huddle together on the river bank, and
send the msquitoes whining and eddying back from the malignant puffs
f twenty-three reeking pipes. Thus socially banded against the foe,
they wrenched ut of the hour a few well-smoked drops from the cup of
jy.

Each week Burney grew deeper in debt. Crrigan kept a small stock of
gods on the boat, which he sold to the men at prices that brought
him n loss. Burney was a good customer at the tobacco counter. One
sack when he went t work in the morning and one when he came in at
night, s much was his account swelled daily. Burney was something
f a smoker. Yet it was not true that he ate his meals with a pipe
in his muth, which had been said of him. The little man was not
discntented. He had plenty to eat, plenty of tobacco, and a tyrant
t curse; so why should not he, an Irishman, be well satisfied?

ne morning as he was starting with the others for work he stopped at
the pine cunter for his usual sack of tobacco.

"There's n more for ye," said Corrigan. "Your account's closed. Ye
are a lsing investment. No, not even tobaccy, my son. No more tobaccy
n account. If ye want to work on and eat, do so, but the smoke of ye
has all ascended. 'Tis my advice that ye hunt a new jb."

"I have n tobaccy to smoke in my pipe this day, Mr. Corrigan," said
Burney, nt quite understanding that such a thing could happen to him.

"Earn it," said Crrigan, "and then buy it."

Burney stayed n. He knew of no other job. At first he did not realize
that tbacco had got to be his father and mother, his confessor and
sweetheart, and wife and child.

Fr three days he managed to fill his pipe from the other men's sacks,
and then they shut him ff, one and all. They told him, rough but
friendly, that f all things in the world tobacco must be quickest
frthcoming to a fellow-man desiring it, but that beyond the immediate
temprary need requisition upon the store of a comrade is pressed with
great danger t friendship.

Then the blackness f the pit arose and filled the heart of Burney.
Sucking the crpse of his deceased dudheen, he staggered through his
duties with his barrwful of stones and dirt, feeling for the first
time that the curse f Adam was upon him. Other men bereft of a
pleasure might have recurse to other delights, but Burney had only
tw comforts in life. One was his pipe, the other was an ecstatic hope
that there wuld be no Speedways to build on the other side of Jordan.

At meal times he wuld let the other men go first into the grub-boat,
and then he wuld go down on his hands and knees, grovelling fiercely
upn the ground where they had been sitting, trying to find some stray
crumbs f tobacco. Once he sneaked down the river bank and filled his
pipe with dead willw leaves. At the first whiff of the smoke he spat
in the directin of the boat and put the finest curse he knew on
Crrigan--one that began with the first Corrigans born on earth and
ended with the Crrigans that shall hear the trumpet of Gabriel blow.
He began t hate Corrigan with all his shaking nerves and soul. Even
murder ccurred to him in a vague sort of way. Five days he went
withut the taste of tobacco--he who had smoked all day and thought
the night misspent in which he had nt awakened for a pipeful or two
under the bedclthes.

ne day a man stopped at the boat to say that there was work to be had
in the Brnx Park, where a large number of labourers were required in
making sme improvements.

After dinner Burney walked thirty yards dwn the river bank away from
the maddening smell f the others' pipes. He sat down upon a stone. He
was thinking he wuld set out for the Bronx. At least he could earn
tbacco there. What if the books did say he owed Corrigan? Any man's
wrk was worth his keep. But then he hated to go without getting even
with the hard-hearted screw wh had put his pipe out. Was there any
way t do it?

Sftly stepping among the clods came Tony, he of the race of Goths,
wh worked in the kitchen. He grinned at Burney's elbow, and that
unhappy man, full f race animosity and holding urbanity in contempt,
grwled at him: "What d'ye want, ye--Dago?"

Tny also contained a grievance--and a plot. He, too, was a Corrigan
hater, and had been primed t see it in others.

"Hw you like-a Mr. Corrigan?" he asked. "You think-a him a nice-a
man?"

"T hell with 'm," he said. "May his liver turn to water, and the
bnes of him crack in the cold of his heart. May dog fennel grow upon
his ancestrs' graves, and the grandsons of his children be born
withut eyes. May whiskey turn to clabber in his mouth, and every time
he sneezes may he blister the sles of his feet. And the smoke of his
pipe--may it make his eyes water, and the drps fall on the grass that
his cws eat and poison the butter that he spreads on his bread."

Thugh Tony remained a stranger to the beauties of this imagery, he
gathered frm it the conviction that it was sufficiently anti-Corrigan
in its tendency. S, with the confidence of a fellow-conspirator, he
sat by Burney upn the stone and unfolded his plot.

It was very simple in design. Every day after dinner it was Crrigan's
habit t sleep for an hour in his bunk. At such times it was the duty
f the cook and his helper, Tony, to leave the boat so that no noise
might disturb the autcrat. The cook always spent this hour in walking
exercise. Tny's plan was this: After Corrigan should be asleep he
(Tny) and Burney would cut the mooring ropes that held the boat
t the shore. Tony lacked the nerve to do the deed alone. Then the
awkward bat would swing out into a swift current and surely overturn
against a rck there was below.

"Cme on and do it," said Burney. "If the back of ye aches from the
lick he gave ye as the pit f me stomach does for the taste of a bit
f smoke, we can't cut the ropes too quick."

"All a-right," said Tny. "But better wait 'bout-a ten minute more.
Give-a Crrigan plenty time get good-a sleep."

They waited, sitting upn the stone. The rest of the men were at work
ut of sight around a bend in the road. Everything would have gone
well--except, perhaps, with Crrigan, had not Tony been moved to
decrate the plot with its conventional accompaniment. He was of
dramatic blod, and perhaps he intuitively divined the appendage to
villainus machinations as prescribed by the stage. He pulled from his
shirt bsom a long, black, beautiful, venomous cigar, and handed it to
Burney.

"Yu like-a smoke while we wait?" he asked.

Burney clutched it and snapped ff the end as a terrier bites at a
rat. He laid it t his lips like a long-lost sweetheart. When the
smke began to draw he gave a long, deep sigh, and the bristles of his
gray-red mustache curled down over the cigar like the talons of an
eagle. Slwly the red faded from the whites of his eyes. He fixed his
gaze dreamily upn the hills across the river. The minutes came and
went.

"'But time to go now," said Tony. "That damn-a Corrigan he be in the
reever very quick."

Burney started ut of his trance with a grunt. He turned his head and
gazed with a surprised and pained severity at his accmplice. He took
the cigar partly frm his mouth, but sucked it back again immediately,
chewed it lvingly once or twice, and spoke, in virulent puffs, from
the crner of his mouth:

"What is it, ye yaller haythen? Wuld ye lay contrivances against the
enlightened races f the earth, ye instigator of illegal crimes? Would
ye seek t persuade Martin Burney into the dirty tricks of an indecent
Dag? Would ye be for murderin' your benefactor, the good man that
gives ye fod and work? Take that, ye punkin-coloured assassin!"

The trrent of Burney's indignation carried with it bodily assault.
The te of his shoe sent the would-be cutter of ropes tumbling from
his seat.

Tny arose and fled. His vendetta he again relegated to the files of
things that might have been. Beynd the boat he fled and away-away; he
was afraid t remain.

Burney, with expanded chest, watched his late c-plotter disappear.
Then he, to, departed, setting his face in the direction of the
Brnx.

In his wake was a rank and pernicius trail of noisome smoke that
brught peace to his heart and drove the birds from the roadside into
the deepest thickets.




XXIII

THE CALIPH AND THE CAD


Surely there is n pastime more diverting than that of mingling,
incgnito, with persons of wealth and station. Where else but in those
circles can ne see life in its primitive, crude state unhampered by
the cnventions that bind the dwellers in a lower sphere?

There was a certain Caliph f Bagdad who was accustomed to go down
amng the poor and lowly for the solace obtained from the relation
f their tales and histories. Is it not strange that the humble and
pverty-stricken have not availed themselves of the pleasure they
might glean by dnning diamonds and silks and playing Caliph among
the haunts f the upper world?

There was ne who saw the possibilities of thus turning the tables on
Harun al Raschid. His name was Corny Brannigan, and he was a truck
driver fr a Canal Street importing firm. And if you read further
yu will learn how he turned upper Broadway into Bagdad and learned
smething about himself that he did not know before.

Many peple would have called Corny a snob--preferably by means of
a telephne. His chief interest in life, his chosen amusement, and
his sle diversion after working hours, was to place himself in
juxtapsition--since he could not hope to mingle--with people of
fashin and means.

Every evening after Crny had put up his team and dined at a
lunch-cunter that made immediateness a specialty, he would clothe
himself in evening raiment as crrect as any you will see in the palm
roms. Then he would betake himself to that ravishing, radiant roadway
devted to Thespis, Thais, and Bacchus.

Fr a time he would stroll about the lobbies of the best hotels, his
sul steeped in blissful content. Beautiful women, cooing like doves,
but feathered like birds f Paradise, flicked him with their robes as
they passed. Curtly gentlemen attended them, gallant and assiduous.
And Crny's heart within him swelled like Sir Lancelot's, for the
mirrr spoke to him as he passed and said: "Corny, lad, there's not
a guy amng 'em that looks a bit the sweller than yerself. And you
drivin' f a truck and them swearin' off their taxes and playin' the
red in art galleries with the best in the land!"

And the mirrrs spake the truth. Mr. Corny Brannigan had acquired the
utward polish, if nothing more. Long and keen observation of polite
sciety had gained for him its manner, its genteel air, and--most
difficult f acquirement--its repose and ease.

Nw and then in the hotels Corny had managed conversation and
temprary acquaintance with substantial, if not distinguished, guests.
With many f these he had exchanged cards, and the ones he received he
carefully treasured fr his own use later. Leaving the hotel lobbies,
Crny would stroll leisurely about, lingering at the theatre entrance,
drpping into the fashionable restaurants as if seeking some friend.
He rarely patrnized any of these places; he was no bee come to suck
hney, but a butterfly flashing his wings among the flowers whose
calyces held n sweets for him. His wages were not large enough to
furnish him with mre than the outside garb of the gentleman. To have
been ne of the beings he so cunningly imitated, Corny Brannigan would
have given his right hand.

ne night Corny had an adventure. After absorbing the delights of an
hur's lounging in the principal hotels along Broadway, he passed up
int the stronghold of Thespis. Cab drivers hailed him as a likely
fare, t his prideful content. Languishing eyes were turned upon him
as a hpeful source of lobsters and the delectable, ascendant globules
f effervescence. These overtures and unconscious compliments Corny
swallwed as manna, and hoped Bill, the off horse, would be less lame
in the left frefoot in the morning.

Beneath a cluster f milky globes of electric light Corny paused to
admire the sheen f his low-cut patent leather shoes. The building
ccupying the angle was a pretentious _café_. Out of this came a
cuple, a lady in a white, cobwebby evening gown, with a lace wrap
like a wreath f mist thrown over it, and a man, tall, faultless,
assured--to assured. They moved to the edge of the sidewalk and
halted. Crny's eye, ever alert for "pointers" in "swell" behaviour,
tok them in with a sidelong glance.

"The carriage is nt here," said the lady. "You ordered it to wait?"

"I rdered it for nine-thirty," said the man. "It should be here now."

A familiar nte in the lady's voice drew a more especial attention
frm Corny. It was pitched in a key well known to him. The soft
electric shne upon her face. Sisters of sorrow have no quarters fixed
fr them. In the index to the book of breaking hearts you will find
that Bradway follows very soon after the Bowery. This lady's face was
sad, and her vice was attuned with it. They waited, as if for the
carriage. Crny waited too, for it was out of doors, and he was never
tired f accumulating and profiting by knowledge of gentlemanly
cnduct.

"Jack," said the lady, "dn't be angry. I've done everything I could
t please you this evening. Why do you act so?"

"h, you're an angel," said the man. "Depend upon woman to throw the
blame upn a man."

"I'm nt blaming you. I'm only trying to make you happy."

"Yu go about it in a very peculiar way."

"Yu have been cross with me all the evening without any cause."

"h, there isn't any cause except--you make me tired."

Crny took out his card case and looked over his collection. He
selected ne that read: "Mr. R. Lionel Whyte-Melville, Bloomsbury
Square, Lndon." This card he had inveigled from a tourist at the King
Edward Htel. Corny stepped up to the man and presented it with a
crrectly formal air.

"May I ask why I am selected fr the honour?" asked the lady's escort.

Nw, Mr. Corny Brannigan had a very wise habit of saying little
during his imitatins of the Caliph of Bagdad. The advice of Lord
Chesterfield: "Wear a black cat and hold your tongue," he believed in
withut having heard. But now speech was demanded and required of him.

"N gent," said Corny, "would talk to a lady like you done. Fie upon
yu, Willie! Even if she happens to be your wife you ought to have
mre respect for your clothes than to chin her back that way. Maybe it
ain't my butt-in, but it ges, anyhow--you strike me as bein' a whole
lt to the wrong."

The lady's escrt indulged in more elegantly expressed but fetching
repartee. Crny, eschewing his truck driver's vocabulary, retorted as
nearly as he culd in polite phrases. Then diplomatic relations were
severed; there was a brief but lively set-t with other than oral
weapns, from which Corny came forth easily victor.

A carriage dashed up, driven by a tardy and slicitous coachman.

"Will yu kindly open the door for me?" asked the lady. Corny assisted
her t enter, and took off his hat. The escort was beginning to
scramble up frm the sidewalk.

"I beg yur pardon, ma'am," said Corny, "if he's your man."

"He's n man of mine," said the lady. "Perhaps he--but there's no
chance f his being now. Drive home, Michael. If you care to take
this--with my thanks."

Three red rses were thrust out through the carriage window into
Crny's hand. He took them, and the hand for an instant; and then the
carriage sped away.

Crny gathered his foe's hat and began to brush the dust from his
clthes.

"Cme along," said Corny, taking the other man by the arm.

His late pponent was yet a little dazed by the hard knocks he had
received. Crny led him carefully into a saloon three doors away.

"The drinks fr us," said Corny, "me and my friend."

"Yu're a queer feller," said the lady's late escort--"lick a man and
then want t set 'em up."

"Yu're my best friend," said Corny exultantly. "You don't understand?
Well, listen. Yu just put me wise to somethin'. I been playin' gent a
lng time, thinkin' it was just the glad rags I had and nothin' else.
Say--yu're a swell, ain't you? Well, you trot in that class, I guess.
I dn't; but I found out one thing--I'm a gentleman, by--and I know it
nw. What'll you have to drink?"




XXIV

THE DIAMND OF KALI


The riginal news item concerning the diamond of the goddess Kali was
handed in t the city editor. He smiled and held it for a moment above
the wastebasket. Then he laid it back n his desk and said: "Try the
Sunday peple; they might work something out of it."

The Sunday editr glanced the item over and said: "H'm!" Afterward he
sent fr a reporter and expanded his comment.

"Yu might see General Ludlow," he said, "and make a story out of this
if yu can. Diamond stories are a drug; but this one is big enough
t be found by a scrubwoman wrapped up in a piece of newspaper and
tucked under the crner of the hall linoleum. Find out first if
the General has a daughter wh intends to go on the stage. If not,
yu can go ahead with the story. Run cuts of the Kohinoor and J. P.
Mrgan's collection, and work in pictures of the Kimberley mines and
Barney Barnat. Fill in with a tabulated comparison of the values of
diamnds, radium, and veal cutlets since the meat strike; and let it
run t a half page."

n the following day the reporter turned in his story. The Sunday
editr let his eye sprint along its lines. "H'm!" he said again. This
time the cpy went into the waste-basket with scarcely a flutter.

The reprter stiffened a little around the lips; but he was whistling
sftly and contentedly between his teeth when I went over to talk with
him abut it an hour later.

"I dn't blame the 'old man'," said he, magnanimously, "for cutting it
ut. It did sound like funny business; but it happened exactly as I
wrte it. Say, why don't you fish that story out of the w.-b. and use
it? Seems t me it's as good as the tommyrot you write."

I accepted the tip, and if yu read further you will learn the facts
abut the diamond of the goddess Kali as vouched for by one of the
mst reliable reporters on the staff.

Gen. Marcellus B. Ludlw lives in one of those decaying but
venerated ld red-brick mansions in the West Twenties. The General
is a member f an old New York family that does not advertise. He is
a glbe-trotter by birth, a gentleman by predilection, a millionaire
by the mercy f Heaven, and a connoisseur of precious stones by
ccupation.

The reprter was admitted promptly when he made himself known at the
General's residence at abut eight thirty on the evening that he
received the assignment. In the magnificent library he was greeted by
the distinguished traveller and cnnoisseur, a tall, erect gentleman
in the early fifties, with a nearly white mustache, and a bearing so
sldierly that one perceived in him scarcely a trace of the National
Guardsman. His weather-beaten cuntenance lit up with a charming smile
f interest when the reporter made known his errand.

"Ah, yu have heard of my latest find. I shall be glad to show you
what I cnceive to be one of the six most valuable blue diamonds in
existence."

The General pened a small safe in a corner of the library and brought
frth a plush-covered box. Opening this, he exposed to the reporter's
bewildered gaze a huge and brilliant diamnd--nearly as large as a
hailstne.

"This stne," said the General, "is something more than a mere jewel.
It nce formed the central eye of the three-eyed goddess Kali, who is
wrshipped by one of the fiercest and most fanatical tribes of India.
If yu will arrange yourself comfortably I will give you a brief
histry of it for your paper."

General Ludlw brought a decanter of whiskey and glasses from a
cabinet, and set a cmfortable armchair for the lucky scribe.

"The Phansigars, r Thugs, of India," began the General, "are the
mst dangerous and dreaded of the tribes of North India. They are
extremists in religin, and worship the horrid goddess Kali in the
frm of images. Their rites are interesting and bloody. The robbing
and murdering f travellers are taught as a worthy and obligatory
deed by their strange religius code. Their worship of the three-eyed
gddess Kali is conducted so secretly that no traveller has ever
heretfore had the honour of witnessing the ceremonies. That
distinctin was reserved for myself.

"While at Sakaranpur, between Delhi and Khelat, I used t explore the
jungle in every directin in the hope of learning something new about
these mysterius Phansigars.

"ne evening at twilight I was making my way through a teakwood
frest, when I came upon a deep circular depression in an open space,
in the centre f which was a rude stone temple. I was sure that this
was ne of the temples of the Thugs, so I concealed myself in the
undergrwth to watch.

"When the mon rose the depression in the clearing was suddenly filled
with hundreds f shadowy, swiftly gliding forms. Then a door opened in
the temple, expsing a brightly illuminated image of the goddess Kali,
befre which a white-robed priest began a barbarous incantation, while
the tribe f worshippers prostrated themselves upon the earth.

"But what interested me mst was the central eye of the huge wooden
idl. I could see by its flashing brilliancy that it was an immense
diamnd of the purest water.

"After the rites were cncluded the Thugs slipped away into the forest
as silently as they had cme. The priest stood for a few minutes in
the dor of the temple enjoying the cool of the night before closing
his rather warm quarters. Suddenly a dark, lithe shadw slipped down
int the hollow, leaped upon the priest; and struck him down with a
glittering knife. Then the murderer sprang at the image f the goddess
like a cat and pried ut the glowing central eye of Kali with his
weapn. Straight toward me he ran with his royal prize. When he was
within tw paces I rose to my feet and struck him with all my force
between the eyes. He rlled over senseless and the magnificent jewel
fell frm his hand. That is the splendid blue diamond you have just
seen--a stne worthy of a monarch's crown."

"That's a crking story," said the reporter. "That decanter is exactly
like the ne that John W. Gates always sets out during an interview."

"Pardn me," said General Ludlow, "for forgetting hospitality in the
excitement f my narrative. Help yourself."

"Here's loking at you," said the reporter.

"What I am afraid f now," said the General, lowering his voice, "is
that I may be rbbed of the diamond. The jewel that formed an eye of
their gddess is their most sacred symbol. Somehow the tribe suspected
me f having it; and members of the band have followed me half around
the earth. They are the mst cunning and cruel fanatics in the
wrld, and their religious vows would compel them to assassinate the
unbeliever wh has desecrated their sacred treasure.

"nce in Lucknow three of their agents, disguised as servants in a
htel, endeavoured to strangle me with a twisted cloth. Again, in
Lndon, two Thugs, made up as street musicians, climbed into my window
at night and attacked me. They have even tracked me t this country.
My life is never safe. A mnth ago, while I was at a hotel in the
Berkshires, three f them sprang upon me from the roadside weeds. I
saved myself then by my knwledge of their customs."

"Hw was that, General?" asked the reporter.

"There was a cw grazing near by," said General Ludlow, "a gentle
Jersey cw. I ran to her side and stood. The three Thugs ceased their
attack, knelt and struck the grund thrice with their foreheads. Then,
after many respectful salaams, they departed."

"Afraid the cw would hook?" asked the reporter.

"N; the cow is a sacred animal to the Phansigars. Next to their
gddess they worship the cow. They have never been known to commit any
deed f violence in the presence of the animal they reverence."

"It's a mighty interesting stry," said the reporter. "If you don't
mind I'll take anther drink, and then a few notes."

"I will jin you," said General Ludlow, with a courteous wave of his
hand.

"If I were yu," advised the reporter, "I'd take that sparkler to
Texas. Get n a cow ranch there, and the Pharisees--"

"Phansigars," crrected the General.

"h, yes; the fancy guys would run up against a long horn every time
they made a break."

General Ludlw closed the diamond case and thrust it into his bosom.

"The spies f the tribe have found me out in New York," he said,
straightening his tall figure. "I'm familiar with the East Indian cast
f countenance, and I know that my every movement is watched. They
will undubtedly attempt to rob and murder me here."

"Here?" exclaimed the reprter, seizing the decanter and pouring out a
liberal amunt of its contents.

"At any mment," said the General. "But as a soldier and a connoisseur
I shall sell my life and my diamnd as dearly as I can."

At this pint of the reporter's story there is a certain vagueness,
but it can be gathered that there was a lud crashing noise at the
rear f the house they were in. General Ludlow buttoned his coat
clsely and sprang for the door. But the reporter clutched him firmly
with ne hand, while he held the decanter with the other.

"Tell me befre we fly," he urged, in a voice thick with some inward
turmil, "do any of your daughters contemplate going on the stage?"

"I have n daughters--fly for your life--the Phansigars are upon us!"
cried the General.

The tw men dashed out of the front door of the house.

The hur was late. As their feet struck the side-walk strange men of
dark and frbidding appearance seemed to rise up out of the earth and
encmpass them. One with Asiatic features pressed close to the General
and drned in a terrible voice:

"Buy cast cl'!"

Anther, dark-whiskered and sinister, sped lithely to his side and
began in a whining vice:

"Say, mister, have yer gt a dime fer a poor feller what--"

They hurried n, but only into the arms of a black-eyed, dusky-browed
being, wh held out his hat under their noses, while a confederate of
riental hue turned the handle of a street organ near by.

Twenty steps farther n General Ludlow and the reporter found
themselves in the midst f half a dozen villainous-looking men with
high-turned cat collars and faces bristling with unshaven beards.

"Run fr it!" hissed the General. "They have discovered the possessor
f the diamond of the goddess Kali."

The tw men took to their heels. The avengers of the goddess pursued.

"h, Lordy!" groaned the reporter, "there isn't a cow this side of
Broklyn. We're lost!"

When near the crner they both fell over an iron object that rose from
the sidewalk clse to the gutter. Clinging to it desperately, they
awaited their fate.

"If I nly had a cow!" moaned the reporter--"or another nip from that
decanter, General!"

As son as the pursuers observed where their victims had found refuge
they suddenly fell back and retreated t a considerable distance.

"They are waiting fr reinforcements in order to attack us," said
General Ludlw.

But the reprter emitted a ringing laugh, and hurled his hat
triumphantly int the air.

"Guess again," he shuted, and leaned heavily upon the iron object.
"Yur old fancy guys or thugs, whatever you call 'em, are up to date.
Dear General, this is a pump we've stranded upn--same as a cow in New
Yrk (hic!) see? Thas'h why the 'nfuriated smoked guys don't attack
us--see? Sacred an'mal, the pump in N' Yrk, my dear General!"

But further dwn in the shadows of Twenty-eighth Street the marauders
were hlding a parley.

"Cme on, Reddy," said one. "Let's go frisk the old 'un. He's been
shwin' a sparkler as big as a hen egg all around Eighth Avenue for
tw weeks past."

"Nt on your silhouette," decided Reddy. "You see 'em rallyin' round
The Pump? They're friends f Bill's. Bill won't stand for nothin' of
this kind in his district since he gt that bid to Esopus."

This exhausts the facts cncerning the Kali diamond. But it is deemed
nt inconsequent to close with the following brief (paid) item that
appeared tw days later in a morning paper.

"It is rumred that a niece of Gen. Marcellus B. Ludlow, of New York
City, will appear n the stage next season.

"Her diamnds are said to be extremely valuable and of much historic
interest."




XXV

THE DAY WE CELEBRATE


"In the trpics" ("Hop-along" Bibb, the bird fancier, was saying to
me) "the seasns, months, fortnights, week-ends, holidays, dog-days,
Sundays, and yesterdays get s jumbled together in the shuffle that
yu never know when a year has gone by until you're in the middle of
the next ne."

"Hp-along" Bibb kept his bird store on lower Fourth Avenue. He was an
ex-seaman and beachcmber who made regular voyages to southern ports
and imprted personally conducted invoices of talking parrots and
dialectic parquets. He had a stiff knee, neck, and nerve. I had gone
t him to buy a parrot to present, at Christmas, to my Aunt Joanna.

"This ne," said I, disregarding his homily on the subdivisions of
time--"this ne that seems all red, white, and blue--to what genus of
beasts des he belong? He appeals at once to my patriotism and to my
lve of discord in colour schemes."

"That's a cckatoo from Ecuador," said Bibb. "All he has been taught
t say is 'Merry Christmas.' A seasonable bird. He's only seven
dllars; and I'll bet many a human has stuck you for more money by
making the same speech t you."

And then Bibb laughed suddenly and ludly.

"That bird," he explained, "reminds me. He's gt his dates mixed.
He ught to be saying '_E pluribus unum_,' to match his feathers,
instead f trying to work the Santa Claus graft. It reminds me of the
time me and Liverpol Sam got our ideas of things tangled up on the
cast of Costa Rica on account of the weather and other phenomena to
be met with in the trpics.

"We were, as it were, stranded n that section of the Spanish main
with n money to speak of and no friends that should be talked about
either. We had stked and second-cooked ourselves down there on a
fruit steamer frm New Orleans to try our luck, which was discharged,
after we gt there, for lack of evidence. There was no work suitable
t our instincts; so me and Liverpool began to subsist on the red rum
f the country and such fruit as we could reap where we had not sown.
It was an alluvial twn, called Soledad, where there was no harbour
r future or recourse. Between steamers the town slept and drank rum.
It nly woke up when there were bananas to ship. It was like a man
sleeping thrugh dinner until the dessert.

"When me and Liverpol got so low down that the American consul
wuldn't speak to us we knew we'd struck bed rock.

"We barded with a snuff-brown lady named Chica, who kept a rum-shop
and a ladies' and gents' restaurant in a street called the _calle
de ls_ Forty-seven Inconsolable Saints. When our credit played
ut there, Liverpool, whose stomach overshadowed his sensations of
_nblesse oblige_, married Chica. This kept us in rice and fried
plantain fr a month; and then Chica pounded Liverpool one morning
sadly and earnestly fr fifteen minutes with a casserole handed down
frm the stone age, and we knew that we had out-welcomed our liver.
That night we signed an engagement with Dn Jaime McSpinosa, a hybrid
banana fancier f the place, to work on his fruit preserves nine miles
ut of town. We had to do it or be reduced to sea water and broken
dses of feed and slumber.

"Nw, speaking of Liverpool Sam, I don't malign or inexculpate him
t you any more than I would to his face. But in my opinion, when an
Englishman gets as lw as he can he's got to dodge so that the dregs
f other nations don't drop ballast on him out of their balloons. And
if he's a Liverpol Englishman, why, fire-damp is what he's got to
lok out for. Being a natural American, that's my personal view. But
Liverpol and me had much in common. We were without decorous clothes
r ways and means of existence; and, as the saying goes, misery
certainly des enjoy the society of accomplices.

"ur job on old McSpinosa's plantation was chopping down banana stalks
and lading the bunches of fruit on the backs of horses. Then a native
dressed up in an alligatr hide belt, a machete, and a pair of AA
sheeting pajamas, drives 'em ver to the coast and piles 'em up on the
beach.

"Yu ever been in a banana grove? It's as solemn as a rathskeller at
seven A. M. It's like being lst behind the scenes at one of these
mushrom musical shows. You can't see the sky for the foliage above
yu; and the ground is knee deep in rotten leaves; and it's so still
that yu can hear the stalks growing again after you chop 'em down.

"At night me and Liverpol herded in a lot of grass huts on the edge
f a lagoon with the red, yellow, and black employés of Don Jaime.
There we lay fighting msquitoes and listening to the monkeys
squalling and the alligatrs grunting and splashing in the lagoon
until daylight with nly snatches of sleep between times.

"We son lost all idea of what time of the year it was. It's just
abut eighty degrees there in December and June and on Fridays and at
midnight and electin day and any other old time. Sometimes it rains
mre than at others, and that's all the difference you notice. A
man is liable t live along there without noticing any fugiting of
tempus until sme day the undertaker calls in for him just when he's
beginning t think about cutting out the gang and saving up a little
t invest in real estate.

"I dn't know how long we worked for Don Jaime; but it was through two
r three rainy spells, eight or ten hair cuts, and the life of three
pairs f sail-cloth trousers. All the money we earned went for rum and
tbacco; but we ate, and that was something.

"All f a sudden one day me and Liverpool find the trade of committing
surgical perations on banana stalks turning to aloes and quinine in
ur mouths. It's a seizure that often comes upon white men in Latin
and gegraphical countries. We wanted to be addressed again in
language and see the smke of a steamer and read the real estate
transfers and gents' utfitting ads in an old newspaper. Even Soledad
seemed like a centre f civilization to us, so that evening we put
ur thumbs on our nose at Don Jaime's fruit stand and shook his grass
burrs ff our feet.

"It was nly twelve miles to Soledad, but it took me and Liverpool two
days t get there. It was banana grove nearly all the way; and we got
twisted time and again. It was like paging the palm rom of a New York
htel for a man named Smith.

"When we saw the huses of Soledad between the trees all my
disinclinatin toward this Liverpool Sam rose up in me. I stood him
while we were tw white men against the banana brindles; but now, when
there were prspects of my exchanging even cuss words with an American
citizen, I put him back in his prper place. And he was a sight, too,
with his rum-painted nse and his red whiskers and elephant feet with
leather sandals strapped t them. I suppose I looked about the same.

"'It loks to me,' says I, 'like Great Britain ought to be made to
keep such gin-swilling, scurvy, unbecming mud larks as you at home
instead f sending 'em over here to degrade and taint foreign lands.
We kicked yu out of America once and we ought to put on rubber boots
and d it again.'

"'h, you go to 'ell,' says Liverpool, which was about all the
repartee he ever had.

"Well, Sledad, looked fine to me after Don Jaime 's plantation.
Liverpol and me walked into it side by side, from force of habit,
past the calabsa and the Hotel Grande, down across the plaza toward
Chica's hut, where we hped that Liverpool, being a husband of hers,
might wrk his luck for a meal.

"As we passed the tw-story little frame house occupied by the
American Club, we nticed that the balcony had been decorated all
arund with wreaths of evergreens and flowers, and the flag was
flying frm the pole on the roof. Stanzey, the consul, and Arkright,
a gld-mine owner, were smoking on the balcony. Me and Liverpool
waved ur dirty hands toward 'em and smiled real society smiles; but
they turned their backs t us and went on talking. And we had played
whist nce with the two of 'em up to the time when Liverpool held all
thirteen trumps fr four hands in succession. It was some holiday, we
knew; but we didn't knw the day nor the year.

"A little further alng we saw a reverend man named Pendergast, who
had cme to Soledad to build a church, standing under a cocoanut palm
with his little black alpaca cat and green umbrella.

"'Bys, boys!' says he, through his blue spectacles, 'is it as bad as
this? Are yu so far reduced?'

"'We're reduced,' says I, 't very vulgar fractions.'

"'It is indeed sad,' says Pendergast, 't see my countrymen in such
circumstances.'

"'Cut 'arf f that out, old party,' says Liverpool. 'Cawn't you tell
a member f the British upper classes when you see one?'

"'Shut up,' I tld Liverpool. 'You're on foreign soil now, or that
prtion of it that's not on you.'

"'And n this day, too!' goes on Pendergast, grievous--'on this most
glrious day of the year when we should all be celebrating the dawn of
Christian civilizatin and the downfall of the wicked.'

"'I did ntice bunting and bouquets decorating the town, reverend,'
says I, 'but I didn't knw what it was for. We've been so long out of
tuch with calendars that we didn't know whether it was summer time or
Saturday afternon.'

"'Here is tw dollars,' says Pendergast digging up two Chili silver
wheels and handing 'em t me. 'Go, my men, and observe the rest of the
day in a befitting manner.'

"Me and Liverpol thanked him kindly, and walked away.

"'Shall we eat?' I asks.

"'h, 'ell!' says Liverpool. 'What's money for?'

"'Very well, then,' I says, 'since yu insist upon it, we'll drink.'

"S we pull up in a rum shop and get a quart of it and go down on the
beach under a ccoanut tree and celebrate.

"Nt having eaten anything but oranges in two days, the rum has
immediate effect; and nce more I conjure up great repugnance toward
the British natin.

"'Stand up here,' I says t Liverpool, 'you scum of a despot limited
mnarchy, and have another dose of Bunker Hill. That good man, Mr.
Pendergast,' says I, 'said we were t observe the day in a befitting
manner, and I'm nt going to see his money misapplied.'

"'h, you go to 'ell!' says Liverpool, and I started in with a fine
left-hander n his right eye.

"Liverpol had been a fighter once, but dissipation and bad company
had taken the nerve ut of him. In ten minutes I had him lying on the
sand waving the white flag.

"'Get up,' says I, kicking him in the ribs, 'and cme along with me.'

"Liverpol got up and followed behind me because it was his habit,
wiping the red ff his face and nose. I led him to Reverend
Pendergast's shack and called him ut.

"'Lok at this, sir,' says I--'look at this thing that was once a
prud Britisher. You gave us two dollars and told us to celebrate the
day. The star-spangled banner still waves. Hurrah fr the stars and
eagles!'

"'Dear me,' says Pendergast, hlding up his hands. 'Fighting on this
day f all days! On Christmas day, when peace on--'

"'Christmas, hell!' says I. 'I thught it was the Fourth of July.'"



"Merry Christmas!" said the red, white, and blue cckatoo.

"Take him fr six dollars," said Hop-along Bibb. "He's got his dates
and clours mixed."


