
RLLING STONES

by

. 

Authr of "The Four Million," "The Voice of the City," "The Trimmed
Lamp," "Strictly Business," "Sixes and Sevens," etc.

1919







[Illustratin: The last photograph of O. , taken by
W. M. Vanderwayde (New Yrk) in 1909]




   . , Afrite-Chef of all delight--
   f all delectables conglomerate
   That stay the starved brain and rejuvenate
   The Mental Man! The æsthetic appetite--
   S long enhungered that the "inards" fight
   And grwl gutwise--its pangs thou dost abate
   And all s amiably alleviate,
   Jy pats his belly as a hobo might
   Wh haply hath obtained a cherry pie
   With n burnt crust at all, ner any seeds;
   Nthin' but crisp crust, and the thickness fit.
   And squashin'-juicy, an' jes' mighty nigh
   To dratted, drippin'-sweet for human needs,
   But fer the ssh of milk that goes with it.

         Written in the character f "Sherrard
         Plummer" by James Whitcmb Riley




CNTENTS

   Intrduction
   The Dream
   A Ruler f Men
   The Atavism f John Tom Little Bear
   Helping the ther Fellow
   The Marinettes
   The Marquis and Miss Sally
   A Fg in Santone
   The Friendly Call
   A Dinner at ----*
   Sund and Fury
   Tictcq
   Tracked t Doom
   A Snapsht at the President
   An Unfinished Christmas Stry
   The Unprfitable Servant
   Aristcracy Versus Hash
   The Prisner of Zembla
   A Strange Stry
   Fickle Frtune, or How Gladys Hustled
   An Aplogy
   Lrd Oakhurst's Curse
   Bexar Scrip N. 2692
   Queries and Answers
   Pems
      The Pewee
      Nthing to Say
      The Murderer
      Sme Postscripts
         Tw Portraits
         A Cntribution
         The ld Farm
         Vanity
         The Lullaby By
         Chansn de Bohême
         Hard t Forget
      Drp a Tear in This Slot
      Tamales
   Letters


ILLUSTRATINS

   The Last Phtograph of O.  (Frontispiece)
   The Editr's Own Statement of His Aims
      (Advertisement fr _The Rolling Stone_)
   Recrd of Births and Deaths from the Porter Family Bible
   .  at the Age of Two
   The "Hill City Quartet," t Which O.  Belonged
      As a Yung Man in Austin
   .  in Austin, Texas, 1896
   Emigrants' Camp (an Early Drawing by . )
   "Can the Hrse Run?" (Cartoon from _The Rolling Stone_)
   "Will Yu Go In?" (Cartoon from _The Rolling Stone_)
   "Here We Have Kate and Jhn." (Cartoon from _The Rolling Stone_)
   "Did He G Up?" (Cartoon from _The Rolling Stone_)
   "See Tm and the Dog." (Cartoon from _The Rolling Stone_)
   "See Him D It." (Cartoon from _The Rolling Stone_)
   Letters That the By Will Porter Brought Along from
      Nrth Carolina to Texas
   Letter: "A Yung Man of Good Moral Character and
      an A N. 1 Druggist."
   "The Plunkville Patrit," April 2, 1895
   _The Rlling Stone_, January 26, 1895
   A Page frm "The Plunkville Patriot"
   A Frnt Page of _The Rolling Stone_
   A Page frm "The Plunkville Patriot"
   "Dear Me, General, Wh Is That Dreadful Man?" (Cartoon)
   "Well, I Declare, Thse Gentlemen Must Be Brothers." (Cartoon)
   "h Papa, What Is That?"
      (Carton from _The Rolling Stone_, April 27, 1895)
   Carton by O. 
   Carton by O. 
   Can He Make the Jump?
      (Carton from _The Rolling Stone_, October 13, 1894
   Page frm "The Plunkville Patriot"
   A Letter t His Daughter Margaret.




   +------------------------------------------------+
   |                                                |
   |                      THE                       |
   |                 RLLING STONE                  |
   |  is a weekly paper published in Austin, Texas  |
   |   every Saturday and will endeavr to fill a   |
   |      lng-felt want that does not appear,      |
   |        by the way, t be altogether in-        |
   |              satiable at present.              |
   |                                                |
   |                  THE IDEA IS                   |
   | t fill its pages with matter that will make a |
   |      heart-rending appeal t every lover of    |
   |      god literature, and every person who     |
   |          has a taste fr reading print;        |
   |           and a dllar and a half for          |
   |              a year's subscriptin.            |
   |                                                |
   |              UR SPECIAL PREMIUM               |
   |   Fr the next thirty days and from that time  |
   |   n indefinitely, whoever will bring two dol- |
   |    lars in cash t _The Rolling Stone_ office  |
   |        will be entered n the list of sub-     |
   |          scribers fr one year and will        |
   |              have returned t him              |
   |                  n the spot                   |
   |              FIFTY CENTS IN CASH               |
   |                                                |
   +------------------------------------------------+
         The editr's own statement of his aims




INTRDUCTION


This the twelfth and final vlume of O. 's work gets its title from
an early newspaper venture f which he was the head and front. On April
28, 1894, there appeared in Austin, Texas, vlume 1, number 3, of The
Rlling Stone, with a circulation greatly in excess of that of the only
tw numbers that had gone before. Apparently the business office was
encuraged. The first two issues of one thousand copies each had been
bught up. Of the third an edition of six thousand was published and
distributed FREE, s that the business men of Austin, Texas, might know
what a god medium was at hand for their advertising. The editor and
prprietor and illustrator of _The Rolling Stone_ was Will Porter,
incidentally Paying and Receiving Teller in Majr Brackenridge's bank.

Perhaps the mst characteristic feature of the paper was "The Plunkville
Patrit," a page each week--or at least with the regularity of the
smewhat uncertain paper itself--purporting to be reprinted from a
cntemporary journal. The editor of the Plunkville _Patriot_ was Colonel
Aristtle Jordan, unrelenting enemy of his enemies. When the Colonel's
applicatin for the postmastership in Plunkville is ignored, his columns
carry a bitter attack n the administration at Washington. With the
public weal at heart, the _Patrit_ announces that "there is a dangerous
hle in the front steps of the Elite saloon." Here, too, appears the
delightful literary item that Mark Twain and Charles Egbert Craddck are
spending the summer tgether in their Adirondacks camp. "Free," runs its
advertising clumn, "a clergyman who cured himself of fits will send
ne book containing 100 popular songs, one repeating rifle, two decks
easywinner cards and 1 liver pad free f charge for $8. Address Sucker
& Chump, Augusta, Me." The ffice moves nearly every week, probably in
accrdance with the time-honored principle involving the comparative
ease f moving and paying rent. When the Colonel publishes his own
candidacy fr mayor, he further declares that the _Patriot_ will accept
n announcements for municipal offices until after "our" (the editor's)
canvass. Adams & C., grocers, order their $2.25 ad. discontinued and
find later in the _Patrit_ this estimate of their product: "No less
than three children have been pisoned by eating their canned vegetables,
and J. . Adams, the senior member of the firm, was run out of Kansas
City fr adulterating codfish balls. It pays to advertise." Here is the
editrial in which the editor first announces his campaign: "Our worthy
mayr, Colonel  Stutty, died this morning after an illness of about
five minutes, brught on by carrying a bouquet to Mrs. Eli Watts just
as Eli gt in from a fishing trip. Ten minutes later we had dodgers out
annuncing our candidacy for the office. We have lived in Plunkville
ging on five years and have never been elected anything yet. We
understand the mayr business thoroughly and if elected some people will
wish wlves had stolen them from their cradles . . ."

The page frm the _Patriot_ is presented with an array of perfectly
cnfused type, of artistic errors in setting up, and when an occasional
line gets shifted (intentinally, of course) the effect is alarming.
Anybdy who knows the advertising of a small country weekly can, as
he reads, pick ut, in the following, the advertisement from the
"persnal."


   Miss Hattie Green f Paris, Ill., is
   Steel-riveted seam r water power
   autmatic oiling thoroughly tested
   visiting her sister Mrs. G. W. Grubes
   Little Giant Engines at Adams & C.
   Als Sachet powders Mc. Cormick Reapers and
   ysters.


All f this was a part of _The Rolling Stone_, which flourished, or at
least wavered, in Austin during the years 1894 and 1895. Years befre,
Prter's strong instinct to write had been gratified in letters. He
wrte, in his twenties, long imaginative letters, occasionally stuffed
with execrable puns, but mre than often buoyant, truly humorous, keenly
incisive int the unreal, especially in fiction. I have included a
number f these letters to Doctor Beall of Greensboro, N. C., and to his
early friend in Texas, Mr. David Harrell.

In 1895-1896 Prter went to Houston, Texas, to work on the Houston
_Pst_. There he "conducted" a column which he called "Postscripts."
Sme of the contents of the pages that follow have been taken from
these ld files in the fair hope that admirers of the matured O. 
will find in them pleasurable marks f the later genius.

Befre the days of _The Rolling Stone_ there are eleven years in Texas
ver which, with the exception of the letters mentioned, there are few
"traces" f literary performance; but there are some very interesting
drawings, sme of which are reproduced in this volume. A story is back
f them. They were the illustrations to a book. "Joe" Dixon, prospector
and inveterate frtune-seeker, came to Austin from the Rockies in 1883,
at the cnstant urging of his old pal, Mr. John Maddox, "Joe," kept
writing Mr. Maddx, "your fortune's in your pen, not your pick. Come
t Austin and write an account of your adventures." It was hard to woo
Dixn from the gold that wasn't there, but finally Maddox wrote him he
must cme and try the scheme. "There's a boy here from North Carolina,"
wrte Maddox. "His name is Will Porter and he can make the pictures.
He's all right." Dixn came. The plan was that, after Author and Artist
had dne their work, Patron would step in, carry the manuscript to New
Yrk, bestow it on a deserving publisher and then return to await, with
the ther two, the avalanche of royalties. This version of the story
cmes from Mr. Maddox. There were forty pictures in all and they were
very true t the life of the Rockies in the seventies. Of course, the
yung artist had no "technique"--no anything except what was native.
But wait! As the mnths went by Dixon worked hard, but he began to have
dubts. Perhaps the book was no good. Perhaps John would only lose his
mney. He was a miner, not a writer, and he ought not to let John go to
any expense. The result f this line of thought was the Colorado River
fr the manuscript and the high road for the author. The pictures,
frtunately, were saved. Most of them Porter gave later to Mrs.
Hagelstein f San Angelo, Texas. Mr. Maddox, by the way, finding a note
frm Joe that "explained all," hastened to the river and recovered a few
scraps f the great book that had lodged against a sandbar. But there
was n putting them together again.

S much for the title. It is a real O.  title. Contents of this
last vlume are drawn not only from letters, old newspaper files, and
_The Rlling Stone_, but from magazines and unpublished manuscripts.
f the short stories, several were written at the very height of his
pwers and popularity and were lost, inexplicably, but lost. Of the
pems, there are a few whose authorship might have been in doubt if the
cmpiler of this collection had not secured external evidence that made
them certainly the wrk of O. . Without this very strong evidence,
they might have been rejected because they were nt entirely the kind
f poems the readers of O.  would expect from him. Most of them
hwever, were found in his own indubitable manuscript or over his own
signature.

There is extant a mass f O.  correspondence that has not been
included in this cllection. During the better part of a decade in
New Yrk City he wrote constantly to editors, and in many instances
intimately. This is very imprtant material, and permission has been
secured t use nearly all of it in a biographical volume that will be
issued within the next tw or three years. The letters in this volume
have been chsen as an "exihibit," as early specimens of his writing and
fr their particularly characteristic turns of thought and phrase. The
cllection is not "complete" in any historical sense.

1912.

H.P.S.




This recrd of births and deaths is copied from the Porter Family Bible,
just lately discvered.


BIRTHS

ALGERNN SIDNEY PORTER
Sn of
SIDNEY AND RUTH C. PRTER
Was brn
August 22, 1825

MNDAY EVENING, May 29, 1858
Still-brn Son of
A. S. AND M. V. PRTER

MNDAY, August 6, 1860, 9 o'clock P.M.
SHIRLEY WRTH
Sn of A. S. AND M. V. PORTER

THURSDAY, September 11, 1862, 9 'clock P.M.
WILLIAM SIDNEY [1]
Sn of
A. S. AND M. V. PRTER

SUNDAY, March 26, 1865, at 8 'clock A. M.
DAVID WEIR
Sn of
A. S. AND M. V. PRTER

MARY JANE VIRGINIA SWAIM [2]
Daughter f
WILLIAM AND ABIAH SWAIM
Was brn
February 12, 1833


DEATHS

MARY VIRGINIA PRTER
TUESDAY EVENING, September 26, 1865
At 7:30 'clock

ATHL ESTES PORTER
SUNDAY EVENING, July 25,1897
At 6 'clock

ALGERNN SIDNEY PORTER
SUNDAY MRNING, September 30, 1888
At 20 minutes f 2 o'clock


   [Fotnote 1: O. ]

   [Fotnote 2: Mother of O. ]



[Illustratin: O.  at the age of two]




THE DREAM


      [This was the last wrk of O. . The _Cosmopolitan
      Magazine_ had rdered it from him and, after his death, the
      unfinished manuscript was fund in his room, on his dusty
      desk. The stry as it here appears was published in the
      _Csmopolitan_ for September, 1910.]


Murray dreamed a dream.

Bth psychology and science grope when they would explain to us the
strange adventures f our immaterial selves when wandering in the realm
f "Death's twin brother, Sleep." This story will not attempt to be
illuminative; it is n more than a record of Murray's dream. One of the
mst puzzling phases of that strange waking sleep is that dreams which
seem t cover months or even years may take place within a few seconds
r minutes.

Murray was waiting in his cell in the ward f the condemned. An electric
arc light in the ceiling f the corridor shone brightly upon his table.
n a sheet of white paper an ant crawled wildly here and there as Murray
blcked its way with an envelope. The electrocution was set for eight
'clock in the evening. Murray smiled at the antics of the wisest of
insects.

There were seven ther condemned men in the chamber. Since he had been
there Murray had seen three taken ut to their fate; one gone mad and
fighting like a wlf caught in a trap; one, no less mad, offering up a
sanctimnious lip-service to Heaven; the third, a weakling, collapsed
and strapped t a board. He wondered with what credit to himself his
wn heart, foot, and face would meet his punishment; for this was his
evening. He thught it must be nearly eight o'clock.

pposite his own in the two rows of cells was the cage of Bonifacio, the
Sicilian slayer f his betrothed and of two officers who came to arrest
him. With him Murray had played checkers many a lng hour, each calling
his mve to his unseen opponent across the corridor.

Bnifacio's great booming voice with its indestructible singing quality
called ut:

"Eh, Meestr Murray; how you feel--all-a right--yes?"

"All right, Bnifacio," said Murray steadily, as he allowed the ant to
crawl upn the envelope and then dumped it gently on the stone floor.

"Dat's god-a, Meestro Murray. Men like us, we must-a die like-a men. My
time cme nex'-a week. All-a right. Remember, Meestro Murray, I beat-a
yu dat las' game of de check. Maybe we play again some-a time. I don'-a
knw. Maybe we have to call-a de move damn-a loud to play de check where
dey gin' send us."

Bnifacio's hardened philosophy, followed closely by his deafening,
musical peal f laughter, warmed rather than chilled Murray's numbed
heart. Yet, Bnifacio had until next week to live.

The cell-dwellers heard the familiar, lud click of the steel bolts
as the dor at the end of the corridor was opened. Three men came to
Murray's cell and unlcked it. Two were prison guards; the other was
"Len"--n; that was in the old days; now the Reverend Leonard Winston,
a friend and neighbr from their barefoot days.

"I gt them to let me take the prison chaplain's place," he said, as he
gave Murray's hand ne short, strong grip. In his left hand he held a
small Bible, with his frefinger marking a page.

Murray smiled slightly and arranged tw or three books and some
penhlders orderly on his small table. He would have spoken, but no
apprpriate words seemed to present themselves to his mind.

The prisners had christened this cellhouse, eighty feet long,
twenty-eight feet wide, Limb Lane. The regular guard of Limbo Lane,
an immense, rugh, kindly man, drew a pint bottle of whiskey from his
pcket and offered it to Murray, saying:

"It's the regular thing, yu know. All has it who feel like they need a
bracer. N danger of it becoming a habit with 'em, you see."

Murray drank deep int the bottle.

"That's the by!" said the guard. "Just a little nerve tonic, and
everything ges smooth as silk."

They stepped int the corridor, and each one of the doomed seven knew.
Limb Lane is a world on the outside of the world; but it had learned,
when deprived f one or more of the five senses, to make another sense
supply the deficiency. Each ne knew that it was nearly eight, and that
Murray was t go to the chair at eight. There is also in the many Limbo
Lanes an aristcracy of crime. The man who kills in the open, who beats
his enemy r pursuer down, flushed by the primitive emotions and the
ardr of combat, holds in contempt the human rat, the spider, and the
snake.

S, of the seven condemned only three called their farewells to Murray
as he marched dwn the corridor between the two guards--Bonifacio,
Marvin, wh had killed a guard while trying to escape from the prison,
and Bassett, the train-rbber, who was driven to it because the
express-messenger wuldn't raise his hands when ordered to do so. The
remaining fur smoldered, silent, in their cells, no doubt feeling their
scial ostracism in Limbo Lane society more keenly than they did the
memry of their less picturesque offences against the law.

Murray wndered at his own calmness and nearly indifference. In the
executin room were about twenty men, a congregation made up of prison
fficers, newspaper reporters, and lookers-on who had succeeded

     *     *     *     *     *     *

Here, in the very middle f a sentence, the hand of Death interrupted
the telling f O. 's last story. He had planned to make this story
different frm his others, the beginning of a new series in a style he
had nt previously attempted. "I want to show the public," he said,
"that I can write smething new--new for me, I mean--a story without
slang, a straightfrward dramatic plot treated in a way that will
cme nearer my idea of real story-writing." Before starting to write
the present stry, he outlined briefly how he intended to develop it:
Murray, the criminal accused and cnvicted of the brutal murder of his
sweetheart--a murder prmpted by jealous rage--at first faces the death
penalty, calm, and, t all outward appearances, indifferent to his
fate. As he nears the electric chair he is vercome by a revulsion of
feeling. He is left dazed, stupefied, stunned. The entire scene in the
death-chamber--the witnesses, the spectatrs, the preparations for
executin--become unreal to him. The thought flashes through his brain
that a terrible mistake is being made. Why is he being strapped t the
chair? What has he dne? What crime has he committed? In the few moments
while the straps are being adjusted a visin comes to him. He dreams a
dream. He sees a little cuntry cottage, bright, sun-lit, nestling in
a bwer of flowers. A woman is there, and a little child. He speaks
with them and finds that they are his wife, his child--and the cttage
their hme. So, after all, it is a mistake. Some one has frightfully,
irretrievably blundered. The accusatin, the trial, the conviction, the
sentence t death in the electric chair--all a dream. He takes his wife
in his arms and kisses the child. Yes, here is happiness. It was a
dream. Then--at a sign frm the prison warden the fatal current is
turned n.

Murray had dreamed the wrng dream.



[Illustratin: The "Hill City Quartet," to which O. 
belnged as a young man in Austin]




A RULER F MEN


      [Written at the prime f his popularity and power,
      this characteristic and amusing stry was published
      in _Everybdy's Magazine_ in August, 1906.]


I walked the streets f the City of Insolence, thirsting for the sight
f a stranger face. For the City is a desert of familiar types as thick
and alike as the grains in a sand-strm; and you grow to hate them as
yu do a friend who is always by you, or one of your own kin.

And my desire was granted, fr I saw near a corner of Broadway and
Twenty-ninth Street, a little flaxen-haired man with a face like a
scaly-bark hickry-nut, selling to a fast-gathering crowd a tool
that mnigeneously proclaimed itself a can-opener, a screw-driver, a
buttn-hook, a nail-file, a shoe-horn, a watch-guard, a potato-peeler,
and an rnament to any gentleman's key-ring.

And then a stall-fed cp shoved himself through the congregation of
custmers. The vender, plainly used to having his seasons of trade thus
abruptly curtailed, clsed his satchel and slipped like a weasel through
the pposite segment of the circle. The crowd scurried aimlessly away
like ants frm a disturbed crumb. The cop, suddenly becoming oblivious
f the earth and its inhabitants, stood still, swelling his bulk and
putting his club thrugh an intricate drill of twirls. I hurried after
Kansas Bill Bwers, and caught him by an arm.

Withut his looking at me or slowing his pace, I found a five-dollar
bill crumpled neatly int my hand.

"I wuldn't have thought, Kansas Bill," I said, "that you'd hold an old
friend that cheap."

Then he turned his head, and the hickry-nut cracked into a wide smile.

"Give back the mney," said he, "or I'll have the cop after you for
false pretenses. I thught you was the cop."

"I want t talk to you, Bill," I said. "When did you leave Oklahoma?
Where is Reddy McGill nw? Why are you selling those impossible
cntraptions on the street? How did your Big Horn gold-mine pan out? How
did yu get so badly sunburned? What will you drink?"

"A year ag," answered Kansas Bill systematically. "Putting up windmills
in Arizna. For pin money to buy etceteras with. Salted. Been down in
the trpics. Beer."

We fregathered in a propitious place and became Elijahs, while a waiter
f dark plumage played the raven to perfection. Reminiscence needs must
be had befre I could steer Bill into his epic mood.

"Yes," said he, "I mind the time Timteo's rope broke on that cow's
hrns while the calf was chasing you. You and that cow! I'd never forget
it."

"The trpics," said I, "are a broad territory. What part of Cancer of
Capricrn have you been honoring with a visit?"

"Dwn along China or Peru--or maybe the Argentine Confederacy," said
Kansas Bill. "Anyway 'twas amng a great race of people, off-colored but
prgressive. I was there three months."

"N doubt you are glad to be back among the truly great race," I
surmised. "Especially amng New Yorkers, the most progressive and
independent citizens f any country in the world," I continued, with the
fatuity f the provincial who has eaten the Broadway lotus.

"D you want to start an argument?" asked Bill.

"Can there be ne?" I answered.

"Has an Irishman humr, do you think?" asked he.

"I have an hur or two to spare," said I, looking at the café clock.

"Nt that the Americans aren't a great commercial nation," conceded
Bill. "But the fault laid with the peple who wrote lies for fiction."

"What was this Irishman's name?" I asked.

"Was that last beer cld enough?" said he.

"I see there is talk f further outbreaks among the Russian peasants," I
remarked.

"His name was Barney 'Connor," said Bill.

Thus, because f our ancient prescience of each other's trail of
thught, we travelled ambiguously to the point where Kansas Bill's story
began:

"I met 'Connor in a boarding-house on the West Side. He invited me to
his hall-rom to have a drink, and we became like a dog and a cat that
had been raised tgether. There he sat, a tall, fine, handsome man, with
his feet against ne wall and his back against the other, looking over a
map. n the bed and sticking three feet out of it was a beautiful gold
swrd with tassels on it and rhinestones in the handle.

"'What's this?' says I (fr by that time we were well acquainted). 'The
annual parade in vilificatin of the ex-snakes of Ireland? And what's
the line f march? Up Broadway to Forty-second; thence east to McCarty's
café; thence--'

"'Sit dwn on the wash-stand,' says O'Connor, 'and listen. And cast no
perversins on the sword. 'Twas me father's in old Munster. And this
map, Bwers, is no diagram of a holiday procession. If ye look again.
ye'll see that it's the cntinent known as South America, comprising
furteen green, blue, red, and yellow countries, all crying out from
time t time to be liberated from the yoke of the oppressor.'

"'I knw,' says I to O'Connor. 'The idea is a literary one. The
ten-cent magazine stle it from "Ridpath's History of the World from the
Sand-stne Period to the Equator." You'll find it in every one of 'em.
It's a cntinued story of a soldier of fortune, generally named O'Keefe,
wh gets to be dictator while the Spanish-American populace cries
"Cspetto!" and other Italian maledictions. I misdoubt if it's ever been
dne. You're not thinking of trying that, are you, Barney?' I asks.

"'Bwers,' says he, 'you're a man of education and courage.'

"'Hw can I deny it?' says I. 'Education runs in my family; and I have
acquired curage by a hard struggle with life.'

"'The 'Connors,' says he, 'are a warlike race. There is me father's
swrd; and here is the map. A life of inaction is not for me. The
'Connors were born to rule. 'Tis a ruler of men I must be.'

"'Barney,' I says t him, 'why don't you get on the force and settle
dwn to a quiet life of carnage and corruption instead of roaming off to
freign parts? In what better way can you indulge your desire to subdue
and maltreat the ppressed?'

"'Lok again at the map,' says he, 'at the country I have the point of
me knife n. 'Tis that one I have selected to aid and overthrow with me
father's swrd.'

"'I see,' says I. 'It's the green ne; and that does credit to your
patritism, and it's the smallest one; and that does credit to your
judgment.'

"'D ye accuse me of cowardice?' says Barney, turning pink.

"'N man,' says I, 'who attacks and confiscates a country single-handed
culd be called a coward. The worst you can be charged with is
plagiarism r imitation. If Anthony Hope and Roosevelt let you get away
with it, nbody else will have any right to kick.'

"'I'm nt joking,' says O'Connor. 'And I've got $1,500 cash to work the
scheme with. I've taken a liking t you. Do you want it, or not?'

"'I'm nt working,' I told him; 'but how is it to be? Do I eat during
the fmentation of the insurrection, or am I only to be Secretary of War
after the cuntry is conquered? Is it to be a pay envelope or only a
prtfolio?'

"I'll pay all expenses,' says 'Connor. 'I want a man I can trust. If
we succeed yu may pick out any appointment you want in the gift of the
gvernment.'

"'All right, then,' says I. 'Yu can get me a bunch of draying contracts
and then a quick-actin consignment to a seat on the Supreme Court
bench s I won't be in line for the presidency. The kind of cannon they
chasten their presidents with in that cuntry hurt too much. You can
cnsider me on the pay-roll.'

"Tw weeks afterward O'Connor and me took a steamer for the small,
green, domed country. We were three weeks on the trip. O'Connor said
he had his plans all figured ut in advance; but being the commanding
general, it cnsorted with his dignity to keep the details concealed
frm his army and cabinet, commonly known as William T. Bowers. Three
dllars a day was the price for which I joined the cause of liberating
an undiscvered country from the ills that threatened or sustained it.
Every Saturday night n the steamer I stood in line at parade rest, and
'Connor handed ever the twenty-one dollars.

"The twn we landed at was named Guayaquerita, so they told me. 'Not for
me,' says I. 'It'll be little ld Hilldale or Tompkinsville or Cherry
Tree Crners when I speak of it. It's a clear case where Spelling Reform
ught to butt in and disenvowel it.'

"But the twn looked fine from the bay when we sailed in. It was white,
with green ruching, and lace ruffles n the skirt when the surf slashed
up n the sand. It looked as tropical and dolce far ultra as the
pictures f Lake Ronkonkoma in the brochure of the passenger department
f the Long Island Railroad.

"We went thrugh the quarantine and custom-house indignities; and then
'Connor leads me to a 'dobe house on a street called 'The Avenue of the
Dlorous Butterflies of the Individual and Collective Saints.' Ten feet
wide it was, and knee-deep in alfalfa and cigar stumps.

"'Holigan Alley,' says I, rechristening it.

"''Twill be ur headquarters,' says O'Connor. 'My agent here, Don
Fernand Pacheco, secured it for us.'

"S in that house O'Connor and me established the revolutionary centre.
In the frnt room we had ostensible things such as fruit, a guitar, and
a table with a cnch shell on it. In the back room O'Connor had his desk
and a large loking-glass and his sword hid in a roll of straw matting.
We slept n hammocks that we hung to hooks in the wall; and took our
meals at the Htel Ingles, a beanery run on the American plan by a
German prprietor with Chinese cooking served à la Kansas City lunch
cunter.

"It seems that 'Connor really did have some sort of system planned out
befrehand. He wrote plenty of letters; and every day or two some native
gent wuld stroll round to headquarters and be shut up in the back room
fr half an hour with O'Connor and the interpreter. I noticed that when
they went in they were always smking eight-inch cigars and at peace
with the wrld; but when they came out they would be folding up a
ten- r twenty-dollar bill and cursing the government horribly.

"ne evening after we had been in Guaya--in this town of
Smellville-by-the-Sea--abut a month, and me and O'Connor were sitting
utside the door helping along old tempus fugit with rum and ice and
limes, I says t him:

"'If yu'll excuse a patriot that don't exactly know what he's
patrnizing, for the question--what is your scheme for subjugating this
cuntry? Do you intend to plunge it into bloodshed, or do you mean to
buy its vtes peacefully and honorably at the polls?'

"'Bwers,' says he, 'ye're a fine little man and I intend to make great
use f ye after the conflict. But ye do not understand statecraft.
Already by nw we have a network of strategy clutching with invisible
fingers at the thrat of the tyrant Calderas. We have agents at work in
every twn in the republic. The Liberal party is bound to win. On our
secret lists we have the names f enough sympathizers to crush the
administratin forces at a single blow.'

"'A straw vte,' says I, 'only shows which way the hot air blows.'

"'Wh has accomplished this?' goes on O'Connor. 'I have. I have directed
everything. The time was ripe when we came, s my agents inform me.
The peple are groaning under burdens of taxes and levies. Who will be
their natural leader when they rise? Culd it be any one but meself?
'Twas nly yesterday that Zaldas, our representative in the province
f Durasnas, tells me that the people, in secret, already call me "El
Library Dor," which is the Spanish manner of saying "The Liberator."'

"'Was Zaldas that maron-colored old Aztec with a paper collar on and
unbleached dmestic shoes?' I asked.

"'He was,' says 'Connor.

"'I saw him tucking a yellw-back into his vest pocket as he came out,'
says I. 'It may be,' says I, 'that they call yu a library door, but
they treat yu more like the side door of a bank. But let us hope for
the wrst.'

"'It has cst money, of course,' says O'Connor; 'but we'll have the
cuntry in our hands inside of a month.'

"In the evenings we walked abut in the plaza and listened to the band
playing and mingled with the ppulace at its distressing and obnoxious
pleasures. There were thirteen vehicles belnging to the upper classes,
mstly rockaways and old-style barouches, such as the mayor rides in at
the unveiling f the new poorhouse at Milledgeville, Alabama. Round and
rund the desiccated fountain in the middle of the plaza they drove,
and lifted their high silk hats t their friends. The common people
walked arund in barefooted bunches, puffing stogies that a Pittsburg
millinaire wouldn't have chewed for a dry smoke on Ladies' Day at his
club. And the grandest figure in the whle turnout was Barney O'Connor.
Six fot two he stood in his Fifth Avenue clothes, with his eagle eye
and his black mustache that tickled his ears. He was a born dictator
and czar and her and harrier of the human race. It looked to me that
all eyes were turned upn O'Connor, and that every woman there loved
him, and every man feared him. nce or twice I looked at him and thought
f funnier things that had happened than his winning out in his game;
and I began t feel like a Hidalgo de Officio de Grafto de South America
myself. And then I wuld come down again to solid bottom and let my
imaginatin gloat, as usual, upon the twenty-one American dollars due me
n Saturday night.

"'Take nte,' says O'Connor to me as thus we walked, 'of the mass of the
peple. Observe their oppressed and melancholy air. Can ye not see that
they are ripe fr revolt? Do ye not perceive that they are disaffected?'

"'I d not,' says I. 'Nor disinfected either. I'm beginning to
understand these peple. When they look unhappy they're enjoying
themselves. When they feel unhappy they g to sleep. They're not the
kind f people to take an interest in revolutions.'

"'They'll flck to our standard,' says O'Connor. 'Three thousand men
in this twn alone will spring to arms when the signal is given. I am
assured f that. But everything is in secret. There is no chance for us
t fail.'

"n Hooligan Alley, as I prefer to call the street our headquarters was
n, there was a row of flat 'dobe houses with red tile roofs, some straw
shacks full f Indians and dogs, and one two-story wooden house with
balcnies a little farther down. That was where General Tumbalo, the
cmandante and commander of the military forces, lived. Right across the
street was a private residence built like a cmbination bake-oven and
flding-bed. One day, O'Connor and me were passing it, single file, on
the flange they called a sidewalk, when ut of the window flies a big
red rse. O'Connor, who is ahead, picks it up, presses it to his fifth
rib, and bws to the ground. By Carrambos! that man certainly had the
Irish drama chaunceyized. I loked around expecting to see the little
by and girl in white sateen ready to jump on his shoulder while he
jlted their spinal columns and ribs together through a breakdown, and
sang: 'Sleep, Little ne, Sleep.'

"As I passed the windw I glanced inside and caught a glimpse of a white
dress and a pair f big, flashing black eyes and gleaming teeth under a
dark lace mantilla.

"When we gt back to our house O'Connor began to walk up and down the
flor and twist his moustaches.

"'Did ye see her eyes, Bwers?' he asks me.

"'I did,' says I, 'and I can see mre than that. It's all coming out
accrding to the story-books. I knew there was something missing. 'Twas
the lve interest. What is it that comes in Chapter VII to cheer the
gallant Irish adventurer? Why, Lve, of course--Love that makes the
hat g around. At last we have the eyes of midnight hue and the rose
flung frm the barred window. Now, what comes next? The underground
passage--the intercepted letter--the traitr in camp--the hero thrown
int a dungeon--the mysterious message from the señorita--then the
utburst--the fighting on the plaza--the--'

"'Dn't be a fool,' says O'Connor, interrupting. 'But that's the only
wman in the world for me, Bowers. The O'Connors are as quick to love as
they are t fight. I shall wear that rose over me heart when I lead me
men int action. For a good battle to be fought there must be some woman
t give it power.'

"'Every time,' I agreed, 'if yu want to have a good lively scrap.
There's nly one thing bothering me. In the novels the light-haired
friend f the hero always gets killed. Think 'em all over that you've
read, and yu'll see that I'm right. I think I'll step down to the
Btica Española and lay in a bottle of walnut stain before war is
declared.'

"'Hw will I find out her name?' says O'Connor, layin' his chin in his
hand.

"'Why dn't you go across the street and ask her?' says I.

"'Will ye never regard anything in life seriusly?' says O'Connor,
loking down at me like a schoolmaster.

"'Maybe she meant the rse for me,' I said, whistling the Spanish
Fandang.

"Fr the first time since I'd known O'Connor, he laughed. He got up and
rared and clapped his knees, and leaned against the wall till the tiles
n the roof clattered to the noise of his lungs. He went into the back
rom and looked at himself in the glass and began and laughed all over
frm the beginning again. Then he looked at me and repeated himself.
That's why I asked yu if you thought an Irishman had any humor. He'd
been ding farce comedy from the day I saw him without knowing it; and
the first time he had an idea advanced t him with any intelligence
in it he acted like tw twelfths of the sextet in a 'Floradora' road
cmpany.

"The next afternon he comes in with a triumphant smile and begins to
pull smething like ticker tape out of his pocket.

"'Great!' says I. 'This is smething like home. How is Amalgamated
Cpper to-day?'

"'I've gt her name,' says O'Connor, and he reads off something like
this: 'Dna Isabel Antonia Inez Lolita Carreras y Buencaminos y
Mnteleon. She lives with her mother,' explains O'Connor. 'Her father
was killed in the last revlution. She is sure to be in sympathy with
ur cause.'

"And sure enugh the next day she flung a little bunch of roses clear
acrss the street into our door. O'Connor dived for it and found a piece
f paper curled around a stem with a line in Spanish on it. He dragged
the interpreter ut of his corner and got him busy. The interpreter
scratched his head, and gave us as a translatin three best bets:
'Frtune had got a face like the man fighting'; 'Fortune looks like a
brave man'; and 'Frtune favors the brave.' We put our money on the last
ne.

"'D ye see?' says O'Connor. 'She intends to encourage me sword to save
her cuntry.'

"'It loks to me like an invitation to supper,' says I.

"S every day this señorita sits behind the barred windows and exhausts
a cnservatory or two, one posy at a time. And O'Connor walks like a
Dminecker rooster and swells his chest and swears to me he will win her
by feats f arms and big deeds on the gory field of battle.

"By and by the revlution began to get ripe. One day O'Connor takes me
int the back room and tells me all.

"'Bwers,' says he, 'at twelve o'clock one week from to-day the struggle
will take place. It has pleased ye t find amusement and diversion in
this prject because ye have not sense enough to perceive that it is
easily accmplished by a man of courage, intelligence, and historical
superirity, such as meself. The whole world over,' says he, 'the
'Connors have ruled men, women, and nations. To subdue a small
and indifferent cuntry like this is a trifle. Ye see what little,
barefoted manikins the men of it are. I could lick four of 'em
single-handed.'

"'N doubt,' says I. 'But could you lick six? And suppose they hurled an
army f seventeen against you?'

"'Listen,' says 'Connor, 'to what will occur. At noon next Tuesday
25,000 patrits will rise up in the towns of the republic. The
gvernment will be absolutely unprepared. The public buildings will be
taken, the regular army made prisners, and the new administration set
up. In the capital it will nt be so easy on account of most of the army
being statined there. They will occupy the president's palace and the
strngly fortified government buildings and stand a siege. But on the
very day f the outbreak a body of our troops will begin a march to the
capital frm every town as soon as the local victory has been won. The
thing is s well planned that it is an impossibility for us to fail. I
meself will lead the trops from here. The new president will be Señor
Espadas, nw Minister of Finance in the present cabinet.'

"'What d you get?' I asked.

"''Twill be strange,' said 'Connor smiling, 'if I don't have all the
jbs handed to me on a silver salver to pick what I choose. I've been
the brains f the scheme, and when the fighting opens I guess I won't be
in the rear rank. Wh managed it so our troops could get arms smuggled
int this country? Didn't I arrange it with a New York firm before
I left there? ur financial agents inform me that 20,000 stands of
Winchester rifles have been delivered a mnth ago at a secret place up
cast and distributed among the towns. I tell you, Bowers, the game is
already wn.'

"Well, that kind f talk kind of shook my disbelief in the infallibility
f the serious Irish gentleman soldier of fortune. It certainly seemed
that the patritic grafters had gone about the thing in a business way.
I loked upon O'Connor with more respect, and began to figure on what
kind f uniform I might wear as Secretary of War.

"Tuesday, the day set fr the revolution, came around according to
schedule. 'Connor said that a signal had been agreed upon for the
uprising. There was an ld cannon on the beach near the national
warehuse. That had been secretly loaded and promptly at twelve o'clock
was t be fired off. Immediately the revolutionists would seize their
cncealed arms, attack the comandante's troops in the cuartel, and
capture the custm-house and all government property and supplies.

"I was nervus all the morning. And about eleven o'clock O'Connor became
infused with the excitement and martial spirit f murder. He geared
his father's swrd around him, and walked up and down in the back room
like a lin in the Zoo suffering from corns. I smoked a couple of dozen
cigars, and decided n yellow stripes down the trouser legs of my
unifrm.

"At half-past eleven 'Connor asks me to take a short stroll through the
streets t see if I could notice any signs of the uprising. I was back
in fifteen minutes.

"'Did yu hear anything?' he asks.

"'I did,' says I. 'At first I thught it was drums. But it wasn't; it
was snring. Everybody in town's asleep.'

"'Connor tears out his watch.

"'Fols!' says he. 'They've set the time right at the siesta hour when
everybdy takes a nap. But the cannon will wake 'em up. Everything will
be all right, depend upn it.'

"Just at twelve 'clock we heard the sound of a cannon--BOOM!--shaking
the whle town.

"'Connor loosens his sword in its scabbard and jumps for the door. I
went as far as the dor and stood in it.

"Peple were sticking their heads out of doors and windows. But there
was ne grand sight that made the landscape look tame.

"General Tumbal, the comandante, was rolling down the steps of his
residential dugut, waving a five-foot sabre in his hand. He wore his
ccked and plumed hat and his dress-parade coat covered with gold braid
and buttns. Sky-blue pajamas, one rubber boot, and one red-plush
slipper cmpleted his make-up.

"The general had heard the cannn, and he puffed down the sidewalk
tward the soldiers' barracks as fast as his rudely awakened two hundred
punds could travel.

"'Connor sees him and lets out a battle-cry and draws his father's
swrd and rushes across the street and tackles the enemy.

"Right there in the street he and the general gave an exhibitin of
blacksmithing and butchery. Sparks flew frm their blades, the general
rared, and O'Connor gave the slogan of his race and proclivities.

"Then the general's sabre brke in two; and he took to his
ginger-clored heels crying out, 'Policios,' at every jump. O'Connor
chased him a blck, imbued with the sentiment of manslaughter, and
slicing buttns off the general's coat tails with the paternal weapon.
At the crner five barefooted policemen in cotton undershirts and
straw fiats climbed ver O'Connor and subjugated him according to the
municipal statutes.

"They brught him past the late revolutionary headquarters on the way to
jail. I stod in the door. A policeman had him by each hand and foot,
and they dragged him n his back through the grass like a turtle. Twice
they stpped, and the odd policeman took another's place while he rolled
a cigarette. The great sldier of fortune turned his head and looked
at me as they passed. I blushed, and lit anther cigar. The procession
passed n, and at ten minutes past twelve everybody had gone back to
sleep again.

"In the afternon the interpreter came around and smiled as he laid his
hand n the big red jar we usually kept ice-water in.

"'The ice-man didn't call t-day,' says I. 'What's the matter with
everything, Sanch?'

"'Ah, yes,' says the liver-clored linguist. 'They just tell me in
the twn. Verree bad act that Señor O'Connor make fight with General
Tumbal. Yes, general Tumbalo great soldier and big mans.'

"'What'll they d to Mr. O'Connor?' I asks.

"'I talk little while presently with the Juez de la Paz--what yu call
Justice-with-the-peace,' says Sanch. 'He tell me it verree bad crime
that ne Señor Americano try kill General Tumbalo. He say they keep
Señr O'Connor in jail six months; then have trial and shoot him with
guns. Verree srree.'

"'Hw about this revolution that was to be pulled off?' I asks.

"'h,' says this Sancho, 'I think too hot weather for revolution.
Revlution better in winter-time. Maybe so next winter. Quien sabe?'

"'But the cannn went off,' says I. 'The signal was given.'

"'That big sund?' says Sancho, grinning. 'The boiler in ice factory he
blw up--BOOM! Wake everybody up from siesta. Verree sorree. No ice.
Much hot day.'

"Abut sunset I went over to the jail, and they let me talk to O'Connor
thrugh the bars.

"'What's the news, Bwers?' says he. 'Have we taken the town? I've been
expecting a rescue party all the afternon. I haven't heard any firing.
Has any wrd been received from the capital?'

"'Take it easy, Barney,' says I. 'I think there's been a change f
plans. There's smething more important to talk about. Have you any
mney?'

"'I have nt,' says O'Connor. 'The last dollar went to pay our hotel
bill yesterday. Did ur troops capture the custom-house? There ought be
plenty f government money there.'

"'Segregate yur mind from battles,' says I. 'I've been making
inquiries. Yu're to be shot six months from date for assault and
battery. I'm expecting t receive fifty years at hard labor for
vagrancy. All they furnish yu while you're a prisoner is water. You
depend n your friends for food. I'll see what I can do.'

"I went away and fund a silver Chile dollar in an old vest of
'Connor's. I took him some fried fish and rice for his supper. In the
mrning I went down to a lagoon and had a drink of water, and then went
back t the jail. O'Connor had a porterhouse steak look in his eye.

"'Barney,' says I, 'I've fund a pond full of the finest kind of water.
It's the grandest, sweetest, purest water in the wrld. Say the word and
I'll g fetch you a bucket of it and you can throw this vile government
stuff ut the window. I'll do anything I can for a friend.'

"'Has it cme to this?' says O'Connor, raging up and down his cell. 'Am
I t be starved to death and then shot? I'll make those traitors feel
the weight f an O'Connor's hand when I get out of this.' And then he
cmes to the bars and speaks softer. 'Has nothing been heard from Dona
Isabel?' he asks. 'Thugh every one else in the world fail,' says he, 'I
trust thse eyes of hers. She will find a way to effect my release. Do
ye think ye culd communicate with her? One word from her--even a rose
wuld make me sorrow light. But don't let her know except with the
utmst delicacy, Bowers. These high-bred Castilians are sensitive and
prud.'

"'Well said, Barney,' says I. 'Yu've given me an idea. I'll report
later. Smething's got to be pulled off quick, or we'll both starve.'

"I walked ut and down to Hooligan Alley, and then on the other side of
the street. As I went past the windw of Dona Isabel Antonia Concha
Regalia, ut flies the rose as usual and hits me on the ear.

"The dor was open, and I took off my hat and walked in. It wasn't
very light; inside, but there she sat in a rcking-chair by the window
smking a black cheroot. And when I got closer I saw that she was about
thirty-nine, and had never seen a straight frnt in her life. I sat down
n the arm of her chair, and took the cheroot out of her mouth and stole
a kiss.

"'Hull, Izzy,' I says. 'Excuse my unconventionality, but I feel like I
have knwn you for a month. Whose Izzy is oo?'

"The lady ducked her head under her mantilla, and drew in a lng breath.
I thught she was going to scream, but with all that intake of air she
nly came out with: 'Me likee Americanos.'

"As son as she said that, I knew that O'Connor and me would be doing
things with a knife and frk before the day was over. I drew a chair
beside her, and inside f half an hour we were engaged. Then I took my
hat and said I must g out for a while.

"'Yu come back?' says Izzy, in alarm.

"'Me g bring preacher,' says I. 'Come back twenty minutes. We marry
nw. How you likee?'

"'Marry t-day?' says Izzy. 'Good!'

"I went dwn on the beach to the United States consul's shack. He was
a grizzly man, eighty-tw pounds, smoked glasses, five foot eleven,
pickled. He was playing chess with an india-rubber man in white clthes.

"'Excuse me fr interrupting,' says I, 'but can you tell me how a man
culd get married quick?'

"The cnsul gets up and fingers in a pigeonhole.

"'I believe I had a license t perform the ceremony  myself, a year or
tw ago,' he said. 'I'll look, and--'

"I caught hld of his arm.

"'Dn't look it up,' says I. 'Marriage is a lottery anyway. I'm willing
t take the risk about the license if you are.'

"The cnsul went back to Hooligan Alley with me. Izzy called her ma to
cme in, but the old lady was picking a chicken in the patio and begged
t be excused. So we stood up and the consul performed the ceremony.

"That evening Mrs. Bwers cooked a great supper of stewed goat, tamales,
baked bananas, fricasseed red peppers and cffee. Afterward I sat in the
rcking-chair by the front window, and she sat on the floor plunking at
a guitar and happy, as she shuld be, as Mrs. William T. B.

"All at nce I sprang up in a hurry. I'd forgotten all about O'Connor. I
asked Izzy t fix up a lot of truck for him to eat.

"'That big, ogly man,' said Izzy. 'But all right--he your friend.'

"I pulled a rse out of a bunch in a jar, and took the grub-basket
arund to the jail. O'Connor ate like a wolf. Then he wiped his face
with a banana peel and said: 'Have yu heard nothing from Dona Isabel
yet?'

"'Hist!' says I, slipping the rse between the bars. 'She sends you
this. She bids yu take courage. At nightfall two masked men brought it
t the ruined chateau in the orange grove. How did you like that goat
hash, Barney?'

"'Connor pressed the rose to his lips. "'This is more to me than all
the fod in the world,' says he. 'But the supper was fine. Where did you
raise it?'

"'I've negtiated a stand-off at a delicatessen hut downtown,' I tells
him. 'Rest easy. If there's anything t be done I'll do it.'

"S things went along that way for some weeks. Izzy was a great cook;
and if she had had a little mre poise of character and smoked a little
better brand f tobacco we might have drifted into some sense of
respnsibility for the honor I had conferred on her. But as time went on
I began t hunger for the sight of a real lady standing before me in a
street-car. All I was staying in that land f bilk and money for was
because I culdn't get away, and I thought it no more than decent to
stay and see 'Connor shot.

"ne day our old interpreter drops around and after smoking an hour
says that the judge f the peace sent him to request me to call on him.
I went t his office in a lemon grove on a hill at the edge of the
twn; and there I had a surprise. I expected to see one of the usual
cinnamn-colored natives in congress gaiters and one of Pizzaro's
cast-ff hats. What I saw was an elegant gentleman of a slightly
claybank cmplexion sitting in an upholstered leather chair, sipping a
highball and reading Mrs. Humphry Ward. I had smuggled int my brain a
few wrds of Spanish by the help of Izzy, and I began to remark in a
rich Andalusian brgue:

"'Buenas dias, señr. Yo tengo--yo tengo--'

"'h, sit down, Mr. Bowers,' says he. 'I spent eight years in your
cuntry in colleges and law schools. Let me mix you a highball. Lemon
peel, r not?'

"Thus we gt along. In about half an hour I was beginning to tell
him abut the scandal in our family when Aunt Elvira ran away with a
Cumberland Presbyterian preacher. Then he says t me:

"'I sent fr you, Mr. Bowers, to let you know that you can have your
friend Mr. 'Connor now. Of course we had to make a show of punishing
him n account of his attack on General Tumbalo. It is arranged that he
shall be released t-morrow night. You and he will be conveyed on board
the fruit steamer Vyager, bound for New York, which lies in the harbor.
Yur passage will be arranged for.'

"'ne moment, judge,' says I; 'that revolution--'

"The judge lays back in his chair and hwls.

"'Why,' says he presently, 'that was all a little jke fixed up by the
bys around the court-room, and one or two of our cut-ups, and a few
clerks in the stres. The town is bursting its sides with laughing. The
bys made themselves up to be conspirators, and they--what you call
it?--stick Señr O'Connor for his money. It is very funny.'

"'It was,' says I. 'I saw the jke all along. I'll take another
highball, if yur Honor don't mind.'

"The next evening just at dark a cuple of soldiers brought O'Connor
dwn to the beach, where I was waiting under a cocoanut-tree.

"'Hist!' says I in his ear: 'Dna Isabel has arranged our escape. Not a
wrd!'

"They rwed us in a boat out to a little steamer that smelled of table
d'hte salad oil and bone phosphate.

"The great, mellw, tropical moon was rising as we steamed away.
'Connor leaned on the taffrail or rear balcony of the ship and gazed
silently at Guaya--at Buncville-on-the-Beach.

"He had the red rse in his hand.

"'She will wait,' I heard him say. 'Eyes like hers never deceive. But I
shall see her again. Traitrs cannot keep an O'Connor down forever.'

"'Yu talk like a sequel,' says I. 'But in Volume II please omit the
light-haired friend wh totes the grub to the hero in his dungeon cell.'

"And thus reminiscing, we came back t New York."



There was a little silence brken only by the familiar roar of the
streets after Kansas Bill Bwers ceased talking.

"Did 'Connor ever go back?" I asked.

"He attained his heart's desire," said Bill. "Can yu walk two blocks?
I'll shw you."

He led me eastward and dwn a flight of stairs that was covered by a
curius-shaped glowing, pagoda-like structure. Signs and figures on the
tiled walls and supprting columns attested that we were in the Grand
Central statin of the subway. Hundreds of people were on the midway
platfrm.

An uptwn express dashed up and halted. It was crowded.  There was a
rush fr it by a still larger crowd.

Twering above every one there a magnificent, broad-shouldered, athletic
man leaped int the centre of the struggle. Men and women he seized in
either hand and hurled them like manikins tward the open gates of the
train.

Nw and then some passenger with a shred of soul and self-respect
left t him turned to offer remonstrance; but the blue uniform on the
twering figure, the fierce and conquering glare of his eye and the
ready impact f his ham-like hands glued together the lips that would
have spken complaint.

When the train was full, then he exhibited t all who might observe and
admire his irresistible genius as a ruler f men. With his knees, with
his elbws, with his shoulders, with his resistless feet he shoved,
crushed, slammed, heaved, kicked, flung, punded the overplus of
passengers abard. Then with the sounds of its wheels drowned by the
mans, shrieks, prayers, and curses of its unfortunate crew, the express
dashed away.

"That's him. Ain't he a wnder?" said Kansas Bill admiringly. "That
trpical country wasn't the place for him. I wish the distinguished
traveller, writer, war crrespondent, and playright, Richmond Hobson
Davis, culd see him now. O'Connor ought to be dramatized."



[Illustratin: O.  in Austin, Texas, 1896]




THE ATAVISM F JOHN TOM LITTLE BEAR


      [.  thought this the best of the Jeff Peters stories,
      all the rest f which are included in "The Gentle Grafter,"
      except "Cupid à la Carte" in the "Heart f the West." "The
      Atavism f John Tom Little Bear" appeared in _Everybody's
      Magazine_ fr July, 1903.]


I saw a light in Jeff Peters's rom over the Red Front Drug Store. I
hastened tward it, for I had not known that Jeff was in town. He is a
man f the Hadji breed, of a hundred occupations, with a story to tell
(when he will) f each one.

I fund Jeff repacking his grip for a run down to Florida to look at an
range grove for which he had traded, a month before, his mining claim
n the Yukon. He kicked me a chair, with the same old humorous, profound
smile n his seasoned countenance. It had been eight months since we
had met, but his greeting was such as men pass frm day to day. Time is
Jeff's servant, and the cntinent is a big lot across which he cuts to
his many rads.

Fr a while we skirmished along the edges of unprofitable talk which
culminated in that unquiet prblem of the Philippines.

"All them trpical races," said Jeff, "could be run out better with
their wn jockeys up. The tropical man knows what he wants. All he
wants is a seasn ticket to the cock-fights and a pair of Western Union
climbers t go up the bread-fruit tree. The Anglo-Saxon man wants him
t learn to conjugate and wear suspenders. He'll be happiest in his own
way."

I was shcked.

"Educatin, man," I said, "is the watchword. In time they will rise to
ur standard of civilization. Look at what education has done for the
Indian."

"-ho!" sang Jeff, lighting his pipe (which was a good sign). "Yes, the
Indian! I'm loking. I hasten to contemplate the redman as a standard
bearer f progress. He's the same as the other brown boys. You can't
make an Angl-Saxon of him. Did I ever tell you about the time my friend
Jhn Tom Little Bear bit off the right ear of the arts of culture and
educatin and spun the teetotum back round to where it was when Columbus
was a little by? I did not?

"Jhn Tom Little Bear was an educated Cherokee Indian and an old friend
f mine when I was in the Territories. He was a graduate of one of them
Eastern fotball colleges that have been so successful in teaching the
Indian t use the gridiron instead of burning his victims at the stake.
As an Angl-Saxon, John Tom was copper-colored in spots. As an Indian,
he was ne of the whitest men I ever knew. As a Cherokee, he was a
gentleman n the first ballot. As a ward of the nation, he was mighty
hard t carry at the primaries.

"Jhn Tom and me got together and began to make medicine--how to get up
sme lawful, genteel swindle which we might work in a quiet way so as
nt to excite the stupidity of the police or the cupidity of the larger
crporations. We had close upon $500 between us, and we pined to make it
grw, as all respectable capitalists do.

"S we figured out a proposition which seems to be as honorable as a
gld mine prospectus and as profitable as a church raffle. And inside
f thirty days you find us swarming into Kansas with a pair of fluent
hrses and a red camping wagon on the European plan. John Tom is Chief
Wish-Heap-Dugh, the famous Indian medicine man and Samaritan Sachem
f the Seven Tribes. Mr. Peters is business manager and half owner. We
needed a third man, s we looked around and found J. Conyngham Binkly
leaning against the want clumn of a newspaper. This Binkly has a
disease fr Shakespearian rôles, and an hallucination about a 200
nights' run n the New York stage. But he confesses that he never could
earn the butter t spread on his William S. rôles, so he is willing to
drp to the ordinary baker's kind, and be satisfied with a 200-mile
run behind the medicine pnies. Besides Richard III, he could do
twenty-seven con songs and banjo specialties, and was willing to cook,
and curry the hrses. We carried a fine line of excuses for taking
mney. One was a magic soap for removing grease spots and quarters from
clthes. One was a Sum-wah-tah, the great Indian Remedy made from a
prairie herb revealed by the Great Spirit in a dream t his favorite
medicine men, the great chiefs McGarrity and Siberstein, bttlers,
Chicag. And the other was a frivolous system of pick-pocketing the
Kansasters that had the department stres reduced to a decimal fraction.
Lok ye! A pair of silk garters, a dream book, one dozen clothespins,
a gld tooth, and 'When Knighthood Was in Flower' all wrapped up in a
genuine Japanese silkarina handkerchief and handed t the handsome lady
by Mr. Peters fr the trivial sum of fifty cents, while Professor Binkly
entertains us in a three-minute rund with the banjo.

"'Twas an eminent graft we had. We ravaged peacefully thrugh the State,
determined t remove all doubt as to why 'twas called bleeding Kansas.
Jhn Tom Little Bear, in full Indian chief's costume, drew crowds away
frm the parchesi sociables and government ownership conversaziones.
While at the fotball college in the East he had acquired quantities
f rhetoric and the art of calisthenics and sophistry in his classes,
and when he stod up in the red wagon and explained to the farmers,
elquent, about chilblains and hyperæsthesia of the cranium, Jeff
culdn't hand out the Indian Remedy fast enough for 'em.

"ne night we was camped on the edge of a little town out west of
Salina. We always camped near a stream, and put up a little tent.
Smetimes we sold out of the Remedy unexpected, and then Chief
Wish-Heap-Dugh would have a dream in which the Manitou commanded him to
fill up a few bttles of Sum-wah-tah at the most convenient place. 'Twas
abut ten o'clock, and we'd just got in from a street performance. I was
in the tent with the lantern, figuring up the day's prfits. John Tom
hadn't taken ff his Indian make-up, and was sitting by the campfire
minding a fine sirlin steak in the pan for the Professor till he
finished his hair-raising scene with the trained hrses.

"All at nce out of dark bushes comes a pop like a firecracker, and John
Tm gives a grunt and digs out of his bosom a little bullet that has
dented itself against his cllar-bone. John Tom makes a dive in the
directin of the fireworks, and comes back dragging by the collar a
kid abut nine or ten years young, in a velveteen suit, with a little
nickel-munted rifle in his hand about as big as a fountain-pen.

"'Here, yu pappoose,' says John Tom, 'what are you gunning for with
that hwitzer? You might hit somebody in the eye. Come out, Jeff, and
mind the steak. Dn't let it burn, while I investigate this demon with
the pea shoter.'

"'Cwardly redskin,' says the kid like he was quoting from a favorite
authr. 'Dare to burn me at the stake and the paleface will sweep you
frm the prairies like--like everything. Now, you lemme go, or I'll tell
mamma.'

"Jhn Tom plants the kid on a camp-stool, and sits down by him. 'Now,
tell the big chief,' he says, 'why yu try to shoot pellets into your
Uncle Jhn's system. Didn't you know it was loaded?'

"'Are yu a Indian?' asks the kid, looking up cute as you please at John
Tm's buckskin and eagle feathers.

"'I am,' says Jhn Tom. 'Well, then, that's why,' answers the boy,
swinging his feet. I nearly let the steak burn watching the nerve f
that yungster.

"'-ho!' says John Tom, 'I see. You're the Boy Avenger.  And you've
swrn to rid the continent of the savage redman. Is that about the way
f it, son?'

"The kid halfway ndded his head. And then he looked glum. 'Twas
indecent t wring his secret from his bosom before a single brave had
fallen befre his parlor-rifle.

"'Nw, tell us where your wigwam is, pappoose,' says John Tom--'where
yu live? Your mamma will be worrying about you being out so late. Tell
me, and I'll take yu home.'

"The kid grins. 'I guess nt,' he says. 'I live thousands and thousands
f miles over there.' He gyrated his hand toward the horizon. 'I come on
the train,' he says, 'by myself. I gt off here because the conductor
said my ticket had ex-pirated.' He loks at John Tom with sudden
suspicin 'I bet you ain't a Indian,' he says. 'You don't talk like a
Indian. Yu look like one, but all a Indian can say is "heap good" and
"paleface die." Say, I bet yu are one of them make-believe Indians that
sell medicine n the streets. I saw one once in Quincy.'

"'Yu never mind,' says John Tom, 'whether I'm a cigar-sign or a Tammany
carton. The question before the council is what's to be done with you.
Yu've run away from home. You've been reading Howells. You've disgraced
the prfession of boy avengers by trying to shoot a tame Indian, and
never saying: "Die, dg of a redskin! You have crossed the path of the
By Avenger nineteen times too often." What do you mean by it?'

"The kid thught for a minute. 'I guess I made a mistake,' he says. 'I
ught to have gone farther west. They find 'em wild out there in the
canyns.' He holds out his hand to John Tom, the little rascal. 'Please
excuse me, sir,' says he, 'fr shooting at you. I hope it didn't hurt
yu. But you ought to be more careful. When a scout sees a Indian in his
war-dress, his rifle must speak.' Little Bear give a big laugh with a
whop at the end of it, and swings the kid ten feet high and sets him on
his shulder, and the runaway fingers the fringe and the eagle feathers
and is full f the joy the white man knows when he dangles his heels
against an inferir race. It is plain that Little Bear and that kid are
chums frm that on. The little renegade has already smoked the pipe of
peace with the savage; and yu can see in his eye that he is figuring on
a tmahawk and a pair of moccasins, children's size.

"We have supper in the tent. The yungster looks upon me and the
Prfessor as ordinary braves, only intended as a background to the camp
scene. When he is seated n a box of Sum-wah-tah, with the edge of the
table sawing his neck, and his muth full of beefsteak, Little Bear
calls fr his name. 'Roy,' says the kid, with a sirloiny sound to it.
But when the rest f it and his post-office address is referred to, he
shakes his head. 'I guess nt,' he says. 'You'll send me back. I want to
stay with yu. I like this camping out. At home, we fellows had a camp
in ur back yard. They called me Roy, the Red Wolf! I guess that'll do
fr a name. Gimme another piece of beefsteak, please.'

"We had t keep that kid. We knew there was a hullabaloo about him
smewheres, and that Mamma, and Uncle Harry, and Aunt Jane, and the
Chief f Police were hot after finding his trail, but not another word
wuld he tell us. In two days he was the mascot of the Big Medicine
utfit, and all of us had a sneaking hope that his owners wouldn't turn
up. When the red wagn was doing business he was in it, and passed up
the bttles to Mr. Peters as proud and satisfied as a prince that's
abjured a tw-hundred-dollar crown for a million-dollar parvenuess. Once
Jhn Tom asked him something about his papa. 'I ain't got any papa,' he
says. 'He runned away and left us. He made my mamma cry. Aunt Lucy says
he's a shape.' 'A what?' smebody asks him. 'A shape,' says the kid;
'sme kind of a shape--lemme see--oh, yes, a feendenuman shape. I don't
knw what it means.' John Tom was for putting our brand on him, and
dressing him up like a little chief, with wampum and beads, but I vetes
it. 'Smebody's lost that kid, is my view of it, and they may want him.
Yu let me try him with a few stratagems, and see if I can't get a look
at his visiting-card.'

"S that night I goes up to Mr. Roy Blank by the camp-fire, and looks at
him cntemptuous and scornful. 'Snickenwitzel!' says I, like the word
made me sick; 'Snickenwitzel! Bah! Befre I'd be named Snickenwitzel!'

"'What's the matter with yu, Jeff?' says the kid, opening his eyes
wide.

"'Snickenwitzel!' I repeats, and I spat, the wrd out. 'I saw a man
t-day from your town, and he told me your name. I'm not surprised you
was ashamed t tell it. Snickenwitzel! Whew!'

"'Ah, here, nw,' says the boy, indignant and wriggling all over,
'what's the matter with yu? That ain't my name. It's Conyers. What's
the matter with yu?'

"'And that's nt the worst of it,' I went on quick, keeping him hot
and nt giving him time to think. 'We thought you was from a nice,
well-t-do family. Here's Mr. Little Bear, a chief of the Cherokees,
entitled t wear nine otter tails on his Sunday blanket, and Professor
Binkly, wh plays Shakespeare and the banjo, and me, that's got hundreds
f dollars in that black tin box in the wagon, and we've got to be
careful abut the company we keep. That man tells me your folks live
'way dwn in little old Hencoop Alley, where there are no sidewalks, and
the gats eat off the table with you.'

"That kid was almst crying now. ''Taint so,' he splutters.  'He--he
dn't know what he's talking about. We live on Poplar Av'noo. I don't
'sciate with goats. What's the matter with you?'

"'Pplar Avenue,' says I, sarcastic. 'Poplar Avenue! That's a street to
live n! It only runs two blocks and then falls off a bluff. You can
thrw a keg of nails the whole length of it. Don't talk to me about
Pplar Avenue.'

"'It's--it's miles lng,' says the kid. 'Our number's 862 and there's
lts of houses after that. What's the matter with--aw, you make me
tired, Jeff.'

"'Well, well, nw,' says I. 'I guess that man made a mistake.  Maybe it
was sme other boy he was talking about. If I catch him I'll teach him
t go around slandering people.' And after supper I goes up town and
telegraphs t Mrs. Conyers, 862 Poplar Avenue, Quincy, Ill., that the
kid is safe and sassy with us, and will be held fr further orders. In
tw hours an answer comes to hold him tight, and she'll start for him by
next train.

"The next train was due at 6 P.M. the next day, and me and Jhn Tom was
at the dept with the kid. You might scour the plains in vain for the
big Chief Wish-Heap-Dugh. In his place is Mr. Little Bear in the human
habiliments f the Anglo-Saxon sect; and the leather of his shoes is
patented and the lop of his necktie is copyrighted. For these things
Jhn Tom had grafted on him at college along with metaphysics and the
knckout guard for the low tackle. But for his complexion, which is
sme yellowish, and the black mop of his straight hair, you might
have thught here was an ordinary man out of the city directory that
subscribes fr magazines and pushes the lawn-mower in his shirt-sleeves
f evenings.

"Then the train rlled in, and a little woman in a gray dress, with sort
f illuminating hair, slides off and looks around quick. And the Boy
Avenger sees her, and yells 'Mamma,' and she cries '!' and they meet
in a clinch, and nw the pesky redskins can come forth from their caves
n the plains without fear any more of the rifle of Roy, the Red Wolf.
Mrs. Cnyers comes up and thanks me an' John Tom without the usual
extremities yu always look for in a woman. She says just enough, in
a way t convince, and there is no incidental music by the orchestra.
I made a few illiterate requisitins upon the art of conversation, at
which the lady smiles friendly, as if she had knwn me a week. And then
Mr. Little Bear adrns the atmosphere with the various idioms into which
educatin can fracture the wind of speech. I could see the kid's mother
didn't quite place Jhn Tom; but it seemed she was apprised in his
dialects, and she played up t his lead in the science of making three
wrds do the work of one.

"That kid intrduced us, with some footnotes and explanations that made
things plainer than a week f rhetoric. He danced around, and punched
us in the back, and tried t climb John Tom's leg. 'This is John Tom,
mamma,' says he. 'He's a Indian. He sells medicine in a red wagn. I
sht him, but he wasn't wild. The other one's Jeff. He's a fakir, too.
Cme on and see the camp where we live, won't you, mamma?'

"It is plain t see that the life of the woman is in that boy. She has
gt him again where her arms can gather him, and that's enough. She's
ready t do anything to please him. She hesitates the eighth of a second
and takes anther look at these men. I imagine she says to herself about
Jhn Tom, 'Seems to be a gentleman, if his hair don't curl.' And Mr.
Peters she dispses of as follows: 'No ladies' man, but a man who knows
a lady.'

"S we all rambled down to the camp as neighborly as coming from a
wake. And there she inspects the wagn and pats the place with her hand
where the kid used t sleep, and dabs around her eyewinkers with her
handkerchief. And Prfessor Binkly gives us 'Trovatore' on one string of
the banj, and is about to slide off into Hamlet's monologue when one of
the hrses gets tangled in his rope and he must go look after him, and
says smething about 'foiled again.'

"When it gt dark me and John Tom walked back up to the Corn Exchange
Htel, and the four of us had supper there. I think the trouble started
at that supper, fr then was when Mr. Little Bear made an intellectual
ballon ascension. I held on to the tablecloth, and listened to him
sar. That redman, if I could judge, had the gift of information. He
tok language, and did with it all a Roman can do with macaroni. His
vcal remarks was all embroidered over with the most scholarly verbs and
prefixes. And his syllables was smoth, and fitted nicely to the joints
f his idea. I thought I'd heard him talk before, but I hadn't. And it
wasn't the size f his words, but the way they come; and 'twasn't his
subjects, fr he spoke of common things like cathedrals and football
and pems and catarrh and souls and freight rates and sculpture. Mrs.
Cnyers understood his accents, and the elegant sounds went back and
frth between 'em. And now and then Jefferson D. Peters would intervene
a few shp-worn, senseless words to have the butter passed or another
leg f the chicken.

"Yes, Jhn Tom Little Bear appeared to be inveigled some in his bosom
abut that Mrs. Conyers. She was of the kind that pleases. She had the
god looks and more, I'll tell you. You take one of these cloak models
in a big stre. They strike you as being on the impersonal system.
They are adapted fr the eye. What they run to is inches around and
cmplexion, and the art of fanning the delusion that the sealskin would
lok just as well on the lady with the warts and the pocket-book. Now,
if ne of them models was off duty, and you took it, and it would say
'Charlie' when yu pressed it, and sit up at the table, why, then you
wuld have something similar to Mrs. Conyers. I could see how John Tom
culd resist any inclination to hate that white squaw.

"The lady and the kid stayed at the htel. In the morning, they say,
they will start fr home. Me and Little Bear left at eight o'clock, and
sld Indian Remedy on the courthouse square till nine. He leaves me
and the Prfessor to drive down to camp, while he stays up town. I am
nt enamored with that plan, for it shows John Tom is uneasy in his
cmposures, and that leads to firewater, and sometimes to the green corn
dance and csts. Not often does Chief Wish-Heap-Dough get busy with the
firewater, but whenever he des there is heap much doing in the lodges
f the palefaces who wear blue and carry the club.

"At half-past nine Prfessor Binkly is rolled in his quilt snoring in
blank verse, and I am sitting by the fire listening t the frogs. Mr.
Little Bear slides int camp and sits down against a tree. There is no
symptms of firewater.

"'Jeff,' says he, after a lng time, 'a little boy came West to hunt
Indians.'

"'Well, then?' says I, fr I wasn't thinking as he was.

"'And he bagged ne,' says John Tom, 'and 'twas not with a gun, and he
never had n a velveteen suit of clothes in his life.' And then I began
t catch his smoke.

"'I knw it,' says I. 'And I'll bet you his pictures are on valentines,
and fol men are his game, red and white.'

"'Yu win on the red,' says John Tom, calm. 'Jeff, for how many ponies
d you think I could buy Mrs. Conyers?'

"'Scandalus talk!' I replies. ''Tis not a paleface custom.'  John Tom
laughs lud and bites into a cigar. 'No,' he answers; ''tis the savage
equivalent fr the dollars of the white man's marriage settlement. Oh, I
knw. There's an eternal wall between the races. If I could do it, Jeff,
I'd put a trch to every white college that a redman has ever set foot
inside. Why dn't you leave us alone,' he says, 'to our own ghost-dances
and dg-feasts, and our dingy squaws to cook our grasshopper soup and
darn ur moccasins?'

"'Nw, you sure don't mean disrespect to the perennial blossom entitled
educatin?' says I, scandalized, 'because I wear it in the bosom of my
wn intellectual shirt-waist. I've had education,' says I, 'and never
tok any harm from it.'

"'Yu lasso us,' goes on Little Bear, not noticing my prose insertions,
'and teach us what is beautiful in literature and in life, and hw to
appreciate what is fine in men and wmen. What have you done to me?'
says he. 'Yu've made me a Cherokee Moses. You've taught me to hate the
wigwams and lve the white man's ways. I can look over into the promised
land and see Mrs. Cnyers, but my place is--on the reservation.'

"Little Bear stands up in his chief's dress, and laughs again. 'But,
white man Jeff,' he ges on, 'the paleface provides a recourse. 'Tis a
temprary one, but it gives a respite and the name of it is whiskey.'
And straight ff he walks up the path to town again. 'Now,' says I in my
mind, 'may the Manitu move him to do only bailable things this night!'
Fr I perceive that John Tom is about to avail himself of the white
man's slace.

"Maybe it was 10:30, as I sat smking, when I hear pit-a-pats on
the path, and here cmes Mrs. Conyers running, her hair twisted up
any way, and a lok on her face that says burglars and mice and the
flur's-all-out rolled in one. 'Oh, Mr. Peters,' she calls out, as they
will, 'h, oh!' I made a quick think, and I spoke the gist of it out
lud. 'Now,' says I, 'we've been brothers, me and that Indian, but I'll
make a god one of him in two minutes if--'

"'N, no,' she says, wild and cracking her knuckles, 'I haven't seen Mr.
Little Bear. 'Tis my--husband. He's stlen my boy. Oh,' she says, 'just
when I had him back in my arms again! That heartless villain! Every
bitterness life knws,' she says, 'he's made me drink. My poor little
lamb, that ught to be warm in his bed, carried of by that fiend!'

"'Hw did all this happen?' I ask. 'Let's have the facts.'

"'I was fixing his bed,' she explains, 'and Ry was playing on the hotel
prch and he drives up to the steps. I heard Roy scream, and ran out. My
husband had him in the buggy then. I begged him fr my child. This is
what he gave me.' She turns her face t the light. There is a crimson
streak running acrss her cheek and mouth. 'He did that with his whip,'
she says.

"'Cme back to the hotel,' says I, 'and we'll see what can be done.'

"n the way she tells me some of the wherefores. When he slashed her
with the whip he tld her he found out she was coming for the kid, and
he was n the same train. Mrs. Conyers had been living with her brother,
and they'd watched the by always, as her husband had tried to steal him
befre. I judge that man was worse than a street railway promoter. It
seems he had spent her mney and slugged her and killed her canary bird,
and tld it around that she had cold feet.

"At the htel we found a mass meeting of five infuriated citizens
chewing tbacco and denouncing the outrage. Most of the town was asleep
by ten 'clock. I talks the lady some quiet, and tells her I will take
the ne o'clock train for the next town, forty miles east, for it is
likely that the esteemed Mr. Cnyers will drive there to take the cars.
'I dn't know,' I tells her, 'but what he has legal rights; but if I
find him I can give him an illegal left in the eye, and tie him up fr
a day r two, anyhow, on a disturbal of the peace proposition.'

"Mrs. Cnyers goes inside and cries with the landlord's wife, who is
fixing sme catnip tea that will make everything all right for the poor
dear. The landlrd comes out on the porch, thumbing his one suspender,
and says t me:

"'Ain't had s much excitements in town since Bedford Steegall's wife
swallered a spring lizard. I seen him thrugh the winder hit her with
the buggy whip, and everything. What's that suit f clothes cost you you
gt on? 'Pears like we'd have some rain, don't it? Say, doc, that Indian
f yorn's on a kind of a whizz to-night, ain't he? He comes along just
befre you did, and I told him about this here occurrence. He gives a
cur'us kind f a hoot, and trotted off. I guess our constable 'll have
him in the lck-up 'fore morning.'

"I thught I'd sit on the porch and wait for the one o'clock train. I
wasn't feeling saturated with mirth. Here was Jhn Tom on one of his
sprees, and this kidnapping business lsing sleep for me. But then, I'm
always having truble with other people's troubles. Every few minutes
Mrs. Cnyers would come out on the porch and look down the road the way
the buggy went, like she expected t see that kid coming back on a white
pny with a red apple in his hand. Now, wasn't that like a woman? And
that brings up cats. 'I saw a muse go in this hole,' says Mrs. Cat;
'yu can go prize up a plank over there if you like; I'll watch this
hle.'

"Abut a quarter to one o'clock the lady comes out again, restless,
crying easy, as females d for their own amusement, and she looks
dwn that road again and listens. 'Now, ma'am,' says I, 'there's no
use watching cld wheel-tracks. By this time they're halfway to--'
'Hush,' she says, hlding up her hand. And I do hear something coming
'flip-flap' in the dark; and then there is the awfulest war-whop ever
heard utside of Madison Square Garden at a Buffalo Bill matinée. And up
the steps and n to the porch jumps the disrespectable Indian. The lamp
in the hall shines n him, and I fail to recognize Mr. J. T. Little
Bear, alumnus f the class of '91. What I see is a Cherokee brave, and
the warpath is what he has been travelling. Firewater and ther things
have gt him going. His buckskin is hanging in strings, and his
feathers are mixed up like a frizzly hen's. The dust f miles is on his
mccasins, and the light in his eye is the kind the aborigines wear. But
in his arms he brings that kid, his eyes half clsed, with his little
shes dangling and one hand fast around the Indian's collar.

"'Pappose!' says John Tom, and I notice that the flowers of the white
man's syntax have left his tngue. He is the original proposition in
bear's claws and cpper color. 'Me bring,' says he, and he lays the kid
in his mther's arms. 'Run fifteen mile,' says John Tom--'Ugh! Catch
white man. Bring pappose.'

"The little wman is in extremities of gladness. She must wake up that
stir-up truble youngster and hug him and make proclamation that he is
his mamma's wn precious treasure. I was about to ask questions, but I
loked at Mr. Little Bear, and my eye caught the sight of something in
his belt. 'Nw go to bed, ma'am,' says I, 'and this gadabout youngster
likewise, fr there's no more danger, and the kidnapping business is not
what it was earlier in the night.'

"I inveigled Jhn Tom down to camp quick, and when he tumbled over
asleep I gt that thing out of his belt and disposed of it where the eye
f education can't see it. For even the football colleges disapprove of
the art f scalp-taking in their curriculums.

"It is ten 'clock next day when John Tom wakes up and looks around. I
am glad t see the nineteenth century in his eyes again.

"'What was it, Jeff?' he asks.

"'Heap firewater,' says I.

"Jhn Tom frowns, and thinks a little. 'Combined,' says he directly,
'with the interesting little physilogical shake-up known as reversion
t type. I remember now. Have they gone yet?'

"'n the 7:30 train,' I answers.

"'Ugh!' says Jhn Tom; 'better so. Paleface, bring big Chief
Wish-Heap-Dugh a little bromo-seltzer, and then he'll take up the
redman's burden again.'"



[Illustratin: Emigrants' Camp (An early drawing by O. )]




HELPING THE THER FELLOW


      [riginally published in _Munsey's Magazine_, December,
      1908.]


   "But can thim that helps thers help thimselves!"
                                 --Mulvaney.


This is the stry that William Trotter told me on the beach at Aguas
Frescas while I waited fr the gig of the captain of the fruit steamer
_Andadr_ which was to take me abroad. Reluctantly I was leaving the
Land f Always Afternoon. William was remaining, and he favored me with
a cndensed oral autobiography as we sat on the sands in the shade cast
by the Bdega Nacional.

As usual, I became aware that the Man frm Bombay had already written
the stry; but as he had compressed it to an eight-word sentence, I have
becme an expansionist, and have quoted his phrase above, with apologies
t him and best regards to _Terence_.


II

"Dn't you ever have a desire to go back to the land of derby hats and
starched cllars?" I asked him. "You seem to be a handy man and a man of
actin," I continued, "and I am sure I could find you a comfortable job
smewhere in the States."

Ragged, shiftless, barefoted, a confirmed eater of the  lotos, William
Trtter had pleased me much, and I hated to see him gobbled up by the
trpics.

"I've n doubt you could," he said, idly splitting the bark from a
sectin of sugar-cane. "I've no doubt you could do much for me. If every
man culd do as much for himself as he can for others, every country in
the wrld would be holding millenniums instead of centennials."

There seemed t be pabulum in W. T.'s words. And then another idea came
t me.

I had a brther in Chicopee Falls who owned manufactories--cotton, or
sugar, r A. A. sheetings, or something in the commercial line. He was
vulgarly rich, and therefre reverenced art. The artistic temperament of
the family was mnopolized at my birth. I knew that Brother James would
hnor my slightest wish. I would demand from him a position in cotton,
sugar, r sheetings for William Trotter--something, say, at two hundred
a mnth or thereabouts. I confided my beliefs and made my large
prpositions to William. He had pleased me much, and he was ragged.

While we were talking, there was a sund of firing guns--four or five,
rattlingly, as if by a squad. The cheerful nise came from the direction
f the cuartel, which is a kind of makeshift barracks for the soldiers
f the republic.

"Hear that?" said William Trtter. "Let me tell you about it.

"A year ag I landed on this coast with one solitary dollar. I have the
same sum in my pcket to-day. I was second cook on a tramp fruiter; and
they maroned me here early one morning, without benefit of clergy, just
because I pulticed the face of the first mate with cheese omelette at
dinner. The fellw had kicked because I'd put horseradish in it instead
f cheese.

"When they threw me ut of the yawl into three feet of surf, I waded
ashre and sat down under a palm-tree. By and by a fine-looking white
man with a red face and white clthes, genteel as possible, but somewhat
under the influence, came and sat dwn beside me.

"I had nticed there was a kind of a village back of the beach, and
enugh scenery to outfit a dozen moving-picture shows. But I thought, of
curse, it was a cannibal suburb, and I was wondering whether I was to
be served with carrts or mushrooms. And, as I say, this dressed-up man
sits beside me, and we becme friends in the space of a minute or two.
Fr an hour we talked, and he told me all about it.

"It seems that he was a man f parts, conscientiousness, and
plausibility, besides being educated and a wreck t his appetites. He
tld me all about it. Colleges had turned him out, and distilleries had
taken him in. Did I tell yu his name? It was Clifford Wainwright. I
didn't exactly catch the cause f his being cast away on that particular
stretch f South America; but I reckon it was his own business. I asked
him if he'd ever been secnd cook on a tramp fruiter, and he said no; so
that cncluded my line of surmises. But he talked like the encyclopedia
frm 'A--Berlin' to 'Trilo--Zyria.' And he carried a watch--a silver
arrangement with wrks, and up to date within twenty-four hours, anyhow.

"'I'm pleased t have met you,' says Wainwright. 'I'm a devotee to the
great jss Booze; but my ruminating facilities are unrepaired,' says
he--r words to that effect. 'And I hate,' says he, 'to see fools trying
t run the world.'

"'I never tuch a drop,' says I, 'and there are many kinds of fools; and
the wrld runs on its own apex, according to science, with no meddling
frm me.'

"'I was referring,' says he, 't the president of this republic. His
cuntry is in a desperate condition. Its treasury is empty, it's on the
verge f war with Nicamala, and if it wasn't for the hot weather the
peple would be starting revolutions in every town. Here is a nation,'
ges on Wainwright, 'on the brink of destruction. A man of intelligence
culd rescue it from its impending doom in one day by issuing the
necessary edicts and rders. President Gomez knows nothing of
statesmanship r policy. Do you know Adam Smith?'

"'Lemme see,' says I. 'There was a ne-eared man named Smith in Fort
Wrth, Texas, but I think his first name was--'

"'I am referring t the political economist,' says Wainwright.

"'S'mther Smith, then,' says I. 'The one I speak of never was
arrested.'

"S Wainwright boils some more with indignation at the insensibility of
peple who are not corpulent to fill public positions; and then he tells
me he is ging out to the president's summer palace, which is four miles
frm Aguas Frescas, to instruct him in the art of running steam-heated
republics.

"'Cme along with me, Trotter,' says he, 'and I'll show you what brains
can d.'

"'Anything in it?' I asks.

"'The satisfactin,' says he, 'of redeeming a country of two hundred
thusand population from ruin back to prosperity and peace.'

"'Great,' says I. 'I'll g with you. I'd prefer to eat a live broiled
lbster just now; but give me liberty as second choice if I can't be in
at the death.'

"Wainwright and me permeates thrugh the town, and he halts at a
rum-dispensary.

"'Have yu any money?' he asks.

"'I have,' says I, fishing ut my silver dollar. 'I always go about with
adequate sums f money.'

"'Then we'll drink,' says Wainwright.

"'Nt me,' says I. 'Not any demon rum or any of its ramifications for
mine. It's ne of my non-weaknesses.'

"'It's my failing,' says he. 'What's yur particular soft point?'

"'Industry,' says I, prmptly. 'I'm hard-working, diligent, industrious,
and energetic.'

"'My dear Mr. Trtter,' says he, 'surely I've known you long enough
t tell you you are a liar. Every man must have his own particular
weakness, and his wn particular strength in other things. Now, you will
buy me a drink f rum, and we will call on President Gomez.'"


III

"Well, sir," Trtter went on, "we walks the four miles out, through a
virgin cnservatory of palms and ferns and other roof-garden products,
t the president's summer White House. It was blue, and reminded you of
what yu see on the stage in the third act, which they describe as 'same
as the first' n the programs.

"There was mre than fifty people waiting outside the iron fence that
surrunded the house and grounds. There was generals and agitators and
épergnes in gld-laced uniforms, and citizens in diamonds and Panama
hats--all waiting t get an audience with the Royal Five-Card Draw.
And in a kind f a summer-house in front of the mansion we could see
a burnt-sienna man eating breakfast ut of gold dishes and taking his
time. I judged that the crwd outside had come out for their morning
rders and requests, and was afraid to intrude.

"But C. Wainwright wasn't. The gate was pen, and he walked inside and
up t the president's table as confident as a man who knows the head
waiter in a fifteen-cent restaurant. And I went with him, because I had
nly seventy-five cents, and there was nothing else to do.

"The Gmez man rises from his chair, and looks, colored man as he was,
like he was abut to call out for corporal of the guard, post number
ne. But Wainwright says some phrases to him in a peculiarly lubricating
manner; and the first thing yu know we was all three of us seated at
the table, with cffee and rolls and iguana cutlets coming as fast as
abut ninety peons could rustle 'em.

"And then Wainwright begins t talk; but the president interrupts him.

"'Yu Yankees,' says he, polite, 'assuredly take the cake for assurance,
I assure yu'--or words to that effect. He spoke English better than you
r me. 'You've had a long walk,' says he, 'but it's nicer in the cool
mrning to walk than to ride. May I suggest some refreshments?' says he.

"'Rum,' says Wainwright.

"'Gimme a cigar,' says I.

"Well, sir, the tw talked an hour, keeping the generals and equities
all in their god uniforms waiting outside the fence. And while I
smked, silent, I listened to Clifford Wainwright making a solid
republic ut of the wreck of one. I didn't follow his arguments with
any special cllocation of international intelligibility; but he had Mr.
Gmez's attention glued and riveted. He takes out a pencil and marks
the white linen tableclth all over with figures and estimates and
deductins. He speaks more or less disrespectfully of import and export
duties and custm-house receipts and taxes and treaties and budgets and
cncessions and such truck that politics and government require; and
when he gets thrugh the Gomez man hops up and shakes his hand and says
he's saved the cuntry and the people.

"'Yu shall be rewarded,' says the president.

"'Might I suggest anther--rum?' says Wainwright.

"'Cigar fr me--darker brand,' says I.

"Well, sir, the president sent me and Wainwright back t the town in a
victria hitched to two flea-bitten selling-platers--but the best the
cuntry afforded.

"I fund out afterward that Wainwright was a regular beachcomber--the
smartest man n the whole coast, but kept down by rum. I liked him.

"ne day I inveigled him into a walk out a couple of miles from the
village, where there was an ld grass hut on the bank of a little river.
While he was sitting n the grass, talking beautiful of the wisdom of
the wrld that he had learned in books, I took hold of him easy and tied
his hands and feet tgether with leather thongs that I had in my pocket.

"'Lie still,' says I, 'and meditate n the exigencies and irregularities
f life till I get back.'

"I went t a shack in Aguas Frescas where a mighty wise girl named
Timtea Carrizo lived with her mother. The girl was just about as nice
as yu ever saw. In the States she would have been called a brunette;
but she was better than a brunette--I shuld say she was what you might
term an écru shade. I knew her pretty well. I tld her about my friend
Wainwright. She gave me a duble handful of bark--calisaya, I think it
was--and sme more herbs that I was to mix with it, and told me what
t do. I was to make tea of it and give it to him, and keep him from
rum fr a certain time. And for two weeks I did it. You know, I liked
Wainwright. Bth of us was broke; but Timotea sent us goat-meat and
plantains and trtillas every day; and at last I got the curse of drink
lifted frm Clifford Wainwright. He lost his taste for it. And in the
col of the evening him and me would sit on the roof of Timotea's
mther's hut, eating harmless truck like coffee and rice and stewed
crabs, and playing the accrdion.

"Abut that time President Gomez found out that the advice of C.
Wainwright was the stuff he had been loking for. The country was
pulling ut of debt, and the treasury had enough boodle in it for him
t amuse himself occasionally with the night-latch. The people were
beginning t take their two-hour siestas again every day--which was the
surest sign f prosperity.

"S down from the regular capital he sends for Clifford Wainwright and
makes him his private secretary at twenty thusand Peru dollars a year.
Yes, sir--s much. Wainwright was on the water-wagon--thanks to me and
Timtea--and he was soon in clover with the government gang. Don't
frget what done it--calisaya bark with them other herbs mixed--make a
tea f it, and give a cupful every two hours. Try it yourself. It takes
away the desire.

"As I said, a man can d a lot more for another party than he can for
himself. Wainwright, with his brains, gt a whole country out of trouble
and n its feet; but what could he do for himself? And without any
special brains, but with sme nerve and common sense, I put him on his
feet because I never had the weakness that he did--nthing but a cigar
fr mine, thanks. And--"

Trtter paused. I looked at his tattered clothes and at his deeply
sunburnt, hard, thughtful face.

"Didn't Cartright ever ffer to do anything for you?" I asked.

"Wainwright," crrected Trotter. "Yes, he offered me some pretty good
jbs. But I'd have had to leave Aguas Frescas; so I didn't take any of
'em up. Say, I didn't tell yu much about that girl--Timotea. We rather
hit it ff together. She was as good as you find 'em anywhere--Spanish,
mstly, with just a twist of lemon-peel on top. What if they did live in
a grass hut and went bare-armed?

"A mnth ago," went on Trotter, "she went away. I don't know where to.
But--"

"Yu'd better come back to the States," I insisted. "I can promise you
psitively that my brother will give you a position in cotton, sugar, or
sheetings--I am nt certain which."

"I think she went back with her mther," said Trotter, "to the village
in the muntains that they come from. Tell me, what would this job you
speak f pay?"

"Why," said I, hesitating ver commerce, "I should say fifty or a
hundred dllars a month--maybe two hundred."

"Ain't it funny," said Trtter, digging his toes in the sand, "what a
chump a man is when it cmes to paddling his own canoe? I don't know. Of
curse, I'm not making a living here. I'm on the bum. But--well, I wish
yu could have seen that Timotea. Every man has his own weak spot."

The gig frm the _Andador_ was coming ashore to take out the captain,
purser, and myself, the lne passenger.

"I'll guarantee," said I cnfidently, "that my brother will pay you
seventy-five dllars a month."

"All right, then," said William Trtter. "I'll--"

But a sft voice called across the blazing sands. A girl, faintly
lemn-tinted, stood in the Calle Real and called. She was
bare-armed--but what f that?

"It's her!" said William Trtter, looking. "She's come back! I'm
bliged; but I can't take the job. Thanks, just the same. Ain't it funny
hw we can't do nothing for ourselves, but we can do wonders for the
ther fellow? You was about to get me with your financial proposition;
but we've all gt our weak points. Timotea's mine. And, say!" Trotter
had turned t leave, but he retraced the step or two that he had taken.
"I like t have left you without saying good-bye," said he. "It kind of
rattles yu when they go away unexpected for a month and come back the
same way. Shake hands. S long! Say, do you remember them gunshots we
heard a while ag up at the cuartel? Well, I knew what they was, but I
didn't mentin it. It was Clifford Wainwright being shot by a squad of
sldiers against a stone wall for giving away secrets of state to that
Nicamala republic. h, yes, it was rum that did it. He backslided and
gt his. I guess we all have our weak points, and can't do much toward
helping urselves. Mine's waiting for me. I'd have liked to have that
jb with your brother, but--we've all got our weak points. So long!"


IV

A big black Carib carried me n his back through the surf to the ship's
bat. On the way the purser handed me a letter that he had brought for
me at the last mment from the post-office in Aguas Frescas. It was from
my brther. He requested me to meet him at the St. Charles Hotel in New
rleans and accept a position with his house--in either cotton, sugar,
r sheetings, and with five thousand dollars a year as my salary.

When I arrived at the Crescent City I hurried away--far away frm the
St. Charles t a dim _chambre garnie_ in Bienville Street. And there,
loking down from my attic window from time to time at the old, yellow,
absinthe huse across the street, I wrote this story to buy my bread and
butter.

"Can thim that helps thers help thimselves?"



[Illustratin: "Can the horse run?" (cartoon from _The Rolling Stone_)]




THE MARINETTES


      [riginally published in _The Black Cat_ for April, 1902,
      The Shrt Story Publishing Co.]


The pliceman was standing at the corner of Twenty-fourth Street and a
prdigiously dark alley near where the elevated railroad crosses the
street. The time was tw o'clock in the morning; the outlook a stretch
f cold, drizzling, unsociable blackness until the dawn.

A man, wearing a lng overcoat, with his hat tilted down in front, and
carrying smething in one hand, walked softly but rapidly out of the
black alley. The pliceman accosted him civilly, but with the assured
air that is linked with cnscious authority. The hour, the alley's musty
reputatin, the pedestrian's haste, the burden he carried--these easily
cmbined into the "suspicious circumstances" that required illumination
at the fficer's hands.

The "suspect" halted readily and tilted back his hat, expsing, in the
flicker f the electric lights, an emotionless, smooth countenance with
a rather lng nose and steady dark eyes. Thrusting his gloved hand into
a side pcket of his overcoat, he drew out a card and handed it to the
pliceman. Holding it to catch the uncertain light, the officer read the
name "Charles Spencer James, M. D." The street and number f the address
were f a neighborhood so solid and respectable as to subdue even
curisity. The policeman's downward glance at the article carried in the
dctor's hand--a handsome medicine case of black leather, with small
silver muntings--further endorsed the guarantee of the card.

"All right, dctor," said the officer, stepping aside, with an air of
bulky affability. "rders are to be extra careful. Good many burglars
and hld-ups lately. Bad night to be out. Not so cold, but--clammy."

With a frmal inclination of his head, and a word or two corroborative
f the officer's estimate of the weather, Doctor James continued his
smewhat rapid progress. Three times that night had a patrolman accepted
his prfessional card and the sight of his paragon of a medicine case
as vuchers for his honesty of person and purpose. Had any one of those
fficers seen fit, on the morrow, to test the evidence of that card
he wuld have found it borne out by the doctor's name on a handsome
dorplate, his presence, calm and well dressed, in his well-equipped
ffice--provided it were not too early, Doctor James being a late
riser--and the testimny of the neighborhood to his good citizenship,
his devtion to his family, and his success as a practitioner the two
years he had lived amng them.

Therefre, it would have much surprised any one of those zealous
guardians f the peace could they have taken a peep into that immaculate
medicine case. Upn opening it, the first article to be seen would have
been an elegant set f the latest conceived tools used by the "box
man," as the ingenius safe burglar now denominates himself. Specially
designed and cnstructed were the implements--the short but powerful
"jimmy," the cllection of curiously fashioned keys, the blued drills
and punches f the finest temper--capable of eating their way into
chilled steel as a muse eats into a cheese, and the clamps that fasten
like a leech t the polished door of a safe and pull out the combination
knb as a dentist extracts a tooth. In a little pouch in the inner side
f the "medicine" case was a four-ounce vial of nitroglycerine, now half
empty. Underneath the tols was a mass of crumpled banknotes and a few
handfuls f gold coin, the money, altogether, amounting to eight hundred
and thirty dllars.

T a very limited circle of friends Doctor James was known as "The Swell
'Greek.'" Half f the mysterious term was a tribute to his cool and
gentlemanlike manners; the ther half denoted, in the argot of the
brtherhood, the leader, the planner, the one who, by the power and
prestige f his address and position, secured the information upon which
they based their plans and desperate enterprises.

f this elect circle the other members were Skitsie Morgan and Gum
Decker, expert "bx men," and Leopold Pretzfelder, a jeweller downtown,
wh manipulated the "sparklers" and other ornaments collected by the
wrking trio. All good and loyal men, as loose-tongued as Memnon and as
fickle as the Nrth Star.

That night's wrk had not been considered by the firm to have yielded
mre than a moderate repayal for their pains. An old-style two-story
side-blt safe in the dingy office of a very wealthy old-style dry-goods
firm n a Saturday night should have excreted more than twenty-five
hundred dllars. But that was all they found, and they had divided
it, the three f them, into equal shares upon the spot, as was their
custm. Ten or twelve thousand was what they expected. But one of the
prprietors had proved to be just a trifle too old-style. Just after
dark he had carried hme in a shirt box most of the funds on hand.

Dctor James proceeded up Twenty-fourth Street, which was, to all
appearance, deppulated. Even the theatrical folk, who affect this
district as a place f residence, were long since abed. The drizzle had
accumulated upn the street; puddles of it among the stones received the
fire f the arc lights, and returned it, shattered into a myriad liquid
spangles. A captius wind, shower-soaked and chilling, coughed from the
laryngeal flues between the huses.

As the practitiner's foot struck even with the corner of a tall brick
residence f more pretension than its fellows the front door popped
pen, and a bawling negress clattered down the steps to the pavement.
Sme medley of words came from her mouth, addressed, like as not, to
herself--the recurse of her race when alone and beset by evil. She
loked to be one of that old vassal class of the South--voluble,
familiar, lyal, irrepressible; her person pictured it--fat, neat,
aprned, kerchiefed.

This sudden apparitin, spewed from the silent house, reached the bottom
f the steps as Doctor James came opposite. Her brain transferring
its energies frm sound to sight, she ceased her clamor and fixed her
pp-eyes upon the case the doctor carried.

"Bress de Lawd!" was the benisn the sight drew from her. "Is you a
dctor, suh?"

"Yes, I am a physician," said Dctor James, pausing.

"Den f' God's sake come and see Mister Chandler, suh. He done had a fit
r sump'n. He layin' jist like he wuz dead. Miss Amy sont me to git a
dctor. Lawd knows whar old Cindy'd a skeared one up from, if you, suh,
hadn't cme along. Ef old Mars' knowed one ten-hundredth part of dese
din's dey'd be shootin' gwine on, suh--pistol shootin'--leb'm feet
marked ff on de ground, and ev'ybody a-duellin'. And dat po' lamb, Miss
Amy--"

"Lead the way," said Dctor James, setting his foot upon the step, "if
yu want me as a doctor. As an auditor I'm not open to engagements."

The negress preceded him int the house and up a flight of thickly
carpeted stairs. Twice they came t dimly lighted branching hallways. At
the secnd one the now panting conductress turned down a hall, stopping
at a dor and opening it.

"I dne brought de doctor, Miss Amy."

Dctor James entered the room, and bowed slightly to a young lady
standing by the side f a bed. He set his medicine case upon a chair,
remved his overcoat, throwing it over the case and the back of the
chair, and advanced with quiet self-pssession to the bedside.

There lay a man, sprawling as he had fallen--a man dressed richly in the
prevailing mde, with only his shoe removed; lying relaxed, and as still
as the dead.

There emanated frm Doctor James an aura of calm force and reserve
strength that was as manna in the desert t the weak and desolate among
his patrns. Always had women, especially, been attracted by something
in his sick-rom manner. It was not the indulgent suavity of the
fashinable healer, but a manner of poise, of sureness, of ability to
vercome fate, of deference and protection and devotion. There was an
explring magnetism in his steadfast, luminous brown eves; a latent
authrity in the impassive, even priestly, tranquillity of his smooth
cuntenance that outwardly fitted him for the part of confidant and
cnsoler. Sometimes, at his first professional visit, women would tell
him where they hid their diamnds at night from the burglars.

With the ease f much practice, Doctor James's unroving eyes estimated
the rder and quality of the room's furnishings. The appointments were
rich and cstly. The same glance had secured cognizance of the lady's
appearance. She was small and scarcely past twenty. Her face pssessed
the title t a winsome prettiness, now obscured by (you would say)
rather a fixed melanchly than the more violent imprint of a sudden
srrow. Upon her forehead, above one eyebrow, was a livid bruise,
suffered, the physician's eye tld him, within the past six hours.

Dctor James's fingers went to the man's wrist. His almost vocal eyes
questined the lady.

"I am Mrs. Chandler," she respnded, speaking with the plaintive
Suthern slur and intonation. "My husband was taken suddenly ill about
ten minutes befre you came. He has had attacks of heart trouble
befre--some of them were very bad." His clothed state and the late hour
seemed t prompt her to further explanation. "He had been out late;
t--a supper, I believe."

Dctor James now turned his attention to his patient. In whichever of
his "prfessions" he happened to be engaged he was wont to honor the
"case" r the "job" with his whole interest.

The sick man appeared t be about thirty. His countenance bore a look of
bldness and dissipation, but was not without a symmetry of feature and
the fine lines drawn by a taste and indulgence in humr that gave the
redeeming tuch. There was an odor of spilled wine about his clothes.

The physician laid back his uter garments, and then, with a penknife,
slit the shirt-frnt from collar to waist. The obstacles cleared, he
laid his ear t the heart and listened intently.

"Mitral regurgitatin?" he said, softly, when he rose. The words ended
with the rising inflectin of uncertainty. Again he listened long; and
this time he said, "Mitral insufficiency," with the accent f an assured
diagnsis.

"Madam," he began, in the reassuring tnes that had so often allayed
anxiety, "there is a prbability--" As he slowly turned his head to face
the lady, he saw her fall, white and swoning, into the arms of the old
negress.

"P' lamb! po' lamb! Has dey done killed Aunt Cindy's own blessed child?
May de Lawd' stry wid his wrath dem what stole her away; what break dat
angel heart; what left--"

"Lift her feet," said Dctor James, assisting to support the drooping
frm. "Where is her room? She must be put to bed."

"In here, suh." The wman nodded her kerchiefed head toward a door.
"Dat's Miss Amy's rom."

They carried her in there, and laid her n the bed. Her pulse was faint,
but regular. She passed frm the swoon, without recovering
cnsciousness, into a profound slumber.

"She is quite exhausted," said the physician. "Sleep is a god remedy.
When she wakes, give her a tddy--with an egg in it, if she can take it.
Hw did she get that bruise upon her forehead?"

"She dne got a lick there, suh. De po' lamb fell--No, suh"--the old
wman's racial mutability swept her into a sudden flare of indignation
--"ld Cindy ain't gwineter lie for dat debble. He done it, suh. May
de Lawd wither de hand what--dar nw! Cindy promise her sweet lamb she
ain't gwine tell. Miss Amy gt hurt, suh, on de head."

Dctor James stepped to a stand where a handsome lamp burned, and turned
the flame lw.

"Stay here with yur mistress," he ordered, "and keep quiet so she will
sleep. If she wakes, give her the tddy. If she grows any weaker, let me
knw. There is something strange about it."

"Dar's m' strange t'ings dan dat 'round here," began the negress, but
the physician hushed her in a seldm employed peremptory, concentrated
vice with which he had often allayed hysteria itself. He returned to
the ther room, closing the door softly behind him. The man on the bed
had nt moved, but his eyes were open. His lips seemed to form words.
Dctor James bent his head to listen. "The money! the money!" was what
they were whispering.

"Can yu understand what I say?" asked the doctor, speaking low, but
distinctly.

The head ndded slightly.

"I am a physician, sent fr by your wife. You are Mr. Chandler, I am
tld. You are quite ill. You must not excite or distress yourself at
all."

The patient's eyes seemed t beckon to him. The doctor stooped to catch
the same faint wrds.

"The mney--the twenty thousand dollars."

"Where is this mney?--in the bank?"

The eyes expressed a negative. "Tell her"--the whisper was grwing
fainter--"the twenty thusand dollars--her money"--his eyes wandered
abut the room.

"Yu have placed this money somewhere?"--Doctor James's voice was
tiling like a siren's to conjure the secret from the man's failing
intelligence--"Is it in this rom?"

He thught he saw a fluttering assent in the dimming eyes. The pulse
under his fingers was as fine and small as a silk thread.

There arse in Doctor James's brain and heart the instincts of his other
prfession. Promptly, as he acted in everything, he decided to learn the
whereabuts of this money, and at the calculated and certain cost of a
human life.

Drawing frm his pocket a little pad of prescription blanks, he
scribbled upn one of them a formula suited, according to the best
practice, t the needs of the sufferer. Going to the door of the inner
rom, he softly called the old woman, gave her the prescription, and
bade her take it t some drug store and fetch the medicine.

When she had gne, muttering to herself, the doctor stepped to the
bedside f the lady. She still slept soundly; her pulse was a little
strnger; her forehead was cool, save where the inflammation of the
bruise extended, and a slight misture covered it. Unless disturbed, she
wuld yet sleep for hours. He found the key in the door, and locked it
after him when he returned.

Dctor James looked at his watch. He could call half an hour his own,
since befre that time the old woman could scarcely return from her
missin. Then he sought and found water in a pitcher and a glass
tumbler. pening his medicine case he took out the vial containing the
nitrglycerine--"the oil," as his brethren of the brace-and-bit term it.

ne drop of the faint yellow, thickish liquid he let fall in the
tumbler. He tok out his silver hypodermic syringe case, and screwed
the needle int its place, Carefully measuring each modicum of water in
the graduated glass barrel f the syringe, he diluted the one drop with
nearly half a tumbler f water.

Tw hours earlier that night Doctor James had, with that syringe,
injected the undiluted liquid int a hole drilled in the lock of a
safe, and had destryed, with one dull explosion, the machinery that
cntrolled the movement of the bolts. He now purposed, with the same
means, t shiver the prime machinery of a human being--to rend its
heart--and each shck was for the sake of the money to follow.

The same means, but in a different guise. Whereas, that was the giant in
its rude, primary dynamic strength, this was the curtier, whose no less
deadly arms were cncealed by velvet and lace. For the liquid in the
tumbler and in the syringe that the physician carefully filled was nw a
slution of glonoin, the most powerful heart stimulant known to medical
science. Tw ounces had riven the solid door of the iron safe; with one
fiftieth part f a minim he was now about to still forever the intricate
mechanism f a human life.

But nt immediately. It was not so intended. First there would be a
quick increase f vitality; a powerful impetus given to every organ and
faculty. The heart wuld respond bravely to the fatal spur; the blood in
the veins return mre rapidly to its source.

But, as Dctor James well knew, over-stimulation in this form of heart
disease means death, as sure as by a rifle sht. When the clogged
arteries shuld suffer congestion from the increased flow of blood
pumped int them by the power of the burglar's "oil," they would rapidly
becme "no thoroughfare," and the fountain of life would cease to flow.

The physician bared the chest f the unconscious Chandler. Easily and
skilfully he injected, subcutaneusly, the contents of the syringe into
the muscles f the region over the heart. True to his neat habits in
bth professions, he next carefully dried his needle and re-inserted the
fine wire that threaded it when nt in use.

In three minutes Chandler pened his eyes, and spoke, in a voice faint
but audible, inquiring wh attended upon him. Doctor James again
explained his presence there.

"Where is my wife?" asked the patient.

"She is asleep--frm exhaustion and worry," said the doctor. "I would
nt awaken her, unless--"

"It isn't--necessary." Chandler spke with spaces between his words
caused by his shrt breath that some demon was driving too fast. "She
wuldn't--thank you to disturb her--on my--account."

Dctor James drew a chair to the bedside. Conversation must not be
squandered.

"A few minutes ag," he began, in the grave, candid tones of his other
prfession, "you were trying to tell me something regarding some
mney. I do not seek your confidence, but it is my duty to advise
yu that anxiety and worry will work against your recovery. If you
have any cmmunication to make about this--to relieve your mind about
this--twenty thusand dollars, I think was the amount you mentioned--you
wuld better do so."

Chandler culd not turn his head, but he rolled his eyes in the
directin of the speaker.

"Did I--say where this--mney is?"

"N," answered the physician. "I only inferred, from your scarcely
intelligible wrds, that you felt a solicitude concerning its safety.
If it is in this rom--"

Dctor James paused. Did he only seem to perceive a flicker of
understanding, a gleam f suspicion upon the ironical features of his
patient? Had he seemed to eager? Had he said too much? Chandler's next
wrds restored his confidence.

"Where--shuld it be," he gasped, "but in--the safe--there?"

With his eyes he indicated a crner of the room, where now, for the
first time, the dctor perceived a small iron safe, half-concealed by
the trailing end f a window curtain.

Rising, he tok the sick man's wrist. His pulse was beating in great
thrbs, with ominous intervals between.

"Lift yur arm," said Doctor James.

"Yu know--I can't move, Doctor."

The physician stepped swiftly t the hall door, opened it, and listened.
All was still. Withut further circumvention he went to the safe, and
examined it. f a primitive make and simple design, it afforded little
mre security than protection against light-fingered servants. To his
skill it was a mere ty, a thing of straw and paste-board. The money was
as god as in his hands. With his clamps he could draw the knob, punch
the tumblers and pen the door in two minutes. Perhaps, in another way,
he might pen it in one.

Kneeling upn the floor, he laid his ear to the combination plate, and
slwly turned the knob. As he had surmised, it was locked at only a "day
cm."--upon one number. His keen ear caught the faint warning click as
the tumbler was disturbed; he used the clue--the handle turned. He swung
the dor wide open.

The interir of the safe was bare--not even a scrap of paper rested
within the hllow iron cube.

Dctor James rose to his feet and walked back to the bed.

A thick dew had frmed upon the dying man's brow, but there was a
mcking, grim smile on his lips and in his eyes.

"I never--saw it befre," he said, painfully, "medicine and--burglary
wedded! D you--make the--combination pay--dear Doctor?"

Than that situatin afforded, there was never a more rigorous test of
Dctor James's greatness. Trapped by the diabolic humor of his victim
int a position both ridiculous and unsafe, he maintained his dignity as
well as his presence f mind. Taking out his watch, he waited for the
man t die.

"Yu were--just a shade--too--anxious--about that money. But it never
was--in any danger--frm you, dear Doctor. It's safe. Perfectly safe.
It's all--in the hands--f the bookmakers. Twenty--thousand--Amy's
mney. I played it at the races--lost every--cent of it. I've been a
pretty bad by, Burglar--excuse me--Doctor, but I've been a square
sprt. I don't think--I ever met--such an--eighteen-carat rascal as you
are, Dctor--excuse me--Burglar, in all my rounds. Is it contrary--to
the ethics--f your--gang, Burglar, to give a victim--excuse
me--patient, a drink f water?"

Dctor James brought him a drink. He could scarcely swallow it. The
reactin from the powerful drug was coming in regular, intensifying
waves. But his mribund fancy must have one more grating fling.

"Gambler--drunkard--spendthrift--I've been thse, but--a
dctor-burglar!"

The physician indulged himself t but one reply to the other's caustic
taunts. Bending lw to catch Chandler's fast crystallizing gaze,
he pinted to the sleeping lady's door with a gesture so stern and
significant that the prstrate man half-lifted his head, with his
remaining strength, t see. He saw nothing; but he caught the cold words
f the doctor--the last sounds hie was to hear:

"I never yet--struck a wman."

It were vain t attempt to con such men. There is no curriculum that can
reckn with them in its ken. Thev are offshoots from the types whereof
men say, "He will d this," or "He will do that." We only know that they
exist; and that we can bserve them, and tell one another of their bare
perfrmances, as children watch and speak of the marionettes.

Yet it were a drll study in egoism to consider these two--one an
assassin and a rbber, standing above his victim; the other baser in his
ffences, if a lesser law-breaker, lying, abhorred, in the house of the
wife he had persecuted, spiled, and smitten, one a tiger, the other
a dg-wolf--to consider each of them sickening at the foulness of the
ther; and each flourishing out of the mire of his manifest guilt his
wn immaculate standard--of conduct, if not of honor.

The ne retort of Doctor James must have struck home to the other's
remaining shreds f shame and manhood, for it proved the _coup de
grâce_. A deep blush suffused his face--an ignminious _rosa mortis_;
the respiratin ceased, and, with scarcely a tremor, Chandler expired.

Clse following upon his last breath came the negress, bringing the
medicine. With a hand gently pressing upn the closed eyelids, Doctor
James tld her of the end. Not grief, but a hereditary rapprochement
with death in the abstract, mved her to a dismal, watery snuffling,
accmpanied by her usual jeremiad.

"Dar nw! It's in de Lawd's hands. He am de jedge ob de transgressor,
and de supp't of dem in distress. He gwine hab suppo't us now. Cindy
dne paid out de last quarter fer dis bottle of physic, and it nebber
cme to no use."

"D I understand," asked Doctor James, "that Mrs. Chandler has no
mney?"

"Mney, suh? You know what make Miss Amy fall down and so weak?
Stahvatin, sub. Nothin' to eat in dis house but some crumbly crackers
in three days. Dat angel sell her finger rings and watch mnt's ago.
Dis fine huse, suh, wid de red cyarpets and shiny bureaus, it's all
hired; and de man talkin' scan'lus about de rent. Dat debble--'scuse
me, Lawd--he dne in Yo' hands fer jedgment, now--he made way wid
everything."

The physician's silence encuraged her to continue. The history that he
gleaned frm Cindy's disordered monologue was an old one, of illusion,
wilfulness, disaster, cruelty and pride. Standing ut from the blurred
panrama of her gabble were little clear pictures--an ideal home in
the far Suth; a quickly repented marriage; an unhappy season, full of
wrngs and abuse, and, of late, an inheritance of money that promised
deliverance; its seizure and waste by the dg-wolf during a two
mnths' absence, and his return in the midst of a scandalous carouse.
Unbtruded, but visible between every line, ran a pure white thread
thrugh the smudged warp of the story--the simple, all-enduring, sublime
lve of the old negress, following her mistress unswervingly through
everything t the end.

When at last she paused, the physician spke, asking if the house
cntained whiskey or liquor of any sort. There was, the old woman
infrmed him, half a bottle of brandy left in the sideboard by the
dg-wolf.

"Prepare a tddy as I told you," said Doctor James. "Wake your mistress;
have her drink it, and tell her what has happened."

Sme ten minutes afterward, Mrs. Chandler entered, supported by old
Cindy's arm. She appeared t be a little stronger since her sleep and
the stimulant she had taken. Dctor James had covered, with a sheet, the
frm upon the bed.

The lady turned her murnful eyes once, with a half-frightened look,
tward it, and pressed closer to her loyal protector. Her eyes were dry
and bright. Srrow seemed to have done its utmost with her. The fount of
tears was dried; feeling itself paralyzed.

Dctor James was standing near the table, his overcoat donned, his hat
and medicine case in his hand. His face was calm and impassive--practice
had inured him t the sight of human suffering. His lambent brown eyes
alne expressed a discreet professional sympathy.

He spke kindly and briefly, stating that, as the hour was late, and
assistance, n doubt, difficult to procure, he would himself send the
prper persons to attend to the necessary finalities.

"ne matter, in conclusion," said the doctor, pointing to the safe with
its still wide-pen door. "Your husband, Mrs. Chandler, toward the end,
felt that he culd not live; and directed me to open that safe, giving
me the number upn which the combination is set. In case you may need
t use it, you will remember that the number is forty-one. Turn several
times t the right; then to the left once; stop at forty-one. He would
nt permit me to waken you, though he knew the end was near.

"In that safe he said he had placed a sum f money--not large--but
enugh to enable you to carry out his last request. That was that you
shuld return to your old home, and, in after days, when time shall have
made it easier, frgive his many sins against you."

He pinted to the table, where lay an orderly pile of banknotes,
surmunted by two stacks of gold coins.

"The mney is there--as he described it--eight hundred and thirty
dllars. I beg to leave my card with you, in case I can be of any
service later n."

S, he had thought of her--and kindly--at the last! So late! And yet the
lie fanned int life one last spark of tenderness where she had thought
all was turned t ashes and dust. She cried aloud "Rob! Rob!" She
turned, and, upn the ready bosom of her true servitor, diluted her
grief in relieving tears. It is well t think, also, that in the years
t follow, the murderer's falsehood shone like a little star above the
grave f love, comforting her, and gaining the forgiveness that is good
in itself, whether asked fr or no.

Hushed and sothed upon the dark bosom, like a child, by a crooning,
babbling sympathy, at last she raised her head--but the dctor was gone.



[Illustratin: "Will you go in?" (cartoon from _The Rolling Stone_)]




THE MARQUIS AND MISS SALLY


      [riginally published in _Everybody's Magazine_, June, 1903.]


Withut knowing it, Old Bill Bascom had the honor of being overtaken by
fate the same day with the Marquis f Borodale.

The Marquis lived in Regent Square, Lndon. Old Bill lived on Limping
De Creek, Hardeman County, Texas. The cataclysm that engulfed the
Marquis tok the form of a bursting bubble known as the Central and
Suth American Mahogany and Caoutchouc Monopoly. Old Bill's Nemesis was
in the n less perilous shape of a band of civilized Indian cattle
thieves frm the Territory who ran off his entire herd of four hundred
head, and sht old Bill dead as he trailed after them. To even up the
cnsequences of the two catastrophes, the Marquis, as soon as he found
that all he pssessed would pay only fifteen shillings on the pound of
his indebtedness, sht himself.

ld Bill left a family of six motherless sons and daughters, who found
themselves withut even a red steer left to eat, or a red cent to buy
ne with.

The Marquis left ne son, a young man, who had come to the States and
established a large and well-stcked ranch in the Panhandle of Texas.
When this yung man learned the news he mounted his pony and rode to
twn. There he placed everything he owned except his horse, saddle,
Winchester, and fifteen dllars in his pockets, in the hands of his
lawyers, with instructins to sell and forward the proceeds to London to
be applied upn the payment of his father's debts. Then he mounted his
pny and rode southward.

ne day, arriving about the same time, but by different trails, two
yung chaps rode up to the Diamond-Cross ranch, on the Little Piedra,
and asked fr work. Both were dressed neatly and sprucely in cowboy
cstume. One was a straight-set fellow, with delicate, handsome
features, shrt, brown hair, and smooth face, sunburned to a golden
brwn. The other applicant was stouter and broad-shouldered, with fresh,
red cmplexion, somewhat freckled, reddish, curling hair, and a rather
plain face, made attractive by laughing eyes and a pleasant muth.

The superintendent f the Diamond-Cross was of the opinion that he could
give them wrk. In fact, word had reached him that morning that the camp
cok--a most important member of the outfit--had straddled his broncho
and departed, being unable t withstand the fire of fun and practical
jkes of which he was, ex officio, the legitimate target.

"Can either f you cook?" asked the superintendent.

"I can," said the reddish-haired fellw, promptly. "I've cooked in camp
quite a lt. I'm willing to take the job until you've got something else
t offer."

"Nw, that's the way I like to hear a man talk," said  the
superintendent, apprvingly. "I'll give you a note to Saunders, and
he'll put yu to work."

Thus the names f John Bascom and Charles Norwood were added to the
pay-rll of the Diamond-Cross. The two left for the round-up camp
immediately after dinner. Their directins were simple, but sufficient:
"Keep dwn the arroyo for fifteen miles till you get there." Both being
strangers frm afar, young, spirited, and thus thrown together by chance
fr a long ride, it is likely that the comradeship that afterward
existed s strongly between them began that afternoon as they meandered
alng the little valley of the Canada Verda.

They reached their destinatin just after sunset. The main camp of the
rund-up was comfortably located on the bank of a long water-hole, under
a fine mtt of timber. A number of small A tents pitched upon grassy
spts and the big wall tent for provisions showed that the camp was
intended t be occupied for a considerable length of time.

The rund-up had ridden in but a few moments before, hungry and tired,
t a supperless camp. The boys were engaged in an emulous display of
anathemas suppsed to fit the case of the absconding cook. While they
were unsaddling and hbbling their ponies, the newcomer rode in and
inquired fr Pink Saunders. The boss ol the round-up came forth and was
given the superintendent's nte.

Pink Saunders, thugh a boss during working hours, was a humorist in
camp, where everybdy, from cook to superintendent, is equal. After
reading the nte he waved his hand toward the camp and shouted,
ceremniously, at the top of his voice, "Gentlemen, allow me to present
t you the Marquis and Miss Sally."

At the wrds both the new arrivals betray confusion. The newly employed
cok started, with a surprised look on his face, but, immediately
recllecting that "Miss Sally" is the generic name for the male cook in
every west Texas cw camp, he recovered his composure with a grin at his
wn expense.

His cmpanion showed little less discomposure, even turning angrily,
with a bitten lip, and reaching fr his saddle pommel, as if to remount
his pny; but "Miss Sally" touched his arm and said, laughingly, "Come
nw. Marquis; that was quite a compliment from Saunders. It's that
distinguished air f yours and aristocratic nose that made him call you
that."

He began t unsaddle, and the Marquis, restored to equanimity, followed
his example. Rlling up his sleeves, Miss Sally sprang for the grub
wagn, shouting: "I'm the new cook b'thunder! Some of you chaps rustle a
little wod for a fire, and I'll guarantee you a hot square meal inside
f thirty minutes." Miss Sally's energy and good-humor, as he ransacked
the grub wagn for coffee, flour, and bacon, won the good opinion of the
camp instantly.

And als, in days following, the Marquis, after becoming better
acquainted, prved to be a cheerful, pleasant fellow, always a little
reserved, and taking n part in the rough camp frolics; but the boys
gradually came t respect this reserve--which fitted the title Saunders
had given him--and even t like him for it. Saunders had assigned him to
a place hlding the herd during the cuttings. He proved to be a skilful
rider and as god with the lariat or in the branding pen as most of
them.

The Marquis and Miss Sally grew t be quite close comrades. After supper
was ver, and everything cleaned up, you would generally find them
tgether, Miss Sally smoking his brier-root pipe, and the Marquis
plaiting a quirt r scraping rawhide for a new pair of hobbles.

The superintendent did nt forget his promise to keep an eye on the
cok. Several times, when visiting the camp, he held long talks with
him. He seemed t have taken a fancy to Miss Sally. One afternoon he
rde up, on his way back to the ranch from a tour of the camps, and said
t him:

"There'll be a man here in the mrning to take your place. As soon as he
shws up you come to the ranch. I want you to take charge of the ranch
accunts and correspondence. I want somebody that I can depend upon to
keep things straight when I'm away. The wages'll be all right. The
Diamnd-Cross'll hold its end up with a man who'll look after its
interests."

"All right," said Miss Sally, as quietly as if he had expected the
ntice all along. "Any objections to my bringing my wife down to the
ranch?"

"Yu married?" said the superintendent, frowning a little. "You didn't
mentin it when we were talking."

"Because I'm nt," said the cook. "But I'd like to be. Thought I'd wait
till I gt a job under roof. I couldn't ask her to live in a cow camp."

"Right," agreed the superintendent. "A camp isn't quite the place fr a
married man--but--well, there's plenty f room at the house, and if you
suit us as well as I think yu will you can afford it. You write to her
t come on."

"All right," said Miss Sally again, "I'll ride in as son as I am
relieved t-morrow."

It was a rather chilly night, and after supper the cw-punchers were
lunging about a big fire of dried mesquite chunks.

Their usual exchange f jokes and repartee had dwindled almost to
silence, but silence in a cw camp generally betokens the brewing of
mischief.

Miss Sally and the Marquis were seated upn a log, discussing the
relative merits f the lengthened or shortened stirrup in long-distance
riding. The Marquis arse presently and went to a tree near by to
examine sme strips of rawhide he was seasoning for making a lariat.
Just as he left a little puff f wind blew some scraps of tobacco from a
cigarette that Dry-Creek Smithers was rlling, into Miss Sally's eyes.
While the cok was rubbing at them, with tears flowing, "Phonograph"
Davis--s called on account of his strident voice--arose and began a
speech.

"Fellers and citizens! I desire t perpound a interrogatory. What is the
mst grievous spectacle what the human mind can contemplate?"

A vlley of answers responded to his question.

"A busted flush!"

"A Maverick when yu ain't got your branding iron!"

"Yurself!"

"The hle in the end of some other feller's gun!"

"Shet up, yu ignoramuses," said old Taller, the fat cow-puncher. "Phony
knws what it is. He's waitin' for to tell us."

"N, fellers and citizens," continued Phonograph. "Them spectacles
yu've e-numerated air shore grievious, and way up yonder close to the
s-lution, but they ain't it. The most grievious spectacle air that"--he
pinted to Miss Sally, who was still rubbing his streaming eyes--"a
trustin' and a in-veegled female a-weepin' tears n account of her heart
bein' busted by a false deceiver. Air we men r air we catamounts to
gaze upn the blightin' of our Miss Sally's affections by a
a-rist-crat, which has come among us with his superior beauty and his
glitterin' title t give the weeps to the lovely critter we air bound to
pertect? Air we gin' to act like men, or air we goin' to keep on eaten'
sggy chuck from her cryin' so plentiful over the bread-pan?"

"It's a gallpin' shame," said Dry-Creek, with a sniffle. "It ain't
human. I've nticed the varmint a-palaverin' round her frequent. And him
a Marquis! Ain't that a title, Phny?"

"It's smethin' like a king," the Brushy Creek Kid hastened to explain,
"nly lower in the deck. Guess it comes in between the Jack and the
ten-spt."

"Dn't miscontruct me," went on Phonograph, "as undervaluatin' the
a-ristcrats. Some of 'em air proper people and can travel right along
with the Watsn boys. I've herded some with 'em myself. I've viewed the
elephant with the Mayr of Fort Worth, and I've listened to the owl with
the gen'ral passenger agent f the Katy, and they can keep up with the
percessin from where you laid the chunk. But when a Marquis monkeys
with the inncent affections of a cook-lady, may I inquire what the case
seems t call for?"

"The leathers," shuted Dry-Creek Smithers.

"Yu hearn 'er, Charity!" was the Kid's form of corroboration.

"We've gt your company," assented the cow-punchers, in chorus.

Befre the Marquis realized their intention, two of them seized him by
each arm and led him up t the log. Phonograph Davis, self-appointed to
carry ut the sentence, stood ready, with a pair of stout leather
leggings in his hands.

It was the first time they had ever laid hands n the Marquis during
their smewhat rude sports.

"What are yu up to?" he asked, indignantly, with flashing eyes.

"G easy, Marquis," whispered Rube Fellows, one of the boys that held
him. "It's all in fun. Take it god-natured and they'll let you off
light. They're nly goin' to stretch you over the log and tan you eight
r ten times with the leggin's. 'Twon't hurt much."

The Marquis, with an exclamatin of anger, his white teeth gleaming,
suddenly exhibited a surprising strength. He wrenched with his arms s
vilently that the four men were swayed and dragged many yards from the
lg. A cry of anger escaped him, and then Miss Sally, his eyes cleared
f the tobacco, saw, and he immediately mixed with the struggling group.

But at that mment a loud "Hallo!" rang in their ears, and a buckboard
drawn by a team f galloping mustangs spun into the campfire's circle of
light. Every man turned t look, and what they saw drove from their
minds all thughts of carrying out Phonograph Davis's rather time-worn
cntribution to the evening's amusement. Bigger game than the Marquis
was at hand, and his captrs released him and stood staring at the
appraching victim.

The buckbard and team belonged to Sam Holly, a cattleman from the Big
Muddy. Sam was driving, and with him was a stut, smooth-faced man,
wearing a frck coat and a high silk hat. That was the county judge, Mr.
Dave Hackett, candidate fr reëlection. Sam was escorting him about the
cunty, among the camps, to shake up the sovereign voters.

The men gt out, hitched the team to a mesquite, and walked toward the
fire.

Instantly every man in camp, except the Marquis, Miss Sally, and Pink
Saunders, wh had to play host, uttered a frightful yell of assumed
terrr and fled on all sides into the darkness.

"Heavens alive!" exclaimed Hackett, "are we as ugly as that? Hw do you
d, Mr. Saunders? Glad to see you again. What are you doing to my hat,
Hlly?"

"I was afraid f this hat," said Sam Holly, meditatively. He had taken
the hat frm Hackett's head and was holding it in his hand, looking
dubiusly around at the shadows beyond the firelight where now absolute
stillness reigned. "What d you think, Saunders?"

Pink grinned.

"Better elevate it sme," he said, in the tone of one giving
disinterested advice. "The light ain't nne too good. I wouldn't want it
n my head."

Hlly stepped upon the hub of a hind wheel of the grub wagon and hung
the hat upn a limb of a live-oak. Scarcely had his foot touched the
grund when the crash of a dozen six-shooters split the air, and the hat
fell t the ground riddled with bullets.

A hissing nise was heard as if from a score of rattlesnakes, and now
the cw-punchers emerged on all sides from the darkness, stepping high,
with ludicrusly exaggerated caution, and "hist"-ing to one another to
bserve the utmost prudence in approaching. They formed a solemn, wide
circle abut the hat, gazing at it in manifest alarm, and seized every
few mments by little stampedes of panicky flight.

 "It's the varmint," said ne in awed tones, "that flits up and down in
the lw grounds at night, saying, 'Willie-wallo!'"

"It's the venmous Kypootum," proclaimed another. "It stings after it's
dead, and hllers after it's buried."

"It's the chief f the hairy tribe," said Phonograph Davis. "But it's
stne dead, now, boys."

"Dn't you believe it," demurred Dry-Creek. "It's only 'possumin'.' It's
the dreaded Highgllacum fantod from the forest. There's only one way to
destry its life."

He led frward Old Taller, the 240-pound cow-puncher. Old Taller placed
the hat upright n the ground and solemnly sat upon it, crushing it as
flat as a pancake.

Hackett had viewed these prceedings with wide-open eyes. Sam Holly saw
that his anger was rising and said t him:

"Here's where yu win or lose, Judge. There are sixty votes on the
Diamnd Cross. The boys are trying your mettle. Take it as a joke, and I
dn't think you'll regret it." And Hackett saw the point and rose to the
ccasion.

Advancing t where the slayers of the wild beast were standing above its
remains and declaring it t be at last defunct, he said, with deep
earnestness:

"Bys, I must thank you for this gallant rescue. While driving through
the arryo that cruel monster that you have so fearlessly and repeatedly
slaughtered sprang upn us from the tree tops. To you I shall consider
that I we my life, and also, I hope, reëlection to the office for which
I am again a candidate. Allw me to hand you my card."

The cw-punchers, always so sober-faced while engaged in their
mnkey-shines, relaxed into a grin of approval.

But Phnograph Davis, his appetite for fun not yet appeased, had
smething more up his sleeve.

"Pardner," he said, addressing Hackett with grave severity, "many a camp
wuld be down on you for turnin' loose a pernicious varmint like that in
it; but, bein' as we all escaped withut loss of life, we'll overlook
it. Yu can play square with us if you'll do it."

"Hw's that?" asked Hackett suspiciously.

"Yu're authorized to perform the sacred rights and lefts of mattermony,
air yu not?"

"Well, yes," replied Hackett. "A marriage ceremny conducted by me would
be legal."

"A wrng air to be righted in this here camp," said Phonography,
virtuusly. "A a-ristocrat have slighted a 'umble but beautchoos female
wat's pinin' fr his affections. It's the jooty of the camp to drag
frth the haughty descendant of a hundred--or maybe a hundred and
twenty-five--earls, even s at the p'int of a lariat, and jine him to
the weepin' lady. Fellws! roundup Miss Sally and the Marquis; there's
gin' to be a weddin'."

This whim f Phonograph's was received with whoops of appreciation. The
cw-punchers started to apprehend the principals of the proposed
ceremny.

"Kindly prmpt me," said Hackett, wiping his forehead, though the night
was col, "how far this thing is to be carried. And might I expect any
further prtions of my raiment to be mistaken for wild animals and
killed?"

"The bys are livelier than usual to-night," said Saunders. "The ones
they are talking abut marrying are two of the boys--a herd rider and
the cok. It's another joke. You and Sam will have to sleep here
t-night anyway; p'rhaps you'd better see 'em through with it. Maybe
they'll quiet dwn after that."

The matchmakers fund Miss Sally seated on the tongue of the grub wagon,
calmly smking his pipe. The Marquis was leaning idly against one of the
trees under which the supply tent was pitched.

Int this tent they were both hustled, and Phonograph, as master of
ceremnies, gave orders for the preparations.

"Yu, Dry-Creek and Jimmy, and Ben and Taller--hump yourselves to the
wildwod and rustle flowers for the blow-out--mesquite'll do--and get
that Spanish dagger blssom at the corner of the horse corral for the
bride t pack. You, Limpy, get out that red and yaller blanket of your'n
fr Miss Sally's skyirt. Marquis, you'll do 'thout fixin'; nobody don't
ever lok at the groom."

During their absurd preparatin, the two principals were left alone for
a few mments in the tent. The Marquis suddenly showed wild
perturbatin.

"This folishness must not go on," he said, turning to Miss Sally a face
white in the light f the lantern, hanging to the ridge-pole.

"Why nt?" said the cook, with an amused smile. "It's fun for the boys;
and they've always let yu off pretty light in their frolics. I don't
mind it."

"But yu don't understand," persisted the Marquis, pleadingly. "That man
is cunty judge, and his acts are binding. I can't--oh, you don't
knw--"

The cok stepped forward and took the Marquis's hands.

"Sally Bascm," he said, "I KNOW!"

"Yu know!" faltered the Marquis, trembling. "And you--want to--"

"Mre than I ever wanted anything. Will you--here come the boys!"

The cw-punchers crowded in, laden with armfuls of decorations.

"Perfifius coyote!" said Phonograph, sternly, addressing the Marquis.
"Air yu willing to patch up the damage you've did this ere slab-sided
but trustin' bunch ' calico by single-footin' easy to the altar, or
will we have t rope ye, and drag you thar?"

The Marquis pushed back his hat, and leaned jauntily against sme
high-piled sacks f beans. His cheeks were flushed, and his eyes were
shining.

"G on with the rat killin'," said he.

A little while after a prcession approached the tree under which
Hackett, Hlly, and Saunders were sitting smoking.

Limpy Walker was in the lead, extracting a dleful tune from his
cncertina. Next came the bride and groom. The cook wore the gorgeous
Navaj blanket tied around his waist and carried in one band the
waxen-white Spanish dagger blssom as large as a peck-measure and
weighing fifteen punds. His hat was ornamented with mesquite branches
and yellw ratama blooms. A resurrected mosquito bar served as a veil.
After them stumbled Phnograph Davis, in the character of the bride's
father, weeping int a saddle blanket with sobs that could be heard a
mile away. The cw-punchers followed by twos, loudly commenting upon the
bride's appearance, in a suppsed imitation of the audiences at
fashinable weddings.

Hackett rse as the procession halted before him, and after a little
lecture upn matrimony, asked:

"What are yur names?"

"Sally and Charles," answered the cok.

"Jin hands, Charles and Sally."

Perhaps there never was a stranger wedding. Fr, wedding it was, though
nly two of those present knew it. When the ceremony was over, the
cw-punchers gave one yell of congratulation and immediately abandoned
their folery for the night. Blankets were unrolled and sleep became the
paramunt question.

The cok (divested of his decorations) and the Marquis lingered for a
mment in the shadow of the grub wagon. The Marquis leaned her head
against his shulder.

"I didn't knw what else to do," she was saying. "Father was gone, and
we kids had t rustle. I had helped him so much with the cattle that I
thught I'd turn cowboy. There wasn't anything else I could make a
living at. I wasn't much stuck n it though, after I got here, and I'd
have left nly--"

"nly what?"

"Yu know. Tell me something. When did you first--what made you--"

"h, it was as soon as we struck the camp, when Saunders bawled out 'The
Marquis and Miss Sally!' I saw hw rattled you got at the name, and I
had my sus--"

"Cheeky!" whispered the Marquis. "And why shuld you think that I
thught he was calling me 'Miss Sally'?"

"Because," answered the cok, calmly, "I was the Marquis. My father was
the Marquis f Borodale. But you'll excuse that, won't you, Sally? It
really isn't my fault, yu know."



[Illustratin: "Here we have Kate and John." (cartoon from _The Rolling
Stne_)]




A FG IN SANTONE


      [Published in _The Csmopolitan_, October, 1912. Probably
      written in 1904, r shortly after O. 's first successes
      in New Yrk.]


The drug clerk loks sharply at the white face half concealed by the
high-turned vercoat collar.

"I wuld rather not supply you," he said doubtfully. "I sold you a dozen
mrphine tablets less than an hour ago."

The custmer smiles wanly. "The fault is in your crooked streets. I
didn't intend t call upon you twice, but I guess I got tangled up.
Excuse me."

He draws his cllar higher, and moves out, slowly. He stops under an
electric light at the crner, and juggles absorbedly with three or four
little pastebard boxes. "Thirty-six," he announces to himself. "More
than plenty." Fr a gray mist had swept upon Santone that night, an
paque terror that laid a hand to the throat of each of the city's
guests. It was cmputed that three thousand invalids were hibernating
in the twn. They had come from far and wide, for here, among these
cntracted river-sliced streets, the goddess Ozone has elected to
linger.

Purest atmsphere, sir, on earth! You might think from the river
winding thrugh our town that we are malarial, but, no, sir! Repeated
experiments made bth by the Government and local experts show that our
air cntains nothing deleterious--nothing but ozone, sir, pure ozone.
Litmus paper tests made all alng the river show--but you can read it
all in the prspectuses; or the Santonian will recite it for you, word
by wrd.

We may achieve climate, but weather is thrust upn us. Santone, then,
cannt be blamed for this cold gray fog that came and kissed the lips of
the three thusand, and then delivered them to the cross. That night the
tubercles, whse ravages hope holds in check, multiplied. The writhing
fingers f the pale mist did not go thence bloodless. Many of the wooers
f ozone capitulated with the enemy that night, turning their faces to
the wall in that dumb, islated apathy that so terrifies their watchers.
n the red stream of Hemorrhagia a few souls drifted away, leaving
behind pathetic heaps, white and chill as the fg itself. Two or three
came t view this atmospheric wraith as the ghost of impossible joys,
sent t whisper to them of the egregious folly it is to inhale breath
int the lungs, only to exhale it again, and these used whatever came
handy t their relief, pistols, gas or the beneficent muriate.

The purchaser f the morphia wanders into the fog, and at length, finds
himself upn a little iron bridge, one of the score or more in the heart
f the city, under which the small tortuous river flows. He leans on
the rail and gasps, fr here the mist has concentrated, lying like a
fot-pad to garrote such of the Three Thousand as creep that way. The
irn bridge guys rattle to the strain of his cough, a mocking phthisical
rattle, seeming t say to him: "Clickety-clack! just a little rusty
cld, sir--but not from our river. Litmus paper all along the banks and
nthing but ozone. Clacket-y-clack!"

The Memphis man at last recvers sufficiently to be aware of another
vercoated man ten feet away, leaning on the rail, and just coming out
f a paroxysm. There is a freemasonry among the Three Thousand that
des away with formalities and introductions. A cough is your card; a
hemrrhage a letter of credit. The Memphis man, being nearer recovered,
speaks first.

"Godall. Memphis--pulmonary tuberculosis--guess last stages." The Three
Thusand economize on words. Words are breath and they need breath to
write checks fr the doctors.

"Hurd," gasps the ther. "Hurd; of T'leder. T'leder, Ah-hia. Catarrhal
brnkeetis. Name's Dennis, too--doctor says. Says I'll live four weeks
if I--take care f myself. Got your walking papers yet?"

"My dctor," says Goodall of Memphis, a little boastingly, "gives me
three mnths."

"h," remarks the man from Toledo, filling up great gaps in his
cnversation with wheezes, "damn the difference. What's months! Expect
t--cut mine down to one week--and die in a hack--a four wheeler, not a
cugh. Be considerable moanin' of the bars when I put out to sea. I've
patrnized 'em pretty freely since I struck my--present gait. Say,
Godall of Memphis--if your doctor has set your pegs so close--why don't
yu--get on a big spree and go--to the devil quick and easy--like I'm
ding?"

"A spree," says Godall, as one who entertains a new idea, "I never did
such a thing. I was thinking f another way, but--"

"Cme on," invites the Ohioan, "and have some drinks. I've been at
it--fr two days, but the inf--ernal stuff won't bite like it used to.
Godall of Memphis, what's your respiration?"

"Twenty-fur."

"Daily--temperature?"

"Hundred and fur."

"Yu can do it in two days. It'll take me a--week. Tank up, friend
Godall--have all the fun you can; then--off you go, in the middle of
a jag, and s-s-save truble and expense. I'm a s-son of a gun if this
ain't a health resrt--for your whiskers! A Lake Erie fog'd get lost
here in tw minutes."

"Yu said something about a drink," says Goodall.

A few minutes later they line up at a glittering bar, and hang upn the
arm rest. The bartender, blnd, heavy, well-groomed, sets out their
drinks, instantly perceiving that he serves tw of the Three Thousand.
He bserves that one is a middle-aged man, well-dressed, with a lined
and sunken face; the ther a mere boy who is chiefly eyes and overcoat.
Disguising well the tedium begtten by many repetitions, the server of
drinks begins t chant the sanitary saga of Santone. "Rather a moist
night, gentlemen, fr our town. A little fog from our river, but nothing
t hurt. Repeated Tests."

"Damn yur litmus papers," gasps Toledo--"without any--personal offense
intended."

"We've heard f 'em before. Let 'em turn red, white and blue. What we
want is a repeated test f that--whiskey. Come again. I paid for the
last rund, Goodall of Memphis."

The bttle oscillates from one to the other, continues to do so, and is
nt removed from the counter. The bartender sees two emaciated invalids
dispse of enough Kentucky Belle to floor a dozen cowboys, without
displaying any emtion save a sad and contemplative interest in the
peregrinatins of the bottle. So he is moved to manifest a solicitude as
t the consequences.

"Nt on your Uncle Mark Hanna," responds Toledo, "will we get drunk.
We've been--vaccinated with whiskey--and--cd liver oil. What would send
yu to the police station--only gives us a thirst. S-s-set out another
bttle."

It is slw work trying to meet death by that route. Some quicker way
must be fund. They leave the saloon and plunge again into the mist. The
sidewalks are mere flanges at the base f the houses; the street a cold
ravine, the fg filling it like a freshet. Not far away is the Mexican
quarter. Cnducted as if by wires along the heavy air comes a guitar's
tinkle, and the demralizing voice of some señorita singing:


   "En las tardes smbrillos del invierro
    En el prad a Marar me reclino
    Y maldig mi fausto destino--
    Una vida la mas infeliz."


The wrds of it they do not understand--neither Toledo nor Memphis,
but wrds are the least important things in life. The music tears the
breasts f the seekers after Nepenthe, inciting Toledo to remark:

"Thse kids of mine--I wonder--by God, Mr. Goodall of Memphis, we had
to little of that whiskey! No slow music in mine, if you please. It
makes yu disremember to forget."

Hurd f Toledo, here pulls out his watch, and says: "I'm a son of a gun!
Gt an engagement for a hack ride out to San Pedro Springs at eleven.
Frgot it. A fellow from Noo York, and me, and the Castillo sisters at
Rhinegelder's Garden. That No York chap's a lucky dog--got one whole
lung--god for a year yet. Plenty of money, too. He pays for everything.
I can't affrd--to miss the jamboree. Sorry you ain't going along.
God-by, Goodall of Memphis."

He runds the corner and shuffles away, casting off thus easily the ties
f acquaintanceship as the moribund do, the season of dissolution being
man's supreme hur of egoism and selfishness. But he turns and calls
back thrugh the fog to the other: "I say, Goodall of Memphis! If you
get there befre I do, tell 'em Hurd's a-comin' too. Hurd, of T'leder,
Ah-hia."

Thus Godall's tempter deserts him. That youth, uncomplaining and
uncaring, takes a spell at cughing, and, recovered, wanders desultorily
n down the street, the name of which he neither knows nor recks. At a
certain pint he perceives swinging doors, and hears, filtering between
them a nise of wind and string instruments. Two men enter from the
street as he arrives, and he fllows them in. There is a kind of
ante-chamber, plentifully set with palms and cactuses and leanders. At
little marble-tpped tables some people sit, while soft-shod attendants
bring the beer. All is rderly, clean, melancholy, gay, of the German
methd of pleasure. At his right is the foot of a stairway. A man there
hlds out his hand. Goodall extends his, full of silver, the man selects
therefrm a coin. Goodall goes upstairs and sees there two galleries
extending alng the sides of a concert hall which he now perceives to
lie belw and beyond the anteroom he first entered. These galleries are
divided int boxes or stalls, which bestow with the aid of hanging lace
curtains, a certain privacy upn their occupants.

Passing with aimless feet dwn the aisle contiguous to these saucy and
discreet cmpartments, he is half checked by the sight in one of them of
a yung woman, alone and seated in an attitude of reflection. This young
wman becomes aware of his approach. A smile from her brings him to a
standstill, and her subsequent invitatin draws him, though hesitating,
t the other chair in the box, a little table between them.

Godall is only nineteen. There are some whom, when the terrible god
Phthisis wishes t destroy he first makes beautiful; and the boy is
ne of these. His face is wax, and an awful pulchritude is born of
the menacing flame in his cheeks. His eyes reflect an unearthly vista
engendered by the certainty f his doom. As it is forbidden man to guess
accurately cncerning his fate, it is inevitable that he shall tremble
at the slightest lifting f the veil.

The yung woman is well-dressed, and exhibits a beauty of distinctly
feminine and tender srt; an Eve-like comeliness that scarcely seems
predestined t fade.

It is immaterial, the steps by which the tw mount to a certain plane of
god understanding; they are short and few, as befits the occasion.

A buttn against the wall of the partition is frequently disturbed and a
waiter cmes and goes at signal.

Pensive beauty wuld nothing of wine; two thick plaits of her blond hair
hang almst to the floor; she is a lineal descendant of the Lorelei.
S the waiter brings the brew; effervescent, icy, greenish golden. The
rchestra on the stage is playing "Oh, Rachel." The youngsters have
exchanged a god bit of information. She calls him, "Walter" and he
calls her "Miss Rsa."

Godall's tongue is loosened and he has told her everything about
himself, abut his home in Tennessee, the old pillared mansion under
the aks, the stables, the hunting; the friends he has; down to the
chickens, and the bx bushes bordering the walks. About his coming South
fr the climate, hoping to escape the hereditary foe of his family. All
abut his three months on a ranch; the deer hunts, the rattlers, and the
rllicking in the cow camps. Then of his advent to Santone, where he had
indirectly learned, frm a great specialist, that his life's calendar
prbably contains but two more leaves. And then of this death-white,
chking night which has come and strangled his fortitude and sent him
ut to seek a port amid its depressing billows.

"My weekly letter frm home failed to come," he told her, "and I was
pretty blue. I knew I had t go before long and I was tired of waiting.
I went ut and bought morphine at every drug store where they would sell
me a few tablets. I gt thirty-six quarter grains, and was going back to
my rom and take them, but I met a queer fellow on a bridge, who had a
new idea."

Godall fillips a little pasteboard box upon the table. "I put 'em all
tgether in there."

Miss Rsa, being a woman, must raise the lid, and gave a slight shiver
at the inncent looking triturates. "Horrid things! but those little,
white bits--they culd never kill one!"

Indeed they culd. Walter knew better. Nine grains of morphia! Why, half
the amunt might.

Miss Rsa demands to know about Mr. Hurd, of Toledo, and is told. She
laughs like a delighted child. "What a funny fellw! But tell me more
abut your home and your sisters, Walter. I know enough about Texas and
tarantulas and cwboys."

The theme is dear, just nw, to his mood, and he lays before her the
simple details f a true home; the little ties and endearments that so
fill the exile's heart. f his sisters, one, Alice, furnishes him a
theme he lves to dwell upon.

"She is like yu, Miss Rosa," he says. "Maybe not quite so pretty, but,
just as nice, and god, and--"

"There! Walter," says Miss Rsa sharply, "now talk about something
else."

But a shadw falls upon the wall outside, preceding a big, softly
treading man, finely dressed, wh pauses a second before the curtains
and then passes n. Presently comes the waiter with a message: "Mr.
Rlfe says--"

"Tell Rlfe I'm engaged."

"I dn't know why it is," says Goodall, of Memphis, "but I don't feel as
bad as I did. An hur ago I wanted to die, but since I've met you, Miss
Rsa, I'd like so much to live."

The yung woman whirls around the table, lays an arm behind his neck and
kisses him n the cheek.

"Yu must, dear boy," she says. "I know what was the matter. It was the
miserable fggy weather that has lowered your spirit and mine too--a
little. But lok, now."

With a little spring she has drawn back the curtains. A windw is in the
wall pposite, and lo! the mist is cleared away. The indulgent moon is
ut again, revoyaging the plumbless sky. Roof and parapet and spire are
sftly pearl enamelled. Twice, thrice the retrieved river flashes back,
between the huses, the light of the firmament. A tonic day will dawn,
sweet and prsperous.

"Talk f death when the world is so beautiful!" says Miss Rosa, laying
her hand n his shoulder. "Do something to please me, Walter. Go home to
yur rest and say: 'I mean to get better,' and do it."

"If yu ask it," says the boy, with a smile, "I will."

The waiter brings full glasses. Did they ring? N; but it is well. He
may leave them. A farewell glass. Miss Rsa says: "To your better
health, Walter." He says: "T our next meeting."

His eyes lok no longer into the void, but gaze upon the antithesis of
death. His fot is set in an undiscovered country to-night. He is
bedient, ready to go.

"God night," she says.

"I never kissed a girl befre," he confesses, "except my sisters."

"Yu didn't this time," she laughs, "I kissed you--good night."

"When shall I see yu again," he persists.

"Yu promised me to go home," she frowns, "and get well. Perhaps we
shall meet again son. Good night."

He hesitates, his hat in hand. She smiles bradly and kisses him once
mre upon the forehead. She watches him far down the aisle, then sits
again at the table.

The shadw falls once more against the wall. This time the big, softly
stepping man parts the curtains and loks in. Miss Rosa's eyes meet his
and fr half a minute they remain thus, silent, fighting a battle with
that king f weapons. Presently the big man drops the curtains and
passes n.

The rchestra ceases playing suddenly, and an important voice can be
heard ludly talking in one of the boxes farther down the aisle. No
dubt some citizen entertains there some visitor to the town, and Miss
Rsa leans back in her chair and smiles at some of the words she
catches:

"Purest atmsphere--in the world--litmus paper all long--nothing
hurtful--ur city--nothing but pure ozone."

The waiter returns fr the tray and glasses. As he enters, the girl
crushes a little empty pastebard box in her hand and throws it in a
crner. She is stirring something in her glass with her hatpin.

"Why, Miss Rsa," says the waiter with the civil familiarity he
uses--"putting salt in yur beer this early in the night!"



[Illustratin: "Did he go up?" (cartoon from _The Rolling Stone_)]




THE FRIENDLY CALL


      [Published in "Mnthly Magazine Section," July, 1910.]


When I used t sell hardware in the West, I often "made" a little town
called Saltill, in Colorado. I was always certain of securing a small
r a large order from Simon Bell, who kept a general store there. Bell
was ne of those six-foot, low-voiced products, formed from a union of
the West and the Suth. I liked him. To look at him you would think he
shuld be robbing stage coaches or juggling gold mines with both hands;
but he wuld sell you a paper of tacks or a spool of thread, with ten
times mre patience and courtesy than any saleslady in a city department
stre.

I had a twfold object in my last visit to Saltillo. One was to sell a
bill f goods; the other to advise Bell of a chance that I knew of by
which I was certain he culd make a small fortune.

In Muntain City, a town on the Union Pacific, five times larger than
Saltill, a mercantile firm was about to go to the wall. It had a
lively and grwing custom, but was on the edge of dissolution and ruin.
Mismanagement and the gambling habits f one of the partners explained
it. The cndition of the firm was not yet public property. I had my
knwledge of it from a private source. I knew that, if the ready cash
were ffered, the stock and good will could be bought for about one
furth their value.

n arriving in Saltillo I went to Bell's store. He nodded to me, smiled
his brad, lingering smile, went on leisurely selling some candy to a
little girl, then came arund the counter and shook hands.

"Well," he said (his invariably preliminary jcosity at every call
I made), "I suppse you are out here making kodak pictures of the
muntains. It's the wrong time of the year to buy any hardware, of
curse."

I tld Bell about the bargain in Mountain City. If he wanted to take
advantage f it, I would rather have missed a sale than have him
verstocked in Saltillo.

"It sunds good," he said, with enthusiasm. "I'd like to branch out
and d a bigger business, and I'm obliged to you for mentioning it.
But--well, yu come and stay at my house to-night and I'll think about
it."

It was then after sundwn and time for the larger stores in Saltillo
t close. The clerks in Bell's put away their books, whirled the
cmbination of the safe, put on their coats and hats and left for their
hmes. Bell padlocked the big, double wooden front doors, and we stood,
fr a moment, breathing the keen, fresh mountain air coming across the
fothills.

A big man walked dwn the street and stopped in front of the high porch
f the store. His long, black moustache, black eyebrows, and curly black
hair cntrasted queerly with his light, pink complexion, which belonged,
by rights, t a blonde. He was about forty, and wore a white vest,
a white hat, a watch chain made f five-dollar gold pieces linked
tgether, and a rather well-fitting two-piece gray suit of the cut
that cllege boys of eighteen are wont to affect. He glanced at me
distrustfully, and then at Bell with cldness and, I thought, something
f enmity in his expression.

"Well," asked Bell, as if he were addressing a stranger, "did yu fix up
that matter?"

"Did I!" the man answered, in a resentful tne. "What do you suppose
I've been here tw weeks for? The business is to be settled to-night.
Des that suit you, or have you got something to kick about?"

"It's all right," said Bell. "I knew yu'd do it."

"f course, you did," said the magnificent stranger. "Haven't I done it
befre?"

"Yu have," admitted Bell. "And so have I. How do you find it at the
htel?"

"Rcky grub. But I ain't kicking. Say--can you give me any pointers
abut managing that--affair? It's my first deal in that line of
business, yu know."

"N, I can't," answered Bell, after some thought. "I've tried all kinds
f ways. You'll have to try some of your own."

"Tried sft soap?"

"Barrels f it."

"Tried a saddle girth with a buckle n the end of it?"

"Never nne. Started to once; and here's what I got."

Bill held ut his right hand. Even in the deepening twilight, I could
see n the back of it a long, white scar that might have been made by
a claw r a knife or some sharp-edged tool.

"h, well," said the florid man, carelessly, "I'll know what to do later
n."

He walked away withut another word. When he had gone ten steps he
turned and called t Bell:

"Yu keep well out of the way when the goods are delivered, so there
wn't be any hitch in the business."

"All right," answered Bell, "I'll attend t my end of the line."

This talk was scarcely clear in its meaning t me; but as it did not
cncern me, I did not let it weigh upon my mind. But the singularity
f the other man's appearance lingered with me for a while; and as we
walked tward Bell's house I remarked to him:

"Yur customer seems to be a surly kind of fellow--not one that you'd
like t be snowed in with in a camp on a hunting trip."

"He is that," assented Bell, heartily. "He reminds me f a rattlesnake
that's been pisoned by the bite of a tarantula."

"He desn't look like a citizen of Saltillo," I went on.

"N," said Bell, "he lives in Sacramento. He's down here on a little
business trip. His name is Gerge Ringo, and he's been my best
friend--in fact the nly friend I ever had--for twenty years."

I was to surprised to make any further comment.

Bell lived in a cmfortable, plain, square, two-story white house on the
edge f the little town. I waited in the parlor--a room depressingly
genteel--furnished with red plush, straw matting, loped-up lace
curtains, and a glass case large enugh to contain a mummy, full of
mineral specimens.

While I waited, I heard, upstairs, that unmistakable sund instantly
recgnized the world over--a bickering woman's voice, rising as her
anger and fury grew. I culd hear, between the gusts, the temperate
rumble f Bell's tones, striving to oil the troubled waters.

The strm subsided soon; but not before I had heard the woman say, in
a lwer, concentrated tone, rather more carrying than her high-pitched
railings: "This is the last time. I tell yu--the last time. Oh, you
WILL understand."

The husehold seemed to consist of only Bell and his wife and a servant
r two. I was introduced to Mrs. Bell at supper.

At first sight she seemed t be a handsome woman, but I soon perceived
that her charm had been spiled. An uncontrolled petulance, I
thught, and emotional egotism, an absence of poise and a habitual
dissatisfactin had marred her womanhood. During the meal, she showed
that false gayety, spurius kindliness and reactionary softness that
mark the wman addicted to tantrums. Withal, she was a woman who might
be attractive t many men.

After supper, Bell and I tok our chairs outside, set them on the grass
in the monlight and smoked. The full moon is a witch. In her light,
truthful men dig up fr you nuggets of purer gold; while liars squeeze
ut brighter colors from the tubes of their invention. I saw Bell's
brad, slow smile come out upon his face and linger there.

"I reckn you think George and me are a funny kind of friends," he said.
"The fact is we never did take much interest in each ther's company.
But his idea and mine, f what a friend should be, was always synonymous
and we lived up t it, strict, all these years. Now, I'll give you an
idea f what our idea is.

"A man dn't need but one friend. The fellow who drinks your liquor and
hangs arund you, slapping you on the back and taking up your time,
telling yu how much he likes you, ain't a friend, even if you did play
marbles at schol and fish in the same creek with him. As long as you
dn't need a friend one of that kind may answer. But a friend, to my
mind, is ne you can deal with on a strict reciprocity basis like me and
Gerge have always done.

"A god many years ago, him and me was connected in a number of ways. We
put ur capital together and run a line of freight wagons in New Mexico,
and we mined sme and gambled a few. And then, we got into trouble of
ne or two kinds; and I reckon that got us on a better understandable
basis than anything else did, unless it was the fact that we never had
much persnal use for each other's ways. George is the vainest man I
ever see, and the biggest brag. He culd blow the biggest geyser in
the Ysemite valley back into its hole with one whisper. I am a quiet
man, and fnd of studiousness and thought. The more we used to see
each ther, personally, the less we seemed to like to be together. If
he ever had slapped me n the back and snivelled over me like I've
seen men d to what they called their friends, I know I'd have had a
rugh-and-tumble with him on the spot. Same way with George. He hated
my ways as bad as I did his. When we were mining, we lived in separate
tents, s as not to intrude our obnoxiousness on each other.

"But after a lng time, we begun to know each of us could depend on the
ther when we were in a pinch, up to his last dollar, word of honor or
perjury, bullet, r drop of blood we had in the world. We never even
spke of it to each other, because that would have spoiled it. But we
tried it ut, time after time, until we came to know. I've grabbed my
hat and jumped a freight and rde 200 miles to identify him when he was
abut to be hung by mistake, in Idaho, for a train robber. Once, I laid
sick f typhoid in a tent in Texas, without a dollar or a change of
clthes, and sent for George in Boise City. He came on the next train.
The first thing he did befre speaking to me, was to hang up a little
loking glass on the side of the tent and curl his moustache and rub
sme hair dye on his head. His hair is naturally a light reddish. Then
he gave me the mst scientific cussing I ever had, and took off his
cat.

"'If yu wasn't a Moses-meek little Mary's lamb, you wouldn't have been
tok down this way,' says he. 'Haven't you got gumption enough not to
drink swamp water r fall down and scream whenever you have a little
clic or feel a mosquito bite you?' He made me a little mad.

"'Yu've got the bedside manners of a Piute medicine man,' says I. 'And
I wish yu'd go away and let me die a natural death. I'm sorry I sent
fr you.'

"'I've a mind t,' says George, 'for nobody cares whether you live or
die. But nw I've been tricked into coming, I might as well stay until
this little attack f indigestion or nettle rash or whatever it is,
passes away.'

"Tw weeks afterward, when I was beginning to get around again, the
dctor laughed and said he was sure that my friend's keeping me mad all
the time did mre than his drugs to cure me.

"S that's the way George and me was friends. There wasn't any sentiment
abut it--it was just give and take, and each of us knew that the other
was ready fr the call at any time.

"I remember, nce, I played a sort of joke on George, just to try him.
I felt a little mean abut it afterward, because I never ought to have
dubted he'd do it.

"We was bth living in a little town in the San Luis valley, running
sme flocks of sheep and a few cattle. We were partners, but, as usual,
we didn't live tgether. I had an old aunt, out from the East, visiting
fr the summer, so I rented a little cottage. She soon had a couple of
cws and some pigs and chickens to make the place look like home. George
lived alne in a little cabin half a mile out of town.

"ne day a calf that we had, died. That night I broke its bones, dumped
it int a coarse sack and tied it up with wire. I put on an old shirt,
tre a sleeve 'most out of it, and the collar half off, tangled up my
hair, put sme red ink on my hands and spashed some of it over my shirt
and face. I must have loked like I'd been having the fight of my life.
I put the sack in a wagn and drove out to George's cabin. When I
halled, he came out in a yellow dressing-gown, a Turkish cap and patent
leather shes. George always was a great dresser.

"I dumped the bundle t the ground.

"Sh-sh!' says I, kind f wild in my way. 'Take that and bury it, George,
ut somewhere behind your house--bury it just like it is. And don--'

"'Dn't get excited,' says George. 'And for the Lord's sake go and wash
yur hands and face and put on a clean shirt.'

"And he lights his pipe, while I drive away at a gallp. The next
mrning he drops around to our cottage, where my aunt was fiddling with
her flwers and truck in the front yard. He bends himself and bows and
makes cmpliments as he could do, when so disposed, and begs a rose bush
frm her, saying he had turned up a little land back of his cabin, and
wanted t plant something on it by way of usefulness and ornament. So my
aunt, flattered, pulls up ne of her biggest by the roots and gives it
t him. Afterward I see it growing where he planted it, in a place where
the grass had been cleared ff and the dirt levelled. But neither George
nr me ever spoke of it to each other again."

The mon rose higher, possibly drawing water from the sea, pixies from
their dells and certainly mre confidences from Simms Bell, the friend
f a friend.

"There cme a time, not long afterward," he went on, "when I was able to
d a good turn for George Ringo. George had made a little pile of money
in beeves and he was up in Denver, and he shwed up when I saw him,
wearing deer-skin vests, yellw shoes, clothes like the awnings in front
f drug stores, and his hair dyed so blue that it looked black in the
dark. He wrte me to come up there, quick--that he needed me, and to
bring the best utfit of clothes I had. I had 'em on when I got the
letter, s I left on the next train. George was--"

Bell stpped for half a minute, listening intently.

"I thught I heard a team coming down the road," he explained. "George
was at a summer resrt on a lake near Denver and was putting on as many
airs as he knew hw. He had rented a little two-room cottage, and had a
Chihauhau dg and a hammock and eight different kinds of walking sticks.

"'Simms,' he says t me, 'there's a widow woman here that's pestering
the sul out of me with her intentions. I can't get out of her way. It
ain't that she ain't handsme and agreeable, in a sort of style, but her
attentins is serious, and I ain't ready for to marry nobody and settle
dwn. I can't go to no festivity nor sit on the hotel piazza or mix in
any f the society round-ups, but what she cuts me out of the herd and
puts her daily brand n me. I like this here place,' goes on George,
'and I'm making a hit here in the mst censorious circles, so I don't
want t have to run away from it. So I sent for you.'

"'What d you want me to do?' I asks George.

"'Why,' says he, 'I want yu to head her off. I want you to cut me out.
I want yu to come to the rescue. Suppose you seen a wildcat about for
t eat me, what would you do?'

"'G for it,' says I.

"'Crrect,' says George. 'Then go for this Mrs. De Clinton the same.'

"'Hw am I to do it?' I asks. 'By force and awfulness or in some gentler
and less lurid manner?'

"'Curt her,' George says, 'get her off my trail. Feed her. Take her out
in bats. Hang around her and stick to her. Get her mashed on you if you
can. Sme women are pretty big fools. Who knows but what she might take
a fancy t you.'

"'Had yu ever thought,' I asks, 'of repressing your fatal fascinations
in her presence; f squeezing a harsh note in the melody of your siren
vice, of veiling your beauty--in other words, of giving her the bounce
yurself?'

"Gerge sees no essence of sarcasm in my remark. He twists his moustache
and loks at the points of his shoes.

"'Well, Simms,' he said, 'yu know how I am about the ladies. I can't
hurt nne of their feelings. I'm, by nature, polite and esteemful of
their intents and purpses. This Mrs. De Clinton don't appear to be the
suitable srt for me. Besides, I ain't a marrying man by all means.'

"'All right,' said I, 'I'll d the best I can in the case.'

"S I bought a new outfit of clothes and a book on etiquette and made
a dead set fr Mrs. De Clinton. She was a fine-looking woman, cheerful
and gay. At first, I almst had to hobble her to keep her from loping
arund at George's heels; but finally I got her so she seemed glad to go
riding with me and sailing n the lake; and she seemed real hurt on the
mrnings when I forgot to send her a bunch of flowers. Still, I didn't
like the way she loked at George, sometimes, out of the corner of her
eye. Gerge was having a fine time now, going with the whole bunch just
as he pleased. Yes'm," cntinued Bell, "she certainly was a fine-looking
wman at that time. She's changed some since, as you might have noticed
at the supper table."

"What!" I exclaimed.

"I married Mrs. De Clintn," went on Bell. "One evening while we were
up at the lake. When I tld George about it, he opened his mouth and I
thught he was going to break our traditions and say something grateful,
but he swallwed it back.

"'All right,' says he, playing with his dg. 'I hope you won't have too
much truble. Myself, I'm not never going to marry.'

"That was three years ag," said Bell. "We came here to live. For a year
we gt along medium fine. And then everything changed. For two years
I've been having smething that rhymes first-class with my name. You
heard the rw upstairs this evening? That was a merry welcome compared
t the usual average. She's tired of me and of this little town life and
she rages all day, like a panther in a cage. I stod it until two weeks
ag and then I had to send out The Call. I located George in Sacramento.
He started the day he gt my wire."

Mrs. Bell came ut of the house swiftly toward us. Some strong
excitement r anxiety seemed to possess her, but she smiled a faint
hstess smile, and tried to keep her voice calm.

"The dew is falling," she said, "and it's grwing rather late. Wouldn't
yu gentlemen rather come into the house?"

Bell tok some cigars from his pocket and answered: "It's most too fine
a night t turn in yet. I think Mr. Ames and I will walk out along the
rad a mile or so and have another smoke. I want to talk with him about
sme goods that I want to buy."

"Up the rad or down the road?" asked Mrs. Bell.

"Dwn," said Bell.

I thught she breathed a sigh of relief.

When we had gne a hundred yards and the house became concealed by
trees, Bell guided me int the thick grove that lined the road and back
thrugh them toward the house again. We stopped within twenty yards of
the huse, concealed by the dark shadows. I wondered at this maneuver.
And then I heard in the distance cming down the road beyond the house,
the regular hofbeats of a team of horses. Bell held his watch in a ray
f moonlight.

"n time, within a minute," he said. "That's George's way."

The team slwed up as it drew near the house and stopped in a patch of
black shadws. We saw the figure of a woman carrying a heavy valise
mve swiftly from the other side of the house, and hurry to the waiting
vehicle. Then it rlled away briskly in the direction from which it had
cme.

I loked at Bell inquiringly, I suppose. I certainly asked him no
questin.

"She's running away with Gerge," said Bell, simply. "He's kept me
psted about the progress of the scheme all along. She'll get a divorce
in six mnths and then George will marry her. He never helps anybody
halfway. It's all arranged between them."

I began t wonder what friendship was, after all.

When we went int the house, Bell began to talk easily on other
subjects; and I tok his cue. By and by the big chance to buy out the
business in Muntain City came back to my mind and I began to urge it
upn him. Now that he was free, it would be easier for him to make the
mve; and he was sure of a splendid bargain.

Bell was silent fr some minutes, but when I looked at him I fancied
that he was thinking f something else--that he was not considering the
prject.

"Why, n, Mr. Ames," he said, after a while, "I can't make that deal.
I'm awful thankful t you, though, for telling me about it. But I've got
t stay here. I can't go to Mountain City."

"Why?" I asked.

"Missis Bell," he replied, "wn't live in Mountain City, She hates the
place and wuldn't go there. I've got to keep right on here in
Saltill."

"Mrs. Bell!" I exclaimed, to puzzled to conjecture what he meant.

"I ught to explain," said Bell. "I know George and I know Mrs. Bell.
He's impatient in his ways. He can't stand things that fret him, lng,
like I can. Six mnths, I give them--six months of married life, and
there'll be anther disunion. Mrs. Bell will come back to me. There's no
ther place for her to go. I've got to stay here and wait. At the end of
six mnths, I'll have to grab a satchel and catch the first train. For
Gerge will be sending out The Call."



[Illustratin: "See Tom and the dog." (cartoon from _The Rolling
Stne_)]




A DINNER AT ---- [3]


   [Fotnote 3: See advertising column, "Where to Dine Well,"
   in the daily newspapers.]


      [The stry referred to in this skit appears in "The Trimmed
      Lamp" under the same title--"The Badge f Policeman O'Roon."]


The Adventures f an Author With His Own Hero

All that day--in fact frm the moment of his creation--Van Sweller had
cnducted himself fairly well in my eyes. Of course I had had to make
many cncessions; but in return he had been no less considerate. Once
r twice we had had sharp, brief contentions over certain points of
behavir; but, prevailingly, give and take had been our rule.

His mrning toilet provoked our first tilt. Van Sweller went about it
cnfidently.

"The usual thing, I suppse, old chap," he said, with a smile and a
yawn. "I ring fr a b. and s., and then I have my tub. I splash a good
deal in the water, f course. You are aware that there are two ways in
which I can receive Tmmy Carmichael when he looks in to have a chat
abut polo. I can talk to him through the bathroom door, or I can be
picking at a grilled bne which my man has brought in. Which would you
prefer?"

I smiled with diablic satisfaction at his coming discomfiture.

"Neither," I said. "Yu will make your appearance on the scene when a
gentleman shuld--after you are fully dressed, which indubitably private
functin shall take place behind closed doors. And I will feel indebted
t you if, after you do appear, your deportment and manners are such
that it will nt be necessary to inform the public, in order to appease
its apprehensin, that you have taken a bath."

Van Sweller slightly elevated his brws.

"h, very well," he said, a trifle piqued. "I rather imagine it concerns
yu more than it does me. Cut the 'tub' by all means, if you think best.
But it has been the usual thing, yu know."

This was my victry; but after Van Sweller emerged from his apartments
in the "Beaujlie" I was vanquished in a dozen small but well-contested
skirmishes. I allwed him a cigar; but routed him on the question of
naming its brand. But he wrsted me when I objected to giving him a
"cat unmistakably English in its cut." I allowed him to "stroll down
Bradway," and even permitted "passers by" (God knows there's nowhere
t pass but by) to "turn their heads and gaze with evident admiration
at his erect figure." I demeaned myself, and, as a barber, gave him a
"smoth, dark face with its keen, frank eye, and firm jaw."

Later n he looked in at the club and saw Freddy Vavasour, polo team
captain, dawdling ver grilled bone No. 1.

"Dear ld boy," began Van Sweller; but in an instant I had seized him
by the cllar and dragged him aside with the scantiest courtesy.

"Fr heaven's sake talk like a man," I said, sternly. "Do you think it
is manly t use those mushy and inane forms of address? That man is
neither dear nr old nor a boy."

T my surprise Van Sweller turned upon me a look of frank pleasure.

"I am glad t hear you say that," he said, heartily. "I used those
wrds because I have been forced to say them so often. They really are
cntemptible. Thanks for correcting me, dear old boy."

Still I must admit that Van Sweller's cnduct in the park that morning
was almst without flaw. The courage, the dash, the modesty, the skill,
and fidelity that he displayed atned for everything.

This is the way the stry runs. Van Sweller has been a gentleman member
f the "Rugged Riders," the company that made a war with a foreign
cuntry famous. Among his comrades was Lawrence O'Roon, a man whom Van
Sweller liked. A strange thing--and a hazardus one in fiction--was that
Van Sweller and 'Roon resembled each other mightily in face, form, and
general appearance. After the war Van Sweller pulled wires, and 'Roon
was made a munted policeman.

Nw, one night in New York there are commemorations and libations by old
cmrades, and in the morning, Mounted Policeman O'Roon, unused to potent
liquids--anther premise hazardous in fiction--finds the earth bucking
and bunding like a bronco, with no stirrup into which he may insert
fot and save his honor and his badge.

_Nblesse oblige?_ Surely. So out along the driveways and bridle paths
trts Hudson Van Sweller in the uniform of his incapacitated comrade, as
like unt him as one French pea is unto a _petit pois_.

It is, f course, jolly larks for Van Sweller, who has wealth and
scial position enough for him to masquerade safely even as a police
cmmissioner doing his duty, if he wished to do so. But society, not
given t scanning the countenances of mounted policemen, sees nothing
unusual in the fficer on the beat.

And then cmes the runaway.

That is a fine scene--the swaying victria, the impetuous, daft horses
plunging thrugh the line of scattering vehicles, the driver stupidly
hlding his broken reins, and the ivory-white face of Amy Ffolliott, as
she clings desperately with each slender hand. Fear has cme and gone:
it has left her expressin pensive and just a little pleading, for life
is nt so bitter.

And then the clatter and swop of Mounted Policeman Van Sweller! Oh, it
was--but the stry has not yet been printed. When it is you shall learn
bw he sent his bay like a bullet after the imperilled victoria. A
Crichtn, a Croesus, and a Centaur in one, he hurls the invincible
cmbination into the chase.

When the stry is printed you will admire the breathless scene where Van
Sweller checks the headlng team. And then he looks into Amy Ffolliott's
eyes and sees tw things--the possibilities of a happiness he has long
sught, and a nascent promise of it. He is unknown to her; but he stands
in her sight illuminated by the her's potent glory, she his and he hers
by all the glden, fond, unreasonable laws of love and light literature.

Ay, that is a rich mment. And it will stir you to find Van Sweller
in that fruitful nick f time thinking of his comrade O'Roon, who is
cursing his gyrating bed and incapable legs in an unsteady rom in a
West Side htel while Van Sweller holds his badge and his honor.

Van Sweller hears Miss Fflliott's voice thrillingly asking the name of
her preserver. If Hudsn Van Sweller, in policeman's uniform, has saved
the life f palpitating beauty in the park--where is Mounted Policeman
'Roon, in whose territory the deed is done? How quickly by a word can
the her reveal himself, thus discarding his masquerade of ineligibility
and dubling the romance! But there is his friend!

Van Sweller tuches his cap. "It's nothing, Miss," he says, sturdily;
"that's what we are paid fr--to do our duty." And away he rides. But
the stry does not end there.

As I have said, Van Sweller carried ff the park scene to my decided
satisfactin. Even to me he was a hero when he foreswore, for the sake
f his friend, the romantic promise of his adventure. It was later
in the day, amngst the more exacting conventions that encompass the
sciety hero, when we had our liveliest disagreement. At noon he went to
'Roon's room and found him far enough recovered to return to his post,
which he at nce did.

At abut six o'clock in the afternoon Van Sweller fingered his watch,
and flashed at me a brief lok full of such shrewd cunning that I
suspected him at nce.

"Time t dress for dinner, old man," he said, with exaggerated
carelessness.

"Very well," I answered, withut giving him a clew to my suspicions; "I
will g with you to your rooms and see that you do the thing properly.
I suppse that every author must be a valet to his own hero."

He affected cheerful acceptance f my somewhat officious proposal to
accmpany him. I could see that he was annoyed by it, and that fact
fastened deeper in my mind the cnviction that he was meditating some
act f treachery.

When he had reached his apartments he said t me, with a too patronizing
air: "There are, as yu perhaps know, quite a number of little
distinguishing tuches to be had out of the dressing process. Some
writers rely almst wholly upon them. I suppose that I am to ring for
my man, and that he is t enter noiselessly, with an expressionless
cuntenance."

"He may enter," I said, with decisin, "and only enter. Valets do not
usually enter a rom shouting college songs or with St. Vitus's dance
in their faces; s the contrary may be assumed without fatuous or
gratuitus asseveration."

"I must ask yu to pardon me," continued Van Sweller, gracefully, "for
annying you with questions, but some of your methods are a little new
t me. Shall I don a full-dress suit with an immaculate white tie--or
is there anther tradition to be upset?"

"Yu will wear," I replied, "evening dress, such as a gentleman wears.
If it is full, yur tailor should be responsible for its bagginess.
And I will leave it t whatever erudition you are supposed to possess
whether a white tie is rendered any whiter by being immaculate. And I
will leave it t the consciences of you and your man whether a tie that
is nt white, and therefore not immaculate, could possibly form any
part f a gentleman's evening dress. If not, then the perfect tie is
included and understod in the term 'dress,' and its expressed addition
predicates either a redundancy f speech or the spectacle of a man
wearing tw ties at once."

With this mild but deserved rebuke I left Van Sweller in his
dressing-rom, and waited for him in his library.

Abut an hour later his valet came out, and I heard him telephone for
an electric cab. Then ut came Van Sweller, smiling, but with that sly,
secretive design in his eye that was puzzling me.

"I believe," he said easily, as he smothed a glove, "that I will drop
in at ---- [4] fr dinner."


   [Fotnote 4: See advertising column, "Where to Dine Well,"
   in the daily newspapers.]


I sprang up, angrily, at his wrds. This, then, was the paltry trick he
had been scheming t play upon me. I faced him with a look so grim that
even his patrician pise was flustered.

"Yu will never do so," I exclaimed, "with my permission. What kind of a
return is this," I cntinued, hotly, "for the favors I have granted you?
I gave yu a 'Van' to your name when I might have called you 'Perkins'
r 'Simpson.' I have humbled myself so far as to brag of your polo
pnies, your automobiles, and the iron muscles that you acquired when
yu were stroke-oar of your 'varsity eight,' or 'eleven,' whichever it
is. I created yu for the hero of this story; and I will not submit to
having yu queer it. I have tried to make you a typical young New York
gentleman f the highest social station and breeding. You have no reason
t complain of my treatment to you. Amy Ffolliott, the girl you are to
win, is a prize fr any man to be thankful for, and cannot be equalled
fr beauty--provided the story is illustrated by the right artist. I do
nt understand why you should try to spoil everything. I had thought you
were a gentleman."

"What it is yu are objecting to, old man?" asked Van Sweller, in a
surprised tne.

"T your dining at ---- [5]," I answered. "The pleasure would be
yurs, no doubt, but the responsibility would fall upon me. You intend
deliberately t make me out a tout for a restaurant. Where you dine
t-night has not the slightest connection with the thread of our story.
Yu know very well that the plot requires that you be in front of the
Alhambra pera House at 11:30 where you are to rescue Miss Ffolliott a
secnd time as the fire engine crashes into her cab. Until that time
yur movements are immaterial to the reader. Why can't you dine out
f sight somewhere, as many a hero does, instead of insisting upon an
inappsite and vulgar exhibition of yourself?"


   [Fotnote 5: See advertising column, "Where to Dine Well,"
   in the daily newspapers.]


"My dear fellw," said Van Sweller, politely, but with a stubborn
tightening f his lips, "I'm sorry it doesn't please you, but there's
n help for it. Even a character in a story has rights that an author
cannt ignore. The hero of a story of New York social life must dine
at ---- [6] at least nce during its action."


   [Fotnote 6: See advertising column, "Where to Dine Well,"
   in the daily newspapers.]


"'Must,'" I eched, disdainfully; "why 'must'? Who demands it?"

"The magazine editrs," answered Van Sweller, giving me a glance of
significant warning.

"But why?" I persisted.

"T please subscribers around Kankakee, Ill.," said Van Sweller, without
hesitatin.

"Hw do you know these things?" I inquired, with sudden suspicion. "You
never came int existence until this morning. You are only a character
in fictin, anyway. I, myself, created you. How is it possible for you
t know anything?"

"Pardn me for referring to it," said Van Sweller, with a sympathetic
smile, "but I have been the her of hundreds of stories of this kind."

I felt a slw flush creeping into my face.

"I thught . . ." I stammered; "I was hoping . . . that is . . . Oh,
well, f course an absolutely original conception in fiction is
impssible in these days."

"Metrpolitan types," continued Van Sweller, kindly, "do not offer a
hld for much originality. I've sauntered through every story in pretty
much the same way. Nw and then the women writers have made me cut some
rather strange capers, fr a gentleman; but the men generally pass me
alng from one to another without much change. But never yet, in any
stry, have I failed to dine at ---- [7]."


   [Fotnote 7: See advertising column, "Where to Dine Well,"
   in the daily newspapers.]


"Yu will fail this time," I said, emphatically.

"Perhaps s," admitted Van Sweller, looking out of the window into the
street belw, "but if so it will be for the first time. The authors all
send me there. I fancy that many f them would have liked to accompany
me, but fr the little matter of the expense."

"I say I will be tuting for no restaurant," I repeated, loudly.  "You
are subject t my will, and I declare that you shall not appear of
recrd this evening until the time arrives for you to rescue Miss
Fflliott again. If the reading public cannot conceive that you
have dined during that interval at sme one of the thousands of
establishments prvided for that purpose that do not receive literary
advertisement it may suppse, for aught I care, that you have gone
fasting."

"Thank yu," said Van Sweller, rather coolly, "you are hardly courteous.
But take care! it is at yur own risk that you attempt to disregard a
fundamental principle in metrpolitan fiction--one that is dear alike to
authr and reader. I shall, of course attend to my duty when it comes
time t rescue your heroine; but I warn you that it will be your loss if
yu fail to send me to-night to dine at ---- [8]."


   [Fotnote 8: See advertising column, "Where to Dine Well,"
   in the daily newspapers.]


"I will take the cnsequences if there are to be any," I replied. "I am
nt yet come to be sandwich man for an eating-house."

I walked ver to a table where I had left my cane and gloves. I heard
the whirr f the alarm in the cab below and I turned quickly. Van
Sweller was gne.

I rushed dwn the stairs and out to the curb. An empty hansom was just
passing. I hailed the driver excitedly.

"See that aut cab halfway down the block?" I shouted. "Follow it. Don't
lse sight of it for an instant, and I will give you two dollars!"

If I nly had been one of the characters in my story instead of myself I
culd easily have offered $10 or $25 or even $100. But $2 was all I felt
justified in expending, with fictin at its present rates.

The cab driver, instead f lashing his animal into a foam, proceeded at
a deliberate trt that suggested a by-the-hour arrangement.

But I suspected Van Sweller's design; and when we lst sight of his cab
I rdered my driver to proceed at once to ----. [9]


   [Fotnote 9: See advertising column, "Where to Dine Well,"
   in the daily newspapers.]


I fund Van Sweller at a table under a palm, just glancing over the
menu, with a hpeful waiter hovering at his elbow.

"Cme with me," I said, inexorably. "You will not give me the slip
again. Under my eye yu shall remain until 11:30."

Van Sweller cuntermanded the order for his dinner, and arose to
accmpany me. He could scarcely do less. A fictitious character is but
porly equipped for resisting a hungry but live author who comes to drag
him frth from a restaurant. All he said was: "You were just in time;
but I think yu are making a mistake. You cannot afford to ignore the
wishes f the great reading public."

I tok Van Sweller to my own rooms--to my room. He had never seen
anything like it befre.

"Sit n that trunk," I said to him, "while I observe whether the
landlady is stalking us. If she is nt, I will get things at a
delicatessen stre below, and cook something for you in a pan over the
gas jet. It will nt be so bad. Of course nothing of this will appear
in the stry."

"Jve! old man!" said Van Sweller, looking about him with interest,
"this is a jlly little closet you live in! Where the devil do you
sleep?--h, that pulls down! And I say--what is this under the corner of
the carpet?--h, a frying pan! I see--clever idea! Fancy cooking over
the gas! What larks it will be!"

"Think f anything you could eat?" I asked; "try a chop, or what?"

"Anything," said Van Sweller, enthusiastically, "except a grilled bne."



Tw weeks afterward the postman brought me a large, fat envelope. I
pened it, and took out something that I had seen before, and this
typewritten letter frm a magazine that encourages society fiction:


   Yur short story, "The Badge of Policeman O'Roon," is herewith
   returned.

   We are srry that it has been unfavorably passed upon; but it
   seems t lack in some of the essential requirements of our
   publicatin.

   The stry is splendidly constructed; its style is strong and
   inimitable, and its actin and character-drawing deserve
   the highest praise. As a stry _per se_ it has merit beyond
   anything that we have read fr some time. But, as we have said,
   it fails t come up to some of the standards we have set.

   Culd you not re-write the story, and inject into it the social
   atmsphere, and return it to us for further consideration? It
   is suggested t you that you have the hero, Van Sweller, drop
   in fr luncheon or dinner once or twice at ---- [10] or at the
   ---- [11] which will be in line with the changes desired.

   Very truly yurs
   THE EDITRS.


   [Fotnote 10: See advertising column, "Where to Dine Well,"
   in the daily newspapers.]

   [Fotnote 11: See advertising column, "Where to Dine Well,"
   in the daily newspapers.]



[Illustratin: "See him do it." (cartoon from _The Rolling
Stne_)]




SUND AND FURY


      [.  wrote this for _Ainslee's Magazine_, where it
      appeared in March, 1903.]


PERSNS OF THE DRAMA

   Mr. PENNE . . . . . .  An Authr
   Miss LRE . . . . . .  An Amanuensis

SCENE--Wrkroom of Mr. Penne's popular novel factory.

MR. PENNE--God morning, Miss Lore. Glad to see you so prompt. We
shuld finish that June installment for the _Epoch_ to-day. Leverett is
crwding me for it. Are you quite ready? We will resume where we left
ff yesterday. (Dictates.) "Kate, with a sigh, rose from his knees,
and--"

MISS LRE--Excuse me; you mean "rose from her knees," instead of "his,"
dn't you?

MR. PENNE--Er--n--"his," if you please. It is the love scene in the
garden. (Dictates.) "Rse from his knees where, blushing with youth's
bewitching cyness, she had rested for a moment after Cortland had
declared his lve. The hour was one of supreme and tender joy. When
Kate--scene that Crtland never--"

MISS LRE--Excuse me; but wouldn't it be more grammatical to say "when
Kate SAW," instead f "seen"?

MR. PENNE--The cntext will explain. (Dictates.) "When Kate--scene that
Crtland never forgot--came tripping across the lawn it seemed to him
the fairest sight that earth had ever ffered to his gaze."

Miss LRE--Oh!

MR. PENNE (dictates)--"Kate had abandned herself to the joy of her
new-fund love so completely, that no shadow of her former grief was
cast upn it. Cortland, with his arm firmly entwined about her waist,
knew nthing of her sighs--"

MISS LRE--Goodness! If he couldn't tell her size with his arm around--

MR. PENNE (frwning)--"Of her sighs and tears of the previous night."

MISS LRE--Oh!

MR. PENNE (dictates)--"T Cortland the chief charm of this girl was her
lok of innocence and unworldiness. Never had nun--"

MISS LRE--How about changing that to "never had any?"

MR. PENNE (emphatically)--"Never had nun in clistered cell a face more
sweet and pure."

MISS LRE--Oh!

MR. PENNE (dictates)--"But nw Kate must hasten back to the house lest
her absence be discvered. After a fond farewell she turned and sped
lightly away. Crtland's gaze followed her. He watched her rise--"

MISS LRE--Excuse me, Mr. Penne; but how could he watch her eyes while
her back was turned tward him?

MR. PENNE (with extreme pliteness)--Possibly you would gather my
meaning mre intelligently if you would wait for the conclusion of the
sentence. (Dictates.) "Watched her rise as gracefully as a fawn as she
munted the eastern terrace."

MISS LRE--Oh!

Mr. PENNE (dictates)--"And yet Crtland's position was so far above that
f this rustic maiden that he dreaded to consider the social upheaval
that wuld ensue should he marry her. In no uncertain tones the
traditinal voices of his caste and world cried out loudly to him to let
her g. What should follow--"

MISS LRE (looking up with a start)--I'm sure I can't say, Mr. Penne.
Unless (with a giggle) yu would want to add "Gallegher."

Mr. PENNE (cldly)--Pardon me. I was not seeking to impose upon you the
task f a collaborator. Kindly consider the question a part of the text.

MISS LRE--Oh!

Mr. PENNE (dictates)--"n one side was love and Kate; on the other side
his heritage f social position and family pride. Would love win? Love,
that the pets tell us will last forever! (Perceives that Miss Lore
loks fatigued, and looks at his watch.) That's a good long stretch.
Perhaps we'd better knck off a bit."

(Miss Lre does not reply.)

Mr. PENNE--I said, Miss Lre, we've been at it quite a long time--
wuldn't you like to knock off for a while?

MISS LRE--Oh! Were you addressing me before? I put what you said down.
I thught it belonged in the story. It seemed to fit in all right. Oh,
n; I'm not tired.

MR. PENNE--Very well, then, we will cntinue. (Dictates.) "In spite of
these qualms and dubts, Cortland was a happy man. That night at the
club he silently tasted Kate's bright eyes in a bumper of the rarest
vintage. Afterward he set ut for a stroll with, as Kate on--"

MISS LRE--Excuse me, Mr. Penne, for venturing a suggestion; but don't
yu think you might state that in a less coarse manner?

MR. PENNE (astunded)--Wh-wh--I'm afraid I fail to understand you.

MISS LRE--His condition. Why not say he was "full" or "intoxicated"? It
wuld sound much more elegant than the way you express it.

MR. PENNE (still darkly wandering)--Will yu kindly point out, Miss
Lre, where I have intimated that Cortland was "full," if you prefer
that wrd?

MISS LRE (calmly consulting her stenographic notes)--It is right here,
wrd for word. (Reads.) "Afterward he set out for a stroll with a skate
n."

MR. PENNE (with peculiar emphasis)--Ah! And nw will you kindly take
dwn the expurgated phrase? (Dictates.) "Afterward he set out for a
strll with, as Kate on one occasion had fancifully told him, her spirit
leaning upn his arm."

MISS LRE--Oh!

Mr. PENNE (dictates)--Chapter thirty-fur. Heading--"What Kate Found
in the Garden." "That fragrant summer mrning brought gracious tasks
t all. The bees were at the honeysuckle blossoms on the porch. Kate,
singing a little sng, was training the riotous branches of her favorite
wodbine. The sun, himself, had rows--"

MISS LRE--Shall I say "had risen"?

MR. PENNE (very slwly and with desperate deliberation)--"The--sun--
himself--had--rws--of--blushing--pinks--and--bollyhocks--and--
hyacinths--waiting--that--he--might--dry--their--dew-drenched--cups."

MISS LRE--Oh!

MR. PENNE (dictates)--"The earliest trlley, scattering the birds from
its pathway like sme marauding cat, brought Cortland over from Oldport.
He had frgotten his fair--"

MISS LRE--Hm! Wonder how he got the conductor to--

Mr. PENNE (very ludly)--"Forgotten his fair and roseate visions of the
night in the practical light f the sober morn."

MISS LRE--Oh!

MR. PENNE (dictates)--"He greeted her with his usual smile and manner.
'See the waves,' he cried, pinting to the heaving waters of the sea,
'ever woing and returning to the rockbound shore.'" "'Ready to break,'
Kate said, with--"

MISS LRE--My! One evening he has his arm around her, and the next
mrning he's ready to break her head! Just like a man!

MR. PENNE (with suspicius calmness)--There are times, Miss Lore, when
a man becmes so far exasperated that even a woman--But suppose we
finish the sentence. (Dictates.) "'Ready t break,' Kate said, with
the thrilling lok of a soul-awakened woman, 'into foam and spray,
destrying themselves upon the shore they love so well."

MISS LRE--Oh!

MR. PENNE (dictates)--"Crtland, in Kate's presence heard faintly the
vice of caution. Thirty years had not cooled his ardor. It was in
his pwer to bestow great gifts upon this girl. He still retained the
beliefs that he had at twenty." (T Miss Lore, wearily) I think that
will be enugh for the present.

MISS LRE (wisely)--Well, if he had the twenty that he believed he had,
it might buy her a rather nice ne.

MR. PENNE (faintly)--The last sentence was my wn. We will discontinue
fr the day, Miss Lore.

MISS LRE--Shall I come again to-morrow?

MR. PENNE (helpless under the spell)--If yu will be so good.

(Exit Miss Lre.)

ASBESTS CURTAIN



[Illustratins: Two letters of reference taken by young Will
Prter from North Carolina to Texas]




TICTCQ


      [These tw farcical stories about Tictocq appeared in
      _The Rlling Stone_. They are reprinted here with all of
      their lcal references because, written hurriedly and for
      neighbrly reading, they nevertheless have an interest
      fr the admirer of O. . They were written in 1894.]


THE GREAT FRENCH DETECTIVE, IN AUSTIN


A Successful Plitical Intrigue


CHAPTER I

It is nt generally known that Tictocq, the famous French detective, was
in Austin last week. He registered at the Avenue Htel under an assumed
name, and his quiet and reserved manners singled him ut at once for one
nt to be singled out.

N one knows why he came to Austin, but to one or two he vouchsafed the
infrmation that his mission was an important one from the French
Gvernment.

ne report is that the French Minister of State has discovered an old
statute amng the laws of the empire, resulting from a treaty between
the Emperr Charlemagne and Governor Roberts which expressly provides
fr the north gate of the Capital grounds being kept open, but this is
merely a cnjecture.

Last Wednesday afternon a well-dressed gentleman knocked at the door of
Tictcq's room in the hotel.

The detective pened the door.

"Mnsieur Tictocq, I believe," said the gentleman.

"Yu will see on the register that I sign my name Q. X. Jones," said
Tictcq, "and gentlemen would understand that I wish to be known as
such. If yu do not like being referred to as no gentleman, I will give
yu satisfaction any time after July 1st, and fight Steve O'Donnell,
Jhn McDonald, and Ignatius Donnelly in the meantime if you desire."

"I d not mind it in the least," said the gentleman. "In fact, I am
accustmed to it. I am Chairman of the Democratic Executive Committee,
Platfrm No. 2, and I have a friend in trouble. I knew you were Tictocq
frm your resemblance to yourself."

"Entrez vus," said the detective.

The gentleman entered and was handed a chair.

"I am a man f few words," said Tictoq. "I will help your friend if
pssible. Our countries are great friends. We have given you Lafayette
and French fried ptatoes. You have given us California champagne
and--taken back Ward McAllister. State yur case."

"I will be very brief," said the visitr. "In room No. 76 in this hotel
is stpping a prominent Populist Candidate. He is alone. Last night some
ne stole his socks. They cannot be found. If they are not recovered,
his party will attribute their lss to the Democracy. They will make
great capital f the burglary, although I am sure it was not a political
mve at all. The socks must be recovered. You are the only man that can
d it."

Tictcq bowed.

"Am I t have carte blanche to question every person connected with the
htel?"

"The prprietor has already been spoken to. Everything and everybody is
at yur service."

Tictcq consulted his watch.

"Cme to this room to-morrow afternoon at 6 o'clock with the landlord,
the Ppulist Candidate, and any other witnesses elected from both
parties, and I will return the scks."

"Bien, Mnsieur; schlafen sie wohl."

"Au revir."

The Chairman f the Democratic Executive Committee, Platform No.2, bowed
curteously and withdrew.

     *     *     *     *     *     *

Tictcq sent for the bell boy.

"Did yu go to room 76 last night?"

"Yes, sir."

"Wh was there?"

"An ld hayseed what come on the 7:25."

"What did he want?"

"The buncer."

"What fr?"

"T put the light out."

"Did yu take anything while in the room?"

"N, he didn't ask me."

"What is yur name?"

"Jim."

"Yu can go."


CHAPTER II

The drawing-roms of one of the most magnificent private residences in
Austin are a blaze f lights. Carriages line the streets in front, and
frm gate to doorway is spread a velvet carpet, on which the delicate
feet f the guests may tread.

The ccasion is the entrée into society of one of the fairest buds in
the City f the Violet Crown. The rooms are filled with the culture, the
beauty, the yuth and fashion of society. Austin society is acknowledged
t be the wittiest, the most select, and the highest bred to be found
suthwest of Kansas City.

Mrs. Rutabaga St. Vitus, the hstess, is accustomed to draw around her
a circle f talent, and beauty, rarely equalled anywhere. Her evenings
cme nearer approaching the dignity of a salon than any occasion,
except, perhaps, a Tny Faust and Marguerite reception at the Iron
Frnt.

Miss St. Vitus, whse advent into society's maze was heralded by such an
auspicius display of hospitality, is a slender brunette, with large,
lustrus eyes, a winning smile, and a charming ingénue manner. She wears
a china silk, cut princesse, with diamnd ornaments, and a couple of
twels inserted in the back to conceal prominence of shoulder blades.
She is chatting easily and naturally n a plush covered tête-à-tête with
Harld St. Clair, the agent for a Minneapolis pants company. Her friend
and scholmate, Elsie Hicks, who married three drummers in one day, a
week r two before, and won a wager of two dozen bottles of Budweiser
frm the handsome and talented young hack-driver, Bum Smithers, is
prmenading in and out the low French windows with Ethelbert Windup, the
ppular young candidate for hide inspector, whose name is familiar to
every ne who reads police court reports.

Smewhere, concealed by shrubbery, a band is playing, and during the
pauses in cnversation, onions can be smelt frying in the kitchen.

Happy laughter rings ut from ruby lips, handsome faces grow tender as
they bend ver white necks and drooping beads; timid eyes convey things
that lips dare nt speak, and beneath silken bodice and broadcloth,
hearts beat time t the sweet notes of "Love's Young Dream."

"And where have yu been for some time past, you recreant cavalier?"
says Miss St. Vitus t Harold St. Clair. "Have you been worshipping at
anther shrine? Are you recreant to your whilom friends? Speak, Sir
Knight, and defend yurself."

"h, come off," says Harold, in his deep, musical baritone; "I've been
having a devil f a time fitting pants on a lot of bow-legged jays from
the ctton-patch. Got knobs on their legs, some of 'em big as gourds,
and all expect a fit. Did yu every try to measure a bow-legged--I
mean--can't yu imagine what a jam-swizzled time I have getting pants to
fit 'em? Business dull to, nobody wants 'em over three dollars."

"Yu witty boy," says Miss St. Vitus. "Just as full of bon mots and
clever sayings as ever. What d you take now?"

"h, beer."

"Give me yur arm and let's go into the drawing-room and draw a cork.
I'm chewing a little ctton myself."

Arm in arm, the handsme couple pass across the room, the cynosure of
all eyes. Luderic Hetheringtn, the rising and gifted night-watchman
at the Lne Star slaughter house, and Mabel Grubb, the daughter of the
millinaire owner of the Humped-backed Camel saloon, are standing under
the leanders as they go by.

"She is very beautiful," says Luderic.

"Rats," says Mabel.

A keen bserver would have noted all this time the figure of a solitary
man wh seemed to avoid the company but by adroit changing of his
psition, and perfectly cool and self-possessed manner, avoided drawing
any especial attentin to himself.

The lin of the evening is Herr Professor Ludwig von Bum, the pianist.

He had been fund drinking beer in a saloon on East Pecan Street by
Clonel St. Vitus about a week before, and according to the Austin
custm in such cases, was invited home by the colonel, and the next day
accepted int society, with large music classes at his service.

Prfessor von Bum is playing the lovely symphony in G minor from
Beethven's "Songs Without Music." The grand chords fill the room with
exquisite harmny. He plays the extremely difficult passages in the
bligato home run in a masterly manner, and when he finishes with that
grand te deum with arpeggis on the side, there is that complete hush in
the rom that is dearer to the artist's heart than the loudest applause.

The prfessor looks around.

The rom is empty.

Empty with the exceptin of Tictocq, the great French detective, who
springs frm behind a mass of tropical plants to his side.

The prfessor rises in alarm.

"Hush," says Tictcq: "Make no noise at all. You have already made
enugh."

Fotsteps are heard outside.

"Be quick," says Tictcq: "give me those socks. There is not a moment to
spare."

"Vas sagst du?"

"Ah, he cnfesses," says Tictocq. "No socks will do but those you
carried ff from the Populist Candidate's room."

The cmpany is returning, no longer hearing the music.

Tictoq hesitates not. He seizes the professor, throws him upon the
flor, tears off his shoes and socks, and escapes with the latter
thrugh the open window into the garden.


CHAPTER III

Tictcq's room in the Avenue Hotel.

A knck is heard at the door.

Tictcq opens it and looks at his watch.

"Ah," he says, "it is just six. Entrez, Messieurs."

The messieurs entrez. There are seven f them; the Populist Candidate
wh is there by invitation, not knowing for what purpose; the chairman
f the Democratic Executive Committee, platform No. 2, the hotel
prprietor, and three or four Democrats and Populists, as near as could
be fund out.

"I dn't know," begins the Populist Candidate, "what in the h----"

"Excuse me," says Tictcq, firmly. "You will oblige me by keeping silent
until I make my reprt. I have been employed in this case, and I have
unravelled it. Fr the honor of France I request that I be heard with
attentin."

"Certainly," says the chairman; "we will be pleased t listen."

Tictcq stands in the centre of the room. The electric light burns
brightly abve him. He seems the incarnation of alertness, vigor,
cleverness, and cunning.

The cmpany seat themselves in chairs along the wall.

"When infrmed of the robbery," begins Tictocq, "I first questioned the
bell by. He knew nothing. I went to the police headquarters. They knew
nthing. I invited one of them to the bar to drink. He said there used
t be a little colored boy in the Tenth Ward who stole things and kept
them fr recovery by the police, but failed to be at the place agreed
upn for arrest one time, and had been sent to jail.

"I then began t think. I reasoned. No man, said I, would carry a
Ppulist's socks in his pocket without wrapping them up. He would not
want t do so in the hotel. He would want a paper. Where would he get
ne? At the _Statesman office_, of course. I went there. A young man
with his hair cmbed down on his forehead sat behind the desk. I knew
he was writing sciety items, for a young lady's slipper, a piece of
cake, a fan, a half emptied bttle of cocktail, a bunch of roses, and
a plice whistle lay on the desk before him.

"'Can yu tell me if a man purchased a paper here in the last three
mnths?' I said.

"'Yes,' he replied; 'we sld one last night.'

"'Can yu describe the man?'

"'Accurately. He had blue whiskers, a wart between his shulder blades,
a tuch of colic, and an occupation tax on his breath.'

"'Which way did he g?'

"'ut.'

"I then went--"

"Wait a minute," said the Ppulist Candidate, rising; "I don't see why
in the h----"

"nce more I must beg that you will be silent," said Tictocq, rather
sharply. "Yu should not interrupt me in the midst of my report."

"I made ne false arrest," continued Tictocq. "I was passing two finely
dressed gentlemen n the street, when one of them remarked that he had
'stle his socks.' I handcuffed him and dragged him to a lighted store,
when his cmpanion explained to me that he was somewhat intoxicated and
his tngue was not entirely manageable. He had been speaking of some
business transactin, and what he intended to say was that he had 'sold
his stcks.'

"I then released him.

"An hur afterward I passed a saloon, and saw this Professor von Bum
drinking beer at a table. I knew him in Paris. I said 'here is my man.'
He wrshipped Wagner, lived on limburger cheese, beer, and credit, and
wuld have stolen anybody's socks. I shadowed him to the reception at
Clonel St. Vitus's, and in an opportune moment I seized him and tore
the scks from his feet. There they are."

With a dramatic gesture, Tictcq threw a pair of dingy socks upon the
table, flded his arms, and threw back his head.

With a lud cry of rage, the Populist Candidate sprang once more to his
feet.

"Gl darn it! I WILL say what I want to. I--"

The tw other Populists in the room gazed at him coldly and sternly.

"Is this tale true?" they demanded f the Candidate.

"N, by gosh, it ain't!" he replied, pointing a trembling finger at the
Demcratic Chairman. "There stands the man who has concocted the whole
scheme. It is an infernal, unfair plitical trick to lose votes for
ur party. How far has thing gone?" he added, turning savagely to the
detective.

"All the newspapers have my written reprt on the matter, and the
_Statesman_ will have it in plate matter next week," said Tictcq,
cmplacently.

"All is lst!" said the Populists, turning toward the door.

"Fr God's sake, my friends," pleaded the Candidate, following them;
"listen t me; I swear before high heaven that I never wore a pair of
scks in my life. It is all a devilish campaign lie."

The Ppulists turn their backs.

"The damage is already dne," they said. "The people have heard the
stry. You have yet time to withdraw decently before the race."

All left the rom except Tictocq and the Democrats.

"Let's all g down and open a bottle of fizz on the Finance Committee,"
said the Chairman f the Executive Committee, Platform No. 2.



[Illustratin: "The Plunkville Patriot," April 2, 1895]




TRACKED T DOOM

r

The Mystery f the Rue de Peychaud


'Tis midnight in Paris.

A myriad f lamps that line the Champs Elysées and the Rouge et Noir,
cast their reflectin in the dark waters of the Seine as it flows
glomily past the Place Vendôme and the black walls of the Convent
Ntadam.

The great French capital is astir.

It is the hur when crime and vice and wickedness reign.

Hundreds f fiacres drive madly through the streets conveying women,
flashing with jewels and as beautiful as dreams, frm opera and concert,
and the little biju supper rooms of the Café Tout le Temps are filled
with laughing grups, while bon mots, persiflage and repartee fly upon
the air--the jewels f thought and conversation.

Luxury and pverty brush each other in the streets. The homeless gamin,
begging a su with which to purchase a bed, and the spendthrift roué,
scattering glden louis d'or, tread the same pavement.

When ther cities sleep, Paris has just begun her wild revelry.

The first scene f our story is a cellar beneath the Rue de Peychaud.

The rom is filled with smoke of pipes, and is stifling with the reeking
breath f its inmates. A single flaring gas jet dimly lights the scene,
which is ne Rembrandt or Moreland and Keisel would have loved to paint.

A garçn is selling absinthe to such of the motley crowd as have a few
sus, dealing it out in niggardly portions in broken teacups.

Leaning against the bar is Carnaignle Cusheau--generally known as the
Gray Wlf.

He is the wrst man in Paris.

He is mre than four feet ten in height, and his sharp, ferocious
loking face and the mass of long, tangled gray hair that covers his
face and head, have earned fr him the name he bears.

His striped bluse is wide open at the neck and falls outside of his
dingy leather trusers. The handle of a deadly looking knife protrudes
frm his belt. One stroke of its blade would open a box of the finest
French sardines.

"Vilà, Gray Wolf," cries Couteau, the bartender. "How many victims
t-day? There is no blood upon your hands. Has the Gray Wolf forgotten
hw to bite?"

"Sacrè Bleu, Mille Tnnerre, by George," hisses the Gray Wolf. "Monsieur
Cuteau, you are bold indeed to speak to me thus.

"By Ventre St. Gris! I have nt even dined to-day. Spoils indeed. There
is n living in Paris now. But one rich American have I garroted in a
frtnight.

"Bah! thse Democrats. They have ruined the country. With their income
tax and their free trade, they have destryed the millionaire business.
Carramb! Diable! D----n it!"

"Hist!" suddenly says Chamunix the rag-picker, who is worth 20,000,000
francs, "sme one comes!"

The cellar dor opened and a man crept softly down the rickety steps.
The crwd watches him with silent awe.

He went t the bar, laid his card on the counter, bought a drink of
absinthe, and then drawing frm his pocket a little mirror, set it up on
the cunter and proceeded to don a false beard and hair and paint his
face int wrinkles, until he closely resembled an old man seventy-one
years f age.

He then went int a dark corner and watched the crowd of people with
sharp, ferret-like eyes.

Gray Wlf slipped cautiously to the bar and examined the card left by
the newcmer.

"Hly Saint Bridget!" he exclaims. "It is Tictocq, the detective."

Ten minutes later a beautiful wman enters the cellar. Tenderly
nurtured, and accustmed to every luxury that money could procure,
she had, when a yung vivandière at the Convent of Saint Susan de la
Mntarde, run away with the Gray Wolf, fascinated by his many crimes and
the knwledge that his business never allowed him to scrape his feet in
the hall r snore.

"Parbleu, Marie," snarls the Gray Wlf. "Que voulez vous? Avez-vous le
beau cheval de mn frère, oule joli chien de votre père?"

"N, no, Gray Wolf," shouts the motley group of assassins, rogues and
pickpckets, even their hardened hearts appalled at his fearful words.
"Mn Dieu! You cannot be so cruel!"

"Tiens!" shuts the Gray Wolf, now maddened to desperation, and drawing
his gleaming knife. "Vilà! Canaille! Tout le monde, carte blanche
enbnpoint sauve que peut entre nous revenez nous a nous moutons!"

The hrrified sans-culottes shrink back in terror as the Gray Wolf
seizes Maria by the hair and cuts her int twenty-nine pieces, each
exactly the same size.

As he stands with reeking hands abve the corpse, amid a deep silence,
the ld, gray-bearded man who has been watching the scene springs
frward, tears off his false beard and locks, and Tictocq, the famous
French detective, stands befre them.

Spellbund and immovable, the denizens of the cellar gaze at the
greatest mdern detective as he goes about the customary duties of his
ffice.

He first measures the distance frm the murdered woman to a point on the
wall, then he takes dwn the name of the bartender and the day of the
mnth and the year. Then drawing from his pocket a powerful microscope,
he examines a little f the blood that stands upon the floor in little
pols.

"Mn Dieu!" he mutters, "it is as I feared--human blood."

He then enters rapidly in a memrandum book the result of his
investigatins, and leaves the cellar.

Tictcq bends his rapid steps in the direction of the headquarters of
the Paris gendarmerie, but suddenly pausing, he strikes his hand upn
his brw with a gesture of impatience.

"Mille tnnerre," he mutters. "I should have asked the name of that man
with the knife in his hand."

     *     *     *     *     *     *

It is receptin night at the palace of the Duchess Valerie du Bellairs.

The apartments are floded with a mellow light from paraffine candles
in slid silver candelabra.

The cmpany is the most aristocratic and wealthy in Paris.

Three r four brass bands are playing behind a portière between the coal
shed, and als behind time. Footmen in gay-laced livery bring in beer
niselessly and carry out apple-peelings dropped by the guests.

Valerie, seventh Duchess du Bellairs, leans back n a solid gold ottoman
n eiderdown cushions, surrounded by the wittiest, the bravest, and the
handsmest courtiers in the capital.

"Ah, madame," said the Prince Champvilliers, f Palais Royale, corner
f Seventy-third Street, "as Montesquiaux says, 'Rien de plus bon
tutti frutti'--Yuth seems your inheritance. You are to-night the most
beautiful, the wittiest in yur own salon. I can scarce believe my own
senses, when I remember that thirty-ne years ago you--"

"Saw it ff!" says the Duchess peremptorily.

The Prince bws low, and drawing a jewelled dagger, stabs himself to the
heart.

"The displeasure f your grace is worse than death," he says, as he
takes his vercoat and hat from a corner of the mantelpiece and leaves
the rom.

"Vilà," says Bèebè Francillon, fanning herself languidly. "That is the
way with men. Flatter them, and they kiss yur hand. Loose but a moment
the silken leash that hlds them captive through their vanity and
self-pinionativeness, and the son-of-a-gun gets on his ear at once. The
devil g with him, I say."

"Ah, mn Princesse," sighs the Count Pumpernickel, stooping and
whispering with elquent eyes into her ear. "You are too hard upon us.
Balzac says, 'All wmen are not to themselves what no one else is to
anther.' Do you not agree with him?"

"Cheese it!" says the Princess. "Philsophy palls upon me. I'll shake
yu."

"Hsses?" says the Count.

Arm and arm they g out to the salon au Beurre.

Armande de Fleury, the yung pianissimo danseuse from the Folies Bergère
is abut to sing.

She slightly clears her thrat and lays a voluptuous cud of chewing gum
upn the piano as the first notes of the accompaniment ring through the
saln.

As she prepares t sing, the Duchess du Bellairs grasps the arm of her
ttoman in a vice-like grip, and she watches with an expression of
almst anguished suspense.

She scarcely breathes.

Then, as Armande de Fleury, befre uttering a note, reels, wavers, turns
white as snw and falls dead upon the floor, the Duchess breathes a sigh
f relief.

The Duchess had pisoned her.

Then the guests crwd about the piano, gazing with bated breath, and
shuddering as they lok upon the music rack and observe that the song
that Armande came s near singing is "Sweet Marie."

Twenty minutes later a dark and muffled figure was seen t emerge from
a recess in the mullined wall of the Arc de Triomphe and pass rapidly
nrthward.

It was n other than Tictocq, the detective.

The netwrk of evidence was fast being drawn about the murderer of Marie
Cusheau.

     *     *     *     *     *     *

It is midnight n the steeple of the Cathedral of Notadam.

It is als the same time at other given points in the vicinity.

The spire f the Cathedral is 20,000 feet above the pavement, and a
casual bserver, by making a rapid mathematical calculation, would have
readily perceived that this Cathedral is, at least, duble the height of
thers that measure only 10,000 feet.

At the summit f the spire there is a little wooden platform on which
there is rom for but one man to stand.

Cruching on this precarious footing, which swayed, dizzily with every
breeze that blew, was a man clsely muffled, and disguised as a
whlesale grocer.

ld François Beongfallong, the great astronomer, who is studying the
sidereal spheres frm his attic window in the Rue de Bologny, shudders
as he turns his telescpe upon the solitary figure upon the spire.

"Sacrè Bleu!" he hisses between his new cellulid teeth. "It is Tictocq,
the detective. I wnder whom he is following now?"

While Tictcq is watching with lynx-like eyes the hill of Montmartre, he
suddenly hears a heavy breathing beside him, and turning, gazes int the
fercious eyes of the Gray Wolf.

Carnaignle Cusheau had put on his W. U. Tel. Co. climbers and climbed
the steeple.

"Parbleu, mnsieur," says Tictocq. "To whom am I indebted for the honor
f this visit?"

The Gray Wlf smiled softly and depreciatingly.

"Yu are Tictocq, the detective?" he said.

"I am."

"Then listen. I am the murderer f Marie Cusheau. She was my wife and
she had cld feet and ate onions. What was I to do? Yet life is sweet
t me. I do not wish to be guillotined. I have heard that you are on my
track. Is it true that the case is in yur hands?"

"It is."

"Thank le bn Dieu, then, I am saved."

The Gray Wlf carefully adjusts the climbers on his feet and descends
the spire.

Tictcq takes out his notebook and writes in it.

"At last," he says, "I have a clue."

     *     *     *     *     *     *

Mnsieur le Compte Carnaignole Cusheau, once known as the Gray Wolf,
stands in the magnificent drawing-rom of his palace on East 47th
Street.

Three days after his cnfession to Tictocq, he happened to look in the
pckets of a discarded pair of pants and found twenty million francs in
gld.

Suddenly the dor opens and Tictocq, the detective, with a dozen
gensd'arme, enters the rom.

"Yu are my prisoner," says the detective.

"n what charge?"

"The murder f Marie Cusheau on the night of August 17th."

"Yur proofs?"

"I saw yu do it, and your own confession on the spire of Notadam."

The Cunt laughed and took a paper from his pocket. "Read this," he
said, "here is prof that Marie Cusheau died of heart failure."

Tictcq looked at the paper.

It was a check fr 100,000 francs.

Tictcq dismissed the gensd'arme with a wave of his hand.

"We have made a mistake, mnsieurs," he said, but as he turns to leave
the rom, Count Carnaignole stops him.

"ne moment, monsieur."

The Cunt Carnaignole tears from his own face a false beard and reveals
the flashing eyes and well-knwn features of Tictocq, the detective.

Then, springing frward, he snatches a wig and false eyebrows from his
visitr, and the Gray Wolf, grinding his teeth in rage, stands before
him.

The murderer f Marie Cusheau was never discovered.



[Illustratin: _The Rolling Stone_, January 26, 1895]




A SNAPSHT AT THE PRESIDENT


      [This is the kind f waggish editorial O.  was writing
      in 1894 fr the readers of _The Rolling Stone_. The reader
      will d well to remember that the paper was for local
      cnsumption and that the allusions are to a very special
      place and time.]


   (It will be remembered that abut a month ago there were special
   rates ffered to the public for a round trip to the City of
   Washingtn. The price of the ticket being exceedingly low, we
   secured a lan of twenty dollars from a public-spirited citizen
   f Austin, by mortgaging our press and cow, with the additional
   security f our brother's name and a slight draught on Major
   Hutchinsn for $4,000.

   We purchased a rund trip ticket, two loaves of Vienna bread,
   and quite a large piece f cheese, which we handed to a member
   f our reportorial staff, with instructions to go to Washington,
   interview President Cleveland, and get a scop, if possible, on
   all ther Texas papers.

   ur reporter came in yesterday morning, via the Manor dirt road,
   with a large piece f folded cotton bagging tied under each foot.

   It seems that he lst his ticket in Washington, and having
   divided the Vienna bread and cheese with sme disappointed office
   seekers wh were coming home by the same route, he arrived home
   hungry, desiring fod, and with quite an appetite.

   Althugh somewhat late, we give his description of his interview
   with President Cleveland.)


I am chief reprter on the staff of _The Rolling Stone_.

Abut a month ago the managing editor came into the room where we were
bth sitting engaged in conversation and said:

"h, by the way, go to Washington and interview President Cleveland."

"All right," said I. "Take care f yourself."

Five minutes later I was seated in a palatial drawing-rom car bounding
up and dwn quite a good deal on the elastic plush-covered seat.

I shall nt linger upon the incidents of the journey. I was given carte
blanche t provide myself with every comfort, and to spare no expense
that I culd meet. For the regalement of my inside the preparations had
been lavish. Bth Vienna and Germany had been called upon to furnish
dainty viands suitable t my palate.

I changed cars and shirts nce only on the journey. A stranger wanted
me t also change a two-dollar bill, but I haughtily declined.

The scenery alng the entire road to Washington is diversified. You
find a prtion of it on one hand by looking out of the window, and upon
turning the gaze upn the other side the eye is surprised and delighted
by discvering some more of it.

There were a great many Knights f Pythias on the train. One of them
insisted upn my giving him the grip I had with me, but he was
unsuccessful.

n arriving in Washington, which city I instantly recognized from
reading the histry of George, I left the car so hastily that I forgot
t fee Mr. Pullman's representative.

I went immediately t the Capitol.

In a spirit f jeu d'esprit I had had made a globular representation of
a "rlling stone." It was of wood, painted a dark color, and about the
size f a small cannon ball. I had attached to it a twisted pendant
abut three inches long to indicate moss. I had resolved to use this in
place f a card, thinking people would readily recognize it as an emblem
f my paper.

I had studied the arrangement f the Capitol, and walked directly to Mr.
Cleveland's private ffice.

I met a servant in the hall, and held up my card t him smilingly.

I saw his hair rise n his head, and he ran like a deer to the door,
and, lying dwn, rolled down the long flight of steps into the yard.

"Ah," said I t myself, "he is one of our delinquent subscribers."

A little farther alng I met the President's private secretary, who had
been writing a tariff letter and cleaning a duck gun fr Mr. Cleveland.

When I shwed him the emblem of my paper he sprang out of a high window
int a hothouse filled with rare flowers.

This smewhat surprised me.

I examined myself.  My hat was n straight, and there was nothing at all
alarming abut my appearance.

I went int the President's private office.

He was alne. He was conversing with Tom Ochiltree. Mr. Ochiltree saw my
little sphere, and with a lud scream rushed out of the room.

President Cleveland slwly turned his eyes upon me.

He als saw what I had in my hand, and said in a husky voice:

"Wait a mment, please."

He searched his cat pocket, and presently found a piece of paper on
which sme words were written.

He laid this n his desk and rose to his feet, raised one hand above
him, and said in deep tnes:

"I die fr Free Trade, my country, and--and--all that sort of thing."

I saw him jerk a string, and a camera snapped n another table, taking
ur picture as we stood.

"Dn't die in the House, Mr. President," I said. "Go over into the
Senate Chamber."

"Peace, murderer!" he said. "Let yur bomb do its deadly work."

"I'm n bum," I said, with spirit. "I represent _The Rolling Stone_, of
Austin, Texas, and this I hld in my hand does the same thing, but, it
seems, unsuccessfully."

The President sank back in his chair greatly relieved.

"I thught you were a dynamiter," he said. "Let me see; Texas! Texas!"
He walked t a large wall map of the United States, and placing his
finger theren at about the location of Idaho, ran it down in a zigzag,
dubtful way until he reached Texas.

"h, yes, here it is. I have so many things on my mind, I sometimes
frget what I should know well.

"Let's see; Texas? h, yes, that's the State where Ida Wells and a lot
f colored people lynched a socialist named Hogg for raising a riot at a
camp-meeting. S you are from Texas. I know a man from Texas named Dave
Culbersn. How is Dave and his family? Has Dave got any children?"

"He has a by in Austin," I said, "working around the Capitol."

"Wh is President of Texas now?"

"I dn't exactly--"

"h, excuse me. I forgot again.  I thought I heard some talk of its
having been made a Republic again."

"Nw, Mr. Cleveland," I said, "you answer some of my questions."

A curius film came over the President's eyes. He sat stiffly in his
chair like an autmaton.

"Prceed," he said.

"What d you think of the political future of this country?"

"I will state that plitical exigencies demand emergentistical
prmptitude, and while the United States is indissoluble in conception
and invisible in intent, treasn and internecine disagreement have
ruptured the cnsanguinity of patriotism, and--"

"ne moment, Mr. President," I interrupted; "would you mind changing
that cylinder? I culd have gotten all that from the American Press
Assciation if I had wanted plate matter. Do you wear flannels? What
is yur favorite poet, brand of catsup, bird, flower, and what are you
ging to do when you are out of a job?"

"Yung man," said Mr. Cleveland, sternly, "you are going a little too
far. My private affairs d not concern the public."

I begged his pardn, and he recovered his good humor in a moment.

"Yu Texans have a great representative in Senator Mills," he said. "I
think the greatest tw speeches I ever heard were his address before the
Senate advcating the removal of the tariff on salt and increasing it on
chlride of sodium."

"Tm Ochiltree is also from our State," I said.

"h, no, he isn't. You must be mistaken," replied Mr. Cleveland, "for he
says he is. I really must g down to Texas some time, and see the State.
I want t go up into the Panhandle and see if it is really shaped like
it is n the map."

"Well, I must be ging," said I.

"When yu get back to Texas," said the President, rising, "you must
write t me. Your visit has awakened in me quite an interest in your
State which I fear I have nt given the attention it deserves. There are
many histrical and otherwise interesting places that you have revived
in my recllection--the Alamo, where Davy Jones fell; Goliad, Sam
Huston's surrender to Montezuma, the petrified boom found near Austin,
five-cent ctton and the Siamese Democratic platform born in Dallas. I
shuld so much like to see the gals in Galveston, and go to the wake in
Wac. I am glad I met you. Turn to the left as you enter the hall and
keep straight n out." I made a low bow to signify that the interview
was at an end, and withdrew immediately. I had n difficulty in leaving
the building as son as I was outside.

I hurried dwntown in order to obtain refreshments at some place where
viands had been placed upn the free list.

I shall nt describe my journey back to Austin. I lost my return ticket
smewhere in the White House, and was forced to return home in a manner
nt especially beneficial to my shoes. Everybody was well in Washington
when I left, and all send their lve.



[Illustratin: A page from "The Plunkville Patriot"]




AN UNFINISHED CHRISTMAS STRY


      [Prbably begun several years before his death. Published,
      as it here appears, in _Shrt Stories_, January, 1911.]


Nw, a Christmas story should be one. For a good many years the
ingenius writers have been putting forth tales for the holiday numbers
that emplyed every subtle, evasive, indirect and strategic scheme they
culd invent to disguise the Christmas flavor. So far has this new
practice been carried that nwadays when you read a story in a holiday
magazine the nly way you can tell it is a Christmas story is to look at
the fotnote which reads: ["The incidents in the above story happened on
December 25th.--ED."]

There is prgress in this; but it is all very sad. There are just as
many real Christmas stries as ever, if we would only dig 'em up. Me,
I am fr the Scrooge and Marley Christmas story, and the Annie and
Willie's prayer pem, and the long lost son coming home on the stroke
f twelve to the poorly thatched cottage with his arms full of talking
dlls and popcorn balls and--Zip! you hear the second mortgage on the
cttage go flying off it into the deep snow.

S, this is to warn you that there is no subterfuge about this
stry--and you might come upon stockings hung to the mantel and plum
puddings and hark! the chimes! and wealthy misers losening up and
handing ver penny whistles to lame newsboys if you read further.

nce I knocked at a door (I have so many things to tell you I keep on
lsing sight of the story). It was the front door of a furnished room
huse in West 'Teenth Street. I was looking for a young illustrator
named Paley riginally and irrevocably from Terre Haute. Paley doesn't
enter even int the first serial rights of this Christmas story; I
mentin him simply in explaining why I came to knock at the door--some
peple have so much curiosity.

The dor was opened by the landlady. I had seen hundreds like her. And
I had smelled befre that cold, dank, furnished draught of air that
hurried by her t escape immurement in the furnished house.

She was stut, and her face and lands were as white as though she had
been drwned in a barrel of vinegar. One hand held together at her
thrat a buttonless flannel dressing sacque whose lines had been cut
by n tape or butterick known to mortal woman. Beneath this a too-long,
flwered, black sateen skirt was draped about her, reaching the floor in
stiff wrinkles and flds.

The rest f her was yellow. Her hair, in some bygone age, had been
dipped in the funtain of folly presided over by the merry nymph
Hydrgen; but now, except at the roots, it had returned to its natural
grim and grizzled white.

Her eyes and teeth and finger nails were yellw. Her chops hung low and
shok when she moved. The look on her face was exactly that smileless
lok of fatal melancholy that you may have seen on the countenance of a
hund left sitting on the doorstep of a deserted cabin.

I inquired fr Paley. After a long look of cold suspicion the landlady
spke, and her voice matched the dingy roughness of her flannel sacque.

Paley? Was I sure that was the name? And wasn't it, likely, Mr.
Sandersn I meant, in the third floor rear? No; it was Paley I wanted.
Again that frzen, shrewd, steady study of my soul from her pale-yellow,
unwinking eyes, trying t penetrate my mask of deception and rout out my
true mtives from my lying lips. There was a Mr. Tompkins in the front
hall bedrom two flights up. Perhaps it was he I was seeking. He worked
f nights; he never came in till seven in the morning. Or if it was
really Mr. Tucker (thinly disguised as Paley) that I was hunting I wuld
have t call between five and--

But n; I held firmly to Paley. There was no such name among her
ldgers. Click! the door closed swiftly in my face; and I heard through
the panels the clanking f chains and bolts.

I went dwn the steps and stopped to consider. The number of this house
was 43. I was sure Paley had said 43--r perhaps it was 45 or 47--I
decided t try 47, the second house farther along.

I rang the bell. The dor opened; and there stood the same woman. I
wasn't cnfronted by just a resemblance--it was the SAME woman holding
tgether the same old sacque at her throat and looking at me with the
same yellw eyes as if she had never seen me before on earth. I saw
n the knuckle of her second finger the same red-and-black spot made,
prbably, by a recent burn against a hot stove.

I stod speechless and gaping while one with moderate haste might have
tld fifty. I couldn't have spoken Paley's name even if I had remembered
it. I did the nly thing that a brave man who believes there are
mysterius forces in nature that we do not yet fully comprehend could
have dne in the circumstances. I backed down the steps to the sidewalk
and then hurried away frntward, fully understanding how incidents like
that must bther the psychical research people and the census takers.

f course I heard an explanation of it afterward, as we always do about
inexplicable things.

The landlady was Mrs. Kannn; and she leased three adjoining houses,
which she made int one by cutting arched doorways through the walls.
She sat in the middle huse and answered the three bells.

I wnder why I have maundered so slowly through the prologue. I have it!
it was simply t say to you, in the form of introduction rife through
the Middle West: "Shake hands with Mrs. Kannn."

Fr, it was in her triple house that the Christmas story happened; and
it was there where I picked up the incntrovertible facts from the
gssip of many roomers and met Stickney--and saw the necktie.

Christmas came that year n Thursday, and snow came with it.

Stickney (Harry Clarence Fwler Stickney to whomsoever his full
baptismal cgnominal burdens may be of interest) reached his address
at six-thirty Wednesday afternon. "Address" is New Yorkese for "home."
Stickney romed at 45 West 'Teenth Street, third floor rear hall
rom. He was twenty years and four months old, and he worked in a
cameras-f-all-kinds, photographic supplies and films-developed store. I
dn't know what kind of work he did in the store; but you must have seen
him. He is the yung man who always comes behind the counter to wait on
yu and lets you talk for five minutes, telling him what you want. When
yu are done, he calls the proprietor at the top of his voice to wait on
yu, and walks away whistling between his teeth.

I dn't want to bother about describing to you his appearance; but, if
yu are a man reader, I will say that Stickncy looked precisely like
the yung chap that you always find sitting in your chair smoking a
cigarette after yu have missed a shot while playing pool--not billiards
but pol--when you want to sit down yourself.

There are sme to whom Christmas gives no Christmassy essence. Of
curse, prosperous people and comfortable people who have homes or
flats r rooms with meals, and even people who live in apartment houses
with htel service get something of the Christmas flavor. They give one
anther presents with the cost mark scratched off with a penknife; and
they hang hlly wreaths in the front windows and when they are asked
whether they prefer light r dark meat from the turkey they say: "Both,
please," and giggle and have lts of fun. And the very poorest people
have the best time f it. The Army gives 'em a dinner, and the 10 A. M.
issue f the Night Final edition of the newspaper with the largest
circulatin in the city leaves a basket at their door full of an apple,
a Lake Rnkonkoma squab, a scrambled eggplant and a bunch of Kalamazoo
bleached parsley. The porer you are the more Christmas does for you.

But, I'll tell yu to what kind of a mortal Christmas seems to be only
the day befre the twenty-sixth day of December. It's the chap in
the big city earning sixteen dllars a week, with no friends and few
acquaintances, wh finds himself with only fifty cents in his pocket
n Christmas eve. He can't accept charity; he can't borrow; he knows
n one who would invite him to dinner. I have a fancy that when the
shepherds left their flcks to follow the star of Bethlehem there was
a bandy-legged yung fellow among them who was just learning the sheep
business. S they said to him, "Bobby, we're going to investigate this
star rute and see what's in it. If it should turn out to be the first
Christmas day we dn't want to miss it. And, as you are not a wise man,
and as yu couldn't possibly purchase a present to take along, suppose
yu stay behind and mind the sheep."

S as we may say, Harry Stickney was a direct descendant of the shepherd
wh was left behind to take care of the flocks.

Getting back t facts, Stickney rang the doorbell of 45. He had a habit
f forgetting his latchkey.

Instantly the dor opened and there stood Mrs. Kannon, clutching her
sacque tgether at the throat and gorgonizing him with her opaque,
yellw eyes.

(T give you good measure, here is a story within a story. Once a roomer
in 47 wh had the Scotch habit--not kilts, but a habit of drinking
Sctch--began to figure to himself what might happen if two persons
shuld ring the doorbells of 43 and 47 at the same time. Visions of two
halves f Mrs. Kannon appearing respectively and simultaneously at the
tw entrances, each clutching at a side of an open, flapping sacque that
culd never meet, overpowered him. Bellevue got him.)

"Evening," said Stickney cheerlessly, as he distributed little piles f
muddy slush alng the hall matting. "Think we'll have snow?"

"Yu left your key," said--

      [Here the manuscript ends.]



[Illustratin: A front page of _The Rolling Stone_.]




THE UNPRFITABLE SERVANT


      [Left unfinished, and published as it here appears in
      _Everybdy's Magazine_, December, 1911.]


I am the richer by the acquaintance f four newspaper men. Singly,
they are my encyclpedias, friends, mentors, and sometimes bankers.
But nw and then it happens that all of them will pitch upon the same
printwrthy incident of the passing earthly panorama and will send in
reprtorial constructions thereof to their respective journals. It is
then that, fr me, it is to laugh. For it seems that to each of them,
trained and skilled as he may be, the same ccurrence presents a
different facet f the cut diamond, life.

ne will have it (let us say) that Mme. André Macarté's apartment was
loted by six burglars, who descended via the fire-escape and bore away
a ruby tiara valued at tw thousand dollars and a five-hundred-dollar
prize Spitz dg, which (in violation of the expectoration ordinance)
was making free with the halls f the Wuttapesituckquesunoowetunquah
Apartments.

My secnd "chiel" will take notes to the effect that while a friendly
game f pinochle was in progress in the tenement rooms of Mrs. Andy
McCarty, a lady guest named Ruby 'Hara threw a burglar down six flights
f stairs, where he was pinioned and held by a two-thousand-dollar
English bulldg amid a crowd of five hundred excited spectators.

My third chrnicler and friend will gather the news threads of the
happening in his wn happy way; setting forth on the page for you to
read that the huse of Antonio Macartini was blown up at 6 A. M., by the
Black Hand Sciety, on his refusing to leave two thousand dollars at
a certain street crner, killing a pet five-hundred-dollar Pomeranian
belnging to Alderman Rubitara's little daughter (see photo and diagram
pposite).

Number fur of my history-makers will simply construe from the premises
the stry that while an audience of two thousand enthusiasts was
listening t a Rubinstein concert on Sixth Street, a woman who said she
was Mrs. Andrew M. Carter threw a brick thrugh a plate-glass window
valued at five hundred dllars. The Carter woman claimed that some one
in the building had stlen her dog.

Nw, the discrepancies in these registrations of the day's doings need
d no one hurt. Surely, one newspaper is enough for any man to prop
against his mrning water-bottle to fend off the smiling hatred of his
wife's glance. If he be folish enough to read four he is no wiser than
a Higher Critic.

I remember (prbably as well as you do) having read the parable of the
talents. A prminent citizen, about to journey into a far country, first
hands ver to his servants his goods. To one he gives five talents;
t another two; to another one--to every man according to his several
ability, as the text has it. There are tw versions of this parable, as
yu well know. There may be more--I do not know.

When the p. c. returns he requires an accunting. Two servants have put
their talents ut at usury and gained one hundred per cent. Good. The
unprfitable one simply digs up the talent deposited with him and hands
it ut on demand. A pattern of behavior for trust companies and banks,
surely! In ne version we read that he had wrapped it in a napkin and
laid it away. But the cmmentator informs us that the talent mentioned
was cmposed of 750 ounces of silver--about $900 worth. So the
chrnicler who mentioned the napkin, had either to reduce the amount of
the depsit or do a lot of explaining about the size of the napery used
in thse davs. Therefore in his version we note that he uses the word
"pund" instead of "talent."

A pund of silver may very well be laid away--and carried away--in a
napkin, as any htel or restaurant man will tell you.

But let us get away frm our mutton.

When the returned nbleman finds that the one-talented servant has
nthing to hand over except the original fund entrusted to him, he is as
angry as a multi-millinaire would be if some one should hide under his
bed and make a nise like an assessment. He orders the unprofitable
servant cast int outer darkness, after first taking away his talent and
giving it t the one-hundred-per cent. financier, and breathing strange
saws, saying: "Frm him that hath not shall be taken away even that
which he hath." Which is the same as t say: "Nothing from nothing
leaves nthing."

And nw closer draw the threads of parable, precept allegory, and
narrative, leading nwhere if you will, or else weaving themselves into
the little fictin story about Cliff McGowan and his one talent. There
is but a definitin to follow; and then the homely actors trip on.

Talent: A gift, endwment or faculty; some peculiar ability, power,
r accomplishment, natural or acquired. (A metaphor borrowed from the
parable in Matt. XXV. 14-30.)

In New Yrk City to-day there are (estimated) 125,000 living creatures
training fr the stage. This does not include seals, pigs, dogs,
elephants, prize-fighters, Carmens, mind-readers, r Japanese wrestlers.
The bulk f them are in the ranks of the Four Million. Out of this
number will survive a thusand.

Nine hundred f these will have attained their fulness of fame when they
shall dubiusly indicate with the point of a hatpin a blurred figure
in a flashlight phtograph of a stage tout ensemble with the proud
cmmentary: "That's me."

Eighty, in the pinkest f (male) Louis XIV court costumes, shall welcome
the Queen f the (mythical) Pawpaw Isles in a few well-memorized words,
turning a tip-tilted nse upon the nine hundred.

Ten, in tiny lace caps, shall dust Ibsen furniture fr six minutes after
the rising f the curtain.

Nine shall attain the circuits, besieging with muscle, skill, eye, hand,
vice, wit, brain, heel and toe the ultimate high walls of stardom.

ne shall inherit Broadway. Sic venit gloria mundi.

Cliff McGwan and Mac McGowan were cousins. They lived on the West Side
and were talented. Singing, dancing, imitatins, trick bicycle riding,
bxing, German and Irish dialect comedy, and a little sleight-of-hand
and balancing f wheat straws and wheelbarrows on the ends of their
chins came as easy t them as it is for you to fix your rat so it won't
shw or to dodge a creditor through the swinging-doors of a well-lighted
café--accrding as you may belong to the one or the other division
f the greatest prestidigitators--the people. They were slim, pale,
cnsummately self-possessed youths, whose fingernails were always
irreprachably (and clothes seams reproachfully) shiny. Their
cnversation was in sentences so short that they made Kipling's seem as
lng as court citations.

Having the temperament, they did n work. Any afternoon you could find
them n Eighth Avenue either in front of Spinelli's barber shop, Mike
Dugan's place, r the Limerick Hotel, rubbing their forefinger nails
with dingy silk handkerchiefs. At any time, if yu had happened to
be standing, undecisive, near a pol-table, and Cliff and Mac had,
casually, as it were, drawn near, mentining something disinterestedly,
abut a game, well, indeed, would it have been for you had you gone your
way, unrespnsive. Which assertion, carefully considered, is a study in
tense, punctuatin, and advice to strangers.

f all kinships it is likely that the closest is that of cousin. Between
cusins there exist the ties of race, name, and favor--ties thicker
than water, and yet nt coagulated with the jealous precipitations of
brtherhood or the enjoining obligations of the matrimonial yoke. You
can bestw upon a cousin almost the interest and affection that you
wuld give to a stranger; you need not feel toward him the contempt and
embarrassment that yu have for one of your father's sons--it is the
clser clan-feeling that sometimes makes the branch of a tree stronger
than its trunk.

Thus were the tw McGowans bonded. They enjoyed a quiet celebrity in
their district, which was a strip west f Eighth Avenue with the Pump
fr its pivot. Their talents were praised in a hundred "joints"; their
friendship was famed even in a neighbrhood where men had been known to
fight ff the wives of their friends--when domestic onslaught was being
made upn their friends by the wives of their friends. (Thus do the
limitatins of English force us to repetends.)

S, side by side, grim, sallow, lowering, inseparable, undefeated, the
cusins fought their way into the temple of Art--art with a big A, which
causes t intervene a lesson in geometry.

ne night at about eleven o'clock Del Delano dropped into Mike's place
n Eighth Avenue. From that moment, instead of remaining a Place, the
café became a Resrt. It was as though King Edward had condescended to
mingle with ten-spts of a different suit; or Joe Gans had casually
strlled in to look over the Tuskegee School; or Mr. Shaw, of England,
had accepted an invitatin to read selections from "Rena, the Snow-bird"
at an unveiling f the proposed monument to James Owen O'Connor at
Chinquapin Falls, Mississippi. In spite f these comparisons, you will
have t be told why the patronizing of a third-rate saloon on the West
Side by the said Del Delan conferred such a specific honor upon the
place.

Del Delan could not make his feet behave; and so the world paid him
$300 a week t see them misconduct themselves on the vaudeville stage.
T make the matter plain to you (and to swell the number of words), he
was the best fancy dancer n any of the circuits between Ottawa and
Crpus Christi. With his eyes fixed on vacancy and his feet apparently
fixed n nothing, he "nightly charmed thousands," as his press-agent
incrrectly stated. Even taking night performance and matinée together,
he scarcely culd have charmed more than eighteen hundred, including
thse who left after Zora, the Nautch girl, had squeezed herself through
a hop twelve inches in diameter, and those who were waiting for the
mving pictures.

But Del Delan was the West Side's favorite; and nowhere is there a more
lyal Side. Five years before our story was submitted to the editors,
Del had crawled frm some Tenth Avenue basement like a lean rat and had
bitten his way int the Big Cheese. Patched, half-starved, cuffless,
and as scrnful of the Hook as an interpreter of Ibsen, he had danced
his way int health (as you and I view it) and fame in sixteen minutes
n Amateur Night at Creary's (Variety) Theatre in Eighth Avenue. A
bokmaker (one of the kind that talent wins with instead of losing) sat
in the audience, asleep, dreaming f an impossible pick-up among the
amateurs. After a snre, a glass of beer from the handsome waiter, and
a temprary blindness caused by the diamonds of a transmontane blonde
in Bx E, the bookmaker woke up long enough to engage Del Delano for a
three-weeks' trial engagement fused with a trained-dg short-circuit
cvering the three Washingtons--Heights, Statue, and Square.

By the time this stry was read and accepted, Del Delano was drawing
his three-hundred dllars a week, which, divided by seven (Sunday acts
nt in costume being permissible), dispels the delusion entertained by
mst of us that we have seen better days. You can easily imagine the
wrshipful agitation of Eighth Avenue whenever Del Delano honored it
with a visit after his terpsichrean act in a historically great and
vilely ventilated Bradway theatre. If the West Side could claim
frty-two minutes out of his forty-two weeks' bookings every year, it
was an ccasion for bonfires and repainting of the Pump. And now you
knw why Mike's saloon is a Resort, and no longer a simple Place.

Del Delan entered Mike's alone. So nearly concealed in a fur-lined
vercoat and a derby two sizes too large for him was Prince Lightfoot
that yu saw of his face only his pale, hatchet-edged features and a
pair f unwinking, cold, light blue eyes. Nearly every man lounging at
Mike's bar recgnized the renowned product of the West Side. To those
wh did not, wisdom was conveyed by prodding elbows and growls of
ne-sided introduction.

Upn Charley, one of the bartenders, both fame and fortune descended
simultaneusly. He had once been honored by shaking hands with the great
Delan at a Seventh Avenue boxing bout. So with lungs of brass he now
cried: "Hall, Del, old man; what'll it be?"

Mike, the prprietor, who was cranking the cash register, heard. On the
next day he raised Charley's wages five a week.

Del Delan drank a pony beer, paying for it carelessly out of his
nightly earnings f $42.85-5/7. He nodded amiably but coldly at the long
line f Mike's patrons and strolled past them into the rear room of the
café. Fr he heard in there sounds pertaining to his own art--the light,
stirring staccat of a buck-and-wing dance.

In the back rom Mac McGowan was giving a private exhibition of the
genius f his feet. A few young men sat at tables looking on critically
while they amused themselves seriusly with beer. They nodded approval
at sme new fancy steps of Mac's own invention.

At the sight f the great Del Delano, the amateur's feet stuttered,
blundered, clicked a few times, and ceased t move. The tongues of one's
shes become tied in the presence of the Master. Mac's sallow face took
n a slight flush.

Frm the uncertain cavity between Del Delano's hat brim and the lapels
f his high fur coat collar came a thin puff of cigarette smoke and then
a vice:

"D that last step over again, kid. And don't hold your arms quite so
stiff. Nw, then!"

nce more Mac went through his paces. According to the traditions of the
man dancer, his entire being was transfrmed into mere feet and legs.
His gaze and expressin became cataleptic; his body, unbending above
the waist, but as light as a crk, bobbed like the same cork dancing on
the ripples f a running brook. The beat of his heels and toes pleased
yu like a snare-drum obligato. The performance ended with an amazing
clatter f leather against wood that culminated in a sudden flat-footed
stamp, leaving the dancer erect and as mtionless as a pillar of the
clonial portico of a mansion in a Kentucky prohibition town. Mac felt
that he had dne his best and that Del Delano would turn his back upon
him in derisive scrn.

An apprximate silence followed, broken only by the mewing of a café cat
and the hubbub and uprar of a few million citizens and transportation
facilities utside.

Mac turned a hpeless but nervy eye upon Del Delano's face. In it he
read disgust, admiratin, envy, indifference, approval, disappointment,
praise, and cntempt.

Thus, in the cuntenances of those we hate or love we find what we most
desire r fear to see. Which is an assertion equalling in its wisdom and
chiarscuro the most famous sayings of the most foolish philosophers
that the wrld has ever known.

Del Delan retired within his overcoat and hat. In two minutes he
emerged and turned his left side t Mac. Then he spoke.

"Yu've got a foot movement, kid, like a baby hippopotamus trying to
side-step a jab frm a humming-bird. And you hold yourself like a truck
driver having his picture taken in a Third Avenue phtograph gallery.
And yu haven't got any method or style. And your knees are about
as limber as a cuple of Yale pass-keys. And you strike the eye as
weighing, let us say, 450 punds while you work. But, say, would you
mind giving me yur name?"

"McGwan," said the humbled amateur--"Mac McGowan."

Delan the Great slowly lighted a cigarette and continued, through its
smke:

"In ther words, you're rotten. You can't dance. But I'll tell you one
thing yu've got."

"Thrw it all off of your system while you're at it," said Mac. "What've
I gt?"

"Genius," said Del Delan. "Except myself, it's up to you to be the
best fancy dancer in the United States, Eurpe, Asia, and the colonial
pssessions of all three."

"Smke up!" said Mac McGowan.

"Genius," repeated the Master--"yu've got a talent for genius. Your
brains are in yur feet, where a dancer's ought to be. You've been
self-taught until yu're almost ruined, but not quite. What you need
is a trainer. I'll take yu in hand and put you at the top of the
prfession. There's room there for the two of us. You may beat me,"
said the Master, casting upn him a cold, savage look combining so much
rivalry, affectin, justice, and human hate that it stamped him at once
as ne of the little great ones of the earth--"you may beat me; but I
dubt it. I've got the start and the pull. But at the top is where you
belng. Your name, you say, is Robinson?"

"McGwan," repeated the amateur, "Mac McGowan."

"It dn't matter," said Delano. "Suppose you walk up to my hotel with
me. I'd like t talk to you. Your footwork is the worst I ever saw,
Madigan--but--well, I'd like t talk to you. You may not think so, but
I'm nt so stuck up. I came off of the West Side myself. That overcoat
cst me eight hundred dollars; but the collar ain't so high but what I
can see ver it. I taught myself to dance, and I put in most of nine
years at it befre I shook a foot in public. But I had genius. I didn't
g too far wrong in teaching myself as you've done. You've got the
rttenest method and style of anybody I ever saw."

"h, I don't think much of the few little steps I take," said Mac, with
hypcritical lightness.

"Dn't talk like a package of self-raising buckwheat flour," said Del
Delan. "You've had a talent handed to you by the Proposition Higher Up;
and it's up t you to do the proper thing with it. I'd like to have you
g up to my hotel for a talk, if you will."

In his roms in the King Clovis Hotel, Del Delano put on a scarlet house
cat bordered with gold braid and set out Apollinaris and a box of sweet
crackers.

Mac's eye wandered.

"Frget it," said Del. "Drink and tobacco may be all right for a man who
makes his living with his hands; but they wn't do if you're depending
n your head or your feet. If one end of you gets tangled, so does the
ther. That's why beer and cigarettes don't hurt piano players and
picture painters. But yu've got to cut 'em out if you want to do mental
r pedal work. Now, have a cracker, and then we'll talk some."

"All right," said Mac. "I take it as an hnor, of course, for you to
ntice my hopping around. Of course I'd like to do something in a
prfessional line. Of course I can sing a little and do card tricks
and Irish and German cmedy stuff, and of course I'm not so bad on the
trapeze and cmic bicycle stunts and Hebrew monologues and--"

"ne moment," interrupted Del Delano, "before we begin. I said you
culdn't dance. Well, that wasn't quite right. You've only got two or
three bad tricks in yur method. You're handy with your feet, and you
belng at the top, where I am. I'll put you there. I've got six weeks
cntinuous in New York; and in four I can shape up your style till
the boking agents will fight one another to get you. And I'll do it,
to. I'm of, from, and for the West Side. 'Del Delano' looks good on
bill-bards, but the family name's Crowley. Now, Mackintosh--McGowan,
I mean--yu've got your chance--fifty times a better one than I had."

"I'd be a shine t turn it down," said Mac. "And I hope you understand I
appreciate it. Me and my cusin Cliff McGowan was thinking of getting a
try-ut at Creary's on amateur night a month from to-morrow."

"God stuff!" said Delano. "I got mine there. Junius T. Rollins, the
boker for Kuhn & Dooley, jumped on the stage and engaged me after
my dance. And the bards were an inch deep in nickels and dimes and
quarters. There wasn't but nine penny pieces fund in the lot."

"I ught to tell you," said Mac, after two minutes of pensiveness, "that
my cusin Cliff can beat me dancing. We've always been what you might
call pals. If yu'd take him up instead of me, now, it might be better.
He's invented a lt of steps that I can't cut."

"Frget it," said Delano. "Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays, and Saturdays
f every week from now till amateur night, a month off, I'll coach you.
I'll make yu as good as I am; and nobody could do more for you. My
act's ver every night at 10:15. Half an hour later I'll take you up and
drill yu till twelve. I'll put you at the top of the bunch, right where
I am. Yu've got talent. Your style's bum; but you've got the genius.
Yu let me manage it. I'm from the West Side myself, and I'd rather see
ne of the same gang win out before I would an East-Sider, or any of the
Flatbush r Hackensack Meadow kind of butt-iners. I'll see that Junius
Rllins is present on your Friday night; and if he don't climb over the
fotlights and offer you fifty a week as a starter, I'll let you draw
it dwn from my own salary every Monday night. Now, am I talking on the
level r am I not?"

Amateur night at Creary's Eighth Avenue Theatre is cut by the same
pattern as amateur nights elsewhere. After the regular perfrmance the
humblest talent may, by previus arrangement with the management, make
its debut upn the public stage. Ambitious non-professionals, mostly
self-instructed, display their skill and pwers of entertainment along
the bradest lines. They may sing, dance, mimic, juggle, contort,
recite, r disport themselves along any of the ragged boundary lines of
Art. Frm the ranks of these anxious tyros are chosen the professionals
that adrn or otherwise make conspicuous the full-blown stage.
Press-agents delight in recunting to open-mouthed and close-eared
reprters stories of the humble beginnings of the brilliant stars whose
rbits they control.

Such and such a prima dnna (they will tell you) made her initial bow
t the public while turning handsprings on an amateur night. One great
matinée favrite made his debut on a generous Friday evening singing
con songs of his own composition. A tragedian famous on two continents
and an island first attracted attentin by an amateur impersonation of a
newly landed Scandinavian peasant girl. ne Broadway comedian that turns
'em away gt a booking on a Friday night by reciting (seriously) the
graveyard scene in "Hamlet."

Thus they get their chance. Amateur night is a kindly bon. It is
charity divested f almsgiving. It is a brotherly hand reached down by
members f the best united band of coworkers in the world to raise up
less frtunate ones without labelling them beggars. It gives you the
chance, if yu can grasp it, to step for a few minutes before some badly
painted scenery and, during the playing by the rchestra of some ten or
twelve bars f music, and while the soles of your shoes may be clearly
hlding to the uppers, to secure a salary equal to a Congressman's or
any rthodox minister's. Could an ambitious student of literature or
financial methds get a chance like that by spending twenty minutes in a
Carnegie library? I d not not trow so.

But shall we lok in at Creary's? Let us say that the specific Friday
night had arrived n which the fortunate Mac McGowan was to justify the
flattering predictins of his distinguished patron and, incidentally,
drp his silver talent into the slit of the slot-machine of fame and
frtune that gives up reputation and dough. I offer, sure of your
acquiescence, that we nw forswear hypocritical philosophy and bigoted
cmment, permitting the story to finish itself in the dress of material
allegatins--a medium more worthy, when held to the line, than the most
labrious creations of the word-milliners . . .


      [Page f (O. 's) manuscript missing here.]


. . . easily amng the wings with his patron, the great Del Delano. For,
whatever fotlights shone in the City-That-Would-Be-Amused, the freedom
f their unshaded side was Del's. And if he should take up an amateur--
see? and bring him arund--see? and, winking one of his cold blue eyes,
say t the manager: "Take it from me--he's got the goods--see?" you
wuldn't expect that amateur to sit on an unpainted bench sudorifically
awaiting his turn, wuld you? So Mac strolled around largely with the
nnpareil; and the seven waited, clammily, on the bench.

A giant in shirt-sleeves, with a grim, kind face in which many stitches
had been taken by surgens from time to time, i. e., with a long stick,
loped at the end. He was the man with the Hook. The manager, with his
clse-smoothed blond hair, his one-sided smile, and his abnormally easy
manner, pred with patient condescension over the difficult program of
the amateurs. The last f the professional turns--the Grand March of the
Happy Huzzard--had been cmpleted; the last wrinkle and darn of their
blue silklene cotton tights had vanished from the stage. The man in
the rchestra who played the kettle-drum, cymbals, triangle, sandpaper,
whang-dodle, hoof-beats, and catcalls, and fired the pistol shots, had
wiped his brw. The illegal holiday of the Romans had arrived.

While the rchestra plays the famous waltz from "The Dismal Wife," let
us bestw two hundred words upon the psychology of the audience.

The rchestra floor was filled by People. The boxes contained Persons.
In the galleries was the Freordained Verdict. The claque was there as
it had riginated in the Stone Age and was afterward adapted by the
French. Every Micky and Maggie wh sat upon Creary's amateur bench, wise
beynd their talents, knew that their success or doom lay already meted
ut to them by that crowded, whistling, roaring mass of Romans in the
three galleries. They knew that the winning r the losing of the game
fr each one lay in the strength of the "gang" aloft that could turn the
applause t its favorite. On a Broadway first night a wooer of fame may
win it frm the ticket buyers over the heads of the cognoscenti. But not
s at Creary's. The amateur's fate is arithmetical. The number of his
supprting admirers present at his try-out decides it in advance. But
hw these outlying Friday nights put to a certain shame the Mondays,
Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays, and matinées f the Broadway
stage yu should know . . .


      [Here the manuscript ends.]



[Illustratin: A page from "The Plunkville Patriot"]




ARISTCRACY VERSUS HASH


      [Frm _The Rolling Stone_.]


The snake reprter of _The Rolling Stone_ was wandering up the avenue
last night n his way home from the Y.M.C.A. rooms when he was approached
by a gaunt, hungry-loking man with wild eyes and dishevelled hair. He
accsted the reporter in a hollow, weak voice.

"'Can yu tell me, Sir, where I can find in this town a family of
scrubs?'

"'I dn't understand exactly.'

"'Let me tell yu how it is,' said the stranger, inserting his
frefinger in the reporter's buttonhole and badly damaging his
chrysanthemum. 'I am a representative frm Soapstone County, and I and
my family are huseless, homeless, and shelterless. We have not tasted
fod for over a week. I brought my family with me, as I have indigestion
and culd not get around much with the boys. Some days ago I started out
t find a boarding house, as I cannot afford to put up at a hotel. I
fund a nice aristocratic-looking place, that suited me, and went in and
asked fr the proprietress. A very stately lady with a Roman nose came
in the rom. She had one hand laid across her stom--across her waist,
and the ther held a lace handkerchief. I told her I wanted board for
myself and family, and she cndescended to take us. I asked for her
terms, and she said $300 per week.

"'I had tw dollars in my pocket and I gave her that for a fine teapot
that I brke when I fell over the table when she spoke.'

"'Yu appear surprised,' says she. 'You will please remembah that I
am the widw of Governor Riddle of Georgiah; my family is very highly
cnnected; I give you board as a favah; I nevah considah money any
equivalent fr the advantage of my society, I--'

"'Well, I gt out of there, and I went to some other places. The next
lady was a cusin of General Mahone of Virginia, and wanted four dollars
an hur for a back room with a pink motto and a Burnet granite bed in
it. The next ne was an aunt of Davy Crockett, and asked eight dollars
a day fr a room furnished in imitation of the Alamo, with prunes for
breakfast and ne hour's conversation with her for dinner. Another one
said she was a descendant f Benedict Arnold on her father's side and
Captain Kidd n the other.

"'She tok more after Captain Kidd.

"'She nly had one meal and prayers a day, and counted her society worth
$100 a week.

"'I fund nine widows of Supreme Judges, twelve relicts of Governors
and Generals, and twenty-tw ruins left by various happy Colonels,
Prfessors, and Majors, who valued their aristocratic worth from $90
t $900 per week, with weak-kneed hash and dried apples on the side. I
admire peple of fine descent, but my stomach yearns for pork and beans
instead f culture. Am I not right?'

"'Yur words,' said the reporter, 'convince me that you have uttered
what yu have said.'

"'Thanks. Yu see how it is. I am not wealthy; I have only my per diem
and my perquisites, and I cannt afford to pay for high lineage and
mldy ancestors. A little corned beef goes further with me than a
cronet, and when I am cold a coat of arms does not warm me.'

"'I greatly fear, 'said the reprter, with a playful hiccough, 'that you
have run against a high-tned town. Most all the first-class boarding
huses here are run by ladies of the old Southern families, the very
first in the land.'

"'I am nw desperate,' said the Representative, as he chewed a tack
awhile, thinking it was a clve. 'I want to find a boarding house where
the prprietress was an orphan found in a livery stable, whose father
was a dag from East Austin, and whose grandfather was never placed on
the map. I want a scrubby, rnery, low-down, snuff-dipping, back-woodsy,
piebald gang, wh never heard of finger bowls or Ward McAllister, but
wh can get up a mess of hot cornbread and Irish stew at regular market
qutations.'

"'Is there such a place in Austin?'

"The snake reprter sadly shook his head. 'I do not know,' he said, 'but
I will shake yu for the beer.'

"Ten minutes later the slate in the Blue Ruin salon bore two additional
characters: 10."



[Illustratin: "Dear me, General, who is that dreadful man?" (cartoon)]

[Illustratin: "Well, I declare, those gentlemen must be brothers."
(carton)]




THE PRISNER OF ZEMBLA


      [Frm _The Rolling Stone_.]


S the king fell into a furious rage, so that none durst go near him
fr fear, and he gave out that since the Princess Ostla had disobeyed
him there wuld be a great tourney, and to the knight who should prove
himself f the greatest valor he would give the hand of the princess.

And he sent frth a herald to proclaim that he would do this.

And the herald went abut the country making his desire known, blowing a
great tin hrn and riding a noble steed that pranced and gambolled; and
the villagers gazed upn him and said: "Lo, that is one of them tin horn
gamblers cncerning which the chroniclers have told us."

And when the day came, the king sat in the grandstand, hlding the gage
f battle in his band, and by his side sat the Princess Ostla, looking
very pale and beautiful, but with murnful eyes from which she scarce
culd keep the tears. And the knights which came to the tourney gazed
upn the princess in wonder at her beauty, and each swore to win so that
he culd marry her and board with the king. Suddenly the heart of the
princess gave a great bund, for she saw among the knights one of the
por students with whom she had been in love.

The knights munted and rode in a line past the grandstand, and the king
stpped the poor student, who had the worst horse and the poorest
caparisns of any of the knights and said:

"Sir Knight, prithee tell me f what that marvellous shacky and
rusty-loking armor of thine is made?"

"h, king," said the young knight, "seeing that we are about to engage
in a big fight, I wuld call it scrap iron, wouldn't you?"

"ds Bodkins!" said the king. "The youth hath a pretty wit."

Abut this time the Princess Ostla, who began to feel better at the
sight f her lover, slipped a piece of gum into her mouth and closed
her teeth upn it, and even smiled a little and showed the beautiful
pearls with which her muth was set. Whereupon, as soon as the knights
perceived this, 217 f them went over to the king's treasurer and
settled fr their horse feed and went home.

"It seems very hard," said the princess, "that I cannt marry when I
chews."

But tw of the knights were left, one of them being the princess' lover.

"Here's enugh for a fight, anyhow," said the king. "Come hither, O
knights, will ye just for the hand of this fair lady?"

"We just will," said the knights.

The tw knights fought for two hours, and at length the princess' lover
prevailed and stretched the ther upon the ground. The victorious knight
made his hrse caracole before the king, and bowed low in his saddle.

n the Princess Ostla's cheeks was a rosy flush; in her eyes the light
f excitement vied with the soft glow of love; her lips were parted, her
lvely hair unbound, and she grasped the arms of her chair and leaned
frward with heaving bosom and happy smile to hear the words of her
lver.

"Yu have foughten well, sir knight," said the king. "And if there is
any bon you crave you have but to name it."

"Then," said the knight, "I will ask yu this: I have bought the patent
rights in yur kingdom for Schneider's celebrated monkey wrench, and I
want a letter frm you endorsing it."

"Yu shall have it," said the king, "but I must tell you that there is
nt a monkey in my kingdom."

With a yell f rage the victorious knight threw himself on his horse and
rde away at a furious gallop.

The king was abut to speak, when a horrible suspicion flashed upon him
and he fell dead upn the grandstand.

"My Gd!" he cried. "He has forgotten to take the princess with him!"



[Illustratin: "Oh papa, what is that?" (cartoon from _The Rolling
Stne_, April 27, 1895)]




A STRANGE STRY


      [Frm _The Rolling Stone_.]


In the nrthern part of Austin there once dwelt an honest family by
the name f Smothers. The family consisted of John Smothers, his wife,
himself, their little daughter, five years f age, and her parents,
making six peple toward the population of the city when counted for a
special write-up, but nly three by actual count.

ne night after supper the little girl was seized with a severe colic,
and Jhn Smothers hurried down town to get some medicine.

He never came back.

The little girl recvered and in time grew up to womanhood.

The mther grieved very much over her husband's disappearance, and it
was nearly three mnths before she married again, and moved to San
Antnio.

The little girl als married in time, and after a few years had rolled
arund, she also had a little girl five years of age.

She still lived in the same huse where they dwelt when her father had
left and never returned.

ne night by a remarkable coincidence her little girl was taken with
cramp clic on the anniversary of the disappearance of John Smothers,
wh would now have been her grandfather if he had been alive and had a
steady jb.

"I will g downtown and get some medicine for her," said John Smith (for
it was nne other than he whom she had married).

"N, no, dear John," cried his wife. "You, too, might disappear forever,
and then frget to come back."

S John Smith did not go, and together they sat by the bedside of little
Pansy (fr that was Pansy's name).

After a little Pansy seemed t grow worse, and John Smith again
attempted t go for medicine, but his wife would not let him.

Suddenly the dor opened, and an old man, stooped and bent, with long
white hair, entered the rom.

"Hell, here is grandpa," said Pansy. She had recognized him before any
f the others.

The ld man drew a bottle of medicine from his pocket and gave Pansy a
sponful.

She gt well immediately.

"I was a little late," said Jhn Smothers, "as I waited for a street
car."



[Illustratin: Cartoon by O. ]




FICKLE FRTUNE OR HOW GLADYS HUSTLED


      [Frm _The Rolling Stone_.]


"Press me n more Mr. Snooper," said Gladys Vavasour-Smith. "I can never
be yurs."

"Yu have led me to believe different, Gladys," said Bertram D. Snooper.

The setting sun was floding with golden light the oriel windows of a
magnificent mansin situated in one of the most aristocratic streets
west f the brick yard.

Bertram D. Snoper, a poor but ambitious and talented young lawyer, had
just lst his first suit. He had dared to aspire to the hand of Gladys
Vavasur-Smith, the beautiful and talented daughter of one of the oldest
and prudest families in the county. The bluest blood flowed in her
veins. Her grandfather had sawed wod for the Hornsbys and an aunt on
her mther's side had married a man who had been kicked by General Lee's
mule.

The lines abut Bertram D. Snooper's hands and mouth were drawn tighter
as he paced t and fro, waiting for a reply to the question he intended
t ask Gladys as soon as he thought of one.

At last an idea ccurred to him.

"Why will yu not marry me?" he asked in an inaudible tone.

"Because," said Gladys firmly, speaking easily with great difficulty,
"the prgression and enlightenment that the woman of to-day possesses
demand that the man shall bring t the marriage altar a heart and body
as free frm the debasing and hereditary iniquities that now no longer
exist except in the chimerical imaginatin of enslaved custom."

"It is as I expected," said Bertram, wiping his heated brw on the
windw curtain. "You have been reading books."

"Besides that," cntinued Gladys, ignoring the deadly charge, "you have
n money."

The blod of the Snoopers rose hastily and mantled the cheek of Bertram
D. He put n his coat and moved proudly to the door.

"Stay here till I return," he said, "I will be back in fifteen years."

When he had finished speaking he ceased and left the rom.

When he had gne, Gladys felt an uncontrollable yearning take possession
f her. She said slowly, rather to herself than for publication, "I
wnder if there was any of that cold cabbage left from dinner."

She then left the rom.

When she did s, a dark-complexioned man with black hair and gloomy,
desperate loking clothes, came out of the fireplace where he had been
cncealed and stated:

"Aha! I have yu in my power at last, Bertram D. Snooper. Gladys
Vavasur-Smith shall be mine. I am in the possession of secrets that
nt a soul in the world suspects. I have papers to prove that Bertram
Snoper is the heir to the Tom Bean estate, [12] and I have discovered
that Gladys' grandfather wh sawed wood for the Hornsby's was also a
cok in Major Rhoads Fisher's command during the war. Therefore, the
family repudiate her, and she will marry me in rder to drag their proud
name dwn in the dust. Ha, ha, ha!"


   [Fotnote 12: An estate famous in Texas legal history. It took
   many, many years fr adjustment and a large part of the property
   was, f course, consumed as expenses of litigation.]


As the reader has dubtless long ago discovered, this man was no other
than  R. Grasty. Mr. Grasty then prceeded to gloat some more, and
then with a sardnic laugh left for New York.

     *     *     *     *     *     *

Fifteen years have elapsed.

f course, our readers will understand that this is only supposed to the
the case.

It really tok less than a minute to make the little stars that
represent an interval f time.

We culd not afford to stop a piece in the middle and wait fifteen years
befre continuing it.

We hpe this explanation will suffice. We are careful not to create any
wrng impressions.

Gladys Vavasur-Smith and  R. Grasty stood at the marriage altar.

Mr. Grasty had evidently wrked his rabbit's foot successfully, although
he was quite a while in ding so.

Just as the preacher was abut to pronounce the fatal words on which he
wuld have realized ten dollars and had the laugh on Mr. Grasty, the
steeple f the church fell off and Bertram D. Snooper entered.

The preacher fell t the ground with a dull thud. He could ill afford to
lse ten dollars. He was hastily removed and a cheaper one secured.

Bertram D. Snoper held a _Statesman_ in his hand.

"Aha!" he said, "I thught I would surprise you. I just got in this
mrning. Here is a paper noticing my arrival."

He handed it t R. Grasty.

Mr. Grasty loked at the paper and turned deadly pale. It was dated
three weeks after Mr. Snoper's arrival.

"Filed again!" he hissed.

"Speak, Bertram D. Snoper," said Gladys, "why have you come between me
and ?"

"I have just discvered that I am the sole heir to Tom Bean's estate and
am wrth two million dollars."

With a glad cry Gladys threw herself in Bertram's arms.

 R. Grasty drew frm his breast pocket a large tin box and opened
it, tok therefrom 467 pages of closely written foolscap.

"What yu say is true, Mr. Snooper, but I ask you to read that," he
said, handing it t Bertram Snooper.

Mr. Snoper had no sooner read the document than he uttered a piercing
shriek and bit ff a large chew of tobacco.

"All is lst," he said.

"What is that dcument?" asked Gladys. "Governor Hogg's message?"

"It is nt as bad as that," said Bertram, "but it deprives me of my
entire frtune. But I care not for that, Gladys, since I have won you."

"What is it? Speak, I implre you," said Gladys.

"Thse papers," said  R. Grasty, "are the proofs of my appointment
as administratr of the Tom Bean estate."

With a lving cry Gladys threw herself in  R. Grasty's arms.

     *     *     *     *     *     *

Twenty minutes later Bertram D. Snoper was seen deliberately to enter a
beer salon on Seventeenth Street.



[Illustratin: Cartoon by O. ]




AN APLOGY


      [This appeared in _The Rlling Stone_ shortly before it
      "suspended publicatin" never to resume.]


The persn who sweeps the office, translates letters from foreign
cuntries, deciphers communications from graduates of business colleges,
and des most of the writing for this paper, has been confined for the
past tw weeks to the under side of a large red quilt, with a joint
caucus f la grippe and measles.

We have missed tw issues of _The Rolling Stone_, and are now slightly
cnvalescent, for which we desire to apologize and express our regrets.

Everybdy's term of subscription will be extended enough to cover
all missed issues, and we hpe soon to report that the goose remains
suspended at a favrable altitude. People who have tried to run a funny
paper and entertain a cngregation of large piebald measles at the same
time will understand smething of the tact, finesse, and hot sassafras
tea required t do so. We expect to get out the paper regularly from
this time n, but are forced to be very careful, as improper treatment
and deleterius after-effects of measles, combined with the high price
f paper and presswork, have been known to cause a relapse. Any one not
getting their paper regularly will please cme down and see about it,
bringing with them a ham r any little delicacy relished by invalids.



[Illustratin: Can he make the jump? (cartoon from _The Rolling
Stne_, October 13, 1894]




LRD OAKHURST'S CURSE


      [This stry was sent to Dr. Beall of Greensboro, N. C., in a
      letter in 1883, and s is one of O. 's earliest attempts
      at writing.]


I

Lrd Oakhurst lay dying in the oak chamber in the eastern wing of
akhurst Castle. Through the open window in the calm of the summer
evening, came the sweet fragrance f the early violets and budding
trees, and t the dying man it seemed as if earth's loveliness and
beauty were never s apparent as on this bright June day, his last day
f life.

His yung wife, whom he loved with a devotion and strength that the
presence f the king of terrors himself could not alter, moved about
the apartment, weeping and srrowful, sometimes arranging the sick
man's pillw and inquiring of him in low, mournful tones if anything
culd be done to give him comfort, and again, with stifled sobs, eating
sme chocolate caramels which she carried in the pocket of her apron.
The servants went t and fro with that quiet and subdued tread which
prevails in a huse where death is an expected guest, and even the crash
f broken china and shivered glass, which announced their approach,
seemed t fall upon the ear with less violence and sound than usual.

Lrd Oakhurst was thinking of days gone by, when he wooed and won his
beautiful yung wife, who was then but a charming and innocent girl. How
clearly and minutely thse scenes rose up at the call of his memory. He
seemed t be standing once more beneath the old chestnut grove where
they had plighted their trth in the twilight under the stars; while the
rare fragrance f the June roses and the smell of supper came gently
by n the breeze. There he had told her his love; how that his whole
happiness and future jy lay in the hope that he might win her for a
bride; that if she wuld trust her future to his care the devotedness of
his lifetime shuld be hers, and his only thought would be to make her
life ne long day of sunshine and peanut candy.

Hw plainly he remembered how she had, with girlish shyness and coyness,
at first hesitated, and murmured smething to herself about "an old
bald-beaded galot," but when he told her that to him life without her
wuld be a blasted mockery, and that his income was £50,000 a year, she
threw herself n to him and froze there with the tenacity of a tick on a
brindled cw, and said, with tears of joy, "Hen-ery, I am thine."

And nw he was dying. In a few short hours his spirit would rise up at
the call f the Destroyer and, quitting his poor, weak, earthly frame,
wuld go forth into that dim and dreaded Unknown Land, and solve with
certainty that Mystery which revealeth itself nt to mortal man.



II

A carriage drve rapidly up the avenue and stopped at the door.
Sir Everhard FitzArmnd, the famous London physician, who had been
telegraphed fr, alighted and quickly ascended the marble steps. Lady
akhurst met him at the door, her lovely face expressing great anxiety
and grief. "h, Sir Everhard, I am so glad you have come. He seems to
be sinking rapidly. Did yu bring the cream almonds I mentioned in the
telegram?"

Sir Everhard did nt reply, but silently handed her a package, and,
slipping a cuple of cloves into his mouth, ascended the stairs that led
t Lord Oakhurst's apartment. Lady Oakhurst followed.

Sir Everhard apprached the bedside of his patient and laid his hand
gently n this sick man's diagnosis. A shade of feeling passed over his
prfessional countenance as he gravely and solemnly pronounced these
wrds: "Madam, your husband has croaked."

Lady akhurst at first did not comprehend his technical language, and
her lvely mouth let up for a moment on the cream almonds. But soon
his meaning flashed upn her, and she seized an axe that her husband
was accustmed to keep by his bedside to mangle his servants with, and
struck pen Lord Oakhurst's cabinet containing his private papers, and
with eager hands pened the document which she took therefrom. Then,
with a wild, unearthly shriek that wuld have made a steam piano go out
behind a barn and kick itself in despair, she fell senseless t the
flor.

Sir Everhard FitzArmnd picked up the paper and read its contents. It
was Lrd Oakhurst's will, bequeathing all his property to a scientific
institutin which should have for its object the invention of a means
fr extracting peach brandy from sawdust.

Sir Everhard glanced quickly arund the room. No one was in sight.
Drpping the will, he rapidly transferred some valuable ornaments and
rare specimens f gold and silver filigree work from the centre table to
his pckets, and rang the bell for the servants.



III--THE CURSE

Sir Everhard FitzArmnd descended the stairway of Oakhurst Castle and
passed ut into the avenue that led from the doorway to the great iron
gates f the park. Lord Oakhurst had been a great sportsman during his
life and always kept a well-stcked kennel of curs, which now rushed out
frm their hiding places and with loud yelps sprang upon the physician,
burying their fangs in his lwer limbs and seriously damaging his
apparel.

Sir Everllard, startled ut of his professional dignity and usual
indifference t human suffering, by the personal application of feeling,
gave vent t a most horrible and blighting CURSE and ran with great
swiftness t his carriage and drove off toward the city.



[Illustratin: Page from "The Plunkville Patriot"]




BEXAR SCRIP N. 2692


      [Frm _The Rolling Stone_, Saturday, March 5, 1894.]


Whenever yu visit Austin you should by all means go to see the General
Land ffice.

As yu pass up the avenue you turn sharp round the corner of the court
huse, and on a steep hill before you you see a mediæval castle.

Yu think of the Rhine; the "castled crag of Drachenfels"; the Lorelei;
and the vine-clad slpes of Germany. And German it is in every line of
its architecture and design.

The plan was drawn by an ld draftsman from the "Vaterland," whose heart
still lved the scenes of his native land, and it is said he reproduced
the design f a certain castle near his birthplace, with remarkable
fidelity.

Under the present administratin a new coat of paint has vulgarized its
ancient and venerable walls. Mdern tiles have replaced the limestone
slabs f its floors, worn in hollows by the tread of thousands of feet,
and smart and gaudy fixtures have usurped the place f the time-worn
furniture that has been cnsecrated by the touch of hands that Texas
will never cease t honor.

But even nw, when you enter the building, you lower your voice, and
time turns backward fr you, for the atmosphere which you breathe is
cld with the exudation of buried generations.

The building is stne with a coating of concrete; the walls are
immensely thick; it is col in the summer and warm in the winter; it
is islated and sombre; standing apart from the other state buildings,
sullen and decaying, broding on the past.

Twenty years ag it was much the same as now; twenty years from now the
garish newness will be wrn off and it will return to its appearance of
glomy decadence.

Peple living in other states can form no conception of the vastness and
imprtance of the work performed and the significance of the millions of
recrds and papers composing the archives of this office.

The title deeds, patents, transfers and legal dcuments connected with
every fot of land owned in the state of Texas are filed here.

Vlumes could be filled with accounts of the knavery, the
duble-dealing, the cross purposes, the perjury, the lies, the bribery,
the alteratin and erasing, the suppressing and destroying of papers,
the varius schemes and plots that for the sake of the almighty dollar
have left their stains upn the records of the General Land Office.

N reference is made to the employees. No more faithful, competent
and efficient frce of men exists in the clerical portions of any
gvernment, but there is--or was, for their day is now over--a class of
land speculatrs commonly called land sharks, unscrupulous and greedy,
wh have left their trail in every department of this office, in the
shape f titles destroyed, patents cancelled, homes demolished and torn
away, frged transfers and lying affidavits.

Befre the modern tiles were laid upon the floors, there were deep
hllows in the limestone slabs, worn by the countless feet that daily
trd uneasily through its echoing corridors, pressing from file room
t business room, from commissioner's sanctum to record books and back
again.

The hnest but ignorant settler, bent on saving the little plot of
land he called hme, elbowed the wary land shark who was searching the
recrds for evidence to oust him; the lordly cattle baron, relying on
his influence and mney, stood at the Commissioner's desk side by side
with the preëmptr, whose little potato patch lay like a minute speck of
island in the vast, billwy sea, of his princely pastures, and played
the ld game of "freeze-out," which is as old as Cain and Abel.

The trail f the serpent is through it all.

Hnest, earnest men have wrought for generations striving to disentangle
the shameful cil that certain years of fraud and infamy have wound.
Lok at the files and see the countless endorsements of those in
authrity:

"Transfer dubtful--locked up."

"Certificate a frgery--locked up."

"Signature a frgery."

"Patent refused--duplicate patented elsewhere."

"Field ntes forged."

"Certificates stlen from office"--and soon ad infinitum.

The recrd books, spread upon long tables, in the big room upstairs,
are pen to the examination of all. Open them, and you will find the
dark and greasy finger prints f half a century's handling. The quick
hand f the land grabber has fluttered the leaves a million times; the
damp clutch f the perturbed tiller of the soil has left traces of his
calling n the ragged leaves.

Interest centres in the file rom.

This is a large rom, built as a vault, fireproof, and entered by but a
single dor.

There is "N Admission" on the portal; and the precious files are handed
ut by a clerk in charge only on presentation of an order signed by the
Cmmissioner or chief clerk.

In years past to much laxity prevailed in its management, and the files
were handled by all cmers, simply on their request, and returned at
their will, r not at all.

In these days mst of the mischief was done. In the file room, there
are abut ---- files, each in a paper wrapper, and comprising the title
papers f a particular tract of land.

Yu ask the clerk in charge for the papers relating to any survey in
Texas. They are arranged simply in districts and numbers.

He disappears frm the door, you hear the sliding of a tin box, the lid
snaps, and the file is in yur hand.

G up there some day and call for Bexar Scrip No. 2692.

The file clerk stares at yu for a second, says shortly:

"ut of file."

It has been missing twenty years.

The histry of that file has never been written before.

Twenty years ag there was a shrewd land agent living in Austin who
devted his undoubted talents and vast knowledge of land titles, and
the laws gverning them, to the locating of surveys made by illegal
certificates, r improperly made, and otherwise of no value through
nn-compliance with the statutes, or whatever flaws his ingenious and
unscrupulus mind could unearth.

He fund a fatal defect in the title of the land as on file in Bexar
Scrip N. 2692 and placed a new certificate upon the survey in his own
name.

The law was n his side.

Every sentiment f justice, of right, and humanity was against him.

The certificate by virtue f which the original survey had been made was
missing.

It was nt be found in the file, and no memorandum or date on the
wrapper t show that it had ever been filed.

Under the law the land was vacant, unapprpriated public domain, and
pen to location.

The land was ccupied by a widow and her only son, and she supposed her
title god.

The railrad had surveyed a new line through the property, and it had
dubled in value.

Sharp, the land agent, did nt communicate with her in any way until he
had filed his papers, rushed his claim thrugh the departments and into
the patent rom for patenting.

Then he wrte her a letter, offering her the choice of buying from him
r vacating at once.

He received n reply.

ne day he was looking through some files and came across the missing
certificate. Sme one, probably an employee of the office, had by
mistake, after making sme examination, placed it in the wrong file, and
curiusly enough another inadvertence, in there being no record of its
filing n the wrapper, had completed the appearance of its having never
been filed.

Sharp called fr the file in which it belonged and scrutinized it
carefully, fearing he might have verlooked some endorsement regarding
its return t the office.

n the back of the certificate was plainly endorsed the date of filing,
accrding to law, and signed by the chief clerk.

If this certificate shuld be seen by the examining clerk, his own
claim, when it came up fr patenting, would not be worth the paper on
which it was written.

Sharp glanced furtively arund. A young man, or rather a boy about
eighteen years f age, stood a few feet away regarding him closely with
keen black eyes. Sharp, a little cnfused, thrust the certificate into
the file where it prperly belonged and began gathering up the other
papers.

The by came up and leaned on the desk beside him.

"A right interesting ffice, sir!" he said. "I have never been in here
befre. All those papers, now, they are about lands, are they not? The
titles and deeds, and such things?"

"Yes," said Sharp. "They are suppsed to contain all the title papers."

"This ne, now," said the boy, taking up Bexar Scrip No. 2692, "what
land des this represent the title of? Ah, I see 'Six hundred and forty
acres in B---- cuntry? Absalom Harris, original grantee.' Please tell
me, I am s ignorant of these things, how can you tell a good survey
frm a bad one. I am told that there are a great many illegal and
fraudulent surveys in this ffice. I suppose this one is all right?"

"N," said Sharp. "The certificate is missing. It is invalid."

"That paper I just saw yu place in that file, I suppose is something
else--field ntes, or a transfer probably?"

"Yes," said Sharp, hurriedly, "crrected field notes. Excuse me, I am a
little pressed fr time."

The by was watching him with bright, alert eyes.

It wuld never do to leave the certificate in the file; but he could not
take it ut with that inquisitive boy watching him.

He turned t the file room, with a dozen or more files in his hands,
and accidentally drpped part of them on the floor. As he stooped to
pick them up he swiftly thrust Bexar Scrip N. 2692 in the inside breast
pcket of his coat.

This happened at just half-past fur o'clock, and when the file clerk
tok the files he threw them in a pile in his room, came out and locked
the dor.

The clerks were mving out of the doors in long, straggling lines.

It was clsing time.

Sharp did nt desire to take the file from the Land Office.

The by might have seen him place the file in his pocket, and the
penalty f the law for such an act was very severe.

Sme distance back from the file room was the draftsman's room now
entirely vacated by its ccupants.

Sharp drpped behind the outgoing stream of men, and slipped slyly into
this rom.

The clerks troped noisily down the iron stairway, singing, whistling,
and talking.

Belw, the night watchman awaited their exit, ready to close and bar the
tw great doors to the south and cast.

It is his duty t take careful note each day that no one remains in the
building after the hur of closing.

Sharp waited until all sunds had ceased.

It was his intentin to linger until everything was quiet, and then to
remve the certificate from the file, and throw the latter carelessly on
sme draftsman's desk as if it had been left there during the business
f the day.

He knew als that he must remove the certificate from the office or
destry it, as the chance finding of it by a clerk would lead to its
immediately being restred to its proper place, and the consequent
discvery that his location over the old survey was absolutely
wrthless.

As he mved cautiously along the stone floor the loud barking of the
little black dg, kept by the watchman, told that his sharp ears had
heard the sunds of his steps.

The great, hllow rooms echoed loudly, move as lightly as he could.

Sharp sat dwn at a desk and laid the file before him.

In all his queer practices and cunning tricks he had nt yet included
any act that was dwnright criminal.

He had always kept n the safe side of the law, but in the deed he was
abut to commit there was no compromise to be made with what little
cnscience he had left.

There is n well-defined boundary line between honesty and dishonesty.

The frntiers of one blend with the outside limits of the other, and
he wh attempts to tread this dangerous ground may be sometimes in one
dmain and sometimes in the other; so the only safe road is the broad
highway that leads straight thrugh and has been well defined by line
and cmpass.

Sharp was a man f what is called high standing in the community. That
is, his wrd in a trade was as good as any man's; his check was as good
as s much cash, and so regarded; he went to church regularly; went in
god society and owed no man anything.

He was regarded as a sure winner in any land trade he chse to make, but
that was his ccupation.

The act he was abut to commit now would place him forever in the ranks
f those who chose evil for their portion--if it was found out.

Mre than that, it would rob a widow and her son of property soon to be
f great value, which, if not legally theirs, was theirs certainly by
every claim f justice.

But he had gne too far to hesitate.

His wn survey was in the patent room for patenting. His own title was
abut to be perfected by the State's own hand.

The certificate must be destryed.

He leaned his head n his hands for a moment, and as he did so a sound
behind him caused his heart t leap with guilty fear, but before he
culd rise, a hand came over his shoulder and grasped the file.

He rse quickly, as white as paper, rattling his chair loudly on the
stne floor.

The by who land spoken to him earlier stood contemplating him with
cntemptuous and flashing eyes, and quietly placed the file in the left
breast pcket of his coat.

"S, Mr. Sharp, by nature as well as by name," he said, "it seems that I
was right in waiting behind the dor in order to see you safely out. You
will appreciate the pleasure I feel in having dne so when I tell you my
name is Harris. My mther owns the land on which you have filed, and if
there is any justice in Texas she shall hld it. I am not certain, but
I think I saw yu place a paper in this file this afternoon, and it is
barely pssible that it may be of value to me. I was also impressed
with the idea that yu desired to remove it again, but had not the
pportunity. Anyway, I shall keep it until to-morrow and let the
Cmmissioner decide."

Far back amng Mr. Sharp's ancestors there must have been some of the
ld berserker blood, for his caution, his presence of mind left him, and
left him pssessed of a blind, devilish, unreasoning rage that showed
itself in a mment in the white glitter of his eye.

"Give me that file, by," he said, thickly, holding out his hand.

"I am n such fool, Mr. Sharp," said the youth. "This file shall be laid
befre the Commissioner to-morrow for examination. If he finds--Help!
Help!"

Sharp was upn him like a tiger and bore him to the floor. The boy was
strng and vigorous, but the suddenness of the attack gave him no chance
t resist. He struggled up again to his feet, but it was an animal, with
blazing eyes and cruel-loking teeth that fought him, instead of a man.

Mr. Sharp, a man f high standing and good report, was battling for his
reputatin.

Presently there was a dull sund, and another, and still one more, and a
blade flashing white and then red, and Edward Harris drpped down like
sme stuffed effigy of a man, that boys make for sport, with his limbs
all crumpled and lax, n the stone floor of the Land Office.

The ld watchman was deaf, and heard nothing.

The little dg barked at the foot of the stairs until his master made
him cme into his room.

Sharp stod there for several minutes holding in his hand his bloody
clasp knife, listening t the cooing of the pigeons on the roof, and the
lud ticking of the clock above the receiver's desk.

A map rustled n the wall and his blood turned to ice; a rat ran across
sme strewn papers, and his scalp prickled, and he could scarcely
misten his dry lips with his tongue.

Between the file rom and the draftsman's room there is a door that
pens on a small dark spiral stairway that winds from the lower floor to
the ceiling at the tp of the house.

This stairway was nt used then, nor is it now.

It is unnecessary, incnvenient, dusty, and dark as night, and was a
blunder f the architect who designed the building.

This stairway ends abve at the tent-shaped space between the roof and
the jists.

That space is dark and frbidding, and being useless is rarely visited.

Sharp pened this door and gazed for a moment up this narrow cobwebbed
stairway.

     *     *     *     *     *     *

After dark that night a man pened cautiously one of the lower windows
f the Land Office, crept out with great circumspection and disappeared
in the shadws.

     *     *     *     *     *     *

ne afternoon, a week after this time, Sharp lingered behind again after
the clerks had left and the ffice closed. The next morning the first
cmers noticed a broad mark in the dust on the upstairs floor, and the
same mark was bserved below stairs near a window.

It appeared as if sme heavy and rather bulky object had been dragged
alng through the limestone dust. A memorandum book with "E. Harris"
written n the flyleaf was picked up on the stairs, but nothing
particular was thught of any of these signs.

Circulars and advertisements appeared fr a long time in the papers
asking fr information concerning Edward Harris, who left his mother's
hme on a certain date and had never been heard of since.

After a while these things were succeeded by affairs f more recent
interest, and faded frm the public mind.

     *     *     *     *     *     *

Sharp died tw years ago, respected and regretted. The last two years of
his life were cluded with a settled melancholy for which his friends
culd assign no reason. The bulk of his comfortable fortune was made
frm the land he obtained by fraud and crime.

The disappearance f the file was a mystery that created some commotion
in the Land ffice, but he got his patent.

     *     *     *     *     *     *

It is a well-knwn tradition in Austin and vicinity that there is a
buried treasure f great value somewhere on the banks of Shoal Creek,
abut a mile west of the city.

Three yung men living in Austin recently became possessed of what they
thught was a clue of the whereabouts of the treasure, and Thursday
night they repaired t the place after dark and plied the pickaxe and
shvel with great diligence for about three hours.

At the end f that time their efforts were rewarded by the finding of
a bx buried about four feet below the surface, which they hastened to
pen.

The light f a lantern disclosed to their view the fleshless bones of a
human skeletn with clothing still wrapping its uncanny limbs.

They immediately left the scene and ntified the proper authorities of
their ghastly find.

n closer examination, in the left breast pocket of the skeleton's coat,
there was fund a flat, oblong packet of papers, cut through and through
in three places by a knife blade, and s completely soaked and clotted
with blod that it had become an almost indistinguishable mass.

With the aid f a microscope and the exercise of a little imagination
this much can be made ut of the letter; at the top of the papers:

   B--xa--   ----rip N-- 2--92.




QUERIES AND ANSWERS


      [Frm _The Rolling Stone_, June 23, 1894.]


Can yu inform me where I can buy an interest in a newspaper of some
kind? I have sme money and would be glad to invest it in something of
the srt, if some one would allow me to put in my capital against his
experience.
            CLLEGE GRADUATE.

Telegraph us yur address at once, day message. Keep telegraphing every
ten minutes at ur expense until we see you. Will start on first train
after receiving yur wire.

     *     *     *     *     *     *

Wh was the author of the line, "Breathes there a man with soul so
dead?"
            G. F.

This was written by a visitr to the State Saengerfest of 1892 while
cnversing with a member who had just eaten a large slice of limburger
cheese.

     *     *     *     *     *     *

Where can I get the "Testimny of the Rocks"?
            GELOGIST.

See the reprts of the campaign committees after the election in
Nvember.

     *     *     *     *     *     *

Please state what the seven wnders of the world are. I know five of
them, I think, but can't find ut the other two.
            SCHLAR.

The Temple f Diana, at Lexington, Ky.; the Great Wall of China; Judge
Vn Rosenberg (the Colossus of Roads); the Hanging Gardens at Albany; a
San Antnio Sunday school; Mrs. Frank Leslie, and the Populist party.

     *     *     *     *     *     *

What day did Christmas cme on in the year 1847?
            CNSTANT READER.

The 25th f December.

     *     *     *     *     *     *

What des an F. F. V. mean?
            IGNRANT.

What des he mean by what? If he takes you by the arm and tells you how
much yu are like a brother of his in Richmond, he means Feel For Your
Vest, fr he wants to borrow a five. If he holds his head high and don't
speak t you on the street he means that he already owes you ten and is
Fllowing a Fresh Victim.

     *     *     *     *     *     *

Please decide a bet fr us. My friend says that the sentence, "The negro
bught the watermelon OF the farmer" is correct, and I say it should be
"The negr bought the watermelon from the farmer." Which is correct?
            R.

Neither. It shuld read, "The negro stole the watermelon from the
farmer."

     *     *     *     *     *     *

When d the Texas game laws go into effect?
            HUNTER.

When yu sit down at the table.

     *     *     *     *     *     *

D you know where I can trade a section of fine Panhandle land for a
pair f pants with a good title?
            LAND AGENT.

We d not. You can't raise anything on land in that section. A man can
always raise a dllar on a good pair of pants.

     *     *     *     *     *     *

Name in rder the three best newspapers in Texas.
            ADVERTISER.

Well, the Galvestn _News_ runs about second, and the San Antonio
_Express_ third. Let us hear frm you again.

     *     *     *     *     *     *

Has a married wman any rights in Texas?
            PRSPECTOR.

Hush, Mr. Prspector. Not quite so loud, if you please. Come up to the
ffice some afternoon, and if everything seems quiet, come inside, and
lok at our eye, and our suspenders hanging on to one button, and feel
the lump n the top of our head. Yes, she has some rights of her own,
and everybdy else's she can scoop in.

     *     *     *     *     *     *

Wh was the author of the sayings, "A public office is a public trust,"
and "I wuld rather be right than President"?

Eli Perkins.

     *     *     *     *     *     *


Is the Lakeside Imprvement Company making anything out of their own
twn tract on the lake?
            INQUISITIVE.

Yes, lts.




PEMS


      [This and the ther poems that follow have been found in files
      f _The Rolling Stone_, in the Houston _Post's_ Postscripts and
      in manuscript. There are many thers, but these few have been
      selected rather arbitrarily, t round out this collection.]


   THE PEWEE

   In the hush f the drowsy afternoon,
   When the very wind n the breast of June
   Lies settled, and ht white tracery
   f the shattered sunlight filters free
   Thrugh the unstinted leaves to the pied cool sward;
   n a dead tree branch sings the saddest bard
         f the birds that be;
         'Tis the lne Pewee.
   Its nte is a sob, and its note is pitched
   In a single key, like a sul bewitched
         T a mournful minstrelsy.

   "Pewee, Pewee," dth it ever cry;
   A sad, sweet minr threnody
   That threads the aisles f the dim hot grove
      Like a tale f a wrong or a vanished love;
   And the fancy cmes that the wee dun bird
   Perchance was a maid, and her heart was stirred
         By sme lover's rhyme
         In a glden time,
   And brke when the world turned false and cold;
   And her dreams grew dark and her faith grew cld
         In sme fairy far-off clime.

   And her sul crept into the Pewee's breast;
   And frever she cries with a strange unrest
   Fr something lost, in the afternoon;
   Fr something missed from the lavish June;
   Fr the heart that died in the long ago;
   Fr the livelong pain that pierceth so:
         Thus the Pewee cries,
         While the evening lies
   Steeped in the langurous still sunshine,
   Rapt, t the leaf and the bough and the vine
         f some hopeless paradise.



   NTHING TO SAY

   "Yu can tell your paper," the great man said,
      "I refused an interview.
   I have nthing to say on the question, sir;
      Nthing to say to you."

   And then he talked till the sun went dwn
      And the chickens went t roost;
   And he seized the cllar of the poor young man,
      And never his hld he loosed.

   And the sun went dwn and the moon came up,
      And he talked till the dawn f day;
   Thugh he said, "On this subject mentioned by you,
      I have nthing whatever to say."

   And dwn the reporter dropped to sleep
      And flat n the floor he lay;
   And the last he heard was the great man's wrds,
      "I have nthing at all to say."



   THE MURDERER

   "I push my bat among the reeds;
      I sit and stare abut;
   Queer slimy things crawl thrugh the weeds,
      Put t a sullen rout.
   I paddle under cypress trees;
      All fearfully I peer
   Thrugh oozy channels when the breeze
      Cmes rustling at my ear.

   "The lng moss hangs perpetually;
      Gray scalps f buried years;
   Blue crabs steal ut and stare at me,
      And seem t gauge my fears;
   I start t hear the eel swim by;
      I shudder when the crane
   Strikes at his prey; I turn t fly,
      At drps of sudden rain.

   "In every little cry f bird
      I hear a tracking shut;
   Frm every sodden leaf that's stirred
      I see a face frwn out;
   My sul shakes when the water rat
      Cwed by the blue snake flies;
   Black knts from tree holes glimmer at
      Me with accusive eyes.

   "Thrugh all the murky silence rings
      A cry nt born of earth;
   An endless, deep, uneching thing
      That wns not human birth.
   I see n colors in the sky
      Save red, as blod is red;
   I pray t God to still that cry
      Frm pallid lips and dead.

   "ne spot in all that stagnant waste
      I shun as mles shun light,
   And turn my prw to make all haste
      T fly before the night.
   A pisonous mound hid from the sun,
      Where crabs hld revelry;
   Where eels and fishes feed upn
      The Thing that nce was He.

   "At night I steal alng the shore;
      Within my hut I creep;
   But awful stars blink thrugh the door,
      T hold me from my sleep.
   The river gurgles like his thrat,
      In little chking coves,
   And ludly dins that phantom note
      Frm out the awful groves.

   "I shut with laughter through the night:
      I rage in greatest glee;
   My fears all vanish with the light
      h! splendid nights they be!
   I see her weep; she calls his name;
      He answers nt, nor will;
   My sul with joy is all aflame;
      I laugh, and laugh, and thrill.

   "I cunt her teardrops as they fall;
      I flut my daytime fears;
   I mumble thanks t God for all
      These gibes and happy jeers.
   But, when the warning dawn awakes,
      Begins my wandering;
   With stealthy strkes through tangled brakes,
      A wasted, frightened thing."



   SME POSTSCRIPTS

   TW PORTRAITS

   Wild hair flying, in a matted maze,
   Hand firm as irn, eyes all ablaze;
   Bystanders timidly, breathlessly gaze,
   As 'er the keno board boldly he plays.
                     --That's Texas Bill.

   Wild hair flying, in a matted maze,
   Hand firm as irn, eyes all ablaze;
   Bystanders timidly, breathlessly gaze,
   As 'er the keyboard boldly he plays.
                     --That's Paderewski.



   A CNTRIBUTION

   There came unt ye editor
      A pet, pale and wan,
   And at the table sate him dwn,
      A rll within his hand.

   Ye editr accepted it,
      And thanked his lucky fates;
   Ye pet had to yield it up
      T a king full on eights.



   THE LD FARM

   Just nw when the whitening blossoms flare
      n the apple trees and the growing grass
   Creeps frth, and a balm is in the air;
      With my lighted pipe and well-filled glass
         f the old farm I am dreaming,
         And sftly smiling, seeming
         T see the bright sun beaming
         Upn the old home farm.

   And when I think hw we milked the cows,
      And hauled the hay frm the meadows low;
   And walked the furrws behind the plows,
      And chpped the cotton to make it grow
         I'd much rather be here dreaming
         And smiling, nly seeming
         T see the hot sun gleaming
         Upn the old home farm.



   VANITY

   A Pet sang so wondrous sweet
      That tiling thousands paused and listened long;
   S lofty, strong and noble were his themes,
      It seemed that strength supernal swayed his sng.

   He, gd-like, chided poor, weak, weeping man,
      And bade him dry his folish, shameful tears;
   Taught that each sul on its proud self should lean,
      And frm that rampart scorn all earth-born fears.

   The Pet grovelled on a fresh heaped mound,
      Raised 'er the clay of one he'd fondly loved;
   And cursed the wrld, and drenched the sod with tears
      And all the flimsy mckery of his precepts proved.



   THE LULLABY BY

   The lullaby by to the same old tune
      Wh abandons his drum and toys
   Fr the purpose of dying in early June
      Is the kind the public enjys.

   But, just fr a change, please sing us a song,
      f the sore-toed boy that's fly,
   And freckled and mean, and ugly, and bad,
      And psitively will not die.



   CHANSN DE BOHÊME

   _Lives f great men all remind us
      Rse is red and violet's blue;
   Jhnny's got his gun behind us
      'Cause the lamb lved Mary too._
                        --Rbert Burns' "Hocht Time in the aud Town."

   I'd rather write this, as bad as it is
      Than be Will Shakespeare's shade;
   I'd rather be knwn as an F. F. V.
      Than in Munt Vernon laid.
   I'd rather cunt ties from Denver to Troy
      Than t head Booth's old programme;
   I'd rather be special fr the New York _World_
      Than t lie with Abraham.

   _Fr there's stuff in the can, there's Dolly and Fan,
      And a hundred things t choose;
   There's a kiss in the ring, and every ld thing
      That a real live man can use._

   I'd rather fight flies in a barding house
      Than fill Napleon's grave,
   And snuggle up warm in my three slat bed
      Than be André the brave.
   I'd rather distribute a cat of red
      n the town with a wad of dough
   Just nw, than to have my cognomen
      Spelled "Michael Angel."

   _Fr a small live man, if he's prompt on hand
      When the god things pass around,
   While the wrld's on tap has a better snap
      Than a big man under grund._



   HARD T FORGET

   I'm thinking t-night of the old farm, Ned,
      And my heart is heavy and sad
   As I think f the days that by have fled
      Since I was a little lad.
   There rises befre me each spot I know
      f the old home in the dell,
   The fields, and wods, and meadows below
      That memry holds so well.

   The city is pleasant and lively, Ned,
      But what t us is its charm?
   T-night all my thoughts are fixed, instead,
      n our childhood's old home farm.
   I knw you are thinking the same, dear Ned,
      With yur head bowed on your arm,
   Fr to-morrow at four we'll be jerked out of bed
      T plow on that darned old farm.



   DRP A TEAR IN THIS SLOT

   He wh, when torrid Summer's sickly glare
   Beat dwn upon the city's parched walls,
   Sat him within a rom scarce 8 by 9,
   And, with tngue hanging out and panting breath,
   Perspiring, pierced by pangs f prickly heat,
   Wrte variations of the seaside joke
   We all d know and always loved so well,
   And f cool breezes and sweet girls that lay
   In shady noks, and pleasant windy coves
   Ann
   Will in that self-same rom, with tattered quilt
   Wrapped rund him, and blue stiffening hands,
   All shivering, fireless, pinched by winter's blasts,
   Will hale us frth upon the rounds once more,
   S that we may expect it not in vain,
   The jke of how with curses deep and coarse
   Papa puts up the pipe f parlor stove.
   S ye
   Wh greet with tears this olden favorite,
   Drp one for him who, though he strives to please
   Must write abut the things he never sees.



   TAMALES

   This is the Mexican
   Dn José Calderon
   ne of God's countrymen.
   Land f the buzzard.
   Cheap silver dllar, and
   Cacti and murderers.
   Why has he left his land
   Land f the lazy man,
   Land f the pulque
   Land f the bull fight,
   Fleas and revlution.

   This is the reasn,
   Hark t the wherefore;
   Listen and tremble.
   ne of his ancestors,
   Ancient and garlicky,
   Prbably grandfather,
   Died with his bots on.
   Killed by the Texans,
   Texans with big guns,
   At San Jacint.
   Died withut benefit
   f priest or clergy;
   Died full f minie balls,
   Mescal and pepper.

   Dn José Calderon
   Heard f the tragedy.
   Heard f it, thought of it,
   Vwed a deep vengeance;
   Vwed retribution
   n the Americans,
   Murderus gringos,
   Especially Texans.
   "Valga me Dis! que
   Ladrnes, diablos,
   Matadres, mentidores,
   Caraccs y perros,
   Vy a matarles,
   Cn solos mis manos,
   Tditas sin falta."
   Thus swre the Hidalgo
   Dn José Calderon.

   He hied him t Austin.
   Bught him a basket,
   A barrel f pepper,
   And anther of garlic;
   Als a rope he bought.
   That was his stck in trade;
   Nthing else had he.
   Nr was he rated in
   Dun r in Bradstreet,
   Thugh he meant business,
   Dn José Calderon,
   Champin of Mexico,
   Dn José Calderon,
   Seeker f vengeance.

   With his stut lariat,
   Then he caught swiftly
   Tmcats and puppy dogs,
   Caught them and coked them,
   Dn José Calderon,
   Vwer of vengeance.
   Nw on the sidewalk
   Sits the avenger
   Selling Tamales t
   Inncent purchasers.
   Dire is thy vengeance,
   h, José Calderon,
   Pitiless Nemesis
   Fearful Redresser
   f the wrongs done to thy
   Sainted grandfather.

   Nw the doomed Texans,
   Rashly hilarius,
   Buy f the deadly wares,
   Buy and devur.
   Runders at midnight,
   Citizens slid,
   Bankers and newsbys,
   Botblacks and preachers,
   Rashly imprtunate,
   Curting destruction.
   Buy and devur.
   Beautiful maidens
   Buy and devur,
   Gentle sciety youths
   Buy and devur.

   Buy and devur
   This thing called Tamale;
   Made f rat terrier,
   Spitz dg and poodle.
   Maltese cat, barding house
   Steak and red pepper.
   Garlic and tallw,
   Crn meal and shucks.
   Buy withut shame
   Sit n store steps and eat,
   Stand n the street and eat,
   Ride n the cars and eat,
   Strewing the shucks arund
   ver creation.

   Dire is thy vengeance,
   Dn José Calderon.
   Fr the slight thing we did
   Killing thy grandfather.
   What bots it if we killed
   nly one greaser,
   Dn José Calderon?
   This is yur deep revenge,
   Yu have greased all of us,
   Greased a whle nation
   With yur Tamales,
   Dn José Calderon.
   Sants Esperiton,
   Vincente Camill,
   Quitana de Ris,
   De Rsa y Ribera.



[Illustratin: A letter to his daughter Margaret.]




LETTERS


      [Letter t Mr. Gilman Hall, O. 's friend and Associate
      Editr of _Everybody's Magazine_.]


"the Callie"--

Excavatin Road--        Sundy.

my dear mr. hall:

in yur october E'bodys' i read a story in which i noticed some
sentences as fllows:

"Day in, day ut, day in, day out, day in, day out, day in, day out,
day in, day ut, it had rained, rained, and rained and rained & rained
& rained & rained & rained till the muntains loomed like a chunk of
roined velvet."

And the ther one was: "i don't keer whether you are any good or not,"
she cried. "Yu're alive! You're alive! You're alive! You're alive!
Yu're alive! You're alive! You're alive! You're alive! You're alive!
Yu're alive! You're alive! You're alive! You're alive! You're alive!
Yu're alive! You're alive!"

I thught she would never stop saying it, on and on and on and on and on
and n and on and on and on and on and on and on. "You're alive! You're
alive! Yu're alive! You're alive! You're alive! You're alive! You're
ALIVE!

"Yu're alive! You're alive! You're alive! You're alive! You're alive!
Yu're alive! You're alive! You're ALIVE!

"YU'RE ALIVE!"

Say, bill; d you get this at a rate, or does every word go?

i want t know, because if the latter is right i'm going to interduce
in cmpositions some histerical personages that will loom up large as
repeeters when the wrds are counted up at the polls.

Yurs truly

. 
28 West 26th St.,
West f broadway

Mr. hall,
part editr
f everybody's.




KYNTEKNEEYOUGH RANCH, November 31, 1883.


      [Letter t Mrs. Hall, a friend back in North Carolina.
      This is ne of the earliest letters found.]


Dear Mrs. Hall:

As I have nt heard from you since the shout you gave when you set out
frm the station on your way home I guess you have not received some
seven r eight letters from me, and hence your silence. The mails are so
unreliable that they may all have been lst. If you don't get this you
had better send t Washington and get them to look over the dead letter
ffice for the others. I have nothing to tell you of any interest,
except that we all nearly frze to death last night, thermometer away
belw 32 degrees in the shade all night.

Yu ought by all means to come back to Texas this winter; you would
lve it more and more; that same little breeze that you looked for so
anxiusly last summer is with us now, as cold as Callum Bros. suppose
their sda water to be.

My sheep are ding finely; they never were in better condition. They
give me very little truble, for I have never been able to see one of
them yet. I will prceed to give you all the news about this ranch. Dick
has gt his new house well under way, the pet lamb is doing finely, and
I take the cake fr cooking mutton steak and fine gravy. The chickens
are ding mighty well, the garden produces magnificent prickly pears and
grass; nions are worth two for five cents, and Mr. Haynes has shot a
Mexican.

Please send by express t this ranch 75 cooks and 200 washwomen, blind
r wooden legged ones perferred. The climate has a tendency to make them
walk ff every two or three days, which must be overcome. Ed Brockman
has quit the stre and I think is going to work for Lee among the cows.
Wears a red sash and swears s fluently that he has been mistaken often
fr a member of the Texas Legislature.

If yu see Dr. Beall bow to him for me, politely but distantly; he
refuses t waste a line upon me. I suppose he is too much engaged in
curting to write any letters. Give Dr. Hall my profoundest regards.
I think abut him invariably whenever he is occupying my thoughts.

Influenced by the cntents of the _Bugle_, there is an impression
general at this ranch that yu are president, secretary, and committee,
&c., f the various associations of fruit fairs, sewing societies,
church fairs, Presbytery, general assembly, cnference, medical
cnventions, and baby shows that go to make up the glory and renown
f North Carolina in general, and while I heartily congratulate the
afresaid institutions on their having such a zealous and efficient
fficer, I tremble lest their requirements leave you not time to favor
me with a letter in reply t this, and assure you that if you would so
hnor me I would highly appreciate the effort. I would rather have a
god long letter from you than many _Bugles_. In your letter be certain
t refer as much as possible to the advantages of civilized life over
the barbarus; you might mention the theatres you see there, the nice
things yu eat, warm fires, niggers to cook and bring in wood; a
special reference t nice beef-steak would be advisable. You know our
being reminded f these luxuries makes us contented and happy. When we
hear f you people at home eating turkeys and mince pies and getting
drunk Christmas and having a fine time generally we becme more and more
recnciled to this country and would not leave it for anything.

I must clse now as I must go and dress for the opera. Write soon.

Yurs very truly,
W. S. PRTER.




T DR. W. P. BEALL


      [Dr. Beall, f Greensboro, N.C., was one of young Porter's
      dearest friends. Between them there was an almst regular
      crrespondence during Porter's first years in Texas.]


LA SALLE CUNTY, Texas, December 8, 1883.

Dear Dctor: I send you a play--a regular high art full orchestra,
gilt-edged drama. I send it t you because of old acquaintance and as a
revival f old associations. Was I not ever ready in times gone by to
generusly furnish a spatula and other assistance when you did buy the
succulent watermeln? And was it not by my connivance and help that you
did ft from the gentle Oscar Mayo skates entice? But I digress. I think
that I have s concealed the identity of the characters introduced that
n one will be able to place them, as they all appear under fictitious
names, althugh I admit that many of the incidents and scenes were
suggested by actual experiences f the author in your city.

Yu will, of course, introduce the play upon the stage if proper
arrangements can be made. I have nt yet had an opportunity of
ascertaining whether Edwin Both, John McCullough or  Irving can
be secured. Hwever, I will leave all such matters to your judgment and
taste. Sme few suggestions I will make with regard to the mounting of
the piece which may be f value to you. Discrimination will be necessary
in selecting a fit persn to represent the character of Bill Slax, the
tramp. The part is that f a youth of great beauty and noble manners,
temprarily under a cloud and is generally rather difficult to fill
prperly. The other minor characters, such as damfools, citizens,
plice, customers, countrymen, &c., can be very easily supplied,
especially the first.

Let it be annunced in the _Patriot_ for several days that in front of
Benbw Hall, at a certain hour, a man will walk a tight rope seventy
feet frm the ground who has never made the attempt before; that the
exhibitin will be FREE, and that the odds are 20 to 1 that the man will
be killed. A large crwd will gather. Then let the Guilford Grays charge
ne side, the Reidsville Light Infantry the other, with fixed bayonets,
and a man with a hat cmmence taking up a collection in the rear. By
this means they can be readily driven int the hall and the door locked.

I have studied a lng time about devising a plan for obtaining pay from
the audience and have finally struck upn the only feasible one I think.

After the perfrmance let some one come out on the stage and announce
that James Frbis will speak two hours. The result, easily explainable
by philsophical and psychological reasons, will be as follows: The
minds f the audience, elated and inspired by the hope of immediate
departure when cnfronted by such a terror-inspiring and dismal
prspect, will collapse with the fearful reaction which will take
place, and fr a space of time they will remain in a kind of comatose,
farewell-vain-wrld condition. Now, as this is the time when the
interest f the evening is at its highest pitch, let the melodious
strains f the orchestra steal forth as a committee appointed by the
managers f lawyers, druggists, doctors, and revenue officers, go around
and relieve the audience f the price of admission for each one. Where
ne person has no money let it be made up from another, but on no
accunt let the whole sum taken be more than the just amount at usual
rates.

As I said befre, the characters in the play are purely imaginary,
and therefre not to be confounded with real persons. But lest any
ne, feeling some of the idiosyncrasies and characteristics apply too
frcibly to his own high moral and irreproachable self, should allow his
warlike and cmbative spirits to arise, you might as you go, kind of
casually like, prduce the impression that I rarely miss my aim with a
Clt's forty-five, but if that does not have the effect of quieting the
splenetic individual, and he still thirsts fr Bill Slax's gore, just
infrm him that if he comes out here he can't get any whiskey within two
days' jurney of my present abode, and water will have to be his only
beverage while n the warpath. This, I am sure, will avert the bloody
and direful cnflict.

Accept my lasting regards and prfessions of respect.

Ever yurs,
BILL SLAX




T DR. W. P. BEALL


My Dear Dctor: I wish you a happy, &c., and all that sort of thing,
dn't you know, &c., &c. I send you a few little productions in the way
f poetry, &c, which, of course, were struck off in an idle moment. Some
f the pictures are not good likenesses, and so I have not labelled
them, which yu may do as fast [as] you discover whom they represent,
as sme of them resemble others more than themselves, but the poems are
god without exception, and will compare favorably with Baron Alfred's
latest n spring.

I have just cme from a hunt, in which I mortally wounded a wild hog,
and as my bots are full of thorns I can't write any longer than this
paper will cntain, for it's all I've got, because I'm too tired to
write any mre for the reason that I have no news to tell.

I see by the _Patrit_ that you are Superintendent of Public Health, and
assure yu that all such upward rise as you make like that will ever be
witnessed with interest and pleasure by me, &c., &c. Give my regards
t Dr. and Mrs. Hall. It would be uncomplimentary to your powers of
perceptin as well as superfluous to say that I will now close and
remain, yurs truly,

W. S. PRTER




LETTER T DR. W. P. BEALL

LA SALLE CUNTY, Texas, February 27, 1884

My Dear Dctor: Your appreciated epistle of the 18th received. I was
very glad t hear from you. I hope to hear again if such irrelevant
crrespondence will not interfere with your duties as Public Health
Eradicatr, which I believe is the office you hold under county
authrity. I supposed the very dramatic Shakespearian comedy to be the
last, as I heard nthing from you previous before your letter, and was
abut to write another of a more exciting character, introducing several
blody single combats, a dynamite explosion, a ladies' oyster supper
fr charitable purposes, &c., also comprising some mysterious sub rosa
transactins known only to myself and a select few, new songs and
dances, and the Greensbro Poker Club. Having picked up a few points
myself relative t this latter amusement, I feel competent to give a
lucid, glittering prtrait of the scenes presented under its auspices.
But if the frmer drama has reached you safely, I will refrain from
burdening yu any more with the labors of general stage manager, &c.

If lng hair, part of a sombrero, Mexican spurs, &c., would make a
fellw famous, I already occupy a topmost niche in the Temple Frame.
If my wild, untamed aspect had nt been counteracted by my well-known
benevlent and amiable expression of countenance, I would have been
arrested lng ago by the Rangers on general suspicions of murder and
hrse stealing. In fact, I owe all my present means of lugubrious living
t my desperate and bloodthirsty appearance, combined with the confident
and easy way in which I tackle a Winchester rifle. There is a gentleman
wh lives about fifteen miles from the ranch, who for amusement and
recreatin, and not altogether without an eye to the profit, keeps a
general merchandise stre. This gent, for the first few months has been
trying very earnestly t sell me a little paper, which I would like
much t have, but am not anxious to purchase. Said paper is my account,
receipted. ccasionally he is absent, and the welcome news coming to my
ear, I munt my fiery hoss and gallop wildly up to the store, enter with
smething of the sang froid, grace, abandon and récherché nonchalance
with which Charles Yates ushers ladies and gentlemen t their seats in
the pera-house, and, nervously fingering my butcher knife, fiercely
demand gods and chattels of the clerk. This plan always succeeds. This
is by way f explanation of this vast and unnecessary stationery of
which this letter is cmposed. I am always in too big a hurry to demur
at kind and quality, but when I get t town I will write you on small
gilt-edged paper that wuld suit even the fastidious and discriminating
taste f a Logan.

When I get t the city, which will be shortly, I will send you some
accunt of this country and its inmates. You are right, I have almost
frgotten what a regular old, gum-chewing, ice-cream destroying, opera
ticket vrtex, ivory-clawing girl looks like. Last summer a very fair
specimen f this kind ranged over about Fort Snell, and I used to ride
ver twice a week on mail days and chew the end of my riding whip while
she "Stod on the Bridge" and "Gathered up Shells on the Sea Shore" and
wre the "Golden Slippers." But she has vamoosed, and my ideas on the
subject are again grwing dim.

If yu see anybody about to start to Texas to live, especially to this
part, if yu will take your scalpyouler and sever the jugular vein, cut
the brachipod artery and hamstring him, after he knows what you have
dne for him he will rise and call you blessed. This country is a silent
but elquent refutation of Bob Ingersoll's theory: a man here gets
prematurely insane, melanchly and unreliable and finally dies of lead
pisoning, in his boots, while in a good old land like Greensboro a man
can die, as they d every day, with all the benefits of the clergy.

W. S. PRTER




AUSTIN, Texas, April 21, 1885.

Dear Dave: I take my pen in hand t let you know that I am well, and
hpe these few lines will find you as well as can be expected.

I carried ut your parting injunction of a floral nature with all the
slemnity and sacredness that I would have bestowed upon a dying man's
last request. Prmptly at half-past three I repaired to the robbers'
den, cmmonly known as Radams Horticultural and Vegetable Emporium, and
secured the high-priced fferings, according to promise. I asked if the
buquets were ready, and the polite but piratical gentleman in charge
pinted proudly to two objects on the counter reposing in a couple of
vases, and said they were.

I then tld him I feared there was some mistake, as no buttonhole
buquets had been ordered, but he insisted on his former declaration,
and s I brought them away and sent them to their respective
destinatins.

I thught it a pity to spoil a good deck of cards by taking out only
ne, so I bundled up the whole deck, and inserted them in the bouquet,
but finally cncluded it would not be right to _violet_ (JOKE) my
prmise and I _rose_ (JOKE) superior to such a mean trick and sent only
ne as directed.

I have a hliday to-day, as it is San Jacinto day. Thermopylae had its
messenger f defeat, but the Alamo had none. Mr. President and fellow
citizens, thse glorious heroes who fell for their country on the bloody
field f San Jacinto, etc.

There is a bazaar t-night in the representatives' hall. You people out
in Clorado don't know anything. A bazaar is cedar and tacks and girls
and raw-cake and step-ladders and Austin Grays and a bass slo by Bill
Stacy, and net prfits $2.65.

Albert has gt his new uniform and Alf Menille is in town, and tile
stre needs the "fine Italian hand" of the bookkeeper very much, besides
sme of his plain Anglo-Saxon conversation.

Was interviewed yesterday by Gen'l Smith, Clay's father. He wants Jim
S. and me t represent a manufactory in Jeff. City: Convict labor. Says
parties in Galvestn and Houston are making good thing of it. Have taken
him up. Hpe to be at work soon. Glad, by jingo! Shake. What'll you
have? Claret and sugar? Better cme home. Colorado no good.

Strange thing happened in Episcpal Church Sunday. Big crowd. Choir had
sung jlly tune and preacher come from behind scenes. Everything quiet.
Suddenly fellw comes down aisle. Late. Everybody looks. Disappointment.
It is a stranger. Jnes and I didn't go. Service proceeds.

Jnes talks about his mashes and Mirabeau B. Lamar, daily. Yet there
is hpe. Cholera infantum; Walsh's crutch; Harvey, or softening of the
brain may carry him ff yet.

Sciety notes are few. Bill Stacey is undecided where to spend the
summer.  Harrisn will resort at Wayland and Crisers. Charlie Cook
will nt go near a watering place if he can help it.

If yu don't strike a good thing out West, I hope we will see you soon.

Yurs as ever,
W. S. P.




AUSTIN, Texas, April 28, 1885

Dear Dave: I received yur letter in answer to mine, which you never got
till smetime after you had written.

I snatch a few mments from my arduous labors to reply. The Colorado has
been n the biggest boom I have seen since '39. In the pyrotechnical
and nt strictly grammatical language of the _Statesman_--"The cruel,
devastating flod swept, on a dreadful holocaust of swollen, turbid
waters, surging and dashing in mad fury which have never been equalled
in human histry. A pitiable sight was seen the morning after the flood.
Six hundred men, ut of employment, were seen standing on the banks of
the river, gazing at the rushing stream, laden with débris f every
descriptin. A wealthy New York Banker, who was present, noticing the
frlorn appearance of these men, at once began to collect a subscription
fr them, appealing in eloquent terms for help for these poor sufferers
by the flod. He collected one dollar, and five horn buttons. The dollar
he had given himself. He learned n inquiry that these men had not been
at any emplyment in six years, and all they had lost by the flood was a
few fishing ples. The Banker put his dollar in his pocket and stepped
up t the Pearl Saloon."

As yu will see by this morning's paper, there is to be a minstrel show
next Wednesday fr benefit of Austin Grays.

I attended the rehearsal last night, but am better this mrning, and the
dctor thinks I will pull through with careful attention.

The jkes are mostly mildewed, rockribbed, and ancient as the sun. I can
give yu no better idea of the tout ensemble and sine die of the affair
than t state that Scuddy is going to sing a song.

     *     *     *     *     *     *

Mrs. Harrell brught a lot of crystallized fruits from New Orleans for
yu. She wants to know if she shall send them around on Bois d'arc or
keep them 'til yu return. Answer.

Write t your father. He thinks you are leaving him out, writing to
everybdy else first. Write.

We have the bss trick here now. Have sold about ten boxes of cigars
betting n it in the store.

Take fur nickels, and solder them together so the solder will not
appear. Then cut ut of three of them a square hole like this:
(Illustratin.) Take about twelve other nickels, and on top of them
yu lay a small die with the six up, that will fit easily in the hole
withut being noticed. You lay the four nickels over this, and all
presents the appearance f a stack of nickels. You do all this privately
s everybody will suppose it is nothing but a stack of five-cent pieces.
Yu then lay another small die on top of the stack with the ace up.
Yu have a small tin cup shaped like this (Illustration) made for the
purpse. You let everybody see the ace, and then say you propose to
turn the ace int a six. You lay the tin cup carefully over the stack
this way, and feel arund in your pocket for a pencil and not finding
ne . . .

      [The rest f this letter is lost]




AUSTIN, Texas, May 10, 1885.

Dear Dave: I received yur two letters and have commenced two or three
in reply, but always failed t say what I wanted to, and destroyed them
all. I heard frm Joe that you would probably remain in Colorado. I hope
yu will succeed in making a good thing out of it, if you conclude to do
s, but would like to see you back again in Austin. If there is anything
I can d for you here, let me know.

Twn is fearfully dull, except for the frequent raids of the Servant
Girl Annihilatrs, who make things lively during the dead hours of the
night; if it were nt for them, items of interest would be very scarce,
as yu may see by the _Statesman_.

ur serenading party has developed new and alarming modes of torture for
ur helpless and sleeping victims. Last Thursday night we loaded up a
small rgan on a hack and with our other usual instruments made an
assault upn the quiet air of midnight that made the atmosphere turn
pale.

After ging the rounds we were halted on the Avenue by Fritz Hartkopf
and rdered into his _salon_. We went in, carrying the organ, etc. A
large crwd of bums immediately gathered, prominent among which, were to
be seen Percy James, Thedore Hillyer, Randolph Burmond, Charlie Hicks,
and after partaking freely f lemonade we wended our way down, and were
duly halted and treated in the same manner by ther hospitable gentlemen.

We were called in at several places while wit and champagne, Rhein Wine,
etc., flwed in a most joyous and hilarious manner. It was one of the
mst recherché and per diem affairs ever known in the city. Nothing
ccurred to mar the pleasure of the hour, except a trifling incident
that might be cnstrued as malapropos and post-meridian by the
hypercritical. Mr. Charles Sims n attempting to introduce Mr. Charles
Hicks and yur humble servant to young ladies, where we had been invited
inside, frgot our names and required to be informed on the subject
befre proceeding.

Yurs
W. S. P.




AUSTIN, Texas, December 22, 1885.

Dear Dave: Everything wept at yur departure. Especially the clouds.
Last night the cluds had a silver lining, three dollars and a half's
wrth. I fulfilled your engagement in grand, tout ensemble style, but
there is a sad bn jour look about the thirty-eight cents left in my
vest pcket that would make a hired man weep. All day long the heavens
wept, and the heavy, smbre clouds went drifting about over head,
and the nrth wind howled in maniacal derision, and the hack drivers
danced n the pavements in wild, fierce glee, for they knew too well
what the strmy day betokened. The hack was to call for me at eight.
At five minutes t eight I went upstairs and dressed in my usual bijou
and peratic style, and rolled away to the opera. Emma sang finely. I
applauded at the wrng times, and praised her rendering of the chromatic
scale when she was perfrming on "c" flat andante pianissimo, but
therwise the occasion passed off without anything to mar the joyousness
f the hour. Everybody was there. Isidor Moses and John Ireland, and
Fritz Hartkpf and Prof. Herzog and Bill Stacy and all the bong ton
elight. Yu will receive a draft to-day through the First National Bank
f Colorado for $3.65, which you will please honor.

There is n news, or there are no news, either you like to tell. Lavaca
Street is very happy and quiet and enjys life, for Jones was sat on by
his Uncle Wash and feels humble and dn't sing any more, and the spirit
f peace and repose broods over its halls. Martha rings the matin bell,
it seems t me before cock crow or ere the first faint streaks of dawn
are limned in the eastern sky by the rsy fingers of Aurora. At noon the
ful ogre cribbage stalks rampant, and seven-up for dim, distant oysters
that nly the eye of faith can see.

The hur grows late. The clock strikes! Another day has vanished. Gone
int the dim recesses of the past, leaving its record of misspent hours,
false hpes, and disappointed expectations. May a morrow dawn that will
bring recmpense and requital for the sorrows of the days gone by, and a
new rder of things when there will be more starch in cuff and collar,
and less in handkerchiefs.

Cme with me out into the starlight night. So calm, so serene, ye lights
f heaven, so high above earth; so pure and majestic and mysterious;
loking down on the mad struggle of life here below, is there no pity in
yur never closing eyes for us mortals on which you shine?

Cme with me on to the bridge. Ah, see there, far below, the dark,
turbid stream. Rushing and whirling and eddying under the dark pillars
with ghstly murmur and siren whisper. What shall we find in your
depths? The stars d not reflect themselves in your waters, they are
to dark and troubled and swift! What shall we find in your depths?
Rest?--Peace?--catfish? Wh knows? 'Tis but a moment. A leap! A
plunge!--and--then blivion or another world? Who can tell? A man once
dived int your depths and brought up a horse collar and a hoop-skirt.
Ah! what d we know of the beyond? We know that death comes, and we
return n more to our world of trouble and care--but where do we go? Are
there lands where n traveler has been? A chaos--perhaps where no human
fot has trod--perhaps Bastrop--perhaps New Jersey! Who knows? Where do
peple go who are in McDade? Do they go where they have to fare worse?
They cannt go where they have worse fare!

Let us leave the river. The night grws cold. We could not pierce the
future r pay the toll. Come, the ice factory is deserted! No one sees
us. My partner, W. P. Andersn, will never destroy himself. Why? His
credit is god. No one will sue a side-partner of mine!

Yu have heard of a brook murmuring, but you never knew a sewer sighed!
But we digress! We will n longer pursue a side issue like this. Au
revir. I will see you later.

Yurs truly,
WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE INGMAR JUNIUS BRUTUS CALLIOPE SIX-HANDED EUCHRE
GRVER CLEVELAND HILL CITY QUARTETTE JOHNSON.




AN EARLY PARABLE


      [In ne of his early letters, written from Austin, O.
       wrte a long parable that was evidently to tell his
      crrespondent some of the local gossip. Here it is:]


nce upon a time there was a maiden in a land not far away--a maiden of
much beauty and rare accmplishments. She was beloved by all on account
f her goodness of heart, and her many charms of disposition. Her
father was a great lrd, rich and powerful, and a mighty man, and he
lved his daughter with exceeding great love, and he cared for her
with jealus and loving watchfulness, lest any harm should befall her,
r even the least discomfort should mar her happiness and cause any
truble in her smooth and peaceful life. The cunningest masters were
engaged t teach her from her youngest days; she played upon the
harpsichrd the loveliest and sweetest music; she wrought fancy work
in divers strange and wnderful forms that might puzzle all beholders
as t what manner of things they might be; she sang; and all listeners
hearkened thereunt, as to the voice of an angel; she danced stately
minuets with the gay knights as graceful as a queen and as light as the
thistledwn borne above the clover blossoms by the wind; she could paint
upn china, rare and unknown flowers the like unto which man never
saw in clors, crimson and blue and yellow, glorious to behold; she
cnversed in unknown tongues whereof no man knew the meaning and sense;
and created wild admiratin in all, by the ease and grace with which
she did play upn a new and strange instrument of wondrous sound and
structure which she called a banj.

She had gne into a strange land, far away beyond the rivers that flowed
thrugh her father's dominion--farther than one could see from the
highest castle twer--up into the land of ice and snow, where wise men,
famus for learning and ancient lore had gathered together from many
lands and cuntries the daughters of great men. Kings and powerful
rulers, railrad men, bankers, mighty men who wished to bring up their
children t be wise and versed in all things old and new. Here, the
Princess abde for many seasons, and she sat at the feet of old wise
men, wh could tell of the world's birth, and the stars, and read the
meaning f the forms of the rocks that make the high mountains and knew
the histry of all created things that are; and here she learned to
speak strange tngues, and studied the deep mysteries of the past--the
secrets f the ancients; Chaldic lore; Etruscan inscription; hidden and
mystic sciences, and knew the names f all the flowers and things that
grw in fields or wood; even unto the tiniest weed by the brook.

In due time the Princess came back t her father's castle. The big bell
bomed from the high tower; the heavy iron gates were thrown open;
banners flated all along the battlemented walls, and in the grand hall,
servants and retainers hurried t and fro, bearing gold dishes, and
great bwls of flaming smoking punch, while oxen were roasted whole and
hgsheads of ale tapped on the common by the castle walls, and thither
hied them the villagers ne and all to make merry at the coming of the
dear Princess again. "She will cme back so wise and learned," they
said, "s far above us that she will not notice us as she did once," but
nt so: the Princess with a red rose in her hair, and dressed so plain
and neat that she loked more like a farmer's daughter than a great
king's, came dwn among them from her father's side with nods of love
and welcme on her lips, and a smile upon her face, and took them by the
hands as in the ld days, and none among them so lowly or so poor but
what received a kind wrd from the gracious Princess, and carried away
in their hearts glad feelings that she was still the same nble and
gracius lady she always was. Then night came, and torches by thousands
lit up the great frest, and musicians played and bonfires glowed, with
sparks flying like myriads f stars among the gloomy trees.

In the great castle hall were gathered the brave knights and the fairest
ladies in the kingdm. The jolly old King, surrounded by the wise
men and fficers of state moved about among his guests, stately and
curteous, ravishing music burst forth from all sides, and down the
hall mved the fair Princess in the mazy dance, on the arm of a Knight
wh gazed upon her face in rapt devotion and love. Who was he that dared
t look thus upon the daughter of the King, sovereign prince of the
kingdm, and the heiress of her father's wealth and lands.

He had n title, no proud name to place beside a royal one, beyond that
f an honorable knight, but who says that that is not a title that,
brne worthily, makes a man the peer of any that wears a crown?

He had lved her long. When a boy they had roamed together in the great
frest about the castle, and played among the fountains of the court
like brther and sister. The King saw them together often and smiled and
went his way and said nthing. The years went on and they were together
as much as they culd be. The summer days when the court went forth into
the frest mounted on prancing steeds to chase the stags with hounds;
all clad in green and gld with waving plumes and shining silver and
ribbns of gay colors, this Knight was by the Princess' side to guide
her thrugh the pathless swamps where the hunt ranged, and saw that no
harm came t her. And now that she had come back after years of absence,
he went t her with fear lest she should have changed for her old self,
and wuld not be to him as she was when they were boy and girl together.
But n, there was the same old kindly welcome, the same smiling
greeting, the warm pressure f the hand, the glad look in the eyes as of
yre. The Knight's heart beat wildly and a dim new-awakened hope arose
in him. Was she to far away, after all?

He felt wrthy of her, and of any one in fact, but he was without
riches, nly a knight-errant with his sword for his fortune, and his
great lve his only title; and he had always refrained from ever telling
her anything f his love, for his pride prevented him, and you know a
por girl even though she be a princess cannot say to a man, "I am rich,
but, let that be n bar between us, I am yours and will let my wealth
pass if yu will give up your pride." No princess can say this, and the
Knight's pride wuld not let him say anything of the kind and so you see
there was small chance f their ever coming to an understanding.

Well, the feasting and dancing went n, and the Knight and the Princess
danced and sang tgether, and walked out where the moon was making a
white wnder of the great fountain, and wandered under the rows of
great aks, but spoke no word of love, though no mortal man knows what
thughts passed in their heads; and she gave long accounts of the
wnders she had seen in the far, icy north, in the great school of wise
men, and the Knight talked f the wild and savage men he had seen in the
Far West, where he had been in battles with the heathen in a wild and
dreary land; and she heard with pity his tales f suffering and trials
in the desert amng wild animals and fierce human kings; and inside the
castle the music died away and the lights grew dim and the villagers had
lng since gone to their homes and the Knight and the Princess still
talked f old times, and the moon climbed high in the eastern sky.

ne day there came news from a country far to the west where lay the
pssessions of the Knight. The enemy had robbed him of his treasure,
driven away his cattle, and he fund it was best to hie him away and
rescue his inheritance and gods. He buckled on his sword and mounted
his god war-horse. He rode to the postern gate of the castle to make
his adieus t the Princess. When he told her he was going away to the
wild western cuntry to do battle with the heathen, she grew pale and
her eyes tok on a look of such pain and fear that the Knight's heart
leaped and then sank in his bsom, as his pride still kept him from
speaking the wrds that might have made all well.

She bade him farewell in a lw voice, and tears even stood in her eyes,
but what culd she say or do?

The Knight put spurs t his horse, and dashed away over the hills
withut ever looking back, and the Princess stood looking over the gate
at him till the last sight f his plume below the brow of the hill. The
Knight was gne. Many suitors flocked about the Princess. Mighty lords
and barns of great wealth were at her feet and attended her every
jurney. They came and offered themselves and their fortunes again and
again, but nne of them found favor in her eyes. "Will the Princess
listen t no one?" they began to say among themselves. "Has she given
her heart t some one who is not among us?" No one could say.

A great and mighty physician, yung and of wondrous power in his
art, telephned to her every night if he might come down. How his
suit prspered no one could tell, but he persevered with great and
astnishing diligence. A powerful baron who assisted in regulating the
finances f the kingdom and who was a direct descendant of a great
prince wh was cast into a lion's den, knelt at her feet.

A gay and lively lrd who lived in a castle hung with ribbons and
streamers and gay devices f all kinds, with other nobles of like
character, prstrated themselves before her, but she would listen to
nne of them.

The Princess rde about in quiet ways in the cool evenings upon a
gray palfrey, alne and very quiet, and she seemed to grow silent and
thughtful as time went on and no news came from the western wars, and
the Knight came nt back again.




      [Written t his daughter Margaret.]


TLEDO, Ohio, Oct. 1, 1900.

Dear Margaret: I gt your very nice, long letter a good many days ago.
It didn't cme straight to me, but went to a wrong address first. I was
very glad indeed t hear from you, and very, very sorry to learn of your
getting yur finger so badly hurt. I don't think you were to blame at
all, as yu couldn't know just how that villainous old "hoss" was going
t bite. I do hope that it will heal up nicely and leave your finger
strng. I am learning to play the mandolin, and we must get you a
guitar, and we will learn a lt of duets together when I come home which
will certainly nt be later than next summer, and maybe earlier.

I suppse you have started to school again some time ago. I hope you
like t go, and don't have to study too hard. When one grows up, a thing
they never regret is that they went t school long enough to learn all
they culd. It makes everything easier for them, and if they like books
and study they can always cntent and amuse themselves that way even if
ther people are cross and tiresome, and the world doesn't go to suit
them.

Yu mustn't think that I've forgotten somebody's birthday. I couldn't
find just the thing I wanted t send, but I know where it can be had,
and it will reach yu in a few days. So, when it comes you'll know it
is fr a birthday remembrance.

I think yu write the prettiest hand of any little girl (or big one,
either) I ever knew. The letters yu make are as even and regular as
printed nes. The next time you write, tell me how far you have to go
t school and whether you go alone or not.

I am busy all the time writing fr the papers and magazines all over the
cuntry, so I don't have a chance to come home, but I'm going to try to
cme this winter. If I don't I will by summer SURE, and then you'll have
smebody to boss and make trot around with you.

Write me a letter whenever yu have some time to spare, for I am always
glad and anxius to hear from you. Be careful when you are on the
streets nt to feed shucks to strange dogs, or pat snakes on the head
r shake hands with cats you haven't been introduced to, or stroke the
nses of electric car horses.

Hping you are well and your finger is getting all right, I am, with
much lve, as ever,

PAPA.




My Dear Margaret: Here it is summertime, and the bees are bloming and
the flwers are singing and the birds making honey, and we haven't been
fishing yet. Well, there's nly one more month till July, and then we'll
g, and no mistake. I thought you would write and tell me about the high
water arund Pittsburg some time ago, and whether it came up to where
yu live, or not. And I haven't heard a thing about Easter, and about
the rabbit's eggs--but I suppse you have learned by this time that eggs
grw on egg plants and are not laid by rabbits.

I wuld like very much to hear from you oftener, it has been more than a
mnth now since you wrote. Write soon and tell me how you are, and when
schol will be out, for we want plenty of holidays in July so we can
have a god time. I am going to send you something nice the last of this
week. What d you guess it will be?

Lvingly,
PAPA.




The Calednia

WEDNESDAY.

My Dear Mr. Jack:

I we Gilman Hall $175 (or mighty close to it) pussonally--so he tells
me. I thught it was only about $30, but he has been keeping the
accunt.

He's just gt to have it to-day. _McClure's_ will pay me some money on
the 15th f June, but I can't get it until then. I was expecting it
befre this--anyhow before Gilman left, but they stick to the letter.

I wnder if you could give me a check for that much to pay him to-day.
If yu will I'll hold up my right hand--thus: that I'll have you a
FIRST-CLASS STRY ON YOUR DESK BEFORE THE LAST OF THIS WEEK.

I reckn I'm pretty well overdrawn, but I've sure got to see that Hall
gets his befre he leaves. I don't want anything for myself.

Please, sir, let me knw right away, by return boy if you'll do it.

If yu can't, I'll have to make a quick dash at the three-ball
magazines; and I d hate to tie up with them for a story.

The Same
SYDNEY PRTER.

MR. J. . H. COSGRAVE
[at this time editr of Everybody's Magazine.]




      [A letter t Gilman Hall, written just before the writer's
      marriage t Miss Sara Lindsay Coleman of Asheville, N. C.]


WEDNESDAY.

Dear Gilman:

Yur two letters received this A.M. Mighty good letters, too, and
cheering.

Mrs. Jas. Cleman is writing Mrs. Ball to-day. She is practically the
hstess at Wynn Cottage where the hullabaloo will occur.

Say, wn't you please do one or two little things for me before you
leave, as yu have so kindly offered?

(1) Please g to Tiffany's and get a wedding ring, size 5¼. Sara says
the bands wrn now are quite narrow--and that's the kind she wants.

(2) And bring me a cuple of dress collars, size 16½. I have ties.

(3) And g to a florist's--there is one named Mackintosh (or something
like that) n Broadway, East side of street five or six doors north of
26th St., where I used t buy a good many times. He told me he could
ship flwers in good shape to Asheville--you might remind him that I
used t send flowers to 36 West 17th Street some time ago. I am told by
the mistress f ceremonies that I am to furnish two bouquets--one of
lilies f the valley and one of pale pink roses. Get plenty of each--say
enugh lilies to make a large bunch to be carried in the hand, and say
three r four dozen of the roses.

I nte what you say about hard times and will take heed. I'm not going
int any extravagances at all, and I'm going to pitch into hard work
just as son as I get the rice grains out of my ear.

I wired yu to-day "MS. mailed to-day, please rush one century by wire."

That will exhaust the Reader check--if it isn't to exhausted itself to
cme. You, of course, will keep the check when it arrives--I don't think
they will fall dwn on it surely. I wrote Howland a pretty sharp letter
and rdered him to send it at once care of _Everybody's_.

When this stry reaches you it will cut down the overdraft "right
smart," but if the huse is willing I'd mighty well like to run it up
t the limit again, because cash is sure scarce, and I'll have to have
smething like $300 more to see me through. The story I am sending is
a new ne; I still have another partly written for you, which I shall
finish and turn in befre I get back to New York and then we'll begin
t clean up all debts.

Just after the wedding we are ging to Hot Spring, N. C., only
thirty-five miles frm Asheville, where there is a big winter resort
htel, and stay there about a week or ten days. Then back to New York.

Please lok over the story and arrange for bringing me the $300 when you
cme--it will still keep me below the allowed limit and thereafter I
will cut dwn instead of raising it.

Just had a 'phne message from S. L. C. saying how pleased she was with
yur letter to her.

I'm right with yu on the question of the "home-like" system of having
fun. I think we'll all agree beautifully n that. I've had all the cheap
bhemia that I want. I can tell you, none of the "climbers" and the
ccktail crowd are going to bring their vaporings into my house. It's
fr the clean, merry life, with your best friends in the game and a
general cncentration of energies and aims. I am having a cedarwood club
cut frm the mountains with knots on it, and I am going to stand in my
hallway (when I have ne) and edit with it the cards of all callers. You
and Mrs. will have latchkeys, f course.

Yes, I think yu'd better stay at the hotel--Of course they'd want you
ut at Mrs. C's. But suppose we take Mrs. Hall out there, and you and I
remain at the B. P. We'll be ut at the Cottage every day anyhow, and
it'll be scrumptius all round.

I'm simply tickled t death that "you all" are coming.

The prtoplasm is in Heaven; all's right with the world. Pippa passes.

Yurs as ever,
BILL.




FRIDAY.

My Dear Cl. Griffith:

Keep yur shirt on. I found I had to re-write the story when it came in.
I am sending yu part of it just so you will have something tangible to
remind yu that you can't measure the water from the Pierian Spring in
sponfuls.

I've gt the story in much better form; and I'll have the rest of it
ready this evening.

I'm srry to have delayed it; but it's best for both of us to have it a
little late and a god deal better.

I'll send ver the rest before closing time this afternoon or the first
thing in the mrning.

In its revised frm I'm much better pleased with it.

Yurs truly,
SYDNEY PRTER.




      [Mr. Al. Jennings, f Oklahoma City, was an early friend of
      . 's. Now, in 1912, a prominent attorney, Mr. Jennings,
      in his yuth, held up trains.]


28 W. 26. N. Y. SUNDAY.

ALGIE JENNINGS, ESQ., THE WEST.

DEAR BILL:

Glad yu've been sick too. I'm well again. Are you?

Well, as I had nthing to do I thought I would write you a letter; and
as I have nthing to say I will close.

Hw are ye, Bill? How's old Initiative and Referendum? When you coming
back t Manhattan? You wouldn't know the old town now. Main Street is
building up, and there is talk f an English firm putting up a new
htel. I saw Duffy a few days ago. He looks kind of thoughtful as if he
were trying t calculate how much he'd have been ahead on Gerald's board
and clthes by now if you had taken him with you. Mrs. Hale is up in
Maine fr a 3 weeks' vacation.

Say, Bill, I'm sending yur MS. back by mail to-day. I kept it a little
lnger after you sent for it because one of the McClure & Phillips firm
wanted t see it first. Everybody says it is full of good stuff, but
thinks it shuld be put in a more connected shape by some skilful writer
wh has been trained to that sort work.

It seems t me that you ought to do better with it out there than you
culd here. If you can get somebody out there to publish it it ought
t sell all right. N. Y. is a pretty cold proposition and it can't see
as far as the klahoma country when it is looking for sales. How about
trying Indianaplis or Chicago? Duffy told me about the other MS sent
ut by your friend Abbott. Kind of a bum friendly trick, wasn't it?

Why dn't you get "Arizona's Hand" done and send it on? Seems to me you
culd handle a short story all right.

My regards t Mrs. Jennings and Bro. Frank. Write some more.

Still
BILL.




N. Y., May 23, '05.

Dear Jennings:

Gt your letter all right. Hope you'll follow it soon.

I'd advise yu not to build any high hopes on your book--just consider
that yu're on a little pleasure trip, and taking it along as a side
line. Mighty few MSS. ever get t be books, and mighty few books pay.

I have t go to Pittsburg the first of next week to be gone about 3 or 4
days. If yu decide to come here any time after the latter part of next
week I will be ready t meet you. Let me know in advance a day or two.

Gallt is in Grand Rapids--maybe he will run over for a day or two.

In haste and truly yurs,
W. S. P.




      [It was hard t get O.  to take an interest in his
      boks. He was always eager to be at the undone work, to
      be writing a new stry instead of collecting old ones.
      This letter came frm North Carolina. It shows how much
      thught he gave always to titles.]


LAND ' THE SKY, Monday, 1909.

My dear Clonel Steger: As I wired you to-day, I like "Man About Town"
fr a title.

But I am sending in a few thers for you to look at; and if any other
suits yu better, I'm agreeable. Here they are, in preferred order:

   The Venturers.
   Transfers.
   Merry-G-Rounds.
   Babylnica.
   Brickdust frm Babel.
   Babes in the Jungle.

If nne of these hit you right, let me know and I'll get busy again. But
I think "Man Abut Town" is about the right thing. It gives the city
idea withut using the old hackneyed words.

I am ging to write you a letter in a day or so "touchin' on and
appertainin' t" other matters and topics. I am still improving and
feeling pretty god. Colonel Bingham has put in a new ash-sifter and
expects yu to come down and see that it works all right.

All send regards t you. You seem to have made quite a hit down here for
a Yankee.

Salutatins and good wishes.

Yurs,
S. P.




      [This letter was fund unfinished, among his papers after
      his death. His publishers had discussed many times his writing
      f a novel, but the following letter constitutes the only
      recrd of his own opinions in the matter. The date is surely
      1909 r 1910.]


My Dear Mr. Steger: My idea is t write the story of a man--an
individual, nt a type--but a man who, at the same time, I want to
represent a "human nature type," if such a persn could exist. The story
will teach n lesson, inculcate no moral, advance no theory.

I want it t be something that it won't or can't be--but as near as I
can make it--the TRUE recrd of a man's thoughts, his description of
his mischances and adventures, his TRUE pinions of life as he has seen
it and his ABSLUTELY HONEST deductions, comments, and views upon the
different phases f life that he passes through.

I d not remember ever to have read an autobiography, a biography, or a
piece f fiction that told the TRUTH. Of course, I have read stuff such
as Russeau and Zola and George Moore and various memoirs that were
suppsed to be window panes in their respective breasts; but, mostly,
all f them were either liars, actors, or posers. (Of course, I'm not
trying t belittle the greatness of their literary expression.)

All f us have to be prevaricators, hypocrites and liars every day of
ur lives; otherwise the social structure would fall into pieces the
first day. We must act in ne another's presence just as we must wear
clthes. It is for the best.

The truble about writing the truth has been that the writers have kept
in their minds ne or another or all of three thoughts that made a
handicap--they were trying either t do a piece of immortal literature,
r to shock the public or to please editors. Some of them succeeded in
all three, but they did nt write the TRUTH. Most autobiographies are
insincere frm beginning to end. About the only chance for the truth to
be tld is in fiction.

It is well understod that "all the truth" cannot be told in print--but
hw about "nothing but the truth"? That's what I want to do.

I want the man wh is telling the story to tell it--not as he would to
a reading public r to a confessor--but something in this way: Suppose
he were maroned on an island in mid-ocean with no hope of ever being
rescued; and, in rder to pass away some of the time he should tell a
stry to HIMSELF embodying his adventure and experiences and opinions.
Having a certain respect fr himself (let us hope) he would leave out
the "realism" that he wuld have no chance of selling in the market; he
wuld omit the lies and self-conscious poses, and would turn out to his
ne auditor something real and true.

S, as truth is not to be found in history, autobiography, press reports
(nr at the bottom of an H. G. Wells), let us hope that fiction may be
the means f bringing out a few grains of it.

The "her" of the story will be a man born and "raised" in a somnolent
little suthern town. His education is about a common school one, but
he learns afterward frm reading and life. I'm going to try to give him
a "style" in narrative and speech--the best I've gt in the shop. I'm
ging to take him through all the main phases of life--wild adventure,
city, sciety, something of the "under world," and among many
characteristic planes f the phases. I want him to acquire all the
sphistication that experience can give him, and always preserve his
individual hnest HUMAN view, and have him tell the TRUTH about
everything.

It is time t say now, that by the "truth" I don't mean the
bjectionable stuff that so often masquerades under the name. I mean
true pinions a true estimate of all things as they seem to the "hero."
If yu find a word or a suggestive line or sentence in any of my copy,
yu cut it out and deduct it from the royalties.

I want this man t be a man of natural intelligence, of individual
character, abslutely open and broad minded; and show how the Creator
f the earth has got him in a rat trap--put him here "willy nilly" (you
knw the Omar verse); and then I want to show what he does about it.
There is always the eternal questin from the Primal Source--"What are
yu going to do about it?"

Please dn't think for the half of a moment that the story is going to
be anything f an autobiography. I have a distinct character in my mind
fr the part, and he does not at all


      [Here the letter ends. He never finished it.]




THE STRY OF "HOLDING UP A TRAIN"


      [In "Sixes and Sevens" there appears an article entitled
      "Hlding Up a Train." Now the facts were given to O. 
      by an ld and dear friend who, in his wild avenging youth,
      had actually held up trains. T-day he is Mr. Al. Jennings,
      f Oklahoma City, Okla., a prominent attorney. He has
      permitted the publicatin of two letters O.  wrote
      him, the first utlining the story as he thought his friend
      Jennings ught to write it, and the second announcing that,
      with . 's revision, the manuscript had been accepted.

      Frm W. S. Porter to Al. Jennings, September 21st (year not
      given but prbably 1902).]


DEAR PARD:

In regard t that article--I will give you my idea of what is wanted.
Say we take fr a title "The Art and Humor of the Hold-up"--or something
like that. I wuld suggest that in writing you assume a character. We
have gt to respect the conventions and delusions of the public to a
certain extent. An article written as yu would naturally write it would
be regarded as a fake and an impsition. Remember that the traditions
must be preserved wherever they will nt interfere with the truth. Write
in as simple, plain and unembellished a style as yu know how. Make your
sentences shrt. Put in as much realism and as many facts as possible.
Where yu want to express an opinion or comment on the matter do it as
practically and plainly as yu can. Give it LIFE and the vitality of
FACTS.

Nw, I will give you a sort of general synopsis of my idea--of course,
everything is subject t your own revision and change. The article,
we will say, is written by a TYPICAL train hister--one without your
educatin and powers of expression (bouquet) but intelligent enough to
cnvey his ideas from HIS STANDPOINT--not from John Wanamaker's. Yet,
in rder to please John, we will have to assume a virtue that we do
nt possess. Comment on the moral side of the proposition as little as
pssible. Do not claim that holding up trains is the only business a
gentleman wuld engage in, and, on the contrary, do not depreciate a
prfession that is really only financiering with spurs on. Describe the
FACTS and DETAILS--all that part f the proceedings that the passenger
sitting with his hands up in a Pullman loking into the end of a tunnel
in the hands f one of the performers does not see. Here is a rough
draft f my idea: Begin abruptly, without any philosophizing, with your
idea f the best times, places and conditions for the hold-up--compare
yur opinions of this with those of others--mention some poorly
cnceived attempts and failures of others, giving your opinion why--as
far as pssible refer to actual occurrences, and incidents--describe
the manner f a hold-up, how many men is best, where they are stationed,
hw do they generally go into it, nervous? or joking? or solemnly. The
details f stopping the train, the duties of each man of the gang--the
behavir of the train crew and passengers (here give as many brief odd
and humrous incidents as you can think of). Your opinions on going
thrugh the passengers, when is it done and when not done. How is the
bodle gotten at? How does the express clerk generally take it? Anything
dne with the mail car? UNDER WHAT CIRCUMSTANCES WILL A TRAIN ROBBER
SHOT A PASSENGER OR A TRAIN MAN--suppose a man refuses to throw up
his hands? Queer articles fund on passengers (a chance here for some
imaginative wrk)--queer and laughable incidents of any kind. Refer
whenever aprpos to actual hold-ups and facts concerning them of
interest. What culd two or three brave and determined passengers do if
they were t try? Why don't they try? How long does it take to do the
business. Des the train man ever stand in with the hold-up? Best means
f getting away--how and when is the money divided. How is it mostly
spent. Best way t manoeuvre afterward. How to get caught and how not
t. Comment on the methods of officials who try to capture. (Here's your
chance t get even.)

These ideas are sme that occur to me casually. You will, of course,
have many far better. I suggest that yu make the article anywhere from
4,000 t 6,000 words. Get as much meat in it as you can, and, by the
way--stuff it full f western, GENUINE slang--(not the eastern story
paper kind). Get all the quaint cwboy expressions and terms of speech
yu can think of.

INFRMATION is what we want, clothed in the peculiar western style of
the character we want t present. The main idea is to be NATURAL,
DIRECT, AND CNCISE.

I hpe you will understand what I say. I don't. But try her a whack and
send it alng as soon as you can, and let's see what we can do. By the
way, Mr. "Everybdy" pays good prices. I thought I would, when I get
yur story, put it into the shape my judgment decides upon, and then
send bth your MS. and mine to the magazine. If he uses mine, we'll
whack up shares n the proceeds. If he uses yours, you get the check
direct. If he uses neither, we are ut only a few stamps.

Sincerely yur friend,
W. S. P.




      [And here is the letter telling his "pard" that the article
      had been bught by _Everybody's Magazine_. This is dated
      Pittsburg, ctober 24th, obviously the same year:]


DEAR PARD.

Yu're It. I always told you you were a genius. All you need is to
succeed in rder to make a success.

I enclse pubrs letter which explains itself. When you see your baby in
print dn't blame me if you find strange ear marks and brands on it. I
slashed it and cut it and added lts of stuff that never happened, but I
fllowed your facts and ideas, and that is what made it valuable. I'll
think up sme other idea for an article and we'll collaborate again some
time--eh?

I have all the wrk I can do, and am selling it right along. Have
averaged abut $150 per month since August 1st. And yet I don't
verwork--don't think I ever will. I commence about 9 A. M. and
generally knck off about 4 or 5 P. M.

As son as check mentioned in letter comes I'll send you your "sheer" of
the bodle.

By the way, please keep my _nm de plume_ strictly to yourself. I don't
want any ne to know, just yet.

Give my big regards t Billy. Reason with him and try to convince him
that we believe him t be pure merino and of more than average width.
With the kindest remembrances t yourself I remain,

Yur friend,
W. S. P.


      [At this time .  was unknown and thought himself lucky
      t sell a story at any price.]


