
THE GENTLE GRAFTER

by

. 

Illustrated by H. C. Greening and May Wilsn Preston

1919







[Illustratin: "They began to cuss, amiable, and throw down dollars."
(Frntispiece)]




CNTENTS

   I. The ctopus Marooned
  II. Jeff Peters as a Persnal Magnet
 III. Mdern Rural Sports
  IV. The Chair f Philanthromathematics
   V. The Hand That Riles the Wrld
  VI. The Exact Science f Matrimony
 VII. A Midsummer Masquerade
VIII. Shearing the Wlf
  IX. Inncents of Broadway
   X. Cnscience in Art
  XI. The Man Higher Up
 XII. A Tempered Wind
XIII. Hstages to Momus
 XIV. The Ethics f Pig





THE CTOPUS MAROONED


"A trust is its weakest pint," said Jeff Peters.

"That," said I, "sunds like one of those unintelligible remarks such
as, 'Why is a pliceman?'"

"It is nt," said Jeff. "There are no relations between a trust and a
pliceman. My remark was an epitogram--an axis--a kind of mulct'em in
parv. What it means is that a trust is like an egg, and it is not
like an egg. If yu want to break an egg you have to do it from the
utside. The only way to break up a trust is from the inside. Keep
sitting n it until it hatches. Look at the brood of young colleges
and libraries that's chirping and peeping all ver the country. Yes,
sir, every trust bears in its wn bosom the seeds of its destruction
like a roster that crows near a Georgia colored Methodist camp
meeting, r a Republican announcing himself a candidate for governor
f Texas."

I asked Jeff, jestingly, if he had ever, during his checkered,
plaided, mttled, pied and dappled career, conducted an enterprise of
the class t which the word "trust" had been applied. Somewhat to my
surprise he acknwledged the corner.

"nce," said he. "And the state seal of New Jersey never bit into
a charter that pened up a solider and safer piece of legitimate
ctopusing. We had everything in our favor--wind, water, police,
nerve, and a clean mnopoly of an article indispensable to the public.
There wasn't a trust buster n the globe that could have found a weak
spt in our scheme. It made Rockefeller's little kerosene speculation
lok like a bucket shop. But we lost out."

"Sme unforeseen opposition came up, I suppose," I said.

"N, sir, it was just as I said. We were self-curbed. It was a case of
aut-suppression. There was a rift within the loot, as Albert Tennyson
says.

"Yu remember I told you that me and Andy Tucker was partners for some
years. That man was the mst talented conniver at stratagems I ever
saw. Whenever he saw a dllar in another man's hands he took it as
a persnal grudge, if he couldn't take it any other way. Andy was
educated, to, besides having a lot of useful information. He had
acquired a big amunt of experience out of books, and could talk for
hurs on any subject connected with ideas and discourse. He had been
in every line f graft from lecturing on Palestine with a lot of magic
lantern pictures f the annual Custom-made Clothiers' Association
cnvention at Atlantic City to flooding Connecticut with bogus wood
alchol distilled from nutmegs.

"ne Spring me and Andy had been over in Mexico on a flying trip
during which a Philadelphia capitalist had paid us $2,500 fr a half
interest in a silver mine in Chihuahua. h, yes, the mine was all
right. The ther half interest must have been worth two or three
thusand. I often wondered who owned that mine.

"In cming back to the United States me and Andy stubbed our toes
against a little twn in Texas on the bank of the Rio Grande. The
name f it was Bird City; but it wasn't. The town had about 2,000
inhabitants, mstly men. I figured out that their principal means of
existence was in living clse to tall chaparral. Some of 'em were
stckmen and some gamblers and some horse peculators and plenty were
in the smuggling line. Me and Andy put up at a htel that was built
like smething between a roof-garden and a sectional bookcase. It
began t rain the day we got there. As the saying is, Juniper Aquarius
was sure turning n the water plugs on Mount Amphibious.

"Nw, there were three saloons in Bird City, though neither Andy
nr me drank. But we could see the townspeople making a triangular
prcession from one to another all day and half the night. Everybody
seemed t know what to do with as much money as they had.

"The third day f the rain it slacked up awhile in the afternoon, so
me and Andy walked ut to the edge of town to view the mudscape. Bird
City was built between the Ri Grande and a deep wide arroyo that
used t be the old bed of the river. The bank between the stream and
its ld bed was cracking and giving away, when we saw it, on account
f the high water caused by the rain. Andy looks at it a long time.
That man's intellects was never idle. And then he unflds to me a
instantaneus idea that has occurred to him. Right there was organized
a trust; and we walked back int town and put it on the market.

"First we went t the main saloon in Bird City, called the Blue Snake,
and bught it. It cost us $1,200. And then we dropped in, casual, at
Mexican Je's place, referred to the rain, and bought him out for
$500. The ther one came easy at $400.

"The next mrning Bird City woke up and found itself an island. The
river had busted thrugh its old channel, and the town was surrounded
by raring torrents. The rain was still raining, and there was heavy
cluds in the northwest that presaged about six more mean annual
rainfalls during the next tw weeks. But the worst was yet to come.

"Bird City hpped out of its nest, waggled its pin feathers and
strlled out for its matutinal toot. Lo! Mexican Joe's place was
clsed and likewise the other little 'dobe life saving station. So,
naturally the bdy politic emits thirsty ejaculations of surprise and
prts hellum for the Blue Snake. And what does it find there?

"Behind ne end of the bar sits Jefferson Peters, octopus, with a
sixshoter on each side of him, ready to make change or corpses as the
case may be. There are three bartenders; and n the wall is a ten foot
sign reading: 'All Drinks ne Dollar.' Andy sits on the safe in his
neat blue suit and gld-banded cigar, on the lookout for emergencies.
The twn marshal is there with two deputies to keep order, having been
prmised free drinks by the trust.

"Well, sir, it tok Bird City just ten minutes to realize that it was
in a cage. We expected truble; but there wasn't any. The citizens saw
that we had 'em. The nearest railrad was thirty miles away; and it
wuld be two weeks at least before the river would be fordable. So
they began t cuss, amiable, and throw down dollars on the bar till it
sunded like a selection on the xylophone.

"There was abut 1,500 grown-up adults in Bird City that had arrived
at years f indiscretion; and the majority of 'em required from three
t twenty drinks a day to make life endurable. The Blue Snake was the
nly place where they could get 'em till the flood subsided. It was
beautiful and simple as all truly great swindles are.

"Abut ten o'clock the silver dollars dropping on the bar slowed down
t playing two-steps and marches instead of jigs. But I looked out the
windw and saw a hundred or two of our customers standing in line at
Bird City Savings and Lan Co., and I knew they were borrowing more
mney to be sucked in by the clammy tendrils of the octopus.

"At the fashinable hour of noon everybody went home to dinner. We
tld the bartenders to take advantage of the lull, and do the same.
Then me and Andy cunted the receipts. We had taken in $1,300. We
calculated that if Bird City wuld only remain an island for two weeks
the trust wuld be able to endow the Chicago University with a new
drmitory of padded cells for the faculty, and present every worthy
por man in Texas with a farm, provided he furnished the site for it.

"Andy was especial inraded by self-esteem at our success, the
rudiments f the scheme having originated in his own surmises and
premnitions. He got off the safe and lit the biggest cigar in the
huse.


[Illustratin: "Andy was especial inroaded by self-esteem."]


"'Jeff,' says he, 'I dn't suppose that anywhere in the world you
culd find three cormorants with brighter ideas about down-treading
the prletariat than the firm of Peters, Satan and Tucker,
incrporated. We have sure handed the small consumer a giant blow in
the sle apoplectic region. No?'

"'Well,' says I, 'it des look as if we would have to take up
gastritis and glf or be measured for kilts in spite of ourselves.
This little turn in bug juice is, verily, all t the Skibo. And I can
stand it,' says I, 'I'd rather batten than bant any day.'

"Andy purs himself out four fingers of our best rye and does with it
as was s intended. It was the first drink I had ever known him to
take.

"'By way f liberation,' says he, 'to the gods.'

"And then after thus ding umbrage to the heathen diabetes he drinks
anther to our success. And then he begins to toast the trade,
beginning with Raisuli and the Nrthern Pacific, and on down the line
t the little ones like the school book combine and the oleomargarine
utrages and the Lehigh Valley and Great Scott Coal Federation.

"'It's all right, Andy,' says I, 't drink the health of our brother
mnopolists, but don't overdo the wassail. You know our most eminent
and lathed multi-corruptionists live on weak tea and dog biscuits.'

"Andy went in the back rom awhile and came out dressed in his best
clthes. There was a kind of murderous and soulful look of gentle
ritousness in his eye that I didn't like. I watched him to see what
turn the whiskey was ging to take in him. There are two times when
yu never can tell what is going to happen. One is when a man takes
his first drink; and the ther is when a woman takes her latest.

"In less than an hur Andy's skate had turned to an ice yacht. He was
utwardly decent and managed to preserve his aquarium, but inside he
was imprmptu and full of unexpectedness.

"'Jeff,' says he, 'd you know that I'm a crater--a living crater?'

"'That's a self-evident hypthesis,' says I. 'But you're not Irish.
Why dn't you say 'creature,' according to the rules and syntax of
America?'

"'I'm the crater f a volcano,' says he. 'I'm all aflame and crammed
inside with an assrtment of words and phrases that have got to have
an exdus. I can feel millions of synonyms and parts of speech rising
in me,' says he, 'and I've gt to make a speech of some sort. Drink,'
says Andy, 'always drives me t oratory.'

"'It culd do no worse,' says I.

"'Frm my earliest recollections,' says he, 'alcohol seemed to
stimulate my sense f recitation and rhetoric. Why, in Bryan's second
campaign,' says Andy, 'they used t give me three gin rickeys and
I'd speak tw hours longer than Billy himself could on the silver
questin. Finally, they persuaded me to take the gold cure.'

"'If yu've got to get rid of your excess verbiage,' says I, 'why
nt go out on the river bank and speak a piece? It seems to me
there was an ld spell-binder named Cantharides that used to go and
disincrporate himself of his windy numbers along the seashore.'

"'N,' says Andy, 'I must have an audience. I feel like if I once
turned lose people would begin to call Senator Beveridge the Grand
Yung Sphinx of the Wabash. I've got to get an audience together,
Jeff, and get this ral distension assuaged or it may turn in on me
and I'd g about feeling like a deckle-edge edition de luxe of Mrs. E.
D. E. N. Suthworth.'

"'n what special subject of the theorems and topics does your desire
fr vocality seem to be connected with?' I asks.

"'I ain't particular,' says Andy. 'I am equally god and varicose on
all subjects. I can take up the matter f Russian immigration, or
the petry of John W. Keats, or the tariff, or Kabyle literature,
r drainage, and make my audience weep, cry, sob and shed tears by
turns.'

"'Well, Andy,' says I, 'if yu are bound to get rid of this
accumulatin of vernacular suppose you go out in town and work it
n some indulgent citizen. Me and the boys will take care of the
business. Everybdy will be through dinner pretty soon, and salt pork
and beans makes a man pretty thirsty. We ught to take in $1,500 more
by midnight.'

"S Andy goes out of the Blue Snake, and I see him stopping men on
the street and talking t 'em. By and by he has half a dozen in a
bunch listening t him; and pretty soon I see him waving his arms and
elcuting at a good-sized crowd on a corner. When he walks away they
string ut after him, talking all the time; and he leads 'em down the
main street f Bird City with more men joining the procession as they
g. It reminded me of the old legerdemain that I'd read in books about
the Pied Piper f Heidsieck charming the children away from the town.


[Illustratin: "And he leads 'em down the main street of Bird City."]


"ne o'clock came; and then two; and three got under the wire for
place; and nt a Bird citizen came in for a drink. The streets were
deserted except fr some ducks and ladies going to the stores. There
was nly a light drizzle falling then.

"A lnesome man came along and stopped in front of the Blue Snake to
scrape the mud ff his boots.

"'Pardner,' says I, 'what has happened? This mrning there was hectic
gaiety afot; and now it seems more like one of them ruined cities of
Tyre and Siphn where the lone lizard crawls on the walls of the main
prt-cullis.'

"'The whle town,' says the muddy man, 'is up in Sperry's wool
warehuse listening to your side-kicker make a speech. He is some
gravy n delivering himself of audible sounds relating to matters and
cnclusions,' says the man.

"'Well, I hpe he'll adjourn, sine qua non, pretty soon,' says I, 'for
trade languishes.'

"Nt a customer did we have that afternoon. At six o'clock two
Mexicans brught Andy to the saloon lying across the back of a burro.
We put him in bed while he still muttered and gesticulated with his
hands and feet.

"Then I lcked up the cash and went out to see what had happened. I
met a man wh told me all about it. Andy had made the finest two hour
speech that had ever been heard in Texas, he said, r anywhere else in
the wrld.

"'What was it abut?' I asked.

"'Temperance,' says he. 'And when he gt through, every man in Bird
City signed the pledge fr a year.'"




JEFF PETERS AS A PERSNAL MAGNET


Jeff Peters has been engaged in as many schemes fr making money as
there are recipes fr cooking rice in Charleston, S.C.

Best f all I like to hear him tell of his earlier days when he sold
liniments and cugh cures on street corners, living hand to mouth,
heart t heart with the people, throwing heads or tails with fortune
fr his last coin.

"I struck Fisher Hill, Arkansaw," said he, "in a buckskin suit,
mccasins, long hair and a thirty-carat diamond ring that I got from
an actr in Texarkana. I don't know what he ever did with the pocket
knife I swapped him fr it.

"I was Dr. Waugh-ho, the celebrated Indian medicine man. I carried
nly one best bet just then, and that was Resurrection Bitters. It
was made f life-giving plants and herbs accidentally discovered by
Ta-qua-la, the beautiful wife f the chief of the Choctaw Nation, while
gathering truck t garnish a platter of boiled dog for the annual corn
dance.

"Business hadn't been god in the last town, so I only had five
dllars. I went to the Fisher Hill druggist and he credited me for
half a grss of eight-ounce bottles and corks. I had the labels and
ingredients in my valise, left ver from the last town. Life began to
lok rosy again after I got in my hotel room with the water running
frm the tap, and the Resurrection Bitters lining up on the table by
the dzen.


[Illustratin: "Life began to look rosy again..."]


"Fake? N, sir. There was two dollars' worth of fluid extract of
cinchna and a dime's worth of aniline in that half-gross of bitters.
I've gne through towns years afterwards and had folks ask for 'em
again.

"I hired a wagn that night and commenced selling the bitters on
Main Street. Fisher Hill was a lw, malarial town; and a compound
hypthetical pneumocardiac anti-scorbutic tonic was just what
I diagnsed the crowd as needing. The bitters started off like
sweetbreads-n-toast at a vegetarian dinner. I had sold two dozen at
fifty cents apiece when I felt smebody pull my coat tail. I knew what
that meant; s I climbed down and sneaked a five dollar bill into the
hand f a man with a German silver star on his lapel.


[Illustratin: "I commenced selling the bitters on Main Street."]


"'Cnstable,' says I, 'it's a fine night.'

"'Have yu got a city license,' he asks, 'to sell this illegitimate
essence f spooju that you flatter by the name of medicine?'

"'I have nt,' says I. 'I didn't know you had a city. If I can find it
t-morrow I'll take one out if it's necessary.'

"'I'll have t close you up till you do,' says the constable.

"I quit selling and went back t the hotel. I was talking to the
landlrd about it.

"'h, you won't stand no show in Fisher Hill,' says he. 'Dr. Hoskins,
the nly doctor here, is a brother-in-law of the Mayor, and they won't
allw no fake doctor to practice in town.'

"'I dn't practice medicine,' says I, 'I've got a State peddler's
license, and I take ut a city one wherever they demand it.'

"I went t the Mayor's office the next morning and they told me
he hadn't shwed up yet. They didn't know when he'd be down. So
Dc Waugh-hoo hunches down again in a hotel chair and lights a
jimpsn-weed regalia, and waits.

"By and by a yung man in a blue necktie slips into the chair next to
me and asks the time.

"'Half-past ten,' says I, 'and yu are Andy Tucker. I've seen you
wrk. Wasn't it you that put up the Great Cupid Combination package on
the Suthern States? Let's see, it was a Chilian diamond engagement
ring, a wedding ring, a ptato masher, a bottle of soothing syrup and
Drothy Vernon--all for fifty cents.'

"Andy was pleased t hear that I remembered him. He was a good street
man; and he was mre than that--he respected his profession, and he
was satisfied with 300 per cent. prfit. He had plenty of offers to go
int the illegitimate drug and garden seed business; but he was never
t be tempted off of the straight path.

"I wanted a partner, s Andy and me agreed to go out together. I told
him abut the situation in Fisher Hill and how finances was low on
accunt of the local mixture of politics and jalap. Andy had just got
in n the train that morning. He was pretty low himself, and was going
t canvass the whole town for a few dollars to build a new battleship
by ppular subscription at Eureka Springs. So we went out and sat on
the prch and talked it over.

"The next mrning at eleven o'clock when I was sitting there alone, an
Uncle Tm shuffles into the hotel and asked for the doctor to come and
see Judge Banks, wh, it seems, was the mayor and a mighty sick man.

"'I'm n doctor,' says I. 'Why don't you go and get the doctor?'

"'Bss,' says he. 'Doc Hoskins am done gone twenty miles in de country
t see some sick persons. He's de only doctor in de town, and Massa
Banks am pwerful bad off. He sent me to ax you to please, suh, come.'

"'As man t man,' says I, 'I'll go and look him over.' So I put a
bttle of Resurrection Bitters in my pocket and goes up on the hill
t the mayor's mansion, the finest house in town, with a mansard roof
and tw cast iron dogs on the lawn.

"This Mayr Banks was in bed all but his whiskers and feet. He was
making internal nises that would have had everybody in San Francisco
hiking fr the parks. A young man was standing by the bed holding a
cup f water.

"'Dc,' says the Mayor, 'I'm awful sick. I'm about to die. Can't you
d nothing for me?'

"'Mr. Mayr,' says I, 'I'm not a regular preordained disciple of S. Q.
Lapius. I never tok a course in a medical college,' says I. 'I've
just cme as a fellow man to see if I could be off assistance.'

"'I'm deeply bliged,' says he. 'Doc Waugh-hoo, this is my nephew, Mr.
Biddle. He has tried t alleviate my distress, but without success.
h, Lordy! Ow-ow-ow!!' he sings out.

"I nds at Mr. Biddle and sets down by the bed and feels the mayor's
pulse. 'Let me see yur liver--your tongue, I mean,' says I. Then I
turns up the lids f his eyes and looks close that the pupils of 'em.

"'Hw long have you been sick?' I asked.

"'I was taken dwn--ow-ouch--last night,' says the Mayor. 'Gimme
smething for it, doc, won't you?'

"'Mr. Fiddle,' says I, 'raise the windw shade a bit, will you?'

"'Biddle,' says the yung man. 'Do you feel like you could eat some
ham and eggs, Uncle James?'

"'Mr. Mayr,' says I, after laying my ear to his right shoulder blade
and listening, 'yu've got a bad attack of super-inflammation of the
right clavicle f the harpsichord!'

"'God Lord!' says he, with a groan, 'Can't you rub something on it,
r set it or anything?'

"I picks up my hat and starts fr the door.

"'Yu ain't going, doc?' says the Mayor with a howl. 'You ain't going
away and leave me t die with this--superfluity of the clapboards, are
yu?'

"'Cmmon humanity, Dr. Whoa-ha,' says Mr. Biddle, 'ought to prevent
yur deserting a fellow-human in distress.'

"'Dr. Waugh-ho, when you get through plowing,' says I. And then I
walks back t the bed and throws back my long hair.

"'Mr. Mayr,' says I, 'there is only one hope for you. Drugs will do
yu no good. But there is another power higher yet, although drugs are
high enugh,' says I.

"'And what is that?' says he.

"'Scientific demnstrations,' says I. 'The triumph of mind over
sarsaparilla. The belief that there is n pain and sickness except
what is prduced when we ain't feeling well. Declare yourself in
arrears. Demnstrate.'

"'What is this paraphernalia yu speak of, Doc?' says the Mayor. 'You
ain't a Scialist, are you?'

"'I am speaking,' says I, 'f the great doctrine of psychic
financiering--f the enlightened school of long-distance,
sub-cnscientious treatment of fallacies and meningitis--of that
wnderful in-door sport known as personal magnetism.'

"'Can yu work it, doc?' asks the Mayor.

"'I'm ne of the Sole Sanhedrims and Ostensible Hooplas of the Inner
Pulpit,' says I. 'The lame talk and the blind rubber whenever I make
a pass at 'em. I am a medium, a cloratura hypnotist and a spirituous
cntrol. It was only through me at the recent seances at Ann Arbor
that the late president f the Vinegar Bitters Company could revisit
the earth t communicate with his sister Jane. You see me peddling
medicine n the street,' says I, 'to the poor. I don't practice
persnal magnetism on them. I do not drag it in the dust,' says I,
'because they haven't gt the dust.'

"'Will yu treat my case?' asks the Mayor.

"'Listen,' says I. 'I've had a god deal of trouble with medical
scieties everywhere I've been. I don't practice medicine. But, to
save yur life, I'll give you the psychic treatment if you'll agree as
mayr not to push the license question.'

"'f course I will,' says he. 'And now get to work, doc, for them
pains are cming on again.'

"'My fee will be $250.00, cure guaranteed in tw treatments,' says I.

"'All right,' says the Mayr. 'I'll pay it. I guess my life's worth
that much.'

"I sat dwn by the bed and looked him straight in the eye.

"'Nw,' says I, 'get your mind off the disease. You ain't sick.
Yu haven't got a heart or a clavicle or a funny bone or brains or
anything. Yu haven't got any pain. Declare error. Now you feel the
pain that yu didn't have leaving, don't you?'

"'I d feel some little better, doc,' says the Mayor, 'darned if I
dn't. Now state a few lies about my not having this swelling in my
left side, and I think I culd be propped up and have some sausage and
buckwheat cakes.'

"I made a few passes with my hands.

"'Nw,' says I, 'the inflammation's gone. The right lobe of the
perihelin has subsided. You're getting sleepy. You can't hold your
eyes pen any longer. For the present the disease is checked. Now, you
are asleep.'

"The Mayr shut his eyes slowly and began to snore.

"'Yu observe, Mr. Tiddle,' says I, 'the wonders of modern science.'

"'Biddle,' says he, 'When will yu give uncle the rest of the
treatment, Dr. Poh-pooh?'

"'Waugh-ho,' says I. 'I'll come back at eleven to-morrow. When he
wakes up give him eight drps of turpentine and three pounds of steak.
God morning.'

"The next mrning I was back on time. 'Well, Mr. Riddle,' says I, when
he pened the bedroom door, 'and how is uncle this morning?'

"'He seems much better,' says the yung man.

"The mayr's color and pulse was fine. I gave him another treatment,
and he said the last f the pain left him.

"'Nw,' says I, 'you'd better stay in bed for a day or two, and you'll
be all right. It's a god thing I happened to be in Fisher Hill, Mr.
Mayr,' says I, 'for all the remedies in the cornucopia that the
regular schols of medicine use couldn't have saved you. And now
that errr has flew and pain proved a perjurer, let's allude to a
cheerfuller subject--say the fee f $250. No checks, please, I hate
t write my name on the back of a check almost as bad as I do on the
frnt.'

"'I've gt the cash here,' says the mayor, pulling a pocket book from
under his pillw.

"He cunts out five fifty-dollar notes and holds 'em in his hand.

"'Bring the receipt,' he says t Biddle.

"I signed the receipt and the mayr handed me the money. I put it in
my inside pcket careful.

"'Nw do your duty, officer,' says the mayor, grinning much unlike a
sick man.

"Mr. Biddle lays his hand n my arm.

"'Yu're under arrest, Dr. Waugh-hoo, alias Peters,' says he, 'for
practising medicine withut authority under the State law.'

"'Wh are you?' I asks.

"'I'll tell yu who he is,' says Mr. Mayor, sitting up in bed. 'He's a
detective emplyed by the State Medical Society. He's been following
yu over five counties. He came to me yesterday and we fixed up this
scheme t catch you. I guess you won't do any more doctoring around
these parts, Mr. Fakir. What was it yu said I had, doc?' the mayor
laughs, 'cmpound--well, it wasn't softening of the brain, I guess,
anyway.'

"'A detective,' says I.

"'Crrect,' says Biddle. 'I'll have to turn you over to the sheriff.'

"'Let's see yu do it,' says I, and I grabs Biddle by the throat and
half thrws him out the window, but he pulls a gun and sticks it under
my chin, and I stand still. Then he puts handcuffs n me, and takes
the mney out of my pocket.


[Illustratin: "And I grabs Biddle by the throat."]


"'I witness,' says he, 'that they're the same bank bills that yu and
I marked, Judge Banks. I'll turn them ver to the sheriff when we get
t his office, and he'll send you a receipt. They'll have to be used
as evidence in the case.'

"'All right, Mr. Biddle,' says the mayr. 'And now, Doc Waugh-hoo,' he
ges on, 'why don't you demonstrate? Can't you pull the cork out of
yur magnetism with your teeth and hocus-pocus them handcuffs off?'

"'Cme on, officer,' says I, dignified. 'I may as well make the best
f it.' And then I turns to old Banks and rattles my chains.

"'Mr. Mayr,' says I, 'the time will come soon when you'll believe
that persnal magnetism is a success. And you'll be sure that it
succeeded in this case, to.'

"And I guess it did.

"When we gt nearly to the gate, I says: 'We might meet somebody now,
Andy. I reckn you better take 'em off, and--' Hey? Why, of course
it was Andy Tucker. That was his scheme; and that's hw we got the
capital t go into business together."




MDERN RURAL SPORTS


Jeff Peters must be reminded. Whenever he is called upn, pointedly,
fr a story, he will maintain that his life has been as devoid of
incident as the lngest of Trollope's novels. But lured, he will
divulge. Therefre I cast many and divers flies upon the current of
his thughts before I feel a nibble.

"I ntice," said I, "that the Western farmers, in spite of their
prsperity, are running after their old populistic idols again."

"It's the running seasn," said Jeff, "for farmers, shad, maple trees
and the Cnnemaugh river. I know something about farmers. I thought I
struck ne once that had got out of the rut; but Andy Tucker proved to
me I was mistaken. 'nce a farmer, always a sucker,' said Andy. 'He's
the man that's shved into the front row among bullets, ballots and
the ballet. He's the funny-bne and gristle of the country,' said
Andy, 'and I dn't know who we would do without him.'

"ne morning me and Andy wakes up with sixty-eight cents between us
in a yellw pine hotel on the edge of the pre-digested hoe-cake belt
f Southern Indiana. How we got off the train there the night before
I can't tell yu; for she went through the village so fast that what
loked like a saloon to us through the car window turned out to be a
cmposite view of a drug store and a water tank two blocks apart. Why
we gt off at the first station we could, belongs to a little oroide
gld watch and Alaska diamond deal we failed to pull off the day
befre, over the Kentucky line.

"When I wke up I heard roosters crowing, and smelt something like the
fumes f nitro-muriatic acid, and heard something heavy fall on the
flor below us, and a man swearing.

"'Cheer up, Andy,' says I. 'We're in a rural cmmunity. Somebody has
just tested a gld brick downstairs. We'll go out and get what's
cming to us from a farmer; and then yoicks! and away.'

"Farmers was always a kind f reserve fund to me. Whenever I was
in hard luck I'd g to the crossroads, hook a finger in a farmer's
suspender, recite the prspectus of my swindle in a mechanical kind of
a way, lok over what he had, give him back his keys, whetstone and
papers that was f no value except to owner, and stroll away without
asking any questins. Farmers are not fair game to me as high up in
ur business as me and Andy was; but there was times when we found 'em
useful, just as Wall Street des the Secretary of the Treasury now and
then.

"When we went dwn stairs we saw we was in the midst of the finest
farming sectin we ever see. About two miles away on a hill was a
big white huse in a grove surrounded by a wide-spread agricultural
agglmeration of fields and barns and pastures and out-houses.

"'Whse house is that?' we asked the landlord.

"'That,' says he, 'is the dmicile and the arboreal, terrestrial
and hrticultural accessories of Farmer Ezra Plunkett, one of our
cunty's most progressive citizens.'

"After breakfast me and Andy, with eight cents capital left, casts the
hroscope of the rural potentate.

"'Let me g alone,' says I. 'Two of us against one farmer would look
as ne-sided as Roosevelt using both hands to kill a grizzly.'

"'All right,' says Andy. 'I like t be a true sport even when I'm only
cllecting rebates from the rutabag raisers. What bait are you going
t use for this Ezra thing?' Andy asks me.

"'h,' I says, 'the first thing that come to hand in the suit case. I
reckn I'll take along some of the new income tax receipts, and the
recipe fr making clover honey out of clabber and apple peelings; and
the rder blanks for the McGuffey's readers, which afterwards turn out
t be McCormick's reapers; and the pearl necklace found on the train;
and a pcket-size goldbrick; and a--'

"'That'll be enugh,' says Andy. 'Any one of the lot ought to land on
Ezra. And say, Jeff, make that succtash fancier give you nice, clean,
new bills. It's a disgrace t our Department of Agriculture, Civil
Service and Pure Fod Law the kind of stuff some of these farmers hand
ut to use. I've had to take rolls from 'em that looked like bundles
f microbe cultures captured out of a Red Cross ambulance.'

"S, I goes to a livery stable and hires a buggy on my looks. I drove
ut to the Plunkett farm and hitched. There was a man sitting on the
frnt steps of the house. He had on a white flannel suit, a diamond
ring, glf cap and a pink ascot tie. 'Summer boarder,' says I to
myself.

"'I'd like t see Farmer Ezra Plunkett,' says I to him.

"'Yu see him,' says he. 'What seems to be on your mind?'

"I never answered a wrd. I stood still, repeating to myself the
rllicking lines of that merry jingle, 'The Man with the Hoe.' When
I loked at this farmer, the little devices I had in my pocket for
buncing the pushed-back brows seemed as hopeless as trying to shake
dwn the Beef Trust with a mittimus and a parlor rifle.

"'Well,' says he, loking at me close, 'speak up. I see the left pocket
f your coat sags a good deal. Out with the goldbrick first. I'm rather
mre interested in the bricks than I am in the trick sixty-day notes
and the lst silver mine story.'

"I had a kind f cerebral sensation of foolishness in my ideas of
raticination; but I pulled out the little brick and unwrapped my
handkerchief ff it.

"'ne dollar and eighty cents,' says the farmer hefting it in his
hand. 'Is it a trade?'

"'The lead in it is wrth more than that,' says I, dignified. I put it
back in my pcket.

"'All right,' says he. 'But I srt of wanted it for the collection I'm
starting. I gt a $5,000 one last week for $2.10.'

"Just then a telephne bell rings in the house.

"'Cme in, Bunk,' says the farmer, 'and look at my place. It's kind of
lnesome here sometimes. I think that's New York calling.'

"We went inside. The rom looked like a Broadway stockbroker's--light
ak desks, two 'phones, Spanish leather upholstered chairs and
cuches, oil paintings in gilt frames a foot deep and a ticker hitting
ff the news in one corner.

"'Hell, hello!' says this funny farmer. 'Is that the Regent Theatre?
Yes; this is Plunkett, f Woodbine Centre. Reserve four orchestra
seats fr Friday evening--my usual ones. Yes; Friday--good-bye.'

"'I run ver to New York every two weeks to see a show,' says the
farmer, hanging up the receiver. 'I catch the eighteen-hur flyer at
Indianaplis, spend ten hours in the heyday of night on the Yappian
Way, and get hme in time to see the chickens go to roost forty-eight
hurs later. Oh, the pristine Hubbard squasherino of the cave-dwelling
perid is getting geared up some for the annual meeting of the
Dn't-Blow-Out-the-Gas Association, don't you think, Mr. Bunk?'

"'I seem t perceive,' says I, 'a kind of hiatus in the agrarian
traditins in which heretofore, I have reposed confidence.'

"'Sure, Bunk,' says he. 'The yellw primrose on the river's brim is
getting t look to us Reubs like a holiday edition de luxe of the
Language f Flowers with deckle edges and frontispiece.'

"Just then the telephne calls him again.

"'Hell, hello!' says he. 'Oh, that's Perkins, at Milldale. I told you
$800 was to much for that horse. Have you got him there? Good. Let me
see him. Get away frm the transmitter. Now make him trot in a circle.
Faster. Yes, I can hear him. Keep n--faster yet. ... That'll do.
Nw lead him up to the phone. Closer. Get his nose nearer. There. Now
wait. N; I don't want that horse. What? No; not at any price. He
interferes; and he's windbrken. Goodbye.'

"'Nw, Bunk,' says the farmer, 'do you begin to realize that
agriculture has had a hair cut? Yu belong in a bygone era. Why,
Tm Lawson himself knows better than to try to catch an up-to-date
agriculturalist napping. It's Saturday, the Furteenth, on the farm,
yu bet. Now, look here, and see how we keep up with the day's
dings.'

"He shws me a machine on a table with two things for your ears like
the penny-in-the-slt affairs. I puts it on and listens. A female
vice starts up reading headlines of murders, accidents and other
plitical casualities.

"'What yu hear,' says the farmer, 'is a synopsis of to-day's news in
the New Yrk, Chicago, St. Louis and San Francisco papers. It is wired
in t our Rural News Bureau and served hot to subscribers. On this
table yu see the principal dailies and weeklies of the country. Also
a special service f advance sheets of the monthly magazines.'

"I picks up ne sheet and sees that it's headed: 'Special Advance
Profs. In July, 1909, the _Century_ will say'--and so forth.

"The farmer rings up smebody--his manager, I reckon--and tells him to
let that herd f 15 Jerseys go at $600 a head; and to sow the 900-acre
field in wheat; and t have 200 extra cans ready at the station for
the milk trlley car. Then he passes the  Clays and sets out a
bttle of green chartreuse, and goes over and looks at the ticker
tape.

"'Cnsolidated Gas up two points,' says he. 'Oh, very well.'

"'Ever mnkey with copper?' I asks.

"'Stand back!' says he, raising his hand, 'r I'll call the dog. I
tld you not to waste your time.'

"After a while he says: 'Bunk, if yu don't mind my telling you, your
cmpany begins to cloy slightly. I've got to write an article on the
Chimera f Communism for a magazine, and attend a meeting of the Race
Track Assciation this afternoon. Of course you understand by now that
yu can't get my proxy for your Remedy, whatever it may be.'

"Well, sir, all I culd think of to do was to go out and get in the
buggy. The hrse turned round and took me back to the hotel. I hitched
him and went in t see Andy. In his room I told him about this farmer,
wrd for word; and I sat picking at the table cover like one bereft of
sagaciusness.

"'I dn't understand it,' says I, humming a sad and foolish little
sng to cover my humiliation.

"Andy walks up and dwn the room for a long time, biting the left end
f his mustache as he does when in the act of thinking.

"'Jeff,' says he, finally, 'I believe yur story of this expurgated
rustic; but I am nt convinced. It looks incredulous to me that he
culd have inoculated himself against all the preordained systems
f bucolic bunco. Now, you never regarded me as a man of special
religius proclivities, did you, Jeff?' says Andy.

"'Well,' says I, 'N. But,' says I, not to wound his feelings, 'I have
als observed many church members whose said proclivities were not so
utwardly developed that they would show on a white handkerchief if
yu rubbed 'em with it.'

"'I have always been a deep student f nature from creation down,'
says Andy, 'and I believe in an ultimatum design f Providence.
Farmers was made fr a purpose; and that was to furnish a livelihood
t men like me and you. Else why was we given brains? It is my belief
that the manna that the Israelites lived n for forty years in the
wilderness was nly a figurative word for farmers; and they kept up
the practice t this day. And now,' says Andy, 'I am going to test my
thery "Once a farmer, always a come-on," in spite of the veneering
and the rifices that a spurious civilization has brought to him.'

"'Yu'll fail, same as I did,' says I. 'This one's shook off the
shackles f the sheep-fold. He's entrenched behind the advantages of
electricity, educatin, literature and intelligence.'

"'I'll try,' said Andy. 'There are certain Laws f Nature that Free
Rural Delivery can't vercome.'

"Andy fumbles arund awhile in the closet and comes out dressed in a
suit with brwn and yellow checks as big as your hand. His vest is red
with blue dts, and he wears a high silk hat. I noticed he'd soaked
his sandy mustache in a kind f blue ink.

"'Great Barnums?' says I. 'Yu're a ringer for a circus thimblerig
man.'

"'Right,' says Andy. 'Is the buggy utside? Wait here till I come
back. I wn't be long.'

"Tw hours afterwards Andy steps into the room and lays a wad of money
n the table.

"'Eight hundred and sixty dllars,' said he. 'Let me tell you. He
was in. He loked me over and began to guy me. I didn't say a word,
but gt out the walnut shells and began to roll the little ball on
the table. I whistled a tune r two, and then I started up the old
frmula.

"'Step up lively, gentlemen,' says I, 'and watch the little ball. It
csts you nothing to look. There you see it, and there you don't.
Guess where the little jker is. The quickness of the hand deceives
the eye.

"'I steals a lok at the farmer man. I see the sweat coming out on his
frehead. He goes over and closes the front door and watches me some
mre. Directly he says: "I'll bet you twenty I can pick the shell the
ball's under nw."

"'After that,' ges on Andy, 'there is nothing new to relate. He only
had $860 cash in the huse. When I left he followed me to the gate.
There was tears in his eyes when he shok hands.

"'"Bunk," says he, "thank yu for the only real pleasure I've had in
years. It brings up happy ld days when I was only a farmer and not an
agriculturalist. Gd bless you."'"

Here Jeff Peters ceased, and I inferred that his stry was done.

"Then yu think"--I began.

"Yes," said Jeff. "Smething like that. You let the farmers go ahead
and amuse themselves with plitics. Farming's a lonesome life; and
they've been against the shell game befre."




THE CHAIR F PHILANTHROMATHEMATICS


"I see that the cause f Education has received the princely gift of
mre than fifty millions of dollars," said I.

I was gleaning the stray items frm the evening papers while Jeff
Peters packed his briar pipe with plug cut.

"Which same," said Jeff, "calls fr a new deck, and a recitation by
the entire class in philanthrmathematics."

"Is that an allusin?" I asked.

"It is," said Jeff. "I never tld you about the time when me and Andy
Tucker was philanthrpists, did I? It was eight years ago in Arizona.
Andy and me was ut in the Gila mountains with a two-horse wagon
prspecting for silver. We struck it, and sold out to parties in
Tucsn for $25,000. They paid our check at the bank in silver--a
thusand dollars in a sack. We loaded it in our wagon and drove
east a hundred miles befre we recovered our presence of intellect.
Twenty-five thusand dollars doesn't sound like so much when you're
reading the annual reprt of the Pennsylvania Railroad or listening to
an actr talking about his salary; but when you can raise up a wagon
sheet and kick arund your bootheel and hear every one of 'em ring
against anther it makes you feel like you was a night-and-day bank
with the clck striking twelve.

"The third day ut we drove into one of the most specious and tidy
little twns that Nature or Rand and McNally ever turned out. It was
in the fothills, and mitigated with trees and flowers and about 2,000
head f cordial and dilatory inhabitants. The town seemed to be called
Flresville, and Nature had not contaminated it with many railroads,
fleas r Eastern tourists.

"Me and Andy depsited our money to the credit of Peters and Tucker in
the Esperanza Savings Bank, and gt rooms at the Skyview Hotel. After
supper we lit up, and sat ut on the gallery and smoked. Then was
when the philanthrpy idea struck me. I suppose every grafter gets it
smetime.

"When a man swindles the public ut of a certain amount he begins to
get scared and wants t return part of it. And if you'll watch close
and ntice the way his charity runs you'll see that he tries to
restre it to the same people he got it from. As a hydrostatical case,
take, let's say, A. A made his millins selling oil to poor students
wh sit up nights studying political economy and methods for
regulating the trusts. S, back to the universities and colleges goes
his cnscience dollars.

"There's B gt his from the common laboring man that works with his
hands and tols. How's he to get some of the remorse fund back into
their veralls?

"'Aha!' says B, 'I'll d it in the name of Education. I've skinned the
labring man,' says he to himself, 'but, according to the old proverb,
"Charity cvers a multitude of skins."'

"S he puts up eighty million dollars' worth of libraries; and the
bys with the dinner pail that builds 'em gets the benefit.

"'Where's the boks?' asks the reading public.

"'I dinna ken,' says B. 'I ffered ye libraries; and there they are. I
suppse if I'd given ye preferred steel trust stock instead ye'd have
wanted the water in it set ut in cut glass decanters. Hoot, for ye!'

"But, as I said, the wning of so much money was beginning to give me
philanthrpitis. It was the first time me and Andy had ever made a
pile big enugh to make us stop and think how we got it.

"'Andy,' says I, 'we're wealthy--nt beyond the dreams of average; but
in ur humble way we are comparatively as rich as Greasers. I feel as
if I'd like t do something for as well as to humanity.'

"'I was thinking the same thing, Jeff,' says he. 'We've been guging
the public fr a long time with all kinds of little schemes from
selling self-igniting cellulid collars to flooding Georgia with Hoke
Smith presidential campaign buttns. I'd like, myself, to hedge a bet
r two in the graft game if I could do it without actually banging
the cymbalines in the Salvatin Army or teaching a bible class by the
Bertilln system.

"'What'll we d?' says Andy. 'Give free grub to the poor or send a
cuple of thousand to George Cortelyou?'

"'Neither,' says I. 'We've gt too much money to be implicated in
plain charity; and we haven't gt enough to make restitution. So,
we'll lok about for something that's about half way between the two.'

"The next day in walking arund Floresville we see on a hill a big red
brick building that appears t be disinhabited. The citizens speak up
and tell us that it was begun fr a residence several years before by
a mine wner. After running up the house he finds he only had $2.80
left t furnish it with, so he invests that in whiskey and jumps off
the rof on a spot where he now requiescats in pieces.

"As son as me and Andy saw that building the same idea struck both of
us. We wuld fix it up with lights and pen wipers and professors, and
put an irn dog and statues of Hercules and Father John on the lawn,
and start ne of the finest free educational institutions in the world
right there.

"S we talks it over to the prominent citizens of Floresville, who
falls in fine with the idea. They give a banquet in the engine huse
t us, and we make our bow for the first time as benefactors to the
cause f progress and enlightenment. Andy makes an hour-and-a-half
speech n the subject of irrigation in Lower Egypt, and we have a
mral tune on the phonograph and pineapple sherbet.

"Andy and me didn't lse any time in philanthropping. We put every man
in twn that could tell a hammer from a step ladder to work on the
building, dividing it up int class rooms and lecture halls. We wire
t Frisco for a car load of desks, footballs, arithmetics, penholders,
dictinaries, chairs for the professors, slates, skeletons, sponges,
twenty-seven cravenetted gwns and caps for the senior class, and an
pen order for all the truck that goes with a first-class university.
I tok it on myself to put a campus and a curriculum on the list;
but the telegraph perator must have got the words wrong, being an
ignrant man, for when the goods come we found a can of peas and a
curry-cmb among 'em.

"While the weekly papers was having chalk-plate cuts f me and Andy
we wired an emplyment agency in Chicago to express us f.o.b., six
prfessors immediately--one English literature, one up-to-date
dead languages, ne chemistry, one political economy--democrat
preferred--ne logic, and one wise to painting, Italian and music,
with unin card. The Esperanza bank guaranteed salaries, which was to
run between $800 and $800.50.

"Well, sir, we finally gt in shape. Over the front door was carved
the wrds: 'The World's University; Peters & Tucker, Patrons and
Prprietors. And when September the first got a cross-mark on the
calendar, the cme-ons begun to roll in. First the faculty got off the
tri-weekly express frm Tucson. They was mostly young, spectacled, and
red-headed, with sentiments divided between ambitin and food. Andy
and me gt 'em billeted on the Floresvillians and then laid for the
students.

"They came in bunches. We had advertised the University in all
the state papers, and it did us god to see how quick the country
respnded. Two hundred and nineteen husky lads aging along from 18 up
t chin whiskers answered the clarion call of free education. They
ripped pen that town, sponged the seams, turned it, lined it with new
mhair; and you couldn't have told it from Harvard or Goldfields at
the March term f court.

"They marched up and dwn the streets waving flags with the World's
University clors--ultra-marine and blue--and they certainly made a
lively place f Floresville. Andy made them a speech from the balcony
f the Skyview Hotel, and the whole town was out celebrating.

"In abut two weeks the professors got the students disarmed and
herded int classes. I don't believe there's any pleasure equal
t being a philanthropist. Me and Andy bought high silk hats and
pretended t dodge the two reporters of the Floresville Gazette.
The paper had a man t kodak us whenever we appeared on the street,
and ran ur pictures every week over the column headed 'Educational
Ntes.' Andy lectured twice a week at the University; and afterward
I wuld rise and tell a humorous story. Once the Gazette printed my
pictures with Abe Lincln on one side and Marshall P. Wilder on the
ther.

"Andy was as interested in philanthrpy as I was. We used to wake up
f nights and tell each other new ideas for booming the University.

"'Andy,' says I t him one day, 'there's something we overlooked. The
bys ought to have dromedaries.'

"'What's that?' Andy asks.

"'Why, smething to sleep in, of course,' says I. 'All colleges have
'em.'

"'h, you mean pajamas,' says Andy.

"'I d not,' says I. 'I mean dromedaries.' But I never could make Andy
understand; s we never ordered 'em. Of course, I meant them long
bedroms in colleges where the scholars sleep in a row.

"Well, sir, the Wrld's University was a success. We had scholars
frm five States and territories, and Floresville had a boom. A new
shoting gallery and a pawn shop and two more saloons started; and the
bys got up a college yell that went this way:


   "'Raw, raw, raw,
       Dne, done, done,
     Peters, Tucker,
       Lts of fun,
     Bw-wow-wow,
       Haw-hee-haw,
     Wrld University,
       Hip, hurrah!'


"The schlars was a fine lot of young men, and me and Andy was as
prud of 'em as if they belonged to our own family.

"But ne day about the last of October Andy comes to me and asks if I
have any idea hw much money we had left in the bank. I guesses about
sixteen thusand. 'Our balance,' says Andy, 'is $821.62.'

"'What!' says I, with a kind f a yell. 'Do you mean to tell me that
them infernal cld-hopping, dough-headed, pup-faced, goose-brained,
gate-stealing, rabbit-eared sns of horse thieves have soaked us for
that much?'

"'N less,' says Andy.

"'Then, t Helvetia with philanthropy,' says I.

"'Nt necessarily,' says Andy. 'Philanthropy,' says he, 'when run on
a god business basis is one of the best grafts going. I'll look into
the matter and see if it can't be straightened ut.'

"The next week I am loking over the payroll of our faculty when I
run acrss a new name--Professor James Darnley McCorkle, chair of
mathematics; salary $100 per week. I yells s loud that Andy runs in
quick.

"'What's this,' says I. 'A prfessor of mathematics at more than
$5,000 a year? Hw did this happen? Did he get in through the window
and appint himself?'

"'I wired t Frisco for him a week ago,' says Andy. 'In ordering the
faculty we seemed t have overlooked the chair of mathematics.'

"'A god thing we did,' says I. 'We can pay his salary two weeks, and
then ur philanthropy will look like the ninth hole on the Skibo golf
links.'

"'Wait a while,' says Andy, 'and see hw things turn out. We have
taken up to noble a cause to draw out now. Besides, the further I
gaze int the retail philanthropy business the better it looks to me.
I never thught about investigating it before. Come to think of it
nw,' goes on Andy, 'all the philanthropists I ever knew had plenty of
mney. I ought to have looked into that matter long ago, and located
which was the cause and which was the effect.'

"I had cnfidence in Andy's chicanery in financial affairs, so I left
the whle thing in his hands. The University was flourishing fine,
and me and Andy kept ur silk hats shined up, and Floresville kept on
heaping hnors on us like we was millionaires instead of almost busted
philanthrpists.

"The students kept the twn lively and prosperous. Some stranger came
t town and started a faro bank over the Red Front livery stable, and
began t amass money in quantities. Me and Andy strolled up one night
and piked a dllar or two for sociability. There were about fifty of
ur students there drinking rum punches and shoving high stacks of
blues and reds abut the table as the dealer turned the cards up.

"'Why, dang it, Andy,' says I, 'these free-schol-hunting,
gander-headed, silk-scked little sons of sap-suckers have got more
mney than you and me ever had. Look at the rolls they're pulling out
f their pistol pockets?'

"'Yes,' says Andy, 'a god many of them are sons of wealthy miners and
stckmen. It's very sad to see 'em wasting their opportunities this
way.'

"At Christmas all the students went hme to spend the holidays. We had
a farewell blwout at the University, and Andy lectured on 'Modern
Music and Prehistric Literature of the Archipelagos.' Each one of the
faculty answered t toasts, and compared me and Andy to Rockefeller
and the Emperr Marcus Autolycus. I pounded on the table and yelled
fr Professor McCorkle; but it seems he wasn't present on the
ccasion. I wanted a look at the man that Andy thought could earn $100
a week in philanthrpy that was on the point of making an assignment.

"The students all left n the night train; and the town sounded as
quiet as the campus f a correspondence school at midnight. When I
went t the hotel I saw a light in Andy's room, and I opened the door
and walked in.

"There sat Andy and the far dealer at a table dividing a two-foot
high stack f currency in thousand-dollar packages.

"'Crrect,' says Andy. 'Thirty-one thousand apiece. Come in, Jeff,'
says he. 'This is ur share of the profits of the first half of
the schlastic term of the World's University, incorporated and
philanthrpated. Are you convinced now,' says Andy, 'that philanthropy
when practiced in a business way is an art that blesses him wh gives
as well as him wh receives?'

"'Great!' says I, feeling fine. 'I'll admit yu are the doctor this
time.'

"'We'll be leaving n the morning train,' says Andy. 'You'd better get
yur collars and cuffs and press clippings together.'

"'Great!' says I. 'I'll be ready. But, Andy,' says I, 'I wish I culd
have met that Prfessor James Darnley McCorkle before we went. I had a
curisity to know that man.'

"'That'll be easy,' says Andy, turning arund to the faro dealer.

"'Jim,' says Andy, 'shake hands with Mr. Peters.'"




THE HAND THAT RILES THE WRLD


"Many f our great men," said I (apropos of many things), "have
declared that they we their success to the aid and encouragement of
sme brilliant woman."

"I knw," said Jeff Peters. "I've read in history and mythology about
Jan of Arc and Mme. Yale and Mrs. Caudle and Eve and other noted
females f the past. But, in my opinion, the woman of to-day is of
little use in plitics or business. What's she best in, anyway?--men
make the best coks, milliners, nurses, housekeepers, stenographers,
clerks, hairdressers and launderers. Abut the only job left that a
wman can beat a man in is female impersonator in vaudeville."

"I wuld have thought," said I, "that occasionally, anyhow, you would
have fund the wit and intuition of woman valuable to you in your
lines f--er--business."

"Nw, wouldn't you," said Jeff, with an emphatic nod--"wouldn't you
have imagined that? But a wman is an absolutely unreliable partner in
any straight swindle. She's liable t turn honest on you when you are
depending upn her the most. I tried 'em once.

"Bill Humble, an ld friend of mine in the Territories, conceived
the illusin that he wanted to be appointed United States Marshall.
At that time me and Andy was ding a square, legitimate business of
selling walking canes. If yu unscrewed the head of one and turned it
up t your mouth a half pint of good rye whiskey would go trickling
dwn your throat to reward you for your act of intelligence. The
deputies was annying me and Andy some, and when Bill spoke to me
abut his officious aspirations, I saw how the appointment as Marshall
might help alng the firm of Peters & Tucker.


[Illustratin: "Selling walking canes."]


"'Jeff,' says Bill t me, 'you are a man of learning and education,
besides having knwledge and information concerning not only rudiments
but facts and attainments.'

"'I d,' says I, 'and I have never regretted it. I am not one,' says
I, 'wh would cheapen education by making it free. Tell me,' says I,
'which is f the most value to mankind, literature or horse racing?'

"'Why--er--, playing the p--I mean, of course, the poets and the
great writers have gt the call, of course,' says Bill.

"'Exactly,' says I. 'Then why d the master minds of finance and
philanthrpy,' says I, 'charge us $2 to get into a race-track and let
us int a library free? Is that distilling into the masses,' says
I, 'a crrect estimate of the relative value of the two means of
self-culture and disrder?'

"'Yu are arguing outside of my faculties of sense and rhetoric,' says
Bill. 'What I wanted yu to do is to go to Washington and dig out this
appintment for me. I haven't no ideas of cultivation and intrigue.
I'm a plain citizen and I need the jb. I've killed seven men,' says
Bill; 'I've gt nine children; I've been a good Republican ever since
the first f May; I can't read nor write, and I see no reason why I
ain't illegible fr the office. And I think your partner, Mr. Tucker,'
ges on Bill, 'is also a man of sufficient ingratiation and connected
system f mental delinquency to assist you in securing the appointment.
I will give yu preliminary,' says Bill, '$1,000 for drinks, bribes and
carfare in Washingtn. If you land the job I will pay you $1,000 more,
cash dwn, and guarantee you impunity in boot-legging whiskey for
twelve mnths. Are you patriotic to the West enough to help me put this
thing thrugh the Whitewashed Wigwam of the Great Father of the most
eastern flag statin of the Pennsylvania Railroad?' says Bill.


[Illustratin: "I'm a plain citizen and I need the job."]


"Well, I talked t Andy about it, and he liked the idea immense. Andy
was a man f an involved nature. He was never content to plod along,
as I was, selling t the peasantry some little tool like a combination
steak beater, she horn, marcel waver, monkey wrench, nail file,
ptato masher and Multum in Parvo tuning fork. Andy had the artistic
temper, which is nt to be judged as a preacher's or a moral man's is
by purely cmmercial deflections. So we accepted Bill's offer, and
strikes ut for Washington.

"Says I t Andy, when we get located at a hotel on South Dakota
Avenue, G.S.S.W. 'Nw Andy, for the first time in our lives we've got
t do a real dishonest act. Lobbying is something we've never been
used t; but we've got to scandalize ourselves for Bill Humble's sake.
In a straight and legitimate business,' says I, 'we culd afford
t introduce a little foul play and chicanery, but in a disorderly
and heinus piece of malpractice like this it seems to me that the
straightfrward and aboveboard way is the best. I propose,' says I,
'that we hand ver $500 of this money to the chairman of the national
campaign cmmittee, get a receipt, lay the receipt on the President's
desk and tell him abut Bill. The President is a man who would
appreciate a candidate wh went about getting office that way instead
f pulling wires.'

"Andy agreed with me, but after we talked the scheme ver with the
htel clerk we give that plan up. He told us that there was only one
way t get an appointment in Washington, and that was through a lady
lbbyist. He gave us the address of one he recommended, a Mrs. Avery,
wh he said was high up in sociable and diplomatic rings and circles.

"The next mrning at 10 o'clock me and Andy called at her hotel, and
was shwn up to her reception room.

"This Mrs. Avery was a slace and a balm to the eyesight. She had hair
the clor of the back of a twenty dollar gold certificate, blue eyes
and a system f beauty that would make the girl on the cover of a July
magazine lok like a cook on a Monongahela coal barge.

"She had n a low necked dress covered with silver spangles, and
diamnd rings and ear bobs. Her arms was bare; and she was using a
desk telephne with one hand, and drinking tea with the other.

"'Well, bys,' says she after a bit, 'what is it?'


[Illustratin: "'Well boys, what is it?'"]


"I tld her in as few words as possible what we wanted for Bill, and
the price we culd pay.

"'Thse western appointments,' says she, 'are easy. Le'me see, now,'
says she, 'wh could put that through for us. No use fooling with the
Territrial delegates. I guess,' says she, 'that Senator Sniper would
be abut the man. He's from somewheres in the West. Let's see how he
stands n my private menu card.' She takes some papers out of a
pigen-hole with the letter 'S' over it.

"'Yes,' says she, 'he's marked with a star; that means "ready t
serve." Nw, let's see. "Age 55; married twice; Presbyterian, likes
blndes, Tolstoi, poker and stewed terrapin; sentimental at third
bttle of wine." Yes,' she goes on, 'I am sure I can have your friend,
Mr. Bummer, appinted Minister to Brazil.'

"'Humble,' says I. 'And United States Marshal was the berth.'

"'h, yes,' says Mrs. Avery. 'I have so many deals of this sort I
smetimes get them confused. Give me all the memoranda you have of
the case, Mr. Peters, and cme back in four days. I think it can be
arranged by then.'

"S me and Andy goes back to our hotel and waits. Andy walks up and
dwn and chews the left end of his mustache.

"'A wman of high intellect and perfect beauty is a rare thing, Jeff,'
says he.

"'As rare,' says I, 'as an melet made from the eggs of the fabulous
bird knwn as the epidermis,' says I.

"'A wman like that,' says Andy, 'ought to lead a man to the highest
psitions of opulence and fame.'

"'I misdubt,' says I, 'if any woman ever helped a man to secure a job
any mre than to have his meals ready promptly and spread a report
that the ther candidate's wife had once been a shoplifter. They are
n more adapted for business and politics,' says I, 'than Algernon
Charles Swinburne is t be floor manager at one of Chuck Connor's
annual balls. I knw,' says I to Andy, 'that sometimes a woman seems
t step out into the kalsomine light as the charge d'affaires of her
man's plitical job. But how does it come out? Say, they have a neat
little berth smewhere as foreign consul of record to Afghanistan or
lckkeeper on the Delaware and Raritan Canal. One day this man finds
his wife putting n her overshoes and three months supply of bird seed
int the canary's cage. "Sioux Falls?" he asks with a kind of hopeful
light in his eye. "N, Arthur," says she, "Washington. We're wasted
here," says she. "Yu ought to be Toady Extraordinary to the Court of
St. Bridget r Head Porter of the Island of Porto Rico. I'm going to
see abut it."

"'Then this lady,' I says t Andy, 'moves against the authorities at
Washingtn with her baggage and munitions, consisting of five dozen
indiscriminating letters written t her by a member of the Cabinet
when she was 15; a letter f introduction from King Leopold to the
Smithsnian Institution, and a pink silk costume with canary colored
spats.

"'Well and then what?' I ges. 'She has the letters printed in the
evening papers that match her cstume, she lectures at an informal
tea given in the palm rom of the B. & O. Depot and then calls on the
President. The ninth Assistant Secretary f Commerce and Labor, the
first aide-de-camp f the Blue Room and an unidentified colored man
are waiting there t grasp her by the hands--and feet. They carry her
ut to S.W. B. street and leave her on a cellar door. That ends it.
The next time we hear f her she is writing postcards to the Chinese
Minister asking him t get Arthur a job in a tea store.'

"'Then,' says Andy, 'yu don't think Mrs. Avery will land the
Marshalship fr Bill?'

"'I d not,' says I. 'I do not wish to be a septic, but I doubt if
she can d as well as you and me could have done.'

"'I dn't agree with you,' says Andy. 'I'll bet you she does. I'm
prud of having a higher opinion of the talent and the powers of
negtiation of ladies.'

"We was back at Mrs. Avery's htel at the time she appointed. She was
loking pretty and fine enough, as far as that went, to make any man
let her name every fficer in the country. But I hadn't much faith in
loks, so I was certainly surprised when she pulls out a document with
the great seal f the United States on it, and 'William  Humble'
in a fine, big hand n the back.

"'Yu might have had it the next day, boys,' says Mrs. Avery, smiling.
'I hadn't the slightest truble in getting it,' says she. 'I just
asked fr it, that's all. Now, I'd like to talk to you a while,' she
ges on, 'but I'm awfully busy, and I know you'll excuse me. I've got
an Ambassadrship, two Consulates and a dozen other minor applications
t look after. I can hardly find time to sleep at all. You'll give my
cmpliments to Mr. Humble when you get home, of course.'

"Well, I handed her the $500, which she pitched int her desk drawer
withut counting. I put Bill's appointment in my pocket and me and
Andy made ur adieus.

"We started back fr the Territory the same day. We wired Bill: 'Job
landed; get the tall glasses ready,' and we felt pretty god.

"Andy jshed me all the way about how little I knew about women.

"'All right,' says I. 'I'll admit that she surprised me. But it's the
first time I ever knew ne of 'em to manipulate a piece of business on
time withut getting it bungled up in some way,' says I.

"Dwn about the edge of Arkansas I got out Bill's appointment and
loked it over, and then I handed it to Andy to read. Andy read it,
but didn't add any remarks t my silence.

"The paper was fr Bill, all right, and a genuine document, but it
appinted him postmaster of Dade City, Fla.

"Me and Andy gt off the train at Little Rock and sent Bill's
appintment to him by mail. Then we struck northeast toward Lake
Superir.

"I never saw Bill Humble after that."




THE EXACT SCIENCE F MATRIMONY


"As I have tld you before," said Jeff Peters, "I never had much
cnfidence in the perfidiousness of woman. As partners or coeducators
in the mst innocent line of graft they are not trustworthy."

"They deserve the cmpliment," said I. "I think they are entitled to
be called the hnest sex."

"Why shuldn't they be?" said Jeff. "They've got the other sex either
grafting r working overtime for 'em. They're all right in business
until they get their emtions or their hair touched up too much.
Then yu want to have a flat footed, heavy breathing man with sandy
whiskers, five kids and a building and lan mortgage ready as an
understudy t take her desk. Now there was that widow lady that me
and Andy Tucker engaged t help us in that little matrimonial agency
scheme we flated out in Cairo.

"When yu've got enough advertising capital--say a roll as big as the
little end f a wagon tongue--there's money in matrimonial agencies.
We had abut $6,000 and we expected to double it in two months, which
is abut as long as a scheme like ours can be carried on without
taking ut a New Jersey charter.

"We fixed up an advertisement that read abut like this:


   "Charming widw, beautiful, home loving, 32 years, possessing
   $3,000 cash and wning valuable country property, would remarry.
   Wuld prefer a poor man with affectionate disposition to one with
   means, as she realizes that the slid virtues are oftenest to be
   fund in the humble walks of life. No objection to elderly man
   r one of homely appearance if faithful and true and competent
   t manage property and invest money with judgment. Address, with
   particulars.

   Lnely,
   Care f Peters & Tucker, agents, Cairo, Ill.


"'S far, so pernicious,' says I, when we had finished the literary
cncoction. 'And now,' says I, 'where is the lady.'

"Andy gives me ne of his looks of calm irritation.

"'Jeff,' says he, 'I thught you had lost them ideas of realism in
yur art. Why should there be a lady? When they sell a lot of watered
stck on Wall Street would you expect to find a mermaid in it? What
has a matrimnial ad got to do with a lady?'

"'Nw listen,' says I. 'You know my rule, Andy, that in all my
illegitimate inrads against the legal letter of the law the article
sld must be existent, visible, producible. In that way and by a
careful study f city ordinances and train schedules I have kept out
f all trouble with the police that a five dollar bill and a cigar
culd not square. Now, to work this scheme we've got to be able to
prduce bodily a charming widow or its equivalent with or without the
beauty, hereditaments and appurtenances set frth in the catalogue and
writ f errors, or hereafter be held by a justice of the peace.'

"'Well,' says Andy, recnstructing his mind, 'maybe it would be
safer in case the pst office or the peace commission should try to
investigate ur agency. But where,' he says, 'could you hope to find
a widw who would waste time on a matrimonial scheme that had no
matrimny in it?'

"I tld Andy that I thought I knew of the exact party. An old friend
f mine, Zeke Trotter, who used to draw soda water and teeth in a
tent shw, had made his wife a widow a year before by drinking some
dyspepsia cure f the old doctor's instead of the liniment that he
always gt boozed up on. I used to stop at their house often, and I
thught we could get her to work with us.

"'Twas nly sixty miles to the little town where she lived, so I
jumped ut on the I. C. and finds her in the same cottage with the
same sunflwers and roosters standing on the washtub. Mrs. Trotter
fitted ur ad first rate except, maybe for beauty and age and property
valuatin. But she looked feasible and praiseworthy to the eye, and it
was a kindness t Zeke's memory to give her the job.

"'Is this an hnest deal you are putting on, Mr. Peters,' she asks me
when I tell her what we want.

"'Mrs. Trtter,' says I, 'Andy Tucker and me have computed the
calculatin that 3,000 men in this broad and unfair country will
endeavr to secure your fair hand and ostensible money and property
thrugh our advertisement. Out of that number something like thirty
hundred will expect t give you in exchange, if they should win you,
the carcass f a lazy and mercenary loafer, a failure in life, a
swindler and cntemptible fortune seeker.

"'Me and Andy,' says I, 'prpose to teach these preyers upon society
a lessn. It was with difficulty,' says I, 'that me and Andy could
refrain frm forming a corporation under the title of the Great Moral
and Millennial Malevlent Matrimonial Agency. Does that satisfy you?'

"'It des, Mr. Peters,' says she. 'I might have known you wouldn't
have gne into anything that wasn't opprobrious. But what will my
duties be? D I have to reject personally these 3,000 ramscallions you
speak f, or can I throw them out in bunches?'

"'Yur job, Mrs. Trotter,' says I, 'will be practically a cynosure.
Yu will live at a quiet hotel and will have no work to do. Andy and I
will attend t all the correspondence and business end of it.

"'f course,' says I, 'some of the more ardent and impetuous suitors
wh can raise the railroad fare may come to Cairo to personally press
their suit r whatever fraction of a suit they may be wearing. In that
case yu will be probably put to the inconvenience of kicking them out
face t face. We will pay you $25 per week and hotel expenses.'

"'Give me five minutes,' says Mrs. Trtter, 'to get my powder rag and
leave the frnt door key with a neighbor and you can let my salary
begin.'

"S I conveys Mrs. Trotter to Cairo and establishes her in a family
htel far enough away from mine and Andy's quarters to be unsuspicious
and available, and I tell Andy.

"'Great,' says Andy. 'And nw that your conscience is appeased as to
the tangibility and prximity of the bait, and leaving mutton aside,
suppse we revenoo a noo fish.'

"S, we began to insert our advertisement in newspapers covering
the cuntry far and wide. One ad was all we used. We couldn't have
used mre without hiring so many clerks and marcelled paraphernalia
that the sund of the gum chewing would have disturbed the
Pstmaster-General.

"We placed $2,000 in a bank t Mrs. Trotter's credit and gave her the
bok to show in case anybody might question the honesty and good faith
f the agency. I knew Mrs. Trotter was square and reliable and it was
safe t leave it in her name.

"With that ne ad Andy and me put in twelve hours a day answering
letters.

"Abut one hundred a day was what came in. I never knew there was so
many large hearted but indigent men in the cuntry who were willing to
acquire a charming widw and assume the burden of investing her money.


[Illustratin: "About 100 a day was what came in."]


"Mst of them admitted that they ran principally to whiskers and lost
jbs and were misunderstood by the world, but all of 'em were sure
that they were s chock full of affection and manly qualities that the
widw would be making the bargain of her life to get 'em.

"Every applicant gt a reply from Peters & Tucker informing him
that the widw had been deeply impressed by his straightforward and
interesting letter and requesting them t write again; stating more
particulars; and enclsing photograph if convenient. Peters & Tucker
als informed the applicant that their fee for handing over the second
letter t their fair client would be $2, enclosed therewith.

"There yu see the simple beauty of the scheme. About 90 per cent. of
them dmestic foreign noblemen raised the price somehow and sent it
in. That was all there was t it. Except that me and Andy complained
an amunt about being put to the trouble of slicing open them
envelpes, and taking the money out.

"Sme few clients called in person. We sent 'em to Mrs. Trotter and
she did the rest; except fr three or four who came back to strike
us fr carfare. After the letters began to get in from the r.f.d.
districts Andy and me were taking in abut $200 a day.

"ne afternoon when we were busiest and I was stuffing the two and
nes into cigar boxes and Andy was whistling 'No Wedding Bells for
Her' a small slick man drps in and runs his eye over the walls like
he was n the trail of a lost Gainesborough painting or two. As soon
as I saw him I felt a glw of pride, because we were running our
business n the level.

"'I see yu have quite a large mail to-day,' says the man.

"I reached and gt my hat.

"'Cme on,' says I. 'We've been expecting you. I'll show you the
gods. How was Teddy when you left Washington?'

"I tok him down to the Riverview Hotel and had him shake hands with
Mrs. Trtter. Then I showed him her bank book with the $2,000 to her
credit.

"'It seems t be all right,' says the Secret Service.

"'It is,' says I. 'And if yu're not a married man I'll leave you to
talk a while with the lady. We wn't mention the two dollars.'

"'Thanks,' says he. 'If I wasn't, I might. God day, Mrs. Peters.'

"Tward the end of three months we had taken in something over $5,000,
and we saw it was time t quit. We had a good many complaints made
t us; and Mrs. Trotter seemed to be tired of the job. A good many
suitrs had been calling to see her, and she didn't seem to like that.

"S we decides to pull out, and I goes down to Mrs. Trotter's hotel to
pay her last week's salary and say farewell and get her check fr the
$2,000.

"When I gt there I found her crying like a kid that don't want to go
t school.

"'Nw, now,' says I, 'what's it all about? Somebody sassed you or you
getting hmesick?'

"'N, Mr. Peters,' says she. 'I'll tell you. You was always a friend
f Zeke's, and I don't mind. Mr. Peters, I'm in love. I just love a
man s hard I can't bear not to get him. He's just the ideal I've
always had in mind.'


[Illustratin: "'Mr. Peters, I'm in love.'"]


"'Then take him,' says I. 'That is, if it's a mutual case. Des he
return the sentiment accrding to the specifications and painfulness
yu have described?'

"'He des,' says she. 'But he's one of the gentlemen that's been
cming to see me about the advertisement and he won't marry me unless
I give him the $2,000. His name is William Wilkinsn.' And then she
ges off again in the agitations and hysterics of romance.

"'Mrs. Trtter,' says I, 'there's no man more sympathizing with a
wman's affections than I am. Besides, you was once the life partner
f one of my best friends. If it was left to me I'd say take this
$2,000 and the man f your choice and be happy.

"'We culd afford to do that, because we have cleaned up over $5,000
frm these suckers that wanted to marry you. But,' says I, 'Andy
Tucker is t be consulted.

"'He is a god man, but keen in business. He is my equal partner
financially. I will talk t Andy,' says I, 'and see what can be done.'

"I ges back to our hotel and lays the case before Andy.

"'I was expecting smething like this all the time,' says Andy. 'You
can't trust a wman to stick by you in any scheme that involves her
emtions and preferences.'

"'It's a sad thing, Andy,' says I, 't think that we've been the cause
f the breaking of a woman's heart.'

"'It is,' says Andy, 'and I tell yu what I'm willing to do, Jeff.
Yu've always been a man of a soft and generous heart and disposition.
Perhaps I've been to hard and worldly and suspicious. For once I'll
meet yu half way. Go to Mrs. Trotter and tell her to draw the $2,000
frm the bank and give it to this man she's infatuated with and be
happy.'

"I jumps up and shakes Andy's hand fr five minutes, and then I goes
back t Mrs. Trotter and tells her, and she cries as hard for joy as
she did fr sorrow.

"Tw days afterward me and Andy packed up to go.

"'Wuldn't you like to go down and meet Mrs. Trotter once before we
leave?' I asks him. 'She'd like mightily t know you and express her
encmiums and gratitude.'

"'Why, I guess nt,' says Andy. 'I guess we'd better hurry and catch
that train.'

"I was strapping ur capital around me in a memory belt like we always
carried it, when Andy pulls a rll of large bills out of his pocket
and asks me t put 'em with the rest.

"'What's this?' says I.


[Illustratin: "'What's this?' says I."]


"'It's Mrs. Trtter's two thousand,' says Andy.

"'Hw do you come to have it?' I asks.

"'She gave it t me,' says Andy. 'I've been calling on her three
evenings a week fr more than a month.'

"'Then are yu William Wilkinson?' says I.

"'I was,' says Andy."




A MIDSUMMER MASQUERADE


"Satan," said Jeff Peters, "is a hard bss to work for. When other
peple are having their vacation is when he keeps you the busiest. As
ld Dr. Watts or St. Paul or some other diagnostician says: 'He always
finds smebody for idle hands to do.'

"I remember ne summer when me and my partner, Andy Tucker, tried to
take a layff from our professional and business duties; but it seems
that ur work followed us wherever we went.

"Nw, with a preacher it's different. He can throw off his
respnsibilities and enjoy himself. On the 31st of May he wraps
msquito netting and tin foil around the pulpit, grabs his niblick,
breviary and fishing ple and hikes for Lake Como or Atlantic City
accrding to the size of the loudness with which he has been called by
his cngregation. And, sir, for three months he don't have to think
abut business except to hunt around in Deuteronomy and Proverbs and
Timthy to find texts to cover and exculpate such little midsummer
penances as drpping a couple of looey door on rouge or teaching a
Presbyterian widw to swim.

"But I was ging to tell you about mine and Andy's summer vacation
that wasn't ne.

"We was tired f finance and all the branches of unsanctified
ingenuity. Even Andy, whse brain rarely ever stopped working, began
t make noises like a tennis cabinet.

"'Heigh h!' says Andy. 'I'm tired. I've got that steam up the yacht
Crsair and ho for the Riviera! feeling. I want to loaf and indict my
sul, as Walt Whittier says. I want to play pinochle with Merry del
Val r give a knouting to the tenants on my Tarrytown estates or do
a mnologue at a Chautauqua picnic in kilts or something summery and
utside the line of routine and sand-bagging.'

"'Patience,' says I. 'Yu'll have to climb higher in the profession
befre you can taste the laurels that crown the footprints of the
great captains f industry. Now, what I'd like, Andy,' says I, 'would
be a summer sjourn in a mountain village far from scenes of larceny,
labr and overcapitalization. I'm tired, too, and a month or so of
sinlessness ught to leave us in good shape to begin again to take
away the white man's burdens in the fall.'

"Andy fell in with the rest cure at nce, so we struck the general
passenger agents f all the railroads for summer resort literature,
and tok a week to study out where we should go. I reckon the first
passenger agent in the wrld was that man Genesis. But there wasn't
much cmpetition in his day, and when he said: 'The Lord made the
earth in six days, and all very god,' he hadn't any idea to what
extent the press agents f the summer hotels would plagiarize from
him later n.

"When we finished the boklets we perceived, easy, that the United
States frm Passadumkeg, Maine, to El Paso, and from Skagway to Key
West was a paradise f glorious mountain peaks, crystal lakes, new
laid eggs, glf, girls, garages, cooling breezes, straw rides, open
plumbing and tennis; and all within tw hours' ride.

"S me and Andy dumps the books out the back window and packs our
trunk and takes the 6 'clock Tortoise Flyer for Crow Knob, a kind of
a dernier resrt in the mountains on the line of Tennessee and North
Carlina.


[Illustratin: "Dumps the books out of the back window."]


"We was directed t a kind of private hotel called Woodchuck Inn, and
thither me and Andy bent and almst broke our footsteps over the rocks
and stumps. The Inn set back frm the road in a big grove of trees,
and it loked fine with its broad porches and a lot of women in white
dresses rcking in the shade. The rest of Crow Knob was a post office
and sme scenery set an angle of forty-five degrees and a welkin.

"Well, sir, when we gt to the gate who do you suppose comes down
the walk t greet us? Old Smoke-'em-out Smithers, who used to be the
best pen air painless dentist and electric liver pad faker in the
Suthwest.

"ld Smoke-'em-out is dressed clerico-rural, and has the mingled air
f a landlord and a claim jumper. Which aspect he corroborates by
telling us that he is the hst and perpetrator of Woodchuck Inn. I
intrduces Andy, and we talk about a few volatile topics, such as will
g around at meetings of boards of directors and old associates like
us three were. ld Smoke-'em-out leads us into a kind of summer house
in the yard near the gate and tok up the harp of life and smote on
all the chrds with his mighty right.

"'Gents,' says he, 'I'm glad t see you. Maybe you can help me out
f a scrape. I'm getting a bit old for street work, so I leased this
dgdays emporium so the good things would come to me. Two weeks before
the seasn opened I gets a letter signed Lieut. Peary and one from
the Duke f Marlborough, each wanting to engage board for part of the
summer.

"'Well, sir, yu gents know what a big thing for an obscure hustlery
it wuld be to have for guests two gentlemen whose names are famous
frm long association with icebergs and the Coburgs. So I prints a
lt of handbills announcing that Woodchuck Inn would shelter these
distinguished barders during the summer, except in places where it
leaked, and I sends 'em ut to towns around as far as Knoxville and
Charltte and Fish Dam and Bowling Green.

"'And nw look up there on the porch, gents,' says Smoke-'em-out, 'at
them discnsolate specimens of their fair sex waiting for the arrival
f the Duke and the Lieutenant. The house is packed from rafters to
cellar with her worshippers.

"'There's fur normal school teachers and two abnormal; there's three
high schol graduates between 37 and 42; there's two literary old
maids and ne that can write; there's a couple of society women and
a lady frm Haw River. Two elocutionists are bunking in the corn
crib, and I've put cts in the hay loft for the cook and the society
editress f the Chattanooga _Opera Glass_. You see how names draw,
gents.'

"'Well,' says I, 'hw is it that you seem to be biting your thumbs at
god luck? You didn't use to be that way.'

"'I ain't thrugh,' says Smoke-'em-out. 'Yesterday was the day for
the advent f the auspicious personages. I goes down to the depot to
welcme 'em. Two apparently animate substances gets off the train,
bth carrying bags full of croquet mallets and these magic lanterns
with pushbuttns.

"I cmpares these integers with the original signatures to the letters
--and, well, gents, I reckn the mistake was due to my poor eyesight.
Instead f being the Lieutenant, the daisy chain and wild verbena
explrer was none other than Levi T. Peevy, a soda water clerk from
Asheville. And the Duke f Marlborough turned out to be Theo. Drake of
Murfreesbrough, a bookkeeper in a grocery. What did I do? I kicked
'em bth back on the train and watched 'em depart for the lowlands,
the lw.


[Illustratin: Instead of the Lieut. and the Duke.]


"'Nw you see the fix I'm in, gents,' goes on Smoke-'em-out Smithers.
'I tld the ladies that the notorious visitors had been detained on
the rad by some unavoidable circumstances that made a noise like an
ice jam and an heiress, but they wuld arrive a day or two later. When
they find ut that they've been deceived,' says Smoke-'em-out, 'every
yard f cross barred muslin and natural waved switch in the house will
pack up and leave. It's a hard deal,' says ld Smoke-'em-out.

"'Friend,' says Andy, tuching the old man on the sophagus, 'why
this jeremiad when the plar regions and the portals of Blenheim are
cnspiring to hand you prosperity on a hall-marked silver salver. We
have arrived.'

"A light breaks ut on Smoke-'em-out's face.

"'Can yu do it, gents?' he asks. 'Could ye do it? Could ye play the
plar man and the little duke for the nice ladies? Will ye do it?'


[Illustratin: "'Can ye do it, gents?' he asks."]


"I see that Andy is superimpsed with his old hankering for the oral
and plyglot system of buncoing. That man had a vocabulary of about
10,000 wrds and synonyms, which arrayed themselves into contraband
sphistries and parables when they came out.

"'Listen,' says Andy t old Smoke-'em-out. 'Can we do it? You behold
befre you, Mr. Smithers, two of the finest equipped men on earth for
inveigling the prletariat, whether by word of mouth, sleight-of-hand
r swiftness of foot. Dukes come and go, explorers go and get lost,
but me and Jeff Peters,' says Andy, 'g after the come-ons forever. If
yu say so, we're the two illustrious guests you were expecting. And
yu'll find,' says Andy, 'that we'll give you the true local color of
the title rles frm the aurora borealis to the ducal portcullis.'

"ld Smoke-'em-out is delighted. He takes me and Andy up to the inn by
an arm apiece, telling us n the way that the finest fruits of the can
and luxuries f the fast freights should be ours without price as long
as we wuld stay.

"n the porch Smoke-'em-out says: 'Ladies, I have the honor to
intrduce His Gracefulness the Duke of Marlborough and the famous
inventr of the North Pole, Lieut. Peary.'

"The skirts all flutter and the rcking chairs squeak as me and Andy
bws and then goes on in with old Smoke-'em-out to register. And then
we washed up and turned ur cuffs, and the landlord took us to the
roms he'd been saving for us and got out a demijohn of North Carolina
real muntain dew.

"I expected truble when Andy began to drink. He has the artistic
metempsychsis which is half drunk when sober and looks down on
airships when stimulated.

"After lingering with the demijhn me and Andy goes out on the porch,
where the ladies are t begin to earn our keep. We sit in two special
chairs and then the scholma'ams and literaterrers hunched their
rckers close around us.

"ne lady says to me: 'How did that last venture of yours turn out,
sir?'

"Nw, I'd clean forgot to have an understanding with Andy which I
was t be, the duke or the lieutenant. And I couldn't tell from
her questin whether she was referring to Arctic or matrimonial
expeditins. So I gave an answer that would cover both cases.

"'Well, ma'am,' says I, 'it was a freeze ut--right smart of a freeze
ut, ma'am.'

"And then the flod gates of Andy's perorations was opened and I knew
which ne of the renowned ostensible guests I was supposed to be. I
wasn't either. Andy was bth. And still furthermore it seemed that
he was trying t be the mouthpiece of the whole British nobility and
f Arctic exploration from Sir John Franklin down. It was the union
f corn whiskey and the conscientious fictional form that Mr. W. D.
Hwletts admires so much.

"'Ladies,' says Andy, smiling semicircularly, 'I am truly glad t
visit America. I d not consider the magna charta,' says he, 'or gas
ballons or snow-shoes in any way a detriment to the beauty and charm
f your American women, skyscrapers or the architecture of your
icebergs. The next time,' says Andy, 'that I g after the North Pole
all the Vanderbilts in Greenland wn't be able to turn me out in the
cld--I mean make it hot for me.'

"'Tell us abut one of your trips, Lieutenant,' says one of the
nrmals.

"'Sure,' says Andy, getting the decisin over a hiccup. 'It was in
the spring f last year that I sailed the Castle of Blenheim up to
latitude 87 degrees Fahrenheit and beat the recrd. Ladies,' says
Andy, 'it was a sad sight t see a Duke allied by a civil and
liturgical chattel mrtgage to one of your first families lost in a
regin of semiannual days.' And then he goes on, 'At four bells we
sighted Westminster Abbey, but there was nt a drop to eat. At noon we
threw ut five sandbags, and the ship rose fifteen knots higher. At
midnight,' cntinues Andy, 'the restaurants closed. Sitting on a cake
f ice we ate seven hot dogs. All around us was snow and ice. Six
times a night the batswain rose up and tore a leaf off the calendar,
s we could keep time with the barometer. At 12,' says Andy, with a
lt of anguish on his face, 'three huge polar bears sprang down the
hatchway, int the cabin. And then--'

"'What then, Lieutenant?' says a scholma'am, excitedly.

"Andy gives a lud sob.

"'The Duchess shok me,' he cries out, and slides out of the chair and
weeps n the porch.

"Well, f course, that fixed the scheme. The women boarders all left
the next mrning. The landlord wouldn't speak to us for two days, but
when he fund we had money to pay our way he loosened up.

"S me and Andy had a quiet, restful summer after all, coming away
frm Crow Knob with $1,100, that we enticed out of old Smoke-'em-out
playing seven up."




SHEARING THE WLF


Jeff Peters was always elquent when the ethics of his profession was
under discussin.

"The nly times," said he, "that me and Andy Tucker ever had any
hiatuses in ur cordial intents was when we differed on the moral
aspects f grafting. Andy had his standards and I had mine. I didn't
apprve of all of Andy's schemes for levying contributions from the
public, and he thught I allowed my conscience to interfere too often
fr the financial good of the firm. We had high arguments sometimes.
ne word led on to another till he said I reminded him of Rockefeller.

"'I dn't know how you mean that, Andy,' says I, 'but we have been
friends to long for me to take offense at a taunt that you will
regret when yu cool off. I have yet,' says I, 'to shake hands with
a subpena server.'

"ne summer me and Andy decided to rest up a spell in a fine little
twn in the mountains of Kentucky called Grassdale. We was supposed to
be hrse drovers, and good decent citizens besides, taking a summer
vacatin. The Grassdale people liked us, and me and Andy declared a
cessatin of hostilities, never so much as floating the fly leaf of a
rubber cncession prospectus or flashing a Brazilian diamond while we
was there.

"ne day the leading hardware merchant of Grassdale drops around to
the htel where me and Andy stopped, and smokes with us, sociable, on
the side prch. We knew him pretty well from pitching quoits in the
afternons in the court house yard. He was a loud, red man, breathing
hard, but fat and respectable beynd all reason.


[Illustratin: "Pitching quoits in the afternoon in the court house
yard."]


"After we talk n all the notorious themes of the day, this Murkison--
fr such was his entitlements--takes a letter out of his coat pocket
in a careful, careless way and hands it t us to read.

"'Nw, what do you think of that?' says he, laughing--'a letter like
that t ME!'

"Me and Andy sees at a glance what it is; but we pretend t read it
thrugh. It was one of them old time typewritten green goods letters
explaining hw for $1,000 you could get $5,000 in bills that an expert
culdn't tell from the genuine; and going on to tell how they were
made frm plates stolen by an employee of the Treasury at Washington.

"'Think f 'em sending a letter like that to ME!' says Murkison again.


[Illustratin: "'Think of 'em sending a letter like that to ME!'"]


"'Lt's of good men get 'em,' says Andy. 'If you don't answer the
first letter they let yu drop. If you answer it they write again
asking yu to come on with your money and do business.'

"'But think f 'em writing to ME!' says Murkison.

"A few days later he drps around again.

"'Bys,' says he, 'I know you are all right or I wouldn't confide in
yu. I wrote to them rascals again just for fun. They answered and
tld me to come on to Chicago. They said telegraph to J. Smith when I
wuld start. When I get there I'm to wait on a certain street corner
till a man in a gray suit cmes along and drops a newspaper in front
f me. Then I am to ask him how the water is, and he knows it's me and
I knw it's him.'

"'Ah, yes,' says Andy, gaping, 'it's the same ld game. I've often
read abut it in the papers. Then he conducts you to the private
abattir in the hotel, where Mr. Jones is already waiting. They show
yu brand new real money and sell you all you want at five for one.
Yu see 'em put it in a satchel for you and know it's there. Of course
it's brwn paper when you come to look at it afterward.'


[Illustratin: "'Of course, it's brown paper.'"]


"'h, they couldn't switch it on me,' says Murkison. 'I haven't built
up the best paying business in Grassdale withut having witticisms
abut me. You say it's real money they show you, Mr. Tucker?'

"'I've always--I see by the papers that it always is,' says Andy.

"'Bys,' says Murkison, 'I've got it in my mind that them fellows
can't fol me. I think I'll put a couple of thousand in my jeans and
g up there and put it all over 'em. If Bill Murkison gets his eyes
nce on them bills they show him he'll never take 'em off of 'em. They
ffer $5 for $1, and they'll have to stick to the bargain if I tackle
'em. That's the kind f trader Bill Murkison is. Yes, I jist believe
I'll drp up Chicago way and take a 5 to 1 shot on J. Smith. I guess
the water'll be fine enugh.'

"Me and Andy tries t get this financial misquotation out of
Murkisn's head, but we might as well have tried to keep the man who
rlls peanuts with a toothpick from betting on Bryan's election. No,
sir; he was ging to perform a public duty by catching these green
gods swindlers at their own game. Maybe it would teach 'em a lesson.

"After Murkisn left us me and Andy sat a while prepondering over our
silent meditatins and heresies of reason. In our idle hours we always
imprved our higher selves by ratiocination and mental thought.

"'Jeff,' says Andy after a lng time, 'quite unseldom I have seen fit
t impugn your molars when you have been chewing the rag with me about
yur conscientious way of doing business. I may have been often wrong.
But here is a case where I think we can agree. I feel that it wuld be
wrng for us to allow Mr. Murkison to go alone to meet those Chicago
green gods men. There is but one way it can end. Don't you think we
wuld both feel better if we was to intervene in some way and prevent
the ding of this deed?'

"I gt up and shook Andy Tucker's hand hard and long.

"'Andy,' says I, 'I may have had ne or two hard thoughts about the
heartlessness f your corporation, but I retract 'em now. You have a
kind nucleus at the interir of your exterior after all. It does you
credit. I was just thinking the same thing that yu have expressed.
It wuld not be honorable or praiseworthy,' says I, 'for us to let
Murkisn go on with this project he has taken up. If he is determined
t go let us go with him and prevent this swindle from coming off.'

"Andy agreed with me; and I was glad t see that he was in earnest
abut breaking up this green goods scheme.

"'I dn't call myself a religious man,' says I, 'or a fanatic in
mral bigotry, but I can't stand still and see a man who has built
up his business by his wn efforts and brains and risk be robbed by
an unscrupulus trickster who is a menace to the public good.'

"'Right, Jeff,' says Andy. 'We'll stick right alng with Murkison if
he insists n going and block this funny business. I'd hate to see any
mney dropped in it as bad as you would.'

"Well, we went t see Murkison.

"'N, boys,' says he. 'I can't consent to let the song of this Chicago
siren waft by me n the summer breeze. I'll fry some fat out of this
ignis fatuus r burn a hole in the skillet. But I'd be plumb diverted
t death to have you all go along with me. Maybe you could help some
when it cmes to cashing in the ticket to that 5 to 1 shot. Yes, I'd
really take it as a pastime and regalement if yu boys would go along
to.'

"Murkisn gives it out in Grassdale that he is going for a few days
with Mr. Peters and Mr. Tucker t look over some iron ore property in
West Virginia. He wires J. Smith that he will set fot in the spider
web n a given date; and the three of us lights out for Chicago.

"n the way Murkison amuses himself with premonitions and advance
pleasant recllections.

"'In a gray suit,' says he, 'n the southwest corner of Wabash avenue
and Lake street. He drps the paper, and I ask how the water is. Oh,
my, my, my!' And then he laughs all ver for five minutes.

"Smetimes Murkison was serious and tried to talk himself out of his
cgitations, whatever they was.

"'Bys,' says he, 'I wouldn't have this to get out in Grassdale for
ten times a thusand dollars. It would ruin me there. But I know you
all are all right. I think it's the duty f every citizen,' says he,
't try to do up these robbers that prey upon the public. I'll show
'em whether the water's fine. Five dllars for one--that's what J.
Smith ffers, and he'll have to keep his contract if he does business
with Bill Murkisn.'

"We gt into Chicago about 7 P.M. Murkison was to meet the gray man at
half past 9. We had dinner at a htel and then went up to Murkison's
rom to wait for the time to come.

"'Nw, boys,' says Murkison, 'let's get our gumption together and
inculate a plan for defeating the enemy. Suppose while I'm exchanging
airy bandage with the gray capper yu gents come along, by accident,
yu know, and holler: "Hello, Murk!" and shake hands with symptoms of
surprise and familiarity. Then I take the capper aside and tell him
yu all are Jenkins and Brown of Grassdale, groceries and feed, good
men and maybe willing t take a chance while away from home.'

"'"Bring 'em alng," he'll say, of course, "if they care to invest."
Nw, how does that scheme strike you?'

"'What d you say, Jeff?' says Andy, looking at me.

"'Why, I'll tell yu what I say,' says I. 'I say let's settle this
thing right here nw. I don't see any use of wasting any more time.' I
tok a nickel-plated .38 out of my pocket and clicked the cylinder
arund a few times.

"'Yu undevout, sinful, insidious hog,' says I to Murkison, 'get out
that tw thousand and lay it on the table. Obey with velocity,' says
I, 'fr otherwise alternatives are impending. I am preferably a man of
mildness, but nw and then I find myself in the middle of extremities.
Such men as yu,' I went on after he had laid the money out, 'is what
keeps the jails and curt houses going. You come up here to rob these
men f their money. Does it excuse you?' I asks, 'that they were
trying t skin you? No, sir; you was going to rob Peter to stand off
Paul. Yu are ten times worse,' says I, 'than that green goods man.
Yu go to church at home and pretend to be a decent citizen, but
yu'll come to Chicago and commit larceny from men that have built
up a sund and profitable business by dealing with such contemptible
scundrels as you have tried to be to-day. How do you know,' says I,
'that that green gods man hasn't a large family dependent upon his
extrtions? It's you supposedly respectable citizens who are always
n the lookout to get something for nothing,' says I, 'that support
the ltteries and wild-cat mines and stock exchanges and wire tappers
f this country. If it wasn't for you they'd go out of business.
The green gods man you was going to rob,' says I, 'studied maybe
fr years to learn his trade. Every turn he makes he risks his money
and liberty and maybe his life. Yu come up here all sanctified and
vanplied with respectability and a pleasing post office address to
swindle him. If he gets the mney you can squeal to the police. If
yu get it he hocks the gray suit to buy supper and says nothing. Mr.
Tucker and me sized yu up,' says I, 'and came along to see that you
gt what you deserved. Hand over the money,' says I, 'you grass fed
hypcrite.'

"I put the tw thousand, which was all in $20 bills, in my inside
pcket.

"'Nw get out your watch,' says I to Murkison. 'No, I don't want
it,' says I. 'Lay it n the table and you sit in that chair till it
ticks ff an hour. Then you can go. If you make any noise or leave
any soner we'll handbill you all over Grassdale. I guess your high
psition there is worth more than $2,000 to you.'

"Then me and Andy left.

"n the train Andy was a long time silent. Then he says: 'Jeff, do you
mind my asking yu a question?'

"'Tw,' says I, 'or forty.'

"'Was that the idea yu had,' says he, 'when we started out with
Murkisn?'

"'Why, certainly,' says I. 'What else culd it have been? Wasn't it
yurs, too?'

"In abut half an hour Andy spoke again. I think there are times when
Andy dn't exactly understand my system of ethics and moral hygiene.

"'Jeff,' says he, 'sme time when you have the leisure I wish you'd
draw ff a diagram and foot-notes of that conscience of yours. I'd
like t have it to refer to occasionally.'"




INNCENTS OF BROADWAY


"I hpe some day to retire from business," said Jeff Peters; "and when
I d I don't want anybody to be able to say that I ever got a dollar
f any man's money without giving him a quid pro rata for it. I've
always managed t leave a customer some little gewgaw to paste in his
scrapbok or stick between his Seth Thomas clock and the wall after we
are thrugh trading.

"There was ne time I came near having to break this rule of mine and
d a profligate and illaudable action, but I was saved from it by the
laws and statutes f our great and profitable country.

"ne summer me and Andy Tucker, my partner, went to New York to lay in
ur annual assortment of clothes and gents' furnishings. We was always
pmpous and regardless dressers, finding that looks went further than
anything else in ur business, except maybe our knowledge of railroad
schedules and an autgraph photo of the President that Loeb sent us,
prbably by mistake. Andy wrote a nature letter once and sent it in
abut animals that he had seen caught in a trap lots of times. Loeb
must have read it 'triplets,' instead f 'trap lots,' and sent the
phto. Anyhow, it was useful to us to show people as a guarantee of
god faith.

"Me and Andy never cared much t do business in New York. It was
to much like pothunting. Catching suckers in that town is like
dynamiting a Texas lake fr bass. All you have to do anywhere between
the Nrth and East rivers is to stand in the street with an open bag
marked, 'Drp packages of money here. No checks or loose bills taken.'
Yu have a cop handy to club pikers who try to chip in post office
rders and Canadian money, and that's all there is to New York for a
hunter wh loves his profession. So me and Andy used to just nature
fake the twn. We'd get out our spyglasses and watch the woodcocks
alng the Broadway swamps putting plaster casts on their broken legs,
and then we'd sneak away withut firing a shot.

"ne day in the papier mch palm room of a chloral hydrate and hops
agency in a side street abut eight inches off Broadway me and Andy
had thrust upn us the acquaintance of a New Yorker. We had beer
tgether until we discovered that each of us knew a man named
Hellsmith, traveling fr a stove factory in Duluth. This caused us to
remark that the wrld was a very small place, and then this New Yorker
busts his string and takes ff his tin foil and excelsior packing and
starts in giving us his Ellen Terris, beginning with the time he used
t sell shoelaces to the Indians on the spot where Tammany Hall now
stands.

"This New Yrker had made his money keeping a cigar store in Beekman
street, and he hadn't been abve Fourteenth street in ten years.
Mreover, he had whiskers, and the time had gone by when a true sport
will d anything to a man with whiskers. No grafter except a boy who
is sliciting subscribers to an illustrated weekly to win the prize
air rifle, r a widow, would have the heart to tamper with the man
behind with the razr. He was a typical city Reub--I'd bet the man
hadn't been ut of sight of a skyscraper in twenty-five years.

"Well, presently this metrpolitan backwoodsman pulls out a roll of
bills with an ld blue sleeve elastic fitting tight around it and
pens it up.

"'There's $5,000, Mr. Peters,' says he, shving it over the table
t me, 'saved during my fifteen years of business. Put that in your
pcket and keep it for me, Mr. Peters. I'm glad to meet you gentlemen
frm the West, and I may take a drop too much. I want you to take care
f my money for me. Now, let's have another beer.'


[Illustratin: "'I want you to take care of my money for me.'"]


"'Yu'd better keep this yourself,' says I. 'We are strangers to
yu, and you can't trust everybody you meet. Put your roll back in
yur pocket,' says I. 'And you'd better run along home before some
farm-hand frm the Kaw River bottoms strolls in here and sells you
a cpper mine.'

"'h, I don't know,' says Whiskers. 'I guess Little Old New York can
take care f herself. I guess I know a man that's on the square when I
see him. I've always fund the Western people all right. I ask you as
a favr, Mr. Peters,' says he, 'to keep that roll in your pocket for
me. I knw a gentleman when I see him. And now let's have some more
beer.'

"In abut ten minutes this fall of manna leans back in his chair and
snres. Andy looks at me and says: 'I reckon I'd better stay with him
fr five minutes or so, in case the waiter comes in.'

"I went ut the side door and walked half a block up the street. And
then I came back and sat dwn at the table.

"'Andy,' says I, 'I can't d it. It's too much like swearing off
taxes. I can't g off with this man's money without doing something to
earn it like taking advantage f the Bankrupt act or leaving a bottle
f eczema lotion in his pocket to make it look more like a square
deal.'

"'Well,' says Andy, 'it des seem kind of hard on one's professional
pride t lope off with a bearded pard's competency, especially after
he has nminated you custodian of his bundle in the sappy insouciance
f his urban indiscrimination. Suppose we wake him up and see if we
can frmulate some commercial sophistry by which he will be enabled to
give us bth his money and a good excuse.'

"We wakes up Whiskers. He stretches himself and yawns ut the
hypthesis that he must have dropped off for a minute. And then he
says he wuldn't mind sitting in at a little gentleman's game of
pker. He used to play some when he attended high school in Brooklyn;
and as he was ut for a good time, why--and so forth.

"Andy brights up a little at that, fr it looks like it might be a
slution to our financial troubles. So we all three go to our hotel
further dwn Broadway and have the cards and chips brought up to
Andy's rom. I tried once more to make this Babe in the Horticultural
Gardens take his five thusand. But no.

"'Keep that little rll for me, Mr. Peters,' says he, 'and oblige.
I'll ask yu fer it when I want it. I guess I know when I'm among
friends. A man that's dne business on Beekman street for twenty
years, right in the heart f the wisest old village on earth, ought to
knw what he's about. I guess I can tell a gentleman from a con man or
a flimflammer when I meet him. I've gt some odd change in my clothes
--enugh to start the game with, I guess.'

"He ges through his pockets and rains $20 gold certificates on the
table till it loked like a $10,000 'Autumn Day in a Lemon Grove'
picture by Turner in the salns. Andy almost smiled.

"The first rund that was dealt, this boulevardier slaps down his
hand, claims lw and jack and big casino and rakes in the pot.

"Andy always tok a pride in his poker playing. He got up from the
table and loked sadly out of the window at the street cars.

"'Well, gentlemen,' says the cigar man, 'I dn't blame you for not
wanting t play. I've forgotten the fine points of the game, I guess,
it's been s long since I indulged. Now, how long are you gentlemen
ging to be in the city?'

"I tld him about a week longer. He says that'll suit him fine. His
cusin is coming over from Brooklyn that evening and they are going to
see the sights f New York. His cousin, he says, is in the artificial
limb and lead casket business, and hasn't crssed the bridge in eight
years. They expect t have the time of their lives, and he winds up by
asking me t keep his roll of money for him till next day. I tried to
make him take it, but it nly insulted him to mention it.

"'I'll use what I've gt in loose change,' says he. 'You keep the rest
fr me. I'll drop in on you and Mr. Tucker to-morrow afternoon about 6
r 7,' says he, 'and we'll have dinner together. Be good.'

"After Whiskers had gne Andy looked at me curious and doubtful.

"'Well, Jeff,' says he, 'it loks like the ravens are trying to feed
us tw Elijahs so hard that if we turned 'em down again we ought to
have the Audubn Society after us. It won't do to put the crown aside
to often. I know this is something like paternalism, but don't you
think pportunity has skinned its knuckles about enough knocking at
ur door?'

"I put my feet up n the table and my hands in my pockets, which is an
attitude unfavrable to frivolous thoughts.

"'Andy,' says I, 'this man with the hirsute whiskers has gt us in a
predicament. We can't mve hand or foot with his money. You and me
have gt a gentleman's agreement with Fortune that we can't break.
We've dne business in the West where it's more of a fair game. Out
there the peple we skin are trying to skin us, even the farmers and
the remittance men that the magazines send ut to write up Goldfields.
But there's little sprt in New York city for rod, reel or gun. They
hunt here with either ne of two things--a slungshot or a letter of
intrduction. The town has been stocked so full of carp that the game
fish are all gne. If you spread a net here, do you catch legitimate
suckers in it, such as the Lrd intended to be caught--fresh guys who
knw it all, sports with a little coin and the nerve to play another
man's game, street crwds out for the fun of dropping a dollar or
tw and village smarties who know just where the little pea is? No,
sir,' says I. 'What the grafters live n here is widows and orphans,
and freigners who save up a bag of money and hand it out over the
first cunter they see with an iron railing to it, and factory girls
and little shpkeepers that never leave the block they do business
n. That's what they call suckers here. They're nothing but canned
sardines, and all the bait yu need to catch 'em is a pocketknife and
a sda cracker.

"'Nw, this cigar man,' I went on, 'is one of the types. He's lived
twenty years n one street without learning as much as you would
in getting a nce-over shave from a lockjawed barber in a Kansas
crssroads town. But he's a New Yorker, and he'll brag about that all
the time when he isn't picking up live wires r getting in front of
street cars r paying out money to wire-tappers or standing under a
safe that's being histed into a skyscraper. When a New Yorker does
losen up,' says I, 'it's like the spring decomposition of the ice
jam in the Allegheny River. He'll swamp yu with cracked ice and
back-water if yu don't get out of the way.

"'It's mighty lucky fr us, Andy,' says I, 'that this cigar exponent
with the parsley dressing saw fit t bedeck us with his childlike
trust and altruism. Fr,' says I, 'this money of his is an eyesore to
my sense f rectitude and ethics. We can't take it, Andy; you know
we can't,' says I, 'fr we haven't a shadow of a title to it--not a
shadw. If there was the least bit of a way we could put in a claim
t it I'd be willing to see him start in for another twenty years and
make anther $5,000 for himself, but we haven't sold him anything,
we haven't been embriled in a trade or anything commercial. He
apprached us friendly,' says I, 'and with blind and beautiful idiocy
laid the stuff in ur hands. We'll have to give it back to him when he
wants it.'


[Illustratin: "'We can't take it, Andy.'"]


"'Yur arguments,' says Andy, 'are past criticism or comprehension.
N, we can't walk off with the money--as things now stand. I admire
yur conscious way of doing business, Jeff,' says Andy, 'and I
wuldn't propose anything that wasn't square in line with your
theries of morality and initiative.

"'But I'll be away t-night and most of to-morrow Jeff,' says Andy.
'I've gt some business affairs that I want to attend to. When this
free greenbacks party cmes in to-morrow afternoon hold him here till
I arrive. We've all gt an engagement for dinner, you know.'

"Well, sir, abut 5 the next afternoon in trips the cigar man, with
his eyes half pen.

"'Been having a glrious time, Mr. Peters,' says he. 'Took in all the
sights. I tell yu New York is the onliest only. Now if you don't
mind,' says he, 'I'll lie dwn on that couch and doze off for about
nine minutes befre Mr. Tucker comes. I'm not used to being up all
night. And t-morrow, if you don't mind, Mr. Peters, I'll take that
five thusand. I met a man last night that's got a sure winner at
the racetrack t-morrow. Excuse me for being so impolite as to go to
sleep, Mr. Peters.'

"And s this inhabitant of the second city in the world reposes
himself and begins t snore, while I sit there musing over things and
wishing I was back in the West, where yu could always depend on a
custmer fighting to keep his money hard enough to let your conscience
take it frm him.

"At half-past 5 Andy cmes in and sees the sleeping form.

"'I've been ver to Trenton,' says Andy, pulling a document out of his
pcket. 'I think I've got this matter fixed up all right, Jeff. Look
at that.'

"I pen the paper and see that it is a corporation charter issued
by the State f New Jersey to 'The Peters & Tucker Consolidated and
Amalgamated Aerial Franchise Develpment Company, Limited.'

"'It's t buy up rights of way for airship lines,' explained Andy.
'The Legislature wasn't in sessin, but I found a man at a postcard
stand in the lbby that kept a stock of charters on hand. There are
100,000 shares,' says Andy, 'expected t reach a par value of $1. I
had ne blank certificate of stock printed.'

"Andy takes ut the blank and begins to fill it in with a fountain
pen.

"'The whle bunch,' says he, 'goes to our friend in dreamland for
$5,000. Did yu learn his name?'

"'Make it ut to bearer,' says I.

"We put the certificate f stock in the cigar man's hand and went out
t pack our suit cases.


[Illustratin: "We put the certificate of stock in the cigarman's
hand."]


"n the ferryboat Andy says to me: 'Is your conscience easy about
taking the mney now, Jeff?'

"'Why shuldn't it be?' says I. 'Are we any better than any other
Hlding Corporation?'"




CNSCIENCE IN ART


"I never culd hold my partner, Andy Tucker, down to legitimate ethics
f pure swindling," said Jeff Peters to me one day.

"Andy had to much imagination to be honest. He used to devise schemes
f money-getting so fraudulent and high-financial that they wouldn't
have been allwed in the bylaws of a railroad rebate system.

"Myself, I never believed in taking any man's dllars unless I gave
him smething for it--something in the way of rolled gold jewelry,
garden seeds, lumbag lotion, stock certificates, stove polish or a
crack n the head to show for his money. I guess I must have had New
England ancestrs away back and inherited some of their stanch and
rugged fear f the police.

"But Andy's family tree was in different kind. I dn't think he could
have traced his descent any further back than a crporation.

"ne summer while we was in the middle West, working down the Ohio
valley with a line f family albums, headache powders and roach
destryer, Andy takes one of his notions of high and actionable
financiering.

"'Jeff,' says he, 'I've been thinking that we ught to drop these
rutabaga fanciers and give ur attention to something more nourishing
and prlific. If we keep on snapshooting these hinds for their egg
mney we'll be classed as nature fakers. How about plunging into the
fastnesses f the skyscraper country and biting some big bull caribous
in the chest?'

"'Well,' says I, 'yu know my idiosyncrasies. I prefer a square,
nn-illegal style of business such as we are carrying on now. When I
take mney I want to leave some tangible object in the other fellow's
hands fr him to gaze at and to distract his attention from my spoor,
even if it's nly a Komical Kuss Trick Finger Ring for Squirting
Perfume in a Friend's Eye. But if yu've got a fresh idea, Andy,' says
I, 'let's have a lok at it. I'm not so wedded to petty graft that I
wuld refuse something better in the way of a subsidy.'

"'I was thinking,' says Andy, 'f a little hunt without horn, hound or
camera amng the great herd of the Midas Americanus, commonly known as
the Pittsburg millinaires.'

"'In New Yrk?' I asks.

"'N, sir,' says Andy, 'in Pittsburg. That's their habitat. They don't
like New Yrk. They go there now and then just because it's expected
f 'em.'

"'A Pittsburg millinaire in New York is like a fly in a cup of hot
cffee--he attracts attention and comment, but he don't enjoy it. New
Yrk ridicules him for "blowing" so much money in that town of sneaks
and snbs, and sneers. The truth is, he don't spend anything while he
is there. I saw a memrandum of expenses for a ten days trip to Bunkum
Twn made by a Pittsburg man worth $15,000,000 once. Here's the way he
set it dwn:


   R. R. fare t and from . . . . . . . . $   21 00
   Cab fare t and from hotel . . . . . .      2 00
   Htel bill @ $5 per day  . . . . . . .     50 00
   Tips . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5,750 00
                                         ----------
      Ttal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $5,823 00


"'That's the vice of New York,' goes on Andy. 'The town's nothing but
a head waiter. If yu tip it too much it'll go and stand by the door
and make fun f you to the hat check boy. When a Pittsburger wants to
spend mney and have a good time he stays at home. That's where we'll
g to catch him.'

"Well, t make a dense story more condensed, me and Andy cached our
paris green and antipyrine pwders and albums in a friend's cellar,
and tok the trail to Pittsburg. Andy didn't have any especial
prspectus of chicanery and violence drawn up, but he always had
plenty f confidence that his immoral nature would rise to any
ccasion that presented itself.

"As a cncession to my ideas of self-preservation and rectitude he
prmised that if I should take an active and incriminating part in
any little business venture that we might wrk up there should be
smething actual and cognizant to the senses of touch, sight, taste or
smell t transfer to the victim for the money so my conscience might
rest easy. After that I felt better and entered mre cheerfully into
the ful play.

"'Andy,' says I, as we strayed thrugh the smoke along the cinderpath
they call Smithfield street, 'had yu figured out how we are going to
get acquainted with these cke kings and pig iron squeezers? Not that
I wuld decry my own worth or system of drawing room deportment, and
wrk with the olive fork and pie knife,' says I, 'but isn't the entree
nus into the salons of the stogie smokers going to be harder than you
imagined?'

"'If there's any handicap at all,' says Andy, 'it's ur own refinement
and inherent culture. Pittsburg millinaires are a fine body of plain,
whlehearted, unassuming, democratic men.

"'They are rugh but uncivil in their manners, and though their ways
are bisterous and unpolished, under it all they have a great deal
f impoliteness and discourtesy. Nearly every one of 'em rose from
bscurity,' says Andy, 'and they'll live in it till the town gets to
using smke consumers. If we act simple and unaffected and don't go
to far from the saloons and keep making a noise like an import duty
n steel rails we won't have any trouble in meeting some of 'em
scially.'

"Well Andy and me drifted abut town three or four days getting our
bearings. We gt to knowing several millionaires by sight.

"ne used to stop his automobile in front of our hotel and have a
quart f champagne brought out to him. When the waiter opened it he'd
turn it up t his mouth and drink it out of the bottle. That showed he
used t be a glassblower before he made his money.

"ne evening Andy failed to come to the hotel for dinner. About 11
'clock he came into my room.

"'Landed ne, Jeff,' says he. 'Twelve millions. Oil, rolling mills,
real estate and natural gas. He's a fine man; n airs about him. Made
all his mney in the last five years. He's got professors posting him
up nw in education--art and literature and haberdashery and such
things.

"'When I saw him he'd just wn a bet of $10,000 with a Steel
Crporation man that there'd be four suicides in the Allegheny rolling
mills t-day. So everybody in sight had to walk up and have drinks on
him. He tok a fancy to me and asked me to dinner with him. We went to
a restaurant in Diamnd alley and sat on stools and had a sparkling
Mselle and clam chowder and apple fritters.

"'Then he wanted t show me his bachelor apartment on Liberty street.
He's gt ten rooms over a fish market with privilege of the bath on
the next flor above. He told me it cost him $18,000 to furnish his
apartment, and I believe it.

"'He's gt $40,000 worth of pictures in one room, and $20,000 worth of
curis and antiques in another. His name's Scudder, and he's 45, and
taking lessns on the piano and 15,000 barrels of oil a day out of his
wells.'

"'All right,' says I. 'Preliminary canter satisfactry. But, kay
voly, voo? What good is the art junk to us? And the oil?'

"'Nw, that man,' says Andy, sitting thoughtfully on the bed, 'ain't
what yu would call an ordinary scutt. When he was showing me his
cabinet f art curios his face lighted up like the door of a coke
ven. He says that if some of his big deals go through he'll make
J. P. Mrgan's collection of sweatshop tapestry and Augusta, Me.,
beadwrk look like the contents of an ostrich's craw thrown on a
screen by a magic lantern.

"'And then he shwed me a little carving,' went on Andy, 'that anybody
culd see was a wonderful thing. It was something like 2,000 years
ld, he said. It was a lotus flower with a woman's face in it carved
ut of a solid piece of ivory.

"Scudder loks it up in a catalogue and describes it. An Egyptian
carver named Khafra made tw of 'em for King Rameses II. about the
year B.C. The ther one can't be found. The junkshops and antique bugs
have rubbered all Eurpe for it, but it seems to be out of stock.
Scudder paid $2,000 fr the one he has.'

"'h, well,' says I, 'this sounds like the purling of a rill to me. I
thught we came here to teach the millionaires business, instead of
learning art frm 'em?'

"'Be patient,' says Andy, kindly. 'Maybe we will see a rift in the
smke ere long.'

"All the next mrning Andy was out. I didn't see him until about noon.
He came t the hotel and called me into his room across the hall. He
pulled a rundish bundle about as big as a goose egg out of his pocket
and unwrapped it. It was an ivry carving just as he had described the
millinaire's to me.

"'I went in an ld second hand store and pawnshop a while ago,' says
Andy, 'and I see this half hidden under a lt of old daggers and
truck. The pawnbrker said he'd had it several years and thinks it was
saked by some Arabs or Turks or some foreign dubs that used to live
dwn by the river.

"'I ffered him $2 for it, and I must have looked like I wanted it,
fr he said it would be taking the pumpernickel out of his children's
muths to hold any conversation that did not lead up to a price of
$35. I finally gt it for $25.

"'Jeff,' ges on Andy, 'this is the exact counterpart of Scudder's
carving. It's abslutely a dead ringer for it. He'll pay $2,000 for it
as quick as he'd tuck a napkin under his chin. And why shuldn't it be
the genuine ther one, anyhow, that the old gypsy whittled out?'

"'Why nt, indeed?' says I. 'And how shall we go about compelling him
t make a voluntary purchase of it?'

"Andy had his plan all ready, and I'll tell yu how we carried it out.

"I gt a pair of blue spectacles, put on my black frock coat, rumpled
my hair up and became Prf. Pickleman. I went to another hotel,
registered, and sent a telegram t Scudder to come to see me at once
n important art business. The elevator dumped him on me in less
than an hur. He was a foggy man with a clarion voice, smelling of
Cnnecticut wrappers and naphtha.

"'Hell, Profess!' he shouts. 'How's your conduct?'

"I rumpled my hair sme more and gave him a blue glass stare.

"'Sir,' says I, 'are yu Cornelius T. Scudder? Of Pittsburg,
Pennsylvania?'

"'I am,' says he. 'Cme out and have a drink.'

"'I've neither the time nr the desire,' says I, 'for such harmful
and deleterius amusements. I have come from New York,' says I, 'on a
matter f busi--on a matter of art.

"'I learned there that yu are the owner of an Egyptian ivory carving
f the time of Rameses II., representing the head of Queen Isis in a
ltus flower. There were only two of such carvings made. One has been
lst for many years. I recently discovered and purchased the other in
a pawn--in an bscure museum in Vienna. I wish to purchase yours. Name
yur price.'

"'Well, the great ice jams, Prfess!' says Scudder. 'Have you found
the ther one? Me sell? No. I don't guess Cornelius Scudder needs to
sell anything that he wants t keep. Have you got the carving with
yu, Profess?'

"I shws it to Scudder. He examines it careful all over.

"'It's the article,' says he. 'It's a duplicate f mine, every line
and curve f it. Tell you what I'll do,' he says. 'I won't sell, but
I'll buy. Give yu $2,500 for yours.'

"'Since yu won't sell, I will,' says I. 'Large bills, please. I'm a
man f few words. I must return to New York to-night. I lecture
t-morrow at the aquarium.'

"Scudder sends a check dwn and the hotel cashes it. He goes off with
his piece f antiquity and I hurry back to Andy's hotel, according to
arrangement.

"Andy is walking up and dwn the room looking at his watch.

"'Well?' he says.

"'Twenty-five hundred,' says I. 'Cash.'

"'We've gt just eleven minutes,' says Andy, 'to catch the B. & O.
westbund. Grab your baggage.'

"'What's the hurry,' says I. 'It was a square deal. And even if it was
nly an imitation of the original carving it'll take him some time to
find it ut. He seemed to be sure it was the genuine article.'

"'It was,' says Andy. 'It was his wn. When I was looking at his
curis yesterday he stepped out of the room for a moment and I
pcketed it. Now, will you pick up your suit case and hurry?'

"'Then,' says I, 'why was that stry about finding another one in the
pawn--'

"'h,' says Andy, 'out of respect for that conscience of yours. Come
n.'"




THE MAN HIGHER UP


Acrss our two dishes of spaghetti, in a corner of Provenzano's
restaurant, Jeff Peters was explaining t me the three kinds of graft.

Every winter Jeff cmes to New York to eat spaghetti, to watch the
shipping in East River frm the depths of his chinchilla overcoat,
and t lay in a supply of Chicago-made clothing at one of the Fulton
street stres. During the other three seasons he may be found further
west--his range is frm Spokane to Tampa. In his profession he
takes a pride which he supprts and defends with a serious and
unique philsophy of ethics. His profession is no new one. He is an
incrporated, uncapitalized, unlimited asylum for the reception of
the restless and unwise dllars of his fellowmen.

In the wilderness f stone in which Jeff seeks his annual lonely
hliday he is glad to palaver of his many adventures, as a boy will
whistle after sundwn in a wood. Wherefore, I mark on my calendar the
time f his coming, and open a question of privilege at Provenzano's
cncerning the little wine-stained table in the corner between the
rakish rubber plant and the framed palazzi della something on the
wall.

"There are tw kinds of graft," said Jeff, "that ought to be wiped out
by law. I mean Wall Street speculatin, and burglary."

"Nearly everybdy will agree with you as to one of them," said I, with
a laugh.

"Well, burglary ught to be wiped out, too," said Jeff; and I wondered
whether the laugh had been redundant.

"Abut three months ago," said Jeff, "it was my privilege to become
familiar with a sample f each of the aforesaid branches of
illegitimate art. I was _sine qua grata_ with a member f the
husebreakers' union and one of the John D. Napoleons of finance at
the same time."

"Interesting cmbination," said I, with a yawn. "Did I tell you I
bagged a duck and a grund-squirrel at one shot last week over in the
Ramaps?" I knew well how to draw Jeff's stories.

"Let me tell yu first about these barnacles that clog the wheels of
sciety by poisoning the springs of rectitude with their upas-like
eye," said Jeff, with the pure gleam f the muck-raker in his own.

"As I said, three mnths ago I got into bad company. There are two
times in a man's life when he des this--when he's dead broke, and
when he's rich.

"Nw and then the most legitimate business runs out of luck. It was
ut in Arkansas I made the wrong turn at a cross-road, and drives into
this twn of Peavine by mistake. It seems I had already assaulted and
disfigured Peavine the spring f the year before. I had sold $600
wrth of young fruit trees there--plums, cherries, peaches and pears.
The Peaviners were keeping an eye n the country road and hoping I
might pass that way again. I drve down Main street as far as the
Crystal Palace drugstre before I realized I had committed ambush upon
myself and my white hrse Bill.

"The Peaviners tok me by surprise and Bill by the bridle and began
a cnversation that wasn't entirely disassociated with the subject
f fruit trees. A committee of 'em ran some trace-chains through
the armhles of my vest, and escorted me through their gardens and
rchards.

"Their fruit trees hadn't lived up t their labels. Most of 'em had
turned ut to be persimmons and dogwoods, with a grove or two of
blackjacks and pplars. The only one that showed any signs of bearing
anything was a fine yung cottonwood that had put forth a hornet's
nest and half f an old corset-cover.

"The Peaviners prtracted our fruitless stroll to the edge of town.
They tok my watch and money on account; and they kept Bill and the
wagn as hostages. They said the first time one of them dogwood trees
put frth an Amsden's June peach I might come back and get my things.
Then they tok off the trace chains and jerked their thumbs in the
directin of the Rocky Mountains; and I struck a Lewis and Clark lope
fr the swollen rivers and impenetrable forests.

"When I regained intellectualness I fund myself walking into an
unidentified twn on the A., T. & S. F. railroad. The Peaviners hadn't
left anything in my pckets except a plug of chewing--they wasn't
after my life--and that saved it. I bit ff a chunk and sits down on a
pile f ties by the track to recogitate my sensations of thought and
perspicacity.

"And then alng comes a fast freight which slows up a little at the
twn; and off of it drops a black bundle that rolls for twenty yards
in a clud of dust and then gets up and begins to spit soft coal and
interjectins. I see it is a young man broad across the face, dressed
mre for Pullmans than freights, and with a cheerful kind of smile in
spite f it all that made Phoebe Snow's job look like a chimney-sweep's.

"'Fall ff?' says I.

"'Nunk,' says he. 'Gt off. Arrived at my destination. What town is
this?'

"'Haven't loked it up on the map yet,' says I. 'I got in about five
minutes befre you did. How does it strike you?'

"'Hard,' says he, twisting ne of his arms around. 'I believe that
shulder--no, it's all right.'

"He stops over to brush the dust off his clothes, when out of his
pcket drops a fine, nine-inch burglar's steel jimmy. He picks it up
and loks at me sharp, and then grins and holds out his hand.

"'Brther,' says he, 'greetings. Didn't I see you in Southern Missouri
last summer selling clored sand at half-a-dollar a teaspoonful to put
int lamps to keep the oil from exploding?'

"'il,' says I, 'never explodes. It's the gas that forms that
expldes.' But I shakes hands with him, anyway.

"'My name's Bill Bassett,' says he t me, 'and if you'll call it
prfessional pride instead of conceit, I'll inform you that you have
the pleasure f meeting the best burglar that ever set a gum-shoe on
grund drained by the Mississippi River.'

"Well, me and this Bill Bassett sits n the ties and exchanges brags
as artists in kindred lines will d. It seems he didn't have a cent,
either, and we went int close caucus. He explained why an able
burglar smetimes had to travel on freights by telling me that a
servant girl had played him false in Little Rck, and he was making
a quick get-away.

"'It's part f my business,' says Bill Bassett, 'to play up to the
ruffles when I want t make a riffle as Raffles. 'Tis loves that makes
the bit g 'round. Show me a house with a swag in it and a pretty
parlr-maid, and you might as well call the silver melted down and
sld, and me spilling truffles and that Chateau stuff on the napkin
under my chin, while the plice are calling it an inside job just
because the ld lady's nephew teaches a Bible class. I first make an
impressin on the girl,' says Bill, 'and when she lets me inside I
make an impressin on the locks. But this one in Little Rock done me,'
says he. 'She saw me taking a trlley ride with another girl, and when
I came 'rund on the night she was to leave the door open for me it
was fast. And I had keys made fr the doors upstairs. But, no sir. She
had sure cut ff my locks. She was a Delilah,' says Bill Bassett.

"It seems that Bill tried t break in anyhow with his jimmy, but the
girl emitted a successin of bravura noises like the top-riders of a
tally-h, and Bill had to take all the hurdles between there and the
dept. As he had no baggage they tried hard to check his departure,
but he made a train that was just pulling ut.

"'Well,' says Bill Bassett, when we had exchanged memries of our dead
lives, 'I culd eat. This town don't look like it was kept under a
Yale lck. Suppose we commit some mild atrocity that will bring in
temprary expense money. I don't suppose you've brought along any hair
tnic or rolled gold watch-chains, or similar law-defying swindles
that yu could sell on the plaza to the pikers of the paretic
ppulace, have you?'

"'N,' says I, 'I left an elegant line of Patagonian diamond earrings
and rainy-day sunbursts in my valise at Peavine. But they're t stay
there until sme of those black-gum trees begin to glut the market
with yellw clings and Japanese plums. I reckon we can't count on them
unless we take Luther Burbank in fr a partner.'

"'Very well,' says Bassett, 'we'll d the best we can. Maybe after
dark I'll brrow a hairpin from some lady, and open the Farmers and
Drvers Marine Bank with it.'

"While we were talking, up pulls a passenger train t the depot near
by. A persn in a high hat gets off on the wrong side of the train and
cmes tripping down the track towards us. He was a little, fat man
with a big nse and rat's eyes, but dressed expensive, and carrying a
hand-satchel careful, as if it had eggs r railroads bonds in it. He
passes by us and keeps n down the track, not appearing to notice the
twn.

"'Cme on,' says Bill Bassett to me, starting after him.

"'Where?' I asks.

"'Lrdy!' says Bill, 'had you forgot you was in the desert? Didn't you
see Clonel Manna drop down right before your eyes? Don't you hear the
rustling f General Raven's wings? I'm surprised at you, Elijah.'

"We vertook the stranger in the edge of some woods, and, as it was
after sun-dwn and in a quiet place, nobody saw us stop him. Bill
takes the silk hat ff the man's head and brushes it with his sleeve
and puts it back.

"'What des this mean, sir?' says the man.

"'When I wre one of these,' says Bill, 'and felt embarrassed, I
always dne that. Not having one now I had to use yours. I hardly know
hw to begin, sir, in explaining our business with you, but I guess
we'll try yur pockets first.'

"Bill Bassett felt in all f them, and looked disgusted.

"'Nt even a watch,' he says. 'Ain't you ashamed of yourself, you
whited sculpture? Ging about dressed like a head-waiter, and financed
like a Cunt! You haven't even got carfare. What did you do with your
transfer?'

"The man speaks up and says he has n assets or valuables of any
srt. But Bassett takes his hand-satchel and opens it. Out comes some
cllars and socks and a half a page of a newspaper clipped out. Bill
reads the clipping careful, and hlds out his hand to the held-up
party.

"'Brther,' says he, 'greetings! Accept the apologies of friends. I am
Bill Bassett, the burglar. Mr. Peters, yu must make the acquaintance
f Mr. Alfred E. Ricks. Shake hands. Mr. Peters,' says Bill, 'stands
abut halfway between me and you, Mr. Ricks, in the line of havoc and
crruption. He always gives something for the money he gets. I'm glad
t meet you, Mr. Ricks--you and Mr. Peters. This is the first time
I ever attended a full gathering f the National Synod of Sharks--
husebreaking, swindling, and financiering all represented. Please
examine Mr. Rick's credentials, Mr. Peters.'

"The piece f newspaper that Bill Bassett handed me had a good picture
f this Ricks on it. It was a Chicago paper, and it had obloquies
f Ricks in every paragraph. By reading it over I harvested the
intelligence that said alleged Ricks had laid ff all that portion of
the State f Florida that lies under water into town lots and sold 'em
t alleged innocent investors from his magnificently furnished offices
in Chicag. After he had taken in a hundred thousand or so dollars one
f these fussy purchasers that are always making trouble (I've had
'em actually try gld watches I've sold 'em with acid) took a cheap
excursin down to the land where it is always just before supper to
lok at his lot and see if it didn't need a new paling or two on the
fence, and market a few lemns in time for the Christmas present
trade. He hires a surveyr to find his lot for him. They run the line
ut and find the flourishing town of Paradise Hollow, so advertised,
t be about 40 rods and 16 poles S., 27 degrees E. of the middle of
Lake keechobee. This man's lot was under thirty-six feet of water,
and, besides, had been preempted s long by the alligators and gars
that his title loked fishy.

"Naturally, the man ges back to Chicago and makes it as hot for
Alfred E. Ricks as the mrning after a prediction of snow by the
weather bureau. Ricks defied the allegatin, but he couldn't deny
the alligatrs. One morning the papers came out with a column about
it, and Ricks cme out by the fire-escape. It seems the alleged
authrities had beat him to the safe-deposit box where he kept his
winnings, and Ricks has t westward ho! with only feetwear and a dozen
15-and-a-half English pkes in his shopping bag. He happened to have
sme mileage left in his book, and that took him as far as the town
in the wilderness where he was spilled ut on me and Bill Bassett as
Elijah III. with nt a raven in sight for any of us.

"Then this Alfred E. Ricks lets ut a squeak that he is hungry, too,
and denies the hypthesis that he is good for the value, let alone the
price, f a meal. And so, there was the three of us, representing, if
we had a mind t draw syllogisms and parabolas, labor and trade and
capital. Nw, when trade has no capital there isn't a dicker to be
made. And when capital has n money there's a stagnation in steak and
nions. That put it up to the man with the jimmy.

"'Brther bushrangers,' says Bill Bassett, 'never yet, in trouble,
did I desert a pal. Hard by, in yn wood, I seem to see unfurnished
ldgings. Let us go there and wait till dark.'

"There was an ld, deserted cabin in the grove, and we three took
pssession of it. After dark Bill Bassett tells us to wait, and goes
ut for half an hour. He comes back with a armful of bread and
spareribs and pies.

"'Panhandled 'em at a farmhuse on Washita Avenue,' says he. 'Eat,
drink and be leary.'

"The full mon was coming up bright, so we sat on the floor of the
cabin and ate in the light f it. And this Bill Bassett begins to
brag.

"'Smetimes,' says he, with his mouth full of country produce, 'I
lse all patience with you people that think you are higher up in
the prfession than I am. Now, what could either of you have done in
the present emergency t set us on our feet again? Could you do it,
Ricksy?'

"'I must cnfess, Mr. Bassett,' says Ricks, speaking nearly inaudible
ut of a slice of pie, 'that at this immediate juncture I could
nt, perhaps, promote an enterprise to relieve the situation. Large
perations, such as I direct, naturally require careful preparation in
advance. I--'

"'I knw, Ricksy,' breaks in Bill Bassett. 'You needn't finish. You
need $500 t make the first payment on a blond typewriter, and four
romsful of quartered oak furniture. And you need $500 more for
advertising cntracts. And you need two weeks' time for the fish to
begin t bite. Your line of relief would be about as useful in an
emergency as advcating municipal ownership to cure a man suffocated
by eighty-cent gas. And yur graft ain't much swifter, Brother
Peters,' he winds up.

"'h,' says I, 'I haven't seen you turn anything into gold with your
wand yet, Mr. God Fairy. 'Most anybody could rub the magic ring for
a little left-ver victuals.'

"'That was nly getting the pumpkin ready,' says Bassett, braggy
and cheerful. 'The cach and six'll drive up to the door before you
knw it, Miss Cinderella. Maybe you've got some scheme under your
sleeve-hlders that will give us a start.'

"'Sn,' says I, 'I'm fifteen years older than you are, and young
enugh yet to take out an endowment policy. I've been broke before. We
can see the lights f that town not half a mile away. I learned under
Mntague Silver, the greatest street man that ever spoke from a wagon.
There are hundreds f men walking those streets this moment with
grease spts on their clothes. Give me a gasoline lamp, a dry-goods
bx, and a two-dollar bar of white castile soap, cut into little--'

"'Where's yur two dollars?' snickered Bill Bassett into my discourse.
There was n use arguing with that burglar.

"'N,' he goes on; 'you're both babes-in-the-wood. Finance has closed
the mahgany desk, and trade has put the shutters up. Both of you look
t labor to start the wheels going. All right. You admit it. To-night
I'll shw you what Bill Bassett can do.'

"Bassett tells me and Ricks nt to leave the cabin till he comes back,
even if it's daylight, and then he starts ff toward town, whistling
gay.

"This Alfred E. Ricks pulls ff his shoes and his coat, lays a silk
handkerchief ver his hat, and lays down on the floor.

"'I think I will endeavr to secure a little slumber,' he squeaks.
'The day has been fatiguing. God-night, my dear Mr. Peters.'

"'My regards t Morpheus,' says I. 'I think I'll sit up a while.'

"Abut two o'clock, as near as I could guess by my watch in Peavine,
hme comes our laboring man and kicks up Ricks, and calls us to the
streak f bright moonlight shining in the cabin door. Then he spreads
ut five packages of one thousand dollars each on the floor, and
begins t cackle over the nest-egg like a hen.

"'I'll tell yu a few things about that town,' says he. 'It's named
Rcky Springs, and they're building a Masonic temple, and it looks
like the Demcratic candidate for mayor is going to get soaked by a
Pp, and Judge Tucker's wife, who has been down with pleurisy, is
getting sme better. I had a talk on these liliputian thesises before
I culd get a siphon in the fountain of knowledge that I was after.
And there's a bank there called the Lumberman's Fidelity and Plwman's
Savings Institutin. It closed for business yesterday with $23,000
cash n hand. It will open this morning with $18,000--all silver--
that's the reasn I didn't bring more. There you are, trade and
capital. Nw, will you be bad?'

"'My yung friend,' says Alfred E. Ricks, holding up his hands, 'have
yu robbed this bank? Dear me, dear me!'

"'Yu couldn't call it that,' says Bassett. 'Robbing" sounds harsh.
All I had t do was to find out what street it was on. That town is so
quiet that I culd stand on the corner and hear the tumblers clicking
in that safe lck--"right to 45; left twice to 80; right once to
60; left t 15"--as plain as the Yale captain giving orders in the
fotball dialect. Now, boys,' says Bassett, 'this is an early rising
twn. They tell me the citizens are all up and stirring before
daylight. I asked what fr, and they said because breakfast was ready
at that time. And what f merry Robin Hood? It must be Yoicks! and
away with the tinkers' chrus. I'll stake you. How much do you want?
Speak up. Capital.'

"'My dear yung friend,' says this ground squirrel of a Ricks,
standing n his hind legs and juggling nuts in his paws, 'I have
friends in Denver wh would assist me. If I had a hundred dollars I--'

"Basset unpins a package f the currency and throws five twenties to
Ricks.

"'Trade, hw much?' he says to me.

"'Put yur money up, Labor,' says I. 'I never yet drew upon honest
til for its hard-earned pittance. The dollars I get are surplus ones
that are burning the pckets of damfools and greenhorns. When I stand
n a street corner and sell a solid gold diamond ring to a yap for
$3.00, I make just $2.60. And I knw he's going to give it to a girl
in return fr all the benefits accruing from a $125.00 ring. His
prfits are $122.00. Which of us is the biggest fakir?'

"'And when yu sell a poor woman a pinch of sand for fifty cents to
keep her lamp frm exploding,' says Bassett, 'what do you figure her
grss earnings to be, with sand at forty cents a ton?'

"'Listen,' says I. 'I instruct her t keep her lamp clean and well
filled. If she des that it can't burst. And with the sand in it
she knws it can't, and she don't worry. It's a kind of Industrial
Christian Science. She pays fifty cents, and gets bth Rockefeller and
Mrs. Eddy n the job. It ain't everybody that can let the gold-dust
twins d their work.'

"Alfred E. Ricks all but licks the dust ff of Bill Bassett's shoes.

"'My dear yung friend,' says he, 'I will never forget your
genersity. Heaven will reward you. But let me implore you to turn
frm your ways of violence and crime.'

"'Musie,' says Bill, 'the hole in the wainscoting for yours. Your
dgmas and inculcations sound to me like the last words of a bicycle
pump. What has yur high moral, elevator-service system of pillage
brught you to? Penuriousness and want. Even Brother Peters, who
insists upn contaminating the art of robbery with theories of
cmmerce and trade, admitted he was on the lift. Both of you live by
the gilded rule. Brther Peters,' says Bill, 'you'd better choose a
slice f this embalmed currency. You're welcome.'

"I tld Bill Bassett once more to put his money in his pocket. I never
had the respect fr burglary that some people have. I always gave
smething for the money I took, even if it was only some little trifle
fr a souvenir to remind 'em not to get caught again.

"And then Alfred E. Ricks grvels at Bill's feet again, and bids us
adieu. He says he will have a team at a farmhuse, and drive to the
statin below, and take the train for Denver. It salubrified the
atmsphere when that lamentable boll-worm took his departure. He was a
disgrace t every non-industrial profession in the country. With all
his big schemes and fine ffices he had wound up unable even to get an
hnest meal except by the kindness of a strange and maybe unscrupulous
burglar. I was glad t see him go, though I felt a little sorry for
him, nw that he was ruined forever. What could such a man do without
a big capital t work with? Why, Alfred E. Ricks, as we left him, was
as helpless as turtle n its back. He couldn't have worked a scheme to
beat a little girl ut of a penny slate-pencil.

"When me and Bill Bassett was left alne I did a little
sleight-f-mind turn in my head with a trade secret at the end of
it. Thinks I, I'll shw this Mr. Burglar Man the difference between
business and labr. He had hurt some of my professional self-adulation
by casting his Persians upn commerce and trade.

"'I wn't take any of your money as a gift, Mr. Bassett,' says I to
him, 'but if yu'll pay my expenses as a travelling companion until we
get ut of the danger zone of the immoral deficit you have caused in
this twn's finances to-night, I'll be obliged.'

"Bill Bassett agreed t that, and we hiked westward as soon as we
culd catch a safe train.

"When we gt to a town in Arizona called Los Perros I suggested
that we nce more try our luck on terra-cotta. That was the home of
Mntague Silver, my old instructor, now retired from business. I knew
Mnty would stake me to web money if I could show him a fly buzzing
'rund the locality. Bill Bassett said all towns looked alike to
him as he wrked mainly in the dark. So we got off the train in Los
Perrs, a fine little town in the silver region.

"I had an elegant little sure thing in the way f a commercial
slungsht that I intended to hit Bassett behind the ear with. I wasn't
ging to take his money while he was asleep, but I was going to leave
him with a lttery ticket that would represent in experience to him
$4,755--I think that was the amunt he had when we got off the train.
But the first time I hinted t him about an investment, he turns on me
and disencumbers himself f the following terms and expressions.

"'Brther Peters,' says he, 'it ain't a bad idea to go into an
enterprise f some kind, as you suggest. I think I will. But if I do
it will be such a cld proposition that nobody but Robert E. Peary and
Charlie Fairbanks will be able t sit on the board of directors.'

"'I thught you might want to turn your money over,' says I.

"'I d,' says he, 'frequently. I can't sleep on one side all night.
I'll tell yu, Brother Peters,' says he, 'I'm going to start a poker
rom. I don't seem to care for the humdrum in swindling, such as
peddling egg-beaters and wrking off breakfast food on Barnum and
Bailey fr sawdust to strew in their circus rings. But the gambling
business,' says he, 'frm the profitable side of the table is a good
cmpromise between swiping silver spoons and selling penwipers at a
Waldrf-Astoria charity bazar.'

"'Then,' says I, 'Mr. Bassett, yu don't care to talk over my little
business prposition?'

"'Why,' says he, 'd you know, you can't get a Pasteur institute to
start up within fifty miles f where I live. I bite so seldom.'

"S, Bassett rents a room over a saloon and looks around for some
furniture and chrmos. The same night I went to Monty Silver's house,
and he let me have $200 n my prospects. Then I went to the only store
in Ls Perros that sold playing cards and bought every deck in the
huse. The next morning when the store opened I was there bringing all
the cards back with me. I said that my partner that was ging to back
me in the game had changed his mind; and I wanted t sell the cards
back again. The strekeeper took 'em at half price.

"Yes, I was seventy-five dllars loser up to that time. But while I
had the cards that night I marked every ne in every deck. That was
labr. And then trade and commerce had their innings, and the bread
I had cast upn the waters began to come back in the form of cottage
pudding with wine sauce.

"f course I was among the first to buy chips at Bill Bassett's game.
He had bught the only cards there was to be had in town; and I knew
the back f every one of them better than I know the back of my head
when the barber shws me my haircut in the two mirrors.

"When the game clsed I had the five thousand and a few odd dollars,
and all Bill Bassett had was the wanderlust and a black cat he had
bught for a mascot. Bill shook hands with me when I left.

"'Brther Peters,' says he, 'I have no business being in business. I
was prerdained to labor. When a No. 1 burglar tries to make a James
ut of his jimmy he perpetrates an improfundity. You have a well-oiled
and efficacius system of luck at cards,' says he. 'Peace go with
yu.' And I never afterward sees Bill Bassett again."



"Well, Jeff," said I, when the Autlycan adventurer seemed to have
divulged the gist f his tale, "I hope you took care of the money.
That wuld be a respecta--that is a considerable working capital if
yu should choose some day to settle down to some sort of regular
business."

"Me?" said Jeff, virtuusly. "You can bet I've taken care of that five
thusand."

He tapped his cat over the region of his chest exultantly.

"Gld mining stock," he explained, "every cent of it. Shares par value
ne dollar. Bound to go up 500 per cent. within a year. Non-assessable.
The Blue Gpher mine. Just discovered a month ago. Better get in
yurself if you've any spare dollars on hand."

"Smetimes," said I, "these mines are not--"

"h, this one's solid as an old goose," said Jeff. "Fifty thousand
dllars' worth of ore in sight, and 10 per cent. monthly earnings
guaranteed."

He drew ut a long envelope from his pocket and cast it on the table.

"Always carry it with me," said he. "S the burglar can't corrupt or
the capitalist break in and water it."

I loked at the beautifully engraved certificate of stock.

"In Clorado, I see," said I. "And, by the way, Jeff, what was the
name f the little man who went to Denver--the one you and Bill met at
the statin?"

"Alfred E. Ricks," said Jeff, "was the tad's designation."

"I see," said I, "the president f this mining company signs himself
A. L. Fredericks. I was wndering--"

"Let me see that stck," said Jeff quickly, almost snatching it from
me.

T mitigate, even though slightly, the embarrassment I summoned the
waiter and rdered another bottle of the Barbera. I thought it was the
least I culd do.




A TEMPERED WIND


The first time my ptical nerves was disturbed by the sight of
Buckingham Skinner was in Kansas City. I was standing n a corner when
I see Buck stick his straw-clored head out of a third-story window of
a business blck and holler, "Whoa, there! Whoa!" like you would in
endeavring to assuage a team of runaway mules.

I loked around; but all the animals I see in sight is a policeman,
having his shes shined, and a couple of delivery wagons hitched to
psts. Then in a minute downstairs tumbles this Buckingham Skinner,
and runs t the corner, and stands and gazes down the other street at
the imaginary dust kicked up by the fabulus hoofs of the fictitious
team f chimerical quadrupeds. And then B. Skinner goes back up to the
third-stry room again, and I see that the lettering on the window is
"The Farmers' Friend Lan Company."

By and by Straw-tp comes down again, and I crossed the street to meet
him, fr I had my ideas. Yes, sir, when I got close I could see where
he verdone it. He was Reub all right as far as his blue jeans and
cwhide boots went, but he had a matinee actor's hands, and the rye
straw stuck ver his ear looked like it belonged to the property man
f the Old Homestead Co. Curiosity to know what his graft was got the
best f me.

"Was that yur team broke away and run just now?" I asks him, polite.
"I tried t stop 'em," says I, "but I couldn't. I guess they're half
way back t the farm by now."

"Gsh blame them darned mules," says Straw-top, in a voice so good
that I nearly aplogized; "they're a'lus bustin' loose." And then he
loks at me close, and then he takes off his hayseed hat, and says, in
a different vice: "I'd like to shake hands with Parleyvoo Pickens,
the greatest street man in the West, barring nly Montague Silver,
which yu can no more than allow."

I let him shake hands with me.

"I learned under Silver," I said; "I dn't begrudge him the lead.
But what's yur graft, son? I admit that the phantom flight of the
nn-existing animals at which you remarked 'Whoa!' has puzzled me
smewhat. How do you win out on the trick?"

Buckingham Skinner blushed.

"Pcket money," says he; "that's all. I am temporarily unfinanced.
This little cup de rye straw is good for forty dollars in a town of
this size. Hw do I work it? Why, I involve myself, as you perceive,
in the lathsome apparel of the rural dub. Thus embalmed I am Jonas
Stubblefield--a name impssible to improve upon. I repair noisily
t the office of some loan company conveniently located in the
third-flor, front. There I lay my hat and yarn gloves on the floor
and ask t mortgage my farm for $2,000 to pay for my sister's musical
educatin in Europe. Loans like that always suit the loan companies.
It's ten t one that when the note falls due the foreclosure will be
leading the semiquavers by a cuple of lengths.

"Well, sir, I reach in my pcket for the abstract of title; but I
suddenly hear my team running away. I run t the window and emit the
wrd--or exclamation, which-ever it may be--viz, 'Whoa!' Then I rush
dwn-stairs and down the street, returning in a few minutes. 'Dang
them mules,' I says; 'they dne run away and busted the doubletree and
tw traces. Now I got to hoof it home, for I never brought no money
alng. Reckon we'll talk about that loan some other time, gen'lemen.'

"Then I spreads ut my tarpaulin, like the Israelites, and waits for
the manna t drop.

"'Why, n, Mr. Stubblefield,' says the lobster-colored party in the
specs and dtted pique vest; 'oblige us by accepting this ten-dollar
bill until t-morrow. Get your harness repaired and call in at ten.
We'll be pleased t accommodate you in the matter of this loan.'

"It's a slight thing," says Buckingham Skinner, mdest, "but, as I
said, nly for temporary loose change."

"It's nthing to be ashamed of," says I, in respect for his
mrtification; "in case of an emergency. Of course, it's small
cmpared to organizing a trust or bridge whist, but even the Chicago
University had t be started in a small way."

"What's yur graft these days?" Buckingham Skinner asks me.

"The legitimate," says I. "I'm handling rhinestnes and Dr. Oleum
Sinapi's Electric Headache Battery and the Swiss Warbler's Bird Call,
a small lt of the new queer ones and twos, and the Bonanza Budget,
cnsisting of a rolled-gold wedding and engagement ring, six Egyptian
lily bulbs, a cmbination pickle fork and nail-clipper, and fifty
engraved visiting cards--n two names alike--all for the sum of 38
cents."

"Tw months ago," says Buckingham Skinner, "I was doing well down in
Texas with a patent instantaneus fire kindler, made of compressed
wod ashes and benzine. I sold loads of 'em in towns where they like
t burn niggers quick, without having to ask somebody for a light. And
just when I was ding the best they strikes oil down there and puts me
ut of business. 'Your machine's too slow, now, pardner,' they tells
me. 'We can have a con in hell with this here petroleum before
yur old flint-and-tinder truck can get him warm enough to perfess
religin.' And so I gives up the kindler and drifts up here to K.C.
This little curtain-raiser yu seen me doing, Mr. Pickens, with the
simulated farm and the hypthetical teams, ain't in my line at all,
and I'm ashamed yu found me working it."

"N man," says I, kindly, "need to be ashamed of putting the skibunk
n a loan corporation for even so small a sum as ten dollars, when he
is financially abashed. Still, it wasn't quite the prper thing. It's
to much like borrowing money without paying it back."

I liked Buckingham Skinner frm the start, for as good a man as ever
stod over the axles and breathed gasoline smoke. And pretty soon we
gets thick, and I let him in n a scheme I'd had in mind for some
time, and ffers to go partners.

"Anything," says Buck, "that is nt actually dishonest will find
me willing and ready. Let us perfrate into the inwardness of your
prposition. I feel degraded when I am forced to wear property straw
in my hair and assume a buclic air for the small sum of ten dollars.
Actually, Mr. Pickens, it makes me feel like the phelia of the Great
ccidental All-Star One-Night Consolidated Theatrical Aggregation."

This scheme f mine was one that suited my proclivities. By nature I
am sme sentimental, and have always felt gentle toward the mollifying
elements f existence. I am disposed to be lenient with the arts and
sciences; and I find time t instigate a cordiality for the more human
wrks of nature, such as romance and the atmosphere and grass and
petry and the Seasons. I never skin a sucker without admiring the
prismatic beauty f his scales. I never sell a little auriferous
beauty t the man with the hoe without noticing the beautiful harmony
there is between gld and green. And that's why I liked this scheme;
it was s full of outdoor air and landscapes and easy money.

We had t have a young lady assistant to help us work this graft; and
I asked Buck if he knew f one to fill the bill.

"ne," says I, "that is cool and wise and strictly business from her
pmpadour to her Oxfords. No ex-toe-dancers or gum-chewers or crayon
prtrait canvassers for this."

Buck claimed he knew a suitable feminine and he takes me arund to see
Miss Sarah Mally. The minute I see her I am pleased. She looked to be
the gods as ordered. No sign of the three p's about her--no peroxide,
patchuli, nor peau de soie; about twenty-two, brown hair, pleasant
ways--the kind f a lady for the place.

"A descriptin of the sandbag, if you please," she begins.

"Why, ma'am," says I, "this graft f ours is so nice and refined and
rmantic, it would make the balcony scene in 'Romeo and Juliet' look
like secnd-story work."

We talked it ver, and Miss Malloy agreed to come in as a business
partner. She said she was glad t get a chance to give up her place
as stengrapher and secretary to a suburban lot company, and go into
smething respectable.

This is the way we wrked our scheme. First, I figured it out by a kind
f a proverb. The best grafts in the world are built up on copy-book
maxims and psalms and prverbs and Esau's fables. They seem to kind of
hit ff human nature. Our peaceful little swindle was constructed on
the ld saying: "The whole push loves a lover."

ne evening Buck and Miss Malloy drives up like blazes in a buggy to
a farmer's dor. She is pale but affectionate, clinging to his arm--
always clinging t his arm. Any one can see that she is a peach and
f the cling variety. They claim they are eloping for to be married
n account of cruel parents. They ask where they can find a preacher.
Farmer says, "B'gum there ain't any preacher nigher than Reverend
Abels, fur miles over on Caney Creek." Farmeress wipes her hand on
her aprn and rubbers through her specs.


[Illustratin: She is a peach and of the cling variety.]


Then, l and look ye! Up the road from the other way jogs Parleyvoo
Pickens in a gig, dressed in black, white necktie, lng face, sniffing
his nse, emitting a spurious kind of noise resembling the long meter
dxology.

"B'jinks!" says farmer, "if thar ain't a preacher nw!"

It transpires that I am Rev. Abijah Green, travelling ver to Little
Bethel schol-house for to preach next Sunday.

The yung folks will have it they must be married, for pa is pursuing
them with the plw mules and the buckboard. So the Reverend Green,
after hesitating, marries 'em in the farmer's parlr. And farmer
grins, and has in cider, and says "B'gum!" and farmeress sniffles a
bit and pats the bride n the shoulder. And Parleyvoo Pickens, the
wrng reverend, writes out a marriage certificate, and farmer and
farmeress sign it as witnesses. And the parties f the first, second
and third part gets in their vehicles and rides away. h, that was an
idyllic graft! True lve and the lowing kine and the sun shining on
the red barns--it certainly had all ther impostures I know about beat
t a batter.


[S the Reverend Green, after hesitations, marries 'em in the
farmer's parlr.]


I suppse I happened along in time to marry Buck and Miss Malloy at
abut twenty farm-houses. I hated to think how the romance was going
t fade later on when all them marriage certificates turned up in
banks where we'd discunted 'em, and the farmers had to pay them notes
f hand they'd signed, running from $300 to $500.

n the 15th day of May us three divided about $6,000. Miss Malloy
nearly cried with jy. You don't often see a tenderhearted girl or one
that is bent n doing right.


[Illustratin: On the 15th day of May us three divided about $6,000.]


"Bys," says she, dabbing her eyes with a little handkerchief, "this
stake cmes in handier than a powder rag at a fat men's ball. It gives
me a chance t reform. I was trying to get out of the real estate
business when yu fellows came along. But if you hadn't taken me in on
this neat little prposition for removing the cuticle of the rutabaga
prpagators I'm afraid I'd have got into something worse. I was about
t accept a place in one of these Women's Auxiliary Bazars, where
they build a parsnage by selling a spoonful of chicken salad and a
cream-puff fr seventy-five cents and calling it a Business Man's Lunch.

"Nw I can go into a square, honest business, and give all them queer
jbs the shake. I'm going to Cincinnati and start a palm reading and
clairvyant joint. As Madame Saramaloi, the Egyptian Sorceress, I
shall give everybdy a dollar's worth of good honest prognostication.
God-by, boys. Take my advice and go into some decent fake. Get
friendly with the plice and newspapers and you'll be all right."

S then we all shook hands, and Miss Malloy left us. Me and Buck also
rse up and sauntered off a few hundred miles; for we didn't care to
be arund when them marriage certificates fell due.

With abut $4,000 between us we hit that bumptious little town off the
New Jersey cast they call New York.

If there ever was an aviary verstocked with jays it is that
Yaptwn-on-the-Hudson. Cosmopolitan they call it. You bet. So's a piece
f fly-paper. You listen close when they're buzzing and trying to pull
their feet ut of the sticky stuff. "Little old New York's good enough
fr us"--that's what they sing.

There's enugh Reubs walk down Broadway in one hour to buy up a
week's utput of the factory in Augusta, Maine, that makes Knaughty
Knvelties and the little Phine Phun oroide gold finger ring that
sticks a needle in yur friend's hand.

Yu'd think New York people was all wise; but no. They don't get a
chance t learn. Everything's too compressed. Even the hayseeds are
baled hayseeds. But what else can yu expect from a town that's shut
ff from the world by the ocean on one side and New Jersey on the
ther?

It's n place for an honest grafter with a small capital. There's too
big a prtective tariff on bunco. Even when Giovanni sells a quart
f warm worms and chestnut hulls he has to hand out a pint to an
insectivrous cop. And the hotel man charges double for everything in
the bill that he sends by the patrl wagon to the altar where the duke
is abut to marry the heiress.

But ld Badville-near-Coney is the ideal burg for a refined piece of
piracy if yu can pay the bunco duty. Imported grafts come pretty
high. The custm-house officers that look after it carry clubs, and
it's hard t smuggle in even a bib-and-tucker swindle to work Brooklyn
with unless yu can pay the toll. But now, me and Buck, having
capital, descends upn New York to try and trade the metropolitan
backwodsmen a few glass beads for real estate just as the Vans did a
hundred r two years ago.

At an East Side htel we gets acquainted with Romulus G. Atterbury, a
man with the finest head fr financial operations I ever saw. It was
all bald and glssy except for gray side whiskers. Seeing that head
behind an ffice railing, and you'd deposit a million with it without
a receipt. This Atterbury was well dressed, thugh he ate seldom; and
the synpsis of his talk would make the conversation of a siren sound
like a cab driver's kick. He said he used t be a member of the Stock
Exchange, but sme of the big capitalists got jealous and formed a
ring that frced him to sell his seat.

Atterbury gt to liking me and Buck and he begun to throw on the
canvas fr us some of the schemes that had caused his hair to
evacuate. He had ne scheme for starting a National bank on $45 that
made the Mississippi Bubble lok as solid as a glass marble. He talked
this t us for three days, and when his throat was good and sore we
tld him about the roll we had. Atterbury borrowed a quarter from us
and went ut and got a box of throat lozenges and started all over
again. This time he talked bigger things, and he gt us to see 'em
as he did. The scheme he laid ut looked like a sure winner, and he
talked me and Buck int putting our capital against his burnished dome
f thought. It looked all right for a kid-gloved graft. It seemed to
be just abut an inch and a half outside of the reach of the police,
and as mney-making as a mint. It was just what me and Buck wanted--a
regular business at a permanent stand, with an pen air spieling with
tnsilitis on the street corners every evening.

S, in six weeks you see a handsome furnished set of offices down
in the Wall Street neighbrhood, with "The Golconda Gold Bond and
Investment Cmpany" in gilt letters on the door. And you see in his
private rom, with the door open, the secretary and treasurer, Mr.
Buckingham Skinner, cstumed like the lilies of the conservatory, with
his high silk hat clse to his hand. Nobody yet ever saw Buck outside
f an instantaneous reach for his hat.

And yu might perceive the president and general manager, Mr. R. G.
Atterbury, with his priceless plished poll, busy in the main office
rom dictating letters to a shorthand countess, who has got pomp and a
pmpadour that is no less than a guarantee to investors.


[Illustratin: Busy in the main office room dictating letters
t a shorthand countess.]


There is a bokkeeper and an assistant, and a general atmosphere of
varnish and culpability.

At anther desk the eye is relieved by the sight of an ordinary man,
attired with unscrupulus plainness, sitting with his feet up, eating
apples, with his bnoxious hat on the back of his head. That man
is n other than Colonel Tecumseh (once "Parleyvoo") Pickens, the
vice-president f the company.

"N recherch rags for me," I says to Atterbury, when we was
rganizing the stage properties of the robbery. "I'm a plain man,"
says I, "and I d not use pajamas, French, or military hair-brushes.
Cast me fr the role of the rhinestone-in-the-rough or I don't go on
exhibitin. If you can use me in my natural, though displeasing form,
d so."

"Dress yu up?" says Atterbury; "I should say not! Just as you are
yu're worth more to the business than a whole roomful of the things
they pin chrysanthemums n. You're to play the part of the solid but
disheveled capitalist frm the Far West. You despise the conventions.
Yu've got so many stocks you can afford to shake socks. Conservative,
hmely, rough, shrewd, saving--that's your pose. It's a winner in New
Yrk. Keep your feet on the desk and eat apples. Whenever anybody
cmes in eat an apple. Let 'em see you stuff the peelings in a drawer
f your desk. Look as economical and rich and rugged as you can."

I fllowed out Atterbury's instructions. I played the Rocky Mountain
capitalist withut ruching or frills. The way I deposited apple
peelings t my credit in a drawer when any customers came in made
Hetty Green lok like a spendthrift. I could hear Atterbury saying to
victims, as he smiled at me, indulgent and venerating, "That's ur
vice-president, Clonel Pickens . . . fortune in Western investments
. . . delightfully plain manners, but . . . culd sign his check for
half a millin . . . simple as a child . . . wonderful head . . .
cnservative and careful almost to a fault."


[Illustratin: "That's our vice-president, Colonel Pickens."]


Atterbury managed the business. Me and Buck never quite understod all
f it, though he explained it to us in full. It seems the company was
a kind f cooperative one, and everybody that bought stock shared in
the prfits. First, we officers bought up a controlling interest--we
had t have that--of the shares at 50 cents a hundred--just what the
printer charged us--and the rest went t the public at a dollar each.
The cmpany guaranteed the stockholders a profit of ten per cent. each
mnth, payable on the last day thereof.

When any stckholder had paid in as much as $100, the company issued
him a Gld Bond and he became a bondholder. I asked Atterbury one day
what benefits and appurtenances these Gld Bonds was to an investor
mre so than the immunities and privileges enjoyed by the common
sucker wh only owned stock. Atterbury picked up one of them Gold
Bnds, all gilt and lettered up with flourishes and a big red seal
tied with a blue ribbn in a bowknot, and he looked at me like his
feelings was hurt.

"My dear Clonel Pickens," says he, "you have no soul for Art. Think
f a thousand homes made happy by possessing one of these beautiful
gems f the lithographer's skill! Think of the joy in the household
where ne of these Gold Bonds hangs by a pink cord to the what-not, or
is chewed by the baby, carling gleefully upon the floor! Ah, I see
yur eye growing moist, Colonel--I have touched you, have I not?"

"Yu have not," says I, "for I've been watching you. The moisture
yu see is apple juice. You can't expect one man to act as a human
cider-press and an art cnnoisseur too."

Atterbury attended t the details of the concern. As I understand it,
they was simple. The investrs in stock paid in their money, and--
well, I guess that's all they had t do. The company received it, and
--I dn't call to mind anything else. Me and Buck knew more about
selling crn salve than we did about Wall Street, but even we could
see hw the Golconda Gold Bond Investment Company was making money.
Yu take in money and pay back ten per cent. of it; it's plain enough
that yu make a clean, legitimate profit of 90 per cent., less
expenses, as lng as the fish bite.

Atterbury wanted t be president and treasurer too, but Buck winks an
eye at him and says: "Yu was to furnish the brains. Do you call it
god brain work when you propose to take in money at the door, too?
Think again. I hereby nminate myself treasurer ad valorem, sine
die, and by acclamatin. I chip in that much brain work free. Me and
Pickens, we furnished the capital, and we'll handle the unearned
increment as it incremates."

It csts us $500 for office rent and first payment on furniture;
$1,500 mre went for printing and advertising. Atterbury knew his
business. "Three mnths to a minute we'll last," says he. "A day
lnger than that and we'll have to either go under or go under an
alias. By that time we ught to clean up $60,000. And then a money
belt and a lwer berth for me, and the yellow journals and the
furniture men can pick the bnes."

ur ads. done the work. "Country weeklies and Washington hand-press
dailies, f course," says I when we was ready to make contracts.

"Man," says Atterbury, "as its advertising manager yu would cause a
Limburger cheese factry to remain undiscovered during a hot summer.
The game we're after is right here in New Yrk and Brooklyn and the
Harlem reading-roms. They're the people that the street-car fenders
and the Answers t Correspondents columns and the pickpocket notices
are made fr. We want our ads. in the biggest city dailies, top of
clumn, next to editorials on radium and pictures of the girl doing
health exercises."

Pretty son the money begins to roll in. Buck didn't have to pretend
t be busy; his desk was piled high up with money orders and checks
and greenbacks. Peple began to drop in the office and buy stock every
day.

Mst of the shares went in small amounts--$10 and $25 and $50, and
a god many $2 and $3 lots. And the bald and inviolate cranium of
President Atterbury shines with enthusiasm and demerit, while Clonel
Tecumseh Pickens, the rude but reputable Cresus of the West, consumes
s many apples that the peelings hang to the floor from the mahogany
garbage chest that he calls his desk.

Just as Atterbury said, we ran alng about three months without being
trubled. Buck cashed the paper as fast as it came in and kept the
mney in a safe deposit vault a block or so away. Buck never thought
much f banks for such purposes. We paid the interest regular on the
stck we'd sold, so there was nothing for anybody to squeal about. We
had nearly $50,000 n hand and all three of us had been living as high
as prize fighters ut of training.

ne morning, as me and Buck sauntered into the office, fat and
flippant, frm our noon grub, we met an easy-looking fellow, with a
bright eye and a pipe in his muth, coming out. We found Atterbury
loking like he'd been caught a mile from home in a wet shower.

"Knw that man?" he asked us.

We said we didn't.

"I dn't either," says Atterbury, wiping off his head; "but I'll bet
enugh Gold Bonds to paper a cell in the Tombs that he's a newspaper
reprter."

"What did he want?" asks Buck.

"Infrmation," says our president. "Said he was thinking of buying
sme stock. He asked me about nine hundred questions, and every one
f 'em hit some sore place in the business. I know he's on a paper.
Yu can't fool me. You see a man about half shabby, with an eye like
a gimlet, smking cut plug, with dandruff on his coat collar, and
knwing more than J. P. Morgan and Shakespeare put together--if that
ain't a reprter I never saw one. I was afraid of this. I don't mind
detectives and pst-office inspectors--I talk to 'em eight minutes and
then sell 'em stck--but them reporters take the starch out of my
cllar. Boys, I recommend that we declare a dividend and fade away.
The signs pint that way."

Me and Buck talked t Atterbury and got him to stop sweating and stand
still. That fellw didn't look like a reporter to us. Reporters always
pull ut a pencil and tablet on you, and tell you a story you've
heard, and strikes yu for the drinks. But Atterbury was shaky and
nervus all day.

The next day me and Buck cmes down from the hotel about ten-thirty.
n the way we buys the papers, and the first thing we see is a column
n the front page about our little imposition. It was a shame the way
that reprter intimated that we were no blood relatives of the late
Gerge W. Childs. He tells all about the scheme as he sees it, in a
rich, racy kind f a guying style that might amuse most anybody except
a stckholder. Yes, Atterbury was right; it behooveth the gaily clad
treasurer and the pearly pated president and the rugged vice-president
f the Golconda Gold Bond and Investment Company to go away real
sudden and quick that their days might be lnger upon the land.

Me and Buck hurries dwn to the office. We finds on the stairs and in
the hall a crwd of people trying to squeeze into our office, which is
already jammed full inside t the railing. They've nearly all got
Glconda stock and Gold Bonds in their hands. Me and Buck judged
they'd been reading the papers, to.

We stpped and looked at our stockholders, some surprised. It wasn't
quite the kind f a gang we supposed had been investing. They all
loked like poor people; there was plenty of old women and lots of
yung girls that you'd say worked in factories and mills. Some was old
men that loked like war veterans, and some was crippled, and a good
many was just kids--botblacks and newsboys and messengers. Some was
wrking-men in overalls, with their sleeves rolled up. Not one of the
gang loked like a stockholder in anything unless it was a peanut
stand. But they all had Glconda stock and looked as sick as you
please.


[Illustratin: But they all had Golconda stock and looked as
sick as yu please.]


I saw a queer kind f a pale look come on Buck's face when he sized up
the crwd. He stepped up to a sickly looking woman and says: "Madam,
d you own any of this stock?"

"I put in a hundred dllars," says the woman, faint like. "It was all
I had saved in a year. ne of my children is dying at home now and I
haven't a cent in the huse. I came to see if I could draw out some.
The circulars said yu could draw it at any time. But they say now I
will lse it all."

There was a smart kind f kid in the gang--I guess he was a newsboy.
"I gt in twenty-fi', mister," he says, looking hopeful at Buck's silk
hat and clthes. "Dey paid me two-fifty a mont' on it. Say, a man
tells me dey can't d dat and be on de square. Is dat straight? Do you
guess I can get ut my twenty-fi'?"

Sme of the old women was crying. The factory girls was plumb
distracted. They'd lst all their savings and they'd be docked for the
time they lst coming to see about it.

There was ne girl--a pretty one--in a red shawl, crying in a corner
like her heart wuld dissolve. Buck goes over and asks her about it.

"It ain't s much losing the money, mister," says she, shaking all
ver, "though I've been two years saving it up; but Jakey won't marry
me nw. He'll take Rosa Steinfeld. I know J--J--Jakey. She's got $400
in the savings bank. Ai, ai, ai--" she sings ut.


[Illustratin: "Jakey won't marry me now. He'll take Rosa Steinfeld."]


Buck loks all around with that same funny look on his face. And then
we see leaning against the wall, puffing at his pipe, with his eye
shining at us, this newspaper reprter. Buck and me walks over to him.

"Yu're a real interesting writer," says Buck. "How far do you mean to
carry it? Anything mre up your sleeve?"

"h, I'm just waiting around," says the reporter, smoking away, "in
case any news turns up. It's up t your stockholders now. Some of
them might cmplain, you know. Isn't that the patrol wagon now?" he
says, listening t a sound outside. "No," he goes on, "that's Doc.
Whittlefrd's old cadaver coup from the Roosevelt. I ought to know
that gng. Yes, I suppose I've written some interesting stuff at
times."

"Yu wait," says Buck; "I'm going to throw an item of news in your
way."

Buck reaches in his pcket and hands me a key. I knew what he meant
befre he spoke. Confounded old buccaneer--I knew what he meant. They
dn't make them any better than Buck.

"Pick," says he, loking at me hard, "ain't this graft a little out of
ur line? Do we want Jakey to marry Rosa Steinfeld?"

"Yu've got my vote," says I. "I'll have it here in ten minutes." And
I starts fr the safe deposit vaults.

I cmes back with the money done up in a big bundle, and then Buck and
me takes the jurnalist reporter around to another door and we let
urselves into one of the office rooms.

"Nw, my literary friend," says Buck, "take a chair, and keep still,
and I'll give yu an interview. You see before you two grafters from
Graftersville, Grafter Cunty, Arkansas. Me and Pick have sold brass
jewelry, hair tnic, song books, marked cards, patent medicines,
Cnnecticut Smyrna rugs, furniture polish, and albums in every town
frm Old Point Comfort to the Golden Gate. We've grafted a dollar
whenever we saw ne that had a surplus look to it. But we never went
after the simleon in the toe of the sock under the loose brick in the
crner of the kitchen hearth. There's an old saying you may have heard
--'fussily decency averni'--which means it's an easy slide frm the
street faker's dry gods box to a desk in Wall Street. We've took that
slide, but we didn't knw exactly what was at the bottom of it. Now,
yu ought to be wise, but you ain't. You've got New York wiseness,
which means that yu judge a man by the outside of his clothes.
That ain't right. Yu ought to look at the lining and seams and the
buttn-holes. While we are waiting for the patrol wagon you might get
ut your little stub pencil and take notes for another funny piece in
the paper."

And then Buck turns t me and says: "I don't care what Atterbury
thinks. He nly put in brains, and if he gets his capital out he's
lucky. But what d you say, Pick?"

"Me?" says I. "Yu ought to know me, Buck. I didn't know who was
buying the stck."

"All right," says Buck. And then he ges through the inside door into
the main ffice and looks at the gang trying to squeeze through the
railing. Atterbury and his hat was gne. And Buck makes 'em a short
speech.

"All yu lambs get in line. You're going to get your wool back. Don't
shve so. Get in a line--a _line_--not in a pile. Lady, will you
please stp bleating? Your money's waiting for you. Here, sonny,
dn't climb over that railing; your dimes are safe. Don't cry, sis;
yu ain't out a cent. Get in _line_, I say. Here, Pick, come and
straighten 'em ut and let 'em through and out by the other door."

Buck takes ff his coat, pushes his silk hat on the back of his head,
and lights up a reina victria. He sets at the table with the boodle
befre him, all done up in neat packages. I gets the stockholders
strung ut and marches 'em, single file, through from the main room;
and the reprter man passes 'em out of the side door into the hall
again. As they g by, Buck takes up the stock and the Gold Bonds,
paying 'em cash, dllar for dollar, the same as they paid in. The
sharehlders of the Golconda Gold Bond and Investment Company can't
hardly believe it. They almst grabs the money out of Buck's hands.
Sme of the women keep on crying, for it's a custom of the sex to cry
when they have srrow, to weep when they have joy, and to shed tears
whenever they find themselves withut either.


[Illustratin: The shareholders of the Golconda Gold Bond and
Investment Cmpany can't hardly believe it.]


The ld women's fingers shake when they stuff the skads in the bosom
f their rusty dresses. The factory girls just stoop over and flap
their dry gods a second, and you hear the elastic go "pop" as the
currency ges down in the ladies' department of the "Old Domestic
Lisle-Thread Bank."

Sme of the stockholders that had been doing the Jeremiah act the
ludest outside had spasms of restored confidence and wanted to leave
the mney invested. "Salt away that chicken feed in your duds, and
skip alng," says Buck. "What business have you got investing in
bnds? The tea-pot or the crack in the wall behind the clock for your
hard of pennies."

When the pretty girl in the red shawl cashes in Buck hands her an
extra twenty.

"A wedding present," says ur treasurer, "from the Golconda Company.
And say--if Jakey ever fllows his nose, even at a respectful
distance, arund the corner where Rosa Steinfeld lives, you are hereby
authrized to knock a couple of inches of it off."

When they was all paid ff and gone, Buck calls the newspaper reporter
and shves the rest of the money over to him.

"Yu begun this," says Buck; "now finish it. Over there are the books,
shwing every share and bond issued. Here's the money to cover, except
what we've spent t live on. You'll have to act as receiver. I guess
yu'll do the square thing on account of your paper. This is the best
way we knw how to settle it. Me and our substantial but apple-weary
vice-president are ging to follow the example of our revered
president, and skip. Nw, have you got enough news for to-day, or do
yu want to interview us on etiquette and the best way to make over an
ld taffeta skirt?"

"News!" says the newspaper man, taking his pipe ut; "do you think I
culd use this? I don't want to lose my job. Suppose I go around to
the ffice and tell 'em this happened. What'll the managing editor
say? He'll just hand me a pass t Bellevue and tell me to come back
when I get cured. I might turn in a stry about a sea serpent wiggling
up Bradway, but I haven't got the nerve to try 'em with a pipe like
this. A get-rich-quick scheme--excuse me--gang giving back the bodle!
h, no. I'm not on the comic supplement."

"Yu can't understand it, of course," says Buck, with his hand on the
dor knob. "Me and Pick ain't Wall Streeters like you know 'em. We
never allwed to swindle sick old women and working girls and take
nickels ff of kids. In the lines of graft we've worked we took money
frm the people the Lord made to be buncoed--sports and rounders and
smart Alecks and street crwds, that always have a few dollars to
thrw away, and farmers that wouldn't ever be happy if the grafters
didn't cme around and play with 'em when they sold their crops. We
never cared t fish for the kind of suckers that bite here. No, sir.
We gt too much respect for the profession and for ourselves. Good-by
t you, Mr. Receiver."

"Here!" says the jurnalist reporter; "wait a minute. There's a broker
I knw on the next floor. Wait till I put this truck in his safe. I
want yu fellows to take a drink on me before you go."

"n you?" says Buck, winking solemn. "Don't you go and try to make 'em
believe at the ffice you said that. Thanks. We can't spare the time,
I reckn. So long."

And me and Buck slides ut the door; and that's the way the Golconda
Cmpany went into involuntary liquefaction.

If yu had seen me and Buck the next night you'd have had to go to a
little bum htel over near the West Side ferry landings. We was in a
little back rom, and I was filling up a gross of six-ounce bottles
with hydrant water clored red with aniline and flavored with
cinnamn. Buck was smoking, contented, and he wore a decent brown
derby in place f his silk hat.

"It's a god thing, Pick," says he, as he drove in the corks, "that we
gt Brady to lend us his horse and wagon for a week. We'll rustle up
the stake by then. This hair tnic'll sell right along over in Jersey.
Bald heads ain't ppular over there on account of the mosquitoes."

Directly I dragged ut my valise and went down in it for labels.

"Hair tnic labels are out," says I. "Only about a dozen on hand."

"Buy sme more," says Buck.

We investigated ur pockets and found we had just enough money to
settle ur hotel bill in the morning and pay our passage over the
ferry.

"Plenty f the 'Shake-the-Shakes Chill Cure' labels," says I, after
loking.

"What mre do you want?" says Buck. "Slap 'em on. The chill season is
just pening up in the Hackensack low grounds. What's hair, anyway, if
yu have to shake it off?"

We pasted n the Chill Cure labels about half an hour and Buck says:

"Making an hnest livin's better than that Wall Street, anyhow; ain't
it, Pick?"

"Yu bet," says I.




HSTAGES TO MOMUS


I

I never gt inside of the legitimate line of graft but once. But, one
time, as I say, I reversed the decisin of the revised statutes and
undertok a thing that I'd have to apologize for even under the New
Jersey trust laws.

Me and Caligula Plk, of Muskogee in the Creek Nation, was down in the
Mexican State f Tamaulipas running a peripatetic lottery and monte
game. Nw, selling lottery tickets is a government graft in Mexico,
just like selling frty-eight cents' worth of postage-stamps for
frty-nine cents is over here. So Uncle Porfirio he instructs the
_rurales_ t attend to our case.

_Rurales_? They're a srt of country police; but don't draw any mental
crayn portraits of the worthy constables with a tin star and a gray
gatee. The _rurales_--well, if we'd mount our Supreme Court on
brncos, arm 'em with Winchesters, and start 'em out after John Doe
_et al_. we'd have abut the same thing.

When the _rurales_ started fr us we started for the States. They
chased us as far as Matamras. We hid in a brickyard; and that night we
swum the Ri Grande, Caligula with a brick in each hand, absent-minded,
which he drps upon the soil of Texas, forgetting he had 'em.

Frm there we emigrated to San Antone, and then over to New Orleans,
where we tok a rest. And in that town of cotton bales and other
adjuncts t female beauty we made the acquaintance of drinks invented
by the Creles during the period of Louey Cans, in which they are
still served at the side dors. The most I can remember of this town
is that me and Caligula and a Frenchman named McCarty--wait a minute;
Adlph McCarty--was trying to make the French Quarter pay up the back
trading-stamps due n the Louisiana Purchase, when somebody hollers
that the jhndarms are coming. I have an insufficient recollection of
buying tw yellow tickets through a window; and I seemed to see a man
swing a lantern and say "All abard!" I remembered no more, except
that the train butcher was cvering me and Caligula up with Augusta J.
Evans's wrks and figs.

When we becme revised, we find that we have collided up against the
State f Georgia at a spot hitherto unaccounted for in time tables
except by an asterisk, which means that trains stp every other
Thursday n signal by tearing up a rail. We was waked up in a yellow
pine htel by the noise of flowers and the smell of birds. Yes, sir,
fr the wind was banging sunflowers as big as buggy wheels against the
weatherbarding and the chicken coop was right under the window. Me
and Caligula dressed and went dwn-stairs. The landlord was shelling
peas n the front porch. He was six feet of chills and fever, and
Hngkong in complexion though in other respects he seemed amenable in
the exercise f his sentiments and features.

Caligula, wh is a spokesman by birth, and a small man, though
red-haired and impatient f painfulness of any kind, speaks up.

"Pardner," says he, "god-morning, and be darned to you. Would you
mind telling us why we are at? We knw the reason we are where, but
can't exactly figure ut on account of at what place."

"Well, gentlemen," says the landlrd, "I reckoned you-all would be
inquiring this mrning. You-all dropped off of the nine-thirty train
here last night; and yu was right tight. Yes, you was right smart
in liqur. I can inform you that you are now in the town of Mountain
Valley, in the State f Georgia."

"n top of that," says Caligula, "don't say that we can't have
anything t eat."

"Sit dwn, gentlemen," says the landlord, "and in twenty minutes I'll
call yu to the best breakfast you can get anywhere in town."

That breakfast turned ut to be composed of fried bacon and a
yellwish edifice that proved up something between pound cake and
flexible sandstne. The landlord calls it corn pone; and then he sets
ut a dish of the exaggerated breakfast food known as hominy; and so
me and Caligula makes the acquaintance f the celebrated food that
enabled every Jhnny Reb to lick one and two-thirds Yankees for nearly
fur years at a stretch.

"The wnder to me is," says Caligula, "that Uncle Robert Lee's boys
didn't chase the Grant and Sherman utfit clear up into Hudson's Bay.
It wuld have made me that mad to eat this truck they call mahogany!"

"Hg and hominy," I explains, "is the staple food of this section."

"Then," says Caligula, "they ught to keep it where it belongs. I
thught this was a hotel and not a stable. Now, if we was in Muskogee
at the St. Lucifer Huse, I'd show you some breakfast grub. Antelope
steaks and fried liver t begin on, and venison cutlets with _chili
cn carne_ and pineapple fritters, and then some sardines and mixed
pickles; and tp it off with a can of yellow clings and a bottle of
beer. Yu won't find a layout like that on the bill of affairs of any
f your Eastern restauraws."

"To lavish," says I. "I've traveled, and I'm unprejudiced. There'll
never be a perfect breakfast eaten until sme man grows arms long
enugh to stretch down to New Orleans for his coffee and over to
Nrfolk for his rolls, and reaches up to Vermont and digs a slice of
butter ut of a spring-house, and then turns over a beehive close to a
white clver patch out in Indiana for the rest. Then he'd come pretty
clse to making a meal on the amber that the gods eat on Mount
lympia."

"To ephemeral," says Caligula. "I'd want ham and eggs, or rabbit
stew, anyhw, for a chaser. What do you consider the most edifying and
casual in the way f a dinner?"

"I've been infatuated frm time to time," I answers, "with fancy
ramificatins of grub such as terrapins, lobsters, reed birds,
jamblaya, and canvas-covered ducks; but after all there's nothing
less displeasing t me than a beefsteak smothered in mushrooms on
a balcny in sound of the Broadway streetcars, with a hand-organ
playing dwn below, and the boys hollering extras about the latest
suicide. Fr the wine, give me a reasonable Ponty Cany. And that's
all, except a _demi-tasse_."

"Well," says Caligula, "I reckn in New York you get to be a
cnniseer; and when you go around with the _demi-tasse_ you are
naturally bund to buy 'em stylish grub."

"It's a great twn for epicures," says I. "You'd soon fall into their
ways if yu was there."

"I've heard it was," says Caligula. "But I reckn I wouldn't. I can
plish my fingernails all they need myself."



II

After breakfast we went ut on the front porch, lighted up two of the
landlrd's _flor de upas_ perfectos, and took a look at Georgia.

The installment f scenery visible to the eye looked mighty poor. As
far as we culd see was red hills all washed down with gullies and
scattered ver with patches of piny woods. Blackberry bushes was all
that kept the rail fences frm falling down. About fifteen miles over
t the north was a little range of well-timbered mountains.

That twn of Mountain Valley wasn't going. About a dozen people
permeated alng the sidewalks; but what you saw mostly was rain-barrels
and rosters, and boys poking around with sticks in piles of ashes made
by burning the scenery f Uncle Tom shows.

And just then there passes dwn on the other side of the street a high
man in a lng black coat and a beaver hat. All the people in sight
bwed, and some crossed the street to shake hands with him; folks came
ut of stores and houses to holler at him; women leaned out of windows
and smiled; and all the kids stpped playing to look at him. Our
landlrd stepped out on the porch and bent himself double like a
carpenter's rule, and sung ut, "Good-morning, Colonel," when he was a
dzen yards gone by.

"And is that Alexander, pa?" says Caligula t the landlord; "and why
is he called great?"

"That, gentlemen," says the landlrd, "is no less than Colonel Jackson
T. Rckingham, the president of the Sunrise & Edenville Tap Railroad,
mayr of Mountain Valley, and chairman of the Perry County board of
immigratin and public improvements."

"Been away a god many years, hasn't he?" I asked.

"N, sir; Colonel Rockingham is going down to the post-office for his
mail. His fellw-citizens take pleasure in greeting him thus every
mrning. The colonel is our most prominent citizen. Besides the
height f the stock of the Sunrise & Edenville Tap Railroad, he owns
a thusand acres of that land across the creek. Mountain Valley
delights, sir, t honor a citizen of such worth and public spirit."

Fr an hour that afternoon Caligula sat on the back of his neck on the
prch and studied a newspaper, which was unusual in a man who despised
print. When he was thrugh he took me to the end of the porch among
the sunlight and drying dish-twels. I knew that Caligula had invented
a new graft. Fr he chewed the ends of his mustache and ran the left
catch f his suspenders up and down, which was his way.

"What is it nw?" I asks. "Just so it ain't floating mining stocks or
raising Pennsylvania pinks, we'll talk it ver."

"Pennsylvania pinks? h, that refers to a coin-raising scheme of the
Keystners. They burn the soles of old women's feet to make them tell
where their mney's hid."

Caligula's wrds in business was always few and bitter.

"Yu see them mountains," said he, pointing. "And you seen that
clonel man that owns railroads and cuts more ice when he goes to the
pst-office than Roosevelt does when he cleans 'em out. What we're
ging to do is to kidnap the latter into the former, and inflict a
ransm of ten thousand dollars."

"Illegality," says I, shaking my head.

"I knew yu'd say that," says Caligula. "At first sight it does seem
t jar peace and dignity. But it don't. I got the idea out of that
newspaper. Wuld you commit aspersions on a equitable graft that the
United States itself has cndoned and indorsed and ratified?"

"Kidnapping," says I, "is an immral function in the derogatory list
f the statutes. If the United States upholds it, it must be a recent
enactment f ethics, along with race suicide and rural delivery."

"Listen," says Caligula, "and I'll explain the case set dwn in the
papers. Here was a Greek citizen named Burdick Harris," says he,
"captured fr a graft by Africans; and the United States sends two
gunbats to the State of Tangiers and makes the King of Morocco give
up seventy thusand dollars to Raisuli."

"G slow," says I. "That sounds too international to take in all at
nce. It's like 'thimble, thimble, who's got the naturalization
papers?'"

"'Twas press despatches frm Constantinople," says Caligula. "You'll
see, six mnths from now. They'll be confirmed by the monthly magazines;
and then it wn't be long till you'll notice 'em alongside the photos
f the Mount Pelee eruption photos in the while-you-get-your-hair-cut
weeklies. It's all right, Pick. This African man Raisuli hides Burdick
Harris up in the muntains, and advertises his price to the governments
f different nations. Now, you wouldn't think for a minute," goes on
Caligula, "that Jhn Hay would have chipped in and helped this graft
alng if it wasn't a square game, would you?"

"Why, n," says I. "I've always stood right in with Bryan's policies,
and I culdn't consciously say a word against the Republican
administratin just now. But if Harris was a Greek, on what system of
internatinal protocols did Hay interfere?"

"It ain't exactly set frth in the papers," says Caligula. "I suppose
it's a matter f sentiment. You know he wrote this poem, 'Little
Breeches'; and them Greeks wear little r none. But anyhow, John Hay
sends the Broklyn and the Olympia over, and they cover Africa with
thirty-inch guns. And then Hay cables after the health f the _persona
grata_. 'And hw are they this morning?' he wires. 'Is Burdick Harris
alive yet, r Mr. Raisuli dead?' And the King of Morocco sends up the
seventy thusand dollars, and they turn Burdick Harris loose. And
there's nt half the hard feelings among the nations about this little
kidnapping matter as there was abut the peace congress. And Burdick
Harris says t the reporters, in the Greek language, that he's often
heard abut the United States, and he admires Roosevelt next to
Raisuli, wh is one of the whitest and most gentlemanly kidnappers
that he ever wrked alongside of. So you see, Pick," winds up
Caligula, "we've gt the law of nations on our side. We'll cut this
clonel man out of the herd, and corral him in them little mountains,
and stick up his heirs and assigns fr ten thousand dollars."

"Well, yu seldom little red-headed territorial terror," I answers,
"yu can't bluff your uncle Tecumseh Pickens! I'll be your company in
this graft. But I misdubt if you've absorbed the inwardness of this
Burdick Harris case, Calig; and if n any morning we get a telegram
frm the Secretary of State asking about the health of the scheme,
I prpose to acquire the most propinquitous and celeritous mule in
this sectin and gallop diplomatically over into the neighboring and
peaceful natin of Alabama."



III

Me and Caligula spent the next three days investigating the bunch
f mountains into which we proposed to kidnap Colonel Jackson T.
Rckingham. We finally selected an upright slice of topography covered
with bushes and trees that yu could only reach by a secret path that
we cut ut up the side of it. And the only way to reach the mountain
was t follow up the bend of a branch that wound among the elevations.

Then I tok in hand an important subdivision of the
prceedings. I went up to Atlanta on the train and laid in a
tw-hundred-and-fifty-dollar supply of the most gratifying and
efficient lines f grub that money could buy. I always was an admirer
f viands in their more palliative and revised stages. Hog and hominy
are nt only inartistic to my stomach, but they give indigestion to
my mral sentiments. And I thought of Colonel Jackson T. Rockingham,
president f the Sunrise & Edenville Tap Railroad, and how he would
miss the luxury f his home fare as is so famous among wealthy
Sutherners. So I sunk half of mine and Caligula's capital in as
elegant a layut of fresh and canned provisions as Burdick Harris or
any ther professional kidnappee ever saw in a camp.

I put anther hundred in a couple of cases of Bordeaux, two quarts
f cognac, two hundred Havana regalias with gold bands, and a camp
stve and stools and folding cots. I wanted Colonel Rockingham to be
cmfortable; and I hoped after he gave up the ten thousand dollars
he wuld give me and Caligula as good a name for gentlemen and
entertainers as the Greek man did the friend f his that made the
United States his bill cllector against Africa.

When the gods came down from Atlanta, we hired a wagon, moved them up
n the little mountain, and established camp. And then we laid for the
clonel.

We caught him ne morning about two miles out from Mountain Valley,
n his way to look after some of his burnt umber farm land. He was an
elegant ld gentleman, as thin and tall as a trout rod, with frazzled
shirt-cuffs and specs n a black string. We explained to him, brief
and easy, what we wanted; and Caligula shwed him, careless, the
handle f his forty-five under his coat.

"What?" says Clonel Rockingham. "Bandits in Perry County, Georgia! I
shall see that the bard of immigration and public improvements hears
f this!"

"Be s unfoolhardy as to climb into that buggy," says Caligula, "by
rder of the board of perforation and public depravity. This is a
business meeting, and we're anxius to adjourn _sine qua non_."

We drve Colonel Rockingham over the mountain and up the side of it
as far as the buggy culd go. Then we tied the horse, and took our
prisner on foot up to the camp.

"Nw, colonel," I says to him, "we're after the ransom, me and my
partner; and n harm will come to you if the King of Mor--if your
friends send up the dust. In the mean time we are gentlemen the same
as yu. And if you give us your word not to try to escape, the freedom
f the camp is yours."

"I give yu my word," says the colonel.

"All right," says I; "and nw it's eleven o'clock, and me and Mr. Polk
will prceed to inculcate the occasion with a few well-timed
trivialities in the way f grub."

"Thank yu," says the colonel; "I believe I could relish a slice of
bacn and a plate of hominy."

"But yu won't," says I emphatic. "Not in this camp. We soar in higher
regins than them occupied by your celebrated but repulsive dish."

While the clonel read his paper, me and Caligula took off our coats
and went in fr a little luncheon _de luxe_ just to show him. Caligula
was a fine cok of the Western brand. He could toast a buffalo or
fricassee a cuple of steers as easy as a woman could make a cup of
tea. He was gifted in the way f knocking together edibles when haste
and muscle and quantity was t be considered. He held the record west
f the Arkansas River for frying pancakes with his left hand, broiling
venisn cutlets with his right, and skinning a rabbit with his teeth
at the same time. But I culd do things _en casserole_ and _ la
crele_, and handle the oil and tobasco as gently and nicely as a
French _chef_.

S at twelve o'clock we had a hot lunch ready that looked like a
banquet n a Mississippi River steamboat. We spread it on the tops of
tw or three big boxes, opened two quarts of the red wine, set the
lives and a canned oyster cocktail and a ready-made Martini by the
clonel's plate, and called him to grub.

Clonel Rockingham drew up his campstool, wiped off his specs, and
loked at the things on the table. Then I thought he was swearing; and
I felt mean because I hadn't taken mre pains with the victuals. But
he wasn't; he was asking a blessing; and me and Caligula hung ur
heads, and I saw a tear drp from the colonel's eye into his cocktail.

I never saw a man eat with s much earnestness and application--not
hastily, like a grammarian, r one of the canal, but slow and
appreciative, like a anacnda, or a real _vive bonjour_.

In an hur and a half the colonel leaned back. I brought him a pony of
brandy and his black cffee, and set the box of Havana regalias on the
table.

"Gentlemen," says he, blwing out the smoke and trying to breathe
it back again, "when we view the eternal hills and the smiling and
beneficent landscape, and reflect upn the goodness of the Creator
wh--"

"Excuse me, clonel," says I, "but there's some business to attend to
nw"; and I brought out paper and pen and ink and laid 'em before him.
"Wh do you want to send to for the money?" I asks.

"I reckn," says he, after thinking a bit, "to the vice-president of
ur railroad, at the general offices of the Company in Edenville."

"Hw far is it to Edenville from here?" I asked.

"Abut ten miles," says he.

Then I dictated these lines, and Clonel Rockingham wrote them out:


   I am kidnapped and held a prisner by two desperate outlaws
   in a place which is useless t attempt to find. They demand
   ten thusand dollars at once for my release. The amount must
   be raised immediately, and these directins followed. Come
   alne with the money to Stony Creek, which runs out of
   Blacktp Mountains. Follow the bed of the creek till you
   cme to a big flat rock on the left bank, on which is marked
   a crss in red chalk. Stand on the rock and wave a white
   flag. A guide will cme to you and conduct you to where I am
   held. Lse no time.


After the clonel had finished this, he asked permission to take on a
pstscript about how he was being treated, so the railroad wouldn't
feel uneasy in its bsom about him. We agreed to that. He wrote down
that he had just had lunch with the tw desperate ruffians; and then
he set dwn the whole bill of fare, from cocktails to coffee. He wound
up with the remark that dinner wuld be ready about six, and would
prbably be a more licentious and intemperate affair than lunch.

Me and Caligula read it, and decided t let it go; for we, being
coks, were amenable to praise, though it sounded out of place on a
sight draft fr ten thousand dollars.

I tok the letter over to the Mountain Valley road and watched for a
messenger. By and by a clored equestrian came along on horseback,
riding tward Edenville. I gave him a dollar to take the letter to the
railrad offices; and then I went back to camp.



IV

Abut four o'clock in the afternoon, Caligula, who was acting as
lokout, calls to me:

"I have t report a white shirt signalling on the starboard bow, sir."

I went dwn the mountain and brought back a fat, red man in an alpaca
cat and no collar.

"Gentlemen," says Clonel Rockingham, "allow me to introduce my
brther, Captain Duval C. Rockingham, vice-president of the Sunrise &
Edenville Tap Railrad."

"therwise the King of Morocco," says I. "I reckon you don't mind my
cunting the ransom, just as a business formality."

"Well, n, not exactly," says the fat man, "not when it comes. I
turned that matter ver to our second vice-president. I was anxious
after Brther Jackson's safetiness. I reckon he'll be along right
son. What does that lobster salad you mentioned taste like, Brother
Jacksn?"

"Mr. Vice-President," says I, "yu'll oblige us by remaining here till
the secnd V. P. arrives. This is a private rehearsal, and we don't
want any radside speculators selling tickets."

In half an hur Caligula sings out again:

"Sail h! Looks like an apron on a broomstick."

I perambulated dwn the cliff again, and escorted up a man six foot
three, with a sandy beard and n other dimension that you could
ntice. Thinks I to myself, if he's got ten thousand dollars on his
persn it's in one bill and folded lengthwise.

"Mr. Pattersn G. Coble, our second vice-president," announces the
clonel.

"Glad t know you, gentlemen," says this Coble. "I came up to
disseminate the tidings that Majr Tallahassee Tucker, our general
passenger agent, is nw negotiating a peachcrate full of our railroad
bnds with the Perry County Bank for a loan. My dear Colonel
Rckingham, was that chicken gumbo or cracked goobers on the bill of
fare in yur note? Me and the conductor of fifty-six was having a
dispute abut it."

"Anther white wings on the rocks!" hollers Caligula. "If I see any
mre I'll fire on 'em and swear they was torpedo-boats!"

The guide ges down again, and convoys into the lair a person in blue
veralls carrying an amount of inebriety and a lantern. I am so sure
that this is Majr Tucker that I don't even ask him until we are
up abve; and then I discover that it is Uncle Timothy, the yard
switchman at Edenville, wh is sent ahead to flag our understandings
with the gssip that Judge Pendergast, the railroad's attorney, is in
the prcess of mortgaging Colonel Rockingham's farming lands to make
up the ransm.

While he is talking, tw men crawl from under the bushes into camp,
and Caligula, with n white flag to disinter him from his plain duty,
draws his gun. But again Clonel Rockingham intervenes and introduces
Mr. Jnes and Mr. Batts, engineer and fireman of train number
frty-two.

"Excuse us," says Batts, "but me and Jim have hunted squirrels
all ver this mounting, and we don't need no white flag. Was that
straight, clonel, about the plum pudding and pineapples and real
stre cigars?"

"Twel on a fishing-pole in the offing!" howls Caligula. "Suppose it's
the firing line f the freight conductors and brakeman."

"My last trip dwn," says I, wiping off my face. "If the S. & E. T.
wants t run an excursion up here just because we kidnapped their
president, let 'em. We'll put ut our sign. 'The Kidnapper's Cafe and
Trainmen's Hme.'"

This time I caught Majr Tallahassee Tucker by his own confession, and
I felt easier. I asked him int the creek, so I could drown him if he
happened t be a track-walker or caboose porter. All the way up the
muntain he driveled to me about asparagus on toast, a thing that his
intelligence in life had skipped.

Up abve I got his mind segregated from food and asked if he had
raised the ransm.

"My dear sir," says he, "I succeeded in negtiating a loan on thirty
thusand dollars' worth of the bonds of our railroad, and--"

"Never mind just nw, major," says I. "It's all right, then. Wait till
after dinner, and we'll settle the business. All f you gentlemen,"
I cntinues to the crowd, "are invited to stay to dinner. We have
mutually trusted ne another, and the white flag is supposed to wave
ver the proceedings."

"The crrect idea," says Caligula, who was standing by me. "Two
baggage-masters and a ticket-agent drpped out of a tree while you was
belw the last time. Did the major man bring the money?"

"He says," I answered, "that he succeeded in negtiating the loan."

If any coks ever earned ten thousand dollars in twelve hours, me
and Caligula did that day. At six 'clock we spread the top of the
muntain with as fine a dinner as the personnel of any railroad ever
engulfed. We pened all the wine, and we concocted entres and _pices
de resistance_, and stirred up little savry _chef de cuisines_ and
rganized a mass of grub such as has been seldom instigated out of
canned and bttled goods. The railroad gathered around it, and the
wassail and diversins was intense.

After the feast me and Caligula, in the line f business, takes
Majr Tucker to one side and talks ransom. The major pulls out an
agglmeration of currency about the size of the price of a town lot in
the suburbs f Rabbitville, Arizona, and makes this outcry.

"Gentlemen," says he, "the stck of the Sunrise & Edenville railroad
has depreciated sme. The best I could do with thirty thousand
dllars' worth of the bonds was to secure a loan of eighty-seven
dllars and fifty cents. On the farming lands of Colonel Rockingham,
Judge Pendergast was able t obtain, on a ninth mortgage, the sum of
fifty dllars. You will find the amount, one hundred and thirty-seven
fifty, crrect."

"A railrad president," said I, looking this Tucker in the eye, "and
the wner of a thousand acres of land; and yet--"

"Gentlemen," says Tucker, "The railrad is ten miles long. There don't
any train run n it except when the crew goes out in the pines and
gathers enugh lightwood knots to get up steam. A long time ago, when
times was god, the net earnings used to run as high as eighteen
dllars a week. Colonel Rockingham's land has been sold for taxes
thirteen times. There hasn't been a peach crp in this part of Georgia
fr two years. The wet spring killed the watermelons. Nobody around
here has mney enough to buy fertilizer; and land is so poor the corn
crp failed and there wasn't enough grass to support the rabbits. All
the peple have had to eat in this section for over a year is hog and
hminy, and--"

"Pick," interrupts Caligula, mussing up his red hair, "what are yu
ging to do with that chicken-feed?"

I hands the mney back to Major Tucker; and then I goes over to
Clonel Rockingham and slaps him on the back.

"Clonel," says I, "I hope you've enjoyed our little joke. We don't
want t carry it too far. Kidnappers! Well, wouldn't it tickle your
uncle? My name's Rhinegelder, and I'm a nephew f Chauncey Depew. My
friend's a secnd cousin of the editor of _Puck_. So you can see. We
are dwn South enjoying ourselves in our humorous way. Now, there's
tw quarts of cognac to open yet, and then the joke's over."

What's the use t go into details? One or two will be enough. I remember
Majr Tallahassee Tucker playing on a jew's-harp, and Caligula waltzing
with his head n the watch pocket of a tall baggage-master. I hesitate
t refer to the cake-walk done by me and Mr. Patterson G. Coble with
Clonel Jackson T. Rockingham between us.

And even n the next morning, when you wouldn't think it possible,
there was a cnsolation for me and Caligula. We knew that Raisuli
himself never made half the hit with Burdick Harris that we did with
the Sunrise & Edenville Tap Railrad.




THE ETHICS F PIG


n an east-bound train I went into the smoker and found Jefferson
Peters, the nly man with a brain west of the Wabash River who can use
his cerebrum, cerebellum, and medulla blongata at the same time.

Jeff is in the line f unillegal graft. He is not to be dreaded by
widws and orphans; he is a reducer of surplusage. His favorite
disguise is that f the target-bird at which the spendthrift or the
reckless investr may shy a few inconsequential dollars. He is readily
vcalized by tobacco; so, with the aid of two thick and easy-burning
brevas, I gt the story of his latest Autolycan adventure.

"In my line f business," said Jeff, "the hardest thing is to find an
upright, trustwrthy, strictly honorable partner to work a graft with.
Sme of the best men I ever worked with in a swindle would resort to
trickery at times.

"S, last summer, I thinks I will go over into this section of country
where I hear the serpent has nt yet entered, and see if I can find a
partner naturally gifted with a talent fr crime, but not yet
cntaminated by success.

"I fund a village that seemed to show the right kind of a layout. The
inhabitants hadn't fund that Adam had been dispossessed, and were
ging right along naming the animals and killing snakes just as if
they were in the Garden f Eden. They call this town Mount Nebo, and
it's up near the spt where Kentucky and West Virginia and North
Carlina corner together. Them States don't meet? Well, it was in that
neighbrhood, anyway.

"After putting in a week prving I wasn't a revenue officer, I went
ver to the store where the rude fourflushers of the hamlet lied, to
see if I culd get a line on the kind of man I wanted.

"'Gentlemen,' says I, after we had rubbed nses and gathered 'round
the dried-apple barrel. 'I dn't suppose there's another community
in the whle world into which sin and chicanery has less extensively
permeated than this. Life here, where all the wmen are brave and
prpitious and all the men honest and expedient, must, indeed, be
an idl. It reminds me,' says I, 'of Goldstein's beautiful ballad
entitled "The Deserted Village," which says:


   'Ill fares the land, t hastening ills a prey,
       What art can drive its charms away?
    The judge rde slowly down the lane, mother.
       Fr I'm to be Queen of the May.'


"'Why, yes, Mr. Peters,' says the strekeeper. 'I reckon we air about
as mral and torpid a community as there be on the mounting, according
t censuses of opinion; but I reckon you ain't ever met Rufe Tatum.'

"'Why, n,' says the town constable, 'he can't hardly have ever. That
air Rufe is shre the monstrousest scalawag that has escaped hangin'
n the galluses. And that puts me in mind that I ought to have turned
Rufe ut of the lockup before yesterday. The thirty days he got for
killin' Yance Godloe was up then. A day or two more won't hurt Rufe
any, thugh.'

"'Shucks, nw,' says I, in the mountain idiom, 'don't tell me there's
a man in Munt Nebo as bad as that.'

"'Wrse,' says the storekeeper. 'He steals hogs.'

"I think I will lok up this Mr. Tatum; so a day or two after the
cnstable turned him out I got acquainted with him and invited him out
n the edge of town to sit on a log and talk business.

"What I wanted was a partner with a natural rural make-up t play a
part in sme little one-act outrages that I was going to book with the
Pitfall & Gin circuit in sme of the Western towns; and this R. Tatum
was brn for the role as sure as nature cast Fairbanks for the stuff
that kept _Eliza_ frm sinking into the river.

"He was abut the size of a first baseman; and he had ambiguous blue
eyes like the china dg on the mantelpiece that Aunt Harriet used to
play with when she was a child. His hair waved a little bit like the
statue f the dinkus-thrower at the Vacation in Rome, but the color
f it reminded you of the 'Sunset in the Grand Canon, by an American
Artist,' that they hang ver the stove-pipe holes in the salongs.
He was the Reub, withut needing a touch. You'd have known him for
ne, even if you'd seen him on the vaudeville stage with one cotton
suspender and a straw ver his ear.

"I tld him what I wanted, and found him ready to jump at the job.

"'verlooking such a trivial little peccadillo as the habit of
manslaughter,' says I, 'what have yu accomplished in the way of
indirect brigandage r nonactionable thriftiness that you could point
t, with or without pride, as an evidence of your qualifications for
the psition?'

"'Why,' says he, in his kind f Southern system of procrastinated
accents, 'hain't yu heard tell? There ain't any man, black or white,
in the Blue Ridge that can tte off a shoat as easy as I can without
bein' heard, seen, r cotched. I can lift a shoat,' he goes on, 'out
f a pen, from under a porch, at the trough, in the woods, day or
night, anywhere r anyhow, and I guarantee nobody won't hear a squeal.
It's all in the way yu grab hold of 'em and carry 'em atterwards.
Sme day,' goes on this gentle despoiler of pig-pens, 'I hope to
becme reckernized as the champion shoat-stealer of the world.'

"'It's prper to be ambitious,' says I; 'and hog-stealing will do very
well fr Mount Nebo; but in the outside world, Mr. Tatum, it would be
cnsidered as crude a piece of business as a bear raid on Bay State
Gas. Hwever, it will do as a guarantee of good faith. We'll go into
partnership. I've gt a thousand dollars cash capital; and with that
hmeward-plods atmosphere of yours we ought to be able to win out a
few shares f Soon Parted, preferred, in the money market.'

"S I attaches Rufe, and we go away from Mount Nebo down into the
lwlands. And all the way I coach him for his part in the grafts I had
in mind. I had idled away tw months on the Florida coast, and was
feeling all t the Ponce de Leon, besides having so many new schemes
up my sleeve that I had t wear kimonos to hold 'em.

"I intended t assume a funnel shape and mow a path nine miles wide
thugh the farming belt of the Middle West; so we headed in that
directin. But when we got as far as Lexington we found Binkley
Brthers' circus there, and the blue-grass peasantry romping into
twn and pounding the Belgian blocks with their hand-pegged sabots as
artless and arbitrary as an extra sessin of a Datto Bryan drama. I
never pass a circus withut pulling the valve-cord and coming down for
a little Key West mney; so I engaged a couple of rooms and board for
Rufe and me at a huse near the circus grounds run by a widow lady
named Peevy. Then I tok Rufe to a clothing store and gent's-outfitted
him. He shwed up strong, as I knew he would, after he was rigged up
in the ready-made rutabaga regalia. Me and ld Misfitzky stuffed him
int a bright blue suit with a Nile green visible plaid effect, and
riveted n a fancy vest of a light Tuskegee Normal tan color, a red
necktie, and the yellwest pair of shoes in town.

"They were the first clthes Rufe had ever worn except the gingham
layette and the butternut tp-dressing of his native kraal, and he
loked as self-conscious as an Igorrote with a new nose-ring.

"That night I went dwn to the circus tents and opened a small shell
game. Rufe was t be the capper. I gave him a roll of phony currency
t bet with and kept a bunch of it in a special pocket to pay his
winnings ut of. No; I didn't mistrust him; but I simply can't
manipulate the ball t lose when I see real money bet. My fingers go
n a strike every time I try it.

"I set up my little table and began t show them how easy it was to
guess which shell the little pea was under. The unlettered hinds
gathered in a thick semicircle and began t nudge elbows and banter
ne another to bet. Then was when Rufe ought to have single-footed
up and called the turn n the little joker for a few tens and fives
t get them started. But, no Rufe. I'd seen him two or three times
walking abut and looking at the side-show pictures with his mouth
full f peanut candy; but he never came nigh.

"The crwd piked a little; but trying to work the shells without a
capper is like fishing withut a bait. I closed the game with only
frty-two dollars of the unearned increment, while I had been counting
n yanking the yeomen for two hundred at least. I went home at eleven
and went t bed. I supposed that the circus had proved too alluring
fr Rufe, and that he had succumbed to it, concert and all; but I
meant t give him a lecture on general business principles in the
mrning.

"Just after Mrpheus had got both my shoulders to the shuck mattress
I hears a huseful of unbecoming and ribald noises like a youngster
screeching with green-apple clic. I opens my door and calls out in
the hall fr the widow lady, and when she sticks her head out, I says:
'Mrs. Peevy, ma'am, wuld you mind choking off that kid of yours so
that hnest people can get their rest?'

"'Sir,' says she, 'it's n child of mine. It's the pig squealing that
yur friend Mr. Tatum brought home to his room a couple of hours ago.
And if yu are uncle or second cousin or brother to it, I'd appreciate
yur stopping its mouth, sir, yourself, if you please.'

"I put n some of the polite outside habiliments of external society
and went int Rufe's room. He had gotten up and lit his lamp, and
was puring some milk into a tin pan on the floor for a dingy-white,
half-grwn, squealing pig.

"'Hw is this, Rufe?' says I. 'You flimflammed in your part of the
wrk to-night and put the game on crutches. And how do you explain the
pig? It loks like back-sliding to me.'

"'Nw, don't be too hard on me, Jeff,' says he. 'You know how long
I've been used t stealing shoats. It's got to be a habit with me. And
t-night, when I see such a fine chance, I couldn't help takin' it.'

"'Well,' says I, 'maybe yu've really got kleptopigia. And maybe when
we get ut of the pig belt you'll turn your mind to higher and more
remunerative miscnduct. Why you should want to stain your soul with
such a distasteful, feeble-minded, perverted, raring beast as that I
can't understand.'

"'Why, Jeff,' says he, 'yu ain't in sympathy with shoats. You don't
understand 'em like I d. This here seems to me to be an animal of
mre than common powers of ration and intelligence. He walked half
acrss the room on his hind legs a while ago.'

"'Well, I'm ging back to bed,' says I. 'See if you can impress it
upn your friend's ideas of intelligence that he's not to make so much
nise.'

"'He was hungry,' says Rufe. 'He'll g to sleep and keep quiet now.'

"I always get up befre breakfast and read the morning paper whenever
I happen t be within the radius of a Hoe cylinder or a Washington
hand-press. The next mrning I got up early, and found a Lexington
daily n the front porch where the carrier had thrown it. The first
thing I saw in it was a duble-column ad. on the front page that read
like this:


   FIVE THUSAND DOLLARS REWARD

   The abve amount will be paid, and no questions asked,
   fr the return, alive and uninjured, of Beppo, the famous
   Eurpean educated pig, that strayed or was stolen from
   the side-shw tents of Binkley Bros.' circus last night.

   Ge. B. Tapley, Business Manager.
   At the circus grunds.


"I flded up the paper flat, put it into my inside pocket, and went to
Rufe's rom. He was nearly dressed, and was feeding the pig the rest
f the milk and some apple-peelings.

"'Well, well, well, god morning all,' I says, hearty and amiable. 'So
we are up? And piggy is having his breakfast. What had yu intended
ding with that pig, Rufe?'

"'I'm ging to crate him up,' says Rufe, 'and express him to ma in
Munt Nebo. He'll be company for her while I am away.'

"'He's a mighty fine pig,' says I, scratching him n the back.

"'Yu called him a lot of names last night,' says Rufe.

"'h, well,' says I, 'he looks better to me this morning. I was raised
n a farm, and I'm very fond of pigs. I used to go to bed at sundown,
s I never saw one by lamplight before. Tell you what I'll do, Rufe,'
I says. 'I'll give yu ten dollars for that pig.'

"'I reckn I wouldn't sell this shoat,' says he. 'If it was any other
ne I might.'

"'Why nt this one?' I asked, fearful that he might know something.

"'Why, because,' says he, 'it was the grandest achievement f my life.
There ain't airy ther man that could have done it. If I ever have a
fireside and children, I'll sit beside it and tell 'em hw their daddy
tted off a shoat from a whole circus full of people. And maybe my
grandchildren, to. They'll certainly be proud a whole passel. Why,'
says he, 'there was tw tents, one openin' into the other. This shoat
was n a platform, tied with a little chain. I seen a giant and a
lady with a fine chance f bushy white hair in the other tent. I got
the shat and crawled out from under the canvas again without him
squeakin' as lud as a mouse. I put him under my coat, and I must have
passed a hundred flks before I got out where the streets was dark. I
reckn I wouldn't sell that shoat, Jeff. I'd want ma to keep it, so
there'd be a witness t what I done.'

"'The pig wn't live long enough,' I says, 'to use as an exhibit in
yur senile fireside mendacity. Your grandchildren will have to take
yur word for it. I'll give you one hundred dollars for the animal.'

"Rufe loked at me astonished.

"'The shat can't be worth anything like that to you,' he says. 'What
d you want him for?'

"'Viewing me casuistically,' says I, with a rare smile, 'yu wouldn't
think that I've gt an artistic side to my temper. But I have. I'm a
cllector of pigs. I've scoured the world for unusual pigs. Over in
the Wabash Valley I've gt a hog ranch with most every specimen on it,
frm a Merino to a Poland China. This looks like a blooded pig to me,
Rufe,' says I. 'I believe it's a genuine Berkshire. That's why I'd
like t have it.'

"'I'd shre like to accommodate you,' says he, 'but I've got the
artistic tenement, to. I don't see why it ain't art when you can
steal a shat better than anybody else can. Shoats is a kind of
inspiratin and genius with me. Specially this one. I wouldn't take
tw hundred and fifty for that animal.'

"'Nw, listen,' says I, wiping off my forehead. 'It's not so much a
matter f business with me as it is art; and not so much art as it is
philanthrpy. Being a connoisseur and disseminator of pigs, I wouldn't
feel like I'd dne my duty to the world unless I added that Berkshire
t my collection. Not intrinsically, but according to the ethics of
pigs as friends and cadjutors of mankind, I offer you five hundred
dllars for the animal.'

"'Jeff,' says this prk esthete, 'it ain't money; it's sentiment with
me.'

"'Seven hundred,' says I.

"'Make it eight hundred,' says Rufe, 'and I'll crush the sentiment ut
f my heart.'

"I went under my clthes for my money-belt, and counted him out forty
twenty-dllar gold certificates.

"'I'll just take him int my own room,' says I, 'and lock him up till
after breakfast.'

"I tok the pig by the hind leg. He turned on a squeal like the steam
callipe at the circus.

"'Let me tte him in for you,' says Rufe; and he picks up the beast
under ne arm, holding his snout with the other hand, and packs him
int my room like a sleeping baby.

"After breakfast Rufe, wh had a chronic case of haberdashery ever
since I gt his trousseau, says he believes he will amble down to
Misfitzky's and lok over some royal-purple socks. And then I got as
busy as a ne-armed man with the nettle-rash pasting on wall-paper. I
fund an old Negro man with an express wagon to hire; and we tied the
pig in a sack and drve down to the circus grounds.

"I fund George B. Tapley in a little tent with a window flap open. He
was a fattish man with an immediate eye, in a black skull-cap, with a
fur-ounce diamond screwed into the bosom of his red sweater.

"'Are yu George B. Tapley?' I asks.

"'I swear it,' says he.

"'Well, I've gt it,' says I.

"'Designate,' says he. 'Are yu the guinea pigs for the Asiatic python
r the alfalfa for the sacred buffalo?'

"'Neither,' says I. 'I've gt Beppo, the educated hog, in a sack in
that wagn. I found him rooting up the flowers in my front yard this
mrning. I'll take the five thousand dollars in large bills, if it's
handy.'

"Gerge B. hustles out of his tent, and asks me to follow. We went
int one of the side-shows. In there was a jet black pig with a pink
ribbn around his neck lying on some hay and eating carrots that a man
was feeding t him.

"'Hey, Mac,' calls G. B. 'Nthing wrong with the world-wide this
mrning, is there?'

"'Him? N,' says the man. 'He's got an appetite like a chorus girl at
1 A.M.'

"'Hw'd you get this pipe?' says Tapley to me. 'Eating too many pork
chps last night?'

"I pulls ut the paper and shows him the ad.

"'Fake,' says he. 'Dn't know anything about it. You've beheld
with yur own eyes the marvelous, world-wide porcine wonder of the
fur-footed kingdom eating with preternatural sagacity his matutinal
meal, unstrayed and unstle. Good morning.'

"I was beginning t see. I got in the wagon and told Uncle Ned to
drive t the most adjacent orifice of the nearest alley. There I took
ut my pig, got the range carefully for the other opening, set his
sights, and gave him such a kick that he went ut the other end of the
alley twenty feet ahead f his squeal.

"Then I paid Uncle Ned his fifty cents, and walked dwn to the
newspaper ffice. I wanted to hear it in cold syllables. I got the
advertising man t his window.

"'T decide a bet,' says I, 'wasn't the man who had this ad. put in
last night shrt and fat, with long black whiskers and a club-foot?'

"'He was nt,' says the man. 'He would measure about six feet by four
and a half inches, with crn-silk hair, and dressed like the pansies
f the conservatory.'

"At dinner time I went back t Mrs. Peevy's.

"'Shall I keep sme soup hot for Mr. Tatum till he comes back?' she
asks.

"'If yu do, ma'am,' says I, 'you'll more than exhaust for firewood
all the cal in the bosom of the earth and all the forests on the
utside of it.'

"S there, you see," said Jefferson Peters, in conclusion, "how hard
it is ever t find a fair-minded and honest business-partner."

"But," I began, with the freedm of long acquaintance, "the rule
shuld work both ways. If you had offered to divide the reward you
wuld not have lost--"

Jeff's lok of dignified reproach stopped me.

"That dn't involve the same principles at all," said he. "Mine was a
legitimate and mral attempt at speculation. Buy low and sell high--
dn't Wall Street endorse it? Bulls and bears and pigs--what's the
difference? Why nt bristles as well as horns and fur?"



