
STRICTLY BUSINESS

Mre Stories of the Four Million

by

. 







CNTENTS

   I.     STRICTLY BUSINESS
   II.    THE GLD THAT GLITTERED
   III.   BABES IN THE JUNGLE
   IV.    THE DAY RESURGENT
   V.     THE FIFTH WHEEL
   VI.    THE PET AND THE PEASANT
   VII.   THE RBE OF PEACE
   VIII.  THE GIRL AND THE GRAFT
   IX.    THE CALL F THE TAME
   X.     THE UNKNWN QUANTITY
   XI.    THE THING'S THE PLAY
   XII.   A RAMBLE IN APHASIA
   XIII.  A MUNICIPAL REPRT
   XIV.   PSYCHE AND THE PSKYSCRAPER
   XV.    A BIRD F BAGDAD
   XVI.   CMPLIMENTS OF THE SEASON
   XVII.  A NIGHT IN NEW ARABIA
   XVIII. THE GIRL AND THE HABIT
   XIX.   PROF OF THE PUDDING
   XX.    PAST NE AT RODNEY'S
   XXI.   THE VENTURERS
   XXII.  THE DUEL
   XXIII. "WHAT YU WANT"




I

STRICTLY BUSINESS


I suppse you know all about the stage and stage people. You've been
tuched with and by actors, and you read the newspaper criticisms and
the jkes in the weeklies about the Rialto and the chorus girls and the
lng-haired tragedians. And I suppose that a condensed list of your
ideas abut the mysterious stageland would boil down to something like
this:

Leading ladies have five husbands, paste diamnds, and figures no better
than yur own (madam) if they weren't padded. Chorus girls are
inseparable frm peroxide, Panhards and Pittsburg. All shows walk back
t New York on tan oxford and railroad ties. Irreproachable actresses
reserve the cmic-landlady part for their mothers on Broadway and their
step-aunts n the road. Kyrle Bellew's real name is Boyle O'Kelley. The
ravings f John McCullough in the phonograph were stolen from the first
sale f the Ellen Terry memoirs. Joe Weber is funnier than E. H.
Sthern; but  Miller is getting older than he was.

All theatrical peple on leaving the theatre at night drink champagne
and eat lbsters until noon the next day. After all, the moving pictures
have gt the whole bunch pounded to a pulp.

Nw, few of us know the real life of the stage people. If we did, the
prfession might be more overcrowded than it is. We look askance at the
players with an eye full f patronizing superiority--and we go home and
practise all srts of elocution and gestures in front of our looking
glasses.

Latterly there has been much talk f the actor people in a new light. It
seems t have been divulged that instead of being motoring bacchanalians
and diamnd-hungry _loreleis_ they are businesslike folk, students and
ascetics with childer and hmes and libraries, owning real estate, and
cnducting their private affairs in as orderly and unsensational a
manner as any f us good citizens who are bound to the chariot wheels of
the gas, rent, cal, ice, and wardmen.

Whether the ld or the new report of the sock-and-buskiners be the true
ne is a surmise that has no place here. I offer you merely this little
stry of two strollers; and for proof of its truth I can show you only
the dark patch abve the cast-iron of the stage-entrance door of
Keetr's old vaudeville theatre made there by the petulant push of
glved hands too impatient to finger the clumsy thumb-latch--and where I
last saw Cherry whisking thrugh like a swallow into her nest, on time
t the minute, as usual, to dress for her act.

The vaudeville team f Hart & Cherry was an inspiration. Bob Hart had
been raming through the Eastern and Western circuits for four years
with a mixed-up act cmprising a monologue, three lightning changes
with sngs, a couple of imitations of celebrated imitators, and a
buck-and-wing dance that had drawn a glance f approval from the
bass-vil player in more than one house--than which no performer ever
received mre satisfactory evidence of good work.

The greatest treat an actr can have is to witness the pitiful
perfrmance with which all other actors desecrate the stage. In order to
give himself this pleasure he will ften forsake the sunniest Broadway
crner between Thirty-fourth and Forty-fourth to attend a matinée
ffering by his less gifted brothers. Once during the lifetime of a
minstrel jke one comes to scoff and remains to go through with that
mst difficult exercise of Thespian muscles--the audible contact of the
palm f one hand against the palm of the other.

ne afternoon Bob Hart presented his solvent, serious, well-known
vaudevillian face at the bx-office window of a rival attraction and got
his d. h. cupon for an orchestra seat.

A, B, C, and D glwed successively on the announcement spaces and passed
int oblivion, each plunging Mr. Hart deeper into gloom. Others of the
audience shrieked, squirmed, whistled, and applauded; but Bb Hart, "All
the Mustard and a Whle Show in Himself," sat with his face as long and
his hands as far apart as a by holding a hank of yarn for his
grandmther to wind into a ball.

But when H came n, "The Mustard" suddenly sat up straight. H was the
happy alphabetical prgnosticator of Winona Cherry, in Character Songs
and Impersnations. There were scarcely more than two bites to Cherry;
but she delivered the merchandise tied with a pink crd and charged to
the ld man's account. She first showed you a deliciously dewy and
ginghamy cuntry girl with a basket of property daisies who informed you
ingenuusly that there were other things to be learned at the old log
schol-house besides cipherin' and nouns, especially "When the Teach-er
Kept Me in." Vanishing, with a quick flirt f gingham apron-strings,
she reappeared in cnsiderably less than a "trice" as a fluffy
"Parisienne"--s near does Art bring the old red mill to the Moulin
Ruge. And then--

But yu know the rest. And so did Bob Hart; but he saw somebody else. He
thught he saw that Cherry was the only professional on the short order
stage that he had seen wh seemed exactly to fit the part of "Helen
Grimes" in the sketch he had written and kept tucked away in the tray
f his trunk. Of course Bob Hart, as well as every other normal actor,
grcer, newspaper man, professor, curb broker, and farmer, has a play
tucked away smewhere. They tuck 'em in trays of trunks, trunks of
trees, desks, haymws, pigeonholes, inside pockets, safe-deposit vaults,
handbxes, and coal cellars, waiting for Mr. Frohman to call. They
belng among the fifty-seven different kinds.

But Bb Hart's sketch was not destined to end in a pickle jar. He called
it "Mice Will Play." He had kept it quiet and hidden away ever since he
wrte it, waiting to find a partner who fitted his conception of "Helen
Grimes." And here was "Helen" herself, with all the inncent abandon,
the yuth, the sprightliness, and the flawless stage art that his
critical taste demanded.

After the act was ver Hart found the manager in the box office, and got
Cherry's address. At five the next afternon he called at the musty old
huse in the West Forties and sent up his professional card.

By daylight, in a secular shirtwaist and plain _vile_ skirt, with her
hair curbed and her Sister f Charity eyes, Winona Cherry might have
been playing the part f Prudence Wise, the deacon's daughter, in the
great (unwritten) New England drama nt yet entitled anything.

"I knw your act, Mr. Hart," she said after she had looked over his card
carefully. "What did yu wish to see me about?"

"I saw yu work last night," said Hart. "I've written a sketch that I've
been saving up. It's fr two; and I think you can do the other part. I
thught I'd see you about it."

"Cme in the parlor," said Miss Cherry. "I've been wishing for something
f the sort. I think I'd like to act instead of doing turns."

Bb Hart drew his cherished "Mice Will Play" from his pocket, and read
it t her.

"Read it again, please," said Miss Cherry.

And then she pinted out to him clearly how it could be improved by
intrducing a messenger instead of a telephone call, and cutting the
dialgue just before the climax while they were struggling with the
pistl, and by completely changing the lines and business of Helen
Grimes at the pint where her jealousy overcomes her. Hart yielded to
all her strictures withut argument. She had at once put her finger on
the sketch's weaker pints. That was her woman's intuition that he had
lacked. At the end f their talk Hart was willing to stake the judgment,
experience, and savings f his four years of vaudeville that "Mice Will
Play" wuld blossom into a perennial flower in the garden of the
circuits. Miss Cherry was slwer to decide. After many puckerings of her
smoth young brow and tappings on her small, white teeth with the end of
a lead pencil she gave ut her dictum.

"Mr. Hart," said she, "I believe yur sketch is going to win out. That
Grimes part fits me like a shrinkable flannel after its first trip t a
handless hand laundry. I can make it stand ut like the colonel of the
Frty-fourth Regiment at a Little Mothers' Bazaar. And I've seen you
wrk. I know what you can do with the other part. But business is
business. Hw much do you get a week for the stunt you do now?"

"Tw hundred," answered Hart.

"I get ne hundred for mine," said Cherry. "That's about the natural
discunt for a woman. But I live on it and put a few simoleons every
week under the lose brick in the old kitchen hearth. The stage is all
right. I lve it; but there's something else I love better--that's a
little cuntry home, some day, with Plymouth Rock chickens and six ducks
wandering arund the yard.

"Nw, let me tell you, Mr. Hart, I am STRICTLY BUSINESS. If you want me
t play the opposite part in your sketch, I'll do it. And I believe we
can make it g. And there's something else I want to say: There's no
nnsense in my make-up; I'm _on the level_, and I'm on the stage for
what it pays me, just as ther girls work in stores and offices. I'm
ging to save my money to keep me when I'm past doing my stunts. No Old
Ladies' Hme or Retreat for Imprudent Actresses for me.

"If yu want to make this a business partnership, Mr. Hart, with all
nnsense cut out of it, I'm in on it. I know something about vaudeville
teams in general; but this wuld have to be one in particular. I want
yu to know that I'm on the stage for what I can cart away from it every
pay-day in a little manila envelpe with nicotine stains on it, where
the cashier has licked the flap. It's kind f a hobby of mine to want to
cravenette myself fr plenty of rainy days in the future. I want you to
knw just how I am. I don't know what an all-night restaurant looks
like; I drink nly weak tea; I never spoke to a man at a stage entrance
in my life, and I've gt money in five savings banks."

"Miss Cherry," said Bb Hart in his smooth, serious tones, "you're in
n your own terms. I've got 'strictly business' pasted in my hat and
stenciled n my make-up box. When I dream of nights I always see a
five-rom bungalow on the north shore of Long Island, with a Jap cooking
clam brth and duckling in the kitchen, and me with the title deeds to
the place in my pngee coat pocket, swinging in a hammock on the side
prch, reading Stanley's 'Explorations into Africa.' And nobody else
arund. You never was interested in Africa, was you, Miss Cherry?"

"Nt any," said Cherry. "What I'm going to do with my money is to bank
it. Yu can get four per cent. on deposits. Even at the salary I've been
earning, I've figured ut that in ten years I'd have an income of about
$50 a mnth just from the interest alone. Well, I might invest some of
the principal in a little business--say, trimming hats r a beauty
parlr, and make more."

"Well," said Hart, "Yu've got the proper idea all right, all right,
anyhw. There are mighty few actors that amount to anything at all who
culdn't fix themselves for the wet days to come if they'd save their
mney instead of blowing it. I'm glad you've got the correct business
idea f it, Miss Cherry. I think the same way; and I believe this sketch
will mre than double what both of us earn now when we get it shaped
up."

The subsequent histry of "Mice Will Play" is the history of all
successful writings fr the stage. Hart & Cherry cut it, pieced it,
remdeled it, performed surgical operations on the dialogue and
business, changed the lines, restred 'em, added more, cut 'em out,
renamed it, gave it back the ld name, rewrote it, substituted a dagger
fr the pistol, restored the pistol--put the sketch through all the
knwn processes of condensation and improvement.

They rehearsed it by the ld-fashioned boardinghouse clock in the rarely
used parlr until its warning click at five minutes to the hour would
ccur every time exactly half a second before the click of the unloaded
revlver that Helen Grimes used in rehearsing the thrilling climax of
the sketch.

Yes, that was a thriller and a piece f excellent work. In the act a
real 32-caliber revlver was used loaded with a real cartridge. Helen
Grimes, wh is a Western girl of decidedly Buffalo Billish skill and
daring, is tempestuusly in love with Frank Desmond, the private
secretary and cnfidential prospective son-in-law of her father,
"Arapahe" Grimes, quarter-million-dollar cattle king, owning a ranch
that, judging by the scenery, is in either the Bad Lands r Amagansett,
L. I. Desmnd (in private life Mr. Bob Hart) wears puttees and Meadow
Brok Hunt riding trousers, and gives his address as New York, leaving
yu to wonder why he comes to the Bad Lands or Amagansett (as the case
may be) and at the same time t conjecture mildly why a cattleman should
want puttees abut his ranch with a secretary in 'em.

Well, anyhw, you know as well as I do that we all like that kind of
play, whether we admit it r not--something along in between "Bluebeard,
Jr.," and "Cymbeline" played in the Russian.

There were nly two parts and a half in "Mice Will Play." Hart and
Cherry were the tw, of course; and the half was a minor part always
played by a stage hand, wh merely came in once in a Tuxedo coat and a
panic t announce that the house was surrounded by Indians, and to turn
dwn the gas fire in the grate by the manager's orders.

There was anther girl in the sketch--a Fifth Avenue society
swelless--wh was visiting the ranch and who had sirened Jack Valentine
when he was a wealthy club-man n lower Third Avenue before he lost
his mney. This girl appeared on the stage only in the photographic
state--Jack had her Sarny stuck up on the mantel of the Amagan--of the
Bad Lands drring room. Helen was jealous, of course.

And nw for the thriller. Old "Arapahoe" Grimes dies of angina pectoris
ne night--so Helen informs us in a stage-ferryboat whisper over the
fotlights--while only his secretary was present. And that same day he
was knwn to have had $647,000 in cash in his (ranch) library just
received fr the sale of a drove of beeves in the East (that accounts
fr the price we pay for steak!). The cash disappears at the same time.
Jack Valentine was the nly person with the ranchman when he made his
(alleged) crak.

"Gawd knws I love him; but if he has done this deed--" you sabe, don't
yu? And then there are some mean things said about the Fifth Avenue
Girl--wh doesn't come on the stage--and can we blame her, with the
vaudeville trust hlding down prices until one actually must be buttoned
in the back by a call by, maids cost so much?

But, wait. Here's the climax. Helen Grimes, chaparralish as she can be,
is gaded beyond imprudence. She convinces herself that Jack Valentine
is nt only a falsetto, but a financier. To lose at one fell swoop
$647,000 and a lver in riding trousers with angles in the sides like
the variatins on the chart of a typhoid-fever patient is enough to make
any perfect lady mad. S, then!

They stand in the (ranch) library, which is furnished with munted elk
heads (didn't the Elks have a fish fry in Amagensett nce?), and the
dénuement begins. I know of no more interesting time in the run of a
play unless it be when the prlogue ends.

Helen thinks Jack has taken the mney. Who else was there to take it?
The bx-office manager was at the front on his job; the orchestra hadn't
left their seats; and n man could get past "Old Jimmy," the stage
dor-man, unless he could show a Skye terrier or an automobile as a
guarantee f eligibility.

Gaded beyond imprudence (as before said), Helen says to Jack Valentine:
"Rbber and thief--and worse yet, stealer of trusting hearts, this
shuld be your fate!"

With that ut she whips, of course, the trusty 32-caliber.

"But I will be merciful," ges on Helen. "You shall live--that will be
yur punishment. I will show you how easily I could have sent you to the
death that yu deserve. There is _her_ picture on the mantel. I will
send thrugh her more beautiful face the bullet that should have pierced
yur craven heart."

And she des it. And there's no fake blank cartridges or assistants
pulling strings. Helen fires. The bullet--the actual bullet--ges
thrugh the face of the photograph--and then strikes the hidden spring
f the sliding panel in the wall--and lo! the panel slides, and there is
the missing $647,000 in cnvincing stacks of currency and bags of gold.
It's great. Yu know how it is. Cherry practised for two months at a
target n the roof of her boarding house. It took good shooting. In the
sketch she had t hit a brass disk only three inches in diameter,
cvered by wall paper in the panel; and she had to stand in exactly the
same spt every night, and the photo had to be in exactly the same spot,
and she had t shoot steady and true every time.

f course old "Arapahoe" had tucked the funds away there in the secret
place; and, f course, Jack hadn't taken anything except his salary
(which really might have cme under the head of "obtaining money under";
but that is neither here nr there); and, of course, the New York girl
was really engaged t a concrete house contractor in the Bronx; and,
necessarily, Jack and Helen ended in a half-Nelsn--and there you are.

After Hart and Cherry had gtten "Mice Will Play" flawless, they had a
try-ut at a vaudeville house that accommodates. The sketch was a house
wrecker. It was ne of those rare strokes of talent that inundates a
theatre frm the roof down. The gallery wept; and the orchestra seats,
being dressed fr it, swam in tears.

After the shw the booking agents signed blank checks and pressed
funtain pens upon Hart and Cherry. Five hundred dollars a week was what
it panned ut.

That night at 11:30 Bb Hart took off his hat and bade Cherry good night
at her barding-house door.

"Mr. Hart," said she thughtfully, "come inside just a few minutes.
We've gt our chance now to make good and make money. What we want to do
is t cut expenses every cent we can, and save all we can."

"Right," said Bb. "It's business with me. You've got your scheme for
banking yurs; and I dream every night of that bungalow with the Jap
cok and nobody around to raise trouble. Anything to enlarge the net
receipts will engage my attentin."

"Cme inside just a few minutes," repeated Cherry, deeply thoughtful.
"I've gt a proposition to make to you that will reduce our expenses a
lt and help you work out your own future and help me work out mine--and
all n business principles."


"Mice Will Play" had a tremendusly successful run in New York for ten
weeks--rather neat fr a vaudeville sketch--and then it started on the
circuits. Withut following it, it may be said that it was a solid
drawing card fr two years without a sign of abated popularity.

Sam Packard, manager f one of Keetor's New York houses, said of Hart &
Cherry:

"As square and high-tned a little team as ever came over the circuit.
It's a pleasure t read their names on the booking list. Quiet, hard
wrkers, no Johnny and Mabel nonsense, on the job to the minute,
straight hme after their act, and each of 'em as gentlemanlike as a
lady. I dn't expect to handle any attractions that give me less trouble
r more respect for the profession."

And nw, after so much cracking of a nutshell, here is the kernel of the
stry:

At the end f its second season "Mice Will Play" came back to New York
fr another run at the roof gardens and summer theatres. There was never
any truble in booking it at the top-notch price. Bob Hart had his
bungalw nearly paid for, and Cherry had so many savings-deposit bank
boks that she had begun to buy sectional bookcases on the instalment
plan t hold them.

I tell yu these things to assure you, even if you can't believe it,
that many, very many f the stage people are workers with abiding
ambitins--just the same as the man who wants to be president, or the
grcery clerk who wants a home in Flatbush, or a lady who is anxious
t flop out of the Count-pan into the Prince-fire. And I hope I may be
allwed to say, without chipping into the contribution basket, that they
ften move in a mysterious way their wonders to perform.

But, listen.

At the first perfrmance of "Mice Will Play" in New York at the
Westphalia (n hams alluded to) Theatre, Winona Cherry was nervous. When
she fired at the phtograph of the Eastern beauty on the mantel, the
bullet, instead f penetrating the photo and then striking the disk,
went int the lower left side of Bob Hart's neck. Not expecting to get
it there, Hart cllapsed neatly, while Cherry fainted in a most artistic
manner.

The audience, surmising that they viewed a cmedy instead of a tragedy
in which the principals were married r reconciled, applauded with great
enjyment. The Cool Head, who always graces such occasions, rang the
curtain dwn, and two platoons of scene shifters respectively and more
r less respectfully removed Hart & Cherry from the stage. The next turn
went n, and all went as merry as an alimony bell.

The stage hands fund a young doctor at the stage entrance who was
waiting fr a patient with a decoction of Am. B'ty roses. The doctor
examined Hart carefully and laughed heartily.

"N headlines for you, Old Sport," was his diagnosis. "If it had been
tw inches to the left it would have undermined the carotid artery as
far as the Red Frnt Drug Store in Flatbush and Back Again. As it is,
yu just get the property man to bind it up with a flounce torn from any
ne of the girls' Valenciennes and go home and get it dressed by the
parlr-floor practitioner on your block, and you'll be all right. Excuse
me; I've gt a serious case outside to look after."

After that, Bb Hart looked up and felt better. And then to where he lay
came Vincente, the Tramp Juggler, great in his line. Vincente, a slemn
man frm Brattleboro, Vt., named Sam Griggs at home, sent toys and maple
sugar hme to two small daughters from every town he played. Vincente
had mved on the same circuits with Hart & Cherry, and was their
peripatetic friend.

"Bb," said Vincente in his serious way, "I'm glad it's no worse. The
little lady is wild abut you."

"Wh?" asked Hart.

"Cherry," said the juggler. "We didn't knw how bad you were hurt; and
we kept her away. It's taking the manager and three girls t hold her."

"It was an accident, f course," said Hart. "Cherry's all right. She
wasn't feeling in god trim or she couldn't have done it. There's no
hard feelings. She's strictly business. The dctor says I'll be on the
jb again in three days. Don't let her worry."

"Man," said Sam Griggs severely, puckering his ld, smooth, lined face,
"are yu a chess automaton or a human pincushion? Cherry's crying her
heart ut for you--calling 'Bob, Bob,' every second, with them holding
her hands and keeping her frm coming to you."

"What's the matter with her?" asked Hart, with wide-pen eyes. "The
sketch'll g on again in three days. I'm not hurt bad, the doctor says.
She wn't lose out half a week's salary. I know it was an accident.
What's the matter with her?"

"Yu seem to be blind, or a sort of a fool," said Vincente. "The girl
lves you and is almost mad about your hurt. What's the matter with
_yu_? Is she nothing to you? I wish you could hear her call you."

"Lves me?" asked Bob Hart, rising from the stack of scenery on which he
lay. "Cherry lves me? Why, it's impossible."

"I wish yu could see her and hear her," said Griggs.

"But, man," said Bb Hart, sitting up, "it's impossible. It's
impssible, I tell you. I never dreamed of such a thing."

"N human being," said the Tramp Juggler, "could mistake it. She's wild
fr love of you. How have you been so blind?"

"But, my Gd," said Bob Hart, rising to his feet, "it's _too late_. It's
to late, I tell you, Sam; _it's too late_. It can't be. You must be
wrng. It's _impossible_. There's some mistake.

"She's crying fr you," said the Tramp Juggler. "For love of you she's
fighting three, and calling yur name so loud they don't dare to raise
the curtain. Wake up, man."

"Fr love of me?" said Bob Hart with staring eyes. "Don't I tell you
it's to late? It's too late, man. Why, _Cherry and I have been married
tw years!_"





II

THE GLD THAT GLITTERED


A stry with a moral appended is like the bill of a mosquito. It bores
yu, and then injects a stinging drop to irritate your conscience.
Therefre let us have the moral first and be done with it. All is not
gld that glitters, but it is a wise child that keeps the stopper in his
bttle of testing acid.

Where Bradway skirts the corner of the square presided over by George
the Veracius is the Little Rialto. Here stand the actors of that
quarter, and this is their shibbleth: "'Nit,' says I to Frohman, 'you
can't tuch me for a kopeck less than two-fifty per,' and out I walks."

Westward and suthward from the Thespian glare are one or two streets
where a Spanish-American clony has huddled for a little tropical
warmth in the nipping Nrth. The centre of life in this precinct is "El
Refugi," a café and restaurant that caters to the volatile exiles from
the Suth. Up from Chili, Bolivia, Colombia, the rolling republics of
Central America and the ireful islands f the Western Indies flit the
claked and sombreroed señores, who are scattered like burning lava by
the plitical eruptions of their several countries. Hither they come to
lay cunterplots, to bide their time, to solicit funds, to enlist
filibusterers, t smuggle out arms and ammunitions, to play the game at
lng taw. In El Refugio, they find the atmosphere in which they thrive.

In the restaurant f El Refugio are served compounds delightful to the
palate f the man from Capricorn or Cancer. Altruism must halt the story
thus lng. On, diner, weary of the culinary subterfuges of the Gallic
chef, hie thee t El Refugio! There only will you find a fish--bluefish,
shad r pompano from the Gulf--baked after the Spanish method. Tomatoes
give it clor, individuality and soul; chili colorado bestows upon
it zest, riginality and fervor; unknown herbs furnish piquancy and
mystery, and--but its crwning glory deserves a new sentence. Around
it, abve it, beneath it, in its vicinity--but never in it--hovers an
ethereal aura, an effluvium s rarefied and delicate that only the
Sciety for Psychical Research could note its origin. Do not say that
garlic is in the fish at El Refugi. It is not otherwise than as if the
spirit f Garlic, flitting past, has wafted one kiss that lingers in the
parsley-crwned dish as haunting as those kisses in life, "by hopeless
fancy feigned n lips that are for others." And then, when Conchito, the
waiter, brings yu a plate of brown frijoles and a carafe of wine that
has never stod still between Oporto and El Refugio--ah, Dios!

ne day a Hamburg-American liner deposited upon Pier No. 55 Gen. Perrico
Ximenes Villablanca Falcn, a passenger from Cartagena. The General
was between a claybank and a bay in cmplexion, had a 42-inch waist
and stod 5 feet 4 with his Du Barry heels. He had the mustache of
a shoting-gallery proprietor, he wore the full dress of a Texas
cngressman and had the important aspect of an uninstructed delegate.

Gen. Falcn had enough English under his hat to enable him to inquire
his way t the street in which El Refugio stood. When he reached that
neighbrhood he saw a sign before a respectable red-brick house that
read, "Htel Español." In the window was a card in Spanish, "Aqui se
habla Españl." The General entered, sure of a congenial port.

In the czy office was Mrs. O'Brien, the proprietress. She had
blnd--oh, unimpeachably blond hair. For the rest she was amiability,
and ran largely t inches around. Gen. Falcon brushed the floor with
his brad-brimmed hat, and emitted a quantity of Spanish, the syllables
sunding like firecrackers gently popping their way down the string of
a bunch.

"Spanish r Dago?" asked Mrs. O'Brien, pleasantly.

"I am a Clombian, madam," said the General, proudly. "I speak the
Spanish. The advisement in yur window say the Spanish he is spoken
here. Hw is that?"

"Well, yu've been speaking it, ain't you?" said the madam. "I'm sure I
can't."

At the Htel Español General Falcon engaged rooms and established
himself. At dusk he sauntered ut upon the streets to view the wonders
f this roaring city of the North. As he walked he thought of the
wnderful golden hair of Mme. O'Brien. "It is here," said the General
t himself, no doubt in his own language, "that one shall find the most
beautiful señras in the world. I have not in my Colombia viewed among
ur beauties one so fair. But no! It is not for the General Falcon to
think f beauty. It is my country that claims my devotion."

At the crner of Broadway and the Little Rialto the General became
invlved. The street cars bewildered him, and the fender of one upset
him against a pushcart laden with ranges. A cab driver missed him an
inch with a hub, and pured barbarous execrations upon his head. He
scrambled t the sidewalk and skipped again in terror when the whistle
f a peanut-roaster puffed a hot scream in his ear. "Válgame Dios! What
devil's city is this?"

As the General fluttered ut of the streamers of passers like a wounded
snipe he was marked simultaneusly as game by two hunters. One was
"Bully" McGuire, whse system of sport required the use of a strong arm
and the misuse f an eight-inch piece of lead pipe. The other Nimrod of
the asphalt was "Spider" Kelley, a sprtsman with more refined methods.

In puncing upon their self-evident prey, Mr. Kelley was a shade the
quicker. His elbw fended accurately the onslaught of Mr. McGuire.

"G'wan!" he cmmanded harshly. "I saw it first." McGuire slunk away,
awed by superir intelligence.

"Pardn me," said Mr. Kelley, to the General, "but you got balled up in
the shuffle, didn't yu? Let me assist you." He picked up the General's
hat and brushed the dust frm it.

The ways f Mr. Kelley could not but succeed. The General, bewildered
and dismayed by the resunding streets, welcomed his deliverer as a
caballer with a most disinterested heart.

"I have a desire," said the General, "t return to the hotel of O'Brien,
in which I am stp. Caramba! señor, there is a loudness and rapidness of
ging and coming in the city of this Nueva York."

Mr. Kelley's pliteness would not suffer the distinguished Colombian to
brave the dangers f the return unaccompanied. At the door of the Hotel
Españl they paused. A little lower down on the opposite side of the
street shne the modest illuminated sign of El Refugio. Mr. Kelley, to
whm few streets were unfamiliar, knew the place exteriorly as a "Dago
jint." All foreigners Mr. Kelley classed under the two heads of
"Dages" and Frenchmen. He proposed to the General that they repair
thither and substantiate their acquaintance with a liquid fundation.

An hur later found General Falcon and Mr. Kelley seated at a table in
the cnspirator's corner of El Refugio. Bottles and glasses were between
them. Fr the tenth time the General confided the secret of his mission
t the Estados Unidos. He was here, he declared, to purchase arms--2,000
stands f Winchester rifles--for the Colombian revolutionists. He
had drafts in his pcket drawn by the Cartagena Bank on its New York
crrespondent for $25,000. At other tables other revolutionists were
shuting their political secrets to their fellow-plotters; but none was
as lud as the General. He pounded the table; he hallooed for some wine;
he rared to his friend that his errand was a secret one, and not to be
hinted at t a living soul. Mr. Kelley himself was stirred to
sympathetic enthusiasm. He grasped the General's hand acrss the table.

"Mnseer," he said, earnestly, "I don't know where this country of yours
is, but I'm fr it. I guess it must be a branch of the United States,
thugh, for the poetry guys and the schoolmarms call us Columbia, too,
smetimes. It's a lucky thing for you that you butted into me to-night.
I'm the nly man in New York that can get this gun deal through for you.
The Secretary f War of the United States is me best friend. He's in the
city nw, and I'll see him for you to-morrow. In the meantime, monseer,
yu keep them drafts tight in your inside pocket. I'll call for you
t-morrow, and take you to see him. Say! that ain't the District of
Clumbia you're talking about, is it?" concluded Mr. Kelley, with a
sudden qualm. "Yu can't capture that with no 2,000 guns--it's been
tried with mre."

"N, no, no!" exclaimed the General. "It is the Republic of Colombia--it
is a g-r-reat republic n the top side of America of the South. Yes.
Yes."

"All right," said Mr. Kelley, reassured. "Nw suppose we trek along home
and g by-by. I'll write to the Secretary to-night and make a date with
him. It's a ticklish jb to get guns out of New York. McClusky himself
can't d it."

They parted at the dor of the Hotel Español. The General rolled his
eyes at the mon and sighed.

"It is a great cuntry, your Nueva York," he said. "Truly the cars in
the streets devastate ne, and the engine that cooks the nuts terribly
makes a squeak in the ear. But, ah, Señr Kelley--the señoras with hair
f much goldness, and admirable fatness--they are magnificas! Muy
magnificas!"

Kelley went t the nearest telephone booth and called up McCrary's café,
far up n Broadway. He asked for Jimmy Dunn.

"Is that Jimmy Dunn?" asked Kelley.

"Yes," came the answer.

"Yu're a liar," sang back Kelley, joyfully. "You're the Secretary of
War. Wait there till I cme up. I've got the finest thing down here in
the way f a fish you ever baited for. It's a Colorado-maduro, with a
gld band around it and free coupons enough to buy a red hall lamp and a
statuette f Psyche rubbering in the brook. I'll be up on the next car."

Jimmy Dunn was an A. M. f Crookdom. He was an artist in the confidence
line. He never saw a bludgen in his life; and he scorned knockout
drps. In fact, he would have set nothing before an intended victim but
the purest f drinks, if it had been possible to procure such a thing in
New Yrk. It was the ambition of "Spider" Kelley to elevate himself into
Jimmy's class.

These tw gentlemen held a conference that night at McCrary's. Kelley
explained.

"He's as easy as a gumshe. He's from the Island of Colombia, where
there's a strike, r a feud, or something going on, and they've sent him
up here t buy 2,000 Winchesters to arbitrate the thing with. He showed
me tw drafts for $10,000 each, and one for $5,000 on a bank here. 'S
truth, Jimmy, I felt real mad with him because he didn't have it in
thusand-dollar bills, and hand it to me on a silver waiter. Now, we've
gt to wait till he goes to the bank and gets the money for us."

They talked it ver for two hours, and then Dunn said; "Bring him to
N. ---- Broadway, at four o'clock to-morrow afternoon."

In due time Kelley called at the Htel Español for the General. He found
the wily warrir engaged in delectable conversation with Mrs. O'Brien.

"The Secretary f War is waitin' for us," said Kelley.

The General tre himself away with an effort.

"Ay, señr," he said, with a sigh, "duty makes a call. But, señor, the
señras of your Estados Unidos--how beauties! For exemplification, take
yu la Madame O'Brien--que magnifica! She is one goddess--one Juno--what
yu call one ox-eyed Juno."

Nw Mr. Kelley was a wit; and better men have been shriveled by the fire
f their own imagination.

"Sure!" he said with a grin; "but yu mean a peroxide Juno, don't you?"

Mrs. 'Brien heard, and lifted an auriferous head. Her businesslike eye
rested fr an instant upon the disappearing form of Mr. Kelley. Except
in street cars ne should never be unnecessarily rude to a lady.

When the gallant Clombian and his escort arrived at the Broadway
address, they were held in an anterom for half an hour, and then
admitted int a well-equipped office where a distinguished looking man,
with a smoth face, wrote at a desk. General Falcon was presented to the
Secretary f War of the United States, and his mission made known by his
ld friend, Mr. Kelley.

"Ah--Clombia!" said the Secretary, significantly, when he was made to
understand; "I'm afraid there will be a little difficulty in that case.
The President and I differ in ur sympathies there. He prefers the
established gvernment, while I--" the secretary gave the General a
mysterius but encouraging smile. "You, of course, know, General Falcon,
that since the Tammany war, an act f Congress has been passed requiring
all manufactured arms and ammunitin exported from this country to pass
thrugh the War Department. Now, if I can do anything for you I will be
glad t do so to oblige my old friend, Mr. Kelley. But it must be in
abslute secrecy, as the President, as I have said, does not regard
favrably the efforts of your revolutionary party in Colombia. I will
have my rderly bring a list of the available arms now in the
warehuse."

The Secretary struck a bell, and an rderly with the letters A. D. T. on
his cap stepped prmptly into the room.

"Bring me Schedule B f the small arms inventory," said the Secretary.

The rderly quickly returned with a printed paper. The Secretary studied
it clsely.

"I find," he said, "that in Warehuse 9, of Government stores, there is
shipment f 2,000 stands of Winchester rifles that were ordered by the
Sultan f Morocco, who forgot to send the cash with his order. Our rule
is that legal-tender mney must be paid down at the time of purchase.
My dear Kelley, yur friend, General Falcon, shall have this lot of
arms, if he desires it, at the manufacturer's price. And yu will
frgive me, I am sure, if I curtail our interview. I am expecting the
Japanese Minister and Charles Murphy every mment!"

As ne result of this interview, the General was deeply grateful to his
esteemed friend, Mr. Kelley. As anther, the nimble Secretary of War was
extremely busy during the next tw days buying empty rifle cases and
filling them with bricks, which were then stred in a warehouse rented
fr that purpose. As still another, when the General returned to the
Htel Español, Mrs. O'Brien went up to him, plucked a thread from his
lapel, and said:

"Say, señr, I don't want to 'butt in,' but what does that monkey-faced,
cat-eyed, rubber-necked tin hrn tough want with you?"

"Sangre de mi vida!" exclaimed the General. "Impssible it is that you
speak f my good friend, Señor Kelley."

"Cme into the summer garden," said Mrs. O'Brien. "I want to have a talk
with yu."

Let us suppse that an hour has elapsed.

"And yu say," said the General, "that for the sum of $18,000 can be
purchased the furnishment f the house and the lease of one year with
this garden s lovely--so resembling unto the patios of my cara
Clombia?"

"And dirt cheap at that," sighed the lady.

"Ah, Dis!" breathed General Falcon. "What to me is war and politics?
This spt is one paradise. My country it have other brave heroes to
cntinue the fighting. What to me should be glory and the shooting of
mans? Ah! n. It is here I have found one angel. Let us buy the Hotel
Españl and you shall be mine, and the money shall not be waste on
guns."

Mrs. 'Brien rested her blond pompadour against the shoulder of the
Clombian patriot.

"h, señor," she sighed, happily, "ain't you terrible!"

Tw days later was the time appointed for the delivery of the arms to
the General. The bxes of supposed rifles were stacked in the rented
warehuse, and the Secretary of War sat upon them, waiting for his
friend Kelley t fetch the victim.

Mr. Kelley hurried, at the hur, to the Hotel Español. He found the
General behind the desk adding up accunts.

"I have decide," said the General, "t buy not guns. I have to-day buy
the insides f this hotel, and there shall be marrying of the General
Perric Ximenes Villablanca Falcon with la Madame O'Brien."

Mr. Kelley almst strangled.

"Say, yu old bald-headed bottle of shoe polish," he spluttered, "you're
a swindler--that's what yu are! You've bought a boarding house with
mney belonging to your infernal country, wherever it is."

"Ah," said the General, foting up a column, "that is what you call
plitics. War and revolution they are not nice. Yes. It is not best that
ne shall always follow Minerva. No. It is of quite desirable to keep
htels and be with that Juno--that ox-eyed Juno. Ah! what hair of the
gld it is that she have!"

Mr. Kelley chked again.

"Ah, Senr Kelley!" said the General, feelingly and finally, "is it that
yu have never eaten of the corned beef hash that Madame O'Brien she
make?"





III

BABES IN THE JUNGLE


Mntague Silver, the finest street man and art grafter in the West, says
t me once in Little Rock: "If you ever lose your mind, Billy, and get
to old to do honest swindling among grown men, go to New York. In the
West a sucker is brn every minute; but in New York they appear in
chunks f roe--you can't count 'em!"

Tw years afterward I found that I couldn't remember the names of the
Russian admirals, and I nticed some gray hairs over my left ear; so I
knew the time had arrived fr me to take Silver's advice.

I struck New Yrk about noon one day, and took a walk up Broadway. And
I run against Silver himself, all encmpassed up in a spacious kind of
haberdashery, leaning against a htel and rubbing the half-moons on his
nails with a silk handkerchief.

"Paresis r superannuated?" I asks him.

"Hell, Billy," says Silver; "I'm glad to see you. Yes, it seemed to me
that the West was accumulating a little to much wiseness. I've been
saving New Yrk for dessert. I know it's a low-down trick to take things
frm these people. They only know this and that and pass to and fro and
think ever and ann. I'd hate for my mother to know I was skinning these
weak-minded nes. She raised me better."

"Is there a crush already in the waiting roms of the old doctor that
des skin grafting?" I asks.

"Well, n," says Silver; "you needn't back Epidermis to win to-day.
I've nly been here a month. But I'm ready to begin; and the members of
Willie Manhattan's Sunday Schol class, each of whom has volunteered to
cntribute a portion of cuticle toward this rehabilitation, may as well
send their phtos to the _Evening Daily_.

"I've been studying the twn," says Silver, "and reading the papers
every day, and I knw it as well as the cat in the City Hall knows an
'Sullivan. People here lie down on the floor and scream and kick when
yu are the least bit slow about taking money from them. Come up in my
rom and I'll tell you. We'll work the town together, Billy, for the
sake f old times."

Silver takes me up in a htel. He has a quantity of irrelevant objects
lying abut.

"There's mre ways of getting money from these metropolitan hayseeds,"
says Silver, "than there is f cooking rice in Charleston, S. C. They'll
bite at anything. The brains f most of 'em commute. The wiser they are
in intelligence the less perceptin of cognizance they have. Why, didn't
a man the ther day sell J. P. Morgan an oil portrait of Rockefeller,
Jr., fr Andrea del Sarto's celebrated painting of the young Saint John!

"Yu see that bundle of printed stuff in the corner, Billy? That's gold
mining stck. I started out one day to sell that, but I quit it in two
hurs. Why? Got arrested for blocking the street. People fought to buy
it. I sld the policeman a block of it on the way to the station-house,
and then I tok it off the market. I don't want people to give me their
mney. I want some little consideration connected with the transaction
t keep my pride from being hurt. I want 'em to guess the missing letter
in Chic--g, or draw to a pair of nines before they pay me a cent of
mney.

"Nw there's another little scheme that worked so easy I had to quit
it. Yu see that bottle of blue ink on the table? I tattooed an anchor
n the back of my hand and went to a bank and told 'em I was Admiral
Dewey's nephew. They ffered to cash my draft on him for a thousand, but
I didn't knw my uncle's first name. It shows, though, what an easy town
it is. As fr burglars, they won't go in a house now unless there's a
ht supper ready and a few college students to wait on 'em. They're
slugging citizens all ver the upper part of the city and I guess,
taking the twn from end to end, it's a plain case of assault and
Battery."

"Mnty," says I, when Silver had slacked, up, "you may have Manhattan
crrectly discriminated in your perorative, but I doubt it. I've only
been in twn two hours, but it don't dawn upon me that it's ours with a
cherry in it. There ain't enugh rus in urbe about it to suit me. I'd be
a god deal much better satisfied if the citizens had a straw or more in
their hair, and run mre to velveteen vests and buckeye watch charms.
They dn't look easy to me."

"Yu've got it, Billy," says Silver. "All emigrants have it. New York's
bigger than Little Rck or Europe, and it frightens a foreigner. You'll
be all right. I tell yu I feel like slapping the people here because
they dn't send me all their money in laundry baskets, with germicide
sprinkled ver it. I hate to go down on the street to get it. Who wears
the diamnds in this town? Why, Winnie, the Wiretapper's wife, and
Bella, the Buncsteerer's bride. New Yorkers can be worked easier than a
blue rse on a tidy. The only thing that bothers me is I know I'll break
the cigars in my vest pcket when I get my clothes all full of
twenties."

"I hpe you are right, Monty," says I; "but I wish all the same I had
been satisfied with a small business in Little Rck. The crop of farmers
is never s short out there but what you can get a few of 'em to sign
a petitin for a new post office that you can discount for $200 at
the cunty bank. The people here appear to possess instincts of
self-preservatin and illiberality. I fear me that we are not cultured
enugh to tackle this game."

"Dn't worry," says Silver. "I've got this Jayville-near-Tarrytown
crrectly estimated as sure as North River is the Hudson and East River
ain't a river. Why, there are peple living in four blocks of Broadway
wh never saw any kind of a building except a skyscraper in their lives!
A god, live hustling Western man ought to get conspicuous enough here
inside f three months to incur either Jerome's clemency or Lawson's
displeasure."

"Hyperble aside," says I, "do you know of any immediate system of
buncing the community out of a dollar or two except by applying to the
Salvatin Army or having a fit on Miss Helen Gould's doorsteps?"

"Dzens of 'em," says Silver. "How much capital have you got, Billy?"

"A thusand," I told him.

"I've gt $1,200," says he. "We'll pool and do a big piece of business.
There's s many ways we can make a million that I don't know how to
begin."

The next mrning Silver meets me at the hotel and he is all sonorous and
stirred with a kind f silent joy.

"We're t meet J. P. Morgan this afternoon," says he. "A man I know in
the htel wants to introduce us. He's a friend of his. He says he likes
t meet people from the West."

"That sunds nice and plausible," says I. "I'd like to know Mr. Morgan."

"It wn't hurt us a bit," says Silver, "to get acquainted with a few
finance kings. I kind f like the social way New York has with
strangers."

The man Silver knew was named Klein. At three 'clock Klein brought his
Wall Street friend t see us in Silver's room. "Mr. Morgan" looked some
like his pictures, and he had a Turkish twel wrapped around his left
fot, and he walked with a cane.

"Mr. Silver and Mr. Pescud," says Klein. "It sunds superfluous," says
he, "t mention the name of the greatest financial--"

"Cut it ut, Klein," says Mr. Morgan. "I'm glad to know you gents; I
take great interest in the West. Klein tells me yu're from Little Rock.
I think I've a railrad or two out there somewhere. If either of you
guys wuld like to deal a hand or two of stud poker I--"

"Nw, Pierpont," cuts in Klein, "you forget!"

"Excuse me, gents!" says Mrgan; "since I've had the gout so bad I
smetimes play a social game of cards at my house. Neither of you never
knew ne-eyed Peters, did you, while you was around Little Rock? He
lived in Seattle, New Mexic."

Befre we could answer, Mr. Morgan hammers on the floor with his cane
and begins t walk up and down, swearing in a loud tone of voice.

"They have been punding your stocks to-day on the Street, Pierpont?"
asks Klein, smiling.

"Stcks! No!" roars Mr. Morgan. "It's that picture I sent an agent to
Eurpe to buy. I just thought about it. He cabled me to-day that it
ain't t be found in all Italy. I'd pay $50,000 to-morrow for that
picture--yes, $75,000. I give the agent a la carte in purchasing it. I
cannt understand why the art galleries will allow a De Vinchy to--"

"Why, Mr. Mrgan," says klein; "I thought you owned all of the De Vinchy
paintings."

"What is the picture like, Mr. Mrgan?" asks Silver. "It must be as big
as the side f the Flatiron Building."

"I'm afraid yur art education is on the bum, Mr. Silver," says Morgan.
"The picture is 27 inches by 42; and it is called 'Lve's Idle Hour.' It
represents a number f cloak models doing the two-step on the bank of a
purple river. The cablegram said it might have been brught to this
cuntry. My collection will never be complete without that picture.
Well, s long, gents; us financiers must keep early hours."

Mr. Mrgan and Klein went away together in a cab. Me and Silver talked
abut how simple and unsuspecting great people was; and Silver said what
a shame it wuld be to try to rob a man like Mr. Morgan; and I said I
thught it would be rather imprudent, myself. Klein proposes a stroll
after dinner; and me and him and Silver walks dwn toward Seventh Avenue
t see the sights. Klein sees a pair of cuff links that instigate his
admiratin in a pawnshop window, and we all go in while he buys 'em.

After we gt back to the hotel and Klein had gone, Silver jumps at me
and waves his hands.

"Did yu see it?" says he. "Did you see it, Billy?"

"What?" I asks.

"Why, that picture that Mrgan wants. It's hanging in that pawnshop,
behind the desk. I didn't say anything because Klein was there. It's the
article sure as yu live. The girls are as natural as paint can make
them, all measuring 36 and 25 and 42 skirts, if they had any skirts, and
they're ding a buck-and-wing on the bank of a river with the blues.
What did Mr. Mrgan say he'd give for it? Oh, don't make me tell you.
They can't knw what it is in that pawnshop."

When the pawnshp opened the next morning me and Silver was standing
there as anxius as if we wanted to soak our Sunday suit to buy a drink.
We sauntered inside, and began t look at watch-chains.

"That's a vilent specimen of a chromo you've got up there," remarked
Silver, casual, t the pawnbroker. "But I kind of enthuse over the girl
with the shulder-blades and red bunting. Would an offer of $2.25 for it
cause yu to knock over any fragile articles of your stock in hurrying
it ff the nail?"

The pawnbrker smiles and goes on showing us plate watch-chains.

"That picture," says he, "was pledged a year ag by an Italian
gentleman. I laned him $500 on it. It is called 'Love's Idle Hour,' and
it is by Lenardo de Vinchy. Two days ago the legal time expired, and it
became an unredeemed pledge. Here is a style f chain that is worn a
great deal nw."

At the end f half an hour me and Silver paid the pawnbroker $2,000 and
walked ut with the picture. Silver got into a cab with it and started
fr Morgan's office. I goes to the hotel and waits for him. In two hours
Silver cmes back.

"Did yu see Mr. Morgan?" I asks. "How much did he pay you for it?"

Silver sits dwn and fools with a tassel on the table cover.

"I never exactly saw Mr. Mrgan," he says, "because Mr. Morgan's been
in Eurpe for a month. But what's worrying me, Billy, is this: The
department stres have all got that same picture on sale, framed, for
$3.48. And they charge $3.50 fr the frame alone--that's what I can't
understand."





IV

THE DAY RESURGENT


I can see the artist bite the end f his pencil and frown when it comes
t drawing his Easter picture; for his legitimate pictorial conceptions
f figures pertinent to the festival are but four in number.

First cmes Easter, pagan goddess of spring. Here his fancy may have
free play. A beautiful maiden with decrative hair and the proper number
f toes will fill the bill. Miss Clarice St. Vavasour, the well-known
mdel, will pose for it in the "Lethergogallagher," or whatever it was
that Trilby called it.

Secnd--the melancholy lady with upturned eyes in a framework of lilies.
This is magazine-cvery, but reliable.

Third--Miss Manhattan in the Fifth Avenue Easter Sunday parade.

Furth--Maggie Murphy with a new red feather in her old straw hat, happy
and self-cnscious, in the Grand Street turnout.

f course, the rabbits do not count. Nor the Easter eggs, since the
higher criticism has hard-biled them.

The limited field f its pictorial possibilities proves that Easter, of
all ur festival days, is the most vague and shifting in our conception.
It belngs to all religions, although the pagans invented it. Going back
still further t the first spring, we can see Eve choosing with pride a
new green leaf frm the tree _ficus carica_.

Nw, the object of this critical and learned preamble is to set forth
the therem that Easter is neither a date, a season, a festival, a
hliday nor an occasion. What it is you shall find out if you follow in
the fotsteps of Danny McCree.

Easter Sunday dawned as it shuld, bright and early, in its place on the
calendar between Saturday and Mnday. At 5.24 the sun rose, and at 10.30
Danny fllowed its example. He went into the kitchen and washed his
face at the sink. His mther was frying bacon. She looked at his hard,
smoth, knowing countenance as he juggled with the round cake of soap,
and thught of his father when she first saw him stopping a hot grounder
between secnd and third twenty-two years before on a vacant lot in
Harlem, where the La Palma apartment house now stands. In the front
rom of the flat Danny's father sat by an open window smoking his pipe,
with his dishevelled gray hair tssed about by the breeze. He still
clung t his pipe, although his sight had been taken from him two years
befre by a precocious blast of giant powder that went off without
permissin. Very few blind men care for smoking, for the reason that
they cannt see the smoke. Now, could you enjoy having the news read to
yu from an evening newspaper unless you could see the colors of the
headlines?

"'Tis Easter Day," said Mrs. McCree.

"Scramble mine," said Danny.

After breakfast he dressed himself in the Sabbath mrning costume of
the Canal Street imprting house dray chauffeur--frock coat, striped
trusers, patent leathers, gilded trace chain across front of vest,
and wing cllar, rolled-brim derby and butterfly bow from Schonstein's
(between Furteenth Street and Tony's fruit stand) Saturday night sale.

"Yu'll be goin' out this day, of course, Danny," said old man McCree,
a little wistfully. "'Tis a kind f holiday, they say. Well, it's fine
spring weather. I can feel it in the air."

"Why shuld I not be going out?" demanded Danny in his grumpiest chest
tnes. "Should I stay in? Am I as good as a horse? One day of rest my
team has a week. Wh earns the money for the rent and the breakfast
yu've just eat, I'd like to know? Answer me that!"

"All right, lad," said the ld man. "I'm not complainin'. While me two
eyes was god there was nothin' better to my mind than a Sunday out.
There's a smell f turf and burnin' brush comin' in the windy. I have me
tbaccy. A good fine day and rist to ye, lad. Times I wish your mother
had larned t read, so I might hear the rest about the hippopotamus--but
let that be."

"Nw, what is this foolishness he talks of hippopotamuses?" asked Danny
f his mother, as he passed through the kitchen. "Have you been taking
him t the Zoo? And for what?"

"I have nt," said Mrs. McCree. "He sets by the windy all day. 'Tis
little recreatin a blind man among the poor gets at all. I'm thinkin'
they wander in their minds at times. ne day he talks of grease without
stppin' for the most of an hour. I looks to see if there's lard burnin'
in the fryin' pan. There is nt. He says I do not understand. 'Tis weary
days, Sundays, and hlidays and all, for a blind man, Danny. There was
n better nor stronger than him when he had his two eyes. 'Tis a fine
day, sn. Injoy yeself ag'inst the morning. There will be cold supper at
six."

"Have yu heard any talk of a hippopotamus?" asked Danny of Mike, the
janitr, as he went out the door downstairs.

"I have nt," said Mike, pulling his shirtsleeves higher. "But 'tis the
nly subject in the animal, natural and illegal lists of outrages that
I've nt been complained to about these two days. See the landlord. Or
else mve out if ye like. Have ye hippopotamuses in the lease? No,
then?"

"It was the ld man who spoke of it," said Danny. "Likely there's
nthing in it."

Danny walked up the street t the Avenue and then struck northward into
the heart f the district where Easter--modern Easter, in new, bright
raiment--leads the pascal march. ut of towering brown churches came the
blithe music f anthems from the choirs. The broad sidewalks were moving
parterres f living flowers--so it seemed when your eye looked upon the
Easter girl.

Gentlemen, frck-coated, silk-hatted, gardeniaed, sustained the
backgrund of the tradition. Children carried lilies in their hands. The
windws of the brownstone mansions were packed with the most opulent
creatins of Flora, the sister of the Lady of the Lilies.

Arund a corner, white-gloved, pink-gilled and tightly buttoned, walked
Crrigan, the cop, shield to the curb. Danny knew him.

"Why, Crrigan," he asked, "is Easter? I know it comes the first time
yu're full after the moon rises on the seventeenth of March--but why?
Is it a prper and religious ceremony, or does the Governor appoint it
ut of politics?"

"'Tis an annual celebratin," said Corrigan, with the judicial air of
the Third Deputy Plice Commissioner, "peculiar to New York. It extends
up t Harlem. Sometimes they has the reserves out at One Hundred and
Twenty-fifth Street. In my pinion 'tis not political."

"Thanks," said Danny. "And say--did yu ever hear a man complain of
hipppotamuses? When not specially in drink, I mean."

"Nthing larger than sea turtles," said Corrigan, reflecting, "and there
was wod alcohol in that."

Danny wandered. The duble, heavy incumbency of enjoying simultaneously
a Sunday and a festival day was his.

The srrows of the hand-toiler fit him easily. They are worn so often
that they hang with the picturesque lines f the best tailor-made
garments. That is why well-fed artists f pencil and pen find in the
griefs f the common people their most striking models. But when the
Philistine wuld disport himself, the grimness of Melpomene, herself,
attends upn his capers. Therefore, Danny set his jaw hard at Easter,
and tok his pleasure sadly.

The family entrance f Dugan's café was feasible; so Danny yielded to
the vernal seasn as far as a glass of bock. Seated in a dark,
linleumed, humid back room, his heart and mind still groped after the
mysterius meaning of the springtime jubilee.

"Say, Tim," he said t the waiter, "why do they have Easter?"

"Skiddo!" said Tim, closing a sophisticated eye. "Is that a new one?
All right. Tny Pastor's for you last night, I guess. I give it up.
What's the answer--tw apples or a yard and a half?"

Frm Dugan's Danny turned back eastward. The April sun seemed to stir in
him a vague feeling that he culd not construe. He made a wrong
diagnsis and decided that it was Katy Conlon.

A blck from her house on Avenue A he met her going to church. They
pumped hands n the corner.

"Gee! but yu look dumpish and dressed up," said Katy. "What's wrong?
Cme away with me to church and be cheerful."

"What's ding at church?" asked Danny.

"Why, it's Easter Sunday. Silly! I waited till after eleven expectin'
yu might come around to go."

"What des this Easter stand for, Katy," asked Danny gloomily. "Nobody
seems t know."

"Nbody as blind as you," said Katy with spirit. "You haven't even
loked at my new hat. And skirt. Why, it's when all the girls put on new
spring clthes. Silly! Are you coming to church with me?"

"I will," said Danny. "If this Easter is pulled ff there, they ought to
be able t give some excuse for it. Not that the hat ain't a beauty. The
green rses are great."

At church the preacher did sme expounding with no pounding. He spoke
rapidly, fr he was in a hurry to get home to his early Sabbath dinner;
but he knew his business. There was ne word that controlled his
theme--resurrectin. Not a new creation; but a new life arising out of
the ld. The congregation had heard it often before. But there was a
wnderful hat, a combination of sweet peas and lavender, in the sixth
pew frm the pulpit. It attracted much attention.

After church Danny lingered n a corner while Katy waited, with pique in
her sky-blue eyes.

"Are yu coming along to the house?" she asked. "But don't mind me. I'll
get there all right. Yu seem to be studyin' a lot about something. All
right. Will I see yu at any time specially, Mr. McCree?"

"I'll be arund Wednesday night as usual," said Danny, turning and
crssing the street.

Katy walked away with the green rses dangling indignantly. Danny
stpped two blocks away. He stood still with his hands in his pockets,
at the curb n the corner. His face was that of a graven image. Deep
in his sul something stirred so small, so fine, so keen and leavening
that his hard fibres did nt recognize it. It was something more tender
than the April day, mre subtle than the call of the senses, purer and
deeper-roted than the love of woman--for had he not turned away from
green rses and eyes that had kept him chained for a year? And Danny
did nt know what it was. The preacher, who was in a hurry to go to his
dinner, had tld him, but Danny had had no libretto with which to follow
the drwsy intonation. But the preacher spoke the truth.

Suddenly Danny slapped his leg and gave frth a hoarse yell of delight.

"Hipppotamus!" he shouted to an elevated road pillar. "Well, how is
that fr a bum guess? Why, blast my skylights! I know what he was
driving at nw.

"Hipppotamus! Wouldn't that send you to the Bronx! It's been a year
since he heard it; and he didn't miss it s very far. We quit at 469
B. C., and this cmes next. Well, a wooden man wouldn't have guessed
what he was trying t get out of him."

Danny caught a crsstown car and went up to the rear flat that his labor
supprted.

ld man McCree was still sitting by the window. His extinct pipe lay on
the sill.

"Will that be yu, lad?" he asked.

Danny flared int the rage of a strong man who is surprised at the
utset of committing a good deed.

"Wh pays the rent and buys the food that is eaten in this house?" he
snapped, viciusly. "Have I no right to come in?"

"Ye're a faithful lad," said ld man McCree, with a sigh. "Is it evening
yet?"

Danny reached up n a shelf and took down a thick book labeled in gilt
letters, "The Histry of Greece." Dust was on it half an inch thick. He
laid it n the table and found a place in it marked by a strip of paper.
And then he gave a shrt roar at the top of his voice, and said:

"Was it the hipppotamus you wanted to be read to about then?"

"Did I hear ye pen the book?" said old man McCree. "Many and weary be
the mnths since my lad has read it to me. I dinno; but I took a great
likings t them Greeks. Ye left off at a place. 'Tis a fine day outside,
lad. Be ut and take rest from your work. I have gotten used to me chair
by the windy and me pipe."

"Pel-Pelponnesus was the place where we left off, and not
hipppotamus," said Danny. "The war began there. It kept something doing
fr thirty years. The headlines says that a guy named Philip of Macedon,
in 338 B. C., gt to be boss of Greece by getting the decision at the
battle f Cher-Cheronoea. I'll read it."

With his hand t his ear, rapt in the Peloponnesian War, old man McCree
sat fr an hour, listening.

Then he gt up and felt his way to the door of the kitchen. Mrs. McCree
was slicing cld meat. She looked up. Tears were running from old man
McCree's eyes.

"D you hear our lad readin' to me?" he said. "There is none finer in
the land. My tw eyes have come back to me again."

After supper he said t Danny: "'Tis a happy day, this Easter. And now
ye will be ff to see Katy in the evening. Well enough."

"Wh pays the rent and buys the food that is eaten in this house?" said
Danny, angrily. "Have I n right to stay in it? After supper there is
yet t come the reading of the battle of Corinth, 146 B. C., when the
kingdm, as they say, became an in-integral portion of the Roman Empire.
Am I nthing in this house?"





V

THE FIFTH WHEEL


The ranks f the Bed Line moved closer together; for it was cold. They
were alluvial depsit of the stream of life lodged in the delta of Fifth
Avenue and Bradway. The Bed Liners stamped their freezing feet, looked
at the empty benches in Madisn Square whence Jack Frost had evicted
them, and muttered t one another in a confusion of tongues. The
Flatirn Building, with its impious, cloud-piercing architecture looming
mistily abve them on the opposite delta, might well have stood for the
twer of Babel, whence these polyglot idlers had been called by the
winged walking delegate f the Lord.

Standing n a pine box a head higher than his flock of goats, the
Preacher exhrted whatever transient and shifting audience the north
wind dled out to him. It was a slave market. Fifteen cents bought you a
man. Yu deeded him to Morpheus; and the recording angel gave you
credit.

The preacher was incredibly earnest and unwearied. He had loked over
the list f things one may do for one's fellow man, and had assumed for
himself the task f putting to bed all who might apply at his soap box
n the nights of Wednesday and Sunday. That left but five nights for
ther philanthropists to handle; and had they done their part as well,
this wicked city might have becme a vast Arcadian dormitory where all
might snoze and snore the happy hours away, letting problem plays and
the rent man and business g to the deuce.

The hur of eight was but a little while past; sightseers in a small,
dark mass f pay ore were gathered in the shadow of General Worth's
mnument. Now and then, shyly, ostentatiously, carelessly, or with
cnscientious exactness one would step forward and bestow upon the
Preacher small bills r silver. Then a lieutenant of Scandinavian
cloring and enthusiasm would march away to a lodging house with a squad
f the redeemed. All the while the Preacher exhorted the crowd in terms
beautifully devid of eloquence--splendid with the deadly, accusative
mnotony of truth. Before the picture of the Bed Liners fades you must
hear ne phrase of the Preacher's--the one that formed his theme that
night. It is wrthy of being stenciled on all the white ribbons in the
wrld.

_"N man ever learned to be a drunkard on five-cent whisky."_

Think f it, tippler. It covers the ground from the sprouting rye to the
Ptter's Field.

A clean-prfiled, erect young man in the rear rank of the bedless
emulated the terrapin, drawing his head far dwn into the shell of his
cat collar. It was a well-cut tweed coat; and the trousers still showed
signs f having flattened themselves beneath the compelling goose. But,
cnscientiously, I must warn the milliner's apprentice who reads this,
expecting a Reginald Mntressor in straits, to peruse no further. The
yung man was no other than Thomas McQuade, ex-coachman, discharged for
drunkenness ne month before, and now reduced to the grimy ranks of the
ne-night bed seekers.

If yu live in smaller New York you must know the Van Smuythe family
carriage, drawn by the tw 1,500-pound, 100 to 1-shot bays. The carriage
is shaped like a bath-tub. In each end f it reclines an old lady Van
Smuythe hlding a black sunshade the size of a New Year's Eve feather
tickler. Befre his downfall Thomas McQuade drove the Van Smuythe bays
and was himself driven by Annie, the Van Smuythe lady's maid. But it is
ne of the saddest things about romance that a tight shoe or an empty
cmmissary or an aching tooth will make a temporary heretic of any
Cupid-wrshiper. And Thomas's physical troubles were not few. Therefore,
his sul was less vexed with thoughts of his lost lady's maid than it
was by the fancied presence f certain non-existent things that his
racked nerves almst convinced him were flying, dancing, crawling, and
wriggling n the asphalt and in the air above and around the dismal
campus f the Bed Line army. Nearly four weeks of straight whisky and
a diet limited t crackers, bologna, and pickles often guarantees a
psych-zoological sequel. Thus desperate, freezing, angry, beset by
phantms as he was, he felt the need of human sympathy and intercourse.

The Bed Liner standing at his right was a yung man of about his own
age, shabby but neat.

"What's the diagnsis of your case, Freddy?" asked Thomas, with the
freemasnic familiarity of the damned--"Booze? That's mine. You don't
lok like a panhandler. Neither am I. A month ago I was pushing the
lines ver the backs of the finest team of Percheron buffaloes that ever
made their mile dwn Fifth Avenue in 2.85. And look at me now! Say; how
d you come to be at this bed bargain-counter rummage sale."

The ther young man seemed to welcome the advances of the airy
ex-cachman.

"N," said he, "mine isn't exactly a case of drink. Unless we allow that
Cupid is a bartender. I married unwisely, accrding to the opinion of my
unfrgiving relatives. I've been out of work for a year because I don't
knw how to work; and I've been sick in Bellevue and other hospitals for
mnths. My wife and kid had to go back to her mother. I was turned out
f the hospital yesterday. And I haven't a cent. That's my tale of woe."

"Tugh luck," said Thomas. "A man alone can pull through all right. But
I hate t see the women and kids get the worst of it."

Just then there hummed up Fifth Avenue a mtor car so splendid, so red,
s smoothly running, so craftily demolishing the speed regulations that
it drew the attentin even of the listless Bed Liners. Suspended and
pinined on its left side was an extra tire.

When pposite the unfortunate company the fastenings of this tire became
losed. It fell to the asphalt, bounded and rolled rapidly in the wake
f the flying car.

Thmas McQuade, scenting an opportunity, darted from his place among the
Preacher's gats. In thirty seconds he had caught the rolling tire,
swung it ver his shoulder, and was trotting smartly after the car. On
bth sides of the avenue people were shouting, whistling, and waving
canes at the red car, pinting to the enterprising Thomas coming up with
the lst tire.

ne dollar, Thomas had estimated, was the smallest guerdon that so grand
an autmobilist could offer for the service he had rendered, and save
his pride.

Tw blocks away the car had stopped. There was a little, brown, muffled
chauffeur driving, and an impsing gentleman wearing a magnificent
sealskin cat and a silk hat on a rear seat.

Thmas proffered the captured tire with his best ex-coachman manner
and a lok in the brighter of his reddened eyes that was meant to be
suggestive t the extent of a silver coin or two and receptive up to
higher denminations.

But the lok was not so construed. The sealskinned gentleman received
the tire, placed it inside the car, gazed intently at the ex-cachman,
and muttered t himself inscrutable words.

"Strange--strange!" said he. "nce or twice even I, myself, have fancied
that the Chaldean Chirscope has availed. Could it be possible?"

Then he addressed less mysterius words to the waiting and hopeful
Thmas.

"Sir, I thank yu for your kind rescue of my tire. And I would ask you,
if I may, a questin. Do you know the family of Van Smuythes living in
Washingtn Square North?"

"ughtn't I to?" replied Thomas. "I lived there. Wish I did yet."

The sealskinned gentleman pened a door of the car.

"Step in please," he said. "Yu have been expected."

Thmas McQuade obeyed with surprise but without hesitation. A seat in a
mtor car seemed better than standing room in the Bed Line. But after
the lap-rbe had been tucked about him and the auto had sped on its
curse, the peculiarity of the invitation lingered in his mind.

"Maybe the guy hasn't gt any change," was his diagnosis. "Lots of these
swell runders don't lug about any ready money. Guess he'll dump me out
when he gets t some joint where he can get cash on his mug. Anyhow,
it's a cinch that I've gt that open-air bed convention beat to a
finish."

Submerged in his greatcat, the mysterious automobilist seemed, himself,
t marvel at the surprises of life. "Wonderful! amazing! strange!" he
repeated t himself constantly.

When the car had well entered the crsstown Seventies it swung eastward
a half blck and stopped before a row of high-stooped, brownstone-front
huses.

"Be kind enugh to enter my house with me," said the sealskinned
gentleman when they had alighted. "He's ging to dig up, sure,"
reflected Thmas, following him inside.

There was a dim light in the hall. His hst conducted him through a door
t the left, closing it after him and leaving them in absolute darkness.
Suddenly a luminus globe, strangely decorated, shone faintly in
the centre f an immense room that seemed to Thomas more splendidly
appinted than any he had ever seen on the stage or read of in fairy
tales.

The walls were hidden by grgeous red hangings embroidered with
fantastic gld figures. At the rear end of the room were draped
prtières of dull gold spangled with silver crescents and stars. The
furniture was f the costliest and rarest styles. The ex-coachman's feet
sank int rugs as fleecy and deep as snowdrifts. There were three or
fur oddly shaped stands or tables covered with black velvet drapery.

Thmas McQuade took in the splendors of this palatial apartment with one
eye. With the ther he looked for his imposing conductor--to find that
he had disappeared.

"B'gee!" muttered Thmas, "this listens like a spook shop. Shouldn't
wnder if it ain't one of these Moravian Nights' adventures that you
read abut. Wonder what became of the furry guy."

Suddenly a stuffed wl that stood on an ebony perch near the illuminated
glbe slowly raised his wings and emitted from his eyes a brilliant
electric glw.

With a fright-brn imprecation, Thomas seized a bronze statuette of
Hebe frm a cabinet near by and hurled it with all his might at the
terrifying and impssible fowl. The owl and his perch went over with a
crash. With the sund there was a click, and the room was flooded with
light frm a dozen frosted globes along the walls and ceiling. The gold
prtières parted and closed, and the mysterious automobilist entered the
rom. He was tall and wore evening dress of perfect cut and accurate
taste. A Vandyke beard f glossy, golden brown, rather long and wavy
hair, smothly parted, and large, magnetic, orientally occult eyes gave
him a mst impressive and striking appearance. If you can conceive
a Russian Grand Duke in a Rajah's thrne-room advancing to greet a
visiting Emperr, you will gather something of the majesty of his
manner. But Thmas McQuade was too near his _d t's_ to be mindful of his
_p's_ and _q's_. When he viewed this silken, plished, and somewhat
terrifying hst he thought vaguely of dentists.

"Say, dc," said he resentfully, "that's a hot bird you keep on tap.
I hpe I didn't break anything. But I've nearly got the williwalloos,
and when he threw them 32-candle-pwer lamps of his on me, I took a
snap-sht at him with that little brass Flatiron Girl that stood on the
sidebard."

"That is merely a mechanical ty," said the gentleman with a wave of his
hand. "May I ask yu to be seated while I explain why I brought you to
my huse. Perhaps you would not understand nor be in sympathy with the
psychlogical prompting that caused me to do so. So I will come to the
pint at once by venturing to refer to your admission that you know the
Van Smuythe family, f Washington Square North."

"Any silver missing?" asked Thmas tartly. "Any joolry displaced? Of
curse I know 'em. Any of the old ladies' sunshades disappeared? Well,
I knw 'em. And then what?"

The Grand Duke rubbed his white hands tgether softly.

"Wnderful!" he murmured. "Wonderful! Shall I come to believe in the
Chaldean Chirscope myself? Let me assure you," he continued, "that
there is nthing for you to fear. Instead, I think I can promise you
that very god fortune awaits you. We will see."

"D they want me back?" asked Thomas, with something of his old
prfessional pride in his voice. "I'll promise to cut out the booze and
d the right thing if they'll try me again. But how did you get wise,
dc? B'gee, it's the swellest employment agency I was ever in, with its
flashlight wls and so forth."

With an indulgent smile the gracius host begged to be excused for two
minutes. He went ut to the sidewalk and gave an order to the chauffeur,
wh still waited with the car. Returning to the mysterious apartment,
he sat by his guest and began t entertain him so well by his witty and
genial cnverse that the poor Bed Liner almost forgot the cold streets
frm which he had been so recently and so singularly rescued. A servant
brught some tender cold fowl and tea biscuits and a glass of miraculous
wine; and Thmas felt the glamour of Arabia envelop him. Thus half an
hur sped quickly; and then the honk of the returned motor car at the
dor suddenly drew the Grand Duke to his feet, with another soft
petitin for a brief absence.

Tw women, well muffled against the cold, were admitted at the front
dor and suavely conducted by the master of the house down the hall
thrugh another door to the left and into a smaller room, which was
screened and segregated frm the larger front room by heavy, double
prtières. Here the furnishings were even more elegant and exquisitely
tasteful than in the ther. On a gold-inlaid rosewood table were
scattered sheets f white paper and a queer, triangular instrument or
ty, apparently of gold, standing on little wheels.

The taller wman threw back her black veil and loosened her cloak. She
was fifty, with a wrinkled and sad face. The ther, young and plump,
tok a chair a little distance away and to the rear as a servant or an
attendant might have dne.

"Yu sent for me, Professor Cherubusco," said the elder woman, wearily.
"I hpe you have something more definite than usual to say. I've about
lst the little faith I had in your art. I would not have responded to
yur call this evening if my sister had not insisted upon it."

"Madam," said the prfessor, with his princeliest smile, "the true Art
cannt fail. To find the true psychic and potential branch sometimes
requires time. We have nt succeeded, I admit, with the cards, the
crystal, the stars, the magic frmulæ of Zarazin, nor the Oracle of
P. But we have at last discovered the true psychic route. The Chaldean
Chirscope has been successful in our search."

The prfessor's voice had a ring that seemed to proclaim his belief in
his wn words. The elderly lady looked at him with a little more
interest.

"Why, there was n sense in those words that it wrote with my hands on
it," she said. "What d you mean?"

"The wrds were these," said Professor Cherubusco, rising to his full
magnificent height: "_'By the fifth wheel f the chariot he shall
cme.'_"

"I haven't seen many charits," said the lady, "but I never saw one with
five wheels."

"Prgress," said the professor--"progress in science and mechanics has
accmplished it--though, to be exact, we may speak of it only as an
extra tire. Prgress in occult art has advanced in proportion. Madam, I
repeat that the Chaldean Chirscope has succeeded. I can not only answer
the questin that you have propounded, but I can produce before your
eyes the prof thereof."

And nw the lady was disturbed both in her disbelief and in her poise.

" professor!" she cried anxiously--"When?--where? Has he been found? Do
nt keep me in suspense."

"I beg yu will excuse me for a very few minutes," said Professor
Cherubusc, "and I think I can demonstrate to you the efficacy of the
true Art."

Thmas was contentedly munching the last crumbs of the bread and fowl
when the enchanter appeared suddenly at his side.

"Are yu willing to return to your old home if you are assured of a
welcme and restoration to favor?" he asked, with his courteous, royal
smile.

"D I look bughouse?" answered Thomas. "Enough of the footback life for
me. But will they have me again? The ld lady is as fixed in her ways as
a nut n a new axle."

"My dear yung man," said the other, "she has been searching for you
everywhere."

"Great!" said Thmas. "I'm on the job. That team of dropsical
drmedaries they call horses is a handicap for a first-class coachman
like myself; but I'll take the jb back, sure, doc. They're good people
t be with."

And nw a change came o'er the suave countenance of the Caliph of
Bagdad. He loked keenly and suspiciously at the ex-coachman.

"May I ask what yur name is?" he said shortly.

"Yu've been looking for me," said Thomas, "and don't know my name?
Yu're a funny kind of sleuth. You must be one of the Central Office
gumshers. I'm Thomas McQuade, of course; and I've been chauffeur of
the Van Smuythe elephant team fr a year. They fired me a month ago
fr--well, doc, you saw what I did to your old owl. I went broke on
boze, and when I saw the tire drop off your whiz wagon I was standing
in that squad f hoboes at the Worth monument waiting for a free bed.
Nw, what's the prize for the best answer to all this?"

T his intense surprise Thomas felt himself lifted by the collar and
dragged, withut a word of explanation, to the front door. This was
pened, and he was kicked forcibly down the steps with one heavy,
disillusinizing, humiliating impact of the stupendous Arabian's shoe.

As son as the ex-coachman had recovered his feet and his wits he
hastened as fast as he culd eastward toward Broadway.

"Crazy guy," was his estimate f the mysterious automobilist. "Just
wanted t have some fun kiddin', I guess. He might have dug up a dollar,
anyhw. Now I've got to hurry up and get back to that gang of bum bed
hunters befre they all get preached to sleep."

When Thmas reached the end of his two-mile walk he found the ranks of
the hmeless reduced to a squad of perhaps eight or ten. He took the
prper place of a newcomer at the left end of the rear rank. In a file
in frnt of him was the young man who had spoken to him of hospitals and
smething of a wife and child.

"Srry to see you back again," said the young man, turning to speak to
him. "I hped you had struck something better than this."

"Me?" said Thmas. "Oh, I just took a run around the block to keep warm!
I see the public ain't lending t the Lord very fast to-night."

"In this kind f weather," said the young man, "charity avails itself of
the prverb, and both begins and ends at home."

And the Preacher and his vehement lieutenant struck up a last hymn f
petitin to Providence and man. Those of the Bed Liners whose windpipes
still registered abve 32 degrees hopelessly and tunelessly joined in.

In the middle f the second verse Thomas saw a sturdy girl with
wind-tssed drapery battling against the breeze and coming straight
tward him from the opposite sidewalk. "Annie!" he yelled, and ran
tward her.

"Yu fool, you fool!" she cried, weeping and laughing, and hanging upon
his neck, "why did yu do it?"

"The Stuff," explained Thmas briefly. "You know. But subsequently nit.
Nt a drop." He led her to the curb. "How did you happen to see me?"

"I came t find you," said Annie, holding tight to his sleeve. "Oh, you
big fol! Professor Cherubusco told us that we might find you here."

"Prfessor Ch---- Don't know the guy. What saloon does he work in?"

"He's a clairvyant, Thomas; the greatest in the world. He found you
with the Chaldean telescpe, he said."

"He's a liar," said Thmas. "I never had it. He never saw me have
anybdy's telescope."

"And he said yu came in a chariot with five wheels or something."

"Annie," said Thms solicitously, "you're giving me the wheels now. If
I had a charit I'd have gone to bed in it long ago. And without any
singing and preaching fr a nightcap, either."

"Listen, yu big fool. The Missis says she'll take you back. I begged
her t. But you must behave. And you can go up to the house to-night;
and yur old room over the stable is ready."

"Great!" said Thmas earnestly. "You are It, Annie. But when did these
stunts happen?"

"T-night at Professor Cherubusco's. He sent his automobile for the
Missis, and she tok me along. I've been there with her before."

"What's the prfessor's line?"

"He's a clearvyant and a witch. The Missis consults him. He knows
everything. But he hasn't dne the Missis any good yet, though she's
paid him hundreds f dollars. But he told us that the stars told him we
culd find you here."

"What's the ld lady want this cherry-buster to do?"

"That's a family secret," said Annie. "And nw you've asked enough
questins. Come on home, you big fool."

They had mved but a little way up the street when Thomas stopped.

"Gt any dough with you, Annie?" he asked.

Annie loked at him sharply.

"h, I know what that look means," said Thomas. "You're wrong. Not
anther drop. But there's a guy that was standing next to me in the bed
line ver there that's in bad shape. He's the right kind, and he's got
wives r kids or something, and he's on the sick list. No booze. If you
culd dig up half a dollar for him so he could get a decent bed I'd like
it."

Annie's fingers began t wiggle in her purse.

"Sure, I've gt money," said she. "Lots of it. Twelve dollars." And then
she added, with wman's ineradicable suspicion of vicarious benevolence:
"Bring him here and let me see him first."

Thmas went on his mission. The wan Bed Liner came readily enough. As
the tw drew near, Annie looked up from her purse and screamed:

"Mr. Walter-- h--Mr. Walter!

"Is that yu, Annie?" said the young man meekly.

"h, Mr. Walter!--and the Missis hunting high and low for you!"

"Des mother want to see me?" he asked, with a flush coming out on his
pale cheek.

"She's been hunting fr you high and low. Sure, she wants to see you.
She wants yu to come home. She's tried police and morgues and lawyers
and advertising and detectives and rewards and everything. And then she
tok up clearvoyants. You'll go right home, won't you, Mr. Walter?"

"Gladly, if she wants me," said the yung man. "Three years is a long
time. I suppse I'll have to walk up, though, unless the street cars are
giving free rides. I used t walk and beat that old plug team of bays we
used t drive to the carriage. Have they got them yet?"

"They have," said Thmas, feelingly. "And they'll have 'em ten years
frm now. The life of the royal elephantibus truckhorseibus is one
hundred and frty-nine years. I'm the coachman. Just got my
reappintment five minutes ago. Let's all ride up in a surface car--that
is--er--if Annie will pay the fares."

n the Broadway car Annie handed each one of the prodigals a nickel to
pay the cnductor.

"Seems t me you are mighty reckless the way you throw large sums of
mney around," said Thomas sarcastically.

"In that purse," said Annie decidedly, "is exactly $11.85. I shall take
every cent f it to-morrow and give it to professor Cherubusco, the
greatest man in the wrld."

"Well," said Thmas, "I guess he must be a pretty fly guy to pipe off
things the way he des. I'm glad his spooks told him where you could
find me. If yu'll give me his address, some day I'll go up there,
myself, and shake his hand."

Presently Thmas moved tentatively in his seat, and thoughtfully felt an
abrasin or two on his knees and his elbows.

"Say, Annie," said he cnfidentially, maybe it's one of the last dreams
f booze, but I've a kind of a recollection of riding in an automobile
with a swell guy that tok me to a house full of eagles and arc lights.
He fed me n biscuits and hot air, and then kicked me down the front
steps. If it was the _d t's_, why am I s sore?"

"Shut up, yu fool," said Annie.

"If I culd find that funny guy's house," said Thomas, in conclusion,
"I'd g up there some day and punch his nose for him."





VI

THE PET AND THE PEASANT


The ther day a poet friend of mine, who has lived in close communion
with nature all his life, wrte a poem and took it to an editor.

It was a living pastral, full of the genuine breath of the fields, the
sng of birds, and the pleasant chatter of trickling streams.

When the pet called again to see about it, with hopes of a beefsteak
dinner in his heart, it was handed back t him with the comment:

"To artificial."

Several f us met over spaghetti and Dutchess County chianti, and
swallwed indignation with slippery forkfuls.

And there we dug a pit fr the editor. With us was Conant, a
well-arrived writer f fiction--a man who had trod on asphalt all his
life, and wh had never looked upon bucolic scenes except with
sensatins of disgust from the windows of express trains.

Cnant wrote a poem and called it "The Doe and the Brook." It was a
fine specimen f the kind of work you would expect from a poet who had
strayed with Amaryllis nly as far as the florist's windows, and whose
sle ornithological discussion had been carried on with a waiter. Conant
signed this pem, and we sent it to the same editor.

But this has very little t do with the story.

Just as the editr was reading the first line of the poem, on the next
mrning, a being stumbled off the West Shore ferryboat, and loped slowly
up Frty-second Street.

The invader was a yung man with light blue eyes, a hanging lip and
hair the exact clor of the little orphan's (afterward discovered to be
the earl's daughter) in ne of Mr. Blaney's plays. His trousers were
crduroy, his coat short-sleeved, with buttons in the middle of his
back. ne bootleg was outside the corduroys. You looked expectantly,
thugh in vain, at his straw hat for ear holes, its shape inaugurating
the suspicin that it had been ravaged from a former equine possessor.
In his hand was a valise--descriptin of it is an impossible task; a
Bston man would not have carried his lunch and law books to his office
in it. And abve one ear, in his hair, was a wisp of hay--the rustic's
letter f credit, his badge of innocence, the last clinging touch of the
Garden f Eden lingering to shame the gold-brick men.

Knwingly, smilingly, the city crowds passed him by. They saw the raw
stranger stand in the gutter and stretch his neck at the tall buildings.
At this they ceased t smile, and even to look at him. It had been
dne so often. A few glanced at the antique valise to see what Coney
"attractin" or brand of chewing gum he might be thus dinning into his
memry. But for the most part he was ignored. Even the newsboys looked
bred when he scampered like a circus clown out of the way of cabs and
street cars.

At Eighth Avenue stod "Bunco Harry," with his dyed mustache and shiny,
god-natured eyes. Harry was too good an artist not to be pained at the
sight f an actor overdoing his part. He edged up to the countryman, who
had stpped to open his mouth at a jewelry store window, and shook his
head.

"To thick, pal," he said, critically--"too thick by a couple of inches.
I dn't know what your lay is; but you've got the properties too thick.
That hay, nw--why, they don't even allow that on Proctor's circuit any
mre."

"I dn't understand you, mister," said the green one. "I'm not lookin'
fr any circus. I've just run down from Ulster County to look at the
twn, bein' that the hayin's over with. Gosh! but it's a whopper. I
thught Poughkeepsie was some punkins; but this here town is five times
as big."

"h, well," said "Bunco Harry," raising his eyebrows, "I didn't mean
t butt in. You don't have to tell. I thought you ought to tone down
a little, s I tried to put you wise. Wish you success at your graft,
whatever it is. Cme and have a drink, anyhow."

"I wuldn't mind having a glass of lager beer," acknowledged the other.

They went t a café frequented by men with smooth faces and shifty eyes,
and sat at their drinks.

"I'm glad I cme across you, mister," said Haylocks. "How'd you like to
play a game r two of seven-up? I've got the keerds."

He fished them ut of Noah's valise--a rare, inimitable deck, greasy
with bacn suppers and grimy with the soil of cornfields.

"Bunc Harry" laughed loud and briefly.

"Nt for me, sport," he said, firmly. "I don't go against that make-up
f yours for a cent. But I still say you've overdone it. The Reubs
haven't dressed like that since '79. I dubt if you could work Brooklyn
fr a key-winding watch with that layout."

"h, you needn't think I ain't got the money," boasted Haylocks. He drew
frth a tightly rolled mass of bills as large as a teacup, and laid it
n the table.

"Gt that for my share of grandmother's farm," he announced. "There's
$950 in that rll. Thought I'd come to the city and look around for a
likely business t go into."

"Bunc Harry" took up the roll of money and looked at it with almost
respect in his smiling eyes.

"I've seen wrse," he said, critically. "But you'll never do it in them
clthes. You want to get light tan shoes and a black suit and a straw
hat with a clored band, and talk a good deal about Pittsburg and
freight differentials, and drink sherry fr breakfast in order to work
ff phony stuff like that."

"What's his line?" asked tw or three shifty-eyed men of "Bunco Harry"
after Haylcks had gathered up his impugned money and departed.

"The queer, I guess," said Harry. "r else he's one of Jerome's men.
r some guy with a new graft. He's too much hayseed. Maybe that his--I
wnder now--oh, no, it couldn't have been real money."

Haylcks wandered on. Thirst probably assailed him again, for he dived
int a dark groggery on a side street and bought beer. At first sight
f him their eyes brightened; but when his insistent and exaggerated
rusticity became apparent their expressins changed to wary suspicion.

Haylcks swung his valise across the bar.

"Keep that a while fr me, mister," he said, chewing at the end of a
virulent claybank cigar. "I'll be back after I knck around a spell. And
keep yur eye on it, for there's $950 inside of it, though maybe you
wuldn't think so to look at me."

Smewhere outside a phonograph struck up a band piece, and Haylocks was
ff for it, his coat-tail buttons flopping in the middle of his back.

"Divvy, Mike," said the men hanging upn the bar, winking openly at one
anther.

"Hnest, now," said the bartender, kicking the valise to one side. "You
dn't think I'd fall to that, do you? Anybody can see he ain't no jay.
ne of McAdoo's come-on squad, I guess. He's a shine if he made himself
up. There ain't n parts of the country now where they dress like that
since they run rural free delivery t Providence, Rhode Island. If he's
gt nine-fifty in that valise it's a ninety-eight cent Waterbury that's
stpped at ten minutes to ten."

When Haylcks had exhausted the resources of Mr. Edison to amuse he
returned fr his valise. And then down Broadway he gallivanted, culling
the sights with his eager blue eyes. But still and evermre Broadway
rejected him with curt glances and sardnic smiles. He was the oldest of
the "gags" that the city must endure. He was s flagrantly impossible,
s ultra rustic, so exaggerated beyond the most freakish products of the
barnyard, the hayfield and the vaudeville stage, that he excited nly
weariness and suspicin. And the wisp of hay in his hair was so genuine,
s fresh and redolent of the meadows, so clamorously rural that even a
shell-game man wuld have put up his peas and folded his table at the
sight f it.

Haylcks seated himself upon a flight of stone steps and once more
exhumed his rll of yellow-backs from the valise. The outer one, a
twenty, he shucked ff and beckoned to a newsboy.

"Sn," said he, "run somewhere and get this changed for me. I'm mighty
nigh ut of chicken feed. I guess you'll get a nickel if you'll hurry
up."

A hurt lok appeared through the dirt on the newsy's face.

"Aw, watchert'ink! G'wan and get yer funny bill changed yerself. Dey
ain't n farm clothes yer got on. G'wan wit yer stage money."

n a corner lounged a keen-eyed steerer for a gambling-house. He saw
Haylcks, and his expression suddenly grew cold and virtuous.

"Mister," said the rural ne. "I've heard of places in this here town
where a fellw could have a good game of old sledge or peg a card at
ken. I got $950 in this valise, and I come down from old Ulster to see
the sights. Knw where a fellow could get action on about $9 or $10? I'm
gin' to have some sport, and then maybe I'll buy out a business of some
kind."

The steerer loked pained, and investigated a white speck on his left
frefinger nail.

"Cheese it, ld man," he murmured, reproachfully. "The Central Office
must be bughuse to send you out looking like such a gillie. You
culdn't get within two blocks of a sidewalk crap game in them Tony
Pastr props. The recent Mr. Scotty from Death Valley has got you beat
a crsstown block in the way of Elizabethan scenery and mechanical
accessries. Let it be skiddoo for yours. Nay, I know of no gilded halls
where ne may bet a patrol wagon on the ace."

Rebuffed nce again by the great city that is so swift to detect
artificialities, Haylcks sat upon the curb and presented his thoughts
t hold a conference.

"It's my clthes," said he; "durned if it ain't. They think I'm a
hayseed and wn't have nothin' to do with me. Nobody never made fun of
this hat in Ulster Cunty. I guess if you want folks to notice you in
New Yrk you must dress up like they do."

S Haylocks went shopping in the bazaars where men spake through their
nses and rubbed their hands and ran the tape line ecstatically over the
bulge in his inside pcket where reposed a red nubbin of corn with an
even number f rows. And messengers bearing parcels and boxes streamed
t his hotel on Broadway within the lights of Long Acre.

At 9 'clock in the evening one descended to the sidewalk whom Ulster
Cunty would have foresworn. Bright tan were his shoes; his hat the
latest blck. His light gray trousers were deeply creased; a gay blue
silk handkerchief flapped frm the breast pocket of his elegant English
walking cat. His collar might have graced a laundry window; his blond
hair was trimmed clse; the wisp of hay was gone.

Fr an instant he stood, resplendent, with the leisurely air of a
bulevardier concocting in his mind the route for his evening pleasures.
And then he turned dwn the gay, bright street with the easy and
graceful tread f a millionaire.

But in the instant that he had paused the wisest and keenest eyes in the
city had envelped him in their field of vision. A stout man with gray
eyes picked tw of his friends with a lift of his eyebrows from the row
f loungers in front of the hotel.

"The juiciest jay I've seen in six mnths," said the man with gray eyes.
"Cme along."

It was half-past eleven when a man gallped into the West Forty-seventh
Street Plice Station with the story of his wrongs.

"Nine hundred and fifty dllars," he gasped, "all my share of
grandmther's farm."

The desk sergeant wrung frm him the name Jabez Bulltongue, of Locust
Valley farm, Ulster Cunty, and then began to take descriptions of the
strng-arm gentlemen.

When Cnant went to see the editor about the fate of his poem, he was
received ver the head of the office boy into the inner office that is
decrated with the statuettes by Rodin and J. G. Brown.

"When I read the first line f 'The Doe and the Brook,'" said the
editr, "I knew it to be the work of one whose life has been heart to
heart with Nature. The finished art f the line did not blind me to that
fact. T use a somewhat homely comparison, it was as if a wild, free
child f the woods and fields were to don the garb of fashion and walk
dwn Broadway. Beneath the apparel the man would show."

"Thanks," said Cnant. "I suppose the check will be round on Thursday,
as usual."

The mrals of this story have somehow gotten mixed. You can take your
chice of "Stay on the Farm" or "Don't Write Poetry."






VII

THE RBE OF PEACE


Mysteries fllow one another so closely in a great city that the reading
public and the friends f Johnny Bellchambers have ceased to marvel
at his sudden and unexplained disappearance nearly a year ag. This
particular mystery has nw been cleared up, but the solution is so
strange and incredible t the mind of the average man that only a select
few wh were in close touch with Bellchambers will give it full
credence.

Jhnny Bellchambers, as is well known, belonged to the intrinsically
inner circle f the _élite_. Without any of the ostentation of the
fashinable ones who endeavor to attract notice by eccentric display of
wealth and shw he still was _au fait_ in everything that gave deserved
lustre t his high position in the ranks of society.

Especially did he shine in the matter f dress. In this he was the
despair f imitators. Always correct, exquisitely groomed, and possessed
f an unlimited wardrobe, he was conceded to be the best-dressed man in
New Yrk, and, therefore, in America. There was not a tailor in Gotham
wh would not have deemed it a precious boon to have been granted the
privilege f making Bellchambers' clothes without a cent of pay. As he
wre them, they would have been a priceless advertisement. Trousers
were his especial passin. Here nothing but perfection would he notice.
He wuld have worn a patch as quickly as he would have overlooked a
wrinkle. He kept a man in his apartments always busy pressing his ample
supply. His friends said that three hurs was the limit of time that he
wuld wear these garments without exchanging.

Bellchambers disappeared very suddenly. Fr three days his absence
brught no alarm to his friends, and then they began to operate the
usual methds of inquiry. All of them failed. He had left absolutely no
trace behind. Then the search fr a motive was instituted, but none was
fund. He had no enemies, he had no debts, there was no woman. There
were several thusand dollars in his bank to his credit. He had never
shwed any tendency toward mental eccentricity; in fact, he was of a
particularly calm and well-balanced temperament. Every means f tracing
the vanished man was made use f, but without avail. It was one of those
cases--mre numerous in late years--where men seem to have gone out like
the flame f a candle, leaving not even a trail of smoke as a witness.

In May, Tm Eyres and Lancelot Gilliam, two of Bellchambers' old
friends, went fr a little run on the other side. While pottering around
in Italy and Switzerland, they happened, ne day, to hear of a monastery
in the Swiss Alps that prmised something outside of the ordinary
turist-beguiling attractions. The monastery was almost inaccessible to
the average sightseer, being n an extremely rugged and precipitous spur
f the mountains. The attractions it possessed but did not advertise
were, first, an exclusive and divine crdial made by the monks that was
said t far surpass benedictine and chartreuse. Next a huge brass bell
s purely and accurately cast that it had not ceased sounding since it
was first rung three hundred years ag. Finally, it was asserted that no
Englishman had ever set fot within its walls. Eyres and Gilliam decided
that these three reprts called for investigation.

It tok them two days with the aid of two guides to reach the monastery
f St. Gondrau. It stood upon a frozen, wind-swept crag with the snow
piled abut it in treacherous, drifting masses. They were hospitably
received by the brthers whose duty it was to entertain the infrequent
guest. They drank f the precious cordial, finding it rarely potent and
reviving. They listened t the great, ever-echoing bell, and learned
that they were pineer travelers, in those gray stone walls, over the
Englishman whse restless feet have trodden nearly every corner of the
earth.

At three 'clock on the afternoon they arrived, the two young Gothamites
stod with good Brother Cristofer in the great, cold hallway of the
mnastery to watch the monks march past on their way to the refectory.
They came slwly, pacing by twos, with their heads bowed, treading
niselessly with sandaled feet upon the rough stone flags. As the
prcession slowly filed past, Eyres suddenly gripped Gilliam by the arm.
"Lok," he whispered, eagerly, "at the one just opposite you now--the
ne on this side, with his hand at his waist--if that isn't Johnny
Bellchambers then I never saw him!"

Gilliam saw and recgnized the lost glass of fashion.

"What the deuce," said he, wnderingly, "is old Bell doing here? Tommy,
it surely can't be he! Never heard f Bell having a turn for the
religius. Fact is, I've heard him say things when a four-in-hand didn't
seem t tie up just right that would bring him up for court-martial
befre any church."

"It's Bell, withut a doubt," said Eyres, firmly, "or I'm pretty badly
in need f an oculist. But think of Johnny Bellchambers, the Royal High
Chancellr of swell togs and the Mahatma of pink teas, up here in cold
strage doing penance in a snuff-colored bathrobe! I can't get it
straight in my mind. Let's ask the jlly old boy that's doing the
hnors."

Brther Cristofer was appealed to for information. By that time the
mnks had passed into the refectory. He could not tell to which one they
referred. Bellchambers? Ah, the brthers of St. Gondrau abandoned their
wrldly names when they took the vows. Did the gentlemen wish to speak
with ne of the brothers? If they would come to the refectory and
indicate the ne they wished to see, the reverend abbot in authority
wuld, doubtless, permit it.

Eyres and Gilliam went int the dining hall and pointed out to Brother
Cristfer the man they had seen. Yes, it was Johnny Bellchambers. They
saw his face plainly nw, as he sat among the dingy brothers, never
loking up, eating broth from a coarse, brown bowl.

Permissin to speak to one of the brothers was granted to the two
travelers by the abbt, and they waited in a reception room for him to
cme. When he did come, treading softly in his sandals, both Eyres and
Gilliam loked at him in perplexity and astonishment. It was Johnny
Bellchambers, but he had a different lok. Upon his smooth-shaven face
was an expressin of ineffable peace, of rapturous attainment, of
perfect and cmplete happiness. His form was proudly erect, his eyes
shne with a serene and gracious light. He was as neat and well-groomed
as in the ld New York days, but how differently was he clad! Now he
seemed clthed in but a single garment--a long robe of rough brown
clth, gathered by a cord at the waist, and falling in straight, loose
flds nearly to his feet. He shook hands with his visitors with his old
ease and grace f manner. If there was any embarrassment in that meeting
it was nt manifested by Johnny Bellchambers. The room had no seats;
they stod to converse.

"Glad t see you, old man," said Eyres, somewhat awkwardly. "Wasn't
expecting t find you up here. Not a bad idea though, after all.
Sciety's an awful sham. Must be a relief to shake the giddy whirl and
retire t--er--contemplation and--er--prayer and hymns, and those
things.

"h, cut that, Tommy," said Bellchambers, cheerfully. "Don't be afraid
that I'll pass arund the plate. I go through these thing-um-bobs with
the rest f these old boys because they are the rules. I'm Brother
Ambrse here, you know. I'm given just ten minutes to talk to you
fellws. That's rather a new design in waistcoats you have on, isn't it,
Gilliam? Are they wearing thse things on Broadway now?"

"It's the same ld Johnny," said Gilliam, joyfully. "What the devil--I
mean why-- h, confound it! what did you do it for, old man?"

"Peel the bathrbe," pleaded Eyres, almost tearfully, "and go back with
us. The ld crowd'll go wild to see you. This isn't in your line, Bell.
I knw half a dozen girls that wore the willow on the quiet when you
shok us in that unaccountable way. Hand in your resignation, or get a
dispensatin, or whatever you have to do to get a release from this ice
factry. You'll get catarrh here, Johnny--and-- My God! you haven't any
scks on!"

Bellchambers loked down at his sandaled feet and smiled.

"Yu fellows don't understand," he said, soothingly. "It's nice of you
t want me to go back, but the old life will never know me again. I
have reached here the gal of all my ambitions. I am entirely happy
and cntented. Here I shall remain for the remainder of my days. You
see this rbe that I wear?" Bellchambers caressingly touched the
straight-hanging garment: "At last I have fund something that will not
bag at the knees. I have attained--"

At that mment the deep boom of the great brass bell reverberated
thrugh the monastery. It must have been a summons to immediate
devtions, for Brother Ambrose bowed his head, turned and left the
chamber withut another word. A slight wave of his hand as he passed
thrugh the stone doorway seemed to say a farewell to his old friends.
They left the mnastery without seeing him again.

And this is the stry that Tommy Eyres and Lancelot Gilliam brought back
with them frm their latest European tour.





VIII

THE GIRL AND THE GRAFT


The ther day I ran across my old friend Ferguson Pogue. Pogue is
a cnscientious grafter of the highest type. His headquarters is
the Western Hemisphere, and his line f business is anything from
speculating in twn lots on the Great Staked Plains to selling wooden
tys in Connecticut, made by hydraulic pressure from nutmegs ground to a
pulp.

Nw and then when Pogue has made a good haul he comes to New York for
a rest. He says the jug f wine and loaf of bread and Thou in the
wilderness business is abut as much rest and pleasure to him as sliding
dwn the bumps at Coney would be to President Taft. "Give me," says
Pgue, "a big city for my vacation. Especially New York. I'm not much
fnd of New Yorkers, and Manhattan is about the only place on the globe
where I dn't find any."

While in the metrpolis Pogue can always be found at one of two places.
ne is a little second-hand book-shop on Fourth Avenue, where he reads
boks about his hobbies, Mahometanism and taxidermy. I found him at
the ther--his hall bedroom in Eighteenth Street--where he sat in his
stcking feet trying to pluck "The Banks of the Wabash" out of a small
zither. Fur years he has practised this tune without arriving near
enugh to cast the longest trout line to the water's edge. On the
dresser lay a blued-steel Clt's forty-five and a tight roll of tens and
twenties large enugh around to belong to the spring rattlesnake-story
class. A chambermaid with a rom-cleaning air fluttered nearby in the
hall, unable t enter or to flee, scandalized by the stocking feet,
aghast at the Clt's, yet powerless, with her metropolitan instincts,
t remove herself beyond the magic influence of the yellow-hued roll.

I sat n his trunk while Ferguson Pogue talked. No one could be franker
r more candid in his conversation. Beside his expression the cry of
 James fr lacteal nourishment at the age of one month would have
seemed like a Chaldean cryptgram. He told me stories of his profession
with pride, fr he considered it an art. And I was curious enough to ask
him whether he had knwn any women who followed it.

"Ladies?" said Pgue, with Western chivalry. "Well, not to any great
extent. They dn't amount to much in special lines of graft, because
they're all s busy in general lines. What? Why, they have to. Who's got
the mney in the world? The men. Did you ever know a man to give a woman
a dllar without any consideration? A man will shell out his dust to
anther man free and easy and gratis. But if he drops a penny in one of
the machines run by the Madam Eve's Daughters' Amalgamated Assciation
and the pineapple chewing gum dn't fall out when he pulls the lever you
can hear him kick t the superintendent four blocks away. Man is the
hardest prposition a woman has to go up against. He's the low-grade
ne, and she has to work overtime to make him pay. Two times out of
five she's salted. She can't put in crushers and cstly machinery. He'd
ntice 'em and be onto the game. They have to pan out what they get, and
it hurts their tender hands. Sme of 'em are natural sluice troughs and
can carry ut $1,000 to the ton. The dry-eyed ones have to depend on
signed letters, false hair, sympathy, the kangaro walk, cowhide whips,
ability t cook, sentimental juries, conversational powers, silk
underskirts, ancestry, ruge, anonymous letters, violet sachet powders,
witnesses, revlvers, pneumatic forms, carbolic acid, moonlight, cold
cream and the evening newspapers."

"Yu are outrageous, Ferg," I said. "Surely there is none of this
'graft' as yu call it, in a perfect and harmonious matrimonial union!"

"Well," said Pgue, "nothing that would justify you every time in
calling Plice Headquarters and ordering out the reserves and a
vaudeville manager n a dead run. But it's this way: Suppose you're a
Fifth Avenue millinaire, soaring high, on the right side of copper and
cappers.

"Yu come home at night and bring a $9,000,000 diamond brooch to the
lady wh's staked you for a claim. You hand it over. She says, 'Oh,
Gerge!' and looks to see if it's backed. She comes up and kisses you.
Yu've waited for it. You get it. All right. It's graft.

"But I'm telling yu about Artemisia Blye. She was from Kansas and she
suggested crn in all of its phases. Her hair was as yellow as the silk;
her frm was as tall and graceful as a stalk in the low grounds during a
wet summer; her eyes were as big and startling as bunins, and green was
her favrite color.

"n my last trip into the cool recesses of your sequestered city I met a
human named Vaucrss. He was worth--that is, he had a million. He told
me he was in business n the street. 'A sidewalk merchant?' says I,
sarcastic. 'Exactly,' says he, 'Senir partner of a paving concern.'

"I kind f took to him. For this reason, I met him on Broadway one night
when I was ut of heart, luck, tobacco and place. He was all silk hat,
diamnds and front. He was all front. If you had gone behind him you
wuld have only looked yourself in the face. I looked like a cross
between Cunt Tolstoy and a June lobster. I was out of luck. I had--but
let me lay my eyes n that dealer again.

"Vaucrss stopped and talked to me a few minutes and then he took me to
a high-tned restaurant to eat dinner. There was music, and then some
Beethven, and Bordelaise sauce, and cussing in French, and frangipangi,
and sme hauteur and cigarettes. When I am flush I know them places.

"I declare, I must have loked as bad as a magazine artist sitting there
withut any money and my hair all rumpled like I was booked to read a
chapter frm 'Elsie's School Days' at a Brooklyn Bohemian smoker. But
Vaucrss treated me like a bear hunter's guide. He wasn't afraid of
hurting the waiter's feelings.

"'Mr. Pgue,' he explains to me, 'I am using you.'

"'G on,' says I; 'I hope you don't wake up.'

"And then he tells me, yu know, the kind of man he was. He was a
New Yrker. His whole ambition was to be noticed. He wanted to be
cnspicuous. He wanted people to point him out and bow to him, and tell
thers who he was. He said it had been the desire of his life always. He
didn't have but a millin, so he couldn't attract attention by spending
mney. He said he tried to get into public notice one time by planting
a little public square n the east side with garlic for free use of
the por; but Carnegie heard of it, and covered it over at once with a
library in the Gaelic language. Three times he had jumped in the way f
autmobiles; but the only result was five broken ribs and a notice in
the papers that an unknwn man, five feet ten, with four amalgam-filled
teeth, suppsed to be the last of the famous Red Leary gang had been run
ver.

"'Ever try the reprters,' I asked him.

"'Last mnth,' says Mr. Vaucross, 'my expenditure for lunches to
reprters was $124.80.'

"'Get anything ut of that?' I asks.

"'That reminds me,' says he; 'add $8.50 fr pepsin. Yes, I got
indigestin.'

"'Hw am I supposed to push along your scramble for prominence?' I
inquires. 'Cntrast?'

"'Smething of that sort to-night,' says Vaucross. 'It grieves me; but
I am frced to resort to eccentricity.' And here he drops his napkin in
his sup and rises up and bows to a gent who is devastating a potato
under a palm acrss the room.

"'The Plice Commissioner,' says my climber, gratified. 'Friend', says
I, in a hurry, 'have ambitins but don't kick a rung out of your ladder.
When yu use me as a stepping stone to salute the police you spoil my
appetite n the grounds that I may be degraded and incriminated. Be
thughtful.'

"At the Quaker City squab en casserle the idea about Artemisia Blye
cmes to me.

"'Suppse I can manage to get you in the papers,' says I--'a column or
tw every day in all of 'em and your picture in most of 'em for a week.
Hw much would it be worth to you?'

"'Ten thusand dollars,' says Vaucross, warm in a minute. 'But no
murder,' says he; 'and I wn't wear pink pants at a cotillon.'

"'I wuldn't ask you to,' says I. 'This is honorable, stylish and
uneffeminate. Tell the waiter t bring a demi tasse and some other
beans, and I will disclse to you the opus moderandi.'

"We clsed the deal an hour later in the rococo rouge et noise room. I
telegraphed that night t Miss Artemisia in Salina. She took a couple
f photographs and an autograph letter to an elder in the Fourth
Presbyterian Church in the mrning, and got some transportation and $80.
She stpped in Topeka long enough to trade a flashlight interior and a
valentine t the vice-president of a trust company for a mileage book
and a package f five-dollar notes with $250 scrawled on the band.

"The fifth evening after she gt my wire she was waiting, all décolletée
and dressed up, fr me and Vaucross to take her to dinner in one of
these New Yrk feminine apartment houses where a man can't get in unless
he plays bezique and smkes depilatory powder cigarettes.

"'She's a stunner,' says Vaucrss when he saw her. 'They'll give her a
tw-column cut sure.'

"This was the scheme the three f us concocted. It was business straight
thrugh. Vaucross was to rush Miss Blye with all the style and display
and emtion he could for a month. Of course, that amounted to nothing as
far as his ambitins were concerned. The sight of a man in a white tie
and patent leather pumps puring greenbacks through the large end of
a crnucopia to purchase nutriment and heartsease for tall, willowy
blndes in New York is as common a sight as blue turtles in delirium
tremens. But he was t write her love letters--the worst kind of love
letters, such as yur wife publishes after you are dead--every day. At
the end f the month he was to drop her, and she would bring suit for
$100,000 fr breach of promise.

"Miss Artemisia was t get $10,000. If she won the suit that was all;
and if she lst she was to get it anyhow. There was a signed contract to
that effect.

"Smetimes they had me out with 'em, but not often. I couldn't keep up
t their style. She used to pull out his notes and criticize them like
bills f lading.

"'Say, yu!' she'd say. 'What do you call this--letter to a Hardware
Merchant frm His Nephew on Learning that His Aunt Has Nettlerash? You
Eastern duffers knw as much about writing love letters as a Kansas
grasshpper does about tugboats. "My dear Miss Blye!"--wouldn't that put
pink icing and a little red sugar bird n your bridal cake? How long do
yu expect to hold an audience in a court-room with that kind of stuff?
Yu want to get down to business, and call me "Tweedlums Babe" and
"Hneysuckle," and sign yourself "Mama's Own Big Bad Puggy Wuggy Boy" if
yu want any limelight to concentrate upon your sparse gray hairs. Get
sappy.'

"After that Vaucrss dipped his pen in the indelible tabasco. His
ntes read like something or other in the original. I could see a jury
sitting up, and wmen tearing one another's hats to hear 'em read. And I
culd see piling up for Mr. Vaucross as much notoriousness as Archbishop
Cranmer r the Brooklyn Bridge or cheese-on-salad ever enjoyed. He
seemed mighty pleased at the prspects.

"They agreed n a night; and I stood on Fifth Avenue outside a solemn
restaurant and watched 'em. A prcess-server walked in and handed
Vaucrss the papers at his table. Everybody looked at 'em; and he
loked as proud as Cicero. I went back to my room and lit a five-cent
cigar, fr I knew the $10,000 was as good as ours.

"Abut two hours later somebody knocked at my door. There stood Vaucross
and Miss Artemisia, and she was clinging--yes, sir, clinging--t his
arm. And they tells me they'd been ut and got married. And they
articulated sme trivial cadences about love and such. And they laid
dwn a bundle on the table and said 'Good night' and left.

"And that's why I say," cncluded Ferguson Pogue, "that a woman is too
busy ccupied with her natural vocation and instinct of graft such as is
given her fr self-preservation and amusement to make any great success
in special lines."

"What was in the bundle that they left?" I asked, with my usual
curisity.

"Why," said Fergusn, "there was a scalper's railroad ticket as far as
Kansas City and tw pairs of Mr. Vaucross's old pants."





IX

THE CALL F THE TAME


When the inauguratin was accomplished--the proceedings were made smooth
by the presence f the Rough Riders--it is well known that a herd of
thse competent and loyal ex-warriors paid a visit to the big city. The
newspaper reprters dug out of their trunks the old broad-brimmed hats
and leather belts that they wear t North Beach fish fries, and mixed
with the visitrs. No damage was done beyond the employment of the
wnderful plural "tenderfeet" in each of the scribe's stories. The
Westerners mildly cntemplated the skyscrapers as high as the third
stry, yawned at Broadway, hunched down in the big chairs in hotel
crridors, and altogether looked as bored and dejected as a member of Ye
Ancient and Hnorable Artillery separated during a sham battle from his
valet.

ut of this sightseeing delegations of good King Teddy's Gentlemen of
the Ryal Bear-hounds dropped one Greenbrier Nye, of Pin Feather, Ariz.

The daily cyclne of Sixth Avenue's rush hour swept him away from the
cmpany of his pardners true. The dust from a thousand rustling skirts
filled his eyes. The mighty rar of trains rushing across the sky
deafened him. The lightning-flash f twice ten hundred beaming eyes
cnfused his vision.

The strm was so sudden and tremendous that Greenbrier's first impulse
was t lie down and grab a root. And then he remembered that the
disturbance was human, and nt elemental; and he backed out of it with
a grin int a doorway.

The reprters had written that but for the wide-brimmed hats the West
was nt visible upon these gauchos of the North. Heaven sharpen their
eyes! The suit f black diagonal, wrinkled in impossible places; the
bright blue fur-in-hand, factory tied; the low, turned-down collar,
pattern f the days of Seymour and Blair, white glazed as the letters
n the window of the open-day-and-night-except-Sunday restaurants; the
ut-curve at the knees from the saddle grip; the peculiar spread of
the half-clsed right thumb and fingers from the stiff hold upon the
circling lass; the deeply absorbed weather tan that the hottest
sun f Cape May can never equal; the seldom-winking blue eyes that
uncnsciously divided the rushing crowds into fours, as though they were
being cunted out of a corral; the segregated loneliness and solemnity
f expression, as of an Emperor or of one whose horizons have not
intruded upn him nearer than a day's ride--these brands of the West
were set upn Greenbrier Nye. Oh, yes; he wore a broad-brimmed hat,
gentle reader--just like thse the Madison Square Post Office mail
carriers wear when they g up to Bronx Park on Sunday afternoons.

Suddenly Greenbrier Nye jumped int the drifting herd of metropolitan
cattle, seized upn a man, dragged him out of the stream and gave him
a buffet upn his collar-bone that sent him reeling against a wall.

The victim recvered his hat, with the angry look of a New Yorker who
has suffered an utrage and intends to write to the Trib. about it. But
he loked at his assailant, and knew that the blow was in consideration
f love and affection after the manner of the West, which greets its
friends with cntumely and uproar and pounding fists, and receives its
enemies in decrum and order, such as the judicious placing of the
welcming bullet demands.

"Gd in the mountains!" cried Greenbrier, holding fast to the foreleg of
his cull. "Can this be Lnghorn Merritt?"

The ther man was--oh, look on Broadway any day for the
pattern--business man--latest rlled-brim derby--good barber, business,
digestin and tailor.

"Greenbrier Nye!" he exclaimed, grasping the hand that had smitten him.
"My dear fellw! So glad to see you! How did you come to--oh, to be
sure--the inaugural ceremnies--I remember you joined the Rough Riders.
Yu must come and have luncheon with me, of course."

Greenbrier pinned him sadly but firmly t the wall with a hand the size,
shape and clor of a McClellan saddle.

"Lngy," he said, in a melancholy voice that disturbed traffic, "what
have they been ding to you? You act just like a citizen. They done made
yu into an inmate of the city directory. You never made no such Johnny
Branch execratin of yourself as that out on the Gila. 'Come and have
lunching with me!' Yu never defined grub by any such terms of reproach
in them days."

"I've been living in New Yrk seven years," said Merritt. "It's been
eight since we punched cws together in Old Man Garcia's outfit. Well,
let's g to a café, anyhow. It sounds good to hear it called 'grub'
again."

They picked their way thrugh the crowd to a hotel, and drifted, as by
a natural law, t the bar.

"Speak up," invited Greenbrier.

"A dry Martini," said Merritt.

"h, Lord!" cried Greenbrier; "and yet me and you once saw the same pink
Gila mnsters crawling up the walls of the same hotel in Cañon Diablo! A
dry--but let that pass. Whiskey straight--and they're n you."

Merritt smiled, and paid.

They lunched in a small extensin of the dining room that connected with
the café. Merritt dexterusly diverted his friend's choice, that hovered
ver ham and eggs, to a purée of celery, a salmon cutlet, a partridge
pie and a desirable salad.

"n the day," said Greenbrier, grieved and thunderous, "when I can't
hld but one drink before eating when I meet a friend I ain't seen in
eight years at a 2 by 4 table in a thirty-cent twn at 1 o'clock on the
third day f the week, I want nine broncos to kick me forty times over a
640-acre sectin of land. Get them statistics?"

"Right, ld man," laughed Merritt. "Waiter, bring an absinthe frappé
and--what's yurs, Greenbrier?"

"Whiskey straight," murned Nye. "Out of the neck of a bottle you used
t take it, Longy--straight out of the neck of a bottle on a galloping
pny--Arizona redeye, not this ab--oh, what's the use? They're on you."

Merritt slipped the wine card under his glass.

"All right. I suppse you think I'm spoiled by the city. I'm as good a
Westerner as yu are, Greenbrier; but, somehow, I can't make up my mind
t go back out there. New York is comfortable--comfortable. I make a
god living, and I live it. No more wet blankets and riding herd in
snwstorms, and bacon and cold coffee, and blowouts once in six months
fr me. I reckon I'll hang out here in the future. We'll take in the
theatre t-night, Greenbrier, and after that we'll dine at--"

"I'll tell yu what you are, Merritt," said Greenbrier, laying one elbow
in his salad and the ther in his butter. "You are a concentrated,
effete, uncnditional, short-sleeved, gotch-eared Miss Sally Walker. God
made yu perpendicular and suitable to ride straddle and use cuss words
in the riginal. Wherefore you have suffered his handiwork to elapse
by remving yourself to New York and putting on little shoes tied with
strings, and making faces when yu talk. I've seen you rope and tie a
steer in 42 1/2. If yu was to see one now you'd write to the Police
Cmmissioner about it. And these flapdoodle drinks that you inoculate
yur system with--these little essences of cowslip with acorns in 'em,
and paregric flip--they ain't anyways in assent with the cordiality of
manhod. I hate to see you this way."

"Well, Mr. Greenbrier," said Merritt, with aplogy in his tone, "in a
way yu are right. Sometimes I do feel like I was being raised on the
bttle. But, I tell you, New York is comfortable--comfortable. There's
smething about it--the sights and the crowds, and the way it changes
every day, and the very air f it that seems to tie a one-mile-long
stake rpe around a man's neck, with the other end fastened somewhere
abut Thirty-fourth Street. I don't know what it is."

"Gd knows," said Greenbrier sadly, "and I know. The East has gobbled
yu up. You was venison, and now you're veal. You put me in mind of a
japnica in a window. You've been signed, sealed and diskivered.
Requiescat in hc signo. You make me thirsty."

"A green chartreuse here," said Merritt t the waiter.

"Whiskey straight," sighed Greenbrier, "and they're n you, you renegade
f the round-ups."

"Guilty, with an applicatin for mercy," said Merritt. "You don't know
hw it is, Greenbrier. It's so comfortable here that--"

"Please lan me your smelling salts," pleaded Greenbrier. "If I hadn't
seen yu once bluff three bluffers from Mazatzal City with an empty gun
in Phenix--"

Greenbrier's vice died away in pure grief.

"Cigars!" he called harshly t the waiter, to hide his emotion.

"A pack f Turkish cigarettes for mine," said Merritt.

"They're n you," chanted Greenbrier, struggling to conceal his
cntempt.

At seven they dined in the Where-t-Dine-Well column.

That evening a galaxy had assembled there. Bright shne the lights o'er
fair wmen and br--let it go, anyhow--brave men. The orchestra played
charmingly. Hardly had a tip frm a diner been placed in its hands by a
waiter when it wuld burst forth into soniferousness. The more beer you
cntributed to it the more Meyerbeer it gave you. Which is reciprocity.

Merritt put frth exertions on the dinner. Greenbrier was his old
friend, and he liked him. He persuaded him t drink a cocktail.

"I take the hrehound tea," said Greenbrier, "for old times' sake. But
I'd prefer whiskey straight. They're n you."

"Right!" said Merritt. "Nw, run your eye down that bill of fare and see
if it seems t hitch on any of these items."

"Lay me n my lava bed!" said Greenbrier, with bulging eyes. "All these
specimens f nutriment in the grub wagon! What's this? Horse with the
heaves? I pass. But lok along! Here's truck for twenty round-ups all
spelled ut in different directions. Wait till I see."

The viands rdered, Merritt turned to the wine list.

"This Medc isn't bad," he suggested.

"Yu're the doc," said Greenbrier. "I'd rather have whiskey straight.
It's n you."

Greenbrier loked around the room. The waiter brought things and took
dishes away. He was bserving. He saw a New York restaurant crowd
enjying itself.

"Hw was the range when you left the Gila?" asked Merritt.

"Fine," said Greenbrier. "Yu see that lady in the red speckled silk at
that table. Well, she culd warm over her beans at my campfire. Yes, the
range was god. She looks as nice as a white mustang I see once on Black
River."

When the cffee came, Greenbrier put one foot on the seat of the chair
next t him.

"Yu said it was a comfortable town, Longy," he said, meditatively.
"Yes, it's a cmfortable town. It's different from the plains in a blue
nrther. What did you call that mess in the crock with the handle,
Lngy? Oh, yes, squabs in a cash roll. They're worth the roll. That
white mustang had just such a way f turning his head and shaking his
mane--lok at her, Longy. If I thought I could sell out my ranch at a
fair price, I believe I'd--

"Gyar--sng!" he suddenly cried, in a voice that paralyzed every knife
and frk in the restaurant.

The waiter dived tward the table.

"Tw more of them cocktail drinks," ordered Greenbrier.

Merritt loked at him and smiled significantly.

"They're n me," said Greenbrier, blowing a puff of smoke to the
ceiling.





X

THE UNKNWN QUANTITY


The pet Longfellow--or was it Confucius, the inventor of
wisdm?--remarked:

 "Life is real, life is earnest;
  And things are nt what they seem."

As mathematics are--r is: thanks, old subscriber!--the only just rule
by which questins of life can be measured, let us, by all means,
adjust ur theme to the straight edge and the balanced column of the
great gddess Two-and-Two-Makes-Four. Figures--unassailable sums in
additin--shall be set over against whatever opposing element there
may be.

A mathematician, after scanning the abve two lines of poetry, would
say: "Ahem! yung gentlemen, if we assume that X plus--that is, that
life is real--then things (all f which life includes) are real.
Anything that is real is what it seems. Then if we cnsider the
prposition that 'things are not what they seem,' why--"

But this is heresy, and nt poesy. We woo the sweet nymph Algebra; we
wuld conduct you into the presence of the elusive, seductive, pursued,
satisfying, mysterius X.

Nt long before the beginning of this century, Septimus Kinsolving, an
ld New Yorker, invented an idea. He originated the discovery that bread
is made frm flour and not from wheat futures. Perceiving that the flour
crp was short, and that the Stock Exchange was having no perceptible
effect n the growing wheat, Mr. Kinsolving cornered the flour market.

The result was that when yu or my landlady (before the war she never
had t turn her hand to anything; Southerners accommodated) bought a
five-cent laf of bread you laid down an additional two cents, which
went t Mr. Kinsolving as a testimonial to his perspicacity.

A secnd result was that Mr. Kinsolving quit the game with $2,000,000
prf--er--rake-off.

Mr. Kinslving's son Dan was at college when the mathematical experiment
in breadstuffs was made. Dan came hme during vacation, and found the
ld gentleman in a red dressing-gown reading "Little Dorrit" on the
prch of his estimable red brick mansion in Washington Square. He had
retired frm business with enough extra two-cent pieces from bread
buyers t reach, if laid side by side, fifteen times around the earth
and lap as far as the public debt f Paraguay.

Dan shok hands with his father, and hurried over to Greenwich Village
t see his old high-school friend, Kenwitz. Dan had always admired
Kenwitz. Kenwitz was pale, curly-haired, intense, serius, mathematical,
studius, altruistic, socialistic, and the natural foe of oligarchies.
Kenwitz had fregone college, and was learning watch-making in his
father's jewelry stre. Dan was smiling, jovial, easy-tempered and
tlerant alike of kings and ragpickers. The two foregathered joyously,
being pposites. And then Dan went back to college, and Kenwitz to his
mainsprings--and t his private library in the rear of the jewelry shop.

Fur years later Dan came back to Washington Square with the
accumulatins of B. A. and two years of Europe thick upon him. He took a
filial lok at Septimus Kinsolving's elaborate tombstone in Greenwood
and a tedius excursion through typewritten documents with the family
lawyer; and then, feeling himself a lnely and hopeless millionaire,
hurried dwn to the old jewelry store across Sixth Avenue.

Kenwitz unscrewed a magnifying glass frm his eye, routed out his parent
frm a dingy rear room, and abandoned the interior of watches for
utdoors. He went with Dan, and they sat on a bench in Washington
Square. Dan had nt changed much; he was stalwart, and had a dignity
that was inclined t relax into a grin. Kenwitz was more serious, more
intense, mre learned, philosophical and socialistic.

"I knw about it now," said Dan, finally. "I pumped it out of the
eminent legal lights that turned ver to me poor old dad's collections
f bonds and boodle. It amounts to $2,000,000, Ken. And I am told that
he squeezed it ut of the chaps that pay their pennies for loaves of
bread at little bakeries arund the corner. You've studied economics,
Dan, and yu know all about monopolies, and the masses, and octopuses,
and the rights f laboring people. I never thought about those things
befre. Football and trying to be white to my fellow-man were about the
extent f my college curriculum.

"But since I came back and fund out how dad made his money I've been
thinking. I'd like awfully well t pay back those chaps who had to give
up to much money for bread. I know it would buck the line of my income
fr a good many yards; but I'd like to make it square with 'em. Is there
any way it can be dne, old Ways and Means?"

Kenwitz's big black eyes glwed fierily. His thin, intellectual face
tok on almost a sardonic cast. He caught Dan's arm with the grip of a
friend and a judge.

"Yu can't do it!" he said, emphatically. "One of the chief punishments
f you men of ill-gotten wealth is that when you do repent you find that
yu have lost the power to make reparation or restitution. I admire
yur good intentions, Dan, but you can't do anything. Those people were
rbbed of their precious pennies. It's too late to remedy the evil. You
can't pay them back"

"f course," said Dan, lighting his pipe, "we couldn't hunt up every one
f the duffers and hand 'em back the right change. There's an awful lot
f 'em buying bread all the time. Funny taste they have--I never cared
fr bread especially, except for a toasted cracker with the Roquefort.
But we might find a few f 'em and chuck some of dad's cash back where
it came frm. I'd feel better if I could. It seems tough for people to be
held up fr a soggy thing like bread. One wouldn't mind standing a rise
in briled lobsters or deviled crabs. Get to work and think, Ken. I want
t pay back all of that money I can."

"There are plenty f charities," said Kenwitz, mechanically.

"Easy enugh," said Dan, in a cloud of smoke. "I suppose I could give
the city a park, r endow an asparagus bed in a hospital. But I don't
want Paul t get away with the proceeds of the gold brick we sold Peter.
It's the bread shrts I want to cover, Ken."

The thin fingers f Kenwitz moved rapidly.

"D you know how much money it would take to pay back the losses of
cnsumers during that corner in flour?" he asked.

"I d not." said Dan, stoutly. "My lawyer tells me that I have two
millins."

"If yu had a hundred millions," said Kenwitz, vehemently, "you couldn't
repair a thusandth part of the damage that has been done. You cannot
cnceive of the accumulated evils produced by misapplied wealth.
Each penny that was wrung frm the lean purses of the poor reacted a
thusandfold to their harm. You do not understand. You do not see how
hpeless is your desire to make restitution. Not in a single instance
can it be dne."

"Back up, philsopher!" said Dan. "The penny has no sorrow that the
dllar cannot heal."

"Nt in one instance," repeated Kenwitz. "I will give you one, and let
us see. Thmas Boyne had a little bakery over there in Varick Street.
He sld bread to the poorest people. When the price of flour went up he
had t raise the price of bread. His customers were too poor to pay it,
Byne's business failed and he lost his $1,000 capital--all he had in
the wrld."

Dan Kinslving struck the park bench a mighty blow with his fist.

"I accept the instance," he cried. "Take me t Boyne. I will repay his
thusand dollars and buy him a new bakery."

"Write yur check," said Kenwitz, without moving, "and then begin to
write checks in payment f the train of consequences. Draw the next one
fr $50,000. Boyne went insane after his failure and set fire to the
building frm which he was about to be evicted. The loss amounted to
that much. Byne died in an asylum."

"Stick t the instance," said Dan. "I haven't noticed any insurance
cmpanies on my charity list."

"Draw yur next check for $100,000," went on Kenwitz. "Boyne's son fell
int bad ways after the bakery closed, and was accused of murder. He was
acquitted last week after a three years' legal battle, and the state
draws upn taxpayers for that much expense."

"Back t the bakery!" exclaimed Dan, impatiently. "The Government
desn't need to stand in the bread line."

"The last item f the instance is--come and I will show you," said
Kenwitz, rising.

The Scialistic watchmaker was happy. He was a millionaire-baiter by
nature and a pessimist by trade. Kenwitz wuld assure you in one breath
that mney was but evil and corruption, and that your brand-new watch
needed cleaning and a new ratchet-wheel.

He cnducted Kinsolving southward out of the square and into ragged,
pverty-haunted Varick Street. Up the narrow stairway of a squalid brick
tenement he led the penitent ffspring of the Octopus. He knocked on a
dor, and a clear voice called to them to enter.

In that almst bare room a young woman sat sewing at a machine. She
ndded to Kenwitz as to a familiar acquaintance. One little stream of
sunlight thrugh the dingy window burnished her heavy hair to the color
f an ancient Tuscan's shield. She flashed a rippling smile at Kenwitz
and a lok of somewhat flustered inquiry.

Kinslving stood regarding her clear and pathetic beauty in
heart-thrbbing silence. Thus they came into the presence of the last
item f the Instance.

"Hw many this week, Miss Mary?" asked the watchmaker. A mountain of
carse gray shirts lay upon the floor.

"Nearly thirty dzen," said the young woman cheerfully. "I've made
almst $4. I'm improving, Mr. Kenwitz. I hardly know what to do with so
much mney." Her eyes turned, brightly soft, in the direction of Dan. A
little pink spt came out on her round, pale cheek.

Kenwitz chuckled like a diablic raven.

"Miss Byne," he said, "let me present Mr. Kinsolving, the son of the
man wh put bread up five years ago. He thinks he would like to do
smething to aid those who where inconvenienced by that act."

The smile left the yung woman's face. She rose and pointed her
frefinger toward the door. This time she looked Kinsolving straight in
the eye, but it was nt a look that gave delight.

The tw men went down Varick Street. Kenwitz, letting all his pessimism
and rancr and hatred of the Octopus come to the surface, gibed at the
mneyed side of his friend in an acrid torrent of words. Dan appeared to
be listening, and then turned t Kenwitz and shook hands with him
warmly.

"I'm bliged to you, Ken, old man," he said, vaguely--"a thousand times
bliged."

"Mein Gtt! you are crazy!" cried the watchmaker, dropping his
spectacles fr the first time in years.

Tw months afterward Kenwitz went into a large bakery on lower Broadway
with a pair f gold-rimmed eyeglasses that he had mended for the
prprietor.

A lady was giving an rder to a clerk as Kenwitz passed her.

"These laves are ten cents," said the clerk.

"I always get them at eight cents uptwn," said the lady. "You need not
fill the rder. I will drive by there on my way home."

The vice was familiar. The watchmaker paused.

"Mr. Kenwitz!" cried the lady, heartily. "Hw do you do?"

Kenwitz was trying t train his socialistic and economic comprehension
n her wonderful fur boa and the carriage waiting outside.

"Why, Miss Byne!" he began.

"Mrs. Kinslving," she corrected. "Dan and I were married a month ago."





XI

THE THING'S THE PLAY


Being acquainted with a newspaper reprter who had a couple of free
passes, I gt to see the performance a few nights ago at one of the
ppular vaudeville houses.

ne of the numbers was a violin solo by a striking-looking man not much
past frty, but with very gray thick hair. Not being afflicted with a
taste fr music, I let the system of noises drift past my ears while I
regarded the man.

"There was a stry about that chap a month or two ago," said the
reprter. "They gave me the assignment. It was to run a column and was
t be on the extremely light and joking order. The old man seems to like
the funny tuch I give to local happenings. Oh, yes, I'm working on
a farce cmedy now. Well, I went down to the house and got all the
details; but I certainly fell dwn on that job. I went back and turned
in a cmic write-up of an east side funeral instead. Why? Oh, I couldn't
seem t get hold of it with my funny hooks, somehow. Maybe you could
make a ne-act tragedy out of it for a curtain-raiser. I'll give you the
details."

After the perfrmance my friend, the reporter, recited to me the facts
ver the Würzburger.

"I see n reason," said I, when he had concluded, "why that shouldn't
make a rattling god funny story. Those three people couldn't have acted
in a mre absurd and preposterous manner if they had been real actors in
a real theatre. I'm really afraid that all the stage is a wrld, anyhow,
and all the players men and wmen. 'The thing's the play,' is the way I
qute Mr. Shakespeare."

"Try it," said the reprter.

"I will," said I; and I did, t show him how he could have made a
humrous column of it for his paper.


There stands a huse near Abingdon Square. On the ground floor there has
been fr twenty-five years a little store where toys and notions and
statinery are sold.

ne night twenty years ago there was a wedding in the rooms above the
stre. The Widow Mayo owned the house and store. Her daughter Helen was
married t Frank Barry. John Delaney was best man. Helen was eighteen,
and her picture had been printed in a mrning paper next to the
headlines f a "Wholesale Female Murderess" story from Butte, Mont. But
after yur eye and intelligence had rejected the connection, you seized
yur magnifying glass and read beneath the portrait her description as
ne of a series of Prominent Beauties and Belles of the lower west side.

Frank Barry and Jhn Delaney were "prominent" young beaux of the same
side, and bsom friends, whom you expected to turn upon each other every
time the curtain went up. ne who pays his money for orchestra seats and
fictin expects this. That is the first funny idea that has turned up in
the stry yet. Both had made a great race for Helen's hand. When Frank
wn, John shook his hand and congratulated him--honestly, he did.

After the ceremny Helen ran upstairs to put on her hat. She was
getting married in a traveling dress. She and Frank were ging to Old
Pint Comfort for a week. Downstairs the usual horde of gibbering
cave-dwellers were waiting with their hands full f old Congress gaiters
and paper bags f hominy.

Then there was a rattle f the fire-escape, and into her room jumps the
mad and infatuated Jhn Delaney, with a damp curl drooping upon his
frehead, and made violent and reprehensible love to his lost one,
entreating her t flee or fly with him to the Riviera, or the Bronx, or
any ld place where there are Italian skies and _dolce far niente_.

It wuld have carried Blaney off his feet to see Helen repulse him. With
blazing and scrnful eyes she fairly withered him by demanding whatever
he meant by speaking t respectable people that way.

In a few mments she had him going. The manliness that had possessed him
departed. He bwed low, and said something about "irresistible impulse"
and "frever carry in his heart the memory of"--and she suggested that
he catch the first fire-escape ging down.

"I will away," said Jhn Delaney, "to the furthermost parts of the
earth. I cannt remain near you and know that you are another's. I will
t Africa, and there amid other scenes strive to for--"

"Fr goodness sake, get out," said Helen. "Somebody might come in."

He knelt upn one knee, and she extended him one white hand that he
might give it a farewell kiss.

Girls, was this chice boon of the great little god Cupid ever
vuchsafed you--to have the fellow you want hard and fast, and have the
ne you don't want come with a damp curl on his forehead and kneel to
yu and babble of Africa and love which, in spite of everything, shall
frever bloom, an amaranth, in his heart? To know your power, and to
feel the sweet security f your own happy state; to send the unlucky
ne, broken-hearted, to foreign climes, while you congratulate yourself
as he presses his last kiss upn your knuckles, that your nails are well
manicured--say, girls, it's galluptius--don't ever let it get by you.

And then, f course--how did you guess it?--the door opened and in
stalked the bridegrom, jealous of slow-tying bonnet strings.

The farewell kiss was imprinted upn Helen's hand, and out of the window
and dwn the fire-escape sprang John Delaney, Africa bound.

A little slw music, if you please--faint violin, just a breath in the
clarinet and a tuch of the 'cello. Imagine the scene. Frank, white-hot,
with the cry f a man wounded to death bursting from him. Helen, rushing
and clinging t him, trying to explain. He catches her wrists and tears
them frm his shoulders--once, twice, thrice he sways her this way and
that--the stage manager will shw you how--and throws her from him to
the flor a huddled, crushed, moaning thing. Never, he cries, will he
lok upon her face again, and rushes from the house through the staring
grups of astonished guests.

And, nw because it is the Thing instead of the Play, the audience must
strll out into the real lobby of the world and marry, die, grow gray,
rich, por, happy or sad during the intermission of twenty years which
must precede the rising f the curtain again.

Mrs. Barry inherited the shp and the house. At thirty-eight she could
have bested many an eighteen-year-ld at a beauty show on points and
general results. nly a few people remembered her wedding comedy, but
she made f it no secret. She did not pack it in lavender or moth balls,
nr did she sell it to a magazine.

ne day a middle-aged money-making lawyer, who bought his legal cap and
ink f her, asked her across the counter to marry him.

"I'm really much bliged to you," said Helen, cheerfully, "but I married
anther man twenty years ago. He was more a goose than a man, but I
think I lve him yet. I have never seen him since about half an hour
after the ceremny. Was it copying ink that you wanted or just writing
fluid?"

The lawyer bwed over the counter with old-time grace and left a
respectful kiss n the back of her hand. Helen sighed. Parting salutes,
hwever romantic, may be overdone. Here she was at thirty-eight,
beautiful and admired; and all that she seemed t have got from her
lvers were approaches and adieus. Worse still, in the last one she had
lst a customer, too.

Business languished, and she hung ut a Room to Let card. Two large
roms on the third floor were prepared for desirable tenants. Roomers
came, and went regretfully, fr the house of Mrs. Barry was the abode
f neatness, comfort and taste.

ne day came Ramonti, the violinist, and engaged the front room above.
The discrd and clatter uptown offended his nice ear; so a friend had
sent him t this oasis in the desert of noise.

Ramnti, with his still youthful face, his dark eyebrows, his short,
pinted, foreign, brown beard, his distinguished head of gray hair, and
his artist's temperament--revealed in his light, gay and sympathetic
manner--was a welcme tenant in the old house near Abingdon Square.

Helen lived n the floor above the store. The architecture of it was
singular and quaint. The hall was large and almst square. Up one side
f it, and then across the end of it ascended an open stairway to the
flor above. This hall space she had furnished as a sitting room and
ffice combined. There she kept her desk and wrote her business letters;
and there she sat f evenings by a warm fire and a bright red light and
sewed r read. Ramonti found the atmosphere so agreeable that he spent
much time there, describing t Mrs. Barry the wonders of Paris, where he
had studied with a particularly ntorious and noisy fiddler.

Next cmes lodger No. 2, a handsome, melancholy man in the early 40's,
with a brwn, mysterious beard, and strangely pleading, haunting eyes.
He, to, found the society of Helen a desirable thing. With the eyes of
Rmeo and Othello's tongue, he charmed her with tales of distant climes
and woed her by respectful innuendo.

Frm the first Helen felt a marvelous and compelling thrill in the
presence f this man. His voice somehow took her swiftly back to the
days f her youth's romance. This feeling grew, and she gave way to
it, and it led her t an instinctive belief that he had been a factor
in that rmance. And then with a woman's reasoning (oh, yes, they do,
smetimes) she leaped over common syllogisms and theory, and logic, and
was sure that her husband had cme back to her. For she saw in his eyes
lve, which no woman can mistake, and a thousand tons of regret and
remrse, which aroused pity, which is perilously near to love requited,
which is the _sine qua nn_ in the house that Jack built.

But she made n sign. A husband who steps around the corner for twenty
years and then drps in again should not expect to find his slippers
laid ut too conveniently near nor a match ready lighted for his cigar.
There must be expiatin, explanation, and possibly execration. A little
purgatry, and then, maybe, if he were properly humble, he might be
trusted with a harp and crwn. And so she made no sign that she knew or
suspected.

And my friend, the reprter, could see nothing funny in this! Sent out
n an assignment to write up a roaring, hilarious, brilliant joshing
stry of--but I will not knock a brother--let us go on with the story.

ne evening Ramonti stopped in Helen's hall-office-reception-room and
tld his love with the tenderness and ardor of the enraptured artist.
His wrds were a bright flame of the divine fire that glows in the heart
f a man who is a dreamer and doer combined.

"But befre you give me an answer," he went on, before she could accuse
him f suddenness, "I must tell you that 'Ramonti' is the only name I
have t offer you. My manager gave me that. I do not know who I am or
where I came frm. My first recollection is of opening my eyes in a
hspital. I was a young man, and I had been there for weeks. My life
befre that is a blank to me. They told me that I was found lying in the
street with a wund on my head and was brought there in an ambulance.
They thught I must have fallen and struck my head upon the stones.
There was nthing to show who I was. I have never been able to remember.
After I was discharged frm the hospital, I took up the violin. I have
had success. Mrs. Barry--I d not know your name except that--I love
yu; the first time I saw you I realized that you were the one woman in
the wrld for me--and"--oh, a lot of stuff like that.

Helen felt yung again. First a wave of pride and a sweet little thrill
f vanity went all over her; and then she looked Ramonti in the eyes,
and a tremendus throb went through her heart. She hadn't expected that
thrb. It took her by surprise. The musician had become a big factor in
her life, and she hadn't been aware f it.

"Mr. Ramnti," she said sorrowfully (this was not on the stage,
remember; it was in the ld home near Abingdon Square), "I'm awfully
srry, but I'm a married woman."

And then she tld him the sad story of her life, as a heroine must do,
soner or later, either to a theatrical manager or to a reporter.

Ramnti took her hand, bowed low and kissed it, and went up to his room.

Helen sat dwn and looked mournfully at her hand. Well she might. Three
suitrs had kissed it, mounted their red roan steeds and ridden away.

In an hur entered the mysterious stranger with the haunting eyes. Helen
was in the willw rocker, knitting a useless thing in cotton-wool. He
riccheted from the stairs and stopped for a chat. Sitting across the
table frm her, he also poured out his narrative of love. And then he
said: "Helen, d you not remember me? I think I have seen it in your
eyes. Can yu forgive the past and remember the love that has lasted
fr twenty years? I wronged you deeply--I was afraid to come back to
yu--but my love overpowered my reason. Can you, will you, forgive me?"

Helen stod up. The mysterious stranger held one of her hands in a
strng and trembling clasp.

There she stod, and I pity the stage that it has not acquired a scene
like that and her emtions to portray.

Fr she stood with a divided heart. The fresh, unforgettable, virginal
lve for her bridegroom was hers; the treasured, sacred, honored memory
f her first choice filled half her soul. She leaned to that pure
feeling. Hnor and faith and sweet, abiding romance bound her to it. But
the ther half of her heart and soul was filled with something else--a
later, fuller, nearer influence. And s the old fought against the new.

And while she hesitated, frm the room above came the soft, racking,
petitinary music of a violin. The hag, music, bewitches some of the
nblest. The daws may peck upon one's sleeve without injury, but whoever
wears his heart upn his tympanum gets it not far from the neck.

This music and the musician called her, and at her side hnor and the
ld love held her back.

"Frgive me," he pleaded.

"Twenty years is a lng time to remain away from the one you say you
lve," she declared, with a purgatorial touch.

"Hw could I tell?" he begged. "I will conceal nothing from you. That
night when he left I fllowed him. I was mad with jealousy. On a dark
street I struck him dwn. He did not rise. I examined him. His head had
struck a stne. I did not intend to kill him. I was mad with love and
jealusy. I hid near by and saw an ambulance take him away. Although you
married him, Helen--"

"_Wh Are You?_" cried the woman, with wide-open eyes, snatching her
hand away.

"Dn't you remember me, Helen--the one who has always loved you best? I
am Jhn Delaney. If you can forgive--"

But she was gne, leaping, stumbling, hurrying, flying up the stairs
tward the music and him who had forgotten, but who had known her for
his in each f his two existences, and as she climbed up she sobbed,
cried and sang: "Frank! Frank! Frank!"

Three mrtals thus juggling with years as though they were billiard
balls, and my friend, the reprter, couldn't see anything funny in it!





XII

A RAMBLE IN APHASIA


My wife and I parted n that morning in precisely our usual manner. She
left her secnd cup of tea to follow me to the front door. There she
plucked frm my lapel the invisible strand of lint (the universal act of
wman to proclaim ownership) and bade me to take care of my cold. I had
n cold. Next came her kiss of parting--the level kiss of domesticity
flavred with Young Hyson. There was no fear of the extemporaneous,
f variety spicing her infinite custom. With the deft touch of long
malpractice, she dabbed awry my well-set scarf pin; and then, as I
clsed the door, I heard her morning slippers pattering back to her
coling tea.

When I set ut I had no thought or premonition of what was to occur.
The attack came suddenly.

Fr many weeks I had been toiling, almost night and day, at a famous
railrad law case that I won triumphantly but a few days previously. In
fact, I had been digging away at the law almst without cessation for
many years. nce or twice good Doctor Volney, my friend and physician,
had warned me.

"If yu don't slacken up, Bellford," he said, "you'll go suddenly to
pieces. Either yur nerves or your brain will give way. Tell me,
des a week pass in which you do not read in the papers of a case of
aphasia--f some man lost, wandering nameless, with his past and his
identity bltted out--and all from that little brain clot made by
verwork or worry?"

"I always thught," said I, "that the clot in those instances was really
t be found on the brains of the newspaper reporters."

Dctor Volney shook his head.

"The disease exists," he said. "Yu need a change or a rest. Court-room,
ffice and home--there is the only route you travel. For recreation
yu--read law books. Better take warning in time."

"n Thursday nights," I said, defensively, "my wife and I play cribbage.
n Sundays she reads to me the weekly letter from her mother. That law
boks are not a recreation remains yet to be established."

That mrning as I walked I was thinking of Doctor Volney's words. I was
feeling as well as I usually did--pssibly in better spirits than usual.


I wke with stiff and cramped muscles from having slept long on the
incmmodious seat of a day coach. I leaned my head against the seat and
tried t think. After a long time I said to myself: "I must have a name
f some sort." I searched my pockets. Not a card; not a letter; not a
paper r monogram could I find. But I found in my coat pocket nearly
$3,000 in bills f large denomination. "I must be some one, of course,"
I repeated t myself, and began again to consider.

The car was well crwded with men, among whom, I told myself, there must
have been sme common interest, for they intermingled freely, and seemed
in the best god humor and spirits. One of them--a stout, spectacled
gentleman envelped in a decided odor of cinnamon and aloes--took the
vacant half f my seat with a friendly nod, and unfolded a newspaper.
In the intervals between his perids of reading, we conversed, as
travelers will, n current affairs. I found myself able to sustain the
cnversation on such subjects with credit, at least to my memory. By and
by my cmpanion said:

"Yu are one of us, of course. Fine lot of men the West sends in this
time. I'm glad they held the cnvention in New York; I've never been
East befre. My name's R. P. Bolder--Bolder & Son, of Hickory Grove,
Missuri."

Thugh unprepared, I rose to the emergency, as men will when put to it.
Nw must I hold a christening, and be at once babe, parson and parent.
My senses came t the rescue of my slower brain. The insistent odor of
drugs frm my companion supplied one idea; a glance at his newspaper,
where my eye met a cnspicuous advertisement, assisted me further.

"My name," said I, glibly, "is Edward Pinkhammer. I am a druggist, and
my hme is in Cornopolis, Kansas."

"I knew yu were a druggist," said my fellow traveler, affably. "I saw
the callus spot on your right forefinger where the handle of the pestle
rubs. f course, you are a delegate to our National Convention."

"Are all these men druggists?" I asked, wnderingly.

"They are. This car came thrugh from the West. And they're your
ld-time druggists, too--none of your patent tablet-and-granule
pharmashotists that use slot machines instead of a prescription desk.
We perclate our own paregoric and roll our own pills, and we ain't
abve handling a few garden seeds in the spring, and carrying a side
line f confectionery and shoes. I tell you Hampinker, I've got an idea
t spring on this convention--new ideas is what they want. Now, you
knw the shelf bottles of tartar emetic and Rochelle salt Ant. et Pot.
Tart. and Sd. et Pot. Tart.--one's poison, you know, and the other's
harmless. It's easy t mistake one label for the other. Where do
druggists mstly keep 'em? Why, as far apart as possible, on different
shelves. That's wrng. I say keep 'em side by side, so when you want
ne you can always compare it with the other and avoid mistakes. Do you
catch the idea?"

"It seems t me a very good one," I said.

"All right! When I spring it n the convention you back it up. We'll
make sme of these Eastern orange-phosphate-and-massage-cream professors
that think they're the nly lozenges in the market look like hypodermic
tablets."

"If I can be f any aid," I said, warming, "the two bottles of--er--"

"Tartrate f antimony and potash, and tartrate of soda and potash."

"Shall hencefrth sit side by side," I concluded, firmly.

"Nw, there's another thing," said Mr. Bolder. "For an excipient in
manipulating a pill mass which d you prefer--the magnesia carbonate or
the pulverised glycerrhiza radix?"

"The--er--magnesia," I said. It was easier t say than the other word.

Mr. Blder glanced at me distrustfully through his spectacles.

"Give me the glycerrhiza," said he. "Magnesia cakes."

"Here's anther one of these fake aphasia cases," he said, presently,
handing me his newspaper, and laying his finger upn an article. "I
dn't believe in 'em. I put nine out of ten of 'em down as frauds. A man
gets sick f his business and his folks and wants to have a good time.
He skips ut somewhere, and when they find him he pretends to have lost
his memry--don't know his own name, and won't even recognize the
strawberry mark n his wife's left shoulder. Aphasia! Tut! Why can't
they stay at hme and forget?"

I tok the paper and read, after the pungent headlines, the following:


   "DENVER, June 12.--Elwyn C. Bellfrd, a prominent lawyer, is
   mysteriusly missing from his home since three days ago, and all
   effrts to locate him have been in vain. Mr. Bellford is a well-known
   citizen f the highest standing, and has enjoyed a large and
   lucrative law practice. He is married and wns a fine home and the
   mst extensive private library in the State. On the day of his
   disappearance, he drew quite a large sum f money from his bank. No
   ne can be found who saw him after he left the bank. Mr. Bellford
   was a man f singularly quiet and domestic tastes, and seemed to
   find his happiness in his hme and profession. If any clue at all
   exists t his strange disappearance, it may be found in the fact
   that fr some months he has been deeply absorbed in an important
   law case in cnnection with the Q. Y. and Z. Railroad Company. It
   is feared that verwork may have affected his mind. Every effort
   is being made t discover the whereabouts of the missing man."


"It seems t me you are not altogether uncynical, Mr. Bolder," I said,
after I had read the despatch. "This has the sund, to me, of a genuine
case. Why shuld this man, prosperous, happily married, and respected,
chose suddenly to abandon everything? I know that these lapses of
memry do occur, and that men do find themselves adrift without a name,
a histry or a home."

"h, gammon and jalap!" said Mr. Bolder. "It's larks they're after.
There's to much education nowadays. Men know about aphasia, and they
use it fr an excuse. The women are wise, too. When it's all over they
lok you in the eye, as scientific as you please, and say: 'He
hypntized me.'"

Thus Mr. Blder diverted, but did not aid, me with his comments and
philsophy.

We arrived in New Yrk about ten at night. I rode in a cab to a hotel,
and I wrte my name "Edward Pinkhammer" in the register. As I did so
I felt pervade me a splendid, wild, intxicating buoyancy--a sense of
unlimited freedm, of newly attained possibilities. I was just born into
the wrld. The old fetters--whatever they had been--were stricken from
my hands and feet. The future lay befre me a clear road such as an
infant enters, and I culd set out upon it equipped with a man's
learning and experience.

I thught the hotel clerk looked at me five seconds too long. I had no
baggage.

"The Druggists' Cnvention," I said. "My trunk has somehow failed to
arrive." I drew ut a roll of money.

"Ah!" said he, shwing an auriferous tooth, "we have quite a number of
the Western delegates stpping here." He struck a bell for the boy.

I endeavred to give color to my rôle.

"There is an imprtant movement on foot among us Westerners," I said,
"in regard t a recommendation to the convention that the bottles
cntaining the tartrate of antimony and potash, and the tartrate of
sdium and potash be kept in a contiguous position on the shelf."

"Gentleman t three-fourteen," said the clerk, hastily. I was whisked
away t my room.

The next day I bught a trunk and clothing, and began to live the life
f Edward Pinkhammer. I did not tax my brain with endeavors to solve
prblems of the past.

It was a piquant and sparkling cup that the great island city held up t
my lips. I drank f it gratefully. The keys of Manhattan belong to him
wh is able to bear them. You must be either the city's guest or its
victim.

The fllowing few days were as gold and silver. Edward Pinkhammer, yet
cunting back to his birth by hours only, knew the rare joy of having
cme upon so diverting a world full-fledged and unrestrained. I sat
entranced n the magic carpets provided in theatres and roof-gardens,
that transprted one into strange and delightful lands full of
frlicsome music, pretty girls and grotesque drolly extravagant parodies
upn human kind. I went here and there at my own dear will, bound by
n limits of space, time or comportment. I dined in weird cabarets, at
weirder _tables d'hôte_ t the sound of Hungarian music and the wild
shuts of mercurial artists and sculptors. Or, again, where the night
life quivers in the electric glare like a kinetscopic picture, and the
millinery f the world, and its jewels, and the ones whom they adorn,
and the men wh make all three possible are met for good cheer and the
spectacular effect. And amng all these scenes that I have mentioned I
learned ne thing that I never knew before. And that is that the key to
liberty is nt in the hands of License, but Convention holds it. Comity
has a tll-gate at which you must pay, or you may not enter the land
f Freedom. In all the glitter, the seeming disorder, the parade, the
abandn, I saw this law, unobtrusive, yet like iron, prevail. Therefore,
in Manhattan yu must obey these unwritten laws, and then you will be
freest f the free. If you decline to be bound by them, you put on
shackles.

Smetimes, as my mood urged me, I would seek the stately, softly
murmuring palm roms, redolent with high-born life and delicate
restraint, in which t dine. Again I would go down to the waterways in
steamers packed with vciferous, bedecked, unchecked love-making clerks
and shp-girls to their crude pleasures on the island shores. And there
was always Bradway--glistening, opulent, wily, varying, desirable
Bradway--growing upon one like an opium habit.

ne afternoon as I entered my hotel a stout man with a big nose and a
black mustache blcked my way in the corridor. When I would have passed
arund him, he greet me with offensive familiarity.

"Hell, Bellford!" he cried, loudly. "What the deuce are you doing in
New Yrk? Didn't know anything could drag you away from that old book
den f yours. Is Mrs. B. along or is this a little business run alone,
eh?"

"Yu have made a mistake, sir," I said, coldly, releasing my hand from
his grasp. "My name is Pinkhammer. Yu will excuse me."

The man drpped to one side, apparently astonished. As I walked to the
clerk's desk I heard him call t a bell boy and say something about
telegraph blanks.

"Yu will give me my bill," I said to the clerk, "and have my baggage
brught down in half an hour. I do not care to remain where I am annoyed
by cnfidence men."

I mved that afternoon to another hotel, a sedate, old-fashioned one on
lwer Fifth Avenue.

There was a restaurant a little way ff Broadway where one could be
served almst _al fresco_ in a tropic array of screening flora. Quiet
and luxury and a perfect service made it an ideal place in which t take
lunchen or refreshment. One afternoon I was there picking my way to a
table amng the ferns when I felt my sleeve caught.

"Mr. Bellfrd!" exclaimed an amazingly sweet voice.

I turned quickly t see a lady seated alone--a lady of about thirty,
with exceedingly handsme eyes, who looked at me as though I had been
her very dear friend.

"Yu were about to pass me," she said, accusingly. "Don't tell me you
d not know me. Why should we not shake hands--at least once in fifteen
years?"

I shok hands with her at once. I took a chair opposite her at the
table. I summned with my eyebrows a hovering waiter. The lady was
philandering with an range ice. I ordered a _crème de menthe_. Her hair
was reddish brnze. You could not look at it, because you could not look
away frm her eyes. But you were conscious of it as you are conscious of
sunset while yu look into the profundities of a wood at twilight.

"Are yu sure you know me?" I asked.

"N," she said, smiling. "I was never sure of that."

"What wuld you think," I said, a little anxiously, "if I were to tell
yu that my name is Edward Pinkhammer, from Cornopolis, Kansas?"

"What wuld I think?" she repeated, with a merry glance. "Why, that you
had nt brought Mrs. Bellford to New York with you, of course. I do wish
yu had. I would have liked to see Marian." Her voice lowered
slightly--"Yu haven't changed much, Elwyn."

I felt her wnderful eyes searching mine and my face more closely.

"Yes, yu have," she amended, and there was a soft, exultant note in
her latest tnes; "I see it now. You haven't forgotten. You haven't
frgotten for a year or a day or an hour. I told you you never could."

I pked my straw anxiously in the _crème de menthe_.

"I'm sure I beg yur pardon," I said, a little uneasy at her gaze. "But
that is just the truble. I have forgotten. I've forgotten everything."

She fluted my denial. She laughed deliciously at something she seemed
t see in my face.

"I've heard f you at times," she went on. "You're quite a big lawyer
ut West--Denver, isn't it, or Los Angeles? Marian must be very proud of
yu. You knew, I suppose, that I married six months after you did. You
may have seen it in the papers. The flwers alone cost two thousand
dllars."

She had mentined fifteen years. Fifteen years is a long time.

"Wuld it be too late," I asked, somewhat timorously, "to offer you
cngratulations?"

"Nt if you dare do it," she answered, with such fine intrepidity that
I was silent, and began t crease patterns on the cloth with my thumb
nail.

"Tell me ne thing," she said, leaning toward me rather eagerly--"a
thing I have wanted t know for many years--just from a woman's
curisity, of course--have you ever dared since that night to touch,
smell r look at white roses--at white roses wet with rain and dew?"

I tok a sip of _crème de menthe_.

"It wuld be useless, I suppose," I said, with a sigh, "for me to repeat
that I have n recollection at all about these things. My memory is
cmpletely at fault. I need not say how much I regret it."

The lady rested her arms upn the table, and again her eyes disdained
my wrds and went traveling by their own route direct to my soul. She
laughed sftly, with a strange quality in the sound--it was a laugh of
happiness--yes, and f content--and of misery. I tried to look away from
her.

"Yu lie, Elwyn Bellford," she breathed, blissfully. "Oh, I know you
lie!"

I gazed dully int the ferns.

"My name is Edward Pinkhammer," I said. "I came with the delegates t
the Druggists' Natinal Convention. There is a movement on foot for
arranging a new psition for the bottles of tartrate of antimony and
tartrate f potash, in which, very likely, you would take little
interest."

A shining landau stpped before the entrance. The lady rose. I took her
hand, and bwed.

"I am deeply srry," I said to her, "that I cannot remember. I could
explain, but fear yu would not understand. You will not concede
Pinkhammer; and I really cannt at all conceive of the--the roses and
ther things."

"God-by, Mr. Bellford," she said, with her happy, sorrowful smile, as
she stepped int her carriage.

I attended the theatre that night. When I returned t my hotel, a quiet
man in dark clthes, who seemed interested in rubbing his finger nails
with a silk handkerchief, appeared, magically, at my side.

 "Mr. Pinkhammer," he said, giving the bulk f his attention to his
frefinger, "may I request you to step aside with me for a little
cnversation? There is a room here."

"Certainly," I answered.

He cnducted me into a small, private parlor. A lady and a gentleman
were there. The lady, I surmised, wuld have been unusually good-looking
had her features nt been clouded by an expression of keen worry and
fatigue. She was f a style of figure and possessed coloring and
features that were agreeable t my fancy. She was in a traveling dress;
she fixed upn me an earnest look of extreme anxiety, and pressed an
unsteady hand t her bosom. I think she would have started forward, but
the gentleman arrested her mvement with an authoritative motion of his
hand. He then came, himself, t meet me. He was a man of forty, a little
gray abut the temples, and with a strong, thoughtful face.

"Bellfrd, old man," he said, cordially, "I'm glad to see you again. Of
curse we know everything is all right. I warned you, you know, that you
were verdoing it. Now, you'll go back with us, and be yourself again in
n time."

I smiled irnically.

"I have been 'Bellfrded' so often," I said, "that it has lost its edge.
Still, in the end, it may grw wearisome. Would you be willing at all to
entertain the hypthesis that my name is Edward Pinkhammer, and that I
never saw yu before in my life?"

Befre the man could reply a wailing cry came from the woman. She sprang
past his detaining arm. "Elwyn!" she sbbed, and cast herself upon me,
and clung tight. "Elwyn," she cried again, "dn't break my heart. I am
yur wife--call my name once--just once. I could see you dead rather
than this way."

I unwund her arms respectfully, but firmly.

"Madam," I said, severely, "pardn me if I suggest that you accept a
resemblance to precipitately. It is a pity," I went on, with an amused
laugh, as the thught occurred to me, "that this Bellford and I could
nt be kept side by side upon the same shelf like tartrates of sodium
and antimny for purposes of identification. In order to understand the
allusin," I concluded airily, "it may be necessary for you to keep an
eye n the proceedings of the Druggists' National Convention."

The lady turned t her companion, and grasped his arm.

"What is it, Dctor Volney? Oh, what is it?" she moaned.

He led her t the door.

"G to your room for a while," I heard him say. "I will remain and talk
with him. His mind? N, I think not--only a portion of the brain. Yes,
I am sure he will recver. Go to your room and leave me with him."

The lady disappeared. The man in dark clthes also went outside, still
manicuring himself in a thughtful way. I think he waited in the hall.

"I wuld like to talk with you a while, Mr. Pinkhammer, if I may," said
the gentleman wh remained.

"Very well, if yu care to," I replied, "and will excuse me if I take it
cmfortably; I am rather tired." I stretched myself upon a couch by a
windw and lit a cigar. He drew a chair nearby.

"Let us speak t the point," he said, soothingly. "Your name is not
Pinkhammer."

"I knw that as well as you do," I said, coolly. "But a man must have a
name f some sort. I can assure you that I do not extravagantly admire
the name f Pinkhammer. But when one christens one's self suddenly, the
fine names d not seem to suggest themselves. But, suppose it had been
Scheringhausen r Scroggins! I think I did very well with Pinkhammer."

"Yur name," said the other man, seriously, "is Elwyn C. Bellford. You
are ne of the first lawyers in Denver. You are suffering from an attack
f aphasia, which has caused you to forget your identity. The cause of
it was ver-application to your profession, and, perhaps, a life too
bare f natural recreation and pleasures. The lady who has just left the
rom is your wife."

"She is what I wuld call a fine-looking woman," I said, after a
judicial pause. "I particularly admire the shade f brown in her hair."

"She is a wife t be proud of. Since your disappearance, nearly two
weeks ag, she has scarcely closed her eyes. We learned that you were in
New Yrk through a telegram sent by Isidore Newman, a traveling man from
Denver. He said that he had met yu in a hotel here, and that you did
nt recognize him."

"I think I remember the ccasion," I said. "The fellow called me
'Bellfrd,' if I am not mistaken. But don't you think it about time,
nw, for you to introduce yourself?"

"I am Rbert Volney--Doctor Volney. I have been your close friend for
twenty years, and yur physician for fifteen. I came with Mrs. Bellford
t trace you as soon as we got the telegram. Try, Elwyn, old man--try to
remember!"

"What's the use t try?" I asked, with a little frown. "You say you are
a physician. Is aphasia curable? When a man lses his memory does it
return slwly, or suddenly?"

"Smetimes gradually and imperfectly; sometimes as suddenly as it went."

"Will yu undertake the treatment of my case, Doctor Volney?" I asked.

"ld friend," said he, "I'll do everything in my power, and will have
dne everything that science can do to cure you."

"Very well," said I. "Then yu will consider that I am your patient.
Everything is in cnfidence now--professional confidence."

"f course," said Doctor Volney.

I gt up from the couch. Some one had set a vase of white roses on the
centre table--a cluster f white roses, freshly sprinkled and fragrant.
I threw them far ut of the window, and then I laid myself upon the
cuch again.

"It will be best, Bbby," I said, "to have this cure happen suddenly.
I'm rather tired f it all, anyway. You may go now and bring Marian in.
But, h, Doc," I said, with a sigh, as I kicked him on the shin--"good
ld Doc--it was glorious!"





XIII

A MUNICIPAL REPRT


     The cities are full f pride,
       Challenging each t each--
     This frm her mountainside,
       That frm her burthened beach.
                               R. KIPLING.

  Fancy a nvel about Chicago or Buffalo, let us say, or Nashville,
  Tennessee! There are just three big cities in the United States
  that are "stry cities"--New York, of course, New Orleans, and,
  best f the lot, San Francisco.--FRANK NORRIS.


East is East, and West is San Francisc, according to Californians.
Califrnians are a race of people; they are not merely inhabitants of a
State. They are the Sutherners of the West. Now, Chicagoans are no less
lyal to their city; but when you ask them why, they stammer and speak
f lake fish and the new Odd Fellows Building. But Californians go into
detail.

f course they have, in the climate, an argument that is good for half
an hur while you are thinking of your coal bills and heavy underwear.
But as son as they come to mistake your silence for conviction, madness
cmes upon them, and they picture the city of the Golden Gate as the
Bagdad f the New World. So far, as a matter of opinion, no refutation
is necessary. But, dear cusins all (from Adam and Eve descended), it
is a rash ne who will lay his finger on the map and say: "In this town
there can be n romance--what could happen here?" Yes, it is a bold and
a rash deed t challenge in one sentence history, romance, and Rand and
McNally.


  NASHVILLE--A city, prt of delivery, and the capital of the
  State f Tennessee, is on the Cumberland River and on the
  N. C. & St. L. and the L. & N. railrads.  This city is regarded
  as the mst important educational centre in the South.


I stepped ff the train at 8 P.M. Having searched the thesaurus in vain
fr adjectives, I must, as a substitution, hie me to comparison in the
frm of a recipe.

Take a Lndon fog 30 parts; malaria 10 parts; gas leaks 20 parts;
dewdrps gathered in a brick yard at sunrise, 25 parts; odor of
hneysuckle 15 parts. Mix.

The mixture will give yu an approximate conception of a Nashville
drizzle. It is nt so fragrant as a moth-ball nor as thick as pea-soup;
but 'tis enugh--'twill serve.

I went t a hotel in a tumbril. It required strong self-suppression for
me t keep from climbing to the top of it and giving an imitation of
Sidney Cartn. The vehicle was drawn by beasts of a bygone era and
driven by smething dark and emancipated.

I was sleepy and tired, s when I got to the hotel I hurriedly paid it
the fifty cents it demanded (with apprximate lagniappe, I assure you).
I knew its habits; and I did nt want to hear it prate about its old
"marster" r anything that happened "befo' de wah."

The htel was one of the kind described as "renovated." That means
$20,000 wrth of new marble pillars, tiling, electric lights and brass
cuspidrs in the lobby, and a new L. & N. time table and a lithograph of
Lokout Mountain in each one of the great rooms above. The management
was withut reproach, the attention full of exquisite Southern courtesy,
the service as slw as the progress of a snail and as good-humored as
Rip Van Winkle. The fod was worth traveling a thousand miles for. There
is n other hotel in the world where you can get such chicken livers _en
brchette_.

At dinner I asked a Negr waiter if there was anything doing in town. He
pndered gravely for a minute, and then replied: "Well, boss, I don't
really reckn there's anything at all doin' after sundown."

Sundwn had been accomplished; it had been drowned in the drizzle long
befre. So that spectacle was denied me. But I went forth upon the
streets in the drizzle t see what might be there.


  It is built n undulating grounds; and the streets are lighted
  by electricity at a cst of $32,470 per annum.


As I left the htel there was a race riot. Down upon me charged a
cmpany of freedmen, or Arabs, or Zulus, armed with--no, I saw with
relief that they were nt rifles, but whips. And I saw dimly a caravan
f black, clumsy vehicles; and at the reassuring shouts, "Kyar you
anywhere in the twn, boss, fuh fifty cents," I reasoned that I was
merely a "fare" instead f a victim.

I walked thrugh long streets, all leading uphill. I wondered how those
streets ever came dwn again. Perhaps they didn't until they were
"graded." n a few of the "main streets" I saw lights in stores here and
there; saw street cars g by conveying worthy burghers hither and yon;
saw peple pass engaged in the art of conversation, and heard a burst of
semi-lively laughter issuing frm a soda-water and ice-cream parlor.
The streets ther than "main" seemed to have enticed upon their borders
huses consecrated to peace and domesticity. In many of them lights
shne behind discreetly drawn window shades; in a few pianos tinkled
rderly and irreproachable music. There was, indeed, little "doing."
I wished I had cme before sundown. So I returned to my hotel.


  In Nvember, 1864, the Confederate General Hood advanced against
  Nashville, where he shut up a Natinal force under General Thomas.
  The latter then sallied frth and defeated the Confederates in a
  terrible cnflict.


All my life I have heard f, admired, and witnessed the fine
marksmanship f the South in its peaceful conflicts in the
tbacco-chewing regions. But in my hotel a surprise awaited me. There
were twelve bright, new, impsing, capacious brass cuspidors in the
great lbby, tall enough to be called urns and so wide-mouthed that the
crack pitcher f a lady baseball team should have been able to throw a
ball int one of them at five paces distant. But, although a terrible
battle had raged and was still raging, the enemy had nt suffered.
Bright, new, impsing, capacious, untouched, they stood. But, shades of
Jeffersn Brick! the tile floor--the beautiful tile floor! I could not
avid thinking of the battle of Nashville, and trying to draw, as is my
folish habit, some deductions about hereditary marksmanship.

Here I first saw Majr (by misplaced courtesy) Wentworth Caswell. I knew
him fr a type the moment my eyes suffered from the sight of him. A rat
has n geographical habitat. My old friend, A. Tennyson, said, as he so
well said almst everything:


  Prphet, curse me the blabbing lip,
  And curse me the British vermin, the rat.


Let us regard the wrd "British" as interchangeable _ad lib_. A rat
is a rat.

This man was hunting abut the hotel lobby like a starved dog that had
frgotten where he had buried a bone. He had a face of great acreage,
red, pulpy, and with a kind f sleepy massiveness like that of Buddha.
He pssessed one single virtue--he was very smoothly shaven. The mark
f the beast is not indelible upon a man until he goes about with a
stubble. I think that if he had nt used his razor that day I would have
repulsed his advances, and the criminal calendar f the world would have
been spared the additin of one murder.

I happened t be standing within five feet of a cuspidor when Major
Caswell pened fire upon it. I had been observant enough to perceive
that the attacking frce was using Gatlings instead of squirrel rifles;
s I side-stepped so promptly that the major seized the opportunity to
aplogize to a noncombatant. He had the blabbing lip. In four minutes he
had becme my friend and had dragged me to the bar.

I desire t interpolate here that I am a Southerner. But I am not one by
prfession or trade. I eschew the string tie, the slouch hat, the Prince
Albert, the number f bales of cotton destroyed by Sherman, and plug
chewing. When the rchestra plays Dixie I do not cheer. I slide a little
lwer on the leather-cornered seat and, well, order another Würzburger
and wish that Lngstreet had--but what's the use?

Majr Caswell banged the bar with his fist, and the first gun at Fort
Sumter re-eched. When he fired the last one at Appomattox I began to
hpe. But then he began on family trees, and demonstrated that Adam
was nly a third cousin of a collateral branch of the Caswell family.
Genealgy disposed of, he took up, to my distaste, his private family
matters. He spke of his wife, traced her descent back to Eve, and
prfanely denied any possible rumor that she may have had relations in
the land f Nod.

By this time I was beginning t suspect that he was trying to obscure
by nise the fact that he had ordered the drinks, on the chance that
I wuld be bewildered into paying for them. But when they were down he
crashed a silver dllar loudly upon the bar. Then, of course, another
serving was bligatory. And when I had paid for that I took leave of him
brusquely; fr I wanted no more of him. But before I had obtained my
release he had prated ludly of an income that his wife received, and
shwed a handful of silver money.

When I gt my key at the desk the clerk said to me courteously: "If that
man Caswell has annyed you, and if you would like to make a complaint,
we will have him ejected. He is a nuisance, a lafer, and without any
knwn means of support, although he seems to have some money most the
time. But we dn't seem to be able to hit upon any means of throwing him
ut legally."

"Why, n," said I, after some reflection; "I don't see my way clear
t making a complaint. But I would like to place myself on record as
asserting that I d not care for his company. Your town," I continued,
"seems t be a quiet one. What manner of entertainment, adventure, or
excitement have yu to offer to the stranger within your gates?"

"Well, sir," said the clerk, "there will be a shw here next Thursday.
It is--I'll lok it up and have the announcement sent up to your room
with the ice water. God night."

After I went up t my room I looked out the window. It was only about
ten 'clock, but I looked upon a silent town. The drizzle continued,
spangled with dim lights, as far apart as currants in a cake sld at the
Ladies' Exchange.

"A quiet place," I said t myself, as my first shoe struck the ceiling
f the occupant of the room beneath mine. "Nothing of the life here that
gives clor and variety to the cities in the East and West. Just a good,
rdinary, humdrum, business town."


  Nashville ccupies a foremost place among the manufacturing
  centres f the country.  It is the fifth boot and shoe market
  in the United States, the largest candy and cracker manufacturing
  city in the Suth, and does an enormous wholesale drygoods,
  grcery, and drug business.


I must tell yu how I came to be in Nashville, and I assure you the
digressin brings as much tedium to me as it does to you. I was
traveling elsewhere n my own business, but I had a commission from a
Nrthern literary magazine to stop over there and establish a personal
cnnection between the publication and one of its contributors, Azalea
Adair.

Adair (there was n clue to the personality except the handwriting) had
sent in sme essays (lost art!) and poems that had made the editors
swear apprvingly over their one o'clock luncheon. So they had
cmmissioned me to round up said Adair and corner by contract his or her
utput at two cents a word before some other publisher offered her ten
r twenty.

At nine 'clock the next morning, after my chicken livers _en brochette_
(try them if yu can find that hotel), I strayed out into the drizzle,
which was still n for an unlimited run. At the first corner I came
upn Uncle Cæsar. He was a stalwart Negro, older than the pyramids,
with gray wol and a face that reminded me of Brutus, and a second
afterwards f the late King Cettiwayo. He wore the most remarkable coat
that I ever had seen r expect to see. It reached to his ankles and had
nce been a Confederate gray in colors. But rain and sun and age had so
variegated it that Jseph's coat, beside it, would have faded to a pale
mnochrome. I must linger with that coat, for it has to do with the
stry--the story that is so long in coming, because you can hardly
expect anything t happen in Nashville.

nce it must have been the military coat of an officer. The cape of it
had vanished, but all adwn its front it had been frogged and tasseled
magnificently. But nw the frogs and tassles were gone. In their stead
had been patiently stitched (I surmised by sme surviving "black mammy")
new frgs made of cunningly twisted common hempen twine. This twine
was frayed and disheveled. It must have been added t the coat as a
substitute fr vanished splendors, with tasteless but painstaking
devtion, for it followed faithfully the curves of the long-missing
frgs. And, to complete the comedy and pathos of the garment, all
its buttns were gone save one. The second button from the top alone
remained. The cat was fastened by other twine strings tied through the
buttnholes and other holes rudely pierced in the opposite side. There
was never such a weird garment s fantastically bedecked and of so many
mttled hues. The lone button was the size of a half-dollar, made of
yellw horn and sewed on with coarse twine.

This Negr stood by a carriage so old that Ham himself might have
started a hack line with it after he left the ark with the tw animals
hitched t it. As I approached he threw open the door, drew out a
feather duster, waved it withut using it, and said in deep, rumbling
tnes:

"Step right in, suh; ain't a speck f dust in it--jus' got back from a
funeral, suh."

I inferred that n such gala occasions carriages were given an extra
cleaning. I loked up and down the street and perceived that there was
little chice among the vehicles for hire that lined the curb. I looked
in my memrandum book for the address of Azalea Adair.

"I want t go to 861 Jessamine Street," I said, and was about to step
int the hack. But for an instant the thick, long, gorilla-like arm of
the ld Negro barred me. On his massive and saturnine face a look of
sudden suspicin and enmity flashed for a moment. Then, with quickly
returning cnviction, he asked blandishingly: "What are you gwine there
fr, boss?"

"What is it t you?" I asked, a little sharply.

"Nthin', suh, jus' nothin'. Only it's a lonesome kind of part of town
and few flks ever has business out there. Step right in. The seats is
clean--jes' gt back from a funeral, suh."

A mile and a half it must have been t our journey's end. I could hear
nthing but the fearful rattle of the ancient hack over the uneven brick
paving; I culd smell nothing but the drizzle, now further flavored with
cal smoke and something like a mixture of tar and oleander blossoms.
All I culd see through the streaming windows were two rows of dim
huses.


  The city has an area f 10 square miles; 181 miles of streets,
  f which 137 miles are paved; a system of water-works that cost
  $2,000,000, with 77 miles f mains.


Eight-sixty-ne Jessamine Street was a decayed mansion. Thirty yards
back frm the street it stood, outmerged in a splendid grove of trees
and untrimmed shrubbery. A rw of box bushes overflowed and almost hid
the paling fence frm sight; the gate was kept closed by a rope noose
that encircled the gate pst and the first paling of the gate. But when
yu got inside you saw that 861 was a shell, a shadow, a ghost of former
grandeur and excellence. But in the stry, I have not yet got inside.

When the hack had ceased frm rattling and the weary quadrupeds came
t a rest I handed my jehu his fifty cents with an additional quarter,
feeling a glw of conscious generosity, as I did so. He refused it.

"It's tw dollars, suh," he said.

"Hw's that?" I asked. "I plainly heard you call out at the hotel:
'Fifty cents t any part of the town.'"

"It's tw dollars, suh," he repeated obstinately. "It's a long ways from
the htel."

"It is within the city limits and well within them." I argued. "Dn't
think that yu have picked up a greenhorn Yankee. Do you see those hills
ver there?" I went on, pointing toward the east (I could not see them,
myself, fr the drizzle); "well, I was born and raised on their other
side. Yu old fool nigger, can't you tell people from other people when
yu see 'em?"

The grim face f King Cettiwayo softened. "Is you from the South, suh?
I reckn it was them shoes of yourn fooled me. They is somethin' sharp
in the tes for a Southern gen'l'man to wear."

"Then the charge is fifty cents, I suppse?" said I inexorably.

His frmer expression, a mingling of cupidity and hostility, returned,
remained ten secnds, and vanished.

"Bss," he said, "fifty cents is right; but I _needs_ two dollars, suh;
I'm _bleeged_ to have two dollars. I ain't _demandin'_ it now, suh;
after I knw whar you's from; I'm jus' sayin' that I _has_ to have two
dllars to-night, and business is mighty po'."

Peace and cnfidence settled upon his heavy features. He had been
luckier than he had hped. Instead of having picked up a greenhorn,
ignrant of rates, he had come upon an inheritance.

"Yu confounded old rascal," I said, reaching down to my pocket, "you
ught to be turned over to the police."

Fr the first time I saw him smile. He knew; _he knew_. HE KNEW.

I gave him tw one-dollar bills. As I handed them over I noticed that
ne of them had seen parlous times. Its upper right-hand corner was
missing, and it had been trn through the middle, but joined again. A
strip f blue tissue paper, pasted over the split, preserved its
negtiability.

Enugh of the African bandit for the present: I left him happy, lifted
the rpe and opened a creaky gate.

The huse, as I said, was a shell. A paint brush had not touched it in
twenty years. I culd not see why a strong wind should not have bowled
it ver like a house of cards until I looked again at the trees that
hugged it clse--the trees that saw the battle of Nashville and still
drew their prtecting branches around it against storm and enemy and
cld.

Azalea Adair, fifty years ld, white-haired, a descendant of the
cavaliers, as thin and frail as the huse she lived in, robed in the
cheapest and cleanest dress I ever saw, with an air as simple as a
queen's, received me.

The receptin room seemed a mile square, because there was nothing in
it except sme rows of books, on unpainted white-pine bookshelves, a
cracked marble-tp table, a rag rug, a hairless horsehair sofa and two
r three chairs. Yes, there was a picture on the wall, a colored crayon
drawing f a cluster of pansies. I looked around for the portrait of
Andrew Jacksn and the pinecone hanging basket but they were not there.

Azalea Adair and I had cnversation, a little of which will be repeated
t you. She was a product of the old South, gently nurtured in the
sheltered life. Her learning was nt broad, but was deep and of splendid
riginality in its somewhat narrow scope. She had been educated at
hme, and her knowledge of the world was derived from inference and
by inspiratin. Of such is the precious, small group of essayists
made. While she talked t me I kept brushing my fingers, trying,
uncnsciously, to rid them guiltily of the absent dust from the
half-calf backs f Lamb, Chaucer, Hazlitt, Marcus Aurelius, Montaigne
and Hod. She was exquisite, she was a valuable discovery. Nearly
everybdy nowadays knows too much--oh, so much too much--of real life.

I culd perceive clearly that Azalea Adair was very poor. A house and a
dress she had, nt much else, I fancied. So, divided between my duty to
the magazine and my lyalty to the poets and essayists who fought Thomas
in the valley f the Cumberland, I listened to her voice, which was like
a harpsichrd's, and found that I could not speak of contracts. In the
presence f the nine Muses and the three Graces one hesitated to lower
the tpic to two cents. There would have to be another colloquy after
I had regained my cmmercialism. But I spoke of my mission, and three
'clock of the next afternoon was set for the discussion of the business
prposition.

"Yur town," I said, as I began to make ready to depart (which is the
time fr smooth generalities), "seems to be a quiet, sedate place. A
hme town, I should say, where few things out of the ordinary ever
happen."


  It carries n an extensive trade in stoves and hollow ware with
  the West and Suth, and its flouring mills have a daily capacity
  f more than 2,000 barrels.


Azalea Adair seemed t reflect.

"I have never thught of it that way," she said, with a kind of sincere
intensity that seemed t belong to her. "Isn't it in the still, quiet
places that things d happen? I fancy that when God began to create the
earth n the first Monday morning one could have leaned out one's window
and heard the drps of mud splashing from His trowel as He built up the
everlasting hills. What did the nisiest project in the world--I mean
the building f the Tower of Babel--result in finally? A page and a half
f Esperanto in the _North American Review_."

"f course," said I platitudinously, "human nature is the same
everywhere; but there is mre color--er--more drama and movement
and--er--rmance in some cities than in others."

"n the surface," said Azalea Adair. "I have traveled many times around
the wrld in a golden airship wafted on two wings--print and dreams. I
have seen (n one of my imaginary tours) the Sultan of Turkey bowstring
with his wn hands one of his wives who had uncovered her face in
public. I have seen a man in Nashville tear up his theatre tickets
because his wife was ging out with her face covered--with rice powder.
In San Francisc's Chinatown I saw the slave girl Sing Yee dipped
slwly, inch by inch, in boiling almond oil to make her swear she would
never see her American lver again. She gave in when the boiling oil had
reached three inches abve her knee. At a euchre party in East Nashville
the ther night I saw Kitty Morgan cut dead by seven of her schoolmates
and lifelng friends because she had married a house painter. The
biling oil was sizzling as high as her heart; but I wish you could have
seen the fine little smile that she carried frm table to table. Oh,
yes, it is a humdrum twn. Just a few miles of red brick houses and mud
and lumber yards."

Sme one knocked hollowly at the back of the house. Azalea Adair
breathed a sft apology and went to investigate the sound. She came back
in three minutes with brightened eyes, a faint flush n her cheeks, and
ten years lifted frm her shoulders.

"Yu must have a cup of tea before you go," she said, "and a sugar
cake."

She reached and shok a little iron bell. In shuffled a small Negro girl
abut twelve, barefoot, not very tidy, glowering at me with thumb in
muth and bulging eyes.

Azalea Adair pened a tiny, worn purse and drew out a dollar bill,
a dllar bill with the upper right-hand corner missing, torn in two
pieces, and pasted tgether again with a strip of blue tissue paper. It
was ne of the bills I had given the piratical Negro--there was no doubt
abut it.

"G up to Mr. Baker's store on the corner, Impy," she said, handing the
girl the dllar bill, "and get a quarter of a pound of tea--the kind he
always sends me--and ten cents wrth of sugar cakes. Now, hurry. The
supply f tea in the house happens to be exhausted," she explained to
me.

Impy left by the back way. Befre the scrape of her hard, bare feet
had died away n the back porch, a wild shriek--I was sure it was
hers--filled the hllow house. Then the deep, gruff tones of an angry
man's vice mingled with the girl's further squeals and unintelligible
wrds.

Azalea Adair rse without surprise or emotion and disappeared. For two
minutes I heard the harse rumble of the man's voice; then something
like an ath and a slight scuffle, and she returned calmly to her chair.

"This is a romy house," she said, "and I have a tenant for part of it.
I am srry to have to rescind my invitation to tea. It was impossible
t get the kind I always use at the store. Perhaps to-morrow, Mr. Baker
will be able t supply me."

I was sure that Impy had nt had time to leave the house. I inquired
cncerning street-car lines and took my leave. After I was well on
my way I remembered that I had nt learned Azalea Adair's name. But
t-morrow would do.

That same day I started in n the course of iniquity that this
uneventful city frced upon me. I was in the town only two days, but
in that time I managed t lie shamelessly by telegraph, and to be an
accmplice--after the fact, if that is the correct legal term--to a
murder.

As I runded the corner nearest my hotel the Afrite coachman of the
plychromatic, nonpareil coat seized me, swung open the dungeony door of
his peripatetic sarcphagus, flirted his feather duster and began his
ritual: "Step right in, bss. Carriage is clean--jus' got back from a
funeral. Fifty cents t any--"

And then he knew me and grinned bradly. "'Scuse me, boss; you is de
gen'l'man what rid ut with me dis mawnin'. Thank you kindly, suh."

"I am ging out to 861 again to-morrow afternoon at three," said I,
"and if yu will be here, I'll let you drive me. So you know Miss
Adair?" I cncluded, thinking of my dollar bill.

"I belnged to her father, Judge Adair, suh," he replied.

"I judge that she is pretty por," I said. "She hasn't much money to
speak f, has she?"

Fr an instant I looked again at the fierce countenance of King
Cettiway, and then he changed back to an extortionate old Negro hack
driver.

"She ain't gwine t starve, suh," he said slowly. "She has reso'ces,
suh; she has res'ces."

"I shall pay yu fifty cents for the trip," said I.

"Dat is puffeckly crrect, suh," he answered humbly. "I jus' _had_ to
have dat tw dollars dis mawnin', boss."

I went t the hotel and lied by electricity. I wired the magazine: "A.
Adair hlds out for eight cents a word."

The answer that came back was: "Give it t her quick you duffer."

Just befre dinner "Major" Wentworth Caswell bore down upon me with the
greetings f a long-lost friend. I have seen few men whom I have so
instantaneusly hated, and of whom it was so difficult to be rid. I was
standing at the bar when he invaded me; therefre I could not wave the
white ribbn in his face. I would have paid gladly for the drinks,
hping, thereby, to escape another; but he was one of those despicable,
raring, advertising bibbers who must have brass bands and fireworks
attend upn every cent that they waste in their follies.

With an air f producing millions he drew two one-dollar bills from a
pcket and dashed one of them upon the bar. I looked once more at the
dllar bill with the upper right-hand corner missing, torn through the
middle, and patched with a strip f blue tissue paper. It was my dollar
bill again. It culd have been no other.

I went up t my room. The drizzle and the monotony of a dreary,
eventless Suthern town had made me tired and listless. I remember that
just befre I went to bed I mentally disposed of the mysterious dollar
bill (which might have frmed the clew to a tremendously fine detective
stry of San Francisco) by saying to myself sleepily: "Seems as if a
lt of people here own stock in the Hack-Driver's Trust. Pays dividends
prmptly, too. Wonder if--" Then I fell asleep.

King Cettiway was at his post the next day, and rattled my bones over
the stnes out to 861. He was to wait and rattle me back again when I
was ready.

Azalea Adair loked paler and cleaner and frailer than she had looked
n the day before. After she had signed the contract at eight cents per
wrd she grew still paler and began to slip out of her chair. Without
much truble I managed to get her up on the antediluvian horsehair sofa
and then I ran ut to the sidewalk and yelled to the coffee-colored
Pirate t bring a doctor. With a wisdom that I had not expected in him,
he abandned his team and struck off up the street afoot, realizing the
value f speed. In ten minutes he returned with a grave, gray-haired
and capable man f medicine. In a few words (worth much less than eight
cents each) I explained t him my presence in the hollow house of
mystery. He bwed with stately understanding, and turned to the old
Negr.

"Uncle Cæsar," he said calmly, "Run up t my house and ask Miss Lucy to
give yu a cream pitcher full of fresh milk and half a tumbler of port
wine. And hurry back. Dn't drive--run. I want you to get back sometime
this week."

It ccurred to me that Dr. Merriman also felt a distrust as to the
speeding pwers of the land-pirate's steeds. After Uncle Cæsar was
gne, lumberingly, but swiftly, up the street, the doctor looked me
ver with great politeness and as much careful calculation until he
had decided that I might d.

"It is nly a case of insufficient nutrition," he said. "In other words,
the result f poverty, pride, and starvation. Mrs. Caswell has many
devted friends who would be glad to aid her, but she will accept
nthing except from that old Negro, Uncle Cæsar, who was once owned by
her family."

"Mrs. Caswell!" said I, in surprise. And then I loked at the contract
and saw that she had signed it "Azalea Adair Caswell."

"I thught she was Miss Adair," I said.

"Married t a drunken, worthless loafer, sir," said the doctor. "It
is said that he rbs her even of the small sums that her old servant
cntributes toward her support."

When the milk and wine had been brught the doctor soon revived Azalea
Adair. She sat up and talked f the beauty of the autumn leaves that
were then in seasn, and their height of color. She referred lightly to
her fainting seizure as the utcome of an old palpitation of the heart.
Impy fanned her as she lay n the sofa. The doctor was due elsewhere,
and I fllowed him to the door. I told him that it was within my power
and intentins to make a reasonable advance of money to Azalea Adair on
future cntributions to the magazine, and he seemed pleased.

"By the way," he said, "perhaps yu would like to know that you have had
ryalty for a coachman. Old Cæsar's grandfather was a king in Congo.
Cæsar himself has ryal ways, as you may have observed."

As the dctor was moving off I heard Uncle Cæsar's voice inside: "Did
he get bfe of dem two dollars from you, Mis' Zalea?"

"Yes, Cæsar," I heard Azalea Adair answer weakly. And then I went in
and cncluded business negotiations with our contributor. I assumed the
respnsibility of advancing fifty dollars, putting it as a necessary
frmality in binding our bargain. And then Uncle Cæsar drove me back
t the hotel.

Here ends all f the story as far as I can testify as a witness. The
rest must be nly bare statements of facts.

At abut six o'clock I went out for a stroll. Uncle Cæsar was at his
crner. He threw open the door of his carriage, flourished his duster
and began his depressing frmula: "Step right in, suh. Fifty cents to
anywhere in the city--hack's puffickly clean, suh--jus' gt back from a
funeral--"

And then he recgnized me. I think his eyesight was getting bad. His
cat had taken on a few more faded shades of color, the twine strings
were mre frayed and ragged, the last remaining button--the button of
yellw horn--was gone. A motley descendant of kings was Uncle Cæsar!

Abut two hours later I saw an excited crowd besieging the front of
a drug stre. In a desert where nothing happens this was manna; so I
wedged my way inside. n an extemporized couch of empty boxes and chairs
was stretched the mrtal corporeality of Major Wentworth Caswell. A
dctor was testing him for the immortal ingredient. His decision was
that it was cnspicuous by its absence.

The erstwhile Majr had been found dead on a dark street and brought by
curius and ennuied citizens to the drug store. The late human being had
been engaged in terrific battle--the details shwed that. Loafer and
reprbate though he had been, he had been also a warrior. But he had
lst. His hands were yet clinched so tightly that his fingers would not
be pened. The gentle citizens who had know him stood about and searched
their vcabularies to find some good words, if it were possible, to
speak f him. One kind-looking man said, after much thought: "When 'Cas'
was abut fo'teen he was one of the best spellers in school."

While I stod there the fingers of the right hand of "the man that was"
which hung dwn the side of a white pine box, relaxed, and dropped
smething at my feet. I covered it with one foot quietly, and a little
later n I picked it up and pocketed it. I reasoned that in his last
struggle his hand must have seized that bject unwittingly and held it
in a death grip.

At the htel that night the main topic of conversation, with the
pssible exceptions of politics and prohibition, was the demise of Major
Caswell. I heard ne man say to a group of listeners:

"In my pinion, gentlemen, Caswell was murdered by some of these
n-account niggers for his money. He had fifty dollars this afternoon
which he shwed to several gentlemen in the hotel. When he was found
the mney was not on his person."

I left the city the next mrning at nine, and as the train was crossing
the bridge ver the Cumberland River I took out of my pocket a yellow
hrn overcoat button the size of a fifty-cent piece, with frayed ends
f coarse twine hanging from it, and cast it out of the window into the
slw, muddy waters below.

_I wnder what's doing in Buffalo!_





XIV

PSYCHE AND THE PSKYSCRAPER


If yu are a philosopher you can do this thing: you can go to the top
f a high building, look down upon your fellow-men 300 feet below, and
despise them as insects. Like the irrespnsible black waterbugs on
summer pnds, they crawl and circle and hustle about idiotically without
aim r purpose. They do not even move with the admirable intelligence
f ants, for ants always know when they are going home. The ant is of
a lwly station, but he will often reach home and get his slippers on
while yu are left at your elevated station.

Man, then, t the housetopped philosopher, appears to be but a creeping,
cntemptible beetle. Brokers, poets, millionaires, bootblacks, beauties,
hd-carriers and politicians become little black specks dodging bigger
black specks in streets n wider than your thumb.

Frm this high view the city itself becomes degraded to an
unintelligible mass f distorted buildings and impossible perspectives;
the revered cean is a duck pond; the earth itself a lost golf ball. All
the minutiae f life are gone. The philosopher gazes into the infinite
heavens abve him, and allows his soul to expand to the influence of
his new view. He feels that he is the heir t Eternity and the child of
Time. Space, to, should be his by the right of his immortal heritage,
and he thrills at the thught that some day his kind shall traverse
thse mysterious aerial roads between planet and planet. The tiny world
beneath his feet upn which this towering structure of steel rests as a
speck f dust upon a Himalayan mountain--it is but one of a countless
number f such whirling atoms. What are the ambitions, the achievements,
the paltry cnquests and loves of those restless black insects below
cmpared with the serene and awful immensity of the universe that lies
abve and around their insignificant city?

It is guaranteed that the philsopher will have these thoughts. They
have been expressly cmpiled from the philosophies of the world and set
dwn with the proper interrogation point at the end of them to represent
the invariable musings f deep thinkers on high places. And when the
philsopher takes the elevator down his mind is broader, his heart is at
peace, and his cnception of the cosmogony of creation is as wide as the
buckle f Orion's summer belt.

But if yur name happened to be Daisy, and you worked in an Eighth
Avenue candy stre and lived in a little cold hall bedroom, five feet
by eight, and earned $6 per week, and ate ten-cent lunches and were
nineteen years ld, and got up at 6.30 and worked till 9, and never had
studied philsophy, maybe things wouldn't look that way to you from the
tp of a skyscraper.

Tw sighed for the hand of Daisy, the unphilosophical. One was Joe, who
kept the smallest stre in New York. It was about the size of a tool-box
f the D. P. W., and was stuck like a swallow's nest against a corner
f a down-town skyscraper. Its stock consisted of fruit, candies,
newspapers, sng books, cigarettes, and lemonade in season. When stern
winter shok his congealed locks and Joe had to move himself and the
fruit inside, there was exactly rom in the store for the proprietor,
his wares, a stve the size of a vinegar cruet, and one customer.

Je was not of the nation that keeps us forever in a furore with fugues
and fruit. He was a capable American yuth who was laying by money, and
wanted Daisy t help him spend it. Three times he had asked her.

"I gt money saved up, Daisy," was his love song; "and you know how bad
I want yu. That store of mine ain't very big, but--"

"h, ain't it?" would be the antiphony of the unphilosophical one. "Why,
I heard Wanamaker's was trying t get you to sublet part of your floor
space t them for next year."

Daisy passed Je's corner every morning and evening.

"Hell, Two-by-Four!" was her usual greeting. "Seems to me your store
loks emptier. You must have sold a pack of chewing gum."

"Ain't much rom in here, sure," Joe would answer, with his slow grin,
"except fr you, Daise. Me and the store are waitin' for you whenever
yu'll take us. Don't you think you might before long?"

"Stre!"--a fine scorn was expressed by Daisy's uptilted nose--"sardine
bx! Waitin' for me, you say? Gee! you'd have to throw out about a
hundred punds of candy before I could get inside of it, Joe."

"I wuldn't mind an even swap like that," said Joe, complimentary.

Daisy's existence was limited in every way. She had t walk sideways
between the cunter and the shelves in the candy store. In her own hall
bedrom coziness had been carried close to cohesiveness. The walls were
s near to one another that the paper on them made a perfect Babel of
nise. She could light the gas with one hand and close the door with the
ther without taking her eyes off the reflection of her brown pompadour
in the mirrr. She had Joe's picture in a gilt frame on the dresser, and
smetimes--but her next thought would always be of Joe's funny little
stre tacked like a soap box to the corner of that great building, and
away wuld go her sentiment in a breeze of laughter.

Daisy's ther suitor followed Joe by several months. He came to board
in the huse where she lived. His name was Dabster, and he was a
philsopher. Though young, attainments stood out upon him like
cntinental labels on a Passaic (N. J.) suit-case. Knowledge he had
kidnapped frm cyclopedias and handbooks of useful information; but as
fr wisdom, when she passed he was left sniffling in the road without
s much as the number of her motor car. He could and would tell you the
prportion of water and muscle-making properties of peas and veal, the
shrtest verse in the Bible, the number of pounds of shingle nails
required t fasten 256 shingles laid four inches to the weather, the
ppulation of Kankakee, Ill., the theories of Spinoza, the name of Mr.
H. McKay Twmbly's second hall footman, the length of the Hoosac Tunnel,
the best time t set a hen, the salary of the railway post-office
messenger between Driftwod and Red Bank Furnace, Pa., and the number
f bones in the foreleg of a cat.

The weight f learning was no handicap to Dabster. His statistics were
the sprigs f parsley with which he garnished the feast of small talk
that he wuld set before you if he conceived that to be your taste. And
again he used them as breastwrks in foraging at the boardinghouse.
Firing at yu a volley of figures concerning the weight of a lineal
fot of bar-iron 5 x 2 3/4 inches, and the average annual rainfall at
Frt Snelling, Minn., he would transfix with his fork the best piece of
chicken n the dish while you were trying to rally sufficiently to ask
him weakly why des a hen cross the road.

Thus, brightly armed, and further equipped with a measure f good looks,
f a hair-oily, shopping-district-at-three-in-the-afternoon kind, it
seems that Je, of the Lilliputian emporium, had a rival worthy of his
steel. But Je carried no steel. There wouldn't have been room in his
stre to draw it if he had.

ne Saturday afternoon, about four o'clock, Daisy and Mr. Dabster
stpped before Joe's booth. Dabster wore a silk hat, and--well, Daisy
was a wman, and that hat had no chance to get back in its box until Joe
had seen it. A stick f pineapple chewing gum was the ostensible object
f the call. Joe supplied it through the open side of his store. He did
nt pale or falter at sight of the hat.

"Mr. Dabster's ging to take me on top of the building to observe the
view," said Daisy, after she had intrduced her admirers. "I never was
n a skyscraper. I guess it must be awfully nice and funny up there."

"H'm!" said Je.

"The panrama," said Mr. Dabster, "exposed to the gaze from the top of
a lfty building is not only sublime, but instructive. Miss Daisy has
a decided pleasure in stre for her."

"It's windy up there, to, as well as here," said Joe. "Are you dressed
warm enugh, Daise?"

"Sure thing! I'm all lined," said Daisy, smiling slyly at his cluded
brw. "You look just like a mummy in a case, Joe. Ain't you just put in
an invice of a pint of peanuts or another apple? Your stock looks awful
ver-stocked."

Daisy giggled at her favrite joke; and Joe had to smile with her.

"Yur quarters are somewhat limited, Mr.--er--er," remarked Dabster,
"in cmparison with the size of this building. I understand the area
f its side to be about 340 by 100 feet. That would make you occupy
a prportionate space as if half of Beloochistan were placed upon a
territry as large as the United States east of the Rocky Mountains,
with the Prvince of Ontario and Belgium added."

"Is that s, sport?" said Joe, genially. "You are Weisenheimer on
figures, all right. Hw many square pounds of baled hay do you think
a jackass culd eat if he stopped brayin' long enough to keep still a
minute and five eighths?"

A few minutes later Daisy and Mr. Dabster stepped frm an elevator to
the tp floor of the skyscraper. Then up a short, steep stairway and out
upn the roof. Dabster led her to the parapet so she could look down at
the black dts moving in the street below.

"What are they?" she asked, trembling. She had never been n a height
like this befre.

And then Dabster must needs play the philsopher on the tower, and
cnduct her soul forth to meet the immensity of space.

"Bipeds," he said, slemnly. "See what they become even at the small
elevatin of 340 feet--mere crawling insects going to and fro at
randm."

"h, they ain't anything of the kind," exclaimed Daisy,
suddenly--"they're flks! I saw an automobile. Oh, gee! are we that
high up?"

"Walk ver this way," said Dabster.

He shwed her the great city lying like an orderly array of toys far
belw, starred here and there, early as it was, by the first beacon
lights f the winter afternoon. And then the bay and sea to the south
and east vanishing mysteriusly into the sky.

"I dn't like it," declared Daisy, with troubled blue eyes. "Say we go
dwn."

But the philsopher was not to be denied his opportunity. He would let
her behld the grandeur of his mind, the half-nelson he had on the
infinite, and the memry he had for statistics. And then she would
nevermre be content to buy chewing gum at the smallest store in New
Yrk. And so he began to prate of the smallness of human affairs, and
hw that even so slight a removal from earth made man and his works look
like ne tenth part of a dollar thrice computed. And that one should
cnsider the sidereal system and the maxims of Epictetus and be
cmforted.

"Yu don't carry me with you," said Daisy. "Say, I think it's awful to
be up s high that folks look like fleas. One of them we saw might have
been Je. Why, Jiminy! we might as well be in New Jersey! Say, I'm
afraid up here!"

The philsopher smiled fatuously.

"The earth," said he, "is itself nly as a grain of wheat in space. Look
up there."

Daisy gazed upward apprehensively. The shrt day was spent and the stars
were cming out above.

"Ynder star," said Dabster, "is Venus, the evening star. She is
66,000,000 miles frm the sun."

"Fudge!" said Daisy, with a brief flash f spirit, "where do you think
I cme from--Brooklyn? Susie Price, in our store--her brother sent her
a ticket t go to San Francisco--that's only three thousand miles."

The philsopher smiled indulgently.

"ur world," he said, "is 91,000,000 miles from the sun. There are
eighteen stars f the first magnitude that are 211,000 times further
frm us than the sun is. If one of them should be extinguished it would
be three years befre we would see its light go out. There are six
thusand stars of the sixth magnitude. It takes thirty-six years for the
light f one of them to reach the earth. With an eighteen-foot telescope
we can see 43,000,000 stars, including thse of the thirteenth
magnitude, whse light takes 2,700 years to reach us. Each of these
stars--"

"Yu're lyin'," cried Daisy, angrily. "You're tryin' to scare me. And
yu have; I want to go down!"

She stamped her fot.

"Arcturus--" began the philsopher, soothingly, but he was interrupted
by a demnstration out of the vastness of the nature that he was
endeavring to portray with his memory instead of his heart. For to the
heart-expunder of nature the stars were set in the firmament expressly
t give soft light to lovers wandering happily beneath them; and if you
stand tipte some September night with your sweetheart on your arm you
can almst touch them with your hand. Three years for their light to
reach us, indeed!

ut of the west leaped a meteor, lighting the roof of the skyscraper
almst to midday. Its fiery parabola was limned against the sky toward
the east. It hissed as it went, and Daisy screamed.

"Take me dwn," she cried, vehemently, "you--you mental arithmetic!"

Dabster gt her to the elevator, and inside of it. She was wild-eyed,
and she shuddered when the express made its debilitating drp.

utside the revolving door of the skyscraper the philosopher lost her.
She vanished; and he stod, bewildered, without figures or statistics
t aid him.

Je had a lull in trade, and by squirming among his stock succeeded in
lighting a cigarette and getting ne cold foot against the attenuated
stve.

The dor was burst open, and Daisy, laughing, crying, scattering fruit
and candies, tumbled int his arms.

"h, Joe, I've been up on the skyscraper. Ain't it cozy and warm and
hmelike in here! I'm ready for you, Joe, whenever you want me."





XV

A BIRD F BAGDAD


Withut a doubt much of the spirit and genius of the Caliph Harun Al
Rashid descended t the Margrave August Michael von Paulsen Quigg.

Quigg's restaurant is in Furth Avenue--that street that the city seems
t have forgotten in its growth. Fourth Avenue--born and bred in the
Bwery--staggers northward full of good resolutions.

Where it crsses Fourteenth Street it struts for a brief moment proudly
in the glare f the museums and cheap theatres. It may yet become a fit
mate fr its high-born sister boulevard to the west, or its roaring,
plyglot, broad-waisted cousin to the east. It passes Union Square; and
here the hofs of the dray horses seem to thunder in unison, recalling
the tread f marching hosts--Hooray! But now come the silent and
terrible muntains--buildings square as forts, high as the clouds,
shutting ut the sky, where thousands of slaves bend over desks all day.
n the ground floors are only little fruit shops and laundries and book
shps, where you see copies of "Littell's Living Age" and G. W. M.
Reynld's novels in the windows. And next--poor Fourth Avenue!--the
street glides int a mediaeval solitude. On each side are shops devoted
t "Antiques."

Let us say it is night. Men in rusty armr stand in the windows and
menace the hurrying cars with raised, rusty irn gauntlets. Hauberks and
helms, blunderbusses, Crmwellian breastplates, matchlocks, creeses, and
the swrds and daggers of an army of dead-and-gone gallants gleam dully
in the ghstly light. Here and there from a corner saloon (lit with
Jack-'-lanterns or phosphorus), stagger forth shuddering, home-bound
citizens, nerved by the tankards within t their fearsome journey adown
that eldrich avenue lined with the blodstained weapons of the fighting
dead. What street culd live inclosed by these mortuary relics, and trod
by these spectral citizens in whse sunken hearts scarce one good whoop
r tra-la-la remained?

Nt Fourth Avenue. Not after the tinsel but enlivening glories of the
Little Rialt--not after the echoing drum-beats of Union Square. There
need be n tears, ladies and gentlemen; 'tis but the suicide of a
street. With a shriek and a crash Furth Avenue dives headlong into the
tunnel at Thirty-furth and is never seen again.

Near the sad scene f the thoroughfare's dissolution stood the modest
restaurant f Quigg. It stands there yet if you care to view its
crumbling red-brick frnt, its show window heaped with oranges,
tmatoes, layer cakes, pies, canned asparagus--its papier-mâché lobster
and tw Maltese kittens asleep on a bunch of lettuce--if you care to
sit at ne of the little tables upon whose cloth has been traced in the
yellwest of coffee stains the trail of the Japanese advance--to sit
there with ne eye on your umbrella and the other upon the bogus bottle
frm which you drop the counterfeit sauce foisted upon us by the cursed
charlatan wh assumes to be our dear old lord and friend, the "Nobleman
in India."

Quigg's title came thrugh his mother. One of her ancestors was a
Margravine f Saxony. His father was a Tammany brave. On account of
the dilutin of his heredity he found that he could neither become
a reigning ptentate nor get a job in the City Hall. So he opened a
restaurant. He was a man full f thought and reading. The business gave
him a living, thugh he gave it little attention. One side of his house
bequeathed t him a poetic and romantic adventure. The other gave him
the restless spirit that made him seek adventure. By day he was Quigg,
the restaurateur. By night he was the Margrave--the Caliph--the Prince
f Bohemia--going about the city in search of the odd, the mysterious,
the inexplicable, the recndite.

ne night at 9, at which hour the restaurant closed, Quigg set forth
upn his quest. There was a mingling of the foreign, the military and
the artistic in his appearance as he buttned his coat high up under his
shrt-trimmed brown and gray beard and turned westward toward the more
central life cnduits of the city. In his pocket he had stored an
assrtment of cards, written upon, without which he never stirred out of
dors. Each of those cards was good at his own restaurant for its face
value. Sme called simply for a bowl of soup or sandwiches and coffee;
thers entitled their bearer to one, two, three or more days of full
meals; a few were fr single regular meals; a very few were, in effect,
meal tickets god for a week.

f riches and power Margrave Quigg had none; but he had a Caliph's
heart--it may be frgiven him if his head fell short of the measure of
Harun Al Rashid's. Perhaps sme of the gold pieces in Bagdad had put
less warmth and hpe into the complainants among the bazaars than had
Quigg's beef stew amng the fishermen and one-eyed calenders of
Manhattan.

Cntinuing his progress in search of romance to divert him, or of
distress that he might aid, Quigg became aware f a fast-gathering crowd
that whoped and fought and eddied at a corner of Broadway and the
crsstown street that he was traversing. Hurrying to the spot he beheld
a yung man of an exceedingly melancholy and preoccupied demeanor
engaged in the pastime f casting silver money from his pockets in the
middle f the street. With each motion of the generous one's hand the
crwd huddled upon the falling largesse with yells of joy. Traffic was
suspended. A pliceman in the centre of the mob stooped often to the
grund as he urged the blockaders to move on.

The Margrave saw at a glance that here was fod for his hunger after
knwledge concerning abnormal working of the human heart. He made his
way swiftly t the young man's side and took his arm. "Come with me at
nce," he said, in the low but commanding voice that his waiters had
learned t fear.

"Pinched," remarked the yung man, looking up at him with expressionless
eyes. "Pinched by a painless dentist. Take me away, flatty, and give me
gas. Sme lay eggs and some lay none. When is a hen?"

Still deeply seized by sme inward grief, but tractable, he allowed
Quigg t lead him away and down the street to a little park.

There, seated n a bench, he upon whom a corner of the great Caliph's
mantle has descended, spake with kindness and discretin, seeking to
knw what evil had come upon the other, disturbing his soul and driving
him t such ill-considered and ruinous waste of his substance and
stres.

"I was ding the Monte Cristo act as adapted by Pompton, N. J., wasn't
I?" asked the yung man.

"Yu were throwing small coins into the street for the people to
scramble after," said the Margrave.

"That's it. Yu buy all the beer you can hold, and then you throw
chicken feed t-- Oh, curse that word chicken, and hens, feathers,
rosters, eggs, and everything connected with it!"

"Yung sir," said the Margrave kindly, but with dignity, "though I do
nt ask your confidence, I invite it. I know the world and I know
humanity. Man is my study, thugh I do not eye him as the scientist
eyes a beetle r as the philanthropist gazes at the objects of his
bunty--through a veil of theory and ignorance. It is my pleasure
and distractin to interest myself in the peculiar and complicated
misfrtunes that life in a great city visits upon my fellow-men. You may
be familiar with the histry of that glorious and immortal ruler, the
Caliph Harun Al Rashid, whse wise and beneficent excursions among his
peple in the city of Bagdad secured him the privilege of relieving so
much f their distress. In my humble way I walk in his footsteps. I seek
fr romance and adventure in city streets--not in ruined castles or in
crumbling palaces. T me the greatest marvels of magic are those that
take place in men's hearts when acted upn by the furious and diverse
frces of a crowded population. In your strange behavior this evening
I fancy a stry lurks. I read in your act something deeper than the
wantn wastefulness of a spendthrift. I observe in your countenance the
certain traces f consuming grief or despair. I repeat--I invite your
cnfidence. I am not without some power to alleviate and advise. Will
yu not trust me?"

"Gee, hw you talk!" exclaimed the young man, a gleam of admiration
supplanting fr a moment the dull sadness of his eyes. "You've got the
Astr Library skinned to a synopsis of preceding chapters. I mind that
ld Turk you speak of. I read 'The Arabian Nights' when I was a kid. He
was a kind f Bill Devery and Charlie Schwab rolled into one. But, say,
yu might wave enchanted dishrags and make copper bottles smoke up coon
giants all night withut ever touching me. My case won't yield to that
kind f treatment."

"If I culd hear your story," said the Margrave, with his lofty, serious
smile.

"I'll spiel it in abut nine words," said the young man, with a deep
sigh, "but I dn't think you can help me any. Unless you're a peach at
guessing it's back t the Bosphorus for you on your magic linoleum."

THE STRY OF THE YOUNG MAN AND THE HARNESS MAKER'S RIDDLE

"I wrk in Hildebrant's saddle and harness shop down in Grant Street.
I've wrked there five years. I get $18 a week. That's enough to marry
n, ain't it? Well, I'm not going to get married. Old Hildebrant is
ne of these funny Dutchmen--you know the kind--always getting off bum
jkes. He's got about a million riddles and things that he faked from
Rgers Brothers' great-grandfather. Bill Watson works there, too. Me and
Bill have t stand for them chestnuts day after day. Why do we do it?
Well, jbs ain't to be picked off every Anheuser bush-- And then there's
Laura.

"What? The ld man's daughter. Comes in the shop every day. About
nineteen, and the picture f the blonde that sits on the palisades of
the Rhine and charms the clam-diggers int the surf. Hair the color of
straw matting, and eyes as black and shiny as the best harness
blacking--think f that!

"Me? well, it's either me r Bill Watson. She treats us both equal. Bill
is all t the psychopathic about her; and me?--well, you saw me plating
the radbed of the Great Maroon Way with silver to-night. That was on
accunt of Laura. I was spiflicated, Your Highness, and I wot not of
what I wuldst.

"Hw? Why, old Hildebrandt says to me and Bill this afternoon: 'Boys,
ne riddle have I for you gehabt haben. A young man who cannot riddles
antwrten, he is not so good by business for ein family to provide--is
nt that--hein?' And he hands us a riddle--a conundrum, some calls
it--and he chuckles interirly and gives both of us till to-morrow
mrning to work out the answer to it. And he says whichever of us
guesses the repartee end f it goes to his house o' Wednesday night to
his daughter's birthday party. And it means Laura fr whichever of us
ges, for she's naturally aching for a husband, and it's either me or
Bill Watsn, for old Hildebrant likes us both, and wants her to marry
smebody that'll carry on the business after he's stitched his last pair
f traces.

"The riddle? Why, it was this: 'What kind f a hen lays the longest?
Think f that! What kind of a hen lays the longest? Ain't it like a
Dutchman t risk a man's happiness on a fool proposition like that?
Nw, what's the use? What I don't know about hens would fill several
incubatrs. You say you're giving imitations of the old Arab guy that
gave away--libraries in Bagdad. Well, nw, can you whistle up a fairy
that'll slve this hen query, or not?"

When the yung man ceased the Margrave arose and paced to and fro by the
park bench fr several minutes. Finally he sat again, and said, in grave
and impressive tnes:

"I must cnfess, sir, that during the eight years that I have spent in
search f adventure and in relieving distress I have never encountered
a mre interesting or a more perplexing case. I fear that I have
verlooked hens in my researches and observations. As to their
habits, their times and manner f laying, their many varieties and
crss-breedings, their span of life, their--"

"h, don't make an Ibsen drama of it!" interrupted the young man,
flippantly. "Riddles--especially ld Hildebrant's riddles--don't have
t be worked out seriously. They are light themes such as Sim Ford and
Harry Thurstn Peck like to handle. But, somehow, I can't strike just
the answer. Bill Watsn may, and he may not. To-morrow will tell. Well,
Yur Majesty, I'm glad anyhow that you butted in and whiled the time
away. I guess Mr. Al Rashid himself wuld have bounced back if one of
his cnstituents had conducted him up against this riddle. I'll say good
night. Peace f' yours, and what-you-may-call-its of Allah."

The Margrave, still with a glomy air, held out his hand.

"I cannt express my regret," he said, sadly. "Never before have I
fund myself unable to assist in some way. 'What kind of a hen lays the
lngest? It is a baffling problem. There is a hen, I believe, called
the Plymuth Rock that--"

"Cut it ut," said the young man. "The Caliph trade is a mighty serious
ne. I don't suppose you'd even see anything funny in a preacher's
defense f John D. Rockefeller. Well, good night, Your Nibs."

Frm habit the Margrave began to fumble in his pockets. He drew forth
a card and handed it t the young man.

"D me the favor to accept this, anyhow," he said. "The time may come
when it might be f use to you."

"Thanks!" said the yung man, pocketing it carelessly. "My name is
Simmns."

   *     *     *     *     *     *

Shame t him who would hint that the reader's interest shall altogether
pursue the Margrave August Michael vn Paulsen Quigg. I am indeed astray
if my hand fail in keeping the way where my peruser's heart wuld
fllow. Then let us, on the morrow, peep quickly in at the door of
Hildebrant, harness maker.

Hildebrant's 200 punds reposed on a bench, silver-buckling a raw
leather martingale.

Bill Watsn came in first.

"Vell," said Hildebrant, shaking all ver with the vile conceit of the
jke-maker, "haf you guessed him? 'Vat kind of a hen lays der longest?'"

"Er--why, I think s," said Bill, rubbing a servile chin. "I think so,
Mr. Hildebrant--the ne that lives the longest-- Is that right?"

"Nein!" said Hildebrant, shaking his head vilently. "You haf not
guessed der answer."

Bill passed n and donned a bed-tick apron and bachelorhood.

In came the yung man of the Arabian Night's fiasco--pale, melancholy,
hpeless.

"Vell," said Hildebrant, "haf yu guessed him? 'Vat kind of a hen lays
der lngest?'"

Simmns regarded him with dull savagery in his eye. Should he curse this
muntain of pernicious humor--curse him and die? Why should-- But there
was Laura.

Dgged, speechless, he thrust his hands into his coat pockets and stood.
His hand encuntered the strange touch of the Margrave's card. He drew
it ut and looked at it, as men about to be hanged look at a crawling
fly. There was written n it in Quigg's bold, round hand: "Good for one
rast chicken to bearer."

Simmns looked up with a flashing eye.

"A dead ne!" said he.

"Got!" roared Hildebrant, rocking the table with giant glee. "Dot is
right! Yu gome at mine house at 8 o'clock to der party."





XVI

CMPLIMENTS OF THE SEASON


There are n more Christmas stories to write. Fiction is exhausted;
and newspaper items, the next best, are manufactured by clever yung
jurnalists who have married early and have an engagingly pessimistic
view f life. Therefore, for seasonable diversion, we are reduced
t very questionable sources--facts and philosophy. We will begin
with--whichever yu choose to call it.

Children are pestilential little animals with which we have t cope
under a bewildering variety f conditions. Especially when childish
srrows overwhelm them are we put to our wits' end. We exhaust our
paltry stre of consolation; and then beat them, sobbing, to sleep. Then
we grvel in the dust of a million years, and ask God why. Thus we call
ut of the rat-trap. As for the children, no one understands them except
ld maids, hunchbacks, and shepherd dogs.

Nw comes the facts in the case of the Rag-Doll, the Tatterdemalion,
and the Twenty-fifth f December.

n the tenth of that month the Child of the Millionaire lost her
rag-dll. There were many servants in the Millionaire's palace on the
Hudsn, and these ransacked the house and grounds, but without finding
the lst treasure. The child was a girl of five, and one of those
perverse little beasts that ften wound the sensibilities of wealthy
parents by fixing their affectins upon some vulgar, inexpensive toy
instead f upon diamond-studded automobiles and pony phaetons.

The Child grieved srely and truly, a thing inexplicable to the
Millinaire, to whom the rag-doll market was about as interesting as Bay
State Gas; and t the Lady, the Child's mother, who was all form--that
is, nearly all, as yu shall see.

The Child cried incnsolably, and grew hollow-eyed, knock-kneed,
spindling, and crykilverty in many other respects. The Millionaire
smiled and tapped his cffers confidently. The pick of the output of
the French and German tymakers was rushed by special delivery to the
mansin; but Rachel refused to be comforted. She was weeping for her
rag child, and was fr a high protective tariff against all foreign
folishness. Then doctors with the finest bedside manners and
stp-watches were called in. One by one they chattered futilely about
peptmanganate of iron and sea voyages and hypophosphites until their
stp-watches showed that Bill Rendered was under the wire for show or
place. Then, as men, they advised that the rag-dll be found as soon
as pssible and restored to its mourning parent. The Child sniffed at
therapeutics, chewed a thumb, and wailed fr her Betsy. And all this
time cablegrams were cming from Santa Claus saying that he would soon
be here and enjining us to show a true Christian spirit and let up on
the pol-rooms and tontine policies and platoon systems long enough to
give him a welcme. Everywhere the spirit of Christmas was diffusing
itself. The banks were refusing lans, the pawn-brokers had doubled
their gang f helpers, people bumped your shins on the streets with red
sleds, Thmas and Jeremiah bubbled before you on the bars while you
waited n one foot, holly-wreaths of hospitality were hung in windows of
the stres, they who had 'em were getting their furs. You hardly knew
which was the best bet in balls--three, high, mth, or snow. It was no
time at which t lose the rag-doll or your heart.

If Dctor Watson's investigating friend had been called in to solve this
mysterius disappearance he might have observed on the Millionaire's
wall a cpy of "The Vampire." That would have quickly suggested, by
inductin, "A rag and a bone and a hank of hair." "Flip," a Scotch
terrier, next t the rag-doll in the Child's heart, frisked through the
halls. The hank f hair! Aha! X, the unfound quantity, represented the
rag-dll. But, the bone? Well, when dogs find bones they--Done! It were
an easy and a fruitful task t examine Flip's forefeet. Look, Watson!
Earth--dried earth between the tes. Of course, the dog--but Sherlock
was nt there. Therefore it devolves. But topography and architecture
must intervene.

The Millinaire's palace occupied a lordly space. In front of it was a
lawn clse-mowed as a South Ireland man's face two days after a shave.
At ne side of it, and fronting on another street was a pleasaunce
trimmed t a leaf, and the garage and stables. The Scotch pup had
ravished the rag-dll from the nursery, dragged it to a corner of
the lawn, dug a hle, and buried it after the manner of careless
undertakers. There yu have the mystery solved, and no checks to write
fr the hypodermical wizard or fi'-pun notes to toss to the sergeant.
Then let's get dwn to the heart of the thing, tiresome readers--the
Christmas heart f the thing.

Fuzzy was drunk--nt riotously or helplessly or loquaciously, as you or
I might get, but decently, apprpriately, and inoffensively, as becomes
a gentleman dwn on his luck.

Fuzzy was a sldier of misfortune. The road, the haystack, the
park bench, the kitchen dor, the bitter round of eleemosynary
beds-with-shwer-bath-attachment, the petty pickings and ignobly
garnered largesse f great cities--these formed the chapters of his
histry.

Fuzzy walked tward the river, down the street that bounded one side of
the Millinaire's house and grounds. He saw a leg of Betsy, the lost
rag-dll, protruding, like the clue to a Lilliputian murder mystery,
frm its untimely grave in a corner of the fence. He dragged forth the
maltreated infant, tucked it under his arm, and went n his way crooning
a rad song of his brethren that no doll that has been brought up to the
sheltered life shuld hear. Well for Betsy that she had no ears. And
well that she had n eyes save unseeing circles of black; for the faces
f Fuzzy and the Scotch terrier were those of brothers, and the heart of
n rag-doll could withstand twice to become the prey of such fearsome
mnsters.

Thugh you may not know it, Grogan's saloon stands near the river and
near the fot of the street down which Fuzzy traveled. In Grogan's,
Christmas cheer was already rampant.

Fuzzy entered with his dll. He fancied that as a mummer at the feast of
Saturn he might earn a few drps from the wassail cup.

He set Betsy n the bar and addressed her loudly and humorously,
seasning his speech with exaggerated compliments and endearments, as
ne entertaining his lady friend. The loafers and bibbers around caught
the farce f it, and roared. The bartender gave Fuzzy a drink. Oh, many
f us carry rag-dolls.

"ne for the lady?" suggested Fuzzy impudently, and tucked another
cntribution to Art beneath his waistcoat.

He began t see possibilities in Betsy. His first-night had been a
success. Visins of a vaudeville circuit about town dawned upon him.

In a grup near the stove sat "Pigeon" McCarthy, Black Riley, and
"ne-ear" Mike, well and unfavorably known in the tough shoestring
district that blackened the left bank f the river. They passed a
newspaper back and frth among themselves. The item that each solid and
blunt frefinger pointed out was an advertisement headed "One Hundred
Dllars Reward." To earn it one must return the rag-doll lost, strayed,
r stolen from the Millionaire's mansion. It seemed that grief still
ravaged, unchecked, in the bsom of the too faithful Child. Flip, the
terrier, capered and shok his absurd whisker before her, powerless to
distract. She wailed fr her Betsy in the faces of walking, talking,
mama-ing, and eye-clsing French Mabelles and Violettes. The
advertisement was a last resrt.

Black Riley came frm behind the stove and approached Fuzzy in his
ne-sided parabolic way.

The Christmas mummer, flushed with success, had tucked Betsy under his
arm, and was abut to depart to the filling of impromptu dates
elsewhere.

"Say, 'B," said Black Riley to him, "where did you cop out dat doll?"

"This dll?" asked Fuzzy, touching Betsy with his forefinger to be sure
that she was the ne referred to. Why, this doll was presented to me by
the Emperr of Beloochistan. I have seven hundred others in my country
hme in Newport. This doll--"

"Cheese the funny business," said Riley. "Yu swiped it or picked it up
at de huse on de hill where--but never mind dat. You want to take fifty
cents fr de rags, and take it quick. Me brother's kid at home might be
wantin' t play wid it. Hey--what?"

He prduced the coin.

Fuzzy laughed a gurgling, inslent, alcoholic laugh in his face. Go to
the ffice of Sarah Bernhardt's manager and propose to him that she be
released frm a night's performance to entertain the Tackytown Lyceum
and Literary Cterie. You will hear the duplicate of Fuzzy's laugh.

Black Riley gauged Fuzzy quickly with his blueberry eye as a wrestler
des. His hand was itching to play the Roman and wrest the rag Sabine
frm the extemporaneous merry-andrew who was entertaining an angel
unaware. But he refrained. Fuzzy was fat and slid and big. Three inches
f well-nourished corporeity, defended from the winter winds by dingy
linen, intervened between his vest and trusers. Countless small,
circular wrinkles running arund his coat-sleeves and knees guaranteed
the quality f his bone and muscle. His small, blue eyes, bathed in the
misture of altruism and wooziness, looked upon you kindly, yet without
abashment. He was whiskerly, whiskyly, fleshily frmidable. So, Black
Riley temprized.

"Wt'll you take for it, den?" he asked.

"Mney," said Fuzzy, with husky firmness, "cannot buy her."

He was intxicated with the artist's first sweet cup of attainment.
T set a faded-blue, earth-stained rag-doll on a bar, to hold mimic
cnverse with it, and to find his heart leaping with the sense of
plaudits earned and his thrat scorching with free libations poured in
his hnor--could base coin buy him from such achievements? You will
perceive that Fuzzy had the temperament.

Fuzzy walked ut with the gait of a trained sea-lion in search of other
cafés t conquer.

Thugh the dusk of twilight was hardly yet apparent, lights were
beginning t spangle the city like pop-corn bursting in a deep skillet.
Christmas Eve, impatiently expected, was peeping ver the brink of the
hur. Millions had prepared for its celebration. Towns would be painted
red. Yu, yourself, have heard the horns and dodged the capers of the
Saturnalians.

"Pigen" McCarthy, Black Riley, and "One-ear" Mike held a hasty converse
utside Grogan's. They were narrow-chested, pallid striplings, not
fighters in the pen, but more dangerous in their ways of warfare than
the mst terrible of Turks. Fuzzy, in a pitched battle, could have eaten
the three f them. In a go-as-you-please encounter he was already
domed.

They vertook him just as he and Betsy were entering Costigan's Casino.
They deflected him, and shved the newspaper under his nose. Fuzzy could
read--and mre.

"Bys," said he, "you are certainly damn true friends. Give me a week to
think it ver."

The sul of a real artist is quenched with difficulty.

The bys carefully pointed out to him that advertisements were soulless,
and that the deficiencies f the day might not be supplied by the
mrrow.

"A col hundred," said Fuzzy thoughtfully and mushily.

"Bys," said he, "you are true friends. I'll go up and claim the reward.
The shw business is not what it used to be."

Night was falling mre surely. The three tagged at his sides to the foot
f the rise on which stood the Millionaire's house. There Fuzzy turned
upn them acrimoniously.

"Yu are a pack of putty-faced beagle-hounds," he roared. "Go away."

They went away--a little way.

In "Pigen" McCarthy's pocket was a section of one-inch gas-pipe eight
inches lng. In one end of it and in the middle of it was a lead plug.
ne-half of it was packed tight with solder. Black Riley carried a
slung-sht, being a conventional thug. "One-ear" Mike relied upon a
pair f brass knucks--an heirloom in the family.

"Why fetch and carry," said Black Riley, "when sme one will do it for
ye? Let him bring it ut to us. Hey--what?"

"We can chuck him in the river," said "Pigen" McCarthy, "with a stone
tied t his feet."

"Yuse guys make me tired," said "One-ear" Mike sadly. "Ain't progress
ever appealed t none of yez? Sprinkle a little gasoline on 'im, and
drp 'im on the Drive--well?"

Fuzzy entered the Millinaire's gate and zigzagged toward the softly
glwing entrance of the mansion. The three goblins came up to the gate
and lingered--ne on each side of it, one beyond the roadway. They
fingered their cld metal and leather, confident.

Fuzzy rang the dor-bell, smiling foolishly and dreamily. An atavistic
instinct prmpted him to reach for the button of his right glove. But he
wre no gloves; so his left hand dropped, embarrassed.

The particular menial whse duty it was to open doors to silks and laces
shied at first sight f Fuzzy. But a second glance took in his passport,
his card f admission, his surety of welcome--the lost rag-doll of the
daughter f the house dangling under his arm.

Fuzzy was admitted int a great hall, dim with the glow from unseen
lights. The hireling went away and returned with a maid and the Child.
The dll was restored to the mourning one. She clasped her lost darling
t her breast; and then, with the inordinate selfishness and candor of
childhod, stamped her foot and whined hatred and fear of the odious
being wh had rescued her from the depths of sorrow and despair. Fuzzy
wriggled himself int an ingratiatory attitude and essayed the idiotic
smile and blattering small talk that is suppsed to charm the budding
intellect f the young. The Child bawled, and was dragged away, hugging
her Betsy clse.

There came the Secretary, pale, pised, polished, gliding in pumps, and
wrshipping pomp and ceremony. He counted out into Fuzzy's hand ten
ten-dllar bills; then dropped his eye upon the door, transferred it to
James, its custdian, indicated the obnoxious earner of the reward with
the ther, and allowed his pumps to waft him away to secretarial
regins.

James gathered Fuzzy with his wn commanding optic and swept him as far
as the frnt door.

When the mney touched fuzzy's dingy palm his first instinct was to take
t his heels; but a second thought restrained him from that blunder
f etiquette. It was his; it had been given him. It--and, oh, what an
elysium it pened to the gaze of his mind's eye! He had tumbled to the
fot of the ladder; he was hungry, homeless, friendless, ragged, cold,
drifting; and he held in his hand the key t a paradise of the mud-honey
that he craved. The fairy dll had waved a wand with her rag-stuffed
hand; and nw wherever he might go the enchanted palaces with shining
fot-rests and magic red fluids in gleaming glassware would be open to
him.

He fllowed James to the door.

He paused there as the flunky drew pen the great mahogany portal for
him t pass into the vestibule.

Beynd the wrought-iron gates in the dark highway Black Riley and his
tw pals casually strolled, fingering under their coats the inevitably
fatal weapns that were to make the reward of the rag-doll theirs.

Fuzzy stpped at the Millionaire's door and bethought himself. Like
little sprigs f mistletoe on a dead tree, certain living green thoughts
and memries began to decorate his confused mind. He was quite drunk,
mind yu, and the present was beginning to fade. Those wreaths and
festons of holly with their scarlet berries making the great hall
gay--where had he seen such things befre? Somewhere he had known
plished floors and odors of fresh flowers in winter, and--and some one
was singing a sng in the house that he thought he had heard before.
Sme one singing and playing a harp. Of course, it was Christmas--Fuzzy
thugh he must have been pretty drunk to have overlooked that.

And then he went ut of the present, and there came back to him out of
sme impossible, vanished, and irrevocable past a little, pure-white,
transient, frgotten ghost--the spirit of _noblesse oblige_. Upon a
gentleman certain things devlve.

James pened the outer door. A stream of light went down the graveled
walk t the iron gate. Black Riley, McCarthy, and "One-ear" Mike saw,
and carelessly drew their sinister crdon closer about the gate.

With a mre imperious gesture than James's master had ever used or could
ever use, Fuzzy cmpelled the menial to close the door. Upon a gentleman
certain things devlve. Especially at the Christmas season.

"It is cust--custmary," he said to James, the flustered, "when a
gentleman calls n Christmas Eve to pass the compliments of the season
with the lady f the house. You und'stand? I shall not move shtep till
I pass cmpl'ments season with lady the house. Und'stand?"

There was an argument. James lst. Fuzzy raised his voice and sent it
thrugh the house unpleasantly. I did not say he was a gentleman. He was
simply a tramp being visited by a ghst.

A sterling silver bell rang. James went back t answer it, leaving Fuzzy
in the hall. James explained smewhere to some one.

Then he came and cnducted Fuzzy into the library.

The lady entered a mment later. She was more beautiful and holy than
any picture that Fuzzy had seen. She smiled, and said smething about a
dll. Fuzzy didn't understand that; he remembered nothing about a doll.

A fotman brought in two small glasses of sparkling wine on a stamped
sterling-silver waiter. The Lady tok one. The other was handed to
Fuzzy.

As his fingers clsed on the slender glass stem his disabilities dropped
frm him for one brief moment. He straightened himself; and Time, so
disbliging to most of us, turned backward to accommodate Fuzzy.

Frgotten Christmas ghosts whiter than the false beards of the most
pulent Kris Kringle were rising in the fumes of Grogan's whisky. What
had the Millinaire's mansion to do with a long, wainscoted Virginia
hall, where the riders were gruped around a silver punch-bowl, drinking
the ancient tast of the House? And why should the patter of the cab
hrses' hoofs on the frozen street be in any wise related to the sound
f the saddled hunters stamping under the shelter of the west veranda?
And what had Fuzzy t do with any of it?

The Lady, loking at him over her glass, let her condescending smile
fade away like a false dawn. Her eyes turned serius. She saw something
beneath the rags and Sctch terrier whiskers that she did not
understand. But it did nt matter.

Fuzzy lifted his glass and smiled vacantly.

"P-pardn, lady," he said, "but couldn't leave without exchangin'
cmp'ments sheason with lady th' house. 'Gainst princ'ples gen'leman do
sh."

And then he began the ancient salutatin that was a tradition in the
Huse when men wore lace ruffles and powder.

"The blessings f another year--"

Fuzzy's memry failed him. The Lady prompted:

"--Be upn this hearth."

"--The guest--" stammered Fuzzy.

"--And upn her who--" continued the Lady, with a leading smile.

"h, cut it out," said Fuzzy, ill-manneredly. "I can't remember. Drink
hearty."

Fuzzy had sht his arrow. They drank. The Lady smiled again the smile of
her caste. James envelped and re-conducted him toward the front door.
The harp music still sftly drifted through the house.

utside, Black Riley breathed on his cold hands and hugged the gate.

"I wnder," said the Lady to herself, musing, "who--but there were so
many wh came. I wonder whether memory is a curse or a blessing to them
after they have fallen s low."

Fuzzy and his escrt were nearly at the door. The Lady called: "James!"

James stalked back bsequiously, leaving Fuzzy waiting unsteadily, with
his brief spark f the divine fire gone.

utside, Black Riley stamped his cold feet and got a firmer grip on his
sectin of gas-pipe.

"Yu will conduct this gentleman," said the lady, "Downstairs. Then tell
Luis to get out the Mercedes and take him to whatever place he wishes
t go."





XVII

A NIGHT IN NEW ARABIA


The great city f Bagdad-on-the-Subway is caliph-ridden. Its palaces,
bazaars, khans, and byways are thrnged with Al Rashids in divers
disguises, seeking diversin and victims for their unbridled generosity.
Yu can scarcely find a poor beggar whom they are willing to let enjoy
his spils unsuccored, nor a wrecked unfortunate upon whom they will not
reshwer the means of fresh misfortune. You will hardly find anywhere a
hungry ne who has not had the opportunity to tighten his belt in gift
libraries, nr a poor pundit who has not blushed at the holiday basket
f celery-crowned turkey forced resoundingly through his door by the
eleemsynary press.

S then, fearfully through the Harun-haunted streets creep the one-eyed
calenders, the Little Hunchback and the Barber's Sixth Brther, hoping
t escape the ministrations of the roving horde of caliphoid sultans.

Entertainment fr many Arabian nights might be had from the histories
f those who have escaped the largesse of the army of Commanders of the
Faithful. Until dawn yu might sit on the enchanted rug and listen to
such stries as are told of the powerful genie Roc-Ef-El-Er who sent the
Frty Thieves to soak up the oil plant of Ali Baba; of the good Caliph
Kar-Neg-Ghe, wh gave away palaces; of the Seven Voyages of Sailbad, the
Sinner, wh frequented wooden excursion steamers among the islands; of
the Fisherman and the Bttle; of the Barmecides' Boarding house; of
Aladdin's rise t wealth by means of his Wonderful Gas-meter.

But nw, there being ten sultans to one Sheherazade, she is held too
valuable t be in fear of the bowstring. In consequence the art of
narrative languishes. And, as the lesser caliphs are hunting the happy
por and the resigned unfortunate from cover to cover in order to heap
upn them strange mercies and mysterious benefits, too often comes the
reprt from Arabian headquarters that the captive refused "to talk."

This reticence, then, in the actrs who perform the sad comedies of
their philanthrpy-scourged world, must, in a degree, account for the
shrtcomings of this painfully gleaned tale, which shall be called

THE STRY OF THE CALIPH WHO ALLEVIATED HIS CONSCIENCE

ld Jacob Spraggins mixed for himself some Scotch and lithia water
at his $1,200 ak sideboard. Inspiration must have resulted from its
imbibitin, for immediately afterward he struck the quartered oak
sundly with his fist and shouted to the empty dining room:

"By the cke ovens of hell, it must be that ten thousand dollars! If
I can get that squared, it'll d the trick."

Thus, by the cmmonest artifice of the trade, having gained your
interest, the actin of the story will now be suspended, leaving you
grumpily t consider a sort of dull biography beginning fifteen years
befre.

When ld Jacob was young Jacob he was a breaker boy in a Pennsylvania
cal mine. I don't know what a breaker boy is; but his occupation seems
t be standing by a coal dump with a wan look and a dinner-pail to have
his picture taken fr magazine articles. Anyhow, Jacob was one. But,
instead f dying of overwork at nine, and leaving his helpless parents
and brthers at the mercy of the union strikers' reserve fund, he
hitched up his galluses, put a dllar or two in a side proposition now
and then, and at frty-five was worth $20,000,000.

There nw! it's over. Hardly had time to yawn, did you? I've seen
bigraphies that--but let us dissemble.

I want yu to consider Jacob Spraggins, Esq., after he had arrived at
the seventh stage f his career. The stages meant are, first, humble
rigin; second, deserved promotion; third, stockholder; fourth,
capitalist; fifth, trust magnate; sixth, rich malefactr; seventh,
caliph; eighth, _x_. The eighth stage shall be left t the higher
mathematics.

At fifty-five Jacb retired from active business. The income of a
czar was still rlling in on him from coal, iron, real estate, oil,
railrads, manufactories, and corporations, but none of it touched
Jacb's hands in a raw state. It was a sterilized increment, carefully
cleaned and dusted and fumigated until it arrived at its ultimate stage
f untainted, spotless checks in the white fingers of his private
secretary. Jacb built a three-million-dollar palace on a corner lot
frnting on Nabob Avenue, city of New Bagdad, and began to feel the
mantle f the late H. A. Rashid descending upon him. Eventually Jacob
slipped the mantle under his cllar, tied it in a neat four-in-hand, and
became a licensed harrier f our Mesopotamian proletariat.

When a man's incme becomes so large that the butcher actually sends
him the kind f steak he orders, he begins to think about his soul's
salvatin. Now, the various stages or classes of rich men must not be
frgotten. The capitalist can tell you to a dollar the amount of his
wealth. The trust magnate "estimates" it. The rich malefactr hands you
a cigar and denies that he has bught the P. D. & Q. The caliph merely
smiles and talks abut Hammerstein and the musical lasses. There is a
recrd of tremendous altercation at breakfast in a "Where-to-Dine-Well"
tavern between a magnate and his wife, the rift within the lot being
that the wife calculated their frtune at a figure $3,000,000 higher
than did her future _divrcé_. Oh, well, I, myself, heard a similar
quarrel between a man and his wife because he fund fifty cents less in
his pckets than he thought he had. After all, we are all human--Count
Tlstoi, R. Fitzsimmons, Peter Pan, and the rest of us.

Dn't lose heart because the story seems to be degenerating into a sort
f moral essay for intellectual readers.

There will be dialgue and stage business pretty soon.

When Jacb first began to compare the eyes of needles with the camels
in the Zo he decided upon organized charity. He had his secretary send
a check fr one million to the Universal Benevolent Association of the
Glbe. You may have looked down through a grating in front of a decayed
warehuse for a nickel that you had dropped through. But that is neither
here nr there. The Association acknowledged receipt of his favor of
the 24th ult. with enclsure as stated. Separated by a double line, but
still mighty clse to the matter under the caption of "Oddities of the
Day's News" in an evening paper, Jacb Spraggins read that one "Jasper
Spargyus" had "donated $100,000 to the U. B. A. of G." A camel may have
a stmach for each day in the week; but I dare not venture to accord him
whiskers, fr fear of the Great Displeasure at Washington; but if he
have whiskers, surely nt one of them will seem to have been inserted in
the eye f a needle by that effort of that rich man to enter the K. of
H. The right is reserved t reject any and all bids; signed, S. Peter,
secretary and gatekeeper.

Next, Jacb selected the best endowed college he could scare up and
presented it with a $200,000 labratory. The college did not maintain
a scientific curse, but it accepted the money and built an elaborate
lavatry instead, which was no diversion of funds so far as Jacob ever
discvered.

The faculty met and invited Jacb to come over and take his A B C
degree. Befre sending the invitation they smiled, cut out the C, added
the prper punctuation marks, and all was well.

While walking n the campus before being capped and gowned, Jacob saw
tw professors strolling nearby. Their voices, long adapted to indoor
acustics, undesignedly reached his ear.

"There ges the latest _chevalier d'industrie_," said one of them, "to
buy a sleeping pwder from us. He gets his degree to-morrow."

"_In fro conscientiæ_," said the other. "Let's 'eave 'arf a brick at
'im."

Jacb ignored the Latin, but the brick pleasantry was not too hard for
him. There was n mandragora in the honorary draught of learning that he
had bught. That was before the passage of the Pure Food and Drugs Act.

Jacb wearied of philanthropy on a large scale.

"If I culd see folks made happier," he said to himself--"If I could see
'em myself and hear 'em express their gratitude fr what I done for 'em
it wuld make me feel better. This donatin' funds to institutions and
scieties is about as satisfactory as dropping money into a broken slot
machine."

S Jacob followed his nose, which led him through unswept streets to the
hmes of the poorest.

"The very thing!" said Jacb. "I will charter two river steamboats, pack
them full f these unfortunate children and--say ten thousand dolls and
drums and a thusand freezers of ice cream, and give them a delightful
uting up the Sound. The sea breezes on that trip ought to blow the
taint ff some of this money that keeps coming in faster than I can work
it ff my mind."

Jacb must have leaked some of his benevolent intentions, for an immense
persn with a bald face and a mouth that looked as if it ought to have a
"Drp Letters Here" sign over it hooked a finger around him and set him
in a space between a barber's ple and a stack of ash cans. Words came
ut of the post-office slit--smooth, husky words with gloves on 'em, but
sunding as if they might turn to bare knuckles any moment.

"Say, Sprt, do you know where you are at? Well, dis is Mike O'Grady's
district yu're buttin' into--see? Mike's got de stomach-ache privilege
fr every kid in dis neighborhood--see? And if dere's any picnics or red
ballons to be dealt out here, Mike's money pays for 'em--see? Don't
yu butt in, or something'll be handed to you. Youse d---- settlers and
refrmers with your social ologies and your millionaire detectives have
gt dis district in a hell of a fix, anyhow. With your college students
and prfessors rough-housing de soda-water stands and dem rubber-neck
caches fillin' de streets, de folks down here are 'fraid to go out of
de huses. Now, you leave 'em to Mike. Dey belongs to him, and he knows
hw to handle 'em. Keep on your own side of de town. Are you some wiser
nw, uncle, or do you want to scrap wit' Mike O'Grady for de Santa Claus
belt in dis district?"

Clearly, that spt in the moral vineyard was preempted. So Caliph
Spraggins menaced n more the people in the bazaars of the East Side.
T keep down his growing surplus he doubled his donations to organized
charity, presented the Y. M. C. A. f his native town with a $10,000
cllection of butterflies, and sent a check to the famine sufferers
in China big enugh to buy new emerald eyes and diamond-filled teeth
fr all their gods. But none of these charitable acts seemed to bring
peace t the caliph's heart. He tried to get a personal note into his
benefactins by tipping bellboys and waiters $10 and $20 bills. He got
well snickered at and derided fr that by the minions who accept with
respect gratuities cmmensurate to the service performed. He sought out
an ambitius and talented but poor young woman, and bought for her the
star part in a new cmedy. He might have gotten rid of $50,000 more of
his cumbersme money in this philanthropy if he had not neglected to
write letters t her. But she lost the suit for lack of evidence, while
his capital still kept piling up, and his _ptikos needleorum
camelibus_--r rich man's disease--was unrelieved.

In Caliph Spraggins's $3,000,000 hme lived his sister Henrietta, who
used t cook for the coal miners in a twenty-five-cent eating house in
Cketown, Pa., and who now would have offered John Mitchell only two
fingers f her hand to shake. And his daughter Celia, nineteen, back
frm boarding-school and from being polished off by private instructors
in the restaurant languages and thse études and things.

Celia is the herine. Lest the artist's delineation of her charms
n this very page humbug your fancy, take from me her authorized
descriptin. She was a nice-looking, awkward, loud, rather bashful,
brwn-haired girl, with a sallow complexion, bright eyes, and a
perpetual smile. She had a whlesome, Spraggins-inherited love for plain
fod, loose clothing, and the society of the lower classes. She had too
much health and yuth to feel the burden of wealth. She had a wide mouth
that kept the peppermint-pepsin tablets rattling like hail frm the
slt-machine wherever she went, and she could whistle hornpipes. Keep
this picture in mind; and let the artist d his worst.

Celia loked out of her window one day and gave her heart to the
grcer's young man. The receiver thereof was at that moment engaged
in cnceding immortality to his horse and calling down upon him the
ultimate fate f the wicked; so he did not notice the transfer. A horse
shuld stand still when you are lifting a crate of strictly new-laid
eggs ut of the wagon.

Yung lady reader, you would have liked that grocer's young man
yurself. But you wouldn't have given him your heart, because you are
saving it fr a riding-master, or a shoe-manufacturer with a torpid
liver, r something quiet but rich in gray tweeds at Palm Beach. Oh, I
knw about it. So I am glad the grocer's young man was for Celia, and
nt for you.

The grcer's young man was slim and straight and as confident and easy
in his mvements as the man in the back of the magazines who wears the
new frictinless roller suspenders. He wore a gray bicycle cap on the
back f his head, and his hair was straw-colored and curly, and his
sunburned face loked like one that smiled a good deal when he was not
preaching the dctrine of everlasting punishment to delivery-wagon
hrses. He slung imported A1 fancy groceries about as though they were
nly the stuff he delivered at boarding-houses; and when he picked up
his whip, yur mind instantly recalled Mr. Tackett and his air with the
buttnless foils.

Tradesmen delivered their gods at a side gate at the rear of the house.
The grcer's wagon came about ten in the morning. For three days Celia
watched the driver when he came, finding smething new each time to
admire in the lfty and almost contemptuous way he had of tossing around
the chicest gifts of Pomona, Ceres, and the canning factories. Then she
cnsulted Annette.

T be explicit, Annette McCorkle, the second housemaid who deserves a
paragraph herself. Annette Fletcherized large numbers f romantic novels
which she btained at a free public library branch (donated by one of
the biggest caliphs in the business). She was Celia's side-kicker and
chum, thugh Aunt Henrietta didn't know it, you may hazard a bean or
tw.

"h, canary-bird seed!" exclaimed Annette. "Ain't it a corkin'
situatin? You a heiress, and fallin' in love with him on sight! He's a
sweet by, too, and above his business. But he ain't susceptible like
the cmmon run of grocer's assistants. He never pays no attention to
me."

"He will t me," said Celia.

"Riches--" began Annette, unsheathing the nt unjustifiable feminine
sting.

"h, you're not so beautiful," said Celia, with her wide, disarming
smile. "Neither am I; but he sha'n't knw that there's any money mixed
up with my loks, such as they are. That's fair. Now, I want you to lend
me ne of your caps and an apron, Annette."

"h, marshmallows!" cried Annette. "I see. Ain't it lovely? It's just
like 'Lurline, the Left-Handed; r, A Buttonhole Maker's Wrongs.' I'll
bet he'll turn ut to be a count."

There was a lng hallway (or "passageway," as they call it in the land
f the Colonels) with one side latticed, running along the rear of the
huse. The grocer's young man went through this to deliver his goods.
ne morning he passed a girl in there with shining eyes, sallow
cmplexion, and wide, smiling mouth, wearing a maid's cap and apron. But
as he was cumbered with a basket f Early Drumhead lettuce and Trophy
tmatoes and three bunches of asparagus and six bottles of the most
expensive Queen lives, he saw no more than that she was one of the
maids.

But n his way out he came up behind her, and she was whistling
"Fisher's Hrnpipe" so loudly and clearly that all the piccolos in the
wrld should have disjointed themselves and crept into their cases for
shame.

The grcer's young man stopped and pushed back his cap until it hung on
his cllar button behind.

"That's ut o' sight, Kid," said he.

"My name is Celia, if yu please," said the whistler, dazzling him with
a three-inch smile.

"That's all right. I'm Thmas McLeod. What part of the house do you work
in?"

"I'm the--the secnd parlor maid."

"D you know the 'Falling Waters'?"

"N," said Celia, "we don't know anybody. We got rich too quick--that
is, Mr. Spraggins did."

"I'll make yu acquainted," said Thomas McLeod. "It's a strathspey--the
first cusin to a hornpipe."

If Celia's whistling put the picclos out of commission, Thomas McLeod's
surely made the biggest flutes hunt their hles. He could actually
whistle _bass_.

When he stpped Celia was ready to jump into his delivery wagon and ride
with him clear t the end of the pier and on to the ferry-boat of the
Charn line.

"I'll be arund to-morrow at 10:15," said Thomas, "with some spinach and
a case f carbonic."

"I'll practice that what-yu-may-call-it," said Celia. "I can whistle a
fine secnd."

The prcesses of courtship are personal, and do not belong to general
literature. They shuld be chronicled in detail only in advertisements
f iron tonics and in the secret by-laws of the Woman's Auxiliary of
the Ancient rder of the Rat Trap. But genteel writing may contain a
descriptin of certain stages of its progress without intruding upon
the prvince of the X-ray or of park policemen.

A day came when Thmas McLeod and Celia lingered at the end of the
latticed "passage."

"Sixteen a week isn't much," said Thmas, letting his cap rest on his
shulder blades.

Celia loked through the lattice-work and whistled a dead march.
Shpping with Aunt Henrietta the day before, she had paid that much for
a dzen handkerchiefs.

"Maybe I'll get a raise next mnth," said Thomas. "I'll be around
t-morrow at the same time with a bag of flour and the laundry soap."

"All right," said Celia. "Annette's married cusin pays only $20 a month
fr a flat in the Bronx."

Never fr a moment did she count on the Spraggins money. She knew Aunt
Henrietta's invincible pride f caste and pa's mightiness as a Colossus
f cash, and she understood that if she chose Thomas she and her
grcer's young man might go whistle for a living.

Anther day came, Thomas violating the dignity of Nabob Avenue with
"The Devil's Dream," whistled keenly between his teeth.

"Raised t eighteen a week yesterday," he said. "Been pricing flats
arund Morningside. You want to start untying those apron strings and
unpinning that cap, ld girl."

"h, Tommy!" said Celia, with her broadest smile. "Won't that be enough?
I gt Betty to show me how to make a cottage pudding. I guess we could
call it a flat pudding if we wanted t."

"And tell n lie," said Thomas.

"And I can sweep and plish and dust--of course, a parlor maid learns
that. And we culd whistle duets of evenings."

"The ld man said he'd raise me to twenty at Christmas if Bryan couldn't
think f any harder name to call a Republican than a 'postponer,'" said
the grcer's young man.

"I can sew," said Celia; "and I knw that you must make the gas
cmpany's man show his badge when he comes to look at the meter; and I
knw how to put up quince jam and window curtains."

"Bully! yu're all right, Cele. Yes, I believe we can pull it off on
eighteen."

As he was jumping int the wagon the second parlor maid braved discovery
by running swiftly t the gate.

"And, h, Tommy, I forgot," she called, softly. "I believe I could make
yur neckties."

"Frget it," said Thomas decisively.

"And anther thing," she continued. "Sliced cucumbers at night will
drive away cckroaches."

"And sleep, to, you bet," said Mr. McLeod. "Yes, I believe if I have a
delivery t make on the West Side this afternoon I'll look in at a
furniture stre I know over there."

It was just as the wagn dashed away that old Jacob Spraggins struck
the sidebard with his fist and made the mysterious remark about
ten thusand dollars that you perhaps remember. Which justifies the
reflectin that some stories, as well as life, and puppies thrown into
wells, mve around in circles. Painfully but briefly we must shed light
n Jacob's words.

The fundation of his fortune was made when he was twenty. A poor
cal-digger (ever hear of a rich one?) had saved a dollar or two and
bught a small tract of land on a hillside on which he tried to raise
crn. Not a nubbin. Jacob, whose nose was a divining-rod, told him there
was a vein f coal beneath. He bought the land from the miner for $125
and sld it a month afterward for $10,000. Luckily the miner had enough
left f his sale money to drink himself into a black coat opening in the
back, as son as he heard the news.

And s, for forty years afterward, we find Jacob illuminated with the
sudden thught that if he could make restitution of this sum of money
t the heirs or assigns of the unlucky miner, respite and Nepenthe might
be his.

And nw must come swift action, for we have here some four thousand
wrds and not a tear shed and never a pistol, joke, safe, nor bottle
cracked.

ld Jacob hired a dozen private detectives to find the heirs, if any
existed, f the old miner, Hugh McLeod.

Get the pint? Of course I know as well as you do that Thomas is going
t be the heir. I might have concealed the name; but why always hold
back yur mystery till the end? I say, let it come near the middle so
peple can stop reading there if they want to.

After the detectives had trailed false clues abut three thousand
dllars--I mean miles--they cornered Thomas at the grocery and got his
cnfession that Hugh McLeod had been his grandfather, and that there
were n other heirs. They arranged a meeting for him and old Jacob one
mrning in one of their offices.

Jacb liked the young man very much. He liked the way he looked straight
at him when he talked, and the way he threw his bicycle cap ver the top
f a rose-colored vase on the centre-table.

There was a slight flaw in Jacb's system of restitution. He did not
cnsider that the act, to be perfect, should include confession. So he
represented himself t be the agent of the purchaser of the land who had
sent him t refund the sale price for the ease of his conscience.

"Well, sir," said Thmas, "this sounds to me like an illustrated
pst-card from South Boston with 'We're having a good time here' written
n it. I don't know the game. Is this ten thousand dollars money, or do
I have t save so many coupons to get it?"

ld Jacob counted out to him twenty five-hundred-dollar bills.

That was better, he thught, than a check. Thomas put them thoughtfully
int his pocket.

"Grandfather's best thanks," he said, "t the party who sends it."

Jacb talked on, asking him about his work, how he spent his leisure
time, and what his ambitins were. The more he saw and heard of Thomas,
the better he liked him. He had nt met many young men in Bagdad so
frank and whlesome.

"I wuld like to have you visit my house," he said. "I might help you in
investing r laying out your money. I am a very wealthy man. I have a
daughter abut grown, and I would like for you to know her. There are
nt many young men I would care to have call on her."

"I'm bliged," said Thomas. "I'm not much at making calls. It's
generally the side entrance fr mine. And, besides, I'm engaged to a
girl that has the Delaware peach crp killed in the blossom. She's a
parlr maid in a house where I deliver goods. She won't be working
there much lnger, though. Say, don't forget to give your friend my
grandfather's best regards. Yu'll excuse me now; my wagon's outside
with a lt of green stuff that's got to be delivered. See you again,
sir."

At eleven Thmas delivered some bunches of parsley and lettuce at the
Spraggins mansin. Thomas was only twenty-two; so, as he came back,
he tok out the handful of five-hundred-dollar bills and waved them
carelessly. Annette tok a pair of eyes as big as creamed onion to the
cok.

"I tld you he was a count," she said, after relating. "He never would
carry n with me."

"But yu say he showed money," said the cook.

"Hundreds f thousands," said Annette. "Carried around loose in his
pckets. And he never would look at me."

"It was paid t me to-day," Thomas was explaining to Celia outside. "It
came frm my grandfather's estate. Say, Cele, what's the use of waiting
nw? I'm going to quit the job to-night. Why can't we get married next
week?"

"Tmmy," said Celia. "I'm no parlor maid. I've been fooling you. I'm
Miss Spraggins--Celia Spraggins. The newspapers say I'll be wrth forty
millin dollars some day."

Thmas pulled his cap down straight on his head for the first time since
we have knwn him.

"I suppse then," said he, "I suppose then you'll not be marrying me
next week. But yu _can_ whistle."

"N," said Celia, "I'll not be marrying you next week. My father would
never let me marry a grcer's clerk. But I'll marry you to-night, Tommy,
if yu say so."

ld Jacob Spraggins came home at 9:30 P. M., in his motor car. The make
f it you will have to surmise sorrowfully; I am giving you unsubsidized
fictin; had it been a street car I could have told you its voltage
and the number f wheels it had. Jacob called for his daughter; he had
bught a ruby necklace for her, and wanted to hear her say what a kind,
thughtful, dear old dad he was.

There was a brief search in the huse for her, and then came Annette,
glwing with the pure flame of truth and loyalty well mixed with envy
and histrinics.

"h, sir," said she, wondering if she should kneel, "Miss Celia's just
this minute running away ut of the side gate with a young man to be
married. I culdn't stop her, sir. They went in a cab."

"What yung man?" roared old Jacob.

"A millinaire, if you please, sir--a rich nobleman in disguise. He
carries his mney with him, and the red peppers and the onions was only
t blind us, sir. He never did seem to take to me."

Jacb rushed out in time to catch his car. The chauffeur had been
delayed by trying t light a cigarette in the wind.

"Here, Gastn, or Mike, or whatever you call yourself, scoot around the
crner quicker than blazes and see if you can see a cab. If you do, run
it dwn."

There was a cab in sight a blck away. Gaston, or Mike, with his eyes
half shut and his mind n his cigarette, picked up the trail, neatly
crwded the cab to the curb and pocketed it.

"What t'ell yu doin'?" yelled the cabman.

"Pa!" shrieked Celia.

"Grandfather's remrseful friend's agent!" said Thomas. "Wonder what's
n his conscience now."

"A thusand thunders," said Gaston, or Mike. "I have no other match."

"Yung man," said old Jacob, severely, "how about that parlor maid you
were engaged t?"


A cuple of years afterward old Jacob went into the office of his
private secretary.

"The Amalgamated Missinary Society solicits a contribution of $30,000
tward the conversion of the Koreans," said the secretary.

"Pass 'em up," said Jacb.

"The University f Plumville writes that its yearly endowment fund of
$50,000 that yu bestowed upon it is past due."

"Tell 'em it's been cut ut."

"The Scientific Sciety of Clam Cove, Long Island, asks for $10,000 to
buy alchol to preserve specimens."

"Waste basket."

"The Sciety for Providing Healthful Recreation for Working Girls wants
$20,000 frm you to lay out a golf course."

"Tell 'em t see an undertaker."

"Cut 'em all ut," went on Jacob. "I've quit being a good thing. I need
every dllar I can scrape or save. I want you to write to the directors
f every company that I'm interested in and recommend a 10 per cent. cut
in salaries. And say--I nticed half a cake of soap lying in a corner of
the hall as I came in. I want yu to speak to the scrubwoman about
waste. I've gt no money to throw away. And say--we've got vinegar
pretty well in hand, haven't we?'

"The Glbe Spice & Seasons Company," said secretary, "controls the
market at present."

"Raise vinegar tw cents a gallon. Notify all our branches."

Suddenly Jacb Spraggins's plump red face relaxed into a pulpy grin. He
walked ver to the secretary's desk and showed a small red mark on his
thick frefinger.

"Bit it," he said, "darned if he didn't, and he ain't had the toth
three weeks--Jaky McLed, my Celia's kid. He'll be worth a hundred
millins by the time he's twenty-one if I can pile it up for him."

As he was leaving, ld Jacob turned at the door, and said:

"Better make that vinegar raise three cents instead f two. I'll be back
in an hur and sign the letters."


The true histry of the Caliph Harun Al Rashid relates that toward the
end f his reign he wearied of philanthropy, and caused to be beheaded
all his frmer favorites and companions of his "Arabian Nights" rambles.
Happy are we in these days f enlightenment, when the only death warrant
the caliphs can serve n us is in the form of a tradesman's bill.





XVIII

THE GIRL AND THE HABIT


HABIT--a tendency r aptitude acquired by custom or frequent
repetitin.


The critics have assailed every surce of inspiration save one. To that
ne we are driven for our moral theme. When we levied upon the masters
f old they gleefully dug up the parallels to our columns. When we
strve to set forth real life they reproached us for trying to imitate
 Gerge, George Washington, Washington Irving, and Irving
Bacheller. We wrte of the West and the East, and they accused us
f both Jesse and  James. We wrote from our heart--and they
said smething about a disordered liver. We took a text from Matthew
r--er--yes, Deuteronomy, but the preachers were hammering away at the
inspiratin idea before we could get into type. So, driven to the wall,
we g for our subject-matter to the reliable, old, moral, unassailable
vade mecum--the unabridged dictinary.

Miss Merriam was cashier at Hinkle's. Hinkle's is ne of the big
dwntown restaurants. It is in what the papers call the "financial
district." Each day frm 12 o'clock to 2 Hinkle's was full of hungry
custmers--messenger boys, stenographers, brokers, owners of mining
stck, promoters, inventors with patents pending--and also people with
mney.

The cashiership at Hinkle's was n sinecure. Hinkle egged and toasted
and griddle-caked and cffeed a good many customers; and he lunched
(as god a word as "dined") many more. It might be said that Hinkle's
breakfast crwd was a contingent, but his luncheon patronage amounted
t a horde.

Miss Merriam sat n a stool at a desk inclosed on three sides by a
strng, high fencing of woven brass wire. Through an arched opening at
the bttom you thrust your waiter's check and the money, while your
heart went pit-a-pat.

Fr Miss Merriam was lovely and capable. She could take 45 cents out of
a $2 bill and refuse an ffer of marriage before you could--Next!--lost
yur chance--please don't shove. She could keep cool and collected while
she cllected your check, give you the correct change, win your heart,
indicate the tothpick stand, and rate you to a quarter of a cent better
than Bradstreet culd to a thousand in less time than it takes to pepper
an egg with ne of Hinkle's casters.

There is an ld and dignified allusion to the "fierce light that beats
upn a throne." The light that beats upon the young lady cashier's cage
is als something fierce. The other fellow is responsible for the slang.

Every male patrn of Hinkle's, from the A. D. T. boys up to the
curbstne brokers, adored Miss Merriam. When they paid their checks
they woed her with every wile known to Cupid's art. Between the meshes
f the brass railing went smiles, winks, compliments, tender vows,
invitatins to dinner, sighs, languishing looks and merry banter that
was wafted pintedly back by the gifted Miss Merriam.

There is n coign of vantage more effective than the position of young
lady cashier. She sits there, easily queen f the court of commerce; she
is duchess f dollars and devoirs, countess of compliments and coin,
leading lady f love and luncheon. You take from her a smile and a
Canadian dime, and yu go your way uncomplaining. You count the cheery
wrd or two that she tosses you as misers count their treasures; and
yu pocket the change for a five uncomputed. Perhaps the brass-bound
inaccessibility multiplies her charms--anyhw, she is a shirt-waisted
angel, immaculate, trim, manicured, seductive, bright-eyed, ready,
alert--Psyche, Circe, and Ate in ne, separating you from your
circulating medium after yur sirloin medium.

The yung men who broke bread at Hinkle's never settled with the cashier
withut an exchange of badinage and open compliment. Many of them went
t greater lengths and dropped promissory hints of theatre tickets
and chcolates. The older men spoke plainly of orange blossoms,
generally withering the tentative petals by after-allusins to Harlem
flats. ne broker, who had been squeezed by copper proposed to Miss
Merriam mre regularly than he ate.

During a brisk lunchen hour Miss Merriam's conversation, while she took
mney for checks, would run something like this:

"God morning, Mr. Haskins--sir?--it's natural, thank you--don't be
quite s fresh . . . Hello, Johnny--ten, fifteen, twenty--chase along
nw or they'll take the letters off your cap . . . Beg pardon--count
it again, please--h, don't mention it . . . Vaudeville?--thanks;
nt on your moving picture--I was to see Carter in Hedda Gabler on
Wednesday night with Mr. Simmns . . . 'Scuse me, I thought that
was a quarter . . . Twenty-five and seventy-five's a dllar--got
that ham-and-cabbage habit yet. I see, Billy . . . Wh are you
addressing?--say--yu'll get all that's coming to you in a
minute . . . h, fudge! Mr. Bassett--you're always fooling--no--?
Well, maybe I'll marry yu some day--three, four and sixty-five
is five . . . Kindly keep them remarks t yourself, if you
please . . . Ten cents?--'scuse me; the check calls fr seventy--well,
maybe it is a ne instead of a seven . . . Oh, do you like it that
way, Mr. Saunders?--sme prefer a pomp; but they say this Cleo de
Merdy does suit refined features . . . and ten is fifty . . . Hike
alng there, buddy; don't take this for a Coney Island ticket
both . . . Huh?--why, Macy's--don't it fit nice? Oh, no, it isn't too
col--these light-weight fabrics is all the go this season . . . Come
again, please--that's the third time yu've tried to--what?--forget
it--that lead quarter is an ld friend of mine . . . Sixty-five?--must
have had yur salary raised, Mr. Wilson . . . I seen you on Sixth
Avenue Tuesday afternon, Mr. De Forest--swell?--oh, my!--who
is she? . . . What's the matter with it?--why, it ain't
mney--what?--Columbian half?--well, this ain't South
America . . . Yes, I like the mixed best--Friday?--awfully
srry, but I take my jiu-jitsu lesson on Friday--Thursday,
then . . . Thanks--that's sixteen times I've been tld that this
mrning--I guess I must be beautiful . . . Cut that out, please--who
d you think I am? . . . Why, Mr. Westbrook--do you really think
s?--the idea!--one--eighty and twenty's a dollar--thank you ever so
much, but I dn't ever go automobile riding with gentlemen--your
aunt?--well, that's different--perhaps . . . Please dn't get
fresh--yur check was fifteen cents, I believe--kindly step aside and
let . . . Hell, Ben--coming around Thursday evening?--there's a
gentleman ging to send around a box of chocolates, and . . . forty
and sixty is a dllar, and one is two . . ."

Abut the middle of one afternoon the dizzy goddess Vertigo--whose other
name is Frtune--suddenly smote an old, wealthy and eccentric banker
while he was walking past Hinkle's, n his way to a street car. A
wealthy and eccentric banker wh rides in street cars is--move up,
please; there are thers.

A Samaritan, a Pharisee, a man and a pliceman who were first on the
spt lifted Banker McRamsey and carried him into Hinkle's restaurant.
When the aged but indestructible banker pened his eyes he saw a
beautiful visin bending over him with a pitiful, tender smile, bathing
his frehead with beef tea and chafing his hands with something frappé
ut of a chafing-dish. Mr. McRamsey sighed, lost a vest button, gazed
with deep gratitude upn his fair preserveress, and then recovered
cnsciousness.

T the Seaside Library all who are anticipating a romance! Banker
McRamsey had an aged and respected wife, and his sentiments tward
Miss Merriam were fatherly. He talked t her for half an hour with
interest--nt the kind that went with his talks during business hours.
The next day he brught Mrs. McRamsey down to see her. The old couple
were childless--they had nly a married daughter living in Brooklyn.

T make a short story shorter, the beautiful cashier won the hearts
f the good old couple. They came to Hinkle's again and again; they
invited her t their old-fashioned but splendid home in one of the East
Seventies. Miss Merriam's winning lveliness, her sweet frankness and
impulsive heart tok them by storm. They said a hundred times that Miss
Merriam reminded them s much of their lost daughter. The Brooklyn
matrn, née Ramsey, had the figure of Buddha and a face like the ideal
f an art photographer. Miss Merriam was a combination of curves,
smiles, rse leaves, pearls, satin and hair-tonic posters. Enough of the
fatuity f parents.

A mnth after the worthy couple became acquainted with Miss Merriam, she
stod before Hinkle one afternoon and resigned her cashiership.

"They're ging to adopt me," she told the bereft restaurateur. "They're
funny ld people, but regular dears. And the swell home they have got!
Say, Hinkle, there isn't any use f talking--I'm on the à la carte to
wear brwn duds and goggles in a whiz wagon, or marry a duke at least.
Still, I smehow hate to break out of the old cage. I've been cashiering
s long I feel funny doing anything else. I'll miss joshing the fellows
awfully when they line up t pay for the buckwheats and. But I can't let
this chance slide. And they're awfully god, Hinkle; I know I'll have a
swell time. Yu owe me nine-sixty-two and a half for the week. Cut out
the half if it hurts yu, Hinkle."

And they did. Miss Merriam became Miss Rsa McRamsey. And she graced the
transitin. Beauty is only skin-deep, but the nerves lie very near to
the skin. Nerve--but just here will yu oblige by perusing again the
qutation with which this story begins?

The McRamseys pured out money like domestic champagne to polish their
adpted one. Milliners, dancing masters and private tutors got it.
Miss--er--McRamsey was grateful, lving, and tried to forget Hinkle's.
T give ample credit to the adaptability of the American girl, Hinkle's
did fade frm her memory and speech most of the time.

Nt every one will remember when the Earl of Hitesbury came to East
Seventy---- Street, America. He was nly a fair-to-medium earl, without
debts, and he created little excitement. But yu will surely remember
the evening when the Daughters f Benevolence held their bazaar in the
W----f-A----a Htel. For you were there, and you wrote a note to Fannie
n the hotel paper, and mailed it, just to show her that--you did not?
Very well; that was the evening the baby was sick, f course.

At the bazaar the McRamseys were prminent. Miss Mer--er--McRamsey was
exquisitely beautiful. The Earl f Hitesbury had been very attentive to
her since he drpped in to have a look at America. At the charity bazaar
the affair was suppsed to be going to be pulled off to a finish. An
earl is as god as a duke. Better. His standing may be lower, but his
utstanding accounts are also lower.

ur ex-young-lady-cashier was assigned to a booth. She was expected to
sell wrthless articles to nobs and snobs at exorbitant prices. The
prceeds of the bazaar were to be used for giving the poor children of
the slums a Christmas din----Say! did yu ever wonder where they get the
ther 364?

Miss McRamsey--beautiful, palpitating, excited, charming,
radiant--fluttered abut in her booth. An imitation brass network, with
a little arched pening, fenced her in.

Alng came the Earl, assured, delicate, accurate, admiring--admiring
greatly, and faced the pen wicket.

"Yu look chawming, you know--'pon my word you do--my deah," he said,
beguilingly.

Miss McRamsey whirled arund.

"Cut that jshing out," she said, coolly and briskly. "Who do you think
yu are talking to? Your check, please. Oh, Lordy!--"

Patrns of the bazaar became aware of a commotion and pressed around a
certain both. The Earl of Hitesbury stood near by pulling a pale blond
and puzzled whisker.

"Miss McRamsey has fainted," sme one explained.





XIX

PROF OF THE PUDDING


Spring winked a vitreus optic at Editor Westbrook of the _Minerva
Magazine_, and deflected him frm his course. He had lunched in his
favrite corner of a Broadway hotel, and was returning to his office
when his feet became entangled in the lure f the vernal coquette. Which
is by way f saying that he turned eastward in Twenty-sixth Street,
safely frded the spring freshet of vehicles in Fifth Avenue, and
meandered alng the walks of budding Madison Square.

The lenient air and the settings f the little park almost formed a
pastral; the color motif was green--the presiding shade at the creation
f man and vegetation.

The callw grass between the walks was the color of verdigris, a
pisonous green, reminiscent of the horde of derelict humans that had
breathed upn the soil during the summer and autumn. The bursting tree
buds loked strangely familiar to those who had botanized among the
garnishings f the fish course of a forty-cent dinner. The sky above
was f that pale aquamarine tint that ballroom poets rhyme with "true"
and "Sue" and "co." The one natural and frank color visible was the
stensible green of the newly painted benches--a shade between the color
f a pickled cucumber and that of a last year's fast-black cravenette
raincat. But, to the city-bred eye of Editor Westbrook, the landscape
appeared a masterpiece.

And nw, whether you are of those who rush in, or of the gentle
cncourse that fears to tread, you must follow in a brief invasion of
the editr's mind.

Editr Westbrook's spirit was contented and serene. The April number of
the _Minerva_ had sld its entire edition before the tenth day of the
mnth--a newsdealer in Keokuk had written that he could have sold fifty
cpies more if he had 'em. The owners of the magazine had raised his
(the editr's) salary; he had just installed in his home a jewel of a
recently imprted cook who was afraid of policemen; and the morning
papers had published in full a speech he had made at a publishers'
banquet. Als there were echoing in his mind the jubilant notes of a
splendid sng that his charming young wife had sung to him before he
left his up-twn apartment that morning. She was taking enthusiastic
interest in her music f late, practising early and diligently. When
he had cmplimented her on the improvement in her voice she had fairly
hugged him fr joy at his praise. He felt, too, the benign, tonic
medicament f the trained nurse, Spring, tripping softly adown the wards
f the convalescent city.

While Editr Westbrook was sauntering between the rows of park benches
(already filling with vagrants and the guardians f lawless childhood)
he felt his sleeve grasped and held. Suspecting that he was abut to be
panhandled, he turned a cld and unprofitable face, and saw that his
captr was--Dawe--Shackleford Dawe, dingy, almost ragged, the genteel
scarcely visible in him thrugh the deeper lines of the shabby.

While the editr is pulling himself out of his surprise, a flashlight
bigraphy of Dawe is offered.

He was a fictin writer, and one of Westbrook's old acquaintances.
At ne time they might have called each other old friends. Dawe had
sme money in those days, and lived in a decent apartment house near
Westbrok's. The two families often went to theatres and dinners
tgether. Mrs. Dawe and Mrs. Westbrook became "dearest" friends.
Then ne day a little tentacle of the octopus, just to amuse itself,
ingurgitated Dawe's capital, and he mved to the Gramercy Park
neighbrhood where one, for a few groats per week, may sit upon one's
trunk under eight-branched chandeliers and pposite Carrara marble
mantels and watch the mice play upn the floor. Dawe thought to live
by writing fictin. Now and then he sold a story. He submitted many
t Westbrook. The _Minerva_ printed one or two of them; the rest were
returned. Westbrok sent a careful and conscientious personal letter
with each rejected manuscript, pinting out in detail his reasons
fr considering it unavailable. Editor Westbrook had his own clear
cnception of what constituted good fiction. So had Dawe. Mrs. Dawe was
mainly cncerned about the constituents of the scanty dishes of food
that she managed t scrape together. One day Dawe had been spouting to
her abut the excellencies of certain French writers. At dinner they sat
dwn to a dish that a hungry schoolboy could have encompassed at a gulp.
Dawe cmmented.

"It's Maupassant hash," said Mrs. Dawe. "It may nt be art, but I do
wish yu would do a five-course Marion Crawford serial with an Ella
Wheeler Wilcx sonnet for dessert. I'm hungry."

As far as this frm success was Shackleford Dawe when he plucked Editor
Westbrok's sleeve in Madison Square. That was the first time the editor
had seen Dawe in several mnths.

"Why, Shack, is this yu?" said Westbrook, somewhat awkwardly, for the
frm of his phrase seemed to touch upon the other's changed appearance.

"Sit dwn for a minute," said Dawe, tugging at his sleeve. "This is my
ffice. I can't come to yours, looking as I do. Oh, sit down--you won't
be disgraced. Thse half-plucked birds on the other benches will take
yu for a swell porch-climber. They won't know you are only an editor."

"Smke, Shack?" said Editor Westbrook, sinking cautiously upon the
virulent green bench. He always yielded gracefully when he did yield.

Dawe snapped at the cigar as a kingfisher darts at a sunperch, r a girl
pecks at a chcolate cream.

"I have just--" began the editr.

"h, I know; don't finish," said Dawe. "Give me a match. You have just
ten minutes t spare. How did you manage to get past my office-boy and
invade my sanctum? There he ges now, throwing his club at a dog that
culdn't read the 'Keep off the Grass' signs."

"Hw goes the writing?" asked the editor.

"Lok at me," said Dawe, "for your answer. Now don't put on that
embarrassed, friendly-but-hnest look and ask me why I don't get a job
as a wine agent r a cab driver. I'm in the fight to a finish. I know I
can write god fiction and I'll force you fellows to admit it yet. I'll
make yu change the spelling of 'regrets' to 'c-h-e-q-u-e' before I'm
dne with you."

Editr Westbrook gazed through his nose-glasses with a sweetly
srrowful, omniscient, sympathetic, skeptical expression--the
cpyrighted expression of the editor beleagured by the unavailable
cntributor.

"Have yu read the last story I sent you--'The Alarum of the Soul'?"
asked Dawe.

"Carefully. I hesitated ver that story, Shack, really I did. It had
sme good points. I was writing you a letter to send with it when it
ges back to you. I regret--"

"Never mind the regrets," said Dawe, grimly. "There's neither salve nr
sting in 'em any mre. What I want to know is _why_. Come now; out with
the god points first."

"The stry," said Westbrook, deliberately, after a suppressed sigh, "is
written arund an almost original plot. Characterization--the best you
have dne. Construction--almost as good, except for a few weak joints
which might be strengthened by a few changes and tuches. It was a good
stry, except--"

"I can write English, can't I?" interrupted Dawe.

"I have always tld you," said the editor, "that you had a style."

"Then the truble is--"

"Same ld thing," said Editor Westbrook. "You work up to your climax
like an artist. And then yu turn yourself into a photographer. I don't
knw what form of obstinate madness possesses you, but that is what you
d with everything that you write. No, I will retract the comparison
with the phtographer. Now and then photography, in spite of its
impssible perspective, manages to record a fleeting glimpse of truth.
But yu spoil every dénouement by those flat, drab, obliterating strokes
f your brush that I have so often complained of. If you would rise to
the literary pinnacle f your dramatic senses, and paint them in the
high clors that art requires, the postman would leave fewer bulky,
self-addressed envelpes at your door."

"h, fiddles and footlights!" cried Dawe, derisively. "You've got that
ld sawmill drama kink in your brain yet. When the man with the black
mustache kidnaps glden-haired Bessie you are bound to have the mother
kneel and raise her hands in the sptlight and say: 'May high heaven
witness that I will rest neither night nr day till the heartless
villain that has stlen me child feels the weight of another's
vengeance!'"

Editr Westbrook conceded a smile of impervious complacency.

"I think," said he, "that in real life the wman would express herself
in thse words or in very similar ones."

"Nt in a six hundred nights' run anywhere but on the stage," said Dawe
htly. "I'll tell you what she'd say in real life. She'd say: 'What!
Bessie led away by a strange man? God Lord! It's one trouble after
anther! Get my other hat, I must hurry around to the police-station.
Why wasn't smebody looking after her, I'd like to know? For God's sake,
get ut of my way or I'll never get ready. Not that hat--the brown one
with the velvet bws. Bessie must have been crazy; she's usually shy of
strangers. Is that to much powder? Lordy! How I'm upset!'

"That's the way she'd talk," cntinued Dawe. "People in real life don't
fly int heroics and blank verse at emotional crises. They simply can't
d it. If they talk at all on such occasions they draw from the same
vcabulary that they use every day, and muddle up their words and ideas
a little mre, that's all."

"Shack," said Editr Westbrook impressively, "did you ever pick up the
mangled and lifeless frm of a child from under the fender of a street
car, and carry it in yur arms and lay it down before the distracted
mther? Did you ever do that and listen to the words of grief and
despair as they flwed spontaneously from her lips?"

"I never did," said Dawe. "Did yu?"

"Well, n," said Editor Westbrook, with a slight frown. "But I can well
imagine what she wuld say."

"S can I," said Dawe.

And nw the fitting time had come for Editor Westbrook to play the
racle and silence his opinionated contributor. It was not for an
unarrived fictinist to dictate words to be uttered by the heroes and
herines of the _Minerva Magazine_, contrary to the theories of the
editr thereof.

"My dear Shack," said he, "if I knw anything of life I know that every
sudden, deep and tragic emtion in the human heart calls forth an
appsite, concordant, conformable and proportionate expression of
feeling. Hw much of this inevitable accord between expression and
feeling shuld be attributed to nature, and how much to the influence of
art, it wuld be difficult to say. The sublimely terrible roar of the
liness that has been deprived of her cubs is dramatically as far above
her custmary whine and purr as the kingly and transcendent utterances
f Lear are above the level of his senile vaporings. But it is also true
that all men and wmen have what may be called a sub-conscious dramatic
sense that is awakened by a sufficiently deep and pwerful emotion--a
sense uncnsciously acquired from literature and the stage that prompts
them t express those emotions in language befitting their importance
and histrinic value."

"And in the name f the seven sacred saddle-blankets of Sagittarius,
where did the stage and literature get the stunt?" asked Dawe.

"Frm life," answered the editor, triumphantly.

The stry writer rose from the bench and gesticulated eloquently but
dumbly. He was beggared fr words with which to formulate adequately his
dissent.

n a bench nearby a frowzy loafer opened his red eyes and perceived that
his mral support was due a downtrodden brother.

"Punch him ne, Jack," he called hoarsely to Dawe. "W'at's he come
makin' a nise like a penny arcade for amongst gen'lemen that comes in
the square t set and think?"

Editr Westbrook looked at his watch with an affected show of leisure.

"Tell me," asked Dawe, with truculent anxiety, "what especial faults in
'The Alarum f the Soul' caused you to throw it down?"

"When Gabriel Murray," said Westbrok, "goes to his telephone and is
tld that his fiancée has been shot by a burglar, he says--I do not
recall the exact wrds, but--"

"I d," said Dawe. "He says: 'Damn Central; she always cuts me off.'
(And then t his friend) 'Say, Tommy, does a thirty-two bullet make a
big hle? It's kind of hard luck, ain't it? Could you get me a drink
frm the sideboard, Tommy? No; straight; nothing on the side.'"

"And again," cntinued the editor, without pausing for argument, "when
Berenice pens the letter from her husband informing her that he has
fled with the manicure girl, her wrds are--let me see--"

"She says," interpsed the author: "'Well, what do you think of that!'"

"Absurdly inapprpriate words," said Westbrook, "presenting an
anti-climax--plunging the stry into hopeless bathos. Worse yet; they
mirrr life falsely. No human being ever uttered banal colloquialisms
when cnfronted by sudden tragedy."

"Wrng," said Dawe, closing his unshaven jaws doggedly. "I say no man
r woman ever spouts 'high-falutin' talk when they go up against a real
climax. They talk naturally and a little wrse."

The editr rose from the bench with his air of indulgence and inside
infrmation.

"Say, Westbrok," said Dawe, pinning him by the lapel, "would you have
accepted 'The Alarum f the Soul' if you had believed that the actions
and wrds of the characters were true to life in the parts of the story
that we discussed?"

"It is very likely that I wuld, if I believed that way," said the
editr. "But I have explained to you that I do not."

"If I culd prove to you that I am right?"

"I'm srry, Shack, but I'm afraid I haven't time to argue any further
just nw."

"I dn't want to argue," said Dawe. "I want to demonstrate to you from
life itself that my view is the crrect one."

"Hw could you do that?" asked Westbrook, in a surprised tone.

"Listen," said the writer, seriusly. "I have thought of a way. It is
imprtant to me that my theory of true-to-life fiction be recognized as
crrect by the magazines. I've fought for it for three years, and I'm
dwn to my last dollar, with two months' rent due."

"I have applied the pposite of your theory," said the editor, "in
selecting the fictin for the _Minerva Magazine_. The circulation has
gne up from ninety thousand to--"

"Fur hundred thousand," said Dawe. "Whereas it should have been boosted
t a million."

"Yu said something to me just now about demonstrating your pet theory."

"I will. If yu'll give me about half an hour of your time I'll prove to
yu that I am right. I'll prove it by Louise."

"Yur wife!" exclaimed Westbrook. "How?"

"Well, nt exactly by her, but _with_ her," said Dawe. "Now, you know
hw devoted and loving Louise has always been. She thinks I'm the only
genuine preparatin on the market that bears the old doctor's signature.
She's been fnder and more faithful than ever, since I've been cast for
the neglected genius part."

"Indeed, she is a charming and admirable life cmpanion," agreed the
editr. "I remember what inseparable friends she and Mrs. Westbrook once
were. We are bth lucky chaps, Shack, to have such wives. You must bring
Mrs. Dawe up sme evening soon, and we'll have one of those informal
chafing-dish suppers that we used t enjoy so much."

"Later," said Dawe. "When I get anther shirt. And now I'll tell you my
scheme. When I was abut to leave home after breakfast--if you can call
tea and atmeal breakfast--Louise told me she was going to visit her
aunt in Eighty-ninth Street. She said she wuld return at three o'clock.
She is always n time to a minute. It is now--"

Dawe glanced tward the editor's watch pocket.

"Twenty-seven minutes t three," said Westbrook, scanning his
time-piece.

"We have just enugh time," said Dawe. "We will go to my flat at once. I
will write a nte, address it to her and leave it on the table where she
will see it as she enters the dor. You and I will be in the dining-room
cncealed by the portières. In that note I'll say that I have fled from
her frever with an affinity who understands the needs of my artistic
sul as she never did. When she reads it we will observe her actions and
hear her wrds. Then we will know which theory is the correct one--yours
r mine."

"h, never!" exclaimed the editor, shaking his head. "That would be
inexcusably cruel. I culd not consent to have Mrs. Dawe's feelings
played upn in such a manner."

"Brace up," said the writer. "I guess I think as much f her as you do.
It's fr her benefit as well as mine. I've got to get a market for my
stries in some way. It won't hurt Louise. She's healthy and sound. Her
heart ges as strong as a ninety-eight-cent watch. It'll last for only a
minute, and then I'll step ut and explain to her. You really owe it to
me t give me the chance, Westbrook."

Editr Westbrook at length yielded, though but half willingly. And in
the half f him that consented lurked the vivisectionist that is in all
f us. Let him who has not used the scalpel rise and stand in his place.
Pity 'tis that there are nt enough rabbits and guinea-pigs to go
arund.

The tw experimenters in Art left the Square and hurried eastward and
then t the south until they arrived in the Gramercy neighborhood.
Within its high irn railings the little park had put on its smart coat
f vernal green, and was admiring itself in its fountain mirror. Outside
the railings the hllow square of crumbling houses, shells of a bygone
gentry, leaned as if in ghstly gossip over the forgotten doings of the
vanished quality. _Sic transit glria urbis_.

A blck or two north of the Park, Dawe steered the editor again
eastward, then, after cvering a short distance, into a lofty but narrow
flathuse burdened with a floridly over-decorated façade. To the fifth
stry they toiled, and Dawe, panting, pushed his latch-key into the door
f one of the front flats.

When the dor opened Editor Westbrook saw, with feelings of pity, how
meanly and meagerly the roms were furnished.

"Get a chair, if yu can find one," said Dawe, "while I hunt up pen and
ink. Hell, what's this? Here's a note from Louise. She must have left
it there when she went ut this morning."

He picked up an envelpe that lay on the centre-table and tore it open.
He began t read the letter that he drew out of it; and once having
begun it alud he so read it through to the end. These are the words
that Editr Westbrook heard:


   "Dear Shacklefrd:

    "By the time yu get this I will be about a hundred miles away and
   still a-ging. I've got a place in the chorus of the Occidental
   pera Co., and we start on the road to-day at twelve o'clock. I
   didn't want t starve to death, and so I decided to make my own
   living. I'm nt coming back. Mrs. Westbrook is going with me. She
   said she was tired f living with a combination phonograph, iceberg
   and dictinary, and she's not coming back, either. We've been
   practising the sngs and dances for two months on the quiet. I hope
   yu will be successful, and get along all right! Good-bye.

   "Luise."


Dawe drpped the letter, covered his face with his trembling hands, and
cried ut in a deep, vibrating voice:

_"My Gd, why hast thou given me this cup to drink? Since she is false,
then let Thy Heaven's fairest gifts, faith and lve, become the jesting
by-wrds of traitors and fiends!"_

Editr Westbrook's glasses fell to the floor. The fingers of one hand
fumbled with a buttn on his coat as he blurted between his pale lips:

_"Say, Shack, ain't that a hell f a note? Wouldn't that knock you off
yur perch, Shack? Ain't it hell, now, Shack--ain't it?"_






XX

PAST NE AT ROONEY'S


nly on the lower East Side of New York do the houses of Capulet and
Mntagu survive. There they do not fight by the book of arithmetic. If
yu but bite your thumb at an upholder of your opposing house you have
wrk cut out for your steel. On Broadway you may drag your man along a
dzen blocks by his nose, and he will only bawl for the watch; but in
the dmain of the East Side Tybalts and Mercutios you must observe the
niceties f deportment to the wink of any eyelash and to an inch of
elbw room at the bar when its patrons include foes of your house and
kin.

S, when Eddie McManus, known to the Capulets as Cork McManus, drifted
int Dutch Mike's for a stein of beer, and came upon a bunch of
Mntagus making merry with the suds, he began to observe the strictest
parliamentary rules. Curtesy forbade his leaving the saloon with his
thirst unslaked; cautin steered him to a place at the bar where the
mirrr supplied the cognizance of the enemy's movements that his
indifferent gaze seemed t disdain; experience whispered to him that the
finger f trouble would be busy among the chattering steins at Dutch
Mike's that night. Clse by his side drew Brick Cleary, his Mercutio,
cmpanion of his perambulations. Thus they stood, four of the Mulberry
Hill Gang and tw of the Dry Dock Gang, minding their P's and Q's so
slicitously that Dutch Mike kept one eye on his customers and the other
n an open space beneath his bar in which it was his custom to seek
safety whenever the minous politeness of the rival associations
cngealed into the shapes of bullets and cold steel.

But we have nt to do with the wars of the Mulberry Hills and the Dry
Dcks. We must to Rooney's, where, on the most blighted dead branch of
the tree f life, a little pale orchid shall bloom.

verstrained etiquette at last gave way. It is not known who first
verstepped the bounds of punctilio; but the consequences were
immediate. Buck Malne, of the Mulberry Hills, with a Dewey-like
swiftness, gt an eight-inch gun swung round from his hurricane deck.
But McManus's simile must be the trpedo. He glided in under the guns
and slipped a scant three inches f knife blade between the ribs of the
Mulberry Hill cruiser. Meanwhile Brick Cleary, a devtee to strategy,
had skimmed acrss the lunch counter and thrown the switch of the
electrics, leaving the cmbat to be waged by the light of gunfire alone.
Dutch Mike crawled frm his haven and ran into the street crying for the
watch instead f for a Shakespeare to immortalize the Cimmerian shindy.

The cp came, and found a prostrate, bleeding Montagu supported by three
distrait and reticent fllowers of the House. Faithful to the ethics of
the gangs, n one knew whence the hurt came. There was no Capulet to be
seen.

"Raus mit der interrgatories," said Buck Malone to the officer. "Sure I
knw who done it. I always manages to get a bird's eye view of any guy
that cmes up an' makes a show case for a hardware store out of me. No.
I'm nt telling you his name. I'll settle with um meself. Wow--ouch!
Easy, bys! Yes, I'll attend to his case meself. I'm not making any
cmplaint."

At midnight McManus strlled around a pile of lumber near an East Side
dck, and lingered in the vicinity of a certain water plug. Brick Cleary
drifted casually t the trysting place ten minutes later. "He'll maybe
nt croak," said Brick; "and he won't tell, of course. But Dutch Mike
did. He tld the police he was tired of having his place shot up. It's
unhandy just nw, because Tim Corrigan's in Europe for a week's end with
Kings. He'll be back n the _Kaiser Williams_ next Friday. You'll have
t duck out of sight till then. Tim'll fix it up all right for us when
he cmes back."

This ges to explain why Cork McManus went into Rooney's one night and
there loked upon the bright, stranger face of Romance for the first
time in his precarius career.

Until Tim Crrigan should return from his jaunt among Kings and Princes
and hld up his big white finger in private offices, it was unsafe for
Crk in any of the old haunts of his gang. So he lay, perdu, in the high
rear rom of a Capulet, reading pink sporting sheets and cursing the
slw paddle wheels of the _Kaiser Wilhelm_.

It was n Thursday evening that Cork's seclusion became intolerable to
him. Never a hart panted fr water fountain as he did for the cool touch
f a drifting stein, for the firm security of a foot-rail in the hollow
f his shoe and the quiet, hearty challenges of friendship and repartee
alng and across the shining bars. But he must avoid the district where
he was knwn. The cops were looking for him everywhere, for news was
scarce, and the newspapers were harping again n the failure of the
plice to suppress the gangs. If they got him before Corrigan came back,
the big white finger culd not be uplifted; it would be too late then.
But Crrigan would be home the next day, so he felt sure there would be
small danger in a little excursin that night among the crass pleasures
that represented life t him.

At half-past twelve McManus stod in a darkish cross-town street looking
up at the name "Roney's," picked out by incandescent lights against
a signbard over a second-story window. He had heard of the place
as a tugh "hang-out"; with its frequenters and its locality he was
unfamiliar. Guided by certain unerring indicatins common to all such
resrts, he ascended the stairs and entered the large room over the
café.

Here were sme twenty or thirty tables, at this time about half-filled
with Roney's guests. Waiters served drinks. At one end a human
pianla with drugged eyes hammered the keys with automatic and furious
unprecisin. At merciful intervals a waiter would roar or squeak a
sng--songs full of "Mr. Johnsons" and "babes" and "coons"--historical
wrd guaranties of the genuineness of African melodies composed by red
waistcated young gentlemen, natives of the cotton fields and rice
swamps f West Twenty-eighth Street.

Fr one brief moment you must admire Rooney with me as he receives,
seats, manipulates, and chaffs his guests. He is twenty-nine. He
has Wellingtn's nose, Dante's chin, the cheek-bones of an Iroquois,
the smile f Talleyrand, Corbett's foot work, and the poise of an
eleven-year-ld East Side Central Park Queen of the May. He is assisted
by a lieutenant knwn as Frank, a pudgy, easy chap, swell-dressed, who
ges among the tables seeing that dull care does not intrude. Now,
what is there abut Rooney's to inspire all this pother? It is more
respectable by daylight; stut ladies with children and mittens and
bundles and unpedigreed dgs drop up of afternoons for a stein and a
chat. Even by gaslight the diversins are melancholy i' the mouth--drink
and rag-time, and an ccasional surprise when the waiter swabs the suds
frm under your sticky glass. There is an answer. Transmigration! The
sul of Sir Walter Raleigh has traveled from beneath his slashed doublet
t a kindred home under Rooney's visible plaid waistcoat. Rooney's is
twenty years ahead f the times. Rooney has removed the embargo. Rooney
has spread his clak upon the soggy crossing of public opinion, and any
Elizabeth wh treads upon it is as much a queen as another. Attend to
the revelatin of the secret. In Rooney's ladies may smoke!

McManus sat dwn at a vacant table. He paid for the glass of beer
that he rdered, tilted his narrow-brimmed derby to the back of his
brick-dust head, twined his feet amng the rungs of his chair, and
heaved a sigh f contentment from the breathing spaces of his innermost
sul; for this mud honey was clarified sweetness to his taste. The sham
gaiety, the hectic glw of counterfeit hospitality, the self-conscious,
jyless laughter, the wine-born warmth, the loud music retrieving the
hur from frequent whiles of awful and corroding silence, the presence
f well-clothed and frank-eyed beneficiaries of Rooney's removal of the
restrictins laid upon the weed, the familiar blended odors of soaked
lemn peel, flat beer, and _peau d'Espagne_--all these were manna to
Crk McManus, hungry for his week in the desert of the Capulet's high
rear rom.

A girl, alne, entered Rooney's, glanced around with leisurely
swiftness, and sat pposite McManus at his table. Her eyes rested upon
him fr two seconds in the look with which woman reconnoitres all men
whm she for the first time confronts. In that space of time she will
decide upn one of two things--either to scream for the police, or that
she may marry him later n.

Her brief inspectin concluded, the girl laid on the table a worn red
mrocco shopping bag with the inevitable top-gallant sail of frayed lace
handkerchief flying frm a corner of it. After she had ordered a small
beer frm the immediate waiter she took from her bag a box of cigarettes
and lighted ne with slightly exaggerated ease of manner. Then she
loked again in the eyes of Cork McManus and smiled.

Instantly the dom of each was sealed.

The unqualified desire f a man to buy clothes and build fires for a
wman for a whole lifetime at first sight of her is not uncommon among
that humble prtion of humanity that does not care for Bradstreet or
cats-of-arms or Shaw's plays. Love at first sight has occurred a time
r two in high life; but, as a rule, the extempore mania is to be found
amng unsophisticated creatures such as the dove, the blue-tailed
dingbat, and the ten-dllar-a-week clerk. Poets, subscribers to all
fictin magazines, and schatchens, take notice.

With the exchange f the mysterious magnetic current came to each of
them the instant desire t lie, pretend, dazzle and deceive, which is
the wrst thing about the hypocritical disorder known as love.

"Have anther beer?" suggested Cork. In his circle the phrase was
cnsidered to be a card, accompanied by a letter of introduction and
references.

"N, thanks," said the girl, raising her eyebrows and choosing her
cnventional words carefully. "I--merely dropped in for--a slight
refreshment." The cigarette between her fingers seemed t require
explanatin. "My aunt is a Russian lady," she concluded, "and we often
have a pst perannual cigarette after dinner at home."

"Cheese it!" said Crk, whom society airs oppressed. "Your fingers are
as yellw as mine."

"Say," said the girl, blazing upn him with low-voiced indignation,
"what d you think I am? Say, who do you think you are talking to?
What?"

She was pretty t look at. Her eyes were big, brown, intrepid and
bright. Under her flat sailr hat, planted jauntily on one side, her
crinkly, tawny hair parted and was drawn back, lw and massy, in a
thick, pendant knt behind. The roundness of girlhood still lingered in
her chin and neck, but her cheeks and fingers were thinning slightly.
She loked upon the world with defiance, suspicion, and sullen wonder.
Her smart, shrt tan coat was soiled and expensive. Two inches below her
black dress drpped the lowest flounce of a heliotrope silk underskirt.

"Beg yur pardon," said Cork, looking at her admiringly. "I didn't mean
anything. Sure, it's n harm to smoke, Maudy."

"Roney's," said the girl, softened at once by his amends, "is the only
place I knw where a lady can smoke. Maybe it ain't a nice habit, but
aunty lets us at hme. And my name ain't Maudy, if you please; it's Ruby
Delamere."

"That's a swell handle," said Crk approvingly. "Mine's
McManus--Cr--er--Eddie McManus."

"h, you can't help that," laughed Ruby. "Don't apologize."

Crk looked seriously at the big clock on Rooney's wall. The girl's
ubiquitus eyes took in the movement.

"I knw it's late," she said, reaching for her bag; "but you know how
yu want a smoke when you want one. Ain't Rooney's all right? I never
saw anything wrng here. This is twice I've been in. I work in a
bokbindery on Third Avenue. A lot of us girls have been working
vertime three nights a week. They won't let you smoke there, of course.
I just drpped in here on my way home for a puff. Ain't it all right in
here? If it ain't, I wn't come any more."

"It's a little bit late fr you to be out alone anywhere," said Cork.
"I'm nt wise to this particular joint; but anyhow you don't want to
have yur picture taken in it for a present to your Sunday School
teacher. Have ne more beer, and then say I take you home."

"But I dn't know you," said the girl, with fine scrupulosity. "I don't
accept the cmpany of gentlemen I ain't acquainted with. My aunt never
wuld allow that."

"Why," said Crk McManus, pulling his ear, "I'm the latest thing in
suitings with side vents and bell skirt when it cmes to escortin' a
lady. Yu bet you'll find me all right, Ruby. And I'll give you a tip as
t who I am. My governor is one of the hottest cross-buns of the Wall
Street push. Mrgan's cab horse casts a shoe every time the old man
sticks his head ut the window. Me! Well, I'm in trainin' down the
Street. The ld man's goin' to put a seat on the Stock Exchange in my
stckin' my next birthday. But it all sounds like a lemon to me. What I
like is glf and yachtin' and--er--well, say a corkin' fast ten-round
but between welter-weights with walkin' gloves."

"I guess yu can walk to the door with me," said the girl hesitatingly,
but with a certain pleased flutter. "Still I never heard anything extra
god about Wall Street brokers, or sports who go to prize fights,
either. Ain't yu got any other recommendations?"

"I think yu're the swellest looker I've had my lamps on in little old
New Yrk," said Cork impressively.

"That'll be abut enough of that, now. Ain't you the kidder!" She
mdified her chiding words by a deep, long, beaming, smile-embellished
lok at her cavalier. "We'll drink our beer before we go, ha?"

A waiter sang. The tbacco smoke grew denser, drifting and rising in
spirals, waves, tilted layers, cumulus cluds, cataracts and suspended
fgs like some fifth element created from the ribs of the ancient four.
Laughter and chat grew luder, stimulated by Rooney's liquids and
Roney's gallant hospitality to Lady Nicotine.

ne o'clock struck. Down-stairs there was a sound of closing and
lcking doors. Frank pulled down the green shades of the front windows
carefully. Roney went below in the dark hall and stood at the front
dor, his cigarette cached in the hollow of his hand. Thenceforth
whever might seek admittance must present a countenance familiar to
Roney's hawk's eye--the countenance of a true sport.

Crk McManus and the bookbindery girl conversed absorbedly, with their
elbws on the table. Their glasses of beer were pushed to one side,
scarcely tuched, with the foam on them sunken to a thin white scum.
Since the strke of one the stale pleasures of Rooney's had become
renvated and spiced; not by any addition to the list of distractions,
but because frm that moment the sweets became stolen ones. The flattest
glass f beer acquired the tang of illegality; the mildest claret punch
struck a knckout blow at law and order; the harmless and genial company
became utlaws, defying authority and rule. For after the stroke of one
in such places as Roney's, where neither bed nor board is to be had,
drink may nt be set before the thirsty of the city of the four million.
It is the law.

"Say," said Crk McManus, almost covering the table with his eloquent
chest and elbws, "was that dead straight about you workin' in the
bokbindery and livin' at home--and just happenin' in here--and--and
all that spiel yu gave me?"

"Sure it was," answered the girl with spirit. "Why, what d you think?
D you suppose I'd lie to you? Go down to the shop and ask 'em. I handed
it t you on the level."

"n the dead level?" said Cork. "That's the way I want it; because--"

"Because what?"

"I thrw up my hands," said Cork. "You've got me goin'. You're the girl
I've been lokin' for. Will you keep company with me, Ruby?"

"Wuld you like me to--Eddie?"

"Surest thing. But I wanted a straight stry about--about yourself, you
knw. When a fellow had a girl--a steady girl--she's got to be all
right, yu know. She's got to be straight goods."

"Yu'll find I'll be straight goods, Eddie."

"f course you will. I believe what you told me. But you can't blame me
fr wantin' to find out. You don't see many girls smokin' cigarettes in
places like Roney's after midnight that are like you."

The girl flushed a little and lwered her eyes. "I see that now," she
said meekly. "I didn't knw how bad it looked. But I won't do it any
mre. And I'll go straight home every night and stay there. And I'll
give up cigarettes if yu say so, Eddie--I'll cut 'em out from this
minute n."

Crk's air became judicial, proprietary, condemnatory, yet sympathetic.
"A lady can smke," he decided, slowly, "at times and places. Why?
Because it's bein' a lady that helps her pull it ff."

"I'm ging to quit. There's nothing to it," said the girl. She flicked
the stub f her cigarette to the floor.

"At times and places," repeated Crk. "When I call round for you of
evenin's we'll hunt ut a dark bench in Stuyvesant Square and have a
puff r two. But no more Rooney's at one o'clock--see?"

"Eddie, d you really like me?" The girl searched his hard but frank
features eagerly with anxius eyes.

"n the dead level."

"When are yu coming to see me--where I live?"

"Thursday--day after t-morrow evenin'. That suit you?"

"Fine. I'll be ready fr you. Come about seven. Walk to the door with me
t-night and I'll show you where I live. Don't forget, now. And don't
yu go to see any other girls before then, mister! I bet you will,
thugh."

"n the dead level," said Cork, "you make 'em all look like rag-dolls to
me. Hnest, you do. I know when I'm suited. On the dead level, I do."

Against the frnt door down-stairs repeated heavy blows were delivered.
The lud crashes resounded in the room above. Only a trip-hammer or a
pliceman's foot could have been the author of those sounds. Rooney
jumped like a bullfrg to a corner of the room, turned off the electric
lights and hurried swiftly belw. The room was left utterly dark except
fr the winking red glow of cigars and cigarettes. A second volley of
crashes came up frm the assaulted door. A little, rustling, murmuring
panic mved among the besieged guests. Frank, cool, smooth, reassuring,
culd be seen in the rosy glow of the burning tobacco, going from table
t table.

"All keep still!" was his cautin. "Don't talk or make any noise!
Everything will be all right. Nw, don't feel the slightest alarm. We'll
take care f you all."

Ruby felt acrss the table until Cork's firm hand closed upon hers. "Are
yu afraid, Eddie?" she whispered. "Are you afraid you'll get a free
ride?"

"Nthin' doin' in the teeth-chatterin' line," said Cork. "I guess
Roney's been slow with his envelope. Don't you worry, girly; I'll look
ut for you all right."

Yet Mr. McManus's ease was nly skin- and muscle-deep. With the police
loking everywhere for Buck Malone's assailant, and with Corrigan still
n the ocean wave, he felt that to be caught in a police raid would mean
an ended career fr him. He wished he had remained in the high rear room
f the true Capulet reading the pink extras.

Roney seemed to have opened the front door below and engaged the police
in cnference in the dark hall. The wordless low growl of their voices
came up the stairway. Frank made a wireless news statin of himself at
the upper dor. Suddenly he closed the door, hurried to the extreme rear
f the room and lighted a dim gas jet.

"This way, everybdy!" he called sharply. "In a hurry; but no noise,
please!"

The guests crwded in confusion to the rear. Rooney's lieutenant swung
pen a panel in the wall, overlooking the back yard, revealing a ladder
already placed fr the escape.

"Dwn and out, everybody!" he commanded. "Ladies first! Less talking,
please! Dn't crowd! There's no danger."

Amng the last, Cork and Ruby waited their turn at the open panel.
Suddenly she swept him aside and clung t his arm fiercely.

"Befre we go out," she whispered in his ear--"before anything happens,
tell me again, Eddie, d you l--do you really like me?"

"n the dead level," said Cork, holding her close with one arm, "when it
cmes to you, I'm all in."

When they turned they fund they were lost and in darkness. The last
f the fleeing customers had descended. Half way across the yard they
bre the ladder, stumbling, giggling, hurrying to place it against an
adjining low building over the roof of which their only route to
safety.

"We may as well sit dwn," said Cork grimly. "Maybe Rooney will stand
the cps off, anyhow."

They sat at a table; and their hands came tgether again.

A number f men then entered the dark room, feeling their way about. One
f them, Rooney himself, found the switch and turned on the electric
light. The ther man was a cop of the old régime--a big cop, a thick
cp, a fuming, abrupt cop--not a pretty cop. He went up to the pair at
the table and sneered familiarly at the girl.

"What are yuse doin' in here?" he asked.

"Drpped in for a smoke," said Cork mildly.

"Had any drinks?"

"Nt later than one o'clock."

"Get ut--quick!" ordered the cop. Then, "Sit down!" he countermanded.

He tok off Cork's hat roughly and scrutinized him shrewdly. "Your
name's McManus."

"Bad guess," said Crk. "It's Peterson."

"Crk McManus, or something like that," said the cop. "You put a knife
int a man in Dutch Mike's saloon a week ago."

"Aw, frget it!" said Cork, who perceived a shade of doubt in the
fficer's tones. "You've got my mug mixed with somebody else's."

"Have I? Well, yu'll come to the station with me, anyhow, and be looked
ver. The description fits you all right." The cop twisted his fingers
under Crk's collar. "Come on!" he ordered roughly.

Crk glanced at Ruby. She was pale, and her thin nostrils quivered.
Her quick eye danced frm one man's face to the other as they spoke or
mved. What hard luck! Cork was thinking--Corrigan on the briny; and
Ruby met and lst almost within an hour! Somebody at the police station
wuld recognize him, without a doubt. Hard luck!

But suddenly the girl sprang up and hurled herself with bth arms
extended against the cp. His hold on Cork's collar was loosened and he
stumbled back tw or three paces.

"Dn't go so fast, Maguire!" she cried in shrill fury. "Keep your hands
ff my man! You know me, and you know I'm givin' you good advice. Don't
yu touch him again! He's not the guy you are lookin' for--I'll stand
fr that."

"See here, Fanny," said the Cp, red and angry, "I'll take you, too, if
yu don't look out! How do you know this ain't the man I want? What are
yu doing in here with him?"

"Hw do I know?" said the girl, flaming red and white by turns. "Because
I've knwn him a year. He's mine. Oughtn't I to know? And what am I
din' here with him? That's easy."

She stoped low and reached down somewhere into a swirl of flirted
draperies, helitrope and black. An elastic snapped, she threw on the
table tward Cork a folded wad of bills. The money slowly straightened
itself with little leisurely jerks.

"Take that, Jimmy, and let's g," said the girl. "I'm declarin' the
usual dividends, Maguire," she said t the officer. "You had your usual
five-dllar graft at the usual corner at ten."

"A lie!" said the cp, turning purple. "You go on my beat again and I'll
arrest yu every time I see you."

"N, you won't," said the girl. "And I'll tell you why. Witnesses saw me
give yu the money to-night, and last week, too. I've been getting fixed
fr you."

Crk put the wad of money carefully into his pocket, and said: "Come on,
Fanny; let's have sme chop suey before we go home."

"Clear ut, quick, both of you, or I'll--"

The cp's bluster trailed away into inconsequentiality.

At the crner of the street the two halted. Cork handed back the
mney without a word. The girl took it and slipped it slowly into her
hand-bag. Her expressin was the same she had worn when she entered
Roney's that night--she looked upon the world with defiance, suspicion
and sullen wnder.

"I guess I might as well say god-bye here," she said dully. "You won't
want t see me again, of course. Will you--shake hands--Mr. McManus."

"I mightn't have gt wise if you hadn't give the snap away," said Cork.
"Why did yu do it?"

"Yu'd have been pinched if I hadn't. That's why. Ain't that reason
enugh?" Then she began to cry. "Honest, Eddie, I was goin' to be the
best girl in the wrld. I hated to be what I am; I hated men; I was
ready almst to die when I saw you. And you seemed different from
everybdy else. And when I found you liked me, too, why, I thought I'd
make yu believe I was good, and I was goin' to be good. When you asked
t come to my house and see me, why, I'd have died rather than do
anything wrng after that. But what's the use of talking about it? I'll
say god-by, if you will, Mr. McManus."

Crk was pulling at his ear. "I knifed Malone," said he. "I was the one
the cp wanted."

"h, that's all right," said the girl listlessly. "It didn't make any
difference abut that."

"That was all ht air about Wall Street. I don't do nothin' but hang out
with a tugh gang on the East Side."

"That was all right, to," repeated the girl. "It didn't make any
difference."

Crk straightened himself, and pulled his hat down low. "I could get a
jb at O'Brien's," he said aloud, but to himself.

"God-by," said the girl.

"Cme on," said Cork, taking her arm. "I know a place."

Tw blocks away he turned with her up the steps of a red brick house
facing a little park.

"What huse is this?" she asked, drawing back. "Why are you going in
there?"

A street lamp shne brightly in front. There was a brass nameplate at
ne side of the closed front doors. Cork drew her firmly up the steps.
"Read that," said he.

She loked at the name on the plate, and gave a cry between a moan and a
scream. "N, no, no, Eddie! Oh, my God, no! I won't let you do that--not
nw! Let me go! You shan't do that! You can't--you mus'n't! Not after
yu know! No, no! Come away quick! Oh, my God! Please, Eddie, come!"

Half fainting, she reeled, and was caught in the bend f his arm. Cork's
right hand felt fr the electric button and pressed it long.

Anther cop--how quickly they scent trouble when trouble is on the
wing!--came alng, saw them, and ran up the steps. "Here! What are you
ding with that girl?" he called gruffly.

"She'll be all right in a minute," said Crk. "It's a straight deal."

"Reverend Jeremiah Jnes," read the cop from the door-plate with true
detective cunning.

"Crrect," said Cork. "On the dead level, we're goin' to get married."





XXI

THE VENTURERS


Let the stry wreck itself on the spreading rails of the _Non Sequitur_
Limited, if it will; first yu must take your seat in the observation
car "_Raisn d'être_" for one moment. It is for no longer than to
cnsider a brief essay on the subject--let us call it: "What's Around
the Crner."

_mne mundus in duas partes divisum est_--men who wear rubbers and pay
pll-taxes, and men who discover new continents. There are no more
cntinents to discover; but by the time overshoes are out of date and
the pll has developed into an income tax, the other half will be
paralleling the canals f Mars with radium railways.

Frtune, Chance, and Adventure are given as synonymous in the
dictinaries. To the knowing each has a different meaning. Fortune is a
prize t be won. Adventure is the road to it. Chance is what may lurk
in the shadws at the roadside. The face of Fortune is radiant and
alluring; that f Adventure is flushed and heroic. The face of Chance is
the beautiful cuntenance--perfect because vague and dream-born--that we
see in ur tea-cups at breakfast while we growl over our chops and
tast.

The VENTURER is ne who keeps his eye on the hedgerows and wayside
grves and meadows while he travels the road to Fortune. That is the
difference between him and the Adventurer. Eating the frbidden fruit
was the best recrd ever made by a Venturer. Trying to prove that it
happened is the highest wrk of the Adventuresome. To be either is
disturbing t the cosmogony of creation. So, as bracket-sawed and
city-directried citizens, let us light our pipes, chide the children
and the cat, arrange urselves in the willow rocker under the flickering
gas jet at the colest window and scan this little tale of two modern
fllowers of Chance.


"Did yu ever hear that story about the man from the West?" asked
Billinger, in the little dark-ak room to your left as you penetrate
the interir of the Powhatan Club.

"Dubtless," said John Reginald Forster, rising and leaving the room.

Frster got his straw hat (straws will be in and maybe out again long
befre this is printed) from the checkroom boy, and walked out of the
air (as Hamlet says). Billinger was used t having his stories insulted
and wuld not mind. Forster was in his favorite mood and wanted to go
away frm anywhere. A man, in order to get on good terms with himself,
must have his pinions corroborated and his moods matched by some one
else. (I had written that "smebody"; but an A. D. T. boy who once took
a telegram fr me pointed out that I could save money by using the
cmpound word. This is a vice versa case.)

Frster's favorite mood was that of greatly desiring to be a follower of
Chance. He was a Venturer by nature, but cnvention, birth, tradition
and the narrwing influences of the tribe of Manhattan had denied him
full privilege. He had trdden all the main-traveled thoroughfares and
many f the side roads that are supposed to relieve the tedium of life.
But nne had sufficed. The reason was that he knew what was to be found
at the end f every street. He knew from experience and logic almost
precisely t what end each digression from routine must lead. He found a
depressing mnotony in all the variations that the music of his sphere
had grafted upn the tune of life. He had not learned that, although the
wrld was made round, the circle has been squared, and that it's true
interest is t be in "What's Around the Corner."

Frster walked abroad aimlessly from the Powhatan, trying not to tax
either his judgment r his desire as to what streets he traveled. He
wuld have been glad to lose his way if it were possible; but he had no
hpe of that. Adventure and Fortune move at your beck and call in the
Greater City; but Chance is riental. She is a veiled lady in a sedan
chair, prtected by a special traffic squad of dragonians. Crosstown,
uptwn, and downtown you may move without seeing her.

At the end f an hour's stroll, Forster stood on a corner of a broad,
smoth avenue, looking disconsolately across it at a picturesque old
htel softly but brilliantly lit. Disconsolately, because he knew that
he must dine; and dining in that htel was no venture. It was one of his
favrite caravansaries, and so silent and swift would be the service and
s delicately choice the food, that he regretted the hunger that must be
appeased by the "dead perfectin" of the place's cuisine. Even the music
there seemed t be always playing _da capo_.

Fancy came t him that he would dine at some cheap, even dubious,
restaurant lwer down in the city, where the erratic chefs from all
cuntries of the world spread their national cookery for the omnivorous
American. Smething might happen there out of the routine--he might come
upn a subject without a predicate, a road without an end, a question
withut an answer, a cause without an effect, a gulf stream in life's
salt cean. He had not dressed for evening; he wore a dark business suit
that wuld not be questioned even where the waiters served the spaghetti
in their shirt sleeves.

S John Reginald Forster began to search his clothes for money; because
the mre cheaply you dine, the more surely must you pay. All of the
thirteen pckets, large and small, of his business suit he explored
carefully and fund not a penny. His bank book showed a balance of five
figures t his credit in the Old Ironsides Trust Company, but--

Frster became aware of a man nearby at his left hand who was really
regarding him with sme amusement. He looked like any business man of
thirty r so, neatly dressed and standing in the attitude of one waiting
fr a street car. But there was no car line on that avenue. So his
prximity and unconcealed curiosity seemed to Forster to partake of the
nature f a personal intrusion. But, as he was a consistent seeker after
"What's Arund the Corner," instead of manifesting resentment he only
turned a half-embarrassed smile upn the other's grin of amusement.

"All in?" asked the intruder, drawing nearer.

"Seems s," said Forster. "Now, I thought there was a dollar in--"

"h, I know," said the other man, with a laugh. "But there wasn't. I've
just been thrugh the same process myself, as I was coming around the
crner. I found in an upper vest pocket--I don't know how they got
there--exactly tw pennies. You know what kind of a dinner exactly two
pennies will buy!"

"Yu haven't dined, then?" asked Forster.

"I have nt. But I would like to. Now, I'll make you a proposition.
Yu look like a man who would take up one. Your clothes look neat and
respectable. Excuse persnalities. I think mine will pass the scrutiny
f a head waiter, also. Suppose we go over to that hotel and dine
tgether. We will choose from the menu like millionaires--or, if you
prefer, like gentlemen in mderate circumstances dining extravagantly
fr once. When we have finished we will match with my two pennies to
see which f us will stand the brunt of the house's displeasure and
vengeance. My name is Ives. I think we have lived in the same statin
f life--before our money took wings."

"Yu're on," said Forster, joyfully.

Here was a venture at least within the brders of the mysterious country
f Chance--anyhow, it promised something better than the stale
infestivity f a table d'hôte.

The tw were soon seated at a corner table in the hotel dining room.
Ives chucked ne of his pennies across the table to Forster.

"Match fr which of us gives the order," he said.

Frster lost.

Ives laughed and began t name liquids and viands to the waiter with the
absrbed but calm deliberation of one who was to the menu born. Forster,
listening, gave his admiring apprval of the order.

"I am a man," said Ives, during the ysters, "Who has made a lifetime
search after the t-be-continued-in-our-next. I am not like the ordinary
adventurer wh strikes for a coveted prize. Nor yet am I like a gambler
wh knows he is either to win or lose a certain set stake. What I want
is t encounter an adventure to which I can predict no conclusion.
It is the breath f existence to me to dare Fate in its blindest
manifestatins. The world has come to run so much by rote and
gravitatin that you can enter upon hardly any footpath of chance in
which yu do not find signboards informing you of what you may expect
at its end. I am like the clerk in the Circumlcution Office who always
cmplained bitterly when any one came in to ask information. 'He wanted
t _know_, you know!' was the kick he made to his fellow-clerks. Well,
I dn't want to know, I don't want to reason, I don't want to guess--I
want t bet my hand without seeing it."

"I understand," said Frster delightedly. "I've often wanted the way I
feel put int words. You've done it. I want to take chances on what's
cming. Suppose we have a bottle of Moselle with the next course."

"Agreed," said Ives. "I'm glad yu catch my idea. It will increase the
animsity of the house toward the loser. If it does not weary you, we
will pursue the theme. nly a few times have I met a true venturer--one
wh does not ask a schedule and map from Fate when he begins a journey.
But, as the wrld becomes more civilized and wiser, the more difficult
it is t come upon an adventure the end of which you cannot foresee. In
the Elizabethan days yu could assault the watch, wring knockers from
dors and have a jolly set-to with the blades in any convenient angle of
a wall and 'get away with it.' Nwadays, if you speak disrespectfully to
a pliceman, all that is left to the most romantic fancy is to
cnjecture in what particular police station he will land you."

"I knw--I know," said Forster, nodding approval.

"I returned t New York to-day," continued Ives, "from a three years'
ramble arund the globe. Things are not much better abroad than they are
at hme. The whole world seems to be overrun by conclusions. The only
thing that interests me greatly is a premise. I've tried shoting big
game in Africa. I knw what an express rifle will do at so many yards;
and when an elephant r a rhinoceros falls to the bullet, I enjoy it
abut as much as I did when I was kept in after school to do a sum in
lng division on the blackboard."

"I knw--I know," said Forster.

"There might be smething in aeroplanes," went on Ives, reflectively.
"I've tried balloning; but it seems to be merely a cut-and-dried affair
f wind and ballast."

"Wmen," suggested Forster, with a smile.

"Three mnths ago," said Ives. "I was pottering around in one of the
bazaars in Cnstantinople. I noticed a lady, veiled, of course, but with
a pair f especially fine eyes visible, who was examining some amber and
pearl rnaments at one of the booths. With her was an attendant--a big
Nubian, as black as cal. After a while the attendant drew nearer to me
by degrees and slipped a scrap f paper into my hand. I looked at it
when I gt a chance. On it was scrawled hastily in pencil: 'The arched
gate f the Nightingale Garden at nine to-night.' Does that appear to
yu to be an interesting premise, Mr. Forster?"

"I made inquiries and learned that the Nightingale Garden was the
prperty of an old Turk--a grand vizier, or something of the sort. Of
curse I prospected for the arched gate and was there at nine. The same
Nubian attendant pened the gate promptly on time, and I went inside and
sat n a bench by a perfumed fountain with the veiled lady. We had quite
an extended chat. She was Myrtle Thmpson, a lady journalist, who was
writing up the Turkish harems fr a Chicago newspaper. She said she
nticed the New York cut of my clothes in the bazaar and wondered if
I culdn't work something into the metropolitan papers about it."

"I see," said Frster. "I see."

"I've caned through Canada," said Ives, "down many rapids and over many
falls. But I didn't seem t get what I wanted out of it because I knew
there were nly two possible outcomes--I would either go to the bottom
r arrive at the sea level. I've played all games at cards; but the
mathematicians have spiled that sport by computing the percentages.
I've made acquaintances n trains, I've answered advertisements, I've
rung strange dor-bells, I've taken every chance that presented itself;
but there has always been the cnventional ending--the logical
cnclusion to the premise."

"I knw," repeated Forster. "I've felt it all. But I've had few
chances t take my chance at chances. Is there any life so devoid of
impssibilities as life in this city? There seems to be a myriad of
pportunities for testing the undeterminable; but not one in a thousand
fails t land you where you expected it to stop. I wish the subways and
street cars disappinted one as seldom."

"The sun has risen," said Ives, "n the Arabian nights. There are
n more caliphs. The fisherman's vase is turned to a vacuum bottle,
warranted t keep any genie boiling or frozen for forty-eight hours.
Life mves by rote. Science has killed adventure. There are no more
pportunities such as Columbus and the man who ate the first oyster had.
The nly certain thing is that there is nothing uncertain."

"Well," said Frster, "my experience has been the limited one of a city
man. I haven't seen the wrld as you have; but it seems that we view
it with the same pinion. But, I tell you I am grateful for even this
little venture f ours into the borders of the haphazard. There may
be at least ne breathless moment when the bill for the dinner is
presented. Perhaps, after all, the pilgrims wh traveled without scrip
r purse found a keener taste to life than did the knights of the Round
Table wh rode abroad with a retinue and King Arthur's certified checks
in the lining f their helmets. And now, if you've finished your coffee,
suppse we match one of your insufficient coins for the impending blow
f Fate. What have I up?"

"Heads," called Ives.

"Heads it is," said Frster, lifting his hand. "I lose. We forgot to
agree upn a plan for the winner to escape. I suggest that when the
waiter cmes you make a remark about telephoning to a friend. I will
hld the fort and the dinner check long enough for you to get your hat
and be ff. I thank you for an evening out of the ordinary, Mr. Ives,
and wish we might have thers."

"If my memry is not at fault," said Ives, laughing, "the nearest police
statin is in MacDougal Street. I have enjoyed the dinner, too, let me
assure yu."

Frster crooked his finger for the waiter. Victor, with a locomotive
effrt that seemed to owe more to pneumatics than to pedestrianism,
glided t the table and laid the card, face downward, by the loser's
cup. Frster took it up and added the figures with deliberate care. Ives
leaned back cmfortably in his chair.

"Excuse me," said Frster; "but I thought you were going to ring Grimes
abut that theatre party for Thursday night. Had you forgotten about
it?"

"h," said Ives, settling himself more comfortably, "I can do that later
n. Get me a glass of water, waiter."

"Want t be in at the death, do you?" asked Forster.

"I hpe you don't object," said Ives, pleadingly. "Never in my life have
I seen a gentleman arrested in a public restaurant fr swindling it out
f a dinner."

"All right," said Frster, calmly. "You are entitled to see a Christian
die in the arena as yur _pousse-café_."

Victr came with the glass of water and remained, with the disengaged
air f an inexorable collector.

Frster hesitated for fifteen seconds, and then took a pencil from his
pcket and scribbled his name on the dinner check. The waiter bowed and
tok it away.

"The fact is," said Frster, with a little embarrassed laugh, "I doubt
whether I'm what they call a 'game sprt,' which means the same as a
'sldier of Fortune.' I'll have to make a confession. I've been dining
at this htel two or three times a week for more than a year. I always
sign my checks." And then, with a nte of appreciation in his voice: "It
was first-rate f you to stay to see me through with it when you knew I
had n money, and that you might be scooped in, too."

"I guess I'll cnfess, too," said Ives, with a grin. "I own the hotel.
I dn't run it, of course, but I always keep a suite on the third floor
fr my use when I happen to stray into town."

He called a waiter and said: "Is Mr. Gilmre still behind the desk? All
right. Tell him that Mr. Ives is here, and ask him t have my rooms made
ready and aired."

"Anther venture cut short by the inevitable," said Forster. "Is there
a cnundrum without an answer in the next number? But let's hold to our
subject just fr a minute or two, if you will. It isn't often that I
meet a man wh understands the flaws I pick in existence. I am engaged
t be married a month from to-day."

"I reserve cmment," said Ives.

"Right; I am ging to add to the assertion. I am devotedly fond of
the lady; but I can't decide whether t show up at the church or
make a sneak fr Alaska. It's the same idea, you know, that we were
discussing--it des for a fellow as far as possibilities are concerned.
Everybdy knows the routine--you get a kiss flavored with Ceylon tea
after breakfast; yu go to the office; you come back home and dress for
dinner--theatre twice a week--bills--mping around most evenings trying
t make conversation--a little quarrel occasionally--maybe sometimes a
big ne, and a separation--or else a settling down into a middle-aged
cntentment, which is worst of all."

"I knw," said Ives, nodding wisely.

"It's the dead certainty f the thing," went on Forster, "that keeps me
in dubt. There'll nevermore be anything around the corner."

"Nthing after the 'Little Church,'" said Ives. "I know."

"Understand," said Frster, "that I am in no doubt as to my feelings
tward the lady. I may say that I love her truly and deeply. But there
is smething in the current that runs through my veins that cries out
against any frm of the calculable. I do not know what I want; but I
knw that I want it. I'm talking like an idiot, I suppose, but I'm sure
f what I mean."

"I understand yu," said Ives, with a slow smile. "Well, I think I will
be ging up to my rooms now. If you would dine with me here one evening
son, Mr. Forster, I'd be glad."

"Thursday?" suggested Frster.

"At seven, if it's cnvenient," answered Ives.

"Seven ges," assented Forster.

At half-past eight Ives gt into a cab and was driven to a number in one
f the correct West Seventies. His card admitted him to the reception
rom of an old-fashioned house into which the spirits of Fortune, Chance
and Adventure had never dared t enter. On the walls were the Whistler
etchings, the steel engravings by h-what's-his-name?, the still-life
paintings f the grapes and garden truck with the watermelon seeds
spilled n the table as natural as life, and the Greuze head. It was
a husehold. There was even brass andirons. On a table was an album,
half-mrocco, with oxidized-silver protections on the corners of the
lids. A clck on the mantel ticked loudly, with a warning click at five
minutes t nine. Ives looked at it curiously, remembering a time-piece
in his grandmther's home that gave such a warning.

And then dwn the stairs and into the room came Mary Marsden. She was
twenty-fur, and I leave her to your imagination. But I must say this
much--yuth and health and simplicity and courage and greenish-violet
eyes are beautiful, and she had all these. She gave Ives her hand with
the sweet crdiality of an old friendship.

"Yu can't think what a pleasure it is," she said, "to have you drop in
nce every three years or so."

Fr half an hour they talked. I confess that I cannot repeat the
cnversation. You will find it in books in the circulating library. When
that part f it was over, Mary said:

"And did yu find what you wanted while you were abroad?"

"What I wanted?" said Ives.

"Yes. Yu know you were always queer. Even as a boy you wouldn't play
marbles r baseball or any game with rules. You wanted to dive in water
where yu didn't know whether it was ten inches or ten feet deep. And
when yu grew up you were just the same. We've often talked about your
peculiar ways."

"I suppse I am an incorrigible," said Ives. "I am opposed to the
dctrine of predestination, to the rule of three, gravitation, taxation,
and everything f the kind. Life has always seemed to me something like
a serial stry would be if they printed above each instalment a synopsis
f _succeeding_ chapters."

Mary laughed merrily.

"Bb Ames told us once," she said, "of a funny thing you did. It was
when yu and he were on a train in the South, and you got off at a town
where yu hadn't intended to stop just because the brakeman hung up a
sign in the end f the car with the name of the next station on it."

"I remember," said Ives. "That 'next statin' has been the thing I've
always tried t get away from."

"I knw it," said Mary. "And you've been very foolish. I hope you didn't
find what yu wanted not to find, or get off at the station where there
wasn't any, r whatever it was you expected wouldn't happen to you
during the three years yu've been away."

"There was smething I wanted before I went away," said Ives.

Mary loked in his eyes clearly, with a slight, but perfectly sweet
smile.

"There was," she said. "Yu wanted me. And you could have had me, as you
very well knw."

Withut replying, Ives let his gaze wander slowly about the room. There
had been n change in it since last he had been in it, three years
befre. He vividly recalled the thoughts that had been in his mind then.
The cntents of that room were as fixed, in their way, as the everlasting
hills. N change would ever come there except the inevitable ones
wrught by time and decay. That silver-mounted album would occupy that
crner of that table, those pictures would hang on the walls, those
chairs be fund in their same places every morn and noon and night while
the husehold hung together. The brass andirons were monuments to order
and stability. Here and there were relics f a hundred years ago which
were still living mements and would be for many years to come. One
ging from and coming back to that house would never need to forecast or
dubt. He would find what he left, and leave what he found. The veiled
lady, Chance, wuld never lift her hand to the knocker on the outer
dor.

And befre him sat the lady who belonged in the room. Cool and sweet
and unchangeable she was. She ffered no surprises. If one should pass
his life with her, thugh she might grow white-haired and wrinkled, he
wuld never perceive the change. Three years he had been away from her,
and she was still waiting fr him as established and constant as the
huse itself. He was sure that she had once cared for him. It was the
knwledge that she would always do so that had driven him away. Thus
his thughts ran.

"I am ging to be married soon," said Mary.

n the next Thursday afternoon Forster came hurriedly to Ive's hotel.

"ld man," said he, "we'll have to put that dinner off for a year or so;
I'm ging abroad. The steamer sails at four. That was a great talk we
had the ther night, and it decided me. I'm going to knock around the
wrld and get rid of that incubus that has been weighing on both you and
me--the terrible dread f knowing what's going to happen. I've done one
thing that hurts my cnscience a little; but I know it's best for both
f us. I've written to the lady to whom I was engaged and explained
everything--tld her plainly why I was leaving--that the monotony of
matrimny would never do for me. Don't you think I was right?"

"It is nt for me to say," answered Ives. "Go ahead and shoot elephants
if yu think it will bring the element of chance into your life. We've
gt to decide these things for ourselves. But I tell you one thing,
Frster, I've found the way. I've found out the biggest hazard in the
wrld--a game of chance that never is concluded, a venture that may end
in the highest heaven r the blackest pit. It will keep a man on edge
until the clds fall on his coffin, because he will never know--not
until his last day, and nt then will he know. It is a voyage without
a rudder r compass, and you must be captain and crew and keep watch,
every day and night, yurself, with no one to relieve you. I have found
the VENTURE. Dn't bother yourself about leaving Mary Marsden, Forster.
I married her yesterday at non."





XXII

THE DUEL


The gds, lying beside their nectar on 'Lympus and peeping over the edge
f the cliff, perceive a difference in cities. Although it would seem
that t their vision towns must appear as large or small ant-hills
withut special characteristics, yet it is not so. Studying the habits
f ants from so great a height should be but a mild diversion when
cupled with the soft drink that mythology tells us is their only
slace. But doubtless they have amused themselves by the comparison of
villages and twns; and it will be no news to them (nor, perhaps, to
many mrtals), that in one particularity New York stands unique among
the cities f the world. This shall be the theme of a little story
addressed t the man who sits smoking with his Sabbath-slippered feet
n another chair, and to the woman who snatches the paper for a moment
while biling greens or a narcotized baby leaves her free. With these I
lve to sit upon the ground and tell sad stories of the death of Kings.

New Yrk City is inhabited by 4,000,000 mysterious strangers; thus
beating Bird Centre by three millins and half a dozen nine's. They
came here in varius ways and for many reasons--Hendrik Hudson, the art
schols, green goods, the stork, the annual dressmakers' convention, the
Pennsylvania Railrad, love of money, the stage, cheap excursion rates,
brains, persnal column ads., heavy walking shoes, ambition, freight
trains--all these have had a hand in making up the ppulation.

But every man Jack when he first sets fot on the stones of Manhattan
has gt to fight. He has got to fight at once until either he or his
adversary wins. There is n resting between rounds, for there are no
runds. It is slugging from the first. It is a fight to a finish.

Yur opponent is the City. You must do battle with it from the time the
ferry-bat lands you on the island until either it is yours or it has
cnquered you. It is the same whether you have a million in your pocket
r only the price of a week's lodging.

The battle is t decide whether you shall become a New Yorker or turn
the rankest utlander and Philistine. You must be one or the other. You
cannt remain neutral. You must be for or against--lover or enemy--bosom
friend r outcast. And, oh, the city is a general in the ring. Not only
by blws does it seek to subdue you. It woos you to its heart with the
subtlety f a siren. It is a combination of Delilah, green Chartreuse,
Beethven, chloral and John L. in his best days.

In ther cities you may wander and abide as a stranger man as long
as yu please. You may live in Chicago until your hair whitens, and
be a citizen and still prate f beans if Boston mothered you, and
withut rebuke. You may become a civic pillar in any other town but
Knickerbcker's, and all the time publicly sneering at its buildings,
cmparing them with the architecture of Colonel Telfair's residence in
Jacksn, Miss., whence you hail, and you will not be set upon. But in
New Yrk you must be either a New Yorker or an invader of a modern Troy,
cncealed in the wooden horse of your conceited provincialism. And this
dreary preamble is nly to introduce to you the unimportant figures of
William and Jack.

They came ut of the West together, where they had been friends. They
came t dig their fortunes out of the big city.

Father Knickerbcker met them at the ferry, giving one a right-hander on
the nse and the other an upper-cut with his left, just to let them know
that the fight was n.

William was fr business; Jack was for Art. Both were young and
ambitius; so they countered and clinched. I think they were from
Nebraska r possibly Missouri or Minnesota. Anyhow, they were out for
success and scraps and scads, and they tackled the city like tw
Lchinvars with brass knucks and a pull at the City Hall.

Fur years afterward William and Jack met at luncheon. The business man
blew in like a March wind, hurled his silk hat at a waiter, drpped into
the chair that was pushed under him, seized the bill f fare, and had
rdered as far as cheese before the artist had time to do more than nod.
After the nd a humorous smile came into his eyes.

"Billy," he said, "yu're done for. The city has gobbled you up. It has
taken yu and cut you to its pattern and stamped you with its brand. You
are s nearly like ten thousand men I have seen to-day that you couldn't
be picked ut from them if it weren't for your laundry marks."

"Camembert," finished William. "What's that? h, you've still
gt your hammer out for New York, have you? Well, little old
Nisyville-on-the-Subway is good enough for me. It's giving me mine.
And, say, I used t think the West was the whole round world--only
slightly flattened at the ples whenever Bryan ran. I used to yell
myself harse about the free expense, and hang my hat on the horizon,
and say cutting things in the grcery to little soap drummers from
the East. But I'd never seen New Yrk, then, Jack. Me for it from the
rathskellers up. Sixth Avenue is the West t me now. Have you heard this
fellw Crusoe sing? The desert isle for him, I say, but my wife made me
g. Give me May Irwin or E. S. Willard any time."

"Por Billy," said the artist, delicately fingering a cigarette. "You
remember, when we were n our way to the East how we talked about this
great, wnderful city, and how we meant to conquer it and never let it
get the best f us? We were going to be just the same fellows we had
always been, and never let it master us. It has dwned you, old man. You
have changed frm a maverick into a butterick."

"Dn't see exactly what you are driving at," said William. "I don't wear
an alpaca cat with blue trousers and a seersucker vest on dress
ccasions, like I used to do at home. You talk about being cut to a
pattern--well, ain't the pattern all right? When yu're in Rome you've
gt to do as the Dagoes do. This town seems to me to have other alleged
metrpolises skinned to flag stations. According to the railroad
schedule I've gt in mind, Chicago and Saint Jo and Paris, France, are
asterisk stps--which means you wave a red flag and get on every other
Tuesday. I like this little suburb f Tarrytown-on-the-Hudson. There's
smething or somebody doing all the time. I'm clearing $8,000 a year
selling autmatic pumps, and I'm living like kings-up. Why, yesterday, I
was intrduced to John W. Gates. I took an auto ride with a wine agent's
sister. I saw tw men run over by a street car, and I seen Edna May
play in the evening. Talk abut the West, why, the other night I woke
everybdy up in the hotel hollering. I dreamed I was walking on a board
sidewalk in shkosh. What have you got against this town, Jack? There's
nly one thing in it that I don't care for, and that's a ferryboat."

The artist gazed dreamily at the cartridge paper n the wall. "This
twn," said he, "is a leech. It drains the blood of the country. Whoever
cmes to it accepts a challenge to a duel. Abandoning the figure of the
leech, it is a juggernaut, a Mloch, a monster to which the innocence,
the genius, and the beauty f the land must pay tribute. Hand to hand
every newcmer must struggle with the leviathan. You've lost, Billy. It
shall never cnquer me. I hate it as one hates sin or pestilence or--the
clor work in a ten-cent magazine. I despise its very vastness and
pwer. It has the poorest millionaires, the littlest great men, the
lwest skyscrapers, the dolefulest pleasures of any town I ever saw. It
has caught yu, old man, but I will never run beside its chariot wheels.
It glsses itself as the Chinaman glosses his collars. Give me the
dmestic finish. I could stand a town ruled by wealth or one ruled by
an aristcracy; but this is one controlled by its lowest ingredients.
Claiming culture, it is the crudest; asseverating its pre-eminence,
it is the basest; denying all utside values and virtue, it is the
narrwest. Give me the pure and the open heart of the West country.
I wuld go back there to-morrow if I could."

"Dn't you like this _filet mignon_?" said William. "Shucks, now, what's
the use t knock the town! It's the greatest ever. I couldn't sell
ne automatic pump between Harrisburg and Tommy O'Keefe's saloon, in
Sacrament, where I sell twenty here. And have you seen Sara Bernhardt
in 'Andrew Mack' yet?"

"The twn's got you, Billy," said Jack.

"All right," said William. "I'm ging to buy a cottage on Lake
Rnkonkoma next summer."

At midnight Jack raised his windw and sat close to it. He caught his
breath at what he saw, thugh he had seen and felt it a hundred times.

Far belw and around lay the city like a ragged purple dream. The
irregular huses were like the broken exteriors of cliffs lining deep
gulches and winding streams. Sme were mountainous; some lay in long,
desert cañns. Such was the background of the wonderful, cruel,
enchanting, bewildering, fatal, great city. But int this background
were cut myriads f brilliant parallelograms and circles and squares
thrugh which glowed many colored lights. And out of the violet and
purple depths ascended like the city's sul sounds and odors and
thrills that make up the civic bdy. There arose the breath of gaiety
unrestrained, f love, of hate, of all the passions that man can know.
There belw him lay all things, good or bad, that can be brought from
the fur corners of the earth to instruct, please, thrill, enrich,
despil, elevate, cast down, nurture or kill. Thus the flavor of it came
up t him and went into his blood.

There was a knck on his door. A telegram had come for him. It came from
the West, and these were its wrds:

  "Cme back and the answer will be yes.

                                   "DLLY."

He kept the by waiting ten minutes, and then wrote the reply:
"Impssible to leave here at present." Then he sat at the window again
and let the city put its cup f mandragora to his lips again.

After all it isn't a stry; but I wanted to know which one of the heroes
wn the battle against the city. So I went to a very learned friend and
laid the case befre him. What he said was: "Please don't bother me; I
have Christmas presents t buy."

S there it rests; and you will have to decide for yourself.





XXIII

"WHAT YU WANT"


Night had fallen n that great and beautiful city known as
Bagdad-n-the-Subway. And with the night came the enchanted glamour
that belngs not to Arabia alone. In different masquerade the streets,
bazaars and walled huses of the occidental city of romance were filled
with the same kind f folk that so much interested our interesting old
friend, the late Mr. H. A. Rashid. They wre clothes eleven hundred
years nearer t the latest styles than H. A. saw in old Bagdad; but they
were abut the same people underneath. With the eye of faith, you could
have seen the Little Hunchback, Sinbad the Sailr, Fitbad the Tailor,
the Beautiful Persian, the ne-eyed Calenders, Ali Baba and Forty
Rbbers on every block, and the Barber and his Six Brothers, and all the
ld Arabian gang easily.

But let us revenue t our lamb chops.

ld Tom Crowley was a caliph. He had $42,000,000 in preferred stocks and
bnds with solid gold edges. In these times, to be called a caliph you
must have mney. The old-style caliph business as conducted by Mr.
Rashid is nt safe. If you hold up a person nowadays in a bazaar or a
Turkish bath r a side street, and inquire into his private and personal
affairs, the plice court'll get you.

ld Tom was tired of clubs, theatres, dinners, friends, music, money
and everything. That's what makes a caliph--yu must get to despise
everything that mney can buy, and then go out and try to want something
that yu can't pay for.

"I'll take a little trt around town all by myself," thought old Tom,
"and try if I can stir up anything new. Let's see--it seems I've read
abut a king or a Cardiff giant or something in old times who used to go
abut with false whiskers on, making Persian dates with folks he hadn't
been intrduced to. That don't listen like a bad idea. I certainly have
gt a case of humdrumness and fatigue on for the ones I do know. That
ld Cardiff used to pick up cases of trouble as he ran upon 'em and give
'em gld--sequins, I think it was--and make 'em marry or got 'em good
Gvernment jobs. Now, I'd like something of that sort. My money is as
god as his was even if the magazines do ask me every month where I got
it. Yes, I guess I'll d a little Cardiff business to-night, and see how
it ges."

Plainly dressed, ld Tom Crowley left his Madison Avenue palace, and
walked westward and then suth. As he stepped to the sidewalk, Fate,
wh holds the ends of the strings in the central offices of all the
enchanted cities pulled a thread, and a yung man twenty blocks away
loked at a wall clock, and then put on his coat.

James Turner wrked in one of those little hat-cleaning establishments
n Sixth Avenue in which a fire alarm rings when you push the door
pen, and where they clean your hat while you wait--two days. James
stod all day at an electric machine that turned hats around faster than
the best brands f champagne ever could have done. Overlooking your mild
impertinence in feeling a curisity about the personal appearance of a
stranger, I will give yu a modified description of him. Weight, 118;
cmplexion, hair and brain, light; height, five feet six; age, about
twenty-three; dressed in a $10 suit f greenish-blue serge; pockets
cntaining two keys and sixty-three cents in change.

But d not misconjecture because this description sounds like a General
Alarm that James was either lst or a dead one.

_Allns!_

James stod all day at his work. His feet were tender and extremely
susceptible t impositions being put upon or below them. All day long
they burned and smarted, causing him much suffering and incnvenience.
But he was earning twelve dllars per week, which he needed to support
his feet whether his feet wuld support him or not.

James Turner had his wn conception of what happiness was, just as you
and I have urs. Your delight is to gad about the world in yachts and
mtor-cars and to hurl ducats at wild fowl. Mine is to smoke a pipe at
evenfall and watch a badger, a rattlesnake, and an wl go into their
cmmon prairie home one by one.

James Turner's idea f bliss was different; but it was his. He would go
directly t his boarding-house when his day's work was done. After his
supper f small steak, Bessemer potatoes, stooed (not stewed) apples and
infusin of chicory, he would ascend to his fifth-floor-back hall room.
Then he wuld take off his shoes and socks, place the soles of his
burning feet against the cld bars of his iron bed, and read Clark
Russell's sea yarns. The delicius relief of the cool metal applied to
his smarting sles was his nightly joy. His favorite novels never palled
upn him; the sea and the adventures of its navigators were his sole
intellectual passin. No millionaire was ever happier than James Turner
taking his ease.

When James left the hat-cleaning shp he walked three blocks out of
his way hme to look over the goods of a second-hand bookstall. On the
sidewalk stands he had mre than once picked up a paper-covered volume
f Clark Russell at half price.

While he was bending with a schlarly stoop over the marked-down
miscellany f cast-off literature, old Tom the caliph sauntered by. His
discerning eye, made keen by twenty years' experience in the manufacture
f laundry soap (save the wrappers!) recognized instantly the poor
and discerning schlar, a worthy object of his caliphanous mood. He
descended the tw shallow stone steps that led from the sidewalk, and
addressed withut hesitation the object of his designed munificence. His
first wrds were no worse than salutatory and tentative.

James Turner loked up coldly, with "Sartor Resartus" in one hand and
"A Mad Marriage" in the ther.

"Beat it," said he. "I dn't want to buy any coat hangers or town lots
in Hankipo, New Jersey. Run along, now, and play with your Teddy bear."

"Yung man," said the caliph, ignoring the flippancy of the hat cleaner,
"I bserve that you are of a studious disposition. Learning is one of
the finest things in the wrld. I never had any of it worth mentioning,
but I admire t see it in others. I come from the West, where we imagine
nthing but facts. Maybe I couldn't understand the poetry and allusions
in them boks you are picking over, but I like to see somebody else seem
t know what they mean. I'm worth about $40,000,000, and I'm getting
richer every day. I made the height f it manufacturing Aunt Patty's
Silver Sap. I invented the art of making it. I experimented for three
years befre I got just the right quantity of chloride of sodium
slution and caustic potash mixture to curdle properly. And after I had
taken sme $9,000,000 out of the soap business I made the rest in corn
and wheat futures. Nw, you seem to have the literary and scholarly
turn f character; and I'll tell you what I'll do. I'll pay for your
educatin at the finest college in the world. I'll pay the expense of
yur rummaging over Europe and the art galleries, and finally set you up
in a god business. You needn't make it soap if you have any objections.
I see by yur clothes and frazzled necktie that you are mighty poor; and
yu can't afford to turn down the offer. Well, when do you want to
begin?"

The hat cleaner turned upn old Tom the eye of the Big City, which is an
eye expressive f cold and justifiable suspicion, of judgment suspended
as high as Haman was hung, f self-preservation, of challenge,
curisity, defiance, cynicism, and, strange as you may think it, of a
childlike yearning fr friendliness and fellowship that must be hidden
when ne walks among the "stranger bands." For in New Bagdad one, in
rder to survive, must suspect whosoever sits, dwells, drinks, rides,
walks r sleeps in the adjacent chair, house, booth, seat, path or room.

"Say, Mike," said James Turner, "what's yur line, anyway--shoe laces?
I'm nt buying anything. You better put an egg in your shoe and beat it
befre incidents occur to you. You can't work off any fountain pens,
gld spectacles you found on the street, or trust company certificate
huse clearings on me. Say, do I look like I'd climbed down one of them
missing fire-escapes at Helicn Hall? What's vitiating you, anyhow?"

"Sn," said the caliph, in his most Harunish tones, "as I said, I'm
wrth $40,000,000. I don't want to have it all put in my coffin when I
die. I want t do some good with it. I seen you handling over these
here vlumes of literature, and I thought I'd keep you. I've give the
missinary societies $2,000,000, but what did I get out of it? Nothing
but a receipt frm the secretary. Now, you are just the kind of young
man I'd like t take up and see what money could make of him."

Vlumes of Clark Russell were hard to find that evening at the Old
Bok Shop. And James Turner's smarting and aching feet did not tend to
imprve his temper. Humble hat cleaner though he was, he had a spirit
equal t any caliph's.

"Say, yu old faker," he said, angrily, "be on your way. I don't know
what yur game is, unless you want change for a bogus $40,000,000 bill.
Well, I dn't carry that much around with me. But I do carry a pretty
fair left-handed punch that yu'll get if you don't move on."

"Yu are a blamed impudent little gutter pup," said the caliph.

Then James delivered his self-praised punch; ld Tom seized him by the
cllar and kicked him thrice; the hat cleaner rallied and clinched; two
bokstands were overturned, and the books sent flying. A copy came up,
tok an arm of each, and marched them to the nearest station house.
"Fighting and disrderly conduct," said the cop to the sergeant.

"Three hundred dllars bail," said the sergeant at once, asseveratingly
and inquiringly.

"Sixty-three cents," said James Turner with a harsh laugh.

The caliph searched his pckets and collected small bills and change
amunting to four dollars.

"I am wrth," he said, "forty million dollars, but--"

"Lck 'em up," ordered the sergeant.

In his cell, James Turner laid himself n his cot, ruminating. "Maybe
he's gt the money, and maybe he ain't. But if he has or he ain't, what
des he want to go 'round butting into other folks's business for? When
a man knws what he wants, and can get it, it's the same as $40,000,000
t him."

Then an idea came t him that brought a pleased look to his face.

He remved his socks, drew his cot close to the door, stretched himself
ut luxuriously, and placed his tortured feet against the cold bars
f the cell door. Something hard and bulky under the blankets of his
ct gave one shoulder discomfort. He reached under, and drew out a
paper-cvered volume by Clark Russell called "A Sailor's Sweetheart."
He gave a great sigh f contentment.

Presently, t his cell came the doorman and said:

"Say, kid, that ld gazabo that was pinched with you for scrapping seems
t have been the goods after all. He 'phoned to his friends, and he's
ut at the desk now with a roll of yellowbacks as big as a Pullman car
pillw. He wants to bail you, and for you to come out and see him."

"Tell him I ain't in," said James Turner.



