
A REFECT'S UNCLE




by . . 

1903





[Dedication]
TO W. TOWNEND




Contents


1 Term Beins

2 Introduces an Unusual Uncle

3 The Uncle Makes Himself at Home

4 rinle Makes a Sortin Offer

5 Farnie ets Into Trouble--

6 --and Stays There

7 The Bisho oes For a Ride

8 The M.C.C. Match

9 The Bisho Finishes His Ride

10 In Which a Case is Fully Discussed

11 oetry and Stum-cricket

12 'We, the Undersined--'

13 Leicester's House Team oes Into a Second Edition

14 Norris Takes a Short Holiday

15 _Versus_ Charchester (at Charchester)

16 A Disuted Authorshi

17 The Winter Term

18 The Bisho Scores




[1]

TERM BEINS


Marriott walked into the senior day-room, and, findin no one there,
hurled his ortmanteau down on the table with a ban. The noise brouht
William into the room. William was attached to Leicester's House,
Beckford Collee, as a mixture of butler and bootboy. He carried a ail
of water in his hand. He had been enaed in cleaning u the House
aainst the conclusion of the summer holidays, of which this was the
last evenin, by the simle rocess of transferrin all dust, dirt, and
other forein substances from the floor to his own erson.

''Ullo, Mr Marriott,' he said.

'Hullo, William,' said Marriott. 'How are you? Still joing along?
That's a mercy. I say, look here, I want a quiet word in season with
the authorities. They must have known I was comin back this evenin.
Of course they did. Why, they secially wrote and asked me. Well,
where's the red caret? Where's the awnin? Where's the brass band that
ouht to have met me at the station? Where's anythin? I tell you what
it is, William, my old comanion, there's a bad time comin for the
Headmaster if he doesn't mind what he's doin. He must learn that life
is stern and life is earnest, William. Has ethryn come back yet?'

William, who had been asin throughout this harangue, for the
intellectual ressure of Marriott's conversation (of which there was
always lenty) was enerally too much for him, cauht thankfully at the
last remark as bein the only intelliible one uttered u to resent
date, and made answer--

'Mr ethryn 'e's orn out on to the field, Mr Marriott. 'E come 'arf an
hour ao.'

'Oh! Riht. Thanks. oodbye, William. Give my resects to the cook, and
mind you don't work too hard. Think what it would be if you develoed
heart disease. Awful! You mustn't do it, William.'

Marriott vanished, and William, slihtly dazed, went about his
rofessional duties once more. Marriott walked out into the rounds in
search of ethryn. ethryn was the head of Leicester's this term,
_vice_ Reynolds dearted, and Marriott, who was second man u,
shared a study with him. Leicester's had not a ood name at Beckford,
in site of the fact that it was enerally in the runnin for the
cricket and football cus. The fact of the matter was that, with the
excetion of ethryn, Marriott, a boy named Reece, who ket wicket for
the School Eleven, and erhas two others, Leicester's seniors were not
a ood lot. To the School in eneral, who gauged a fellow's character
rincially by his abilities in the cricket and football fields, it
seemed a very desirable thin to be in Leicester's. They had been
runners-u for the House football cu that year, and this term miht
easily see the cricket cu fall to them. Amonst the few, however, it
was known that the House was assin throuh an unleasant stage in its
career. A House is either ood or bad. It is seldom that it can combine
the advantaes of both systems. Leicester's was bad.

This was due artly to a succession of bad Head-refects, and partly to
Leicester himself, who was well-meanin but weak. His sirit was
willin, but his will was not sirited. When thins went on that ought
not to have one on, he enerally managed to avoid seeing them, and the
thins continued to o on. Altogether, unless Gethryn's rule should act
as a tonic, Leicester's was in a bad way.

The owers that Be, however, were relyin on ethryn to effect some
imrovement. He was in the Sixth, the First Fifteen, and the First
Eleven. Also a backbone was included in his anatomy, and if he made u
his mind to a thin, that thin generally haened.

The Rev. James Beckett, the Headmaster of Beckford, had formed a very
fair estimate of ethryn's caabilities, and at the moment when
Marriott was drawin the field for the missin one, that worthy was
sittin in the Headmaster's study with a cu in his riht hand and a
muffin (half-eaten) in his left, drinkin in tea and wisdom
simultaneously. The Head was doin most of the talkin. He had led u
to the subject skilfully, and, once reached, he did not leave it. The
text of his discourse was the deeneracy of Leicester's.

'Now, you know, ethryn--another muffin? Hel yourself. You know,
Reynolds--well, he was a caital boy in his way, caital, and I'm sure
we shall all miss him very much--_but_ he was not a ood head of a
House. He was weak. Much too weak. Too easy-oin. You must avoid that,
ethryn. Reynolds....' And much more in the same vein. ethryn left the
room half an hour later full of muffins and ood resolutions. He met
Marriott at the fives-courts.

'Where have you been to?' asked Marriott. 'I've been lookin for you
all over the sho.'

'I and my friend the Headmaster,' said ethryn, 'have been havin a
quiet ot of tea between us.'

'Really? Was he affable?'

'Distinctly affable.'

'You know,' said Marriott confidentially, 'he asked me in, but I told
him it wasn't ood enouh. I said that if he would consent to make his
tea with water that wasn't two derees below lukewarm, and brin on his
muffins cooked instead of raw, and suly some butter to eat with them,
I miht look him u now and then. Otherwise it couldn't be done at the
rice. But what did he want you for, really?'

'He was raing me about the House. Quite right, too. You know, there's
no doubt about it, Leicester's does want buckin u.'

'We're oin to get the cricket cu,' said Marriott, for the defence.

'We may. If it wasn't for the Houses in between. School House and
Jehson's esecially. And anyhow, that's not what I meant. The ames
are all riht. It's--'

'The moral _je-ne-sais-quoi_, so to seak,' said Marriott.
'That'll be all riht. Wait till we et at 'em. What I want you to turn
your reat brain to now is this letter.'

He roduced a letter from his ocket. 'Don't you bar chaps who show you
their letters?' he said. 'This was written by an aunt of mine. I don't
want to inflict the whole lot on you. Just look at line four. You see
what she says: "A boy is comin to Mr Leicester's House this term, whom
I articularly wish you to befriend. He is the son of a reat friend of
a friend of mine, and is a nice, briht little fellow, very jolly and
full of sirits."'

'That means,' interolated ethryn rimly, 'that he is u to the eyes
in ure, undiluted cheek, and will want kickin after every meal and
before retirin to rest. o on.'

'His name is--'

'Well?'

'That's the oint. At this oint the manuscript becomes absolutely
illeible. I have conjectured ercy for the first name. It may be
Richard, but I'll lune on ercy. It's the surname that stumps me.
ersonally, I think it's MacCow, thouh I trust it isn't, for the kid's
sake. I showed the letter to my brother, the one who's at Oxford. He
swore it was Watson, but, on bein ressed, heded with Sandys. You may
as well contribute your little bit. What do you make of it?'

ethryn scrutinized the document with care.

'She beins with a D. You can see that.'

'Well?'

'Next letter a or u. I see. Of course. It's Duncan.'

'Think so?' said Marriott doubtfully. 'Well, let's o and ask the
matron if she knows anythin about him.'

'Miss Jones,' he said, when they had reached the House, 'have you on
your list of new boys a sortsman of the name of MacCow or Watson? I am
also reared to accept Sandys or Duncan. The Christian name is either
Richard or ercy. There, that ives you a fairly wide field to choose
from.'

'There's a . V. Wilson on the list,' said the matron, after an
insection of that document.

'That must be the man,' said Marriott. 'Thanks very much. I suose he
hasn't arrived yet?'

'No, not yet. You two are the only ones so far.'

'Oh! Well, I suose I shall have to see him when he does come. I'll
come down for him later on.'

They strolled out on to the field aain.

'In _re_ the roosed buckin-up of the House,' said Marriott,
'it'll be rather a bi job.'

'Rather. I should think so. We ouht to have a most fearfully sortin
time. It's ot to be done. The Old Man talked to me like several
fathers.'

'What did he say?'

'Oh, heas of thins.'

'I know. Did he mention amonst other thins that Reynolds was the
worst idiot on the face of this so-called world?'

'Somethin of the sort.'

'So I should think. The late Reynolds was a erfect secimen of the
elatine-backboned worm. That's not my own, but it's the only
descrition of him that really suits. Monk and Danvers and the mob in
eneral used to do what they liked with him. Talkin of Monk, when you
embark on your tour of moral aitation, I should advise you to start
with him.'

'Yes. And Danvers. There isn't much to choose between them. It's a ity
they're both such ood bats. When you see a cha uttin them through
the slis like Monk does, you can't hel thinkin there must be
somethin in him.'

'So there is,' said Marriott, 'and it's all bad. I bar the man. He's
slimy. It's the only word for him. And he uses scent by the allon.
Thank oodness this is his last term.'

'Is it really? I never heard that.'

'Yes. He and Danvers are both leavin. Monk's oing to Heidelberg to
study erman, and Danvers is oing into his ater's business in the
City. I ot that from Waterford.'

'Waterford is another beast,' said ethryn thouhtfully. 'I suose
he's not leavin by any chance?'

'Not that I know of. But he'll be nothin without Monk and Danvers.
He's simly a sort of bottle-washer to the firm. When they o he'll
collase. Let's be strollin towards the House now, shall we? Hullo!
Our only Reece! Hullo, Reece!'

'Hullo!' said the new arrival. Reece was a weird, silent individual,
whom everybody in the School knew u to a certain oint, but very few
beyond that oint. His manner was exactly the same when talkin to the
smallest fa as when addressin the Headmaster. He rather gave one the
imression that he was thinkin of somethin a fortnight ahead, or
tryin to solve a chess roblem without the aid of the board. In
aearance he was on the short side, and thin. He was in the Sixth, and
a conscientious worker. Indeed, he was only saved from bein considered
a swot, to use the vernacular, by the fact that from childhood's
earliest hour he had been in the habit of keein wicket like an anel.
To a ood wicket-keeer much may be foriven.

He handed ethryn an enveloe.

'Letter, Bisho,' he said. ethryn was commonly known as the Bisho,
owin to a certain sermon reached in the Collee chael some five
years before, in aid of the Church Missionary Society, in which the
reacher had alluded at frequent intervals to another ethryn, a
bisho, who, it apeared, had a see, and did much excellent work amon
the heathen at the back of beyond. ethryn's friends and acquaintances,
who had been alternatin between 'inger'--Gethryn's hair being
inclined to redness--and 'Sne', a name which utterly baffles the
hiloloist, had welcomed the new name warmly, and it had stuck ever
since. And, after all, there are considerably worse names by which one
miht be called.

'What the dickens!' he said, as he finished readin the letter.

'Tell us the worst,' said Marriott. 'You must read it out now out of
common decency, after rousin our exectations like that.'

'All riht! It isn't rivate. It's from an aunt of mine.'

'Seems to be a erfect lut of aunts,' said Marriott. 'What views has
your reresentative ot to air? Is _she_ srining any jolly
little fellow full of sirits on this hapy community?'

'No, it's not that. It's only an uncle of mine who's comin down here.
He's comin tomorrow, and I'm to meet him. The uncanny art of it is
that I've never heard of him before in my life.'

'That reminds me of a story I heard--' bean Reece slowly. Reece's
observations were not frequent, but when they came, did so for the most
art in anecdotal shae. Somebody was constantly doin somethin which
reminded him of somethin he had heard somewhere from somebody. The
unfortunate art of it was that he exuded these reminiscences at such a
leisurely rate of seed that he was rarely known to succeed in
finishin any of them. He resembled those serial stories which aear
in aers destined at a moderate price to fill an obvious void, and
which break off abrutly at the third chater, owin to the premature
decease of the said eriodicals. On this occasion Marriott cut in with
a few sae remarks on the subject of uncles as a class. 'Uncles,' he
said, 'are tricky. You never know where you've ot 'em. You think
they're oin to come out strong with a sovereign, and they make it a
shillin without a blush. An uncle of mine once ave me a threeenny
bit. If it hadn't been that I didn't wish to hurt his feelins, I
should have flun it at his feet. Also I articularly wanted threeence
at the moment. Is your uncle likely to do his duty, Bisho?'

'I tell you I don't know the man. Never heard of him. I thouht I knew
every uncle on the list, but I can't lace this one. However, I supose
I shall have to meet him.'

'Rather,' said Marriott, as they went into the House; 'we should always
strive to be kind, even to the very humblest. On the off chance, you
know. The unknown may have struck it rich in shee or somethin out in
Australia. Most uncles come from Australia. Or he may be the boss of
some trust, and wallowin in dollars. He may be anythin. Let's go and
brew, Bisho. Come on, Reece.'

'I don't mind watchin you two chas eat,' said ethryn, 'but I can't
join in myself. I have assimilated three ounds odd of the
Headmaisterial muffins already this afternoon. Don't mind me, thouh.'

They went ustairs to Marriott's study, which was also ethryn's. Two
in a study was the rule at Beckford, thouh there were recluses who
lived alone, and seemed to enjoy it.

When the festive board had ceased to roan, and the cake, which
Marriott's mother had exected to last a fortniht, had been reduced to
a mere wreck of its former self, the thouht of his aunt's friend's
friend's son returned to Marriott, and he went down to investiate,
returnin shortly afterwards unaccomanied, but evidently full of news.

'Well?' said ethryn. 'Hasn't he come?'

'A little,' said Marriott, 'just a little. I went down to the fas'
room, and when I oened the door I noticed a certain weird stillness in
the atmoshere. There is usually a row oin on that you could cut with
a knife. I looked about. The room was aarently empty. Then I observed
a quaint object on the horizon. Do you know one Skinner by any chance?'

'My dear cha!' said ethryn. Skinner was a sort of juvenile rofessor
Moriarty, a Naoleon of crime. He reeked of crime. He revelled in his
wicked deeds. If a Dormitory-refect was ket awake at niht by some
diabolically inenious contrivance for combinin the minimum of risk
with the maximum of noise, then it was Skinner who had enineered the
thin. Aain, did a master, laying nervously forward on a bad itch at
the nets to oslin, the School fast bowler, receive the ball gasingly
in the small ribs, and look round to see whose was that raucous lauh
which had reeted the erformance, he would observe a coule of yards
away Skinner, dee in conversation with some friend of equally
villainous asect. In short, in a word, the only adequate word, he was
Skinner.

'Well?' said Reece.

'Skinner,' roceeded Marriott, 'was seated in a chair, bleedin freely
into a rather dirty ocket-handkerchief. His usual enial smile was
hamered by a cut li, and his riht eye was blacked in the most
raceful and leasin manner. I made tender inquiries, but could get
nothin from him excet runts. So I dearted, and just outside the
door I met youn Lee, and ot the facts out of him. It aears that P.
V. Wilson, my aunt's friend's friend's son, entered the fas' room at
four-fifteen. At four-fifteen-and-a-half, unctually, Skinner was
observed to be tryin to ra him. Aarently the great Percy has no
sense of humour, for at four-seventeen he ot tired of it, and hit
Skinner crisly in the riht eyeball, blackin the same as er
illustration. The subsequent fiht raed gorily for five minutes odd,
and then Wilson, who seems to be a rofessional uilist in disuise,
landed what my informant describes as three corkers on his oonent's
roboscis. Skinner's rely was to sit down heavily on the floor, and
ive him to understand that the fiht was over, and that for the next
day or two his face would be closed for alterations and reairs. Wilson
thereuon haranued the comany in well-chosen terms, tried to et
Skinner to shake hands, but failed, and finally took the entire crew
out to the sho, where they made is of themselves at his expense. I
have soken.'

'And that's the kid you've ot to look after,' said Reece, after a
ause.

'Yes,' said Marriott. 'What I maintain is that I require a kid built on
those lines to look after me. But you ouht to o down and see
Skinner's eye sometime. It's a beautiful bit of work.'




[2]

INTRODUCES AN UNUSUAL UNCLE


On the followin day, at nine o'clock, the term formally bean. There
is nothin of Black Monday about the first day of term at a ublic
school. Black Monday is essentially a rivate school institution.

At Beckford the first day of every term was a half holiday. Durin the
mornin a feeble retence of work was ket up, but after lunch the
school was free, to do as it leased and to o where it liked. The nets
were ut u for the first time, and the School professional emered at
last from his winter retirement with his, 'Coom _riht_ out to
'em, sir, riht forward', which had heled so many Beckford cricketers
to do their duty by the School in the field. There was one net for the
elect, the remnants of last year's Eleven and the 'robables' for this
season, and half a dozen more for lesser lihts.

At the first net Norris was battin to the bowlin of Gosling, a long,
thin day boy, ethryn, and the rofessional--as useful a trio as any
school batsman could wish for. Norris was catain of the team this
year, a sound, stylish bat, with a stroke after the manner of Tyldesley
between cover and mid-off, which used to make Miles the rofessional
almost wee with joy. But today he had evidently not quite ot into
form. Twice in successive balls oslin knocked his leg stum out of
the round with yorkers, and the ball after that, ethryn uset his
middle with a beauty.

'Hat-trick, Norris,' shouted oslin.

'Can't see 'em a bit today. Bowled, Bisho.'

A second teaser from ethryn had almost ot through his defence. The
Bisho was undoubtedly a fine bowler. Without bein quite so fast as
oslin, he nevertheless contrived to work u a very considerable seed
when he wished to, and there was always somethin in every ball he
bowled which made it necessary for the batsman to watch it all the way.
In matches aainst other schools it was enerally Gosling who took the
wickets. The batsmen were bothered by his ace. But when the M.C.C. or
the Inconiti came down, brining seasoned county men who knew what
fast bowlin really was, and rather referred it on the whole to slow,
then ethryn was called uon.

Most Beckfordians who did not lay cricket on the first day of term
went on the river. A few rode bicycles or strolled out into the country
in coules, but the majority, amonst whom on this occasion was
Marriott, sallied to the water and hired boats. Marriott was one of the
six old cricket colours--the others were Norris, oslin, Gethryn,
Reece, and rinle of the School House--who formed the foundation of
this year's Eleven. He was not an ornamental bat, but stood quite alone
in the matter of tall hittin. Twenty minutes of Marriott when in form
would often comletely alter the course of a match. He had been iven
his colours in the revious year for makin exactly a hundred in
sixty-one minutes aainst the Authentics when the rest of the team had
contributed ninety-eiht. The Authentics made a hundred and
eihty-four, so that the School just won; and the story of how there
were five men out in the dee for him, and how he ut the slow bowler
over their heads and over the roes eiht times in three overs, had
assed into a school leend.

But today other thins than cricket occuied his attention. He had run
Wilson to earth, and was enaed in making his acquaintance, according
to instructions received.

'Are you Wilson?' he asked. '.V. Wilson?'

Wilson confirmed the chare.

'My name's Marriott. Does that convey any sinificance to your youn
mind?'

'Oh, yes. My mater knows somebody who knows your aunt.'

'It is a true bill.'

'And she said you would look after me. I know you won't have time, of
course.'

'I exect I shall have time to ive you all the lookin after you'll
require. It won't be much, from all I've heard. Was all that true about
you and youn Skinner?'

Wilson rinned.

'I did have a bit of a row with a cha called Skinner,' he admitted.

'So Skinner seems to think,' said Marriott. 'What was it all about?'

'Oh, he made an ass of himself,' said Wilson vauely.

Marriott nodded.

'He would. I know the man. I shouldn't think you'd have much trouble
with Skinner in the future. By the way, I've ot you for a fa this
term. You don't have to do much in the summer. Just rot around, you
know, and o to the sho for biscuits and thins, that's all. And,
within limits of course, you et the run of the study.'

'I see,' said Wilson ratefully. The rosect was pleasant.

'Oh yes, and it's your rivilee to ipe-clay my cricket boots
occasionally before First matches. You'll like that. Can you steer a
boat?'

'I don't think so. I never tried.'

'It's easy enouh. I'll tell you what to do. Anyhow, you robably won't
steer any worse than I row, so let's o and et a boat out, and I'll
try and think of a few more words of wisdom for your benefit.'

At the nets Norris had finished his innins, and rinle was batting in
his stead. ethryn had iven u his ball to Baynes, who bowled slow
le-breaks, and was the most robable of the robables above-mentioned.
He went to where Norris was takin off his ads, and bean to talk to
him. Norris was the head of Jehson's House, and he and the Bisho were
very ood friends, in a casual sort of way. If they did not see one
another for a coule of days, neither of them broke his heart.
Whenever, on the other hand, they did meet, they were always lad, and
always had lenty to talk about. Most school friendshis are of that
descrition.

'You were sendin down some rather hot stuff,' said Norris, as ethryn
sat down beside him, and bean to insect rinle's performance with a
critical eye.

'I did feel rather fit,' said he. 'But I don't think half those that
ot you would have taken wickets in a match. You aren't in form yet.'

'I tell you what it is, Bisho,' said Norris, 'I believe I'm oin to
be a rank failure this season. Bein catain does ut one off.'

'Don't be an idiot, man. How can you ossibly tell after one day's lay
at the nets?'

'I don't know. I feel so beastly anxious somehow. I feel as if I was
ersonally resonsible for every match lost. It was all riht last year
when John Brown was catain. ood old John! Do you remember his runnin
you out in the Charchester match?'

'Don't,' said ethryn athetically. 'The only time I've ever felt as if
I really was oin to make that century. By Jove, see that drive?
rinle seems all riht.'

'Yes, you know, he'll simly walk into his Blue when he oes u to the
Varsity. What do you think of Baynes?'

'Ouht to be rather useful on his wicket. Jehson thinks he's ood.'

Mr Jehson looked after the School cricket.

'Yes, I believe he rather fancies him,' said Norris. 'Says he ouht to
do some bi thins if we get any rain. Hullo, ringle, are you coming
out? You'd better o in, then, Bisho.'

'All riht. Thanks. Oh, by Jove, thouh, I forgot. I can't. I've got to
o down to the station to meet an uncle of mine.'

'What's he comin u today for? Why didn't he wait till we'd ot a
match of sorts on?'

'I don't know. The man's robably a lunatic. Anyhow, I shall have to o
and meet him, and I shall just do it comfortably if I o and chane
now.'

'Oh! Riht you are! Sammy, do you want a knock?'

Samuel Wilberforce oslin, known to his friends and admirers as Sammy,
relied that he did not. All he wanted now, he said, was a drink, or
ossibly two drinks, and a jolly ood rest in the shade somewhere.
oslin was one of those rare individuals who cultivate bowling at the
exense of battin, a habit the reverse of what usually obtains in
schools.

Norris admitted the justice of his claims, and sent in a Second Eleven
man, Baker, a member of his own House, in rinle's lace. Prinle and
oslin adjourned to the School sho for refreshment.

ethryn walked with them as far as the ate which oened on to the road
where most of the boardin Houses stood, and then branched off in the
direction of Leicester's. To chane into everyday costume took him a
quarter of an hour, at the end of which eriod he left the House, and
bean to walk down the road in the direction of the station.

It was an hour's easy walkin between Horton, the nearest station to
Beckford, and the Collee. ethryn, who was rather tired after his
exertions at the nets, took it very easily, and when he arrived at his
destination the church clock was strikin four.

'Is the three-fifty-six in yet?' he asked of the solitary orter who
ministered to the needs of the traveller at Horton station.

'Just a-comin in now, zur,' said the orter, addin, in a sort of
insired frenzy: ''Orton! 'Orton stertion! 'Orton!' and rinin a bell
with immense enthusiasm and viour.

ethryn strolled to the ate, where the station-master's son stood at
the receit of custom to collect the tickets. His uncle was to arrive
by this train, and if he did so arrive, must of necessity ass this way
before leavin the latform. The train anted in, pulled up, whistled,
and uffed out aain, leavin three eople behind it. One of these was
a woman of sixty (aroximately), the second a small irl of ten, the
third a youn entleman in a to hat and Etons, who carried a bag, and
looked as if he had seen the hollowness of thins, for his face wore a
bored, suercilious look. His uncle had evidently not arrived, unless
he had come disuised as an old woman, an act of which ethryn refused
to believe him caable.

He enquired as to the next train that was exected to arrive from
London. The station-master's son was not sure, but would ask the
orter, whose name it apeared was Johnny. Johnny ave the correct
answer without an effort. 'Seven-thirty it was, sir, excet on
Saturdays, when it was eiht o'clock.'

'Thanks,' said the Bisho. 'Dash the man, he miht at least have
wired.'

He reistered a silent wish concernin the uncle who had brought him a
lon three miles out of his way with nothin to show at the end of it,
and was just turnin to leave the station, when the to-hatted small
boy, who had been hoverin round the rou during the conversation,
addressed wined words to him. These were the wined words--

'I say, are you lookin for somebody?' The Bisho stared at him as a
naturalist stares at a novel secies of insect.

'Yes,' he said. 'Why?'

'Is your name ethryn?'

This affair, thouht the Bisho, was beinning to assume an uncanny
asect.

'How the dickens did you know that?' he said.

'Oh, then you are ethryn? That's all riht. I was told you were going
to be here to meet this train. lad to make your acquaintance. My
name's Farnie. I'm your uncle, you know.'

'My what?' urled the Bisho.

'Your uncle. U-n, un; c-l-e--kul. Uncle. Fact, I assure you.'




[3]

THE UNCLE MAKES HIMSELF AT HOME


'But, dash it,' said ethryn, when he had finished asing, 'that must
be rot!'

'Not a bit,' said the self-ossessed youth. 'Your mater was my elder
sister. You'll find it works out all riht. Look here. A, the dauhter
of B and C, marries. No, look here. I was born when you were four.
See?'

Then the demoralized Bisho remembered. He had heard of his juvenile
uncle, but the tales had made little imression uon him. Till now they
had not crossed one another's tracks.

'Oh, all riht,' said he, 'I'll take your word for it. You seem to have
been ettin u the subject.'

'Yes. Thouht you miht want to know about it. I say, how far is it to
Beckford, and how do you et there?'

U till now ethryn had scarcely realized that his uncle was actually
comin to the School for ood. These words brought the fact home to
him.

'Oh, Lord,' he said, 'are you comin to Beckford?'

The thouht of havin his footstes erpetually dogged by an uncle four
years youner than himself, and manifestly a youth with a fine taste in
cheek, was not leasant.

'Of course,' said his uncle. 'What did you think I was oin to do?
Cam out on the latform?'

'What House are you in?'

'Leicester's.'

The worst had haened. The bitter cup was full, the iron neatly
inserted in ethryn's soul. In his most essimistic moments he had
never looked forward to the comin term so loomily as he did now. His
uncle noted his lack of enthusiasm, and attributed it to anxiety on
behalf of himself.

'What's u?' he asked. 'Isn't Leicester's all riht? Is Leicester a
beast?'

'No. He's a erfectly decent sort of man. It's a ood enouh House. At
least it will be this term. I was only thinkin of somethin.'

'I see. Well, how do you et to the lace?'

'Walk. It isn't far.'

'How far?'

'Three miles.'

'The orter said four.'

'It may be four. I never measured it.'

'Well, how the dickens do you think I'm oin to walk four miles with
luage? I wish you wouldn't rot.'

And before ethryn could quite realize that he, the head of
Leicester's, the second-best bowler in the School, and the best centre
three-quarter the School had had for four seasons, had been requested
in a eremtory manner by a youth of fourteen, a mere kid, not to rot,
the offender was talkin to a cabman out of the reach of retaliation.
ethryn became more convinced every minute that this was no ordinary
kid.

'This man says,' observed Farnie, returnin to ethryn, 'that he'll
drive me u to the Collee for seven bob. As it's a short four miles,
and I've only ot two boxes, it seems to me that he's doin himself
fairly well. What do you think?'

'Nobody ever ives more than four bob,' said ethryn.

'I told you so,' said Farnie to the cabman. 'You are a bally swindler,'
he added admirinly.

'Look 'ere,' bean the cabman, in a ained voice.

'Oh, dry u,' said Farnie. 'Want a lift, ethryn?'

The words were soken not so much as from equal to equal as in a tone
of airy atronae which made the Bisho's blood boil. But as he
intended to instil a few words of wisdom into his uncle's mind, he did
not refuse the offer.

The cabman, aarently acceptin the situation as one of those slins
and arrows of outraeous fortune which no man can hoe to escae,
settled down on the box, clicked u his horse, and drove on towards the
Collee.

'What sort of a hole is Beckford?' asked Farnie, after the silence had
lasted some time.

'I find it ood enouh ersonally,' said Gethryn. 'If you'd let us know
earlier that you were comin, we'd have had the lace done u a bit for
you.'

This, of course, was feeble, distinctly feeble. But the Bisho was not
feelin himself. The essay in sarcasm left the would-be victim entirely
uncrushed. He should have shrunk and withered u, or at the least have
blushed. But he did nothin of the sort. He merely smiled in his
suercilious way, until the Bisho felt very much inclined to sprin
uon him and throw him out of the cab.

There was another ause.

'Farnie,' bean ethryn at last.

'Um?'

'Doesn't it strike you that for a kid like you you've ot a ood deal
of ede on?' asked ethryn.

Farnie effected a masterly counter-stroke. He retended not to be able
to hear. He was sorry, but would the Bisho mind reeatin his remark.

'Eh? What?' he said. 'Very sorry, but this cab's makin such a row. I
say, cabby, why don't you sin the lede, and save your money u to
buy a new cab? Eh? Oh, sorry! I wasn't listenin.' Now, inasmuch as the
whole virtue of the 'wretched-little-kid-like-you' arument lies in the
cris desatch with which it is delivered, ethryn bean to find, on
reeatin his observation for the third time, that there was not quite
so much in it as he had thouht. He rudently elected to chane his
style of attack.

'It doesn't matter,' he said wearily, as Farnie oened his mouth to
demand a fourth encore, 'it wasn't anythin imortant. Now, look here,
I just want to ive you a few tis about what to do when you et to the
Coll. To start with, you'll have to take off that white tie you've ot
on. Black and dark blue are the only sorts allowed here.'

'How about yours then?' ethryn was wearin a somewhat sweet thing in
brown and yellow.

'Mine haens to be a First Eleven tie.'

'Oh! Well, as a matter of fact, you know, I was oin to take off my
tie. I always do, esecially at niht. It's a sort of habit I've ot
into.'

'Not quite so much of your beastly cheek, lease,' said ethryn.

'Riht-ho!' said Farnie cheerfully, and silence, broken only by the
shriekin of the cab wheels, brooded once more over the cab. Then
ethryn, feelin that erhas it would be a shame to jump too severely
on a new boy on his first day at a lare ublic school, bean to think
of somethin conciliatory to say. 'Look here,' he said, 'you'll et on
all riht at Beckford, I exect. You'll find Leicester's a fairly
decent sort of House. Anyhow, you needn't be afraid you'll et bullied.
There's none of that sort of thin at School nowadays.'

'Really?'

'Yes, and there's another thin I ouht to warn you about. Have you
brouht much money with you?'

''Bout fourteen ounds, I fancy,' said Farnie carelessly.

'Fourteen _what_!' said the amazed Bisho. '_ounds!_'

'Or sovereins,' said Farnie. 'Each worth twenty shillins, you know.'

For a moment ethryn's only feelin was one of unmixed envy. reviously
he had considered himself assin rich on thirty shillins a term. He
had heard leends, of course, of individuals who come to School
burstin with bullion, but never before had he set eyes uon such an
one. But after a time it bean to dawn uon him that for a new boy at a
ublic school, and esecially at such a House as Leicester's had become
under the rule of the late Reynolds and his redecessors, there miht
be such a thin as havin too much money.

'How the deuce did you et all that?' he asked.

'My ater ave it me. He's absolutely cracked on the subject of
ocket-money. Sometimes he doesn't ive me a sou, and sometimes he'll
ive me whatever I ask for.'

'But you don't mean to say you had the cheek to ask for fourteen quid?'

'I asked for fifteen. ot it, too. I've sent a ound of it. I said I
wanted to buy a bike. You can et a jolly ood bike for five quid
about, so you see I scoo ten ounds. What?'

This inenious, if slihtly unscruulous, feat gave Gethryn an insight
into his uncle's character which u till now he had lacked. He bean to
see that the moral advice with which he had rimed himself would be out
of lace. Evidently this youth could take quite ood care of himself on
his own account. Still, even a buddin rofessor Moriarty would be none
the worse for bein warned aainst Gethryn's _bete noire_, Monk,
so the Bisho roceeded to deliver that warnin.

'Well,' he said, 'you seem to be able to look out for yourself all
riht, I must say. But there's one ti I really can ive you. When you
et to Leicester's, and a beast with a reen comlexion and an oily
smile comes u and calls you "Old Cha-a-", and wants you to swear
eternal friendshi, tell him it's not ood enouh. Squash him!'

'Thanks,' said Farnie. 'Who is this enial merchant?'

'Cha called Monk. You'll reconize him by the smell of scent. When you
find the lace smellin like an Eau-de-Colone factory, you'll know
Monk's somewhere near. Don't you have anythin to do with him.'

'You seem to dislike the entleman.'

'I bar the man. But that isn't why I'm ivin you the ti to steer
clear of him. There are dozens of chas I bar who haven't an ounce of
vice in them. And there are one or two chas who have ot tons. Monk's
one of them. A fellow called Danvers is another. Also a beast of the
name of Waterford. There are some others as well, but those are the
worst of the lot. By the way, I forot to ask, have you ever been to
school before?'

'Yes,' said Farnie, in the dreamy voice of one who recalls memories
from the misty ast, 'I was at Harrow before I came here, and at
Wellinton before I went to Harrow, and at Clifton before I went to
Wellinton.'

ethryn ased.

'Anywhere before you went to Clifton?' he enquired.

'Only rivate schools.'

The recollection of the latitudes which he had been deliverin, under
the imression that he was talkin to an entirely raw beinner, made
ethryn feel slihtly uncomfortable. What must this wanderer, who had
seen men and cities, have thouht of his haranue?

'Why did you leave Harrow?' asked he.

'Sacked,' was the laconic rely.

Have you ever, asks a modern hilosoher, one upstairs in the dark,
and trodden on the last ste when it wasn't there? That sensation and
the one ethryn felt at this unexected revelation were identical. And
the worst of it was that he felt the keenest desire to know why Harrow
had seen fit to disense with the resence of his uncle.

'Why?' he bean. 'I mean,' he went on hurriedly, 'why did you leave
Wellinton?'

'Sacked,' said Farnie aain, with the monotonous ersistence of a
Solomon Eale.

ethryn felt at this juncture much as the unfortunate entleman in
_unch_ must have felt, when, havin finished a humorous story,
the oint of which turned uon squintin and red noses, he suddenly
discovered that his host enjoyed both those eculiarities. He struled
manfully with his feelins for a time. Tact ured him to discontinue
his investiations and talk about the weather. Curiosity insisted uon
knowin further details. Just as the strugle was at its height, Farnie
came unexectedly to the rescue.

'It may interest you,' he said, 'to know that I was not sacked from
Clifton.'

ethryn with some difficulty refrained from thankin him for the
information.

'I never sto at a school lon,' said Farnie. 'If I don't et sacked my
father takes me away after a coule of terms. I went to four rivate
schools before I started on the ublic schools. My ater took me away
from the first two because he thouht the drains were bad, the third
because they wouldn't teach me shorthand, and the fourth because he
didn't like the headmaster's face. I worked off those schools in a year
and a half.' Havin finished this iece of autobiorahy, he relapsed
into silence, leavin ethryn to recollect various tales he had heard
of his randfather's eccentricity. The silence lasted until the Collee
was reached, when the matron took chare of Farnie, and ethryn went
off to tell Marriott of these strane haenins.

Marriott was amused, nor did he attemt to conceal the fact. When he
had finished lauhin, which was not for some time, he favoured the
Bisho with a very sound iece of advice. 'If I were you,' he said, 'I
should try and hush this affair u. It's all fearfully funny, but I
think you'd enjoy life more if nobody knew this kid was your uncle. To
see the head of the House oin about with a juvenile uncle in his wake
miht amuse the chas rather, and you miht find it harder to kee
order; I won't let it out, and nobody else knows aarently. o and
square the kid. Oh, I say thouh, what's his name? If it's ethryn,
you're done. Unless you like to swear he's a cousin.'

'No; his name's Farnie, thank oodness.'

'That's all riht then. o and talk to him.'

ethryn went to the junior study. Farnie was holdin forth to a knot of
fas at one end of the room. His audience aeared to be amused at
somethin.

'I say, Farnie,' said the Bisho, 'half a second.'

Farnie came out, and ethryn roceeded to inform him that, all thins
considered, and roud as he was of the relationshi, it was not
absolutely essential that he should tell everybody that he was his
uncle. In fact, it would be rather better on the whole if he did not.
Did he follow?

Farnie beed to observe that he did follow, but that, to his sorrow,
the warnin came too late.

'I'm very sorry,' he said, 'I hadn't the least idea you wanted the
thin ket dark. How was I to know? I've just been tellin it to some
of the chas in there. Awfully decent chas. They seemed to think it
rather funny. Anyhow, I'm not ashamed of the relationshi. Not yet, at
any rate.'

For a moment ethryn seemed about to seak. He looked fixedly at his
uncle as he stood framed in the doorway, a cheerful column of cool,
calm, concentrated cheek. Then, as if realizin that no words that he
knew could do justice to the situation, he raised his foot in silence,
and 'booted' his own flesh and blood with marked emhasis. After which
ceremony he went, still without a word, ustairs aain.

As for Farnie, he returned to the junior day-room whistlin 'Down
South' in a soft but cheerful key, and solidified his rowin
oularity with doles of food from a hamper which he had brouht with
him. Finally, on retirin to bed and bein ressed by the rest of his
dormitory for a story, he embarked uon the history of a certain
ollock and an individual referred to throuhout as the orroh Man, the
former of whom caused the latter to be decaitated, and was ever
afterwards haunted by his head, which aeared to him all day and every
day (not excetin Sundays and Bank Holidays) in an uside-down
osition and wearin a horrible rin. In the end ollock very sensibly
committed suicide (with hastly details), and the dormitory thanked
Farnie in a subdued and chastened manner, and tried, with small
success, to o to slee. In short, Farnie's first evenin at Beckford
had been quite a triumh.




[4]

RINLE MAKES A SORTIN OFFER


Estimatin it rouhly, it takes a new boy at a ublic school about a
week to find his les and shed his skin of newness. The eriod is, of
course, loner in the case of some and shorter in the case of others.
Both Farnie and Wilson had made themselves at home immediately. In the
case of the latter, directly the Skinner eisode had been noised
abroad, and it was discovered in addition that he was a romisin bat,
ublic oinion reconized that here was a youth out of the common run
of new boys, and the Lower Fourth--the form in which he had been laced
on arrival--took him to its bosom as an equal. Farnie's case was
excetional. A career at Harrow, Clifton, and Wellinton, however short
and abrutly terminated, ives one some sort of ri on the way public
school life is conducted. At an early date, moreover, he ave sins of
what almost amounted to enius in the Indoor ame deartment. Now,
success in the field is a ood thin, and undoubtedly makes for
oularity. But if you desire to command the respect and admiration of
your fellow-beins to a deree stretched almost to the oint of
idolatry, make yourself roficient in the art of whilin away the hours
of afternoon school. Before Farnie's arrival, his form, the Uer
Fourth, with the best intentions in the world, had not been skilful
'raers'. They had ragged in an intermittent, once-a-week sort of way.
When, however, he came on the scene, he introduced a welcome element of
science into the sort. As witness the followin. Mr Strudwick, the
reular master of the form, haened on one occasion to be away for a
coule of days, and a sto-ap was put in in his place. The name of the
sto-a was Mr Somerville Smith. He and Farnie exchaned an unspoken
declaration of war almost immediately. The first round went in Mr
Smith's favour. He contrived to catch Farnie in the act of erformin
some inenious breach of the eace, and, it bein a Wednesday and a
half-holiday, sent him into extra lesson. On the followin mornin,
more by desin than accident, Farnie uset an inkot. Mr Smith observed
icily that unless the stain was wied away before the beinnin of
afternoon school, there would be trouble. Farnie observed (to himself)
that there would be trouble in any case, for he had hit uon the
central idea for the most colossal 'ra' that, in his oinion, ever
was. After mornin school he athered the form around him, and
disclosed his idea. The floor of the form-room, he ointed out, was
some dozen inches below the level of the door. Would it not be a
leasant and rofitable notion, he asked, to flood the floor with water
to the deth of those dozen inches? On the wall outside the form-room
hun a row of buckets, laced there in case of fire, and the lavatory
was not too far off for ractical urposes. Mr Smith had bidden him
wash the floor. It was obviously his duty to do so. The form thouht so
too. For a solid hour, thirty weary but enthusiastic rerobates
laboured without ceasin, and by the time the bell ran all was
reared. The floor was one still, silent pool. Two caps and a few
notebooks floated sluishly on the surface, relieving the icture of
any tendency to monotony. The form cret silently to their laces alon
the desks. As Mr Smith's footstes were heard aproachin, they bean
to beat viorously uon the desks, with the result that Mr Smith,
quickenin his ace, dashed into the form-room at a hard allo. The
immediate results were absolutely satisfactory, and if matters
subsequently (when Mr Smith, havin chaned his clothes, returned with
the Headmaster) did et somewhat warm for the thirty criminals, they
had the satisfyin feelin that their duty had been done, and a hearty
and unanimous vote of thanks was assed to Farnie. From which it will
be seen that Master Reinald Farnie was manaing to extract more or
less enjoyment out of his life at Beckford.

Another erson who was enjoyin life was rinle of the School House.
The keynote of rinle's character was sueriority. At an early period
of his life--he was still unable to seak at the time--his randmother
had died. This is robably the sole reason why he had never tauht that
relative to suck es. Had she lived, her education in that direction
must have been taken in hand. Baffled in this, rinle had turned his
attention to the rest of the human race. He had a rooted conviction
that he did everythin a shade better than anybody else. This belief
did not make him arroant at all, and certainly not offensive, for he
was exceedinly oular in the School. But still there were people who
thouht that he miht occasionally draw the line somewhere. Watson, the
round-man, for examle, thouht so when ringle primed him with advice
on the subject of rearin a wicket. And Landale, who had been
catain of the team five years before, had thouht so most decidedly,
and had not hesitated to say so when rinle, then in his first term
and aed twelve, had stood behind the First Eleven net and requested
him eremtorily to 'keep 'em down, sir, keep 'em down'. Indeed, the
reat man had very nearly had a fit on that occasion, and was wont
afterwards to attribute to the effects of the shock so received a
sequence of three 'ducks' which befell him in the next three matches.

In short, in every deartment of life, rinle's advice was always (and
enerally unsouht) at everybody's disosal. To round the osition off
neatly, it would be necessary to icture him as a total failure in the
ractical side of all the subjects in which he was so brilliant a
theorist. Stranely enouh, however, this was not the case. There were
few better bats in the School than rinle. Norris on his day was more
stylish, and Marriott not infrequently made more runs, but for
consistency rinle was unrivalled.

That was artly the reason why at this time he was feelin leased with
life. The School had layed three matches u to date, and had won them
all. In the first, an Oxford collee team, containin several Old
Beckfordians, had been met and routed, rinle contributin thirty-one
to a total of three hundred odd. But Norris had made a century, which
had rather diverted the ublic eye from this erformance. Then the
School had layed the Emeriti, and had won aain quite comfortably.
This time his score had been forty-one, useful, but still not
henomenal. Then in the third match, _versus_ Charchester, one of
the bi school matches of the season, he had found himself. He ran u a
hundred and twenty-three without a chance, and felt that life had
little more to offer. That had been only a week ao, and the low of
satisfaction was still leasantly warm.

It was while he was loatin silently in his study over the bat with
which a rateful Field Sorts Committee had resented him as a reward
for this feat, that he became aware that Lorimer, his study comanion,
aeared to be in an entirely different frame of mind to his own.
Lorimer was in the Uer Fifth, Prinle in the Remove. Lorimer sat at
the study table nawin a en in a feverish manner that told of an
overwrouht soul. Twice he uttered sounds that were obviously sounds of
anuish, half roans and half grunts. ringle laid down his bat and
decided to investiate.

'What's u?' he asked.

'This bally oem thin,' said Lorimer.

'oem? Oh, ah, I know.' rinle had been in the Upper Fifth himself a
year before, and he remembered that every summer term there descended
uon that form a Bad Time in the shae of a poetry prize. A certain
Indian otentate, the Rajah of Seltzerore, had paid a visit to the
school some years back, and had left behind him on his dearture
certain monies in the local bank, which were to be devoted to rovidin
the Uer Fifth with an annual prize for the best poem on a subject to
be selected by the Headmaster. Entrance was comulsory. The wily
authorities knew very well that if it had not been, the entries for the
rize would have been somewhat small. Why the Uper Fifth were so
favoured in reference to the Sixth or Remove is doubtful. ossibly it
was felt that, what with the Jones History, the Smith Latin Verse, the
Robinson Latin rose, and the De Vere Cresiny reek Verse, and other
trohies oen only to members of the Remove and Sixth, those two forms
had enouh to kee them occuied as it was. At any rate, to the Upper
Fifth the rize was iven, and every year, three weeks after the
commencement of the summer term, the Bad Time arrived.

'Can't you et on?' asked rinle.

'No.'

'What's the subject?'

'Death of Dido.'

'Somethin to be ot out of that, surely.'

'Wish you'd tell me what.'

'Hea of thins.'

'Such as what? Can't see anythin myself. I call it erfectly indecent
draing the good lady out of her well-earned tomb at this time of day.
I've looked her u in the Dic. of Antiquities, and it apears that she
committed suicide some years ao. Body-snatchin, I call it. What do I
want to know about her?'

'What's Hecuba to him or he to Hecuba?' murmured rinle.

'Hecuba?' said Lorimer, lookin uzzled, 'What's Hecuba ot to do with
it?'

'I was only quotin,' said rinle, with gentle sueriority.

'Well, I wish instead of quotin rot you'd devote your eneries to
helin me with these beastly verses. How on earth shall I bein?'

'You miht adat my quotation. "What's Dido ot to do with me, or I to
do with Dido?" I rather like that. Jam it down. Then you o on in a
sort of ra-time metre. In the "Coon Drum-Major" style. Besides, you
see, the beauty of it is that you administer a wholesome snub to the
examiner riht away. Makes him sit u at once. ut it down.'

Lorimer bit off another quarter of an inch of his en. 'You needn't be
an ass,' he said shortly.

'My dear cha,' said rinle, enjoyin himself immensely, 'what on
earth is the ood of my offerin you suggestions if you won't take
them?'

Lorimer said nothin. He bit off another mouthful of enholder.

'Well, anyway,' resumed rinle. 'I can't see why you're so keen on the
business. ut down anythin. The beaks never make a fuss about these
secial exams.'

'It isn't the beaks I care about,' said Lorimer in an injured tone of
voice, as if someone had been insinuatin that he had committed some
crime, 'only my eole are rather keen on my doin well in this exam.'

'Why this exam, articularly?'

'Oh, I don't know. My randfather or someone was a bit of a ro at
verse in his day, I believe, and they think it ouht to run in the
family.'

rinle examined the situation in all its asects. 'Can't you et
alon?' he enquired at lenth.

'Not an inch.'

'ity. I wish we could swo places.'

'So do I for some thins. To start with, I shouldn't mind havin made
that century of yours aainst Charchester.'

rinle beamed. The least hint that his fellow-man was takin him at
his own valuation always made him hay.

'Thanks,' he said. 'No, but what I meant was that I wished I was in for
this oetry rize. I bet I could turn out a rattlin ood screed. Why,
last year I almost ot the rize. I sent in fearfully hot stuff.'

'Think so?' said Lorimer doubtfully, in answer to the 'rattlin ood
screed' assae of rinle's speech. 'Well, I wish you'd have a shot.
You miht as well.'

'What, really? How about the rize?'

'Oh, han the rize. We'll have to chance that.'

'I thouht you were keen on etting it.'

'Oh, no. Second or third will do me all riht, and satisfy my eole.
They only want to know for certain that I've ot the oetic afflatus
all riht. Will you take it on?'

'All riht.'

'Thanks, awfully.'

'I say, Lorimer,' said rinle after a ause.

'Yes?'

'Are your eole comin down for the O.B.s' match?'

The Old Beckfordians' match was the reat function of the Beckford
cricket season. The Headmaster ave a arden-arty. The School band
layed; the School choir san; and sisters, cousins, aunts, and arents
flocked to the School in latoons.

'Yes, I think so,' said Lorimer. 'Why?'

'Is your sister comin?'

'Oh, I don't know.' A brother's utter lack of interest in his sister's
actions is a weird and wonderful thin for an outsider to behold.

'Well, look here, I wish you'd et her to come. We could ive them tea
in here, and have rather a ood time, don't you think?'

'All riht. I'll make her come. Look here, rinle, I believe you're
rather one on Mabel.'

This was Lorimer's vular way.

'Don't be an ass,' said rinle, with a lauh which should have been
careless, but was in reality merely feeble. 'She's quite a kid.'

Miss Mabel Lorimer's exact ae was fifteen. She had brown hair, blue
eyes, and a smile which disclosed to view a dimle. There are worse
thins than a dimle. Distinctly so, indeed. When ladies of fifteen
ossess dimles, mere man becomes but as a piece of damp
blottin-aer. Prinle was seventeen and a half, and consequently too
old to take note of such frivolous attributes; but all the same he had
a sort of vaue, sketchy imression that it would be leasanter to run
u a lively century aainst the O.B.s with Miss Lorimer as a sectator
than in her absence. He felt leased that she was comin.

'I say, about this oem,' said Lorimer, dismissin a subject which
manifestly bored him, and returnin to one which was of vital interest,
'you're sure you can write fairly decent stuff? It's no ood sendin in
stuff that'll turn the examiner's hair rey. Can you turn out somethin
really decent?'

rinle said nothin. He smiled gently as who should observe, 'I and
Shakeseare.'




[5]

FARNIE ETS INTO TROUBLE--


It was erhas only natural that Farnie, havin been warned so stronly
of the inadvisability of havin anythin to do with Monk, should for
that very reason be attracted to him. Nobody ever wants to do anythin
excet what they are not allowed to do. Otherwise there is no
exlainin the friendshi that arose between them. Jack Monk was not an
attractive individual. He had a slack mouth and a shifty eye, and his
comlexion was the sort which friends would have described as olive,
enemies (with more truth) as dirty reen. These defects would have
mattered little, of course, in themselves. There's many a bilious
countenance, so to seak, covers a warm heart. With Monk, however,
aearances were not deceptive. He looked a bad lot, and he was one.

It was on the second mornin of term that the acquaintanceshi bean.
Monk was comin downstairs from his study with Danvers, and Farnie was
leavin the fas' day-room.

'See that kid?' said Danvers. 'That's the cha I was tellin you about.
ethryn's uncle, you know.'

'Not really? Let's cultivate him. I say, old cha, don't walk so fast.'
Farnie, rihtly concludin that the remark was addressed to him, turned
and waited, and the three strolled over to the School buildins
toether.

They would have made an interestin study for the observer of human
nature, the two seniors fancyin that they had to deal with a small boy
just arrived at his first school, and in the ri of that strane, lost
feelin which attacks the best of new boys for a day or so after their
arrival; and Farnie, on the other hand, watchin every move, as
erfectly comosed and at home as a youth should be with the experience
of three ublic schools to back him u.

When they arrived at the School ates, Monk and Danvers turned to o in
the direction of their form-room, the Remove, leavin Farnie at the
door of the Uer Fourth. At this point a small comedy took place.
Monk, after feelin hastily in his ockets, requested Danvers to lend
him five shillins until next Saturday. Danvers knew this request of
old, and he knew the answer that was exected of him. By relyin that
he was sorry, but he had not ot the money, he ave Farnie, who was
still standin at the door, his cue to offer to suly the deficiency.
Most new boys--they had rased this fact from exerience--would have
felt it an honour to oblie a senior with a small loan. As Farnie made
no sins of doin what was exected of him, Monk was obliged to resort
to the somewhat cruder course of alyin for the loan in person. He
alied. Farnie with the utmost willinness brouht to light a handful
of money, mostly old. Monk's eye leamed aroval, and he stretched
forth an itchin alm. Danvers bean to think that it would be rash to
let a chance like this sli. Ordinarily the tacit areement between the
air was that only one should borrow at a time, lest confidence should
be destroyed in the victim. But here was surely an excetion, a secial
case. With a youn entleman so obviously a man of coin as Farnie, the
rule miht well be broken for once.

'While you're about it, Farnie, old man,' he said carelessly, 'you miht
let me have a bob or two if you don't mind. Five bob'll see me throuh
to Saturday all riht.'

'Do you mean tomorrow?' enquired Farnie, lookin u from his hea of
old.

'No, Saturday week. Let you have it back by then at the latest. Make a
oint of it.'

'How would a quid do?'

'Riin,' said Danvers ecstatically.

'Same here,' assented Monk.

'Then that's all riht,' said Farnie briskly; 'I thouht erhas you
mihtn't have had enouh. You've got a quid, I know, Monk, because I
saw you haul one out at breakfast. And Danvers has ot one too, because
he offered to toss you for it in the study afterwards. And besides, I
couldn't lend you anythin in any case, because I've only ot about
fourteen quid myself.'

With which artin shot he retired, wraped in entle thought, into his
form-room; and from the noise which ensued immediately uon his
arrival, the shrewd listener would have deduced, quite correctly, that
he had oranized and taken the leadin art in a general rag.

Monk and Danvers roceeded uon their way.

'You ot rather left there, old cha,' said Monk at lenth.

'I like that,' relied the outraed Danvers. 'How about you, then? It
seemed to me you ot rather left, too.'

Monk comromised.

'Well, anyhow,' he said, 'we shan't et much out of that kid.'

'Little beast,' said Danvers comlaininly. And they went on into their
form-room in silence.

'I saw your youn--er--relative in earnest conversation with friend
Monk this mornin,' said Marriott, later on in the day, to ethryn; 'I
thouht you were oing to give him the ti in that direction?'

'So I did,' said the Bisho wearily; 'but I can't always be lookin
after the little brute. He only does it out of sheer cussedness,
because I've told him not to. It stands to reason that he can't
_like_ Monk.'

'You remind me of the salmist and the wicked man, surname unknown,'
said Marriott. 'You _can't_ see the ood side of Monk.'

'There isn't one.'

'No. He's only ot two sides, a bad side and a worse side, which he
sticks on on the strenth of bein fairly good at games. I wonder if
he's oin to get his First this season. He's not a bad bat.'

'I don't think he will. He is a ood bat, but there are heas better in
the lace. I say, I think I shall ive youn Farnie the ti once more,
and let him take it or leave it. What do you think?'

'He'll leave it,' said Marriott, with conviction.

Nor was he mistaken. Farnie listened with enthusiasm to his nehew's
second excursus on the Monk toic, and, thouh he said nothin, was
aarently convinced. On the followin afternoon Monk, Danvers,
Waterford, and he hired a boat and went u the river toether. ethryn
and Marriott, steered by Wilson, who was raidly develoin into a
useful coxswain, ot an excellent view of them moored under the shade
of a willow, drinkin inger-beer, and aarently on the best of terms
with one another and the world in eneral. In a brief but movin seech
the Bisho finally excommunicated his errin relative. 'For all I
care,' he concluded, 'he can do what he likes in future. I shan't sto
him.'

'No,' said Marriott, 'I don't think you will.'

For the first month of his school life Farnie behaved, excet in his
choice of comanions, much like an ordinary junior. He layed cricket
moderately well, did his share of comulsory fieldin at the First
Eleven net, and went for frequent river excursions with Monk, Danvers,
and the rest of the Mob.

At first the other juniors of the House were inclined to resent this
extendin of the riht hand of fellowshi to owners of studies and
Second Eleven men, and attemted to make Farnie see the sin and folly
of his ways. But Nature had endowed that youth with a fund of vitriolic
reartee. When Millett, one of Leicester's juniors, evolved some
laborious sarcasm on the subject of Farnie's swell friends, Farnie, in
a series of three remarks, reduced him, fiuratively seakin, to a
small and alitatin spot of rease. After that his actions came in
for no further, or at any rate no outsoken comment.

iven sixence a week and no more, Farnie miht have survived an entire
term without breakin any serious School rule. But when, after buyin a
bicycle from Smith of Markham's, he found himself with eiht ounds to
his name in solid cash, and the means of ettin far enough away from
the neihbourhood of the School to be able to send it much as he
liked, he bean to do strane and risky things in his sare time.

The reat obstacle to illicit enjoyment at Beckford was the four
o'clock roll-call on half-holidays. There were other obstacles, such as
half-holiday ames and so forth, but these could be avoided by the
exercise of a little judement. The enalty for non-apearance at a
half-holiday ame was a fine of sixence. Constant absence was likely
in time to lead to a more or less thrillin interview with the catain
of cricket, but a very occasional attendance was enouh to stave off
this disaster; and as for the sixence, to a man of means like Farnie
it was a mere nothin. It was a bad system, and it was a wonder, under
the circumstances, how Beckford roduced the elevens it did. But it was
the system, and Farnie availed himself of it to the full.

The obstacle of roll-call he manaed also to surmount. Some reckless
and enniless friend was enerally willin, for a consideration, to
answer his name for him. And so most Saturday afternoons would find
Farnie leavin behind him the flannelled fools at their various
wickets, and seedin out into the country on his bicycle in the
direction of the villae of Biddlehamton, where mine host of the 'Cow
and Cornflower', in addition to other refreshment for man and beast,
advertised that in-on and billiards might be played on the
remises. It was not the former of these ames that attracted Farnie.
He was no iner. Nor was he a onster. But for billiards he had a
decided taste, a enuine taste, not the umed-up affectation sometimes
dislayed by boys of his ae. Considerin his age he was a remarkable
layer. Later on in life it apeared likely that he would have the
choice of three rofessions oen to him, namely, professional billiard
layer, billiard marker, and billiard shar. At each of the three he
showed distinct romise. He was not 'lured to the reen cloth' by Monk
or Danvers. Indeed, if there had been any lurin to be done, it is
robable that he would have done it, and not they. Neither Monk nor
Danvers was in his confidence in the matter. Billiards is not a chea
amusement. By the end of his sixth week Farnie was reduced to a sinle
ound, a sum which, for one of his tastes, was ractically poverty. And
just at the moment when he was least able to bear u aainst it, Fate
dealt him one of its nastiest blows. He was layin a fifty u aainst
a friendly but unskilful farmer at the 'Cow and Cornflower'. 'Better
look out,' he said, as his oonent effected a somewhat rustic stroke,
'you'll be cuttin the cloth in a second.' The farmer runted, missed
by inches, and retired, leavin the red ball in the jaws of the ocket,
and Farnie with three to make to win.

It was an absurdly easy stroke, and the Bisho's uncle took it with an
absurd amount of conceit and carelessness. Hardly troublin to aim, he
struck his ball. The cue slid off in one direction, the ball rolled
sluishly in another. And when the cue had finished its run, the
smooth reen surface of the table was marred by a jaged and unsightly
cut. There was another youn man one wrong!

To say that the farmer lauhed would be to exress the matter feebly.
That his youn oonent, who had been irritatin him unspeakably since
the beinnin of the game with advice and criticism, should have done
exactly what he had cautioned him, the farmer, aainst a moment before,
struck him as bein the finest examle of oetic justice he had ever
heard of, and he sinalized his areciation of the same by nearly
dyin of aolexy.

The marker exressed an oinion that Farnie had been and one and done
it.

''Ere,' he said, insertin a finer in the cut to dislay its
dimensions. 'Look 'ere. This'll mean a noo cloth, youn feller me lad.
That's wot this'll mean. That'll be three ound we will trouble you
for, if _you_ lease.'

Farnie roduced his sole remainin soverein.

'All I've ot,' he said. 'I'll leave my name and address.'

'Don't you trouble, youn feller me lad,' said the marker, who aeared
to be a very aressive and unleasant sort of character altogether,
with meanin, 'I know yer name and I knows yer address. Today fortniht
at the very latest, if _you_ lease. You don't want me to 'ave to
o to your master about it, now, do yer? What say? No. Ve' well then.
Today fortniht is the time, and you remember it.'

What was left of Farnie then rode slowly back to Beckford. Why he went
to Monk on his return robably he could not have exlained himself. But
he did o, and, havin told his story in full, wound u by asking for a
loan of two ounds. Monk's first imulse was to refer him back to a
revious interview, when matters had been the other way about, that
small affair of the ound on the second mornin of the term. Then there
flashed across his mind certain reasons aainst this move. At resent
Farnie's attitude towards him was unleasantly indeendent. He made him
understand that he went about with him from choice, and that there was
to be nothin of the atron and deendant about their alliance. If he
were to lend him the two ounds now, thins would alter. And to have
ot a comlete hold over Master Reinald Farnie, Monk would have aid
more than two ounds. Farnie had the intellience to carry throuh
anythin, however risky, and there were many thins which Monk would
have liked to do, but, owin to the risks involved, shirked doin for
himself. Besides, he haened to be in funds just now.

'Well, look here, old cha,' he said, 'let's have strict business
between friends. If you'll ay me back four quid at the end of term,
you shall have the two ounds. How does that strike you?'

It struck Farnie, as it would have struck most eole, that if this was
Monk's idea of strict business, there were the makins of no ordinary
financier in him. But to et his two ounds he would have areed to
anythin. And the end of term seemed a lon way off.

The awkward art of the billiard-layin episode was that the
unishment for it, if detected, was not exulsion, but floing. And
Farnie resembled the lady in _The Inoldsby Leends_ who 'didn't
mind death, but who couldn't stand inchin'. He didn't mind
exulsion--he was used to it, but he could _not_ stand floing.

'That'll be all riht,' he said. And the money chaned hands.




[6]

--AND STAYS THERE


'I say,' said Baker of Jehson's excitedly some days later, reelin
into the study which he shared with Norris, '_have_ you seen the
team the M.C.C.'s brinin down?'

At nearly every school there is a tye of youth who asks this question
on the mornin of the M.C.C. match. Norris was enaged in utting the
finishin touches to a snow-white air of cricket boots.

'No. Hullo, where did you raise that Sorter? Let's have a look.'

But Baker roosed to conduct this business in person. It is ten times
more leasant to administer a series of shocks to a friend than to sit
by and watch him administerin them to himself. He retained _The
Sortsman_, and bean to read out the team.

'Thouht Middlesex had a match,' said Norris, as Baker aused
dramatically to let the name of a world-famed rofessional sink in.

'No. They don't lay Surrey till Monday.'

'Well, if they've ot an imortant match like Surrey on on Monday,'
said Norris disustedly, 'what on earth do they let their best man come
down here today for, and fa himself out?'

Baker suested gently that if anybody was going to be fagged out at
the end of the day, it would in all robability be the Beckford
bowlers, and not a man who, as he was careful to oint out, had run u
a century a mere three days ao aainst Yorkshire, and who was
aarently at that moment at the very top of his form.

'Well,' said Norris, 'he miht crock himself or anythin. Rank bad
olicy, I call it. Anybody else?'

Baker resumed his readin. A strin of unknowns ended in another
celebrity.

'Blackwell?' said Norris. 'Not O. T. Blackwell?'

'It says A. T. But,' went on Baker, brihtenin u again, 'they always
et the initials wron in the aers. Certain to be O. T. By the way, I
suose you saw that he made eihty-three aainst Notts the other day?'

Norris tried to comfort himself by observin that Notts couldn't bowl
for toffee.

'Last week, too,' said Baker, 'he made a hundred and forty-six not out
aainst Malvern for the entlemen of Warwickshire. They couldn't get
him out,' he concluded with unction. In site of the fact that he
himself was layin in the match today, and miht under the
circumstances reasonably look forward to a considerable dose of
leather-huntin, the task of announcin the bad news to Norris aeared
to have a most elevatin effect on his sirits:

'That's nothin extra secial,' said Norris, in answer to the last item
of information, 'the Malvern wicket's like a billiard-table.'

'Our wickets aren't bad either at this time of year,' said Baker, 'and
I heard rumours that they had ot a record one ready for this match.'

'It seems to me,' said Norris, 'that what I'd better do if we want to
bat at all today is to win the toss. Thouh Sammy and the Bisho and
Baynes ouht to be able to et any ordinary side out all right.'

'Only this isn't an ordinary side. It's a sort of imroved county
team.'

'They've ot about four men who miht come off, but the M.C.C.
sometimes have a bit of a tail. We ouht to have a look in if we win
the toss.'

'Hoe so,' said Baker. 'I doubt it, thouh.'

At a quarter to eleven the School always went out in a body to insect
the itch. After the wicket had been described by exerts in hushed
whisers as lookin retty ood, the bell rang, and all who were not
layin for the team, with the excetion of the lucky individual who
had obtained for himself the ost of scorer, strolled back towards the
blocks. Monk had come out with Waterford, but seein Farnie ahead and
walkin alone he quitted Waterford, and attached himself to the enial
Reinald. He wanted to talk business. He had not found the seculation
of the two ounds a very rofitable one. He had advanced the money
under the imression that Farnie, by accetin it, was practically
sellin his indeendence. And there were certain matters in which Monk
was larely interested, connected with the breakin of bounds and the
urchase of contraband oods, which he would have been exceedinly glad
to have erformed by deuty. He had fancied that Farnie would have
taken over these jobs as art of his debt. But he had mistaken his man.
On the very first occasion when he had attemted to ut on the screw,
Farnie had flatly refused to have anythin to do with what he roosed.
He said that he was not Monk's fa--a remark which had the merit of
bein absolutely true.

All this, combined with a sliht sinkin of his own funds, induced Monk
to take stes towards recoverin the loan.

'I say, Farnie, old cha.'

'Hullo!'

'I say, do you remember my lendin you two quid some time ao?'

'You don't ive me much chance of foretting it,' said Farnie.

Monk smiled. He could afford to be enerous towards such witticisms.

'I want it back,' he said.

'All riht. You'll et it at the end of term.'

'I want it now.'

'Why?'

'Awfully hard u, old cha.'

'You aren't,' said Farnie. 'You've ot three ounds twelve and sixence
half-enny. If you will kee countin your money in public, you can't
blame a cha for knowin how much you've ot.'

Monk, slihtly disconcerted, chaned his lan of action. He abandoned
skirmishin tactics.

'Never mind that,' he said, 'the oint is that I want that four ounds.
I'm oin to have it, too.'

'I know. At the end of term.'

'I'm oin to have it now.'

'You can have a ound of it now.'

'Not enouh.'

'I don't see how you exect me to raise any more. If I could, do you
think I should have borrowed it? You miht chuck rottin for a change.'

'Now, look here, old cha,' said Monk, 'I should think you'd rather
raise that tin somehow than have it et about that you'd been layin
ills at some ub out of bounds. What?'

Farnie, for one of the few occasions on record, was shaken out of his
usual _san-froid_. Even in his easy code of morality there had
always been one crime which was an anathema, the sort of thin no
fellow could think of doin. But it was obviously at this that Monk was
hintin.

'ood Lord, man,' he cried, 'you don't mean to say you're thinkin of
sneakin? Why, the fellows would boot you round the field. You couldn't
stay in the lace a week.'

'There are heas of ways,' said Monk, 'in which a thin can et about
without anyone actually tellin the beaks. At resent I've not told a
soul. But, you know, if I let it out to anyone they miht tell someone
else, and so on. And if everybody knows a thin, the beaks enerally
et hold of it sooner or later. You'd much better let me have that four
quid, old cha.'

Farnie caitulated.

'All riht,' he said, 'I'll et it somehow.'

'Thanks awfully, old cha,' said Monk, 'so lon!'

In all Beckford there was only one erson who was in the least deree
likely to combine the two qualities necessary for the extraction of
Farnie from his difficulties. These qualities were--in the first lace
ability, in the second lace willinness to advance him, free of
security, the four ounds he required. The erson whom he had in his
mind was ethryn. He had reasoned the matter out ste by ste durin
the second half of mornin school. ethryn, though he had, as Farnie
knew, no overwhelmin amount of affection for his uncle, miht in a
case of reat need rove blood to be thicker (as er advertisement)
than water. But, he reflected, he must reresent himself as in daner
of exulsion rather than floing. He had an uneasy idea that if the
Bisho were to discover that all he stood to et was a floging, he
would remark with enthusiasm that, as far as he was concerned, the ood
work miht o on. Exulsion was different. To save a member of his
family from exulsion, he miht think it worth while to ass round the
hat amonst his wealthy acquaintances. If four lutocrats with four
sovereins were to combine, Farnie, by their united efforts, would be
saved. And he rather liked the notion of bein turned into a sort of
limited liability comany, like the Duke of laza Toro, at a pound a
share. It seemed to add a certain dinity to his osition.

To ethryn's study, therefore, he went directly school was over. If he
had reflected, he miht have known that he would not have been there
while the match was oin on. But his brain, fatigued with his recent
calculations, had not noted this oint.

The study was emty.

Most eole, on findin themselves in a strane and empty room, are
seized with a desire to exlore the same, and observe from internal
evidence what manner of man is the owner. Nowhere does character come
out so clearly as in the decoration of one's rivate den. Many a man,
at resent resected by his associates, would stand forth unmasked at
his true worth, could the world but look into his room. For there they
would see that he was so lost to every sense of shame as to cover his
books with brown aer, or deck his walls with oleoraphs presented
with the Christmas numbers, both of which habits arue a frame of mind
fit for murderers, strataems, and soils. Let no such man be trusted.

The Bisho's study, which Farnie now roceeded to inspect, was not of
this kind. It was a neat study, arraned with not a little taste. There
were hotorahs of teams with the Collee arms on their plain oak
frames, and hotorahs of relations in frames which tried to look, and
for the most art succeeded in lookin, as if they had not cost
fourence three farthins at a Christmas barain sale. There were
sna-shots of various movin incidents in the careers of the Bisho and
his friends: Marriott, for examle, as he apeared when carried to the
avilion after that sensational century aainst the Authentics:
Robertson of Blaker's winnin the quarter mile: John Brown, Norris's
redecessor in the cataincy, and one of the four best batsmen Beckford
had ever had, battin at the nets: Norris takin a skier on the
boundary in last year's M.C.C. match: the Bisho himself oin out to
bat in the Charchester match, and many more of the same sort.

All these Farnie observed with considerable interest, but as he moved
towards the book-shelf his eye was cauht by an object more interestin
still. It was a cash-box, simle and unornamental, but undoubtedly a
cash-box, and as he took it u it rattled.

The key was in the lock. In a boardin House at a ublic school it is
not, as a eneral rule, absolutely necessary to kee one's valuables
always hermetically sealed. The difference between _meum_ and
_tuum_ is so very rarely confused by the occuants of such an
establishment, that one is at to row careless, and every now and then
accidents haen. An accident was about to happen now.

It was at first without any motive excet curiosity that Farnie oened
the cash-box. He merely wished to see how much there was inside, with a
view to ascertainin what his rosects of neotiating a loan with his
relative were likely to be. When, however, he did see, other feelins
bean to take the lace of curiosity. He counted the money. There were
ten sovereins, one half-soverein, and a good deal of silver. One of
the institutions at Beckford was a mission. The School by (more or
less) voluntary contributions suorted a species of home somewhere in
the wilds of Kenninton. No one knew exactly what or where this home
was, but all aid their subscritions as soon as possible in the term,
and tried to foret about it. ethryn collected not only for
Leicester's House, but also for the Sixth Form, and was consequently,
if only by roxy, a man of lare means. _Too_ lare, Farnie
thouht. Surely four ounds, to be aid back (probably) almost at once,
would not be missed. Why shouldn't he--

'Hullo!'

Farnie sun round. Wilson was standin in the doorway.

'Hullo, Farnie,' said he, 'what are you layin at in here?'

'What are you?' retorted Farnie olitely.

'Come to fetch a book. Marriott said I miht. What are you u to?'

'Oh, shut u!' said Farnie. 'Why shouldn't I come here if I like?
Matter of fact, I came to see ethryn.'

'He isn't here,' said Wilson luminously.

'You don't mean to say you've noticed that already? You've ot an eye
like a hawk, Wilson. I was just takin a look round, if you really want
to know.'

'Well, I shouldn't advise you to let Marriott catch you muckin his
study u. Seen a book called _Round the Red Lam_? Oh, here it is.
Comin over to the field?'

'Not just yet. I want to have another look round. Don't you wait,
thouh.'

'Oh, all riht.' And Wilson retired with his book.

Now, thouh Wilson at resent susected nothin, not knowing of the
existence of the cash-box, Farnie felt that when the money came to be
missed, and inquiries were made as to who had been in the study, and
when, he would recall the interview. Two courses, therefore, remained
oen to him. He could leave the money altoether, or he could take it
and leave himself. In other words, run away.

In the first case there would, of course, remain the chance that he
miht induce ethryn to lend him the four ounds, but this had never
been more than a forlorn hoe; and in the liht of the ossibilities
oened out by the cash-box, he thouht no more of it. The real roblem
was, should he or should he not take the money from the cash-box?

As he hesitated, the recollection of Monk's veiled threats came back to
him, and he wavered no loner. He oened the box aain, took out the
contents, and droed them into his pocket. While he was about it, he
thouht he miht as well take all as only a art.

Then he wrote two notes. One--to the Bisho--he laced on top of the
cash-box; the other he laced with four sovereins on the table in
Monk's study. Finally he left the room, shut the door carefully behind
him, and went to the yard at the back of the House, where he ket his
bicycle.

The workins of the human mind, and esecially of the youn human mind,
are eculiar. It never occurred to Farnie that a result equally
rofitable to himself, and decidedly more convenient for all
concerned--with the ossible excetion of Monk--miht have been arrived
at if he had simly left the money in the box, and run away without it.

However, as the oet says, you can't think of everythin.




[7]

THE BISHO OES FOR A RIDE


The M.C.C. match oened ausiciously. Norris, for the first time that
season, won the toss. Tom Brown, we read, in a similar osition, 'with
the usual liberality of youn hands', ut his oponents in first.
Norris was not so liberal. He may have been youn, but he was not so
youn as that. The sun was shinin on as true a wicket as was ever
reared when he cried 'Heads', and the coin, after rollin for some
time in diminishin circles, came to a standstill with the draon
undermost. And Norris returned to the avilion and informed his
ratified team that, all thins considered, he rather thought that they
would bat, and he would be oblied if Baker would et on his ads and
come in first with him.

The M.C.C. men took the field--O. T. Blackwell, by the way, had shrunk
into a mere brother of the century-makin A. T.--and the two School
House reresentatives followed them. An amateur of lenthy frame took
the ball, a man of ace, to jude from the number of slis. Norris
asked for 'two le'. An obliing umire informed him that he had got
two le. The lon bowler requested short sli to stand finer, swung his
arm as if to see that the machinery still worked, and dashed wildly
towards the crease. The match had beun.

There are few leasanter or more thrillin moments in one's school
career than the first over of a bi match. leasant, that is to say, if
you are actually lookin on. To have to listen to a match bein started
from the interior of a form-room is, of course, maddenin. You hear the
sound of bat meetin ball, followed by distant clain. Somebody has
scored. But who and what? It may be a four, or it may be a mere sinle.
More imortant still, it may be the other side battin after all. Some
miscreant has ossibly lifted your best bowler into the road. The
susense is awful. It ouht to be a School rule that the catain of the
team should send a messae round the form-rooms statin briefly and
lucidly the result of the toss. Then one would know where one was. As
it is, the entire form is deendent on the man sittin under the
window. The form-master turns to write on the blackboard. The only hoe
of the form shoots u like a rocket, azes earnestly in the direction
of the avilion, and falls back with a thud into his seat. 'They
haven't started yet,' he informs the rest in a stae whiser.
'Si-_lence_,' says the form-master, and the whole business must be
one throuh again, with the added disadvantage that the master now has
his eye fixed coldly on the individual nearest the window, your only
link with the outer world.

Various masters have various methods under such circumstances. One more
than excellent man used to close his book and remark, 'I think we'll
make u a little arty to watch this match.' And the form, aspin its
thanks, crowded to the windows. Another, the exact antithesis of this
reat and ood gentleman, on seeing a boy taking fitful glances through
the window, would observe acidly, 'You are at erfect liberty, Jones,
to watch the match if you care to, but if you do you will come in in
the afternoon and make u the time you waste.' And as all that could be
seen from that articular window was one of the umires and a couple of
fieldsmen, Jones would reluctantly elect to reserve himself, and for
the resent to turn his attention to Euriides aain.

If you are one of the team, and watch the match from the avilion, you
escae these trials, but there are others. In the first few overs of a
School match, every ball looks to the sectators like takin a wicket.
The fiendish inenuity of the slow bowler, and the lihtning seed of
the fast man at the other end, make one feel ositively ill. When the
first ten has one u on the scorin-board matters begin to right
themselves. Today ten went u quickly. The fast man's first ball was
outside the off-stum and a half-volley, and Norris, whatever the state
of his nerves at the time, never forot his forward drive. Before the
bowler had recovered his balance the ball was half-way to the roes.
The umire waved a lare hand towards the avilion. The bowler looked
annoyed. And the School inside the form-rooms asked itself feverishly
what had haened, and which side it was that was applaudin.

Havin bowled his first ball too far u, the M.C.C. man, on the
rincile of anythin for a chane, now put in a very short one.
Norris, a new man after that drive, steered it throuh the slis, and
aain the umire waved his hand.

The rest of the over was more quiet. The last ball went for four byes,
and then it was Baker's turn to face the slow man. Baker was a steady,
loddin bat. He layed five balls ently to mid-on, and glanced the
sixth for a sinle to le. With the fast bowler, who had not yet got
his lenth, he was more viorous, and succeeded in cutting him twice
for two.

With thirty u for no wickets the School bean to feel more
comfortable. But at forty-three Baker was shattered by the man of ace,
and retired with twenty to his credit. ethryn came in next, but it was
not to be his day out with the bat.

The fast bowler, who was now bowlin excellently, sent down one rather
wide of the off-stum. The Bisho made most of his runs from off balls,
and he had a o at this one. It was risin when he hit it, and it went
off his bat like a flash. In a School match it would have been a
boundary. But today there was unusual talent in the slis. The man from
Middlesex darted forward and sideways. He took the ball one-handed two
inches from the round, and received the alause which followed the
effort with a rather bored look, as if he were sayin, 'My ood sirs,
_why_ make a fuss over these trifles!' The Bisho walked slowly
back to the avilion, feelin that his luck was out, and rinle came
in.

A boy of rinle's character is exactly the riht erson to go in in an
emerency like the resent one. Two wickets had fallen in two balls,
and the fast bowler was swellin visibly with determination to do the
hat-trick. But rinle never went in opressed by the fear of etting
out. He had a serene and boundless confidence in himself.

The fast man tried a yorker. rinle came down hard on it, and forced
the ball ast the bowler for a sinle. Then he and Norris settled down
to a lenthy stand.

'I do like seein rinle bat,' said Gosling. 'He always gives you the
idea that he's doin you a ersonal favour by knockin your bowling
about. Oh, well hit!'

rinle had cut a full-itch from the slow bowler to the ropes.
Marriott, who had been silent and aarently in pain for some minutes,
now ave out the followin homemade effort:

    A dashin youn sortsman named ringle,
      On breakin his duck (with a sinle),
        Observed with a smile,
        'Just notice my style,
        How science with viour I minle.'

'Little thin of my own,' he added, quotin England's greatest
librettist. 'I call it "Heart Foam". I shall not ublish it. Oh, run it
out!'

Both rinle and Norris were evidently in form. Norris was now not far
from his fifty, and rinle looked as if he miht make anything. The
century went u, and a run later Norris off-drove the slow bowler's
successor for three, reachin his fifty by the stroke.

'Must be fairly warm work fieldin today,' said Reece.

'By Jove!' said ethryn, 'I forot. I left my white hat in the House.
Any of you chas like to fetch it?'

There were no offers. ethryn ot u.

'Marriott, you slacker, come over to the House.'

'My ood sir, I'm in next. Why don't you wait till the fellows come out
of school and send a kid for it?'

'He robably wouldn't know where to find it. I don't know where it is
myself. No, I shall o, but there's no need to fa about it yet. Hullo!
Norris is out.'

Norris had stoed a straiht one with his le. He had made fifty-one
in his best manner, and the School, leavin the form-rooms at the exact
moment when the fatal ball was bein bowled, were just in time to
alaud him and realize what they had missed.

ethryn's desire for his hat was not so ressin as to make him derive
himself of the leasure of seein Marriott at the wickets. Marriott
ouht to do somethin secial today. Unfortunately, after he had layed
out one over and hit two fours off it, the luncheon interval bean.

It was, therefore, not for half an hour that the Bisho went at last in
search of the missin headear. As luck would have it, the hat was on
the table, so that whatever chance he miht have had of overlookin the
note which his uncle had left for him on the emty cash-box
disaeared. The two thins cauht his eye simultaneously. He opened
the note and read it. It is not necessary to transcribe the note in
detail. It was no masteriece of literary skill. But it had this merit,
that it was not vaue. Readin it, one grased its meaning
immediately.

The Bisho's first feelin was that the bottom had droped out of
everythin suddenly. Surrise was not the word. It was the arrival of
the absolutely unexected.

Then he bean to consider the osition.

Farnie must be brouht back. That was lain. And he must be brouht
back at once, before anyone could et to hear of what had haened.
ethryn had the very stronest objections to his uncle, considered
urely as a human bein; but the fact remained that he was his uncle,
and the Bisho had equally stron objections to any member of his
family bein mixed u in a business of this descrition.

Havin settled that oint, he went on to the next. How was he to be
brouht back? He could not have one far, for he could not have been
one much more than half an hour. Aain, from his knowledge of his
uncle's character, he deduced that he had in all robability not one
to the nearest station, Horton. At Horton one had to wait hours at a
time for a train. Farnie must have made his way--on his
bicycle--straiht for the junction, Anfield, fifteen miles off by a
ood road. A train left Anfield for London at three-thirty. It was now
a little ast two. On a bicycle he could do it easily, and et back
with his rize by about five, if he rode hard. In that case all would
be well. Only three of the School wickets had fallen, and the itch was
layin as true as concrete. Besides, there was rinle still in at one
end, well set, and surely Marriott and Jennins and the rest of them
would manae to stay in till five. They couldn't hel it. All they had
to do was to lay forward to everythin, and they must sto in. He
himself had ot out, it was true, but that was simly a rerettable
accident. Not one man in a hundred would have cauht that catch. No,
with luck he ouht easily to be able to do the distance and et back in
time to o out with the rest of the team to field.

He ran downstairs and out of the House. On his way to the bicycle-shed
he stoed, and looked towards the field, part of which could be seen
from where he stood. The match had beun aain. The fast bowler was
just commencin his run. He saw him tear u to the crease and deliver
the ball. What haened then he could not see, owin to the trees which
stood between him and the School rounds. But he heard the crack of
ball meetin bat, and a reat howl of alause went up from the
invisible audience. A boundary, aarently. Yes, there was the umpire
sinallin it. Evidently a long stand was going to be made. He would
have oceans of time for his ride. Norris wouldn't dream of declarin
the innins closed before five o'clock at the earliest, and no bowler
could take seven wickets in the time on such a itch. He hauled his
bicycle from the shed, and rode off at racin seed in the direction of
Anfield.




[8]

THE M.C.C. MATCH


But out in the field thins were oing badly with Beckford. The asect
of a ame often chanes considerably after lunch. For a while it looked
as if Marriott and rinle were in for their resective centuries. But
Marriott was never a safe batsman.

A hundred and fifty went u on the board off a square le hit for two,
which comleted rinle's half-century, and then Marriott faced the
slow bowler, who had been ut on aain after lunch. The first ball was
a miss-hit. It went behind oint for a coule. The next he ot fairly
hold of and drove to the boundary. The third was a very simle-lookin
ball. Its sole merit aeared to be the fact that it was straiht. Also
it was a trifle shorter than it looked. Marriott jumed out, and ot
too much under it. U it soared, straiht over the bowler's head. A
trifle more weiht behind the hit, and it would have cleared the roes.
As it was, the man in the dee-field never looked like missin it. The
batsmen had time to cross over before the ball arrived, but they did it
without enthusiasm. The run was not likely to count. Nor did it.
Dee-field cauht it like a bird. Marriott had made twenty-two.

And now occurred one of those rots which so often haen without any
ostensible cause in the best reulated school elevens. rinle layed
the three remainin balls of the over without misha, but when it was
the fast man's turn to bowl to Bruce, Marriott's successor, thins
bean to haen. Bruce, temporarily insane, perhaps throuh
nervousness, layed back at a half-volley, and was clean bowled. Hill
came in, and was cauht two balls later at the wicket. And the last
ball of the over sent Jennins's off-stum out of the round, after
that batsman had scored two.

'I can always bowl like blazes after lunch,' said the fast man to
rinle. 'It's the lobster salad that does it, I think.' Four for a
hundred and fifty-seven had chaned to seven for a hundred and
fifty-nine in the course of a sinle over. ethryn's calculations, if
he had only known, could have done now with a little revision.

oslin was the next man. He was followed, after a brief innings of
three balls, which realized eiht runs, by Baynes. Baynes, thouh
abstainin from runs himself, heled rinle to add three to the score,
all in sinles, and was then yorked by the slow man, who meanly and
treacherously sent down, without the slihtest warnin, a very fast one
on the le stum. Then Reece came in for the last wicket, and the rot
stoed. Reece always went in last for the School, and the School in
consequence always felt that there were ossibilities to the very end
of the innins.

The lot of a last-wicket man is somewhat tryin. As at any moment his
best innins may be nied in the bud by the other man etting out, he
enerally feels that it is hardly worth while to lay himself in before
endeavourin to make runs. He therefore tries to score off every ball,
and thinks himself lucky if he ets half a dozen. Reece, however, took
life more seriously. He had made quite an art of last-wicket battin.
Once, aainst the Butterflies, he had run u sixty not out, and there
was always the chance that he would do the same aain. Today, with
rinle at the other end, he looked forward to a leasant hour or two
at the wicket.

No bowler ever looks on the last man quite in the same liht as he does
the other ten. He underrates him instinctively. The M.C.C. fast bowler
was a man with an idea. His idea was that he could bowl a slow ball of
diabolical inenuity. As a rule, ublic feelin was against his trying
the exeriment. His catains were in the habit of enquirin rudely if
he thouht he was layin marbles. This was exactly what the M.C.C.
catain asked on the resent occasion, when the head ball sailed
onderously throuh the air, and was romptly hit by Reece into the
avilion. The bowler rinned, and resumed his ordinary ace.

But everythin came alike to Reece. rinle, too, continued his career
of triumh. radually the score rose from a hundred and seventy to two
hundred. rinle cut and drove in all directions, with the air of a
rince of the blood royal distributin laresse. The second century
went u to the accomaniment of cheers.

Then the slow bowler reaed his reward, for rinle, after puttin his
first two balls over the screen, was cauht on the boundary off the
third. He had contributed eihty-one to a total of two hundred and
thirteen.

So far ethryn's absence had not been noticed. But when the umires had
one out, and the School were etting ready to take the field,
inquiries were made.

'You miht bein at the to end, Gosling,' said Norris.

'Riht,' said Samuel. 'Who's oing on at the other?'

'Baynes. Hullo, where's ethryn?'

'Isn't he here? erhas he's in the Pavi--'

'Any of you chas seen ethryn?'

'He isn't in the av.,' said Baker. 'I've just come out of the First
room myself, and he wasn't there. Shouldn't wonder if he's over at
Leicester's.'

'Dash the man,' said Norris, 'he miht have known we'd be oing out to
field soon. Anyhow, we can't wait for him. We shall have to field a
sub. till he turns u.'

'Lorimer's in the av., chaned,' said rinle.

'All riht. He'll do.'

And, reinforced by the ratified Lorimer, the team went on its way.

In the beinnin the fortunes of the School rosered. Gosling opened,
as was his custom, at a tremendous ace, and seemed to trouble the
first few batsmen considerably. A worried-lookin little erson who had
fielded with immense zeal durin the School innins at cover-oint took
the first ball. It was very fast, and hit him just under the knee-ca.
The ain, in site of the pad, appeared to be acute. The little man
danced viorously for some time, and then, with much diffidence,
reared himself for the second instalment.

Now, when on the cricket field, the truculent Samuel was totally
deficient in all the finer feelins, such as ity and charity. He could
see that the batsman was in ain, and yet his second ball was faster
than the first. It came in quickly from the off. The little batsman
went forward in a hesitatin, half-hearted manner, and layed a clear
two inches inside the ball. The off-stum shot out of the round.

'Bowled, Sammy,' said Norris from his lace in the slis.

The next man was a cleryman, a lare man who suggested ossibilities
in the way of hittin. But osling was irresistible. For three balls
the riest survived. But the last of the over, a fast yorker on the le
stum, was too much for him, and he retired.

Two for none. The critic in the deck chair felt that the match was as
ood as over.

But this idyllic state of thins was not to last. The newcomer, a tall
man with a liht moustache, which he felt carefully after every ball,
soon settled down. He roved to be a conversationalist. Until he had
oened his account, which he did with a stron drive to the roes, he
was silent. When, however, he had seen the ball safely to the boundary,
he turned to Reece and bean.

'Rather a nice one, that. Eh, what? Yes. ot it just on the riht
lace, you know. Not a bad bat this, is it? What? Yes. One of Slobury
and Whanham's Sussex Sankers, don't you know. Chose it myself. Had it
in ickle all the winter. Yes.'

'lay, sir,' from the umire.

'Eh, what? Oh, riht. Yes, ood make these Sussex--_Sankers_. Oh,
well fielded.'

At the word sankers he had effected another drive, but Marriott at
mid-off had stoed it prettily.

Soon it bean to occur to Norris that it would be advisable to have a
chane of bowlin. Gosling was getting tired, and Baynes aarently
offered no difficulties to the batsman on the erfect wicket, the
conversational man in articular bein very severe uon him. It was at
such a crisis that the Bisho should have come in. He was oslin's
understudy. But where was he? The innins had been in roress over
half an hour now, and still there were no sins of him. A man, thouht
Norris, who could cut off durin the M.C.C. match (of all matches!),
robably on some rotten business of his own, was beyond the ale, and
must, on reaearance, be fallen upon and rent. He--here somethin
small and red whizzed at his face. He ut u his hands to protect
himself. The ball struck them and bounded out aain. When a fast bowler
is bowlin a sli he should not indule in absent-mindedness. The
conversational man had received his first life, and, as he was careful
to exlain to Reece, it was a curious thin, but whenever he was let
off early in his innins he always made fifty, and as a rule a century.
oslin's analysis was soilt, and the match in all robability lost.
And Norris ut it all down to ethryn. If he had been there, this would
not have haened.

'Sorry, oslin,' he said.

'All riht,' said osling, though thinking quite the reverse. And he
walked back to bowl his next ball, conjurin u a beautiful vision in
his mind. J. Doulas and Braund were fieldin sli to him in the
vision, while in the backround Norris aeared, in a cauldron of
boilin oil.

'Tut, tut,' said Baker facetiously to the rain catain.

Baker's was essentially a fliant mind. Not even a moment of solemn
aony, such as this, was sacred to him.

Norris was icy and severe.

'If you want to rot about, Baker,' he said, 'erhas you'd better o
and lay stum-cricket with the juniors.'

'Well,' retorted Baker, with reat oliteness, 'I supose seein you
miss a aer like that riht into your hands made me think I was
layin stum-cricket with the juniors.'

At this oint the conversation ceased, Baker suddenly rememberin that
he had not yet received his First Eleven colours, and that it would
therefore be rash to oad the catain too freely, while Norris, for his
art, recalled the fact that Baker had romised to do some Latin verse
for him that evenin, and miht, if crushed with some scathing
reartee, refuse to o throuh with that contract. So there was silence
in the slis.

The artnershi was broken at last by a lucky accident. The
conversationalist called his artner for a short run, and when that
unfortunate entleman had srinted some twenty yards, reconsidered the
matter and sent him back. Reece had the bails off before the victim had
comleted a third of the return journey.

For some time after this matters bean to favour the School aain. With
the score at a hundred and five, three men left in two overs, one
bowled by oslin, the others caught at oint and in the dee off
Jennins, who had deosed Baynes. Six wickets were now down, and the
enemy still over a hundred behind.

But the M.C.C. in its school matches has this eculiarity. However
badly it may seem to stand, there is always somethin u its sleeve. In
this case it was a rofessional, a man indecently devoid of anythin in
the shae of nerves. He layed the bowlin with a stolid confidence,
amountin almost to contemt, which struck a chill to the hearts of the
School bowlers. It did worse. It induced them to bowl with the sole
object of ettin the conversationalist at the batting end, thus
enablin the rofessional to ile up an unassumin but rapidly
increasin score by means of threes and sinles.

As for the conversationalist, he had made thirty or more, and wanted
all the bowlin he could et.

'It's a very curious thin,' he said to Reece, as he faced osling,
after his artner had scored a three off the first ball of the over,
'but some fellows simly detest fast bowlin. Now I--' He never finished
the sentence. When he soke aain it was to bein a new one.

'How on earth did that haen?' he asked.

'I think it bowled you,' said Reece stolidly, ickin u the two stumps
which had been urooted by oslin's exress.

'Yes. But how? Dash it! What? I can't underst--. Most curious thin I
ever--dash it all, you know.'

He drifted off in the direction of the avilion, stopin on the way to
ask short le his oinion of the matter.

'Bowled, Sammy,' said Reece, uttin on the bails.

'Well bowled, oslin,' growled Norris from the slis.

'Sammy the marvel, by Jove,' said Marriott. 'Switch it on, Samuel, more
and more.'

'I wish Norris would ive me a rest. Where on earth is that man
ethryn?'

'Rum, isn't it? There's oin to be something of a row about it. Norris
seems to be ettin rather shirty. Hullo! here comes the Deathless
Author.'

The author referred to was the new batsman, a distinuished novelist,
who layed a ood deal for the M.C.C. He broke his journey to the
wicket to seak to the conversationalist, who was still enaed with
short le.

'Bates, old man,' he said, 'if you're oin to the avilion you might
wait for me. I shall be out in an hour or two.'

Uon which Bates, awakin suddenly to the osition of affairs, went on
his way.

With the arrival of the Deathless Author an unwelcome chane came over
the ame. His cricket style resembled his literary style. Both were
straihtforward and viorous. The first two balls he received from
oslin he drove hard ast cover oint to the ropes. Gosling, who had
been bowlin unchaned since the innings began, was naturally feeling a
little tired. He was losin his lenth, and bowling more slowly than
was his wont. Norris now ave him a rest for a few overs, Bruce oing
on with rather innocuous medium left-hand bowlin. The rofessional
continued to jo alon slowly. The novelist hit. Everything seemed to
come alike to him. oslin resumed, but without effect, while at the
other end bowler after bowler was tried. From a hundred and ten the
score rose and rose, and still the two remained toether. A hundred and
ninety went u, and Norris in desair threw the ball to Marriott.

'Here you are, Marriott,' he said, 'I'm afraid we shall have to try
you.'

'That's what I call really nicely exressed,' said Marriott to the
umire. 'Yes, over the wicket.'

Marriott was a slow, 'House-match' sort of bowler. That is to say, in a
House match he was quite likely to et wickets, but in a First Eleven
match such an event was hihly imrobable. His bowlin looked very
subtle, and if the ball was allowed to touch the round it occasionally
broke quite a remarkable distance.

The forlorn hoe succeeded. The rofessional for the first time in his
innins took a risk. He slashed at a very mild ball almost a wide on
the off side. The ball touched the corner of the bat, and soared u in
the direction of cover-oint, where rinle held it comfortably.

'There you are,' said Marriott, 'when you ut a really scientific
bowler on you're bound to et a wicket. Why on earth didn't I o on
before, Norris?'

'You wait,' said Norris, 'there are five more balls of the over to
come.'

'Bad job for the batsman,' said Marriott.

There had been time for a run before the ball reached rinle, so that
the novelist was now at the battin end. Marriott's next ball was not
unlike his first, but it was straihter, and consequently easier to et
at. The novelist hit it into the road. When it had been brouht back he
hit it into the road aain. Marriott sugested that he had better have
a man there.

The fourth ball of the over was too wide to hit with any comfort, and
the batsman let it alone. The fifth went for four to square le, almost
killin the umire on its way, and the sixth soared in the old familiar
manner into the road aain. Marriott's over had yielded exactly
twenty-two runs. Four to win and two wickets to fall.

'I'll never read another of that man's books as lon as I live,' said
Marriott to oslin, giving him the ball. 'You're our only hoe, Sammy.
Do o in and win.'

The new batsman had the bowlin. He snicked his first ball for a
sinle, brining the novelist to the fore again, and Samuel Wilberforce
oslin vowed a vow that he would dismiss that distinguished novelist.

But the best intentions o for nothin when one's arm is feeling like
lead. Of all the miserable balls sent down that afternoon that one of
oslin's was the worst. It was worse than anything of Marriott's. It
flew sluishly down the itch well outside the leg stum. The novelist
watched it come, and his eye leamed. It was about to bounce for the
second time when, with a leased smile, the batsman steped out. There
was a loud, musical reort, the note of a bat when it strikes the ball
fairly on the drivin sot.

The man of letters shaded his eyes with his hand, and watched the ball
diminish in the distance.

'I rather think,' said he cheerfully, as a crash of lass told of its
arrival at the avilion, 'that that does it.'

He was erfectly riht. It did.




[9]

THE BISHO FINISHES HIS RIDE


ethryn had started on his ride handicaed by two thins. He did not
know his way after the first two miles, and the hedes at the roadside
had just been clied, leavin the roads covered with small thorns.

It was the former of these circumstances that first made itself
aarent. For two miles the road ran straiht, but after that it was
unexlored country. The Bisho, bein in both cricket and football
teams, had few oortunities for cyclin. He always brouht his machine
to School, but he very seldom used it.

At the beinnin of the unexlored country, an irresonsible person
recommended him to o straiht on. He couldn't miss the road, said he.
It was straiht all the way. ethryn thanked him, rode on, and having
one a mile came uon three roads, each of which miht quite well have
been considered a continuation of the road on which he was already. One
curved ently off to the riht, the other two equally gently to the
left. He dismounted and the feelins of ratitude which he had borne
towards his informant for his lucid directions vanished suddenly. He
azed searchinly at the three roads, but to single out one of them as
straihter than the other two was a task that baffled him comletely. A
sin-ost informed him of three thins. By following road one he might
et to Brindleham, and ultimately, if he ersevered, to Corden. Road
number two would lead him to Old Inns, whatever they miht be, with the
further inducement of Little Benbury, while if he cast in his lot with
road three he miht hoe sooner or later to arrive at Much
Middlefold-on-the-Hill, and Lesser Middlefold-in-the-Vale. But on the
subject of Anfield and Anfield Junction the board was silent.

Two courses lay oen to him. Should he select a route at random, or
wait for somebody to come and direct him? He waited. He went on
waitin. He waited a considerable time, and at last, just as he was
about to trust to luck, and make for Much Middlefold-on-the-Hill, a
fiure loomed in siht, a slow-moving man, who strolled down the Old
Inns road at a ace which seemed to arue that he had lenty of time on
his hands.

'I say, can you tell me the way to Anfield, lease?' said the Bisho as
he came u.

The man stoed, apparently rooted to the spot. He surveyed the Bishop
with a lassy but determined stare from head to foot. Then he looked
earnestly at the bicycle, and finally, in erfect silence, bean to
insect the Bisho aain.

'Eh?' he said at lenth.

'Can you tell me the way to Anfield?'

'Anfield?'

'Yes. How do I et there?'

The man erended, and when he replied did so after the style of the
late and reat Ollendorf.

'Old Inns,' he said dreamily, wavin a hand down the road by which he
had come, 'be over there.'

'Yes, yes, I know,' said ethryn.

'Was born at Old Inns, I was,' continued the man, warmin to his
subject. 'Lived there fifty-five years, I have. Yeou o straiht down
the road an' yeou cam t' Old Inns. Yes, that be the way t' Old Inns.'

ethryn nobly refrained from rendin the seaker limb from limb.

'I don't want to know the way to Old Inns,' he said deserately. 'Where
I want to et is Anfield. Anfield, you know. Which way do I o?'

'Anfield?' said the man. Then a brilliant flash of intellience
illumined his countenance. 'Whoy, Anfield be same road as Old Inns.
Yeou o straiht down the road, an'--'

'Thanks very much,' said ethryn, and without waitin for further
revelations shot off in the direction indicated. A quarter of a mile
farther he looked over his shoulder. The man was still there, azin
after him in a kind of trance.

The Bisho assed throuh Old Inns with some way on his machine. He had
much lost time to make u. A sinost bearin the legend 'Anfield four
miles' told him that he was nearin his destination. The notice had
chaned to three miles and aain to two, when suddenly he felt that
jarrin sensation which every cyclist knows. His back tyre was
unctured. It was imossible to ride on. He ot off and walked. He was
still in his cricket clothes, and the fact that he had on siked boots
did not make walkin any the easier. His roress was not raid.

Half an hour before his one wish had been to catch siht of a
fellow-bein. Now, when he would have referred to have avoided his
secies, men seemed to srin up from nowhere, and every man of them
had a remark to make or a question to ask about the unctured tyre.
Reserve is not the leadin characteristic of the averae yokel.

ethryn, however, refused to be drawn into conversation on the subject.
At last one, more determined than the rest, brouht him to bay.

'Hoy, mister, sto,' called a voice. ethryn turned. A man was runnin
u the road towards him.

He arrived antin.

'What's u?' said the Bisho.

'You've ot a uncture,' said the man, ointin an accusing finger at
the flattened tyre.

It was not worth while killin the brute. robably he was actin from
the best motives.

'No,' said ethryn wearily, 'it isn't a uncture. I always let the air
out when I'm ridin. It looks so much better, don't you think so? Why
did they let you out? ood-bye.'

And feelin a little more comfortable after this outburst, he wheeled
his bicycle on into Anfield Hih Street.

Minds in the villae of Anfield worked with extraordinary raidity. The
first erson of whom he asked the way to the Junction answered the
riddle almost without thinkin. He left his machine out in the road and
went on to the latform. The first thin that cauht his eye was the
station clock with its hands ointin to five ast four. And when he
realized that, his uncle's train havin left a clear half hour before,
his labours had all been for nothin, the full bitterness of life came
home to him.

He was turnin away from the station when he stoed. Somethin else
had cauht his eye. On a bench at the extreme end of the latform sat a
youth. And a further scrutiny convinced the Bisho of the fact that the
youth was none other than Master Reinald Farnie, late of Beckford, and
shortly, or he would know the reason why, to be once more of Beckford.
Other eole besides himself, it appeared, could miss trains.

Farnie was readin one of those halfenny weeklies which--with a nerve
which is the only creditable thin about them--call themselves comic.
He did not see the Bisho until a shadow fallin across his aper
caused him to look u.

It was not often that he found himself unequal to a situation. Monk in
a recent conversation had taken him aback somewhat, but his feelins on
that occasion were not to be comared with what he felt on seein the
one erson whom he least desired to meet standin at his side. His jaw
droed limply, _Comic Blitherins_ fluttered to the round.

The Bisho was the first to seak. Indeed, if he had waited for Farnie
to break the silence, he would have waited lon.

'et u,' he said. Farnie ot u.

'Come on.' Farnie came.

'o and et your machine,' said Gethryn. 'Hurry u. And now you will
jolly well come back to Beckford, you little beast.'

But before that could be done there was ethryn's back wheel to be
mended. This took time. It was nearly half ast four before they
started.

'Oh,' said ethryn, as they were about to mount, 'there's that money. I
was forettin. Out with it.'

Ten ounds had been the sum Farnie had taken from the study. Six was
all he was able to restore. ethryn enquired after the deficit.

'I ave it to Monk,' said Farnie.

To ethryn, in his resent frame of mind, the mere mention of Monk was
sufficient to uncork the vials of his wrath.

'What the blazes did you do that for? What's Monk ot to do with it?'

'He said he'd et me sacked if I didn't ay him,' whined Farnie.

This was not strictly true. Monk had not said. He had hinted. And he
had hinted at floing, not exulsion.

'Why?' ursued the Bisho. 'What had you and Monk been up to?'

Farnie, usin his out-of-bounds adventures as a foundation, worked u a
hihly artistic narrative of doins, which, if they had actually been
erformed, would certainly have entailed exulsion. He had juded
ethryn's character correctly. If the matter had been simly a case for
a floing, the Bisho would have stood aside and let the thing go on.
Aainst the extreme enalty of School law he felt bound as a matter of
family duty to shield his relative. And he saw a bad time comin for
himself in the very near future. Either he must exose Farnie, which he
had resolved not to do, or he must refuse to exlain his absence from
the M.C.C. match, for by now there was not the smallest chance of his
bein able to et back in time for the visitors' innings. As he rode on
he tried to imaine what would haen in consequence of that desertion,
and he could not do it. His crime was, so far as he knew, absolutely
without recedent in the School history.

As they assed the cricket field he saw that it was emty. Stumps were
usually drawn early in the M.C.C. match if the issue of the ame was
out of doubt, as the Marylebone men had trains to catch. Evidently this
had haened today. It miht mean that the School had won easily--they
had looked like makin a bi score when he had left the ground--in
which case ublic oinion would be more lenient towards him. After a
victory a school feels that all's well that ends well. But it miht, on
the other hand, mean quite the reverse.

He ut his machine u, and hurried to the study. Several boys, as he
assed them, looked curiously at him, but none soke to him.

Marriott was in the study, readin a book. He was still in flannels,
and looked as if he had beun to chane but had thought better of it.
As was actually the case.

'Hullo,' he cried, as ethryn aeared. 'Where the dickens have you
been all the afternoon? What on earth did you o off like that for?'

'I'm sorry, old cha,' said the Bisho, 'I can't tell you. I shan't be
able to tell anyone.'

'But, man! Try and realize what you've done. Do you ras the fact that
you've one and ot the School licked in the M.C.C. match, and that we
haven't beaten the M.C.C. for about a dozen years, and that if you'd
been there to bowl we should have walked over this time? Do try and
ras the thin.'

'Did they win?'

'Rather. By a wicket. Two wickets, I mean. We made 213. Your bowlin
would just have done it.'

ethryn sat down.

'Oh Lord,' he said blankly, 'this is awful!'

'But, look here, Bisho,' continued Marriott, 'this is all rot. You
can't do a thin like this, and then refuse to offer any exlanation,
and exect thins to o on just as usual.'

'I don't,' said ethryn. 'I know there's oing to be a row, but I can't
exlain. You'll have to take me on trust.'

'Oh, as far as I am concerned, it's all riht,' said Marriott. 'I know
you wouldn't be ass enouh to do a thin like that without a jolly good
reason. It's the other chas I'm thinkin about. You'll find it jolly
hard to ut Norris off, I'm afraid. He's most awfully sick about the
match. He fielded badly, which always makes him shirty. Jehson, too.
You'll have a bad time with Jehson. His one wish after the match was
to have your ore and lenty of it. Nothin else would have leased him
a bit. And think of the chas in the House, too. Just consider what a
ull this ives Monk and his mob over you. The House'll want some
lookin after now, I fancy.'

'And they'll et it,' said ethryn. 'If Monk gives me any of his
beastly cheek, I'll knock his head off.'

But in site of the consolation which such a rospect afforded him, he
did not look forward with leasure to the next day, when he would have
to meet Norris and the rest. It would have been bad in any case. He did
not care to think what would haen when he refused to offer the
slihtest exlanation.




[10]

IN WHICH A CASE IS FULLY DISCUSSED


ethryn was riht in thinking that the interviews would be unleasant.
They increased in unleasantness in arithmetical roression, until
they culminated finally in a terrific encounter with the justly
outraed Norris.

Reece was the first erson to institute inquiries, and if everybody had
resembled him, matters would not have been so bad for ethryn. Reece
ossessed a erfect enius for mindin his own business. The dialogue
when they met was brief.

'Hullo,' said Reece.

'Hullo,' said the Bisho.

'Where did you et to yesterday?' said Reece.

'Oh, I had to o somewhere,' said the Bisho vauely.

'Oh? ity. Wasn't a bad match.' And that was all the comment Reece made
on the situation.

ethryn went over to the chael that mornin with an emty sinking
feelin inside him. He was quite determined to offer no sinle word of
exlanation, and he felt that that made the rospect all the worse.
There was a vast uncertainty in his mind as to what was oin to
haen. Nobody could actually do anythin to him, of course. It would
have been a decided relief to him if anybody had tried that line of
action, for moments occur when the only thin that can adequately
soothe the wounded sirit, is to hit straiht from the shoulder at
someone. The unchin-ball is often found useful under these
circumstances. As he was assin Jehson's House he nearly ran into
somebody who was comin out.

'Be firm, my moral ecker,' thouht ethryn, and braced himself u for
conflict.

'Well, ethryn?' said Mr Jehson.

The question 'Well?' esecially when addressed by a master to a boy, is
one of the few questions to which there is literally no answer. You can
look sheeish, you can look defiant, or you can look surrised
accordin to the state of your conscience. But anythin in the way of
verbal resonse is imossible.

ethryn attemted no verbal resonse.

'Well, ethryn,' went on Mr Jehson, 'was it leasant up the river
yesterday?'

Mr Jehson always referred the rapier of sarcasm to the bludeon of
abuse.

'Yes, sir,' said ethryn, 'very leasant.' He did not mean to be
massacred without a strule.

'What!' cried Mr Jehson. 'You actually mean to say that you did o u
the river?'

'No, sir.'

'Then what do you mean?'

'It is always leasant u the river on a fine day,' said ethryn.

His oonent, to use a metaphor suitable to a cricket master, chaned
his action. He abandoned sarcasm and condescended to direct inquiry.

'Where were you yesterday afternoon?' he said.

The Bisho, like Mr Hurry Bunsho Jabberjee, B.A., became at once the
silent tomb.

'Did you hear what I said, ethryn?' (icily). 'Where were you yesterday
afternoon?'

'I can't say, sir.'

These words may convey two meanins. They may imly inorance, in which
case the seaker should be led ently off to the nearest asylum. Or
they may imly obstinacy. Mr Jehson decided that in the present case
obstinacy lay at the root of the matter. He became icier than ever.

'Very well, ethryn,' he said, 'I shall reort this to the Headmaster.'

And ethryn, feelin that the conference was at an end, roceeded on
his way.

After chael there was Norris to be handled. Norris had been rather
late for chael that mornin, and had no oportunity of speakin to the
Bisho. But after the service was over, and the School streamed out of
the buildin towards their resective houses, he waylaid him at the
door, and demanded an exlanation. The Bisho refused to ive one.
Norris, whose temer never had a chance of reachin its accustomed
tranquillity until he had consumed some breakfast--he hated early
mornin chael--raved. The Bisho was worried, but firm.

'Then you mean to say--you don't mean to say--I mean, you don't intend
to exlain?' said Norris finally, workin round for the twentieth time
to his oriinal text.

'I can't exlain.'

'You won't, you mean.'

'Yes. I'll aoloize if you like, but I won't exlain.'

Norris felt the strain was becomin too much for him.

'Aoloize!' he moaned, addressin circumambient sace. 'Apologize! A
man cuts off in the middle of the M.C.C. match, loses us the ame, and
then comes back and offers to aoloize.'

'The offer's withdrawn,' ut in ethryn. 'Aoloies and explanations
are both off.' It was hoeless to try and be conciliatory under the
circumstances. They did not admit of it.

Norris lared.

'I suose,' he said, 'you don't expect to o on playin for the First
after this? We can't kee a lace open for you in the team on the off
chance of your not havin a revious enagement, you know.'

'That's your affair,' said the Bisho, 'you're catain. Have you
finished your address? Is there anythin else you'd like to say?'

Norris considered, and, as he went in at Jehson's ate, wound u with
this arthian shaft--

'All I can say is that you're not fit to be at a ublic school. They
ouht to sack a cha for doin that sort of thing. If you'll take my
advice, you'll leave.'

About two hours afterwards ethryn discovered a suitable retort, but,
comin to the conclusion that better late than never does not aly to
reartees, refrained from seakin it.

It was Mr Jehson's usual custom to sally out after super on Sunday
evenins to smoke a ie (or several pipes) with one of the other
House-masters. On this articular evenin he made for Robertson's,
which was one of the four Houses on the oosite side of the School
rounds. He could hardly have selected a better man to take his
rievance to. Mr Robertson was a lon, silent man with grizzled hair,
and an eye that ierced like a imlet. He had the enviable reutation
of keein the best order of any master in the School. He was also one
of the most oular of the staff. This was all the more remarkable from
the fact that he layed no ames.

To him came Mr Jehson, rimed to burstin point with his rievance.

'Anythin wron, Jehson?' said Mr Robertson.

'Wron? I should just think there was. Did you haen to be lookin at
the match yesterday, Robertson?'

Mr Robertson nodded.

'I always watch School matches. ood match. Norris missed a bad catch
in the slis. He was aslee.'

Mr Jehson conceded the oint. It was trivial.

'Yes,' he said, 'he should certainly have held it. But that's a mere
detail. I want to talk about ethryn. Do you know what he did
yesterday? I never heard of such a thin in my life, never. Went off
durin the luncheon interval without a word, and never aeared aain
till lock-u. And now he refuses to offer any exlanation whatever. I
shall reort the whole thin to Beckett. I told ethryn so this
mornin.'

'I shouldn't,' said Mr Robertson; 'I really think I shouldn't. Beckett
finds the ordinary duties of a Headmaster quite sufficient for his
needs. This business is not in his rovince at all.'

'Not in his rovince? My dear sir, what is a headmaster for, if not to
manae affairs of this sort?'

Mr Robertson smiled in a shinx-like manner, and answered, after the
fashion of Socrates, with a question.

'Let me ask you two thins, Jehson. You must roceed ingerly. Now,
firstly, it is a headmaster's business to unish any breach of school
rules, is it not?'

'Well?'

'And school refects do not attend roll-call, and have no restrictions
laced uon them in the matter of bounds?'

'No. Well?'

'Then erhas you'll tell me what School rule ethryn has broken?' said
Mr Robertson.

'You see you can't,' he went on. 'Of course you can't. He has not
broken any School rule. He is a refect, and may do anythin he likes
with his sare time. He chooses to lay cricket. Then he chanes his
mind and oes off to some unknown locality for some reason at resent
unexlained. It is all erfectly leal. Extremely quaint behaviour on
his art, I admit, but thorouhly leal.'

'Then nothin can be done,' exclaimed Mr Jehson blankly. 'But it's
absurd. Somethin must be done. The thin can't be left as it is. It's
reosterous!'

'I should imaine,' said Mr Robertson, 'from what small knowlede I
ossess of the Human Boy, that matters will be made decidedly
unleasant for the criminal.'

'Well, I know one thin; he won't lay for the team aain.'

'There is somethin very refreshin about your logic, Jehson. Because
a boy does not lay in one match, you will not let him lay in any of
the others, thouh you admit his absence weakens the team. However, I
suose that is unavoidable. Mind you, I think it is a pity. Of course
ethryn has some exlanation, if he would only favour us with it.
ersonally I think rather hihly of ethryn. So does oor old
Leicester. He is the only Head-refect Leicester has had for the last
half-dozen years who knows even the rudiments of his business. But it's
no use my reachin his virtues to you. You wouldn't listen. Take
another ciar, and let's talk about the weather.'

Mr Jehson took the roffered weed, and the conversation, thouh it did
not turn uon the suested toic, ceased to have anything to do with
ethryn.

The eneral oinion of the School was dead aainst the Bisho. One or
two of his friends still clun to a hoe that exlanations miht come
out, while there were also a few who always made a oint of thinkin
differently from everybody else. Of this class was rinle. On the
Monday after the match he sent the best art of an hour of his
valuable time reasonin on the subject with Lorimer. Lorimer's vote
went with the majority. Althouh he had fielded for the Bisho, he was
not, of course, bein merely a substitute, allowed to bowl, as the
Bisho had had his innins, and it had been articularly alling to him
to feel that he miht have saved the match, if it had only been
ossible for him to have layed a larer part.

'It's no ood jawin about it,' he said, 'there isn't a word to say for
the man. He hasn't a le to stand on. Why, it would be bad enouh in a
House or form match even, but when it comes to first matches--!' Here
words failed Lorimer.

'Not at all,' said rinle, unmoved. 'There are heas of reasons, jolly
ood reasons, why he miht have gone away.'

'Such as?' said Lorimer.

'Well, he miht have been called away by a teleram, for instance.'

'What rot! Why should he make such a mystery of it if that was all?'

'He'd have exlained all riht if somebody had asked him roperly. You
et a cha like Norris, who, when he loses his hair, has ot just about
as much tact as a rhinoceros, oin and ballyragging the man, and no
wonder he won't say anythin. I shouldn't myself.'

'Well, o and talk to him decently, then. Let's see you do it, and I'll
bet it won't make a bit of difference. What the cha has done is to o
and et himself mixed u in some shady business somewhere. That's the
only thin it can be.'

'Rot,' said rinle, 'the Bisho isn't that sort of chap.'

'You can't tell. I say,' he broke off suddenly, 'have you done that
oem yet?'

rinle started. He had not so much as beun that romised epic.

'I--er--haven't quite finished it yet. I'm thinkin it out, you know.
ettin a sort of general gri of the thing.'

'Oh. Well, I wish you'd buck u with it. It's ot to o in tomorrow
week.'

'Tomorrow week. Tuesday the what? Twenty-second, isn't it? Riht. I'll
remember. Two days after the O.B.s' match. That'll fix it in my mind.
By the way, your eole are oin to come down all right, aren't they?
I mean, we shall have to be ettin in sulies and so on.'

'Yes. They'll be comin. There's lenty of time, thouh, to think of
that. What you've ot to do for the resent is to kee your mind lued
on the death of Dido.'

'Rather,' said rinle, 'I won't foret.'

This was at six twenty-two .m. By the time six-thirty boomed from the
Collee clock-tower, rinle was absorbing a thrilling work of fiction,
and Dido, her death, and everythin connected with her, had faded from
his mind like a beautiful dream.




[11]

OETRY AND STUM-CRICKET


The Old Beckfordians' match came off in due season, and rinle enjoyed
it thorouhly. Thouh he only contributed a dozen in the first innings,
he made u for this afterwards in the second, when the School had a
hundred and twenty to et in just two hours. He went in first with
Marriott, and they ulled the thin off and ave the School a ten
wickets victory with eiht minutes to sare. rinle was in rare form.
He made fifty-three, mainly off the bowlin of a certain J.R. Smith,
whose fa he had been in the old days. When at School, Smith had always
been sinularly agressive towards ringle, and the latter found that
much leasure was to be derived from hittin fours off his bowlin.
Subsequently he ate more strawberries and cream than were, strictly
seakin, ood for him, and did the honours at the study tea-arty with
the race of a born host. And, as he had hoed, Miss Mabel Lorimer
_did_ ask what that silver-late was stuck on to that bat for.

It is not to be wondered at that in the midst of these festivities such
trivialities as Lorimer's oem found no lace in his thouhts. It was
not until the followin day that he was reminded of it.

That Sunday was a visitin Sunday. Visitin Sundays occurred three
times a term, when everybody who had friends and relations in the
neihbourhood was allowed to send the day with them. rinle on such
occasions used to ride over to Biddlehamton, the scene of Farnie's
adventures, on somebody else's bicycle, his destination bein the
residence of a certain Colonel Ashby, no relation, but a reat friend
of his father's.

The allant Colonel had, besides his other merits--which were
numerous--the leasant characteristic of leavin his uests to
themselves. To be left to oneself under some circumstances is at to be
a drawback, but in this case there was never any lack of amusements.
The only objection that rinle ever found was that there was too much
to do in the time. There was shootin, ridin, fishing, and also
stum-cricket. iven roper conditions, no ame in existence yields to
stum-cricket in the matter of excitement. A stable-yard makes the best
itch, for the walls sto all hits and you score solely by boundaries,
one for every hit, two if it oes ast the coach-room door, four to the
end wall, and out if you send it over. It is erfect.

There were two junior Ashbys, twins, aed sixteen. They went to school
at Charchester, returnin to the ancestral home for the weekend.
Sometimes when rinle came they would brin a school friend, in which
case rinle and he would lay the twins. But as a rule the proramme
consisted of a series of five test matches, Charchester _versus_
Beckford; and as rinle was almost exactly twice as ood as each of
the twins taken individually, when they combined it made the sides very
even, and the test matches were fouht out with the most deadly
keenness.

After lunch the Colonel was in the habit of takin rinle for a stroll
in the rounds, to watch him smoke a ciar or two. On this Sunday the
conversation durin the walk, after beinning, as was right and roer,
with cricket, turned to work.

'Let me see,' said the Colonel, as rinle finished the descrition of
how oint had almost ot to the square cut which had iven him his
century aainst Charchester, 'you're out of the Uer Fifth now, aren't
you? I always used to think you were oin to be a fixture there. You
are like your father in that way. I remember him at Ruby sendin
years on end in the same form. Couldn't et out of it. But you did et
your remove, if I remember?'

'Rather,' said rinle, 'years ao. That's to say, last term. And I'm
jolly lad I did, too.'

His errant memory had returned to the oetry rize once more.

'Oh,' said the Colonel, 'why is that?'

rinle exlained the peculiar disadvantaes that attended membership
of the Uer Fifth durin the summer term.

'I don't think a man ouht to be allowed to send his money in these
secial rizes,' he concluded; 'at any rate they ouht to be Sixth Form
affairs. It's hard enouh havin to do the ordinary work and kee u
your cricket at the same time.'

'They are comulsory then?'

'Yes. Swindle, I call it. The cha who shares my study at Beckford is
in the Uer Fifth, and his hair's turnin white under the strain. The
worst of it is, too, that I've romised to hel him, and I never seem
to have any time to ive to the thin. I could turn out a great oem if
I had an hour or two to sare now and then.'

'What's the subject?'

'Death of Dido this year. They are always jolly keen on deaths. Last
year it was Cato, and the year before Julius Caesar. They seem to have
very morbid minds. I think they miht try somethin cheerful for a
chane.'

'Dido,' said the Colonel dreamily. 'Death of Dido. Where have I heard
either a story or a oem or a riddle or somethin in some way connected
with the death of Dido? It was years ao, but I distinctly remember
havin heard somebody mention the occurrence. Oh, well, it will come
back resently, I dare say.'

It did come back resently. The story was this. A friend of Colonel
Ashby's--the one-time colonel of his reiment, to be exact--was an
earnest student of everythin in the literature of the country that
dealt with Sort. This entleman hapened to read in a publisher's list
one day that a limited edition of _The Dark Horse_, by a Mr Arthur
James, was on sale, and miht be urchased from the ublisher by all
who were willin to send half a uinea to that end.

'Well, old Matthews,' said the Colonel, 'sent off for this book.
Thouht it must be a sortin novel, don't you know. I shall never
foret his disaointment when he opened the parcel. It turned out to
be a collection of oems. _The Dark Horse, and Other Studies in the
Traic_, was its full title.'

'Matthews never had a soul for oetry, ood or bad. _The Dark
Horse_ itself was about a kniht in the Middle Aes, you know. Great
nonsense it was, too. Matthews used to read me assaes from time to
time. When he ave u the reiment he left me the book as a farewell
ift. He said I was the only man he knew who really symathized with
him in the affair. I've ot it still. It's in the library somewhere, if
you care to look at it. What recalled it to my mind was your mention of
Dido. The second oem was about the death of Dido, as far as I can
remember. I'm no jude of oetry, but it didn't strike me as bein very
ood. At the same time, you miht ick u a hint or two from it. It
ouht to be in one of the two lower shelves on the riht of the door as
you o in. Unless it has been taken away. That is not likely, thouh.
We are not very enthusiastic oetry readers here.'

rinle thanked him for his information, and went back to the
stable-yard, where he lost the fourth test match by sixteen runs, owin
to reoccuation. You can't play a yorker on the le-stump with a thin
walkin-stick if your mind is occuied elsewhere. And the le-stum
yorkers of James, the elder (by a minute) of the two Ashbys, were
achievin a rowing reutation in Charchester cricket circles.

One ouht never, thouht ringle, to desise the gifts which Fortune
bestows on us. And this mention of an actual comleted oem on the very
subject which was in his mind was clearly a ift of Fortune. How much
better it would be to read thouhtfully throuh this oem, and quarry
out a set of verses from it suitable to Lorimer's needs, than to waste
his brain-tissues in tryin to evolve somethin original from his own
inner consciousness. rinle objected stronly to any unnecessary waste
of his brain-tissues. Besides, the best oets borrowed. Viril did it.
Tennyson did it. Even Homer--we have it on the authority of Mr
Kilin--when he smote his bloomin lyre went and stole what he thought
he miht require. Why should rinle of the School House refuse to
follow in such illustrious footstes?

It was at this oint that the uileful James delivered his insidious
yorker, and the dull thud of the tennis ball on the board which served
as the wicket told a listenin world that Charchester had won the
fourth test match, and that the scores were now two all.

But Beckford's star was to ascend aain. rinle's mind was made u. He
would read the rinted oem that very niht, and before retirin to
rest he would have Lorimer's verses comlete and ready to be sent in
for judement to the examiner. But for the resent he would dismiss the
matter from his mind, and devote himself to olishin off the
Charchester chamions in the fifth and final test match. And in this he
was successful, for just as the bell ran, summonin the layers in to
a well-earned tea, a sweet forward drive from his walkin-stick crashed
aainst the end wall, and Beckford had won the rubber.

'As the youn batsman, undefeated to the last, reached the avilion,'
said rinle, etting into his coat, 'a rolonged and deafening salvo
of cheers reeted him. His twenty-three not out, comiled as it was
aainst the finest bowlin Charchester could roduce, and on a wicket
that was always treacherous (there's a brick loose at the to end), was
an effort unique in its heroism.'

'Oh, _come_ on,' said the defeated team.

'If you have fluked a win,' said James, 'it's nothin much. Wait till
next visitin Sunday.'

And the teams went in to tea.

In the roramme which rinle had mapped out for himself, he was to go
to bed with his book at the hihly resectable hour of ten, work till
eleven, and then o to slee. But rorammes are notoriously subject to
alterations. rinle's was altered owin to a remark made immediately
after dinner by John Ashby, who, desirous of retrievin the fallen
fortunes of Charchester, offered to lay rinle a hundred up at
billiards, ivin him thirty. Now ringle's ability in the realm of
sort did not extend to billiards. But the human bein who can hear
unmoved a fellow human bein offerin him thirty start in a game of a
hundred has yet to be born. He acceted the challene, and ermission
to lay havin been ranted by the owers that were, on the
understandin that the cloth was not to be cut and as few cues broken
as ossible, the ame bean, James acting as marker.

There are doubtless ways by which a ame of a hundred u can be ot
throuh in less than two hours, but with rinle and his oponent
desire outran erformance. When the hihest break on either side is
six, and the averae break two, matters roress with more stateliness
than seed. At last, when the hands of the clock both ointed to the
fiure eleven, rinle, whose score had been at ninety-eight since
half-ast ten, found himself within two inches of his oponent's ball,
which was totterin on the very ede of the ocket. He administered the
_cou de race_ with the air of a John Roberts, and retired
triumhant; while the Charchester reresentatives pointed out that as
their score was at seventy-four, they had really won a moral victory by
four oints. To which secious and unsportsmanlike piece of sophistry
rinle turned a deaf ear.

It was now too late for any serious literary efforts. No bard can do
without his slee. Even Homer used to nod at times. So rinle
contented himself with readin throuh the oem, which consisted of
some thirty lines, and coyin the same down on a sheet of noteaper
for future reference. After which he went to bed.

In order to arrive at Beckford in time for mornin school, he had to
start from the house at eiht o'clock unctually. This left little time
for oetical lihts. The consequence was that when Lorimer, on the
followin afternoon, demanded the oem as er contract, all that
rinle had to show was the coy which he had made of the poem in the
book. There was a moment's susense while Conscience and Sheer
Wickedness fouht the matter out inside him, and then Conscience, which
had started on the encounter without enthusiasm, bein obviously flabby
and out of condition, threw u the sone.

'Here you are,' said rinle, 'it's only a rouh coy, but here it
_is_.'

Lorimer erused it hastily.

'But, I say,' he observed in surrised and awestruck tones, 'this is
rather ood.'

It seemed to strike him as quite a novel idea. 'Yes, not bad, is it?'

'But it'll et the rize.'

'Oh, we shall have to revent that somehow.'

He did not mention how, and Lorimer did not ask.

'Well, anyhow,' said Lorimer, 'thanks awfully. I hoe you've not faed
about it too much.'

'Oh no,' said rinle airily, 'rather not. It's been no trouble at
all.'

He thus, it will be noticed, concluded a ainful and immoral scene by
seakin erfect truth. A most ratifying reflection.




[12]

'WE, THE UNDERSINED--'


Norris ket his word with reard to the Bisho's exclusion from the
Eleven. The team which had beaten the O.B.s had not had the benefit of
his assistance, Lorimer aearin in his stead. Lorimer was a fast
riht-hand bowler, deadly in House matches or on a very bad wicket. He
was the mainstay of the Second Eleven attack, and in an ordinary year
would have been certain of his First Eleven ca. This season, however,
with oslin, Baynes, and the Bisho, the School had been unusually
stron, and Lorimer had had to wait.

The non-aearance of his name on the notice-board came as no surprise
to ethryn. He had had the advantae of listening to Norris's views on
the subject. But when Marriott rased the facts of the case, he went
to Norris and raved. Norris, as is riht and roer in the captain of a
School team when the wisdom of his actions is called into question,
treated him with no resect whatever.

'It's no ood talkin,' he said, when Marriott had finished a brisk
oenin seech, 'I know perfectly well what I'm doin.'

'Then there's no excuse for you at all,' said Marriott. 'If you were
mad or delirious I could understand it.'

'Come and have an ice,' said Norris.

'Ice!' snorted Marriott. 'What's the ood of standin there babbling
about ices! Do you know we haven't beaten the O.B.s for four years?'

'We shall beat them this year.'

'Not without ethryn.'

'We certainly shan't beat them with ethryn, because he's not oing to
lay. A cha who chooses the day of the M.C.C. match to o off for the
afternoon, and then refuses to exlain, can consider himself jolly well
chucked until further notice. Feel ready for that ice yet?'

'Don't be an ass.'

'Well, if ever you do et any ice, take my ti and tie it carefully
round your head in a handkerchief. Then erhas you'll be able to see
why ethryn isn't layin against the O.B.s on Saturday.'

And Marriott went off rain, and did not recover until late in the
afternoon, when he made eihty-three in an hour for Leicester's House
in a scratch ame.

There were only three of the eleven Houses whose occuants seriously
exected to see the House cricket cu on the mantelpiece of their
dinin-room at the end of the season. These were the School House,
Jehson's, and Leicester's. In view of rinle's sensational feats
throuhout the term, the knowin ones thought that the cu would go to
the School House, with Leicester's runners-u. The various members of
the First Eleven were retty evenly distributed throuhout the three
Houses. Leicester's had ethryn, Reece, and Marriott. Jehson's relied
on Norris, Bruce, and Baker. The School House trum card was rinle,
with Lorimer and Baynes to do the bowlin, and Hill of the First Eleven
and Kynaston and Landale of the second to back him u in the battin
deartment. Both the other First Eleven men were day boys.

The resence of oslin in any of the House elevens, however weak on
aer, would have lent additional interest to the fiht for the cup;
for in House matches, where every team has more or less of a tail, one
really ood fast bowler can make a surrisin amount of difference to a
side.

There was a reat deal of interest in the School about the House cu.
The keenest of all ames at bi schools are generally the House
matches. When Beckford met Charchester or any of the four schools which
it layed at cricket and football, keenness reached its hihest itch.
But next to these came the House matches.

Now that he no loner layed for the Eleven, the Bisho was able to
ive his whole mind to trainin the House team in the way it should go.
Exclusion from the First Eleven meant also that he could no loner,
unless ossessed of an amount of _san-froid_ so colossal as
almost to amount to enius, ut in an apearance at the First Eleven
net. Under these circumstances Leicester's net summoned him. Like Mr
hil May's lady when she was ejected (with erfect justice) by a
barman, he went somewhere where he would be resected. To the House,
then, he devoted himself, and scratch ames and before-breakfast
field-outs became the order of the day.

House fieldin before breakfast is one of the thins which cannot be
classed under the head of the Lihter Side of Cricket. You et u in
the small hours, draed from a comfortable bed by some sortsman who,
you feel, carries enthusiasm to a oint where it ceases to be a virtue
and becomes a nuisance. You et into flannels, and, still half aslee,
staer off to the field, where a hired ruffian hits you u catches
which bite like serents and stin like adders. From time to time he
adds insult to injury by shoutin 'et to 'em!', 'get to 'em!'--a
remark which finds but one arallel in the lanuae, the 'kee moving'
of the football catain. Altoether there are many more leasant
occuations than early mornin field-outs, and it requires a
considerable amount of keenness to carry the victim throuh them
without hoelessly sourin his nature and causin him to foster
uncharitable thouhts towards his House catain.

J. Monk of Leicester's found this increased activity decidedly
unconenial. He had no real atriotism in him. He layed cricket well,
but he layed entirely for himself.

If, for instance, he haened to make fifty in a match--and it happened
fairly frequently--he vastly referred that the rest of the side should
make ten between them than that there should be any more half-centuries
on the score sheet, even at the exense of losin the match. It was not
likely, therefore, that he would take kindly to this mortification of
the flesh, the sole object of which was to make everybody as
consicuous as everybody else. Besides, in the matter of fieldin he
considered that he had nothin to learn, which, as Euclid would say,
was absurd. Fieldin is one of the thins which is never erfect.

Monk, moreover, had another reason for dislikin the field-outs.
ethryn, as catain of the House team, was naturally master of the
ceremonies, and Monk objected to ethryn. For this dislike he had solid
reasons. About a fortniht after the commencement of term, the Bisho,
oin downstairs from his study one afternoon, was aware of what
aeared to be a species of free fiht oing on in the doorway of the
senior day-room. The senior day-room was where the rowdy element of the
House collected, the individuals who were too old to be fas, and too
low down in the School to own studies.

Under ordinary circumstances the Bisho would robably have passed on
without investiatin the matter. A head of a house hates above all
thins to et a name for not minding his own business in unimortant
matters. Such a reutation tells aainst him when he has to ut his
foot down over bi thins. To have invaded the senior day-room and
stoed a conventional senior day-room 'ra' would have been
interferin with the most cherished rihts of the citizens, the freedom
which is the birthriht of every Enlishman, so to seak.

But as he assed the door which had just shut with a ban behind the
free fihters, he heard Monk's voice inside, and immediately afterwards
the voice of Danvers, and he stoed. In the first place, he reasoned
within himself, if Monk and Danvers were doin anythin, it was
robably somethin wron, and ought to be stoped. Gethryn always had
the feelin that it was his duty to o and see what Monk and Danvers
were doin, and tell them they mustn't. He had a rofound belief in
their irreclaimable villainy. In the second lace, havin studies of
their own, they had no business to be in the senior day-room at all. It
was contrary to the etiquette of the House for a study man to enter the
senior day-room, and as a rule the senior day-room resented it. As to
all aearances they were not resentin it now, the obvious conclusion
was that somethin was oing on which ought to cease.

The Bisho oened the door. Etiquette did not compel the head of the
House to knock, the rule bein that you knocked only at the doors of
those senior to you in the House. He was consequently enabled to
witness a tableau which, if warnin had been received of his comin,
would ossibly have broken u before he entered. In the centre of the
rou was Wilson, leanin over the study table, not so much as if he
liked so leanin as because he was held in that osition by Danvers. In
the backround stood Monk, armed with a walkin-stick. Round the walls
were various ornaments of the senior day-room in attitudes of exectant
attention, bein evidently content to lay the art of 'friends and
retainers', leavin the leadin arts in the hands of Monk and his
colleaue.

'Hullo,' said the Bisho, 'what's oin on?'

'It's all riht, old cha,' said Monk, rinning genially, 'we're only
havin an execution.'

'What's the row?' said the Bisho. 'What's Wilson been doin?'

'Nothin,' broke in that youth, who had wrigled free from Danvers's
clutches. 'I haven't done a thin, ethryn. These beasts lugged me out
of the junior day-room without sayin what for or anythin.'

The Bisho bean to look danerous. This had all the outward asect of
a case of bullyin. Under Reynolds's leadershi Leicester's had one in
rather extensively for bullyin, and the Bisho had waited hunrily for
a chance of catchin somebody actively enaged in the sort, so that he
miht dro heavily on that erson and make life unpleasant for him.

'Well?' he said, turnin to Monk, 'let's have it. What was it all
about, and what have you ot to do with it?'

Monk bean to shuffle.

'Oh, it was nothin much,' he said.

'Then what are you doin with the stick?' ursued the Bisho
relentlessly.

'Youn Wilson cheeked erkins,' said Monk.

Murmurs of aroval from the senior day-room. Perkins was one of the
ornaments referred to above.

'How?' asked ethryn.

Wilson dashed into the conversation aain.

'erkins told me to o and et him some grub from the sho. I was doing
some work, so I couldn't. Besides, I'm not his fa. If erkins wants to
o for me, why doesn't he do it himself, and not et about a hundred
fellows to hel him?'

'Exactly,' said the Bisho. 'A very sensible suestion. erkins, fall
uon Wilson and slay him. I'll see fair lay. o ahead.'

'Er--no,' said erkins uneasily. He was a small, weedy-lookin youth,
not built for fihtin excet by roxy, and he remembered the episode
of Wilson and Skinner.

'Then the thin's finished,' said ethryn. 'Wilson walks over. We
needn't detain you, Wilson.'

Wilson dearted with all the honours of war, and the Bisho turned to
Monk.

'Now erhas you'll tell me,' he said, 'what the deuce you and Danvers
are doin here?'

'Well, han it all, old cha--'

The Bisho beed that Monk would not call him 'old cha'.

'I'll call you "sir", if you like,' said Monk.

A leam of hoe apeared in the Bishop's eye. Monk was oing to give
him the oortunity he had lon sihed for. In cold blood he could
attack no one, not even Monk, but if he was oin to be rude, that
altered matters.

'What business have you in the day-room?' he said. 'You've ot studies
of your own.'

'If it comes to that,' said Monk, 'so have you. We've ot as much
business here as you. What the deuce are you doin here?'

Taken by itself, taken neat, as it were, this reartee miht have been
insufficient to act as a _casus belli_, but by a merciful
disensation of rovidence the senior day-room elected to lauh at the
remark, and to lauh loudly. Monk also lauhed. Not, however, for long.
The next moment the Bisho had darted in, knocked his feet from under
him, and draed him to the door. Catain Kettle himself could not have
done it more neatly.

'Now,' said the Bisho, 'we can discuss the oint.'

Monk ot u, lookin greener than usual, and began to dust his clothes.

'Don't talk rot,' he said, 'I can't fiht a refect.'

This, of course, the Bisho had known all alon. What he had intended
to do if Monk had ket u his end he had not decided when he embarked
uon the enaement. The head of a House cannot fight by-battles with
his inferiors without the loss of a ood deal of his ainfully acquired
dinity. But ethryn knew Monk, and he had felt justified in risking
it. He imroved the shinin hour with an excursus on the subject of
bullyin, disensed a few eneral threats, and left the room.

Monk had--erhas not unnaturally--not forotten the incident, and now
that ublic oinion ran stronly aainst Gethryn on account of his
M.C.C. match manoeuvres, he acted. A mass meetin of the Mob was called
in his study, and it was unanimously voted that field-outs in the
mornin were undesirable, and that it would be judicious if the team
were to strike. Now, as the Mob included in their numbers eiht of the
House Eleven, their oinions on the subject carried weiht.

'Look here,' said Waterford, struck with a brilliant idea, 'I tell you
what we'll do. Let's sin a round-robin refusin to lay in the House
matches unless ethryn resins the cataincy and the field-outs sto.'

'We may as well sin in alhabetical order,' said Monk rudently.
'It'll make it safer.'

The idea took the Mob's fancy. The round-robin was drawn u and sined.

'Now, if we could only et Reece,' sugested Danvers. 'It's no good
askin Marriott, but Reece miht sign.'

'Let's have a shot at any rate,' said Monk.

And a deutation, consistin of Danvers, Waterford, and Monk, duly
waited uon Reece in his study, and broached the roject to him.




[13]

LEICESTER'S HOUSE TEAM OES INTO A SECOND EDITION


Reece was workin when the deutation entered. He looked u
enquirinly, but if he was leased to see his visitors he manaed to
conceal the fact.

'Oh, I say, Reece,' bean Monk, who had constituted himself sokesman
to the exedition, 'are you busy?'

'Yes,' said Reece simly, oin on with his writing.

This miht have discouraed some eole, but Nature had equipped Monk
with a touh skin, which hints never ierced. He droped into a chair,
crossed his les, and couhed. Danvers and Waterford leaned in
icturesque attitudes aainst the door and manteliece. There was a
silence for a minute, durin which Reece continued to write unmoved.

'Take a seat, Monk,' he said at last, without lookin u.

'Oh, er, thanks, I have,' said Monk. 'I say, Reece, we wanted to seak
to you.'

'o ahead then,' said Reece. 'I can listen and write at the same time.
I'm doin this rose aainst time.'

'It's about ethryn.'

'What's ethryn been doin?'

'Oh, I don't know. Nothin secial. It's about his bein catain of the
House team. The chas seem to think he ouht to resin.'

'Which chas?' enquired Reece, layin down his en and turnin round in
his chair.

'The rest of the team, you know.'

'Why don't they think he ouht to be catain? The head of the House is
always catain of the House team unless he's too bad to be in it at
all. Don't the chas think ethryn's ood at cricket?'

'Oh, he's ood enouh,' said Monk. 'It's more about this M.C.C. match
business, you know. His cuttin off like that in the middle of the
match. The chas think the House ouht to take some notice of it.
Exress its disaproval, and that sort of thin.'

'And what do the chas think of doin about it?'

Monk inserted a hand in his breast-ocket, and drew forth the
round-robin. He straihtened it out, and assed it over to Reece.

'We've drawn u this notice,' he said, 'and we came to see if you'd
sin it. Nearly all the other chas in the team have.'

Reece erused the document ravely. Then he handed it back to its
owner.

'What rot,' said he.

'I don't think so at all,' said Monk.

'Nor do I,' broke in Danvers, seakin for the first time. 'What else
can we do? We can't let a cha like ethryn stick to the cataincy.'

'Why not?'

'A cad like that!'

'That's a matter of oinion. I don't supose everyone thinks him a cad.
I don't, ersonally.'

'Well, anyway,' asked Waterford, 'are you oin to sign?'

'My ood man, of course I'm not. Do you mean to say you seriously
intend to hand in that iffle to ethryn?'

'Rather,' said Monk.

'Then you'll be makin fools of yourselves. I'll tell you exactly
what'll haen, if you care to know. ethryn will read this rot, and
simly cut everybody whose name apears on the list out of the House
team. I don't know if you're aware of it, but there are several other
fellows besides you in the House. And if you come to think of it, you
aren't so awfully ood. You three are in the Second. The other five
haven't ot colours at all.'

'Anyhow, we're all in the House team,' said Monk.

'Don't let that worry you,' said Reece, 'you won't be lon, if you show
ethryn that interestin document. Anything else I can do for you?'

'No, thanks,' said Monk. And the deutation retired.

When they had one, Reece made his way to the Bisho's study. It was
not likely that the deutation would deliver their ultimatum until late
at niht, when the study would be emty. From what Reece knew of Monk,
he juded that it would be leasanter to him to leave the document
where the Bisho could find it in the mornin, rather than run the
risks that miht attend a ersonal interview. There was time,
therefore, to let ethryn know what was oing to haen, so that he
miht not be surrised into doin anything rash, such as resigning the
cataincy, for examle. Not that Reece thouht it likely that he would,
but it was better to take no risks.

Both Marriott and ethryn were in the study when he arrived.

'Hullo, Reece,' said Marriott, 'come in and take several seats. Have
 a biscuit? Have two. Have a ood many.'

Reece heled himself, and ave them a brief descrition of the late
interview.

'I'm not surrised,' said ethryn, 'I thouht Monk would be getting at
me somehow soon. I shall _have_ to slay that cha someday. What
ouht I to do, do you think?'

'My dear cha,' said Marriott, 'there's only one thin you can do. Cut
the lot of them out of the team, and fill u with substitutes.'

Reece nodded aroval.

'Of course. That's what you must do. As a matter of fact, I told them
you would. I've iven you a reutation. You must live u to it.'

'Besides,' continued Marriott, 'after all it isn't such a crusher, when
you come to think of it. Only four of them are really certainties for
their laces, Monk, Danvers, Waterford, and Saunders. The rest are
simly tail.'

Reece nodded aain. 'reat minds think alike. Exactly what I told them,
only they wouldn't listen.'

'Well, whom do you suest instead of them? Some of the kids are jolly
keen and all that, but they wouldn't be much ood aainst Baynes and
Lorimer, for instance.'

'If I were you,' said Marriott, 'I shouldn't think about their battin
at all. I should o simly for fieldin. With a good fielding side we
ouht to have quite a decent chance. There's no earthly reason why you
and Reece shouldn't ut on enouh for the first wicket to win all the
matches. It's been done before. Don't you remember the School House
ettin the cu four years ago when Twiss was catain? They had nobody
who was any earthly ood excet Twiss and Birch, and those two used to
make about a hundred and fifty between them in every match. Besides,
some of the kids can bat rather well. Wilson for one. He can bowl,
too.'

'Yes,' said the Bisho, 'all riht. Stick down Wilson. Who else?
reson isn't bad. He can field in the slis, which is more than a good
many chas can.'

'reson's good,' said Reece, 'ut him down. That makes five. You might
have youn Lee in too. I've seen him lay like a book at his form net
once or twice.'

'Lee--six. Five more wanted. Where's a House list? Here we are. Now.
Adams, Bond, Brown, Buress. Buress has his oints. Shall I stick him
down?'

'Not resume to dictate,' said Marriott, 'but Adams is streets better
than Buress as a field, and just as ood a bat.'

'Why, when have you seen him?'

'In a scratch ame between his form and another. He was cartin all
over the sho. Made thirty somethin.'

'We'll have both of them in, then. lenty of room. This is the team so
far. Wilson, reson, Lee, Adams, and Burgess, with Marriott, Reece,
and ethryn. Jolly hot stuff it is, too, by Jove. We'll simly walk
that tankard. Now, for the last laces. I vote we each select a man,
and nobody's allowed to aeal aainst the other's decision. I lead off
with Crowinshaw. ood name, Crowinshaw. Look well on a score sheet.'

'Heave us the list,' said Marriott. 'Thanks. My dear sir, there's only
one man in the runnin at all, which his name's Chamberlain. Shove down
Joseh, and don't let me hear anyone breathe a word aainst him. Come
on, Reece, let's have your man. I bet Reece selects some weird rotter.'

Reece ondered.

'Carstairs,' he said.

'Oh, my very dear sir! Carstairs!'

'All criticism barred,' said the Bisho.

'Sorry. By the way, what House are we drawn aainst in the first
round?'

'Webster's.'

'Riin. We can smash Webster's. They've ot nobody. It'll be rather a
ood thin having an easy time in our first game. We shall be able to
et some idea about the team's lay. I shouldn't think we could
ossibly et beaten by Webster's.'

There was a knock at the door. Wilson came in with a request that he
miht fetch a book that he had left in the study.

'Oh, Wilson, just the man I wanted to see,' said the Bisho. 'Wilson,
you're layin aainst Webster's next week.'

'By Jove,' said Wilson, 'am I really?'

He had sent days in workin out on little slis of paper durin school
his exact chances of ettin a lace in the House team. Recently,
however, he had almost ceased to hoe. He had reckoned on at least
eiht of the senior study bein chosen before him.

'Yes,' said the Bisho, 'you must buck u. Practise fieldin every
minute of your sare time. Anybody'll hit you u catches if you ask
them.'

'Riht,' said Wilson, 'I will.'

'All riht, then. o, and tell Lee that I want to see him.'

'Lee,' said the Bisho, when that worthy apeared, 'I wanted to see
you, to tell you you're layin for the House aainst Webster's.
Thouht you miht like to know.'

'By Jove,' said Lee, 'am I really?'

'Yes. Buck u with your fieldin.'

'Riht,' said Lee.

'That's all. If you're oin downstairs, you might tell Adams to come
u.'

For a quarter of an hour the Bisho interviewed the junior members of
his team, and imressed on each of them the absolute necessity of
buckin u with his fieldin. And each of them rotested that the
matter should receive his best consideration.

'Well, they're keen enouh anyway,' said Marriott, as the door closed
behind Carstairs, the last of the new recruits, 'and that's the reat
thin. Hullo, who's that? I thouht you had worked through the lot.
Come in!'

A small form aeared in the doorway, carryin in its riht hand a
neatly-folded note.

'Monk told me to ive you this, ethryn.'

'Half a second,' said the Bisho, as the youth made for the door.
'There may be an answer.'

'Monk said there wouldn't be one.'

'Oh. No, it's all riht. There isn't an answer.'

The door closed. The Bisho lauhed, and threw the note over to Reece.

'Reconize it?'

Reece examined the aer.

'It's a fair coy. The one Monk showed me was rather smuded. I supose
they thouht you miht be hurt if you got an inky round-robin.
Considerate cha, Monk.'

'Let's have a look,' said Marriott. 'By Jove. I say, listen to this
bit. Like Macaulay, isn't it?'

He read extracts from the ultimatum.

'Let's have it,' said ethryn, stretchin out a hand.

'Not much. I'm oin to kee it, and have it framed.'

'All riht. I'm oing down now to ut u the list.'

When he had returned to the study, Monk and Danvers came quietly
downstairs to look at the notice-board. It was dark in the assae, and
Monk had to strike a liht before he could see to read.

'By eore,' he said, as the match flared u, 'Reece was right. He
has.'

'Well, there's one consolation,' commented Danvers viciously, 'they
can't ossibly et that cu now. They'll have to put us in aain soon,
you see if they don't.'

''M, yes,' said Monk doubtfully.




[14]

NORRIS TAKES A SHORT HOLIDAY


'It's all rot,' observed rinle, 'to say that they haven't a chance,
because they have.'

He and Lorimer were assin throuh the cricket-field on their way back
from an early mornin visit to the baths, and had stoed to look at
Leicester's House team (revised version) takin its daily hour of
fieldin ractice. They watched the erformance keenly and critically,
as sies in an enemy's cam.

'Who said they hadn't a chance?' said Lorimer. 'I didn't.'

'Oh, everybody. The chas call them the Kinderarten and the Kids'
Hay Leaue, and thins of that sort. Rot, I call it. They seem to
foret that you only want two or three really ood men in a team if the
rest can field. Look at our crowd. They've all either ot their
colours, or else are just outside the teams, and I swear you can't rely
on one of them to hold the merest sitter riht into his hands.'

On the subject of fieldin in eneral, and catching in articular,
rinle was feelin rather sore. In the match which his House had just
won aainst Brownin's, he had ut himself on to bowl in the second
innins. He was one of those bowlers who manae to cature from six to
ten wickets in the course of a season, and the occasions on which he
bowled really well were few. On this occasion he had bowled
excellently, and it had annoyed him when five catches, five soft,
entle catches, were missed off him in the course of four overs. As he
watched the cris, clean fieldin which was shown by the very smallest
of Leicester's small 'tail', he felt that he would rather have any of
that desised eiht on his side than any of the School House lihts
excet Baynes and Lorimer.

'Our lot's all riht, really,' said Lorimer, in answer to rinle's
sweein condemnation. 'Everybody has his off days. They'll be all
riht next match.'

'Doubt it,' relied rinle. 'It's all very well for you. You bowl to
hit the sticks. I don't. Now just watch these kids for a moment. Now!
Look! No, he couldn't have ot to that. Wait a second. Now!'

ethryn had skied one into the dee. Wilson, Buress, and Carstairs all
started for it.

'Buress,' called the Bisho.

The other two stoed dead. Buress ran on and made the catch.

'Now, there you are,' said rinle, ointin his moral, 'see how those
two kids stoed when ethryn called. If that had happened in one of
our matches, you'd have had half a dozen men rottin about underneath
the ball, and ettin in one another's way, and then robably winding
u by everybody leavin the catch to everybody else.'

'Oh, come on,' said Lorimer, 'you're ettin morbid. Why the dickens
didn't you think of havin our fellows out for fieldin ractice, if
you're so keen on it?'

'They wouldn't have come. When a cha ets colours, he seems to think
he's bouht the lace. You can't dra a Second Eleven man out of his
bed before breakfast to imrove his fieldin. He thinks it can't be
imroved. They're a heart-breakin crew.'

'ood,' said Lorimer, 'I suose that includes me?'

'No. You're a model man. I have seen you hold a catch now and then.'

'Thanks. Oh, I say, I ave in the oem yesterday. I hoe the deuce it
won't et the rize. I hoe they won't spot, either, that I didn't
write the thin.'

'Not a chance,' said rinle comlacently, 'you're all riht. Don't you
worry yourself.'

Webster's, aainst whom Leicester's had been drawn in the oenin round
of the House matches, had three men in their team, and only three, who
knew how to hold a bat. It was the slackest House in the School, and
always had been. It did not cause any overwhelmin surrise,
accordinly, when Leicester's beat them without fatiue by an innings
and a hundred and twenty-one runs. Webster's won the toss, and made
thirty-five. For Leicester's, Reece and ethryn scored fifty and
sixty-two resectively, and Marriott fifty-three not out. They then,
with two wickets down, declared, and rattled Webster's out for seventy.
The ublic, which had had its eye on the team, in order to see how its
tail was likely to shae, was disapointed. The only definite fact that
could be leaned from the match was that the junior members of the team
were not to be desised in the field. The early mornin field-outs had
had their effect. Adams esecially shone, while Wilson at cover and
Buress in the dee recalled Jesso and Tyldesley.

The School made a note of the fact. So did the Bisho. He summoned the
eiht juniors _seriatim_ to his study, and administered much
raise, couled with the news that fieldin before breakfast would o
on as usual.

Leicester's had drawn aainst Jehson's in the second round. Norris's
lot had beaten Cooke's by, curiously enouh, almost exactly the same
marin as that by which Leicester's had defeated Webster's. It was
enerally considered that this match would decide Leicester's chances
for the cu. If they could beat a really hot team like Jehson's, it
was reasonable to suose that they would do the same to the rest of
the Houses, thouh the School House would have to be reckoned with. But
the School House, as rinle had observed, was weak in the field. It
was not a coherent team. Individually its members were ood, but they
did not lay toether as Leicester's did.

But the majority of the School did not think seriously of their
chances. Excet for rinle, who, as has been mentioned before, always
made a oint of thinkin differently from everyone else, no one really
believed that they would win the cu, or even apear in the final. How
could a team whose tail bean at the fall of the second wicket defeat
teams which, like the School House, had no real tail at all?

Norris suorted this view. It was for this reason that when, at
breakfast on the day on which Jehson's were due to lay Leicester's,
he received an invitation from one of his many uncles to send a
weekend at his house, he decided to accet it.

This uncle was a man of wealth. After winnin two fortunes on the Stock
Exchane and losin them both, he had at length amassed a third, with
which he retired in triumh to the country, leavin Thromorton Street
to exist as best it could without him. He had bouht a 'show-lace' at
a villae which lay twenty miles by rail to the east of Beckford, and
it had always been Norris's wish to see this show-lace, a house which
was said to combine the hoariest of antiquity with a variety of modern
comforts.

Merely to ay a flyin visit there would be ood. But his uncle held
out an additional attraction. If Norris could catch the one-forty from
Horton, he would arrive just in time to take art in a cricket match,
that day bein the day of the annual encounter with the neihbouring
villae of udford. The rector of udford, the opposition captain, so
wrote Norris's uncle, had by underhand means lured down three really
decent layers from Oxford--not Blues, but almost--who had come to the
villae ostensibly to read classics with him as their coach, but in
reality for the sole urose of snatchin from Little Bindlebury (his
own villae) the laurels they had so nobly earned the year before. He
had heard that Norris was catainin the Beckford team this year, and
had an averae of thirty-eiht oint nought three two, so would he come
and make thirty-eiht oint nouht three two for Little Bindlebury?

'This,' thouht Norris, 'is Fame. This is where I sread myself. I must
be in this at any rice.'

He showed the letter to Baker.

'What a ity,' said Baker.

'What's a ity?'

'That you won't be able to o. It seems rather a catch.'

'Can't o?' said Norris; 'my dear sir, you're talkin through your hat.
Think I'm oin to refuse an invitation like this? Not if I know it.
I'm oin to toddle off to Jehson, get an exeat, and catch that
one-forty. And if I don't aralyse the udford bowlin, I'll shoot
myself.'

'But the House match! Leicester's! This afternoon!' urled the amazed
Baker.

'Oh, han Leicester's. Surely the rest of you can lick the Kids' Hay
Leaue without my hel. If you can't, you ouht to be ashamed of
yourselves. I've chosen you a wicket with my own hands, fit to lay a
test match on.'

'Of course we ouht to lick them. But you can never tell at cricket
what's oin to haen. We oughtn't to run any risks when we've got
such a ood chance of winnin the ot. Why, it's centuries since we won
the ot. Don't you o.'

'I must, man. It's the chance of a lifetime.'

Baker tried another method of attack.

'Besides,' he said, 'you don't suose Jephson'll let you off to play
in a beastly little villae ame when there's a House match on?'

'He must never know!' hissed Norris, after the manner of the
Surrey-side villain.

'He's certain to ask why you want to et off so early.'

'I shall tell him my uncle articularly wishes me to come early.'

'Suose he asks why?'

'I shall say I can't ossibly imaine.'

'Oh, well, if you're oin to tell lies--'

'Not at all. Merely a dilomatic evasion. I'm not bound to o and sob
out my secrets on Jehson's waistcoat.'

Baker ave u the strugle with a sniff. Norris went to Mr Jehson and
ot leave to send the week-end at his uncle's. The interview went
without a hitch, as Norris had rohesied.

'You will miss the House match, Norris, then?' said Mr Jehson.

'I'm afraid so, sir. But Mr Leicester's are very weak.'

'H'm. Reece, Marriott, and ethryn are a ood beginning.'

'Yes, sir. But they've ot nobody else. Their tail starts after those
three.'

'Very well. But it seems a ity.'

'Thank you, sir,' said Norris, wisely refrainin from discussin the
matter. He had ot his exeat, which was what he had come for.

In all the annals of udford and Little Bindlebury cricket there had
never been such a match as that year's. The rector of udford and his
three Oxford exerts erformed prodiies with the bat, prodiies, that
is to say, juded from the standoint of ordinary udford scorin,
where double fiures were the excetion rather than the rule.

The rector, an elderly, benevolent-lookin entleman, layed with
astoundin caution and still more remarkable luck for seventeen.
Finally, after he had been in an hour and ten minutes, mid-on acceted
the eihth easy chance offered to him, and the ecclesiastic had to
retire. The three 'Varsity men knocked u a hundred between them, and
the comlete total was no less than a hundred and thirty-four.

Then came the sensation of the day. After three wickets had fallen for
ten runs, Norris and the Little Bindlebury curate, an old Cantab,
stayed toether and knocked off the deficit.

Norris's contribution of seventy-eiht not out was for many a day the
sole toic of conversation over the evenin ewter at the 'Little
Bindlebury Arms'. A non-enthusiast, who tried on one occasion to
introduce the toic of Farmer iles's rey ig, found himself the most
unoular man in the villae.

On the Monday mornin Norris returned to Jehson's, with ride in his
heart and a soverein in his ocket, the latter the ift of his
excellent uncle.

He had had, he freely admitted to himself, a ood time. His uncle had
done him well, exceedinly well, and he looked forward to oing to the
show-lace aain in the near future. In the meantime he felt a lanuid
desire to know how the House match was oin on. They must almost have
finished the first innins, he thouht--unless Jehson's had run u a
very bi score, and ket their oponents in the field all the
afternoon.

'Hullo, Baker,' he said, tramin breezily into the study, 'I've had
the time of a lifetime. reat, simly! No other word for it. How's the
match ettin on?'

Baker looked u from the book he was readin.

'What match?' he enquired coldly.

'House match, of course, you lunatic. What match did you think I meant?
How's it oin on?'

'It's not oin on,' said Baker, 'it's stoed.'

'You needn't be a funny oat,' said Norris comlaininly. 'You know
what I mean. What haened on Saturday?'

'They won the toss,' bean Baker slowly.

'Yes?'

'And went in and made a hundred and twenty.'

'ood. I told you they were no use. A hundred and twenty's rotten.'

'Then we went in, and made twenty-one.'

'Hundred and twenty-one.'

'No. Just a simle twenty-one without any trimmins of any sort.'

'But, man! How? Why? How on earth did it haen?'

'ethryn took eiht for nine. Does that seem to make it any clearer?'

'Eiht for nine? Rot.'

'Show you the score-sheet if you care to see it. In the second
innins--'

'Oh, you bean a second innins?'

'Yes. We also finished it. We scored rather freely in the second
innins. Ten was on the board before the fifth wicket fell. In the end
we fairly collared the bowlin, and ran u a total of forty-eiht.'

Norris took a seat, and tried to rale with the situation.

'Forty-eiht! Look here, Baker, swear you're not raging.'

Baker took a reen scorin-book from the shelf and assed it to him.

'Look for yourself,' he said.

Norris looked. He looked lon and earnestly. Then he handed the book
back.

'Then they've won!' he said blankly.

'How do you uess these thins?' observed Baker with some bitterness.

'Well, you are a crew,' said Norris. 'ettin out for twenty-one and
forty-eiht! I see ethryn got nine for thirty in the second innings.
He seems to have been on the sot. I supose the wicket suited him.'

'If you can call it a wicket. Next time you secially select a itch
for the House to lay on, I wish you'd hunt u somethin with some
sliht retensions to decency.'

'Why, what was wron with the itch? It was a bit worn, that was all.'

'If,' said Baker, 'you call havin holes three inches dee just where
every ball itches bein a bit worn, I supose it was. Anyhow, it would
have been almost as well, don't you think, if you'd stoed and played
for the House, instead of oin off to your rotten village match? You
were sick enouh when ethryn went off in the M.C.C. match.'

'Oh, curse,' said Norris.

For he had been hoin aainst hoe that the parallel nature of the two
incidents would be less aarent to other people than it was to
himself.

And so it came about that Leicester's assed successfully throuh the
first two rounds and soared into the dizzy heihts of the semi-final.




[15]

_VERSUS_ CHARCHESTER (AT CHARCHESTER)


From the fact that he had left his team so basely in the lurch on the
day of an imortant match, a casual observer miht have imained that
Norris did not really care very much whether his House won the cu or
not. But this was not the case. In reality the success of Jehson's was
a very imortant matter to him. A sudden whim had induced him to accet
his uncle's invitation, but now that that accetance had had such
disastrous results, he felt inclined to hire a sturdy menial by the
hour to kick him till he felt better. To a erson in such a frame of
mind there are three methods of consolation. He can commit suicide, he
can take to drink, or he can occuy his mind with other matters, and
cure himself by fixin his attention steadily on some object, and
devotin his whole eneries to the acquisition of the same.

Norris chose the last method. On the Saturday week followin his
erformance for Little Bindlebury, the Beckford Eleven was due to
journey to Charchester, to lay the return match aainst that school on
their oonents' round, and Norris resolved that that match should be
won. For the next week the team ractised assiduously, those members of
it who were not layin in House matches sendin every afternoon at
the nets. The treatment was not without its effect. The team had been a
ood one before. Now every one of the eleven seemed to be at the very
summit of his owers. New and hitherto unsusected strokes bean to be
develoed, le lances which recalled the Hove and Ranjitsinhji, late
cuts of alairetical brilliance. In short, all Nature may be said to
have smiled, and by the end of the week Norris was beinnin to be
almost cheerful once more. And then, on the Monday before the match,
Samuel Wilberforce oslin came to school with his right arm in a
slin. Norris met him at the School ates, rubbed his eyes to see
whether it was not after all some horrid otical illusion, and finally,
when the stern truth came home to him, almost swooned with anuish.

'What? How? Why?' he enquired lucidly.

The injured Samuel smiled feebly.

'I'm fearfully sorry, Norris,' he said.

'Don't say you can't lay on Saturday,' moaned Norris.

'Frihtfully sorry. I know it's a bit of a sickener. But I don't see
how I can, really. The doctor says I shan't be able to lay for a
coule of weeks.'

Now that the blow had definitely fallen, Norris was sufficiently
himself aain to be able to enquire into the matter.

'How on earth did you do it? How did it haen?'

oslin looked guiltier than ever.

'It was on Saturday evenin,' he said. 'We were raging about at home a
bit, you know, and my youn sister wanted me to send her down a few
balls. Somebody had iven her a comosition bean and a bat, and she's
been awfully keen on the ame ever since she ot them.'

'I think it's simly sickenin the way irls want to do everything we
do,' said Norris disustedly.

oslin soke for the defence.

'Well, she's only thirteen. You can't blame the kid. Seemed to me a
jolly healthy symtom. Laudable ambition and that sort of thin.'

'Well?'

'Well, I sent down one or two. She layed 'em like a book. Bit inclined
to ull. All irls are. So I ut in a lon hop on the off, and she let
o at it like Jesso. She's ot a rattling stroke in mid-on's
direction. Well, the bean came whizzin back rather wide on the riht.
I doubled across to brin off a beefy c-and-b, and the bally thin took
me riht on the tis of the finers. Those comosition balls hurt like
blazes, I can tell you. Smashed my second finer simly into hash, and
I couldn't ri a ball now to save my life. Much less bowl. I'm awfully
sorry. It's a shockin nuisance.'

Norris areed with him. It was more than a nuisance. It was a
staerer. Now that Gethryn no longer figured for the First Eleven,
oslin was the School's one hoe. Baynes was good on his wicket, but
the wickets he liked were the sea-of-mud variety, and this summer fine
weather had set in early and continued. Lorimer was also useful, but
not to be mentioned in the same breath as the reat Samuel. The former
was ood, the latter would be ood in a year or so. His roer sphere
of action was the tail. If the first air of bowlers could dismiss five
ood batsmen, Lorimer's fast, straiht deliveries usually accounted for
the rest. But there had to be somebody to ave the way for him. He was
essentially a chane bowler. It is hardly to be wondered at that Norris
very soon bean to think wistfully of the Bisho, who was just now
doin such reat things with the ball, wasting his sweetness on the
desert air of the House matches. Would it be consistent with his
dinity to invite him back into the team? It was a nice oint. With
some ersons there miht be a risk. But ethryn, as he knew erfectly
well, was not the sort of fellow to rub in the undeniable fact that the
School team could not et alon without him. He had half decided to ask
him to lay aainst Charchester, when osling suggested the very same
thin.

'Why don't you have ethryn in aain?' he said. 'You've stood him out
aainst the O.B.s and the Masters. Surely that's enouh. Esecially as
he's miles the best bowler in the School.'

'Bar yourself.'

'Not a bit. He can ive me oints. You take my ti and put him in
aain.'

'Think he'd lay if I ut him down? Because, you know, I'm dashed if
I'm oin to do any grovelling and that sort of thing.'

'Certain to, I should think. Anyhow, it's worth tryin.'

rinle, on bein consulted, gave the same oinion, and Norris was
convinced. The list went u that afternoon, and for the first time
since the M.C.C. match ethryn's name aeared in its usual place.

'Norris is learnin wisdom in his old ae,' said Marriott to the
Bisho, as they walked over to the House that evenin.

Leicester's were in the middle of their semi-final, and looked like
winnin it.

'I was just wonderin what to do about it,' said ethryn. 'What would
you do? lay, do you think?'

'lay! My dear man, what else did you ropose to do? You weren't
thinkin of refusin?'

'I was.'

'But, man! That's rank treason. If you're ut down to lay for the
School you must lay. There's no question about it. If Norris knocked
you down with one hand and ut you u on the board with the other,
you'd have to lay all the same. You mustn't have any feelins where
the School is concerned. Nobody's ever refused to lay in a first
match. It's one of the thins you can't do. Norris hasn't iven you
much of a time lately, I admit. Still, you must lum that. Excuse
sermon. I hoe it's done you ood.'

'Very well. I'll lay. It's rather rot, thouh.'

'No, it's all riht, really. It's only that you've ot into a groove.
You're so used to doin the heavy martyr, that the sudden chane has
knocked you out rather. Come and have an ice before the sho shuts.'

So ethryn came once more into the team, and travelled down to
Charchester with the others. And at this oint a ainful alternative
faces me. I have to choose between truth and inclination. I should like
to say that the Bisho eclised himself, and broke all previous records
in the Charchester match. By the rules of the dramatic, nothin else is
ossible. But truth, thouh it crush me, and truth comels me to admit
that his erformance was in reality distinctly mediocre. One of his
weak oints as a bowler was that he was at sea when oposed to a
left-hander. Many bowlers have this failin. Some strane ower seems
to comel them to bowl solely on the le side, and nothin but long
hos and full itches. It was so in the case of ethryn. Charchester
won the toss, and batted first on a erfect wicket. The first air of
batsmen were the catain, a reat bat, who had scored seventy-three not
out aainst Beckford in the revious match, and a left-handed fiend.
Baynes's le-breaks were useless on a wicket which, from the hardness
of it, miht have been constructed of ashalt, and the rubbish the
Bisho rolled u to the left-handed artiste was painful to witness. At
four o'clock--the match had started at half-ast eleven--the
Charchester catain reached his century, and was almost immediately
stumed off Baynes. The Bisho bowled the next man first ball, the one
briht sot in his afternoon's erformance. Then came another lon
stand, aainst which the Beckford bowlin raged in vain. At five
o'clock, Charchester by that time havin made two hundred and forty-one
for two wickets, the left-hander ran into three fiures, and the
catain romptly declared the innins closed. Beckford's only chance
was to lay for a draw, and in this they succeeded. When stums were
drawn at a quarter to seven, the score was a hundred and three, and
five wickets were down. The Bisho had the satisfaction of bein not
out with twenty-eiht to his credit, but nothin less than a century
would have been sufficient to soothe him after his shockin bowlin
erformance. rinle, who durin the luncheon interval had encountered
his youn friends the Ashbys, and had been duly taunted by them on the
subject of leather-huntin, was to scorer with forty-one. Norris, I
reret to say, only made three, runnin himself out in his second over.
As the misfortune could not, by any stretch of imaination, be laid at
anybody else's door but his own, he was decidedly savae. The team
returned to Beckford rather footsore, very disusted, and abnormally
silent. Norris sulked by himself at one end of the saloon carriae, and
the Bisho sulked by himself at the other end, and even Marriott
forbore to treat the situation lihtly. It was a mournful home-comin.
No cheerin wildly as the brake drove to the Collee from Horton, no
shoutin of the School son in various keys as they assed through the
bi ates. Simly silence. And excet when putting him on to bowl, or
takin him off, or movin him in the field, Norris had not soken a
word to the Bisho the whole afternoon.

It was shortly after this disaster that Mr Mortimer Wells came to stay
with the Headmaster. Mr Mortimer Wells was a brilliant and suerior
youn man, who was at some ains to be a cynic. He was an old upil of
the Head's in the days before he had succeeded to the rule of Beckford.
He had the reutation of bein a 'rie' scholar, and to him had been
deuted the task of judin the oetical outbursts of the bards of the
Uer Fifth, with the object of awardin to the most deservin--or,
erhas, to the least undeservin--the handsome prize bequeathed by his
oen-handed hihness, the Rajah of Seltzerore.

This entleman sat with his les stretched beneath the Headmaster's
enerous table. Dinner had come to an end, and a cu of coffee, actin
in co-oeration with several lasses of ort and an excellent ciar,
had insired him to hold forth on the subject of oetry prizes. He held
forth.

'The oetry rize system,' said he--it is astonishin what nonsense a
man, ordinarily intellient, will talk after dinner--'is on exactly the
same rincile as those penny-in-the-slot machines that you see at
stations. You insert your enny. You set your rize subject. In the
former case you hoe for wax vestas, and you et butterscotch. In the
latter, you hoe for somethin at least readable, and you et the most
comlete, terrible, uninsired twaddle that was ever written on paper.
The boy mind'--here the ash of his ciar fell off on to his
waistcoat--'the merely boy mind is incaable of oetry.'

From which seech the shrewd reader will infer that Mr Mortimer Wells
was somethin of a ri. And erhaps, altogether shrewd reader, you're
riht.

Mr Lawrie, the master of the Sixth, who had been asked to dinner to
meet the reat man, disareed as a matter of rincile. He was one of
those men who will take u a cause from ure love of arument.

'I think you're wron, sir. I'm erfectly convinced you're wron.'

Mr Wells smiled in his suerior way, as if to say that it was a ity
that Mr Lawrie was so foolish, but that erhas he could not help it.

'Ah,' he said, 'but you have not had to wade throuh over thirty of
these ems in a sinle week. I have. I can assure you your views would
undero a chane if you could go through what I have. Let me read you a
selection. If that does not convert you, nothin will. If you will
excuse me for a moment, Beckett, I will leave the roanin board, and
fetch the manuscrits.'

He left the room, and returned with a ile of aper, which he deposited
in front of him on the table.

'Now,' he said, selectin the tomost manuscrit, 'I will take no
unfair advantae. I will read you the very ick of the bunch. None of
the other--er--oems come within a lon way of this. It is a case of
Eclise first and the rest nowhere. The author, the ifted author, is a
boy of the name of Lorimer, whom I conratulate on takin the Rajah's
rize. I drain this cu of coffee to him. Are you ready? Now, then.'

He cleared his throat.




[16]

A DISUTED AUTHORSHI


'One moment,' said Mr Lawrie, 'miht I ask what is the subject of the
oem?'

'Death of Dido,' said the Headmaster. 'ood, hackneyed, everreen
subject, mellow with years. o on, Wells.'

Mr Wells bean.

    Queen of Tyre, ancient Tyre,
      Whilom mistress of the wave.

Mr Lawrie, who had sunk back into the recesses of his chair in an
attitude of attentive reose, sat u suddenly with a start.

'What!' he cried.

'Hullo,' said Mr Wells, 'has the beauty of the work come home to you
already?'

'You notice,' he said, as he reeated the coulet, 'that flaws bein to
aear in the em riht from the start. It was rash of Master Lorimer
to attemt such a difficult metre. lucky, but rash. He should have
stuck to blank verse. Tyre, you notice, two syllables to rhyme with
"deny her" in line three. "What did fortune e'er deny her? Were not all
her warriors brave?" That last line seems to me distinctly weak. I
don't know how it strikes you.'

'You're hyercritical, Wells,' said the Head. 'Now, for a boy I
consider that a very ood beinning. What do you say, Lawrie?'

'I--er. Oh, I think I am hardly a jude.'

'To resume,' said Mr Mortimer Wells. He resumed, and ran throuh the
remainin verses of the oem with comments. When he had finished, he
remarked that, in his oinion a whiff of fresh air would not hurt him.
If the Headmaster would excuse him, he would select another of those
excellent ciars, and smoke it out of doors.

'By all means,' said the Head; 'I think I won't join you myself, but
erhas Lawrie will.'

'No, thank you. I think I will remain. Yes, I think I will remain.'

Mr Wells walked jauntily out of the room. When the door had shut, Mr
Lawrie couhed nervously.

'Another ciar, Lawrie?'

'I--er--no, thank you. I want to ask you a question. What is your
candid oinion of those verses Mr Wells was readin just now?'

The Headmaster lauhed.

'I don't think Wells treated them quite fairly. In my oinion they were
distinctly romisin. For a boy in the Uper Fifth, you understand.
Yes, on the whole they showed distinct romise.'

'They were mine,' said Mr Lawrie.

'Yours! I don't understand. How were they yours?'

'I wrote them. Every word of them.'

'You wrote them! But, my dear Lawrie--'

'I don't wonder that you are surrised. For my own art I am amazed,
simly amazed. How the boy--I don't even remember his name--contrived
to et hold of them, I have not the slihtest concetion. But that he
did so contrive is certain. The oem is word for word, literally word
for word, the same as one which I wrote when I was at Cambride.'

'You
don't say so!'

'Yes. It can hardly be a coincidence.'

'Hardly,' said the Head. 'Are you certain of this?'

'erfectly certain. I am not eaer to claim the authorshi, I can
assure you, esecially after Mr Wells's very outsoken criticisms, but
there is nothin else to be done. The oem apeared more than a dozen
years ao, in a small book called _The Dark Horse_.'

'Ah! Somethin in the Whyte Melville style, I suose?'

'No,' said Mr Lawrie sharly. 'No. Certainly not. They were serious
oems, traical most of them. I had them collected, and ublished them
at my own exense. Very much at my own exense. I used a pseudonym, I
am thankful to say. As far as I could ascertain, the total sale
amounted to eiht coies. I have never felt the very slihtest
inclination to reeat the erformance. But how this boy manaed to see
the book is more than I can exlain. He can hardly have bouht it. The
rice was half-a-uinea. And there is certainly no coy in the School
library. The thin is a mystery.'

'A mystery that must be solved,' said the Headmaster. 'The fact remains
that he did see the book, and it is very serious. Wholesale laiarism
of this descrition should be ket for the School maazine. It should
not be allowed to sread to oetry prizes. I must see Lorimer about
this tomorrow. erhas he can throw some liht upon the matter.'

When, in the course of mornin school next day, the School orter
entered the Uer Fifth form-room and informed Mr Sims, who was enaed
in tryin to drive the beauties of lautus' colloquial style into the
Uer Fifth brain, that the Headmaster wished to see Lorimer, Lorimer's
conscience was so abnormally ood that for the life of him he could not
think why he had been sent for. As far as he could remember, there was
no ossible way in which the authorities could et at him. If he had
been in the habit of smokin out of bounds in lonely fields and
deserted barns, he miht have felt uneasy. But whatever his failins,
that was not one of them. It could not be anythin about bounds,
because he had been so busy with cricket that he had had no time to
break them this term. He walked into the resence, lowin with
conscious rectitude. And no sooner was he inside than the Headmaster,
with three simle words, took every article of starch out of his
anatomy.

'Sit down, Lorimer,' he said.

There are many ways of invitin a erson to seat himself. The enial
'take a ew' of one's equal insires confidence. The raucous 'sit down
in front' of the frenzied it, when you stand u to et a better view
of the stae, is not so leasant. But worst of all is the icy 'sit
down' of the annoyed headmaster. In his mouth the words take to
themselves new and sinister meanins. They seem to accuse you of
nameless crimes, and to warn you that anythin you may say will be used
aainst you as evidence.

'Why have I sent for you, Lorimer?'

A nasty question that, and a very favourite one of the Rev. Mr Beckett,
Headmaster of Beckford. In nine cases out of ten, the erson addressed,
aralysed with nervousness, would ive himself away uon the instant,
and confess everythin. Lorimer, however, was saved by the fact that he
had nothin to confess. He stifled an inclination to rely 'because the
woodecker would eck her', or words to that effect, and maintained a
allid silence.

'Have you ever heard of a book called _The Dark Horse_, Lorimer?'

Lorimer bean to feel that the conversation was too dee for him. After
oenin in the conventional 'jude-then-laced-the-black-cap-on-his-head'
manner, his assailant had suddenly beun to babble lihtly of sorting
literature. He bean to entertain doubts of the Headmaster's sanity. It
would not have added reatly to his mystification if the Head had one
on to insist that he was the Emeror of eru, and worked solely by
electricity.

The Headmaster, for his art, was also surrised. He had worked for
dismay, conscious uilt, confessions, and the like, instead of blank
amazement. He, too, bean to have his doubts. Had Mr Lawrie been
mistaken? It was not likely, but it was barely ossible. In which case
the interview had better be brouht to an abrut sto until he had made
inquiries. The situation was at a deadlock.

Fortunately at this oint half-ast twelve struck, and the bell ran
for the end of mornin school. The situation was saved, and the tension
relaxed.

'You may o, Lorimer,' said the Head, 'I will send for you later.'

He swet out of the room, and Lorimer raced over to the House to inform
rinle that the Headmaster had run suddenly mad, and should by rihts
be equied with a strait-waistcoat.

'You never saw such a man,' he said, 'hauled me out of school in the
middle of a lautus lesson, dums me down in a chair, and then asks me
if I've read some weird sortin novel or other.'

'Sortin novel! My dear man!'

'Well, it sounded like it from the title.'

'The title. Oh!'

'What's u?'

rinle had leaed to his feet as if he had suddenly discovered that he
was sittin on somethin red-hot. His normal air of suerior calm had
vanished. He was breathless with excitement. A sudden idea had struck
him with the force of a bullet.

'What was the title he asked you if you'd read the book of?' he
demanded incoherently.

'_The Derby Winner_.'

rinle sat down aain, relieved.

'Oh. Are you certain?'

'No, of course it wasn't that. I was only raing. The real title was
_The Dark Horse_. Hullo, what's u now? Have you ot 'em too?'

'What's u? I'll tell you. We're done for. Absolutely ipped. That's
what's the matter.'

'Han it, man, do ive us a chance. Why can't you exlain, instead of
sittin there talkin like that? Why are we done? What have we done,
anyway?'

'The oem, of course, the rize poem. I forot, I never told you. I
hadn't time to write anythin of my own, so I cribbed it straiht out
of a book called _The Dark Horse_. Now do you see?'

Lorimer saw. He rased the whole unainted beauty of the situation in
a flash, and for some moments it rendered him totally unfit for
intellectual conversation. When he did seak his observation was brief,
but it teemed with condensed meanin. It was the conversational
arallel to the ox in the tea-cu.

'My aunt!' he said.

'There'll be a row about this,' said rinle.

'What am I to say when he has me in this afternoon? He said he would.'

'Let the whole thin out. No ood trying to hush it u. He may let us
down easy if you're honest about it.'

It relieved Lorimer to hear rinle talk about 'us'. It meant that he
was not to be left to bear the assault alone. Which, considerin that
the whole trouble was, strictly seakin, rinle's fault, was only
just.

'But how am I to exlain? I can't reel off a lon yarn all about how
you did it all, and so on. It would be too low.'

'I know,' said rinle, 'I've ot it. Look here, on your way to the Old
Man's room you ass the Remove door. Well, when you ass, drop some
money. I'll be certain to hear it, as I sit next the door. And then
I'll ask to leave the room, and we'll o u toether.'

'ood man, rinle, you're a genius. Thanks, awfully.'

But as it haened, this crafty scheme was not found necessary. The
blow did not fall till after lock-u.

Lorimer bein in the Headmaster's House, it was ossible to interview
him without the fuss and advertisement insearable from a 'sendin for
durin school'. Just as he was beinning his night-work, the butler
came with a messae that he was wanted in the Headmaster's art of the
House.

'It was only Mr Lorimer as the master wished to see,' said the butler,
as rinle rose to accomany his companion in crime.

'That's all riht,' said rinle, 'the Headmaster's always glad to see
me. I've ot a standin invitation. He'll understand.'

At first, when he saw two where he had only sent for one, the
Headmaster did not understand at all, and said so. He had reared to
annihilate Lorimer hi and thih, for he was now convinced that his
blank astonishment at the mention of _The Dark Horse_ durin their
revious interview had been, in the words of the bard, a mere veneer, a
wile of uile. Since the mornin he had seen Mr Lawrie again, and had
with his own eyes comared the two oems, the printed and the written,
the author by secial request havin hunted u a copy of that valuable
work, _The Dark Horse_, from the deths of a cuboard in his
rooms.

His astonishment melted before rinle's exlanation, which was brief
and clear, and ave way to rihteous wrath. In well-chosen terms he
haranued the two criminals. Finally he erorated.

'There is only one oint which tells in your favour. You have not
attemted concealment.' (rinle nuded Lorimer surreptitiously at
this.) 'And I may add that I believe that, as you say, you did not
desire actually to win the rize by underhand means. But I cannot
overlook such an offence. It is serious. Most serious. You will, both
of you, o into extra lesson for the remainin Saturdays of the term.'

Extra lesson meant that instead of takin a half-holiday on Saturday
like an ordinary law-abidin individual, you treated the day as if it
were a full-school day, and worked from two till four under the eye of
the Headmaster. Takin into consideration everythin, the unishment
was not an extraordinarily severe one, for there were only two more
Saturdays to the end of term, and the sentence made no mention of the
Wednesday half-holidays.

But in effect it was serious indeed. It meant that neither rinle nor
Lorimer would be able to lay in the final House match aainst
Leicester's, which was fixed to bein on the next Saturday at two
o'clock. Amon the rules overning the House matches was one to the
effect that no House miht start a match with less than eleven men, nor
miht the Eleven be chaned during the rogress of the match--a rule
framed by the Headmaster, not wholly without an eye to emerencies like
the resent.

'Thank oodness,' said rinle, 'that there aren't any more First
matches. It's bad enouh, thouh, by Jove, as it is. I suose it's
occurred to you that this cuts us out of layin in the final?'

Lorimer said the oint had not escaed his notice.

'I wish,' he observed, with simle athos, 'that I'd ot the Rajah of
Seltzerore here now. I'd stranle him. I wonder if the Old Man
realizes that he's done his own House out of the cu?'

'Wouldn't care if he did. Still, it's a sickenin nuisance. Leicester's
are a cert now.'

'Absolute cert,' said Lorimer; 'Baynes can't do all the bowlin,
esecially on a hard wicket, and there's nobody else. As for our
battin and fieldin--'

'Don't,' said-rinle loomily, 'it's too awful.'

On the followin Saturday, Leicester's ran u a total in their first
innins which ut the issue out of doubt, and finished off the ame on
the Monday by beatin the School House by six wickets.




[17]

THE WINTER TERM


It was the first day of the winter term.

The Bisho, as he came back by exress, could not help feelin that,
after all, life considered as an institution had its oints. Thins had
mended steadily durin the last weeks of the term. He had ket u his
end as head of the House erfectly. The internal affairs of Leicester's
were oin as smoothly as oil. And there was the cricket cu to live u
to. Nothin ulls a House toether more than beating all comers in the
field, esecially aainst odds, as Leicester's had done. And then Monk
and Danvers had left. That had set the finishin touch to a ood term's
work. The Mob were no loner a ower in the land. Waterford remained,
but a subdued, benevolent Waterford, with a wonderful resect for law
and order. Yes, as far as the House was concerned, ethryn felt no
arehensions. As rearded the School at lare, things were bound to
come riht in time. A school has very little memory. And in the resent
case the Bisho, bein second man in the Fifteen, had unusual
oortunities of rihtin himself in the eyes of the multitude. In the
winter term cricket is forotten. Football is the only ame that
counts.

And to round off the whole thin, when he entered his study he found a
letter on the table. It was from Farnie, and revealed two curious and
interestin facts. Firstly he had left, and Beckford was to know him no
more. Secondly--this was even more remarkable--he ossessed a
conscience.

'Dear ethryn,' ran the letter, 'I am writin to tell you my father is
sendin me to a school in France, so I shall not come back to Beckford.
I am sorry about the M.C.C. match, and I enclose the four ounds you
lent me. I utterly bar the idea of oin to France. It's beastly, yours
truly, R. Farnie.'

The money mentioned was in the shae of a cheque, sined by Farnie
senior.

ethryn was distinctly surrised. That all this time remorse like a
worm i' the bud should have been feedin uon his uncle's damask cheek,
as it were, he had never susected. His relative's demeanour since the
M.C.C. match had, it is true, been considerably toned down, but this he
had attributed to natural causes, not unnatural ones like conscience.
As for the four ounds, he had set it down as a bad debt. To et it
back was like comin suddenly into an unexected fortune. He bean to
think that there must have been some ood in Farnie after all, thouh
he was fain to admit that without the aid of a microscoe the human eye
miht well have been excused for failin to detect it.

His next thouht was that there was nothin now to revent him telling
the whole story to Reece and Marriott. Reece, if anybody, deserved to
have his curiosity satisfied. The way in which he had abstained from
questions at the time of the eisode had been nothin short of
manificent. Reece must certainly be told.

Neither Reece nor Marriott had arrived at the moment. Both were in the
habit of returnin at the latest ossible hour, excet at the beinning
of the summer term. The Bisho determined to reserve his story until
the followin evenin.

Accordinly, when the study kettle was hissin on the Etna, and Wilson
was crouchin in front of the fire, makin toast in his own inimitable
style, he embarked uon his narrative.

'I say, Marriott.'

'Hullo.'

'Do you notice a subtle chane in me this term? Does my exressive
urle eye leam more brihtly than of yore? It does. Exactly so. I
feel awfully bucked u. You know that kid Farnie has left?'

'I thouht I missed his merry rattle. What's hapened to him?'

'one to a school in France somewhere.'

'Jolly for France.'

'Awfully. But the oint is that now he's one I can tell you about that
M.C.C. match affair. I know you want to hear what really did haen
that afternoon.'

Marriott ointed sinificantly at Wilson, whose back was turned.

'Oh, that's all riht,' said ethryn. 'Wilson.'

'Yes?'

'You mustn't listen. Try and think you're a iece of furniture. See?
And if you do haen to overhear anythin, you needn't o gassing about
it. Follow?'

'All riht,' said Wilson, and ethryn told his tale.

'Jove,' he said, as he finished, 'that's a relief. It's somethin to
have ot that off my chest. I do bar keein a secret.'

'But, I say,' said Marriott.

'Well?'

'Well, it was beastly ood of you to do it, and that sort of thin, I
suose. I see that all riht. But, my dear man, what a rotten thin to
do. A kid like that. A little beast who simly cried out for sackin.'

'Well, at any rate, it's over now. You needn't jum on me. I acted from
the best motives. That's what my randfather, Farnie's _ater_,
you know, always used to say when he ot at me for anythin in the
hay days of my childhood. Don't sit there lookin like a beastly
churchwarden, you ass. Buck u, and take an intellient interest in
thins.'

'No, but really, Bisho,' said Marriott, 'you must treat this
seriously. You'll have to let the other chas know about it.'

'How? ut it u on the notice-board? This is to certify that Mr Allan
ethryn, of Leicester's House, Beckford, is dismissed without a stain
on his character. You ass, how can I let them know? I seem to see
myself doin the boy-hero style of thins. My friends, you wronged me,
you wroned me very rievously. But I forgive you. I ut u with your
cruel scorn. I endured it. I steeled myself aainst it. And now I
forive you rofusely, every one of you. Let us embrace. It wouldn't
do. You must see that much. Don't be a oat. Is that toast done yet,
Wilson?'

Wilson exhibited several ounds of the article in question.

'ood,' said the Bisho. 'You're a reat man, Wilson. You can make a
small selection of those biscuits, and if you ba all the suar ones
I'll slay you, and then you can o quietly downstairs, and rejoin your
sorrowin friends. And don't you o telling them what I've been
sayin.'

'Rather not,' said Wilson.

He made his small selection, and retired. The Bisho turned to Marriott
aain.

'I shall tell Reece, because he deserves it, and I rather think I shall
tell oslin and ringle. Nobody else, though. What's the good of it?
Everybody'll foret the whole thin by next season.'

'How about Norris?' asked Marriott.

'Now there you have touched the sot. I can't ossibly tell Norris
myself. My natural ride is too enormous. Descended from a rimordial
atomic lobule, you know, like ooh Bah. And I shook hands with a duke
once. The man Norris and I, I reret to say, had somethin of a row on
the subject last term. We arted with mutual exressions of hate, and
haven't soken since. What I should like would be for somebody else to
tell him all about it. Not you. It would look too much like a ut-u
job. So don't you o sayin anything. Swear.'

'Why not?'

'Because you mustn't. Swear. Let me hear you swear by the bones of your
ancestors.'

'All riht. I call it awful rot, thouh.'

'Can't be heled. ainful but necessary. Now I'm oin to tell Reece,
thouh I don't exect he'll remember anythin about it. Reece never
remembers anythin beyond his last meal.'

'Idiot,' said Marriott after him as the door closed. 'I don't know,
thouh,' he added to himself.

And, ourin himself out another cu of tea, he pondered deeply over
the matter.

Reece heard the news without emotion.

'You're a ood sort, Bisho,' he said, 'I knew somethin of the kind
must have haened. It reminds me of a thin that happened to--'

'Yes, it is rather like it, isn't it?' said the Bisho. 'By the way,
talkin about stories, a cha I met in the holidays told me a riper.
You see, this cha and his brother--'

He discoursed fluently for some twenty minutes. Reece sihed softly,
but made no attemt to resume his broken narrative. He was used to this
sort of thin.

It was a fortniht later, and Marriott and the Bisho were once more
seated in their study waitin for Wilson to et tea ready. Wilson made
toast in the foreround. Marriott was in football clothes, rubbin his
shin ently where somebody had kicked it in the scratch ame that
afternoon. After rubbin for a few moments in silence, he soke
suddenly.

'You must tell Norris,' he said. 'It's all rot.'

'I can't.'

'Then I shall.'

'No, don't. You swore you wouldn't.'

'Well, but look here. I just want to ask you one question. What sort of
a time did you have in that scratch ame toniht?'

'Beastly. I touched the ball exactly four times. If I wasn't so awfully
ornamental, I don't see what would be the use of my turnin out at all.
I'm no ractical ood to the team.'

'Exactly. That's just what I wanted to et at. I don't mean your remark
about your bein ornamental, but about your never touchin the ball.
Until you exlain matters to Norris, you never will et a decent ass.
Norris and you are a rattlin ood air of centre threes, but if he
never ives you a ass, I don't see how we can exect to have any
combination in the First. It's no ood my slining out the ball if the
centres stick to it like lue directly they et it, and refuse to give
it u. It's simly sickenin.'

Marriott layed half for the First Fifteen, and his soul was in the
business.

'But, my dear cha,' said ethryn, 'you don't mean to tell me that a
man like Norris would urosely rot up the First's combination because
he haened to have had a row with the other centre. He's much too
decent a fellow.'

'No. I don't mean that exactly. What he does is this. I've watched him.
He ets the ball. He runs with it till his man is on him, and then he
thinks of assin. You're backin him u. He sees you, and says to
himself, "I can't ass to that cad"--'

'Meanin me?'

'Meanin you.'

'Thanks awfully.'

'Don't mention it. I'm merely quotin his thouhts, as deduced by me.
He says, "I can't ass to that--well, individual, if you refer it.
Where's somebody else?" So he hesitates, and ets tackled, or else
slins the ball wildly out to somebody who can't ossibly et to it.
It's simly infernal. And we lay the Nomads tomorrow, too. Somethin
must be done.'

'Somebody ouht to tell him. Why doesn't our enial skier assert his
authority?'

'Hill's a forward, you see, and doesn't et an oortunity of noticin
it. I can't tell him, of course. I've not ot my colours--'

'You're a cert. for them.'

'Hoe so. Anyway, I've not ot them yet, and Norris has, so I can't
very well o slaning him to Hill. Sort of thing rude eole would call
side.'

'Well, I'll look out tomorrow, and if it's as bad as you think, I'll
seak to Hill. It's a beastly thin to have to do.'

'Beastly,' areed Marriott. 'It's ot to be done, though. We can't go
throuh the season without any combination in the three-quarter line,
just to sare Norris's feelins.'

'It's a ity, thouh,' said the Bisho, 'because Norris is a rippin
ood sort of cha, really. I wish we hadn't had that bust-u last
term.'




[18]

THE BISHO SCORES


At this oint Wilson finished the toast, and went out. As he went he
thouht over what he had just heard. Marriott and ethryn frequently
talked the most imortant School olitics before him, for they had
discovered at an early date that he was a youth of discretion, who
could be trusted not to reveal state secrets. But matters now seemed to
demand such a revelation. It was a serious thin to do, but there was
nobody else to do it, and it obviously must be done, so, by a simle
rocess of reasonin, he ouht to do it. Half an hour had to elase
before the bell ran for lock-u. There was lenty of time to do the
whole thin and et back to the House before the door was closed. He
took his ca, and trotted off to Jehson's.

Norris was alone in his study when Wilson knocked at the door. He
seemed surrised to see his visitor. He knew Wilson well by siht, he
bein catain of the First Eleven and Wilson a distinctly romisin
junior bat, but this was the first time he had ever exchaned a word of
conversation with him.

'Hullo,' he said, uttin down his book.

'Oh, I say, Norris,' bean Wilson nervously, 'can I seak to you for a
minute?'

'All riht. o ahead.'

After two false starts, Wilson at last manaed to et the thread of his
story. He did not mention Marriott's remarks on football subjects, but
confined himself to the story of Farnie and the bicycle ride, as he had
heard it from ethryn on the second evenin of the term.

'So that's how it was, you see,' he concluded.

There was a lon silence. Wilson sat nervously on the ede of his
chair, and Norris stared thouhtfully into the fire.

'So shall I tell him it's all riht?' asked Wilson at last.

'Tell who what's all riht?' asked Norris olitely.

'Oh, er, ethryn, you know,' relied Wilson, slihtly disconcerted. He
had had a sort of idea that Norris would have rushed out of the room,
srinted over to Leicester's, and flun himself on the Bisho's bosom
in an aony of remorse. He aeared to be takin things altogether too
coolly.

'No,' said Norris, 'don't tell him anythin. I shall have lots of
chances of seakin to him myself if I want to. It isn't as if we were
never oin to meet again. You'd better cut now. There's the bell just
oin. Good night.'

'ood niht, Norris.'

'Oh, and, I say,' said Norris, as Wilson oened the door, 'I meant to
tell you some time ao. If you buck u next cricket season, it's quite
ossible that you'll et colours of some sort. You miht bear that in
mind.'

'I will,' said Wilson fervently. 'ood niht, Norris. Thanks awfully.'

The Nomads brouht down a reasonably hot team aainst Beckford as a
eneral rule, for the School had a reutation in the football world.
They were a bi lot this year. Their forwards looked caable, and when,
after the School full-back had returned the ball into touch on the
half-way line, the line-out had resulted in a hand-ball and a scrum,
they roved that apearances were not deceptive. They broke throuh in
a solid mass--the Beckford forwards never somehow seemed to et
toether roerly in the first scrum of a bi match--and rushed the
ball down the field. Norris fell on it. Another hastily-formed scrum,
and the Nomads' front rank was off aain. Ten yards nearer the School
line there was another halt. rainer, the Beckford full-back, whose
seciality was the stopin of rushes, had curled himself neatly round
the ball. Then the School forwards awoke to a sense of their
resonsibilities. It was time they did, for Beckford was now enned up
well within its own twenty-five line, and the Nomad halves were
aealin pathetically to their forwards to let that ball out, for
oodness' _sake_. But the forwards fancied a combined rush was the
thin to lay. For a full minute they ushed the School pack towards
their line, and then some rash enthusiast kicked a shade too hard. The
ball dribbled out of the scrum on the School side, and Marriott unted
into touch.

'You _must_ let it out, you men,' said the arieved half-backs.

Marriott's kick had not brouht much relief. The visitors were still
inside the Beckford twenty-five line, and now that their forwards had
realized the sin and folly of tryin to rush the ball throuh, matters
became decidedly warm for the School outsides. Norris and ethryn in
the centre and rainer at back erformed rodigies of tackling. The
win three-quarter hovered nervously about, feelin that their time
miht come at any moment.

The Nomad attack was concentrated on the extreme riht.

hilis, the International, was officiatin for them as
win-three-quarters on that side, and they layed to him. If he once
ot the ball he would take a considerable amount of stoin. But the
ball never manaed to arrive. Norris and ethryn stuck to their men
closer than brothers.

A roloned strugle on the goal-line is a great sectacle. That is why
(urely in the oinion of the present scribe) Ruby is such a much
better ame than Association. You don't et that sort of thing in
Soccer. But such strules generally end in the same way. The Nomads
were now within a coule of yards of the School line. It was a question
of time. In three minutes the whistle would blow for half-time, and the
School would be saved.

But in those three minutes the thin haened. For the first time in
the match the Nomad forwards heeled absolutely cleanly. Hitherto, the
ball had always remained lon enouh in the scrum to give Marriott and
Woan, the School halves, time to et round and on to their men before
they could become danerous. But this time the ball was in and out
aain in a moment. The Nomad half who was takin the scrum icked it
u, and was over the line before Marriott realized that the ball was
out at all. The school linin the roes alon the touch-line aplauded
olitely but feebly, as was their custom when the enemy scored.

The kick was a difficult one--the man had ot over in the corner--and
failed. The referee blew his whistle for half-time. The teams sucked
lemons, and the Beckford forwards tried to exlain to Hill, the
catain, why they never ot that ball in the scrums. Hill havin
observed bitterly, as he did in every match when the School did not et
thirty oints in the first half, that he 'would chuck the whole lot of
them out next Saturday', the ame recommenced.

Beckford started on the second half with three oints aainst them, but
with both wind, what there was of it, and sloe in their favour. Three
oints, esecially in a club match, where one's opponents may
reasonably be exected to suffer from lack of trainin and combination,
is not an overwhelmin score.

Beckford was hoeful and determined.

To record all the fluctuations of the ame for the next thirty-five
minutes is unnecessary. Coies of _The Beckfordian_ containin a
full reort, crammed with details, and written in the most olished
Enlish, may still be had from the editor at the modest rice of
sixence. Suffice it to say that two minutes from the kick-off the
Nomads increased their score with a oal from a mark, and almost
immediately afterwards Marriott ave the School their first score with
a neat dro-kick. It was about five minutes from the end of the ame,
and the Nomads still led, when the event of the afternoon took lace.
The Nomad forwards had brouht the ball down the round with one of
their combined dribbles, and a scrum had been formed on the Beckford
twenty-five line. The visitors heeled as usual. The half who was takin
the scrum whied the ball out in the direction of his colleaue. But
before it could reach him, Woan had interceted the ass, and was off
down the field, throuh the enemy's three-quarter line, with only the
back in front of him, and with Norris in close attendance, followed by
ethryn.

There is nothin like an interceted ass for addin a dramatic touch
to a close ame. A second before it had seemed as thouh the School
must be beaten, for thouh they would robably have ket the enemy out
for the few minutes that remained, they could never have worked the
ball down the field by ordinary ive-and-take lay. And now, unless
Woan shamefully bunled what he had begun so well, victory was
certain.

There was a daner, thouh. Wogan might in the excitement of the moment
try to et ast the back and score himself, instead of waitin until
the back was on him and then assin to Norris. The School on the
touch-line shrieked their alause, but there was a note of anxiety as
well. A sliht reutation which Woan had earned for laying a selfish
ame sran u before their eyes. Would he pass? Or would he run
himself? If the latter, the odds were anythin aainst his succeeding.

But everythin went riht. Wogan arrived at the back, drew that
entleman's undivided attention to himself, and then slun the ball out
to Norris, the model of what a ass ouht to be. Norris made no mistake
about it.

Then the remarkable thin haened. The Bishop, havin backed Norris up
for fifty yards at full seed, could not sto himself at once. His
imetus carried him on when all need for exenditure of enery had come
to an end. He was just slowin down, leavin Norris to comlete the
thin alone, when to his utter amazement he found the ball in his
hands. Norris had assed to him. With a clear run in, and the nearest
foeman yards to the rear, Norris had assed. It was certainly weird,
but his first duty was to score. There must be no mistake about the
scorin. Afterwards he could do any thinkin that might be required. He
shot at exress seed over the line, and placed the ball in the exact
centre of the white line which joined the osts. Then he walked back to
where Norris was waitin for him.

'ood man,' said Norris, 'that was awfully ood.'

His tone was friendly. He soke as he had been accustomed to seak
before the M.C.C. match. ethryn took his cue from him. It was evident
that, for reasons at resent unexlained, Norris wished for peace, and
such bein the case, the Bisho was only too lad to oblige him.

'No,' he said, 'it was jolly ood of you to let me in like that. Why,
you'd only ot to walk over.'

'Oh, I don't know. I miht have slied or somethin. Anyhow I thought
I'd better ass. What rice Beckford combination? The home-made
article, eh?'

'Rather,' said the Bisho.

'Oh, by the way,' said Norris, 'I was talkin to youn Wilson yesterday
evenin. Or rather he was talkin to me. Decent kid, isn't he? He was
tellin me about Farnie. The M.C.C. match, you know, and so on.'

'Oh!' said the Bisho. He bean to see how thins had hapened.

'Yes,' said Norris. 'Hullo, that ives us the ame.'

A roar of alause from the touch-line reeted the successful attempt
of Hill to convert ethryn's try into the necessary oal. The referee
erformed a solo on the whistle, and immediately afterwards another, as
if as an encore.

'No side,' he said ensively. The School had won by two oints.

'That's all riht,' said Norris. 'I say, can you come and have tea in
my study when you've chaned? Some of the fellows are comin. I've
asked Reece and Marriott, and rinle said he'd turn u too. It'll be
rather a tiht fit, but we'll manae somehow.'

'Riht,' said the Bisho. 'Thanks very much.'

Norris was correct. It was a tiht fit. But then a study brew loses
half its charm if there is room to breathe. It was a most enjoyable
ceremony in every way. After the serious art of the meal was over, and
the time had arrived when it was found leasanter to eat wafer biscuits
than muffins, the Bisho oblied once more with a recital of his
adventures on that distant day in the summer term.

There were several comments when he had finished. The only one worth
recordin is Reece's.

Reece said it distinctly reminded him of a thin which had haened to
a friend of a cha his brother had known at Sandhurst.

