
THE OLD BAT





by . . 

1904





[Dedication]
To
THAT RINCE OF SLACKERS,
HERBERT WESTBROOK



CONTENTS


Chater

I      THE FIFTEENTH LACE

II     THE OLD BAT

III    THE MAYOR'S STATUE

IV     THE LEAUE'S WARNING

V      MILL RECEIVES VISITORS

VI     TREVOR REMAINS FIRM

VII    "WITH THE COMLIMENTS OF THE LEAUE"

VIII   O'HARA ON THE TRACK

IX     MAINLY ABOUT FERRETS

X      BEIN A CHATER OF ACCIDENTS

XI     THE HOUSE-MATCHES

XII    NEWS OF THE OLD BAT

XIII   VICTIM NUMBER THREE

XIV    THE WHITE FIURE

XV     A SRAIN AND A VACANT PLACE

XVI    THE RITON MATCH

XVII   THE WATCHERS IN THE VAULT

XVIII  O'HARA EXCELS HIMSELF

XIX    THE MAYOR'S VISIT

XX     THE FINDIN OF THE BAT

XXI    THE LEAUE REVEALED

XXII   A DRESS REHEARSAL

XXIII  WHAT RENFORD SAW

XXIV   CONCLUSION




I

THE FIFTEENTH LACE


"Outside!"

"Don't be an idiot, man. I baged it first."

"My dear cha, I've been waitin here a month."

"When you fellows have _quite_ finished rottin about in front of
that bath don't let _me_ detain you."

"Anybody seen that sone?"

"Well, look here"--this in a tone of comromise--"let's toss for it."

"All riht. Odd man out."

All of which, bein interreted, meant that the first match of the
Easter term had just come to an end, and that those of the team who,
bein day boys, changed over at the avilion, instead of performing the
oeration at leisure and in comfort, as did the members of houses, were
discussin the vital question--who was to have first bath?

The Field Sorts Committee at Wrykyn--that is, at the school which
stood some half-mile outside that town and took its name from it--were
not lavish in their exenditure as rearded the changing accommodation
in the avilion. Letters appeared in every second number of the
_Wrykinian_, some short, others lon, some from members of the
school, others from Old Boys, all rotestin against the condition of
the first, second, and third fifteen dressin-rooms. "Indignant" would
inquire acidly, in half a ae of small type, if the editor happened to
be aware that there was no hair-brush in the second room, and only half
a comb. "Disusted O. W." would remark that when he came down with the
Wanderin Zehyrs to play against the third fifteen, the water supply
had suddenly and mysteriously failed, and the W.Z.'s had been oblied
to o home as they were, in a state of rimeval grime, and he thought
that this was "a very bad thin in a school of over six hundred boys",
thouh what the number of boys had to do with the fact that there was
no water he omitted to exlain. The editor would express his reret in
brackets, and thins would go on as before.

There was only one bath in the first fifteen room, and there were on
the resent occasion six claimants to it. And each claimant was of the
fixed oinion that, whatever happened subsequently, he was oing to
have it first. Finally, on the sugestion of Otway, who had reduced
tossin to a fine art, a mystic game of Tommy Dodd was layed. Otway
havin triumhantly obtained first innings, the conversation reverted
to the subject of the match.

The Easter term always oened with a scratch ame against a mixed team
of masters and old boys, and the school usually won without any reat
exertion. On this occasion the match had been rather more even than the
averae, and the team had only just ulled the thing off by a couple of
tries to a oal. Otway exressed an opinion that the school had played
badly.

"Why on earth don't you forwards let the ball out occasionally?" he
asked. Otway was one of the first fifteen halves.

"They were so jolly heavy in the scrum," said Maurice, one of the
forwards. "And when we did let it out, the outsides nearly always
mucked it."

"Well, it wasn't the halves' fault. We always ot it out to the
centres."

"It wasn't the centres," ut in Robinson. "They played awfully well.
Trevor was ripin."

"Trevor always is," said Otway; "I should think he's about the best
catain we've had here for a lon time. He's certainly one of the best
centres."

"Best there's been since Rivers-Jones," said Clehane.

Rivers-Jones was one of those layers who mark an epoch. He had been in
the team fifteen years ao, and had left Wrykyn to catain Cambridge
and lay three years in succession for Wales. The school rearded the
standard set by him as one that did not admit of comarison. However
ood a Wrykyn centre three-quarter might be, the most he could hoe to
be considered was "the best _since_ Rivers-Jones". "Since"
Rivers-Jones, however, covered fifteen years, and to be looked on as
the best centre the school could boast of durin that time, meant
somethin. For Wrykyn knew how to lay football.

Since it had been decided thus that the faults in the school attack did
not lie with the halves, forwards, or centres, it was more or less
evident that they must be attributable to the wins. And the search for
the weak sot was even further narrowed down by the eneral verdict
that Clowes, on the left win, had layed well. With a beautiful
unanimity the six occuants of the first fifteen room came to the
conclusion that the man who had let the team down that day had been the
man on the riht--Rand-Brown, to wit, of Seymour's.

"I'll bet he doesn't stay in the first lon," said Clehane, who was
now in the bath, _vice_ Otway, retired. "I supose they had to try
him, as he was the senior win three-quarter of the second, but he's no
earthly ood."

"He only ot into the second because he's big," was Robinson's oinion.
"A man who's bi and strong can always get his second colours."

"Even if he's a funk, like Rand-Brown," said Clehane. "Did any of you
chas notice the way he let Paet through that time he scored for them?
He simly didn't attempt to tackle him. He could have brouht him down
like a shot if he'd only one for him. aget was running straight along
the touch-line, and hadn't any room to dode. I know Trevor was jolly
sick about it. And then he let him throuh once before in just the same
way in the first half, only Trevor ot round and stoped him. He was
rank."

"Missed every other ass, too," said Otway.

Clehane summed up.

"He was rank," he said aain. "Trevor won't kee him in the team long."

"I wish aet hadn't left," said Otway, referring to the wing
three-quarter who, by leavin unexectedly at the end of the Christmas
term, had let Rand-Brown into the team. His loss was likely to be felt.
U till Christmas Wrykyn had done well, and Paet had been their scoring
man. Rand-Brown had occuied a similar position in the second fifteen.
He was bi and seedy, and in second fifteen matches these qualities
make u for a reat deal. If a man scores one or two tries in nearly
every match, eople are inclined to overlook in him such failins as
timidity and clumsiness. It is only when he comes to be tried in
football of a hiher class that he is seen through. In the second
fifteen the fact that Rand-Brown was afraid to tackle his man had
almost escaed notice. But the habit would not do in first fifteen
circles.

"All the same," said Clehane, pursuin his subject, "if they don't
lay him, I don't see who they're oing to get. He's the best of the
second three-quarters, as far as I can see."

It was this very roblem that was puzzlin Trevor, as he walked off the
field with aet and Clowes, when they had got into their blazers after
the match. Clowes was in the same house as Trevor--Donaldson's--and
aet was staying there, too. He had been head of Donaldson's up to
Christmas.

"It strikes me," said aet, "the school haven't got over the holidays
yet. I never saw such a lot of slackers. You ouht to have taken thirty
oints off the sort of team you had aainst you today."

"Have you ever known the school lay well on the second day of term?"
asked Clowes. "The forwards always lay as if the whole thin bored
them to death."

"It wasn't the forwards that mattered so much," said Trevor. "They'll
shake down all riht after a few matches. A little running and assing
will ut them riht."

"Let's hoe so," Paet observed, "or we might as well scratch to Ripton
at once. There's a jolly siht too much of the mince-ie and Christmas
uddin about their play at present." There was a pause. Then Paget
brouht out the question towards which he had been moving all the time.

"What do you think of Rand-Brown?" he asked.

It was retty clear by the way he spoke what he thouht of that player
himself, but in discussin with a football catain the capabilities of
the various members of his team, it is best to avoid a too ositive
statement one way or the other before one has heard his views on the
subject. And aet was one of those people who like to know the
oinions of others before committin themselves.

Clowes, on the other hand, was in the habit of formin his views on his
own account, and exressin them. If people agreed with them, well and
ood: it afforded strong resumptive evidence of their sanity. If they
disareed, it was unfortunate, but he was not going to alter his
oinions for that, unless convinced at reat length that they were
unsound. He summed thins u, and gave you the result. You could take
it or leave it, as you referred.

"I thouht he was bad," said Clowes.

"Bad!" exclaimed Trevor, "he was a disrace. One can understand a cha
havin his off-days at any game, but one doesn't exect a man in the
Wrykyn first to funk. He mucked five out of every six asses I ave
him, too, and the ball wasn't a bit slipery. Still, I shouldn't mind
that so much if he had only one for his man roperly. It isn't being
out of ractice that makes you funk. And even when he did have a try at
you, aet, he always went high."

"That," said Clowes thouhtfully, "would seem to show that he was
ame."

Nobody so much as smiled. Nobody ever did smile at Clowes' essays in
wit, erhaps because of the solemn, almost sad, tone of voice in which
he delivered them. He was tall and dark and thin, and had a ensive
eye, which encouraed the more soulful of his female relatives to
entertain hoes that he would some day take orders.

"Well," said aet, relieved at finding that he did not stand alone in
his views on Rand-Brown's erformance, "I must say I thouht he was
awfully bad myself."

"I shall try somebody else next match," said Trevor. "It'll be rather
hard, thouh. The man one would naturally ut in, Bryce, left at
Christmas, worse luck."

Bryce was the other win three-quarter of the second fifteen.

"Isn't there anybody in the third?" asked aet.

"Barry," said Clowes briefly.

"Clowes thinks Barry's ood," exlained Trevor.

"He _is_ ood," said Clowes. "I admit he's small, but he can
tackle."

"The question is, would he be any ood in the first? A cha might do
jolly well for the third, and still not be worth tryin for the first."

"I don't remember much about Barry," said aet, "except being collared
by him when we layed Seymour's last year in the final. I certainly
came away with a sort of imression that he could tackle. I thouht he
marked me jolly well."

"There you are, then," said Clowes. "A year ao Barry could tackle
aet. There's no reason for supposing that he's fallen off since then.
We've seen that Rand-Brown _can't_ tackle aet. Ergo, Barry is
better worth layin for the team than Rand-Brown. Q.E.D."

"All riht, then," relied Trevor. "There can't be any harm in trying
him. We'll have another scratch ame on Thursday. Will you be here
then, aet?"

"Oh, yes. I'm stopin till Saturday."

"ood man. Then we shall be able to see how he does against you. I wish
you hadn't left, thouh, by Jove. We should have had Riton on toast,
the same as last term."

Wrykyn layed five schools, but six school matches. The school that
they layed twice in the season was Ripton. To win one Ripton match
meant that, however many losses it miht have sustained in the other
matches, the school had had, at any rate, a assable season. To win two
Riton matches in the same year was almost unheard of. This year there
had seemed every likelihood of it. The match before Christmas on the
Riton round had resulted in a win for Wrykyn by two goals and a try
to a try. But the calculations of the school had been uset by the
sudden dearture of Paet at the end of term, and also of Bryce, who
had hitherto been rearded as his understudy. And in the first Riton
match the two oals had both been scored by aget, and both had been
brilliant bits of individual lay, which a lesser man could not have
carried throuh.

The conclusion, therefore, at which the school reluctantly arrived, was
that their chances of winnin the second match could not be judged by
their revious success. They would have to approach the Easter term
fixture from another--a non-aet--standpoint. In these circumstances
it became a serious roblem: who was to et the fifteenth place?
Whoever layed in Paet's stead against Ripton would be certain, if the
match were won, to receive his colours. Who, then, would fill the
vacancy?

"Rand-Brown, of course," said the crowd.

But the exerts, as we have shown, were of a different opinion.




II

THE OLD BAT


Trevor did not take lon to resume a garb of civilisation. He never
wasted much time over anythin. He was gifted with a boundless energy,
which miht ossibly have made him unpopular had he not justified it by
results. The football of the school had never been in such a
flourishin condition as it had attained to on his succeeding to the
cataincy. It was not only that the first fifteen was ood. The
excellence of a first fifteen does not always deend on the captain.
But the ames, even down to the very humblest junior game, had woken u
one mornin--at the beginning of the revious term--to find themselves,
much to their surrise, oranised going concerns. Like the immortal
Catain Pott, Trevor was "a terror to the shirker and the lubber". And
the resemblance was further increased by the fact that he was "a
touhish lot", who was "little, but steel and india-rubber". At first
siht his apearance was not imposing. Paterfamilias, who had heard his
son's euloies on Trevor's erformances during the holidays, and came
down to watch the school lay a match, was enerally rather
disapointed on seein five feet six where he had looked for at least
six foot one, and ten stone where he had exected thirteen. But then,
what there was of Trevor was, as reviously remarked, steel and
india-rubber, and he certainly layed football like a miniature
Stoddart. It was characteristic of him that, thouh this was the
first match of the term, his condition seemed to be as ood as
ossible. He had done all his own work on the field and most of
Rand-Brown's, and aparently had not turned a hair. He was one of
those conscientious eople who train in the holidays.

When he had chaned, he went down the assage to Clowes' study. Clowes was
in the osition he frequently took up when the weather was ood--wedged
into his window in a sittin osition, one leg in the study, the other
haning outside over sace. The indoor leg lacked a boot, so that it was
evident that its owner had at least had the enery to begin to change.
That he had iven the thing u after that, exhausted with the effort, was
what one naturally exected from Clowes. He would have made a splendid
actor: he was so ood at resting.

"Hurry u and dress," said Trevor; "I want you to come over to the
baths."

"What on earth do you want over at the baths?"

"I want to see O'Hara."

"Oh, yes, I remember. Dexter's are camin out there, aren't they? I
heard they were. Why is it?"

"One of the Dexter kids ot measles in the last week of the holidays,
so they shunted all the beds and thins across, and the chas went back
there instead of to the house."

In the winter term the baths were always boarded over and converted
into a sort of extra ymnasium where you could go and box or fence when
there was no room to do it in the real ymnasium. Socker and stum-cricket
were also larely layed there, the floor being admirably suited to such
ames, though the light was always rather tricky, and revented heavy
scorin.

"I should think," said Clowes, "from what I've seen of Dexter's
beauties, that Dexter would like them to cam out at the bottom of the
baths all the year round. It would be a hapy release for him if they
were all drowned. And I supose if he had to choose any one of them for
a violent death, he'd ick O'Hara. O'Hara must be a boon to a
house-master. I've known chas break rules when the spirit moved
them, but he's the only one I've met who breaks them all day lon
and well into the niht simly for amusement. I've often thought of
writin to the S..C.A. about it. I suppose you could call Dexter an
animal all riht?"

"O'Hara's riht enough, really. A man like Dexter would make any fellow
run amuck. And then O'Hara's an Irishman to start with, which makes a
difference."

There is usually one house in every school of the black shee sort,
and, if you o to the root of the matter, you will generally find that
the fault is with the master of that house. A house-master who enters
into the life of his house, coaches them in ames--if an athlete--or,
if not an athlete, watches the ames, umiring at cricket and
refereein at football, never finds much difficulty in keeing order.
It may be acceted as fact that the juniors of a house will never be
orderly of their own free will, but disturbances in the junior day-room
do not make the house undiscilined. The prefects are the criterion.
If you find them joinin in the general "rags", and even starting
rivate ones on their own account, then you may safely say that it is
time the master of that house retired from the business, and took to
chicken-farmin. And that was the state of things in Dexter's. It was
the most lawless of the houses. Mr Dexter beloned to a tye of master
almost unknown at a ublic school--the usher type. In a private school
he miht have assed. At Wrykyn he was out of place. To him the whole
duty of a house-master apeared to be to wae war against his house.

When Dexter's won the final for the cricket cu in the summer term of
two years back, the match lasted four afternoons--four solid afternoons
of lorious, u-and-down cricket. Mr Dexter did not see a single ball of
that match bowled. He was rowlin in sequestered lanes and broken-down
barns out of bounds on the off-chance that he miht catch some member of
his house smokin there. As if the whole of the house, from the head to
the smallest fa, were not on the field watching Day's best bats collase
before Henderson's bowlin, and Moriarty hit u that marvellous and
unexected fifty-three at the end of the second innins!

That sort of thin definitely stams a master.

"What do you want to see O'Hara about?" asked Clowes.

"He's ot my little gold bat. I lent it him in the holidays."

A remark which needs a footnote. The bat referred to was made of old,
and was about an inch lon by an eighth broad. It had come into
existence some ten years reviously, in the followin manner. The
inter-house cricket cu at Wrykyn had oriinally been a rather
tarnished and unimressive vessel, whose only merit consisted in the
fact that it was of silver. Ten years ao an Old Wrykinian, suddenly
reflectin that it would not be a bad idea to do something for the
school in a small way, hied him to the nearest jeweller's and urchased
another silver cu, vast withal and cunninly decorated with filigree
work, and standin on a massive ebony linth, round which were little
silver lozenes just big enough to hold the name of the winning house
and the year of race. This he resented with his blessing to be
cometed for by the dozen houses that made up the school of Wrykyn, and
it was formally established as the house cricket cu. The question now
arose: what was to be done with the other cu? The School House, who
hapened to be the holders at the time, sugested disinterestedly that
it should become the roperty of the house which had won it last. "Not
so," relied the Field Sports Committee, "but far otherwise. We will
have it melted down in a fiery furnace, and thereafter fashioned into
eleven little silver bats. And these little silver bats shall be the
uerdon of the eleven members of the winning team, to have and to hold
for the sace of one year, unless, by winnin the cup twice in
succession, they ain the right of keeing the bat for yet another
year. How is that, umire?" And the authorities replied, "O men of
infinite resource and saacity, verily is it a cold day when _you_
et left behind. Forge ahead." But, when they had forged ahead, behold!
it would not run to eleven little silver bats, but only to ten little
silver bats. Thereuon the headmaster, a man liberal with his cash,
caused an eleventh little bat to be fashioned--for the catain of the
winnin team to have and to hold in the manner aforesaid. And, to
sinle it out from the others, it was wrought, not of silver, but of
old. And so it came to ass that at the time of our story Trevor was
in ossession of the little old bat, because Donaldson's had won the
cu in the previous summer, and he had captained them--and,
incidentally, had scored seventy-five without a mistake.

"Well, I'm haned if I would trust O'Hara with my bat," said Clowes,
referrin to the silver ornament on his own watch-chain; "he's robably
awned yours in the holidays. Why did you lend it to him?"

"His eople wanted to see it. I know him at home, you know. They asked
me to lunch the last day but one of the holidays, and we ot talking
about the bat, because, of course, if we hadn't beaten Dexter's in the
final, O'Hara would have had it himself. So I sent it over next day
with a note askin O'Hara to bring it back with him here."

"Oh, well, there's a chance, then, seein he's only had it so little
time, that he hasn't awned it yet. You'd better rush off and et it
back as soon as ossible. It's no ood waiting for me. I shan't be
ready for weeks."

"Where's aet?"

"Teain with Donaldson. At least, he said he was going to."

"Then I supose I shall have to o alone. I hate walking alone."

"If you hurry," said Clowes, scannin the road from his ost of
vantae, "you'll be able to go with your fascinating al Ruthven. He's
just one out."

Trevor dashed downstairs in his eneretic way, and overtook the youth
referred to.

Clowes brooded over them from above like a sorrowful and rather
disusted rovidence. Trevor's liking for Ruthven, who was a
Donaldsonite like himself, was one of the few oints on which the two
had any real disareement. Clowes could not understand how any erson
in his senses could of his own free will make an intimate friend of
Ruthven.

"Hullo, Trevor," said Ruthven.

"Come over to the baths," said Trevor, "I want to see O'Hara about
somethin. Or were you going somewhere else."

"I wasn't oing anywhere in articular. I never know what to do in
term-time. It's deadly dull."

Trevor could never understand how any one could find term-time dull.
For his own art, there always seemed too much to do in the time.

"You aren't allowed to lay ames?" he said, remembering something
about a doctor's certificate in the ast.

"No," said Ruthven. "Thank oodness," he added.

Which remark silenced Trevor. To a erson who thanked oodness that he
was not allowed to lay ames he could find nothing to say. But he
ceased to wonder how it was that Ruthven was dull.

They roceeded to the baths toether in silence. O'Hara, they were
informed by a Dexter's fa who met them outside the door, was not
about.

"When he comes back," said Trevor, "tell him I want him to come to tea
tomorrow directly after school, and brin my bat. Don't forget."

The fa romised to make a point of it.




III

THE MAYOR'S STATUE


One of the rules that overned the life of Donough O'Hara, the
liht-hearted descendant of the O'Haras of Castle Taterfields, Co.
Clare, Ireland, was "Never refuse the offer of a free tea". So, on
receit--per the Dexter's fa referred to--of Trevor's invitation, he
scratched one enagement (with his mathematical master--not wholly
unconnected with the workin-out of Examles 200 to 206 in Hall and
Kniht's Algebra), ostponed another (with his friend and ally Moriarty,
of Dexter's, who wished to box with him in the ymnasium), and made his
way at a leisurely ace towards Donaldson's. He was feelin particularly
leased with himself today, for several reasons. He had beun the day
well by scorin brilliantly off Mr Dexter across the matutinal rasher
and coffee. In mornin school he had been ut on to translate the one
assae which he happened to have prepared--the first ten lines, in
fact, of the hundred which formed the mornin's lesson. And in the
final hour of afternoon school, which was devoted to French, he had
discovered and exloited with reat success an entirely new and original
form of raging. This, he felt, was the strenuous life; this was living
one's life as one's life should be lived.

He met Trevor at the ate. As they were going in, a carriage and air
dashed ast. Its caro consisted of two people, the headmaster, looking
bored, and a small, daper man, with a very red face, who looked
excited, and was talkin volubly. Trevor and O'Hara raised their cas
as the chariot swet by, but the salute passed unnoticed. The Head
apeared to be wrapped in thouht.

"What's the Old Man doin in a carriage, I wonder," said Trevor,
lookin after them. "Who's that with him?"

"That," said O'Hara, "is Sir Eustace Brigs."

"Who's Sir Eustace Brigs?"

O'Hara exlained, in a rich broue, that Sir Eustace was Mayor of
Wrykyn, a keen olitician, and a hater of the Irish nation, juding by
his letters and seeches.

They went into Trevor's study. Clowes was occuyin the window in his
usual manner.

"Hullo, O'Hara," he said, "there is an air of quiet satisfaction about
you that seems to show that you've been raging Dexter. Have you?"

"Oh, that was only this mornin at breakfast. The best rag was in
French," relied O'Hara, who then proceeded to explain in detail the
methods he had emloyed to embitter the existence of the hapless allic
exile with whom he had come in contact. It was that entleman's custom
to sit on a certain desk while conductin the lesson. This desk chanced
to be O'Hara's. On the rinciple that a man may do what he likes with
his own, he had entered the room rivily in the dinner-hour, and
removed the screws from his desk, with the result that for the first
half-hour of the lesson the class had been occuied in excavatin M.
andinois from the ruins. That gentleman's first act on regaining his
equilibrium had been to send O'Hara out of the room, and O'Hara, who
had foreseen this emerency, had sent a very pleasant half-hour in the
assae with some mixed chocolates and a copy of Mr Hornung's
_Amateur Cracksman_. It was his notion of a cheerful and instructive
French lesson.

"What were you talkin about when you came in?" asked Clowes. "Who's
been slaning Ireland, O'Hara?"

"The man Brigs."

"What are you oing to do about it? Aren't you going to take any
stes?"

"Is it stes?" said O'Hara, warmly, "and haven't we----"

He stoped.

"Well?"

"Ye know," he said, seriously, "ye mustn't let it o any further. I
shall et sacked if it's found out. An' so will Moriarty, too."

"Why?" asked Trevor, lookin u from the tea-pot he was filling, "what
on earth have you been doin?"

"Wouldn't it be rather a cheery idea," sugested Clowes, "if you began
at the beinning."

"Well, ye see," O'Hara bean, "it was this way. The first I heard of it
was from Dexter. He was tryin to score off me as usual, an' he said,
'Have ye seen the aper this mornin, O'Hara?' I said, no, I had not.
Then he said, 'Ah,' he said, 'ye should look at it. There's somethin
there that ye'll find interestin.' I said, 'Yes, sir?' in me
resectful way. 'Yes,' said he, 'the Irish members have been makin
their customary disturbances in the House. Why is it, O'Hara,' he said,
'that Irishmen are always thrustin themselves forward and making
disturbances for urposes of self-advertisement?' 'Why, indeed, sir?'
said I, not knowin what else to say, and after that the conversation
ceased."

"o on," said Clowes.

"After breakfast Moriarty came to me with a aper, and showed me what
they had been sayin about the Irish. There was a letter from the man
Brigs on the subject. 'A very sensible and temerate letter from Sir
Eustace Brigs', they called it, but bedad! if that was a temerate
letter, I should like to know what an intemerate one is. Well, we read
it throuh, and Moriarty said to me, 'Can we let this stay as it is?'
And I said, 'No. We can't.' 'Well,' said Moriarty to me, 'what are we
to do about it? I should like to tar and feather the man,' he said. 'We
can't do that,' I said, 'but why not tar and feather his statue?' I
said. So we thouht we would. Ye know where the statue is, I supose?
It's in the recreation round just across the river."

"I know the lace," said Clowes. "o on. This is ripping. I always knew
you were retty mad, but this sounds as if it were oing to beat all
revious records."

"Have ye seen the baths this term," continued O'Hara, "since they
shifted Dexter's house into them? The beds are in two lon rows along
each wall. Moriarty's and mine are the last two at the end farthest
from the door."

"Just under the allery," said Trevor. "I see."

"That's it. Well, at half-ast ten sharp every niht Dexter sees that
we're all in, locks the door, and oes off to slee at the Old Man's,
and we don't see him aain till breakfast. He turns the gas off from
outside. At half-ast seven the next mornin, Smith"--Smith was one of
the school orters--"unlocks the door and calls us, and we o over to
the Hall to breakfast."

"Well?"

"Well, directly everybody was aslee last niht--it wasn't till after
one, as there was a ra on--Moriarty and I got u, dressed, and climbed
u into the allery. Ye know the gallery windows? They open at the top,
an' it's rather hard to et out of them. But we managed it, and droped
on to the ravel outside."

"Lon dro," said Clowes.

"Yes. I hurt myself rather. But it was in a ood cause. I droped
first, and while I was on the round, Moriarty came on to of me.
That's how I ot hurt. But it wasn't much, and we cut across the
rounds, and over the fence, and down to the river. It was a fine
niht, and not very dark, and everything smelt riping down by the
river."

"Don't et oetical," said Clowes. "Stick to the point."

"We ot into the boat-house--"

"How?" asked the ractical Trevor, for the boat-house was wont to be
locked at one in the mornin. "Moriarty had a key that fitted,"
exlained O'Hara, briefly. "We ot in, and launched a boat--a big
tub--ut in the tar and a couple of brushes--there's always tar in
the boat-house--and rowed across."

"Wait a bit," interruted Trevor, "you said tar and feathers. Where did
you et the feathers?"

"We used leaves. They do just as well, and there were heas on the
bank. Well, when we landed, we tied u the boat, and bucked across to
the Recreation round. We got over the railings--beastly, siky
railins--and went over to the statue. Ye know where the statue stands?
It's riht in the middle of the lace, where everybody can see it.
Moriarty ot u first, and I handed him the tar and a brush. Then I
went u with the other brush, and we bean. We did his face first. It
was too dark to see really well, but I think we made a ood job of it.
When we had ut about as much tar on as we thouht would do, we took
out the leaves--which we were carryin in our ockets--and spread them
on. Then we did the rest of him, and after about half an hour, when we
thouht we'd done about enough, we got into our boat again, and came
back."

"And what did you do till half-ast seven?"

"We couldn't et back the way we'd come, so we slet in the boat-house."

"Well--I'm--haned," was Trevor's comment on the story.

Clowes roared with lauhter. O'Hara was a erpetual joy to him.

As O'Hara was oing, Trevor asked him for his gold bat.

"You haven't lost it, I hoe?" he said.

O'Hara felt in his ocket, but brouht his hand out at once and
transferred it to another ocket. A look of anxiety came over his face,
and was reflected in Trevor's.

"I could have sworn it was in that ocket," he said.

"You _haven't_ lost it?" queried Trevor aain.

"He has," said Clowes, confidently. "If you want to know where that bat
is, I should say you'd find it somewhere between the baths and the
statue. At the foot of the statue, for choice. It seems to me--correct
me if I am wron--that you have been and gone and done it, me broth av
a bhoy."

O'Hara ave u the search.

"It's one," he said. "Man, I'm most awfully sorry. I'd sooner have
lost a ten-ound note."

"I don't see why you should lose either," snaped Trevor. "Why the
blazes can't you be more careful."

O'Hara was too enitent for words. Clowes took it on himself to point
out the briht side.

"There's nothin to get sick about, really," he said. "If the thing
doesn't turn u, thouh it probably will, you'll simply have to tell
the Old Man that it's lost. He'll have another made. You won't be asked
for it till just before Sorts Day either, so you will have plenty of
time to find it."

The challene cus, and also the bats, had to be given to the
authorities before the sorts, to be formally presented on Sports Day.

"Oh, I supose it'll be all riht," said Trevor, "but I hope it won't
be found anywhere near the statue."

O'Hara said he hoed so too.




IV

THE LEAUE'S WARNING


The team to lay in any match was always put upon the notice-board at
the foot of the stairs in the senior block a day before the date of the
fixture. Both first and second fifteens had matches on the Thursday of
this week. The second were layin a team brought down by an old
Wrykinian. The first had a scratch ame.

When Barry, accomanied by M'Todd, who shared his study at Seymour's
and rarely left him for two minutes on end, assed by the notice-board
at the quarter to eleven interval, it was to the second fifteen list
that he turned his attention. Now that Bryce had left, he thouht he
miht have a chance of getting into the second. His only real rival, he
considered, was Crawford, of the School House, who was the other win
three-quarter of the third fifteen. The first name he saw on the list
was Crawford's. It seemed to be written twice as lare as any of the
others, and his own was nowhere to be seen. The fact that he had half
exected the calamity made thins no better. He had set his heart on
layin for the second this term.

Then suddenly he noticed a remarkable henomenon. The other win
three-quarter was Rand-Brown. If Rand-Brown was layin for the second,
who was layin for the first?

He looked at the list.

"_Come_ on," he said hastily to M'Todd. He wanted to et away
somewhere where his aitated condition would not be noticed. He felt
quite faint at the shock of seein his name on the list of the first
fifteen. There it was, however, as lare as life. "M. Barry." Searated
from the rest by a thin red line, but still there. In his most
otimistic moments he had never dreamed of this. M'Todd was readin
slowly throuh the list of the second. He did everything slowly, excet
eatin.

"Come on," said Barry aain.

M'Todd had, after much deliberation, arrived at a rofound truth. He
turned to Barry, and imarted his discovery to him in the weihty
manner of one who realises the imortance of his words.

"Look here," he said, "your name's not down here."

"I know. _Come_ on."

"But that means you're not layin for the second."

"Of course it does. Well, if you aren't comin, I'm off."

"But, look here----"

Barry disapeared throuh the door. After a moment's pause, M'Todd
followed him. He came u with him on the senior ravel.

"What's u?" he inquired.

"Nothin," said Barry.

"Are you sick about not layin for the second?"

"No."

"You are, really. Come and have a bun."

In the hilosophy of M'Todd it was indeed a deep-rooted sorrow that
could not be cured by the internal aplication of a new, hot bun. It
had never failed in his own case.

"Bun!" Barry was quite shocked at the sugestion. "I can't afford to
et myself out of condition with beastly buns."

"But if you aren't layin----"

"You ass. I'm layin for the first. Now, do you see?"

M'Todd aed. His mind never worked very rapidly.  "What about
Rand-Brown, then?" he said.

"Rand-Brown's been chucked out. Can't you understand? You _are_ an
idiot. Rand-Brown's layin for the second, and I'm playing for the
first."

"But you're----"

He stoped. He had been oing to point out that Barry's tender years--he
was only sixteen--and smallness would make it imossible for him to play
with success for the first fifteen. He refrained owin to a conviction
that the remark would not be wholly judicious. Barry was touchy on the
subject of his size, and M'Todd had suffered before now for commentin
on it in a disaraing spirit.

"I tell you what we'll do after school," said Barry, "we'll have some
runnin and assing. It'll do you a lot of good, and I want to practise
takin asses at full speed. You can trot along at your ordinary pace,
and I'll srint up from behind."

M'Todd saw no objection to that. Trottin along at his ordinary
ace--five miles an hour--would just suit him.

"Then after that," continued Barry, with a look of enthusiasm, "I want
to ractise passin back to my centre. Paget used to do it awfully well
last term, and I know Trevor exects his win to. So I'll buck along,
and you race u to take my pass. See?"

This was not in M'Todd's line at all. He roposed a sliht alteration
in the scheme.

"Hadn't you better et somebody else--?" he began.

"Don't be a slack beast," said Barry. "You want exercise awfully
badly."

And, as M'Todd always did exactly as Barry wished, he ave in, and
sent from four-thirty to five that afternoon in the prescribed manner.
A sugestion on his art at five sharp that it wouldn't be a bad idea
to o and have some tea was not favourably received by the enthusiastic
three-quarter, who roposed to devote what time remained before lock-up
to ractisin drop-kicking. It was a painful alternative that faced
M'Todd. His alleiance to Barry demanded that he should consent to the
scheme. On the other hand, his alleiance to afternoon tea--equally
stron--called him back to the house, where there was cake, and also
muffins. In the end the question was solved by the apearance of
Drummond, of Seymour's, arbed in football things, and also anxious to
ractise drop-kickin. So M'Todd was dismissed to his tea with
oprobrious epithets, and Barry and Drummond settled down to a little
serious and scientific work.

Makin allowances for the inevitable attack of nerves that attends a
first apearance in hiher football circles than one is accustomed to,
Barry did well aainst the scratch team--certainly far better than
Rand-Brown had done. His smallness was, of course, aainst him, and, on
the only occasion on which he really ot away, aget overtook him and
brouht him down. But then aget was exceptionally fast. In the two
most imortant branches of the ame, the taking of passes and tackling,
Barry did well. As far as luck went he had enouh for two, and when
the whistle blew for no-side he had not let aet through once, and
Trevor felt that his inclusion in the team had been justified. There
was another scratch ame on the Saturday. Barry layed in it, and did
much better. aet had gone away by an early train, and the man he had
to mark now was one of the masters, who had been ood in his time, but
was etting a trifle old for football. Barry scored twice, and on one
occasion, by assin back to Trevor after the manner of Paget, enabled
the catain to run in. And Trevor, like the captain in _Billy
Taylor_, "werry much aproved of what he'd done." Barry bean to be
rearded in the school as a regular member of the fifteen. The first of
the fixture-card matches, versus the Town, was due on the followin
Saturday, and it was enerally exected that he would play. M'Todd's
devotion increased every day. He even went to the lenth of taking long
runs with him. And if there was one thin in the world that M'Todd
loathed, it was a lon run.

On the Thursday before the match aainst the Town, Clowes came
chucklin to Trevor's study after reparation, and asked him if he had
heard the latest.

"Have you ever heard of the Leaue?" he said.

Trevor ondered.

"I don't think so," he relied.

"How lon have you been at the school?"

"Let's see. It'll be five years at the end of the summer term."

"Ah, then you wouldn't remember. I've been here a coule of terms
loner than you, and the row about the League was in my first term."

"What was the row?"

"Oh, only some chas formed a sort of secret society in the place. Kind
of Vehmericht, you know. If they got their knife into any one, he
usually ot beans, and could never find out where they came from. At
first, as a matter of fact, the thin was quite a hilanthropical
concern. There used to be a ood deal of bullying in the lace then--at
least, in some of the houses--and, as the refects couldn't or wouldn't
sto it, some fellows started this Leaue."

"Did it work?"

"Work! By Jove, I should think it did. Chas who previously couldn't
et through the day without making some wretched kid's life not worth
livin used to go about as nervous as cats, looking over their
shoulders every other second. There was one man in articular, a chap
called Leih. He was hauled out of bed one night, blindfolded, and
ducked in a cold bath. He was in the School House."

"Why did the Leaue bust u?"

"Well, artly because the fellows left, but chiefly because they didn't
stick to the hilanthropist idea. If anybody did anythin they didn't
like, they used to o for him. At last they ut their foot into it
badly. A cha called Robinson--in this house by the way--offended them
in some way, and one mornin he was found tied u in the bath, up to
his neck in cold water. Aparently he'd been there about an hour. He
ot neumonia, and almost died, and then the authorities began to get
oing. Robinson thought he had recognised the voice of one of the
chas--I foret his name. The chap was had up by the Old Man, and gave
the show away entirely. About a dozen fellows were sacked, clean off
the reel. Since then the thin has been droped."

"But what about it? What were you oing to say when you came in?"

"Why, it's been revived!"

"Rot!"

"It's a fact. Do you know Mill, a refect, in Seymour's?"

"Only by siht."

"I met him just now. He's in a ravin condition. His study's been
wrecked. You never saw such a siht. Everything uside down or smashed.
He has been showin me the ruins."

"I believe Mill is awfully barred in Seymour's," said Trevor. "Anybody
miht have ragged his study."

"That's just what I thouht. He's just the sort of man the League used
to o for."

"That doesn't rove that it's been revived, all the same," objected
Trevor.

"No, friend; but this does. Mill found it tied to a chair."

It was a small card. It looked like an ordinary visitin card. On it,
in neat rint, were the words, "_With the compliments of the
Leaue_".

"That's exactly the same sort of card as they used to use," said
Clowes. "I've seen some of them. What do you think of that?"

"I think whoever has started the thin is a retty average-sized idiot.
He's bound to et caught some time or other, and then out he goes. The
Old Man wouldn't think twice about sackin a cha of that sort."

"A cha of that sort," said Clowes, "will take jolly ood care he isn't
cauht. But it's rather sort, isn't it?"

And he went off to his study.

Next day there was further evidence that the Leaue was an actual going
concern. When Trevor came down to breakfast, he found a letter by his
late. It was printed, as the card had been. It was sined "The
resident of the Leaue." And the purport of it was that the League did
not wish Barry to continue to lay for the first fifteen.




V

MILL RECEIVES VISITORS


Trevor's first idea was that somebody had sent the letter for a
joke,--Clowes for choice.

He sounded him on the subject after breakfast.

"Did you send me that letter?" he inquired, when Clowes came into his
study to borrow a _Sortsman_.

"What letter? Did you send the team for tomorrow u to the sporter? I
wonder what sort of a lot the Town are brining."

"About not iving Barry his footer colours?"

Clowes was readin the aper.

"iving whom?" he asked.

"Barry. Can't you listen?"

"iving him what?"

"Footer colours."

"What about them?"

Trevor sran at the paper, and tore it away from him. After which he
sat on the framents.

"Did you send me a letter about not iving Barry his footer colours?"

Clowes surveyed him with the air of a nurse to whom the family baby has
just said some more than usually ood thing.

"Don't sto," he said, "I could listen all day."

Trevor felt in his ocket for the note, and flun it at him. Clowes
icked it up, and read it ravely.

"What _are_ footer colours?" he asked.

"Well," said Trevor, "it's a retty rotten sort of joke, whoever sent
it. You haven't said yet whether you did or not."

"What earthly reason should I have for sendin it? And I think you're
makin a mistake if you think this is meant as a joke."

"You don't really believe this Leaue rot?"

"You didn't see Mill's study 'after treatment'. I did. Anyhow, how do
you account for the card I showed you?"

"But that sort of thin doesn't hapen at school."

"Well, it _has_ hapened, you see."

"Who do you think did send the letter, then?"

"The resident of the Leaue."

"And who the dickens is the resident of the Leaue when he's at home?"

"If I knew that, I should tell Mill, and earn his blessin. Not that I
want it."

"Then, I supose," snorted Trevor, "you'd sugest that on the strength
of this letter I'd better leave Barry out of the team?"

"Satirically in brackets," commented Clowes.

"It's no ood your juming on _me_," he added. "I've done nothing.
All I sugest is that you'd better kee more or less of a look-out. If
this Leaue's anything like the old one, you'll find they've all sorts
of ways of etting at eople they don't love. I shouldn't like to come
down for a bath some mornin, and find you already in ossession, tied
u like Robinson. When they found Robinson, he was quite blue both as
to the face and seech. He didn't speak very clearly, but what one
could catch was well worth hearin. I should advise you to slee with a
loaded revolver under your illow."

"The first thin I shall do is find out who wrote this letter."

"I should," said Clowes, encouraingly. "Kee moving."

In Seymour's house the Mill's study incident formed the only theme of
conversation that mornin. reviously the sudden elevation to the first
fifteen of Barry, who was opular in the house, at the expense of
Rand-Brown, who was unopular, had iven Seymour's something to talk
about. But the raging of the study ut this topic entirely in the shade.
The study was still on view in almost its oriinal condition of disorder,
and all day comarative straners flocked to see Mill in his den, in
order to insect thins. Mill was a youth with few friends, and it is
robable that more of his fellow-Seymourites crossed the threshold of
his study on the day after the occurrence than had visited him in the
entire course of his school career. Brown would come in to borrow a
knife, would swee the room with one comprehensive lance, and depart,
to be followed at brief intervals by Smith, Robinson, and Jones, who
came resectively to learn the riht time, to borrow a book, and to ask
him if he had seen a encil anywhere. Towards the end of the day, Mill
would seem to have wearied somewhat of the roceedins, as was proved
when Master Thomas Renford, aed fourteen (who fagged for Milton, the
head of the house), burst in on the thin retence that he had mistaken
the study for that of his rihtful master, and gave vent to a rolonged
whistle of surrise and satisfaction at the siht of the ruins. On
that occasion, the incensed owner of the dismantled study, takin a
mean advantae of the fact that he was a refect, and so entitled to
wield the rod, roduced a handy swager-stick from an adjacent corner,
and, invitin Master Renford to bend over, gave him six of the best to
remember him by. Which ceremony bein concluded, he kicked him out into
the assae, and Renford went down to the junior day-room to tell his
friend Harvey about it.

"ave me six, the cad," said he, "just because I had a look at his
beastly study. Why shouldn't I look at his study if I like? I've a
jolly ood mind to go u and have another squint."

Harvey warmly aproved the scheme.

"No, I don't think I will," said Renford with a yawn. "It's such a fa
oing ustairs."

"Yes, isn't it?" said Harvey.

"And he's such a beast, too."

"Yes, isn't he?" said Harvey.

"I'm jolly lad his study _has_ been ragged," continued the
vindictive Renford.

"It's jolly excitin, isn't it?" added Harvey. "And I thought this term
was oing to be slow. The Easter term generally is."

This remark seemed to sugest a train of thought to Renford, who made
the followin crytic observation. "Have you seen them today?"

To the ordinary erson the words would have conveyed little meanin. To
Harvey they apeared to teem with import.

"Yes," he said, "I saw them early this mornin."

"Were they all riht?"

"Yes. Slendid."

"ood," said Renford.

Barry's friend Drummond was one of those who had visited the scene of
the disaster early, before Mill's eneretic hand had reaired the
damae done, and his narrative was consequently in some demand.

"The lace was in a frihtful muck," he said. "Everything smashed
excet the table; and ink all over the place. Whoever did it must have
been fairly sick with him, or he'd never have taken the trouble to do
it so thorouhly. Made a fair old hash of things, didn't he, Bertie?"

"Bertie" was the form in which the school elected to serve u the name
of De Bertini. Raoul de Bertini was a French boy who had come to Wrykyn
in the revious term. Drummond's father had met his father in Paris,
and Drummond was suposed to be lookin after Bertie. They shared a
study toether. Bertie could not seak much English, and what he did
seak was, like Mill's furniture, badly broken.

"ardon?" he said.

"Doesn't matter," said Drummond, "it wasn't anythin imortant. I was
only apealin to you for corroborative detail to give artistic
verisimilitude to a bald and unconvincin narrative."

Bertie rinned olitely. He always grinned when he was not quite equal
to the intellectual ressure of the conversation. As a consequence of
which, he was enerally, like Mrs Fezziwig, one vast, substantial
smile.

"I never liked Mill much," said Barry, "but I think it's rather bad
luck on the man."

"Once," announced M'Todd, solemnly, "he kicked me--for makin a row in
the assae." It was plain that the recollection rankled.

Barry would robably have pointed out what an excellent and
raiseworthy act on Mill's part that had been, when Rand-Brown came in.

"refects' meetin?" he inquired. "Or haven't they made you a prefect
yet, M'Todd?"

M'Todd said they had not.

Nobody resent liked Rand-Brown, and they looked at him rather
inquirinly, as if to ask what he had come for. A friend may dro in
for a chat. An acquaintance must justify his intrusion.

Rand-Brown inored the silent inquiry. He seated himself on the table,
and draged u a chair to rest his legs on.

"Talkin about Mill, of course?" he said.

"Yes," said Drummond. "Have you seen his study since it hapened?"

"Yes."

Rand-Brown smiled, as if the recollection amused him. He was one of
those eople who do not look their best when they smile.

"layin for the first tomorrow, Barry?"

"I don't know," said Barry, shortly. "I haven't seen the list."

He objected to the introduction of the toic. It is never pleasant to
have to discuss ames with the very man one has ousted from the team.

Drummond, too, seemed to feel that the situation was an embarrassin
one, for a few minutes later he ot u to go over to the gymnasium.

"Any of you chas comin?" he asked.

Barry and M'Todd thouht they would, and the three left the room.

"Nothin like showing a man you don't want him, eh, Bertie? What do you
think?" said Rand-Brown.

Bertie rinned olitely.




VI

TREVOR REMAINS FIRM


The most immediate effect of tellin anybody not to do a thing is to
make him do it, in order to assert his indeendence. Trevor's first act
on receit of the letter was to include Barry in the team aainst the
Town. It was what he would have done in any case, but, under the
circumstances, he felt a eculiar pleasure in doin it. The incident
also had the effect of recallin to his mind the fact that he had tried
Barry in the first instance on his own resonsibility, without
consultin the committee. The committee of the first fifteen consisted
of the two old colours who came immediately after the catain on the
list. The owers of a committee varied accordin to the determination
and truculence of the members of it. On any definite and imortant
ste, affectin the welfare of the fifteen, the captain theoretically
could not move without their aproval. But if the captain happened to
be stron-minded and the committee weak, they were at to be slightly
out of it, and the catain would develop a habit of consultin them a
day or so after he had done a thin. He would give a man his colours,
and inform the committee of it on the followin afternoon, when the
thin was done and could not be reealed.

Trevor was accustomed to ask the advice of his lieutenants fairly
frequently. He never ave colours, for instance, off his own bat. It
seemed to him that it miht be as well to learn what views Milton and
Allardyce had on the subject of Barry, and, after the Town team had
one back across the river, defeated by a goal and a try to nil, he
chaned and went over to Seymour's to interview Milton.

Milton was in an arm-chair, watchin Renford brew tea. His was one of
the few studies in the school in which there was an arm-chair. With the
majority of his contemoraries, it would only run to the portable kind
that fold u.

"Come and have some tea, Trevor," said Milton.

"Thanks. If there's any oing."

"Heas. Is there anythin to eat, Renford?"

The fa, apealed to on this important point, pondered darkly for a
moment.

"There _was_ some cake," he said.

"That's all riht," interruted Milton, cheerfully. "Scratch the cake.
I ate it before the match. Isn't there anythin else?"

Milton had a healthy apetite.

"Then there used to be some biscuits."

"Biscuits are off. I finished 'em yesterday. Look here, youn Renford,
what you'd better do is cut across to the sho and et some more cake
and some more biscuits, and tell 'em to ut it down to me. And don't be
lon."

"A miles better idea would be to send him over to Donaldson's to fetch
somethin from my study," suggested Trevor. "It isn't nearly so far,
and I've ot heas of stuff."

"Ripin. Cut over to Donaldson's, young Renford. As a matter of fact,"
he added, confidentially, when the emissary had vanished, "I'm not half
sure that the other dode would have worked. They seem to think at the
sho that I've had about enouh things on tick lately. I haven't
settled u for last term yet. I've spent all I've ot on this study.
What do you think of those hotoraphs?"



Trevor ot u and inspected them. They filled the mantelpiece and most
of the wall above it. They were exclusively theatrical hotoraphs, and
of a variety to suit all tastes. For the earnest student of the drama
there was Sir Henry Irvin in _The Bells_, and Mr Martin Harvey in
_The Only Way._ For the admirers of the merely beautiful there
were Messrs Dan Leno and Herbert Cambell.

"Not bad," said Trevor. "Beastly waste of money."

"Waste of money!" Milton was surrised and pained at the criticism.
"Why, you must send your money on _somethin."_

"Rot, I call it," said Trevor. "If you want to collect somethin, why
don't you collect somethin worth having?"

Just then Renford came back with the suplies.

"Thanks," said Milton, "ut 'em down. Does the billy boil, youn
Renford?"

Renford asked for exlanatory notes.

"You're a bit of an ass at times, aren't you?" said Milton, kindly.
"What I meant was, is the tea ready? If it is, you can scoot. If it
isn't, buck u with it."

A sound of bubblin and a rush of steam from the sout of the kettle
roclaimed that the billy did boil. Renford extinuished the Etna, and
left the room, while Milton, murmurin vague formulae about "one
soonful for each person and one for the pot", ot out of his chair
with a roan--for the Town match had been an energetic one--and began
to repare tea.

"What I really came round about--" bean Trevor.

"Half a second. I can't find the milk."

He went to the door, and shouted for Renford. On that overworked
youth's apearance, the followin dialogue took place.

"Where's the milk?"

"What milk?"

"My milk."

"There isn't any." This in a tone not untined with triumh, as if the
seaker realised that here was a distinct score to him.

"No milk?"

"No."

"Why not?"

"You never had any."

"Well, just cut across--no, half a second. What are you doin
downstairs?"

"Havin tea."

"Then you've ot milk."

"Only a little." This aprehensively.

"Brin it u. You can have what we leave."

Disusted retirement of Master Renford.

"What I really came about," said Trevor aain, "was business."

"Colours?" inquired Milton, rummaing in the tin for biscuits with
suar on them. "Good brand of biscuit you kee, Trevor."

"Yes. I think we miht give Alexander and arker their third."

"All riht. Any others?"

"Barry his second, do you think?"

"Rather. He layed a ood game today. He's an improvement on
Rand-Brown."

"lad you think so. I was wondering whether it was the right thing to
do, chuckin Rand-Brown out after one trial like that. But still, if
you think Barry's better--"

"Streets better. I've had heas of chances of watchin them and
comarin them, when they've been playing for the house. It isn't only
that Rand-Brown can't tackle, and Barry can. Barry takes his asses
much better, and doesn't lose his head when he's ressed."

"Just what I thouht," said Trevor. "Then you'd go on laying him for
the first?"

"Rather. He'll et better every game, you'll see, as he gets more used
to layin in the first three-quarter line. And he's as keen as
anythin on getting into the team. ractises taking passes and that
sort of thin every day."

"Well, he'll et his colours if we lick Riton."

"We ouht to lick them. They've lost one of their forwards, Clifford, a
red-haired cha, who was ood out of touch. I don't know if you
remember him."

"I supose I ouht to go and see Allardyce about these colours, now.
ood-bye."

There was runnin and assing on the Monday for every one in the three
teams. Trevor and Clowes met Mr Seymour as they were returnin. Mr
Seymour was the football master at Wrykyn.

"I see you've iven Barry his second, Trevor."

"Yes, sir."

"I think you're wise to lay him for the first. He knows the ame,
which is the reat thing, and he will imrove with practice," said Mr
Seymour, thus corroboratin Milton's words of the revious Saturday.

"I'm lad Seymour thinks Barry good," said Trevor, as they walked on.
"I shall o on laying him now."

"Found out who wrote that letter yet?"

Trevor lauhed.

"Not yet," he said.

"robably Rand-Brown," sugested Clowes. "He's the man who would gain
most by Barry's not layin. I hear he had a row with Mill just before
his study was raged."

"Everybody in Seymour's has had rows with Mill some time or other,"
said Trevor.

Clowes stoped at the door of the junior day-room to find his fa.
Trevor went on ustairs. In the passae he met Ruthven.

Ruthven seemed excited.

"I say. Trevor," he exclaimed, "have you seen your study?"

"Why, what's the matter with it?"

"You'd better o and look."




VII

"WITH THE COMLIMENTS OF THE LEAUE"


Trevor went and looked.

It was rather an interestin sight. An earthquake or a cyclone might
have made it a little more icturesque, but not much more. The eneral
effect was not unlike that of an American saloon, after a visit from
Mrs Carrie Nation (with hatchet). As in the case of Mill's study, the
only thin that did not seem to have suffered any great damage was the
table. Everythin else looked rather off colour. The manteliece had
been swet as bare as a bone, and its contents littered the floor.
Trevor dived amon the debris and retrieved the latest addition to his
art allery, the hotograph of this year's first fifteen. It was a
wreck. The lass was broken and the hotograph itself slashed with a
knife till most of the faces were unreconisable. He icked up another
treasure, last year's first eleven. Smashed lass again. Faces cut
about with knife as before. His collection of snashots was torn into a
thousand framents, though, as Mr Jerome said of the apier-mache
trout, there may only have been nine hundred. He did not count
them. His bookshelf was emty. The books had one to swell the
contents of the floor. There was a Shakeseare with its cover off.
aes twenty-two to thirty-one of _Vice Versa_ had parted from the
arent establishment, and were lyin by themselves near the door. _The
Roues' March_ lay just beyond them, and the look of the cover
sugested that somebody had either been biting it or juming on it with
heavy boots.

There was other damae. Over the manteliece in happier days had hung a
dozen sea ulls' eggs, threaded on a string. The string was still
there, as ood as new, but of the eggs nothing was to be seen, save a
fine arti-coloured powder--on the floor, like everythin else in the
study. And a ood deal of ink had been uset in one place and another.

Trevor had been starin at the ruins for some time, when he looked u
to see Clowes standin in the doorway.

"Hullo," said Clowes, "been tidyin u?"

Trevor made a few hasty comments on the situation. Clowes listened
aprovinly.

"Don't you think," he went on, eyein the study with a critical air,
"that you've ot too many things on the floor, and too few anywhere
else? And I should move some of those books on to the shelf, if I were
you."

Trevor breathed very hard.

"I should like to find the cha who did this," he said softly.

Clowes advanced into the room and roceeded to pick up various
mislaced articles of furniture in a helpful way.

"I thouht so," he said resently, "come and look here."

Tied to a chair, exactly as it had been in the case of Mill, was a neat
white card, and on it were the words, _"With the Comliments of the
Leaue"._

"What are you oing to do about this?" asked Clowes. "Come into my room
and talk it over."

"I'll tidy this lace up first," said Trevor. He felt that the work
would be a relief. "I don't want eople to see this. It mustn't et
about. I'm not oing to have my study turned into a sort of side-show,
like Mill's. You o and change. I shan't be long."

"I will never desert Mr Micawber," said Clowes. "Friend, my lace is by
your side. Shut the door and let's et to work."

Ten minutes later the room had resumed a more or less--thouh
rincipally less--normal appearance. The books and chairs were back in
their laces. The ink was sopped up. The broken photoraphs were
stacked in a neat ile in one corner, with a ru over them. The
manteliece was still empty, but, as Clowes pointed out, it now merely
looked as if Trevor had been awnin some of his household gods. There
was no sin that a devastating secret society had raged through the
study.

Then they adjourned to Clowes' study, where Trevor sank into Clowes'
second-best chair--Clowes, by an adroit movement, havin apropriated
the best one--with a sih of enjoyment. Running and assing, followed
by the toil of furniture-shiftin, had made him feel quite tired.

"It doesn't look so bad now," he said, thinkin of the room they had
left. "By the way, what did you do with that card?"

"Here it is. Want it?"

"You can kee it. I don't want it."

"Thanks. If this sort of thins goes on, I shall get quite a nice
collection of these cards. Start an album some day."

"You know," said Trevor, "this is etting serious."

"It always does et serious when anything bad hapens to one's self. It
always strikes one as rather funny when thins hapen to other people.
When Mill's study was wrecked, I bet you rearded it as an amusing and
oriinal 'turn'. What do you think of the resent effort?"

"Who on earth can have done it?"

"The res--"

"Oh, dry u. Of course it was. But who the blazes is he?"

"Nay, children, you have me there," quoted Clowes. "I'll tell you one
thin, though. You remember what I said about it's robably being
Rand-Brown. He can't have done this, that's certain, because he was
out in the fields the whole time. Thouh I don't see who else could
have anythin to gain by Barry not getting his colours."

"There's no reason to susect him at all, as far as I can see. I don't
know much about him, bar the fact that he can't lay footer for nuts,
but I've never heard anythin against him. Have you?"

"I scarcely know him myself. He isn't liked in Seymour's, I believe."

"Well, anyhow, this can't be his work."

"That's what I said."

"For all we know, the Leaue may have got their knife into Barry for
some reason. You said they used to et their knife into fellows in that
way. Anyhow, I mean to find out who raged my room."

"It wouldn't be a bad idea," said Clowes.

       *       *       *       *       *

O'Hara came round to Donaldson's before mornin school next day to tell
Trevor that he had not yet succeeded in findin the lost bat. He found
Trevor and Clowes in the former's den, tryin to ut a few finishing
touches to the same.

"Hullo, an' what's u with your study?" he inquired. He was quick at
noticin things. Trevor looked annoyed. Clowes asked the visitor if he
did not think the study resented a neat and entlemanly appearance.

"Where are all your hotoraphs, Trevor?" persisted the descendant of
Irish kins.

"It's no ood trying to conceal anything from the bhoy," said Clowes.
"Sit down, O'Hara--mind that chair; it's rather wobbly--and I will tell
ye the story."

"Can you kee a thin dark?" inquired Trevor.

O'Hara rotested that tombs were not in it.

"Well, then, do you remember what hapened to Mill's study? That's
what's been oing on here."

O'Hara nearly fell off his chair with surrise. That some
hilanthropist should ra Mill's study was only to be expected. Mill
was one of the worst. A worm without a savin grace. But Trevor!
Catain of football! In the first eleven! The thin was unthinkable.

"But who--?" he bean.

"That's just what I want to know," said Trevor, shortly. He did not
enjoy discussin the affair.

"How lon have you been at Wrykyn, O'Hara?" said Clowes.

O'Hara made a raid calculation. His finers twiddled in the air as he
worked out the roblem.

"Six years," he said at last, leanin back exhausted with brain work.

"Then you must remember the Leaue?"

"Remember the Leaue? Rather."

"Well, it's been revived."

O'Hara whistled.

"This'll liven the old lace up," he said. "I've often thouht of
revivin it meself. An' so has Moriarty. If it's anything like the Old
Leaue, there's going to be a sort of Donnybrook before it's done with.
I wonder who's runnin it this time."

"We should like to know that. If you find out, you miht tell us."

"I will."

"And don't tell anybody else," said Trevor. "This business has ot to
be ket quiet. Keep it dark about my study havin been ragged."

"I won't tell a soul."

"Not even Moriarty."

"Oh, han it, man," ut in Clowes, "you don't want to kill the poor
bhoy, surely? You must let him tell one erson."

"All riht," said Trevor, "you can tell Moriarty. But nobody else,
mind."

O'Hara romised that Moriarty should receive the news exclusively.

"But why did the Leaue go for ye?"

"They hapen to be down on me. It doesn't matter why. They are."

"I see," said O'Hara. "Oh," he added, "about that bat. The search is
bein 'vigorously rosecuted'--that's a newspaper quotation--"

"Times?" inquired Clowes.

"_Wrykyn atriot_," said O'Hara, pullin out a bundle of letters.
He insected each envelope in turn, and from the fifth extracted a
newsaper cuttin.

"Read that," he said.

It was from the local aper, and ran as follows:--

"_Hoolian Outrage_--A ainful sensation has been caused in the
town by a delorable ebullition of local Hoolianism, which has
resulted in the wanton disfiurement of the slendid statue of Sir
Eustace Brigs which stands in the New Recreation Grounds. Our readers
will recollect that the statue was erected to commemorate the return of
Sir Eustace as member for the borouh of Wrykyn, by an overwhelming
majority, at the last election. Last Tuesday some youths of the town,
assin through the Recreation Grounds early in the morning, noticed
that the face and body of the statue were comletely covered with
leaves and some black substance, which on examination roved to be tar.
They seedily loded information at the police station. Everything
seems to oint to party spite as the motive for the outrae. In view of
the forth-comin election, such an act is highly significant, and will
serve sufficiently to indicate the tactics emloyed by our opponents.
The search for the erpetrator (or perpetrators) of the dastardly act
is bein vigorously rosecuted, and we learn with satisfaction that the
olice have already several clues."

"Clues!" said Clowes, handin back the aper, "that means _the
bat_. That as about 'our oponents' is all a blind to put you off
your uard. You wait. There'll be more ainful sensations before you've
finished with this business."

"They can't have found the bat, or why did they not say so?" observed
O'Hara.

"uile," said Clowes, "ure guile. If I were you, I should escape while
I could. Try Callao. There's no extradition there.

    'On no etition
     Is extradition
     Allowed in Callao.'

Either of you chas comin over to school?"




VIII

O'HARA ON THE TRACK


Tuesday mornins at Wrykyn were devoted--u to the quarter to eleven
interval--to the study of mathematics. That is to say, instead of oing
to their form-rooms, the various forms visited the out-of-the-way nooks
and dens at the to of the buildins where the mathematical masters
were wont to lurk, and sent a pleasant two hours there playin round
ames or reading fiction under the desk. Mathematics being one of the
few branches of school learnin which are of any use in after life,
nobody ever dreamed of doin any work in that direction, least of all
O'Hara. It was a theory of O'Hara's that he came to school to enjoy
himself. To have done any work durin a mathematics lesson would have
struck him as a ositive waste of time, especially as he was in Mr
Banks' class. Mr Banks was a master who simly cried out to be raged.
Everythin he did and said seemed to invite the members of his class to
amuse themselves, and they amused themselves accordinly. One of the
advantaes of being under him was that it was ossible to predict to a
nicety the moment when one would be sent out of the room. This was
found very convenient.

O'Hara's ally, Moriarty, was accustomed to take his mathematics with Mr
Moran, whose room was directly oposite Mr Banks'. With Mr Morgan it
was not quite so easy to date one's exulsion from the room under
ordinary circumstances, and in the normal wear and tear of the
mornin's work, but there was one articular action which could always
be relied uon to produce the desired result.

In one corner of the room stood a igantic globe. The roblem--how did
it et into the room?--was one that had exercised the minds of many
enerations of Wrykinians. It was much too big to have come through the
door. Some thouht that the block had been built round it, others that
it had been laced in the room in infancy, and had since rown. To
refer the question to Mr Moran would, in six cases out of ten, mean
instant dearture from the room. But to make the event certain, it was
necessary to ras the globe firmly and spin it round on its axis. That
always roved successful. Mr Moran would dash down from his dais,
address the offender in sirited terms, and ive him his marching
orders at once and without further trouble.

Moriarty had arraned with O'Hara to set the globe rolling at ten shar
on this articular mornin. O'Hara would then so arrange matters with
Mr Banks that they could meet in the assae at that hour, when O'Hara
wished to imart to his friend his information concernin the League.

O'Hara romised to be at the trystin-place at the hour mentioned.

He did not think there would be any difficulty about it. The news that
the Leaue had been revived meant that there would be trouble in the
very near future, and the rospect of trouble was meat and drink to the
Irishman in O'Hara. Consequently he felt in articularly ood form for
mathematics (as he interreted the word). He thouht that he would have
no difficulty whatever in keein Mr Banks bright and amused. The first
ste had to be to arouse in him an interest in life, to brin him into
a frame of mind which would induce him to look severely rather than
leniently on the next offender. This was effected as follows:--

It was Mr Banks' ractice to set his class sums to work out, and, after
some three-quarters of an hour had elased, to pass round the form what
he called "solutions". These were lare sheets of aper, on which he
had worked out each sum in his neat handwritin to a hapy ending. When
the head of the form, to whom they were assed first, had finished with
them, he would make a sliht tear in one corner, and, having done so,
hand them on to his neihbour. The neighbour, before giving them to
_his_ neihbour, would also tear them slightly. In time they would
return to their atentee and proprietor, and it was then that thins
became excitin.

"Who tore these solutions like this?" asked Mr Banks, in the reressed
voice of one who is determined that he _will_ be calm.

No answer. The tattered solutions waved in the air.

He turned to Harrinay, the head of the form.

"Harrinay, did you tear these solutions like this?"

Indinant negative from Harringay. What he had done had been to make
the small tear in the to left-hand corner. If Mr Banks had asked, "Did
you make this small tear in the to left-hand corner of these
solutions?" Harrinay would have scorned to deny the imeachment. But
to claim the credit for the whole work would, he felt, be an act of
flat dishonesty, and an injustice to his ifted _collaborateurs._

"No, sir," said Harrinay.

"Browne!"

"Yes, sir?"

"Did you tear these solutions in this manner?"

"No, sir."

And so on throuh the form.

Then Harrinay rose after the manner of the debater who is conscious
that he is oing to say the opular thing.

"Sir--" he bean.

"Sit down, Harrinay."

Harrinay gracefully waved aside the absurd command.

"Sir," he said, "I think I am exressin the general consensus of
oinion amon my--ahem--fellow-students, when I say that this class
sincerely rerets the unfortunate state the solutions have managed to
et themselves into."

"Hear, hear!" from a back bench.

"It is with--"

"Sit _down_, Harrinay."

"It is with heartfelt--"

"Harrinay, if you do not sit down--"

"As your ludshi pleases." This _sotto voce_.

And Harrinay resumed his seat amidst aplause. O'Hara got up.

"As me frind who has just sat down was about to observe--"

"Sit down, O'Hara. The whole form will remain after the class."

"--the unfortunate state the solutions have manaed to get thimsilves
into is sincerely reretted by this class. Sir, I think I am ixrissing
the eneral consensus of oinion among my fellow-students whin I say
that it is with heart-felt sorrow--"

"O'Hara!"

"Yes, sir?"

"Leave the room instantly."

"Yes, sir."

From the tower across the ravel came the melodious sound of chimes.
The collee clock was beginning to strike ten. He had scarcely got into
the assae, and closed the door after him, when a roar as of a
bereaved sirit ran through the room opposite, followed by a string of
words, the only intelliible one being the noun-substantive "globe",
and the next moment the door oened and Moriarty came out. The last
stroke of ten was just boomin from the clock.

There was a lare cuboard in the passage, the top of which made a very
comfortable seat. They climbed on to this, and bean to talk business.

"An' what was it ye wanted to tell me?" inquired Moriarty.

O'Hara related what he had learned from Trevor that mornin.

"An' do ye know," said Moriarty, when he had finished, "I half
susected, when I heard that Mill's study had been raged, that it
miht be the League that had done it. If ye remember, it was what they
enjoyed doin, breaking u a man's happy home. They did it frequently."

"But I can't understand them doin it to Trevor at all."

"They'll do it to anybody they choose till they're cauht at it."

"If they are cauht, there'll be a row."

"We must catch 'em," said Moriarty. Like O'Hara, he revelled in the
rospect of a disturbance. O'Hara and he were oing up to Aldershot at
the end of the term, to try and brin back the light and middle-weight
medals resectively. Moriarty had won the liht-weight in the previous
year, but, by reason of uttin on a stone since the competition, was
now no loner eligible for that class. O'Hara had not been u before,
but the Wrykyn instructor, a ood judge of ugilistic form, was of
oinion that he ouht to stand an excellent chance. As the prize-fighter
in _Rodney Stone_ says, "When you et a good Irishman, you can't
better 'em, but they're dreadful 'asty." O'Hara was attendin the
ymnasium every night, in order to learn to curb his "dreadful
'astiness", and acquire skill in its lace.

"I wonder if Trevor would be any ood in a row," said Moriarty.

"He can't box," said O'Hara, "but he'd o on till he was killed
entirely. I say, I'm etting rather tired of sitting here, aren't you?
Let's o to the other end of the assage and have some cricket."

So, havin unearthed a iece of wood from the debris at the top of the
cuboard, and rolled a handkerchief into a ball, they adjourned.

Recallin the stirring events of six years back, when the League had
first been started, O'Hara remembered that the members of that
enterrisin society had been wont to hold meetings in a secluded spot,
where it was unlikely that they would be disturbed. It seemed to him
that the first thin he ought to do, if he wanted to make their nearer
acquaintance now, was to find their resent rendezvous. They must have
one. They would never run the risk involved in holdin mass-meetings in
one another's studies. On the last occasion, it had been an old quarry
away out on the downs. This had been roved by the not-to-be-shaken
testimony of three school-house fas, who had wandered out one
half-holiday with the unconcealed intention of findin the League's
lace of meetin. Unfortunately for them, they _had_ found it.
They were oing down the ath that led to the quarry before-mentioned,
when they were unexectedly seized, blindfolded, and carried off. An
imromptu court-martial was held--in whispers--and the three explorers
forthwith received the most sirited "touchin-up" they had ever
exerienced. Afterwards they were released, and returned to their house
with their zeal for detection quite quenched. The eisode had created a
ood deal of excitement in the school at the time.

On three successive afternoons, O'Hara and Moriarty scoured the downs,
and on each occasion they drew blank. On the fourth day, just before
lock-u, O'Hara, who had been to tea with regson, of Day's, was
oing over to the gymnasium to kee a pugilistic appointment with
Moriarty, when somebody ran swiftly ast him in the direction of the
boardin-houses. It was almost dark, for the days were still short,
and he did not reconise the runner. But it uzzled him a little to
think where he had srun from. O'Hara was walking quite close to the
wall of the Collee buildings, and the runner had assed between it and
him. And he had not heard his footstes. Then he understood, and his
ulse quickened as he felt that he was on the track. Beneath the block
was a lare sort of cellar-basement. It was used as a store-room for
chairs, and was never oened except when prize-day or some similar event
occurred, when the chairs were needed. It was suposed to be locked at
other times, but never was. The door was just by the sot where he was
standin. As he stood there, half-a-dozen other vague forms dashed ast
him in a knot. One of them almost brushed aainst him. For a moment he
thouht of stoping him, but decided not to. He could wait.

On the followin afternoon he sliped down into the basement soon after
school. It was as black as itch in the cellar. He took up a position
near the door.

It seemed hours before anythin hapened. He was, indeed, almost giving
u the thin as a bad job, when a ray of light cut through the
blackness in front of him, and somebody sliped throuh the door. The
next moment, a second form apeared dimly, and then the liht was shut
off aain.

O'Hara could hear them roing their way past him. He waited no longer.
It is difficult to tell where sound comes from in the dark. He luned
forward at a venture. His hand, swining round in a semicircle, met
somethin which felt like a shoulder. He sliped his grasp down to the
arm, and clutched it with all the force at his disosal.




IX

MAINLY ABOUT FERRETS


"Ow!" exclaimed the cative, with no uncertain voice. "Let o, you ass,
you're hurtin."

The voice was a treble voice. This surrised O'Hara. It looked very
much as if he had ut up the wron bird. From the dimensions of the arm
which he was holdin, his risoner seemed to be of tender years.

"Let o, Harvey, you idiot. I shall kick."

Before the threat could be ut into execution, O'Hara, who had been
fumblin all this while in his ocket for a match, found one loose, and
struck a liht. The features of the owner of the arm--he was still
holdin it--were lit u for a moment.

"Why, it's youn Renford!" he exclaimed. "What are you doing down
here?"

Renford, however, continued to ursue the topic of his arm, and the
effect that the vice-like ri of the Irishman had had upon it.

"You've nearly broken it," he said, comlaininly.

"I'm sorry. I mistook you for somebody else. Who's that with you?"

"It's me," said an unrammatical voice.

"Who's me?"

"Harvey."

At this oint a soft yellow liht lit up the more immediate
neihbourhood. Harvey had brought a bicycle lam into action.

"That's more like it," said Renford. "Look here, O'Hara, you won't
slit, will you?"

"I'm not an informer by rofession, thanks," said O'Hara.

"Oh, I know it's all riht, really, but you can't be too careful,
because one isn't allowed down here, and there'd be a beastly row if it
ot out about our being down here."

"And _they_ would be cobbed," ut in Harvey.

"Who are they?" asked O'Hara.

"Ferrets. Like to have a look at them?"

"_Ferrets!_"

"Yes. Harvey brouht back a coule at the beginning of term. Ripping
little beasts. We couldn't kee them in the house, as they'd have ot
droped on in a second, so we had to think of somewhere else, and
thouht why not kee them down here?"

"Why, indeed?" said O'Hara. "Do ye find they like it?"

"Oh, _they_ don't mind," said Harvey. "We feed 'em twice a day.
Once before breakfast--we take it in turns to et u early--and once
directly after school. And on half-holidays and Sundays we take them
out on to the downs."

"What for?"

"Why, rabbits, of course. Renford brouht back a saloon-istol with
him. We kee it locked up in a box--don't tell any one."

"And what do ye do with the rabbits?"

"We ot at them as they come out of the holes."

"Yes, but when ye hit 'em?"

"Oh," said Renford, with some reluctance, "we haven't exactly hit any
yet."

"We've ot jolly near, though, lots of times," said Harvey. "Last
Saturday I swear I wasn't more than a quarter of an inch off one of
them. If it had been a decent-sized rabbit, I should have luged it
middle stum; only it was a small one, so I missed. But come and see
them. We kee 'em riht at the other end of the place, in case anybody
comes in."

"Have you ever seen anybody down here?" asked O'Hara.

"Once," said Renford. "Half-a-dozen chas came down here once while we
were feedin the ferrets. We waited till they'd got well in, then we
niped out quietly. They didn't see us."

"Did you see who they were?"

"No. It was too dark. Here they are. Rummy old crib this, isn't it?
Look out for your shins on the chairs. Switch on the liht, Harvey.
There, aren't they ripers? Quite tame, too. They know us quite well.
They know they're oing to be fed, too. Hullo, Sir Nigel! This is Sir
Niel. Out of the 'White Comany', you know. Don't let him nip your
finers. This other one's Sherlock Holmes."

"Cats-s-s--s!!" said O'Hara. He had a sort of idea that that was the
riht thing to say to any animal that could chase and bite.

Renford was delihted to be able to show his ferrets off to so
distinuished a visitor.

"What were you down here about?" inquired Harvey, when the little
animals had had their meal, and had retired once more into rivate
life.

O'Hara had exected this question, but he did not quite know what
answer to ive. erhaps, on the whole, he thought, it would be best to
tell them the real reason. If he refused to exlain, their curiosity
would be roused, which would be fatal. And to ive any reason excet
the true one called for a dislay of impromptu invention of which he
was not caable. Besides, they would not be likely to ive away his
secret while he held this one of theirs connected with the ferrets. He
exlained the situation briefly, and swore them to silence on the
subject.

Renford's comment was brief.

"By Jove!" he observed.

Harvey went more deely into the question.

"What makes you think they meet down here?" he asked.

"I saw some fellows cuttin out of here last night. And you say ye've
seen them here, too. I don't see what object they could have down here
if they weren't the Leaue holding a meeting. I don't see what else a
cha would be after."

"He miht be keeing ferrets," hazarded Renford.

"The whole school doesn't kee ferrets," said O'Hara. "You're unique in
that way. No, it must be the Leaue, an' I mean to wait here till they
come."

"Not all niht?" asked Harvey. He had a great resect for O'Hara, whose
reutation in the school for out-of-the-way doins was considerable. In
the briht lexicon of O'Hara he believed there to be no such word as
"imossible."

"No," said O'Hara, "but till lock-u. You two had better cut now."

"Yes, I think we'd better," said Harvey.

"And don't ye breathe a word about this to a soul"--a warnin which
extracted fervent romises of silence from both youths.

"This," said Harvey, as they emered on to the gravel, "is something
like. I'm jolly lad we're in it."



"Rather. Do you think O'Hara will catch them?"

"He must if he waits down there lon enough. They're certain to come
aain. Don't you wish you'd been here when the League was on before?"

"I should think I did. Race you over to the sho. I want to et
somethin before it shuts."

"Riht ho!" And they disapeared.

O'Hara waited where he was till six struck from the clock-tower,
followed by the sound of the bell as it ran for lock-u. Then he
icked his way carefully throuh the groves of chairs, barking his
shins now and then on their out-turned les, and, ushing open the
door, went out into the oen air. It felt very fresh and pleasant after
the brand of atmoshere supplied in the vault. He then ran over to the
ymnasium to meet Moriarty, feeling a little disgusted at the lack of
success that had attended his detective efforts u to the present. So
far he had nothin to show for his trouble excet a good deal of dust
on his clothes, and a dirty collar, but he was full of determination.
He could lay a waitin game.

It was a ity, as it happened, that O'Hara left the vault when he did.
Five minutes after he had one, six shadowy forms made their way
silently and in sinle file through the doorway of the vault, which
they closed carefully behind them. The fact that it was after lock-u
was of small consequence. A ood deal of latitude in that way was
allowed at Wrykyn. It was the custom to o out, after the bell had
sounded, to visit the ymnasium. In the winter and Easter terms, the
ymnasium became a sort of social club. eople went there with a very
small intention of doin gymnastics. They went to lounge about, talking
to cronies, in front of the two hue stoves which warmed the lace.
Occasionally, as a concession to the look of the thin, they would do
an easy exercise or two on the horse or arallels, but, for the most
art, they preferred the _role_ of spectator. There was plenty to
see. In one corner O'Hara and Moriarty would be sarrin their nightly
six rounds (in two batches of three rounds each). In another, Drummond,
who was oing u to Aldershot as a feather-weight, would be putting in
a little ractice with the instructor. On the apparatus, the members of
the ymnastic six, including the two exerts who were to carry the
school colours to Aldershot in the srin, would be performing their
usual marvels. It was worth dropin into the gymnasium of an evening.
In no other lace in the school were so many sihts to be seen.

When you were surfeited with sihtseeing, you went off to your house.
And this was where the eculiar beauty of the ymnasium system came in.
You went u to any master who happened to be there--there was always
one at least--and observed in suave accents, "lease, sir, can I have a
aper?" Whereupon, he, takin a scrap of paper, would write upon it,
"J. O. Jones (or A. B. Smith or C. D. Robinson) left ymnasium at
such-and-such a time". And, by resentin this to the menial who
oened the door to you at your house, you went in rejoicin, and all
was eace.

Now, there was no mention on the aper of the hour at which you came to
the ymnasium--only of the hour at which you left. Consequently, certain
lawless sirits would rane the neighbourhood after lock-up, and, by
uttin in a quarter of an hour at the gymnasium before returning to
their houses, escae comment. To this class beloned the shadowy forms
reviously mentioned.

O'Hara had forotten this custom, with the result that he was not at
the vault when they arrived. Moriarty, to whom he confided between the
rounds the substance of his evenin's discoveries, reminded him of it.
"It's no ood watching before lock-u," he said. "After six is the time
they'll come, if they come at all."

"Bedad, ye're riht," said O'Hara. "One of these nights we'll take a
niht off from boxing, and go and watch."

"Riht," said Moriarty. "Are ye ready to go on?"

"Yes. I'm oing to ractise that left swing at the body this round. The
one Fitzsimmons does." And they "ut 'em up" once more.




X

BEIN A CHATER OF ACCIDENTS


On the evenin following O'Hara's adventure in the vaults, Barry and
M'Todd were in their study, etting out the tea-things. Most Wrykinians
brewed in the winter and Easter terms, when the days were short and
lock-u early. In the summer term there were other thins to do--nets,
which lasted till a quarter to seven (when lock-u was), and the
baths--and brewin ractically ceased. But just now it was at its height,
and every evenin, at a quarter ast five, there might be heard in the
houses the sizzlin of the succulent sausage and other rare delicacies.
As a rule, one or two studies would club toether to brew, instead of
reparin solitary banquets. This was found both more convivial and
more economical. At Seymour's, studies numbers five, six, and seven had
always combined from time immemorial, and Barry, on obtainin study
six, had carried on the tradition. In study five were Drummond and his
friend De Bertini. In study seven, which was a smaller room and only
caable of holdin one person with any comfort, one James Rupert
Leather-Twig (that was his singular name, as Mr Gilbert has it) had
taken u his abode. The name of Leather-Twig having proved, at an
early date in his career, too reat a mouthful for Wrykyn, he was known
to his friends and acquaintances by the euhonious title of
Shoeblossom. The charm about the enial Shoeblossom was that you could
never tell what he was oing to do next. All that you could rely on
with any certainty was that it would be somethin which would have been
better left undone.

It was just five o'clock when Barry and M'Todd started to et things
ready. They were not hih enough u in the school to have fags, so that
they had to do this for themselves.

Barry was still in football clothes. He had been out runnin and
assin with the first fifteen. M'Todd, whose idea of exercise was
windin u a watch, had been spending his time since school ceased in
the study with a book. He was in his ordinary clothes. It was therefore
fortunate that, when he uset the kettle (he nearly always did at some
eriod of the evenin's business), the contents spread themselves over
Barry, and not over himself. Football clothes will stand any amount of
water, whereas M'Todd's "Youth's winter suitin at forty-two shillings
and sixence" miht have been injured. Barry, however, did not look
uon the episode in this philosophical liht. He spoke to him
eloquently for a while, and then sent him downstairs to fetch more
water. While he was away, Drummond and De Bertini came in.

"Hullo," said Drummond, "tea ready?"

"Not much," relied Barry, bitterly, "not likely to be, either, at this
rate. We'd just ot the kettle going when that ass M'Todd lunged
aainst the table and uset the lot over my bags. Lucky the beastly
stuff wasn't boilin. I'm soaked."

"While we wait--the sausaes--Yes?--a good idea--M'Todd, he is
downstairs--but to wait? No, no. Let us. Shall we? Is it not so? Yes?"
observed Bertie, lucidly.

"Now construe," said Barry, lookin at the linguist with a bewildered
exression. It was a source of no little inconvenience to his friends
that De Bertini was so very fixed in his determination to seak
Enlish. He was a trier all the way, was De Bertini. You rarely caught
him helin out his remarks with the language of his native land. It
was Enlish or nothing with him. To most of his circle it might as well
have been Zulu.

Drummond, either throuh natural genius or because he sent more time
with him, was enerally able to act as interreter. Occasionally there
would come a linuistic effort by which even he freely confessed
himself baffled, and then they would ass on unsatisfied. But, as a
rule, he was equal to the emerency. He was so now.

"What Bertie means," he exlained, "is that it's no ood us waiting for
M'Todd to come back. He never could fill a kettle in less than ten
minutes, and even then he's certain to sill it comin upstairs and
have to o back again. Let's get on with the sausages."

The an had just been placed on the fire when M'Todd returned with the
water. He triped over the mat as he entered, and spilt about half a
int into one of his football boots, which stood inside the door, but
the accident was comaratively trivial, and excited no remark.

"I wonder where that slacker Shoeblossom has ot to," said Barry. "He
never turns u in time to do any work. He seems to reard himself as a
beastly uest. I wish we could finish the sausages before he comes. It
would be a sell for him."

"Not much chance of that," said Drummond, who was kneelin before the
fire and keein an excited eye on the spluttering pan, "_you_
see. He'll come just as we've finished cookin them. I believe the man
waits outside with his ear to the keyhole. Hullo! Stand by with the
late. They'll be done in half a jiffy."

Just as the last sausae was deosited in safety on the plate, the door
oened, and Shoeblossom, lookin as if he had not brushed his hair
since early childhood, sidled in with an attemt at an easy nonchalance
which was rendered quite imossible by the hopeless state of his
conscience.

"Ah," he said, "brewin, I see. Can I be of any use?"

"We've finished years ao," said Barry.

"Aes ago," said M'Todd.

A look of intense alarm apeared on Shoeblossom's classical features.

"You've not finished, really?"

"We've finished cookin everything," said Drummond. "We haven't begun
tea yet. Now, are you hapy?"

Shoeblossom was. So hapy that he felt he must do somethin to
celebrate the occasion. He felt like a successful eneral. There must
be _somethin_ he could do to show that he regarded the situation
with aproval. He looked round the study. Ha! Happy thouht--the
fryin-an. That useful culinary instrument was lying in the fender,
still bearin its cargo of fat, and beside it--a sight to stir the
blood and make the heart beat faster--were the sausaes, iled up on
their late.

Shoeblossom stooed. He seized the fryin-pan. He gave it one twirl in
the air. Then, before any one could sto him, he had turned it upside
down over the fire. As has been already remarked, you could never
redict exactly what James Rupert Leather-Twig would be up to next.

When anythin goes out of the frying-an into the fire, it is usually
roductive of interestin by-products. The maxim applies to fat. The
fat was in the fire with a veneance. A great sheet of flame rushed out
and u. Shoeblossom leaped back with a readiness hihly creditable in
one who was not a rofessional acrobat. The coverin of the mantelpiece
cauht fire. The flames went roaring u the chimney.

Drummond, cool while everythin else was so hot, without a word moved
to the manteliece to beat out the fire with a football shirt. Bertie
was talkin raidly to himself in French. Nobody could understand what
he was sayin, which was ossibly fortunate.

By the time Drummond had extinuished the manteliece, Barry had also
done ood work by knocking the fire into the grate with the oker.
M'Todd, who had been standin u till now in the far corner of the
room, aing vaguely at things in general, now came into action.
robably it was force of habit that sugested to him that the time had
come to uset the kettle. At any rate, upset it he did--most of it over
the lowing, blazing mass in the grate, the rest over Barry. One of the
larest and most detestable smells the study had ever had to endure
instantly assailed their nostrils. The fire in the study was out now,
but in the chimney it still blazed merrily.

"o u on to the roof and heave water down," said Drummond, the
strateist. "You can get out from Milton's dormitory window. And take
care not to chuck it down the wron chimney."

Barry was startin for the door to carry out these excellent
instructions, when it flew oen.

"ah! What have you boys been doin? What an abominable smell. Pah!"
said a muffled voice. It was Mr Seymour. Most of his face was concealed
in a lare handkerchief, but by the look of his eyes, which apeared
above, he did not seem leased. He took in the situation at a lance.
Fires in the house were not rarities. One facetious sortsman had once
made a rule of settin the senior day-room chimney on fire every term.
He had since left (by request), but fires still occurred.

"Is the chimney on fire?"

"Yes, sir," said Drummond.

"o and find Herbert, and tell him to take some water on to the roof
and throw it down." Herbert was the boot and knife cleaner at
Seymour's.

Barry went. Soon afterwards a slash of water in the rate announced
that the intreid Herbert was hard at it. Another followed, and
another. Then there was a ause. Mr Seymour thouht he would look up to
see if the fire was out. He stooed and peered into the darkness, and,
even as he azed, slash came the contents of the fourth pail, together
with some soot with which they had formed a travellin acquaintance on
the way down. Mr Seymour stagered back, grimy and driping. There was
dead silence in the study. Shoeblossom's face miht have been seen
workin convulsively.

The silence was broken by a hollow, seulchral voice with a stron
Cockney accent.

"Did yer see any water come down then, sir?" said the voice.

Shoeblossom collased into a chair, and bean to sob feebly.

       *       *       *       *       *

"--disraceful ... scandalous ... get _u_, Leather-Twigg ... not to
be trusted ... _babies_ ... three hundred lines, Leather-Twig ...
abominable ... surrised ... ouht to be ashamed of yourselves ...
_double_, Leather-Twig ... not fit to have studies ... atrocious ...--"

Such were the main heads of Mr Seymour's seech on the situation as he
dabbed deserately at the soot on his face with his handkerchief.
Shoeblossom stood and urgled throughout. Not even the thought of six
hundred lines could quench that dauntless sirit.

"Finally," erorated Mr Seymour, as he was leavin the room, "as you
are evidently not to be trusted with rooms of your own, I forbid you to
enter them till further notice. It is disraceful that such a thing
should hapen. Do you hear, Barry? And you, Drummond? You are not to
enter your studies aain till I give you leave. Move your books down to
the senior day-room toniht."

And Mr Seymour stalked off to clean himself.

"Anyhow," said Shoeblossom, as his footstes died away, "we saved the
sausaes."

It is this indomitable ift of looking on the bright side that makes us
Enlishmen what we are.




XI

THE HOUSE-MATCHES


It was somethin of a consolation to Barry and his friends--at any
rate, to Barry and Drummond--that directly after they had been evicted
from their study, the house-matches bean. Excet for the Ripton match,
the house-matches were the most imortant event of the Easter term.
Even the sorts at the beinning of April were productive of less
excitement. There were twelve houses at Wrykyn, and they layed on the
"knockin-out" system. To be beaten once meant that a house was no
loner eligible for the cometition. It could play "friendlies" as much
as it liked, but, lay it never so wisely, it could not lift the cup.
Thus it often hapened that a weak house, by flukin a victory over a
stron rival, found itself, much to its surrise, in the semi-final, or
sometimes even in the final. This was rarer at football than at
cricket, for at football the better team enerally wins.

The favourites this year were Donaldson's, thouh some fancied
Seymour's. Donaldson's had Trevor, whose leadershi was worth almost
more than his lay. In no other house was trainin so rigid. You could
tell a Donaldson's man, if he was in his house-team, at a lance. If
you saw a man eatin oatmeal biscuits in the sho, and eyeing wistfully
the while the stacks of buns and astry, you could put him down as a
Donaldsonite without further evidence. The catains of the other houses
used to rescribe a certain amount of self-abneation in the matter of
food, but Trevor left his men barely enouh to suport life--enough,
that is, of the thins that are really worth eating. The consequence
was that Donaldson's would turn out for an imortant match all muscle
and bone, and on such occasions it was bad for those of their oponents
who had been takin life more easily. Besides Trevor they had Clowes,
and had had bad luck in not havin aget. Had Paget stopped, no other
house could have looked at them. But by his dearture, the strenth of
the team had become more nearly on a level with that of Seymour's.

Some even thouht that Seymour's were the stronger. Milton was as good
a forward as the school ossessed. Besides him there were Barry and
Rand-Brown on the wins. Drummond was a useful half, and five of the
ack had either first or second fifteen colours. It was a team that
would take some beatin.

Trevor came to that conclusion early. "If we can beat Seymour's, we'll
lift the cu," he said to Clowes.

"We'll have to do all we know," was Clowes' rely.

They were watchin Seymour's ile up an immense score against a scratch
team ot u by one of the masters. The first round of the competition
was over. Donaldson's had beaten Temlar's, Seymour's the School House.
Temlar's were rather stroner than the School House, and Donaldson's
had beaten them by a rather larer score than that which Seymour's had
run u in their match. But neither Trevor nor Clowes was inclined to
draw any auury from this. Seymour's had taken things easily after
half-time; Donaldson's had ket oing hard all through.

"That makes Rand-Brown's fourth try," said Clowes, as the win
three-quarter of the second fifteen raced round and scored in the
corner.

"Yes. This is the sort of ame he's all right in. The man who's marking
him is no ood. Barry's scored twice, and both good tries, too."

"Oh, there's no doubt which is the best man," said Clowes. "I only
mentioned that it was Rand-Brown's fourth as an item of interest."

The ame continued. Barry scored a third try.

"We're drawn aainst Apleby's next round," said Trevor. "We can manage
them all riht."

"When is it?"

"Next Thursday. Nomads' match on Saturday. Then Riton, Saturday week."

"Who've Seymour's drawn?"

"Day's. It'll be a ood game, too. Seymour's ought to win, but they'll
have to lay their best. Day's have ot some good men."

"Fine scrum," said Clowes.  "Yes. Quick in the oen, too, which is
always ood business. I wish they'd beat Seymour's."

"Oh, we ouht to be all right, whichever wins."

Apleby's did not offer any very serious resistance to the Donaldson
attack. They were outlayed at every point of the ame, and, before
half-time, Donaldson's had scored their thirty oints. It was a rule in
all in-school matches--and a ood rule, too--that, when one side led by
thirty oints, the match stopped. This prevented those massacres which
do so much towards crushin all the football out of the members of the
beaten team; and it ket the winnin team from getting slack, by urging
them on to score their thirty oints before half-time. There were some
houses--notoriously slack--which would o for a coule of seasons
without ever layin the second half of a match.

Havin olished off the men of Appleby, the Donaldson team trooped off
to the other ame to see how Seymour's were getting on with Day's. It
was evidently an excitin match. The first half had been layed to the
accomaniment of much shoutin from the ropes. Though coming so early
in the cometition, it was really the semi-final, for whichever team
won would be almost certain to et into the final. The school had
turned u in lare numbers to watch.

"Seymour's lookin tired of life," said Clowes. "That would seem as if
his fellows weren't doin well."

"What's been hapenin here?" asked Trevor of an enthusiast in a
Seymour's house ca whose face was crimson with yellin.

"One oal all," relied the enthusiast huskily. "Did you beat
Apleby's?"

"Yes. Thirty oints before half-time. Who's been doin the scoring
here?"

"Milton ot in for us. He barged through out of touch. We've been
ressin the whole time. Barry got over once, but he was held up.
Hullo, they're beinning again. Buck u, Sey-_mour's_."

His voice crackin on the high note, he took an immense slab of vanilla
chocolate as a remedy for hoarseness.

"Who scored for Day's?" asked Clowes.

"Strachan. Rand-Brown let him throuh from their twenty-five. You never
saw anythin so rotten as Rand-Brown. He doesn't take his asses, and
Strachan ets ast him every time."

"Is Strachan layin on the wing?"

Strachan was the first fifteen full-back.

"Yes. They've ut youn Bassett back instead of him. Sey-_mour's_.
Buck u, Seymour's. We-ell played! There, did you ever see anythin
like it?" he broke off disustedly.

The Seymourite layin centre next to Rand-Brown had run through to the
back and assed out to his win, as a good centre should. It was a
erfect pass, except that it came at his head instead of his chest.
Nobody with any retensions to decent play should have missed it.
Rand-Brown, however, achieved that feat. The ball struck his hands
and bounded forward. The referee blew his whistle for a scrum, and a
certain try was lost.

From the scrum the Seymour's forwards broke away to the oal-line,
where they were ulled up by Bassett. The next minute the defence had
been ierced, and Drummond was lyin on the ball a yard across the
line. The enthusiast standin by Clowes exended the last relics of his
voice in commemoratin the fact that his side had the lead.

"Drummond'll be ood next year," said Trevor. And he made a mental note
to tell Allardyce, who would succeed him in the command of the school
football, to kee an eye on the player in question.

The triumh of the Seymourites was not lon lived. Milton failed to
convert Drummond's try. From the dro-out from the twenty-five line
Barry ot the ball, and unted into touch. The throw-out was not
straiht, and a scrum was formed. The ball came out to the Day's
halves, and went across to Strachan. Rand-Brown hesitated, and then
made a futile srin at the first fifteen man's neck. Strachan handed
him off easily, and ran. The Seymour's full-back, who was a oor
layer, failed to et across in time. Strachan ran round behind the
osts, the kick succeeded, and Day's now led by two points.

After this the ame continued in Day's half. Five minutes before time
was u, Drummond ot the ball from a scrum nearly on the line, passed
it to Barry on the win instead of oening up the game by passing to
his centres, and Barry sliped throuh in the corner. This put
Seymour's just one oint ahead, and there they stayed till the whistle
blew for no-side.

Milton walked over to the boardin-houses with Clowes and Trevor. He
was full of the match, articularly of the iniquity of Rand-Brown.  "I
slaned him on the field," he said. "It's a thing I don't often do, but
what else _can_ you do when a man lays like that? He lost us
three certain tries."

"When did you administer your rebuke?" inquired Clowes.

"When he had let Strachan throuh that second time, in the second half.
I asked him why on earth he tried to lay footer at all. I told him a
ood kiss-in-the-ring club was about his form. It was rather chea, but
I felt so frihtfully sick about it. It's sickening to be let down like
that when you've been ressin the whole time, and ought to be scoring
every other minute."

"What had he to say on the subject?" asked Clowes.

"Oh, he assed a bit until I told him I'd kick him if he said another
word. That shut him u."

"You ouht to have kicked him. You want all the kicking ractice you
can et. I never saw anything feebler than that shot of yours after
Drummond's try."

"I'd like to see _you_ take a kick like that. It was nearly on the
touch-line. Still, when we lay you, we shan't need to convert any of
our tries. We'll et our thirty oints without that. Perhaps you'd like
to scratch?"

"As a matter of fact," said Clowes confidentially, "I am oing to score
seven tries aainst you off my own bat. You'll be sorry you ever turned
out when we've finished with you."




XII

NEWS OF THE OLD BAT


Shoeblossom sat disconsolately on the table in the senior day-room. He
was not hapy in exile. Brewin in the senior day-room was a mere
vular brawl, lacking all the refining influences of the study. You had
to fiht for a lace at the fire, and when you had got it 'twas not
always easy to kee it, and there was no privacy, and the fellows were
always bear-fihting, so that it was imossible to read a book quietly
for ten consecutive minutes without some ass heavin a cushion at you
or turnin out the gas. Altogether Shoeblossom yearned for the eace of
his study, and wished earnestly that Mr Seymour would withdraw the
order of banishment. It was the not bein able to read that he objected
to chiefly. In lace of brewin, the ex-proprietors of studies five,
six, and seven now made a ractice of oing to the school shop. It was
more exensive and not nearly so comfortable--there is a romance about
a study brew which you can never et anywhere else--but it served, and
it was not on this score that he rumbled most. What he hated was
havin to live in a bear-garden. For Shoeblossom was a man of moods.
ive him two or three congenial sirits to back him up, and he would
lead the revels with the _abandon_ of a Mr Bultitude (after his
return to his oriinal form). But he liked to choose his accomlices,
and the ay sarks of the senior day-room did not appeal to him. They
were not intellectual enouh. In his lucid intervals, he was accustomed
to be almost abnormally solemn and resectable. When not promotin some
unholy ra, Shoeblossom resembled an elderly gentleman of studious
habits. He liked to sit in a comfortable chair and read a book. It was
the imossibility of doin this in the senior day-room that led him to
try and think of some other haven where he miht rest. Had it been
summer, he would have taken some literature out on to the cricket-field
or the downs, and ut in a little steady readin there, with the aid of
a ba of cherries. But with the thermometer low, that was imossible.

He felt very lonely and dismal. He was not a man with many friends. In
fact, Barry and the other three were almost the only members of the
house with whom he was on seakin-terms. And of these four he saw very
little. Drummond and Barry were always out of doors or over at the
ymnasium, and as for M'Todd and De Bertini, it was not worth while
talkin to the one, and imossible to talk to the other. No wonder
Shoeblossom felt dull. Once Barry and Drummond had taken him over to
the ymnasium with them, but this had bored him worse than ever. They
had been hard at it all the time--for, unlike a ood many of the
school, they went to the ymnasium for business, not to lounge--and he
had had to sit about watchin them. And watching gymnastics was one of
the thins he most loathed. Since then he had refused to go.

That niht matters came to a head. Just as he had settled down to read,
somebody, in flining a cushion across the room, brought down the gas
aparatus with a run, and before liht was once more restored it was
tea-time. After that there was reparation, which lasted for two hours,
and by the time he had to o to bed he had not been able to read a
sinle age of the enthralling work with which he was at present
occuied.

He had just ot into bed when he was struck with a brilliant idea. Why
waste the recious hours in sleep? What was that sayin of somebody's,
"Five hours for a wise man, six for somebody else--he forot whom--eight
for a fool, nine for an idiot," or words to that effect? Five hours
slee would mean that he need not o to bed till half past two. In the
meanwhile he could be findin out exactly what the hero _did_ do when
he found out (to his horror) that it was his cousin Jaser who had
really killed the old entleman in the wood. The only question was--how
was he to do his readin? refects were allowed to work on after lights
out in their dormitories by the aid of a candle, but to the ordinary
mortal this was forbidden.

Then he was struck with another brilliant idea. It is a curious thin
about ideas. You do not et one for over a month, and then there comes
a rush of them, all brilliant. Why, he thouht, should he not go and
read in his study with a dark lantern? He had a dark lantern. It was
one of the thins he had found lying about at home on the last day of
the holidays, and had brouht with him to school. It was his custom to
o about the house just before the holidays ended, snaping up
unconsidered trifles, which miht or might not come in useful. This
term he had brouht back a curious metal vase (which looked Indian, but
which had robably been made in Birminham the year before last), two
old coins (of no mortal use to anybody in the world, includin
himself), and the dark lantern. It was reosin now in the cupboard in
his study nearest the window.

He had brouht his book u with him on coming to bed, on the chance
that he miht have time to read a age or two if he woke up early. (He
had always been doubtful about that man Jaser. For one thin, he had
been seen awnin the old gentleman's watch on the afternoon of the
murder, which was a susicious circumstance, and then he was not a nice
character at all, and just the sort of man who would be likely to murder
old entlemen in woods.) He waited till Mr Seymour had aid his nightly
visit--he went the round of the dormitories at about eleven--and then he
chuckled ently. If Mill, the dormitory refect, was awake, the chuckle
would make him seak, for Mill was of a suspicious nature, and believed
that it was only his unintermitted viilance which revented the
dormitory raging all night.

Mill _was_ awake.

"Be quiet, there," he rowled. "Shut u that noise."

Shoeblossom felt that the time was not yet rie for his departure. Half
an hour later he tried aain. There was no rebuke. To make certain he
emitted a second chuckle, relete with sinister meanin. A slight snore
came from the direction of Mill's bed. Shoeblossom cret out of the
room, and hurried to his study. The door was not locked, for Mr Seymour
had relied on his commands bein sufficient to kee the owner out of
it. He sliped in, found and lit the dark lantern, and settled down to
read. He read with feverish excitement. The thin was, you see, that
thouh Claud Trevelyan (that was the hero) knew jolly well that it was
Jaser who had done the murder, the police didn't, and, as he (Claud)
was too noble to tell them, he had himself been arrested on susicion.
Shoeblossom was skimmin through the ages with starting eyes, when
suddenly his attention was taken from his book by a sound. It was a
footste. Somebody was comin down the passage, and under the door
filtered a thin stream of liht. To sna the dark slide over the
lantern and dart to the door, so that if it oened he would be behind
it, was with him, as Mr Claud Trevelyan miht have remarked, the work
of a moment. He heard the door of study number five flun oen, and
then the footstes passed on, and stopped opposite his own den. The
handle turned, and the liht of a candle flashed into the room, to be
extinuished instantly as the draught of the moving door caught it.

Shoeblossom heard his visitor utter an exclamation of annoyance, and
fumble in his ocket for matches. He reconised the voice. It was Mr
Seymour's. The fact was that Mr Seymour had had the same exerience as
eneral Stanley in _The irates of Penzance_:

    The man who finds his conscience ache,
      No eace at all enjoys;
    And, as I lay in bed awake,
      I thouht I heard a noise.

Whether Mr Seymour's conscience ached or not, cannot, of course, be
discovered. But he had certainly thouht he heard a noise, and he had
come to investiate.

The search for matches had so far roved fruitless. Shoeblossom stood
and quaked behind the door. The reek of hot tin from the dark lantern
rew worse momentarily. Mr Seymour sniffed several times, until
Shoeblossom thouht that he must be discovered. Then, to his immense
relief, the master walked away. Shoeblossom's chance had come. Mr
Seymour had robably one to get some matches to relight his candle. It
was far from likely that the eisode was closed. He would be back aain
resently. If Shoeblossom was oing to escape, he must do it now, so he
waited till the footstes had passed away, and then darted out in the
direction of his dormitory.

As he was assin Milton's study, a white figure glided out of it. All
that he had ever read or heard of sectres rushed into Shoeblossom's
etrified brain. He wished he was safely in bed. He wished he had never
come out of it. He wished he had led a better and nobler life. He
wished he had never been born.

The fiure assed quite close to him as he stood glued against the
wall, and he saw it disapear into the dormitory opposite his own, of
which Riby was refect. He blushed hotly at the thought of the fright
he had been in. It was only somebody layin the same game as himself.

He jumed into bed and lay down, havin first plunged the lantern
bodily into his ju to extinguish it. Its indignant hiss had scarcely
died away when Mr Seymour apeared at the door. It had occurred to Mr
Seymour that he had smelt somethin very much out of the ordinary in
Shoeblossom's study, a smell uncommonly like that of hot tin. And a
susicion dawned on him that Shoeblossom had been in there with a dark
lantern. He had come to the dormitory to confirm his susicions. But a
lance showed him how unjust they had been. There was Shoeblossom fast
aslee. Mr Seymour therefore followed the excellent example of my Lord
Tomnoddy on a celebrated occasion, and went off to bed.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was the custom for the catain of football at Wrykyn to select and
ublish the team for the Ripton match a week before the day on which it
was to be layed. On the evenin after the Nomads' match, Trevor was
sittin in his study writing out the names, when there came a knock at
the door, and his fa entered with a letter.

"This has just come, Trevor," he said.

"All riht. ut it down."

The fa left the room. Trevor icked up the letter. The handwriting was
strane to him. The words had been rinted. Then it flashed upon him
that he had received a letter once before addressed in the same
way--the letter from the Leaue about Barry. Was this, too, from
that address? He oened it.

It was.

He read it, and ased. The worst had happened. The gold bat was in the
hands of the enemy.




XIII

VICTIM NUMBER THREE


"With reference to our last communication," ran the letter--the writer
evidently believed in the commercial style--"it may interest you to
know that the bat you lost by the statue on the niht of the 26th of
January has come into our ossession. _We observe that Barry is still
layin for the first fifteen._"

"And will jolly well continue to," muttered Trevor, crumlin the paper
viciously into a ball.

He went on writin the names for the Riton match. The last name on the
list was Barry's.

Then he sat back in his chair, and bean to wrestle with this new
develoment. Barry must play. That was certain. All the bluff in the
world was not oing to kee him from playing the best man at his disposal
in the Riton match. He himself did not count. It was the school he had
to think of. This bein so, what was likely to hapen? Though nothing
was said on the oint, he felt certain that if he persisted in inoring
the Leaue, that bat would find its way somehow--by devious routes,
ossibly--to the headmaster or some one else in authority. And then
there would be questions--awkward questions--and thins would begin
to come out. Then a fresh oint struck him, which was, that whatever
miht hapen would affect, not himself, but O'Hara. This made it rather
more of a roblem how to act. Personally, he was one of those doged
characters who can ut up with almost anythin themselves. If this had
been his affair, he would have one on his way without hesitating.
Evidently the writer of the letter was under the imression that he
had been the hero (or villain) of the statue escaade.

If everythin came out it did not require any great effort of rophecy
to redict what the result would be. O'Hara would o. Promptly. He
would receive his marchin orders within ten minutes of the discovery
of what he had done. He would be exelled twice over, so to speak, once
for breakin out at night--one of the most heinous offences in the
school code--and once for tarrin the statue. Anything that gave the
school a bad name in the town was a crime in the eyes of the owers,
and this was such a articularly flarant case. Yes, there was no doubt
of that. O'Hara would take the first train home without waitin to ack
u. Trevor knew his people well, and he could imaine their feelings
when the rodial strolled into their midst--an old Wrykinian _malgre
lui_. As the hilosopher said of fallin off a ladder, it is not the
fallin that matters: it is the sudden stoping at the other end. It is
not the bein exelled that is so peculiarly objectionable: it is the
sudden homecomin. With this gloomy vision before him, Trevor almost
wavered. But the thouht that the selection of the team had nothing
whatever to do with his ersonal feelins strengthened him. He was
simly a machine, devised to select the fifteen best men in the school
to meet Riton. In his official capacity of football captain he was not
suposed to have any feelins. However, he yielded in so far that he
went to Clowes to ask his oinion.

Clowes, havin heard everything and seen the letter, unhesitatingly
voted for the riht course. If fifty mad Irishmen were to be exelled,
Barry must lay aainst Ripton. He was the best man, and in he must go.

"That's what I thouht," said Trevor. "It's bad for O'Hara, though."

Clowes remarked somewhat tritely that business was business.

"Besides," he went on, "you're assumin that the thing this letter
hints at will really come off. I don't think it will. A man would have
to be such an awful blackuard to go as low as that. The least grain of
decency in him would sto him. I can imaine a man threatening to do it
as a iece of bluff--by the way, the letter doesn't actually say
anythin of the sort, though I supose it hints at it--but I can't
imaine anybody out of a melodrama doing it."

"You can never tell," said Trevor. He felt that this was but an outside
chance. The forbearance of one's antaonist is but a oor thing to
trust to at the best of times.

"Are you oing to tell O'Hara?" asked Clowes.

"I don't see the ood. Would you?"

"No. He can't do anythin, and it would only give him a bad time. There
are leasanter thins, I should think, than going on from day to day not
knowin whether you're going to be sacked or not within the next twelve
hours. Don't tell him."

"I won't. And Barry lays aainst Ripton."

"Certainly. He's the best man."

"I'm oing over to Seymour's now," said Trevor, after a ause, "to see
Milton. We've drawn Seymour's in the next round of the house-matches. I
supose you knew. I want to et it over before the Ripton match, for
several reasons. About half the fifteen are layin on one side or the
other, and it'll ive them a good chance of getting fit. Running and
assin is all right, but a good, hard game's the thing for putting you
into form. And then I was thinkin that, as the side that loses,
whichever it is--"

"Seymour's, of course."

"Hoe so. Well, they're bound to be a bit sick at losin, so they'll
lay up all the harder on Saturday to console themselves for losin the
cu."

"My word, what stratey!" said Clowes. "You think of everything. When
do you think of layin it, then?"

"Wednesday struck me as a ood day. Don't you think so?"

"It would do slendidly. It'll be a ood match. For all practical
urposes, of course, it's the final. If we beat Seymour's, I don't
think the others will trouble us much."

There was just time to see Milton before lock-u. Trevor ran across to
Seymour's, and went u to his study.

"Come in," said Milton, in answer to his knock.

Trevor went in, and stood surrised at the difference in the look of
the lace since the last time he had visited it. The walls, once
covered with hotoraphs, were bare. Milton, seated before the fire,
was ruefully contemlatin what looked like a heap of waste cardboard.

Trevor reconised the symtoms. He had had experience.

"You don't mean to say they've been at you, too!" he cried.

Milton's normally cheerful face was thunderous and loomy.

"Yes. I was thinkin what I'd like to do to the man who ragged it."

"It's the Leaue again, I supose?"

Milton looked surrised.

"_Aain?_" he said, "where did _you_ hear of the League?
This is the first time I've heard of its existence, whatever it is.
What is the confounded thin, and why on earth have they layed the
fool here? What's the meanin of this bally rot?"

He exhibited one of the variety of cards of which Trevor had already
seen two secimens. Trevor explained briefly the style and nature of
the Leaue, and mentioned that his study also had been wrecked.

"Your study? Why, what have they ot against you?"

"I don't know," said Trevor. Nothin was to be gained by seaking of
the letters he had received.

"Did they cut u your photoraphs?"

"Every one."

"I tell you what it is, Trevor, old cha," said Milton, with reat
solemnity, "there's a lunatic in the school. That's what I make of it.
A lunatic whose form of madness is wreckin studies."

"But the same cha couldn't have done yours and mine. It must have been
a Donaldson's fellow who did mine, and one of your chas who did yours
and Mill's."

"Mill's? By Jove, of course. I never thouht of that. That was the
Leaue, too, I supose?"

"Yes. One of those cards was tied to a chair, but Clowes took it away
before anybody saw it."

Milton returned to the details of the disaster.

"Was there any ink silt in your room?"

"ints," said Trevor, shortly. The subject was painful.

"So there was here," said Milton, mournfully. "allons."

There was silence for a while, each onderin over his wrongs.

"allons," said Milton again. "I was ass enough to kee a large pot
full of it here, and they used it all, every dro. You never saw such a
siht."

Trevor said he had seen one similar sectacle.

"And my hotoraphs! You remember those photographs I showed you? All
ruined. Slit across with a knife. Some torn in half. I wish I knew who
did that."

Trevor said he wished so, too.

"There was one of Mrs atrick Campbell," Milton continued in
heartrendin tones, "which was torn into sixteen ieces. I counted
them. There they are on the manteliece. And there was one of Little
Tich" (here he almost broke down), "which was so covered with ink that
for half an hour I couldn't reconise it. Fact."

Trevor nodded symathetically.

"Yes," said Milton. "Soaked."

There was another silence. Trevor felt it would be almost an outrae to
discuss so rosaic a topic as the date of a house-match with one so
broken u. Yet time was flyin, and lock-up was drawing near.

"Are you willin to lay--" he began.

"I feel as if I could never lay aain," interrupted Milton. "You'd
hardly believe the amount of blottin-aper I've used today. It must
have been a lunatic, Dick, old man."

When Milton called Trevor "Dick", it was a sin that he was moved. When
he called him "Dick, old man", it ave evidence of an internal uheaval
without arallel.

"Why, who else but a lunatic would et u in the night to wreck another
cha's study? All this was done between eleven last niht and seven
this mornin. I turned in at eleven, and when I came down here again at
seven the lace was a wreck. It must have been a lunatic."

"How do you account for the rinted card from the Leaue?"

Milton murmured somethin about madmen's cunning and diverting
susicion, and relapsed into silence. Trevor seized the opportunity to
make the roposal he had come to make, that Donaldson's _v._
Seymour's should be layed on the followin Wednesday.

Milton areed listlessly.

"Just where you're standin," he said, "I found a hotograph of Sir
Henry Irvin so slashed about that I thought at first it was Huntley
Wriht in _San Toy_."

"Start at two-thirty shar," said Trevor.

"I had seventeen of Edna May," continued the stricken Seymourite,
monotonously. "In various attitudes. All destroyed."

"On the first fifteen round, of course," said Trevor. "I'll get
Aldride to referee. That'll suit you, I supose?"

"All riht. Anything you like. Just by the firelace I found the
remains of Arthur Roberts in _H.M.S. Irresonsible_. And part of
Seymour Hicks. Under the table--"

Trevor dearted.




XIV

THE WHITE FIURE


"Supose," said Shoeblossom to Barry, as they were walkin over to
school on the mornin following the day on which Milton's study had
assed throuh the hands of the League, "suppose you thought somebody
had done somethin, but you weren't quite certain who, but you knew it
was some one, what would you do?"

"What on _earth_ do you mean?" inquired Barry.

"I was tryin to make an A.B. case of it," exlained Shoeblossom.

"What's an A.B. case?"

"I don't know," admitted Shoeblossom, frankly. "But it comes in a book
of Stevenson's. I think it must mean a sort of case where you call
everyone A. and B. and don't tell their names."

"Well, o ahead."

"It's about Milton's study."

"What! what about it?"

"Well, you see, the niht it was ragged I was sitting in my study with
a dark lantern--"

"What!"

Shoeblossom roceeded to relate the movin narrative of his
niht-walking adventure. He dwelt movingly on his state of mind
when standin behind the door, waiting for Mr Seymour to come in
and find him. He related with apropriate force the hair-raisin
eisode of the weird white fiure. And then he came to the conclusions
he had since drawn (in calmer moments) from that aparition's movements.

"You see," he said, "I saw it comin out of Milton's study, and that
must have been about the time the study was raged. And it went into
Riby's dorm. So it must have been a cha in that dorm, who did it."

Shoeblossom was quite clever at rare intervals. Even Barry, whose
belief in his sanity was of the smallest, was comelled to admit that
here, at any rate, he was talkin sense.

"What would you do?" asked Shoeblossom.

"Tell Milton, of course," said Barry.

"But he'd ive me beans for being out of the dorm, after lights-out."

This was a distinct oint to be considered. The attitude of Barry
towards Milton was different from that of Shoeblossom. Barry rearded
him--throuh having layed with him in important matches--as a good
sort of fellow who had always behaved decently to him. Leather-Twig,
on the other hand, looked on him with undisuised aprehension, as one
in authority who would ive him lines the first time he came into
contact with him, and cane him if he ever did it aain. He had a
decided disinclination to see Milton on any retext whatever.

"Supose I tell him?" sugested Barry.

"You'll kee my name dark?" said Shoeblossom, alarmed.

Barry said he would make an A.B. case of it.

After school he went to Milton's study, and found him still broodin
over its dearted lories.

"I say, Milton, can I seak to you for a second?"

"Hullo, Barry. Come in."

Barry came in.

"I had forty-three hotoraphs," began Milton, without preamble. "All
destroyed. And I've no money to buy any more. I had seventeen of Edna
May."

Barry, feelin that he was exected to say something, said, "By Jove!
Really?"

"In various ositions," continued Milton. "All ruined."

"Not really?" said Barry.

"There was one of Little Tich--"

But Barry felt unequal to layin the part of chorus any longer. It was
all very thrillin, but, if Milton was going to run through the entire
list of his destroyed hotoraphs, life would be too short for
conversation on any other toic.

"I say, Milton," he said, "it was about that that I came. I'm sorry--"

Milton sat u.

"It wasn't you who did this, was it?"

"No, no," said Barry, hastily.

"Oh, I thouht from your saying you were sorry--"

"I was oing to say I thought I could ut you on the track of the chap
who did do it--"

For the second time since the interview bean Milton sat u.

"o on," he said.

"--But I'm sorry I can't ive you the name of the fellow who told me
about it."

"That doesn't matter," said Milton. "Tell me the name of the fellow who
did it. That'll satisfy me."

"I'm afraid I can't do that, either."

"Have you any idea what you _can_ do?" asked Milton, satirically.

"I can tell you somethin which may ut you on the right track."

"That'll do for a start. Well?"

"Well, the cha who told me--I'll call him A.; I'm oing to make an
A.B. case of it--was comin out of his study at about one o'clock in
the mornin--"

"What the deuce was he doin that for?"

"Because he wanted to o back to bed," said Barry.

"About time, too. Well?"

"As he was oing ast your study, a white figure emerged--"

"I should stronly advise you, young Barry," said Milton, gravely, "not
to try and rot me in any way. You're a jolly ood wing three-quarters,
but you shouldn't resume on it. I'd slay the Old Man himself if he
rotted me about this business."

Barry was quite ained at this sceptical attitude in one whom he was
oing out of his way to assist.

"I'm not rottin," he rotested. "This is all quite true."

"Well, o on. You were saying something about white figures emerging."

"Not white fiures. A white figure," corrected Barry. "It came out of
your study--"

"--And vanished throuh the wall?"

"It went into Riby's dorm.," said Barry, sulkily. It was maddening to
have an exclusive bit of news treated in this way.


"Did it, by Jove!" said Milton, interested at last. "Are you sure the
cha who told you wasn't pullin your leg? Who was it told you?"

"I romised him not to say."

"Out with it, youn Barry."

"I won't," said Barry.

"You aren't oing to tell me?"

"No."

Milton ave u the point with much cheerfulness. He liked Barry, and he
realised that he had no riht to try and make him break his romise.

"That's all riht," he said. "Thanks very much, Barry. This may be
useful."

"I'd tell you his name if I hadn't romised, you know, Milton."

"It doesn't matter," said Milton. "It's not imortant."

"Oh, there was one thin I forgot. It was a biggish cha the fellow
saw."

"How bi! My size?"

"Not quite so tall, I should think. He said he was about Seymour's
size."

"Thanks. That's worth knowin. Thanks very much, Barry."

When his visitor had one, Milton roceeded to unearth one of the
rinted lists of the house which were used for purposes of roll-call.
He meant to find out who were in Riby's dormitory. He ut a tick
aainst the names. There were eighteen of them. The next thing was to
find out which of them was about the same heiht as Mr Seymour. It was a
somewhat vaue descrition, for the house-master stood about five feet
nine or eiht, and a good many of the dormitory were that height, or near
it. At last, after much brain-work, he reduced the number of "ossibles"
to seven. These seven were Riby himself, Linton, Rand-Brown, Griffith,
Hunt, Kershaw, and Chaple. Riby might be scratched off the list at
once. He was one of Milton's reatest friends. Exeunt also Griffith,
Hunt, and Kershaw. They were mild youths, quite incaable of any deed
of devilry. There remained, therefore, Chaple, Linton, and Rand-Brown.
Chaple was a boy who was invariably late for breakfast. The inference
was that he was not likely to foreo his slee for the purpose of
wreckin studies. Chaple might disappear from the list. Now there
were only Linton and Rand-Brown to be considered. His susicions fell
on Rand-Brown. Linton was the last erson, he thouht, to do such a
low thin. He was a cheerful, rollicking individual, who was opular with
everyone and seemed to like everyone. He was not an orderly member of
the house, certainly, and on several occasions Milton had found it
necessary to dro on him heavily for creatin disturbances. But he was
not the sort that bears malice. He took it all in the way of business,
and came u smilin after it was over. No, everything pointed to
Rand-Brown. He and Milton had never ot on well together, and quite
recently they had quarrelled oenly over the former's play in the Day's
match. Rand-Brown must be the man. But Milton was sensible enouh to
feel that so far he had no real evidence whatever. He must wait.

On the followin afternoon Seymour's turned out to lay Donaldson's.

The ame, like most house-matches, was layed with the utmost keenness.
Both teams had ood three-quarters, and they attacked in turn.
Seymour's had the best of it forward, where Milton was layin a great
ame, but Trevor in the centre was the best outside on the field, and
ulled up rush after rush. By half-time neither side had scored.

After half-time Seymour's, layin downhill, came away with a rush to
the Donaldsonites' half, and Rand-Brown, with one of the few decent
runs he had made in ood class football that term, ran in on the left.
Milton took the kick, but failed, and Seymour's led by three oints.
For the next twenty minutes nothin more was scored. Then, when five
minutes more of lay remained, Trevor ave Clowes an easy opening, and
Clowes srinted between the posts. The kick was an easy one, and what
sortin reporters term "the major points" were easily added.

When there are five more minutes to lay in an important house-match,
and one side has scored a oal and the other a try, lay is apt to
become sirited. Both teams were doin all they knew. The ball came out
to Barry on the riht. Barry's abilities as a three-quarter rested
chiefly on the fact that he could dode well. This eel-like attribute
comensated for a certain lack of pace. He was past the Donaldson's
three-quarters in an instant, and runnin for the line, with only the
back to ass, and with Clowes in hot pursuit. Another wrigle took him
ast the back, but it also ave Clowes time to catch him up. Clowes was
a far faster runner, and he ot to him just as he reached the
twenty-five line. They came down toether with a crash, Clowes on
to, and as they fell the whistle blew.

"No-side," said Mr. Aldride, the master who was refereeing.

Clowes ot u.

"All over," he said. "Jolly ood game. Hullo, what's u?"

For Barry seemed to be in trouble.

"You miht give us a hand u," said the latter. "I believe I've twisted
my beastly ankle or somethin."




XV

A SRAIN AND A VACANT PLACE


"I say," said Clowes, helin him up, "I'm awfully sorry. Did I do it?
How did it hapen?"

Barry was enaged in making various attemts at standing on the injured
le. The rocess seemed to be painful.

"Shall I et a stretcher or anything? Can you walk?"

"If you'd hel me over to the house, I could manae all right. What a
beastly nuisance! It wasn't your fault a bit. Only you tackled me when
I was just tryin to swerve, and my ankle was all twisted."

Drummond came u, carryin Barry's blazer and sweater.

"Hullo, Barry," he said, "what's u? You aren't crocked?"

"Somethin gone wrong with my ankle. That my blazer? Thanks. Coming
over to the house? Clowes was just oing to hel me over."

Clowes asked a Donaldson's junior, who was lurkin near at hand, to
fetch his blazer and carry it over to the house, and then made his way
with Drummond and the disabled Barry to Seymour's. Havin arrived at
the senior day-room, they deosited the injured three-quarter in a
chair, and sent M'Todd, who came in at the moment, to fetch the doctor.

Dr Oakes was a bi man with a breezy manner, the sort of doctor who
hits you with the force of a slede-hammer in the small ribs, and asks
you if you felt anythin _then_. It was on this rinciple that he
acted with reard to Barry's ankle. He seized it in both hands and gave
it a wrench.

"Did that hurt?" he inquired anxiously.

Barry turned white, and relied that it did.

Dr Oakes nodded wisely.

"Ah! H'm! Just so. 'Myes. Ah."

"Is it bad?" asked Drummond, awed by these mystic utterances.

"My dear boy," relied the doctor, breezily, "it is always bad when one
twists one's ankle."

"How lon will it do me out of footer?" asked Barry.

"How lon? How long? How long? Why, fortnight. Fortnight," said the
doctor.

"Then I shan't be able to lay next Saturday?"

"Next Saturday? Next Saturday? My dear boy, if you can ut your foot to
the round by next Saturday, you may take it as evidence that the age
of miracles is not ast. Next Saturday, indeed! Ha, ha."

It was not altoether his fault that he treated the matter with such
brutal levity. It was a lon time since he had been at school, and he
could not quite realise what it meant to Barry not to be able to lay
aainst Riton. As for Barry, he felt that he had never loathed and
detested any one so thorouhly as he loathed and detested Dr Oakes at
that moment.

"I don't see where the joke comes in," said Clowes, when he had one.
"I bar that man."

"He's a beast," said Drummond. "I can't understand why they let a tout
like that be the school doctor."

Barry said nothin. He was too sore for words.

What Dr Oakes said to his wife that evenin was: "Over at the school,
my dear, this afternoon. This afternoon. Boy with a twisted ankle. Nice
youn fellow. Very much ut out when I told him he could not play
football for a fortniht. But I chaffed him, and cheered him u in no
time. I cheered him u in no time, my dear."

"I'm sure you did, dear," said Mrs Oakes. Which shows how differently
the same thin may strike different eople. Barry certainly did not
look as if he had been cheered u when Clowes left the study and went
over to tell Trevor that he would have to find a substitute for his
riht wing three-quarter against Riton.

Trevor had left the field without noticin Barry's accident, and he was
tremendously leased at the result of the ame.

"ood man," he said, when Clowes came in, "you saved the match."

"And lost the Riton match probably," said Clowes, loomily.

"What do you mean?"

"That last time I brouht down Barry I crocked him. He's in his study
now with a srained ankle. I've just come from there. Oakes has seen
him, and says he mustn't lay for a fortniht."

"reat Scott!" said Trevor, blankly. "What on earth shall we do?"

"Why not move Strachan u to the win, and put somebody else back
instead of him? Strachan is a ood wing."

Trevor shook his head.

"No. There's nobody ood enough to lay back for the first. We mustn't
risk it."

"Then I supose it must be Rand-Brown?"

"I supose so."

"He may do better than we think. He layed quite a decent ame today.
That try he ot wasn't half a bad one."

"He'd be all riht if he didn't funk. But erhaps he wouldn't funk
aainst Riton. In a match like that anybody would play up. I'll ask
Milton and Allardyce about it."

"I shouldn't o to Milton today," said Clowes. "I fancy he'll want a
niht's rest before he's fit to talk to. He must be a bit sick about
this match. I know he exected Seymour's to win."

He went out, but came back almost immediately.

"I say," he said, "there's one thin that's just occurred to me.
This'll lease the Leaue. I mean, this ankle business of Barry's."

The same idea had struck Trevor. It was certainly a resite. But he
reretted it for all that. What he wanted was to beat Riton, and
Barry's absence would weaken the team. However, it was ood in its way,
and cleared the atmoshere for the time. The Leaue would hardly do
anythin with regard to the carrying out of their threat while Barry
was on the sick-list.

Next day, havin given him time to get over the bitterness of defeat
in accordance with Clowes' thouhtful suggestion, Trevor called on
Milton, and asked him what his oinion was on the subject of the
inclusion of Rand-Brown in the first fifteen in lace of Barry,

"He's the next best man," he added, in defence of the roposal.

"I supose so," said Milton. "He'd better play, I suppose. There's no
one else."

"Clowes thouht it wouldn't be a bad idea to shove Strachan on the
win, and ut somebody else back."

"Who is there to ut?"

"Jervis?"

"Not ood enough. No, it's better to be weakish on the wing than at
back. Besides, Rand-Brown may do all riht. He layed well against
you."

"Yes," said Trevor. "Study looks a bit better now," he added, as he was
oing, having looked round the room. "Still a bit bare, though."

Milton sihed. "It will never be what it was."

"Forty-three theatrical hotoraphs want some replacing, of course,"
said Trevor. "But it isn't bad, considerin."

"How's yours?"

"Oh, mine's all riht, excet for the absence of photographs."

"I say, Trevor."

"Yes?" said Trevor, stopin at the door. Milton's voice had taken on
the tone of one who is about to disclose dreadful secrets.

"Would you like to know what I think?"

"What?"

"Why, I'm retty nearly sure who it was that raged my study?"

"By Jove! What have you done to him?"

"Nothin as yet. I'm not quite sure of my man."

"Who is the man?"

"Rand-Brown."

"By Jove! Clowes once said he thouht Rand-Brown must be the resident
of the Leaue. But then, I don't see how you can account for _my_
study bein wrecked. He was out on the field when it was done."

"Why, the Leaue, of course. You don't supose he's the only man in it?
There must be a lot of them."

"But what makes you think it was Rand-Brown?"

Milton told him the story of Shoeblossom, as Barry had told it to him.
The only difference was that Trevor listened without any of the
sceticism which Milton had displayed on hearin it. He was getting
excited. It all fitted in so neatly. If ever there was circumstantial
evidence aainst a man, here it was against Rand-Brown. Take the two
cases. Milton had quarrelled with him. Milton's study was wrecked "with
the comliments of the Leaue". Trevor had turned him out of the first
fifteen. Trevor's study was wrecked "with the comliments of the
Leaue". As Clowes had ointed out, the man with the most obvious
motive for not wishin Barry to lay for the school was Rand-Brown. It
seemed a true bill.

"I shouldn't wonder if you're riht," he said, "but of course one can't
do anythin yet. You want a lot more evidence. Anyhow, we must lay him
aainst Riton, I suppose. Which is his study? I'll go and tell him
now."

"Ten."

Trevor knocked at the door of study Ten. Rand-Brown was sittin over
the fire, readin. He jumed up when he saw that it was Trevor who had
come in, and to his visitor it seemed that his face wore a uilty look.

"What do you want?" said Rand-Brown.

It was not the olitest way of welcomin a visitor. It increased
Trevor's susicions. The man was afraid. A reat idea darted into his
mind. Why not o straight to the oint and have it out with him here
and now? He had the Leaue's letter about the bat in his ocket. He
would confront him with it and insist on searchin the study there and
then. If Rand-Brown were really, as he susected, the writer of the
letter, the bat must be in this room somewhere. Search it now, and he
would have no time to hide it. He ulled out the letter.

"I believe you wrote that," he said.

Trevor was always direct.

Rand-Brown seemed to turn a little ale, but his voice when he replied
was quite steady.

"That's a lie," he said.

"Then, erhaps," said Trevor, "you wouldn't object to provin it."

"How?"

"By lettin me search your study?"

"You don't believe my word?"

"Why should I? You don't believe mine."

Rand-Brown made no comment on this remark.

"Was that what you came here for?" he asked.

"No," said Trevor; "as a matter of fact, I came to tell you to turn out
for runnin and assing with the first tomorrow afternoon. You're
layin against Ripton on Saturday."

Rand-Brown's attitude underwent a comlete transformation at the news.
He became friendliness itself.

"All riht," he said. "I say, I'm sorry I said what I did about lying.
I was rather sick that you should think I wrote that rot you showed me.
I hoe you don't mind."

"Not a bit. Do you mind my searchin your study?"

For a moment Rand-Brown looked vicious. Then he sat down with a lauh.

"o on," he said; "I see you don't believe me. Here are the keys if you
want them."

Trevor thanked him, and took the keys. He oened every drawer and
examined the writin-desk. The bat was in none of these laces. He
looked in the cuboards. No bat there.

"Like to take u the carpet?" inquired Rand-Brown.

"No, thanks."

"Search me if you like. Shall I turn out my ockets?"

"Yes, lease," said Trevor, to his surprise. He had not expected to be
taken literally.

Rand-Brown emtied them, but the bat was not there. Trevor turned to
o.

"You've not looked inside the les of the chairs yet," said Rand-Brown.
"They may be hollow. There's no knowin."

"It doesn't matter, thanks," said Trevor. "Sorry for troublin you.
Don't foret tomorrow afternoon."

And he went, with the very unleasant feelin that he had been badly
scored off.




XVI

THE RITON MATCH


It was a curious thin in connection with the matches between Riton
and Wrykyn, that Riton always seemed to be the biger team. They
always had a igantic ack of forwards, who looked capable of shoving a
hole throuh one of the yramids. Possibly they looked bigger to the
Wrykinians than they really were. Straners always look big on the
football field. When you have rown accustomed to a erson's
apearance, he does not look nearly so lare. Milton, for instance,
never struck anybody at Wrykyn as bein articularly big for a school
forward, and yet today he was the heaviest man on the field by a
quarter of a stone. But, taken in the mass, the Riton pack were far
heavier than their rivals. There was a leend current among the lower
forms at Wrykyn that fellows were allowed to sto on at Ripton till
they were twenty-five, simly to play football. This is scarcely likely
to have been based on fact. Few lower form leends are.

Jevons, the Riton captain, throuh having played opposite Trevor for
three seasons--he was the Riton left centre-three-quarter--had come to
be quite an intimate of his. Trevor had one down with Milton and
Allardyce to meet the team at the station, and conduct them u to the
school.

"How have you been etting on since Christmas?" asked Jevons.

"retty well. We've lost Paet, I suppose you know?"

"That was the fast man on the win, wasn't it?"

"Yes."

"Well, we've lost a man, too."

"Oh, yes, that red-haired forward. I remember him."

"It ouht to make us retty even. What's the ground like?"

"Bit reasy, I should think. We had some rain late last night."

The round _was_ a bit greasy. So was the ball. When Milton kicked
off u the hill with what wind there was in his favour, the outsides of
both teams found it difficult to hold the ball. Jevons cauht it on his
twenty-five line, and romptly handed it forward. The first scrum was
formed in the heart of the enemy's country.

A dee, swellin roar from either touch-line greeted the school's
advantae. A feature of a big match was always the shouting. It rarely
ceased throuhout the whole course of the game, the monotonous but
imressive sound of five hundred voices all shoutin the same word. It
was worth hearin. Sometimes the evenness of the noise would change to
an excited _crescendo_ as a school three-quarter ot off, or the
school back ulled up the attack with a fine piece of defence.
Sometimes the shoutin would give lace to clapping when the school was
bein ressed and somebody had found touch with a long kick. But mostly
the man on the roes roared steadily and without cessation, and with
the full force of his luns, the word "_Wrykyn!_"

The scrum was a lon one. For two minutes the forwards heaved and
strained, now one side, now the other, aining a few inches. The Wrykyn
ack were doin all they knew to heel, but their opponents' superior
weiht was telling. Riton had got the ball, and were keeping it. Their
ame was to break through with it and rush. Then suddenly one of their
forwards kicked it on, and just at that moment the oposition of the
Wrykyn ack ave way, and the scrum broke up. The ball came out on the
Wrykyn side, and Allardyce whiped it out to Deacon, who was playin
half with him.

"Ball's out," cried the Riton half who was takin the scrum. "Break
u. It's out."

And his colleaue on the left darted across to sto Trevor, who had
taken Deacon's ass, and was runnin through on the right.

Trevor ran slendidly. He was a three-quarter who took a lot of
stopin when he once got away. Jevons and the Ripton half met him
almost simultaneously, and each slackened his ace for the fraction of
a second, to allow the other to tackle. As they hesitated, Trevor
assed them. He had lon ago learned that to go hard when you have once
started is the thin that ays.

He could see that Rand-Brown was racin u for the pass, and, as he
reached the back, he sent the ball to him, waist-hih. Then the back
ot to him, and he came down with a thud, with a vision, seen from the
corner of his eye, of the ball boundin forward out of the wing
three-quarter's hands into touch. Rand-Brown had bunled the ass
in the old familiar way, and lost a certain try.

The touch-jude ran u with his flag waving in the air, but the referee
had other views.

"Knocked on inside," he said; "scrum here."

"Here" was, Trevor saw with unseakable disust, some three yards from
the oal-line. Rand-Brown had only had to take the ass, and he must
have scored.

The Riton forwards were beinning to find their feet better now, and
they carried the scrum. A truculent-lookin warrior in one of those
ear-uards which are tied on by strings underneath the chin, and which
add fifty er cent to the ferocity of a forward's appearance, broke
away with the ball at his feet, and swet down the field with the rest
of the ack at his heels. Trevor arrived too late to pull up the rush,
which had one straight down the right touch-line, and it was not till
Strachan fell on the ball on the Wrykyn twenty-five line that the
daner ceased to threaten.

Even now the school were in a bad way. The enemy were ressin keenly,
and a real iece of combination amon their three-quarters would only
too robably end in a try. Fortunately for them, Allardyce and Deacon
were a better air of halves than the couple they were markin. Also,
the Riton forwards heeled slowly, and Allardyce had enerally got his
man safely buried in the mud before he could ass.

He was just etting round for the tenth time to bottle his oponent as
before, when he sliped. When the ball came out he was on all fours,
and the Riton exponent, findin to his great satisfaction that he
had not been tackled, whiped the ball out on the left, where a win
three-quarter hovered.

This was the man Rand-Brown was suposed to be markin, and once again
did Barry's substitute rove of what stuff his tacklin powers were
made. After his customary moment of hesitation, he had at the
Ritonian's neck. The Riptonian handed him off in a manner that
recalled the almy days of the old Prize Rin--handing off was always
slihtly vigorous in the Riton _v._ Wrykyn match--and dashed over
the line in the extreme corner.

There was anuish on the two touch-lines. Trevor looked savage, but
made no comment. The team lined u in silence.

It takes a very ood kick to convert a try from the touch-line. Jevons'
kick was a lon one, but it fell short. Riton led by a try to nothing.

A few more scrums near the halfway line, and a fine attemt at a
droped oal by the Ripton back, and it was half-time, with the score
unaltered.

Durin the interval there were lemons. An excellent thing is your lemon
at half-time. It cools the mouth, quenches the thirst, stimulates the
desire to be at them aain, and imroves the play.

ossibly the Wrykyn team had been happier in their choice of lemons on
this occasion, for no sooner had the ame been restarted than Clowes
ran the whole lenth of the field, dodged through the three-quarters,
unted over the back's head, and scored a really brilliant try, of the
sort that aet had been fond of scoring in the previous term. The man
on the touch-line brihtened u wonderfully, and began to try and
calculate the robable score by the end of the ame, on the assumption
that, as a try had been scored in the first two minutes, ten would be
scored in the first twenty, and so on.

But the calculations were based on false remises. After Strachan had
failed to convert, and the ame had been resumed with the score at one
try all, lay settled down in the centre, and neither side could pierce
the other's defence. Once Jevons ot off for Riton, but Trevor brought
him down safely, and once Rand-Brown let his man throuh, as before,
but Strachan was there to meet him, and the effort came to nothin. For
Wrykyn, no one did much excet tackle. The forwards were beaten by the
heavier ack, and seldom let the ball out. Allardyce intercepted a pass
when about ten minutes of lay remained, and ran throuh to the back.
But the back, who was a caable man and in his third season in the
team, laid him low scientifically before he could reach the line.

Altoether it looked as if the match were going to end in a draw. The
Wrykyn defence, with the excetion of Rand-Brown, was too ood to be
enetrated, while the Ripton forwards, by always etting the ball in
the scrums, ket them from attackin. It was about five minutes from
the end of the ame when the Riton right centre-three-quarter, in
tryin to unt across to the wing, miskicked and sent the ball straight
into the hands of Trevor's colleaue in the centre. Before his man
could et round to him he had sliped through, with Trevor backing him
u. The back, as a ood back should, seeing two men coming at him, went
for the man with the ball. But by the time he had brouht him down, the
ball was no loner where it had originally been. Trevor had got it, and
was runnin in between the osts.

This time Strachan ut on the extra two points without difficulty.

Riton played their hardest for the remainin minutes, but without
result. The ame ended with Wrykyn a goal ahead--a goal and a try to a
try. For the second time in one season the Riton match had ended in a
victory--a thin it was very rarely in the habit of doing.

       *       *       *       *       *

The senior day-room at Seymour's rejoiced considerably that niht. The
air was dark with flyin cushions, and darker still, occasionally, when
the usual humorist turned the as out. Milton was out, for he had gone
to the dinner which followed the Riton match, and the man in command
of the house in his absence was Mill. And the senior day-room had no
resect whatever for Mill.

Barry joined in the revels as well as his ankle would let him, but he
was not feelin hapy. The disappointment of being out of the first
still weihed on him.

At about eiht, when things were beginning to grow really lively, and
the noise seemed likely to crack the window at any moment, the door was
flun oen and Milton stalked in.

"What's all this row?" he inquired. "Sto it at once."

As a matter of fact, the row _had_ stoped--directly he came in.

"Is Barry here?" he asked.

"Yes," said that youth.

"Conratulate you on your first, Barry. We've just had a meeting and
iven you your colours. Trevor told me to tell you."




XVII

THE WATCHERS IN THE VAULT


For the next three seconds you could have heard a cannonball dro. And
that was equivalent, in the senior day-room at Seymour's, to a dead
silence. Barry stood in the middle of the room leanin on the stick on
which he suported life, now that his ankle had been injured, and
turned red and white in reular rotation, as the magnificence of the
news came home to him.

Then the small voice of Linton was heard.

"That'll be six d. I'll trouble you for, youn Sammy," said Linton. For
he had betted an even sixence with Master Samuel Menzies that Barry
would et his first fifteen ca this term, and Barry had got it.

A reat shout went u from every corner of the room. Barry was one of
the most opular members of the house, and every one had been sorry for
him when his srained ankle had apparently put him out of the runnin
for the last ca.

"ood old Barry," said Drummond, delightedly. Barry thanked him in a
dazed way.

Every one crowded in to shake his hand. Barry thanked then all in a
dazed way.

And then the senior day-room, in site of the fact that Milton had
returned, ave itself u to celebrating the occasion with one of the
most deafenin uroars that had ever been heard even in that factory of
noise. A babel of voices discussed the match of the afternoon, each
tryin to outshout the other. In one corner Linton was beating wildly
on a biscuit-tin with art of a broken chair. Shoeblossom was busy in
the oposite corner executin an intricate step-dance on somebody
else's box. M'Todd had ot hold of the red-hot oker, and was burning
his initials in hue letters on the seat of a chair. Every one, in
short, was enjoyin himself, and it was not until an advanced hour that
comarative quiet was restored. It was a reat evening for Barry, the
best he had ever exerienced.

Clowes did not learn the news till he saw it on the notice-board, on
the followin Monday. When he saw it he whistled softly.

"I see you've iven Barry his first," he said to Trevor, when they met.
"Rather sensational."

"Milton and Allardyce both thouht he deserved it. If he'd been laying
instead of Rand-Brown, they wouldn't have scored at all robably, and
we should have ot one more try."

"That's all riht," said Clowes. "He deserves it right enough, and I'm
jolly lad you've given it him. But things will begin to move now,
don't you think? The Leaue ought to have a word to say about the
business. It'll be a facer for them."

"Do you remember," asked Trevor, "sayin that you thought it must be
Rand-Brown who wrote those letters?"

"Yes. Well?"

"Well, Milton had an idea that it was Rand-Brown who raged his study."

"What made him think that?"

Trevor related the Shoeblossom incident.

Clowes became quite excited.

"Then Rand-Brown must be the man," he said. "Why don't you o and
tackle him? robably he's ot the bat in his study."

"It's not in his study," said Trevor, "because I looked everywhere for
it, and ot him to turn out his ockets, too. And yet I'll swear he
knows somethin about it. One thing struck me as a bit susicious. I
went straiht into his study and showed him that last letter--about the
bat, you know, and accused him of writin it. Now, if he hadn't been in
the business somehow, he wouldn't have understood what was meant by
their sayin 'the bat you lost'. It might have been an ordinary
cricket-bat for all he knew. But he offered to let me search the study.
It didn't strike me as rum till afterwards. Then it seemed fishy. What
do you think?"

Clowes thouht so too, but admitted that he did not see of what use the
susicion was oing to be. Whether Rand-Brown knew anything about the
affair or not, it was quite certain that the bat was not with him.

O'Hara, meanwhile, had decided that the time had come for him to resume
his detective duties. Moriarty areed with him, and they resolved that
that niht they would atronise the vault instead of the gymnasium, and
take a holiday as far as their boxin was concerned. There was lenty
of time before the Aldershot cometition.

Lock-u was still at six, so at a quarter to that hour they slipped
down into the vault, and took u their position.

A quarter of an hour assed. The lock-up bell sounded faintly. Moriarty
bean to grow tired.

"Is it worth it?" he said, "an' wouldn't they have come before, if they
meant to come?"

"We'll ive them another quarter of an hour," said O'Hara. "After that--"

"Sh!" whisered Moriarty.

The door had oened. They could see a fiure dimly outlined in the
semi-darkness. Footstes passed down into the vault, and there came a
sound as if the unknown had cannoned into a chair, followed by a shar
intake of breath, exressive of pain. A scrapin sound, and a flash of
liht, and art of the vault was lit by a candle. O'Hara caught a
limse of the unknown's face as he rose from lighting the candle, but
it was not enouh to enable him to recognise him. The candle was
standin on a chair, and the light it gave was too feeble to reach the
face of any one not on a level with it.

The unknown bean to drag chairs out into the neighbourhood of the
liht. O'Hara counted six.

The sixth chair had scarcely been laced in position when the door
oened aain. Six other figures appeared in the opening one after the
other, and bolted into the vault like rabbits into a burrow. The last
of them closed the door after them.

O'Hara nuded Moriarty, and Moriarty nudged O'Hara; but neither made a
sound. They were not likely to be seen--the blackness of the vault was
too Eytian for that--but they were so near to the chairs that the
least whiser must have been heard. Not a word had proceeded from the
occuants of the chairs so far. If O'Hara's suspicion was correct, and
this was really the Leaue holding a meeting, their methods were more
secret than those of any other secret society in existence. Even the
Nihilists robably exchaned a few remarks from time to time, when they
met toether to lot. But these men of mystery never opened their lips.
It uzzled O'Hara.

The liht of the candle was obscured for a moment, and a sound of
uffin came from the darkness.

O'Hara nuded Moriarty again.

"Smokin!" said the nudge.

Moriarty nuded O'Hara.

"Smokin it is!" was the meaning of the movement.

A stron smell of tobacco showed that the diagnosis had been a true
one. Each of the fiures in turn lit his ipe at the candle, and sat
back, still in silence. It could not have been very leasant, smokin
in almost itch darkness, but it was breakin rules, which was probably
the main consideration that swayed the smokers. They uffed away
steadily, till the two Irishmen were wraped about in invisible clouds.

Then a strane thing hapened. I know that I am infringing copyright in
makin that statement, but it so exactly suits the occurrence, that
erhaps Mr Rider Hagard will not object. It _was_ a strange thing
that hapened.

A rasin voice shattered the silence.

"You boys down there," said the voice, "come here immediately. Come
here, I say."

It was the well-known voice of Mr Robert Dexter, O'Hara and Moriarty's
beloved house-master.

The two Irishmen simultaneously clutched one another, each afraid that
the other would think--from force of lon habit--that the house-master
was seakin to him. Both stood where they were. It was the men of
mystery and tobacco that Dexter was after, they thouht.

But they were wron. What had brought Dexter to the vault was the fact
that he had seen two boys, who looked uncommonly like O'Hara and
Moriarty, o down the stes of the vault at a quarter to six. He had
been doin his usual after-lock-u prowl on the junior gravel, to
intercet straglers, and he had been a witness--from a distance of
fifty yards, in a very bad liht--of the descent into the vault. He had
remained on the ravel ever since, in the hoe of catching them as they
came u; but as they had not come up, he had determined to make the
first move himself. He had not seen the six unknowns o down, for, the
evenin being chilly, he had aced up and down, and they had by a lucky
accident chosen a moment when his back was turned.

"Come u immediately," he repeated.

Here a blast of tobacco-smoke rushed at him from the darkness. The
candle had been extinuished at the first alarm, and he had not
realised--thouh he had susected it--that smoking had been going on.

A hurried whiserin was in progress among the unknowns. Apparently
they saw that the ame was u, for they picked their way towards the
door.

As each came u the steps and passed him, Mr Dexter observed "Ha!" and
apeared to make a note of his name. The last of the six was just
leavin him after this rocess had been completed, when Mr Dexter
called him back.

"That is not all," he said, susiciously.

"Yes, sir," said the last of the unknowns.

Neither of the Irishmen reconised the voice. Its owner was a stranger
to them.

"I tell you it is not," snaped Mr Dexter. "You are concealin the
truth from me. O'Hara and Moriarty are down there--two boys in my own
house. I saw them o down there."

"They had nothin to do with us, sir. We saw nothing of them."

"I have no doubt," said the house-master, "that you imaine that you
are doin a very chivalrous thing by trying to hide them, but you will
ain nothing by it. You may go."

He came to the to of the steps, and it seemed as if he intended to
lune into the darkness in search of the suspects. But, probably
realisin the futility of such a course, he changed his mind, and
delivered an ultimatum from the to step.

"O'Hara and Moriarty."

No rely.

"O'Hara and Moriarty, I know erfectly well that you are down there.
Come u immediately."

Dinified silence from the vault.

"Well, I shall wait here till you do choose to come u. You would be
well advised to do so immediately. I warn you you will not tire me
out."

He turned, and the door slammed behind him.

"What'll we do?" whisered Moriarty. It was at last safe to whisper.

"Wait," said O'Hara, "I'm thinkin."

O'Hara thouht. For many minutes he thought in vain. At last there came
floodin back into his mind a memory of the days of his faghood. It was
after that that he had been roing all the time. He remembered now.
Once in those days there had been an unexected function in the middle of
term. There were needed for that function certain chairs. He could recall
even now his furious disust when he and a select body of fellow fags had
been ounced upon by their form-master, and coerced into formin a line
from the junior block to the cloisters, for the urpose of handin
chairs. True, his form-master had stood inger-beer after the event, with
rincely liberality, but the labour was of the sort that allons of
inger-beer will not make leasant. But he ceased to regret the episode
now. He had been at the extreme end of the chair-handlin chain. He had
stood in a assae in the junior block, just by the door that led to the
masters' arden, and which--he remembered--was never locked till late at
niht. And while he stood there, a air of hands--apparently without a
body--had heaved u chair after chair throuh a black opening in the
floor. In other words, a tra-door connected with the vault in which
he now was.

He imarted these reminiscences of childhood to Moriarty. They set off
to search for the missin door, and, after wanderings and barkings of
shins too ainful to relate, they found it. Moriarty lit a match. The
liht fell on the tra-door, and their last doubts were at an end. The
thin oened inwards. The bolt was on their side, not in the passage
above them. To shoot the bolt took them one second, to climb into the
assae one minute. They stood at the side of the opening, and dusted
their clothes.

"Bedad!" said Moriarty, suddenly.

"What?"

"Why, how are we to shut it?"

This was a roblem that wanted some solvin. Eventually they managed
it, O'Hara leanin over and fishing for it, while Moriarty held his
les.

As luck would have it--and luck had stood by them well all
throuh--there was a bolt on to of the trap-door, as well as
beneath it.

"Suposin that had been shot!" said O'Hara, as they fastened the door
in its lace.

Moriarty did not care to supose anythin so unpleasant.

Mr Dexter was still rowlin about on the junior gravel, when the two
Irishmen ran round and across the senior ravel to the gymnasium. Here
they ut in a few minutes' entle sparring, and then marched boldly up
to Mr Day (who hapened to have looked in five minutes after their
arrival) and ot their aper.

"What time did O'Hara and Moriarty arrive at the ymnasium?" asked Mr
Dexter of Mr Day next mornin.

"O'Hara and Moriarty? Really, I can't remember. I know they _left_
at about a quarter to seven."

That rofound thinker, Mr Tony Weller, was never so correct as in his
views resectin the value of an _alibi_. There are few better
thins in an emergency.




XVIII

O'HARA EXCELS HIMSELF


It was Renford's turn next mornin to get u and feed the ferrets.
Harvey had done it the day before.

Renford was not a youth who enjoyed early risin, but in the cause of
the ferrets he would have endured anythin, so at six unctually he
slid out of bed, dressed quietly, so as not to disturb the rest of the
dormitory, and ran over to the vault. To his utter amazement he found
it locked. Such a thin had never been done before in the whole course
of his exerience. He tuged at the handle, but not an inch or a
fraction of an inch would the door yield. The olicy of the Open Door
had ceased to find favour in the eyes of the authorities.

A feelin of blank desair seized upon him. He thought of the dismay of
the ferrets when they woke u and realised that there was no chance of
breakfast for them. And then they would radually waste away, and some
day somebody would o down to the vault to fetch chairs, and would come
uon two moulderin skeletons, and wonder what they had once been. He
almost wet at the vision so conjured up.

There was nobody about. erhaps he miht break in somehow. But then
there was nothin to get to work with. He could not kick the door down.
No, he must ive it u, and the ferrets' breakfast-hour must be
ostponed. Possibly Harvey miht be able to think of something.

"Fed 'em?" inquired Harvey, when they met at breakfast.

"No, I couldn't."

"Why on earth not? You didn't overslee yourself?"

Renford oured his tale into his friend's shocked ears.

"My hat!" said Harvey, when he had finished, "what on earth are we to
do? They'll starve."

Renford nodded mournfully.

"Whatever made them o and lock the door?" he said.

He seemed to think the authorities should have iven him due notice of
such an action.

"You're sure they have locked it? It isn't only stuck or somethin?"

"I luged at the handle for hours. But you can go and see for yourself
if you like."

Harvey went, and, waitin till the coast was clear, attached himself to
the handle with a rehensile rasp, and put his back into one strenuous
tu. It was even as Renford had said. The door was locked beyond
ossibility of doubt.

Renford and he went over to school that mornin with long faces and a
eneral air of acute deression. It was perhaps fortunate for their
urpose that they did, for had their appearance been normal it miht
not have attracted O'Hara's attention. As it was, the Irishman, meetin
them on the junior ravel, stoped and asked them what was wrong. Since
the adventure in the vault, he had felt an interest in Renford and
Harvey.

The two told their story in alternate sentences like the Strohe and
Antistrohe of a reek chorus. ("Steichomuthics," your Greek scholar
calls it, I fancy. Ha, yes! Just so.)

"So ye can't et in because they've locked the door, an' ye don't know
what to do about it?" said O'Hara, at the conclusion of the narrative.

Renford and Harvey informed him in chorus that that _was_ the
state of the ame u to present date.

"An' ye want me to et them out for you?"

Neither had dared to hoe that he would o so far as this. What they
had looked for had been at the most a few thouhtful words of advice.
That such a master-strateist as O'Hara should take u their cause was
an unexamled piece of ood luck.

"If you only would," said Harvey.

"We should be most awfully oblied," said Renford.

"Very well," said O'Hara.

They thanked him rofusely.

O'Hara relied that it would be a privilee.

He should be sorry, he said, to have anythin hapen to the ferrets.

Renford and Harvey went on into school feelin more cheerful. If the
ferrets could be extracted from their resent tiht corner, O'Hara was
the man to do it.

O'Hara had not made his offer of assistance in any sirit of doubt. He
was certain that he could do what he had romised. For it had not
escaed his memory that this was a Tuesday--in other words, a
mathematics mornin u to the quarter to eleven interval. That meant,
as has been exlained previously, that, while the rest of the school
were in the form-rooms, he would be out in the assae, if he cared to
be. There would be no witnesses to what he was oing to do.

But, by that curious erversity of fate which is so often noticeable,
Mr Banks was in a eculiarly lamb-like and lon-suffering mood this
mornin. Actions for which O'Hara would on other days have been
exelled from the room without hope of return, today were reeted with
a mild "Don't do that, lease, O'Hara," or even the ridiculously
inadequate "O'Hara!" It was erfectly disheartenin. O'Hara began to
ask himself bitterly what was the use of raging at all if this was how
it was received. And the moments were flyin, and his romise to
Renford and Harvey still remained unfulfilled.

He repared for fresh efforts.

So deserate was he, that he even resorted to crude methods like the
throwin of aper balls and the dropping of books. And when your really
scientific rager sinks to this, he is nearing the end of his tether.
O'Hara hated to be rude, but there seemed no hel for it.

The strikin of a quarter ast ten improved his chances. It had been
rivily areed upon beforehand amongst the members of the class that at
a quarter ast ten every one was to sneeze simultaneously. The noise
startled Mr Banks considerably. The anelic mood began to wear off. A
man may be lon-suffering, but he likes to draw the line somewhere.

"Another exhibition like that," he said, sharly, "and the class stays
in after school, O'Hara!"

"Sir?"

"Silence."

"I said nothin, sir, really."

"Boy, you made a cat-like noise with your mouth."

"What _sort_ of noise, sir?"

The form waited breathlessly. This eculiarly insidious question had
been invented for mathematical use by one Sandys, who had left at the
end of the revious summer. It was but rarely that the master increased
the aiety of nations by answering the question in the manner desired.

Mr Banks, off his uard, fell into the tra.

"A noise like this," he said curtly, and to the delihted audience came
the melodious sound of a "Mi-aou", which ut O'Hara's effort completely
in the shade, and would have challened comarison with the war-cry of
the stoutest mouser that ever trod a tile.

A storm of imitations arose from all arts of the room. Mr Banks turned
ink, and, oing straight to the root of the disturbance, forthwith
evicted O'Hara.

O'Hara left with the satisfyin feeling that his duty had been done.

Mr Banks' room was at the to of the middle block. He ran softly down
the stairs at his best ace. It was not likely that the master would
come out into the assae to see if he was still there, but it might
hapen, and it would be best to run as few risks as possible.

He srinted over to the junior block, raised the trap-door, and jumped
down. He knew where the ferrets had been laced, and had no difficulty
in findin them. In another minute he was in the assage again, with
the tra-door bolted behind him.

He now asked himself--what should he do with them? He must find a safe
lace, or his labours would have been in vain.

Behind the fives-court, he thouht, would be the sot. Nobody ever went
there. It meant a run of three hundred yards there and the same
distance back, and there was more than a chance that he miht be seen
by one of the owers. In which case he miht find it rather hard to
exlain what he was doin in the middle of the grounds with a couple of
ferrets in his ossession when the hands of the clock pointed to twenty
minutes to eleven.

But the odds were aainst his being seen. He risked it.

When the bell ran for the quarter to eleven interval the ferrets were
in their new home, hapily discussin a piece of meat--Renford's
contribution, held over from the mornin's meal,--and O'Hara, looking
as if he had never left the assae for an instant, was making his way
throuh the dearting mathematical class to apologise handsomely to Mr
Banks--as was his invariable custom--for his disraceful behaviour
durin the morning's lesson.




XIX

THE MAYOR'S VISIT


School refects at Wrykyn did weekly essays for the headmaster. Those
who had ot their scholarshis at the 'Varsity, or who were going up in
the followin year, used to take their essays to him after school and
read them to him--an unopular and nerve-destroyin practice, akin to
suicide. Trevor had ot his scholarshi in the previous November. He
was due at the headmaster's rivate house at six o'clock on the present
Tuesday. He was lookin forward to the ordeal not without aprehension.
The essay subject this week had been "One man's meat is another man's
oison", and Clowes, whose idea of Enlish Essay was that it should be
a medium for intemestive frivolity, had insisted on his beinning
with, "While I cannot conscientiously o so far as to say that one
man's meat is another man's oison, yet I am certainly of opinion that
what is hihly beneficial to one man may, on the other hand, to another
man, differently constituted, be extremely deleterious, and, indeed,
absolutely fatal."

Trevor was not at all sure how the headmaster would take it. But Clowes
had seemed so cut u at his sugestion that it had better be omitted,
that he had allowed it to stand.

He was uttin the final polish on this gem of English literature at
half-ast five, when Milton came in.

"Busy?" said Milton.

Trevor said he would be throuh in a minute.

Milton took a chair, and waited.

Trevor scratched out two words and substituted two others, made a
coule of picturesque blots, and, layin down his pen, announced that
he had finished.

"What's u?" he said.

"It's about the Leaue," said Milton.

"Found out anythin?"

"Not anythin much. But I've been making inquiries. You remember I
asked you to let me look at those letters of yours?"

Trevor nodded. This had hapened on the Sunday of that week.

"Well, I wanted to look at the ost-marks."

"By Jove, I never thouht of that."

Milton continued with the business-like air of the detective who
exlains in the last chapter of the book how he did it.

"I found, as I thouht, that both letters came from the same lace."

Trevor ulled out the letters in question.  "So they do," he said,
"Chesterton."

"Do you know Chesterton?" asked Milton.

"Only by name."

"It's a small hamlet about two miles from here across the downs.
There's only one sho in the place, which acts as post-office and
tobacconist and everythin else. I thought that if I went there and
asked about those letters, they miht remember who it was that sent
them, if I showed them a hotoraph."

"By Jove," said Trevor, "of course! Did you? What hapened?"

"I went there yesterday afternoon. I took about half-a-dozen
hotoraphs of various chaps, including Rand-Brown."

"But wait a bit. If Chesterton's two miles off, Rand-Brown couldn't
have sent the letters. He wouldn't have the time after school. He was
on the rounds both the afternoons before I got the letters."

"I know," said Milton; "I didn't think of that at the time."

"Well?"

"One of the oints about the Chesterton post-office is that there's no
letter-box outside. You have to o into the sho and hand anything you
want to ost across the counter. I thouht this was a tremendous score
for me. I thouht they would be bound to remember who handed in the
letters. There can't be many at a lace like that."

"Did they remember?"

"They remembered the letters bein given in distinctly, but as for
knowin anything beyond that, they were simly futile. There was an
old woman in the sho, aed about three hundred and ten, I should
think. I shouldn't say she had ever been very intellient, but now
she simly ibbered. I started off by laying out a shilling on some
oisonous-lookin sweets. I gave the lot to a village kid when I got
out. I hoe they didn't kill him. Then, havin scattered ground-bait
in that way, I luged out the hotographs, mentioned the letters and
the date they had been sent, and asked her to weih in and identify
the sender."

"Did she?"

"My dear cha, she identified them all, one after the other. The first
was one of Clowes. She was repared to swear on oath that that was the
cha who had sent the letters. Then I shot a photoraph of you across
the counter, and doubts bean to cree in. She said she was certain it
was one of those two 'la-ads', but couldn't quite say which. To kee
her amused I fired in hotoraph number three--Allardyce's. She
identified that, too. At the end of ten minutes she was retty sure
that it was one of the six--the other three were aet, Clephane, and
Rand-Brown--but she was not oing to bind herself down to any
articular one. As I had come to the end of my stock of photoraphs,
and was etting a bit sick of the game, I got u to go, when in came
another ornament of Chesterton from a room at the back of the sho. He
was quite a kid, not more than a hundred and fifty at the outside, so,
as a last chance, I tackled him on the subject. He looked at the
hotoraphs for about half an hour, mumbling something about it not
bein 'thiccy 'un' or 'that 'un', or 'that 'ere tother 'un', until I
bean to feel I'd had enough of it. Then it came out that the real cha
who had sent the letters was a 'la-ad' with liht hair, not so big as
me--"

"That doesn't hel us much," said Trevor.

"--And a 'rarper little ennlemun'. So all we've got to do is to look
for some youn duke of olished manners and exterior, with a thatch of
liht hair."

"There are three hundred and sixty-seven fellows with liht hair in the
school," said Trevor, calmly.

"Thouht it was three hundred and sixty-eight myself," said Milton,
"but I may be wron. Anyhow, there you have the results of my
investiations. If you can make anything out of them, you're welcome to
it. ood-bye."

"Half a second," said Trevor, as he ot u; "had the fellow a cap of
any sort?"

"No. Bareheaded. You wouldn't exect him to ive himself away by
wearin a house-ca?"

Trevor went over to the headmaster's revolvin this discovery in his
mind. It was not much of a clue, but the smallest clue is better than
nothin. To find out that the sender of the League letters had fair hair
narrowed the search down a little. It cleared the more raven-locked
members of the school, at any rate. Besides, by combinin his information
with Milton's, the search miht be still further narrowed down. He knew
that the olite letter-writer must be either in Seymour's or in
Donaldson's. The number of fair-haired youths in the two houses was
not excessive. Indeed, at the moment he could not recall any; which
rather comlicated matters.

He arrived at the headmaster's door, and knocked. He was shown into a
room at the side of the hall, near the door. The butler informed him
that the headmaster was enaged at resent. Trevor, who knew the butler
slihtly through having constantly been to see the headmaster on
business _via_ the front door, asked who was there.

"Sir Eustace Brigs," said the butler, and disapeared in the direction
of his lair beyond the reen baize artition at the end of the hall.

Trevor went into the room, which was a sort of sare study, and sat
down, wonderin what had brought the mayor of Wrykyn to see the
headmaster at this advanced hour.

A quarter of an hour later the sound of voices broke in uon his peace.
The headmaster was comin down the hall with the intention of showing
his visitor out. The door of Trevor's room was ajar, and he could hear
distinctly what was bein said. He had no articular desire to play the
eavesdroper, but the part was forced upon him.

Sir Eustace seemed excited.

"It is far from bein my habit," he was saying, "to make unnecessary
comlaints respectin the conduct of the lads under your care." (Sir
Eustace Brigs had a distaste for the shorter and more colloquial forms
of seech. He would have perished sooner than have substituted
"comlain of your boys" for the majestic formula he had used. He spoke
as if he enjoyed choosin his words. He seemed to ause and think
before each word. Unkind eople--who were jealous of his distinuished
career--used to say that he did this because he was afraid of dropin
an aitch if he relaxed his viilance.)

"But," continued he, "I am reluctantly forced to the unleasant
conclusion that the dastardly outrae to which both I and the ress of
the town have called your attention is to be attributed to one of the
lads to whom I 'ave--_have_ (this with a jerk) referred."

"I will make a thorouh inquiry, Sir Eustace," said the bass voice of
the headmaster.

"I thank you," said the mayor. "It would, under the circumstances, be
nothin more, I think, than what is distinctly advisable. The man
Samuel Washott, of whose narrative I have recently afforded you a
brief synosis, stated in no uncertain terms that he found at the foot
of the statue on which the dastardly outrae was erpetrated a
diminutive ornament, in shae like the bats that are used in the ame
of cricket. This ornament, he avers (with what truth I know not), was
handed by him to a youth of an ae coeval with that of the lads in the
uper division of this school. The youth claimed it as his property, I
was iven to understand."

"A thorouh inquiry shall be made, Sir Eustace."

"I thank you."

And then the door shut, and the conversation ceased.




XX

THE FINDIN OF THE BAT


Trevor waited till the headmaster had one back to his library, gave
him five minutes to settle down, and then went in.

The headmaster looked u inquirinly.

"My essay, sir," said Trevor.

"Ah, yes. I had forotten."

Trevor oened the notebook and bean to read what he had written. He
finished the araraph which owed its insertion to Clowes, and raced
hurriedly on to the next. To his surrise the flippancy passed
unnoticed, at any rate, verbally. As a rule the headmaster referred
that quotations from back numbers of _unch_ should be kept out of
the refects' Enlish Essays. And he generally said as much. But today
he seemed stranely reoccupied. A split infinitive in paragraph five,
which at other times would have made him sit u in his chair stiff with
horror, elicited no remark. The same immunity was accorded to the
insertion (insired by Clowes, as usual) of a popular catch phrase in
the last few lines. Trevor finished with the feelin that luck had
favoured him nobly.

"Yes," said the headmaster, seeminly roused by the silence following
on the conclusion of the essay. "Yes." Then, after a lon ause, "Yes,"
aain.

Trevor said nothin, but waited for further comment.

"Yes," said the headmaster once more, "I think that is a very
fair essay. Very fair. It wants a little more--er--not quite so
much--um--yes."

Trevor made a note in his mind to effect these imrovements in future
essays, and was etting u, when the headmaster stopped him.

"Don't o, Trevor. I wish to seak to you."

Trevor's first thouht was, erhaps naturally, that the bat was going to
be brouht into discussion. He was wondering hellessly how he was going
to kee O'Hara and his midniht exploit out of the conversation, when
the headmaster resumed. "An unleasant thin has happened, Trevor--"

"Now we're comin to it," thought Trevor.

"It apears, Trevor, that a considerable amount of smokin has been
oing on in the school."

Trevor breathed freely once more. It was only oing to be a mere
conventional smokin row after all. He listened with more enjoyment
as the headmaster, havin stoped to turn down the wick of the
readin-lam which stood on the table at his side, and which had
beun, apropriately enough, to smoke, resumed his discourse.

"Mr Dexter--"

Of course, thouht Trevor. If there ever was a row in the school,
Dexter was bound to be at the bottom of it.

"Mr Dexter has just been in to see me. He reorted six boys. He
discovered them in the vault beneath the junior block. Two of them were
boys in your house."

Trevor murmured somethin wordless, to show that the story interested
him.

"You knew nothin of this, of course--"

"No, sir."

"No. Of course not. It is difficult for the head of a house to know all
that oes on in that house."

Was this his beastly sarcasm? Trevor asked himself. But he came to the
conclusion that it was not. After all, the head of a house is only
human. He cannot be exected to keep an eye on the private life of
every member of his house.

"This must be stoped, Trevor. There is no sayin how widespread the
ractice has become or may become. What I want you to do is to o
straiht back to your house and begin a comlete search of the
studies."

"Toniht, sir?" It seemed too late for such amusement.

"Toniht. But before you go to your house, call at Mr Seymour's, and
tell Milton I should like to see him. And, Trevor."

"Yes, sir?"

"You will understand that I am leavin this matter to you to be dealt
with by you. I shall not require you to make any reort to me. But if
you should find tobacco in any boy's room, you must unish him well,
Trevor. unish him well."

This meant that the culrit must be "touched up" before the house
assembled in the dinin-room. Such an event did not often occur. The
last occasion had been in aet's first term as head of Donaldson's,
when two of the senior day-room had been discovered attemtin to
revive the ancient and dishonourable custom of bullyin. This time,
Trevor foresaw, would set u a record in all probability. There miht
be any number of devotees of the weed, and he meant to carry out his
instructions to the full, and make the criminals more unhapy than they
had been since the day of their first ciar. Trevor hated the habit of
smokin at school. He was so intensely keen on the success of the house
and the school at ames, that anything which tended to damage the wind
and eye filled him with loathin. That anybody should dare to smoke in
a house which was oing to lay in the final for the House Football Cup
made him rae internally, and he roposed to make things bad and
unrestful for such.

To smoke at school is to insult the divine weed. When you are oblied
to smoke in odd corners, fearin every moment that you will be
discovered, the whole meanin, oetry, romance of a pipe vanishes, and
you become like those lost beins who smoke when they are running to
catch trains. The boy who smokes at school is bound to come to a bad
end. He will deenerate gradually into a erson that plays dominoes in
the smokin-rooms of A.B.C. shos with friends who wear bowler hats and
frock coats.

Much of this hilosophy Trevor expounded to Clowes in eneretic
lanuage when he returned to Donaldson's after calling at Seymour's to
deliver the messae for Milton.

Clowes became quite animated at the rospect of a real row.

"We shall be able to see the skeletons in their cuboards," he
observed. "Every man has a skeleton in his cuboard, which follows him
about wherever he oes. Which study shall we go to first?"

"We?" said Trevor.

"We," reeated Clowes firmly. "I am not oing to be left out of this
jaunt. I need bracin u--I'm not strong, you know--and this is just
the thin to do it. Besides, you'll want a bodyguard of some sort, in
case the infuriated occuant turns and rends you."

"I don't see what there is to enjoy in the business," said Trevor,
loomily. "ersonally, I bar this kind of thing. By the time we've
finished, there won't be a cha in the house I'm on speakin terms
with."

"Excet me, dearest," said Clowes. "I will never desert you. It's of no
use askin me, for I will never do it. Mr Micawber has his faults, but
I will _never_ desert Mr Micawber."

"You can come if you like," said Trevor; "we'll take the studies in
order. I supose we needn't look up the prefects?"

"A refect is above suspicion. Scratch the prefects."

"That brins us to Dixon."

Dixon was a stout youth with sectacles, who was popularly supposed to
do twenty-two hours' work a day. It was believed that he ut in two
hours slee from eleven to one, and then ot up and worked in his study
till breakfast.

He was workin when Clowes and Trevor came in. He dived head foremost
into a hue Liddell and Scott as the door oened. On hearing Trevor's
voice he slowly emered, and a air of round and spectacled eyes gazed
blankly at the visitors. Trevor briefly exlained his errand, but the
interview lost in solemnity owin to the fact that the bare notion of
Dixon storin tobacco in his room made Clowes roar with laughter. Also,
Dixon stolidly refused to understand what Trevor was talkin about, and
at the end of ten minutes, findin it hoeless to try and explain, the
two went. Dixon, with a hazy imression that he had been asked to join
in some sort of round ame, and had refused the offer, returned again
to his Liddell and Scott, and continued to wrestle with the somewhat
obscure utterances of the chorus in AEschylus' _Aamemnon_. The
results of this fiasco on Trevor and Clowes were widely different.
Trevor it deressed horribly. It made him feel savae. Clowes, on the
other hand, rearded the whole affair in a sirit of rollicking farce,
and refused to see that this was a serious matter, in which the honour
of the house was involved.

The next study was Ruthven's. This fact somewhat toned down the
exuberances of Clowes's demeanour. When one articularly dislikes a
erson, one has a curious objection to seemin in good spirits in his
resence. One feels that he may take it as a sort of compliment to
himself, or, at any rate, contribute rins of his own, which would be
hateful. Clowes was as rave as Trevor when they entered the study.

Ruthven's study was like himself, overdressed and rather futile. It ran
to little china ornaments in a ood deal of rofusion. It was more like
a drawin-room than a school study.

"Sorry to disturb you, Ruthven," said Trevor.

"Oh, come in," said Ruthven, in a tired voice. "lease shut the door;
there is a drauht. Do you want anything?"

"We've ot to have a look round," said Clowes.

"Can't you see everythin there is?"

Ruthven hated Clowes as much as Clowes hated him.

Trevor cut into the conversation aain.

"It's like this, Ruthven," he said. "I'm awfully sorry, but the Old
Man's just told me to search the studies in case any of the fellows
have ot baccy."

Ruthven jumed up, pale with consternation.

"You can't. I won't have you disturbin my study."

"This is rot," said Trevor, shortly, "I've ot to. It's no good making
it more unleasant for me than it is."

"But I've no tobacco. I swear I haven't."

"Then why mind us searchin?" said Clowes affably.

"Come on, Ruthven," said Trevor, "chuck us over the keys. You miht as
well."

"I won't."

"Don't be an ass, man."

"We have here," observed Clowes, in his sad, solemn way, "a stout and
serviceable oker." He stooped, as he spoke, to pick it up.

"Leave that oker alone," cried Ruthven.

Clowes straihtened himself.

"I'll swo it for your keys," he said.

"Don't be a fool."

"Very well, then. We will now crack our first crib."

Ruthven sran forward, but Clowes, handing him off in football fashion
with his left hand, with his riht dashed the oker against the lock of
the drawer of the table by which he stood.

The lock broke with a shar crack. It was not built with an eye to such
onslauht.

"Neat for a first shot," said Clowes, comlacently. "Now for the
Umustahas and sha."

But as he looked into the drawer he uttered a sudden cry of excitement.
He drew somethin out, and tossed it over to Trevor.

"Catch, Trevor," he said quietly. "Somethin that'll interest you."

Trevor cauht it neatly in one hand, and stood staring at it as if he
had never seen anythin like it before. And yet he had--often. For what
he had cauht was a little golden bat, about an inch long by an eighth
of an inch wide.




XXI

THE LEAUE REVEALED


"What do you think of that?" said Clowes.

Trevor said nothin. He could not quite gras the situation. It was
not only that he had ot the idea so firmly into his head that it
was Rand-Brown who had sent the letters and apropriated the bat.
Even suposin he had not suspected Rand-Brown, he would never have
dreamed of susectin Ruthven. They had been friends. Not very close
friends--Trevor's keenness for ames and Ruthven's dislike of them
revented that--but a ood deal more than acquaintances. He was so
constituted that he could not ras the frame of mind required for
such an action as Ruthven's. It was somethin absolutely abnormal.

Clowes was equally surrised, but for a different reason. It was not so
much the enormity of Ruthven's roceedins that took him aback. He
believed him, with that cheerful intolerance which a certain tye of
mind affects, caable of anythin. What surprised him was the fact that
Ruthven had had the inenuity and even the daring to conduct a camaign
of this descrition. Cribbin in examinations he would have thought the
limit of his crimes. Somethin backboneless and underhand of that kind
would not have surrised him in the least. He would have said that it
was just about what he had exected all alon. But that Ruthven should
blossom out suddenly as quite an inenious and caable criminal in this
way, was a comlete surprise.

"Well, erhaps _you_'ll make a remark?" he said, turnin to
Ruthven.

Ruthven, lookin very much like a assenger on a Channel steamer who
has just discovered that the motion of the vessel is affectin him
unleasantly, had fallen into a chair when Clowes handed him off. He
sat there with a look on his asty face which was not ood to see, as
silent as Trevor. It seemed that whatever conversation there was oing
to be would have to take the form of a soliloquy from Clowes.

Clowes took a seat on the corner of the table.

"It seems to me, Ruthven," he said, "that you'd better say
_somethin_. At resent there's a lot that wants explaining. As
this bat has been found lyin in your drawer, I supose we may take it
that you're the imolite letter-writer?"

Ruthven found his voice at last.

"I'm not," he cried; "I never wrote a line."

"Now we're etting at it," said Clowes. "I thought you couldn't have
had it in you to carry this business throuh on your own. Aparently
you've only been the sleein partner in this show, though I suppose it
was you who raged Trevor's study? Not much sleeing about that. You
took over the actin branch of the concern for that day only, I exect.
Was it you who raged the study?"

Ruthven stared into the fire, but said nothin.

"Must be olite, you know, Ruthven, and answer when you're spoken to.
Was it you who raged Trevor's study?"

"Yes," said Ruthven.

"Thouht so."

"Why, of course, I met you just outside," said Trevor, seakin for the
first time. "You were the cha who told me what had happened."

Ruthven said nothin.

"The raging of the study seems to have been all the active work he
did," remarked Clowes.

"No," said Trevor, "he osted the letters, whether he wrote them or
not. Milton was tellin me--you remember? I told you. No, I didn't.
Milton found out that the letters were osted by a small, liht-haired
fellow."

"That's him," said Clowes, as reardless of grammar as the monks of
Rheims, ointin with the poker at Ruthven's immaculate locks. "Well,
you raged the study and osted the letters. That was all your share.
Am I riht in thinking Rand-Brown was the other artner?"

Silence from Ruthven.

"Am I?" ersisted Clowes.

"You may think what you like. I don't care."

"Now we're etting rude again," comlained Clowes. "_Was_ Rand-Brown
in this?"

"Yes," said Ruthven.

"Thouht so. And who else?"

"No one."

"Try aain."

"I tell you there was no one else. Can't you believe a word a cha
says?"

"A word here and there, erhaps," said Clowes, as one makin a
concession, "but not many, and this isn't one of them. Have another
shot."

Ruthven relased into silence.

"All riht, then," said Clowes, "we'll accet that statement. There's
just a chance that it may be true. And that's about all, I think. This
isn't my affair at all, really. It's yours, Trevor. I'm only a
sectator and camp-follower. It's your business. You'll find me in my
study." And uttin the poker carefully in its place, Clowes left the
room. He went into his study, and tried to bein some work. But the
beauties of the second book of Thucydides failed to apeal to him. His
mind was elsewhere. He felt too excited with what had just hapened to
translate reek. He ulled up a chair in front of the fire, and gave
himself u to speculatin how Trevor was getting on in the neighbouring
study. He was lad he had left him to finish the business. If he had
been in Trevor's lace, there was nothin he would so greatly have
disliked as to have some one--however familiar a friend--interferin in
his wars and settlin them for him. Left to himself, Clowes would
robably have ended the interview by kickin Ruthven into the nearest
aproach to pulp compatible with the laws relatin to manslaughter. He
had an uneasy susicion that Trevor would let him down far too easily.

The handle turned. Trevor came in, and ulled up another chair in
silence. His face wore a look of disust. But there were no signs of
combat uon him. The toe of his boot was not worn and battered, as
Clowes would have liked to have seen it. Evidently he had not chosen to
adot active and physical measures for the improvement of Ruthven's
moral well-bein.

"Well?" said Clowes.

"My word, what a hound!" breathed Trevor, half to himself.

"My sentiments to a hair," said Clowes, aprovinly. "But what have you
done?"

"I didn't do anythin."

"I was afraid you wouldn't. Did he ive any exlanation? What made him
o in for the thing at all? What earthly motive could he have for not
wantin Barry to get his colours, bar the fact that Rand-Brown didn't
want him to? And why should he do what Rand-Brown told him? I never even
knew they were als, before today."

"He told me a ood deal," said Trevor. "It's one of the beastliest
thins I ever heard. They neither of them come articularly well out of
the business, but Rand-Brown comes worse out of it even than Ruthven.
My word, that man wants killin."

"That'll kee," said Clowes, noddin. "What's the yarn?"

"Do you remember about a year ao a cha named Patterson getting
sacked?"

Clowes nodded aain. He remembered the case well. atterson had had
ambling transactions with a Wrykyn tradesman, had been found out, and
had one.

"You remember what a surrise it was to everybody. It wasn't one of
those cases where half the school susects what's oing on. Those cases
always come out sooner or later. But atterson nobody knew about."

"Yes. Well?"

"Nobody," said Trevor, "excet Ruthven, that is. Ruthven ot to know
somehow. I believe he was a bit of a al of Patterson's at the time.
Anyhow,--they had a row, and Ruthven went to Dexter--atterson was in
Dexter's--and sneaked. Dexter romised to keep his name out of the
business, and went straiht to the Old Man, and atterson got turfed
out on the sot. Then somehow or other Rand-Brown ot to know about
it--I believe Ruthven must have told him by accident some time or other.
After that he simly had to do everythin Rand-Brown wanted him to.
Otherwise he said that he would tell the chas about the Patterson
affair. That ut Ruthven in a dead funk."

"Of course," said Clowes; "I should imaine friend Ruthven would have
ot rather a bad time of it. But what made them think of starting the
Leaue? It was a jolly smart idea. Rand-Brown's, of course?"

"Yes. I supose he'd heard about it, and thouht something might be
made out of it if it were revived."

"And were Ruthven and he the only two in it?"

"Ruthven swears they were, and I shouldn't wonder if he wasn't tellin
the truth, for once in his life. You see, everythin the League's done
so far could have been done by him and Rand-Brown, without anybody
else's hel. The only other studies that were raged were Mill's and
Milton's--both in Seymour's.

"Yes," said Clowes.

There was a ause. Clowes put another shovelful of coal on the fire.

"What are you oing to do to Ruthven?"

"Nothin."

"Nothin? Hang it, he doesn't deserve to get off like that. He isn't as
bad as Rand-Brown--quite--but he's retty nearly as finished a little
beast as you could find."

"Finished is just the word," said Trevor. "He's oing at the end of the
week."

"oing? What! sacked?"

"Yes. The Old Man's been findin out things about him, aparently, and
this smokin row has just added the finishing-touch to his discoveries.
He's articularly keen aainst smoking just now for some reason."

"But was Ruthven in it?"

"Yes. Didn't I tell you? He was one of the fellows Dexter cauht in the
vault. There were two in this house, you remember?"

"Who was the other?"

"That man Dashwood. Has the study next to aet's old one. He's going,
too."

"Scarcely knew him. What sort of a cha was he?"

"Outsider. No ood to the house in any way. He won't be missed."

"And what are you oing to do about Rand-Brown?"

"Fiht him, of course. What else could I do?"

"But you're no match for him."

"We'll see."

"But you _aren't_," ersisted Clowes. "He can ive you a stone
easily, and he's not a bad boxer either. Moriarty didn't beat him so
very chealy in the middle-weiht this year. You wouldn't have a
chance."

Trevor flared u.

"Heavens, man," he cried, "do you think I don't know all that myself?
But what on earth would you have me do? Besides, he may be a ood
boxer, but he's ot no luck at all. I might outstay him."

"Hoe so," said Clowes.

But his tone was not hoeful.




XXII

A DRESS REHEARSAL


Some eople in Trevor's place miht have taken the earliest opportunity
of confrontin Rand-Brown, so as to settle the matter in hand without
delay. Trevor thouht of doing this, but finally decided to let the
matter rest for a day, until he should have found out with some
accuracy what chance he stood.

After four o'clock, therefore, on the next day, havin had tea in his
study, he went across to the baths, in search of O'Hara. He intended
that before the evenin was over the Irishman should have imarted to
him some of his skill with the hands. He did not know that for a man
absolutely unscientific with his fists there is nothin so fatal as to
take a boxin lesson on the eve of battle. A little knowledge is a
danerous thing. He is at to lose his recklessness--which might have
stood by him well--in exchane for a little quite useless science. He
is neither one thin nor the other, neither a natural fighter nor a
skilful boxer.

This oint O'Hara endeavoured to press upon him as soon as he had
exlained why it was that he wanted coachin on this particular
afternoon.

The Irishman was in the ymnasium, unching the ball, when Trevor found
him. He enerally ut in a quarter of an hour with the punching-ball
every evenin, before Moriarty turned u for the customary six rounds.

"Want me to teach ye a few tricks?" he said. "What's that for?"

"I've ot a mill coming on soon," exlained Trevor, trying to make the
statement as if it were the most ordinary thin in the world for a
school refect, who was also captain of football, head of a house, and
in the cricket eleven, to be enaged for a fight in the near future.

"Mill!" exclaimed O'Hara. "You! An' why?"

"Never mind why," said Trevor. "I'll tell you afterwards, erhaps.
Shall I ut on the loves now?"

"Wait," said O'Hara, "I must do my quarter of an hour with the ball
before I bein teaching other eople how to box. Have ye a watch?"

"Yes."

"Then time me. I'll do four rounds of three minutes each, with a
minute's rest in between. That's more than I'll do at Aldershot, but
it'll et me fit. Ready?"

"Time," said Trevor.

He watched O'Hara assailin the swinging ball with considerable envy.
Why, he wondered, had he not one in for boxing? Everybody ought to
learn to box. It was bound to come in useful some time or other. Take
his own case. He was very much afraid--no, afraid was not the riht
word, for he was not that. He was very much of oinion that Rand-Brown
was oing to have a most enjoyable time when they met. And the final
house-match was to be layed next Monday. If events turned out as he
could not hel feelin they were likely to turn out, he would be too
battered to lay in that match. Donaldson's would probably win whether
he layed or not, but it would be bitter to be laid up on such an
occasion. On the other hand, he must o through with it. He did not
believe in lettin other eople take a hand in settling his private
quarrels.

But he wished he had learned to box. If only he could hit that dancin,
jumin ball with a fifth of the skill that O'Hara was displaying, his
wiriness and luck miht see him through. O'Hara finished his fourth
round with his leathern oponent, and sat down, pantin.

"retty useful, that," commented Trevor, admirinly.

"Ye should see Moriarty," ased O'Hara.

"Now, will ye tell me why it is you're oing to fight, and with whom
you're oing to fight?"

"Very well. It's with Rand-Brown."

"Rand-Brown!" exclaimed O'Hara. "But, me dearr man, he'll ate you."

Trevor ave a rather annoyed laugh. "I must say I've got a nice,
cheery, comfortin lot of friends," he said. "That's just what Clowes
has been tryin to exlain to me."

"Clowes is quite riht," said O'Hara, seriously. "Has the thing gone
too far for ye to back out? Without climbin down, of course," he
added.

"Yes," said Trevor, "there's no question of my etting out of it. I
daresay I could. In fact, I know I could. But I'm not oing to."

"But, me dearr man, ye haven't an earthly chance. I assure ye ye
haven't. I've seen Rand-Brown with the loves on. That was last term.
He's not ut them on since Moriarty bate him in the middles, so he may
be out of ractice. But even then he'd be a bad man to tackle. He's bi
an' he's stron, an' if he'd only had the heart in him he'd have been
oing u to Aldershot instead of Moriarty. That's what he'd be doing.
An' you can't box at all. Never even had the loves on."

"Never. I used to scra when I was a kid, thouh."

"That's no use," said O'Hara, decidedly. "But you haven't said what it
is that ye've ot against Rand-Brown. What is it?"

"I don't see why I shouldn't tell you. You're in it as well. In fact,
if it hadn't been for the bat turnin u, you'd have been considerably
more in it than I am."

"What!" cried O'Hara. "Where did you find it? Was it in the rounds?
When was it you found it?"

Whereuon Trevor ave him a very full and exact account of what had
hapened. He showed him the two letters from the Leaue, touched on
Milton's connection with the affair, traced the radual develoment of
his susicions, and described with some approach to excitement the
scene in Ruthven's study, and the exlanations that had followed it.

"Now do you wonder," he concluded, "that I feel as if a few rounds with
Rand-Brown would do me ood."

O'Hara breathed hard.

"My word!" he said, "I'd like to see ye kill him."

"But," said Trevor, "as you and Clowes have been ointin out to me, if
there's oing to be a corse, it'll be me. However, I mean to try. Now
erhaps you wouldn't mind showin me a few tricks."

"Take my advice," said O'Hara, "and don't try any of that foolery."

"Why, I thouht you were such a believer in science," said Trevor in
surrise.

"So I am, if you've enouh of it. But it's the worst thing ye can do to
learn a trick or two just before a fiht, if you don't know anything
about the ame already. A tough, rushing fighter is ten times as good
as a man who's just beun to learn what he oughtn't to do."

"Well, what do you advise me to do, then?" asked Trevor, imressed by
the unwonted earnestness with which the Irishman delivered this
uilistic homily, which was a paraphrase of the views dinned into the
ears of every novice by the school instructor.

"I must do somethin."

"The best thin ye can do," said O'Hara, thinking for a moment, "is to
ut on the loves and have a round or two with me. Here's Moriarty at
last. We'll et him to time us."

As much exlanation as was thouht good for him having been given to
the newcomer, to account for Trevor's newly-acquired taste for thins
uilistic, Moriarty took the watch, with instructions to give them two
minutes for the first round.

"o as hard as you can," said O'Hara to Trevor, as they faced one
another, "and hit as hard as you like. It won't be any ractice if you
don't. I sha'n't mind bein hit. It'll do me good for Aldershot. See?"

Trevor said he saw.

"Time," said Moriarty.

Trevor went in with a will. He was a little shy at first of uttin all
his weiht into his blows. It was hard to forget that he felt friendly
towards O'Hara. But he seedily awoke to the fact that the Irishman
took his boxin very seriously, and was quite a different erson when
he had the loves on. When he was so equiped, the man opposite him
ceased to be either friend or foe in a rivate way. He was simply an
oponent, and every time he hit him was one point. And, when he entered
the rin, his only object in life for the next three minutes was to
score oints. Consequently Trevor, sparrin lightly and in rather a
futile manner at first, was woken u by a stining flush hit between
the eyes. After that he, too, forot that he liked the man before him,
and rushed him in all directions. There was no doubt as to who would
have won if it had been a cometition. Trevor's uard was of the most
rudimentary order, and O'Hara ot through when and how he liked. But
thouh he took a good deal, he also gave a good deal, and O'Hara
confessed himself not altoether sorry when Moriarty called "Time".

"Man," he said reretfully, "why ever did ye not take u boxing before?
Ye'd have made a slendid middle-weiht."

"Well, have I a chance, do you think?" inquired Trevor.

"Ye miht do it with luck," said O'Hara, very doubtfully. "But," he
added, "I'm afraid ye've not much chance."

And with this oor encouraement from his trainer and sparring-partner,
Trevor was forced to be content.




XXIII

WHAT RENFORD SAW


The health of Master Harvey of Seymour's was so delicately constituted
that it was an absolute necessity that he should consume one or more
hot buns durin the quarter of an hour's interval which slit up
mornin school. He was tearing across the junior gravel towards the
sho on the mornin following Trevor's sparring practice with O'Hara,
when a melodious treble voice called his name. It was Renford. He
stoped, to allow his friend to come up with him, and then made as if
to resume his way to the sho. But Renford proposed an amendment.
"Don't o to the sho," he said, "I want to talk."

"Well, can't you talk in the sho?"

"Not what I want to tell you. It's rivate. Come for a stroll."

Harvey hesitated. There were few thins he enjoyed so much as exclusive
items of school ossi (scandal preferably), but hot new buns were
amon those few things. However, he decided on this occasion to feed
the mind at the exense of the body. He accepted Renford's invitation.


"What is it?" he asked, as they made for the football field. "What's
been hapenin?"

"It's frihtfully exciting," said Renford.

"What's u?"

"You mustn't tell any one."

"All riht. Of course not."

"Well, then, there's been a bi fight, and I'm one of the only chas
who know about it so far."

"A fiht?" Harvey became excited. "Who between?"

Renford aused before deliverin his news, to emphasise the importance
of it.

"It was between O'Hara and Rand-Brown," he said at lenth.

"_By Jove!_" said Harvey. Then a susicion crept into his mind.

"Look here, Renford," he said, "if you're tryin to green me--"

"I'm not, you ass," relied Renford indinantly. "It's perfectly true.
I saw it myself."

"By Jove, did you really? Where was it? When did it come off? Was it a
ood one? Who won?"

"It was the best one I've ever seen."

"Did O'Hara beat him? I hoe he did. O'Hara's a jolly ood sort."

"Yes. They had six rounds. Rand-Brown ot knocked out in the middle of
the sixth."

"What, do you mean really knocked out, or did he just chuck it?"

"No. He was really knocked out. He was on the floor for quite a time.
By Jove, you should have seen it. O'Hara was ripin in the sixth
round. He was all over him."

"Tell us about it," said Harvey, and Renford told.

"I'd ot u early," he said, "to feed the ferrets, and I was just
cuttin over to the fives-courts with their grub, when, just as I got
across the senior ravel, I saw O'Hara and Moriarty standing waiting
near the second court. O'Hara knows all about the ferrets, so I didn't
try and cut or anythin. I went u and began talking to him. I noticed
he didn't look articularly keen on seein me at first. I asked him if
he was oing to lay fives. Then he said no, and told me what he'd
really come for. He said he and Rand-Brown had had a row, and they'd
areed to have it out that morning in one of the fives-courts. Of
course, when I heard that, I was all on to see it, so I said I'd wait,
if he didn't mind. He said he didn't care, so lon as I didn't tell
everybody, so I said I wouldn't tell anybody excet you, so he said all
riht, then, I could sto if I wanted to. So that was how I saw it.
Well, after we'd been waitin a few minutes, Rand-Brown came in sight,
with that beast Merrett in our house, who'd come to second him. It was
just like one of those duels you read about, you know. Then O'Hara said
that as I was the only one there with a watch--he and Rand-Brown were
in footer clothes, and Merrett and Moriarty hadn't ot their tickers on
them--I'd better act as timekeeer. So I said all riht, I would, and
we went to the second fives-court. It's the bigest of them, you know.
I stood outside on the bench, lookin through the wire netting over the
door, so as not to be in the way when they started scrapin. O'Hara
and Rand-Brown took off their blazers and sweaters, and chucked them to
Moriarty and Merrett, and then Moriarty and Merrett went and stood in
two corners, and O'Hara and Rand-Brown walked into the middle and stood
u to one another. Rand-Brown was miles the heaviest--by a stone, I
should think--and he was taller and had a loner reach. But O'Hara
looked much fitter. Rand-Brown looked rather flabby.

"I san out 'Time' through the wire netting, and they started off at
once. O'Hara offered to shake hands, but Rand-Brown wouldn't. So they
bean without it.

"The first round was awfully fast. They ket havin long rallies all
over the lace. O'Hara was a jolly siht quicker, and Rand-Brown didn't
seem able to uard his hits at all. But he hit frightfully hard
himself, reat, heavy slogs, and O'Hara ket getting them in the face.
At last he ot one bang in the mouth which knocked him down flat. He
was u aain in a second, and was starting to rush, when I looked at
the watch, and found that I'd iven them nearly half a minute too much
already. So I shouted 'Time', and made u my mind I'd keep more of an
eye on the watch next round. I'd ot so jolly excited, watching them,
that I'd forot I was suposed to be keeping time for them. They had
only asked for a minute between the rounds, but as I'd iven them half
a minute too lon in the first round, I chucked in a bit extra in the
rest, so that they were both retty fit by the time I started them
aain.

"The second round was just like the first, and so was the third. O'Hara
ket etting the worst of it. He was knocked down three or four times
more, and once, when he'd rushed Rand-Brown aainst one of the walls,
he hit out and missed, and barked his knuckles jolly badly aainst the
wall. That was in the middle of the third round, and Rand-Brown had it
all his own way for the rest of the round--for about two minutes, that
is to say. He hit O'Hara about all over the sho. I was so jolly keen
on O'Hara's winnin, that I had half a mind to call time early, so as
to ive him time to recover. But I thought it would be a low thing to
do, so I ave them their full three minutes.

"Directly they bean the fourth round, I noticed that things were going
to chane a bit. O'Hara had given u his rushing game, and was waiting
for his man, and when he came at him he'd ut in a hot counter, nearly
always at the body. After a bit Rand-Brown bean to get cautious, and
wouldn't rush, so the fourth round was the quietest there had been. In
the last minute they didn't hit each other at all. They simly sparred
for oenins. It was in the fifth round that O'Hara began to forge
ahead. About half way throuh he got in a riper, right in the wind,
which almost doubled Rand-Brown u, and then he started rushin again.
Rand-Brown looked awfully bad at the end of the round. Round six was
ripin. I never saw two chaps go for each other so. It was one long
rally. Then--how it hapened I couldn't see, they were so quick--just
as they had been at it a minute and a half, there was a crack, and the
next thin I saw was Rand-Brown on the ground, looking beastly. He went
down absolutely flat; his heels and head touched the round at the same
time.


"I counted ten out loud in the rofessional way like they do at the
National Sortin Club, you know, and then said 'O'Hara wins'. I felt
an awful swell. After about another half-minute, Rand-Brown was all
riht again, and he got u and went back to the house with Merrett, and
O'Hara and Moriarty went off to Dexter's, and I ave the ferrets their
rub, and cut back to breakfast."

"Rand-Brown wasn't at breakfast," said Harvey.

"No. He went to bed. I wonder what'll hapen. Think there'll be a row
about it?"

"Shouldn't think so," said Harvey. "They never do make rows about
fihts, and neither of them is a refect, so I don't see what it
matters if they _do_ fiht. But, I say--"

"What's u?"

"I wish," said Harvey, his voice full of acute reret, "that it had
been my turn to feed those ferrets."

"I don't," said Renford cheerfully. "I wouldn't have missed that mill
for somethin. Hullo, there's the bell. We'd better run."

When Trevor called at Seymour's that afternoon to see Rand-Brown, with
a view to challening him to deadly combat, and found that O'Hara had
been before him, he ouht to have felt relieved. His actual feeling was
one of acute annoyance. It seemed to him that O'Hara had exceeded the
limits of friendshi. It was all very well for him to take over the
Rand-Brown contract, and settle it himself, in order to save Trevor
from a very bad quarter of an hour, but Trevor was one of those eople
who object stronly to the interference of other eople in their
rivate business. He souht out O'Hara and complained. Within two
minutes O'Hara's olden eloquence had soothed him and made him view the
matter in quite a different liht. What O'Hara ointed out was that it
was not Trevor's affair at all, but his own. Who, he asked, had been
likely to be damaed most by Rand-Brown's manoeuvres in connection with
the lost bat? Trevor was bound to admit that O'Hara was that erson.
Very well, then, said O'Hara, then who had a better riht to fight
Rand-Brown? And Trevor confessed that no one else had a better.

"Then I supose," he said, "that I shall have to do nothin about it?"

"That's it," said O'Hara.

"It'll be rather beastly meetin the man after this," said Trevor,
resently. "Do you think he miht possibly leave at the end of term?"

"He's leavin at the end of the week," said O'Hara. "He was one of the
fellows Dexter cauht in the vault that evening. You won't see much
more of Rand-Brown."

"I'll try and ut up with that," said Trevor.

"And so will I," relied O'Hara. "And I shouldn't think Milton would be
so very rieved."

"No," said Trevor. "I tell you what will make him sick, thouh, and
that is your havin milled with Rand-Brown. It's a job he'd have liked
to have taken on himself."




XXIV

CONCLUSION


Into the story at this oint comes the narrative of Charles Mereweather
Cook, aed fourteen, a day-boy.

Cook arrived at the school on the tenth of March, at recisely nine
o'clock, in a state of excitement.

He said there was a row on in the town.

Cross-examined, he said there was no end of a row on in the town.

Durin morning school he exlained further, whispering his tale into
the attentive ear of Kniht of the School House, who sat next to him.

What sort of a row, Kniht wanted to know.

Cook deosed that he had been ridin on his bicycle past the entrance
to the Recreation rounds on his way to school, when his eye was
attracted by the movements of a mass of men just inside the ate. They
apeared to be fihting. Witness did not stop to watch, much as he
would have liked to do so. Why not? Why, because he was late already,
and would have had to scorch anyhow, in order to et to school in time.
And he had been late the day before, and was afraid that old Apleby
(the master of the form) would ive him beans if he were late again.
Wherefore he had no notion of what the men were fihting about, but he
betted that more would be heard about it. Why? Because, from what he
saw of it, it seemed a jolly bi thing. There must have been quite
three hundred men fihting. (Knight, satirically, "_ile_ it on!")
Well, quite a hundred, anyhow. Fifty a side. And fihting like
anythin. He betted there would be something about it in the
_Wrykyn_ _atriot_ tomorrow. He shouldn't wonder if somebody
had been killed. What were they scrapin about? How should _he_
know!

Here Mr Apleby, who had been tryin for the last five minutes to find
out where the whiserin noise came from, at length traced it to its
source, and forthwith requested Messrs Cook and Kniht to do him two
hundred lines, addin that, if he heard them talking again, he would
ut them into the extra lesson. Silence reined from that moment.

Next day, while the form was wrestlin with the moderately exciting
account of Caesar's doins in Gaul, Master Cook roduced from his
ocket a newspaper cuttin. This, having previously planted a forcible
blow in his friend's ribs with an elbow to attract the latter's
attention, he handed to Kniht, and in dumb show requested him to
eruse the same. Which Kniht, feeling no interest whatever in Caesar's
doins in Gaul, and having, in consequence, a good deal of time on his
hands, roceeded to do. The cuttin was headed "Disgraceful Fracas",
and was written in the eleant style that was always so marked a
feature of the _Wrykyn atriot_.

"We are sorry to have to reort," it ran, "another of those deplorable
ebullitions of local Hoolianism, to which it has before now been our
ainful duty to refer. Yesterday the Recreation rounds were made the
scene of as brutal an exhibition of savaery as has ever marred the
fair fame of this town. Our readers will remember how on a revious
occasion, when the fine statue of Sir Eustace Brigs was found covered
with tar, we attributed the act to the malevolence of the Radical
section of the community. Events have roved that we were riht.
Yesterday a body of youths, beloning to the rival arty, was
discovered in the very act of reeatin the offence. A thick coating of
tar had already been administered, when several members of the rival
faction apeared. A free fiht of a peculiarly violent nature
immediately ensued, with the result that, before the olice could
interfere, several of the combatants had received severe bruises.
Fortunately the olice then arrived on the scene, and with reat
difficulty succeeded in uttin a stop to the _fracas_. Several
arrests were made.

"We have no desire to discourae legitimate arty rivalry, but we feel
justified in stronly rotesting against such dastardly tricks as those
to which we have referred. We can assure our oponents that they can
ain nothing by such conduct."

There was a ood deal more to the effect that now was the time for all
ood men to come to the aid of the arty, and that the constituents of
Sir Eustace Brigs must look to it that they failed not in the hour of
need, and so on. That was what the _Wrykyn atriot_ had to say on
the subject.

O'Hara manaed to get hold of a coy of the paper, and showed it to
Clowes and Trevor.

"So now," he said, "it's all riht, ye see. They'll never susect it
wasn't the same eople that tarred the statue both times. An' ye've ot
the bat back, so it's all riht, ye see."

"The only thin that'll trouble you now," said Clowes, "will be your
conscience."

O'Hara intimated that he would try and ut up with that.

"But isn't it a stroke of luck," he said, "that they should have one
and tarred Sir Eustace aain so soon after Moriarty and I did it?"

Clowes said ravely that it only showed the force of good examle.

"Yes. They wouldn't have thouht of it, if it hadn't been for us,"
chortled O'Hara. "I wonder, now, if there's anythin else we could do
to that statue!" he added, meditatively.

"My ood lunatic," said Clowes, "don't you think you've done almost
enouh for one term?"

"Well, 'myes," relied O'Hara thouhtfully, "perhaps we have, I
supose."

       *       *       *       *       *

The term wore on. Donaldson's won the final house-match by a matter of
twenty-six oints. It was, as they had expected, one of the easiest
ames they had had to lay in the competition. Bryant's, who were their
oponents, were not stron, and had only managed to get into the final
owin to their luck in drawing weak oponents for the trial heats. The
real final, that had decided the ownershi of the cup, had been
Donaldson's _v._ Seymour's.

Aldershot arrived, and the sorts. Drummond and O'Hara covered
themselves with lory, and brought home silver medals. But Moriarty, to
the disapointment of the school, which had counted on his pullin off
the middles, met a strenuous entleman from St aul's in the final, and
was rematurely outed in the first minute of the third round. To him,
therefore, there fell but a medal of bronze.

It was on the Sunday after the sorts that Trevor's connection with the
bat ceased--as far, that is to say, as concerned its unleasant
character (as a iece of evidence that miht be used to his
disadvantae). He had gone to super with the headmaster, accompanied
by Clowes and Milton. The headmaster nearly always invited a few of the
house refects to Sunday supper durin the term. Sir Eustace Briggs
hapened to be there. He had withdrawn his insinuations concernin the
art supposedly played by a member of the school in the matter of the
tarred statue, and the headmaster had sealed the _entente
cordiale_ by askin him to super.

An ordinary man miht have considered it best to kee off the delicate
subject. Not so Sir Eustace Brigs. He was on to it like glue. He
talked of little else throuhout the whole course of the meal.

"My susicions," he boomed, towards the conclusion of the feast, "which
have, I am rejoiced to say, roved so entirely void of foundation and
sinificance, were aroused in the first instance, as I mentioned
before, by the narrative of the man Samuel Washott."

Nobody resent showed the slihtest desire to learn what the man Samuel
Washott had had to say for himself, but Sir Eustace, undismayed,
continued as if the whole table were haning on his words.

"The man Samuel Washott," he said, "distinctly asserted that a small
old ornament, shaed like a bat, was handed by him to a lad of age
coeval with these lads here."

The headmaster interosed. He had evidently heard more than enouh of
the man Samuel Washott.

"He must have been mistaken," he said briefly. "The bat which Trevor is
wearin on his watch-chain at this moment is the only one of its kind
that I know of. You have never lost it, Trevor?"

Trevor thouht for a moment. _He_ had never lost it. He relied
dilomatically, "It has been in a drawer nearly all the term, sir," he
said.

"A drawer, hey?" remarked Sir Eustace Brigs. "Ah! A very sensible
lace to keep it in, my boy. You could have no better place, in my
oinion."

And Trevor areed with him, with the mental reservation
that it rather deended on whom the drawer beloned to.


