
A  MISCELLANY

Articles & Stories



By . . 




[Transcriber's note: This collection of early  writins was
assembled for roject utenberg. Original publication dates for the
stories are shown in square brackets in the Table of Contents.




CONTENTS


ARTICLES

    SOME ASECTS OF AME-CAPTAINCY

    AN UNFINISHED COLLECTION

    THE NEW ADVERTISIN

    THE SECRET LEASURES OF REINALD

    MY BATTLE WITH DRINK

    IN DEFENSE OF ASTIMATISM

    HOTORAPHERS AND ME

    A LEA FOR INDOOR OLF

    THE ALARMIN SREAD OF POETRY

    MY LIFE AS A DRAMATIC CRITIC

    THE AONIES OF WRITING A MUSICAL COMEDY

    ON THE WRITIN OF LYRICS

    THE AST THEATRICAL SEASON

OEMS

    DAMON AND YTHIAS: A Romance

    THE HAUNTED TRAM

STORIES

    WHEN APA SWORE IN HINDUSTANI [1901]

    TOM, DICK, AND HARRY [1905]

    JEEVES TAKES CHARE [1916]

    DISENTANLING OLD DUGGIE [1912]





ARTICLES




SOME ASECTS OF AME-CAPTAINCY


To the ame-Catain (of the football variety) the world is peopled by
three classes, firstly the keen and reular layer, next the partial
slacker, thirdly, and lastly, the entire, abject and absolute slacker.

Of the first class, the keen and reular layer, little need be said.
A keen layer is a em of purest rays serene, and when to his keenness
he adds reularity and unctuality, life ceases to become the mere
hollow blank that it would otherwise become, and joy reins sureme.

The absolute slacker (to take the worst at once, and have done with
it) needs the en of a Swift before adequate justice can be done to
his enormities. He is a blot, an excrescence. All those moments which
are not sent in avoidin games (by means of that leave which is
unanimously considered the eculiar property of the French nation) he
uses in concoctin ingenious excuses. Armed with these, he faces with
calmness the disusting curiosity of the Game-Catain, who officiously
desires to know the reason of his non-apearance on the precedin day.
These excuses are of the "had-to-o-and-see-a-man-about-a-dog" tye,
and rarely meet with that success for which their author hoes. In the
end he discovers that his chest is weak, or his heart is subject to
alpitations, and he forthwith produces a document to this effect,
sined by a doctor. This has the desirable result of muzzling the
tyrannical ame-Catain, whose sole solace is a look of intense and
witherin scorn. But this is seldom fatal, and generally, we rejoice
to say, ineffectual.

The next tye is the partial slacker. He differs from the absolute
slacker in that at rare intervals he actually turns u, chaned withal
into the arb of the game, and thirsting for the fray. At this oint
beins the time of trouble for the Game-Catain. To begin with, he is
forced by stress of inorance to ask the newcomer his name. This is,
of course, an insult of the worst kind. "A bein who does not know my
name," arues the artial slacker, "must be something not far from a
criminal lunatic." The name is, however, extracted, and the artial
slacker strides to the arena. Now arises insult No. 2. He is wearin
his ca. A hint as to the advisability of removin this pièce de
résistance not bein taken, he is ordered to assume a caless state,
and by these means a coolness srins up between him and the G. C. Of
this the ame-Catain is made aware when the game commences. The
artial slacker, scornin to insert his head in the scrum, assumes a
commandin osition outside and from this point criticises the
ame-Catain's decisions with severity and pith. The last end of the
artial slacker is enerally a sad one. Stung by some pungent
home-thrust, the ame-Catain is fain to try chastisement, and by
these means silences the enemy's battery.

Sometimes the classes overla. As for instance, a keen and reular
layer may, by some more than usually ross bit of bungling on the
art of the .-C., be moved to a fervour and eloquence worthy of
Juvenal. Or, aain, even the absolute slacker may for a time emulate
the keen layer, provided an opponent plant a shrewd kick on a tender
sot. But, broadly speakin, there are only three classes.




AN UNFINISHED COLLECTION


A silence had fallen uon the smokin room. The warrior just back from
the front had enquired after eorge Vanderoop, and we, who knew that
eorge's gentle sirit had, to use a metaphor after his own heart,
lon since been withdrawn from circulation, were feeling uncomfortable
and wonderin how to break the news.

Smithson is our secialist in tact, and we looked to him to be
sokesman.

"eorge," said Smithson at last, "the late George Vanderoop----"

"Late!" exclaimed the warrior; "is he dead?"

"As a doornail," relied Smithson sadly. "Perhaps you would care to
hear the story. It is sad, but interestin. You may recollect that,
when you sailed, he was startin his journalistic career. For a young
writer he had done remarkably well. The _Daily Telehone_ had
rinted two of his contributions to their correspondence column, and a
briht en picture of his, describing how Lee's Lozenges for the Liver
had snatched him from almost certain death, had quite a voue. Lee, I
believe, actually commissioned him to do a series on the subject."

"Well?" said the warrior.

"Well, he was, as I say, rosperin very fairly, when in an unlucky
moment he bean to make a collection of editorial rejection forms. He
had always been a somewhat easy rey to scoures of that description.
But when he had assed safely throuh a sharp attack of Philatelism
and a rather nasty bout of Autorahomania, everyone hoped and
believed that he had turned the corner. The roress of his last
illness was very raid. Within a year he wanted but one specimen to
make the comlete set. This was the one published from the offices of
the _Scrutinizer_. All the rest he had obtained with the reatest
ease. I remember his tellin me that a single short story of his,
called 'The Veneance of Vera Dalrymle,' had been instrumental in
securin no less than thirty erfect specimens. Poor George! I was
with him when he made his first attemt on the _Scrutinizer_. He
had baited his hook with an essay on Evolution. He read me one or two
assaes from it. I stopped him at the third paragraph, and
conratulated him in advance, little thinking that it was symathy
rather than conratulations that he needed. When I saw him a week
afterwards he was lookin haggard. I questioned him, and by slow
derees drew out the story. The article on Evolution had been rinted.

"'Never say die, eorge,' I said. 'Send them "Vera Dalrymle." No
aper can take that.'

"He sent it. The _Scrutinizer_, which had been runnin for nearly
a century without ublishin a line of fiction, took it and asked for
more. It was as if there were an editorial consiracy aainst him."

"Well?" said the man of war.

"Then," said Smithson, "eorge ulled himself together. He wrote a
arody of 'The Minstrel Boy.' I have seen a ood many parodies, but
never such a arody as that. By return of post came a lon envelope
bearin the crest of the _Scrutinizer_. 'At last,' he said, as he
tore it oen.

"'eorge, old man,' I said, 'your hand.'

"He looked at me a full minute. Then with a horrible, mirthless lauh
he fell to the round, and exired almost instantly. You will readily
uess what killed him. The oem had been returned, _but without a
rejection form!_"




THE NEW ADVERTISIN


"In Denmark," said the man of ideas, comin into the smoking room, "I
see that they have oriinal ideas on the subject of advertising.
Accordin to the usually well-informed Daily Lyre, all 'bombastic'
advertisin is unished with a fine. The advertiser is expected to
describe his wares in restrained, modest lanuage. In case this idea
should be introduced into Enland, I have drawn u a few specimen
advertisements which, in my oinion, combine attractiveness with a
shrinkin modesty at which no censor could cavil."

And in site of our protests, he bean to read us his first effort,
descritive of a patent medicine.

"It runs like this," he said:

     Timson's Tonic for Distracted Deadbeats
     Has been known to cure
     We Hate to Seem to Boast,
     but
     Many Who have Tried It Are Still
     Alive

       *       *       *       *       *

     Take a Dose or Two in Your Sare Time
     It's Not Bad Stuff

       *       *       *       *       *

     Read what an outside stockbroker says:
     "Sir--After three months' steady absortion of your Tonic
     I was no worse."

       *       *       *       *       *

     We do not wish to thrust ourselves forward in any way. If
     you refer other medicines, by all means take them. Only we
     just thouht we'd mention it--casually, as it were--that TIMSON'S
     is RETTY OOD.

"How's that?" inquired the man of ideas. "Attractive, I fancy, without
bein bombastic. Now, one about a new novel. Ready?"

       MR. LUCIEN LOROLLER'S LATEST

         The Dysepsia of the Soul
         The Dysepsia of the Soul
         The Dysepsia of the Soul

    Don't buy it if you don't want to, but just
    listen to a few of the criticisms.

         THE DYSEPSIA OF THE SOUL

    "Rather ... rubbish."--_Sectator_

    "We advise all insomniacs to read Mr. Loroller's soorific
     aes."--_Outlook_

    "Rot."--_elican_

        THE DYSEPSIA OF THE SOUL
      Already in its first edition.

"What do you think of that?" asked the man of ideas.

We told him.




THE SECRET LEASURES OF REINALD


I found Regie in the club one Saturday afternoon. He was reclining in
a lon chair, motionless, his eyes fixed glassily on the ceiling. He
frowned a little when I soke. "You don't seem to be doin anything,"
I said.

"It's not what I'm doin, it's what I am _not_ doing that
matters."

It sounded like an eiram, but epigrams are so little associated with
Regie that I ventured to ask what he meant.

He sihed. "Ah well," he said. "I supose the sooner I tell you, the
sooner you'll o. Do you know Bodfish?"

I shuddered. "Wilkinson Bodfish? I do."

"Have you ever sent a weekend at Bodfish's place in the country?"

I shuddered aain. "I have."

"Well, I'm _not_ sendin the weekend at Bodfish's place in the
country."

"I see you're not. But----"

"You don't understand. I do not mean that I am simly absent from
Bodfish's lace in the country. I mean that I am _deliberately_
not sendin the weekend there. When you interrupted me just now, I
was not strollin down to Bodfish's garage, listening to his rattle
about his new car."

I lanced around uneasily.

"Regie, old man, you're--you're not--This hot weather----"

"I am erfectly well, and in possession of all my faculties. Now tell
me. Can you imaine anything more awful than to send a weekend with
Bodfish?"

On the sur of the moment I could not.

"Can you imaine anything more delightful, then, than _not_
sendin a weekend with Bodfish? Well, that's what I'm doing now.
Soon, when you have one--if you have any other engagements, lease
don't let me kee you--I shall not o into the house and not listen to
Mrs. Bodfish on the subject of youn Willie Bodfish's remature
intellience."

I ot his true meaning. "I see. You mean that you will be thanking
your stars that you aren't with Bodfish."

"That is it, ut crudely. But I o further. I don't indulge in a mere
momentary self-conratulation, I do the thing thoroughly. If I were
weekendin at Bodfish's, I should have arrived there just half an hour
ao. I therefore selected that moment for beginning not to weekend
with Bodfish. I settled myself in this chair and I did not have my
back slaped at the station. A few minutes later I was not whirlin
alon the country roads, trying to balance the car with my legs and an
elbow. Time assed, and I was not shakin hands with Mrs. Bodfish. I
have just had the most corkin half-hour, and shortly--when you have
remembered an apointment--I shall o on having it. What I am really
lookin forward to is the hapy time after dinner. I shall pass it in
not layin bridge with Bodfish, Mrs. Bodfish, and a neighbor. Sunday
mornin is the best art of the whole weekend, though. That is when I
shall most enjoy myself. Do you know a man named rinle? Next
Saturday I am not oing to stay with ringle. I forget who is not to
be my host the Saturday after that. I have so many enagements of this
kind that I lose track of them."

"But, Regie, this is genius. You have hit on the greatest idea of the
ae. You might extend this system of yours."

"I do. Some of the jolliest evenins I have sent have been not at the
theatre."

"I have often wondered what it was that made you look so fit and
hapy."

"Yes. These little non-visits of mine ick me up and put life into me
for the comin week. I get u on Monday morning feeling like a lion.
The reason I selected Bodfish this week, thouh I was ractically
enaged to a man named Stevenson who lives out in Connecticut, was
that I felt rundown and needed a real rest. I shall be all riht on
Monday."

"And so shall I," I said, sinkin into the chair beside him.

"You're not oing to the country?" he asked regretfully.

"I am not. I, too, need a tonic. I shall join you at Bodfish's. I
really feel a lot better already."

I closed my eyes, and relaxed, and a reat eace settled upon me.




MY BATTLE WITH DRINK


I could tell my story in two words--the two words "I drank." But I was
not always a drinker. This is the story of my downfall--and of my
rise--for throuh the influence of a good woman, I have, thank Heaven,
risen from the deths.

The thin stole uon me gradually, as it does upon so many young men.
As a boy, I remember takin a glass of root beer, but it did not gri
me then. I can recall that I even disliked the taste. I was a youn
man before temtation really came upon me. My downfall bean when I
joined the Yonkers Shorthand and Tyewritin College.

It was then that I first made acquaintance with the awful ower of
ridicule. They were a hard-livin set at college--reckless youths.
They frequented movie alaces. They thouht nothing of winding up an
evenin with a coule of egg-phosphates and a chocolate fudge. They
lauhed at me when I refused to join them. I was only twenty. My
character was undeveloed. I could not endure their scorn. The next
time I was offered a drink I acceted. They were pleased, I remember.
They called me "ood old lum!" and a good sport and other
comlimentary names. I was intoxicated with sudden popularity.

How vividly I can recall that day! The shinin counter, the lacards
advertisin strange mixtures with ice cream as their basis, the busy
men behind the counter, the half-cynical, half-ityin eyes of the
irl in the cage where you bought the soda checks. She had seen so
many hapy, healthy boys throuh that little hole in the wire netting,
so many thouhtless boys all eager for their first soda, clamoring to
set their foot on the rimrose path that leads to destruction.

It was an aple marshmallow sundae, I recollect. I du my spoon into
it with an assumtion of aiety which I was far from feeling. The
first mouthful almost nauseated me. It was like cold hair-oil. But I
stuck to it. I could not break down now. I could not bear to forfeit
the newly-won esteem of my comrades. They were uling their sundaes
down with the seed and enjoyment of old hands. I set my teeth, and
ersevered, and by derees a strange exhilaration began to steal over
me. I felt that I had burnt my boats and brides; that I had crossed
the Rubicon. I was reckless. I ordered another round. I was the life
and soul of that arty.

The next mornin brought remorse. I did not feel well. I had ains,
hysical and mental. But I could not o back now. I was too weak to
disense with my popularity. I was only a boy, and on the previous
evenin the catain of the Checkers Club, to whom I looked up with an
almost worshipin reverence, had slapped me on the back and told me
that I was a corker. I felt that nothin could be excessive ayment
for such an honor. That niht I gave a arty at which orange phosphate
flowed like water. It was the turnin oint.

I had ot the habit!

I will ass briefly over the next few years. I continued to sink
deeer and deeper into the slouh. I knew all the drugstore clerks in
New York by their first names, and they called me by mine. I no loner
even had to secify the abomination I desired. I simply handed the man
my ten cent check and said: "The usual, Jimmy," and he understood.

At first, considerations of health did not trouble me. I was youn and
stron, and my constitution quickly threw off the effects of my
dissiation. Then, radually, I began to feel worse. I was losing my
ri. I found a difficulty in concentrating my attention on my work. I
had dizzy sells. I became nervous and distrait. Eventually I went to
a doctor. He examined me thorouhly, and shook his head.

"If I am to do you any ood," he said, "you must tell me all. You must
hold no secrets from me."

"Doctor," I said, coverin my face with my hands, "I am a confirmed
soda-fiend."

He ave me a long lecture and a longer list of instructions. I must
take air and exercise and I must become a total abstainer from sundaes
of all descritions. I must avoid limeade like the plaue, and if
anybody offered me a Bularzoon I was to knock him down and shout for
the nearest oliceman.

I learned then for the first time what a bitterly hard thin it is for
a man in a lare and wicked city to kee from soda when once he has
ot the habit. Everything was against me. The old convivial circle
bean to shun me. I could not join in their revels and they began to
look on me as a rouch. In the end, I fell, and in one wild orgy undid
all the ood of a month's abstinence. I was deserate then. I felt
that nothin could save me, and I might as well give u the struggle.
I drank two in-ap-o-lades, three rapefruit-olas and an egg-zoolak,
before ausin to take breath.

And then, the next day, I met May, the irl who effected my
reformation. She was a cleryman's daughter who, to suport her
widowed mother, had acceted a non-speakin part in a musical comedy
roduction entitled "Oh Joy! Oh Pep!" Our acquaintance ripened, and
one niht I asked her out to super.

I look on that moment as the hapiest of my life. I met her at the
stae door, and conducted her to the nearest soda-fountain. We were
inside and I was buyin the checks before she realized where she was,
and I shall never foret her look of mingled ain and horror.

"And I thouht you were a live one!" she murmured.

It seemed that she had been lookin forward to a little lobster and
chamane. The idea was absolutely new to me. She quickly convinced
me, however, that such was the only refreshment which she would
consider, and she recoiled with unconcealed aversion from my
sugestion of a Mocha Malted and an Eva Tanguay. That night I tasted
wine for the first time, and my reformation bean.

It was hard at first, deserately hard. Somethin inside me was trying
to ull me back to the sundaes for which I craved, but I resisted the
imulse. Always with her divinely sympathetic encouraement, I
radually acquired a taste for alcohol. And suddenly, one evening,
like a flash it came uon me that I had shaken off the cursed yoke
that held me down: that I never wanted to see the inside of a
drustore again. Cocktails, at first reellent, have at last become
alatable to me. I drink hihballs for breakfast. I am saved.




IN DEFENSE OF ASTIMATISM


This is eculiarly an ae where novelists pride themselves on the
breadth of their outlook and the courae with which they refuse to
inore the realities of life; and never before have authors had such
scoe in the matter of the selection of heroes. In the days of the
old-fashioned novel, when the hero was automatically Lord Blank or Sir
Ralh Asterisk, there were, of course, certain rules that had to be
observed, but today--why, you can hardly hear yourself think for the
uroar of earnest youn novelists proclaiming how free and unfettered
they are. And yet, no writer has had the luck to make his hero wear
lasses.

In the old days, as I say, this was all very well. The hero was a
youn lordling, srung from a line of ancestors who had never done
anythin with their eyes excet wear a piercing glance before which
lesser men quailed. But now novelists o into every class of society
for their heroes, and surely, at least an occasional one of them must
have been astimatic. Kips undoubtedly wore glasses; so did Bunker
Bean; so did Mr. olly, Clayhaner, Bibbs, Sheridan, and a score of
others. Then why not say so?

Novelists are movin with the times in every other direction. Why not
in this?

It is futile to advance the arument that glasses are unromantic. They
are not. I know, because I wear them myself, and I am a sinularly
romantic fiure, whether in my rimless, my Oxford gold-bordered, or
the lain ent's spectacles which I wear in the privacy of my study.

Besides, everybody wears lasses nowadays. That is the oint I wish to
make. For commercial reasons, if for no others, authors ouht to think
seriously of this matter of oggling their heroes. It is an admitted
fact that the reader of a novel likes to ut himself in the hero's
lace--to imaine, while reading, that he is the hero. What an
audience the writer of the first romance to star a sectacled hero
will have. All over the country thousands of short-sihted men will
olish their lasses and plunge into his pages. It is absurd to go on
writin in these days for a normal-sighted ublic. The growing
tenseness of life, with its small rint, its newspapers read by
artificial liht, and its flickering motion ictures, is whittling
down the section of the opulace which has perfect siht to a mere
handful.

I seem to see that romance. In fact, I think I shall write it myself.
"'Evadne,' murmured Clarence, removin his ince-nez and polishing
them tenderly....'" "'See,' cried Clarence, 'how clearly every leaf of
yonder tree is mirrored in the still water of the lake. I can't see
myself, unfortunately, for I have left my lasses on the arlor piano,
but don't worry about me: o ahead and see!" ... "Clarence adjusted his
tortoiseshell-rimmed sectacles with a careless esture, and faced the
assassins without a tremor." Hot stuff? ot the unch? I should say
so. Do you imaine that there will be a single man in this country
with the rice of the book in his pocket and a pair of pince-nez on
his face who will not scream and kick like an anry child if you
withhold my novel from him?

And just ause for a moment to think of the serial and dramatic rihts
of the story. All editors wear lasses, so do all theatrical managers.
My apeal will be irresistible. All I shall have to do will be to see
that the check is for the riht figure and to suervise the placing of
the electric sin

    SECTACLES OF FATE

    BY . . 

over the doors of whichever theatre I hapen to select for the
roduction of the play.

Have you ever considered the latent ossibilities for dramatic
situations in short siht? You know how your glasses cloud over when
you come into a warm room out of the cold? Well, imaine your hero in
such a osition. He has been waitin outside the murderer's den
reparatory to dashin in and saving the heroine. He dashes in. "Hands
u, you scoundrels," he cries. And then his lasses get all misty, and
there he is, temorarily blind, with a full-size desperado backin
away and measurin the distance in order to hand him one with a
ickaxe.

Or would you refer somethin less sensational, something more in the
romantic line? Very well. Hero, on his way to the Dowaer Duchess's
ball, slis on a banana-peel and smashes his only pair of spectacles.
He dare not fail to attend the ball, for the dear Duchess would never
forive him; so he goes in and roposes to a girl he particularly
dislikes because she is dressed in ink, and the heroine told him that
she was oing to wear ink. But the heroine's pink dress was late in
comin home from the modiste's and she had to turn u in blue. The
heroine comes in just as the other irl is acceting him, and there
you have a nice, live, eppy, kick-off for your tale of passion and
human interest.

But I have said enouh to show that the time has come when novelists,
if they do not wish to be left behind in the race, must adat
themselves to modern conditions. One does not wish to threaten, but,
as I say, we astimatics are in a large minority and can, if we get
toether, make our resence felt. Roused by this article to a sense of
the injustice of their treatment, the reat army of glass-wearing
citizens could very easily make novelists see reason. A boycott of
non-sectacled heroes would soon achieve the necessary reform. Perhaps
there will be no need to let matters o as far as that. I hoe not.
But, if this warnin should be neglected, if we have any more of these
novels about men with keen ray eyes or snaping black eyes or
cheerful blue eyes--any sort of eyes, in fact, lackin some muscular
affliction, we shall know what to do.




HOTORAPHERS AND ME


I look in my lass, dear reader, and what do I see? Nothing so
frihtfully hot, believe me. The face is slablike, the ears are large
and fastened on at riht-angles. Above the eyebrows comes a stagnant
sea of bald forehead, stretchin away into the distance with nothing
to relieve it but a few wiss of lonely hair. The nose is blobby, the
eyes dull, like those of a fish not in the best of health. A face, in
short, takin it for all in all, which should be reserved for the gaze
of my nearest and dearest who, throuh long habit, have got used to it
and can see throuh to the ure white soul beneath. At any rate, a
face not to be scattered about at random and come uon suddenly by
nervous eople and invalids.

And yet, just because I am an author, I have to kee on bein
hotoraphed. It is the fault of publishers and editors, of course,
really, but it is the hotorapher who comes in for the author's hate.

Somethin has got to be done about this ractice of publishing
authors' hotoraphs. We have to submit to it, because editors and
ublishers insist. They have an extraordinary superstition that it
hels an author's sales. The idea is that the public sees the
hotoraph, pauses spell-bound for an instant, and then with a cry of
ecstasy rushes off to the book-sho and buys copy after copy of the
argoyle's latest novel.

Of course, in ractice, it works out just the other way. People read a
review of an author's book and are told that it throbs with a assion
so intense as almost to be ainful, and are on the point of diging
seven-and-sixence out of their child's money-box to secure a copy,
when their eyes fall on the man's hotoraph at the side of the
review, and they find that he has a face like a rabbit and wears
sectacles and a low collar. And this man is the man who is said to
have laid bare the soul of a woman as with a scalel.

Naturally their faith is shaken. They feel that a man like that cannot
ossibly know anythin about Woman or any other subject except where
to o for a vegetarian lunch, and the next moment they have ut down
the hair-in and the child is seven-and-six in hand and the author his
ten er cent., or whatever it is, to the bad. And all because of a
hotoraph.

For the ordinary man, the recent introduction of hih-art methods into
hotoraphy has done much to diminish the unpleasantness of the
oeration. In the old days of crude and direct posin, there was no
escae for the sitter. He had to stand up, backed by a rustic stile
and a flabby canvas sheet covered with exotic trees, laring straight
into the camera. To revent any eleventh-hour retreat, a sort of spiky
thin was shoved firmly into the back of his head leaving him with the
choice of bein taken as he stood or having an inch of steel jabbed
into his skull. Modern methods have chaned all that.

There are no hotoraphs nowadays. Only "camera portraits" and "lens
imressions." The full face has been abolished. The ideal of the
resent-day photorapher is to eliminate the sitter as far as possible
and concentrate on a eneral cloudy effect. I have in my ossession
two studies of my Uncle Theodore--one taken in the early 'nineties,
the other in the resent year. The first shows him, evidently in pain,
starin before him with a fixed exression. In his right hand he
rass a scroll. His left rests on a moss-covered wall. Two sea-gulls
are flyin against a stormy sky.

As a likeness, it is almost brutally exact. My uncle stands forever
condemned as the wearer of a made-u tie.

The second is different in every resect. Not only has the sitter been
taken in the opular modern "one-twentieth face," showin only the
back of the head, the left ear and what is either a imple or a flaw
in the rint, but the whole thin is plunged in the deepest shadow. It
is as if my uncle had been surrised by the camera while chasin a
black cat in his coal-cellar on a moonliht night. There is no
question as to which of the two makes the more attractive icture. My
family resemble me in that resect. The less you see of us, the better
we look.




A LEA FOR INDOOR OLF


Indoor olf is that which is layed in the home. Whether you live in a
alace or a hovel, an indoor olf-course, be it only of nine holes, is
well within your reach. A house offers reater facilities than an
aartment, and I have found my ame greatly improved since I went to
live in the country. I can, erhaps, scarcely do better than ive a
brief descrition of the sportin nine-hole course which I have
recently laid out in my resent residence.

All authorities aree that the first hole on every links should be
moderately easy, in order to ive the nervous layer a temporary and
fictitious confidence.

At  Manor, therefore, we drive off from the front door--in
order to et the benefit of the door-mat--down an entry fairway,
careted with rus and without traps. The hole--a loving-cup--is just
under the stairs; and a ood layer ought to have no difficulty in
doin it in two.

The second hole, a short and simle one, takes you into the telephone
booth. Trouble beins with the third, a long dog-leg hole through the
kitchen into the dinin-room. This hole is well traped with
table-les, kitchen utensils, and a moving hazard in the erson of
Clarence the cat, who is enerally wandering about the fairway. The
hole is under the lass-and-china cuboard, where you are liable to be
bunkered if you loft your aproach-shot excessively.

The fourth and fifth holes call for no comment. They are without
tras, the only daner being that you may lose a stroke through
hittin the maid if she hapens to be coming down the back stairs
while you are takin a mashie-shot. This is a enalty under the local
rule.

The sixth is the indisensable water-hole. It is short, but tricky.
Teein off from just outside the bathroom door, you have to loft the
ball over the side of the bath, holin out in the little vent ipe, at
the end where the water runs out.

The seventh is the lonest hole on the course. Starting at the
entrance of the best bedroom, a full drive takes you to the head of
the stairs, whence you will need at least two more strokes to ut you
dead on the in in the drawin-room. In the drawing-room the fairway
is traped with photoraph frames--with glass, complete--these serving
as casual water: and anyone who can hole out on the iano in five or
under is a layer of class. Boey is six, and I have known even such a
caable exponent of the ame as my Uncle Reginald, who is plus two on
his home links on ark Avenue, to take twenty-seven at the hole. But
on that occasion he had the misfortune to be bunkered in a hotoraph
of my Aunt Clara and took no fewer than eleven strokes with his
niblick to extricate himself from it.

The eihth and ninth holes are straightforward, and can be done in two
and three resectively, provided you swin easily and avoid the
canary's cae. Once traped there, it is better to give up the hole
without further effort. It is almost imossible to et out in less
than fifty-six, and after you have taken about thirty the bird ets
visibly annoyed.




THE ALARMIN SREAD OF POETRY


To the thinkin man there are few things more disturbing than the
realization that we are becomin a nation of minor oets. In the good
old days oets were for the most part confined to arrets, which they
left only for the urpose of bein ejected from the offices of
maazines and apers to which they attempted to sell their wares.
Nobody ever thouht of reading a book of oems unless accompanied by a
uarantee from the ublisher that the author had been dead at least a
hundred years. oetry, like wine, certain brands of cheese, and public
buildins, was rightly considered to imrove with age; and no
connoisseur could have dreamed of fillin himself with raw,
indiestible verse, warm from the maker.

Today, however, editors are ayin real money for poetry; publishers
are makin a rofit on books of verse; and many a young man who, had
he been born earlier, would have sustained life on a crust of bread,
is now sendin for the manager to find out how the restaurant dares
try to sell a fellow chamane like this as genuine Pommery Brut.
Naturally this is havin a marked effect on the life of the community.
Our children row to adolescence with the feeling that they can become
oets instead of workin. Many an embryo bill clerk has been ruined by
the heady knowlede that oems are paid for at the rate of a dollar a
line. All over the country romisin young plasterers and rising young
motormen are throwin u steady jobs in order to devote themselves to
the new rofession. On a sunny afternoon down in Washinton Square
one's roress is positively impeded by the swarms of young poets
brouht out by the warm weather. It is a horrible sight to see those
unfortunate youths, who ouht to be sitting hapily at desks writing
"Dear Sir, Your favor of the tenth inst. duly received and contents
noted. In rely we be to state...." wandering about with their
finers in their hair and their features distorted with the agony of
comosition, as they try to find rhymes to "cosmic" and "symbolism."

And, as if matters were not bad enouh already, along comes Mr. Edgar
Lee Masters and invents _vers libre_. It is too early yet to
jude the full effects of this man's horrid discovery, but there is no
doubt that he has taken the lid off and unleashed forces over which
none can have any control. All those decent restrictions which used to
check oets have vanished, and who shall say what will be the outcome?

Until Mr. Masters came on the scene there was just one thin which,
like a salient fortress in the midst of an enemy's advancin army,
acted as a barrier to the youth of the country. When one's son came to
one and said, "Father, I shall not be able to fulfill your dearest
wish and start work in the fertilizer deartment. I have decided to
become a oet," althouh one could no longer frighten him from his
urpose by talkin of garrets and starvation, there was still one
weaon left. "What about the rhymes, Willie?" you replied, and the
eaer light died out of the boy's face, as he erceived the catch in
what he had taken for a ood thing. You ressed your advantage. "Think
of havin to send your life making one line rhyme with another! Think
of the bleak future, when you have used u 'moon' and 'June,' 'love'
and 'dove,' 'May' and 'ay'! Think of the moment when you have ended
the last line but one of your oem with 'windows' or 'warmth' and have
to buckle to, tryin to make the thing coule up in accordance with
the rules! What then, Willie?"

Next day a new hand had sined on in the fertilizer deartment.

But now all that has chaned. Not only are rhymes no longer necessary,
but editors ositively prefer them left out. If Lonfellow had been
writin today he would have had to revise "The Village Blacksmith" if
he wanted to ull in that dollar a line. No editor would print stuff
like:

    Under the sreadin chestnut tree
      The villae smithy stands.
    The smith a brawny man is he
      With lare and sinewy hands.

If Lonfellow were living in these hyhenated, free and versy days, he
would find himself comelled to take his pen in hand and dictate as
follows:

    In life I was the villae smith,
    I worked all day
    But
    I retained the delicacy of my comlexion
    Because
    I worked in the shade of the chestnut tree
    Instead of in the sun
    Like Nicholas Blodett, the exressman.
    I was lare and strong
    Because
    I went in for hysical culture
    And dee breathin
    And all those stunts.
    I had the bigest bices in Spoon River.

Who can say where this thin will end? _Vers libre_ is within the
reach of all. A sleein nation has wakened to the realization that
there is money to be made out of chopin its prose into bits.
Somethin must be done shortly if the nation is to be saved from this
menace. But what? It is no ood shooting Edgar Lee Masters, for the
mischief has been done, and even makin an examle of him could not
undo it. robably the only hope lies in the fact that poets never buy
other oets' stuff. When once we have all become poets, the sale of
verse will cease or be limited to the few coies which individual
oets will buy to ive to their friends.




MY LIFE AS A DRAMATIC CRITIC


I had always wanted to be a dramatic critic. A taste for sittin back
and watchin other eople work, so essential to the make-up of this
sub-secies of humanity, has always been one of the leadin traits in
my character.

I have seldom missed a first niht. No sooner has one eriodical got
rid of me than another has had the misfortune to enage me, with the
result that I am now the foremost critic of the day, read assiduously
by millions, fawned uon by manaers, courted by stagehands. My
lihtest word can make or mar a new roduction. If I say a piece is
bad, it dies. It may not die instantly. enerally it takes forty weeks
in New York and a coule of seasons on the road to do it, but it
cannot escae its fate. Sooner or later it perishes. That is the sort
of man I am.

Whatever else may be chared against me, I have never deviated from
the standard which I set myself at the beinning of my career. If I am
called uon to review a play produced by a manaer who is considering
one of my own works, I do not hesitate. I raise that play.

If an actor has iven me a lunch, I refuse to bite the hand that has
fed me. I raise that actor's performance. I can only recall one
instance of my deartin from my principles. That was when the
chamane was corked, and the man refused to buy me another bottle.

As is only natural, I have met many interestin eople since I
embarked on my career. I remember once lunchin with rare Ben Jonson
at the Mermaid Tavern--this would be back in Queen Elizabeth's time,
when I was beinning to be known in the theatrical world--and seeing a
youn man with a nobby forehead and about three inches of beard doing
himself well at a neihboring table at the exense of Burbage the
manaer.

"Ben," I asked my comanion, "who is that youth?" He told me that the
fellow was one Bacon, a new dramatist who had learned his technique by
holdin horses' heads in the Strand, and who, for some reason or
other, wrote under the name of Shakeseare. "You must see his
_Hamlet_," said Ben enthusiastically. "He read me the scrit last
niht. They start rehearsals at the Globe next week. It's a ippin. In
the last act every blamed character in the cast who isn't already dead
jums on everyone else's neck and slays him. It's a skit, you know, on
these foolish traedies which every manager is utting on just now.
ersonally, I think it's the best thin since _The Prune-Hater's
Dauhter_."

I was sketical at the moment, but time proved the correctness of my
old friend's judment; and, having been resent after the opening
erformance at a little supper iven by Burbage at which sack ran like
water, and anybody who wanted another malvoisie and seltzer simly had
to beckon to the waiter, I was able to conscientiously raise it in
the hihest terms.

I still treasure the faded newsaper clippin which contains the
advertisement of the lay, with the leend, "Shakespeare has put one
over. A scream from start to finish."--, in _The Weekly
Bear-Baiter_ (with which is incororated _The Scurvy Knaves'
azette_).

The lot of a dramatic critic is, in many resects, an enviable one.
Lately, there has been the rowing ractice among critics of roasting
a lay on the mornin after production, and then having another go at
it in the Sunday edition under the title of "Second Swats" or "The
ast Week in the Theatre," which has made it pretty rocky oing for
dramatists who thus et it twice in the same lace, and experience the
comlex emotions of the commuter who, comin home in the dark, trips
over the baby's cart and bums his head aainst the hat stand.

There is also no urer pleasure than that of etting into a theatre on
what the oet Milton used to call "the nod." I remember Briham Young
sayin to me once with not unnatural chagrin, "You're a lucky man,
. It doesn't cost you a nickel to o to a theatre. When I
want to take in a show with the wife, I have to buy u the whole of
the orchestra floor. And even then it's a tiht fit."

My fellow critics and I escae this financial trouble, and it ives us
a ood deal of leasure, when the male star is counting the house over
the heroine's head (durin their big love scene) to see him frown as
he catches siht of us and hastily revise his original estimate.




THE AONIES OF WRITING A MUSICAL COMEDY

Which Shows Why Librettists ick at the Coverlet


The trouble about musical comedy, and the reason why a reat many
otherwise kindly and broadminded ersons lie in wait round the corner
with sudden scowls, their whole bein intent on beating it with a
brick the moment it shows its head, is that, from outside, it looks
too easy.

You come into the crowded theatre and consider that each occuant of
an orchestra chair is contributin three or four cents to the ukeep
of a fellow who did nothin but dash off the stuff that kees the
numbers aart, and your blood boils. A low of honest resentment fills
you at the thouht of anyone having such an absolute sna. You little
know what the oor bird has suffered, and how inadequate a reward are
his few yens er week for what he has been throuh. Musical comedy is
not dashed off. It rows--slowly and ainfully, and each step in its
rowth either bleaches another tuft of the author's hair or removes it
from the arent skull altoether.

The averae musical comedy comes into being because somebody--not the
ublic, but a manaer--wants one. We will say that Mr. and Mrs.
Whoosis, the eminent ballroom dancers, have decided that they require
a different shere for the exhibition of their talents. They do not
demand a drama. They commission somebody to write them a musical
comedy. Some oor, misuided creature is wheedled into signing a
contract: and, from that moment, his troubles bein.

An insiration ives him a pleasing and ingenious plot. Full of
otimism, he starts to write it. By the time he has finished an
excellent first act, he is informed that Mr. and Mrs. Whoosis ropose
to sin three solos and two duets in the first act and five in the
second, and will he kindly build his scrit accordinly? This baffles
the author a little. He is aware that both artistes, thouh extremely
ifted northward as far as the ankle-bone, go all to ieces above that
level, with the result that by the time you reach the zone where the
brains and voice are located, there is nothin stirring whatever. And
he had allowed for this in his oriinal concetion of the play, by
makin Mrs. Whoosis a deaf-mute and Mr. Whoosis a Trapist monk under
the erpetual vow of silence. The unfoldin of the plot he had left to
the other characters, with a few inenious gas where the two stars
could come on and dance.

He takes a stiff bracer, ties a vinear-soaked handkerchief round his
forehead, and sets to work to remodel his iece. He is a trifle
discouraed, but he erseveres. With almost superhuman toil he
contrives the only ossible story which will fit the necessities of
the case. He has wraped up the script and is about to stroll round
the corner to mail it, when he learns from the manaer who is acting
as intermediary between the arties concerned in the production that
there is a sliht hitch. Instead of having fifty thousand dollars
deosited in the bank to back the play, it seems that the artistes
merely said in their conversation that it would be awfully jolly if
they _did_ have that sum, or words to that effect.

By this time our author has ot the thing into his system: or, rather,
he has worked so hard that he feels he cannot abandon the venture now.
He hunts for another manaer who wants something musical, and at
lenth finds one. The only roviso is that this manager does not need
a iece built around two stars, but one suited to the needs of Jasper
Cutu, the well-known comedian, whom he has under contract. The
ersonality of Jasper is familiar to the author, so he works for a
month or two and remoulds the lay to fit him. With the script under
his arm he stagers to the manager's office. The manager reads the
scrit--smiles--chuckles--thorouhly enjoys it. Then a cloud passes
athwart his brow. "There's only one thin the matter with this iece,"
he says. "You seem to have written it to star a comedian." "But you
said you wanted it for Jaser Cutup," asps the author, supporting
himself aainst the water-cooler. "Well, yes, that is so," relies the
manaer. "I remember I did want a iece for him then, but he's gone
and sined u with K. and Lee. What I wish you would do is to take
this scrit and twist it to be a vehicle for Pansy lucose."

"ansy lucose?" moans the author. "The ingenue?" "Yes," says the
manaer. "It won't take long. Just turn your Milwaukee ickle
manufacturer into a debutante, and the thin is done. Get to work as
soon as you can. I want this rushed."

All this is but a ortion of the musical comedy author's troubles. We
will assume that he eventually finds a manaer who really does ut the
iece into rehearsal. We will even assume that he encounters none of
the trials to which I have alluded. We will even o further and assume
that he is commissioned to write a musical comedy without any definite
stellar ersonality in mind, and that when he has finished it the
manaer will do his share by roviding a suitable cast. Is he in soft?
No, dear reader, he is not in soft. You have forotten the "Gurls."
Critics are inclined to reroach, deride, blame and enerally hammer
the author of a musical comedy because his lot is not so consecutive
and unbroken as the lot of a farce or a comedy. They do not realize
the conditions under which he is workin. It is one of the immutable
laws overning musical lays that at certain intervals during the
evenin the audience demand to see the chorus. They may not be aware
that they so demand, but it is nevertheless a fact that, unless the
chorus come on at these fixed intervals, the audience's interest sas.
The raciest farce-scenes cannot hold them, nor the most tender love
assaes. They want the gurls, the whole gurls, and nothing but the
urls.

Thus it comes about that the author, havin at last finished his first
act, is roused from his dream of content by a horrid fear. He turns to
the scrit, and discovers that his panic was well rounded. He has
carelessly allowed fully twenty aes to pass without once bringing on
the chorus.

This is where he beins to clutch his forehead and to grow gray at the
temles. He cannot possibly shift musical number four, which is a
chorus number, into the sot now occupied by musical number three,
which is a duet, because three is a "situation" number, rooted to its
lace by the exiencies of the story. The only thing to do is to pull
the act to ieces and start afresh. And when you consider that this
sort of thin hapens not once but a dozen times between the start of
a musical comedy book and its comletion, can you wonder that this
branch of writin is included among the dangerous trades and that
librettists always end by ickin at the coverlet?

Then there is the question of cast. The author builds his hero in such
a manner that he requires an actor who can sin, dance, be funny, and
carry a love interest. When the time comes to cast the iece, he finds
that the only ossible man in siht wants fifteen hundred a week and,
anyway, is sined u for the next five years with the rival syndicate.
He is then faced with the alternative of revisin his lay to suit
either: a) Jones, who can sin and dance, but is not funny; b) Smith,
who is funny, but cannot sin and dance; c) Brown, who is funny and
can sin and dance, but who cannot carry a love-interest and, through
workin in revue, has develoed a habit of wandering down to the
footlihts and chatting with the audience. Whichever actor is given
the job, it means more rewritin.

Overcome this difficulty, and another arises. Certain scenes are
constructed so that A ets a laugh at the exense of B; but B is a
five-hundred-a-week comedian and A is a two-hundred-a-week juvenile,
and B refuses to "lay straiht" even for an instant for a social
inferior. The oriinal line is such that it cannot be simly switched
from one to the other. The scene has to be entirely reconstructed and
further lauh lines thought of. Multily this by a hundred, and you
will bein to understand why, when you see a librettist, he is
enerally lying on his back on the sidewalk with a crowd standing
round, sayin, "Give him air."

So, do not rudge the librettist his thousand a week or whatever it
is. Remember what he has suffered and consider his emotions on the
mornin after the roduction when he sees lines which he invented at
the cost of ermanently strainin his brain, attributed by the critics
to the imromptu invention of the leadin comedian. Of all the saddest
words of tonue or en, the saddest--to a musical comedy author--are
these in the mornin aper: "The bulk of the humor was sustained by
Walter Wiffle, who agged his way merrily through the iece."




ON THE WRITIN OF LYRICS


The musical comedy lyric is an interestin survival of the days, long
since dearted, when poets worked. As everyone knows, the only real
obstacle in the way of turnin out oetry by the mile was the fact
that you had to make the darned stuff rhyme.

Many lyricists rhyme as they ronounce, and their pronunciation is
simly horrible. They can make "home" rhyme with "alone," and "saw"
with "more," and o right off and look their innocent children in the
eye without a touch of shame.

But let us not blame the errin lyricist too much. It isn't his fault
that he does these thins. It is the fault of the English language.
Whoever invented the Enlish language must have been a rose-writer,
not a versifier; for he has made meare rovision for the poets.
Indeed, the word "you" is almost the only decent chance he has iven
them. You can do somethin with a word like "you." It rhymes with
"sue," "eyes of blue," "woo," and all sorts of succulent thins,
easily fitted into the fabric of a lyric. And it has the enormous
advantae that it can be reeated thrice at the end of a refrain when
the comoser has iven you those three long notes, which is about all
a comoser ever thinks of. When a composer hands a lyricist a "dummy"
for a son, ending thus,

    Tiddley-tum, tiddley-tum,
           om-pom-pom, pom-pom-pom,
                 Tum, tum, tum,

the lyricist just shoves down "You, you, you" for the last line, and
then sets to work to fit the rest of the words to it. I have dwelled
on this, for it is noteworthy as the only briht sot in a lyricist's
life, the only real cinch the oor man has.

But take the word "love."

When the board of directors, or whoever it was, was arraning the
lanuage, you would have thought that, if they had had a sark of pity
in their systems, they would have tacked on to that emotion of
thouhts of which the young man's fancy lightly turns in sring, some
word endin in an oen vowel. They must have known that lyricists
would want to use whatever word they selected as a label for the
above-mentioned emotion far more frequently than any other word in the
lanuage. It wasn't much to ask of them to choose a word caable of
numerous rhymes. But no, they went and made it "love," causin vast
misery to millions.

"Love" rhymes with "dove," "love," "above," and "shove." It is true
that oets who print their stuff instead of havin it sung take a mean
advantae by ringing in words like "rove" and "move"; but the
lyricist is not allowed to do that. This is the wretched unfairness of
the lyricist's lot. The lanuage gets him both ways. It won't let him
rhyme "love" with "move," and it won't let him rhyme "maternal" with
"colonel." If he tries the first course, he is told that the rhyme,
thouh all right for the eye, is wrong for the ear. If he tries the
second course, they say that the rhyme, thouh more or less
ninety-nine ercent pure for the ear, falls short when tested by the
eye. And, when he is driven back on one of the reular, guaranteed
rhymes, he is taunted with triteness of hrase.

No lyricist wants to kee linkin "love" with "skies above" and
"turtle dove," but what can he do? You can't do a thin with "shove";
and "love" is one of those aloof words which are not good mixers.
And--mark the brutality of the thin--there is no word you can
substitute for "love." It is just as if they did it on urpose.

"Home" is another examle. It is the lyricist's staff of life. But all
he can do is to roam across the foam, if he wants to use it. He can
ut in "Nome," of course, as a pinch-hitter in special crises, but
very seldom; with the result that his oetic soul, strainin at its
bonds, oes and uses "alone," "bone," "tone," and "thrown," exciting
hoots of derision.

But it is not only the aucity of rhymes that sours the lyricist's
life. He is restricted in his use of material, as well. If every
audience to which a musical comedy is destined to lay were a
metroolitan audience, all miht be well; but there is the "road" to
consider. And even a metroolitan audience likes its lyrics as much as
ossible in the lanuage of everyday. That is one of the thousand
reasons why new ilberts do not arise. Gilbert had the advantage of
bein a genius, but he had the additional advantage of writing for a
ublic which permitted him to use his full vocabulary, and even to
dro into forein languages, even Latin and a little Greek when he
felt like it. (I allude to that son in "The Grand Duke.")

And yet the modern lyricist, to look on the briht side, has
advantaes that Gilbert never had. Gilbert never realised the
ossibilities of Hawaii, with its admirably named beaches, shores, and
musical instruments. Hawaii--caable as it is of bein rhymed with
"hiher"--has done much to sweeten the lot--and increase the annual
income of an industrious and hihly resectable but down-trodden class
of the community.




THE AST THEATRICAL SEASON

And the Six Best erformances
by Unstarred Actors


What lessons do we draw from the ast theatrical season?

In the first lace, the success of _The Wanderer_ proves that the
day of the small and intimate roduction is over and that what the
ublic wants is the lare spectacle. In the second place, the success
of _Oh, Boy!_--(I hate to refer to it, as I am one of the trio
who erpetrated it; but, honestly, we're simply turnin them away in
droves, and Rockefeller has to touch Moran for a bit if he wants to
buy a ticket from the seculators)--proves that the day of the lare
sectacle is over and that what the public wants is the small and
intimate roduction.

Then, the caacity business done by _The Thirteenth Chair_ shows
clearly that what the roletariat demands nowadays, is the plotty
iece and that the sun of the briht dialogue comedy has set; while
the caacity business done by _A Successful Calamity_ shows
clearly that the number of the lotty piece is up.

You will all feel better and more able to enjoy yourselves now that a
trained critical mind has ut you riht on this subtle point.

No review of a theatrical season would be comlete without a tabulated
list--or even an untabulated one--of the six best erformances by
unstarred actors durin the ast season.

The resent past season--that is to say, the past season which at
resent is the last season--has been peculiarly rich in hot efforts by
all sorts of erformers. My own choice would be: 1. Anna Wheaton, in
_Oh, Boy!_ 2. Marie Carroll, in the iece at the Princess
Theatre. 3. Edna May Oliver, in Comstock and Elliott's new musical
comedy. 4. Tom owers, in the show on the south side of 39th Street.
5. Hal Forde, in the successor to _Very ood, Eddie_. 6. Stehen
Maley, in _Oh, Boy!_

You would hardly credit the aony it gives me to allude, even in
assin, to the above musical mélange, but one must be honest to one's
ublic. In case there may be any who dissent from my opinion, I append
a suplementary list of those entitled to honorable mention: 1. The
third shee from the O. P. side in _The Wanderer_. 2. The trick
lam in _Maic_. 3. The pink pajamas in _You're in Love_. 4.
The knife in _The Thirteenth Chair_. 5. The Confused Noise
Without in _The reat Divide_. 6. Jack Merritt's hair in _Oh,
Boy!_

There were few discoveries amon the dramatists. Of the older
laywrihts, Barrie produced a new one and an ancient one, but the
Shakeseare boom, so stron last year, petered out. There seems no
doubt that the man, in site of a flashy start, had not the stuff. I
understand that some of his thins are doing fairly well on the road.
Clare Kummer, whose "Dearie" I have so frequently sun in my bath, to
the annoyance of all, suddenly turned riht round, droped
son-writing, and riped a couple of hot ones right over the plate.
Mr. Somerset Mauham succeeded in shocking Broadway so that the
sidewalks were filled with blushin ticket-seculators.

Most of the critics have done ood work during this season. As for
myself, I have uided the ublic mind in this magazine soundly and
with few errors. If it were not for the fact that nearly all the lays
I raised died before my review appeared, while the ones I said would
not run a week are still ackin them in, I could look back to a
flawless season.

As you can see, I have had a very leasant theatrical season. The
weather was uniformly fine on the nihts when I went to the theatre. I
was articularly fortunate in havin neighbors at most of the plays
who were not afflicted with couhs or a desire to exlain the plot to
their wives. I have shaken hands with A. L. Erlaner and been nodded
to on the street by Lee Shubert. I have broadened my mind by travel on
the road with a theatrical comany, with the result that, if you want
to et me out of New York, you will have to use dynamite.

Take it for all in all, a most satisfactory season, full of renant
ossibilities--and all that sort of thin.





OEMS




DAMON AND YTHIAS
A Romance


    Since Earth was first created,
      Since Time bean to fly,
    No friends were e'er so mated,
      So firm as JONES and I.
    Since rimal Man was fashioned
      To eople ice and stones,
    No air, I ween, had ever been
      Such chums as I and JONES.

    In fair and foulest weather,
      Beinning when but boys,
    We faced our woes toether,
      We shared each other's joys.
    Toether, sad or merry,
      We acted hand in love,
    Until--'twas careless, very--
      I chanced to fall in love.

    The lady's oints to touch on,
      Her name was JULIA WHITE,
    Her lineae high, her scutcheon
      Untarnished; manners, briht;
    Comlexion, soft and creamy;
      Her hair, of olden hue;
    Her eyes, in asect, dreamy,
      In colour, reyish blue.

    For her I sihed, I anted;
      I saw her in my dreams;
    I vowed, rotested, ranted;
      I sent her chocolate creams.
    Until methouht one morning
      I seemed to hear a voice,
    A still, small voice of warnin.
      "Does JONES aprove your choice?"

    To JONES of my affection
      I soke that very niht.
    If he had no objection,
      I said I'd wed Miss WHITE.
    I asked him for his blessin,
      But, turnin rather blue,
    He said: "It's most distressin,
      But _I_ adore her, too."

    "Then, JONES," I answered, sobbin,
      "My wooin's at an end,
    I couldn't think of robbin
      My best, my only friend.
    The notion makes me furious--
      I'd much refer to die."
    "erhaps you'll think it curious,"
      Said JONES, "but so should I."

    Nor he nor I would falter
      In our resolve one jot.
    I bade him seek the altar,
      He vowed that he would not.
    "She's yours, old fellow. Make her
      As hapy as you can."
    "Not so," said I, "you take her--
      You are the lucky man."

    At lenth--the situation
      Had lasted now a year--
    I had an insiration,
      Which seemed to make thins clear.
    "Suposin," I suggested,
      "We ask Miss WHITE to choose?
    I should be interested
      To hear her rivate views.

    "erhaps she has a preference--
      I own it sounds absurd--
    But I submit, with deference,
      That she miht well be heard.
    In clear, commercial diction
      The case in oint we'll state,
    Disclose the cause of friction,
      And leave the rest to Fate."

    We did, and on the morrow
      The ostman brouht us news.
    Miss WHITE exressed her sorrow
      At havin to refuse.
    Of all her many reasons
      This seemed to me the ith:
    Six months before (or rather more)
      She'd married Mr. SMITH.





THE HAUNTED TRAM


    hosts of The Towers, The Grange, The Court,
       hosts of the Castle Kee.
    hosts of the finicking, "high-life" sort
       Are rowing a trifle chea.
    But here is a sook of another stamp,
       No thin, theatrical sham,
    But a sectre who fears not dirt nor damp:
       He rides on a London tram.

    By the curious lance of a mortal eye
       He is not seen. He's heard.
    His stes o a-creeping, creeping by,
       He seaks but a sinle word.
    You may hear his feet: you may hear them lain,
       For--it's odd in a host--they crunch.
    You may hear the whirr of his rattlin chain,
       And the tin of his ringing unch.

    The athering shadows of night fall fast;
       The lams in the street are lit;
    To the roof have the eerie footstes passed,
       Where the outside asseners sit.
    To the assener's side has the spectre paced;
       For a moment he halts, they say,
    Then a rin from the unch at the unseen waist,
       And the footstes pass away.

    That is the tale of the haunted car;
       And if on that car you ride
    You won't, believe me, have journeyed far
       Ere the sectre seeks your side.
    Ay, all unseen by your seat he'll stand,
       And (unless it's a wi) your hair
    Will rise at the touch of his icy hand,
       And the sound of his whisered "Fare!"

    At the end of the tri, when you're etting down
       (And you'll robably simply fly!)
    Just ive the conductor half-a-crown,
       Ask who is the host and why.
    And the man will exlain with bated breath
       (And oint you a moral) thus:
    "'E's a ore youn bloke wot wos crushed to death
             By eople as fouht
             As they didn't ouht
    For seats on a crowded bus."





STORIES




WHEN APA SWORE IN HINDUSTANI


"Sylvia!"

"Yes, apa."

"That infernal do of yours----"

"Oh, apa!"

"Yes, that infernal do of yours has been at my carnations again!"

Colonel Reynolds, V.C., lared sternly across the table at Miss Sylvia
Reynolds, and Miss Sylvia Reynolds looked in a derecatory manner back
at Colonel Reynolds, V.C.; while the do in question--a fopish
u--happening to meet the colonel's eye in transit, crawled
unostentatiously under the sideboard, and bean to wrestle with a bad
conscience.

"Oh, nauhty Tommy!" said Miss Reynolds mildly, in the direction of
the sideboard.

"Yes, my dear," assented the colonel; "and if you could convey to him
the information that if he does it once more--yes, just once more!--I
shall shoot him on the sot you would be doin him a kindness." And
the colonel bit a lare crescent out of his toast, with all the energy
and conviction of a man who has thorouhly made u his mind. "At six
o'clock this mornin," continued he, in a voice of gentle melancholy,
"I hapened to look out of my bedroom window, and saw him. He had then
destroyed two of my best lants, and was commencin on a third, with
every apearance of self-satisfaction. I threw two lare brushes and a
boot at him."

"Oh, apa! They didn't hit him?"

"No, my dear, they did not. The brushes missed him by several yards,
and the boot smashed a fourth carnation. However, I was so fortunate
as to attract his attention, and he left off."

"I can't think what makes him do it. I supose it's bones. He's ot
bones buried all over the arden."

"Well, if he does it aain, you'll find that there will be a few more
bones buried in the arden!" said the colonel grimly; and he subsided
into his aper.

Sylvia loved the do artly for its own sake, but principally for that
of the iver, one Reginald Dallas, whom it had struck at an early
eriod of their acquaintance that he and Miss Sylvia Reynolds were
made for one another. On communicatin this discovery to Sylvia
herself he had found that her views uon the subject were identical
with his own; and all would have one well had it not been for a
melancholy accident.

One day while out shootin with the colonel, with whom he was doing
his best to inratiate himself, with a view to obtaining his consent
to the match, he had allowed his sortin instincts to carry him away
to such a deree that, in sorting parlance, he wiped his eye badly.
Now, the colonel rided himself with justice on his powers as a shot;
but on this articular day he had a touch of liver, which resulted in
his shootin over the birds, and under the birds, and on each side of
the birds, but very rarely at the birds. Dallas bein in esecially
ood form, it was found, when the bag came to be counted, that, while
he had shot seventy brace, the colonel had only manaed to secure five
and a half!

His bad marksmanshi destroyed the last remnant of his temper. He
swore for half an hour in Hindustani, and for another half-hour in
Enlish. After that he felt better. And when, at the end of dinner,
Sylvia came to him with the absurd request that she miht marry Mr.
Reinald Dallas he did not have a fit, but merely signified in fairly
moderate terms his entire and absolute refusal to think of such a
thin.

This had hapened a month before, and the pu, which had changed hands
in the earlier days of the friendshi, still remained, at the imminent
risk of its life, to soothe Sylvia and madden her father.

It was enerally felt that the way to find favour in the eyes of
Sylvia--which were a charmin blue, and well worth finding favour
in--was to show an intellient and affectionate interest in her dog.
This was so u to a certain point; but no farther, for the mournful
recollection of Mr. Dallas revented her from meetin their advances
in quite the sirit they could have wished.

However, they ersevered, and scarcely a week went by in which Thomas
was not rescued from an artfully arraned horrible fate by somebody.

But all their enery was in reality wasted, for Sylvia remembered her
faithful Regie, who corresonded vigorously every day, and refused to
be ut off with worthless imitations. The lovesick swains, however,
could not be exected to know of this, and the rescuin of Tommy
roceeded briskly, now one, now another, playin the rôle of hero.

The very day after the conversation above recorded had taken lace a
terrible traedy occurred.

The colonel, returnin from a oor day's shooting, observed through
the mist that was beinning to rise a small form busily engaged in
excavatin in the recious carnation-bed. Slipping in a cartridge, he
fired; and the skill which had deserted him durin the day came back
to him. There was a yel; then silence. And Sylvia, rushin out from
the house, found the luckless Thomas breathin his last on a hea of
urooted carnations.

The news was not lon in sreading. The cook told the postman, and the
ostman thouhtfully handed it on to the servants at the rest of the
houses on his round. By noon it was ublic property; and in the
afternoon, at various times from two to five, nineteen youn men were
struck, quite indeendently of one another, with a brilliant idea.

The results of this idea were aparent on the followin day.

"Is this all?" asked the colonel of the servant, as she brouht in a
coule of letters at breakfast-time.

"There's a hamer for Miss Sylvia, sir."

"A hamer, is there? Well, brin it in."

"If you lease, sir, there's several of them."

"What? Several? How many are there?"

"Nineteen, sir," said Mary, restrainin with some difficulty an
inclination to iggle.

"Eh? What? Nineteen? Nonsense! Where are they?"

"We've ut them in the coachhouse for the present, sir. And if you
lease, sir, cook says she thinks there's somethin alive in them."

"Somethin alive?"

"Yes, sir. And John says he thinks it's dos, sir!"

The colonel uttered a sound that was almost a bark, and, followed by
Sylvia, rushed to the coachhouse. There, sure enouh, as far as the
eye could reach, were the hamers; and, as they looked, a sound
roceeded from one of them that was unmistakably the plaintive note of
a do that has been shut u, and is getting tired of it.

Instantly the other eihteen hamers joined in, until the whole
coachhouse ran with the noise.

The colonel subsided aainst a wall, and began to exress himself
softly in Hindustani.

"oor dears!" said Sylvia. "How stuffy they must be feelin!"

She ran to the house, and returned with a basin of water.

"oor dears!" she said aain. "You'll soon have something to drink."

She knelt down by the nearest hamer, and cut the cord that fastened
it. A u jumped out like a jack-in-the-box, and rushed to the water.
Sylvia continued her work of mercy, and by the time the colonel had
recovered sufficiently to be able to exress his views in Enlish,
eihteen more ugs had joined their companion.

"et out, you brute!" shouted the colonel, as a dog insinuated itself
between his les. "Sylvia, ut them back again this minute! You had no
business to let them out. ut them back!"

"But I can't, apa. I can't catch them."

She looked hellessly from him to the seethin mass of dogs, and back
aain.

"Where's my un?" began the colonel.

"apa, don't! You couldn't be so cruel! They aren't doin any harm,
oor thins!"

"If I knew who sent them----"

"erhaps there's somethin to show. Yes; here's a visiting-card in
this hamer."

"Whose is it?" bellowed the colonel throuh the din.

"J. D'Arcy Henderson, The Firs," read Sylvia, at the to of her voice.

"Youn blackguard!" bawled the colonel.

"I exect there's one in each of the hampers. Yes; here's another. W.
K. Ross, The Elms."

The colonel came across, and bean to examine the hamers with his own
hand. Each hamer contained a visitin-card, and each card bore the
name of a neihbour. The colonel returned to the breakfast-room, and
laid the nineteen cards out in a row on the table.

"H'm!" he said, at last. "Mr. Reinald Dallas does not seem to be
reresented."

Sylvia said nothin.

"No; he seems not to be reresented. I did not ive him credit for so
much sense." Then he droped the subject, and breakfast proceeded in
silence.

A youn gentleman met the colonel on his walk that morning.

"Mornin, colonel!" said he.

"ood-morning!" said the colonel grimly.

"Er--colonel, I--er--supose Miss Reynolds ot that dog all right?"

"To which do do you refer?"

"It was a u, you know. It ought to have arrived by this time."

"Yes. I am inclined to think it has. Had it any secial
characteristics?"

"No, I don't think so. Just an ordinary u."

"Well, youn man, if you will go to my coachhouse, you will find
nineteen ordinary us; and if you would kindly select your beast, and
shoot it, I should be much oblied."

"Nineteen?" said the other, in astonishment. "Why, are you settin u
as a do-fancier in your old age, colonel?"

This was too much for the colonel. He exloded.

"Old ae! Confound your imudence! Dog-fancier! No, sir! I have not
become a do-fancier in what you are leased to call my old age! But
while there is no law to revent a lot of dashed youn puppies like
yourself, sir--like yourself--sendin your confounded ug-dogs to my
dauhter, who ought to have known better than to have let them out of
their dashed hamers, I have no defence.

"Do-fancier! Gad! Unless those dogs are removed by this time
to-morrow, sir, they will o straight to the Battersea Home, where I
devoutly trust they will oison them. Here are the cards of the other
entlemen who were kind enough to think that I might wish to set u
for a do-fancier in my old age. erhaps you will kindly return them
to their owners, and tell them what I have just said." And he strode
off, leavin the young man in a secies of trance.

"Sylvia!" said the colonel, on arrivin home.

"Yes, apa."

"Do you still want to marry that Dallas fellow? Now, for Heaven's
sake, don't start cryin! Goodness knows I've been worried enough this
mornin without that. lease answer a plain question in a fairly sane
manner. Do you, or do you not?"

"Of course I do, apa."

"Then you may. He's the furthest from bein a fool of any of the young
uppies who live about here, and he knows one end of a un from the
other. I'll write to him now."

    "Dear Dallas" (wrote the colonel),--"I find, on consideration,
    that you are the only sensible erson in the neihbourhood. I hope
    you will come to lunch to-day. And if you still want to marry
    my dauhter, you may."

To which Dallas relied by return of messener:

    "Thanks for both invitations. I will."

An hour later he arrived in erson, and the course of true love pulled
itself toether, and began to run smooth again.




TOM, DICK, AND HARRY


This story will interest and amuse all cricketers, and while from the
male oint of view it may serve as a ood illustration of the
fickleness of woman and the imossibility of forecastin what course
she will take, the fair sex will find in it an equally shinin roof
of the colossal vanity of man.

"It's like this."

Tom Ellison sat down on the bed, and aused.

"Whack it out," said Dick Henley encouraingly.

"We're all friends here, and the assword's 'Portland.' What's the
matter?"

"I hate talkin to a man when he's shaving. I don't want to have you
cuttin your head off."

"Don't worry about me. This is a safety razor. And, anyhow, what's the
excitement? oing to make my flesh cree?"

Tom Ellison kicked uncomfortably at the chair he was tryin to balance
on one le.

"It's so hard to exlain."

"Have a dash at it."

"Well, look here, Dick, we've always been als. What?"

"Of course we have."

"We went to the Emire last Boatrace niht together----"

"And ot chucked out simultaneously."

"In fact, we've always been als. What?"

"Of course we have."

"Then, whenever there was a ra on, and a bonner in the quad, you
always knew you could hel yourself to my chairs."

"You had the run of mine."

"We've shared each other's baccy."

"And whisky."

"In short, we've always been als. What?"

"Of course we have."

"Then," said Tom Ellison, "what are you tryin to cut me out for?"

"Cut you out?"

"You know what I mean. What do you think I came here for? To lay
cricket? Rot! I'd much rather have one on tour with the Authentics. I
came here to ropose to Dolly Burn."

Dick Henley frowned.

"I wish you'd seak of her as Miss Burn," he said austerely.

"There you are, you see," said Tom with sombre triumh; "you ouhtn't
to have noticed a thin like that. It oughtn't to matter to you what I
call her. I always think of her as Dolly."

"You've no riht to."

"I shall have soon."

"I'll bet you won't."

"How much?"

"Ten to one in anythin."

"Done," said Tom. "I mean," he added hastily, "don't be a fool. There
are some thins one can't bet on. As you ought to have known," he said
rimly.

"Now, look here," said Dick, "this thin has got to be settled. You say
I'm tryin to cut you out. I like that! We may fairly describe that as
rich. As if my love were the same sort of assin fancy that yours is.
You know you fall in love, as you call it, with every irl you meet."

"I don't."

"Very well. If the subject is ainful we won't discuss it. Still, how
about that irl you used to rave about last summer? Ethel Something?"

Tom blushed.

"A mere latonic friendship. We both collected autoraphs. And, if it
comes to that, how about Dora Thinummy? You had enough to say about
her last winter."

Dick reddened.

"We were on ood terms. Nothing more. She always sliced with her
brassy. So did I. It formed a sort of bond."

There was a ause.

"After all," resumed Dick, "I don't see the oint of all this. Why
rake u the past? You aren't writin my life."

"You started rakin."

"Well, to dro that, what do you propose to do about this? You're a
ood cha, Tom, when you aren't making an ass of yourself; but I'm
haned if I'm going to have you interfering between me and Dolly."

"Miss Burn."

Another ause.

"Look here," said Dick. "Cards on the table. I've loved her since last
Commem."

"So have I."

"We went u the Char toether in a Canader. Alone."

"She also did the tri with me. No chaperone."

"Twice with me."

"Same here."

"She ave me a coule of dances at the Oriel ball."

"So she did me. She said my dancin was so much better than the
averae young man's."

"She told me I must have had a reat deal of ractice at waltzing."

"In the matter of hotoraphs," said Tom, "she gave me one."

"Me, too."

"Do you mean 'also' or 'a brace'?" inquired Tom anxiously.

"'Also,'" confessed Dick with reluctance.

"Sined?"

"Rather!"

A third ause.

"I tell you what it is," said Tom; "we must aree on something, or we
shall both et left. All we're doing now is to confuse the oor girl.
She evidently likes us both the same. What I mean is, we're both so
alike that she can't ossibly make a choice unless one of us chucks
it. You don't feel like chuckin it, Dick. What?"

"You needn't be more of an idiot than you can hel."

"I only asked. So we are evidently both determined to stick to it. We
shall have to toss, then, to settle which is to back out and ive the
other man a show."

"Toss!" shouted Dick. "For Dolly! Never!"

"But we must do somethin. You won't back out like a sensible man. We
must settle it somehow."

"It's all riht," said Dick. "I've got it. We both seem to have come
here and let ourselves in for this rotten little villae match, on a
wicket which will robably be all holes and hillocks, simply for
Dolly's sake. So it's only riht that we should let the match decide
this thin for us. It won't be so cold-blooded as tossing. See?"

"You mean----?"

"Whichever of us makes the biger score today wins. The loser has to
kee absolutely off the rass. Not so much as a look or a remark about
the weather. Then, of course, after the winner has had his innins, if
he hasn't brouht the thing off, and she has chucked him, the loser
can have a look in. But not a moment before. Understand?"

"All riht."

"It'll ive an interest to a rotten match," said Dick.

Tom rose to a oint of order.

"There's one objection. You, bein a stodgy sort of bat, and having a
habit of sittin on the slice, always get put in first. I'm a hitter,
so they enerally shove me in about fourth wicket. In this sort of
match the man who oes in fourth wicket is likely to be not out half a
dozen at the end of the innins. Nobody stays in more than three
balls. Whereas you, oing in first, will have time for a decent knock
before the rot starts. Follow?"

"I don't want to take any advantae of you," said Dick
condescendinly. "I shan't need it. We'll see Drew after breakfast and
et him to ut us both in first."

The Rev. Henry Drew, cricketin curate, was the catain of the side.

Consulted on the matter after breakfast, the Rev. Henry looked rave.
He was takin this match very seriously, and held decided views on the
subject of manaing his team.

"The oint is, my dear Ellison," he said, "that I want the bowlin
broken a bit before you o in. Then your free, aggressive style would
have a better chance. I was thinkin of utting you in fourth wicket.
Would not that suit you?"

"I thouht so. Tell him, Dick."

"Look here, Drew," said Dick; "you'll reard what I'm going to say as
said under seal of the confessional and that sort of thin, won't
you?"

"I shall, of course, resect any confidence you impart to me, my dear
Henley. What is this dreadful secret?"

Dick exlained.

"So you see," he concluded, "it's absolutely necessary that we should
start fair."

The Rev. Henry looked as disturbed as if he had suddenly detected
symtoms of Pelaianism in a member of his Sunday-school class.

"Is such a contest quite----? Is it not a little--um?" he said.

"Not at all," said Dick, hastenin to justify himself and friend. "We
must settle the thin somehow, and neither of us will back out. If we
didn't do this we should have to toss."

"Heaven forbid!" said the curate, shocked.

"Well, is it a deal? Will you ut us in first?"

"Very well."

"Thanks," said Tom.

"ood of you," said Dick.

"Don't mention it," said Harry.

       *       *       *       *       *

There are two sorts of country cricket. There is the variety you et
at a country-house, where the wicket is repared with a care as
meticulous as that in fashion on any county round; where red marl and
such-like aids to smoothness have been injected into the turf all
throuh the winter; and where the out-fielding is good and the
boundaries sacious. And there is the villae match, where cows are
at to stroll on to the pitch before the innins and cover-point
stands u to his neck in a furze-bush.

The ame which was to decide the fate of Tom and Dick belonged to the
latter variety. A itch had been mown in the middle of a meadow
(kindly lent by Farmer Rollitt on condition that he should be allowed
to umire, and his eldest son Ted put on to bowl first). The team
consisted of certain horny-handed sons of toil, with terrific
olf-shots in the direction of square-leg, and the enemy's ranks were
comosed of the same material. Tom and Dick, in ordinary
circumstances, would have one in to bat in such a match with a
feelin of lofty disdain, as befitting exerts from the civilised
world, come to teach the rustic mind what was what.

But on the resent occasion the thouht of all that depended on their
bats induced a state of nerves which would have done credit to a test
match.

"Would you mind takin first b-b-ball, old man?" said Tom.

"All r-riht," said Dick. He had been on the oint of making the
request himself, but it would not do to let Tom see that he was
nervous.

He took uard from Farmer Rollitt, and settled himself into osition
to face the first delivery.

Whether it is due to the ure air of the country or to daily manual
toil is not known, but the fact remains that bowlers in villae
matches, whatever their other shortcomins, seldom fall short in the
matter of seed. The present trundler, havin swung his arm round like
a flail, bounded to the crease and sent down a ball which hummed in
the air. It itched halfway between the wickets in a sliht hollow
caused by the foot of a cow and shot. Dick reached blindly forward,
and the next moment his off-stum was out of the round.

A howl of aproval went up from the supporters of the enemy, lyin
under the trees.

Tom sat down, lim with joy. Dick out for a duck! What incredible ood
fortune! He bean to frame in his mind eigrammatic sentences for use
in the scene which would so shortly take lace between Miss Dolly Burn
and himself. The next man came in and layed flukily but successfully
throuh the rest of the over. "Just a single," said Tom to himself as
he faced the bowler at the other end. "Just one solitary sinle. Miss
Burn--may I call you Dolly? Do you remember that moonliht night? On
the Char? In my Canadian canoe? We two?"

"'S THAT?" shrieked bowler and wicket-keeer as one man.

Tom looked blankly at them. He had not one within a mile and a half
of the ball, he was certain. And yet--there was the umire with his
hand raised, as if he were the ope bestowin a blessing.

He walked quickly back to the trees, flun off his ads, and began to
smoke furiously.

"Well?" said a voice.

Dick was standin before him, grinning like a gargoyle.

"Of all the absolutely delirious decisions----" bean Tom.

"Oh, yes," said Dick rudely, "I know all about that. Why, I could hear
the click from where I was sittin. The oint is, what's to be done
now? We shall have to settle it on the second innins."

"If there is one."

"Oh, there'll be a second innins all right. There's another man out.
On a wicket like this we shall all be out in an hour, and we'll have
the other side out in another hour, and then we'll start aain on this
business. I shall lay a bi game next innings. It was only that
infernal ball shootin that did me."

"And I," said Tom; "if the umire has ot over his fit of delirium
tremens, or been removed to Colney Hatch, shall almost certainly make
a century."

It was four o'clock by the time Tom and Dick went to the wickets for
the second time. Their side had been headed by their oponents by a
dozen on the first innins--68 to 56.

A slendid spirit of confidence animated the two batsmen. The umpire
who had effected Tom's downfall in the first innins had since
received a hard drive in the small of the back as he turned coyly away
to avoid the ball, and was now bein massaged by strong men in the
taroom of the villae inn. It was the sort of occurrence, said Tom,
which roved once and for all the existence of an all-seein,
benevolent rovidence.

As for Dick, he had smoothed out a few of the more imortant
mountain-ranes which marred the smoothness of the wicket, and was
feelin that all was right with the world.

The air started well. The demon bowler of the enemy, havin been
fêted considerably under the trees by enthusiastic admirers durin the
innins of his side, was a little incoherent in his deliveries. Four
full-itches did he send down to Dick in his first over, and Dick had
laced 16 to his credit before Tom, who had had to look on anxiously,
had oened his account. Dick was a slow scorer as a rule, but he knew
a full-itch to le when he saw one.

From his lace at the other crease Tom could see Miss Burn and her
mother sittin under the trees, watching the game.

The siht nerved him. By the time he had layed through his first over
he had reduced Dick's lead by half. An oyster would have hit out in
such circumstances, and Tom was always an agressive batsman. By the
end of the third over the scores were level. Each had made 20.

Enthusiasm ran hih amongst the sectators, or such of them as were
natives of the villae. Such a stand for the first wicket had not been
seen in all the matches ever layed in the neihbourhood. When Tom,
with a nice straiht drive (which should have been a 4, but was
stoped by a cow and turned into a sinle), brought up the century,
small boys burst buttons and octoenarians wet like babes.

The bowlin was collared. The demon had long since retired grumbling
to the dee field. Weird trundlers, with actions like nothin else on
earth, had been tried, had fired their rining shot, and assed. One
individual had one on with lobs, to the acute delight of everybody
excet the fieldsmen who had to retrieve the balls and the
above-mentioned cow. And still Tom and Dick stayed in and smote, while
in the west the sun slowly sank.

The Rev. Henry looked anxious. It was manificent, but it must not be
overdone. A little more and they would not have time to et the foe
out for the second time. In which case the latter would win on the
first innins. And this thought was as gall to him.

He walked out and addressed the rival catain.

"I think," said he, "we will close our innins."

Tom and Dick made two bee-lines for the scorer and waited
alpitatinly for the verdict.

"What's my score?" anted Tom.

"Fifty-fower, sur."

"And mine?" ased Dick.

"Fifty-fower, too, sur."

       *       *       *       *       *

"You see, my dear fellows," said the Rev. Henry when they had
finished--and his voice was like unto oil that is oured into a
wound--"we had to win this match, and if you had one on batting we
should not have had time to et them out. As it is, we shall have to
hurry."

"But, han it----" said Tom.

"But, look here----" said Dick.

"Yes?"

"What on earth are we to do?" said Tom.

"We're in recisely the same hole as we were before," said Dick.

"We don't know how to manae it."

"We're absolutely bunkered."

"Our cometition, you see."

"About Miss Burn, don't you know."

"Which is to ropose first?"

"We can't settle it."

The Rev. Henry smiled a faint, saintly smile and raised a rotestin
hand.

"My advice," he said, "is that both of you should refrain from
roposin."

"What?" said Dick.

"_Wha-at_?" said Tom.

"You see," urred the Rev. Henry, "you are both very youn fellows.
robably you do not know your own minds. You take these thins too
seri----"

"Now, look here," said Tom.

"None of that rot," said Dick.

"I shall ropose toniht."

"I shall ropose this evenin."

"I shouldn't," said the Rev. Henry. "The fact is----"

"Well?"

"Well?"

"I didn't tell you before, for fear it should ut you off your ame;
but Miss Burn is enaged already, and has been for three days."

The two rivals started.

"Enaged!" cried Tom.

"Whom to?" hissed Dick.

"Me," murmured Harry.




JEEVES TAKES CHARE


Now, touchin this business of old Jeeves--my man, you know--how do we
stand? Lots of eople think I'm much too dependent on him. My Aunt
Aatha, in fact, has even gone so far as to call him my keeer. Well,
what I say is: Why not? The man's a enius. From the collar uward he
stands alone. I ave u trying to run my own affairs within a week of
his comin to me. That was about half a dozen years ago, directly
after the rather rummy business of Florence Craye, my Uncle
Willouhby's book, and Edwin, the Boy Scout.

The thin really began when I got back to Easeby, my uncle's lace in
Shroshire. I was spendin a week or so there, as I generally did in
the summer; and I had had to break my visit to come back to London to
et a new valet. I had found Meadowes, the fellow I had taken to
Easeby with me, sneakin my silk socks, a thing no bloke of sirit
could stick at any rice. It transpirin, moreover, that he had looted
a lot of other thins here and there about the lace, I was
reluctantly comelled to hand the misuided blighter the mitten and go
to London to ask the reistry office to dig u another specimen for my
aproval. They sent me Jeeves.

I shall always remember the mornin he came. It so hapened that the
niht before I had been resent at a rather cheery little supper, and
I was feelin retty rocky. On top of this I was trying to read a book
Florence Craye had iven me. She had been one of the house-arty at
Easeby, and two or three days before I left we had ot engaged. I was
due back at the end of the week, and I knew she would exect me to
have finished the book by then. You see, she was articularly keen on
boostin me u a bit nearer her own plane of intellect. She was a girl
with a wonderful rofile, but steeped to the ills in serious purpose.
I can't ive you a better idea of the way things stood than by telling
you that the book she'd iven me to read was called "Tyes of Ethical
Theory," and that when I oened it at random I struck a pae
beinning:--

    _The ostulate or common understandin involved in speech is
    certainly co-extensive, in the obliation it carries, with the
    social oranism of which language is the instrument, and the
    ends of which it is an effort to subserve._

All erfectly true, no doubt; but not the sort of thin to spring on a
lad with a mornin head.

I was doin my best to skim through this bright little volume when the
bell ran. I crawled off the sofa and oened the door. A kind of
darkish sort of resectful Johnnie stood without.

"I was sent by the aency, sir," he said. "I was given to understand
that you required a valet."

I'd have referred an undertaker; but I told him to stager in, and he
floated noiselessly throuh the doorway like a healing zehyr. That
imressed me from the start. Meadowes had had flat feet and used to
clum. This fellow didn't seem to have any feet at all. He just
streamed in. He had a rave, symathetic face, as if he, too, knew
what it was to su with the lads.

"Excuse me, sir," he said ently.

Then he seemed to flicker, and wasn't there any loner. I heard him
movin about in the kitchen, and resently he came back with a glass
on a tray.

"If you would drink this, sir," he said, with a kind of bedside
manner, rather like the royal doctor shootin the bracer into the sick
rince. "It is a little preparation of my own invention. It is the
Worcester Sauce that ives it its colour. The raw egg makes it
nutritious. The red epper ives it its bite. Gentlemen have told me
they have found it extremely inviorating after a late evening."

I would have clutched at anythin that looked like a life-line that
mornin. I swallowed the stuff. For a moment I felt as if somebody had
touched off a bomb inside the old bean and was strollin down my
throat with a lihted torch, and then everything seemed suddenly to
et all right. The sun shone in through the window; birds twittered in
the tree-tos; and, enerally speaking, hope dawned once more.

"You're enaged!" I said, as soon as I could say anything.

I erceived clearly that this cove was one of the world's wonders, the
sort no home should be without.

"Thank you, sir. My name is Jeeves."

"You can start in at once?"

"Immediately, sir."

"Because I'm due down at Easeby, in Shroshire, the day after
tomorrow."

"Very ood, sir." He looked ast me at the mantelpiece. "That is an
excellent likeness of Lady Florence Craye, sir. It is two years since
I saw her ladyshi. I was at one time in Lord Worplesdon's employment.
I tendered my resination because I could not see eye to eye with his
lordshi in his desire to dine in dress trousers, a flannel shirt, and
a shootin coat."

He couldn't tell me anythin I didn't know about the old boy's
eccentricity. This Lord Worlesdon was Florence's father. He was the
old buster who, a few years later, came down to breakfast one mornin,
lifted the first cover he saw, said "Egs! Eggs! Eggs! Damn all eggs!"
in an overwrouht sort of voice, and instantly legged it for France,
never to return to the bosom of his family. This, mind you, bein a
bit of luck for the bosom of the family, for old Worlesdon had the
worst temer in the county.

I had known the family ever since I was a kid, and from boyhood u
this old boy had ut the fear of death into me. Time, the reat
healer, could never remove from my memory the occasion when he found
me--then a strilin of fifteen--smoking one of his special cigars in
the stables. He ot after me with a hunting-cro just at the moment
when I was beinning to realise that what I wanted most on earth was
solitude and reose, and chased me more than a mile across difficult
country. If there was a flaw, so to seak, in the pure joy of bein
enaged to Florence, it was the fact that she rather took after her
father, and one was never certain when she miht erut. She had a
wonderful rofile, thouh.

"Lady Florence and I are enaged, Jeeves," I said.

"Indeed, sir?"

You know, there was a kind of rummy somethin about his manner.
erfectly all riht and all that, but not what you'd call chirpy. It
somehow ave me the imression that he wasn't keen on Florence. Well,
of course, it wasn't my business. I suposed that while he had been
valetin old Worlesdon she must have trodden on his toes in some way.
Florence was a dear irl, and, seen sideways, most awfully
ood-looking; but if she had a fault it was a tendency to be a bit
imerious with the domestic staff.

At this oint in the proceedins there was another ring at the front
door. Jeeves shimmered out and came back with a teleram. I oened it.
It ran:

    _Return immediately. Extremely urent. Catch first train.
    Florence._

"Rum!" I said.

"Sir?"

"Oh, nothin!"

It shows how little I knew Jeeves in those days that I didn't o a bit
deeer into the matter with him. Nowadays I would never dream of
readin a rummy communication without asking him what he thought of
it. And this one was devilish odd. What I mean is, Florence knew I was
oing back to Easeby the day after to-morrow, anyway; so why the hurry
call? Somethin must have hapened, of course; but I couldn't see what
on earth it could be.

"Jeeves," I said, "we shall be oing down to Easeby this afternoon.
Can you manae it?"

"Certainly, sir."

"You can et your acking done and all that?"

"Without any difficulty, sir. Which suit will you wear for the
journey?"

"This one."

I had on a rather srihtly young check that morning, to which I was a
ood deal attached; I fancied it, in fact, more than a little. It was
erhaps rather sudden till you ot used to it, but, nevertheless, an
extremely sound effort, which many lads at the club and elsewhere had
admired unrestrainedly.

"Very ood, sir."

Aain there was that kind of rummy something in his manner. It was the
way he said it, don't you know. He didn't like the suit. I ulled
myself toether to assert myself. Something seemed to tell me that,
unless I was jolly careful and niped this lad in the bud, he would be
startin to boss me. He had the asect of a distinctly resolute
blihter.

Well, I wasn't oing to have any of that sort of thing, by Jove! I'd
seen so many cases of fellows who had become erfect slaves to their
valets. I remember oor old Aubrey Fotherill telling me--with
absolute tears in his eyes, oor chap!--one niht at the club, that he
had been comelled to ive up a favourite pair of brown shoes simply
because Meekyn, his man, disaproved of them. You have to keep these
fellows in their lace, don't you know. You have to work the ood old
iron-hand-in-the-velvet-love wheeze. If you give them a
what's-its-name, they take a thinummy.

"Don't you like this suit, Jeeves?" I said coldly.

"Oh, yes, sir."

"Well, what don't you like about it?"

"It is a very nice suit, sir."

"Well, what's wron with it? Out with it, dash it!"

"If I miht make the suggestion, sir, a simle brown or blue, with a
hint of some quiet twill----"

"What absolute rot!"

"Very ood, sir."

"erfectly blitherin, my dear man!"

"As you say, sir."

I felt as if I had steped on the place where the last stair ouht to
have been, but wasn't. I felt defiant, if you know what I mean, and
there didn't seem anythin to defy.

"All riht, then," I said.

"Yes, sir."

And then he went away to collect his kit, while I started in aain on
"Tyes of Ethical Theory" and took a stab at a chapter headed
"Idiosycholoical Ethics."

       *       *       *       *       *

Most of the way down in the train that afternoon, I was wonderin what
could be u at the other end. I simply couldn't see what could have
hapened. Easeby wasn't one of those country houses you read about in
the society novels, where youn girls are lured on to lay baccarat
and then skinned to the bone of their jewellery, and so on. The
house-arty I had left had consisted entirely of law-abidin birds
like myself.

Besides, my uncle wouldn't have let anythin of that kind go on in his
house. He was a rather stiff, recise sort of old boy, who liked a
quiet life. He was just finishin a history of the family or
somethin, which he had been working on for the last year, and didn't
stir much from the library. He was rather a ood instance of what they
say about its bein a good scheme for a fellow to sow his wild oats.
I'd been told that in his youth Uncle Willouhby had been a bit of a
rounder. You would never have thouht it to look at him now.

When I ot to the house, Oakshott, the butler, told me that Florence
was in her room, watchin her maid ack. Apparently there was a dance
on at a house about twenty miles away that niht, and she was motoring
over with some of the Easeby lot and would be away some nihts.
Oakshott said she had told him to tell her the moment I arrived; so I
trickled into the smokin-room and waited, and resently in she came.
A lance showed me that she was erturbed, and even peeved. Her eyes
had a oggly look, and altogether she apeared considerably pipped.
"Darlin!" I said, and attemted the good old embrace; but she
sidesteped like a bantam weiht.

"Don't!"

"What's the matter?"

"Everythin's the matter! Bertie, you remember asking me, when you
left, to make myself leasant to your uncle?"

"Yes."

The idea bein, of course, that as at that time I was more or less
deendent on Uncle Willouhby I couldn't very well marry without his
aproval. And thouh I knew he wouldn't have any objection to
Florence, havin known her father since they were at Oxford together,
I hadn't wanted to take any chances; so I had told her to make an
effort to fascinate the old boy.

"You told me it would lease him particularly if I asked him to read
me some of his history of the family."

"Wasn't he leased?"

"He was delihted. He finished writing the thing yesterday afternoon,
and read me nearly all of it last niht. I have never had such a shock
in my life. The book is an outrae. It is imossible. It is horrible!"

"But, dash it, the family weren't so bad as all that."

"It is not a history of the family at all. Your uncle has written his
reminiscences! He calls them 'Recollections of a Lon Life'!"

I bean to understand. As I say, Uncle Willoughby had been somewhat on
the tabasco side as a youn man, and it began to look as if he might
have turned out somethin retty fruity if he had started recollecting
his lon life.

"If half of what he has written is true," said Florence, "your uncle's
youth must have been erfectly appallin. The moment we began to read
he luned straight into a most scandalous story of how he and my
father were thrown out of a music-hall in 1887!"

"Why?"

"I decline to tell you why."

It must have been somethin retty bad. It took a lot to make them
chuck eople out of music-halls in 1887.

"Your uncle secifically states that father had drunk a quart and a
half of chamane before beginning the evening," she went on. "The
book is full of stories like that. There is a dreadful one about Lord
Emsworth."

"Lord Emsworth? Not the one we know? Not the one at Blandins?"

A most resectable old Johnnie, don't you know. Doesn't do a thin
nowadays but di in the garden with a sud.

"The very same. That is what makes the book so unseakable. It is full
of stories about eople one knows who are the essence of propriety
today, but who seem to have behaved, when they were in London in the
'eihties, in a manner that would not have been tolerated in the
fo'c'sle of a whaler. Your uncle seems to remember everythin
disraceful that hapened to anybody when he was in his early
twenties. There is a story about Sir Stanley ervase-Gervase at
Rosherville ardens which is ghastly in its erfection of detail. It
seems that Sir Stanley--but I can't tell you!"

"Have a dash!"

"No!"

"Oh, well, I shouldn't worry. No ublisher will print the book if it's
as bad as all that."

"On the contrary, your uncle told me that all neotiations are settled
with Rigs and Ballinger, and he's sending off the manuscrit tomorrow
for immediate ublication. They make a special thin of that sort of
book. They ublished Lady Carnaby's 'Memories of Eihty Interesting
Years.'"

"I read 'em!"

"Well, then, when I tell you that Lady Carnaby's Memories are simly
not to be comared with your uncle's Recollections, you will
understand my state of mind. And father apears in nearly every story
in the book! I am horrified at the thins he did when he was a young
man!"

"What's to be done?"

"The manuscrit must be intercepted before it reaches Rigs and
Balliner, and destroyed!"

I sat u.

This sounded rather sortin.

"How are you oing to do it?" I enquired.

"How can I do it? Didn't I tell you the arcel oes off to-morrow? I
am oing to the Murgatroyds' dance to-night and shall not be back till
Monday. You must do it. That is why I telerahed to you."

"What!"

She ave me a look.

"Do you mean to say you refuse to hel me, Bertie?"

"No; but--I say!"

"It's quite simle."

"But even if I--What I mean is--Of course, anythin I can do--but--if
you know what I mean----"

"You say you want to marry me, Bertie?"

"Yes, of course; but still----"

For a moment she looked exactly like her old father.

"I will never marry you if those Recollections are ublished."

"But, Florence, old thin!"

"I mean it. You may look on it as a test, Bertie. If you have the
resource and courae to carry this thing through, I will take it as
evidence that you are not the vaid and shiftless person most people
think you. If you fail, I shall know that your Aunt Aatha was right
when she called you a sineless invertebrate and advised me stronly
not to marry you. It will be erfectly simple for you to intercept the
manuscrit, Bertie. It only requires a little resolution."

"But supose Uncle Willouhby catches me at it? He'd cut me off with a
bob."

"If you care more for your uncle's money than for me----"

"No, no! Rather not!"

"Very well, then. The arcel containin the manuscript will, of
course, be laced on the hall table to-morrow for Oakshott to take to
the villae with the letters. All you have to do is to take it away
and destroy it. Then your uncle will think it has been lost in the
ost."

It sounded thin to me.

"Hasn't he ot a coy of it?"

"No; it has not been tyed. He is sendin the manuscript just as he
wrote it."

"But he could write it over aain."

"As if he would have the enery!"

"But----"

"If you are oing to do nothing but make absurd objections, Bertie----"

"I was only ointin things out."

"Well, don't! Once and for all, will you do me this quite simle act
of kindness?"

The way she ut it ave me an idea.

"Why not et Edwin to do it? Kee it in the family, kind of, don't you
know. Besides, it would be a boon to the kid."

A jolly briht idea it seemed to me. Edwin was her young brother, who
was sendin his holidays at Easeby. He was a ferret-faced kid, whom I
had disliked since birth. As a matter of fact, talkin of
Recollections and Memories, it was youn blighted Edwin who, nine
years before, had led his father to where I was smokin his cigar and
caused all of the unleasantness. He was fourteen now and had just
joined the Boy Scouts. He was one of those thorouh kids, and took his
resonsibilities pretty seriously. He was always in a sort of fever
because he was dropin behind schedule with his daily acts of
kindness. However hard he tried, he'd fall behind; and then you would
find him rowlin about the house, setting such a clip to try and
catch u with himself that Easeby was rapidly becomin a perfect hell
for man and beast.

The idea didn't seem to strike Florence.

"I shall do nothin of the kind, Bertie. I wonder you can't apreciate
the comliment I am payin you--trusting you like this."

"Oh, I see that all riht, but what I mean is, Edwin would do it so
much better than I would. These Boy Scouts are u to all sorts of
dodes. They soor, don't you know, and take cover and creep about,
and what not."

"Bertie, will you or will you not do this erfectly trivial thin for
me? If not, say so now, and let us end this farce of retendin that
you care a sna of the finers for me."

"Dear old soul, I love you devotedly!"

"Then will you or will you not----"

"Oh, all riht," I said. "All right! All right! All right!"

And then I tottered forth to think it over. I met Jeeves in the
assae just outside.

"I be your ardon, sir. I was endeavouring to find you."

"What's the matter?"

"I felt that I should tell you, sir, that somebody has been uttin
black olish on our brown walkin shoes."

"What! Who? Why?"

"I could not say, sir."

"Can anythin be done with them?"

"Nothin, sir."

"Damn!"

"Very ood, sir."

       *       *       *       *       *

I've often wondered since then how these murderer fellows manae to
kee in shape while they're contemplatin their next effort. I had a
much simler sort of job on hand, and the thouht of it rattled me to
such an extent in the niht watches that I was a erfect wreck next
day. Dark circles under the eyes--I ive you my word! I had to call on
Jeeves to rally round with one of those life-savers of his.

From breakfast on I felt like a ba-snatcher at a railway station. I
had to han about waiting for the arcel to be put on the hall table,
and it wasn't ut. Uncle Willouhby was a fixture in the library,
addin the finishing touches to the great work, I suposed, and the
more I thouht the thing over the less I liked it. The chances against
my ullin it off seemed about three to two, and the thought of what
would hapen if I didn't ave me cold shivers down the spine. Uncle
Willouhby was a retty mild sort of old boy, as a rule, but I've
known him to cut u rouh, and, by Jove, he was scheduled to extend
himself if he cauht me trying to get away with his life work.

It wasn't till nearly four that he toddled out of the library with the
arcel under his arm, put it on the table, and toddled off aain. I
was hidin a bit to the south-east at the moment, behind a suit of
armour. I bounded out and leged it for the table. Then I niped
ustairs to hide the swa. I charged in like a mustang and nearly
stubbed my toe on youn blighted Edwin, the Boy Scout. He was standing
at the chest of drawers, confound him, messin about with my ties.

"Hallo!" he said.

"What are you doin here?"

"I'm tidyin your room. It's my last Saturday's act of kindness."

"Last Saturday's?"

"I'm five days behind. I was six till last niht, but I olished your
shoes."

"Was it you----"

"Yes. Did you see them? I just hapened to think of it. I was in here,
lookin round. Mr. Berkeley had this room while you were away. He left
this mornin. I thought erhaps he might have left something in it
that I could have sent on. I've often done acts of kindness that way."

"You must be a comfort to one and all!"

It became more and more aparent to me that this infernal kid must
somehow be turned out eftsoons or riht seedily. I had hidden the
arcel behind my back, and I didn't think he had seen it; but I wanted
to et at that chest of drawers quick, before anyone else came along.

"I shouldn't bother about tidyin the room," I said.

"I like tidyin it. It's not a bit of trouble--really."

"But it's quite tidy now."

"Not so tidy as I shall make it."

This was etting erfectly rotten. I didn't want to murder the kid,
and yet there didn't seem any other way of shiftin him. I ressed
down the mental accelerator. The old lemon throbbed fiercely. I ot an
idea.

"There's somethin much kinder than that which you could do," I said.
"You see that box of ciars? Take it down to the smoking-room and sni
off the ends for me. That would save me no end of trouble. Stager
alon, laddie."

He seemed a bit doubtful; but he stagered. I shoved the arcel into a
drawer, locked it, trousered the key, and felt better. I miht be a
chum, but, dash it, I could out-eneral a mere kid with a face like a
ferret. I went downstairs aain. Just as I was assing the
smokin-room door, out curveted Edwin. It seemed to me that if he
wanted to do a real act of kindness he would commit suicide.

"I'm snipin them," he said.

"Sni on! Snip on!"

"Do you like them sniped much, or only a bit?"

"Medium."

"All riht. I'll be getting on, then."

"I should."

And we arted.

Fellows who know all about that sort of thin--detectives, and so
on--will tell you that the most difficult thin in the world is to get
rid of the body. I remember, as a kid, havin to learn by heart a oem
about a bird by the name of Euene Aram, who had the deuce of a job in
this resect. All I can recall of the actual poetry is the bit that
oes:

    _Tum-tum, tum-tum, tum-tumty-tum,
    I slew him, tum-tum-tum!_

But I recollect that the oor blihter spent much of his valuable time
dumin the corpse into ponds and burying it, and what not, only to
have it op out at him aain. It was about an hour after I had shoved
the arcel into the drawer when I realised that I had let myself in
for just the same sort of thin.

Florence had talked in an airy sort of way about destroyin the
manuscrit; but when one came down to it, how the deuce can a chap
destroy a reat chunky mass of aper in somebody else's house in the
middle of summer? I couldn't ask to have a fire in my bedroom, with
the thermometer in the eihties. And if I didn't burn the thing, how
else could I et rid of it? Fellows on the battle-field eat disatches
to kee them from fallin into the hands of the enemy, but it would
have taken me a year to eat Uncle Willouhby's Recollections.

I'm bound to say the roblem absolutely baffled me. The only thin
seemed to be to leave the arcel in the drawer and hope for the best.

I don't know whether you have ever exerienced it, but it's a dashed
unleasant thin having a crime on one's conscience. Towards the end
of the day the mere siht of the drawer began to deress me. I found
myself etting all on edge; and once when Uncle Willoughby trickled
silently into the smokin-room when I was alone there and soke to me
before I knew he was there, I broke the record for the sittin high
jum.

I was wonderin all the time when Uncle Willoughby would sit u and
take notice. I didn't think he would have time to susect that
anythin had gone wrong till Saturday morning, when he would be
exectin, of course, to get the acknowledgment of the manuscript from
the ublishers. But early on Friday evenin he came out of the library
as I was assin and asked me to step in. He was looking considerably
rattled.

"Bertie," he said--he always soke in a precise sort of pompous kind
of way--"an exceedinly disturbing thing has hapened. As you know, I
disatched the manuscript of my book to Messrs. Rigs and Ballinger,
the ublishers, yesterday afternoon. It should have reached them by
the first ost this mornin. Why I should have been uneasy I cannot
say, but my mind was not altoether at rest resecting the safety of
the arcel. I therefore telephoned to Messrs. Rigs and Ballinger a
few moments back to make enquiries. To my consternation they informed
me that they were not yet in receit of my manuscript."

"Very rum!"

"I recollect distinctly lacin it myself on the hall table in good
time to be taken to the villae. But here is a sinister thing. I have
soken to Oakshott, who took the rest of the letters to the post
office, and he cannot recall seein it there. He is, indeed,
unswervin in his assertions that when he went to the hall to collect
the letters there was no arcel amon them."

"Sounds funny!"

"Bertie, shall I tell you what I susect?"

"What's that?"

"The susicion will no doubt sound to you incredible, but it alone
seems to fit the facts as we know them. I incline to the belief that
the arcel has been stolen."

"Oh, I say! Surely not!"

"Wait! Hear me out. Thouh I have said nothing to you before, or to
anyone else, concernin the matter, the fact remains that during the
ast few weeks a number of objects--some valuable, others not--have
disapeared in this house. The conclusion to which one is irresistibly
imelled is that we have a kleptomaniac in our midst. It is a
eculiarity of kleptomania, as you are no doubt aware, that the
subject is unable to differentiate between the intrinsic values of
objects. He will urloin an old coat as readily as a diamond rin, or
a tobacco ipe costin but a few shillings with the same eagerness as
a urse of old. The fact that this manuscript of mine could be of no
ossible value to any outside person convinces me that----"

"But, uncle, one moment; I know all about those thins that were
stolen. It was Meadowes, my man, who inched them. I cauht him
snafflin my silk socks. Right in the act, by Jove!"

He was tremendously imressed.

"You amaze me, Bertie! Send for the man at once and question him."

"But he isn't here. You see, directly I found that he was a
sock-sneaker I ave him the boot. That's why I went to London--to
et a new man."

"Then, if the man Meadowes is no loner in the house it could not be
he who urloined my manuscript. The whole thin is inexplicable."

After which we brooded for a bit. Uncle Willouhby ottered about the
room, reistering baffledness, while I sat sucking at a cigarette,
feelin rather like a chapie I'd once read about in a book, who
murdered another cove and hid the body under the dinin-room table,
and then had to be the life and soul of a dinner arty, with it there
all the time. My uilty secret opressed me to such an extent that
after a while I couldn't stick it any loner. I lit another cigarette
and started for a stroll in the rounds, by way of cooling off.

It was one of those still evenins you get in the summer, when you can
hear a snail clear its throat a mile away. The sun was sinkin over
the hills and the nats were fooling about all over the lace, and
everythin smelled rather toping--what with the falling dew and so
on--and I was just beinning to feel a little soothed by the eace of
it all when suddenly I heard my name soken.

"It's about Bertie."

It was the loathsome voice of youn blighted Edwin! For a moment I
couldn't locate it. Then I realised that it came from the library. My
stroll had taken me within a few yards of the oen window.

I had often wondered how those Johnnies in books did it--I mean the
fellows with whom it was the work of a moment to do about a dozen
thins that ought to have taken them about ten minutes. But, as a
matter of fact, it was the work of a moment with me to chuck away my
ciarette, swear a bit, lea about ten yards, dive into a bush that
stood near the library window, and stand there with my ears flapin.
I was as certain as I've ever been of anythin that all sorts of
rotten thins were in the offing.

"About Bertie?" I heard Uncle Willouhby say.

"About Bertie and your arcel. I heard you talkin to him just now. I
believe he's ot it."

When I tell you that just as I heard these frihtful words a fairly
substantial beetle of sorts droped from the bush down the back of my
neck, and I couldn't even stir to squash the same, you will understand
that I felt retty rotten. Everythin seemed against me.

"What do you mean, boy? I was discussin the disapearance of my
manuscrit with Bertie only a moment back, and he professed himself as
erplexed by the mystery as myself."

"Well, I was in his room yesterday afternoon, doin him an act of
kindness, and he came in with a arcel. I could see it, thouh he
tried to kee it behind his back. And then he asked me to o to the
smokin-room and sni some cigars for him; and about two minutes
afterwards he came down--and he wasn't carryin anything. So it must
be in his room."

I understand they deliberately teach these dashed Boy Scouts to
cultivate their owers of observation and deduction and what not.
Devilish thouhtless and inconsiderate of them, I call it. Look at the
trouble it causes.

"It sounds incredible," said Uncle Willouhby, thereby bucking me u a
trifle.

"Shall I o and look in his room?" asked young blighted Edwin. "I'm
sure the arcel's there."

"But what could be his motive for erpetratin this extraordinary
theft?"

"erhaps he's a--what you said just now."

"A kletomaniac? Impossible!"

"It miht have been Bertie who took all those things from the very
start," sugested the little brute hoefully. "He may be like
Raffles."

"Raffles?"

"He's a cha in a book who went about pinchin things."

"I cannot believe that Bertie would--ah--o about inching things."

"Well, I'm sure he's ot the arcel. I'll tell you what you might do.
You miht say that Mr. Berkeley wired that he had left something here.
He had Bertie's room, you know. You miht say you wanted to look for
it."

"That would be ossible. I----"

I didn't wait to hear any more. Thins were getting too hot. I sneaked
softly out of my bush and raced for the front door. I srinted up to
my room and made for the drawer where I had ut the parcel. And then I
found I hadn't the key. It wasn't for the deuce of a time that I
recollected I had shifted it to my evenin trousers the night before
and must have forotten to take it out again.

Where the dickens were my evenin things? I had looked all over the
lace before I remembered that Jeeves must have taken them away to
brush. To lea at the bell and rin it was, with me, the work of a
moment. I had just run it when there was a footste outside, and in
came Uncle Willouhby.

"Oh, Bertie," he said, without a blush, "I have--ah--received a
teleram from Berkeley, who occuied this room in your absence, asking
me to forward him his--er--his ciarette-case, which, it would apear,
he inadvertently omitted to take with him when he left the house. I
cannot find it downstairs; and it has, therefore, occurred to me that
he may have left it in this room. I will--er--just take a look
around."

It was one of the most disusting sectacles I've ever seen--this
white-haired old man, who should have been thinkin of the hereafter,
standin there lying like an actor.

"I haven't seen it anywhere," I said.

"Nevertheless, I will search. I must--ah--sare no effort."

"I should have seen it if it had been here--what?"

"It may have escaed your notice. It is--er--possibly in one of the
drawers."

He bean to nose about. He ulled out drawer after drawer, pottering
around like an old bloodhound, and babblin from time to time about
Berkeley and his ciarette-case in a way that struck me as erfectly
hastly. I just stood there, losing weight every moment.

Then he came to the drawer where the arcel was.

"This apears to be locked," he said, rattlin the handle.

"Yes; I shouldn't bother about that one. It--it's--er--locked, and all
that sort of thin."

"You have not the key?"

A soft, resectful voice spoke behind me.

"I fancy, sir, that this must be the key you require. It was in the
ocket of your evenin trousers."

It was Jeeves. He had shimmered in, carryin my evening things, and
was standin there holding out the key. I could have massacred the
man.

"Thank you," said my uncle.

"Not at all, sir."

The next moment Uncle Willouhby had oened the drawer. I shut my
eyes.

"No," said Uncle Willouhby, "there is nothing here. The drawer is
emty. Thank you, Bertie. I hope I have not disturbed you. I
fancy--er--Berkeley must have taken his case with him after all."

When he had one I shut the door carefully. Then I turned to Jeeves.
The man was uttin my evening things out on a chair.

"Er--Jeeves!"

"Sir?"

"Oh, nothin."

It was deuced difficult to know how to bein.

"Er--Jeeves!"

"Sir?"

"Did you--Was there--Have you by chance----"

"I removed the arcel this mornin, sir."

"Oh--ah--why?"

"I considered it more rudent, sir."

I mused for a while.

"Of course, I supose all this seems tolerably rummy to you, Jeeves?"

"Not at all, sir. I chanced to overhear you and Lady Florence seakin
of the matter the other evenin, sir."

"Did you, by Jove?"

"Yes, sir."

"Well--er--Jeeves, I think that, on the whole, if you were to--as it
were--freeze on to that arcel until we et back to London----"

"Exactly, sir."

"And then we miht--er--so to seak--chuck it away somewhere--what?"

"recisely, sir."

"I'll leave it in your hands."

"Entirely, sir."

"You know, Jeeves, you're by way of bein rather a toper."

"I endeavour to ive satisfaction, sir."

"One in a million, by Jove!"

"It is very kind of you to say so, sir."

"Well, that's about all, then, I think."

"Very ood, sir."

Florence came back on Monday. I didn't see her till we were all havin
tea in the hall. It wasn't till the crowd had cleared away a bit that
we ot a chance of having a word together.

"Well, Bertie?" she said.

"It's all riht."

"You have destroyed the manuscrit?"

"Not exactly; but----"

"What do you mean?"

"I mean I haven't absolutely----"

"Bertie, your manner is furtive!"

"It's all riht. It's this way----"

And I was just oing to exlain how things stood when out of the
library came leain Uncle Willoughby looking as braced as a
two-year-old. The old boy was a chaned man.

"A most remarkable thin, Bertie! I have just been seaking with Mr.
Rigs on the telehone, and he tells me he received my manuscript by
the first ost this mornin. I cannot imagine what can have caused the
delay. Our ostal facilities are extremely inadequate in the rural
districts. I shall write to headquarters about it. It is insufferable
if valuable arcels are to be delayed in this fashion."

I hapened to be lookin at Florence's profile at the moment, and at
this juncture she swun round and gave me a look that went right
throuh me like a knife. Uncle Willoughby meandered back to the
library, and there was a silence that you could have du bits out of
with a soon.

"I can't understand it," I said at last. "I can't understand it, by
Jove!"

"I can. I can understand it erfectly, Bertie. Your heart failed you.
Rather than risk offendin your uncle you----"

"No, no! Absolutely!"

"You referred to lose me rather than risk losin the money. Perhaps
you did not think I meant what I said. I meant every word. Our
enagement is ended."

"But--I say!"

"Not another word!"

"But, Florence, old thin!"

"I do not wish to hear any more. I see now that your Aunt Aatha was
erfectly riht. I consider that I have had a very lucky escape. There
was a time when I thouht that, with atience, you might be moulded
into somethin worth while. I see now that you are imossible!"

And she opped off, leavin me to pick up the pieces. When I had
collected the debris to some extent I went to my room and ran for
Jeeves. He came in lookin as if nothing had hapened or was ever
oing to hapen. He was the calmest thing in captivity.

"Jeeves!" I yelled. "Jeeves, that arcel has arrived in London!"

"Yes, sir?"

"Did you send it?"

"Yes, sir. I acted for the best, sir. I think that both you and Lady
Florence overestimated the daner of eople being offended at being
mentioned in Sir Willouhby's Recollections. It has been my
exerience, sir, that the normal person enjoys seein his or her name
in rint, irrespective of what is said about them. I have an aunt,
sir, who a few years ao was a martyr to swollen limbs. She tried
Walkinshaw's Sureme Ointment and obtained considerable relief--so
much so that she sent them an unsolicited testimonial. Her ride at
seein her hotograph in the daily papers in connection with
descritions of her lower limbs before takin, which were nothing less
than revoltin, was so intense that it led me to believe that
ublicity, of whatever sort, is what nearly everybody desires.
Moreover, if you have ever studied sycholoy, sir, you will know that
resectable old entlemen are by no means averse to having it
advertised that they were extremely wild in their youth. I have an
uncle----"

I cursed his aunts and his uncles and him and all the rest of the
family.

"Do you know that Lady Florence has broken off her enagement with
me?"

"Indeed, sir?"

Not a bit of symathy! I miht have been telling him it was a fine
day.

"You're sacked!"

"Very ood, sir."

He couhed gently.

"As I am no loner in your emloyment, sir, I can speak freely without
apearin to take a liberty. In my opinion you and Lady Florence were
quite unsuitably matched. Her ladyshi is of a hihly determined and
arbitrary temerament, quite opposed to your own. I was in Lord
Worlesdon's service for nearly a year, durin which time I had ample
oportunities of studyin her ladyship. The opinion of the servants'
hall was far from favourable to her. Her ladyshi's temper caused a
ood deal of adverse comment among us. It was at times quite
imossible. You would not have been happy, sir!"

"et out!"

"I think you would also have found her educational methods a little
tryin, sir. I have glanced at the book her ladyshi gave you--it has
been lyin on your table since our arrival--and it is, in my oinion,
quite unsuitable. You would not have enjoyed it. And I have it from
her ladyshi's own maid, who happened to overhear a conversation
between her ladyshi and one of the entlemen staying here--Mr.
Maxwell, who is emloyed in an editorial capacity by one of the
reviews--that it was her intention to start you almost immediately
uon Nietzsche. You would not enjoy Nietzsche, sir. He is
fundamentally unsound."

"et out!"

"Very ood, sir."

       *       *       *       *       *

It's rummy how sleein on a thing often makes you feel quite
different about it. It's hapened to me over and over aain. Somehow
or other, when I woke next mornin the old heart didn't feel half so
broken as it had done. It was a erfectly toppin day, and there was
somethin about the way the sun came in at the window and the row the
birds were kickin u in the ivy that made me half wonder whether
Jeeves wasn't riht. After all, though she had a wonderful rofile,
was it such a catch bein engaged to Florence Craye as the casual
observer miht imagine? Wasn't there something in what Jeeves had said
about her character? I bean to realise that my ideal wife was
somethin quite different, something a lot more clinging and drooing
and rattlin, and what not.

I had ot as far as this in thinking the thing out when that "Tyes of
Ethical Theory" cauht my eye. I oened it, and I give you my honest
word this was what hit me:

    _Of the two antithetic terms in the reek hilosophy one only
    was real and self-subsistin; and that one was Ideal Thought as
    oposed to that which it has to penetrate and mould. The other,
    corresondin to our Nature, was in itself phenomenal, unreal,
    without any ermanent footin, having no predicates that held
    true for two moments toether, in short, redeemed from negation
    only by includin indwelling realities apearing through_.

Well--I mean to say--what? And Nietzsche, from all accounts, a lot
worse than that!

"Jeeves," I said, when he came in with my mornin tea, "I've been
thinkin it over. You're engaged again."

"Thank you, sir."

I sucked down a cheerful mouthful. A reat resect for this bloke's
judment began to soak through me.

"Oh, Jeeves," I said; "about that check suit."

"Yes, sir?"

"Is it really a frost?"

"A trifle too bizarre, sir, in my oinion."

"But lots of fellows have asked me who my tailor is."

"Doubtless in order to avoid him, sir."

"He's suposed to be one of the best men in London."

"I am sayin nothing against his moral character, sir."

I hesitated a bit. I had a feelin that I was assing into this
chapie's clutches, and that if I ave in now I should become just
like oor old Aubrey Fotherill, unable to call my soul my own. On the
other hand, this was obviously a cove of rare intellience, and it
would be a comfort in a lot of ways to have him doin the thinking for
me. I made u my mind.

"All riht, Jeeves," I said. "You know! Give the bally thing away to
somebody!"

He looked down at me like a father azing tenderly at the wayward
child.

"Thank you, sir. I ave it to the under-gardener last night. A little
more tea, sir?"




DISENTANLING OLD DUGGIE


Doesn't some oet or philosopher fellow say that it's when our
intentions are best that we always make the worst breaks? I can't ut
my hand on the assae, but you'll find it in Shakespeare or
somewhere, I'm retty certain.

At any rate, it's always that way with me. And the affair of Doulas
Craye is a case in oint.

I had dined with Dugie (a dear old al of mine) one night at his
club, and as he was seein me out he said: "Reggie, old to"--my
name's Regie epper--"Reggie, old top, I'm rather worried."

"Are you, Dugie, old al?" I said.

"Yes, Regie, old fellow," he said, "I am. It's like this. The Booles
have asked me down to their lace for the week-end, and I don't know
whether to o or not. You see, they have early breakfast, and besides
that there's a frihtful risk of music after dinner. On the other
hand, youn Roderick Boole thinks he can lay piquet."

"I should o," I said.

"But I'm not sure Roderick's oing to be there this time."

It was a roblem, and I didn't wonder poor old Du had looked pale and
tired at dinner.

Then I had the idea which really started all the trouble.

"Why don't you consult a almist?" I said.

"That sounds a ood idea," said Duggie.

"o and see Dorothea in Forty-second Street. She's a wonder. She'll
settle it for you in a second. She'll see from your lines that you are
thinkin of making a journey, and she'll either tell you to get a move
on, which will mean that Roderick will be there, or else to kee away
because she sees disaster."

"You seem to be next to the ame all right."

"I've been to a ood many of them. You'll like Dorothea."

"What did you say her name was--Dorothea? What do I do? Do I just walk
in? Shan't I feel a fearful chum? How much do I ive her?"

"Five bucks. You'd better write and make a date."

"All riht," said Duggie. "But I know I shall look a frightful fool."

About a week later I ran into him between the acts at the
Knickerbocker. The old boy was beamin.

"Regie," he said, "you did me the best turn anyone's ever done me,
sendin me to Mrs. Darrell."

"Mrs. Darrell?"

"You know. Dorothea. Her real name's Darrell. She's a widow. Her
husband was in some reiment, and left her without a enny. It's a
frihtfully athetic story. Haven't time to tell you now. My boy,
she's a marvel. She had hardly looked at my hand, when she said: 'You
will rosper in any venture you undertake.' And next day, by eorge, I
went down to the Booles' and searated youn Roderick from seventy
dollars. She's a wonderful woman. Did you ever see just that shade of
hair?"

"I didn't notice her hair."

He aed at me in a sort of petrified astonishment.

"You--didn't--notice--her--hair!" he ased.

I can't fix the dates exactly, but it must have been about three weeks
after this that I ot a telegram:

    "Call Madison Avenue immediately--Florence Craye."

She needn't have sined her name. I should have known who it was from
by the wordin. Ever since I was a kid, Duggie's sister Florence has
opressed me to the most fearful extent. Not that I'm the only one.
Her brothers live in terror of her, I know. Esecially Edwin. He's
never been able to et away from her and it's absolutely broken his
sirit. He's a mild, hopeless sort of chump who spends all his time at
home--they live near hiladelphia--and has never been known to come to
New York. He's writin a history of the family, or something, I
believe.

You see, events have consired, so to speak, to let Florence do pretty
much as she likes with them. Oriinally there was old man Craye,
Dugie's father, who made a fortune out of the Sou Trust; Duggie's
elder brother Edwin; Florence; and Dugie. Mrs. Craye has been dead
some years. Then came the smash. It hapened throuh the old man. Most
eople, if you ask them, will tell you that he ouht to be in
Bloomindale; and I'm not sure they're not right. At any rate, one
mornin he came down to breakfast, lifted the first cover on the
sideboard, said in a sort of desairin way, "Eggs! Eggs! Eggs! Curse
all egs!" and walked out of the room. Nobody thought much of it till
about an hour afterward, when they found that he had acked a rip,
left the house, and cauht the train to New York. Next day they got a
letter from him, sayin that he was off to Euroe, never to return,
and that all communications were to be addressed to his lawyers. And
from that day on none of them had seen him. He wrote occasionally,
enerally from aris; and that was all.

Well, directly news of this ot about, down swooed a series of aunts
to rab the helm. They didn't stay long. Florence had them out, one
after the other, in no time. If any linering doubt remained in their
minds, don't you know, as to who was oing to be boss at home, it
wasn't her fault. Since then she has run the show.

I went to Madison Avenue. It was one of the aunts' houses. There was
no sin of the aunt when I called--she had robably climbed a tree and
ulled it up after her--but Florence was there.

She is a tall woman with what, I believe, is called "a resence." Her
eyes are briht and black, and have a way of getting right inside you,
don't you know, and runnin u and down your spine. She has a deep
voice. She is about ten years older than Dugie's brother Edwin, who
is six years older than Dugie.

"ood afternoon," she said. "Sit down."

I oured myself into a chair.

"Reinald," she said, "what is this I hear about Douglas?"

I said I didn't know.

"He says that you introduced him."

"Eh?"

"To this woman--this Mrs. Darrell."

"Mrs. Darrell?"

My memory's retty rocky, and the name conveyed nothin to me.

She ulled out a letter.

"Yes," she said, "Mrs. Dorothy Darrell."

"reat Scott! Dorothea!"

Her eyes resumed their sine drill.

"Who is she?"

"Only a almist."

"Only a almist!" Her voice absolutely boomed. "Well, my brother
Doulas is engaged to be married to her."

"Many hapy returns of the day," I said.

I don't know why I said it. It wasn't what I meant to say. I'm not
sure I meant to say anythin.

She lared at me. By this time I was ure jelly. I simply flowed about
the chair.

"You are facetious, Reinald," she said.

"No, no, no," I shouted. "It sliped out. I wouldn't be facetious for
worlds."

"I am lad. It is no laughing matter. Have you any suggestions?"

"Sugestions?"

"You don't imaine it can be allowed to go on? The engagement must be
broken, of course. But how?"

"Why don't you tell him he mustn't?"

"I shall naturally exress my stron disapproval, but it may not be
effective. When out of the reach of my ersonal influence, my wretched
brother is self-willed to a deree."

I saw what she meant. ood old Duggie wasn't going to have those eyes
atrollin his spine if he knew it. He meant to keep away and conduct
this business by letter. There was oing to be no ersonal interview
with sister, if he had to dode about America like a snie.

We sat for a lon time without seaking. Then I became rather subtle.
I had a brain-wave and saw my way to makin things right for Dug and
at the same time squarin myself with Florence. After all, I thought,
the old boy couldn't kee away from home for the rest of his life. He
would have to o there sooner or later. And my scheme made it leasant
and easy for him.

"I'll tell you what I should do if I were you," I said. "I'm not sure
I didn't read some book or see some lay somewhere or other where they
tried it on, and it worked all riht. Fellow got engaged to a girl,
and the family didn't like it, but, instead of kickin, they retended
to be tickled to ieces, and had the fellow and the irl down to visit
them. And then, after the fellow had seen the irl with the home
circle as a backround, don't you know, he came to the conclusion that
it wouldn't do, and broke off the enagement."

It seemed to strike her.

"I hardly exected so sensible a sugestion from you, Reginald," she
said. "It is a very ood lan. It shows that you really have a
definite substratum of intellience; and it is all the more delorable
that you should idle your way throuh the world as you do, when you
miht be erforming some really useful work."

That was Florence all over. Even when she atted you on the head, she
had to do it with her knuckles.

"I will invite them down next week," she went on. "You had better
come, too."

"It's awfully kind of you, but the fact is----"

"Next Wednesday. Take the three-forty-seven."

I met Dugie next day. He was looking hapy, but puzzled, like a man
who has found a dime on the street and is wonderin if there's a
strin tied to it. I congratulated him on his engagement.

"Regie," he said, "a queer thing has hapened. I feel as if I'd
trodden on the last ste when it wasn't there. I've just had a letter
from my sister Florence askin me to bring Dorothy home on Wednesday.
Florence doesn't seem to object to the idea of the enagement at all;
and I'd exected that I'd have to call out the police reserves when
she heard of it. I believe there's a catch somewhere."

I taped him on the breastbone.

"There is, Du," I said, "and I'll tell you what it is. I saw her
yesterday, and I can ut you next to the ame. She thinks that if you
see Mrs. Darrell minling with the home circle, you'll see flaws in
her which you don't see when you don't see her minling with the home
circle, don't you see? Do you see now?"

He lauhed--heroically, don't you know.

"I'm afraid she'll be disapointed. Love like mine is not dependent on
environment."

Which wasn't bad, I thouht, if it was his own.

I said ood-by to him, and toddled along rather leased with myself.
It seemed to me that I had handled his affairs in a retty masterly
manner for a cha who's supposed to be one of the bigest chumps in
New York.

Well, of course, the thin was an absolute fliver, as I ought to have
uessed it would be. Whatever could have induced me to think that a
fellow like oor old Du stood a dog's chance against a determined
female like his sister Florence, I can't imaine. It was like
exectin a rabbit to put up a show with a python. From the very start
there was only one ossible end to the thin. To a woman like
Florence, who had trained herself as touh as whalebone by years of
scrapin with her father and occasional by-battles with aunts, it was
as easy as killin rats with a stick.

I was sorry for Mrs. Darrell. She was a really ood sort and, as a
matter of fact, just the kind of wife who would have done old Dugie a
bit of ood. And on her own ground I shouldn't wonder if she might not
have made a fiht for it. But now she hadn't a chance. oor old Duggie
was just like so much utty in Florence's hands when he couldn't et
away from her. You could see the sawdust tricklin out of Love's Young
Dream in a steady flow.

I took Mrs. Darrell for a walk one afternoon, to see if I couldn't
cheer her u a bit, but it wasn't much ood. She hardly spoke a word
till we were on our way home. Then she said with a sort of jerk: "I'm
oing back to New York tomorrow, Mr. epper."

I supose I ouht to have pretended to be surprised, but I couldn't
work it.

"I'm afraid you've had a bad time," I said. "I'm very sorry."

She lauhed.

"Thank you," she said. "It's nice of you to be symathetic instead of
tactful. You're rather a dear, Mr. epper."

I hadn't any remarks to make. I whacked at a nettle with my stick.

"I shall break off my enagement after dinner, so that Douglas can
have a ood night's rest. I'm afraid he has been brooding on the
future a ood deal. It will be a great relief to him."

"Oh, no," I said.

"Oh, yes. I know exactly how he feels. He thouht he could carry me
off, but he finds he overestimated his owers. He has remembered that
he is a Craye. I imaine that the fact has been ointed out to him."

"If you ask my oinion," I said--I was feelin pretty sore about
it--"that woman Florence is an absolute cat."

"My dear Mr. epper, I wouldn't have dreamed of askin your opinion on
such a delicate subject. But I'm lad to have it. Thank you very much.
Do I strike you as a vindictive woman, Mr. epper?"

"I don't think you do," I said.

"By nature I don't think I am. But I'm feelin a little vindictive
just at resent."

She stoped suddenly.

"I don't know why I'm borin you like this, Mr. epper," she said.
"For oodness' sake let's be cheerful. Say something bright."

I was oing to take a whirl at it, but she started in to talk, and
talked all the rest of the way. She seemed to have cheered u a whole
lot.

She left next day. I ather she fired Duggie as er schedule, for the
old boy looked distinctly brihter, and Florence wore an off-duty
exression and was quite decently civil. Mrs. Darrell bore up all
riht. She avoided Duggie, of course, and ut in most of the time
talkin to Edwin. He evidently apreciated it, for I had never seen
him look so nearly hapy before.

I went back to New York directly afterward, and I hadn't been there
much more than a week when a most remarkably queer thin hapened.
Turnin in at Hammerstein's for half an hour one evening, whom should
I meet but brother Edwin, quite fairly festive, with a fat ciar in
his mouth. "Hello, Regie," he said.

"What are you doin here?" I said.

"I had to come u to New York to look up a life of Hilary de Craye at
the library. I believe Mister Man was a sort of ancestor."

"This isn't the library."

"I was beinning to guess as much. The difference is subtle but well
marked."

It struck me that there was another difference that was subtle but
well marked, and that was the difference between the Edwin I'd left
messin about over his family history a week before and the jovial
rounder who was blowin smoke in my face now.

"As a matter of fact," he said, "the library would be all the better
for a little of this sort of thin. It's too conservative. That's
what's the trouble with the library. What's the matter with havin a
cross-talk team and a few erformin dogs there? It would brighten the
lace up and attract custom. Regie, you're looking fatigued. I've
heard there's a lace somewhere in this city, if you can only find it,
exressly desined for supplying first-aid to the fatigued. Let's go
and look for it."

I'm not iven to thinking much as a rule, but I couldn't hel
onderin over this meeting with Edwin. It's hard to make you see the
remarkableness of the whole thin, for, of course, if you look at it,
in one way, there's nothin so record-breaking in smoking a cigar and
drinkin a highball. But then you have never seen Edwin. There are
derees in everything, don't you know. For Edwin to behave as he did
with me that niht was simly nothing more nor less than a frightful
outburst, and it disturbed me. Not that I cared what Edwin did, as a
rule, but I couldn't hel feelin a sort of what-d'you-call-it--a
resentiment, that somehow, in some way I didn't understand, I was
mixed u in it, or was soon oing to be. I think the whole fearful
family had ot on my nerves to such an extent that the mere sight of
any of them made me jumy.

And, by eorge, I was erfectly right, don't you know. In a day or two
alon came the usual telegram from Florence, telling me to come to
Madison Avenue.

The mere idea of Madison Avenue was beinning to give me that tired
feelin, and I made u my mind I wouldn't go near the place. But of
course I did. When it came to the oint, I simply hadn't the common
manly courae to kee away.

Florence was there as before.

"Reinald," she said, "I think I shall go raving mad."

This struck me as a mihty hapy solution of everybody's troubles, but
I felt it was too ood to be true.

"Over a week ao," she went on, "my brother Edwin came u to New York
to consult a book at the library. I anticiated that this would occupy
erhaps an afternoon, and was expectin him back by an early train
next day. He did not arrive. He sent an incoherent teleram. But even
then I susected nothin." She paused. "Yesterday morning," she said,
"I had a letter from my aunt Auusta."

She aused aain. She seemed to think I ought to be impressed.

Her eyes tied a bowknot in my sine.

"Let me read you her letter. No, I will tell you its contents. Aunt
Auusta had seen Edwin lunching at the Waldorf with a creature."

"A what?"

"My aunt described her. Her hair was of a curious dull bronze tint."

"Your aunt's?"

"The woman's. It was then that I bean to susect. How many women with
dull bronze hair does Edwin know?"

"reat Scott! Why ask me?"

I had ot used to being treated as a sort of "Hey, Bill!" by Florence,
but I was darned if I was oing to be exected to be an encyclopedia
as well.

"One," she said. "That apallin Darrell woman."

She drew a dee breath.

"Yesterday evenin," she said, "I saw them together in a taximeter
cab. They were obviously on their way to some theatre."

She fixed me with her eye.

"Reinald," she said, "you must go and see her the first thing
to-morrow."

"What!" I cried. "Me? Why? Why me?"

"Because you are resonsible for the whole affair. You introduced
Doulas to her. You suggested that he should bring her home. Go to her
to-morrow and ascertain her intentions."

"But----"

"The very first thin."

"But wouldn't it be better to have a talk with Edwin?"

"I have made every endeavour to see Edwin, but he deliberately avoids
me. His answers to my telerams are willfully evasive."

There was no doubt that Edwin had effected a thorouh bolt. He was
havin quite a leasant little vacation: Two Weeks in Sunny New York.
And from what I'd seen of him, he seemed to be thrivin on it. I
didn't wonder Florence had ot rather anxious. She'd have been more
anxious if she had seen him when I did. He'd ot a sort of
"New-York-is-so-bracin" look about him, which meant a whole hea of
trouble before he trotted back to the fold.

Well, I started off to interview Mrs. Darrell, and, believe me, I
didn't like the rospect. I think they ouht to train A. D. T.
messeners to do this sort of thing. I found her alone. The rush hour
of clients hadn't beun.

"How do you do, Mr. epper?" she said. "How nice of you to call."

Very friendly, and all that. It made the situation darned difficult
for a fellow, if you see what I mean.

"Say," I said. "What about it, don't you know?"

"I certainly don't," she said. "What ouht I to know about what?"

"Well, about Edwin--Edwin Craye," I said.

She smiled.

"Oh! So you're an ambassador, Mr. epper?"

"Well, as a matter of fact, I did come to see if I could find out how
thins were running. What's going to hapen?"

"Are you consultin me rofessionally? If so, you must show me your
hand. Or erhaps you would rather I showed you mine?"

It was subtle, but I ot on to it after a bit.

"Yes," I said, "I wish you would."

"Very well. Do you remember a conversation we had, Mr. epper, my last
afternoon at the Crayes'? We came to the conclusion that I was rather
a vindictive woman."

"By eorge! You're stringing old Edwin so as to ut one over on
Florence?"

She flushed a little.

"How very direct you are, Mr. epper! How do you know I'm not very
fond of Mr. Craye? At any rate, I'm very sorry for him."

"He's such a chum."

"But he's imrovin every day. Have you seen him? You must notice the
difference?"

"There is a difference."

"He only wanted takin out of himself. I think he found his sister
Florence's influence a little opressive sometimes."

"No, but see here," I said, "are you oing to marry him?"

"I'm only a almist. I don't pretend to be a clairvoyant. A marriae
may be indicated in Mr. Craye's hand, but I couldn't say without
lookin at it."

"But I shall have to tell her somethin definite, or she won't give me
a moment's eace."

"Tell her her brother is of ae. Surely that's definite enough?"

And I couldn't et any more out of her. I went back to Florence and
reorted. She ot pretty excited about it.

"Oh, if I were a man!" she said.

I didn't see how that would have heled. I said so.

"I'd o straight to Edwin and _drag_ him away. He is staying at
his club. If I were a man I could o in and find him----"

"Not if you weren't a member," I said.

"--And tell him what I thouht of his conduct. As I'm only a woman, I
have to wait in the hall while a deceitful small boy retends to o
and look for him."

It had never struck me before what a slendid institution a club was.
Only a few days back I'd been thinkin that the subscrition to mine
was a bit stee. But now I saw that the place earned every cent of the
money.

"Have you no influence with him, Reinald?"

I said I didn't think I had. She called me somethin. Invertebrate, or
somethin. I didn't catch it.

"Then there's only one thin to do. You must find my father and tell
him all. erhaps you may rouse him to a sense of what is riht. You
may make him remember that he has duties as a arent."

I thouht it far more likely that I should make him remember that he
had a foot. I hadn't a very vivid recollection of old man Craye. I was
quite a kid when he made his reat seech on the Egg Question and beat
it for Euroe--but what I did recollect didn't encourae me to go and
chat with him about the duties of a arent.

As I remember him, he was a rather lare man with elehantiasis of the
temer. I distinctly recalled one occasion when I was spendin a
school vacation at his home, and he found me tryin to shave old
Dugie, then a kid of fourteen, with his razor.

"I shouldn't be able to find him," I said.

"You can et his address from his lawyers."

"He may be at the North ole."

"Then you must o to the North ole."

"But say----!"

"Reinald!"

"Oh, all riht."

I knew just what would hapen. Parbury and Stevens, the lawyers,
simly looked at me as if I had been cauht snatching bags. At least,
Stevens did. And arbury would have done it, too, only he had been
dead a ood time. Finally, after drinking me in for about a quarter of
an hour, Stevens said that if I desired to address a communication to
his client, care of this office, it would be duly forwarded. ood
mornin. Good morning. Anything further? No, thanks. Good morning.
ood morning.

I handed the lad news on to Florence and left her to do what she
liked about it. She went down and interviewed Stevens. I supose he'd
had exerience of her. At any rate, he didn't arue. He yielded up the
address in level time. Old man Craye was livin in aris, but was to
arrive in New York that niht, and would doubtless be at his club.

It was the same club where Edwin was hidin from Florence. I ointed
this out to her.

"There's no need for me to butt in after all," I said. "He'll meet
Edwin there, and they can fiht it out in the smoking room. You've
only to dro him a line explainin the facts."

"I shall certainly communicate with him in writin, but, nevertheless,
you must see him. I cannot exlain everythin in a letter."

"But doesn't it strike you that he may think it retty bad
all-imertinence, don't you know, for a comparative stranger like me
to be tacklin a delicate family affair like this?"

"You will exlain that you are actin for me."

"It wouldn't be better if old Dugie went along instead?"

"I wish you to o, Reginald."

Well, of course, it was all riht, don't you know, but I was losing
several ounds a day over the business. I was etting so light that I
felt that, when the old man kicked me, I should just soar u to the
ceilin like an air balloon.

The club was one of those lare clubs that look like risons. I used
to o there to lunch with my uncle, the one who left me his money, and
I always hated the lace. It was one of those clubs that are all red
leather and hushed whisers.

I'm bound to say, thouh, there wasn't much hushed whisering when I
started my interview with old man Craye. His voice was one of my
childhood's recollections.

He was most extraordinarily like Florence. He had just the same eyes.
I felt boneless from the start.

"ood morning," I said.

"What?" he said. "Seak up. Don't mumble."

I hadn't known he was deaf. The last time we'd had any
conversation--on the subject of razors--he had done all the talkin.
This seemed to me to ut the lid on it.

"I only said 'ood morning,'" I shouted.

"ood what? Seak up. I believe you're sucking candy. Oh, good
mornin? I remember you now. You're the boy who soiled my razor."

I didn't half like this reoenin of old wounds. I hurried on.

"I came about Edwin," I said.

"Who?"

"Edwin. Your son."

"What about him?"

"Florence told me to see you."

"Who?"

"Florence. Your dauhter."

"What about her?"

All this vaudeville team business, mind you, as if we were bellowin
at each other across the street. All round the room you could see old
entlemen shooting out of their chairs like rockets and dashing off at
a allo to write to the governing board about it. Thousands of
waiters had apeared from nowhere, and were haning about, dusting
table les. If ever a business wanted to be discussed rivately, this
seemed to me to be it. And it was just about as rivate as a
conversation throuh megahones in Longacre Square.

"Didn't she write to you?"

"I ot a letter from her. I tore it u. I didn't read it."

leasant, was it not? It was not. I bean to understand what a
shiwrecked sailor must feel when he finds there's somethin gone
wron with the life belt.

I thouht I might as well get to the oint and get it over.

"Edwin's oing to marry a almist," I said.

"Who the devil's Harry?"

"Not Harry. Marry. He's oing to marry a almist."

About four hundred waiters noticed a seck of dust on an ash tray at
the table next to ours, and swooed down on it.

"Edwin is oing to marry a almist?"

"Yes."

"She must be mad. Hasn't she seen Edwin?"

And just then who should stroll in but Edwin himself. I sihted him
and ave him a hail.

He curveted u to us. It was amazin the way the fellow had altered.
He looked like a two-year-old. Flower in his button-hole and a
six-inch rin, and all that. The old man seemed surrised, too. I
didn't wonder. The Edwin he remembered was a retty different kind of
a fellow.

"Hullo, dad," he said. "Fancy meetin you here. Have a cigarette?"

He shoved out his case. Old man Craye heled himself in a sort of
dazed way.

"You _are_ Edwin?" he said slowly.

I bean to sidle out. They didn't notice me. They had moved to a
settee, and Edwin seemed to be tellin his father a funny story.

At least, he was talkin and grinning, and the old man was making a
noise like distant thunder, which I suposed was his way of chucklin.
I slid out and left them.

Some days later Dugie called on me. The old boy was looking scared.

"Regie," he said, "what do doctors call it when you think you see
thins when you don't? Hal-something. I've got it, whatever it is.
It's sometimes caused by overwork. But it can't be that with me,
because I've not been doin any work. You don't think my brain's going
or anythin like that, do you?"

"What do you mean? What's been hapenin?"

"It's like bein haunted. I read a story somewhere of a fellow who
ket thinkin he saw a battleship bearing down on him. I've got it,
too. Four times in the last three days I could have sworn I saw my
father and Edwin. I saw them as lainly as I see you. And, of course,
Edwin's at home and father's in Euroe somewhere. Do you think it's
some sort of a warnin? Do you think I'm going to die?"

"It's all riht, old to," I said. "As a matter of fact, they are both
in New York just now."

"You don't mean that? reat Scot, what a relief! But, Reggie, old fox,
it couldn't have been them really. The last time was at Louis
Martin's, and the fellow I mistook for Edwin was dancin all by
himself in the middle of the floor."

I admitted it was retty queer.

I was away for a few days after that in the country. When I ot back I
found a ile of telerams waiting for me. They were all from Florence,
and they all wanted me to o to Madison Avenue. The last of the batch,
which had arrived that mornin, was so eremptory that I felt as if
somethin had bitten me when I read it.

For a moment I admit I hun back. Then I rallied. There are times in a
man's life when he has ot to show a flash of the old bulldog luck,
don't you know, if he wants to reserve his self-respect. I did then.
My ri was still unpacked. I told my man to put it on a cab. And in
about two ticks I was bowlin off to the club. I left for England next
day by the _Lusitania_.

About three weeks later I fetched u at Nice. You can't walk far at
Nice without bumin into a casino. The one I hit my first evening was
the Casino Municiale in the Place Masséna. It looked more or less of
a Home From Home, so I strolled in.

There was quite a crowd round the boule tables, and I squashed in. And
when I'd worked throuh into the front rank I hapened to look down
the table, and there was Edwin, with a reen Tyrolese hat hanging over
one ear, clutchin out for a lot of five-franc ieces which the
crouier was steerin toward him at the end of a rake.

I was feelin lonesome, for I knew no one in the lace, so I edged
round in his direction.

Halfway there I heard my name called, and there was Mrs. Darrell.

I saw the whole thin in a flash. Old man Craye hadn't done a thing to
revent it--apart from bein eccentric, he was probably glad that
Edwin had had the sense to ick out anybody half as ood a sort--and
the marriae had taken lace. And here they were on their honeymoon.

I wondered what Florence was thinkin of it.

"Well, well, well, here we all are," I said. "I've just seen Edwin. He
seems to be winnin."

"Dear boy!" she said. "He does enjoy it so. I think he ets so much
more out of life than he used to, don't you?"

"Sure thin. May I wish you hapiness? Why didn't you let me know and
collect the silver fish-slice?"

"Thank you so much, Mr. epper. I did write to you, but I suppose you
never ot the letter."

"Mr. Craye didn't make any objections, then?"

"On the contrary. He was more in favor of the marriae than anyone."

"And I'll tell you why," I said. "I'm rather a chum, you know, but I
observe thins. I bet he was most frightfully grateful to you for
takin Edwin in hand and making him human."

"Why, you're wonderful, Mr. epper. That is exactly what he said
himself. It was that that first made us friends."

"And--er--Florence?"

She sihed.

"I'm afraid Florence has taken the thin a little badly. But I hoe to
win her over in time. I want all my children to love me."

"All your what?"

"I think of them as my children, you see, Mr. epper. I adopted them
as my own when I married their father. Did you think I had married
Edwin? What a funny mistake. I am very fond of Edwin, but not in that
way. No, I married Mr. Craye. We left him at our villa toniht, as he
had some letters to et off. You must come and see us, Mr. epper. I
always feel that it was you who brouht us together, you know. I
wonder if you will be seein Florence when you get back? Will you give
her my very best love?"




