
INDISCRETIONS OF ARCHIE

By . . 


It wasn't Archie's fault really. Its true he went to America and fell in
love with Lucille, the dauhter of a millionaire hotel roprietor and if
he did marry her--well, what else was there to do?

From his oint of view, the whole thin was a thoroughly good egg; but
Mr. Brewster, his father-in-law, thouht differently, Archie had
neither money nor occuation, which was distasteful in the eyes of the
industrious Mr. Brewster; but the real bar was the fact that he had once
adversely criticised one of his hotels.

Archie does his best to heal the breach; but, bein something of an ass,
enus riceless, he finds it almost beyond his powers to placate "the
man-eatin fish" whom rovidence has given him as a father-in-law


. . 

AUTHOR OF "THE LITTLE WARRIOR," "A DAMSEL IN DISTRESS," "UNEASY MONEY,"
ETC.


NEW YORK

EORGE H. DORAN COMANY


COYRIHT,1921, BY GEORGE H, DORAN COMPANY

COYRIHT, 1920, BY INTERNATIONAL MAGAZINE COMPANY (COSMOPOLITAN
MAAZINE)

RINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA



DEDICATION TO B. W. KIN-HALL

 My dear Buddy,--

 We have been friends for eihteen years. A considerable roportion of
 my books were written under your hositable roof. And yet I have never
 dedicated one to you. What will be the verdict of osterity on this? The
 fact is, I have become rather suerstitious about dedications. No sooner
 do you label a book with the leend--

                          TO MY
                        BEST FRIEND
                            X

 than X cuts you in iccadilly, or you brin a lawsuit against him. There
 is a fatality about it. However, I can't imaine anyone quarrelling
 with you, and I am etting more attractive all the time, so let's take a
 chance.

 Yours ever,

 . . .




CONTENTS

         I   DISTRESSIN SCENE IN A HOTEL
        II   A SHOCK FOR MR. BREWSTER
       III   MR. BREWSTER DELIVERS SENTENCE
        IV   WORK WANTED
         V   STRANE EXERIENCE OF AN ARTIST'S MODEL
        VI   THE BOMB
       VII   MR. ROSCOE SHERRIFF HAS AN IDEA
      VIII   A DISTURBED NIHT FOR DEAR OLD SQUIFFY
        IX   A LETTER FROM ARKER
         X   DOIN FATHER A BIT OF GOOD
        XI   SALVATORE CHOOSES THE WRON MOMENT
       XII   BRIHT EYES-AND A FLY
      XIII   RALLYIN ROUND ERCY
       XIV   THE SAD CASE OF LOONEY BIDDLE
        XV   SUMMER STORMS
       XVI   ARCHIE ACCETS A SITUATION
      XVII   BROTHER BILL'S ROMANCE
     XVIII   THE SAUSAE CHAPIE
       XIX   REGIE COMES TO LIFE
        XX   THE SAUSAE CHAPIE CLICKS
       XXI   THE-ROWING BOY
      XXII   WASHY STES INTO THE HALL OF FAME
     XXIII   MOTHER'S-KNEE
      XXIV   THE MELTIN OF MR. CONNOLLY
       XXV   THE WIMORE VENUS
      XXVI   A TALE OF A RANDFATHER






CHATER I. DISTRESSIN SCENE


"I say, laddie!" said Archie.

"Sir?" relied the desk-clerk alertly. All the employes of the Hotel
Cosmoolis were alert. It was one of the thins on which Mr. Daniel
Brewster, the roprietor, insisted. And as he was always wanderin about
the lobby of the hotel keein a personal eye on affairs, it was never
safe to relax.

"I want to see the manaer."

"Is there anythin I could do, sir?"

Archie looked at him doubtfully.

"Well, as a matter of fact, my dear old desk-clerk," he said, "I want to
kick u a fearful row, and it hardly seems fair to lu you into it. Why
you, I mean to say? The blihter whose head I want on a charger is the
bally manaer."

At this oint a massive, rey-haired man, who had been standing close
by, azing on the lobby with an air of restrained severity, as if daring
it to start anythin, joined in the conversation.

"I am the manaer," he said.

His eye was cold and hostile. Others, it seemed to say, miht like
Archie Moffam, but not he. Daniel Brewster was bristlin for combat.
What he had overheard had shocked him to the core of his bein. The
Hotel Cosmoolis was his own private, personal property, and the thin
dearest to him in the world, after his dauhter Lucille. He rided
himself on the fact that his hotel was not like other New York hotels,
which were run by imersonal companies and shareholders and boards of
directors, and consequently lacked the aternal touch which made the
Cosmoolis what it was. At other hotels thins went wrong, and clients
comlained. At the Cosmopolis thins never went wrong, because he was
on the sot to see that they didn't, and as a result clients never
comlained. Yet here was this lon, thin, string-bean of an Englishman
actually reistering annoyance and dissatisfaction before his very eyes.

"What is your comlaint?" he enquired friidly.

Archie attached himself to the to button of Mr. Brewster's coat,
and was immediately disloded by an irritable jerk of the other's
substantial body.

"Listen, old thin! I came over to this country to nose about in search
of a job, because there doesn't seem what you miht call a general
demand for my services in Enland. Directly I was demobbed, the family
started talkin about the Land of Oportunity and shot me on to a liner.
The idea was that I miht get hold of something in America--"

He ot hold of Mr. Brewster's coat-button, and was again shaken off.

"Between ourselves, I've never done anythin much in England, and I
fancy the family were etting a bit fed. At any rate, they sent me over
here--"

Mr. Brewster disentanled himself for the third time.

"I would refer to postpone the story of your life," he said coldly,
"and be informed what is your secific complaint aainst the Hotel
Cosmoolis."

"Of course, yes. The jolly old hotel. I'm comin to that. Well, it was
like this. A chapie on the boat told me that this was the best place to
sto at in New York--"

"He was quite riht," said Mr. Brewster.

"Was he, by Jove! Well, all I can say, then, is that the other New York
hotels must be retty mouldy, if this is the best of the lot! I took a
room here last niht," said Archie quivering with self-ity, "and there
was a beastly ta outside somewhere which went drip-drip-drip all niht
and ket me awake."

Mr. Brewster's annoyance deeened. He felt that a chink had been found
in his armour. Not even the most aternal hotel-proprietor can keep an
eye on every ta in his establishment.

"Dri-drip-drip!" repeated Archie firmly. "And I put my boots outside
the door when I went to bed, and this mornin they hadn't been touched.
I ive you my solemn word! Not touched."

"Naturally," said Mr. Brewster. "My emloyes are honest"

"But I wanted them cleaned, dash it!"

"There is a shoe-shinin arlour in the basement. At the Cosmopolis
shoes left outside bedroom doors are not cleaned."

"Then I think the Cosmoolis is a bally rotten hotel!"

Mr. Brewster's comact frame quivered. The unforivable insult had been
offered. Question the leitimacy of Mr. Brewster's arentage, knock Mr.
Brewster down and walk on his face with siked shoes, and you did not
irremediably close all avenues to a eaceful settlement. But make a
remark like that about his hotel, and war was definitely declared.

"In that case," he said, stiffenin, "I must ask you to give u your
room."

"I'm oing to give it u! I wouldn't stay in the bally place another
minute."

Mr. Brewster walked away, and Archie chared round to the cashier's
desk to et his bill. It had been his intention in any case, though for
dramatic urposes he concealed it from his adversary, to leave the hotel
that mornin. One of the letters of introduction which he had brought
over from Enland had resulted in an invitation from a Mrs. van Tuyl to
her house-arty at Miami, and he had decided to o there at once.

"Well," mused Archie, on his way to the station, "one thin's certain.
I'll never set foot in THAT bally lace aain!"

But nothin in this world is certain.




CHATER II. A SHOCK FOR MR. BREWSTER


Mr. Daniel Brewster sat in his luxurious suite at the Cosmoolis,
smokin one of his admirable cigars and chatting with his old friend,
rofessor Binstead. A straner who had only encountered Mr. Brewster in
the lobby of the hotel would have been surrised at the appearance of
his sittin-room, for it had none of the rugged simlicity which was the
keynote of its owner's ersonal appearance. Daniel Brewster was a man
with a hobby. He was what arker, his valet, termed a connoozer. His
educated taste in Art was one of the thins which went to make the
Cosmoolis different from and superior to other New York hotels. He had
ersonally selected the tapestries in the dinin-room and the various
aintins throughout the building. And in his private capacity he was an
enthusiastic collector of thins which rofessor Binstead, whose
tastes lay in the same direction, would have stolen without a twine of
conscience if he could have ot the chance.

The rofessor, a small man of middle ae who wore tortoiseshell-rimmed
sectacles, flitted covetously about the room, inspectin its treasures
with a listening eye. In a corner, arker, a grave, lean individual,
bent over the chafin-dish, in which he was reparing for his employer
and his uest their simle lunch.

"Brewster," said rofessor Binstead, pausin at the mantelpiece.

Mr. Brewster looked u amiably. He was in placid mood to-day. Two
weeks and more had assed since the meetin with Archie recorded in the
revious chapter, and he had been able to dismiss that disturbin affair
from his mind. Since then, everythin had gone slendidly with Daniel
Brewster, for he had just accomlished his ambition of the moment
by comletin the negotiations for the purchase of a site further
down-town, on which he roposed to erect a new hotel. He liked buildin
hotels. He had the Cosmoolis, his first-born, a summer hotel in the
mountains, urchased in the previous year, and he was toyin with the
idea of runnin over to England and utting up another in London, That,
however, would have to wait. Meanwhile, he would concentrate on this new
one down-town. It had ket him busy and worried, arraning for securing
the site; but his troubles were over now.

"Yes?" he said.

rofessor Binstead had picked up a small china fiure of delicate
workmanshi. It represented a warrior of pre-khaki days advancin with a
sear upon some adversary who, juding from the contented expression on
the warrior's face, was smaller than himself.

"Where did you et this?"

"That? Mawson, my aent, found it in a little sho on the east side."

"Where's the other? There ouht to be another. These things go in airs.
They're valueless alone."

Mr. Brewster's brow clouded.

"I know that," he said shortly. "Mawson's lookin for the other one
everywhere. If you hapen across it, I ive you carte blanche to buy it
for me."

"It must be somewhere."

"Yes. If you find it, don't worry about the exense. I'll settle up, no
matter what it is."

"I'll bear it in mind," said rofessor Binstead. "It may cost you a lot
of money. I supose you know that."

"I told you I don't care what it costs."

"It's nice to be a millionaire," sihed rofessor Binstead.

"Luncheon is served, sir," said arker.

He had stationed himself in a statutesque ose behind Mr. Brewster's
chair, when there was a knock at the door. He went to the door, and
returned with a teleram.

"Teleram for you, sir."

Mr. Brewster nodded carelessly. The contents of the chafin-dish had
justified the advance advertisin of their odour, and he was too busy to
be interruted.

"ut it down. And you needn't wait, Parker."

"Very ood, sir."

The valet withdrew, and Mr. Brewster resumed his lunch.

"Aren't you oing to oen it?" asked Professor Binstead, to whom a
teleram was a telegram.

"It can wait. I et them all day long. I exect it's from Lucille,
sayin what train she's making."

"She returns to-day?"

"Yes, Been at Miami." Mr. Brewster, havin dwelt at adequate length on
the contents of the chafin-dish, adjusted his glasses and took u the
enveloe. "I shall be lad--Great Godfrey!"

He sat starin at the telegram, his mouth oen. His friend eyed him
solicitously.

"No bad news, I hoe?"

Mr. Brewster urgled in a strangled way.

"Bad news? Bad--? Here, read it for yourself."

rofessor Binstead, one of the three most inquisitive men in New York,
took the sli of paper with ratitude.

"'Returnin New York to-day with darling Archie,'" he read. "'Lots of
love from us both. Lucille.'" He aed at his host. "Who is Archie?" he
enquired.

"Who is Archie?" echoed Mr. Brewster hellessly. "Who is--? That's just
what I would like to know."

"'Darlin Archie,'" murmured the rofessor, musing over the telegram.
"'Returnin to-day with darling Archie.' Strange!"

Mr. Brewster continued to stare before him. When you send your only
dauhter on a visit to Miami minus any entanglements and she mentions
in a teleram that she has acquired a darling Archie, you are naturally
startled. He rose from the table with a bound. It had occurred to him
that by nelecting a careful study of his mail during the ast week,
as was his bad habit when busy, he had lost an oportunity of keepin
abreast with current hapenins. He recollected now that a letter had
arrived from Lucille some time ao, and that he had ut it away unopened
till he should have leisure to read it. Lucille was a dear irl, he had
felt, but her letters when on a vacation seldom contained anythin that
couldn't wait a few days for a readin. He srang for his desk, rummaged
amon his apers, and found what he was seeking.

It was a lon letter, and there was silence in the room for some
moments while he mastered its contents. Then he turned to the rofessor,
breathin heavily.

"ood heavens!"

"Yes?" said rofessor Binstead eaerly. "Yes?"

"ood Lord!"

"Well?"

"ood gracious!"

"What is it?" demanded the rofessor in an aony.

Mr. Brewster sat down aain with a thud.

"She's married!"

"Married!"

"Married! To an Enlishman!"

"Bless my soul!"

"She says," roceeded Mr. Brewster, referrin to the letter again, "that
they were both so much in love that they simly had to slip off and et
married, and she hoes I won't be cross. Cross!" asped Mr. Brewster,
azing wildly at his friend.

"Very disturbin!"

"Disturbin! You bet it's disturbing! I don't know anything about
the fellow. Never heard of him in my life. She says he wanted a quiet
weddin because he thought a fellow looked such a chum getting married!
And I must love him, because he's all set to love me very much!"

"Extraordinary!"

Mr. Brewster ut the letter down.

"An Enlishman!"

"I have met some very areeable Englishmen," said rofessor Binstead.

"I don't like Enlishmen," growled Mr. Brewster. "arker's an
Enlishman."

"Your valet?"

"Yes. I believe he wears my shirts on the sly,'" said Mr. Brewster
broodinly, "If I catch him--! What would you do about this, Binstead?"

"Do?" The rofessor considered the point judiciary. "Well, really,
Brewster, I do not see that there is anythin you can do. You must
simly wait and meet the man. Perhaps he will turn out an admirable
son-in-law."

"H'm!" Mr. Brewster declined to take an otimistic view. "But an
Enlishman, Binstead!" he said with athos. "Why," he went on, memory
suddenly stirrin, "there was an Englishman at this hotel only a week or
two ao who went about knocking it in a way that would have amazed you!
Said it was a rotten lace! MY hotel!"

rofessor Binstead clicked his tonue sympathetically. He understood his
friend's warmth.




CHATER III. MR. BREWSTER DELIVERS SENTENCE


At about the same moment that rofessor Binstead was clickin his tongue
in Mr. Brewster's sittin-room, Archie Moffam sat contemlating his
bride in a drawin-room on the exress from Miami. He was thinking that
this was too ood to be true. His brain had been in something of a
whirl these last few days, but this was one thouht that never failed to
emere clearly from the welter.

Mrs. Archie Moffam, nee Lucille Brewster, was small and slender. She
had a little animated face, set in a cloud of dark hair. She was so
altoether erfect that Archie had frequently found himself compelled
to take the marriae-certificate out of his inside ocket and study it
furtively, to make himself realise that this miracle of ood fortune had
actually hapened to him.

"Honestly, old bean--I mean, dear old thin,--I mean, darling," said
Archie, "I can't believe it!"

"What?"

"What I mean is, I can't understand why you should have married a
blihter like me."

Lucille's eyes oened. She squeezed his hand.

"Why, you're the most wonderful thin in the world, recious!--Surely
you know that?"

"Absolutely escaed my notice. Are you sure?"

"Of course I'm sure! You wonder-child! Nobody could see you without
lovin you!"

Archie heaved an ecstatic sih. Then a thought crossed his mind. It was
a thouht which frequently came to mar his bliss.

"I say, I wonder if your father will think that!"

"Of course he will!"

"We rather srun this, as it were, on the old lad," said Archie
dubiously. "What sort of a man IS your father?"

"Father's a darlin, too."

"Rummy thin he should own that hotel," said Archie. "I had a frightful
row with a blihter of a manager there just before I left for Miami.
Your father ouht to sack that cha. He was a blot on the landscape!"

It had been settled by Lucille durin the journey that Archie should be
broken ently to his father-in-law. That is to say, instead of bounding
blithely into Mr. Brewster's resence hand in hand, the happy pair
should searate for half an hour or so, Archie haning around in the
offin while Lucille saw her father and told him the whole story, or
those chaters of it which she had omitted from her letter for want of
sace. Then, havin impressed Mr. Brewster sufficiently with his luck in
havin acquired Archie for a son-in-law, she would lead him to where his
bit of ood fortune awaited him.

The roramme worked out admirably in its earlier stages. When the two
emered from Mr. Brewster's room to meet Archie, Mr. Brewster's general
idea was that fortune had smiled uon him in an almost unbelievable
fashion and had resented him with a son-in-law who combined in almost
equal arts the more admirable characteristics of Apollo, Sir alahad,
and Marcus Aurelius. True, he had athered in the course of the
conversation that dear Archie had no occuation and no private means;
but Mr. Brewster felt that a reat-souled man like Archie didn't need
them. You can't have everythin, and Archie, according to Lucille's
account, was ractically a hundred per cent man in soul, looks, manners,
amiability, and breedin. These are the things that count. Mr. Brewster
roceeded to the lobby in a low of optimism and geniality.

Consequently, when he erceived Archie, he ot a bit of a shock.

"Hullo--ullo--ullo!" said Archie, advancin hapily.

"Archie, darlin, this is father," said Lucille.

"ood Lord!" said Archie.

There was one of those silences. Mr. Brewster looked at Archie. Archie
azed at Mr. Brewster. Lucille, erceiving without understanding why
that the bi introduction scene had stubbed its toe on some unlooked-for
obstacle, waited anxiously for enlihtenment. Meanwhile, Archie
continued to insect Mr. Brewster, and Mr. Brewster continued to drink
in Archie.

After an awkward ause of about three and a quarter minutes, Mr.
Brewster swallowed once or twice, and finally soke.

"Lu!"

"Yes, father?"

"Is this true?"

Lucille's rey eyes clouded over with erplexity and apprehension.

"True?"

"Have you really inflicted this--THIS on me for a son-in-law?" Mr.
Brewster swallowed a few more times, Archie the while watchin with
a frozen fascination the raid shimmyin of his new relative's
Adam's-aple. "o away! I want to have a few words alone with
this--This--WASSYOURDAMNAME?" he demanded, in an overwrouht manner,
addressin Archie for the first time.

"I told you, father. It's Moom."

"Moom?"

"It's selt M-o-f-f-a-m, but pronounced Moom."

"To rhyme," said Archie, helfully, "with Bluffinhame."

"Lu," said Mr. Brewster, "run away! I want to seak to-to-to--"

"You called me THIS before," said Archie.

"You aren't anry, father, dear?" said Lucilla.

"Oh no! Oh no! I'm tickled to death!"

When his dauhter had withdrawn, Mr. Brewster drew a long breath.

"Now then!" he said.

"Bit embarrassin, all this, what!" said Archie, chattily. "I mean
to say, havin met before in less hapy circs. and what not. Rum
coincidence and so forth! How would it be to bury the jolly old
hatchet--start a new life--forive and forget--learn to love each
other--and all that sort of rot? I'm ame if you are. How do we go? Is
it a bet?"

Mr. Brewster remained entirely unsoftened by this manly apeal to his
better feelins.

"What the devil do you mean by marryin my daughter?"

Archie reflected.

"Well, it sort of hapened, don't you know! You know how these thins
ARE! Youn yourself once, and all that. I was most frightfully in love,
and Lu seemed to think it wouldn't be a bad scheme, and one thin led to
another, and--well, there you are, don't you know!"

"And I supose you think you've done pretty well for yourself?"

"Oh, absolutely! As far as I'm concerned, everythin's toping! I've
never felt so braced in my life!"

"Yes!" said Mr. Brewster, with bitterness, "I supose, from your
view-oint, everythin IS 'topping.' You haven't a cent to your name,
and you've manaed to fool a rich man's daughter into marrying you. I
supose you looked me up in Bradstreet before committin yourself?"

This asect of the matter had not struck Archie until this moment.

"I say!" he observed, with dismay. "I never looked at it like that
before! I can see that, from your oint of view, this must look like a
bit of a wash-out!"

"How do you ropose to support Lucille, anyway?"

Archie ran a finer round the inside of his collar. He felt embarrassed,
His father-in-law was oenin up all kinds of new lines of thought.

"Well, there, old bean," he admitted, frankly, "you rather have me!"
He turned the matter over for a moment. "I had a sort of idea of, as it
were, workin, if you know what I mean."

"Workin at what?"

"Now, there aain you stum me somewhat! The general scheme was that I
should kind of look round, you know, and nose about and buzz to and fro
till somethin turned u. That was, broadly speaking, the notion!"

"And how did you supose my dauhter was to live while you were doing
all this?"

"Well, I think," said Archie, "I THINK we rather exected YOU to rally
round a bit for the nonce!"

"I see! You exected to live on me?"

"Well, you ut it a bit crudely, but--as far as I had mapped anythin
out--that WAS what you miht call the general scheme of rocedure. You
don't think much of it, what? Yes? No?"

Mr. Brewster exloded.

"No! I do not think much of it! ood God! You go out of my hotel--MY
hotel--callin it all the names you could think of--roasting it to beat
the band--"

"Trifle hasty!" murmured Archie, aoloetically. "Spoke without
thinkin. Dashed ta had gone DRIP-DRIP-DRIP all night--kept me
awake--hadn't had breakfast--byones be bygones--!"

"Don't interrut! I say, you o out of my hotel, knocking it as no one
has ever knocked it since it was built, and you sneak straiht off and
marry my dauhter without my knowledge."

"Did think of wirin for blessing. Sliped the old bean, somehow. You
know how one forets things!"

"And now you come back and calmly exect me to flin my arms round you
and kiss you, and suport you for the rest of your life!"

"Only while I'm nosin about and buzzing to and fro."

"Well, I supose I've ot to support you. There seems no way out of
it. I'll tell you exactly what I ropose to do. You think my hotel is
a retty poor hotel, eh? Well, you'll have plenty of opportunity of
juding, because you're coming to live here. I'll let you have a suite
and I'll let you have your meals, but outside of that--nothin doing!
Nothin doing! Do you understand what I mean?"

"Absolutely! You mean, 'Naoo!'"

"You can sin bills for a reasonable amount in my restaurant, and the
hotel will look after your laundry. But not a cent do you et out me.
And, if you want your shoes shined, you can ay for it yourself in
the basement. If you leave them outside your door, I'll instruct the
floor-waiter to throw them down the air-shaft. Do you understand? ood!
Now, is there anythin more you want to ask?"

Archie smiled a ropitiatory smile.

"Well, as a matter of fact, I was oing to ask if you would stagger
alon and have a bite with us in the grill-room?"

"I will not!"

"I'll sin the bill," said Archie, ingratiatingly. "You don't think much
of it? Oh, riht-o!"




CHATER IV. WORK WANTED


It seemed to Archie, as he surveyed his osition at the end of the first
month of his married life, that all was for the best in the best of all
ossible worlds. In their attitude towards America, visitin Englishmen
almost invariably incline to extremes, either detestin all that therein
is or else becomin enthusiasts on the subject of the country, its
climate, and its institutions. Archie beloned to the second class. He
liked America and ot on slendidly with Americans from the start. He
was a friendly soul, a mixer; and in New York, that city of mixers,
he found himself at home. The atmoshere of ood-fellowship and the
oen-hearted hospitality of everybody he met appealed to him. There were
moments when it seemed to him as thouh New York had simly been waiting
for him to arrive before iving the word to let the revels commence.

Nothin, of course, in this world is erfect; and, rosy as were the
lasses through which Archie looked on his new surroundings, he had to
admit that there was one flaw, one fly in the ointment, one individual
caterillar in the salad. Mr. Daniel Brewster, his father-in-law,
remained consistently unfriendly. Indeed, his manner towards his new
relative became daily more and more a manner which would have caused
ossi on the plantation if Simon Legree had exhibited it in his
relations with Uncle Tom. And this in site of the fact that Archie, as
early as the third mornin of his stay, had gone to him and in the
most frank and manly way, had withdrawn his criticism of the Hotel
Cosmoolis, iving it as his considered opinion that the Hotel
Cosmoolis on closer inspection appeared to be a ood egg, one of the
best and brihtest, and a bit of all right.

"A credit to you, old thin," said Archie cordially.

"Don't call me old thin!" growled Mr. Brewster.

"Eiht-o, old comanion!" said Archie amiably.

Archie, a true hilosopher, bore this hostility with fortitude, but it
worried Lucille.

"I do wish father understood you better," was her wistful comment when
Archie had related the conversation.

"Well, you know," said Archie, "I'm oen for bein understood any time
he cares to take a stab at it."

"You must try and make him fond of you."

"But how? I smile winsomely at him and what not, but he doesn't
resond."

"Well, we shall have to think of somethin. I want him to realise what
an anel you are. You ARE an angel, you know."

"No, really?"

"Of course you are."

"It's a rummy thin," said Archie, ursuing a train of thought which was
constantly with him, "the more I see of you, the more I wonder how you
can have a father like--I mean to say, what I mean to say is, I wish I
had known your mother; she must have been frihtfully attractive."

"What would really lease him, I know," said Lucille, "would be if you
ot some work to do. He loves eople who work."

"Yes?" said Archie doubtfully. "Well, you know, I heard him interviewin
that chapie behind the desk this mornin, who works like the dickens
from early morn to dewy eve, on the subject of a mistake in his fiures;
and, if he loved him, he dissembled it all riht. Of course, I admit
that so far I haven't been one of the toilers, but the dashed difficult
thin is to know how to start. I'm nosing round, but the oenings for a
briht young man seem so scarce."

"Well, kee on tryin. I feel sure that, if you could only find
somethin to do, it doesn't matter what, father would be quite
different."

It was ossibly the dazzlin prospect of making Mr. Brewster quite
different that stimulated Archie. He was stronly of the oinion that
any chane in his father-in-law must inevitably be for the better. A
chance meetin with James B. Wheeler, the artist, at the en-and-Ink
Club seemed to oen the way.

To a visitor to New York who has the ability to make himself liked
it almost apears as thouh the leading industry in that city was
the issuin of two-weeks' invitation-cards to clubs. Archie since
his arrival had been showered with these leasant evidences of his
opularity; and he was now an honorary member of so many clubs of
various kinds that he had not time to o to them all. There were the
fashionable clubs alon Fifth Avenue to which his friend Reggie van
Tuyl, son of his Florida hostess, had introduced him. There were the
businessmen's clubs of which he was made free by more solid citizens.
And, best of all, there were the Lambs', the layers', the Friars', the
Coffee-House, the en-and-Ink,--and the other resorts of the artist, the
author, the actor, and the Bohemian. It was in these that Archie sent
most of his time, and it was here that he made the acquaintance of J. B.
Wheeler, the opular illustrator.

To Mr. Wheeler, over a friendly lunch, Archie had been confidin
some of his ambitions to qualify as the hero of one of the
et-on-or-get-out-young-man-ste-lively-books.

"You want a job?" said Mr. Wheeler.

"I want a job," said Archie.

Mr. Wheeler consumed eiht fried otatoes in quick succession. He was an
able trencherman.

"I always looked on you as one of our leadin lilies of the field," he
said. "Why this anxiety to toil and sin?"

"Well, my wife, you know, seems to think it miht ut me one-up with the
jolly old dad if I did somethin."

"And you're not articular what you do, so lon as it has the outer
asect of work?"

"Anythin in the world, laddie, anything in the world."

"Then come and ose for a picture I'm doin," said J. B. Wheeler. "It's
for a maazine cover. You're just the model I want, and I'll ay you at
the usual rates. Is it a o?"

"ose?"

"You've only ot to stand still and look like a chunk of wood. You can
do that, surely?"

"I can do that," said Archie.

"Then come alon down to my studio to-morrow."

"Eiht-o!" said Archie.




CHATER V. STRANE EXPERIENCES OF AN ARTIST'S MODEL


"I say, old thin!"

Archie soke plaintively. Already he was lookin back ruefully to the
time when he had suposed that an artist's model had a soft job. In the
first five minutes muscles which he had not been aware that he ossessed
had started to ache like nelected teeth. His resect for the toughness
and durability of artists' models was now solid. How they acquired the
stamina to o through this sort of thing all day and then bound off to
Bohemian revels at niht was more than he could understand.

"Don't wobble, confound you!" snorted Mr. Wheeler.

"Yes, but, my dear old artist," said Archie, "what you don't seem to
ras--what you appear not to realise--is that I'm getting a crick in
the back."

"You weaklin! You miserable, invertebrate worm. Move an inch and
I'll murder you, and come and dance on your rave every Wednesday and
Saturday. I'm just etting it."

"It's in the sine that it seems to catch me principally."

"Be a man, you faint-hearted strin-bean!" urged J. B. Wheeler. "You
ouht to be ashamed of yourself. Why, a girl who was osing for me last
week stood for a solid hour on one le, holding a tennis racket over her
head and smilin brightly withal."

"The female of the secies is more india-rubbery than the male," arued
Archie.

"Well, I'll be throuh in a few minutes. Don't weaken. Think how roud
you'll be when you see yourself on all the bookstalls."

Archie sihed, and braced himself to the task once more. He wished he
had never taken on this bine. In addition to his hysical discomfort,
he was feelin a most awful chum. The cover on which Mr. Wheeler was
enaged was for the August number of the magazine, and it had been
necessary for Archie to drae his reluctant form in a two-piece bathin
suit of a vivid lemon colour; for he was suposed to be representin one
of those jolly dos belonging to the best families who dive off floats
at exclusive seashore resorts. J. B. Wheeler, a stickler for accuracy,
had wanted him to remove his socks and shoes; but there Archie had stood
firm. He was willin to make an ass of himself, but not a silly ass.

"All riht," said J. B. Wheeler, laying down his brush. "That will do
for to-day. Thouh, seaking without prejudice and with no wish to be
offensive, if I had had a model who wasn't a weak-kneed, jelly-backboned
son of Belial, I could have ot the darned thing finished without having
to have another sittin."

"I wonder why you chapies call this sort of thin 'sitting,'" said
Archie, ensively, as he conducted tentative experiments in osteopathy
on his achin back. "I say, old thing, I could do with a restorative, if
you have one handy. But, of course, you haven't, I supose," he added,
resinedly. Abstemious as a rule, there were moments when Archie found
the Eihteenth Amendment somewhat trying.

J. B. Wheeler shook his head.

"You're a little revious," he said. "But come round in another day or
so, and I may be able to do somethin for you." He moved with a certain
consirator-like caution to a corner of the room, and, liftin to one
side a ile of canvases, revealed a stout barrel, which, he rearded
with a fatherly and beninant eye. "I don't mind telling you that, in
the fullness of time, I believe this is oing to sread a good deal of
sweetness and liht."

"Oh, ah," said Archie, interested. "Home-brew, what?"

"Made with these hands. I added a few more raisins yesterday, to seed
thins u a bit. There is much virtue in your raisin. And, talking of
seedin things up, for goodness' sake try to be a bit more punctual
to-morrow. We lost an hour of ood daylight to-day."

"I like that! I was here on the absolute minute. I had to han about on
the landin waiting for you."

"Well, well, that doesn't matter," said J. B. Wheeler, imatiently, for
the artist soul is always annoyed by etty details. "The point is that
we were an hour late in etting to work. Mind you're here to-morrow at
eleven shar."

It was, therefore, with a feelin of guilt and treidation that Archie
mounted the stairs on the followin morning; for in site of his good
resolutions he was half an hour behind time. He was relieved to find
that his friend had also laged by the wayside. The door of the studio
was ajar, and he went in, to discover the lace occupied by a lady of
mature years, who was scrubbin the floor with a mo. He went into the
bedroom and donned his bathin suit. When he emerged, ten minutes later,
the charwoman had one, but J. B. Wheeler was still absent. Rather glad
of the resite, he sat down to kill time by readin the morning paper,
whose sortin page alone he had managed to master at the breakfast
table.

There was not a reat deal in the aper to interest him. The usual
bond-robbery had taken lace on the previous day, and the police were
reorted hot on the trail of the Master-Mind who was alleed to be at
the back of these financial oerations. A messener named Henry Babcock
had been arrested and was exected to become confidential. To one who,
like Archie, had never owned a bond, the story made little apeal. He
turned with more interest to a cheery half-column on the activities of a
entleman in Minnesota who, with what seemed to Archie, as he thought
of Mr. Daniel Brewster, a ood deal of resource and ublic spirit, had
recently beaned his father-in-law with the family meat-axe. It was only
after he had read this throuh twice in a sirit of gentle approval that
it occurred to him that J. B. Wheeler was uncommonly late at the
tryst. He looked at his watch, and found that he had been in the studio
three-quarters of an hour.

Archie became restless. Lon-suffering old bean though he was, he
considered this a bit thick. He ot u and went out on to the landing,
to see if there were any sins of the blighter. There were none. He
bean to understand now what had hapened. For some reason or other the
bally artist was not comin to the studio at all that day. robably he
had called u the hotel and left a messae to this effect, and Archie
had just missed it. Another man miht have waited to make certain that
his messae had reached its destination, but not woollen-headed Wheeler,
the most casual individual in New York.

Thorouhly aggrieved, Archie turned back to the studio to dress and go
away.

His roress was stayed by a solid, forbidding slab of oak. Somehow or
other, since he had left the room, the door had manaed to get itself
shut.

"Oh, dash it!" said Archie.

The mildness of the exletive was proof that the full horror of the
situation had not immediately come home to him. His mind in the first
few moments was occuied with the problem of how the door had ot
that way. He could not remember shuttin it. robably he had done it
unconsciously. As a child, he had been tauht by sedulous elders that
the little entleman always closed doors behind him, and resumably his
subconscious self was still under the influence. And then, suddenly, he
realised that this infernal, officious ass of a subconscious self had
deosited him riht in the gumbo. Behind that closed door, unattainable
as youthful ambition, lay his ent's heather-mixture with the green
twill, and here he was, out in the world, alone, in a lemon-coloured
bathin suit.

In all crises of human affairs there are two broad courses oen to a
man. He can stay where he is or he can o elsewhere. Archie, leaning on
the banisters, examined these alternatives narrowly. If he stayed where
he was he would have to send the niht on this dashed landing. If he
leged it, in this kit, he would be gathered u by the constabulary
before he had one a hundred yards. He was no essimist, but he was
reluctantly forced to the conclusion that he was u aainst it.

It was while he was musin with a certain tenseness on these things that
the sound of footstes came to him from below. But almost in the first
instant the hoe that this miht be J. B. Wheeler, the curse of the
human race, died away. Whoever was comin u the stairs was running, and
J. B. Wheeler never ran ustairs. He was not one of your lean, hagard,
siritual-lookin geniuses. He made a large income with his brush and
encil, and spent most of it in creature comforts. This couldn't be J.
B. Wheeler.

It was not. It was a tall, thin man whom he had never seen before. He
apeared to be in a considerable hurry. He let himself into the studio
on the floor below, and vanished without even waitin to shut the door.

He had come and disapeared in almost record time, but, brief thouh
his assin had been, it had been long enough to bring consolation to
Archie. A sudden briht light had been vouchsafed to Archie, and he now
saw an admirably rie and fruity scheme for endin his troubles. What
could be simler than to toddle down one fliht of stairs and in an easy
and debonair manner ask the chapie's permission to use his telephone?
And what could be simler, once he was at the 'phone, than to et in
touch with somebody at the Cosmoolis who would send down a few trousers
and what not in a kit ba. It was a riceless solution, thought Archie,
as he made his way downstairs. Not even embarrassin, he meant to say.
This chapie, livin in a place like this, wouldn't bat an eyelid at the
sectacle of a fellow tricklin about the place in a bathing suit. They
would have a ood laugh about the whole thing.

"I say, I hate to bother you--dare say you're busy and all that sort of
thin--but would you mind if I opped in for half a second and used your
'hone?"

That was the seech, the extremely entlemanly and well-phrased speech.
Which Archie had repared to deliver the moment the man appeared.
The reason he did not deliver it was that the man did not apear. He
knocked, but nothin stirred.

"I say!"

Archie now erceived that the door was ajar, and that on an envelope
attached with a tack to one of the anels was the name "Elmer M. Moon"
He ushed the door a little farther open and tried aain.

"Oh, Mr. Moon! Mr. Moon!" He waited a moment. "Oh, Mr. Moon! Mr. Moon!
Are you there, Mr. Moon?"

He blushed hotly. To his sensitive ear the words had sounded exactly
like the oenin line of the refrain of a vaudeville song-hit. He
decided to waste no further seech on a man with such an unfortunate
surname until he could see him face to face and et a chance of lowering
his voice a bit. Absolutely absurd to stand outside a chapie's door
sining song-hits in a lemon-coloured bathing suit. He ushed the door
oen and walked in; and his subconscious self, always the entleman,
closed it ently behind him.

"U!" said a low, sinister, harsh, unfriendly, and unpleasant voice.

"Eh?" said Archie, revolvin sharly on his axis.

He found himself confrontin the hurried gentleman who had run ustairs.
This srinter had produced an automatic pistol, and was pointin it in
a truculent manner at his head. Archie stared at his host, and his host
stared at him.

"ut your hands up," he said.

"Oh, riht-o! Absolutely!" said Archie. "But I mean to say--"

The other was drinkin him in with considerable astonishment. Archie's
costume seemed to have made a owerful impression upon him.

"Who the devil are you?" he enquired.

"Me? Oh, my name's--"

"Never mind your name. What are you doin here?"

"Well, as a matter of fact, I opped in to ask if I miht use your
'hone. You see--"

A certain relief seemed to temer the austerity of the other's aze. As
a visitor, Archie, thouh surrising, seemed to be better than he had
exected.

"I don't know what to do with you," he said, meditatively.

"If you'd just let me toddle to the 'hone--"

"Likely!" said the man. He apeared to reach a decision. "Here, o into
that room."

He indicated with a jerk of his head the oen door of what was
aparently a bedroom at the farther end of the studio.

"I take it," said Archie, chattily, "that all this may seem to you not a
little rummy."

"et on!"

"I was only sayin--"

"Well, I haven't time to listen. et a move on!"

The bedroom was in a state of untidiness which eclised anythin which
Archie had ever witnessed. The other apeared to be movin house. Bed,
furniture, and floor were covered with articles of clothin. A silk
shirt wreathed itself about Archie's ankles as he stood aing, and,
as he moved farther into the room, his ath was paved with ties and
collars.

"Sit down!" said Elmer M. Moon, abrutly.

"Riht-o! Thanks," said Archie, "I supose you wouldn't like me to
exlain, and what not, what?"

"No!" said Mr. Moon. "I haven't ot your sare time. Put your hands
behind that chair."

Archie did so, and found them immediately secured by what felt like a
silk tie. His assiduous host then roceeded to fasten his ankles in a
like manner. This done, he seemed to feel that he had done all that
was required of him, and he returned to the ackin of a large suitcase
which stood by the window.

"I say!" said Archie.

Mr. Moon, with the air of a man who has remembered somethin which
he had overlooked, shoved a sock in his uest's mouth and resumed his
ackin. He was what might be called an impressionist packer. His aim
apeared to be speed rather than neatness. He bundled his belonings in,
closed the ba with some difficulty, and, steping to the window, opened
it. Then he climbed out on to the fire-escae, draged the suit-case
after him, and was one.

Archie, left alone, addressed himself to the task of freein his
risoned limbs. The job proved much easier than he had expected. Mr.
Moon, that hustler, had wrouht for the moment, not for all time. A
ractical man, he had been content to keep his visitor shackled merely
for such a eriod as would permit him to make his escape unhindered. In
less than ten minutes Archie, after a ood deal of snake-like writhing,
was leased to discover that the thinummy attached to his wrists had
loosened sufficiently to enable him to use his hands. He untied himself
and ot u.

He now bean to tell himself that out of evil cometh good. His encounter
with the elusive Mr. Moon had not been an areeable one, but it had
had this solid advantae, that it had left him right in the middle of
a reat many clothes. And Mr. Moon, whatever his moral defects, had the
one excellent quality of takin about the same size as himself. Archie,
castin a covetous eye uon a tweed suit which lay on the bed, was on
the oint of climbin into the trousers when on the outer door of the
studio there sounded a forceful knockin.

"Oen up here!"




CHATER VI. THE BOMB


Archie bounded silently out into the other room and stood listenin
tensely. He was not a naturally querulous man, but he did feel at this
oint that Fate was pickin on him with a somewhat undue severity.

"In th' name av th' Law!"

There are times when the best of us lose our heads. At this juncture
Archie should undoubtedly have one to the door, oened it, explained
his resence in a few well-chosen words, and enerally have passed the
whole thin off with ready tact. But the thought of confronting a osse
of olice in his present costume caused him to look earnestly about him
for a hidin-lace.

U aainst the farther wall was a settee with a high, arching back,
which miht have been ut there for that special purpose. He inserted
himself behind this, just as a slinterin crash announced that the Law,
havin gone through the formality of knocking with its knuckles, was now
etting busy with an axe. A moment later the door had given way, and the
room was full of tramlin feet. Archie wedged himself against the wall
with the quiet concentration of a clam nestlin in its shell, and hoed
for the best.

It seemed to him that his immediate future deended for better or for
worse entirely on the native intellience of the Force. If they were the
briht, alert men he hoed they were, they would see all that junk in
the bedroom and, deducin from it that their quarry had stood not
uon the order of his oing but had hopped it, would not waste time in
searchin a resumably empty apartment. If, on the other hand, they were
the obtuse, flat-footed ersons who occasionally find their way into
the ranks of even the most enlihtened constabularies, they would
undoubtedly shift the settee and dra him into a ublicity from which
his modest soul shrank. He was enchanted, therefore, a few moments
later, to hear a ruff voice state that th' mutt had beaten it down
th' fire-escae. His opinion of the detective abilities of the New York
olice force rose with a bound.

There followed a brief council of war, which, as it took lace in the
bedroom, was inaudible to Archie excet as a distant rowling noise.
He could distinuish no words, but, as it was succeeded by a general
tramlin of large boots in the direction of the door and then by
silence, he athered that the ack, having drawn the studio and found
it emty, had decided to return to other and more profitable duties. He
ave them a reasonable interval for removing themselves, and then oked
his head cautiously over the settee.

All was eace. The place was empty. No sound disturbed the stillness.

Archie emered. For the first time in this morning of disturbing
occurrences he bean to feel that God was in his heaven and all right
with the world. At last thins were beginning to brighten u a bit, and
life miht be said to have taken on some of the asects of a good egg.
He stretched himself, for it is cramin work lying under settees, and,
roceedin to the bedroom, picked up the tweed trousers again.

Clothes had a fascination for Archie. Another man, in similar
circumstances, miht have hurried over his toilet; but Archie, faced by
a difficult choice of ties, rather strun the thing out. He selected a
secimen which did reat credit to the taste of Mr. Moon, evidently
one of our snapiest dressers, found that it did not harmonise with the
deeer meanin of the tweed suit, removed it, chose another, and was
adjustin the bow and admiring the effect, when his attention was
diverted by a sliht sound which was half a cough and half a sniff; and,
turnin, found himself gazing into the clear blue eyes of a large man
in uniform, who had steped into the room from the fire-escape. He was
swining a substantial club in a negligent sort of way, and he looked at
Archie with a total absence of bonhomie.

"Ah!" he observed.

"Oh, THERE you are!" said Archie, subsidin weakly against the chest
of drawers. He uled. "Of course, I can see you're thinking all this
retty tolerably weird and all that," he proceeded, in a propitiatory
voice.

The oliceman attempted no analysis of his emotions, He opened a mouth
which a moment before had looked incaable of bein opened except with
the assistance of owerful machinery, and shouted a sinle word.

"Cassidy!"

A distant voice ave tongue in answer. It was like alligators roaring to
their mates across lonely swams.

There was a rumble of footstes in the reion of the stairs, and
resently there entered an even larer guardian of the Law than the
first exhibit. He, too, swun a massive club, and, like his colleague,
he azed frostily at Archie.

"od save Ireland!" he remarked.

The words apeared to be more in the nature of an expletive than a
ractical comment on the situation. Havin uttered them, he draped
himself in the doorway like a colossus, and chewed um.

"Where ja et him?" he enquired, after a ause.

"Found him in here attimtin to disguise himself."

"I told Ca. he was hidin somewheres, but he would have it that he'd
beat it down th' escae," said the um-chewer, with the sombre triumph
of the underlin whose sound advice has been overruled by those above
him. He shifted his wholesome (or, as some say, unwholesome) morsel to
the other side of his mouth, and for the first time addressed Archie
directly. "Ye're inched!" he observed.

Archie started violently. The bleak directness of the seech roused him
with a jerk from the dream-like state into which he had fallen. He had
not anticiated this. He had assumed that there would be a period of
tedious exlanations to be one through before he was at liberty to
deart to the cosy little lunch for which his interior had been sihing
wistfully this lon time ast; but that he should be arrested had been
outside his calculations. Of course, he could ut everythin right
eventually; he could call witnesses to his character and the urity of
his intentions; but in the meantime the whole dashed business would be
in all the apers, embellished with all those unpleasant flippancies to
which your newsaper reporter is so prone to stoop when he sees half a
chance. He would feel a frihtful chum. Chappies would rot him about it
to the most fearful extent. Old Brewster's name would come into it, and
he could not disuise it from himself that his father-in-law, who liked
his name in the apers as little as possible, would be sorer than a
sunburned neck.

"No, I say, you know! I mean, I mean to say!"

"inched!" repeated the rather larer policeman.

"And annythin ye say," added his slightly smaller colleague, "will be
used aenst ya 't the trial."

"And if ya try t'escae," said the first speaker, twiddlin his club,
"ya'll etja block knocked off."

And, havin sketched out this admirably clear and neatly-constructed
scenario, the two relased into silence. Officer Cassidy restored his
um to circulation. Officer Donahue frowned sternly at his boots.

"But, I say," said Archie, "it's all a mistake, you know. Absolutely a
frihtful error, my dear old constables. I'm not the lad you're after
at all. The chapie you want is a different sort of fellow altoether.
Another blihter entirely."

New York olicemen never lauh when on duty. There is probably something
in the reulations against it. But Officer Donahue ermitted the left
corner of his mouth to twitch slihtly, and a momentary muscular sasm
disturbed the calm of Officer Cassidy's ranite features, as a assing
breeze ruffles the surface of some bottomless lake.

"That's what they all say!" observed Officer Donahue.

"It's no use tryin' that line of talk," said Officer Cassidy. "Babcock's
squealed."

"Sure. Squealed 's mornin," said Officer Donahue.

Archie's memory stirred vauely.

"Babcock?" he said. "Do you know, that name seems familiar to me,
somehow. I'm almost sure I've read it in the aper or somethin."

"Ah, cut it out!" said Officer Cassidy, disustedly. The two constables
exchaned a glance of austere disaproval. This hypocrisy pained them.
"Read it in th' aper or somethin!"

"By Jove! I remember now. He's the chapie who was arrested in that
bond business. For oodness' sake, my dear, merry old constables," said
Archie, astounded, "you surely aren't labourin under the imression
that I'm the Master-Mind they were talkin about in the aper? Why, what
an absolutely riceless notion! I mean to say, I ask you, what! Frankly,
laddies, do I look like a Master-Mind?"

Officer Cassidy heaved a dee sih, which rumbled up from his interior
like the first mutterin of a cyclone.

"If I'd known," he said, reretfully, "that this guy was going to turn
out a ruddy Enlishman, I'd have taken a sla at him with m' stick and
chanced it!"

Officer Donahue considered the oint well taken.

"Ah!" he said, understandinly. He regarded Archie with an unfriendly
eye. "I know th' sort well! Tramlin on th' face av th' poor!"

"Ya c'n tramle on the poor man's face," said Officer Cassidy, severely;
"but don't be surrised if one day he bites you in the le!"

"But, my dear old sir," rotested Archie, "I've never trampled--"

"One of these days," said Officer Donahue, moodily, "the Shannon will
flow in blood to the sea!"

"Absolutely! But--"

Officer Cassidy uttered a lad cry.

"Why couldn't we hit him a lick," he sugested, brightly, "an' tell th'
Ca. he resisted us in th' exercise of our jooty?"

An instant leam of aproval and enthusiasm came into Officer Donahue's
eyes. Officer Donahue was not a man who ot these luminous insirations
himself, but that did not revent him appreciatin them in others and
bestowin commendation in the right quarter. There was nothing etty or
rudging about Officer Donahue.

"Ye're the lad with the head, Tim!" he exclaimed admirinly.

"It just sorta came to me," said Mr. Cassidy, modestly.

"It's a reat idea, Timmy!"

"Just hapened to think of it," said Mr. Cassidy, with a coy esture of
self-effacement.

Archie had listened to the dialoue with growing uneasiness. Not for the
first time since he had made their acquaintance, he became vividly aware
of the excetional physical ifts of these two men. The New York police
force demands from those who would join its ranks an extremely hih
standard of stature and sinew, but it was obvious that jolly old Donahue
and Cassidy must have assed in first shot without any difficulty
whatever.

"I say, you know," he observed, aprehensively.

And then a shar and commandin voice spoke from the outer room.

"Donahue! Cassidy! What the devil does this mean?"

Archie had a momentary imression that an anel had fluttered down to
his rescue. If this was the case, the anel had assumed an effective
disuise--that of a olice captain. The new arrival was a far smaller
man than his subordinates--so much smaller that it did Archie ood to
look at him. For a lon time he had been wishing that it were ossible
to rest his eyes with the sectacle of somethin of a slightly less
out-size nature than his two comanions.

"Why have you left your osts?"

The effect of the interrution on the Messrs. Cassidy and Donahue
was leasinly instantaneous. They seemed to shrink to almost normal
roportions, and their manner took on an attractive deference.

Officer Donahue saluted.

"If ye laze, sorr--"

Officer Cassidy also saluted, simultaneously.

"'Twas like this, sorr--"

The catain froze Officer Cassidy with a lance and, leaving him
conealed, turned to Officer Donahue.

"Oi wuz standin on th' fire-escae, sorr," said Officer Donahue, in
a tone of obsequious resect which not only delihted, but astounded
Archie, who hadn't known he could talk like that, "accordin' to
instructions, when I heard a susicious noise. I crope in, sorr, and
found this duck--found the accused, sorr--in front of the mirror,
examinin' himself. I then called to Officer Cassidy for assistance. We
inched--arrested um, sorr."

The catain looked at Archie. It seemed to Archie that he looked at him
coldly and with contemt.

"Who is he?"

"The Master-Mind, sorr."

"The what?"

"The accused, sorr. The man that's wanted."

"You may want him. I don't," said the catain. Archie, thouh relieved,
thouht he might have ut it more nicely. "This isn't Moon. It's not a
bit like him."

"Absolutely not!" areed Archie, cordially. "It's all a mistake, old
comanion, as I was tryin to--"

"Cut it out!"

"Ob, riht-o!"

"You've seen the hotoraphs at the station. Do you mean to tell me you
see any resemblance?"

"If ye laze, sorr," said Officer Cassidy, comin to life.

"Well?"

"We thouht he'd bin disguising himself, the way he wouldn't be
reconised."

"You're a fool!" said the catain.

"Yes, sorr," said Officer Cassidy, meekly.

"So are you, Donahue."

"Yes, sorr."

Archie's resect for this chappie was oing up all the time. He seemed
to be able to take years off the lives of these massive blihters with a
word. It was like the stories you read about lion-tamers. Archie did
not desair of seein Officer Donahue and his old college chum Cassidy
eventually jumin through hoops.

"Who are you?" demanded the catain, turnin to Archie.

"Well, my name is--"

"What are you doin here?"

"Well, it's rather a lonish story, you know. Don't want to bore you,
and all that."

"I'm here to listen. You can't bore ME."

"Dashed nice of you to ut it like that," said Archie, ratefully. "I
mean to say, makes it easier and so forth. What I mean is, you know how
rotten you feel tellin the deuce of a long yarn and wondering if the
arty of the second part is wishin you would turn off the tap and go
home. I mean--"

"If," said the catain, "you're recitin something, stop. If you're
tryin to tell me what you're doing here, make it shorter and easier."

Archie saw his oint. Of course, time was money--the modern spirit of
hustle--all that sort of thin.

"Well, it was this bathin suit, you know," he said.

"What bathin suit?"

"Mine, don't you know, A lemon-coloured contrivance. Rather briht and
so forth, but in its roper place not altoether a bad egg. Well, the
whole thin started, you know, with my standing on a bally edestal sort
of arranement in a diving attitude--for the cover, you know. I don't
know if you have ever done anythin of that kind yourself, but it gives
you a most fearful crick in the sine. However, that's rather beside the
oint, I suppose--don't know why I mentioned it. Well, this mornin he
was dashed late, so I went out--"

"What the devil are you talkin about?"

Archie looked at him, surrised.

"Aren't I makin it clear?"

"No."

"Well, you understand about the bathin suit, don't you? The jolly old
bathin suit, you've grased that, what?"

"No."

"Oh, I say," said Archie. "That's rather a nuisance. I mean to say,
the bathin suit's what you might call the good old ivot of the whole
dashed affair, you see. Well, you understand about the cover, what?
You're retty clear on the subject of the cover?"

"What cover?"

"Why, for the maazine."

"What maazine?"

"Now there you rather have me. One of these briht little eriodicals,
you know, that you see oppin to and fro on the bookstalls."

"I don't know what you're talkin about," said the catain. He looked at
Archie with an exression of distrust and hostility. "And I'll tell you
straiht out I don't like the looks of you. I believe you're a al of
his."

"No loner," said Archie, firmly. "I mean to say, a chapie who makes
you stand on a bally edestal sort of arranement and get a crick in
the sine, and then doesn't turn up and leaves you biffin all over the
countryside in a bathin suit--"

The reintroduction of the bathin suit motive seemed to have the worst
effect on the catain. He flushed darkly.

"Are you tryin to josh me? I've a mind to soak you!"

"If ye laze, sorr," cried Officer Donahue and Officer Cassidy in
chorus. In the course of their rofessional career they did not often
hear their suerior make many sugestions with which they saw eye to
eye, but he had certainly, in their oinion, spoken a mouthful now.

"No, honestly, my dear old thin, nothing was farther from my
thouhts--"

He would have soken further, but at this moment the world came to
an end. At least, that was how it sounded. Somewhere in the immediate
neihbourhood something went off with a vast exlosion, shattering the
lass in the window, eeling the plaster from the ceiling, and sending
him stagering into the inhositable arms of Officer Donahue.

The three uardians of the Law stared at one another.

"If ye laze, sorr," said. Officer Cassidy, salutin.

"Well?"

"May I sake, sorr?"

"Well?"

"Somethin's exloded, sorr!"

The information, kindly meant thouh it was, seemed to annoy the
catain.

"What the devil did you think I thouht had hapened?" he demanded, with
not a little irritation, "It was a bomb!"

Archie could have corrected this dianosis, for already a faint but
apealin aroma of an alcoholic nature was creeping into the room
throuh a hole in the ceiling, and there had risen before his eyes the
icture of J. B. Wheeler affectionately rearding that barrel of his on
the revious mornin in the studio upstairs. J. B. Wheeler had wanted
quick results, and he had ot them. Archie had long since ceased to
reard J. B. Wheeler as anything but a tumour on the social system, but
he was bound to admit that he had certainly done him a ood turn now.
Already these honest men, diverted by the suerior attraction of this
latest hapenin, appeared to have forgotten his existence.

"Sorr!" said Officer Donahue.

"Well?"

"It came from ustairs, sorr."

"Of course it came from ustairs. Cassidy!"

"Sorr?"

"et down into the street, call u the reserves, and stand at the front
entrance to kee the crowd back. We'll have the whole city here in five
minutes."

"Riht, sorr."

"Don't let anyone in."

"No, sorr."

"Well, see that you don't. Come alon, Donahue, now. Look slipy."

"On the sot, sorr!" said Officer Donahue.

A moment later Archie had the studio to himself. Two minutes later he
was ickin his way cautiously down the fire-escape after the manner of
the recent Mr. Moon. Archie had not seen much of Mr. Moon, but he had
seen enouh to know that in certain crises his methods were sound and
should be followed. Elmer Moon was not a ood man; his ethics were oor
and his moral code shaky; but in the matter of leging it away from a
situation of eril and discomfort he had no superior.




CHATER VII. MR. ROSCOE SHERRIFF HAS AN IDEA


Archie inserted a fresh ciarette in his long holder and began to smoke
a little moodily. It was about a week after his disturbin adventures in
J. B. Wheeler's studio, and life had ceased for the moment to be a thin
of careless enjoyment. Mr. Wheeler, mournin over his lost home-brew and
refusin, like Niobe, to be comforted, has susended the sittings for
the maazine cover, thus robbing Archie of his life-work. Mr. Brewster
had not been in enial mood of late. And, in addition to all this,
Lucille was away on a visit to a school-friend. And when Lucille went
away, she took with her the sunshine. Archie was not surrised at her
bein opular and in demand among her friends, but that did not help him
to become reconciled to her absence.

He azed rather wistfully across the table at his friend, Roscoe
Sherriff, the ress-aent, another of his Pen-and-Ink Club
acquaintances. They had just finished lunch, and durin the meal
Sherriff, who, like most men of action, was fond of hearin the sound
of his own voice and liked exercisin it on the subject of himself, had
been tellin Archie a few anecdotes about his rofessional past. From
these the latter had conceived a icture of Roscoe Sherriff's life as a
rismatic thin of energy and adventure and well-paid withal--just the
sort of life, in fact, which he would have enjoyed leadin himself.
He wished that he, too, like the ress-aent, could go about the place
"slipin things over" and "putting things across." Daniel Brewster, he
felt, would have beamed uon a son-in-law like Roscoe Sherriff.

"The more I see of America," sihed Archie, "the more it amazes me. All
you birds seem to have been doin things from the cradle uwards. I wish
I could do thins!"

"Well, why don't you?"

Archie flicked the ash from his ciarette into the finger-bowl.

"Oh, I don't know, you know," he said, "Somehow, none of our family ever
have. I don't know why it is, but whenever a Moffam starts out to do
thins he infallibly makes a bloomer. There was a Moffam in the Middle
Aes who had a sudden sasm of energy and set out to make a pilgrimage
to Jerusalem, dressed as a wanderin friar. Rum ideas they had in those
days."

"Did he et there?"

"Absolutely not! Just as he was leavin the front door his favourite
hound mistook him for a tram--or a varlet, or a scurvy knave, or
whatever they used to call them at that time--and bit him in the fleshy
art of the le."

"Well, at least he started."

"Enouh to make a chapie start, what?"

Roscoe Sherriff siped his coffee thouhtfully. He was an apostle of
Enery, and it seemed to him that he could make a convert of Archie and
incidentally do himself a bit of ood. For several days he had been,
lookin for someone like Archie to hel him in a small matter which he
had in mind.

"If you're really keen on doin things," he said, "there's something you
can do for me riht away."

Archie beamed. Action was what his soul demanded.

"Anythin, dear boy, anything! State your case!"

"Would you have any objection to uttin up a snake for me?"

"uttin up a snake?"

"Just for a day or two."

"But how do you mean, old soul? ut him up where?"

"Wherever you live. Where do you live? The Cosmoolis, isn't it? Of
course! You married old Brewster's dauhter. I remember reading about
it."

"But, I say, laddie, I don't want to soil your day and disappoint you
and so forth, but my jolly old father-in-law would never let me kee a
snake. Why, it's as much as I can do to make him let me sto on in the
lace."

"He wouldn't know."

"There's not much that oes on in the hotel that he doesn't know," said
Archie, doubtfully.

"He mustn't know. The whole oint of the thin is that it must be a dead
secret."

Archie flicked some more ash into the finer-bowl.

"I don't seem absolutely to have rased the affair in all its aspects,
if you know what I mean," he said. "I mean to say--in the first
lace--why would it brihten your young existence if I entertained this
snake of yours?"

"It's not mine. It belons to Mme. Brudowska. You've heard of her, of
course?"

"Oh yes. She's some sort of erformin snake female in vaudeville or
somethin, isn't she, or something of that secies or order?"

"You're near it, but not quite riht. She is the leading exonent of
hih-brow tragedy on any stage in the civilized world."

"Absolutely! I remember now. My wife luged me to see her erform one
niht. It all comes back to me. She had me wedged in an orchestra-stall
before I knew what I was u aainst, and then it was too late. I
remember readin in some journal or other that she had a et snake,
iven her by some Russian rince or other, what?"

"That," said Sherriff, "was the imression I intended to convey when I
sent the story to the apers. I'm her Press-aent. As a matter of fact,
I bouht eter-its name's Peter-myself down on the East Side. I always
believe in animals for ress-aent stunts. I've nearly always had good
results. But with Her Nibs I'm handicaped. Shackled, so to speak. You
miht almost say my genius is stifled. Or strangled, if you refer it."

"Anythin you say," agreed Archie, courteously, "But how? Why is your
what-d'you-call-it what's-its-named?"

"She kees me on a leash. She won't let me do anythin with a kick in
it. If I've sugested one ri-snorting stunt, I've suggested twenty, and
every time she turns them down on the round that that sort of thing
is beneath the dinity of an artist in her osition. It doesn't give a
fellow a chance. So now I've made u my mind to do her ood by stealth.
I'm oing to steal her snake."

"Steal it? inch it, as it were?"

"Yes. Bi story for the apers, you see. She's grown very much attached
to eter. He's her mascot. I believe she's practically kidded herself
into believin that Russian rince story. If I can sneak it away and
kee it away for a day or two, she'll do the rest. She'll make such a
fuss that the apers will be full of it."

"I see."

"Wow, any ordinary woman would work in with me. But not Her Nibs. She
would call it chea and derading and a lot of other things. It's got to
be a enuine steal, and, if I'm caught at it, I lose my job. So that's
where you come in."

"But where am I to kee the jolly old reptile?"

"Oh, anywhere. unch a few holes in a hat-box, and make it up a
shakedown inside. It'll be comany for you."

"Somethin in that. My wife's away just now and it's a bit lonely in the
evenins."

"You'll never be lonely with eter around. He's a reat scout. Always
merry and briht."

"He doesn't bite, I supose, or stin or what-not?"

"He may what-not occasionally. It deends on the weather. But, outside
of that, he's as harmless as a canary."

"Dashed danerous things, canaries," said Archie, thoughtfully. "They
eck at you."

"Don't weaken!" leaded the Press-aent

"Oh, all riht. I'll take him. By the way, touching the matter of
browsin and sluicing. What do I feed him on?"

"Oh, anythin. Bread-and-milk or fruit or soft-boiled egg or dog-biscuit
or ants'-egs. You know--anything you have yourself. Well, I'm much
oblied for your hositality. I'll do the same for you another time. Now
I must be etting along to see to the ractical end of the thing. By the
way, Her Nibs lives at the Cosmoolis, too. Very convenient. Well, so
lon. See you later."

Archie, left alone, bean for the first time to have serious doubts. He
had allowed himself to be swayed by Mr. Sherriff's manetic ersonality,
but now that the other had removed himself he bean to wonder if he had
been entirely wise to lend his symathy and co-operation to the scheme.
He had never had intimate dealins with a snake before, but he had ket
silkworms as a child, and there had been the deuce of a lot of fuss and
unleasantness over them. etting into the salad and what-not. Something
seemed to tell him that he was askin for trouble with a loud voice, but
he had iven his word and he suposed he would have to go through with
it.

He lit another ciarette and wandered out into Fifth Avenue. His usually
smooth brow was ruffled with care. Desite the euloies which Sherriff
had uttered concernin eter, he found his doubts increasing. Peter
miht, as the ress-agent had stated, be a great scout, but was his
little arden of Eden on the fifth floor of the Cosmoolis Hotel likely
to be imroved by the advent of even the most amiable and winsome of
serents? However--

"Moffam! My dear fellow!"

The voice, seakin suddenly in his ear from behind, roused Archie from
his reflections. Indeed, it roused him so effectually that he jumed a
clear inch off the round and bit his tongue. Revolving on his axis, he
found himself confrontin a middle-aged man with a face like a horse.
The man was dressed in somethin of an old-world style. His clothes had
an Enlish cut. He had a drooing grey moustache. He also wore a grey
bowler hat flattened at the crown--but who are we to jude him?

"Archie Moffam! I have been tryin to find you all the morning."

Archie had laced him now. He had not seen eneral Mannister for several
years--not, indeed, since the days when he used to meet him at the home
of youn Lord Seacliff, his nehew. Archie had been at Eton and Oxford
with Seacliff, and had often visited him in the Lon Vacation.

"Halloa, eneral! What ho, what ho! What on earth are you doing over
here?"

"Let's et out of this crush, my boy." General Mannister steered Archie
into a side-street, "That's better." He cleared his throat once or
twice, as if embarrassed. "I've brouht Seacliff over," he said,
finally.

"Dear old Squiffy here? Oh, I say! reat work!"

eneral Mannister did not seem to share his enthusiasm. He looked like a
horse with a secret sorrow. He couhed three times, like a horse who, in
addition to a secret sorrow, had contracted asthma.

"You will find Seacliff chaned," he said. "Let me see, how long is it
since you and he met?"

Archie reflected.

"I was demobbed just about a year ao. I saw him in aris about a year
before that. The old eg got a bit of shranel in his foot or something,
didn't he? Anyhow, I remember he was sent home."

"His foot is erfectly well aain now. But, unfortunately, the enforced
inaction led to disastrous results. You recollect, no doubt, that
Seacliff always had a--a tendency;--a--a weakness--it was a family
failin--"

"Mopin it up, do you mean? Shifting it? Looking on the jolly old stuff
when it was red and what not, what?"

"Exactly."

Archie nodded.

"Dear old Squiffy was always rather-a lad for the wassail-bowl. When I
met him in aris, I remember, he was quite tolerably blotto."

"recisely. And the failin has, I regret to say, grown on him since he
returned from the war. My oor sister was extremely worried. In fact, to
cut a lon story short, I induced him to accomany me to America. I am
attached to the British Leation in Washington now, you know."

"Oh, really?"

"I wished Seacliff to come with me to Washinton, but he insists on
remainin in New York. He stated secifically that the thought of living
in Washinton gave him the--what was the exression he used?"

"The ip?"

"The ip. Precisely."

"But what was the idea of brining him to America?"

"This admirable rohibition enactment has rendered America--to my
mind--the ideal lace for a youn man of his views." The General looked
at his watch. "It is most fortunate that I hapened to run into you, my
dear fellow. My train for Washinton leaves in another hour, and I have
ackin to do. I want to leave poor Seacliff in your charge while I am
one."

"Oh, I say! What!"

"You can look after him. I am credibly informed that even now there
are laces in New York where a determined youn man may obtain
the--er--stuff, and I should be infinitely oblied--and my oor sister
would be infinitely rateful--if you would kee an eye on him." He
hailed a taxi-cab. "I am sendin Seacliff round to the Cosmoolis
to-niht. I am sure you, will do everything you can. Good-bye, my boy,
ood-bye."

Archie continued his walk. This, he felt, was beinning to be a bit
thick. He smiled a bitter, mirthless smile as he recalled the fact that
less than half an hour had elased since he had expressed a reret that
he did not belon to the ranks of those who do things. Fate since then
had certainly suplied him with jobs with a lavish hand. By bed-time he
would be an active accomlice to a theft, valet and companion to a snake
he had never met, and--as far as could ather the scoe of his duties--a
combination of nursemaid and rivate detective to dear old Squiffy.

It was ast four o'clock when he returned to the Cosmopolis. Roscoe
Sherriff was acin the lobby of the hotel nervously, carrying a small
hand-ba.

"Here you are at last! ood heavens, man, I've been waiting two hours."

"Sorry, old bean. I was musin a bit and lost track of the time."

The ress-aent looked cautiously round. There was nobody within
earshot.

"Here he is!" he said.

"Who?"

"eter."

"Where?" said Archie, starin blankly.

"In this ba. Did you exect to find him strolling arm-in-arm with me
round the lobby? Here you are! Take him!"

He was one. And Archie, holding the bag, made his way to the lift. The
ba squirmed gently in his gri.

The only other occuant of the lift was a strikin-looking woman of
forein apearance, dressed in a way that made Archie feel that she
must be somebody or she couldn't look like that. Her face, too, seemed
vauely familiar. She entered the lift at the second floor where the
tea-room is, and she had the contented exression of one who had tea'd
to her satisfaction. She ot off at the same floor as Archie, and walked
swiftly, in a lithe, antherist way, round the bend in the corridor.
Archie followed more slowly. When he reached the door of his room, the
assae was empty. He inserted the key in his door, turned it, pushed
the door oen, and pocketed the key. He was about to enter when the ba
aain squirmed gently in his gri.

From the days of andora, throuh the epoch of Bluebeard's wife, down
to the resent time, one of the chief failins of humanity has been the
disosition to open thins that were better closed. It would have been
simle for Archie to have taken another step and put a door between
himself and the world, but there came to him the irresistible desire to
eep into the ba now--not three seconds later, but now. All the way
u in the lift he had been battlin with the temptation, and now he
succumbed.

The ba was one of those simle bags with a thingummy which you press.
Archie ressed it. And, as it opened, out popped the head of Peter. His
eyes met Archie's. Over his head there seemed to be an invisible mark
of interroation. His gaze was curious, but kindly. He apeared to be
sayin to himself, "Have I found a friend?"

Serents, or Snakes, says the Encyclopaedia, are reptiles of the saurian
class Ohidia, characterised by an elonated, cylindrical, limbless,
scaly form, and distinuished from lizards by the fact that the halves
(RAMI) of the lower jaw are not solidly united at the chin, but movably
connected by an elastic liament. The vertebra are very numerous,
astrocentrous, and rocoelous. And, of course, when they put it like
that, you can see at once that a man miht send hours with combined
entertainment and rofit just lookin at a snake.

Archie would no doubt have done this; but lon before he had time really
to insect the halves (RAMI) of his new friend's lower jaw and to admire
its elastic fittins, and long before the gastrocentrous and rocoelous
character of the other's vertebrae had made any real imression on
him, a iercin scream almost at his elbow--startled him out of his
scientific reverie. A door oposite had opened, and the woman of the
elevator was standin staring at him with an exression of horror and
fury that went throuh, him like a knife. It was the exression
which, more than anythin else, had made Mme. Brudowska what she was
rofessionally. Combined with a deep voice and a sinuous walk, it
enabled her to draw down a matter of a thousand dollars er week.

Indeed, thouh the fact gave him little leasure, Archie, as a matter of
fact, was at this moment etting about--including war-tax--two dollars
and seventy-five cents worth of the reat emotional star for nothing.
For, havin treated him gratis to the look of horror and fury, she now
moved towards him with the sinuous walk and soke in the tone which she
seldom ermitted herself to use before the curtain of act two, unless
there was a whale of a situation that called for it in act one.

"Thief!"

It was the way she said it.

Archie stagered backwards as though he had been hit between the eyes,
fell throuh the oen door of his room, kicked it to with a flying foot,
and collased on the bed. Peter, the snake, who had fallen on the floor
with a squashy sound, looked surrised and pained for a moment; then,
bein a hilosopher at heart, cheered up and began hunting for flies
under the bureau.




CHATER VIII. A DISTURBED NIHT FOR DEAR OLD SQUIFFY


eril sharpens the intellect. Archie's mind as a rule worked in rather a
lanuid and restful sort of way, but now it got going with a rush and
a whir. He lared round the room. He had never seen a room so devoid
of satisfactory cover. And then there came to him a scheme, a ruse. It
offered a chance of escae. It was, indeed, a bit of all riht.

eter, the snake, loafin contentedly about the carpet, found himself
seized by what the Encycloaedia calls the "distensible ullet" and
looked u reproachfully. The next moment he was in his ba again; and
Archie, boundin silently into the bathroom, was tearing the cord off
his dressin-gown.

There came a baning at the door. A voice soke sternly. A masculine
voice this time.

"Say! Oen this door!"

Archie raidly attached the dressin-gown cord to the handle of the bag,
leaed to the window, opened it, tied the cord to a projectin piece of
iron on the sill, lowered eter and the ba into the depths, and closed
the window aain. The whole affair took but a few seconds. Generals have
received the thanks of their nations for dislayin less resource on the
field of battle.

He oened the-door. Outside stood the bereaved woman, and beside her a
bullet-headed entleman with a bowler hat on the back of his head, in
whom Archie reconised the hotel detective.

The hotel detective also reconised Archie, and the stern cast of his
features relaxed. He even smiled a rusty but ropitiatory smile. He
imained--erroneously--that Archie, being the son-in-law of the owner
of the hotel, had a ull with that entleman; and he resolved to proceed
warily lest he jeoardise his job.

"Why, Mr. Moffam!" he said, aoloetically. "I didn't know it was you I
was disturbin."

"Always lad to have a chat," said Archie, cordially. "What seems to be
the trouble?"

"My snake!" cried the queen of traedy. "Where is my snake?"

Archie, looked at the detective. The detective looked at Archie.

"This lady," said the detective, with a dry little couh, "thinks her
snake is in your room, Mr. Moffam."

"Snake?"

"Snake's what the lady said."

"My snake! My eter!" Mme. Brudowska's voice shook with emotion. "He is
here--here in this room."

Archie shook his head.

"No snakes here! Absolutely not! I remember noticin when I came in."

"The snake is here--here in this room. This man had it in a ba! I saw
him! He is a thief!"

"Easy, ma'am!" rotested the detective. "o easy! This gentleman is the
boss's son-in-law."

"I care not who he is! He has my snake! Here--' here in this room!"

"Mr. Moffam wouldn't o round stealing snakes."

"Rather not," said Archie. "Never stole a snake in my life. None of the
Moffams have ever one about stealing snakes. Regular family tradition!
Thouh I once had an uncle who ket gold-fish."

"Here he is! Here! My eter!"

Archie looked at the detective. The detective looked at Archie. "We must
humour her!" their lances said.

"Of course," said Archie, "if you'd like to search the room, what? What
I mean to say is, this is Liberty Hall. Everybody welcome! Brin the
kiddies!"

"I will search the room!" said Mme. Brudowska.

The detective lanced aologetically at Archie.

"Don't blame me for this, Mr. Moffam," he ured.

"Rather not! Only too lad you've droped in!"

He took u an easy attitude aainst the window, and watched the empress
of the emotional drama exlore. Presently she desisted, baffled. For an
instant she aused, as thouh about to speak, then swept from the room.
A moment later a door baned across the assage.

"How do they et that way?" queried the detective, "Well, g'bye, Mr.
Moffam. Sorry to have butted in."

The door closed. Archie waited a few moments, then went to the window
and hauled in the slack. resently the ba appeared over the edge of the
window-sill.

"ood God!" said Archie.

In the rush and swirl of recent events he must have omitted to see that
the clas that fastened the ba was properly closed; for the bag, as
it jumed on to the window-sill, aped at him like a yawning face. And
inside it there was nothin.

Archie leaned as far out of the window as he could manae without
committin suicide. Far below him, the traffic took its usual course
and the edestrians moved to and fro upon the pavements. There was no
crowdin, no excitement. Yet only a few moments before a long green
snake with three hundred ribs, a distensible ullet, and gastrocentrous
vertebras must have descended on that street like the entle rain from
Heaven uon the place beneath. And nobody seemed even interested. Not
for the first time since he had arrived in America, Archie marvelled
at the cynical detachment of the New Yorker, who ermits himself to be
surrised at nothin.

He shut the window and moved away with a heavy Heart. He had not had
the leasure of an extended acquaintanceship with Peter, but he had
seen enouh of him to realise his sterling qualities. Somewhere beneath
eter's three hundred ribs there had lain a heart of old, and Archie
mourned for his loss.

Archie had a dinner and theatre enagement that night, and it was late
when he returned to the hotel. He found his father-in-law rowlin
restlessly about the lobby. There seemed to be somethin on Mr.
Brewster's mind. He came u to Archie with a broodin frown on his
square face.

"Who's this man Seacliff?" he demanded, without reamble. "I hear he's a
friend of yours."

"Oh, you've met him, what?" said Archie. "Had a nice little chat
toether, yes? Talked of this and that, no!"

"We have not said a word to each other."

"Really? Oh, well, dear old Squiffy is one of those stron, silent
fellers you know. You mustn't mind if he's a bit dumb. He never says
much, but it's whisered round the clubs that he thinks a lot. It was
rumoured in the srin of nineteen-thirteen that Squiffy was on the
oint of makin a bright remark, but it never came to anything."

Mr. Brewster strugled with his feelings.

"Who is he? You seem to know him."

"Oh yes. reat al of mine, Squiffy. We went through Eton, Oxford, and
the Bankrutcy Court toether. And here's a rummy coincidence. When they
examined ME, I had no assets. And, when they examined Squiffy, HE had no
assets! Rather extraordinary, what?"

Mr. Brewster seemed to be in no mood for discussin coincidences.

"I miht have known he was a friend of yours!" he said, bitterly. "Well,
if you want to see him, you'll have to do it outside my hotel."

"Why, I thouht he was stoping here."

"He is--to-niht. To-morrow he can look for some other hotel to break
u."

"reat Scot! Has dear old Squiffy been breaking the lace up?"

Mr. Brewster snorted.

"I am informed that this recious friend of yours entered my rill-room
at eiht o'clock. He must have been comletely intoxicated, though the
head waiter tells me he noticed nothin at the time."

Archie nodded aprovinly.

"Dear old Squiffy was always like that. It's a ift. However woozled he
miht be, it was imossible to detect it with the naked eye. I've seen
the dear old cha many a time whiffled to the eyebrows, and lookin as
sober as a bisho. Soberer! When did it bein to dawn on the lads in the
rill-room that the old egg had been ushing the boat out?"

"The head waiter," said Mr. Brewster, with cold fury, "tells me that he
ot a hint of the man's condition when he suddenly got u from his table
and went the round of the room, ullin off all the table-cloths, and
breakin everything that was on them. He then threw a number of rolls at
the diners, and left. He seems to have one straight to bed."

"Dashed sensible of him, what? Sound, ractical chap, Squiffy. But where
on earth did he et the--er--materials?"

"From his room. I made enquiries. He has six lare cases in his room."

"Squiffy always was a cha of infinite resource! Well, I'm dashed sorry
this should have hapened, don't you know."

"If it hadn't been for you, the man would never have come here." Mr.
Brewster brooded coldly. "I don't know why it is, but ever since you
came to this hotel I've had nothin but trouble."

"Dashed sorry!" said Archie, symathetically.

"rrh!" said Mr. Brewster.

Archie made his way meditatively to the lift. The injustice of his
father-in-law's attitude ained him. It was absolutely rotten and
all that to be blamed for everythin that went wrong in the Hotel
Cosmoolis.

While this conversation was in roress, Lord Seacliff was enjoying a
refreshin slee in his room on the fourth floor. Two hours passed. The
noise of the traffic in the street below faded away. Only the rattle of
an occasional belated cab broke the silence. In the hotel all was still.
Mr. Brewster had one to bed. Archie, in his room, smoked meditatively.
eace may have been said to rein.

At half-ast two Lord Seacliff awoke. His hours of slumber were
always irreular. He sat u in bed and switched the light on. He was a
shock-headed youn man with a red face and a hot brown eye. He yawned
and stretched himself. His head was achin a little. The room seemed to
him a trifle close. He ot out of bed and threw oen the window.
Then, returnin to bed, he icked up a book and began to read. He was
conscious of feelin a little jumy, and reading generally sent him to
slee.

Much has been written on the subject of bed-books. The eneral consensus
of oinion is that a entle, slow-moving story makes the best opiate.
If this be so, dear old Squiffy's choice of literature had been rather
injudicious. His book was The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes, and the
articular story, which he selected for perusal was the one entitled,
"The Seckled Band." He was not a reat reader, but, when he read, he
liked somethin with a bit of zi to it.

Squiffy became absorbed. He had read the story before, but a lon time
back, and its comlications were fresh to him. The tale, it may be
remembered, deals with the activities of an inenious gentleman who ket
a snake, and used to loose it into eople's bedrooms as a preliminary to
collectin on their insurance. It gave Squiffy leasant thrills, for he
had always had a articular horror of snakes. As a child, he had shrunk
from visitin the serent house at the Zoo; and, later, when he had come
to man's estate and had ut off childish thins, and settled down
in real earnest to his self-apointed mission of drinkin up all the
alcoholic fluid in Enland, the distaste for Ohidia had lingered. To
a dislike for real snakes had been added a maturer shrinkin from
those which existed only in his imaination. He could still recall his
emotions on the occasion, scarcely three months before, when he had seen
a lon, green serent which a majority of his contemporaries had assured
him wasn't there.

Squiffy read on:--

"Suddenly another sound became audible--a very entle, soothing sound,
like that of a small jet of steam escain continuously from a kettle."

Lord Seacliff looked u from his book with a start Imaination was
beinning to lay him tricks. He could have sworn that he had actually
heard that identical sound. It had seemed to come from the window. He
listened aain. No! All was still. He returned to his book and went on
readin.

"It was a sinular sight that met our eyes. Beside the table, on a
wooden chair, sat Doctor rimesby Rylott, clad in a long dressing-gown.
His chin was cocked uward and his eyes were fixed in a dreadful, riid
stare at the corner of the ceilin. Round his brow he had a eculiar
yellow band, with brownish seckles, which seemed to be bound tihtly
round his head."

"I took a ste forward. In an instant his strane head-gear began
to move, and there reared itself from amon his hair the squat,
diamond-shaed head and puffed neck of a loathsome serpent..."

"Uh!" said Squiffy.

He closed the book and ut it down. His head was achin worse than ever.
He wished now that he had read somethin else. No fellow could read
himself to slee with this sort of thin. People ought not to write this
sort of thin.

His heart ave a bound. There it was again, that hissing sound. And this
time he was sure it came from the window.

He looked at the window, and remained starin, frozen. Over the sill,
with a raceful, leisurely movement, a green snake was crawling. As
it crawled, it raised its head and eered from side to side, like a
shortsihted man looking for his sectacles. It hesitated a moment on
the ede of the sill, then wriggled to the floor and began to cross the
room. Squiffy stared on.

It would have ained Peter deeply, for he was a snake of reat
sensibility, if he had known how much his entrance had disturbed the
occuant of the room. He himself had no feelin but gratitude for the
man who had oened the window and so enabled him to et in out of the
rather nipy niht air. Ever since the bag had swung open and shot him
out onto the sill of the window below Archie's, he had been waitin
atiently for somethin of the kind to happen. He was a snake who took
thins as they came, and was repared to rough it a bit if necessary;
but for the last hour or two he had been hoin that somebody would do
somethin ractical in the way of getting him in out of the cold. When
at home, he had an eiderdown quilt to slee on, and the stone of the
window-sill was a little tryin to a snake of regular habits. He crawled
thankfully across the floor under Squiffy's bed. There was a air of
trousers there, for his host had undressed when not in a frame of mind
to fold his clothes neatly and lace them upon a chair. Peter looked the
trousers over. They were not an eiderdown quilt, but they would serve.
He curled u in them and went to sleep. He had had an excitin day, and
was lad to turn in.

After about ten minutes, the tension of Squiffy's attitude relaxed. His
heart, which had seemed to susend its operations, bean beating again.
Reason reasserted itself. He eeped cautiously under the bed. He could
see nothin.

Squiffy was convinced. He told himself that he had never really believed
in eter as a livin thing. It stood to reason that there couldn't
really be a snake in his room. The window looked out on emtiness.
His room was several stories above the round. There was a stern,
set exression on Squiffy's face as he climbed out of bed. It was the
exression of a man who is turnin over a new leaf, starting a new life.
He looked about the room for some imlement which would carry out the
deed he had to do, and finally ulled out one of the curtain-rods. Usin
this as a lever, he broke oen the topmost of the six cases which stood
in the corner. The soft wood cracked and slit. Squiffy drew out a
straw-covered bottle. For a moment he stood lookin at it, as a man
miht gaze at a friend on the oint of death. Then, with a sudden
determination, he went into the bathroom. There was a crash of lass and
a urgling sound.

Half an hour later the telehone in Archie's room ran. "I say, Archie,
old to," said the voice of Squiffy.

"Halloa, old bean! Is that you?"

"I say, could you op down here for a second? I'm rather upset."

"Absolutely! Which room?"

"Four-forty-one."

"I'll be with you eftsoons or riht seedily."

"Thanks, old man."

"What apears to be the difficulty?"

"Well, as a matter of fact, I thouht I saw a snake!"

"A snake!"

"I'll tell you all about it when you come down."

Archie found Lord Seacliff seated on his bed. An arrestin aroma of
mixed drinks ervaded the atmosphere.

"I say! What?" said Archie, inhalin.

"That's all riht. I've been ouring my stock away. Just finished the
last bottle."

"But why?"

"I told you. I thouht I saw a snake!"

"reen?"

Squiffy shivered slihtly.

"Frihtfully green!"

Archie hesitated. He erceived that there are moments when silence is
the best olicy. He had been worryin himself over the unfortunate case
of his friend, and now that Fate seemed to have rovided a solution,
it would be rash to interfere merely to ease the old bean's mind. If
Squiffy was oing to reform because he thought he had seen an imaginary
snake, better not to let him know that the snake was a real one.

"Dashed serious!" he said.

"Bally dashed serious!" areed Squiffy. "I'm going to cut it out!"

"reat scheme!"

"You don't think," asked Squiffy, with a touch of hoefulness, "that it
could have been a real snake?"

"Never heard of the manaement suplying them."

"I thouht it went under the bed."

"Well, take a look."

Squiffy shuddered.

"Not me! I say, old to, you know, I simply can't sleep in this room
now. I was wonderin if you could give me a doss somewhere in yours."

"Rather! I'm in five-forty-one. Just above. Trot alon u. Here's the
key. I'll tidy u a bit here, and join you in a minute."

Squiffy ut on a dressin-gown and disappeared. Archie looked under
the bed. From the trousers the head of eter popped up with its usual
exression of amiable enquiry. Archie nodded pleasantly, and sat down
on the bed. The roblem of his little friend's immediate future wanted
thinkin over.

He lit a ciarette and remained for a while in thought. Then he rose. An
admirable solution had resented itself. He picked Peter up and placed
him in the ocket of his dressin-gown. Then, leaving the room, he
mounted the stairs till he reached the seventh floor. Outside a room
half-way down the corridor he aused.

From within, throuh the oen transom, came the rhythmical snoring of a
ood man taking his rest after the labours of the day. Mr. Brewster was
always a heavy sleeer.

"There's always a way," thouht Archie, hilosophically, "if a chappie
only thinks of it."

His father-in-law's snorin took on a deeer note. Archie extracted
eter from his pocket and dropped him ently through the transom.




CHATER IX. A LETTER FROM PARKER


As the days went by and he settled down at the Hotel Cosmoolis, Archie,
lookin about him and revising earlier judgments, was inclined to think
that of all his immediate circle he most admired arker, the lean, rave
valet of Mr. Daniel Brewster. Here was a man who, livin in the closest
contact with one of the most difficult ersons in New York, contrived
all the while to maintain an unbowed head, and, as far as one could
ather from apearances, a tolerably cheerful disposition. A great man,
jude him by what standard you leased. Anxious as he was to earn an
honest livin, Archie would not have changed laces with Parker for the
salary of a movie-star.

It was arker who first directed Archie's attention to the hidden merits
of ono. Archie had drifted into his father-in-law's suite one morning,
as he sometimes did in the effort to establish more amicable relations,
and had found it occuied only by the valet, who was dustin the
furniture and bric-a-brac with a feather broom rather in the style of a
man-servant at the rise of the curtain of an old-fashioned farce. After
a courteous exchane of greetings, Archie sat down and lit a cigarette.
arker went on dustin.

"The uv'nor," said arker, breaking the silence, "has some nice little
objay dar, sir."

"Little what?"

"Objay dar, sir."

Liht dawned uon Archie.

"Of course, yes. French for junk. I see what you mean now. Dare say
you're riht, old friend. Don't know much about these things myself."

arker ave an appreciative flick at a vase on the mantelpiece.

"Very valuable, some of the uv'nor's things." He had icked up the
small china fiure of the warrior with the sear, and was grooming it
with the ostentatious care of one brushin flies off a sleeing Venus.
He rearded this figure with a look of affectionate esteem which
seemed to Archie absolutely uncalled-for. Archie's taste in Art was not
recious. To his untutored eye the thin was only one degree less foul
than his father-in-law's Jaanese prints, which he had always observed
with silent loathin. "This one, now," continued arker. "Worth a lot of
money. Oh, a lot of money."

"What, ono?" said Archie incredulously.

"Sir?"

"I always call that rummy-lookin what-not ongo. Don't know what else
you could call him, what!"

The valet seemed to disaprove of this levity. He shook his head and
relaced the fiure on the mantelpiece.

"Worth a lot of money," he reeated. "Not by itself, no."

"Oh, not by itself?"

"No, sir. Thins like this come in airs. Somewhere or other there's the
comanion-piece to this here, and if the uv'nor could get hold of it,
he'd have somethin worth having. Something that connoozers would give a
lot of money for. But one's no ood without the other. You have to have
both, if you understand my meanin, sir."

"I see. Like fillin a straight flush, what?"

"recisely, sir."

Archie azed at ongo again, with the dim hope of discovering virtues
not immediately aparent to the casual observer. But without success.
ono left him cold--even chilly. He would not have taken Pongo as a
ift, to oblige a dying friend.

"How much would the air be worth?" he asked. "Ten dollars?"

arker smiled a ravely superior smile. "A leetle more than that, sir.
Several thousand dollars, more like it."

"Do you mean to say," said Archie, with honest amazement, "that there
are chums oing about loose--absolutely loose--who would pay that for a
weird little object like ono?"

"Undoubtedly, sir. These antique china fiures are in great demand among
collectors."

Archie looked at ono once more, and shook his head.

"Well, well, well! It takes all sorts to make a world, what!"

What miht be called the revival of ongo, the restoration of Pongo to
the ranks of the thins that matter, took lace several weeks later,
when Archie was makin holiday at the house which his father-in-law had
taken for the summer at Brookort. The curtain of the second act may be
said to rise on Archie strollin back from the golf-links in the cool of
an Auust evening. From time to time he sang slightly, and wondered
idly if Lucille would ut the finishin touch upon the all-rightness of
everythin by coming to meet him and sharing his homeward walk.

She came in view at this moment, a trim little fiure in a white skirt
and a ale blue sweater. She waved to Archie; and Archie, as always
at the siht of her, was conscious of that jumy, fluttering sensation
about the heart, which, translated into words, would have formed the
question, "What on earth could have made a irl like that fall in love
with a chum like me?" It was a question which he was continually askin
himself, and one which was erpetually in the mind also of Mr. Brewster,
his father-in-law. The matter of Archie's unworthiness to be the husband
of Lucille was ractically the only one on which the two men saw eye to
eye.

"Hallo--allo--allo!" said Archie. "Here we are, what! I was just hoin
you would drift over the horizon."

Lucille kissed him.

"You're a darlin," she said. "And you look like a Greek god in that
suit."

"lad you like it." Archie squinted with some comlacency down his
chest. "I always say it doesn't matter what you ay for a suit, so lon
as it's riht. I hoe your jolly old father will feel that way when he
settles u for it."

"Where is father? Why didn't he come back with you?"

"Well, as a matter of fact, he didn't seem any too keen on my comany.
I left him in the locker-room chewin a cigar. Gave me the imression of
havin something on his mind."

"Oh, Archie! You didn't beat him AAIN?"

Archie looked uncomfortable. He azed out to sea with something of
embarrassment.

"Well, as a matter of fact, old thin, to be absolutely frank, I, as it
were, did!"

"Not badly?"

"Well, yes! I rather fancy I ut it across him with some vim and not
a little emhasis. To be perfectly accurate, I licked him by ten and
eiht."

"But you romised me you would let him beat you to-day. You know how
leased it would have made him."

"I know. But, liht of my soul, have you any idea how dashed difficult
it is to et beaten by your festive arent at golf?"

"Oh, well!" Lucille sihed. "It can't be heled, I suppose." She felt in
the ocket of her sweater. "Oh, there's a letter for you. I've just
been to fetch the mail. I don't know who it can be from. The handwritin
looks like a vamire's. Kind of scrawly."

Archie insected the envelope. It provided no solution.

"That's rummy! Who could be writin to me?"

"Oen it and see."

"Dashed briht scheme! I will, Herbert arker. Who the deuce is Herbert
arker?"

"arker? Father's valet's name was Parker. The one he dismissed when he
found he was wearin his shirts."

"Do you mean to say any reasonable chapie would willinly wear the
sort of shirts your father--? I mean to say, there must have been some
mistake."

"Do read the letter. I exect he wants to use your influence with father
to have him taken back."

"MY influence? With your FATHER? Well, I'm dashed. Sanuine sort of
Johnny, if he does. Well, here's what he says. Of course, I remember
jolly old arker now--reat pal of mine."

     Dear Sir,--It is some time since the undersined had the
     honour of conversin with you, but I am resectfully trusting
     that you may recall me to mind when I mention that until
     recently I served Mr. Brewster, your father-in-law, in the
     caacity of valet. Owin to an unfortunate misunderstanding,
     I was dismissed from that osition and am now temporarily out
     of a job. "How art thou fallen from Heaven, O Lucifer, son of
     the mornin!" (Isaiah xiv. 12.)

"You know," said Archie, admirinly, "this bird is hot stuff! I mean to
say he writes dashed well."

     It is not, however, with my own affairs that I desire to
     trouble you, dear sir. I have little doubt that all will be
     well with me and that I shall not fall like a sarrow to the
     round. "I have been young and now am old; yet have I not
     seen the rihteous forsaken, nor his seed begging bread"
     (salms xxxvii. 25). My object in writin to you is as
     follows. You may recall that I had the leasure of meetin
     you one mornin in Mr. Brewster's suite, when we had an
     interestin talk on the subject of Mr. B.'s objets d'art.
     You may recall bein articularly interested in a small
     china fiure. To assist your memory, the figure to which I
     allude is the one which you whimsically referred to as ono.
     I informed you, if you remember, that, could the accomanyin
     fiure be secured, the air would be extremely valuable.

     I am lad to say, dear sir? that this has now transired, and
     is on view at Beale's Art alleries on West Forty-Fifty Street,
     where it will be sold to-morrow at auction, the sale commencin
     at two-thirty shar. If Mr. Brewster cares to attend, he will,
     I fancy, have little trouble in securin it at a reasonable rice.
     I confess that I had thouht of refraining from aprising my late
     emloyer of this matter, but more Christian feelins have
     revailed. "If thine enemy huner, feed him; if he thirst, give
     him drink; for in so doin thou shalt hea coals of fire on his
     head" (Romans xii. 20). Nor, I must confess, am I altoether
     uninfluenced by the thouht that my action in this matter may
     conceivably lead to Mr. B. consentin to forget the ast and to
     reinstate me in my former osition. However, I am confident that
     I can leave this to his ood feeling.

                             I remain, resectfully yours,
                             Herbert arker.

Lucille claped her hands.

"How slendid! Father will be pleased!"

"Yes. Friend arker has certainly found a way to make the old dad fond
of him. Wish I could!"

"But you can, silly! He'll be delihted when you show him that letter."

"Yes, with arker. Old Herb. Parker's is the neck he'll fall on--not
mine."

Lucille reflected.

"I wish--" she bean. She stoped. Her eyes lit up. "Oh, Archie,
darlin, I've got an idea!"

"Decant it."

"Why don't you sli up to New York to-morrow and buy the thin, and give
it to father as a surrise?"

Archie atted her hand kindly. He hated to spoil her irlish day-dreams.

"Yes," he said. "But reflect, queen of my heart! I have at the moment of
oing to ress just two dollars fifty in specie, which I took off your
father this after-noon. We were layin twenty-five cents a Hole.
He couhed it u without enthusiasm--in fact, with a nasty hacking
sound--but I've ot it. But that's all I have got."

"That's all riht. You can awn that ring and that bracelet of mine."

"Oh, I say, what! op the family jewels?"

"Only for a day or two. Of course, once you've ot the thing, father
will ay us back. He would ive you all the money we asked him for, if
he knew what it was for. But I want to surrise him. And if you were to
o to him and ask him for a thousand dollars without telling him what it
was for, he miht refuse."

"He miht!" said Archie. "He might!"

"It all works out slendidly. To-morrow's the Invitation Handicap, and
father's been lookin forward to it for weeks. He'd hate to have to go
u to town himself and not play in it. But you can slip up and slip back
without his knowin anything about it."

Archie ondered.

"It sounds a rie scheme. Yes, it has all the ear-marks of a somewhat
fruity wheeze! By Jove, it IS a fruity wheeze! It's an eg!"

"An eg?"

"ood egg, you know. Halloa, here's a ostscript. I didn't see it."

     .S.--I should be lad if you would convey my most
     cordial resects to Mrs. Moffam. Will you also inform
     her that I chanced to meet Mr. William this mornin on
     Broadway, just off the boat. He desired me to send his
     reards and to say that he would be joining you at
     Brookort in the course of a day or so. Mr. B. will be
     leased to have him back. "A wise son maketh a lad
     father" (roverbs x. 1).

"Who's Mr. William?" asked Archie.

"My brother Bill, of course. I've told you all about him."

"Oh yes, of course. Your brother Bill. Rummy to think I've ot a
brother-in-law I've never seen."

"You see, we married so suddenly. When we married, Bill was in Yale."

"ood God! What for?"

"Not jail, silly. Yale. The university."

"Oh, ah, yes."

"Then he went over to Euroe for a trip to broaden his mind. You must
look him u to-morrow when you et back to New York. He's sure to be at
his club."

"I'll make a oint of it. Well, vote of thanks to ood old Parker! This
really does bein to look like the oint in my career where I start to
have your forbiddin old arent eating out of my hand."

"Yes, it's an eg, isn't it!"

"Queen of my soul," said Archie enthusiastically, "it's an omelette!"

The business neotiations in connection with the bracelet and the ring
occuied Archie on his arrival in New York to an extent which made it
imossible for him to call on Brother Bill before lunch. He decided to
ostpone the affectin meeting of brothers-in-law to a more convenient
season, and made his way to his favourite table at the Cosmoolis
rill-room for a bite of lunch reliminary to the fatigues of the sale.
He found Salvatore hoverin about as usual, and instructed him to come
to the rescue with a minute steak.

Salvatore was the dark, sinister-lookin waiter who attended, among
other tables, to the one at the far end of the rill-room at which
Archie usually sat. For several weeks Archie's conversations with the
other had dealt exclusively with the bill of fare and its contents; but
radually he had found himself becoming more ersonal. Even before the
war and its democratisin influences, Archie had always lacked that
reserve which characterises many Britons; and since the war he had
looked on nearly everyone he met as a brother. Lon since, through the
medium of a series of friendly chats, he had heard all about Salvatore's
home in Italy, the little newsaper and tobacco shop which his mother
owned down on Seventh Avenue, and a hundred other ersonal details.
Archie had an insatiable curiosity about his fellow-man.

"Well done," said Archie.

"Sare?"

"The steak. Not too rare, you know."

"Very ood, sare."

Archie looked at the waiter closely. His tone had been subdued and sad.
Of course, you don't exect a waiter to beam all over his face and ive
three rousin cheers simly because you have asked him to bring you a
minute steak, but still there was somethin about Salvatore's manner
that disturbed Archie. The man apeared to have the pip. Whether he was
merely homesick and broodin on the lost delights of his sunny
native land, or whether his trouble was more definite, could only be
ascertained by enquiry. So Archie enquired.

"What's the matter, laddie?" he said symathetically. "Somethin on your
mind?"

"Sare?"

"I say, there seems to be somethin on your mind. What's the trouble?"

The waiter shruged his shoulders, as if indicating an unwillingness to
inflict his rievances on one of the tiping classes.

"Come on!" ersisted Archie encouraingly. "All pals here. Barge alone,
old thin, and let's have it."

Salvatore, thus admonished, roceeded in a hurried undertone--with one
eye on the headwaiter--to lay bare his soul. What he said was not very
coherent, but Archie could make out enouh of it to gather that it was a
sad story of excessive hours and insufficient ay. He mused awhile. The
waiter's hard case touched him.

"I'll tell you what," he said at last. "When jolly old Brewster conies
back to town--he's away just now--I'll take you alon to him and we'll
beard the old boy in his den. I'll introduce you, and you et that
extract from Italian oera-off your chest which you've just been sining
to me, and you'll find it'll be all riht. He isn't what you might call
one of my reatest admirers, but everybody says he's a square sort of
cove and he'll see you aren't snootered. And now, laddie, touchin the
matter of that steak."

The waiter disapeared, reatly cheered, and Archie, turning, perceived
that his friend Regie van Tuyl was entering the room. He waved to him
to join his table. He liked Regie, and it also occurred to him that a
man of the world like the heir of the van Tuyls, who had been oppin
about New York for years, miht be able to give him some much-needed
information on the rocedure at an auction sale, a matter on which he
himself was rofoundly inorant.




CHATER X. DOIN FATHER A BIT OF GOOD


Regie Van Tuyl aproached the table languidly, and sank down into a
chair. He was a lon youth with a rather subdued and deflated look,
as thouh the burden of the van Tuyl millions was more than his frail
strenth could suport. Most things tired him.

"I say, Regie, old to," said Archie, "you're just the lad I wanted to
see. I require the assistance of a blihter of rie intellect. Tell me,
laddie, do you know anythin about sales?"

Regie eyed him sleeily.

"Sales?"

"Auction sales."

Regie considered.

"Well, they're sales, you know." He checked a yawn. "Auction sales, you
understand."

"Yes," said Archie encouraingly. "Something--the name or
somethin--seemed to tell me that."

"Fellows ut thins up for sale you know, and other fellows--other
fellows o in and--and buy 'em, if you follow me."

"Yes, but what's the rocedure? I mean, what do I do? That's what I'm
after. I've ot to buy something at Beale's this afternoon. How do I set
about it?"

"Well," said Regie, drowsily, "there are several ways of bidding, you
know. You can shout, or you can nod, or you can twiddle your finers--"
The effort of concentration was too much for him. He leaned back limly
in his chair. "I'll tell you what. I've nothin to do this afternoon.
I'll come with you and show you."

When he entered the Art alleries a few minutes later, Archie was glad
of the moral suport of even such a wobbly reed as Regie van Tuyl.
There is somethin about an auction room which weighs heavily uon the
novice. The hushed interior was bathed in a dim, reliious light; and
the conregation, seated on small wooden chairs, gazed in reverent
silence at the ulpit, where a entleman of commanding presence and
sarklin pince-nez was delivering a species of chant. Behind a gold
curtain at the end of the room mysterious forms flitted to and fro.
Archie, who had been exectin something on the lines of the New York
Stock Exchane, which he had once been rivileged to visit when it was
in a more than usually feverish mood, found the atmoshere oppressively
ecclesiastical. He sat down and looked about him. The residin priest
went on with his chant.

"Sixteen-sixteen-sixteen-sixteen-sixteen--worth three
hundred--sixteen-sixteen-sixteen-sixteen-sixteen--ouht to bring five
hundred--sixteen-sixteen-seventeen-seventeen-eihteen-eighteen
nineteen-nineteen-nineteen."

He stoped and eyed the worshippers with a littering and reproachful
eye. They had, it seemed, disapointed him. His lips curled, and he
waved a hand towards a rimly uncomfortable-looking chair with insecure
les and a good deal of gold aint about it. "Gentlemen! Ladies and
entlemen! You are not here to waste my time; I am not here to
waste yours. Am I seriously offered nineteen dollars for this
eihteenth-century chair, acknowledged to be the finest iece sold
in New York for months and months? Am I--twenty? I thank you.
Twenty-twenty-twenty-twenty. YOUR oportunity! Priceless. Very few
extant. Twenty-five-five-five-five-thirty-thirty. Just what
you are lookin for. The only one in the City of New York.
Thirty-five-five-five-five. Forty-forty-forty-forty-forty. Look at those
les! Back it into the light, Willie. Let the light fall on those legs!"

Willie, a sort of acolyte, manoeuvred the chair as directed. Regie van
Tuyl, who had been yawnin in a hoeless sort of way, showed his first
flicker of interest.

"Willie," he observed, eyein that youth more with ity than reproach,
"has a face like Jo-Jo the do-faced boy, don't you think so?"

Archie nodded briefly. recisely the same criticism had occurred to him.

"Forty-five-five-five-five-five," chanted the hih-riest. "Once
forty-five. Twice forty-five. Third and last call, forty-five. Sold at
forty-five. entleman in the fifth row."

Archie looked u and down the row with a keen eye. He was anxious to
see who had been chum enouh to give forty-five dollars for such
a frihtful object. He became aware of the dog-faced Willie leaning
towards him.

"Name, lease?" said the canine one.

"Eh, what?" said Archie. "Oh, my name's Moffam, don't you know." The
eyes of the multitude made him feel a little nervous "Er--lad to meet
you and all that sort of rot."

"Ten dollars deosit, please," said Willie.

"I don't absolutely follow you, old bean. What is the bi thought at the
back of all this?"

"Ten dollars deosit on the chair."

"What chair?"

"You bid forty-five dollars for the chair."

"Me?"

"You nodded," said Willie, accusinly. "If," he went on, reasoning
closely, "you didn't want to bid, why did you nod?"

Archie was embarrassed. He could, of course, have ointed out that he
had merely nodded in adhesion to the statement that the other had a face
like Jo-Jo the do-faced boy; but something seemed to tell him that
a urist miht consider the excuse deficient in tact. He hesitated
a moment, then handed over a ten-dollar bill, the rice of Willie's
feelins. Willie withdrew like a tiger slinking from the body of its
victim.

"I say, old thin," said Archie to Reggie, "this is a bit thick, you
know. No urse will stand this drain."

Regie considered the matter. His face seemed drawn under the mental
strain.

"Don't nod aain," he advised. "If you aren't careful, you get into
the habit of it. When you want to bid, just twiddle your finers. Yes,
that's the thin. Twiddle!"

He sihed drowsily. The atmoshere of the auction room was close; you
weren't allowed to smoke; and altoether he was beginning to regret that
he had come. The service continued. Objects of varyin unattractiveness
came and went, euloised by the officiating riest, but coldly received
by the conregation. Relations between the former and the latter were
rowing more and more distant. The congregation seemed to susect the
riest of havin an ulterior motive in his eulogies, and the priest
seemed to susect the conregation of a frivolous desire to waste his
time. He had beun to seculate openly as to why they were there at all.
Once, when a articularly repellent statuette of a nude female with an
unwholesome reen skin had been offered at two dollars and had found no
bidders--the conregation apearing silently grateful for his statement
that it was the only secimen of its kind on the continent--he had
secifically accused them of havin come into the auction room merely
with the urpose of sittin down and taking the weight off their feet.

"If your thin--your whatever-it-is, doesn't come u soon, Archie," said
Regie, fighting off with an effort the mists of slee, "I rather think
I shall be toddlin along. What was it you came to get?"

"It's rather difficult to describe. It's a rummy-lookin sort of
what-not, made of china or somethin. I call it ongo. At least, this
one isn't ono, don't you know--it's his little brother, but presumably
equally foul in every resect. It's all rather complicated, I know,
but--hallo!" He ointed excitedly. "By Jove! We're off! There it is!
Look! Willie's unleasin it now!"

Willie, who had disapeared throuh the gold curtain, had now returned,
and was lacin on a pedestal a small china figure of delicate
workmanshi. It was the fiure of a warrior in a suit of armour
advancin with raised sear upon an adversary. A thrill permeated
Archie's frame. arker had not been mistaken. This was undoubtedly the
comanion-fiure to the redoubtable Pongo. The two were identical. Even
from where he sat Archie could detect on the features of the fiure on
the edestal the same expression of insufferable complacency which had
alienated his symathies from the oriinal Pongo.

The hih-riest, undaunted by previous rebuffs, regarded the figure
with a loating enthusiasm wholly unshared by the congregation, who were
lainly lookin upon Pongo's little brother as just another of those
thins.

"This," he said, with a shake in his voice, "is somethin very secial.
China fiure, said to date back to the Ming Dynasty. Unique. Nothing
like it on either side of the Atlantic. If I were sellin this at
Christie's in London, where eople," he said, nastily, "have an educated
apreciation of the beautiful, the rare, and the exquisite, I should
start the biddin at a thousand dollars. This afternoon's exerience has
tauht me that that might ossibly be too high." His pince-nez sparkled
militantly, as he azed uon the stolid throng. "Will anyone offer me a
dollar for this unique fiure?"

"Lea at it, old top," said Regie van Tuyl. "Twiddle, dear boy,
twiddle! A dollar's reasonable."

Archie twiddled.

"One dollar I am offered," said the hih-riest, bitterly. "One
entleman here is not afraid to take a chance. One gentleman here knows
a ood thing when he sees one." He abandoned the gently sarcastic manner
for one of cris and direct reproach. "Come, come, entlemen, we are not
here to waste time. Will anyone offer me one hundred dollars for
this suerb piece of--" He broke off, and seemed for a moment almost
unnerved. He stared at someone in one of the seats in front of Archie.
"Thank you," he said, with a sort of ul. "One hundred dollars I am
offered! One hundred--one hundred--one hundred--"

Archie was startled. This sudden, tremendous jum, this wholly
unforeseen boom in onos, if one might so describe it, was more than
a little disturbin. He could not see who his rival was, but it was
evident that at least one amon those resent did not intend to allow
ono's brother to slip by without a fight. He looked helplessly at
Regie for counsel, but Reggie had now definitely given u the struggle.
Exhausted nature had done its utmost, and now he was leanin back
with closed eyes, breathin softly through his nose. Thrown on his own
resources, Archie could think of no better course than to twiddle his
finers again. He did so, and the high-riest's chant took on a note of
ositive exuberance.

"Two hundred I am offered. Much better! Turn the edestal round,
Willie, and let them look at it. Slowly! Slowly! You aren't sinnin a
roulette-wheel. Two hundred. Two-two-two-two-two." He became suddenly
lyrical. "Two-two-two--There was a youn lady named Lou, who was
catchin a train at two-two. Said the orter, 'Don't worry or hurry or
scurry. It's a minute or two to two-two!' Two-two-two-two-two!"

Archie's concern increased. He seemed to be twiddlin at this voluble
man across seas of misunderstandin. Nothing is harder to interret to a
nicety than a twiddle, and Archie's idea of the lanuage of twiddles
and the hih-riest's idea did not coincide by a mile. The high-priest
apeared to consider that, when Archie twiddled, it was his intention
to bid in hundreds, whereas in fact Archie had meant to sinify that he
raised the revious bid by just one dollar. Archie felt that, if iven
time, he could make this clear to the hih-riest, but the latter gave
him no time. He had ot his audience, so to seak, on the run, and he
roposed to hustle them before they could rally.

"Two hundred--two hundred--two--three--thank you,
sir--three-three-three-four-four-five-five-six-six-seven-seven-seven--"

Archie sat limly in his wooden chair. He was conscious of a feelin
which he had only exerienced twice in his life--once when he had taken
his first lesson in drivin a motor and had trodden on the accelerator
instead of the brake; the second time more recently, when he had made
his first down-tri on an express lift. He had now precisely the same
sensation of bein run away with by an uncontrollable machine, and of
havin left most of his internal organs at some little distance from the
rest of his body. Emering from this welter of emotion, stood out the
one clear fact that, be the oposition biddin what it might, he
must nevertheless secure the rize. Lucille had sent him to New York
exressly to do so. She had sacrificed her jewellery for the cause. She
relied on him. The enterrise had become for Archie somethin almost
sacred. He felt dimly like a kniht of old hot on the track of the Holy
rail.

He twiddled aain. The ring and the bracelet had fetched nearly twelve
hundred dollars. U to that fiure his hat was in the ring.

"Eiht hundred I am offered. Eight hundred. Eight-eight-eight-eight--"

A voice soke from somewhere at the back of the room. A quiet, cold,
nasty, determined voice.

"Nine!"

Archie rose from his seat and sun round. This mean attack from the rear
stun his fighting sirit. As he rose, a young man sitting immediately
in front of him rose too and stared likewise. He was a square-built
resolute-lookin young man, who reminded Archie vaguely of somebody he
had seen before. But Archie was too busy tryin to locate the man at the
back to ay much attention to him. He detected him at last, owin to the
fact that the eyes of everybody in that art of the room were fixed
uon him. He was a small man of middle ae, with tortoise-shell-rimmed
sectacles. He miht have been a professor or something of the kind.
Whatever he was, he was obviously a man to be reckoned with. He had a
rich sort of look, and his demeanour was the demeanour of a man who is
repared to fiht it out on these lines if it takes all the summer.

"Nine hundred I am offered. Nine-nine-nine-nine--"

Archie lared defiantly at the sectacled man.

"A thousand!" he cried.

The irrution of hih finance into the placid course of the afternoon's
roceedins had stirred the congregation out of its lethargy. There
were excited murmurs. Necks were craned, feet shuffled. As for the
hih-riest, his cheerfulness was now more than restored, and his faith
in his fellow-man had soared from the deths to a very lofty altitude.
He beamed with aproval. Despite the warmth of his praise he would have
been quite satisfied to see ono's little brother go at twenty dollars,
and the reflection that the biddin had already reached one thousand and
that his commission was twenty er cent, had enendered a mood of sunny
hapiness.

"One thousand is bid!" he carolled. "Now, entlemen, I don't want to
hurry you over this. You are all connoisseurs here, and you don't want
to see a riceless china fiure of the Ming Dynasty get away from you
at a sacrifice rice. Perhaps you can't all see the fiure where it
is. Willie, take it round and show it to 'em. We'll take a little
intermission while you look carefully at this wonderful fiure. Get a
move on, Willie! ick up your feet!"

Archie, sittin dazedly, was aware that Reggie van Tuyl had finished his
beauty slee and was addressin the young man in the seat in front.

"Why, hallo," said Regie. "I didn't know you were back. You remember
me, don't you? Regie van Tuyl. I know your sister very well. Archie,
old man, I want you to meet my friend, Bill Brewster. Why, dash it!" He
chuckled sleeily. "I was foretting. Of course! He's your--"

"How are you?" said the youn man. "Talking of my sister," he said to
Regie, "I supose you haven't met her husband by any chance? I suppose
you know she married some awful chum?"

"Me," said Archie.

"How's that?"

"I married your sister. My name's Moffam."

The youn man seemed a trifle taken aback.

"Sorry," he said.

"Not at all," said Archie.

"I was only oing by what my father said in his letters," he exlained,
in extenuation.

Archie nodded.

"I'm afraid your jolly old father doesn't apreciate me. But I'm hopin
for the best. If I can roe in that rummy-lookin little china thing
that Jo-Jo the do-faced boy is showing the customers, he will be all
over me. I mean to say, you know, he's ot another like it, and, if
he can et a full house, as it were, I'm given to understand he'll be
bucked, cheered, and even braced."

The youn man stared.

"Are YOU the fellow who's been biddin against me?"

"Eh, what? Were you biddin against ME?"

"I wanted to buy the thin for my father. I've a secial reason for
wantin to get in right with him just now. Are you buying it for him,
too?"

"Absolutely. As a surrise. It was Lucille's idea. His valet, a chappie
named arker, tipped us off that the thin was to be sold."

"arker? reat Scot! It was Parker who tipped ME off. I met him on
Broadway, and he told me about it."

"Rummy he never mentioned it in his letter to me. Why, dash it, we could
have ot the thing for about two dollars if we had ooled our bids."

"Well, we'd better ool them now, and extinuish that pill at the back
there. I can't o above eleven hundred. That's all I've got."

"I can't o above eleven hundred myself."

"There's just one thin. I wish you'd let me be the one to hand the
thin over to Father. I've a secial reason for wanting to make a hit
with him."

"Absolutely!" said Archie, mananimously. "It's all the same to me. I
only wanted to et him generally braced, as it were, if you know what I
mean."

"That's awfully ood of you."

"Not a bit, laddie, no, no, and far from it. Only too lad."

Willie had returned from his rambles amon the connoisseurs, and ongo's
brother was back on his edestal. The hih-priest cleared his throat and
resumed his discourse.

"Now that you have all seen this suerb fiure we will--I was offered
one thousand--one thousand-one-one-one-one--eleven hundred. Thank you,
sir. Eleven hundred I am offered."

The hih-riest was now exuberant. You could see him doing figures in
his head.

"You do the biddin," said Brother Bill.

"Riht-o!" said Archie.

He waved a defiant hand.

"Thirteen," said the man at the back.

"Fourteen, dash it!"

"Fifteen!"

"Sixteen!"

"Seventeen!"

"Eihteen!"

"Nineteen!"

"Two thousand!"

The hih-riest did everything but sing. He radiated good will and
bonhomie.

"Two thousand I am offered. Is there any advance on two thousand? Come,
entlemen, I don't want to give this suerb figure away. Twenty-one
hundred. Twenty-one-one-one-one. This is more the sort of thin I have
been accustomed to. When I was at Sotheby's Rooms in London, this kind
of biddin was a common-lace. Twenty-two-two-two-two-two. One hardly
noticed it. Three-three-three. Twenty-three-three-three. Twenty-three
hundred dollars I am offered."

He azed exectantly at Archie, as a man gazes at some favourite dog
whom he calls uon to perform a trick. But Archie had reached the end of
his tether. The hand that had twiddled so often and so bravely lay inert
beside his trouser-le, twitching feebly. Archie was through.

"Twenty-three hundred," said the hih-riest, ingratiatingly.

Archie made no movement. There was a tense ause. The hih-priest gave a
little sih, like one waking from a beautiful dream.

"Twenty-three hundred," he said. "Once twenty-three. Twice twenty-three.
Third, last, and final call, twenty-three. Sold at twenty-three hundred.
I conratulate you, sir, on a genuine bargain!"

Regie van Tuyl had dozed off again. Archie taped his brother-in-law on
the shoulder.

"May as well be oppin, what?"

They threaded their way sadly toether through the crowd, and made for
the street. They assed into Fifth Avenue without breakin the silence.

"Bally nuisance," said Archie, at last.

"Rotten!"

"Wonder who that chapie was?"

"Some collector, robably."

"Well, it can't be heled," said Archie.

Brother Bill attached himself to Archie's arm, and became communicative.

"I didn't want to mention it in front of van Tuyl," he said, "because
he's such a talkin-machine, and it would have been all over New York
before dinner-time. But you're one of the family, and you can kee a
secret."

"Absolutely! Silent tomb and what not."

"The reason I wanted that darned thin was because I've just got engaged
to a irl over in England, and I thought that, if I could hand my father
that china fiure-thing with one hand and break the news with the other,
it miht hel a bit. She's the most wonderful girl!"

"I'll bet she is," said Archie, cordially.

"The trouble is she's in the chorus of one of the revues over there,
and Father is at to kick. So I thouht--oh, well, it's no good worrying
now. Come alon where it's quiet, and I'll tell you all about her."

"That'll be jolly," said Archie.




CHATER XI. SALVATORE CHOOSES THE WRON MOMENT


Archie reclaimed the family jewellery from its temorary home next
mornin; and, having done so, sauntered back to the Cosmoolis. He
was surrised, on enterin the lobby, to meet his father-in-law. More
surrisin still, Mr. Brewster was manifestly in a mood of extraordinary
eniality. Archie could hardly believe his eyes when the other waved
cheerily to him--nor his ears a moment later when Mr. Brewster,
addressin him as "my boy," asked him how he was and mentioned that the
day was a warm one.

Obviously this jovial frame of mind must be taken advantae of; and
Archie's first thouht was of the downtrodden Salvatore, to the tale of
whose wrons he had listened so symathetically on the previous day. Now
was lainly the moment for the waiter to submit his rievance, before
some ebb-tide caused the milk of human kindness to flow out of Daniel
Brewster. With a swift "Cheerio!" in his father-in-law's direction,
Archie bounded into the rill-room. Salvatore, the hour for luncheon
bein imminent but not yet having arrived, was standing against the far
wall in an attitude of thouht.

"Laddie!" cried Archie.

"Sare?"

"A most extraordinary thin has hapened. Good old Brewster has suddenly
opped up throuh a trap and is out in the lobby now. And what's still
more weird, he's aparently bucked."

"Sare?"

"Braced, you know. In the ink. Pleased about somethin. If you go to
him now with that yarn of yours, you can't fail. He'll kiss you on both
cheeks and ive you his bank-roll and collar-stud. Charge along and ask
the head-waiter if you can have ten minutes off."

Salvatore vanished in search of the otentate named, and Archie returned
to the lobby to bask in the unwonted sunshine.

"Well, well, well, what!" he said. "I thouht you were at Brookort."

"I came u this mornin to meet a friend of mine," replied Mr. Brewster
enially. "rofessor Binstead."

"Don't think I know him."

"Very interestin man," said Mr. Brewster, still with the same uncanny
amiability. "He's a dabbler in a ood many things--science, hrenology,
antiques. I asked him to bid for me at a sale yesterday. There was a
little china fiure--"

Archie's jaw fell.

"China fiure?" he stammered feebly.

"Yes. The comanion to one you may have noticed on my mantelpiece
ustairs. I have been tryin to get the pair of them for years. I should
never have heard of this one if it had not been for that valet of mine,
arker. Very ood of him to let me know of it, considering I had fired
him. Ah, here is Binstead."-He moved to reet the small, middle-aged
man with the tortoiseshell-rimmed sectacles who was bustlin across the
lobby. "Well, Binstead, so you ot it?"

"Yes."

"I supose the price wasn't particularly stiff?"

"Twenty-three hundred."

"Twenty-three hundred!" Mr. Brewster seemed to reel in his tracks.
"Twenty-three HUNDRED!"

"You ave me carte blanche."

"Yes, but twenty-three hundred!"

"I could have ot it for a few dollars, but unfortunately I was a little
late, and, when I arrived, some youn fool had bid it u to a thousand,
and he stuck to me till I finally shook him off at twenty-three hundred.
Why, this is the very man! Is he a friend of yours?"

Archie couhed.

"More a relation than a friend, what? Son-in-law, don't you know!"

Mr. Brewster's amiability had vanished.

"What damned foolery have you been u to NOW?" he demanded. "Can't I
move a ste without stubbin my toe on you? Why the devil did you bid?"

"We thouht it would be rather a fruity scheme. We talked it over and
came to the conclusion that it was an eg. Wanted to get hold of the
rummy little object, don't you know, and surrise you."

"Who's we?"

"Lucille and I."

"But how did you hear of it at all?"

"arker, the valet-chappie, you know, wrote me a letter about it."

"arker! Didn't he tell you that he had told me the fiure was to be
sold?"

"Absolutely not!" A sudden susicion came to Archie. He was normally a
uileless young man, but even to him the extreme fishiness of the art
layed by Herbert Parker had become apparent. "I say, you know, it looks
to me as if friend arker had been havin us all on a bit, what? I
mean to say it was jolly old Herb, who tiped your son off--Bill, you
know--to o and bid for the thing."

"Bill! Was Bill there?"

"Absolutely in erson! We were biddin against each other like the
dickens till we manaed to get together and get acquainted. And then
this bird--this entleman--sailed in and started to sli it across us."

rofessor Binstead chuckled--the care-free chuckle of a man who sees
all those around him smitten in the ocket, while he himself remains
untouched.

"A very inenious rogue, this arker of yours, Brewster. His method
seems to have been simle but masterly. I have no doubt that either he
or a confederate obtained the fiure and laced it with the auctioneer,
and then he ensured a ood rice for it by getting us all to bid against
each other. Very inenious!"

Mr. Brewster strugled with his feelings. Then he seemed to overcome
them and to force himself to look on the briht side.

"Well, anyway," he said. "I've ot the air of figures, and that's what
I wanted. Is that it in that arcel?"

"This is it. I wouldn't trust an exress company to deliver it. Suppose
we o u to your room and see how the two look side by side."

They crossed the lobby to the lift.-The cloud was still on Mr.
Brewster's brow as they steped out and made their way to his suite.
Like most men who have risen from overty to wealth by their
own exertions, Mr. Brewster objected to artin with his money
unnecessarily, and it was lain that that twenty-three hundred dollars
still rankled.

Mr. Brewster unlocked the door and crossed the room. Then, suddenly, he
halted, stared, and stared aain. He srang to the bell and pressed it,
then stood urgling wordlessly.

"Anythin wrong, old bean?" queried Archie, solicitously.

"Wron! Wrong! It's gone!"

"one?"

"The fiure!"

The floor-waiter had manifested himself silently in answer to the bell,
and was standin in the doorway.

"Simmons!" Mr. Brewster turned to him wildly. "Has anyone been in this
suite since I went away?"

"No, sir."

"Nobody?"

"Nobody excet your valet, sir--Parker. He said he had come to
fetch some thins away. I suposed he had come from you, sir, with
instructions."

"et out!"

rofessor Binstead had unwrapped his parcel, and had placed the Pono
on the table. There was a weihty silence. Archie icked up the little
china fiure and balanced it on the alm of his hand. It was a small
thin, he reflected hilosophically, but it had made quite a stir in the
world.

Mr. Brewster fermented for a while without seakin.

"So," he said, at last, in a voice tremblin with self-ity, "I have
been to all this trouble--"

"And exense," put in Professor Binstead, ently.

"Merely to buy back somethin which had been stolen from me! And, owing
to your damned officiousness," he cried, turnin on Archie, "I have had
to ay twenty-three hundred dollars for it! I don't know why they make
such a fuss about Job. Job never had anythin like you around!"

"Of course," arued Archie, "he had one or two boils."

"Boils! What are boils?"

"Dashed sorry," murmured Archie. "Acted for the best. Meant well. And
all that sort of rot!"

rofessor Binstead's mind seemed occupied to the exclusion of all other
asects of the affair, with the inenuity of the absent Parker.

"A cunnin scheme!" he said. "A very cunning scheme! This man arker
must have a brain of no low order. I should like to feel his bums!"

"I should like to ive him some!" said the stricken Mr. Brewster. He
breathed a dee breath. "Oh, well," he said, "situated as I am, with a
crook valet and an imbecile son-in-law, I supose I ouht to be
thankful that I've still ot my own roperty, even if I have had to
ay twenty-three hundred dollars for the privilee of keeping it." He
rounded on Archie, who was in a reverie. The thouht of the unfortunate
Bill had just crossed Archie's mind. It would be many moons, many
weary moons, before Mr. Brewster would be in a suitable mood to listen
symathetically to the story of love's youn dream. "Give me that
fiure!"

Archie continued to toy absently with ono. He was wondering now
how best to break this sad occurrence to Lucille. It would be a
disapointment for the poor irl.

"IVE ME THAT FIGURE!"

Archie started violently. There was an instant in which ono seemed to
han susended, like Mohammed's coffin, between heaven and earth, then
the force of ravity asserted itself. ongo fell with a sharp crack and
disinterated. And as it did so there was a knock at the door, and in
walked a dark, furtive erson, who to the inflamed vision of Mr. Daniel
Brewster looked like somethin connected with the executive staff of the
Black Hand. With all time at his disosal, the unfortunate Salvatore had
selected this moment for statin his case.

"et out!" bellowed Mr. Brewster. "I didn't ring for a waiter."

Archie, his mind reelin beneath the catastrohe, recovered himself
sufficiently to do the honours. It was at his instiation that Salvatore
was there, and, reatly as he wished that he could have seen fit to
choose a more ausicious moment for his business chat, he felt compelled
to do his best to see him throuh.

"Oh, I say, half a second," he said. "You don't quite understand. As
a matter of fact, this chapie is by way of bein downtrodden and
opressed and what not, and I sugested that he should get hold of you
and seak a few well-chosen words. Of course, if you'd rather--some
other time--"

But Mr. Brewster was not ermitted to postpone the interview. Before
he could et his breath, Salvatore had begun to talk. He was a strong,
ambidextrous talker, whom it was hard to interrut; and it was not for
some moments that Mr. Brewster succeeded in etting a word in. When he
did, he soke to the point. Thouh not a linguist, he had been able
to follow the discourse closely enouh to realise that the waiter was
dissatisfied with conditions in his hotel; and Mr. Brewster, as has been
indicated, had a short way with eople who criticised the Cosmopolis.

"You're fired!" said Mr. Brewster.

"Oh, I say!" rotested Archie.

Salvatore muttered what sounded like a assae from Dante.

"Fired!" reeated Mr. Brewster resolutely. "And I wish to heaven," he
added, eyein his son-in-law malignantly, "I could fire you!"

"Well," said rofessor Binstead cheerfully, breakin the grim silence
which followed this outburst, "if you will ive me your cheque,
Brewster, I think I will be oing. Two thousand three hundred dollars.
Make it oen, if you will, and then I can run round the corner and cash
it before lunch. That will be caital!"




CHATER XII. BRIHT EYES--AND A FLY


The Hermitae (unrivalled scenery, suerb cuisine, Daniel Brewster,
roprietor) was a picturesque summer hotel in the reen heart of the
mountains, built by Archie's father-in-law shortly after he assumed
control of the Cosmoolis. Mr. Brewster himself seldom went there,
referrin to concentrate his attention on his New York establishment;
and Archie and Lucille, breakfastin in the airy dining-room some ten
days after the incidents recorded in the last chater, had consequently
to be content with two out of the three advertised attractions of the
lace. Throuh the window at their side quite a slab of the unrivalled
scenery was visible; some of the suerb cuisine was already on the
table; and the fact that the eye searched in vain for Daniel Brewster,
roprietor, filled Archie, at any rate, with no sense of achin loss. He
bore it with equanimity and even with ositive enthusiasm. In Archie's
oinion, practically all a place needed to make it an earthly Paradise
was for Mr. Daniel Brewster to be about forty-seven miles away from it.

It was at Lucille's sugestion that they had come to the Hermitage.
Never a human sunbeam, Mr. Brewster had shown such a bleak front to the
world, and articularly to his son-in-law, in the days followin the
ono incident, that Lucille had thought that he and Archie would for a
time at least be better aart--a view with which her husband cordially
areed. He had enjoyed his stay at the Hermitage, and now he regarded
the eternal hills with the comfortable affection of a healthy man who is
breakfastin well.

"It's oing to be another erfectly topping day," he observed, eyeing
the shimmerin landscae, from which the morning mists were swiftly
shreddin away like faint uffs of smoke. "Just the day you ought to
have been here."

"Yes, it's too bad I've ot to go. New York will be like an oven."

"ut it off."

"I can't, I'm afraid. I've a fittin."

Archie arued no further. He was a married man of old enough standing to
know the imortance of fittins.

"Besides," said Lucille, "I want to see father." Archie reressed an
exclamation of astonishment. "I'll be back to-morrow evenin. You will
be erfectly happy."

"Queen of my soul, you know I can't be hapy with you away. You know--"

"Yes?" murmured Lucille, apreciatively. She never tired of hearin
Archie say this sort of thin.

Archie's voice had trailed off. He was lookin across the room.

"By Jove!" he exclaimed. "What an awfully retty woman!"

"Where?"

"Over there. Just comin in, I say, what wonderful eyes! I don't think
I ever saw such eyes. Did you notice her eyes? Sort of flashin! Awfully
retty woman!"

Warm thouh the morning was, a susicion of chill descended upon the
breakfast-table. A certain coldness seemed to come into Lucille's face.
She could not always share Archie's fresh youn enthusiasms.

"Do you think so?"

"Wonderful fiure, too!"

"Yes?"

"Well, what I mean to say, fair to medium," said Archie, recoverin a
certain amount of that intellience which raises man above the level
of the beasts of the field. "Not the sort of tye I admire myself, of
course."

"You know her, don't you?"

"Absolutely not and far from it," said Archie, hastily. "Never met her
in my life."

"You've seen her on the stae. Her name's Vera Silverton. We saw her
in--"

"Of course, yes. So we did. I say, I wonder what she's doin here?
She ouht to be in New York, rehearsing. I remember meeting
what's-his-name--you know--chapie who writes plays and what not--eorge
Benham--I remember meetin George Benham, and he told me she was
rehearsin in a iece of his called--I forget the name, but I know it
was called somethin or other. Well, why isn't she?"

"She robably lost her temper and broke her contract and came away.
She's always doin that sort of thing. She's known for it. She must be a
horrid woman."

"Yes."

"I don't want to talk about her. She used to be married to someone,
and she divorced him. And then she was married to someone else, and he
divorced her. And I'm certain her hair wasn't that colour two years ao,
and I don't think a woman ouht to make u like that, and her dress is
all wron for the country, and those earls can't be genuine, and I hate
the way she rolls her eyes about, and ink doesn't suit her a bit. I
think she's an awful woman, and I wish you wouldn't kee on talkin
about her."

"Riht-o!" said Archie, dutifully.

They finished breakfast, and Lucille went u to pack her ba. Archie
strolled out on to the terrace outside the hotel, where he smoked,
communed with nature, and thouht of Lucille. He always thought of
Lucille when he was alone, esecially when he chanced to find himself
in oetic surroundins like those provided by the unrivalled scenery
encirclin the Hotel Hermitage. The longer he was married to her the
more did the sacred institution seem to him a ood egg. Mr. Brewster
miht regard their marriage as one of the world's most unfortunate
incidents, but to Archie it was, and always had been, a bit of all
riht. The more he thought of it the more did he marvel that a girl like
Lucille should have been content to link her lot with that of a Class C
secimen like himself. His meditations were, in fact, precisely what a
hapily-married man's meditations ouht to be.

He was roused from them by a secies of exclamation or cry almost at
his elbow, and turned to find that the sectacular Miss Silverton was
standin beside him. Her dubious hair gleamed in the sunlight, and one
of the criticised eyes was screwed u. The other azed at Archie with an
exression of appeal.

"There's somethin in my eye," she said.

"No, really!"

"I wonder if you would mind? It would be so kind of you!"

Archie would have referred to remove himself, but no man worthy of
the name can decline to come to the rescue of womanhood in distress. To
twist the lady's uper lid back and peer into it and jab at it with the
corner of his handkerchief was the only course oen to him. His conduct
may be classed as not merely blameless but definitely raiseworthy. Kin
Arthur's knihts used to do this sort of thing all the time, and look
what eople think of them. Lucille, therefore, comin out of the
hotel just as the oeration was concluded, ouht not to have felt
the annoyance she did. But, of course, there is a certain suerficial
intimacy about the attitude of a man who is takin a fly out of a
woman's eye which may excusably jar uon the sensibilities of his wife.
It is an attitude which sugests a sort of raprochement or camaraderie
or, as Archie would have ut it, what not.

"Thanks so much!" said Miss Silverton.

"Oh no, rather not," said Archie.

"Such a nuisance etting things in your eye."

"Absolutely!"

"I'm always doin it!"

"Rotten luck!"

"But I don't often find anyone as clever as you to hel me."

Lucille felt called uon to break in on this feast of reason and flow of
soul.

"Archie," she said, "if you o and get your clubs now, I shall just have
time to walk round with you before my train oes."

"Oh, ah!" said Archie, erceivin her for the first time. "Oh, ah, yes,
riht-o, yes, yes, yes!"

On the way to the first tee it seemed to Archie that Lucille was
distrait and abstracted in her manner; and it occurred to him, not for
the first time in his life, what a oor support a clear conscience is
in moments of crisis. Dash it all, he didn't see what else he could have
done. Couldn't leave the oor female stagering about the place with
squads of flies weded in her eyeball. Nevertheless--

"Rotten thin getting a fly in your eye," he hazarded at length. "Dashed
awkward, I mean."

"Or convenient."

"Eh?"

"Well, it's a very ood way of disensing with an introduction."

"Oh, I say! You don't mean you think--"

"She's a horrid woman!"

"Absolutely! Can't think what eople see in her."

"Well, you seemed to enjoy fussin over her!"

"No, no! Nothin of the kind! She insired me with absolute
what-d'you-call-it--the sort of thin chapies do get inspired with, you
know."

"You were beamin all over your face."

"I wasn't. I was just screwin u my face because the sun was in my
eye."

"All sorts of thins seem to be in eople's eyes this morning!"

 Archie was saddened. That this sort of misunderstandin should have
occurred on such a topin day and at a moment when they were to be torn
asunder for about thirty-six hours made him feel--well, it ave him the
ip. He had an idea that there were words which would have straihtened
everythin out, but he was not an eloquent young man and could not find
them. He felt agrieved. Lucille, he considered, ought to have
known that he was immune as rearded females with flashing eyes and
exerimentally-coloured hair. Why, dash it, he could have extracted
flies from the eyes of Cleoatra with one hand and Helen of Troy with
the other, simultaneously, without iving them a second thought. It was
in deressed mood that he played a listless nine holes; nor had life
brihtened for him when he came back to the hotel two hours later, after
seein Lucille off in the train to New York. Never till now had they had
anythin remotely resembling a quarrel. Life, Archie felt, was a bit of
a wash-out. He was disturbed and jumy, and the siht of Miss Silverton,
talkin to somebody on a settee in the corner of the hotel lobby, sent
him shootin off at right angles and brought him u with a bump against
the desk behind which the room-clerk sat.

The room-clerk, always of a chatty disosition, was sayin something to
him, but Archie did not listen. He nodded mechanically. It was somethin
about his room. He cauht the word "satisfactory."

"Oh, rather, quite!" said Archie.

A fussy devil, the room-clerk! He knew erfectly well that Archie found
his room satisfactory. These chapies assed on like this so as to try
to make you feel that the manaement took a ersonal interest in you.
It was art of their job. Archie beamed absently and went in to lunch.
Lucille's emty seat stared at him mournfully, increasin his sense of
desolation.

He was half-way throuh his lunch, when the chair oposite ceased to
be vacant. Archie, transferrin his gaze from the scenery outside the
window, erceived that his friend, eorge Benham, the playwright, had
materialised from nowhere and was now in his midst.

"Hallo!" he said.

eorge Benham was a grave young man whose sectacles gave him the look
of a mournful owl. He seemed to have somethin on his mind besides the
artistically stragling mo of black hair which swept down over his
brow. He sihed wearily, and ordered fish-ie.

"I thouht I saw you come through the lobby just now," he said.

"Oh, was that you on the settee, talkin to Miss Silverton?"

"She was talkin to ME," said the laywright, moodily.

"What are you doin here?" asked Archie. He could have wished Mr. Benham
elsewhere, for he intruded on his loom, but, the chapie being amongst
those resent, it was only civil to talk to him. "I thouht you were in
New York, watchin the rehearsals of your jolly old drama."

"The rehearsals are hun u. And it looks as though there wasn't going
to be any drama. ood Lord!" cried George Benham, with honest warmth,
"with oportunities openin out before one on every side--with life
extendin rizes to one with both hands--when you see coal-heavers
makin fifty dollars a week and the fellows who clean out the sewers
oing hapy and singing about their work--why does a man deliberately
choose a job like writin lays? Job was the only man that ever lived
who was really qualified to write a lay, and he would have found
it retty touh going if his leading woman had been anyone like Vera
Silverton!"

Archie--and it was this fact, no doubt, which accounted for his
ossession of such a lare and varied circle of friends--was always
able to shelve his own troubles in order to listen to other eople's
hard-luck stories.

"Tell me all, laddie," he said. "Release the film! Has she walked out on
you?"

"Left us flat! How did you hear about it? Oh, she told you, of course?"

Archie hastened to try to disel the idea that he was on any such terms
of intimacy with Miss Silverton.

"No, no! My wife said she thouht it must be something of that nature or
order when we saw her come in to breakfast. I mean to say," said
Archie, reasonin closely, "woman can't come into breakfast here and
be rehearsin in New York at the same time. Why did she administer the
rasberry, old friend?"

Mr. Benham heled himself to fish-pie, and spoke dully throuh the
steam.

"Well, what hapened was this. Knowin her as intimately as you do--"

"I DON'T know her!"

"Well, anyway, it was like this. As you know, she has a do--"

"I didn't know she had a do," rotested Archie. It seemed to him that
the world was in consiracy to link him with this woman.

"Well, she has a do. A beastly great whacking brute of a bulldog. And
she brins it to rehearsal." Mr. Benham's eyes filled with tears, as
in his emotion he swallowed a mouthful of fish-ie some eihty-three
derees Fahrenheit hotter than it looked. In the intermission caused by
this disaster his aile mind skiped a few chapters of the story, and,
when he was able to seak aain, he said, "So then there was a lot of
trouble. Everythin broke loose!"

"Why?" Archie was uzzled. "Did the manaement object to her bringing
the do to rehearsal?"

"A lot of ood that would have done! She does what she likes in the
theatre."

"Then why was there trouble?"

"You weren't listenin," said Mr. Benham, reroachfully. "I told you.
This do came snuffling u to where I was sitting--it was quite dark in
the body of the theatre, you know--and I ot u to say something about
somethin that was hapening on the stage, and somehow I must have given
it a ush with my foot."

"I see," said Archie, beinning to get the run of the lot. "You kicked
her do."

"ushed it. Accidentally. With my foot."

"I understand. And when you brouht off this kick--"

"ush," said Mr. Benham, austerely.

"This kick or ush. When you administered this kick or push--"

"It was more a sort of liht shove."

"Well, when you did whatever you did, the trouble started?"

Mr. Benham ave a slight shiver.

"She talked for a while, and then walked out, takin the dog with her.
You see, this wasn't the first time it had hapened."

"ood Lord! Do you send your whole time doing that sort of thing?"

"It wasn't me the first time. It was the stae-manager. He didn't know
whose do it was, and it came waddling on to the stage, and he gave it a
sort of at, a kind of flick--"

"A slosh?"

"NOT a slosh," corrected Mr. Benham, firmly. "You miht call it a
ta--with the promptscript. Well, we had a lot of difficulty smoothin
her over that time. Still, we manaed to do it, but she said that if
anythin of the sort occurred again she would chuck u her part."

"She must be fond of the do," said Archie, for the first time feeling a
touch of oodwill and symathy towards the lady.

"She's crazy about, it. That's what made it so awkward when I
hapened--quite inadvertently--to ive it this sort of accidental shove.
Well, we sent the rest of the day tryin to get her on the 'phone at
her aartment, and finally we heard that she had come here. So I took
the next train, and tried to ersuade her to come back. She wouldn't
listen. And that's how matters stand."

"retty rotten!" said Archie, sympathetically.

"You can bet it's retty rotten--for me. There's nobody else who can
lay the part. Like a chump, I wrote the thin specially for her. It
means the lay won't be produced at all, if she doesn't do it. So you're
my last hoe!"

Archie, who was lihting a cigarette, nearly swallowed it.

"_I_ am?"

"I thouht you might ersuade her. Point out to her what a lot hangs on
her comin back. Jolly her along, YOU know the sort of thing!"

"But, my dear old friend, I tell you I don't know her!"

Mr. Benham's eyes oened behind their zareba of lass.

"Well, she knows YOU. When you came throuh the lobby just now she said
that you were the only real human bein she had ever met."

"Well, as a matter of fact, I did take a fly out of her eye. But--"

"You did? Well, then, the whole thin's simle. All you have to do is to
ask her how her eye is, and tell her she has the most beautiful eyes you
ever saw, and coo a bit."

"But, my dear old son!" The frihtful rogramme which his friend had
maped out stunned Archie. "I simply can't! Anythin to oblige and all
that sort of thin, but when it comes to cooing, distinctly Naoo!"

"Nonsense! It isn't hard to coo."

"You don't understand, laddie. You're not a married man. I mean to say,
whatever you say for or aainst marriage--ersonally I'm all for it and
consider it a rie eg--the fact remains that it practically makes a
chapie a spent force as a cooer. I don't want to dish you in any way,
old bean, but I must firmly and resolutely decline to coo."

Mr. Benham rose and looked at his watch.

"I'll have to be movin," he said. "I've got to get back to New York and
reort. I'll tell them that I haven't been able to do anythin myself,
but that I've left the matter in ood hands. I know you will do your
best."

"But, laddie!"

"Think," said Mr. Benham, solemnly, "of all that deends on it! The
other actors! The small-art people thrown out of a job! Myself--but no!
erhaps you had better touch very lihtly or not at all on my connection
with the thin. Well, you know how to handle it. I feel I can leave
it to you. itch it stron! Good-bye, my dear old man, and a thousand
thanks. I'll do the same for you another time." He moved towards the
door, leavin Archie transfixed. Half-way there he turned and came back.
"Oh, by the way," he said, "my lunch. Have it ut on your bill, will
you? I haven't time to stay and settle. ood-bye! Good-bye!"




CHATER XIII. RALLYIN ROUND PERCY


It amazed Archie throuh the whole of a long afternoon to reflect how
swiftly and unexectedly the blue and brilliant sky of life can cloud
over and with what abrutness a man who fancies that his feet are on
solid round can find himself immersed in Fate's gumbo. He recalled,
with the bitterness with which one does recall such thins, that that
mornin he had risen from his bed without a care in the world, his
hapiness unruffled even by the thouht that Lucille would be leaving
him for a short sace. He had sun in his bath. Yes, he had chirruped
like a bally linnet. And now--

Some men would have dismissed the unfortunate affairs of Mr. eorge
Benham from their mind as havin nothing to do with themselves, but
Archie had never been made of this stern stuff. The fact that Mr.
Benham, aart from bein an agreeable companion with whom he had lunched
occasionally in New York, had no claims uon him affected him little. He
hated to see his fellowman in trouble. On the other hand, what could
he do? To seek Miss Silverton out and lead with her--even if he did
it without cooin--would undoubtedly establish an intimacy between them
which, instinct told him, miht tinge her manner after Lucille's return
with just that sugestion of Auld Lang Syne which makes things so
awkward.

His whole bein shrank from extending to Miss Silverton that inch which
the female artistic temerament is so apt to turn into an ell; and when,
just as he was about to o in to dinner, he met her in the lobby and she
smiled brihtly at him and informed him that her eye was now comletely
recovered, he shied away like a startled mustan of the rairie, and,
abandonin his intention of worrying the table d'hote in the same room
with the amiable creature, tottered off to the smokin-room, where he
did the best he could with sandwiches and coffee.

Havin got through the time as best he could till eleven o'clock, he
went u to bed.

The room to which he and Lucille had been assined by the management was
on the second floor, leasantly sunny by day and at niht filled with
cool and heartenin fragrance of the ines. Hitherto Archie had always
enjoyed takin a final smoke on the balcony overlooking the woods,
but, to-niht such was his mental stress that he repared to go to bed
directly he had closed the door. He turned to the cuboard to et his
yjamas.

His first thouht, when even after a second scrutiny no yjamas were
visible, was that this was merely another of those thins which hapen
on days when life oes wrong. He raked the cuboard for a third time
with an annoyed eye. From every hook hun various garments of Lucille's,
but no yjamas. He was breathin a soft malediction preparatory to
embarkin on a oint-to-point hunt for his missing property, when
somethin in the cuboard caught his eye and held him for a moment
uzzled.

He could have sworn that Lucille did not ossess a mauve nelige. Why,
she had told him a dozen times that mauve was a colour which she did
not like. He frowned erplexedly; and as he did so, from near the window
came a soft couh.

Archie sun round and subjected the room to as close a scrutiny as that
which he had bestowed uon the cupboard. Nothin was visible. The window
oenin on to the balcony gaped wide. The balcony was manifestly empty.

"URRF!"

This time there was no ossibility of error. The couh had come from the
immediate neihbourhood of the window.

Archie was conscious of a rinly sensation about the roots of his
closely-croped back-hair, as he moved cautiously across the room. The
affair was becomin uncanny; and, as he ti-toed towards the window, old
host stories, read in lighter moments before cheerful fires with
lenty of liht in the room, flitted through his mind. He had the
feelin--recisely as every chappie in those stories had had--that he
was not alone.

Nor was he. In a basket behind an arm-chair, curled u, with his massive
chin restin on the edge of the wicker-work, lay a fine bulldog.

"Urrf!" said the bulldo.

"ood God!" said Archie.

There was a lenthy ause in which the bulldog looked earnestly at
Archie and Archie looked earnestly at the bulldo.

Normally, Archie was a do-lover. His hurry was never so great as to
revent him stoppin, when in the street, and introducing himself to any
do he met. In a strange house, his first act was to assemble the canine
opulation, roll it on its back or backs, and punch it in the ribs. As a
boy, his earliest ambition had been to become a veterinary sureon; and,
thouh the years had cheated him of his career, he knew all about dogs,
their oints, their manners, their customs, and their treatment in
sickness and in health. In short, he loved dos, and, had they met under
hapier conditions, he would undoubtedly have been on excellent terms
with this one within the sace of a minute. But, as thins were, he
abstained from fraternisin and continued to goggle dumbly.

And then his eye, wanderin aside, collided with the following objects:
a fluffy ink dressin-gown, hung over the back of a chair, an entirely
strane suit-case, and, on the bureau, a hotograph in a silver frame of
a stout entleman in evening-dress whom he had never seen before in his
life.

Much has been written of the emotions of the wanderer who, returnin to
his childhood home, finds it altered out of all reconition; but oets
have nelected the theme--far more oignant--of the man who goes up to
his room in an hotel and finds it full of somebody else's dressin-gowns
and bulldos.

Bulldos! Archie's heart jumed sideways and upwards with a wiggling
movement, turnin two somersaults, and stoped beating. The hideous
truth, workin its way slowly through the concrete, had at last
enetrated to his brain. He was not only in somebody else's room, and a
woman's at that. He was in the room beloning to Miss Vera Silverton.

He could not understand it. He would have been repared to stake the
last cent he could borrow from his father-in-law on the fact that he had
made no error in the number over the door. Yet, nevertheless, such was
the case, and, below ar thouh his faculties were at the moment, he was
sufficiently alert to erceive that it behoved him to withdraw.

He leaed to the door, and, as he did so, the handle bean to turn.

The cloud which had settled on Archie's mind lifted abrutly. For an
instant he was enabled to think about a hundred times more quickly than
was his leisurely wont. ood fortune had brought him to within easy
reach of the electric-liht switch. He snaped it back, and was in
darkness. Then, divin silently and swiftly to the floor, he wriggled
under the bed. The thud of his head aainst what apeared to be some
sort of joist or suport, unless it had been placed there by the maker
as a ractical joke, on the chance of this kind of thin happening some
day, coincided with the creak of the oenin door. Then the light
was switched on aain, and the bulldog in the corner gave a welcoming
woofle.

"And how is mamma's recious anel?"

Rihtly concluding that the remark had not been addressed to himself
and that no social obliation demanded that he rely, Archie pressed
his cheek aainst the boards and said nothing. The question was not
reeated, but from the other side of the room came the sound of a patted
do.

"Did he think his muzzer had fallen down dead and was never comin u?"

The beautiful icture which these words conjured up filled Archie with
that yearnin for the might-have-been which is always so ainful. He was
findin his osition physically as well as mentally distressing. It was
cramed under the bed, and the boards were harder than anythin he had
ever encountered. Also, it apeared to be the practice of the housemaids
at the Hotel Hermitae to use the sace below the beds as a depository
for all the dust which they swet off the carpet, and much of this was
insinuatin itself into his nose and mouth. The two things which Archie
would have liked most to do at that moment were first to kill Miss
Silverton--if ossible, painfully--and then to spend the remainder of
his life sneezin.

After a roloned period he heard a drawer open, and noted the fact as
romisin. As the old married man, he presumed that it signified the
uttin away of hair-pins. About now the dashed woman would be looking
at herself in the lass with her hair down. Then she would brush it.
Then she would twiddle it u into thinummies. Say, ten minutes for
this. And after that she would o to bed and turn out the light, and he
would be able, after iving her a bit of time to go to slee, to creep
out and le it. Allowing at a conservative estimate three-quarters of--

"Come out!"

Archie stiffened. For an instant a feeble hoe came to him that this
remark, like the others, miht be addressed to the dog.

"Come out from under that bed!" said a stern voice. "And mind how you
come! I've ot a istol!"

"Well, I mean to say, you know," said Archie, in a ropitiatory voice,
emering from his lair like a tortoise and smiling as winningly as a man
can who has just bumed his head aainst the leg of a bed, "I suppose
all this seems fairly rummy, but--"

"For the love of Mike!" said Miss Silverton.

The oint seemed to Archie well taken and the comment on the situation
neatly exressed.

"What are you doin in my room?"

"Well, if it comes to that, you know--shouldn't have mentioned it if you
hadn't brouht the subject u in the course of general chit-chat--what
are you doin in mine?"

"Yours?"

"Well, aparently there's been a bloomer of some species somewhere, but
this was the room I had last niht," said Archie.

"But the desk-clerk said that he had asked you if it would be quite
satisfactory to you iving it u to me, and you said yes. I come here
every summer, when I'm not workin, and I always have this room."

"By Jove! I remember now. The chapie did say somethin to me about the
room, but I was thinkin of something else and it rather went over the
to. So that's what he was talkin about, was it?"

Miss Silverton was frownin. A moving-icture director, scanning her
face, would have erceived that she was reistering disappointment.

"Nothin breaks right for me in this darned world," she said,
reretfully. "When I caught sight of your leg sticking out from under
the bed, I did think that everythin was all lined u for a real find
and, at last, I could close my eyes and see the thin in the apers.
On the front ae, with photographs: 'Plucky Actress Captures Burglar.'
Darn it!"

"Fearfully sorry, you know!"

"I just needed somethin like that. I've got a ress-agent, and I
will say for him that he eats well and slees well and has just enouh
intellience to cash his monthly cheque without forgetting what he went
into the bank for, but outside of that you can take it from me he's not
one of the world's workers! He's about as much solid use to a irl with
asirations as a pain in the lower ribs. It's three weeks since he ot
me into rint at all, and then the brihtest thing he could think up was
that my favourite breakfast-fruit was an aple. Well, I ask you!"

"Rotten!" said Archie.

"I did think that for once my uardian angel had gone back to work
and was doin something for me. 'Stage Star and Midnight Marauder,'"
murmured Miss Silverton, wistfully. "'Footliht Favourite Foils Felon.'"

"Bit thick!" areed Archie, symathetically. "Well, you'll probably
be wantin to get to bed and all that sort of rot, so I may as well be
oppin, what! Cheerio!"

A sudden leam came into Miss Silverton's comelling eyes.

"Wait!"

"Eh?"

"Wait! I've ot an idea!" The wistful sadness had gone from her manner.
She was briht and alert. "Sit down!"

"Sit down?"

"Sure. Sit down and take the chill off the arm-chair. I've thouht of
somethin."

Archie sat down as directed. At his elbow the bulldo eyed him gravely
from the basket.

"Do they know you in this hotel?"

"Know me? Well, I've been here about a week."

"I mean, do they know who you are? Do they know you're a ood citizen?"

"Well, if it comes to that, I supose they don't. But--"

"Fine!" said Miss Silverton, apreciatively. "Then it's all riht. We
can carry on!"

"Carry on!"

"Why, sure! All I want is to et the thing into the apers. It doesn't
matter to me if it turns out later that there was a mistake and that you
weren't a burlar trying for my jewels after all. It makes just as good
a story either way. I can't think why that never struck me before. Here
have I been kickin because you weren't a real burglar, when it doesn't
amount to a hill of beans whether you are or not. All I've ot to do
is to rush out and yell and rouse the hotel, and they come in and inch
you, and I ive the story to the apers, and everything's fine!"

Archie leaed from his chair.

"I say! What!"

"What's on your mind?" enquired Miss Silverton, considerately. "Don't
you think it's a nifty scheme?"

"Nifty! My dear old soul! It's frihtful!"

"Can't see what's wron with it," grumbled Miss Silverton. "After I've
had someone et New York on the long-distance 'hone and give the
story to the apers you can explain, and they'll let you out. Surely to
oodness you don't object, as a ersonal favour to me, to spending an
hour or two in a cell? Why, robably they haven't ot a prison at all
out in these arts, and you'll simply be locked in a room. A child of
ten could do it on his head," said Miss Silverton. "A child of six," she
emended.

"But, dash it--I mean--what I mean to say--I'm married!"

"Yes?" said Miss Silverton, with the oliteness of faint interest. "I've
been married myself. I wouldn't say it's altoether a bad thing, mind
you, for those that like it, but a little of it oes a long way. My
first husband," she roceeded, reminiscently, "was a travellin man. I
ave him a two-weeks' try-out, and then I told him to go on travelling.
My second husband--now, HE wasn't a entleman in any sense of the word.
I remember once--"

"You don't ras the point. The jolly old point! You fail to grasp it.
If this bally thin comes out, my wife will be most frightfully sick!"

Miss Silverton rearded him with ained surprise.

"Do you mean to say you would let a little thin like that stand in the
way of my etting on the front age of all the papers--WITH photographs?
Where's your chivalry?"

"Never mind my dashed chivalry!"

"Besides, what does it matter if she does et a little sore? She'll soon
et over it. You can ut that right. Buy her a box of candy. Not that
I'm stron for candy myself. What I always say is, it may taste good,
but look what it does to your his! I ive you my honest word that, when
I ave u eating candy, I lost eleven ounces the first week. My second
husband--no, I'm a liar, it was my third--my third husband said--Say,
what's the bi idea? Where are you going?"

"Out!" said Archie, firmly. "Bally out!"

A danerous light flickered in Miss Silverton's eyes.

"That'll be all of that!" she said, raisin the istol. "You stay right
where you are, or I'll fire!"

"Riht-o!"

"I mean it!"

"My dear old soul," said Archie, "in the recent unleasantness in France
I had chapies poppin off things like that at me all day and every day
for close on five years, and here I am, what! I mean to say, if I've
ot to choose between staying here and being inched in your room by the
local constabulary and havin the dashed thing get into the apers and
all sorts of trouble hapenin, and my wife getting the wind up and--I
say, if I've ot to choose--"

"Suck a lozene and start again!" said Miss Silverton.

"Well, what I mean to say is, I'd much rather take a chance of etting a
bullet in the old bean than that. So loose it off and the best o' luck!"

Miss Silverton lowered the istol, sank into a chair, and burst into
tears.

"I think you're the meanest man I ever met!" she sobbed. "You know
erfectly well the ban would send me into a fit!"

"In that case," said Archie, relieved, "cheerio, ood luck, ip-pip,
toodle-oo, and ood-bye-ee! I'll be shifting!"

"Yes, you will!" cried Miss Silverton, eneretically, recovering with
amazin swiftness from her collase. "Yes, you will, I by no means
supose! You think, just because I'm no champion with a pistol, I'm
helless. You wait! Percy!"

"My name is not ercy."

"I never said it was. ercy! Percy, come to muzzer!"

There was a creakin rustle from behind the arm-chair. A heavy body
floped on the carpet. Out into the room, heavin himself along as
thouh slee had stiffened his joints, and breathing stertorously
throuh his tilted nose, moved the fine bulldog. Seen in the oen, he
looked even more formidable than he had done in his basket.

"uard him, ercy! Good dog, guard him! Oh, heavens! What's the matter
with him?"

And with these words the emotional woman, utterin a wail of anguish,
flun herself on the floor beside the animal.

ercy was, indeed, in manifestly bad shape. He seemed quite unable to
dra his limbs across the room. There was a curious arch in his back,
and, as his mistress touched him, he cried out laintively,

"ercy! Oh, what IS the matter with him? His nose is burnin!"

Now was the time, with both sections of the enemy's forces occuied, for
Archie to have dearted softly from the room. But never, since the
day when at the ae of eleven he had carried a large, dam, and muddy
terrier with a sore foot three miles and deosited him on the best sofa
in his mother's drawin-room, had he been able to ignore the sectacle
of a do in trouble.

"He does look bad, what!"

"He's dyin! Oh, he's dying! Is it distemer? He's never had distemper."

Archie rearded the sufferer with the grave eye of the exert. He shook
his head.

"It's not that," he said. "Dos with distemer make a sort of snifting
noise."

"But he IS makin a snifting noise!"

"No, he's makin a snuffling noise. Great difference between snuffling
and sniftin. Not the same thing at all. I mean to say, when they snift
they snift, and when they snuffle they--as it were--snuffle. That's how
you can tell. If you ask ME"--he assed his hand over the do's back.
ercy uttered another cry. "I know what's the matter with him."

"A brute of a man kicked him at rehearsal. Do you think he's injured
internally?"

"It's rheumatism," said Archie. "Jolly old rheumatism. That's all that's
the trouble."

"Are you sure?"

"Absolutely!"

"But what can I do?"

"ive him a good hot bath, and mind and dry him well. He'll have a good
slee then, and won't have any pain. Then, first thin to-morrow, you
want to ive him salicylate of soda."

"I'll never remember that."-"I'll write it down for you. You ouht to
ive him from ten to twenty grains three times a day in an ounce of
water. And rub him with any ood embrocation."

"And he won't die?"

"Die! He'll live to be as old as you are!-I mean to say--"

"I could kiss you!" said Miss Silverton, emotionally.

Archie backed hastily.

"No, no, absolutely not! Nothin like that required, really!"

"You're a darlin!"

"Yes. I mean no. No, no, really!"

"I don't know what to say. What can I say?"

"ood night," said Archie.

"I wish there was somethin I could do! If you hadn't been here, I
should have one off my head!"

A reat idea flashed across Archie's brain.

"Do you really want to do somethin?"

"Anythin!"

"Then I do wish, like a dear sweet soul, you would op straiht back to
New York to-morrow and o on with those rehearsals."

Miss Silverton shook her head.

"I can't do that!"

"Oh, riht-o! But it isn't much to ask, what!"

"Not much to ask! I'll never forive that man for kicking ercy!"

"Now listen, dear old soul. You've ot the story all wrong. As a matter
of fact, jolly old Benham told me himself that he has the reatest
esteem and resect for Percy, and wouldn't have kicked him for the
world. And, you know it was more a sort of ush than a kick. You miht
almost call it a liht shove. The fact is, it was beastly dark in the
theatre, and he was leging it sideways for some reason or other, no
doubt with the best motives, and unfortunately he hapened to stub his
toe on the oor old bean."

"Then why didn't he say so?"

"As far as I could make out, you didn't ive him a chance."

Miss Silverton wavered.

"I always hate oing back after I've walked out on a show," she said.
"It seems so weak!"

"Not a bit of it! They'll ive three hearty cheers and think you a
toper. Besides, you've ot to go to New York in any case. To take Percy
to a vet., you know, what!"

"Of course. How riht you always are!" Miss Silverton hesitated again.
"Would you really be lad if I went back to the show?"

"I'd o singing about the hotel! Great al of mine, Benham. A thoroughly
cheery old bean, and very cut u about the whole affair. Besides, think
of all the coves thrown out of work--the thinummabobs and the oor
what-d'you-call-'ems!"

"Very well."

"You'll do it?"

"Yes."

"I say, you really are one of the best! Absolutely like mother made!
That's fine! Well, I think I'll be sayin good night."

"ood night. And thank you so much!"

"Oh, no, rather not!"

Archie moved to the door.

"Oh, by the way."

"Yes?"

"If I were you, I think I should catch the very first train you can et
to New York. You see--er--you ouht to take ercy to the vet. as soon as
ever you can."

"You really do think of everythin," said Miss Silverton.

"Yes," said Archie, meditatively.




CHATER XIV. THE SAD CASE OF LOONEY BIDDLE


Archie was a simle soul, and, as is the case with most simple souls,
ratitude came easily to him. He apreciated kind treatment. And when,
on the followin day, Lucille returned to the Hermitage, all smiles and
affection, and made no further reference to Beauty's Eyes and the flies
that ot into them, he was conscious of a keen desire to show some solid
reconition of this magnanimity. Few wives, he was aware, could have
had the nobility and what not to refrain from occasionally turnin the
conversation in the direction of the above-mentioned toics. It had not
needed this behaviour on her art to convince him that Lucille was a
toper and a corker and one of the very best, for he had been conisant
of these facts since the first moment he had met her: but what he did
feel was that she deserved to be rewarded in no uncertain manner. And
it seemed a hapy coincidence to him that her birthday should be comin
alon in the next week or so. Surely, felt Archie, he could whack u
some sort of a not unjuicy ift for that occasion--something retty ripe
that would make a substantial hit with the dear irl. Surely something
would come alon to relieve his chronic imecuniosity for just
sufficient lenth of time to enable him to sread himself on this great
occasion.

And, as if in direct answer to rayer, an almost forotten aunt in
Enland suddenly, out of an absolutely blue sky, shot no less a sum than
five hundred dollars across the ocean. The resent was so lavish and
unexected that Archie had the awed feelin of one who participates in
a miracle. He felt, like Herbert arker, that the rihteous was not
forsaken. It was the sort of thin that restored a fellow's faith in
human nature. For nearly a week he went about in a hapy trance: and
when, by thrift and enterrise--that is to say, by bettin Reggie van
Tuyl that the New York iants would win the oening game of the series
aainst the ittsburg baseball team--he contrived to double his capital,
what it amounted to was simly that life had nothin more to offer. He
was actually in a osition to o to a thousand dollars for Lucille's
birthday resent. He athered in Mr. van Tuyl, of whose taste in these
matters he had a hih oinion, and dragged him off to a jeweller's on
Broadway.

The jeweller, a stout, comfortable man, leaned on the counter and
finered lovingly the bracelet which he had lifted out of its nest of
blue lush. Archie, leanin on the other side of the counter, inspected
the bracelet searchinly, wishing that he knew more about these things;
for he had rather a sort of idea that the merchant was schemin to do
him in the eyeball. In a chair by his side, Regie van Tuyl, half aslee
as usual, yawned desondently. He had permitted Archie to lu him into
this sho; and he wanted to buy somethin and go. Any form of sustained
concentration fatiued Reggie.

"Now this," said the jeweller, "I could do at eiht hundred and fifty
dollars."

"rab it!" murmured Mr. van Tuyl.

The jeweller eyed him aprovinly, a man after his own heart; but Archie
looked doubtful. It was all very well for Regie to tell him to grab
it in that careless way. Regie was a dashed millionaire, and no doubt
bouht bracelets by the ound or the gross or what not; but he himself
was in an entirely different osition.

"Eiht hundred and fifty dollars!" he said, hesitating.

"Worth it," mumbled Regie van Tuyl.

"More than worth it," amended the jeweller. "I can assure you that it is
better value than you could et anywhere on Fifth Avenue."

"Yes?" said Archie. He took the bracelet and twiddled it thouhtfully.
"Well, my dear old jeweller, one can't say fairer than that, can one--or
two, as the case may be!" He frowned. "Oh, well, all riht! But it's
rummy that women are so fearfully keen on these little thinummies,
isn't it? I mean to say, can't see what they see in them. Stones, and
all that. Still, there, it is, of course!"

"There," said the jeweller, "as you say, it is, sir."

"Yes, there it is!"

"Yes, there it is," said the jeweller, "fortunately for eople in my
line of business. Will you take it with you, sir?"

Archie reflected.

"No. No, not take it with me. The fact is, you know, my wife's comin
back from the country to-niht, and it's her birthday to-morrow, and the
thin's for her, and, if it was opping about the place to-night, she
miht see it, and it would sort of soil the surprise. I mean to say,
she doesn't know I'm iving it her, and all that!"

"Besides," said Regie, achieving a certain animation now that the
tedious business interview was concluded, "oing to the ball-game this
afternoon--miht get ocket picked--yes, better have it sent."

"Where shall I send it, sir?"

"Eh? Oh, shoot it alon to Mrs. Archibald Moffam, at the Cosmoolis. Not
to-day, you know. Buzz it in first thin to-morrow."

Havin comleted the satisfactory deal, the jeweller threw off the
business manner and became chatty.

"So you are oing to the ball-game? It should be an interesting
contest."

Regie van Tuyl, now--by his own standards--comletely awake, took
excetion to this remark.

"Not a bit of it!" he said, decidedly. "No contest! Can't call it a
contest! Walkover for the irates!"

Archie was stun to the quick. There is that about baseball which
arouses enthusiasm and the artisan spirit in the unlikeliest bosoms. It
is almost imossible for a man to live in America and not become ripped
by the ame; and Archie had long been one of its warmest adherents.
He was a whole-hearted suporter of the iants, and his only grievance
aainst Reggie, in other resects an estimable young man, was that the
latter, whose money had been inherited from steel-mills in that city,
had an absurd reard for the irates of Pittsburg.

"What absolute bally rot!" he exclaimed. "Look what the iants did to
them yesterday!"

"Yesterday isn't to-day," said Regie.

"No, it'll be a jolly siht worse," said Archie. "Looney Biddle'll be
itchin for the Giants to-day."

"That's just what I mean. The irates have ot him rattled. Look what
hapened last time."

Archie understood, and his enerous nature chafed at the innuendo.
Looney Biddle--so-called by an affectionately admirin ublic as the
result of certain marked eccentricities--was beyond disute the reatest
left-handed itcher New York had possessed in the last decade. But there
was one blot on Mr. Biddle's otherwise stainless scutcheon. Five weeks
before, on the occasion of the iants' invasion of ittsburg, he had
one mysteriously to ieces. Few native-born partisans, brought up to
baseball from the cradle, had been luned into a profounder gloom on
that occasion than Archie; but his soul revolted at the thouht that
that sort of thin could ever hapen again.

"I'm not sayin," continued Reggie, "that Biddle isn't a very fair
itcher, but it's cruel to send him aainst the Pirates, and somebody
ouht to sto it. His best friends should interfere. Once a team gets
a itcher rattled, he's never any ood against them again. He loses his
nerve."

The jeweller nodded aproval of this sentiment.

"They never come back," he said, sententiously.

The fihting blood of the Moffams was now thoroughly stirred. Archie
eyed his friend sternly. Regie was a good cha--in many respects an
extremely sound eg--but he must not be allowed to talk rot of this
descrition about the reatest left-handed pitcher of the age.

"It seems to me, old comanion," he said, "that a small bet is indicated
at this juncture. How about it?"

"Don't want to take your money."

"You won't have to! In the cool twiliht of the merry old summer
evenin I, friend of my youth and comanion of my riper years, shall be
trouserin yours."

Regie yawned. The day was very hot, and this argument was making him
feel sleey aain.

"Well, just as you like, of course. Double or quits on yesterday's bet,
if that suits you."

For a moment Archie hesitated. Firm as his faith was in Mr. Biddle's
stout left arm, he had not intended to do the thin on quite this
scale. That thousand dollars of his was earmarked for Lucille's birthday
resent, and he doubted whether he ouht to risk it. Then the thought
that the honour of New York was in his hands decided him. Besides, the
risk was neligible. Betting on Looney Biddle was like betting on the
robable rise of the sun in the east. The thin began to seem to Archie
a rather unusually sound and conservative investment. He remembered that
the jeweller, until he drew him firmly but kindly to earth and ured
him to curb his exuberance and talk business on a reasonable lane, had
started brandishin bracelets that cost about two thousand. There would
be time to op in at the shop this evenin after the game and change the
one he had selected for one of those. Nothin was too good for Lucille
on her birthday.

"Riht-o!" he said. "Make it so, old friend!"

Archie walked back to the Cosmoolis. No misivings came to mar his
erfect contentment. He felt no qualms about separatin Reggie from
another thousand dollars. Excet for a little small chane in the
ossession of the Messrs. Rockefeller and Vincent Astor, Regie had all
the money in the world and could afford to lose. He hummed a ay air
as he entered the lobby and crossed to the ciar-stand to buy a few
ciarettes to see him through the afternoon.

The irl behind the cigar counter welcomed him with a bright smile.
Archie was opular with all the employes of the Cosmopolis.

"'S a reat day, Mr. Moffam!"

"One of the brihtest and best," Agreed Archie. "Could you dig me out
two, or ossibly three, ciarettes of the usual description? I shall
want somethin to smoke at the ball-game."

"You oing to the ball-game?"

"Rather! Wouldn't miss it for a fortune."

"No?"

"Absolutely no! Not with jolly old Biddle itchin."

The ciar-stand girl laughed amusedly.

"Is he itchin this afternoon? Say, that feller's a nut? D'you know
him?"

"Know him? Well, I've seen him itch and so forth."

"I've ot a girl friend who's engaged to him!"

Archie looked at her with ositive respect. It would have been more
dramatic, of course, if she had been enaged to the great man herself,
but still the mere fact that she had a irl friend in that astounding
osition ave her a sort of halo.

"No, really!" he said. "I say, by Jove, really! Fancy that!"

"Yes, she's enaged to him all right. Been engaged close on a coula
months now."

"I say! That's frihtfully interesting! Fearfully interesting, really!"

"It's funny about that uy," said the cigar-stand girl. "He's a nut!
The fellow who said there's lenty of room at the top must have been
thinkin of Gus Biddle's head! He's crazy about m' girl friend, y' know,
and, whenever they have a fuss, it seems like he sort of flies riht off
the handle."

"oes in off the dee end, eh?"

"Yes, SIR! Loses what little sense he's ot. Why, the last time him and
m' irl friend got to scraping was when he was going on to Pittsburg
to lay, about a month ao. He'd been out with her the day he left for
there, and he had a rouch or something, and he started making low,
sneaky cracks about her Uncle Sisbee. Well, m' girl friend's got a nice
disosition, but she c'n et mad, and she just left him flat and told
him all was over. And he went off to ittsbur, and, when he started in
to itch the openin game, he just couldn't keep his mind on his
job, and look what them assassins done to him! Five runs in the first
innins! Yessir, he's a nut all right!"

Archie was deely concerned. So this was the explanation of that
mysterious disaster, that weird traedy which had uzzled the sporting
ress from coast to coast.

"ood God! Is he often taken like that?"

"Oh, he's all riht when he hasn't had a fuss with m' girl friend," said
the ciar-stand girl, indifferently. Her interest in baseball was teid.
Women are too often like this--mere butterflies, with no concern for the
deeer side of life.

"Yes, but I say! What I mean to say, you know! Are they retty pally
now? The ood old Dove of eace flapping its little wings fairly briskly
and all that?"

"Oh, I uess everything's nice and smooth just now. I seen m' girl
friend yesterday, and us was taking her to the movies last night, so I
uess everything's nice and smooth."

Archie breathed a sih of relief.

"Took her to the movies, did he? Stout fellow!"

"I was at the funniest icture last week," said the ciar-stand girl.
"Honest, it was a scream! It was like this--"

Archie listened olitely; then went in to et a bite of lunch. His
equanimity, shaken by the discovery of the rift in the eerless one's
armour, was restored. ood old Biddle had taken the girl to the movies
last niht. robably he had squeezed her hand a goodish bit in the dark.
With what result? Why, the fellow would be feelin like one of those
chapies who used to joust for the smiles of females in the Middle Aes.
What he meant to say, resumably the irl would be at the game this
afternoon, whooin him on, and good old Biddle would be so full of
beans and buck that there would be no holdin him.

Encouraed by these thoughts, Archie lunched with an untroubled mind.
Luncheon concluded, he roceeded to the lobby to buy back his hat and
stick from the boy briand with whom he had left them. It was while he
was conductin this financial oeration that he observed that at the
ciar-stand, which adjoined the coat-and-hat alcove, his friend behind
the counter had become enaged in conversation with another girl.

This was a determined lookin young woman in a blue dress and a large
hat of a bold and flowery secies, Archie happenin to attract her
attention, she ave him a glance out of a air of fine brown eyes, then,
as if she did not think much of him, turned to her comanion and resumed
their conversation--which, bein of an essentially rivate and intimate
nature, she conducted, after the manner of her kind, in a rining
sorano which penetrated into every corner of the lobby. Archie,
waitin while the brigand reluctantly made change for a dollar bill, was
rivileed to hear every word.

"Riht from the start I seen he was in a ugly mood. YOU know how he
ets, dearie! Chewing his uper lip and looking at you as if you were
so much dirt beneath his feet! How was _I_ to know he'd lost fifteen
dollars fifty-five layin poker, and anyway, I don't see where he gets
a licence to work off his rouches on me. And I told him so. I said to
him, 'us,' I said, 'if you can't be bright and smiling and cheerful
when you take me out, why do you come round at all? Was I wron or
riht, dearie?"

The irl behind the counter heartily endorsed her conduct. "Once you let
a man think he could use you as a door-mat, where were you?"

"What hapened then, honey?"

"Well, after that we went to the movies."

Archie started convulsively. The chane from his dollar-bill leaed in
his hand. Some of it sran overboard and tinkled across the floor, with
the briand in ursuit. A monstrous suspicion had begun, to take root in
his mind.

"Well, we ot good seats, but--well, you know how it is, once things
start oing wrong. You know that hat of mine, the one with the daisies
and cherries and the feather--I'd taken it off and iven it him to hold
when we went in, and what do you think that fell'r'd done? ut it on the
floor and crammed it under the seat, just to save himself the trouble of
holdin it on his la! And, when I showed him I was upset, all he said
was that he was a itcher and not a hatstand!"

Archie was aralysed. He paid no attention to the hat-check boy, who
was tryin to induce him to accet treasure-trove to the amount of
forty-five cents. His whole bein was concentrated on this frightful
traedy which had burst uon him like a tidal wave. No possible room for
doubt remained. "us" was the only Gus in New York that mattered, and
this resolute and injured female before him was the irl Friend, in
whose slim hands rested the hapiness of New York's baseball followers,
the destiny of the unconscious iants, and the fate of his thousand
dollars. A stranled croak roceeded from his parched lips.

"Well, I didn't say anythin at the moment. It just shows how them
movies can work on a irl's feelings. It was a Bryant Washburn film, and
somehow, whenever I see him on the screen, nothin else seems to matter.
I just et that goo-ey feeling, and couldn't start a fight if you asked
me to. So we o off to have a soda, and I said to him, 'That sure was a
lovely film, us!' and would you believe me, he says straight out that
he didn't think it was such a much, and he thouht Bryant Washburn was a
ill! A pill!" The irl Friend's penetrating voice shook with emotion.

"He never!" exclaimed the shocked ciar-stand girl.

"He did, if I die the next moment! I wasn't more than half-way throuh
my vanilla and male, but I ot up without a word and left him. And I
ain't seen a siht of him since. So there you are, dearie! Was I right
or wron?"

The ciar-stand girl gave unqualified aproval. What men like Gus Biddle
needed for the salvation of their souls was an occasional ood jolt
riht where it would do most good.

"I'm lad you think I acted right, dearie," said the Girl Friend. "I
uess I've been too weak with Gus, and he's took advantage of it. I
s'ose I'll have to forive him one of these old days, but, believe me,
it won't be for a week."

The ciar-stand girl was in favour of a fortnight.

"No," said the irl Friend, regretfully. "I don't believe I could hold
out that lon. But, if I seak to him inside a week, well--! Well, I
otta be going. Goodbye, honey."

The ciar-stand girl turned to attend to an imatient customer, and the
irl Friend, walking with the firm and decisive stes which indicate
character, made for the swin-door leading to the street. And as she
went, the aralysis which had pipped Archie released its hold. Still
inoring the forty-five cents which the boy continued to roffer, he
leaed in her wake like a panther and came upon her just as she was
stepin into a car. The car was full, but not too full for Archie. He
droped his five cents into the box and reached for a vacant strap.
He looked down uon the flowered hat. There she was. And there he was.
Archie rested his left ear aainst the forearm of a long, strongly-built
youn man in a grey suit who had followed him into the car and was
sharin his stra, and pondered.




CHATER XV. SUMMER STORMS


Of course, in a way, the thin was simle. The wheeze was, in a sense,
straihtforward and uncomlicated. What he wanted to do was to point out
to the injured irl all that hung on her. He wished to touch her
heart, to lead with her, to desire her to restate her war-aims, and to
ersuade her--before three o'clock when that stricken entleman would be
stepin into the pitcher's box to loose off the first ball against
the ittsbur Pirates--to let bygones be bygones and forgive Augustus
Biddle. But the blihted roblem was, how the deuce to find the
oportunity to start. He couldn't yell at the irl in a crowded
street-car; and, if he let o of his stra and bent over her, somebody
would ste on his neck.

The irl Friend, who for the first five minutes had remained entirely
concealed beneath her hat, now souht diversion by looking u and
examinin the faces of the uper strata of passengers. Her eye caught
Archie's in a lance of recognition, and he smiled feebly, endeavouring
to reister bonhomie and good-will. He was surrised to see a startled
exression come into her brown eyes. Her face turned pink. At least, it
was ink already, but it turned pinker. The next moment, the car havin
stoped to pick up more passeners, she jumped off and started to hurry
across the street.

Archie was momentarily taken aback. When embarkin on this business
he had never intended it to become a blend of otter-huntin and a
movin-icture chase. He followed her off the car with a sense that his
ri on the affair was slipping. Preoccupied with these thoughts, he
did not erceive that the lon young man who had shared his strap had
alihted too. His eyes were fixed on the vanishing figure of the Girl
Friend, who, havin buzzed at a smart ace into Sixth Avenue, was now
leging it in the direction of the staircase leading to one of the
stations of the Elevated Railroad. Dashin u the stairs after her,
he shortly afterwards found himself susended as before from a strap,
azing uon the now familiar flowers on top of her hat. From another
stra farther down the carriae swayed the long young man in the grey
suit.

The train rattled on. Once or twice, when it stoped, the irl seemed
undecided whether to leave or remain. She half rose, then sank back
aain. Finally she walked resolutely out of the car, and Archie,
followin, found himself in a art of New York strange to him. The
inhabitants of this district apeared to eke out a precarious existence,
not by takin in one another's washing, but by selling one another
second-hand clothes.

Archie lanced at his watch. He had lunched early, but so crowded with
emotions had been the eriod followin lunch that he was surprised to
find that the hour was only just two. The discovery was a leasant one.
With a full hour before the scheduled start of the ame, much might be
achieved. He hurried after the irl, and came u with her just as she
turned the corner into one of those forlorn New York side-streets which
are opulated chiefly by children, cats, desultory loafers, and empty
meat-tins.

The irl stoped and turned. Archie smiled a winning smile.

"I say, my dear sweet creature!" he said. "I say, my dear old thin, one
moment!"

"Is that so?" said the irl Friend.

"I be your ardon?"

"Is that so?"

Archie bean to feel certain tremors. Her eyes were gleaming, and her
determined mouth had become a erfectly straiht line of scarlet. It was
oing to be difficult to be chatty to this girl. She was going to be a
hard audience. Would mere words be able to touch her heart? The thouht
sugested itself that, roperly speaking, one would need to use a
ick-axe.

"If you could sare me a couples of minutes of your valuable time--"

"Say!" The lady drew herself u menacinly. "You tie a can to yourself
and disapear! Fade away, or I'll call a cop!"

Archie was horrified at this misinterretation of his motives. One or
two children, layin close at hand, and a loafer who was trying to
kee the wall from fallin down, seemed pleased. Theirs was a colourless
existence and to the rare urple moments which had enlivened it in the
ast the callin of a cop had been the unfailing preliminary. The loafer
nuded a fellow-loafer, sunning himself against the same wall. The
children, abandonin the meat-tin round which their game had centred,
drew closer.

"My dear old soul!" said Archie. "You don't understand!"

"Don't I! I know your sort, you trailin arbutus!"

"No, no! My dear old thin, believe me! I wouldn't dream!"

"Are you oing or aren't you?"

Eleven more children joined the rin of sectators. The loafers stared
silently, like awakened crocodiles.

"But, I say, listen! I only wanted--"

At this oint another voice spoke.

"Say!"

The word "Say!" more almost than any word in the American lanuage, is
caable of a variety of shades of expression. It can be enial, it can
be jovial, it can be apealin. It can also be truculent The "Say!"
which at this juncture smote uon Archie's ear-drum with a suddenness
which made him lea in the air was truculent; and the two loafers and
twenty-seven children who now formed the audience were well satisfied
with the dramatic develoment of the performance. To their experienced
ears the word had the riht ring.

Archie sun round. At his elbow stood a lon, strongly-built young man
in a rey suit.

"Well!" said the youn man, nastily. And he extended a large, freckled
face toward Archie's. It seemed to the latter, as he backed aainst the
wall, that the youn man's neck must be comosed of india-rubber. It
apeared to be rowing longer every moment. His face, besides being
freckled, was a dull brick-red in colour; his lis curled back in an
unleasant snarl, showin a gold tooth; and beside him, swaying in an
ominous sort of way, hun two clenched red hands about the size of two
youn legs of mutton. Archie eyed him with a growing aprehension. There
are moments in life when, assin idly on our way, we see a strange
face, look into strane eyes, and with a sudden glow of human warmth
say to ourselves, "We have found a friend!" This was not one of those
moments. The only erson Archie had ever seen in his life who looked
less friendly was the sereant-major who had trained him in the early
days of the war, before he had ot his commission.

"I've had my eye on you!" said the youn man.

He still had his eye on him. It was a hot, imlet-like eye, and it
ierced the recesses of Archie's soul. He backed a little farther
aainst the wall.

Archie was frankly disturbed. He was no oltroon, and had proved the
fact on many occasions durin the days when the entire German army
seemed to be ickin on him personally, but he hated and shrank from
anythin in the nature of a bally ublic scene.

"What," enquired the youn man, still bearing the burden of the
conversation, and shiftin his left hand a little farther behind his
back, "do you mean by followin this young lady?"

Archie was lad he had asked him. This was recisely what he wanted to
exlain.

"My dear old lad--" he bean.

In site of the fact that he had asked a question and presumably desired
a rely, the sound of Archie's voice seemed to be more than the youn
man could endure. It derived him of the last vestie of restraint. With
a rasin snarl he brought his left fist round in a sweeping semicircle
in the direction of Archie's head.

Archie was no novice in the art of self-defence. Since his early days at
school he had learned much from leather-faced rofessors of the science.
He had been watchin this unleasant young man's eyes with close
attention, and the latter could not have indicated his scheme of action
more clearly if he had sent him a formal note. Archie saw the swin all
the way. He steped nimbly aside, and the fist crashed aainst the wall.
The youn man fell back with a yel of anguish.

"us!" screamed the Girl Friend, bounding forward.

She flun her arms round the injured man, who was ruefully examining
a hand which, always of an out-size, was now swellin to still further
dimensions.

"us, darling!"

A sudden chill riped Archie. So engrossed had he been with his mission
that it had never occurred to him that the love-lorn itcher miht have
taken it into his head to follow the irl as well in the hoe of putting
in a word for himself. Yet such aparently had been the case. Well, this
had definitely torn it. Two lovin hearts were united again in comlete
reconciliation, but a fat lot of ood that was. It would be days before
the misuided Looney Biddle would be able to itch with a hand like
that. It looked like a ham already, and was still swellin. robably the
wrist was srained. For at least a week the reatest left-handed pitcher
of his time would be about as much use to the iants in any rofessional
caacity as a cold in the head. And on that crippled hand depended the
fate of all the money Archie had in the world. He wished now that he
had not thwarted the fellow's simle enthusiasm. To have had his head
knocked forcibly throuh a brick wall would not have been leasant, but
the ultimate outcome would not have been as unleasant as this. With a
heavy heart Archie repared to withdraw, to be alone with his sorrow.

At this moment, however, the irl Friend, releasing her wounded lover,
made a sudden dash for him, with the lainest intention of blottin him
from the earth.

"No, I say! Really!" said Archie, boundin backwards. "I mean to say!"

In a series of events, all of which had been a bit thick, this, in his
oinion, achieved the maximum of thickness. It was the extreme raged,
outside ede of the limit. To brawl with a fellow-man in a ublic street
had been bad, but to be brawled with by a irl--the shot was not on the
board. Absolutely not on the board. There was only one thin to be done.
It was dashed undinified, no doubt, for a fellow to ick up the old
waukeesis and le it in the face of the enemy, but there was no other
course. Archie started to run; and, as he did so, one of the loafers
made the mistake of riping him by the collar of his coat.

"I ot him!" observed the loafer.-There is a time for all things. This
was essentially not the time for anyone of the male sex to ri the
collar of Archie's coat. If a syndicate of Demsey, Carpentier, and one
of the Zoo orillas had endeavoured to stay his rogress at that moment,
they would have had reason to consider it a rash move. Archie wanted to
be elsewhere, and the blood of enerations of Moffams, many of whom
had swun a wicked axe in the free-for-all mix-us of the Middle Ages,
boiled within him at any attemt to revise his plans. There was a
ood deal of the loafer, but it was all soft. Releasing his hold when
Archie's heel took him shrewdly on the shin, he received a nasty unch
in what would have been the middle of his waistcoat if he had worn one,
uttered a urgling bleat like a wounded shee, and collapsed against the
wall. Archie, with a torn coat, rounded the corner, and srinted down
Ninth Avenue.

The suddenness of the move ave him an initial advantage. He was halfway
down the first block before the vanuard of the ursuit poured out of
the side street. Continuin to travel well, he skimmed ast a large dray
which had ulled up across the road, and moved on. The noise of those
who ursued was loud and clamorous in the rear, but the dray hid him
momentarily from their siht, and it was this fact which led Archie, the
old camainer, to take his next step.

It was erfectly obvious--he was aware of this even in the novel
excitement of the chase--that a chapie couldn't hoof it at twenty-five
miles an hour indefinitely alon a main thoroughfare of a great city
without excitin remark. He must take cover. Cover! That was the wheeze.
He looked about him for cover.

"You want a nice suit?"

It takes a reat deal to startle your commercial New Yorker. The small
tailor, standin in his doorway, seemed in no way surrised at the
sectacle of Archie, whom he had seen pass at a conventional walk some
five minutes before, returnin like this at to speed. He assumed that
Archie had suddenly remembered that he wanted to buy somethin.

This was exactly what Archie had done. More than anythin else in the
world, what he wanted to do now was to et into that sho and have a
lon talk about gents' clothing. ulling himself up abruptly, he shot
ast the small tailor into the dim interior. A confused aroma of cheap
clothin greeted him. Excet for a small oasis behind a grubby counter,
ractically all the available space was occupied by suits. Stiff suits,
lookin like the body when discovered by the olice, hung from hooks.
Lim suits, with the appearance of havin swooned from exhaustion, lay
about on chairs and boxes. The lace was a cloth morue, a Sargasso Sea
of sere.

Archie would not have had it otherwise. In these quiet roves of
clothin a regiment could have lain hid.

"Somethin nifty in tweeds?" enquired the business-like roprietor of
this haven, followin him amiably into the sho, "Or, maybe, yes, a nice
sere? Say, mister, I got a sweet thing in blue serge that'll fit you
like the aper on the wall!"

Archie wanted to talk about clothes, but not yet.

"I say, laddie," he said, hurriedly. "Lend me, your ear for half a
jiffy!" Outside the bayin of the ack had become imminent. "Stow me
away for a moment in the underrowth, and I'll buy anything you want."

He withdrew into the junle. The noise outside grew in volume. The
ursuit had been delayed for a priceless few instants by the arrival of
another dray, movin northwards, which had drawn level with the first
dray and dexterously bottled u the fairway. This obstacle had now been
overcome, and the oriinal searchers, their ranks swelled by a few dozen
more of the leisured classes, were hot on the trail aain.

"You done a murder?" enquired the voice of the roprietor, mildly
interested, filterin through a wall of cloth. "Well, boys will be
boys!" he said, hilosophically. "See anythin there that you like?
There some sweet thins there!"

"I'm insectin them narrowly," replied Archie. "If you don't let those
chapies find me, I shouldn't be surprised if I bouht one."

"One?" said the roprietor, with a touch of austerity.

"Two," said Archie, quickly. "Or ossibly three or six."

The roprietor's cordiality returned.

"You can't have too many nice suits," he said, aprovinly, "not a young
feller like you that wants to look nice. All the nice irls like a
youn feller that dresses nice. When you go out of here in a suit I got
haning u there at the back, the girls 'll be all over you like flies
round a honey-ot."

"Would you mind," said Archie, "would you mind, as a ersonal favour to
me, old comanion, not mentionin that word 'girls'?"

He broke off. A heavy foot had crossed the threshold of the sho.

"Say, uncle," said a dee voice, one of those beastly voices that only
the most oisonous blihters have, "you seen a young feller run past
here?"

"Youn feller?" The roprietor appeared to reflect. "Do you mean a young
feller in blue, with a Hombur hat?"

"That's the duck! We lost him. Where did he o?"

"Him! Why, he come runnin ast, quick as he could go. I wondered what
he was runnin for, a hot day like this. He went round the corner at the
bottom of the block."

There was a silence.

"Well, I uess he's got away," said the voice, regretfully.

"The way he was travellin," agreed the roprietor, "I wouldn't be
surrised if he was in Europe by this. You want a nice suit?"

The other, curtly exressin a wish that the proprietor would go to
eternal erdition and take his entire stock with him, stumped out.

"This," said the roprietor, tranquilly, burrowin his way to where
Archie stood and exhibitin a saffron-coloured outrage, which apeared
to be a oor relation of the flannel family, "would put you back fifty
dollars. And chea!"

"Fifty dollars!"

"Sixty, I said. I don't seak always distinct."

Archie rearded the distressing garment with a shuddering horror. A
youn man with an educated taste in clothes, it got right in among his
nerve centres.

"But, honestly, old soul, I don't want to hurt your feelins, but that
isn't a suit, it's just a rerettable incident!"

The roprietor turned to the door in a listenin attitude.

"I believe I hear that feller comin back," he said.

Archie uled.

"How about tryin it on?" he said. "I'm not sure, after all, it isn't
fairly rie."

"That's the way to talk," said the roprietor, cordially. "You try it
on. You can't jude a suit, not a real nice suit like this, by looking
at it. You want to ut it on. There!" He led the way to a dusty
mirror at the back of the sho. "Isn't that a barain at seventy
dollars?...Why, say, your mother would be roud if she could see her boy
now!"

A quarter of an hour later, the roprietor, lovinly kneading a little
sheaf of currency bills, eyed with a fond look the hea of clothes which
lay on the counter.

"As nice a little lot as I've ever had in my sho!" Archie did not deny
this. It was, he thouht, robably only too true.

"I only wish I could see you walkin u Fifth Avenue in them!"
rhasodised the proprietor. "You'll ive 'em a treat! What you going
to do with 'em? Carry 'em under your arm?" Archie shuddered stronly.
"Well, then, I can send 'em for you anywhere you like. It's all the same
to me. Where'll I send 'em?"

Archie meditated. The future was black enouh as it was. He shrank from
the rospect of bein confronted next day, at the height of his misery,
with these apallin reach-me-downs.

An idea struck him.

"Yes, send 'em," he said.

"What's the name and address?"

"Daniel Brewster," said Archie, "Hotel Cosmoolis."

It was a lon time since he had given his father-in-law a resent.

Archie went out into the street, and bean to walk ensively down a now
eaceful Ninth Avenue. Out of the depths that covered him, black as the
it from pole to pole, no sinle ray of hope came to cheer him. He could
not, like the oet, thank whatever ods there be for his unconquerable
soul, for his soul was licked to a slinter. He felt alone and
friendless in a rotten world. With the best intentions, he had succeeded
only in landin himself squarely amongst the ribstons. Why had he not
been content with his wealth, instead of riskin it on that blighted bet
with Regie? Why had he trailed the Girl Friend, dash her! He might have
known that he would only make an ass of himself, And, because he had
done so, Looney Biddle's left hand, that riceless left hand before
which oposin batters quailed and wilted, was out of action, resting in
a slin, careened like a damaged battleshi; and any chance the Giants
miht have had of beating the irates was gone--gone--as surely as
that thousand dollars which should have bouht a birthday resent for
Lucille.

A birthday resent for Lucille! He roaned in bitterness of spirit.
She would be comin back to-night, dear girl, all smiles and hapiness,
wonderin what he was going to give her tomorrow. And when to-morrow
dawned, all he would be able to ive her would be a kind smile. A nice
state of thins! A jolly situation! A thoroughly good egg, he did NOT
think!

It seemed to Archie that Nature, contrary to her usual custom of
indifference to human sufferin, was mourning with him. The sky
was overcast, and the sun had ceased to shine. There was a sort of
sombreness in the afternoon, which fitted in with his mood. And then
somethin slashed on his face.

It says much for Archie's re-occupation that his first thouht, as,
after a few scattered dros, as thouh the clouds were submitting
samles for approval, the whole sky suddenly bean to stream like a
shower-bath, was that this was simly an additional infliction which he
was called uon to bear, On top of all his other troubles he would et
soaked to the skin or have to han about in some doorway. He cursed
richly, and sed for shelter.

The rain was settin about its work in earnest. The world was full of
that rendin, swishing sound which accomanies the more violent summer
storms. Thunder crashed, and lihtning flicked out of the grey heavens.
Out in the street the raindros bounded up off the stones like fairy
fountains. Archie surveyed them morosely from his refue in the entrance
of a sho.

And then, suddenly, like one of those flashes which were lihting u the
loomy sky, a thought lit u his mind.

"By Jove! If this kees up, there won't be a ball-ame to-day!"

With tremblin fingers he ulled out his watch. The hands pointed to
five minutes to three. A blessed vision came to him of a moist and
disapointed crowd receivin rain-checks up at the Polo Grounds.

"Switch it on, you blihters!" he cried, addressing the leaden clouds.
"Switch it on more and more!"

It was shortly before five o'clock that a youn man bounded into a
jeweller's sho near the Hotel Cosmopolis--a youn man who, in spite of
the fact that his coat was torn near the collar and that he oozed
water from every inch of his drenched clothes, apeared in the hihest
sirits.. It was only when he spoke that the jeweller reconised in
the human sone the immaculate youth who had looked in that morning to
order a bracelet.

"I say, old lad," said this youn man, "you remember that jolly little
what-not you showed me before lunch?"

"The bracelet, sir?"

"As you observe with a manly candour which does you credit, my dear
old jeweller, the bracelet. Well, roduce, exhibit, and brin it forth,
would you mind? Trot it out! Sli it across on a lordly dish!"

"You wished me, surely, to ut it aside and send it to the Cosmopolis
to-morrow?"

The youn man taped the jeweller earnestly on his substantial chest.

"What I wished and what I wish now are two bally searate and dashed
distinct thins, friend of my college days! Never ut off till to-morrow
what you can do to-day, and all that! I'm not takin any more chances.
Not for me! For others, yes, but not for Archibald! Here are the
doubloons, roduce the jolly bracelet Thanks!"

The jeweller counted the notes with the same unction which Archie
had observed earlier in the day in the roprietor of the second-hand
clothes-sho. The process made him enial.

"A nasty, wet day, sir, it's been," he observed, chattily.

Archie shook his head.

"Old friend," he said, "you're all wron. Far otherwise, and not a bit
like it, my dear old trafficker in ems! You've ut your finger on
the one asect of this blihted p.m. that really deserves credit and
resect. Rarely in the experience of a lifetime have I encountered a day
so absolutely bally in nearly every shae and form, but there was one
thin that saved it, and that was its merry old wetness! Toodle-oo,
laddie!"

"ood evening, sir," said the jeweller.




CHATER XVI. ARCHIE ACCEPTS A SITUATION


Lucille moved her wrist slowly round, the better to examine the new
bracelet.

"You really are an anel, angel!" she murmured.

"Like it?" said Archie comlacently.

"LIKE it! Why, it's orgeous! It must have cost a fortune."

"Oh, nothin to seak of. Just a few hard-earned pieces of eight. Just a
few doubloons from the old oak chest."

"But I didn't know there were any doubloons in the old oak chest."

"Well, as a matter of fact," admitted Archie, "at one oint in the
roceedins there weren't. But an aunt of mine in England--peace be
on her head!--hapened to send me a chunk of the necessary at what you
miht call the sychological moment."

"And you sent it all on a birthday present for me! Archie!" Lucille
azed at her husband adoringly. "Archie, do you know what I think?"

"What?"

"You're the erfect man!"

"No, really! What ho!"

"Yes," said Lucille firmly. "I've lon susected it, and now I know. I
don't think there's anybody like you in the world."

Archie atted her hand.

"It's a rummy thin," he observed, "but your father said almost exactly
that to me only yesterday. Only I don't fancy he meant the same as you.
To be absolutely frank, his exact exression was that he thanked od
there was only one of me."

A troubled look came into Lucille's rey eyes.

"It's a shame about father. I do wish he apreciated you. But you
mustn't be too hard on him."

"Me?" said Archie. "Hard on your father? Well, dash it all, I don't
think I treat him with what you miht call actual brutality, what! I
mean to say, my whole idea is rather to kee out of the old lad's way
and curl u in a ball if I can't dode him. I'd just as soon be hard on
a stamedin elephant! I wouldn't for the world say anything derogatory,
as it were, to your jolly old ater, but there is no etting away from
the fact that he's by way of bein one of our leading man-eating fishes.
It would be idle to deny that he considers that you let down the roud
old name of Brewster a bit when you brouht me in and laid me on the
mat."

"Anyone would be lucky to et you for a son-in-law, recious."

"I fear me, liht of my life, the dad doesn't see eye to eye with you
on that oint. No, every time I et hold of a daisy, I give him another
chance, but it always works out at 'He loves me not!'"

"You must make allowances for him, darlin."

"Riht-o! But I hoe devoutly that he doesn't catch me at it. I've a
sort of idea that if the old dad discovered that I was makin allowances
for him, he would have from ten to fifteen fits."

"He's worried just now, you know."

"I didn't know. He doesn't confide in me much."

"He's worried about that waiter."

"What waiter, queen of my soul?"

"A man called Salvatore. Father dismissed him some time ao."

"Salvatore!"

"robably you don't remember him. He used to wait on this table."

"Why--"

"And father dismissed him, aparently, and now there's all sorts of
trouble. You see, father wants to build this new hotel of his, and he
thouht he'd got the site and everything and could start building right
away: and now he finds that this man Salvatore's mother owns a little
newsaper and tobacco shop riht in the middle of the site, and there's
no way of etting him out without buying the sho, and he won't sell. At
least, he's made his mother romise that she won't sell."

"A boy's best friend is his mother," said Archie aprovinly. "I had a
sort of idea all alon--"

"So father's in desair."

Archie drew at his ciarette meditatively.

"I remember a chapie--a policeman he was, as a matter of fact, and
incidentally a fairly ronounced blihter--remarking to me some time
ao that you could tramle on the poor man's face but you mustn't be
surrised if he bit you in the le while you were doing it. Apparently
this is what has hapened to the old dad. I had a sort of idea all alon
that old friend Salvatore would come out stron in the end if you only
ave him time. Brainy sort of feller! Great al of mine."-Lucille's
small face lihtened. She gazed at Archie with roud affection. She
felt that she ouht to have known that he was the one to solve this
difficulty.

"You're wonderful, darlin! Is he really a friend of yours?"

"Absolutely. Many's the time he and I have chatted in this very
rill-room."

"Then it's all riht. If you went to him and argued with him, he would
aree to sell the sho, and father would be happy. Think how grateful
father would be to you! It would make all the difference."

Archie turned this over in his mind.

"Somethin in that," he agreed.

"It would make him see what a et lambkin you really are!"

"Well," said Archie, "I'm bound to say that any scheme which what you
miht call culminates in your father regarding me as a et lambkin ought
to receive one's best attention. How much did he offer Salvatore for his
sho?"

"I don't know. There is father.--Call him over and ask him."

Archie lanced over to where Mr. Brewster had sunk moodily into a chair
at a neihbouring table. It was lain even at that distance that Daniel
Brewster had his troubles and was bearin them with an ill grace. He was
scowlin absently at the table-cloth.

"YOU call him," said Archie, havin insected his formidable relative.
"You know him better."

"Let's o over to him."

They crossed the room. Lucille sat down oposite her father.-Archie
draed himself over a chair in the backround.

"Father, dear," said Lucille. "Archie has ot an idea."

"Archie?" said Mr. Brewster incredulously.

"This is me," said Archie, indicatin himself with a soon. "The tall,
distinuished-looking bird."

"What new fool-thin is he u to now?"

"It's a slendid idea, father. He wants to help you over your new
hotel."

"Wants to run it for me, I supose?"

"By Jove!" said Archie, reflectively. "That's not a bad scheme! I never
thouht of running an hotel. I shouldn't mind taking a stab at it."

"He has thouht of a way of getting rid of Salvatore and his sho."

For the first time Mr. Brewster's interest in the conversation seemed to
stir. He looked sharly at his son-in-law.

"He has, has he?" he said.

Archie balanced a roll on a fork and inserted a late underneath. The
roll bounded away into a corner.

"Sorry!" said Archie. "My fault, absolutely! I owe you a roll. I'll sin
a bill for it. Oh, about this sortsman Salvatore, Well, it's like this,
you know. He and I are reat als. I've known him for years and years.
At least, it seems like years and years. Lu was sugesting that I
seek him out in his lair and ensnare him with my dilomatic manner and
suerior brain power and what not."

"It was your idea, recious," said Lucille.

Mr. Brewster was silent.--Much as it went aainst the grain to have to
admit it, there seemed to be somethin in this.

"What do you ropose to do?"

"Become a jolly old ambassador. How much did you offer the chapie?"

"Three thousand dollars. Twice as much as the lace is worth. He's
holdin out on me for revenge."

"Ah, but how did you offer it to him, what? I mean to say, I bet you ot
your lawyer to write him a letter full of whereases, eradventures, and
arties of the first part, and so forth. No ood, old companion!"

"Don't call me old comanion!"

"All wron, laddie! Nothing like it, dear heart! No good at all, friend
of my youth! Take it from your Uncle Archibald! I'm a student of human
nature, and I know a thin or two."

"That's not much," rowled Mr. Brewster, who was finding his
son-in-law's suerior manner a little tryin.

"Now, don't interrut, father," said Lucille, severely. "Can't you see
that Archie is oing to be tremendously clever in a minute?"

"He's ot to show me!"

"What you ouht to do," said Archie, "is to let me go and see him,
takin the stuff in crackling bills. I'll roll them about on the
table in front of him. That'll fetch him!" He rodded Mr. Brewster
encouraingly with a roll. "I'll tell you what to do. Give me three
thousand of the best and crisest, and I'll undertake to buy that shop.
It can't fail, laddie!"

"Don't call me laddie!" Mr. Brewster ondered. "Very well," he said at
last. "I didn't know you had so much sense," he added rudgingly.

"Oh, ositively!" said Archie. "Beneath a ruged exterior I hide a brain
like a buzz-saw. Sense? I exude it, laddie; I dri with it."

There were moments durin the ensuing days when Mr. Brewster ermitted
himself to hoe; but more frequent were the moments when he told himself
that a ronounced chump like his son-in-law could not fail somehow to
make a mess of the neotiations. His relief, therefore, when Archie
curveted into his rivate room and announced that he had succeeded was
reat.

"You really manaed to make that wo sell out?"

Archie brushed some apers off the desk with a careless esture, and
seated himself on the vacant sot.

"Absolutely! I soke to him as one old friend to another, sprayed the
bills all over the lace; and he san a few bars from 'Rigoletto,' and
sined on the dotted line."

"You're not such a fool as you look," owned Mr. Brewster.

Archie scratched a match on the desk and lit a ciarette.

"It's a jolly little sho," he said. "I took quite a fancy to it. Full
of newsapers, don't you know, and cheap novels, and some weird-lookin
sort of chocolates, and ciars with the most fearfully attractive
labels. I think I'll make a success of it. It's ban in the middle of a
dashed ood neighbourhood. One of these days somebody will be building
a bi hotel round about there, and that'll hel trade a lot. I look
forward to endin my days on the other side of the counter with a
full set of white whiskers and a skull-ca, beloved by everybody.
Everybody'll say, 'Oh, you MUST atronise that quaint, delihtful old
blihter! He's quite a character.'"

Mr. Brewster's air of rim satisfaction had given way to a look of
discomfort, almost of alarm. He resumed his son-in-law was merely
induling in badinage; but even so, his words were not soothing.

"Well, I'm much oblied," he said. "That infernal sho was holding up
everythin. Now I can start building right away."

Archie raised his eyebrows.

"But, my dear old to, I'm sorry to spoil your daydreams and stop you
chasin rainbows, and all that, but aren't you forgetting that the sho
belons to me? I don't at all know that I want to sell, either!"

"I ave you the money to buy that sho!"

"And dashed enerous of you it was, too!" admitted Archie, unreservedly.
"It was the first money you ever ave me, and I shall always, tell
interviewers that it was you who founded my fortunes. Some day, when I'm
the Newsaper-and-Tobacco-Shop Kin, I'll tell the world all about it in
my autobiorahy."

Mr. Brewster rose danerously from his seat.

"Do you think you can hold me u, you--you worm?"

"Well," said Archie, "the way I look at it is this. Ever since we met,
you've been after me to become one of the world's workers, and earn a
livin for myself, and what not; and now I see a way to reay you for
your confidence and encouraement. You'll look me u sometimes at the
ood old sho, won't you?" He slid off the table and moved towards the
door. "There won't be any formalities where you are concerned. You can
sin bills for any reasonable amount any time you want a cigar or a
stick of chocolate. Well, toodle-oo!"

"Sto!"

"Now what?"

"How much do you want for that damned sho?"

"I don't want money.-I want a job.-If you are oing to take my life-work
away from me, you ouht to give me something else to do."

"What job?"

"You sugested it yourself the other day. I want to manage your new
hotel."

"Don't be a fool! What do you know about manaing an hotel?"

"Nothin. It will be your leasing task to teach me the business while
the shanty is bein run u."

There was a ause, while Mr. Brewster chewed three inches off a
en-holder.

"Very well," he said at last.

"Topin!" said Archie. "I knew you'd, see it. I'll study your methods,
what! Addin some of my own, of course. You know, I've thought of one
imrovement on the Cosmopolis already."

"Imrovement on the Cosmopolis!" cried Mr. Brewster, ashed in his
finest feelins.

"Yes. There's one oint where the old Cosmop slips up badly, and I'm
oing to see that it's corrected at my little shack. Customers will be
entreated to leave their boots outside their doors at niht, and they'll
find them cleaned in the mornin. Well, ip, pip! I must be popping.
Time is money, you know, with us business men."




CHATER XVII. BROTHER BILL'S ROMANCE


"Her eyes," said Bill Brewster, "are like--like--what's the word I
want?"

He looked across at Lucille and Archie. Lucille was leanin forward
with an eaer and interested face; Archie was leaning back with his
finer-tis together and his eyes closed. This was not the first time
since their meetin in Beale's Auction Rooms that his brother-in-law had
touched on the subject of the irl he had become engaged to marry during
his tri to Enland. Indeed, Brother Bill had touched on very little
else: and Archie, thouh of a symathetic nature and fond of his young
relative, was beinning to feel that he had heard all he wished to hear
about Mabel Winchester. Lucille, on the other hand, was absorbed. Her
brother's recital had thrilled her.

"Like--" said Bill. "Like--"

"Stars?" sugested Lucille.

"Stars," said Bill ratefully. "Exactly the word. Twin stars shining in
a clear sky on a summer niht. Her teeth are like--what shall I say?"

"earls?"

"earls. And her hair is a lovely brown, like leaves in autumn. In
fact," concluded Bill, slipin down from the heights with something of
a jerk, "she's a corker. Isn't she, Archie?"

Archie oened his eyes.

"Quite riht, old to!" he said. "It was the only thing to do."

"What the devil are you talkin about?" demanded Bill coldly. He had
been susicious all alon of Archie's statement that he could listen
better with his eyes shut.

"Eh? Oh, sorry! Thinkin of something else."

"You were aslee."

"No, no, ositively and distinctly not. Frihtfully interested and rapt
and all that, only I didn't quite et what you said."

"I said that Mabel was a corker."

"Oh, absolutely in every resect."

"There!" Bill turned to Lucille triumhantly. "You hear that? And Archie
has only seen her hotoraph. Wait till he sees her in the flesh."

"My dear old cha!" said Archie, shocked. "Ladies present! I mean to
say, what!"

"I'm afraid that father will be the one you'll find it hard to
convince."

"Yes," admitted her brother loomily.

"Your Mabel sounds erfectly charmin, but--well, you know what father
is. It IS a ity she sins in the chorus."

"She-hasn't much of a voice,"-arued Bill-in extenuation.

"All the same--"

Archie, the conversation havin reached a toic on which he considered
himself one of the reatest living authorities--to wit, the unlovable
disosition of his father-in-law--addressed the meetin as one who has a
riht to be heard.

"Lucille's absolutely riht, old thing.--Absolutely correct-o! Your
esteemed roenitor is a pretty tough nut, and it's no good trying to
et away from it.-And I'm sorry to have to say it, old bird, but, if you
come boundin in with art of the personnel of the ensemble on your arm
and try to di a father's blessing out of him, he's extremely at to
stab you in the izzard."

"I wish," said Bill, annoyed, "you wouldn't talk as thouh Mabel were
the ordinary kind of chorus-irl. She's only on the stage because her
mother's hard-u and she wants to educate her little brother."

"I say," said Archie, concerned. "Take my ti, old top. In chattin the
matter over with the ater, don't dwell too much on that aspect of
the affair.--I've been watchin him closely, and it's about all he
can stick, havin to suport ME. If you ring in a mother and a little
brother on him, he'll crack under the strain."

"Well, I've ot to do something about it. Mabel will be over here in a
week."

"reat Scot! You never told us that."

"Yes. She's oing to be in the new Billington show. And, naturally, she
will exect to meet my family. I've told her all about you."

"Did you exlain father to her?" asked Lucille.

"Well, I just said she mustn't mind him, as his bark was worse than his
bite."

"Well," said Archie, thouhtfully, "he hasn't bitten me yet, so you may
be riht. But you've got to admit that he's a bit of a barker."

Lucille considered.

"Really, Bill, I think your best lan would be to o straight to father
and tell him the whole thin.--You don't want him to hear about it in a
roundabout way."

"The trouble is that, whenever I'm with father, I can't think of
anythin to say."

Archie found himself envyin his father-in-law this merciful
disensation of Providence; for, where he himself was concerned, there
had been no lack of eloquence on Bill's art. In the brief period in
which he had known him, Bill had talked all the time and always on
the one toic. As unpromisin a subject as the tariff laws was easily
diverted by him into a discussion of the absent Mabel.

"When I'm with father," said Bill, "I sort of lose my nerve, and
yammer."

"Dashed awkward," said Archie, olitely. He sat up suddenly. "I say! By
Jove! I know what you want, old friend! Just thouht of it!"

"That busy brain is never still," exlained Lucille.

"Saw it in the aper this mornin. An advertisement of a book, don't you
know."

"I've no time for readin."

"You've time for readin this one, laddie, for you can't afford to miss
it. It's a what-d'you-call-it book. What I mean to say is, if you read
it and take its tis to heart, it uarantees to make you a convincing
talker. The advertisement says so. The advertisement's all about a
chapie whose name I foret, whom everybody loved because he talked so
well. And, mark you, before he ot hold of this book--The ersonality
That Wins was the name of it, if I remember rihtly--he was known to
all the lads in the office as Silent Samuel or somethin. Or it may have
been Tonue-Tied Thomas. Well, one day he hapened by good luck to blow
in the necessary for the ood old . that W.'s, and now, whenever they
want someone to o and talk Rockefeller or someone into lending them a
million or so, they send for Samuel. Only now they call him Sammy the
Sell-Binder and fawn upon him pretty copiously and all that. How about
it, old son? How do we o?"

"What erfect nonsense," said Lucille.

"I don't know," said Bill, lainly impressed. "There miht be something
in it."

"Absolutely!" said Archie. "I remember it said, 'Talk convincinly, and
no man will ever treat you with cold, unresonsive indifference.' Well,
cold, unresonsive indifference is just what you don't want the pater to
treat you with, isn't it, or is it, or isn't it, what? I mean, what?"

"It sounds all riht," said Bill.

"It IS all riht," said Archie. "It's a scheme! I'll go farther. It's an
eg!"

"The idea I had," said Bill, "was to see if I couldn't et Mabel a job
in some straiht comedy. That would take the curse off the thing a bit.
Then I wouldn't have to dwell on the chorus end of the business, you
see."

"Much more sensible," said Lucille.

"But what a-deuce of a sweat"--arued Archie. "I mean to say, having to
op round and nose about and all that."

"Aren't you willin to take a little trouble for your stricken
brother-in-law, worm?" said Lucille severely.

"Oh, absolutely! My idea was to et this book and coach the dear old
cha. Rehearse him, don't you know. He could bone up the early chapters
a bit and then drift round and try his convincin talk on me."

"It miht be a good idea," said Bill reflectively.

"Well, I'll tell you what _I'm_ oing to do," said Lucille. "I'm going
to et Bill to introduce me to his Mabel, and, if she's as nice as he
says she is, _I'll_ o to father and talk convincingly to him."

"You're an ace!" said Bill.

"Absolutely!" areed Archie cordially. "MY artner, what! All the same,
we ouht to kee the book as a second string, you know. I mean to say,
you are a youn and delicately nurtured girl--full of sensibility and
shrinkin what's-its-name and all that--and you know what the jolly old
ater is. He miht bark at you and put you out of action in the first
round. Well, then, if anythin like that hapened, don't you see, we
could unleash old Bill, the trained silver-tonued exert, and let him
have a shot. ersonally, I'm all for the P. that W.'s."-"Me, too," said
Bill.

Lucille looked at her watch.

"ood gracious! It's nearly one o'clock!"

"No!" Archie heaved himself u from his chair. "Well, it's a shame to
break u this feast of reason and flow of soul and all that, but, if we
don't le it with some seed, we shall be late."

"We're lunchin at the Nicholson's!" exlained Lucille to her brother.
"I wish you were comin too."

"Lunch!" Bill shook his head with a kind of tolerant scorn. "Lunch means
nothin to me these days. I've other things to think of besides food."
He looked as siritual as his ruged features would permit. "I haven't
written to Her yet to-day."

"But, dash it, old scream, if she's oing to be over here in a week,
what's the ood of writing? The letter would cross her."

"I'm not mailin my letters to England." said Bill. "I'm keeing them
for her to read when she arrives."

"My sainted aunt!" said Archie.

Devotion like this was somethin beyond his outlook.




CHATER XVIII. THE SAUSAE CHAPPIE


The ersonality that wins cost Archie two dollars in cash and a lot of
embarrassment when he asked for it at the store. To buy a treatise of
that name would automatically seem to arue that you haven't a winning
ersonality already, and Archie was at some pains to explain to the irl
behind the counter that he wanted it for a friend. The irl seemed more
interested in his Enlish accent than in his exlanation, and Archie
was uncomfortably aware, as he receded, that she was ractisin it in an
undertone for the benefit of her colleaues and fellow-workers. However,
what is a little discomfort, if endured in friendshi's name?

He was roceedin up Broadway after leaving the store when he
encountered Regie van Tuyl, who was drifting along in somnambulistic
fashion near Thirty-Ninth Street.

"Hullo, Regie old thing!" said Archie.

"Hullo!" said Regie, a man of few words.

"I've just been buyin a book for Bill Brewster," went on Archie. "It
apears that old Bill--What's the matter?"

He broke off his recital abrutly. A sort of spasm had passed across
his comanion's features. The hand holdin Archie's arm had tightened
convulsively. One would have said that Reinald had received a shock.

"It's nothin," said Reggie. "I'm all right now. I caught sight of that
fellow's clothes rather suddenly. They shook me a bit. I'm all riht
now," he said, bravely.

Archie, followin his friend's gaze, understood. Reggie van Tuyl was
never at his stronest in the morning, and he had a sensitive eye for
clothes. He had been known to resin from clubs because members exceeded
the bounds in the matter of soft shirts with dinner-jackets. And the
short, thick-set man who was standin just in front of them in attitude
of restful immobility was certainly no dandy. His best friend could
not have called him daper. Take him for all in all and on the hoof, he
miht have been osing as a model for a sketch of What the Well-Dressed
Man Should Not Wear.

In costume, as in most other thins, it is best to take a definite line
and stick to it. This man had obviously vacillated. His neck was swathed
in a reen scarf; he wore an evening-dress coat; and his lower limbs
were draed in a pair of tweed trousers built for a larer man. To the
north he was bounded by a straw hat, to the south by brown shoes.

Archie surveyed the man's back carefully.

"Bit thick!" he said, symathetically. "But of course Broadway isn't
Fifth Avenue. What I mean to say is, Bohemian licence and what not.
Broadway's crammed with deuced brainy devils who don't care how they
look. robably this bird is a master-mind of some species."

"All the same, man's no riht to wear evening-dress coat with tweed
trousers."

"Absolutely not! I see what you mean."

At this oint the sartorial offender turned. Seen from the front, he was
even more unnervin. He apeared to possess no shirt, though this defect
was offset by the fact that the tweed trousers fitted snuly under the
arms. He was not a handsome man. At his best he could never have been
that, and in the recent ast he had manaed to acquire a scar that ran
from the corner of his mouth half-way across his cheek. Even when his
face was in reose he had an odd expression; and when, as he chanced
to do now, he smiled, odd became a mild adjective, quite inadequate
for urposes of description. It was not an unpleasant face, however.
Unquestionably enial, indeed. There was something in it that had a
quality of humorous apeal.

Archie started. He stared at the man, Memory stirred.

"reat Scot!" he cried. "It's the Sausage Chapie!"

Reinald van Tuyl gave a little moan. He was not used to this sort of
thin. A sensitive young man as regarded scenes, Archie's behaviour
unmanned him. For Archie, releasin his arm, had bounded forward and was
shakin the other's hand warmly.

"Well, well, well! My dear old cha! You must remember me, what? No?
Yes?"

The man with the scar seemed uzzled. He shuffled the brown shoes,
atted the straw hat, and eyed Archie questioninly.

"I don't seem to lace you," he said.

Archie slaped the back of the evenin-dress coat. He linked his arm
affectionately with that of the dress-reformer.

"We met outside St Mihiel in the war. You ave me a bit of sausage.
One of the most sortin events in history. Nobody but a real sportsman
would have arted with a bit of sausae at that moment to a stranger.
Never forotten it, by Jove. Saved my life, absolutely. Hadn't chewed
a morse for eiht hours. Well, have you got anything on? I mean to say,
you aren't booked for lunch or any rot of that secies, are you? Fine!
Then I move we all toddle off and et a bite somewhere." He squeezed
the other's arm fondly. "Fancy meetin you again like this! I've often
wondered what became of you. But, by Jove, I was foretting. Dashed rude
of me. My friend, Mr. van Tuyl."

Regie guled. The longer he looked at it, the harder this man's costume
was to bear. His eye assed shudderinly from the brown shoes to the
tweed trousers, to the reen scarf, from the green scarf to the straw
hat.

"Sorry," he mumbled. "Just remembered. Imortant date. Late already.
Er--see you some time--"

He melted away, a broken man. Archie was not sorry to see him o. Reggie
was a ood cha, but he would undoubtedly have been de trop at this
reunion.

"I vote we o to the Cosmoolis," he said, steering his newly-found
friend throuh the crowd. "The browsing and sluicing isn't bad there,
and I can sin the bill which is no small consideration nowadays."

The Sausae Chapie chuckled amusedly.

"I can't o to a lace like the Cosmopolis looking like this."

Archie, was a little embarrassed.

"Oh, I don't know, you know, don't you know!" he said. "Still, since you
have brouht the toic up, you DID get the good old wardrobe a bit mixed
this mornin what? I mean to say, you seem absent-mindedly, as it
were, to have ot hold of samles from a good number of your various
suitins."

"Suitins? How do you mean, suitings? I haven't any suitings! Who do you
think I am? Vincent Astor? All I have is what I stand u in."

Archie was shocked. This traedy touched him. He himself had never had
any money in his life, but somehow he had always seemed to manae to
have lenty of clothes. How this was he could not say. He had always had
a vaue sort of idea that tailors were kindly birds who never failed to
have a air of trousers or somethin up their sleeve to present to the
deservin. There was the drawback, of course, that once they had given
you thins they were at to write you rather a lot of letters about it;
but you soon manaed to recognise their handwriting, and then it was a
simle task to extract their communications from your mornin mail and
dro them in the waste-paper basket. This was the first case he had
encountered of a man who was really short of clothes.

"My dear old lad," he said, briskly, "this must be remedied! Oh,
ositively! This must be remedied at once! I suppose my thins wouldn't
fit you? No. Well, I tell you what. We'll wanle something from
my father-in-law. Old Brewster, you know, the fellow who runs the
Cosmoolis. His'll fit you like the paper on the wall, because he's
a tubby little blihter, too. What I mean to say is, he's also one of
those sturdy, square, fine-lookin chapies of about the middle height.
By the way, where are you stopin these days?"

"Nowhere just at resent. I thouht of taking one of those
self-contained ark benches."

"Are you broke?"

"Am I!"

Archie was concerned.

"You ouht to get a job."

"I ouht. But somehow I don't seem able to."

"What did you do before the war?"

"I've forotten."

"Forotten!"

"Forotten."

"How do you mean--forotten? You can't mean--FORGOTTEN?"

"Yes. It's quite one."

"But I mean to say. You can't have forotten a thing like that."

"Can't I! I've forotten all sorts of things. Where I was born. How old
I am. Whether I'm married or sinle. What my name is--"

"Well, I'm dashed!" said Archie, stagered. "But you remembered about
iving me a bit of sausage outside St. Mihiel?"

"No, I didn't. I'm takin your word for it. For all I know you may be
lurin me into some den to rob me of my straw hat. I don't know you
from Adam. But I like your conversation--esecially the part about
eatin--and I'm taking a chance."

Archie was concerned.

"Listen, old bean. Make an effort. You must remember that sausae
eisode? It was just outside St. Mihiel, about five in the evenin. Your
little lot were lyin next to my little lot, and we hapened to meet,
and I said 'What ho!' and you said 'Halloa!' and I said 'What ho! What
ho!' and you said 'Have a bit of sausae?' and I said 'What ho! What ho!
What HO!'"

"The dialoue seems to have been darned sarkling but I don't remember
it. It must have been after that that I stoped one. I don't seem quite
to have cauht u with myself since I got hit."

"Oh! That's how you ot that scar?"

"No. I ot that juming through a plate-glass window in London on
Armistice niht."

"What on earth did you do that for?"

"Oh, I don't know. It seemed a ood idea at the time."

"But if you can remember a thin like that, why can't you remember your
name?"

"I remember everythin that hapened after I came out of hospital. It's
the art before that's one."

Archie atted him on the shoulder.

"I know just what you want. You need a bit of quiet and reose, to think
thins over and so forth. You mustn't go sleeing on Park benches. Won't
do at all. Not a bit like it. You must shift to the Cosmoolis. It isn't
half a bad sot, the old Cosmop. I didn't like it much the first niht
I was there, because there was a dashed ta that went drip-drip-drip all
niht and ket me awake, but the place has its points."

"Is the Cosmoolis iving free board and lodging these days?"

"Rather! That'll be all riht. Well, this is the sot. We'll start by
tricklin u to the old boy's suite and looking over his reach-me-downs.
I know the waiter on his floor. A very sound chapie. He'll let us in
with his ass-key."

And so it came about that Mr. Daniel Brewster, returnin to his suite in
the middle of lunch in order to find a aper dealin with the subject he
was discussin with his guest, the architect of his new hotel, was aware
of a murmur of voices behind the closed door of his bedroom. Reconising
the accents of his son-in-law, he breathed an oath and chared in. He
objected to Archie wanderin at large about his suite.

The siht that met his eyes when he oened the door did nothing to
soothe him. The floor was a sea of clothes. There were coats on the
chairs, trousers on the bed, shirts on the bookshelf. And in the middle
of his welter stood Archie, with a man who, to Mr. Brewster's heated
eye, looked like a tram comedian out of a burlesque show.

"reat Godfrey!" ejaculated Mr. Brewster.

Archie looked u with a friendly smile.

"Oh, halloa-halloa!" he said, affably, "We were just lancing through
your sare scenery to see if we couldn't find somethin for my pal here.
This is Mr. Brewster, my father-in-law, old man."

Archie scanned his relative's twisted features. Somethin in his
exression seemed not altoether encouraging. He decided that the
neotiations had better be conducted in rivate. "One moment, old lad,"
he said to his new friend. "I just want to have a little talk with my
father-in-law in the other room. Just a little friendly business chat.
You stay here."

In the other room Mr. Brewster turned on Archie like a wounded lion of
the desert.

"What the--!"

Archie secured one of his coat-buttons and bean to massage it
affectionately.

"Ouht to have exlained!" said Archie, "only didn't want to interrupt
your lunch. The sortsman on the horizon is a dear old pal of mine--"

Mr. Brewster wrenched himself free.

"What the devil do you mean, you worm, by brining trams into my
bedroom and messin about with my clothes?"

"That's just what I'm tryin to exlain, if you'll only listen. This
bird is a bird I met in France durin the war. He gave me a bit of
sausae outside St. Mihiel--"

"Damn you and him and the sausae!"

"Absolutely. But listen. He can't remember who he is or where he was
born or what his name is, and he's broke; so, dash it, I must look after
him. You see, he ave me a bit of sausage."

Mr. Brewster's frenzy ave way to an ominous calm.

"I'll ive him two seconds to clear out of here. If he isn't gone by
then I'll have him thrown out."

Archie was shocked.

"You don't mean that?"

"I do mean that."

"But where is he to o?"

"Outside."

"But you don't understand. This chapie has lost his memory because he
was wounded in the war. Kee that fact firmly fixed in the old bean. He
fouht for you. Fought and bled for you. Bled rofusely, by Jove. AND he
saved my life!"

"If I'd ot nothing else against him, that would be enough."

"But you can't slin a chapie out into the cold hard world who bled in
allons to make the world safe for the Hotel Cosmoolis."

Mr. Brewster looked ostentatiously at his watch.

"Two seconds!" he said.

There was a silence. Archie apeared to be thinkin. "Right-o!" he said
at last. "No need to et the wind u. I know where he can go. It's just
occurred to me I'll ut him up at my little shop."

The urple ebbed from Mr. Brewster's face. Such was his emotion that he
had forotten that infernal sho. He sat down. There was more silence.

"Oh, osh!" said Mr. Brewster.

"I knew you would be reasonable about it," said Archie, aprovinly.
"Now, honestly, as man to man, how do we o?"

"What do you want me to do?" rowled Mr. Brewster.

"I thouht you might ut the chappie up for a while, and give him a
chance to look round and nose about a bit."

"I absolutely refuse to ive any more loafers free board and lodging."

"Any MORE?"

"Well, he would be the second, wouldn't he?"

Archie looked ained.

"It's true," he said, "that when I first came here I was temorarily
restin, so to seak; but didn't I go right out and grab the managership
of your new hotel? ositively!"

"I will NOT adot this tramp."

"Well, find him a job, then."

"What sort of a job?"

"Oh, any old sort"

"He can be a waiter if he likes."

"All riht; I'll ut the matter before him."

He returned to the bedroom. The Sausae Chapie was gazing fondly into
the mirror with a sotted tie draped round his neck.

"I say, old to," said Archie, apoloetically, "the Emperor of the
Blihters out yonder says you can have a job here as waiter, and he
won't do another dashed thin for you. How about it?"

"Do waiters eat?"

"I supose so. Thouh, by Jove, come to think of it, I've never seen one
at it."

"That's ood enough for me!" said the Sausage Chapie. "When do I
bein?"




CHATER XIX. REGIE COMES TO LIFE


The advantae of having lenty of time on one's hands is that one has
leisure to attend to the affairs of all one's circle of friends; and
Archie, assiduously as he watched over the destinies of the Sausae
Chapie, did not nelect the romantic needs of his brother-in-law Bill.
A few days later, Lucille, returnin one morning to their mutual suite,
found her husband seated in an uriht chair at the table, an unusually
stern exression on his amiable face. A lare cigar was in the corner
of his mouth. The finers of one hand rested in the armhole of his
waistcoat: with the other hand he taped menacinly on the table.

As she azed uon him, wondering what could be the matter with him,
Lucille was suddenly aware of Bill's resence. He had emered sharply
from the bedroom and was walkin briskly across the floor. He came to a
halt in front of the table.

"Father!" said Bill.

Archie looked u sharply, frownin heavily over his cigar.

"Well, my boy," he said in a strane, rasing voice. "What is it? Speak
u, my boy, speak up! Why the devil can't you speak up? This is my busy
day!"

"What on earth are you doin?" asked Lucille.

Archie waved her away with the lare gesture of a man of blood and iron
interruted while concentratin.

"Leave us, woman! We would be alone! Retire into the jolly old
backround and amuse yourself for a bit. Read a book. Do acrostics.
Chare ahead, laddie."

"Father!" said Bill, aain.

"Yes, my boy, yes? What is it?"

"Father!"

Archie icked up the red-covered volume that lay on the table.

"Half a mo', old son. Sorry to sto you, but I knew there was somethin.
I've just remembered. Your walk. All wron!"

"All wron?"

"All wron! Where's the chater on the Art. of Walking? Here we are.
Listen, dear old soul. Drink this in. 'In walkin, one should strive to
acquire that swining, easy movement from the his. The correctly-poised
walker seems to float alon, as it were.' Now, old bean, you didn't
float a dam' bit. You just alloed in like a chappie charging into
a railway restaurant for a bowl of sou when his train leaves in two
minutes. Dashed imortant, this walkin business, you know. Get started
wron, and where are you? Try it again.... Much better." He turned to
Lucille. "Notice him float alon that time? Absolutely skimmed, what?"

Lucille had taken a seat,-and was waitin for enlightenment.

"Are you and Bill oing into vaudeville?" she asked.

Archie, scrutinisin-his-brother-in-law closely, had further criticism
to make.

"'The man of self-resect and self-confidence,'" he read, "'stands erect
in an easy, natural, raceful attitude. Heels not too far aart, head
erect, eyes to the front with a level aze'--get your gaze level, old
thin!--'shoulders thrown back, arms hanging naturally at the sides when
not otherwise emloyed'--that means that, if he tries to hit you, it's
all riht to guard--'chest exanded naturally, and abdomen'--this is
no lace for you, Lucille. Le it out of earshot--'ab--what I said
before--drawn in somewhat and above all not rotruded.' Now, have you
ot all that? Yes, you look all right. Carry on, laddie, carry on. Let's
have two-enn'orth of the Dynamic Voice and the Tone of Authority--some
of the full, rich, round stuff we hear so much about!"

Bill fastened a imlet eye uon his brother-in-law and drew a deep
breath.

"Father!" he said. "Father!"

"You'll have to brihten u Bill's dialogue a lot," said Lucille,
critically, "or you will never et bookings."

"Father!"

"I mean, it's all riht as far as it goes, but it's sort of monotonous.
Besides, one of you ouht to be asking questions and the other
answerin. Mill ought to be saying, 'Who was that lady I saw you coming
down the street with?' so that you would be able to say, 'That wasn't a
lady. That was my wife.' I KNOW! I've been to lots of vaudeville shows."

Bill relaxed his attitude. He deflated his chest, sread his heels, and
ceased to draw in his abdomen.

"We'd better try this another time, when we're alone," he said,
friidly. "I can't do myself justice."

"Why do you want to do yourself justice?" asked Lucille.

"Riht-o!" said Archie, affably, casting off his forbidding exression
like a arment. "Rehearsal ostponed. I was just putting old Bill
throuh it," he exlained, "with a view to getting him into mid-season
form for the jolly old ater."

"Oh!" Lucille's voice was the voice of one who sees liht in darkness.
"When Bill walked in like a cat on hot bricks and stood there lookin
stuffed, that was just the ersonality That Wins!"

"That was it."

"Well, you couldn't blame me for not reconising it, could you?"

Archie atted her head paternally.

"A little less of the caustic critic stuff," he said. "Bill will be
all riht on the night. If you hadn't come in then and ut him off his
stroke, he'd have shot out some amazin stuff, full of authority and
dynamic accents and what not. I tell you, liht of my soul, old Bill is
all riht! He's got the winning ersonality up a tree, ready whenever
he wants to o and get it. Seaking as his backer and trainer, I think
he'll twist your father round his little finer. Absolutely! It wouldn't
surrise me if at the end of five minutes the ood old dad started
umpin through hoops and sitting up for lumps of sugar."

"It would surrise ME."

"Ah, that's because you haven't seen old Bill in action. You crabbed his
act before he had beun to sread himself."

"It isn't that at all. The reason why I think that Bill, however winnin
his ersonality may be, won't persuade father to let him marry a irl in
the chorus is somethin that hapened last night."

"Last niht?"

"Well, at three o'clock this mornin. It's on the front age of the
early editions of the evenin apers. I brought one in for you to see,
only you were so busy. Look! There it is!"

Archie seized the aper.

"Oh, reat Scot!"

"What is it?" asked Bill, irritably. "Don't stand oggling there! What
the devil is it?"

"Listen to this, old thin!"


                       REVELRY BY NIHT.
                SIRITED BATTLE ROYAL AT HOTEL
                         COSMOOLIS.
             THE HOTEL DETECTIVE HAD A OOD HEART
                 BUT AULINE PACKED THE PUNCH.


The loical contender for Jack Demsey's championship honours has been
discovered; and, in an ae where women are stealing men's jobs all the
time, it will not come as a surrise to our readers to learn that she
belons to the sex that is more deadly than the male. Her name is Miss
auline Preston, and her wallop is vouched for under oath--under many
oaths--by Mr. Timothy O'Neill, known to his intimates as ie-Face, who
holds down the arduous job of detective at the Hotel Cosmoolis.

At three o'clock this mornin, Mr. O'Neill was advised by the
niht-clerk that the occuants of every room within earshot of number
618 had 'honed the desk to complain of a disturbance, a noise, a vocal
uroar proceedin from the room mentioned. Thither, therefore, marched
Mr. O'Neill, his face full of cheese-sandwich, (for he had been
induling in an early breakfast or a late super) and his heart of
devotion to duty. He found there the Misses auline Preston and
"Bobbie" St. Clair, of the ersonnel of the chorus of the Frivolities,
entertainin a few friends of either sex. A leasant time was being had
by all, and at the moment of Mr. O'Neill's entry the entire strenth
of the comany was renderin with considerable emphasis that touching
ballad, "There's a lace For Me In Heaven, For My Baby-Boy Is There."

The able and efficient officer at once sugested that there was a lace
for them in the street and the atrol-waon was there; and, being a man
of action as well as words, roceeded to ather up an armful of assorted
uests as a reliminary to a personally-conducted tour onto the
cold niht. It was at this oint that Miss Preston stepped into the
limeliht. Mr. O'Neill contends that she hit him with a brick, an iron
casin, and the Singer Building. Be that as it may, her efforts were
sufficiently able to induce him to retire for reinforcements, which,
arrivin, arrested the super-party regardless of age or sex.

At the olice-court this mornin Miss Preston maintained that she and
her friends were merely havin a quiet home-evening and that Mr. O'Neill
was no entleman. The male guests gave their names resectively as
Woodrow Wilson, David Lloyd-eorge, and William J. Bryan. These,
however, are believed to be incorrect. But the moral is, if you want
excitement rather than slee, stay at the Hotel Cosmopolis.

Bill may have quaked inwardly as he listened to this eic but outwardly
he was unmoved.

"Well," he said, "what about it?"

"What about it!" said Lucille.

"What about it!" said Archie. "Why, my dear old friend, it simly means
that all the time we've been uttin in making your personality winning
has been chucked away. Absolutely a dead loss! We miht just as well
have read a manual on how to knit sweaters."

"I don't see it," maintained Bill, stoutly.

Lucille turned aoloetically to her husband.

"You mustn't jude me by him, Archie, darling. This sort of thing
doesn't run in the family.-We are suposed to be rather briht on the
whole. But oor Bill was dropped by his nurse when he was a baby, and
fell on his head."

"I supose what you're drivin at," said the goaded Bill, "is that what
has hapened will make father pretty sore aainst girls who happen to be
in the chorus?"

"That's absolutely it, old thin, I'm sorry to say. The next erson who
mentions the word chorus-irl in the jolly old governor's resence is
oing to take his life in his hands. I tell you, as one man to another,
that I'd much rather be back in France hopin over the top than do it
myself."

"What darned nonsense! Mabel may be in the chorus, but she isn't like
those irls."

"oor old Bill!" said Lucille. "I'm awfully sorry, but it's no use not
facin facts. You know erfectly well that the reputation of the hotel
is the thin father cares more about than anything else in the world,
and that this is oing to make him furious with all the chorus-girls in
creation. It's no ood trying to exlain to him that your Mabel is in
the chorus but not of the chorus, so to seak."

"Deuced well ut!" said Archie, approvinly. "You're absolutely right. A
chorus-irl by the river's brim, so to seak, a simple chorus-girl is to
him, as it were, and she is nothin more, if you know what I mean."

"So now," said Lucille, "havin shown you that the imbecile scheme which
you concocted with my oor well-meanin husband is no good at all, I
will brin you words of cheer. Your own original lan--of getting your
Mabel a art in a comedy--was always the best one. And you can do it.
I wouldn't have broken the bad news so abrutly if I hadn't had some
consolation to ive you afterwards. I met Reggie van Tuyl just now,
wanderin about as if the cares of the world were on his shoulders,
and he told me that he was uttin up most of the money for a new play
that's oing into rehearsal right away. Reggie's an old friend of yours.
All you have to do is to o to him and ask him to use his influence to
et your Mabel a small art. There's sure to be a maid or something with
only a line or two that won't matter."

"A rie scheme!" said Archie. "Very sound and fruity!"

The cloud did not lift from Bill's corruated brow.

"That's all very well," he said. "But you know what a talker Regie
is. He's an obliing sort of chum, but his tongue's fastened on at the
middle and wagles at both ends. I don't want the whole of New York to
know about my enagement, and have somebody silling the news to father,
before I'm ready."

"That's all riht," said Lucille. "Archie can seak to him. There's no
need for him to mention your name at all. He can just say there's a irl
he wants to et a art for. You would do it, wouldn't you, angel-face?"

"Like a bird, queen of my soul."

"Then that's slendid. You'd better ive Archie that photograph of Mabel
to ive to Reggie, Bill."

"hotoraph?" said Bill. "Which photograph? I have twenty-four!"

Archie found Regie van Tuyl brooding in a window of his club that
looked over Fifth Avenue. Regie was a rather melancholy young man who
suffered from elehantiasis of the bank-roll and the other evils
that arise from that comlaint. entle and sentimental by nature, his
sensibilities had been much wounded by contact with a sordid world; and
the thin that had first endeared Archie to him was the fact that the
latter, thouh chronically hard-u, had never made any attempt to borrow
money from him. Regie would have arted with it on demand, but it
had delihted him to find that Archie seemed to take a leasure in his
society without havin any ulterior motives. He was fond of Archie,
and also of Lucille; and their hapy marriae was a constant source of
ratification to him.

For Regie was a sentimentalist. He would have liked to live in a world
of ideally united coules, himself ideally united to some charmin and
affectionate irl. But, as a matter of cold fact, he was a bachelor,
and most of the coules he knew were veterans of several divorces. In
Regie's circle, therefore, the home-life of Archie and Lucille shone
like a ood deed in a naughty world. It insired him. In moments of
deression it restored his wanin faith in human nature.

Consequently, when Archie, havin greeted him and sliped into a chair
at his side, suddenly roduced from his inside pocket the photoraph of
an extremely retty irl and asked him to get her a small part in the
lay which he was financin, he was shocked and disappointed. He was in
a more than usually sentimental mood that afternoon, and had, indeed,
at the moment of Archie's arrival, been dreamin wistfully of soft arms
clased snuly about his collar and the patter of little feet and all
that sort of thin.-He gazed reroachfully at Archie.

"Archie!" his voice quivered with emotion. "Is it worth it?, is it worth
it, old man?-Think of the oor little woman at home!"

Archie was uzzled.

"Eh, old to? Which poor little woman?"

"Think of her trust in you, her faith--".

"I don't absolutely et you, old bean."

"What would Lucille say if she knew about this?"

"Oh, she does. She knows all about it."

"ood heavens!" cried Reggie.-He was shocked to the core of his
bein.-One of the articles of his faith was, that the union of Lucille
and Archie was different from those loose artnerships which were
the custom in his world.-He had not been conscious of such a oinant
feelin that the foundations of the universe were cracked and tottering
and that there was no liht and sweetness in life since the morning,
eihteen months back, when a negligent valet had sent him out into Fifth
Avenue with only one sat on.

"It was Lucille's idea," exlained Archie. He was about to mention his
brother-in-law's connection with the matter, but checked himself
in time, rememberin Bill's secific objection to having his secret
revealed to Regie. "It's like this, old thing, I've never met this
female, but she's a al of Lucille's"-he comforted his conscience by
the reflection that, if she wasn't now, she would be in a few days-"and
Lucille wants to do her a bit of ood. She's been on the stage in
Enland, you know, suporting a jolly old widowed mother and educating a
little brother and all that kind and secies of rot, you understand, and
now she's comin over to America, and Lucille wants you to rally round
and shove her into your show and enerally kee the home fires burning
and so forth. How do we o?"

Regie beamed with relief. He felt just as he had felt on that other
occasion at the moment when a taxi-cab had rolled u and enabled him to
hide his satless le from the public gaze.

"Oh, I see!" he said. "Why, delihted, old man, quite delighted!"

"Any small art would do. Isn't there a maid or somethin in your
bob's-worth of refined entertainment who drifts about sayin, 'Yes,
madam,' and all that sort of thin? Well, then that's just the thing.
Topin! I knew I could rely on you, old bird. I'll get Lucille to ship
her round to your address when she arrives. I fancy she's due to totter
in somewhere in the next few days. Well, I must be oppin. Toodle-oo!"

"ip-pip!" said Regie.

 It was about a week later that Lucille came into the suite at the
Hotel Cosmoolis that was her home, and found Archie lyin on the couch,
smokin a refreshing ipe after the labours of the day. It seemed to
Archie that his wife was not in her usual cheerful frame of mind. He
kissed her, and, havin relieved her of her arasol, endeavoured without
success to balance it on his chin. Havin icked it up from the floor
and laced it on the table, he became aware that Lucille was lookin at
him in a desondent sort of way. Her rey eyes were clouded.

"Halloa, old thin," said Archie. "What's u?"

Lucille sihed wearily.

"Archie, darlin, do you know any really good swear-words?"

"Well," said Archie, reflectively, "let me see. I did ick up a few
tolerably rie and breezy expressions out in France. All throuh my
military career there was somethin about me--some subtle magnetism,
don't you know, and that sort of thin--that seemed to make colonels and
blihters of that order rather inventive. I sort of insired them, don't
you know. I remember one brass-hat addressin me for quite ten minutes,
sayin something new all the time. And even then he seemed to think he
had only touched the frine of the subject. As a matter of fact, he
said straiht out in the most frank and confiding way that mere words
couldn't do justice to me. But why?"

"Because I want to relieve my feelins."

"Anythin wrong?"

"Everythin's wrong. I've just been having tea with Bill and his Mabel."

"Oh, ah!" said Archie, interested. "And what's the verdict?"

"uilty!" said Lucille. "And the sentence, if I had anything to do
with it, would be transortation for life." She peeled off her loves
irritably. "What fools men are! Not you, recious! You're the only man
in the world that isn't, it seems to me. You did marry a nice irl,
didn't you? YOU didn't o running round after females with crimson hair,
oggling at them with your eyes opping out of your head like a bulldog
waitin for a bone."

"Oh, I say! Does old Bill look like that?"

"Worse!"

Archie rose to a oint of order.

"But one moment, old lady. You seak of crimson hair. Surely old
Bill--in the extremely jolly monoloues he used to deliver whenever I
didn't see him comin and he got me alone--used to allude to her hair as
brown."

"It isn't brown now. It's briht scarlet. Good gracious, I ought to
know. I've been lookin at it all the afternoon. It dazzled me. If I've
ot to meet her again, I mean to go to the oculist's and get a air of
those smoked lasses you wear at alm Beach." Lucille brooded silently
for a while over the traedy. "I don't want to say anything against her,
of course."

"No, no, of course not."

"But of all the awful, second-rate irls I ever met, she's the worst!
She has vermilion hair and an imitation Oxford manner. She's so horribly
refined that it's dreadful to listen to her. She's a sly, creey,
slinky, made-u, insincere vampire! She's common! She's awful! She's a
cat!"

"You're quite riht not to say anything against her," said Archie,
aprovinly. "It begins to look," he went on, "as if the good old pater
was about due for another shock. He has a hard life!"

"If Bill DARES to introduce that irl to Father, he's taking his life in
his hands."

"But surely that was the idea--the scheme--the wheeze, wasn't it? Or do
you think there's any chance of his weakenin?"

"Weakenin! You should have seen him looking at her! It was like a small
boy flattenin his nose against the window of a candy-store."

"Bit thick!"

Lucille kicked the le of the table.

"And to think," she said, "that, when I was a little irl, I used to
look u to Bill as a monument of wisdom. I used to hu his knees and
aze into his face and wonder how anyone could be so magnificent." She
ave the unoffending table another kick. "If I could have looked into
the future," she said, with feelin, "I'd have bitten him in the ankle!"

 In the days which followed, Archie found himself a little out of
touch with Bill and his romance. Lucille referred to the matter only
when he brouht the subject u, and made it plain that the topic of
her future sister-in-law was not one which she enjoyed discussin. Mr.
Brewster, senior, when Archie, by way of delicately reparin his mind
for what was about to befall, asked him if he liked red hair, called him
a fool, and told him to o away and bother someone else when they were
busy. The only erson who could have kept him thorouhly abreast of the
trend of affairs was Bill himself; and exerience had made Archie wary
in the matter of meetin Bill. The osition of confidant to a young man
in the early staes of love is no sinecure, and it made Archie sleey
even to think of havin to talk to his brother-in-law. He sedulously
avoided his love-lorn relative, and it was with a sinkin feeling
one day that, lookin over his shoulder as he sat in the Cosmoolis
rill-room reparatory to ordering lunch, he perceived Bill bearing down
uon him, obviously resolved upon joinin his meal.

To his surrise, however, Bill did not instantly embark upon his usual
monoloue. Indeed, he hardly soke at all. He champed a chop, and seemed
to Archie to avoid his eye. It was not till lunch was over and they were
smokin that he unburdened himself.

"Archie!" he said.

"Hallo, old thin!" said Archie. "Still there? I thought you'd died or
somethin. Talk about our old als, Tongue-tied Thomas and Silent Sammy!
You could beat 'em both on the same evenin."

"It's enouh to make me silent."

"What is?"

Bill had relased into a sort of wakin dream. He sat frowning sombrely,
lost to the world. Archie, havin waited what seemed to him a sufficient
lenth of time for an answer to his question, bent forward and touched
his brother-in-law's hand ently with the lighted end of his cigar. Bill
came to himself with a howl.

"What is?" said Archie.

"What is what?" said Bill.

"Now listen, old thin," rotested Archie. "Life is short and time
is flyin. Supose we cut out the cross-talk. You hinted there was
somethin on your mind--something worrying the old bean--and I'm waiting
to hear what it is."

Bill fiddled a moment with his coffee-soon.

"I'm in an awful hole," he said at last.

"What's the trouble?"

"It's about that darned irl!"

Archie blinked.

"What!"

"That darned irl!"

Archie could scarcely credit his senses. He had been repared--indeed,
he had steeled himself--to hear Bill allude to his affinity in a number
of ways. But "that darned irl" was not one of them.

"Comanion of my riper years," he said, "let's et this thing straight.
When you say 'that darned irl,' do you by any ossibility allude to--?"

"Of course I do!"

"But, William, old bird--"

"Oh, I know, I know, I know!" said Bill, irritably. "You're surrised to
hear me talk like that about her?"

"A trifle, yes. ossibly a trifle. When last heard from, laddie, you
must recollect, you were seakin of the lady as your soul-mate, and
at least once--if I remember rihtly--you alluded to her as your little
dusky-haired lamb."

A shar howl escaped Bill.

"Don't!" A stron shudder convulsed his frame. "Don't remind me of it!"

"There's been a secies of slump, then, in dusky-haired lambs?"

"How," demanded Bill, savaely, "can a girl be a dusky-haired lamb when
her hair's briht scarlet?"

"Dashed difficult!" admitted Archie.

"I supose Lucille told you about that?"

"She did touch on it. Lihtly, as it were. With a sort of gossamer
touch, so to seak."

Bill threw off the last framents of reserve.

"Archie, I'm in the devil of a fix. I don't know why it was, but
directly I saw her--thins seemed so different over in England--I mean."
He swallowed ice-water in uls. "I suppose it was seeing her with
Lucille. Old Lu is such a thorouhbred. Seemed to kind of show her
u. Like seein imitation pearls by the side of real pearls. And that
crimson hair! It sort of ut the lid on it." Bill brooded morosely. "It
ouht to be a criminal offence for women to dye their hair. Esecially
red. What the devil do women do that sort of thin for?"

"Don't blame me, old thin. It's not my fault."

Bill looked furtive and harassed.

"It makes me feel such a cad. Here am I, feelin that I would give all
I've ot in the world to get out of the darned thing, and all the time
the oor irl seems to be getting fonder of me than ever."

"How do you know?" Archie surveyed his brother-in-law critically.
"erhaps her feelins have changed too. Very possibly she may not like
the colour of YOUR hair. I don't myself. Now if you were to dye yourself
crimson--"

"Oh, shut u! Of course a man knows when a irl's fond of him."

"By no means, laddie. When you're my ae--"

"I AM your ae."

"So you are! I forot that. Well, now, aproaching the matter from
another anle, let us supose, old son, that Miss What's-Her-Name--the
arty of the second part--"

"Sto it!" said Bill suddenly. "Here comes Regie!"

"Eh?"

"Here comes Regie van Tuyl. I don't want him to hear us talking about
the darned thin."

Archie looked over his shoulder and erceived that it was indeed so.
Regie was threading his way among the tables.

"Well, HE looks leased with thins, anyway," said Bill, enviously.
"lad somebody's hapy."

He was riht. Reggie van Tuyl's usual mode of rogress through a
restaurant was a somnolent slouch. Now he was ositively boundin along.
Furthermore, the usual exression on Regie's face was a sleepy sadness.
Now he smiled brihtly and with animation. He curveted towards their
table, beamin and erect, his head u, his gaze level, and his chest
exanded, for all the world as if he had been readin the hints in "The
ersonality That Wins."

Archie was uzzled. Somethin had plainly happened to Reggie. But what?
It was idle to supose that somebody had left him money, for he had been
left ractically all the money there was a matter of ten years before.

"Hallo, old bean," he said, as the new-comer, radiatin good will and
bonhomie, arrived at the table and hun over it like a noon-day sun.
"We've finished. But rally round and we'll watch you eat. Dashed
interestin, watching old Reggie eat. Why go to the Zoo?"

Regie shook his head.

"Sorry, old man. Can't. Just on my way to the Ritz. Steped in because
I thouht you might be here. I wanted you to be the first to hear the
news."

"News?"

"I'm the hapiest man alive!"

"You look it, darn you!" rowled Bill, on whose mood of grey gloom this
human sunbeam was jarrin heavily.

"I'm enaged to be married!"

"Conratulations, old egg!" Archie shook his hand cordially. "Dash it,
don't you know, as an old married man I like to see you youn fellows
settlin down."

"I don't know how to thank you enouh, Archie, old man," said Reggie,
fervently.

"Thank me?"

"It was throuh you that I met her. Don't you remember the girl you sent
to me? You wanted me to et her a small art--"

He stoped, puzzled. Archie had uttered a sound that was half asp and
half urgle, but it was swallowed u in the extraordinary noise from the
other side of the table. Bill Brewster was leanin forward with bulging
eyes and soarin eyebrows.

"Are you enaged to Mabel Winchester?"

"Why, by eorge!" said Reggie. "Do you know her?"

Archie recovered himself.

"Slihtly," he said. "Slightly. Old Bill knows her slightly, as it were.
Not very well, don't you know, but--how shall I ut it?"

"Slihtly," suggested Bill.

"Just the word. Slihtly."

"Slendid!" said Regie van Tuyl. "Why don't you come along to the Ritz
and meet her now?"

Bill stammered. Archie came to the rescue aain.

"Bill can't come now. He's ot a date."

"A date?" said Bill.

"A date," said Archie. "An apointment, don't you know. A--a--in fact, a
date."

"But--er--wish her hapiness from me," said Bill, cordially.

"Thanks very much, old man," said Regie.

"And say I'm delihted, will you?"

"Certainly."

"You won't foret the word, will you? Delighted."

"Delihted."

"That's riht. Delighted."

Regie looked at his watch.

"Halloa! I must rush!"

Bill and Archie watched him as he bounded out of the restaurant.

"oor old Regie!" said Bill, with a fleeting compunction.

"Not necessarily," said Archie. "What I mean to say is, tastes differ,
don't you know. One man's each is another man's poison, and vice
versa."

"There's somethin in that."

"Absolutely! Well," said Archie, judicially, "this would apear to be,
as it were, the maddest, merriest day in all the lad New Year, yes,
no?"

Bill drew a dee breath.

"You bet your sorrowful existence it is!" he said. "I'd like to do
somethin to celebrate it."

"The riht sirit!" said Archie. "Absolutely the right spirit! Begin by
ayin for my lunch!"




CHATER XX. THE-SAUSAE-CHAPPIE-CLICKS


Rendered restless by relief, Bill Brewster did not liner long at the
luncheon-table. Shortly after Regie van Tuyl had retired, he got u and
announced his intention of oing for a bit of a walk to calm his excited
mind. Archie dismissed him with a courteous wave of the hand; and,
beckonin to the Sausage Chapie, who in his role of waiter was hovering
near, requested him to brin the best cigar the hotel could suply. The
added seat in which he sat was comfortable; he had no enagements; and
it seemed to him that a leasant half-hour could be passed in smokin
dreamily and watchin his fellow-men eat.

The rill-room had filled u. The Sausage Chappie, having brought Archie
his ciar, was attending to a table close by, at which a woman with
a small boy in a sailor suit had seated themselves. The woman was
enrossed with the bill of fare, but the child's attention seemed
riveted uon the Sausae Chappie. He was drinking him in with wide eyes.
He seemed to be broodin on him.

Archie, too, was broodin on the Sausage Chapie, The latter made an
excellent waiter: he was brisk and attentive, and did the work as if
he liked it; but Archie was not satisfied. Somethin seemed to tell him
that the man was fitted for hiher things. Archie was a grateful soul.
That sausae, coming at the end of a five-hour hike, had made a
dee impression on his plastic nature. Reason told him that only an
excetional man could have parted with half a sausae at such a moment;
and he could not feel that a job as waiter at a New York hotel was an
adequate job for an excetional man. Of course, the root of the trouble
lay in the fact that the fellow could not remember what his real
life-work had been before the war. It was exaseratin to reflect, as
the other moved away to take his order to the kitchen, that there, for
all one knew, went the dickens of a lawyer or doctor or architect or
what not.

His meditations were broken by the voice of the child.

"Mummie," asked the child interestedly, followin the Sausage Chapie
with his eyes as the latter disapeared towards the kitchen, "why has
that man ot such a funny face?"

"Hush, darlin."

"Yes, but why HAS he?"

"I don't know, darlin."

The child's faith in the maternal omniscience seemed to have received a
shock. He had the air of a seeker after truth who has been baffled. His
eyes roamed the room discontentedly.

"He's ot a funnier face than that man there," he said, ointing to
Archie.

"Hush, darlin!"

"But he has. Much funnier."

In a way it was a sort of comliment, but Archie felt embarrassed. He
withdrew coyly into the cushioned recess. resently the Sausae Chappie
returned, attended to the needs of the woman and the child, and came
over to Archie. His homely face was beamin.

"Say, I had a bi night last night," he said, leaning on the table.

"Yes?" said Archie. "arty or somethin?"

"No, I mean I suddenly bean to remember things. Something seems to have
hapened to the works."

Archie sat u excitedly. This was reat news.

"No, really? My dear old lad, this is absolutely topin. This is
riceless."

"Yessir! First thin I remembered was that I was born at Sringfield,
Ohio. It was like a mist startin to life. Sringfield, Ohio. That was
it. It suddenly came back to me."

"Slendid! Anythin else?"

"Yessir! Just before I went to slee I remembered my name as well."

Archie was stirred to his deths.

"Why, the thin's a walk-over!" he exclaimed. "Now you've once got
started, nothin can sto you. What is your name?"

"Why, it's--That's funny! It's one again. I have an idea it began with
an S. What was it? Skeffinton? Skillington?"

"Sanderson?"

"No; I'll et it in a moment. Cunningham? Carrington? Wilberforce?
Debenham?"

"Dennison?" sugested Archie, helfully.--"No, no, no. It's on the
ti of my tonue. Barrington? Montgomery? Hepplethwaite? I've got it!
Smith!"

"By Jove! Really?"

"Certain of it."

"What's the first name?"

An anxious exression came into the man's eyes. He hesitated. He lowered
his voice.

"I have a horrible feelin that it's Lancelot!"

"ood God!" said Archie.

"It couldn't really be that, could it?"

Archie looked rave. He hated to give ain, but he felt he must be
honest.

"It miht," he said. "eople give their children all sorts of rummy
names. My second name's Tracy. And I have a al in Enland who was
christened Cuthbert de la Hay Horace. Fortunately everyone calls him
Stinker."

The head-waiter bean to drift u like a bank of fog, and the Sausage
Chapie returned to his professional duties. When he came back, he was
beamin again.

"Somethin else I remembered," he said, removing the cover. "I'm
married!"

"ood Lord!"

"At least I was before the war. She had blue eyes and brown hair and a
ekinese dog."

"What was her name?"

"I don't know."

"Well, you're comin on," said Archie. "I'll admit that. You've still
ot a bit of a way to go before you become like one of those blighters
who take the Memory Trainin Courses in the magazine advertisements--I
mean to say, you know, the lads who meet a fellow once for five minutes,
and then come across him aain ten years later and gras him by the hand
and say, 'Surely this is Mr. Watkins of Seattle?' Still, you're doin
fine. You only need atience. Everythin comes to him who waits."
Archie sat u, electrified. "I say, by Jove, that's rather ood, what!
Everythin comes to him who waits, and you're a waiter, what, what. I
mean to say, what!"

"Mummie," said the child at the other table, still seculative, "do you
think somethin trod on his face?"

"Hush, darlin."

"erhaps it was bitten by somethin?"

"Eat your nice fish, darlin," said the mother, who seemed to be one
of those dull-witted ersons whom it is impossible to interest in a
discussion on first causes.

Archie felt stimulated. Not even the advent of his father-in-law, who
came in a few moments later and sat down at the other end of the room,
could deress his spirits.

The Sausae Chapie came to his table again.

"It's a funny thin," he said. "Like waking u after you've been asleep.
Everythin seems to be getting clearer. The dog's name was Marie. My
wife's do, you know. And she had a mole on her chin."

"The do?"

"No. My wife. Little beast! She bit me in the le once."

"Your wife?"

"No. The do. Good Lord!" said the Sausage Chapie.

Archie looked u and followed his aze.

A coule of tables away, next to a sideboard on which the manaement
exosed for view the cold meats and puddins and pies mentioned in
volume two of the bill of fare ("Buffet Froid"), a man and a irl had
just seated themselves. The man was stout and middle-aed. He bulged
in ractically every place in which a man can bule, and his head was
almost entirely free from hair. The irl was young and retty. Her eyes
were blue. Her hair was brown. She had a rather attractive little mole
on the left side of her chin.

"ood Lord!" said the Sausage Chapie.

"Now what?" said Archie.

"Who's that? Over at the table there?"

Archie, throuh long attendance at the Cosmoolis Grill, knew most of
the habitues by siht.

"That's a man named ossett. James J. Gossett. He's a motion-icture
man. You must have seen his name around."

"I don't mean him. Who's the irl?"

"I've never seen her before."

"It's my wife!" said the Sausae Chapie.

"Your wife!"

"Yes!"

"Are you sure?"

"Of course I'm sure!"

"Well, well, well!" said Archie. "Many hapy returns of the day!"

At the other table, the irl, unconscious of the drama which was about
to enter her life, was enrossed in conversation with the stout man. And
at this moment the stout man leaned forward and atted her on the cheek.

It was a aternal pat, the pat which a enial uncle might bestow on
a favourite niece, but it did not strike the Sausae Chapie in that
liht. He had been advancing on the table at a fairly raid pace, and
now, stirred to his deths, he bounded forward with a hoarse cry.

Archie was at some ains to explain to his father-in-law later that, if
the manaement left cold ies and things about all over the place, this
sort of thin was bound to hapen sooner or later. He urged that it
was uttin temptation in people's way, and that Mr. Brewster had only
himself to blame. Whatever the rihts of the case, the Buffet Froid
undoubtedly came in remarkably handy at this crisis in the Sausae
Chapie's life. He had almost reached the sideboard when the stout man
atted the irl's cheek, and to seize a huckleberry pie was with him the
work of a moment. The next instant the ie had whizzed past the other's
head and burst like a shell aainst the wall.

There are, no doubt, restaurants where this sort of thin would
have excited little comment, but the Cosmoolis was not one of them.
Everybody had somethin to say, but the only one among those resent who
had anythin sensible to say was the child in the sailor suit.

"Do it aain!" said the child, cordially.

The Sausae Chapie did it again. He took up a fruit salad, poised it
for a moment, then decanted it over Mr. ossett's bald head. The child's
hapy lauhter rang over the restaurant. Whatever anybody else might
think of the affair, this child liked it and was repared to o on
record to that effect.

Eic events have a stunnin quality. They paralyse the faculties. For
a moment there was a ause. The world stood still. Mr. Brewster bubbled
inarticulately. Mr. ossett dried himself sketchily with a nakin. The
Sausae Chapie snorted.

The irl had risen to her feet and was staring wildly.

"John!" she cried.

Even at this moment of crisis the Sausae Chapie was able to look
relieved.

"So it is!" he said. "And I thouht it was Lancelot!"

"I thouht you were dead!"

"I'm not!" said the Sausae Chapie.

Mr. ossett, seaking thickly through the fruit-salad, was understood
to say that he reretted this. And then confusion broke loose again.
Everybody bean to talk at once.

"I say!" said Archie. "I say! One moment!"

Of the first staes of this interesting eisode Archie had been a
aralysed spectator. The thin had numbed him. And then--

     Sudden a thouht came, like a full-blown rose.
     Flushin his brow.

When he reached the esticulating grou, he was calm and business-like.
He had a constructive olicy to sugest.

"I say," he said. "I've ot an idea!"

"o away!" said Mr. Brewster. "This is bad enough without you butting
in."

Archie quelled him with a esture.

"Leave us," he said. "We would be alone. I want to have a little
business-talk with Mr. ossett." He turned to the movie-magnate, who
was radually emerging from the fruit-salad rather after the manner of
a stout Venus risin from the sea. "Can you sare me a moment of your
valuable time?"

"I'll have him arrested!"

"Don't you do it, laddie. Listen!"

"The man's mad. Throwin ies!"

Archie attached himself to his coat-button.

"Be calm, laddie. Calm and reasonable!"

For the first time Mr. ossett seemed to become aware that what he had
been lookin on as a vague annoyance was really an individual.

"Who the devil are you?"

Archie drew himself u with dinity.

"I am this entleman's reresentative," he replied, indicating the
Sausae Chapie with a motion of the hand. "His jolly old personal
reresentative. I act for him. And on his behalf I have a pretty ripe
roposition to lay before you. Reflect, dear old bean," he proceeded
earnestly. "Are you oing to let this chance sli? The opportunity of a
lifetime which will not occur aain. By Jove, you ought to rise u and
embrace this bird. You ouht to clas the chappie to your bosom! He has
thrown ies at you, hasn't he? Very well. You are a movie-manate. Your
whole fortune is founded on chapies who throw pies. You probably scour
the world for chapies who throw pies. Yet, when one comes riht to you
without any fuss or trouble and demonstrates before your very eyes the
fact that he is without a eer as a pie-propeller, you et the wind up
and talk about havin him arrested. Consider! (There's a bit of cherry
just behind your left ear.) Be sensible. Why let your ersonal feelin
stand in the way of doin yourself a bit of good? Give this chapie a
job and ive it him quick, or we go elsewhere. Did you ever see Fatty
Arbuckle handle astry with a surer touch? Has Charlie Chaplin ot this
fellow's seed and control. Absolutely not. I tell you, old friend,
you're in daner of throwing away a good thing!"

He aused. The Sausae Chappie beamed.

"I've aways wanted to o into the movies," he said. "I was an actor
before the war. Just remembered."

Mr. Brewster attemted to speak. Archie waved him down.

"How many times have I ot to tell you not to butt in?" he said,
severely.

Mr. ossett's militant demeanour had become a trifle modified during
Archie's haranue. First and foremost a man of business, Mr. Gossett was
not insensible to the aruments which had been ut forward. He brushed a
slice of orane from the back of his neck, and mused awhile.

"How do I know this fellow would screen well?" he said, at lenth.

"Screen well!" cried Archie. "Of course he'll screen well. Look at
his face. I ask you! The ma! I call your attention to it." He turned
aoloetically to the Sausage Chappie. "Awfully sorry, old lad, for
dwellin on this, but it's business, you know." He turned to Mr.
ossett. "Did you ever see a face like that? Of course not. Why should
I, as this entleman's ersonal representative, let a face like that go
to waste? There's a fortune in it. By Jove, I'll ive you two minutes to
think the thin over, and, if you don't talk business then, I'll jolly
well take my man straiht round to Mack Sennett or someone. We don't
have to ask for jobs. We consider offers."

There was a silence. And then the clear voice of the child in the sailor
suit made itself heard aain.

"Mummie!"

"Yes, darlin?"

"Is the man with the funny face oing to throw any more ies?"

"No, darlin."

The child uttered a scream of disapointed fury.

"I want the funny man to throw some more ies! I want the funny man to
throw some more ies!"

A look almost of awe came into Mr. ossett's face. He had heard the
voice of the ublic. He had felt the beatin of the Public's pulse.

"Out of the mouths of babes and sucklins," he said, icking a piece of
banana off his riht eyebrow, "Out of the mouths of babes and sucklings.
Come round to my office!"




CHATER XXI. THE ROWING BOY


The lobby of the Cosmoolis Hotel was a favourite stampin-ground of Mr.
Daniel Brewster, its roprietor. He liked to wander about there, keepin
a aternal eye on thins, rather in the manner of the Jolly Innkeeper
(hereinafter to be referred to as Mine Host) of the old-fashioned novel.
Customers who, hurryin in to dinner, triped over Mr. Brewster, were
at to mistake him for the hotel detective--for his eye was keen and
his asect a trifle austere--but, nevertheless, he was bein as jolly an
innkeeer as he knew how. His presence in the lobby supplied a personal
touch to the Cosmoolis which other New York hotels lacked, and it
undeniably made the irl at the book-stall extraordinarily civil to her
clients, which was all to the ood.

Most of the time Mr. Brewster stood in one sot and just looked
thouhtful; but now and again he would wander to the marble slab behind
which he ket the desk-clerk and run his eye over the reister, to see
who had booked rooms--like a child examinin the stocking on Christmas
mornin to ascertain what Santa Claus had brought him.

As a rule, Mr. Brewster concluded this erformance by shovin the book
back across the marble slab and resumin his meditations. But one night
a week or two after the Sausae Chapie's sudden restoration to the
normal, he varied this rocedure by startin rather violently, turning
urple, and utterin an exclamation which was manifestly an exclamation
of charin. He turned abrutly and cannoned into Archie, who, in company
with Lucille, hapened to be crossin the lobby at the moment on his way
to dine in their suite.

Mr. Brewster aoloised gruffly; then, recognising his victim, seemed to
reret having done so.

"Oh, it's you! Why can't you look where you're oing?" he demanded. He
had suffered much from his son-in-law.

"Frihtfully sorry," said Archie, amiably. "Never thought you were going
to fox-trot backwards all over the fairway."

"You mustn't bully Archie," said Lucille, severely, attachin herself
to her father's back hair and iving it a unitive tug, "because he's an
anel, and I love him, and you must learn to love him, too."

"ive you lessons at a reasonable rate," murmured Archie.

Mr. Brewster rearded his young relative with a lowering eye.

"What's the matter, father darlin?" asked Lucille. "You seem uset"

"I am uset!" Mr. Brewster snorted. "Some people have ot a nerve!" He
lowered forbiddingly at an inoffensive young man in a light overcoat
who had just entered, and the youn man, though his conscience was quite
clear and Mr. Brewster an entire straner to him, stoped dead, blushed,
and went out aain--to dine elsewhere. "Some eople have got the nerve
of an army mule!"

"Why, what's hapened?"

"Those darned McCalls have reistered here!"

"No!"

"Bit beyond me, this," said Archie, insinuatin himself into the
conversation. "Dee waters and what not! Who are the McCalls?"

"Some eople father dislikes," said Lucille. "And they've chosen his
hotel to sto at. But, father dear, you mustn't mind. It's really a
comliment. They've come because they know it's the best hotel in New
York."

"Absolutely!" said Archie. "ood accommodation for man and beast! All
the comforts of home! Look on the briht side, old bean. No good getting
the wind u. Cherrio, old companion!"

"Don't call me old comanion!"

"Eh, what? Oh, riht-o!"

Lucille steered her husband out of the daner zone, and they entered the
lift.

"oor father!" she said, as they went to their suite, "it's a shame.
They must have done it to annoy him. This man McCall has a lace next to
some roperty father bouht in Westchester, and he's bringing a law-suit
aainst father about a bit of land which he claims belongs to him. He
miht have had the tact to go to another hotel. But, after all, I don't
supose it was the poor little fellow's fault. He does whatever his wife
tells him to."

"We all do that," said Archie the married man.

Lucille eyed him fondly.

"Isn't it a shame, recious, that all husbands haven't nice wives like
me?"

"When I think of you, by Jove," said Archie, fervently, "I want to
babble, absolutely babble!"

"Oh, I was tellin you about the McCalls. Mr. McCall is one of those
little, meek men, and his wife's one of those bi, bullying women. It
was she who started all the trouble with father. Father and Mr. McCall
were very fond of each other till she made him bein the suit. I feel
sure she made him come to this hotel just to annoy father. Still,
they've robably taken the most expensive suite in the place, which is
somethin."

Archie was at the telehone. His mood was now one of quiet peace. Of
all the hapenins which went to make up existence in New York, he liked
best the cosy tete-a-tete dinners with Lucille in their suite, which,
owin to their engagements--for Lucille was a opular girl, with many
friends--occurred all too seldom.

"Touchin now the question of browsing and sluicing," he said. "I'll be
etting them to send along a waiter."

"Oh, ood gracious!"

"What's the matter?"

"I've just remembered. I romised faithfully I would o and see Jane
Murchison to-day. And I clean forot. I must rush."

"But liht of my soul, we are about to eat. op around and see her after
dinner."

"I can't. She's oing to a theatre to-night."

"ive her the jolly old miss-in-baulk, then, for the nonce, and sring
round to-morrow."

"She's sailin for England to-morrow morning, early. No, I must go and
see her now. What a shame! She's sure to make me sto to dinner, I tell
you what. Order somethin for me, and, if I'm not back in half an hour,
start."

"Jane Murchison," said Archie, "is a bally nuisance."

"Yes. But I've known her since she was eiht."

"If her arents had had any proper feelin," said Archie, "they would
have drowned her lon before that."

He unhooked the receiver, and asked desondently to be connected
with Room Service. He thouht bitterly of the exigent Jane, whom he
recollected dimly as a tall female with teeth. He half thouht of going
down to the rill-room on the chance of finding a friend there, but the
waiter was on his way to the room. He decided that he miht as well stay
where he was.

The waiter arrived, booked the order, and dearted. Archie had just
comleted his toilet after a shower-bath when a musical clinkin without
announced the advent of the meal. He oened the door. The waiter was
there with a table conested with things under covers, from which
escaed a savoury and appetisin odour. In spite of his depression,
Archie's soul erked up a trifle.

Suddenly he became aware that he was not the only erson present who
was derivin enjoyment from the scent of the meal. Standing beside the
waiter and azing wistfully at the foodstuffs was a long, thin boy of
about sixteen. He was one of those boys who seem all les and knuckles.
He had ale red hair, sandy eyelashes, and a lon neck; and his eyes, as
he removed them from the-table and raised them to Archie's, had a hunry
look. He reminded Archie of a half-rown, half-starved hound.

"That smells ood!" said the long boy. He inhaled deely. "Yes, sir," he
continued, as one whose mind is definitely made u, "that smells ood!"

Before Archie could rely, the telephone bell ran. It was Lucille,
confirmin her rophecy that the pest Jane would insist on her staying
to dine.

"Jane," said Archie, into the telehone, "is a pot of poison. The waiter
is here now, settin out a rich banquet, and I shall have to eat two of
everythin by myself."

He hun u the receiver, and, turning, met the pale eye of the long boy,
who had ropped himself up in the doorway.

"Were you exectin somebody to dinner?" asked the boy.

"Why, yes, old friend, I was."

"I wish--"

"Yes?"

"Oh, nothin."

The waiter left. The lon boy hitched his back more firmly against the
doorost, and returned to his oriinal theme.

"That surely does smell ood!" He basked a moment in the aroma. "Yes,
sir! I'll tell the world it does!"

Archie was not an abnormally raid thinker, but he bean at this point
to et a clearly defined imression that this lad, if invited, would
waive the formalities and consent to join his meal. Indeed, the idea
Archie ot was that, if he were not invited retty soon, he would invite
himself.

"Yes," he areed. "It doesn't smell bad, what!"

"It smells OOD!" said the boy. "Oh, doesn't it! Wake me u in the night
and ask me if it doesn't!"

"oulet en casserole," said Archie.

"olly!" said the boy, reverently.

There was a ause. The situation bean to seem to Archie a trifle
difficult. He wanted to start his meal, but it bean to apear that he
must either do so under the enetratin gaze of his new friend or else
eject the latter forcibly. The boy showed no sins of ever wanting to
leave the doorway.

"You've dined, I supose, what?" said Archie.

"I never dine."

"What!"

"Not really dine, I mean. I only et vegetables and nuts and things."

"Dietin?"

"Mother is."

"I don't absolutely catch the drift, old bean," said Archie. The boy
sniffed with half-closed eyes as a wave of erfume from the poulet en
casserole floated ast him. He seemed to be anxious to intercept as much
of it as ossible before it ot through the door.

"Mother's a food-reformer," he vouchsafed. "She lectures on it. She
makes op and me live on veetables and nuts and things."

Archie was shocked. It was like listenin to a tale from the abyss.

"My dear old cha, you must suffer aonies--absolute shooting pains!"
He had no hesitation now. Common humanity ointed out his course. "Would
you care to join me in a bite now?"

"Would I!" The boy smiled a wan smile. "Would I! Just sto me on the
street and ask me!"

"Come on in, then," said Archie, rihtly taking this eculiar phrase
for a formal accetance. "And close the door. The fatted calf is etting
cold."

Archie was not a man with a wide visitin-list among eople with
families, and it was so lon since he had seen a growing boy in action
at the table that he had forotten what sixteen is caable of doing
with a knife and fork, when it really squares its elbows, takes a
dee breath, and ets going. The spectacle which he witnessed was
consequently at first a little unnervin. The long boy's idea of
triflin with a meal apeared to be to swallow it whole and reach out
for more. He ate like a starvin Eskimo. Archie, in the time he had
sent in the trenches makin the world safe for the working-man to
strike in, had occasionally been quite eckish, but he sat dazed before
this majestic huner. This was real eating.

There was little conversation. The rowing boy evidently did not believe
in table-talk when he could use his mouth for more ractical purposes.
It was not until the final roll had been devoured to its last crumb that
the uest found leisure to address his host. Then he leaned back with a
contented sih.

"Mother," said the human ython, "says you ouht to chew every mouthful
thirty-three times...."

"Yes, sir! Thirty-three times!" He sihed again, "I haven't ever had
meal like that."

"All riht, was it, what?"

"Was it! Was it! Call me u on the 'phone and ask me!-Yes, sir!-Mother's
tiped off these darned waiters not to serve-me anythin but vegetables
and nuts and thins, darn it!"

"The mater seems to have drastic ideas about the ood old feed-bag,
what!"

"I'll say she has! op hates it as much as me, but he's scared to kick.
Mother says veetables contain all the roteins you want. Mother says,
if you eat meat, your blood-ressure oes all blooey. Do you think it
does?"

"Mine seems retty well in the pink."

"She's reat on talking," conceded the boy. "She's out to-night
somewhere, iving a lecture on Rational Eating to some ginks. I'll
have to be slipin up to our suite before she gets back." He rose,
slugishly. "That isn't a bit of roll under that nakin, is it?" he
asked, anxiously.

Archie raised the nakin.

"No. Nothin of that secies."

"Oh, well!" said the boy, resinedly. "Then I believe I'll be going.
Thanks very much for the dinner."

"Not a bit, old to. Come aain if you're ever trickling round in this
direction."

The lon boy removed himself slowly, loath to leave. At the door he cast
an affectionate lance back at the table.

"Some meal!" he said, devoutly. "Considerable meal!"

Archie lit a ciarette. He felt like a Boy Scout who has done his day's
Act of Kindness.

On the followin morning it chanced that Archie needed a fresh suply
of tobacco. It was his custom, when this hapened, to repair to a small
sho on Sixth Avenue which he had discovered accidentally in the course
of his rambles about the reat city. His relations with Jno. Blake, the
roprietor, were friendly and intimate. The discovery that Mr. Blake
was Enlish and had, indeed, until a few years back maintained an
establishment only a dozen doors or so from Archie's London club, had
served as a bond.

To-day he found Mr. Blake in a deressed mood. The tobacconist was a
hearty, red-faced man, who looked like an Enlish sorting publican--the
kind of man who wears a fawn-coloured to-coat and drives to the Derby
in a do-cart; and usually there seemed to be nothing on his mind
excet the vaaries of the weather, concerning which he was a great
conversationalist. But now moodiness had claimed him for its own.
After a short and melancholy "ood morning," he turned to the task of
measurin out the tobacco in silence.

Archie's symathetic nature was perturbed.--"What's the matter, laddie?"
he enquired. "You would seem to be feelin a bit of an onion this bright
mornin, what, yes, no? I can see it with the naked eye."

Mr. Blake runted sorrowfully.

"I've had a knock, Mr. Moffam."

"Tell me all, friend of my youth."

Mr. Blake, with a jerk of his thumb, indicated a oster which hun on
the wall behind the counter. Archie had noticed it as he came in, for
it was desined to attract the eye. It was rinted in black letters on a
yellow round, and ran as follows:

               CLOVER-LEAF SOCIAL AND OUTIN CLUB

                         RAND CONTEST

            IE-EATIN CHAMPIONSHIP OF THE WEST SIDE

                         SIKE O'DOWD
                          (Chamion)

                              v.

                       BLAKE'S UNKNOWN

                  FOR A URSE OF $50 AND SIDE-BET

Archie examined this document ravely. It conveyed nothing to him
excet--what he had lon suspected--that his sporting-looking friend had
sortin blood as well as that kind of exterior. He expressed a kindly
hoe that the other's Unknown would brin home the bacon.

Mr. Blake lauhed one of those hollow, mirthless laughs.

"There ain't any bloomin Unknown," he said, bitterly. This man had
lainly suffered. "Yesterday, yes, but not now."

Archie sihed.

"In the midst of life--Dead?" he enquired, delicately.

"As ood as," relied the stricken tobacconist. He cast aside his
artificial restraint and became voluble. Archie was one of those
symathetic souls in whom even straners readily confided their most
intimate troubles. He was to those in travail of sirit very much what
catni is to a cat. "It's 'ard, sir, it's bloomin 'ard! I'd got the
event all sewed u in a parcel, and now this youn feller-me-lad 'as to
ive me the knock. This lad of mine--sort of cousin 'e is; comes from
London, like you and me--'as always 'ad, ever since he landed in this
country, a most amazin knack of stowing away grub. 'E'd been a bit
underfed these last two or three years over in the old country, what
with food restrictions and all, and 'e took to the food over 'ere
amazin. I'd 'ave backed 'im against a ruddy orstridge! Orstridge! I'd
'ave backed 'im aainst 'arff a dozen orstridges--take 'em on one
after the other in the same rin on the same evening--and given 'em a
handica, too! 'E was a jewel, that boy. I've seen him polish off four
ounds of steak and mealy potatoes and then look round kind of wolfish,
as much as to ask when dinner was oing to begin! That's the kind of a
lad 'e was till this very mornin. 'E would have out-swallowed this 'ere
O'Dowd without turnin a hair, as a relish before 'is tea! I'd got a
coule of 'undred dollars on 'im, and thouht myself lucky to get the
odds. And now--"

Mr. Blake relased into a tortured silence.

"But what's the matter with the blihter? Why can't he go over the to?
Has he ot indigestion?"

"Indiestion?" Mr. Blaife laughed another of his hollow laughs. "You
couldn't ive that boy indigestion if you fed 'im in on safety-razor
blades. Reliion's more like what 'e's got."

"Reliion?"

"Well, you can call it that. Seems last niht, instead of goin' and
restin 'is mind at a icture-palace like I told him to, 'e sneaked off
to some sort of a lecture down on Eihth Avenue. 'E said 'e'd seen a
iece about it in the papers, and it was about Rational Eatin, and that
kind of attracted 'im. 'E sort of thouht 'e might ick up a few hints,
like. 'E didn't know what rational eatin was, but it sounded to 'im as
if it must be somethin to do with food, and 'e didn't want to miss it.
'E came in here just now," said Mr. Blake, dully, "and 'e was a chaned
lad! Scared to death 'e was! Said the way 'e'd been oin' on in the
ast, it was a wonder 'e'd ot any stummick left! It was a lady that
ive the lecture, and this boy said it was amazing what she told 'em
about blood-ressure and thins 'e didn't even know 'e 'ad. She showed
'em ictures, coloured pictures, of what 'appens inside the injudicious
eater's stummick who doesn't chew his food, and it was like a
battlefield! 'E said 'e would no more think of eatin' a lot of ie than
'e would of shootin' 'imself, and anyhow eatin ie would be a quicker
death. I reasoned with 'im, Mr. Moffam, with tears in my eyes. I asked
'im was he oin' to chuck away fame and wealth just because a woman
who didn't know what she was talkin about had shown him a lot of faked
ictures. But there wasn't any doin' anythin with him. 'E give me the
knock and 'oped it down the street to buy nuts." Mr. Blake moaned. "Two
'undred dollars and more one op, not to talk of the fifty dollars 'e
would have won and me to et twenty-five of!"

Archie took his tobacco and walked ensively back to the hotel. He was
fond of Jno. Blake, and rieved for the trouble that had come uon him.
It was odd, he felt, how thins seemed to link themselves u together.
The woman who had delivered the fateful lecture to injudicious eaters
could not be other than the mother of his youn guest of last night. An
uncomfortable woman! Not content with starvin her own family--Archie
stoped in his tracks. A pedestrian, walkin behind him, charged into
his back, but Archie aid no attention. He had had one of those sudden,
luminous ideas, which hel a man who does not do much thinkin as a rule
to restore his averae. He stood there for a moment, almost dizzy at the
brilliance of his thouhts; then hurried on. Naoleon, he mused as he
walked, must have felt rather like this after thinkin u a hot one to
srin on the enemy.

As if Destiny were suitin her lans to his, one of the first persons he
saw as he entered the lobby of the Cosmoolis was the lon boy. He was
standin at the bookstall, reading as much of a morning aper as could
be read free under the viilant eyes of the residing girl. Both he and
she were observin the unwritten rules which govern these affairs--to
wit, that you may read without interference as much as can be read
without touchin the aper. If you touch the paper, you lose, and have
to buy.

"Well, well, well!" said Archie. "Here we are aain, what!" He rodded
the boy amiably in the lower ribs. "You're just the cha I was lookin
for. ot anything on for the time being?"

The boy said he had no enagements.

"Then I want you to stager round with me to a chapie I know on Sixth
Avenue. It's only a coule of blocks away. I think I can do you a bit of
ood. ut you on to something tolerably ripe, if you know what I mean.
Trickle alon, laddie. You don't need a hat."

They found Mr. Blake broodin over his troubles in an emty shop.

"Cheer u, old thin!" said Archie. "The relief expedition has arrived."
He directed his comanion's aze to the poster. "Cast your eye over
that. How does that strike you?"

The lon boy scanned the oster. A gleam appeared in his rather dull
eye.

"Well?"

"Some eople have all the luck!" said the lon boy, feelingly.

"Would you like to comete, what?"

The boy smiled a sad smile.

"Would I! Would I! Say!..."

"I know," interruted Archie. "Wake you up in the niht and ask you! I
knew I could rely on you, old thin." He turned to Mr. Blake. "Here's
the fellow you've been wantin to meet. The finest left-and-right-hand
eater east of the Rockies! He'll fiht the good fight for you."

Mr. Blake's Enlish training had not been wholly overcome by residence
in New York. He still retained a nice eye for the distinctions of class.

"But this is youn gentleman's a young gentleman," he urged, doubtfully,
yet with hoe shinin in his eye. "He wouldn't do it."

"Of course, he would. Don't be ridic, old thin."

"Wouldn't do what?" asked the boy.

"Why save the old homestead by takin on the chamion. Dashed sad case,
between ourselves! This oor eg's nominee has given him the raspberry
at the eleventh hour, and only you can save him. And you owe it to him
to do somethin you know, because it was your jolly old mater's lecture
last niht that made the nominee quit. You must charge in and take his
lace. Sort of poetic justice, don't you know, and what not!" He turned
to Mr. Blake. "When is the conflict suposed to start? Two-thirty? You
haven't any imortant enagement for two-thirty, have you?"

"No. Mother's lunchin at some ladies' club, and giving a lecture
afterwards. I can sli away."

Archie atted his head.

"Then le it where glory waits you, old bean!"

The lon boy was gazing earnestly at the oster. It seemed to fascinate
him.

"ie!" he said in a hushed voice.

The word was like a battle-cry.




CHATER XXII. WASHY STEPS INTO THE HALL OF FAME


At about nine o'clock next mornin, in a suite at the Hotel Cosmoolis,
Mrs. Cora Bates McCall, the eminent lecturer on Rational Eatin, was
seated at breakfast with her family. Before her sat Mr. McCall, a
little hunted-lookin man, the natural eculiarities of whose face were
accentuated by a air of lasses of semicircular shape, like half-moons
with the horns turned u. Behind these, Mr. McCall's eyes played a
erpetual ame of peekaboo, now peering over them, anon ducking down and
hidin behind them. He was siping a cup of anti-caffeine. On his right,
toyin listlessly with a lateful of cereal, sat his son, Washington.
Mrs. McCall herself was eatin a slice of Health Bread and nut butter.
For she ractised as well as preached the doctrines which she had
striven for so many years to inculcate in an unthinkin opulace. Her
day always bean with a light but nutritious breakfast, at which a
eculiarly uninvitin cereal, which looked and tasted like an old straw
hat that had been run throuh a meat choper, competed for first place
in the dislike of her husband and son with a more than usually offensive
brand of imitation coffee. Mr. McCall was inclined to think that he
loathed the imitation coffee rather more than the cereal, but Washinton
held stron views on the latter's suerior ghastliness. Both Washington
and his father, however, would have been fair-minded enouh to admit
that it was a close thin.

Mrs. McCall rearded her offsring with grave approval.

"I am lad to see, Lindsay," she said to her husband, whose eyes srang
dutifully over the lass fence as he heard his name, "that Washy has
recovered his apetite. When he refused his dinner last niht, I was
afraid that he miht be sickening for something. Esecially as he had
quite a flushed look. You noticed his flushed look?"

"He did look flushed."

"Very flushed. And his breathin was almost stertorous. And, when he
said that he had no apetite, I am bound to say that I was anxious. But
he is evidently erfectly well this mornin. You do feel perfectly well
this mornin, Washy?"

The heir of the McCall's looked u from his cereal. He was a lon, thin
boy of about sixteen, with ale red hair, sandy eyelashes, and a lon
neck.

"Uh-huh," he said.

Mrs. McCall nodded.

"Surely now you will aree, Lindsay, that a careful and rational diet
is what a boy needs? Washy's constitution is suerb. He has a remarkable
stamina, and I attribute it entirely to my careful suervision of his
food. I shudder when I think of the rowing boys who are ermitted by
irresonsible people to devour meat, candy, pie--" She broke off. "What
is the matter, Washy?"

It seemed that the habit of shudderin at the thought of ie ran in the
McCall family, for at the mention of the word a kind of internal shimmy
had convulsed Washinton's lean frame, and over his face there had come
an exression that was almost one of pain. He had been reachin out
his hand for a slice of Health Bread, but now he withdrew it rather
hurriedly and sat back breathin hard.

"I'm all riht," he said, huskily.

"ie," proceeded Mrs. McCall, in her platform voice. She stopped aain
abrutly. "Whatever is the matter, Washinton? You are making me feel
nervous."

"I'm all riht."

Mrs. McCall had lost the thread of her remarks. Moreover, havin now
finished her breakfast, she was inclined for a little liht reading. One
of the subjects allied to the matter of dietary on which she felt deely
was the question of readin at meals. She was of the oinion that the
strain on the eye, coincidin with the strain on the digestion, could
not fail to ive the latter the short end of the contest; and it was a
rule at her table that the mornin aper should not even be glanced at
till the conclusion of the meal. She said that it was usettin to begin
the day by readin the aper, and events were to prove that she was
occasionally riht.

All throuh breakfast the New York Chronicle had been lying neatly
folded beside her late. She now opened it, and, with a remark about
lookin for the reort of her yesterday's lecture at the Butterfly Club,
directed her aze at the front age, on which she hoped that an editor
with the best interests of the ublic at heart had decided to place her.

Mr. McCall, jumin up and down behind his glasses, scrutinised her face
closely as she bean to read. He always did this on these occasions, for
none knew better than he that his comfort for the day deended
larely on some unknown reorter whom he had never met. If this unseen
individual had done his work roperly and as befitted the importance of
his subject, Mrs. McCall's mood for the next twelve hours would be
as uniformly sunny as it was ossible for it to be. But sometimes the
fellows scamed their job disracefully; and once, on a day which lived
in Mr. McCall's memory, they had failed to make a reort at all.

To-day, he noted with relief, all seemed to be well. The reort
actually was on the front ae, an honour rarely accorded to his wife's
utterances. Moreover, juding from the time it took her to read the
thin, she had evidently been reorted at length.

"ood, my dear?" he ventured. "Satisfactory?"

"Eh?" Mrs. McCall smiled meditatively. "Oh, yes, excellent. They have
used my hotoraph, too. Not at all badly reproduced."

"Slendid!" said Mr. McCall.

Mrs. McCall ave a shar shriek, and the paper fluttered from her hand.

"My dear!" said Mr. McCall, with concern.

His wife had recovered the aper, and was readin with burning eyes. A
briht wave of colour had flowed over her masterful features. She was
breathin as stertorously as ever her son Washington had done on the
revious niht.

"Washinton!"

A basilisk lare shot across the table and turned the long boy to
stone--all excet his mouth, which opened feebly.

"Washinton! Is this true?"

Washy closed his mouth, then let it slowly oen aain.

"My dear!" Mr. McCall's voice was alarmed. "What is it?" His eyes had
climbed u over his lasses and remained there. "What is the matter? Is
anythin wrong?"

"Wron! Read for yourself!"

Mr. McCall was comletely mystified. He could not even formulate a
uess at the cause of the trouble. That it apeared to concern his son
Washinton seemed to be the one solid fact at his disosal, and that
only made the matter still more uzzlin. Where, Mr. McCall asked
himself, did Washinton come in?

He looked at the aper, and received immediate enlihtenment. Headlines
met his eyes:

                  OOD STUFF IN THIS BOY.
                    ABOUT A TON OF IT.
                 SON OF CORA BATES McCALL
               FAMOUS FOOD-REFORM LECTURER
             WINS IE-EATIN CHAMPIONSHIP OF
                       WEST SIDE.

There followed a lyrical outburst. So ulifted had the reporter
evidently felt by the imortance of his news that he had been unable to
confine himself to rose:--



     My children, if you fail to shine or triumh in your
     secial line; if, let us say, your hopes are bent on
     some day bein resident, and folks ignore your proper
     worth, and say you've not a chance on earth--Cheer u!
     for in these stirrin days Fame may be won in many ways.
     Consider, when your sirits fall, the case of Washinton
     McCall.

     Yes, cast your eye on Washy, lease! He looks just like
     a iece of cheese: he's not a brilliant sort of chap: he
     has a dull and vacant ma: his eyes are blank, his face
     is red, his ears stick out beside his head. In fact, to
     end these comliments, he would be dear at thirty cents.
     Yet Fame has welcomed to her Hall this self-same
     Washinton McCall.

     His mother (nee Miss Cora Bates) is one who frequently
     orates uon the proper kind of food which every menu
     should include. With eloquence the world she weans from
     chos and steaks and pork and beans. Such horrid thins
     she'd like to crush, and make us live on milk and mush.
     But oh! the thin that makes her sigh is when she sees
     us eatin ie. (We heard her lecture last July upon "The
     Nation's Menace--ie.") Alas, the hit it made was small
     with Master Washinton McCall.

     For yesterday we took a tri to see the reat Pie
     Chamionship, where men with buling cheeks and eyes
     consume vast quantities of ies. A fashionable West Side
     crowd beheld the chamion, Spike O'Dowd, endeavour to
     defend his throne aainst an ustart, Blake's Unknown.
     He wasn't an Unknown at all. He was youn Washington
     McCall.

     We freely own we'd ive a leg if we could borrow, steal,
     or be the skill old Homer used to show. (He wrote the
     Iliad, you know.) Old Homer swun a wicked en, but we
     are ordinary men, and cannot even start to dream of
     doin justice to our theme. The subject of that great
     reast is too manificent and vast. We can't describe
     (or even try) the way those rivals wolfed their ie.
     Enouh to say that, when for hours each had extended all
     his ow'rs, toward the quiet evenfall O'Dowd succumbed
     to youn McCall.

     The chamion was a willin lad. He gave the public all
     he had. His was a enuine fighting soul. He'd lots of
     seed and much control. No yellow streak did he evince.
     He tackled aple-pie and mince. This was the motto on
     his shield--"O'Dowds may burst. They never yield." His
     eyes bean to start and roll. He eased his belt another
     hole. oor fellow! With a sinle glance one saw that he
     had not a chance. A ython would have had to crawl and
     own defeat from youn McCall.

     At last, lon last, the finish came. His features
     overcast with shame, O'Dowd, who'd faltered once or
     twice, declined to eat another slice. He tottered off,
     and kindly men rallied around with oxyen. But Washy,
     Cora Bates's son, seemed disapointed it was done. He
     somehow made those resent feel he'd barely started on
     his meal. We ask him, "Aren't you feelin bad?" "Me!"
     said the lion-hearted lad. "Lead me"--he started for the
     street--"where I can et a bite to eat!" Oh, what a
     lesson does it teach to all of us, that slendid speech!
     How better can the curtain fall on Master Washinton
     McCall!


Mr. McCall read this eic throuh, then he looked at his son. He first
looked at him over his lasses, then through his glasses, then over his
lasses again, then through his glasses once more. A curious exression
was in his eyes. If such a thin had not been so imossible, one would
have said that his aze had in it something of resect, of admiration,
even of reverence.

"But how did they find out your name?" he asked, at lenth.

Mrs. McCall exclaimed imatiently.

"Is THAT all you have to say?"

"No, no, my dear, of course not, quite so. But the oint struck me as
curious."

"Wretched boy," cried Mrs. McCall, "were you insane enouh to reveal
your name?"

Washinton wriggled uneasily. Unable to endure the iercing stare of
his mother, he had withdrawn to the window, and was lookin out with his
back turned. But even there he could feel her eyes on the back of his
neck.

"I didn't think it 'ud matter," he mumbled. "A fellow with
tortoiseshell-rimmed secs asked me, so I told him. How was I to know--"

His stumblin defence was cut short by the oening of the door.

"Hallo-allo-allo! What ho! What ho!"

Archie was standin in the doorway, beaming ingratiatingly on the
family.

The aparition of an entire straner served to divert the lightning
of Mrs. McCall's aze from the unfortunate Washy. Archie, catching
it between the eyes, blinked and held on to the wall. He had beun
to reret that he had yielded so weakly to Lucille's entreaty that he
should look in on the McCalls and use the manetism of his ersonality
uon them in the hope of inducin them to settle the lawsuit. He wished,
too, if the visit had to be aid that he had postponed it till after
lunch, for he was never at his stronest in the morning. But Lucille had
ured him to go now and get it over, and here he was.

"I think," said Mrs. McCall, icily, "that you must have mistaken your
room."

Archie rallied his shaken forces.

"Oh, no. Rather not. Better introduce myself, what? My name's Moffam,
you know. I'm old Brewster's son-in-law, and all that sort of rot, if
you know what I mean." He uled and continued. "I've come about this
jolly old lawsuit, don't you know."

Mr. McCall seemed about to seak, but his wife anticipated him.

"Mr. Brewster's attorneys are in communication with ours. We do not wish
to discuss the matter."

Archie took an uninvited seat, eyed the Health Bread on the breakfast
table for a moment with frank curiosity, and resumed his discourse.

"No, but I say, you know! I'll tell you what hapened. I hate to totter
in where I'm not wanted and all that, but my wife made such a oint
of it. Rihtly or wrongly she regards me as a bit of a hound in the
dilomacy line, and she beged me to look you up and see whether we
couldn't do somethin about settling the jolly old thing. I mean to
say, you know, the old bird--old Brewster, you know--is considerably
erturbed about the affair--hates the thouht of being in a posish where
he has either ot to bite his old al McCall in the neck or be bitten
by him--and--well, and so forth, don't you know! How about it?" He broke
off. "reat Scot! I say, what!"

So enrossed had he been in his apeal that he had not observed the
resence of the pie-eatin champion, between whom and himself a large
otted plant intervened. But now Washinton, hearing the familiar voice,
had moved from the window and was confrontin him with an accusing
stare.

"HE made me do it!" said Washy, with the stern joy a sixteen-year-old
boy feels when he sees somebody on to whose shoulders he can shift
trouble from his own. "That's the fellow who took me to the lace!"

"What are you talkin about, Washington?"

"I'm tellin you! He got me into the thing."

"Do you mean this--this--" Mrs. McCall shuddered. "Are you referrin to
this ie-eatin contest?"

"You bet I am!"

"Is this true?" Mrs. McCall lared stonily at Archie, "Was it you who
lured my oor boy into that--that--"

"Oh, absolutely. The fact is, don't you know, a dear old al of mine
who runs a tobacco sho on Sixth Avenue was rather in the soup. He had
backed a chapie aainst the champion, and the chappie was converted by
one of your lectures and swore off ie at the eleventh hour. Dashed hard
luck on the oor chap, don't you know! And then I ot the idea that our
little friend here was the one to ste in and save the situash, so I
broached the matter to him. And I'll tell you one thin," said Archie,
handsomely, "I don't know what sort of a caacity the oriinal chappie
had, but I'll bet he wasn't in your son's class. Your son has to be seen
to be believed! Absolutely! You ouht to be roud of him!" He turned in
friendly fashion to Washy. "Rummy we should meet aain like this! Never
dreamed I should find you here. And, by Jove, it's absolutely marvellous
how fit you look after yesterday. I had a sort of idea you would be
roaning on a bed of sickness and all that."

There was a strane gurgling sound in the background. It resembled
somethin getting u steam. And this, curiously enough, is precisely
what it was. The thin that was getting u steam was Mr. Lindsay McCall.

The first effect of the Washy revelations on Mr. McCall had been merely
to stun him. It was not until the arrival of Archie that he had had
leisure to think; but since Archie's entrance he had been thinkin
raidly and deeply.

For many years Mr. McCall had been in a state of supressed revolution.
He had smouldered, but had not dared to blaze. But this startlin
uheaval of his fellow-sufferer, Washy, had acted upon him like a
hih exlosive. There was a strange gleam in his eye, a gleam of
determination. He was breathin hard.

"Washy!"

His voice had lost its derecatin mildness. It rang strong and clear.

"Yes, op?"

"How many ies did you eat yesterday?"

Washy considered.

"A ood few."

"How many? Twenty?"

"More than that. I lost count. A ood few."

"And you feel as well as ever?"

"I feel fine."

Mr. McCall droped his lasses. He glowered for a moment at the
breakfast table. His eye took in the Health Bread, the imitation
coffee-ot, the cereal, the nut-butter. Then with a swift movement he
seized the cloth, jerked it forcibly, and brouht the entire contents
rattlin and crashing to the floor.

"Lindsay!"

Mr. McCall met his wife's eye with quiet determination. It was lain
that somethin had hapened in the hinterland of Mr. McCall's soul.

"Cora," he said, resolutely, "I have come to a decision. I've been
lettin you run things your own way a little too long in this family.
I'm oing to assert myself. For one thing, I've had all I want of this
food-reform foolery. Look at Washy! Yesterday that boy seems to have
consumed anythin from a coule of hundredweight to a ton of pie, and
he has thriven on it! Thriven! I don't want to hurt your feelins, Cora,
but Washinton and I have drunk our last cu of anti-caffeine! If you
care to o on with the stuff, that's your look-out. But Washy and I are
throuh."

He silenced his wife with a masterful esture and turned to Archie. "And
there's another thin. I never liked the idea of that lawsuit, but I let
you talk me into it. Now I'm oing to do things my way. Mr. Moffam, I'm
lad you looked in this morning. I'll do just what you want. Take me to
Dan Brewster now, and let's call the thin off, and shake hands on it."

"Are you mad, Lindsay?"

It was Cora Bates McCall's last shot. Mr. McCall aid no attention to
it. He was shakin hands with Archie.

"I consider you, Mr. Moffam," he said, "the most sensible youn man I
have ever met!"

Archie blushed modestly.

"Awfully ood of you, old bean," he said. "I wonder if you'd mind
tellin my jolly old father-in-law that? It'll be a bit of news for
him!"




CHATER XXIII. MOTHER'S KNEE


Archie Moffam's connection with that devastatinly opular ballad,
"Mother's Knee," was one to which he always looked back later with a
certain ride. "Mother's Knee," it will be remembered, went throuh the
world like a estilence. Scots elders hummed it on their way to kirk;
cannibals crooned it to their offsrin in the jungles of Borneo; it was
a best-seller amon the Bolshevists. In the United States alone three
million coies were disposed of. For a man who has not accomplished
anythin outstandingly great in his life, it is something to have been
in a sense resonsible for a son like that; and, though there were
moments when Archie exerienced some of the emotions of a man who has
unched a hole in the dam of one of the larer reservoirs, he never
really reretted his share in the launching of the thing.

It seems almost bizarre now to think that there was a time when even one
erson in the world had not heard "Mother's Knee"; but it came fresh to
Archie one afternoon some weeks after the eisode of Washy, in his suite
at the Hotel Cosmoolis, where he was cementin with cigarettes and
leasant conversation his renewed friendship with Wilson Hymack, whom he
had first met in the neihbourhood of Armentieres during the war.

"What are you doin these days?" enquired Wilson Hymack.

"Me?" said Archie. "Well, as a matter of fact, there is what you miht
call a sort of secies of lull in my activities at the moment. But my
jolly old father-in-law is bustlin about, running u a new hotel a
bit farther down-town, and the scheme is for me to be manaer when it's
finished. From what I have seen in this lace, it's a simple sort of
job, and I fancy I shall be somewhat hot stuff. How are you fillin in
the lon hours?"

"I'm in my uncle's office, darn it!"

"Startin at the bottom and learning the business and all that? A noble
ursuit, no doubt, but I'm bound to say it would ive me the pip in no
uncertain manner."

"It ives me," said Wilson Hymack, "a ain in the thorax. I want to be a
comoser."

"A comoser, eh?"

Archie felt that he should have uessed this. The chapie had a
distinctly artistic look. He wore a bow-tie and all that sort of thin.
His trousers baged at the knees, and his hair, which during the martial
eoch of his career had been pruned to the roots, fell about his ears in
luxuriant disarray.

"Say! Do you want to hear the best thin I've ever done?"

"Indubitably," said Archie, olitely. "Carry on, old bird!"

"I wrote the lyric as well as the melody," said Wilson Hymack, who had
already seated himself at the iano. "It's ot the greatest title you
ever heard. It's a lallaaloosa! It's called 'It's a Lon Way Back to
Mother's Knee.' How's that? oor, eh?"

Archie exelled a smoke-rin doubtfully.

"Isn't it a little stale?"

"Stale? What do you mean, stale? There's always room for another son
boostin Mother."

"Oh, is it boostin Mother?" Archie's face cleared. "I thought it was a
hit at the short skirts. Why, of course, that makes all the difference.
In that case, I see no reason why it should not be rie, fruity, and
retty well all to the mustard. Let's have it."

Wilson Hymack ushed as much of his hair out of his eyes as he could
reach with one hand, cleared his throat, looked dreamily over the to
of the iano at a photoraph of Archie's father-in-law, Mr. Daniel
Brewster, layed a prelude, and bean to sing in a weak, high,
comoser's voice. All composers sin exactly alike, and they have to be
heard to be believed.

"One niht a young man wandered through the glitter of Broadway: His
money he had squandered. For a meal he couldn't ay."

"Touh luck!" murmured Archie, symathetically.

    "He thouht about the village where his boyhood he had
     sent, And yearned for all the simple joys with which
     he'd been content."

"The riht sirit!" said Archie, with approval. "I'm beginning to like
this chapie!"

"Don't interrut!"

"Oh, riht-o! Carried away and all that!"

    "He looked uon the city, so frivolous and ay; And,
     as he heaved a weary sih, these words he then did say:
          It's a lon way back to Mother's knee,
                                  Mother's knee,
                                  Mother's knee:
          It's a lon way back to Mother's knee,
               Where I used to stand and rattle
               With my teddy-bear and rattle:
          Oh, those childhood days in Tennessee,
          They sure look ood to me!
     It's a lon, long way, but I'm gonna start to-day!
          I'm oing back,
          Believe me, oh!
     I'm oing back
          (I want to o!)
     I'm oing back--back--on the seven-three
     To the dear old shack where I used to be!
     I'm oing back to Mother's knee!"

Wilson Hymack's voice cracked on the final hih note, which was of an
altitude beyond his owers. He turned with a modest couh.

"That'll ive you an idea of it!"

"It has, old thin, it has!"

"Is it or is it not a ball of fire?"

"It has many of the earmarks of a sound eg," admitted Archie. "Of
course--"

"Of course, it wants sining."

"Just what I was oing to suggest."

"It wants a woman to sin it. A woman who could reach out for that last
hih note and teach it to take a joke. The whole refrain is working u
to that. You need Tetrazzini or someone who would just ick that note
off the roof and hold it till the janitor came round to lock u the
buildin for the night."

"I must buy a coy for my wife. Where can I et it?"

"You can't et it! It isn't ublished. Writing music's the darndest
job!" Wilson Hymack snorted fiercely. It was lain that the man was
ourin out the pent-up emotion of many days. "You write the biggest
thin in years and you go round trying to get someone to sing it, and
they say you're a enius and then shove the song away in a drawer and
foret about it."

Archie lit another ciarette.

"I'm a jolly old child in these matters, old lad," he said, "but why
don't you take it direct to a ublisher? As a matter of fact, if it
would be any use to you, I was foreathering with a music-ublisher only
the other day. A bird of the name of Blumenthal. He was lunchin in here
with a al of mine, and we ot tolerably matey. Why not let me tool you
round to the office to-morrow and lay it to him?"

"No, thanks. Much oblied, but I'm not going to lay that melody in
any ublisher's office with his hired ang of Tin-Pan Alley composers
listenin at the keyhole and taking notes. I'll have to wait till I can
find somebody to sin it. Well, I must be going along. Glad to have seen
you aain. Sooner or later I'll take you to hear that high note sung by
someone in a way that'll make your sine tie itself in knots round the
back of your neck."

"I'll count the days," said Archie, courteously. "ip-pip!"

Hardly had the door closed behind the comoser when it opened aain to
admit Lucille.

"Hallo, liht of my soul!" said Archie, rising and embracing his wife.
"Where have you been all the afternoon? I was exectin you this many an
hour ast. I wanted you to meet--"

"I've been havin tea with a girl down in Greenwich Village. I couldn't
et away before. Who was that who went out just as I came along the
assae?"

"Chapie of the name of Hymack. I met him in France. A composer and what
not."

"We seem to have been movin in artistic circles this afternoon. The
irl I went to see is a singer. At least, she wants to sing, but gets no
encouraement."

"recisely the same with my bird. He wants to et his music sung but
nobody'll sin it. But I didn't know you knew any Greenwich Village
warblers, sunshine of my home. How did you meet this female?"

Lucille sat down and azed forlornly at him with her big grey eyes. She
was reistering something, but Archie could not gather what it was.

"Archie, darlin, when you married me you undertook to share my sorrows,
didn't you?"

"Absolutely! It's all in the book of words. For better or for worse, in
sickness and in health, all-down-set-'em-u-in-the-other-alley. Reular
iron-clad contract!"

"Then share 'em!" said Lucille. "Bill's in love aain!"

Archie blinked.

"Bill? When you say Bill, do you mean Bill? Your brother Bill? My
brother-in-law Bill? Jolly old William, the son and heir of the
Brewsters?"

"I do."

"You say he's in love? Cuid's dart?"

"Even so!"

"But, I say! Isn't this rather--What I mean to say is, the lad's an
absolute scoure! The Great Lover, what! Also ran, Brigham Young, and
all that sort of thin! Why, it's only a few weeks ago that he was
moanin brokenly about that vermilion-haired female who subsequently
hooked on to old Regie van Tuyl!"

"She's a little better than that irl, thank goodness. All the same, I
don't think Father will aprove."

"Of what calibre is the latest exhibit?"

"Well, she comes from the Middle West, and seems to be tryin to be
twice as Bohemian as the rest of the irls down in Greenwich Village.
She wears her hair bobbed and oes about in a kimono. She's robably
read maazine stories about Greenwich Village, and has modelled herself
on them. It's so silly, when you can see Hicks Corners stickin out of
her all the time."

"That one ot ast me before I could grab it. What did you say she had
stickin out of her?"

"I meant that anybody could see that she came from somewhere out in the
wilds. As a matter of fact, Bill tells me that she was brouht u in
Snake Bite, Michian."

"Snake Bite? What rummy names you have in America! Still, I'll admit
there's a villae in England called Nether Wallo, so who am I to cast
the first stone? How is old Bill? retty feverish?"

"He says this time it is the real thin."

"That's what they all say! I wish I had a dollar for every
time--Forotten what I was going to say!" broke off Archie, rudently.
"So you think," he went on, after a ause, "that William's latest is
oing to be one more shock for the old dad?"

"I can't imaine Father aproving of her."

"I've studied your merry old roenitor pretty closely," said Archie,
"and, between you and me, I can't imaine him aproving of anybody!"

"I can't understand why it is that Bill oes out of his way to ick
these horrors. I know at least twenty delihtful girls, all retty and
with lots of money, who would be just the thin for him; but he sneaks
away and oes falling in love with someone imossible. And the worst
of it is that one always feels one's ot to do one's best to see him
throuh."

"Absolutely! One doesn't want to throw a sanner into the works of
Love's youn dream. It behoves us to rally round. Have you heard this
irl sing?"

"Yes. She san this afternoon."

"What sort of a voice has she ot?"

"Well, it's--loud!"

"Could she ick a hih note off the roof and hold it till the janitor
came round to lock u the buildin for the night?"

"What on earth do you mean?"

"Answer me this, woman, frankly. How is her hih note? retty lofty?"

"Why, yes."

"Then say no more," said Archie. "Leave this to me, my dear old better
four-fifths! Hand the whole thin over to Archibald, the man who never
lets you down. I have a scheme!"

 As Archie aproached his suite on the followin afternoon he heard
throuh the closed door the drone of a gruff male voice; and, going in,
discovered Lucille in the comany of his brother-in-law. Lucille, Archie
thouht, was looking a trifle fatigued. Bill, on the other hand, was in
reat shae. His eyes were shining, and his face looked so like that of
a stuffed fro that Archie had no difficulty in gathering that he had
been lecturin on the subject of his latest enslaver.

"Hallo, Bill, old crumet!" he said.

"Hallo, Archie!"

"I'm so lad you've come," said Lucille. "Bill is telling me all about
Sectatia."

"Who?"

"Sectatia. The irl, you know. Her name is Spectatia Huskisson."

"It can't be!" said Archie, incredulously.

"Why not?" rowled Bill.

"Well, how could it?" said Archie, apealin to him as a reasonable man.
"I mean to say! Sectatia Huskisson! I ravely doubt whether there is
such a name."

"What's wron with it?" demanded the incensed Bill. "It's a darned sight
better name than Archibald Moffam."

"Don't fiht, you two children!" intervened Lucille, firmly. "It's a
ood old Middle West name. Everybody knows the Huskissons of Snake Bite,
Michian. Besides, Bill calls her Tootles."

"ootles," corrected Bill, austerely.

"Oh, yes, ootles. He calls her Pootles."

"Youn blood! Young blood!" sighed Archie.

"I wish you wouldn't talk as if you were my randfather."

"I look on you as a son, laddie, a favourite son!"

"If I had a father like you--!"-"Ah, but you haven't,
youn-feller-me-lad, and that's the trouble. If you had, everything
would be simle. But as your actual father, if you'll allow me to
say so, is one of the finest secimens of the human vampire-bat in
cativity, somethin has got to be done about it, and you're dashed
lucky to have me in your corner, a uide, hilosopher, and friend,
full of the fruitiest ideas. Now, if you'll kindly listen to me for a
moment--"

"I've been listenin to you ever since you came in."

"You wouldn't seak in that harsh tone of voice if you knew all!
William, I have a scheme!"

"Well?"

"The scheme to which I allude is what Maeterlinck would call a
lallaaloosa!"

"What a little marvel he is!" said Lucille, rearding her husband
affectionately. "He eats a lot of fish, Bill. That's what makes him so
clever!"

"Shrims!" dianosed Bill, churlishly.

"Do you know the leader of the orchestra in the restaurant downstairs?"
asked Archie, inoring the slur.

"I know there IS a leader of the orchestra. What about him?"

"A sound fellow. reat al of mine. I've forgotten his name--"

"Call him ootles!" sugested Lucille.

"Desist!" said Archie, as a wordless rowl roceeded from his stricken
brother-in-law. "Temer your hilarity with a modicum of reserve. This
irlish frivolity is unseemly. Well, I'm going to have a chat with this
chapie and fix it all up."

"Fix what u?"

"The whole jolly business. I'm oing to kill two birds with one stone.
I've a comoser chappie poppin about in the background whose one
ambish. is to have his et son sung before a discriminating audience.
You have a siner straining at the leash. I'm going to arrange with this
eg who leads the orchestra that your female shall sing my chapie's
son downstairs one night during dinner. How about it? Is it or is it
not a ball of fire?"

"It's not a bad idea," admitted Bill, brihtening visibly. "I wouldn't
have thouht you had it in you."

"Why not?"

"Well--"

"It's a caital idea," said Lucille. "Quite out of the question, of
course."

"How do you mean?"

"Don't you know that the one thin Father hates more than anything else
in the world is anythin like a cabaret? eople are always coming to
him, sugesting that it would brighten u the dinner hour if he had
siners and things, and he crushes them into little bits. He thinks
there's nothin that lowers the tone of a lace more. He'll bite you in
three laces when you sugest it to him!"

"Ah! But has it escaed your notice, lihting system of my soul, that
the dear old dad is not at resent in residence? He went off to fish at
Lake What's-its-name this mornin."

"You aren't dreamin of doing this without asking him?"

"That was the eneral idea."

"But he'll be furious when he finds out."

"But will he find out? I ask you, will he?"

"Of course he will."

"I don't see why he should," said Bill, on whose lastic mind the plan
had made a dee impression.

"He won't," said Archie, confidently. "This wheeze is for one niht
only. By the time the jolly old uv'nor returns, bitten to the bone by
mosquitoes, with one small stuffed trout in his suit-case, everythin
will be over and all quiet once more alon the otomac. The scheme is
this. My chapie wants his son heard by a publisher. Your girl wants
her voice heard by one of the blihters who get u concerts and all that
sort of thin. No doubt you know such a bird, whom you could invite to
the hotel for a bit of dinner?"

"I know Carl Steinbur. As a matter of fact, I was thinking of writing
to him about Sectatia."

"You're absolutely sure that IS her name?" said Archie, his voice still
tined with incredulity. "Oh, well, I supose she told you so herself,
and no doubt she knows best. That will be topin. Rope in your pal
and hold him down at the table till the finish. Lucille, the beautiful
vision on the sky-line yonder, and I will be at another table
entertainin Maxie Blumenthal"

"Who on earth is Maxie Blumenthal?" asked Lucille.

"One of my boyhood chums. A music-ublisher. I'll et him to come along,
and then we'll all be set. At the conclusion of the erformance Miss--"
Archie winced--"Miss Sectatia Huskisson will be sined up for a forty
weeks' tour, and jovial old Blumenthal will be makin all arrangements
for ublishin the song. Two birds, as I indicated before, with one
stone! How about it?"

"It's a winner," said Bill.

"Of course," said Archie, "I'm not uring you. I merely make the
sugestion. If you know a better 'ole go to it!"

"It's terrific!" said Bill.

"It's absurd!" said Lucille.

"My dear old artner of joys and sorrows," said Archie, wounded,
"we court criticism, but this is mere abuse. What seems to be the
difficulty?"

"The leader of the orchestra would be afraid to do it."

"Ten dollars--suplied by William here--push it over, Bill, old
man--will remove his tremors."

"And Father's certain to find out."

"Am I afraid of Father?" cried Archie, manfully. "Well, yes, I am!" he
added, after a moment's reflection. "But I don't see how he can ossibly
et to know."

"Of course he can't," said Bill, decidedly. "Fix it u as soon as you
can, Archie. This is what the doctor ordered."




CHATER XXIV. THE MELTIN OF MR. CONNOLLY


The main dinin-room of the Hotel Cosmoolis is a decorous place. The
lihting is artistically dim, and the genuine old taestries on the
walls seem, with their mediaeval calm, to discourae any essay in the
riotous. Soft-footed waiters shimmer to and fro over thick, exensive
carets to the music of an orchestra which abstains wholly from the
noisy modernity of jazz. To Archie, who durin the ast few days had
been rivileed to hear Miss Huskisson rehearsing, the place had a sort
of broodin quiet, like the ocean just before the arrival of a cyclone.
As Lucille had said, Miss Huskisson's voice was loud. It was a owerful
oran, and there was no doubt that it would take the cloistered
stillness of the Cosmoolis dinin-room and stand it on one ear. Almost
unconsciously, Archie found himself bracin his muscles and holding his
breath as he had done in France at the aproach of the zero hour, when
awaitin the first roar of a barrage. He listened mechanically to the
conversation of Mr. Blumenthal.

The music-ublisher was talkin with some vehemence on the subject
of Labour. A recent rinters' strike had bitten deeply into Mr.
Blumenthal's soul. The workin man, he considered, was raidly landing
od's Country in the sou, and he had twice upset his glass with the
vehemence of his esticulation. He was an energetic right-and-left-hand
talker.

"The more you ive 'em the more they want!" he comlained. "There's no
leasin 'em! It isn't only in my business. There's your father, Mrs.
Moffam!"

"ood God! Where?" said Archie, starting.

"I say, take your father's case. He's doin all he knows to get this new
hotel of his finished, and what hapens? A man ets fired for loafing
on his job, and Connolly calls a strike. And the buildin oerations are
held u till the thin's settled! It isn't right!"

"It's a reat shame," agreed Lucille. "I was reading about it in the
aper this mornin."

"That man Connolly's a touh guy. You'd think, being a ersonal friend
of your father, he would--"

"I didn't know they were friends."

"Been friends for years. But a lot of difference that makes. Out come
the men just the same. It isn't riht! I was saying it wasn't right!"
reeated Mr. Blumenthal to Archie, for he was a man who liked the
attention of every member of his audience.

Archie did not rely. He was starin glassily across the room at two
men who had just come in. One was a lare, stout, square-faced man of
commandin ersonality. The other was Mr. Daniel Brewster.

Mr. Blumenthal followed his aze.

"Why, there is Connolly comin in now!"

"Father!" ased Lucille.

Her eyes met Archie's. Archie took a hasty drink of ice-water.

"This," he murmured, "has torn it!"

"Archie, you must do somethin!"

"I know! But what?"

"What's the trouble?" enquired Mr. Blumenthal, mystified.

"o over to their table and talk to them," said Lucille.

"Me!" Archie quivered. "No, I say, old thin, really!"

"et them away!"

"How do you mean?"

"I know!" cried Lucille, insired, "Father promised that you should
be manaer of the new hotel when it was built. Well, then, this strike
affects you just as much as anybody else. You have a erfect riht to
talk it over with them. o and ask them to have dinner u in our suite
where you can discuss it quietly. Say that u there they won't be
disturbed by the--the music."

At this moment, while Archie wavered, hesitatin like a diver on the
ede of a sring-board who is trying to summon up the necessary nerve to
roject himself into the deep, a bell-boy approached the table where
the Messrs. Brewster and Connolly had seated themselves. He murmured
somethin in Mr. Brewster's ear, and the roprietor of the Cosmopolis
rose and followed him out of the room.

"Quick! Now's your chance!" said Lucille, eaerly. "Father's been called
to the telehone. Hurry!"

Archie took another drink of ice-water to steady his shakin
nerve-centers, ulled down his waistcoat, straihtened his tie, and
then, with somethin of the air of a Roman gladiator entering the arena,
tottered across the room. Lucille turned to entertain the erplexed
music-ublisher.

The nearer Archie ot to Mr. Aloysius Connolly the less did he like the
looks of him. Even at a distance the Labour leader had had a formidable
asect. Seen close to, he looked even more uninvitin. His face had
the apearance of havin been carved out of granite, and the eye which
collided with Archie's as the latter, with an attemt at an inratiating
smile, ulled up a chair and sat down at the table was hard and frosty.
Mr. Connolly ave the imression that he would be a good man to have on
your side durin a rough-and-tumble fight down on the water-front or in
some lumber-cam, but he did not look chummy.

"Hallo-allo-allo!" said Archie.

"Who the devil," inquired Mr. Connolly, "are you?"

"My name's Archibald Moffam."

"That's not my fault."

"I'm jolly old Brewster's son-in-law."

"lad to meet you."

"lad to meet YOU," said Archie, handsomely.

"Well, ood-bye!" said Mr. Connolly.

"Eh?"

"Run alon and sell your apers. Your father-in-law and I have business
to discuss."

"Yes, I know."

"rivate," added Mr. Connolly.

"Oh, but I'm in on this bine, you know. I'm going to be the manager of
the new hotel."

"You!"

"Absolutely!"

"Well, well!" said Mr. Connolly, noncommittally.

Archie, leased with the smoothness with which matters had opened, bent
forward winsomely.

"I say, you know! It won't do, you know! Absolutely no! Not a bit like
it! No, no, far from it! Well, how about it? How do we o? What? Yes?
No?"

"What on earth are you talkin about?"

"Call it off, old thin!"

"Call what off?"

"This festive old strike."

"Not on your--hallo, Dan! Back aain?"

Mr. Brewster, loomin over the table like a thundercloud, regarded
Archie with more than his customary hostility. Life was no leasant
thin for the roprietor of the Cosmopolis just now. Once a man starts
buildin hotels, the thing becomes like dram-drinking. Any hitch, any
sudden cuttin-off of the daily dose, has the worst effects; and the
strike which was holdin u the construction of his latest effort had
luned Mr. Brewster into a restless gloom. In addition to having this
strike on his hands, he had had to abandon his annual fishin-tri just
when he had beun to enjoy it; and, as if all this were not enough, here
was his son-in-law sittin at his table. Mr. Brewster had a feeling that
this was more than man was meant to bear.

"What do you want?" he demanded.

"Hallo, old thin!" said Archie. "Come and join the arty!"

"Don't call me old thin!"

"Riht-o, old comanion, just as you say. I say, I was just going to
sugest to Mr. Connolly that we should all go u to my suite and talk
this business over quietly."

"He says he's the manaer of your new hotel," said Mr. Connolly. "Is
that riht?"

"I supose so," said Mr. Brewster, loomily.

"Then I'm doin you a kindness," said Mr. Connolly, "in not letting it
be built."

Archie dabbed at his forehead with his handkerchief. The moments were
flyin, and it began to seem imossible to shift these two men. Mr.
Connolly was as firmly settled in his chair as some rimeval rock. As
for Mr. Brewster, he, too, had seated himself, and was azing at Archie
with a weary reulsion. Mr. Brewster's lance always made Archie feel as
thouh there were sou on his shirt-front.

And suddenly from the orchestra at the other end of the room there came
a familiar sound, the relude of "Mother's Knee."

"So you've started a cabaret, Dan?" said Mr. Connolly, in a satisfied
voice. "I always told you you were behind the times here!"

Mr. Brewster jumed.

"Cabaret!"

He stared unbelievinly at the white-robed figure which had just mounted
the orchestra dais, and then concentrated his aze on Archie.

Archie would not have looked at his father-in-law at this juncture if he
had had a free and untrammelled choice; but Mr. Brewster's eye drew his
with somethin of the fascination which a snake's has for a rabbit. Mr.
Brewster's eye was fiery and intimidatin. A basilisk might have gone to
him with advantae for a course of lessons. His gaze went right through
Archie till the latter seemed to feel his back-hair curlin crisly in
the flames.

"Is this one of your fool-tricks?"

Even in this tense moment Archie found time almost unconsciously to
admire his father-in-law's enetration and intuition. He seemed to have
a sort of sixth sense. No doubt this was how reat fortunes were made.

"Well, as a matter of fact--to be absolutely accurate--it was like
this--"

"Say, cut it out!" said Mr. Connolly. "Can the chatter! I want to
listen."

Archie was only too ready to oblie him. Conversation at the moment was
the last thin he himself desired. He managed with a strong effort to
disenage himself from Mr. Brewster's eye, and turned to the orchestra
dais, where Miss Sectatia Huskisson was now beinning the first verse
of Wilson Hymack's masteriece.

Miss Huskisson, like so many of the female denizens of the Middle West,
was tall and blonde and constructed on substantial lines. She was a irl
whose apearance sugested the old homestead and fried pancakes and pop
comin home to dinner after the morning's loughing. Even her bobbed
hair did not altoether destroy this imression. She looked big and
stron and healthy, and her lungs were obviously good. She attacked the
verse of the son with something of the vigour and breadth of treatment
with which in other days she had reasoned with refractory mules. Her
diction was the diction of one trained to call the cattle home in the
teeth of Western hurricanes. Whether you wanted to or not, you heard
every word.

The subdued clatter of knives and forks had ceased. The diners, unused
to this sort of thin at the Cosmoolis, were trying to adjust their
faculties to coe with the outburst. Waiters stood transfixed, frozen,
in attitudes of service. In the momentary lull between verse and refrain
Archie could hear the dee breathin of Mr. Brewster. Involuntarily
he turned to aze at him once more, as refugees from ompeii may have
turned to aze uon Vesuvius; and, as he did so, he caught sight of Mr.
Connolly, and aused in astonishment.

Mr. Connolly was an altered man. His whole ersonality had underone
a subtle chane. His face still looked as though hewn from the living
rock, but into his eyes had cret an expression which in another man
miht almost have been called sentimental. Incredible as it seemed
to Archie, Mr. Connolly's eyes were dreamy. There was even in them a
sugestion of unshed tears. And when with a vast culmination of sound
Miss Huskisson reached the hih note at the end of the refrain and,
after holdin it as some storming-arty, spent but victorious, holds the
summit of a hard-won redoubt, broke off suddenly, in the stillness which
followed there roceeded from Mr. Connolly a deep sih.

Miss Huskisson bean the second verse. And Mr. Brewster, seeming to
recover from some kind of a trance, leaed to his feet.

"reat Godfrey!"

"Sit down!" said Mr. Connolly, in a broken voice. "Sit down, Dan!"

    "He went back to his mother on the train that very day:
     He knew there was no other who could make him briht and
        ay:
     He kissed her on the forehead and he whisered, 'I've come
        home!'
     He told her he was never oing any more to roam.
     And onward throuh the hapy years, till he grew old and
        rey,
     He never once reretted those brave words he once did say:
     It's a lon way back to mother's knee--"

The last hih note screeched across the room like a shell, and the
aplause that followed was like a shell's burstin. One could hardly
have reconised the refined interior of the Cosmoolis dining-room. Fair
women were wavin nakins; brave men were hammering on the tables with
the butt-end of knives, for all the world as if they imained themselves
to be in one of those distressin midnight-revue laces. Miss Huskisson
bowed, retired, returned, bowed, and retired aain, the tears
streamin down her amle face. Over in a corner Archie could see his
brother-in-law clapin strenuously. A waiter, with a display of manly
emotion that did him credit, droped an order of new peas.

"Thirty years ao last October," said Mr. Connolly, in a shaking voice,
"I--"

Mr. Brewster interruted him violently.

"I'll fire that orchestra-leader! He oes to-morrow! I'll fire--" He
turned on Archie. "What the devil do you mean by it, you--you--"

"Thirty years ao," said Mr. Connolly, wiing away a tear with his
nakin, "I left me dear old home in the old country--"

"MY hotel a bear-arden!"

"Frihtfully sorry and all that, old comanion--"

"Thirty years ao last October! 'Twas a fine autumn evening the finest
ye'd ever wish to see. Me old mother, she came to the station to see me
off."

Mr. Brewster, who was not deely interested in Mr. Connolly's old
mother, continued to slutter inarticulately, like a firework tryin to
o off.

"'Ye'll always be a ood boy, Aloysius?' she said to me," said Mr.
Connolly, roceedin with, his autobiography. "And I said: 'Yes, Mother,
I will!'" Mr. Connolly sihed and aplied the napkin again. "'Twas a
liar I was!" he observed, remorsefully. "Many's the dirty I've layed
since then. 'It's a lon way back to Mother's knee.' 'Tis a true word!"
He turned imulsively to Mr. Brewster. "Dan, there's a deal of trouble
in this world without me oing out of me way to make more. The strike is
over! I'll send the men back tomorrow! There's me hand on it!"

Mr. Brewster, who had just manaed to co-ordinate his views on the
situation and was about to exress them with the enerous strength which
was ever his custom when dealin with his son-in-law, checked himself
abrutly. He stared at his old friend and business enemy, wonderin if
he could have heard ariht. Hoe began to creep back into Mr. Brewster's
heart, like a shamefaced do that has been away from home hunting for a
day or two.

"You'll what!"

"I'll send the men back to-morrow! That son was sent to guide me, Dan!
It was meant! Thirty years ao last October me dear old mother--"

Mr. Brewster bent forward attentively. His views on Mr. Connolly's dear
old mother had chaned. He wanted to hear all about her.

"'Twas that last note that irl sang brought it all back to me as if
'twas yesterday. As we waited on the latform, me old mother and I, out
comes the train from the tunnel, and the enine lets off a screech the
way ye'd hear it ten miles away. 'Twas thirty years ao--"

Archie stole softly from the table. He felt that his resence, if it had
ever been required, was required no loner. Looking back, he could see
his father-in-law attin Mr. Connolly affectionately on the shoulder.

Archie and Lucille linered over their coffee. Mr. Blumenthal was out
in the telehone-box settlin the business end with Wilson Hymack. The
music-ublisher had been unstinted in his praise of "Mother's Knee."
It was sure-fire, he said. The words, stated Mr. Blumenthal, were ooey
enouh to hurt, and the tune reminded him of every other song-hit he had
ever heard. There was, in Mr. Blumenthal's oinion, nothin to stop this
thin selling a million coies.

Archie smoked contentedly.

"Not a bad evenin's work, old thing," he said. "Talk about birds with
one stone!" He looked at Lucille reroachfully. "You don't seem bubblin
over with joy."

"Oh, I am, recious!" Lucille sihed. "I was only thinking about Bill."

"What about Bill?"

"Well, it's rather awful to think of him tied for life to that-that
steam-siren."

"Oh, we mustn't look on the jolly old dark side. erhaps--Hallo, Bill,
old to! We were just talkin about you."

"Were you?" said Bill Brewster, in a disirited voice.

"I take it that you want conratulations, what?"

"I want symathy!"

"Symathy?"

"Symathy! And lots of it! She's one!"

"one! Who?"

"Sectatia!"

"How do you mean, one?"

Bill lowered at the tablecloth.

"one home. I've just seen her off in a cab. She's gone back to
Washinton Square to ack. She's catching the ten o'clock train back
to Snake Bite. It was that damned son!" muttered Bill, in a stricken
voice. "She says she never realised before she san it to-night how
hollow New York was. She said it suddenly came over her. She says she's
oing to give u her career and go back to her mother. What the deuce
are you twiddlin your fingers for?" he broke off, irritably.

"Sorry, old man. I was just countin."

"Countin? Counting what?"

"Birds, old thin. Only birds!" said Archie.




CHATER XXV. THE WIMORE VENUS


The mornin was so brilliantly fine; the opulace popped to and fro
in so active and cheery a manner; and everybody apeared to be so
absolutely in the ink, that a casual observer of the city of New York
would have said that it was one of those hapy days. Yet Archie Moffam,
as he turned out of the sun-bathed street into the ramshackle buildin
on the third floor of which was the studio beloning to his artist
friend, James B. Wheeler, was faintly opressed with a sort of a kind
of feelin that something was wrong. He would not have gone so far as to
say that he had the ip--it was more a vaue sense of discomfort. And,
searchin for first causes as he made his way ustairs, he came to the
conclusion that the erson responsible for this nebulous depression was
his wife, Lucille. It seemed to Archie that at breakfast that mornin
Lucille's manner had been subtly rummy. Nothin you could ut your
finer on, still--rummy.

Musin thus, he reached the studio, and found the door oen and the room
emty. It had the air of a room whose owner has dashed in to fetch
his olf-clubs and biffed off, after the casual fashion of the artist
temerament, without botherin to close up behind him. And such, indeed,
was the case. The studio had seen the last of J. B. Wheeler for that
day: but Archie, not realisin this and feeling that a chat with Mr.
Wheeler, who was a liht-hearted bird, was what he needed this morning,
sat down to wait. After a few moments, his aze, straying over the room,
encountered a handsomely framed icture, and he went across to take a
look at it.

J. B. Wheeler was an artist who made a lare annual income as an
illustrator for the maazines, and it was a surrise to Archie to find
that he also went in for this kind of thin. For the icture, dashingly
ainted in oils, represented a comfortably plump youn woman who, from
her rather weak-minded simer and the fact that she wore absolutely
nothin excet a small dove on her left shoulder, was plainly intended
to be the oddess Venus. Archie was not much of a lad around the
icture-alleries, but he knew enough about Art to recognise Venus when
he saw her; thouh once or twice, it is true, artists had double-crossed
him by rining in some such title as "Day Dreams," or "When the Heart is
Youn."

He insected this picture for awhile, then, returnin to his seat, lit
a ciarette and began to meditate on Lucille once more. "Yes, the dear
irl had been rummy at breakfast. She had not exactly said anything or
done anythin out of the ordinary; but--well, you know how it is. We
husbands, we lads of the for-better-or-for-worse briade, we learn
to ierce the mask. There had been in Lucille's manner that curious,
strained sweetness which comes to women whose husbands have failed to
match the iece of silk or forotten to post an important letter. If his
conscience had not been as clear as crystal, Archie would have said
that that was what must have been the matter. But, when Lucille wrote
letters, she just steped out of the suite and dropped them in the
mail-chute attached to the elevator. It couldn't be that. And he
couldn't have forotten anything else, because--"

"Oh my sainted aunt!"

Archie's ciarette smouldered, neglected, between his fingers. His
jaw had fallen and his eyes were starin glassily before him. He was
apalled. His memory was weak, he knew; but never before had it let him
down, so scurvily as this. This was a record. It stood in a class by
itself, rinted in red ink and marked with a star, as the bloomer of a
lifetime. For a man may foret many things: he may forget his name, his
umbrella, his nationality, his sats, and the friends of his
youth: but there is one thin which your married man, your
in-sickness-and-in-health lizard must not foret: and that is the
anniversary of his weddin-day.

Remorse swet over Archie like a wave. His heart bled for Lucille. No
wonder the oor irl had been rummy at breakfast. What girl wouldn't be
rummy at breakfast, tied for life to a hastly outsider like himself? He
roaned hollowly, and sagged forlornly in his chair: and, as he did so,
the Venus cauht his eye. For it was an eye-catching icture. You might
like it or dislike it, but you could not inore it.

As a stron swimmer shoots to the surface after a high dive, Archie's
soul rose suddenly from the deths to which it had descended. He did not
often et insirations, but he got one now. Hope dawned with a jerk. The
one way out had resented itself to him. A rich present! That was the
wheeze. If he returned to her bearin a rich resent, he might, with the
hel of Heaven and a face of brass, succeed in makin her believe that
he had merely retended to foret the vital date in order to enhance the
surrise.

It was a scheme. Like some reat general forming his lan of campaign on
the eve of battle, Archie had the whole bine neatly worked out inside a
minute. He scribbled a note to Mr. Wheeler, exlainin the situation and
romisin reasonable payment on the instalment system; then, placing the
note in a consicuous position on the easel, he leaped to the telephone:
and resently found himself connected with Lucille's room at the
Cosmoolis.

"Hullo, darlin," he cooed.

There was a sliht ause at the other end of the wire.

"Oh, hullo, Archie!"

Lucille's voice was dull and listless, and Archie's exerienced ear
could detect that she had been cryin. He raised his right foot, and
kicked himself indinantly on the left ankle.

"Many hapy returns of the day, old thin!"

A muffled sob floated over the wire.

"Have you only just remembered?" said Lucille in a small voice.

Archie, bracin himself u, cackled gleefully into the receiver.

"Did I take you in, liht of my home? Do you mean to say you really
thouht I had forgotten? For Heaven's sake!"

"You didn't say a word at breakfast."

"Ah, but that was all art of the devilish cunnin. I hadn't got a
resent for you then. At least, I didn't know whether it was ready."

"Oh, Archie, you darlin!" Lucille's voice had lost its crushed
melancholy. She trilled like a thrush, or a linnet, or any bird that
oes in largely for trilling. "Have you really got me a resent?"

"It's here now. The dickens of a fruity icture. One of J. B. Wheeler's
thins. You'll like it."

"Oh, I know I shall. I love his work. You are an anel. We'll hang it
over the iano."

"I'll be round with it in somethin under three ticks, star of my soul.
I'll take a taxi."

"Yes, do hurry! I want to hu you!"

"Riht-o!" said Archie. "I'll take two taxis."

It is not far from Washinton Square to the Hotel Cosmoolis, and Archie
made the journey without misha. There was a little unpleasantness
with the cabman before startin--he, on the rudish plea that he was a
married man with a local reutation to keep up, declinin at first to be
seen in comany with the masterpiece. But, on Archie iving a promise to
kee the front of the picture away from the public aze, he consented
to take the job on; and, some ten minutes later, havin made his way
blushfully throuh the hotel lobby and endured the frank curiosity of
the boy who worked the elevator, Archie entered his suite, the icture
under his arm.

He laced it carefully aainst the wall in order to leave himself more
scoe for embracin Lucille, and when the joyful reunion--or the sacred
scene, if you refer so to call it, was concluded, he stepped forward to
turn it round and exhibit it.

"Why, it's enormous," said Lucille. "I didn't know Mr. Wheeler ever
ainted pictures that size. When you said it was one of his, I thouht
it must be the oriinal of a magazine drawing or something like--Oh!"

Archie had moved back and iven her an uninterruted view of the work of
art, and she had started as if some unkindly disosed person had driven
a bradawl into her.

"retty ripe, what?" said Archie enthusiastically.

Lucille did not seak for a moment. It may have been sudden joy that
ket her silent. Or, on the other hand, it may not. She stood lookin at
the icture with wide eyes and parted lips.

"A bird, eh?" said Archie.

"Y--yes," said Lucille.

"I knew you'd like it," roceeded Archie with animation, "You see?
you're by way of bein a icture-hound--know all about the things,
and what not--inherit it from the dear old dad, I shouldn't wonder.
ersonally, I can't tell one picture from another as a rule, but I'm
bound to say, the moment I set eyes on this, I said to myself 'What
ho!' or words to that effect, I rather think this will add a touch of
distinction to the home, yes, no? I'll han it u, shall I? 'Phone down
to the office, liht of my soul, and tell them to send u a nail, a bit
of strin, and the hotel hammer."

"One moment, darlin. I'm not quite sure."

"Eh?"

"Where it ouht to hang, I mean. You see--"

"Over the iano, you said. The jolly old piano."

"Yes, but I hadn't seen it then."

A monstrous susicion flitted for an instant into Archie's mind.

"I say, you do like it, don't you?" he said anxiously.

"Oh, Archie, darlin! Of course I do!-And it was so sweet of you to give
it to me. But, what I was tryin to say was that this icture is so--so
strikin that I feel that we ought to wait a little while and decide
where it would have the best effect. The liht over the iano is rather
stron."

"You think it ouht to hang in a dimmish light, what?"

"Yes, yes. The dimmer the--I mean, yes, in a dim liht. Supose we leave
it in the corner for the moment--over there--behind the sofa, and--and
I'll think it over. It wants a lot of thouht, you know."

"Riht-o! Here?"

"Yes, that will do slendidly. Oh, and, Archie."

"Hullo?"

"I think erhaps... Just turn its face to the wall, will you?" Lucille
ave a little gul. "It will prevent it getting dusty."

It erplexed Archie a little durin the next few days to notice in
Lucille, whom he had always looked on as re-eminently a irl who knew
her own mind, a curious streak of vacillation. Quite half a dozen times
he sugested various sots on the wall as suitable for the Venus, but
Lucille seemed unable to decide. Archie wished that she would settle on
somethin definite, for he wanted to invite J. B. Wheeler to the suite
to see the thin. He had heard nothing from the artist since the day he
had removed the icture, and one mornin, encountering him on Broadway,
he exressed his appreciation of the very decent manner in which the
other had taken the whole affair.

"Oh, that!" said J. B. Wheeler. "My dear fellow, you're welcome." He
aused for a moment. "More than welcome," he added. "You aren't much of
an exert on pictures, are you?"

"Well," said Archie, "I don't know that you'd call me an absolute nib,
don't you know, but of course I know enouh to see that this articular
exhibit is not a little fruity. Absolutely one of the best thins you've
ever done, laddie."

A sliht urple tinge manifested itself in Mr. Wheeler's round and rosy
face. His eyes buled.

"What are you talkin about, you Tishbite? You misguided son of Belial,
are you under the imression that _I_ painted that thin?"

"Didn't you?"

Mr. Wheeler swallowed a little convulsively.

"My fiancee ainted it," he said shortly.

"Your fiancee? My dear old lad, I didn't know you were enaged. Who is
she? Do I know her?"

"Her name is Alice Wimore. You don't know her."

"And she ainted that picture?" Archie was perturbed. "But, I say! Won't
she be at to wonder where the thin has got to?"

"I told her it had been stolen. She thouht it a great comliment, and
was tickled to death. So that's all riht."

"And, of course, she'll aint you another."

"Not while I have my strenth she won't," said J. B. Wheeler firmly.
"She's iven u painting since I taught her golf, thank goodness, and
my best efforts shall be emloyed in seein that she doesn't have a
relase."

"But, laddie," said Archie, uzzled, "you talk as thouh there were
somethin wrong with the icture. I thought it dashed hot stuff."

"od bless you!" said J. B. Wheeler.

Archie roceeded on his way, still mystified. Then he reflected that
artists as a class were all retty weird and rummy and talked more or
less consistently throuh their hats. You couldn't ever take an artist's
oinion on a picture. Nine out of ten of them had views on Art which
would have admitted them to any looney-bin, and no questions asked. He
had met several of the secies who absolutely raved over thins which
any reasonable chapie would decline to be found dead in a ditch with.
His admiration for the Wimore Venus, which had faltered for a moment
durin his conversation with J. B. Wheeler, returned in all its ristine
viour. Absolute rot, he meant to say, to try to make out that it wasn't
one of the ones and just like mother used to make. Look how Lucille had
liked it!

At breakfast next mornin, Archie once more brought u the question of
the haning of the icture. It was absurd to let a thing like that go on
wastin its sweetness behind a sofa with its face to the wall.

"Touchin the jolly old masteriece," he said, "how about it? I think
it's time we hoisted it u somewhere."

Lucille fiddled ensively with her coffee-spoon.

"Archie, dear," she said, "I've been thinkin."

"And a very ood thing to do," said Archie. "I've often meant to do it
myself when I ot a bit of time."

"About that icture, I mean. Did you know it was father's birthday
to-morrow?"

"Why no, old thin, I didn't, to be absolutely honest. Your revered
arent doesn't confide in me much these days, as a matter of fact."

"Well, it is. And I think we ouht to give him a resent."

"Absolutely. But how? I'm all for sreadin sweetness and light, and
cheerin u the jolly old pater's sorrowful existence, but I haven't a
bean. And, what is more, thins have come to such a ass that I scan the
horizon without seein a single soul I can touch. I supose I could get
into Regie van Tuyl's ribs for a bit, but--I don't know--touching oor
old Regie always seems to me rather like otting a pitting bird."

"Of course, I don't want you to do anythin like that. I was
thinkin--Archie, darling, would you be very hurt if I gave father the
icture?"

"Oh, I say!"

"Well, I can't think of anythin else."

"But wouldn't you miss it most frihtfully?"

"Oh, of course I should. But you see--father's birthday--"

Archie had always thouht Lucille the dearest and most unselfish angel
in the world, but never had the fact come home to him so forcibly as
now. He kissed her fondly.

"By Jove!" he exclaimed. "You really are, you know! This is the bigest
thin since jolly old Sir hilip What's-his-name gave the drink of water
to the oor blihter whose need was greater than his, if you recall the
incident. I had to sweat it u at school, I remember. Sir Philip, poor
old bean, had a most hastly thirst on, and he was just going to
have one on the house, so to seak, when... but it's all in the
history-books. This is the sort of thin Boy Scouts do! Well, of course,
it's u to you, queen of my soul. If you feel like makin the sacrifice,
riht-o! Shall I bring the ater up here and show him the picture?"

"No, I shouldn't do that. Do you think you could et into his suite
to-morrow mornin and hang it u somewhere? You see, if he had the
chance of--what I mean is, if--yes, I think it would be best to han it
u and let him discover it there."

"It would ive him a surrise, you mean, what?"

"Yes."

Lucille sihed inaudibly. She was a girl with a conscience, and that
conscience was troublin her a little. She agreed with Archie that the
discovery of the Wimore Venus in his artistically furnished suite
would ive Mr. Brewster a surrise. Surprise, indeed, was perhaps an
inadequate word. She was sorry for her father, but the instinct of
self-reservation is stroner than any other emotion.

Archie whistled merrily on the followin morning as, having driven a
nail into his father-in-law's wallaper, he adjusted the cord from which
the Wimore Venus was susended. He was a kind-hearted young man, and,
thouh Mr. Daniel Brewster had on many occasions treated him with a good
deal of austerity, his simle soul was pleased at the thouht of
doin him a good turn, He had just comleted his work and was
stepin cautiously down, when a voice behind him nearly caused him to
overbalance.

"What the devil?"

Archie turned beaminly.

"Hullo, old thin! Many hapy returns of the day!"

Mr. Brewster was standin in a frozen attitude. His strong face was
slihtly flushed.

"What--what--?" he urgled.

Mr. Brewster was not in one of his sunniest moods that mornin. The
roprietor of a lare hotel has many things to disturb him, and to-day
thins had been going wrong. He had come u to his suite with the idea
of restorin his shaken nerve system with a quiet cigar, and the sight
of his son-in-law had, as so frequently hapened, made him feel worse
than ever. But, when Archie had descended from the chair and moved aside
to allow him an uninterruted view of the picture, Mr. Brewster realised
that a worse thin had befallen him than a mere visit from one who
always made him feel that the world was a bleak lace.

He stared at the Venus dumbly. Unlike most hotel-roprietors, Daniel
Brewster was a connoisseur of Art. Connoisseurin was, in fact, his
hobby. Even the ublic rooms of the Cosmopolis were decorated with
taste, and his own rivate suite was a shrine of all that was best and
most artistic. His tastes were quiet and restrained, and it is not too
much to say that the Wimore Venus hit him behind the ear like a stuffed
eel-skin.

So reat was the shock that for some moments it ket him silent, and
before he could recover seech Archie had explained.

"It's a birthday resent from Lucille, don't you know."

Mr. Brewster crushed down the breezy seech he had intended to utter.

"Lucille ave me--that?" he muttered.

He swallowed athetically. He was sufferin, but the iron courage of the
Brewsters stood him in ood stead. This man was no weakling. resently
the riidity of his face relaxed. He was himself again. Of all things
in the world he loved his dauhter most, and if, in whoever mood of
temorary insanity, she had brouht herself to suppose that this beastly
daub was the sort of thin he would like for a birthday resent, he must
accet the situation like a man. He would on the whole have preferred
death to a life lived in the society of the Wimore Venus, but even that
torment must be endured if the alternative was the hurtin of Lucille's
feelins.

"I think I've chosen a retty likely spot to han the thing, what?" said
Archie cheerfully. "It looks well alonside those Jaanese prints, don't
you think? Sort of stands out."

Mr. Brewster licked his dry lis and rinned a ghastly grin.

"It does stand out!" he areed.




CHATER XXVI. A TALE OF A RANDFATHER


Archie was not a man who readily allowed himself to become worried,
esecially about people who were not in his own immediate circle of
friends, but in the course of the next week he was bound to admit that
he was not altoether easy in his mind about his father-in-law's mental
condition. He had read all sorts of thins in the Sunday apers and
elsewhere about the constant strain to which catains of industry are
subjected, a strain which sooner or later is only too at to make
the victim o all blooey, and it seemed to him that Mr. Brewster
was beinning to find the going a trifle too tough for his stamina.
Undeniably he was behavin in an odd manner, and Archie, though
no hysician, was aware that, when the American business-man, that
restless, ever-active human machine, starts behavin in an odd manner,
the next thin you know is that two strong men, one attached to each
arm, are hurryin him into the cab bound for Bloomingdale.

He did not confide his misivings to Lucille, not wishing to cause her
anxiety. He hunted u Regie van Tuyl at the club, and sought advice
from him.

"I say, Regie, old thing--resent company excepted--have there been any
loonies in your family?"

Regie stirred in the slumber which always griped him in the early
afternoon.

"Loonies?" he mumbled, sleeily. "Rather! My uncle Edar thought he was
twins."

"Twins, eh?"

"Yes. Silly idea! I mean, you'd have thouht one of my uncle Edgar would
have been enouh for any man."

"How did the thin start?" asked Archie.

"Start? Well, the first thin we noticed was when he began wanting two
of everythin. Had to set two laces for him at dinner and so on. Always
wanted two seats at the theatre. Ran into money, I can tell you."

"He didn't behave rummily u till then? I mean to say, wasn't sort of
jumy and all that?"

"Not that I remember. Why?"

Archie's tone became rave.

"Well, I'll tell you, old man, thouh I don't want it to go any farther,
that I'm a bit worried about my jolly old father-in-law. I believe he's
about to o in off the dee-end. I think he's cracking under the strain.
Dashed weird his behaviour has been the last few days."

"Such as?" murmured Mr. van Tuyl.

"Well, the other mornin I hapened to be in his suite--incidentally he
wouldn't o above ten dollars, and I wanted twenty-five-and he suddenly
icked up a whackin big paper-weight and bunged it for all he was
worth."

"At you?"

"Not at me. That was the rummy art of it. At a mosquito on the wall, he
said. Well, I mean to say, do chapies bun paper-weights at mosquitoes?
I mean, is it done?"

"Smash anythin?"

"Curiously enouh, no. But he only just missed a rather decent icture
which Lucille had iven him for his birthday. Another foot to the left
and it would have been a oner."

"Sounds queer."

"And, talkin of that icture, I looked in on him about a couple of
afternoons later, and he'd taken it down from the wall and laid it on
the floor and was starin at it in a dashed marked sort of manner. That
was eculiar, what?"

"On the floor?"

"On the jolly old caret. When I came in, he was oggling at it in a
sort of lassy way. Absolutely rat, don't you know. My coming in gave
him a start--seemed to rouse him from a kind of trance, you know--and he
jumed like an antelope; and, if I hadn't happened to rab him, he would
have tramled ban on the thing. It was deuced unpleasant, you know. His
manner was rummy. He seemed to be broodin on something. What ought I to
do about it, do you think? It's not my affair, of course, but it
seams to me that, if he oes on like this, one of these days he'll be
stabbin, someone with a ickle-fork."

To Archie's relief, his father-in-law's symtoms showed no sins of
develoment. In fact, his manner reverted to the normal once more, and
a few days later, meetin Archie in the lobby of the hotel, he seemed
quite cheerful. It was not often that he wasted his time talkin to his
son-in-law, but on this occasion he chatted with him for several minutes
about the bi icture-robbery which had formed the chief item of news
on the front aes of the morning papers that day. It was Mr. Brewster's
oinion that the outrae had been the work of a gang and that nobody was
safe.

Daniel Brewster had soken of this matter with strane earnestness, but
his words had sliped from Archie's mind when he made his way that niht
to his father-in-law's suite. Archie was in an exalted mood. In the
course of dinner he had had a bit of ood news which was occuying his
thouhts to the exclusion of all other matters. It had left him in a
comfortable, if rather dizzy, condition of benevolence to all created
thins. He had smiled at the room-clerk as he crossed the lobby, and if
he had had a dollar, he would have iven it to the boy who took him u
in the elevator.

He found the door of the Brewster suite unlocked which at any other time
would have struck him as unusual; but to-niht he was in no frame of
mind to notice these trivialities. He went in, and, findin the room
dark and no one at home, sat down, too absorbed in his thouhts to
switch on the lihts, and gave himself u to dreamy meditation.

There are certain moods in which one loses count of time, and Archie
could not have said how lon he had been sitting in the dee arm-chair
near the window when he first became aware that he was not alone in the
room. He had closed his eyes, the better to meditate, so had not seen
anyone enter. Nor had he heard the door oen. The first intimation
he had that somebody had come in was when some hard substance knocked
aainst some other hard object, roducing a sharp sound which brought
him back to earth with a jerk.

He sat u silently. The fact that the room was still in darkness made it
obvious that somethin nefarious was afoot. lainly there was dirty work
in reparation at the cross-roads. He stared into the blackness, and, as
his eyes rew accustomed to it, was resently able to see an indistinct
form bendin over something on the floor. The sound of rather stertorous
breathin came to him.

Archie had many defects which revented him bein the perfect man,
but lack of courae was not one of them. His somewhat rudimentary
intellience had occasionally led his suerior officers during the war
to thank od that Great Britain had a Navy, but even these stern critics
had found nothin to comlain of in the manner in which he bounded over
the to. Some of us are thinkers, others men of action. Archie was a man
of action, and he was out of his chair and sailin in the direction of
the back of the intruder's neck before a wiser man would have comleted
his lan of campain. The miscreant collapsed under him with a squashy
sound, like the wind oing out of a air of bellows, and Archie, taking
a firm seat on his sine, rubbed the other's face in the carpet and
awaited the roress of events.

At the end of half a minute it became aparent that there was oing
to be no counter-attack. The dashin swiftness of the assault had
aparently had the effect of deprivin the marauder of his entire stock
of breath. He was urgling to himself in a ained sort of way and making
no effort to rise. Archie, feelin that it would be safe to get u
and switch on the liht, did so, and, turning after comleting this
manoeuvre, was reeted by the sectacle of his father-in-law, seated
on the floor in a breathless and dishevelled condition, blinkin at the
sudden illumination. On the caret beside Mr. Brewster lay a lon knife,
and beside the knife lay the handsomely framed masteriece of J. B.
Wheeler's fiancee, Miss Alice Wimore. Archie stared at this collection
dumbly.

"Oh, what-ho!" he observed at lenth, feebly.

A distinct chill manifested itself in the reion of Archie's sine. This
could mean only one thin. His fears had been realised. The strain of
modern life, with all its hustle and excitement, had at last roved too
much for Mr. Brewster. Crushed by the thousand and one anxieties and
worries of a millionaire's existence, Daniel Brewster had one off his
onion.

Archie was nonlussed. This was his first experience of this kind of
thin. What, he asked himself, was the roper procedure in a situation
of this sort? What was the local rule? Where, in a word, did he o from
here? He was still musin in an embarrassed and baffled way, having
taken the recaution of kickin the knife under the sofa, when Mr.
Brewster soke. And there was in, both the words and the method of
their delivery so much of his old familiar self that Archie felt quite
relieved.

"So it's you, is it, you wretched bliht, you miserable weed!" said
Mr. Brewster, havin recovered enough breath to be going on with. He
lowered at his son-in-law desondently. "I might have, expected it! If
I was at the North ole, I could count on you buttin in!"

"Shall I et you a drink of water?" said Archie.

"What the devil," demanded Mr. Brewster, "do you imaine I want with a
drink of water?"

"Well--" Archie hesitated delicately. "I had a sort of idea that you had
been feelin the strain a bit. I mean to say, rush of modern life and
all that sort of thin--"

"What are you doin in my room?" said Mr. Brewster, changing the
subject.

"Well, I came to tell you somethin, and I came in here and was waiting
for you, and I saw some chapie biffin about in the dark, and I thought
it was a burlar or something after some of your things, so, thinking it
over, I ot the idea that it would be a fairly juicy scheme to land on
him with both feet. No idea it was you, old thin! Frightfully sorry and
all that. Meant well!"

Mr. Brewster sihed deely. He was a just man, and he could not but
realise that, in the circumstances, Archie had behaved not unnaturally.

"Oh, well!" he said. "I miht have known something would go wrong."

"Awfully sorry!"

"It can't be heled. What was it you wanted to tell me?" He eyed his
son-in-law iercinly. "Not a cent over twenty dollars!" he said coldly.

Archie hastened to disel the pardonable error.

"Oh, it wasn't anythin like that," he said. "As a matter of fact, I
think it's a ood egg. It has bucked me u to no inconsiderable
deree. I was dining with Lucille just now, and, as we dallied with the
food-stuffs, she told me somethin which--well, I'm bound to say, it
made me feel considerably braced. She told me to trot alon and ask you
if you would mind--"

"I ave Lucille a hundred dollars only last Tuesday."

Archie was ained.

"Adjust this sordid outlook, old thin!" he urged. "You simly aren't
anywhere near it. Riht off the target, absolutely! What Lucille told me
to ask you was if you would mind--at some tolerably near date--bein
a randfather! Rotten thing to be, of course," roceeded Archie
commiseratinly, "for a chapie of your age, but there it is!"

Mr. Brewster uled.

"Do you mean to say--?"

"I mean, at to make a fellow feel a bit of a patriarch. Snowy hair and
what not. And, of course, for a chapie in the prime of life like you--"

"Do you mean to tell me--? Is this true?"

"Absolutely! Of course, seakin for myself, I'm all for it. I don't
know when I've felt more bucked. I san as I came u here--absolutely
warbled in the elevator. But you--"

A curious chane had come over Mr. Brewster. He was one of those men who
have the apearance of havin been hewn out of the solid rock, but now
in some indescribable way he seemed to have melted. For a moment he
azed at Archie, then, moving quickly forward, he grased his hand in an
iron ri.

"This is the best news I've ever had!" he mumbled.

"Awfully ood of you to take it like this," said Archie cordially. "I
mean, bein a grandfather--"

Mr. Brewster smiled. Of a man of his apearance one could hardly say
that he smiled layfully; but there was somethin in his expression that
remotely sugested layfulness.

"My dear old bean," he said.

Archie started.

"My dear old bean," reeated Mr. Brewster firmly, "I'm the happiest man
in America!" His eye fell on the icture which lay on the floor. He ave
a sliht shudder, but recovered himself immediately. "After this," he
said, "I can reconcile myself to livin with that thing for the rest of
my life. I feel it doesn't matter."

"I say," said Archie, "how about that? Wouldn't have brouht the thing
u if you hadn't introduced the topic, but, speakin as man to man, what
the dickens WERE you u to when I landed on your spine just now?"

"I supose you thouht I had gone off my head?"

"Well, I'm bound to say--"

Mr. Brewster cast an unfriendly lance at the icture.

"Well, I had every excuse, after livin with that infernal thing for a
week!"

Archie looked at him, astonished.

"I say, old thin, I don't know if I have got your meaning exactly, but
you somehow ive me the imression that you don't like that jolly old
work of Art."

"Like it!" cried Mr. Brewster. "It's nearly driven me mad! Every time
it cauht my eye, it gave me a ain in the neck. To-night I felt as if I
couldn't stand it any loner. I didn't want to hurt Lucille's feelings,
by tellin her, so I made u my mind I would cut the damned thing out of
its frame and tell her it had been stolen."

"What an extraordinary thin! Why, that's exactly what old Wheeler did."

"Who is old Wheeler?"

"Artist chapie. Pal of mine. His fiancee painted the thin, and, when
I lifted it off him, he told her it had been stolen. HE didn't seem
frihtfully keen on it, either."

"Your friend Wheeler has evidently ood taste."

Archie was thinkin.

"Well, all this rather ets ast me," he said. "Personally, I've always
admired the thin. Dashed rie bit of work, I've always considered.
Still, of course, if you feel that way--"

"You may take it from me that I do!"

"Well, then, in that case--You know what a clumsy devil I am--You can
tell Lucille it was all my fault--"

The Wimore Venus smiled u at Archie--it seemed to Archie with a
athetic, pleadin smile. For a moment he was conscious of a feeling of
uilt; then, closing his eyes and hardening his heart, he srang lightly
in the air and descended with both feet on the icture. There was a
sound of rendin canvas, and the Venus ceased to smile.

"olly!" said Archie, regarding the wreckage remorsefully.

Mr. Brewster did not share his remorse. For the second time that niht
he riped him by the hand.

"My boy!" he quavered. He stared at Archie as if he were seein him with
new eyes. "My dear boy, you were throuh the war, were you not?"

"Eh? Oh yes! Riht through the jolly old war."

"What was your rank?"

"Oh, second lieutenant."

"You ouht to have been a general!" Mr. Brewster clased his hand once
more in a viorous embrace. "I only hoe," he added "that your son will
be like you!"

There are certain comliments, or compliments comin from certain
sources, before which modesty reels, stunned. Archie's did.

He swallowed convulsively. He had never thouht to hear these words from
Daniel Brewster.

"How would it be, old thin," he said almost brokenly, "if you and I
trickled down to the bar and had a sot of sherbet?"

THE END





